SECT, xii.] PULSE. 213 urgent danger, if the powers be weak, or, if they be strong, that it will be slowly concocted, for it will either terminate in em- pyema, or a consumptive marasmus will supervene. One ought also to know that irregularity of the pulse commonly accompanies its inequalities; for you will rarely find an unequal pulse orderly. Wherefore, the lesser constitutional injuries occasion unequal and regular pulses, but the greater, unequal and irregular. These are the simple causes of the pulses and their prognosis, and from them the compound, as we stated when treating of their differences, may easily be discovered. Commentary. The ancient authorities on the pulse are the following: Celsus (iii, 6); Galen (Libel, de Pulsi. ad Tirones; de different. Puis., de Dignos. Puis., de Caus. Puis., de Prassag. ex Puis., Synopsis librorum de Puis.); Philaretus (de Pulsu); Theophilus Protospatharius (de Pulsibus ap. Ermerins Anecd. Med. Gr.); Actuarius (de Diagnosi); Avicenna (i, 2, 3); Averrhoes (CoUig. iv, 16); Haly Abbas (Theor. vii); Alsaharavius (Theor. vii); Rhases (ad Mansor. x, 32; Contin. xxxi); Psellus (Opus Medicum apud Boissonade, Anecdota Grajca.) Prosper Alpinus gives an excellent exposition of the ancient doctrines on the pulse (de prses. Vit. et Morte ajgrot. iv, 3); Le Clerc's account is not so accurate (Hist, de la Med.) Wetsch's is tolerably correct (de Pulsu.) Hippocrates, although Galen affirms that he was not entirely unacquainted with the pulse, does not appear to have attached much importance to the observation of it, for he generally neglects to mention its characters, where Ave would most expect to find them stated, as, for example, when he is detailing the symptoms of epidemical fevers. Celsus, too, expresses himself in doubtful terms respecting the indications furnished by the pulse: "Venis enim maxime credimus, fallacissimse rei; quia ssepe istce leniores, celerioresve sunt, et retate, et sexu, et corporum natura; et pie- rum que satis sano corpore, si stomachus infirmus est, nonnun- quam etiam incipiente febre, subeunt et quiescunt; ut imbecillus is videri possit, cui facile laturo gravis instat accessio. Contra saepe eas concitat et resolvit sol, et balneum, et exercitatio, et metus, et ira, et quilibet alius animi affectus." Aretseus and Caelius Aurelianus are indeed sufficiently minute and accurate in detailing the characters of the pulse, while describing the