SECT- x-l CATOCHUS. 3(i«) m a dark place. He also condemns Themison's practice of Com giving aloes by the mouth before food, as it will make the food ^ m the stomach spoil, that is to say, will interrupt the digestive process, or, in case of its not operating downwards, will be ab- sorbed, and increase the constitutional disorder. He further disapproves of Themison's practice of carrying gestation to an inconsiderate length. He likewise condemns the use of the cold bath, which had been recommended by Themison. He then gives an account of the practice enjoined by Heraclides Tarentinus, the empiric, which, of course, he does not approve of; although, judging of it from modern views, we do not think it particularly objectionable. We dare not enter upon the detail of it, owing to its length. The Arabians generally treat of it by the name of sirsenfri- gidum. Like the other authorities, Haly Abbas states the causes of the disease to be a cold and humid intemperament of the brain, or a collection of pituitous humours. As stated above, he quotes the practice of Alexander with approbation. He parti- cularly recommends acrid clysters, drastic purgatives, shaving the head, applying stimulants to it, rubbing the feet, and in certain cases sternutatories. Ehases docs not mention venesec- tion ; but Avicenna and most of his countrymen do. Avicenna and Mesue recommend emetics. Their treatment otherwise, like our author's, consists of acrid clysters, friction of the ex- tremities, masticatories, calefacient and repellent applications to the head. With regard to the last, Mesue may be consulted with advantage. Rhases, in his ' Contincns/ recommends bleed- ing, fetid pills, leeches, cupping, and afterwards sternutatories, friction of the extremities, and so forth. SECT. X. ON CATOCHUS, OR COMA VIGIL. We have already, in treating of phrenitis, mentioned the for- mation of this disease, the symptoms whereof in general are the same as those of phrenitis and lethargy, being modified accord- ing to the prevailing matter. The peculiar symptoms are these: The patients remain fixedly stretched in a supine posture, having sometimes their countenance somewhat swelled and livid like those in lethargy, and sometimes with a florid redness in it; the upper eyelid seems drawn upwards and projecting, so that .2 I