sect, lxxvi.] DIFFICULT LABOUR. 647 or because, from some natural weakness, she is unable to expel the foetus, or because the labour is premature. From the child, either because it is too large; or small, and of little weight; or from its having a hydrocephalus head; or from being a mon- ster, such as having two heads; or because it is dead; or, although alive, because it is weak and unable to advance outwards; or because there happens to be several children, as Herophilus re- lates a case of five; or because the position is preternatural. For the natural position of the child is, first, when its head pre- sents with the hands bent upon the thighs, and having its head directly applied to the mouth of the womb; and next to that, when it descends by the feet, and there is no turning aside. All the other positions except these are preternatural. Or from the secundines, either because the membranes cannot be torn, owing to their thickness; or because they have been torn prematurely, owing to their thinness; for when the waters are evacuated unseasonably, the foetus gets out with difficulty, from the dryness of the parts. From external circumstances, either from cold contracting or immoderate heat dissipating the powers, or from some accidental occurrence. Wherefore, if the difficulty of par- turition arise from constriction, and, as it were, impaction of the foetus, we must first endeavour to produce relaxation by injecting frequently hot sweet-oil with the decoction of fenugreek, of mal- lows, of linseed, or with eggs, as a paregoric. Then we must apply cataplasms to the pubes, abdomen, and loins, of linseed, or of honied water, or of oil and water ; and use hip-baths of a similar nature. We must also avail ourselves of the relaxation produced by baths, if neither fever nor any other cause prohibit; and the woman is to be moved on a couch in a moderately warm air. Some have had recourse to powerful shaking, and have applied sternutatories. If the woman be in low spirits, she is to be encouraged; and if she is inexperienced in labour, she is to be directed to keep in her breath strongly, and to press down to the flanks. If she be in a swoon, she is to be resus- citated by such strong-smelling things as are not stimulant; and when moderately recovered, she is to be supported with a little food. A woman that is fat is to be placed in bed in a prone position, bending her knees upon her thighs, in order that the womb, being carried to the abdomen, may present with its mouth direct. By means of the fingers the mouth is to be