330 SMALLPOX AND MEASLES. [book h. Comm. reeling the nse of milder applications when the ulceration has ^r~J stopped spreading, (v, 127.) Alsaharavius directs us to treat the redness of the back occa- sioned by lying long in bed with the flower of millet, barley, or lentils. When pustules form and break, he recommends an ointment containing ceruse to be applied. (Pract. xxix, 1, 26.) Appendix to the Commentary on Book Second. ON SMALLPOX AND MEASLES. The reader, we are sure, would be disappointed, if we were to quit the subject of Fever without touching upon the history of Smallpox and Measles. We will, therefore, conformably with our general plan, give a brief abstract of the descriptions of these diseases which we meet with in the works of the ancient physicians. In the first place, then, we may mention that, after having read, we may say, every word of every ancient writer on medicine that has come down to us, we can confidently affirm that the Greeks and Romans are altogether silent on the subject, and that we are indebted to the Arabians for the earliest accounts which we have of these diseases. Rhases, indeed, pretends (provided the Introduction to his 1 Treatise on Smallpox' be not spurious) that Galen had delivered some imperfect descriptions of smallpox; but he would appear to have been led into this mistake by fol- lowing some inaccurate translation of the works of Galen into the Syriac language; for no passages which would justify the interpretation which Rhases puts upon them are now to be found in the original. Lately, Dr. Bateman attempted to show that allusions to measles and smallpox are to be met with in the works of several of the Greek authors; but we entirely agree with Drs. Mead and Freind, who maintain the contrary. In an Arabian MS. preserved in the University of Ley den, it is stated that the smallpox and measles first appeared in Arabia about the year 572, p.c See Reiske (Opuscula Medica, p. 10.) Although Rhases be the most ancient writer whose account of smallpox and measles has come down to us, he does not