DYSENTERY. [book III. :>30 Much of our author's treatment is borrowed from Oribasius. Octavius Horatianus, like the others, recommends, when the ulcers are attended with putridity, a powder containing arsenic, quicklime, and burnt paper, administered in an astringent wine, or in a decoction of astringent herbs. Marcellus makes men- tion of a similar application, which he directs to be used only when symptoms of malignity appear. Camus Aurelianus gives a very comprehensive description of dysentery, the principal symptoms of which are fever, anxiety, rumbling of the belly, sometimes retention of urine; tongue rough, furred, and black; tenesmus and pungent pains of the intestines and anus. The disease, he says, consists of a defluxion from the belly with ulceration, and is preceded by diarrhoea, cholera, or inflammation. He animadverts upon the treatment of others with his usual freedom. Thus he blames Erasistratus for using nothing but astringents, whereas many cases of dysen- tery require laxatives. His treatment is minutely detailed, but is not very different from our author's. Leo, for bloody dysentery, like our author, recommends pills of macer, the troche of corals, and the decoction of rhubarb. According to Sprengel, Nonnus is the first author Avho dis- tinguishes the white dysentery from the red. It is obvious, however, that the distinction between the two varieties had been made by earlier authorities. We may add that Actuarius treats of the bloody dysentery very fully. The Arabians follow closely the treatment of the Greeks. Injec- tions containing arsenic are recommended by Serapion, Avicemia, and Haly Abbas. Rhases, like Aetius, admits of venesection in certain cases. He refers the disease, in general, to debility of the retentive faculty of the liver and derangement of the bile. Haly treats separately and minutely first of intestinal dysentery and next of hepatic. The intestinal, he says, is occasioned by ul- ceration of the intestines. He also describes the bloody dysen- tery, like our author. His treatment is directed upon general principles. He recommends various clysters ; and, when the ulcers are in the rectum, he directs us, among other remedies, to introduce a tent, soaked in a solution of arsenic, quicklime, hy- pocistis, &c. Some of his stimulant applications, however, are merely detergents, and do not contain septics. The ingredients of his ordinary injections are either emollients or astringents,