604 GENITAL ORGANS, ETC. [book hi. moderate discharges should be such as forms but little blood, and is not excrementitious, of a desiccant and astringent nature, such as chondrus soaked in oxycrate, rice, and halica, and of pot-herbs, intybus, succory, and purslain, and of wines such as are astringent. For blind piles, food of an opposite description is proper, but particularly the fish called calamary, the cuttle- fish, polypus, the torpedo, and the cartilaginous fishes; for these things raise a tumult in the blood. Emmenagogues are also proper remedies in this case. For procidentia ani. Of the fruit of heath, of galls, of ceruse, of acacia, of the juice of hypocistis, of pine-bark, of frankin- cense, of Aminsean myrrh, equal parts; apply in a powder, having first bathed with austere wine.—Another : Of the dross of lead, of Syriac sumach, of each, oz. viij; of the flowers of roses, dr. iv; of Aminsean myrrh, dr. ij ; use like the first.—Another: Of pine- bark, of manna, of litharge, of each, dr. viij ; of dried cypress balls, of plumbago, of each, dr. ij; use as directed above. Bathing with the patient's own urine while yet warm is also useful. Comm. Commentary. Consult most of the works referred to in the ' v ' fifty-fourth Section. The first part of this Section is almost entirely taken from Galen (sec. loc. ix) j the remainder seems to be abridged from Aetius (xiv.) Galen (Meth. Med. v, 15) insists strongly that diseases of the penis should be treated with desiccative instead of epulotic applications. No ancient author has treated so fully of diseases of the genital member as Celsus (vi, 18.) His description of the ulcers upon it is very minute. Ulcers, he remarks, are found either upon the pre- puce, or on the glans, or beyond it on the member itself. If dry, they are first to be bathed with warm water, and then lycium (catechu?) out of wine, or the lees of oil boiled with the same, or butter with roses is to be applied. If there is a slight dis- charge, they are to be washed with wine; then honey and a fourth part of turpentine-rosin are to be added to the butter and roses for an application. When there is a purulent dis- charge it is to be washed away, and the part dressed with an application containing pepper, myrrh, saffron, and misy, boiled in austere wine to the thickness of honey. He mentions various other escharotics containing aerugo, alum, and the like. When