(i 15 THE MENSES. SECT. LXII.J SECT. LXII. ON IMMODERATE MENSTRUATION AND UTERINE HEMORRHAGE. Immoderate discharges in women take place, sometimes from retention of the menses which break out more copious than usual, and sometimes after parturition at the full time, when they cease spontaneously for the most part; and frequently after miscarriages, when a violent hemorrhage often takes place, and proves dangerous. In the first place, then, we must apply ligatures round the members, at the armpits and groins; give to drink oxycrate not cold; sprinkle with oxycrate; and apply to the parts a large quantity of wool squeezed out of wine and oil, or rose-oil, or oil of apples, or myrtle-oil. For food, we may give chondrus soaked iu oxycrate, or rice, or alica; but prohibiting wine, we may give austere hydromel, omphacomel, or the like. The patient may take propomata of pomegranate flowers in oxycrate, or the juice of hypocistis, or of acacia, or lycium, or Samian earth, or unripe grapes dried, or rhubarb, or the ashes of cork burnt in an Italian earthen vessel; or she may cat sesame soaked in oxycrate until it become soft. The fol- lowing substances introduced into the vagina stop hemorrhage: The juice of hypocistis, or of acacia, with manna, being tritu- rated with vinegar. An admirable application is a sponge soaked in wine or liquid pitch, and applied; or the ashes of it burnt when applied with vinegar or oxycrate; and in like manner the ashes of cork burnt in an Italian earthen vessel. But as- tringent epithemes applied externally are beneficial; and cata- plasms from dates and quinces, containing also pomegranate rind, or the tops of bramble, or acorns of the holm oak, or the leaves of lentisk, wild pomegranate flowers, acacia, hypocistis, galls, or alum; but more particularly the following: Taurocolla is macerated in oxycrate until it is dissolved, and is then spread upon a strong rag, and glued to the loins. The agglutinative plasters are also powerful remedies, such as the Harmonium, Icesium, Athena, Melinum, Indicum, and the like. Pessaries are to be used for the hemorrhage; mixing the inner part of galls powdered and rosemary with water, apply; or the flowers of the cultivated pomegranate, or the sweet pomegranate in like manner, or powdered knotgrass. The following is a com-