GOUT. SECT. LXXVIII.] 659 rose-cerate cooled with some of the Mgorific juices, and that prepared from the flour of beans. It is prepared thus : Of wax, oz. \ • of chamoniile-oil, oz. iiss; of rose-oil, oz. iiss; of the flour of beans, oz. ss; the yelks of five eggs.—Another, a cata- plasm : Pound green mallows boiled j and having made flea- wort to the consistence of birdlime separately, mix together j then add the red part of eggs and chamomile-oil, and apply as a cataplasm. When the pain is great and difficult to endure, we must have recourse to preparations of saffron, of horned poppy, and of opium, triturating them with oxycrate, and then using them in the form of liniments, or of cataplasms with crumbs of bread. Galen makes mention of this one: Of poppy-juice (opium), dr. iv j of saffron, dr. j; triturate with milk of a cow or of a goat; or add the inner part of bread, and having softened it by touching it with a little rose-oil, use for a cataplasm. Or triturate the opium and saffron with the milk, and add to the rose-cerate. And the cerate made from the torpedo and the oil of the same are possessed of similar properties.—And this one in like manner : Of crumbs of bread soaked in water or in oxycrate, and of houseleek, or of nightshade, or of purslain, and of the fleshy parts of dates, and of poppy-seeds, equal parts; of roasted yelks of eggs and rose-oil, q. s.; form a cataplasm. The use of narcotics must not be continued, but until the violence of the pain be abated; for the frequent use of them occasions impaction and tophi, and makes the difficulty of motion to be protracted. After the use of anodynes, then, we must have recourse either to diachylon dissolved in oil of chamomile, or the composition from marshmallows, or some such application. After we have warmed the congealed parts, we must strengthen them by a plaster of dates dissolved in vinegar and rose-oil or wine and rose-oil. Or, if the weight of the plasters prove trouble- some, we may rub in the juice of acacia with oxycrate, or lycium along with saffron, horned poppy, and the juice of perdicias in oxycrate. The diet should be cooling and moistening, such as ptisans, and spoon-meats from chondrus, and of pot-herbs, the mallows, the lettuce, and the endive; and of birds, more espe- cially the young of domestic fowls; and of fishes, those caught in rocky places, and the sea-urchin, shell-fish, and the like. Let them avoid all things that are heating and form pale and yellow bile, old wines both the yellow and dark, and repletion.