48 I [book III. SPITTING OF BLOOD. the expectoration be frothy and light, you may know that it comes from the trachea. But if it consist of black and gru- mous blood, and there is pain in the part, it indicates that the discharge is from the thorax, being transmitted by the lungs or bronchia. If it be brought up with hawking, it is by the palate from the parts about the pharynx. But if it flow from the head, it is evacuated with some tickling and cough, for it runs down into the windpipe, and is again brought up. Such discharges are commonly preceded by an acrid defluxion, headach, or heaviness. Sometimes the evacuation of blood is from the pa- late, owing to a leech having been swallowed, and fixing on some of the parts there. But of this case we will treat on the sub- ject of Poisons. TJie cure. Those who have a spitting of blood from catarrh are to be immediately bled (unless the defluxion be very acrid), and a quantity of blood taken away proportionate to the strength. Ligatures are to be applied around the extremities, and the whole body, excepting the head, is to be rubbed with hot old oil, or with Sicyonian. Farinaceous food, containing the juice of some austere fruit, such as that of pomegranate, of apples, or of pears, is to be taken; or let these be boiled with it. When going to sleep, give them the trochisk from amber; and on the third day give some boiled honey to lick. If these do not suc- ceed, and the disease is protracted, shave the head, and use the application from wild-pigeon's dung; and after three hours re- move this application, and put the patient into a bath, taking care not to anoint the head. Then, having given him spoon- meats for food, administer to him the theriac antidote at bed- time, and repeat this next day; and rub in like manner the whole body, except the head, but to it apply the cerate from thapsia, or the like, and again use the spoon-meats. When the com- plaint is protracted, apply a cupping-instrument to the back part of the head. But if the defluxion be of a very acrid nature, we must abstain from venesection, and have recourse to the food and remedies formerly described when treating of Catarrh, and such as are nowto bementioned. When the spitting of blood proceeds from cold, the chest should be warmed, along with remedies which are of a desiccative nature; and we must give the medicine from two pep- pers, with the trochisk of amber. Those who bring up blood from the respiratory organs, owing to rupture or anastomosis of the