sect, xxii.] LASSITUDE. 35 ing do not occasion swooning, it will be of less consequence I whether o* not it occur after the next. Those who are not bled will be fortunate indeed if they escape with the life. Commentary. These judicious observations are taken from Co** Oribasms (Synops. v, 21.) See also Galen (de Sanit. tuendA k— iv) ; Aetius (iv, 41) ; Avicenna (i, 3, 3, 16) j Alsaharavius (tract, xxxi, 2, 11); Rhases (Contiu. xxxi); Averrhoes (ColhV vi, 14.) v fo" All the authorities recommend nearly the same methods of treatment. Galen's account of the subject is full, complete and satisfactory, but so lengthy, that we cannot venture even upon an abstract of it. He gives proper directions for the phy- sician to endeavour to find out the cause of the lassitude, and to remedy it accordingly. It is often connected, he says, with retention of the menstrual or hemorrhoidal evacuation," or the stoppage of some customary discharge. When attended with inflammatory symptoms, he is very urgent in recommending immediate venesection, without which, as he remarks, the pa- tient cannot escape with his life, unless he is saved by a criti- cal evacuation, such as bleeding from the nose, or profuse sweating. When, in the inflammative lassitude, the head is affected, Aetius directs us to open the cephalic vein ; when the chest or back, the basilic; and when the whole body equally, the median. He recommends also cooling herbs, such as beet, mallows, let- tuce, and the like, with ptisan and tepid water. He forbids the use of cold water. After the third day, if the patient is con- valescent, he allows a thin weak wine, much diluted. Averrhoes approves very much of Galen's directions respect- ing the treatment, except that the peppers recommended by him had not been found to answer in his climate (Cordova). Instead of them, he directs cinnamon, amber, cassia lignea, and similar aromatics to be given. Avicenna joins Galen in cautioning the physician to be guarded in allowing his patient to take much food, as the veins being emptied by the remedies applied for removing the lassi- tude, greedily absorb the chyle before it is properly concocted.