THE HAIR. [book III. 3J0 Alexander (1); Pliny (H. N. xxviii, 46); Oetavius Horatianus (i, 7); Marcellus (de Med.); Isidores (Orig. iv, 8); Oribasms (Synops. viii, 22, andMeth. Med. iv, 5); Nonnus (8); Heliodorus (ap. Nicetam); Incertus auctor. (Frag.ap.Moschionem in Gynsec. 21); Pollux (Onomast.); Myrepsus (38); Actuarius (Metli. Med. ii, 5); Psellus (op. Med.); Serapion (i, 1); Mesue (h, 1); Avicenna (iv, 7, 1); Avenzoar (i, 1, 3); Haly Abbas (Tbeor. viii, 8, Pract. iv, 12); Alsaharavius (Pract. i, 2); Rhases (adMansor. vi, 1, Contin. xxxvi.) See also Callimaclrus (Hymn, ad Dianam, 1. 79); with the learned Notes of Tytler and Spanheim. Our author copies closely from Galen, who explains at con- siderable length his principles of treatment; which consists of purging with warm cathartics, shaving the part frequently, rubbing it, and using calefacient applications. He says that the disease is occasioned either by the deficiency or depravity of the nutritive juices. Drs. Willan and Bateman describe this complaint by the name of porrigo decalvans. Bateman justly remarks, that, "all that can be prescribed respecting the treat- ment of this affection has been expressed by Celsus with his usual terseness: " Quidam hsec genera arearum scalpello exas- perant; quidam illinunt adurentia ex oleo, maximeque chartam combustam; quidam resirmm terebinthinam cum thapsia in- ducunt. Sed nihil mehus est quam novacula quotidie radere, quia, cum paulatim summa pellicula excisa est, adaperiuntur pilorum radiculse. Neque ante oportet desistere, quam fre- quentem pilum nasci apparuerit. Id autem quod subinde raditur, illini atramento sutorio satis est." The modes of treatment recommended by the other authorities are in principle the same as our author's and that of Celsus. Octavius Horatianus, after directing pills containing colocynth, aloes, scammony, and wormwood, recommends nearly the same external treatment as Celsus: " Omnes confectiones quae medio- criter calefacere possunt, mediocribus et delicatioribus corporibus adhibendae sunt. Prius ergo loca linteolo usque ad ruborem ante curam confricentur mediocriter, ne vulnerentur. Quae si vulnerabuntur, oleo roseo, vel adipibus anserinis recuranda sunt." Dioscorides recommends tar-water and other preparations of pitch for alopecia. In a Fragment of an anonymous author, published along with ' Moschion' in the ' Gynseeia/ very sensible rules of treat-