CORYZA, ETC. [book III. 470 gives rise to bad coughs. And a cough often arises from an intemperament; sometimes a hot one, as in fevers, and some- times a cold, as in northerly states of the weather, which is rather a dry one. Cough is also sometimes symptomatic of some other disease, such as pleurisy, hepatitis, phthisis, or peri- pneumonia. Wherefore Galen relates that, in certain chronic cases of cough, chalazia (hail-stones) have been brought up from the chest. But Alexander relates that a certain heavy stone, like that which forms in the urinary organs, was brought up in a chronic cough, upon which the cough ceased. We ourselves have seen a discharge of stones with vomiting of blood, as we will describe more accurately when we come to that part. Those who have coryza and catarrh from exposure to heat have a sen- sation of heat about the parts, and a running of acrid and thin humours from the nostrils and mouth, and there is redness about the face and nose. When they are occasioned by cold, there is distension about the head and forehead, and obstruc- tion of the ethmoid pores, so that the voice does not resound through the nose; and when they are protracted, cough super- venes, and expectoration of phlegm, which is sometimes un- concocted and fluid, and sometimes green. In some cases fever comes on, which does not alleviate the complaint when it proceeds from heat, but when from cold it promotes con- coction. The cure of catarrh and of coryza. When a hot intempera- ment prevails, those remedies will apply which suit with head- achs from the same cause. They must have recourse to baths, and have a large quantity of hot water poured upon the head. The food most befitting are spoon-meats and eggs in a state to be supped, starch, sweet cake, sesame, rice, almonds, the fruit of the cones of pine, and all confections from milk. The wines which are drunk should be sweet and not old. The lohoch from poppy-heads, called diacodium, and other compound medicines for these complaints, are to be taken. When a cold intempe- rament prevails, and the disease is difficult to remove, a restricted diet is to be observed, and the head anointed with some heatino- and attenuating ointment, such as that of nard or rue. But the ointment of iris is not only to be rubbed in, but is also to be injected into the nostrils; and, internally, they are to be rubbed with frankincense and myrrh, with oil ■ and this more