SKCT. XVII.] 27 EXERCISES. with all the enthusiasm of an Isaac Walton, or a Washington Comm. Irving. 1—v—1 Oribasius states that swimming tends to warm, strengthen, and attenuate the body. He says that swimming in the sea is particularly applicable in cases of dropsy, eruptive diseases of the skin, and elephantiasis. It is apt, however, he adds, to prove injurious to the head, and also to the nerves when too long con- tinued. We have mentioned in the fifteenth Section, that the ancients got their bodies rubbed with oil before going into the water. Celsus gives nearly the same account of it, as a remedy for the cure of diseases, as Oribasius. Swimming may be said to have been the national exercise of the ancient Romans. Horace in particular makes frequent allusions to it as an invigorating and manly exercise. The Romans had artificial lakes or ponds con- nected with their baths, for the purpose of swimming. (Pliny, Epist. v, 6.) Jumping and dancing, according to Oribasius, occasion a deter- mination downwards, and hence, they may prove useful in cases of amenorrhcea. (Med. Collect, vi, 31.) It appears from a case related in a work attributed to Hippocrates, that jumping was had recourse to, to procure abortion. (De nat. Pueri.) The most eloquent encomiast of dancing is Lucian, who has written an ingenious treatise in praise of it. He contends that it is an excellent training, not only to the body, but also to the mind ! He refers to Socrates and other sage philosophers who practised dancing. (De Saltatione.) The Pyrrhic dance of the ancients was particularly celebrated. It was performed by armed men. See Vossius (de Nat. Art. i,) and Athenseus (Deipn. xiv, 19, ed. Schweigh.) On the Apotherapia or Restorative process, see Galen (Hyg.iii); Oribasius (Med. Collect, vi, 16); and Avicenna (i, 3, 2.) It consisted simply in rubbing the body softly and moderately with oil. According to Galen, the object of it was to re- lieve the feelings of lassitude, and prevent any bad effects from the exercise. Mercurialis states that, when applied after the bath, it was with the intention of preventing the humidity from being dissipated. Odoriferous ointments and powders were sometimes used instead of the oil. (De Arte gymnast, i; also Baccius de Thermis, 10.)