LETHARGY. [book III. 308 Comm. The ancients, it will be remarked, ascribe the disease to serious —v—' congestion, which is a very plausible theory. All the other autho- rities recommend nearly the same treatment as our author. There can be no doubt that by lethargus Hippocrates meant a remittent fever, resembling the causus. The other authorities on this subject also describe the disease as a febrile affection. Aetius, as usual, is minute and judicious. He remarks that purging is not only useful, by producing evacuation of the bowels, but also by occasioning revulsion. When the disease comes on after frenzy, he forbids venesection, but otherwise approves of it. He and Alexander strongly commend castor. Alexander directs venesection, if the patient's strength permit; the appli- cation of vinegar and rose-oil to the head; and, when the disease is on the decline, applications containing castor and other sucli stimulants. It is to be remarked, by the way, that Haly Abbas states this as the mode of treatment directed by Alexander Aphrodisiensis, from which it may be inferred that A. Trallian and A. Aphrodisiensis were the same person. Celsus speaks favorably of the affusion of cold water. Aretgeus gives the plan of treatment very circumstantially, but his chapter on the symptoms of lethargy is lost. He lays it down that the disease is the counterpart to phrenitis, being occasioned by a cold humour oppressing the brain. The prin- ciple of his treatment seems to be to produce revulsion; for which purpose he recommends drastic purgatives and stimulant applications of all kinds to the skin. He is guarded in speak- ing of bleeding. The methodical treatment recommended by Cselius Aurelianus is not much different from that of the other sects. He approves of bleeding, of shaving the head, and applying cupping-instru- ments to it, or else leeches; of making the patient lie in a bright light j of using gentle means to rouse him; but he justly con- demns Diocles for recommending measures of great severity, which, he says, will but increase the disorder of the brain. He also disapproves of the practice of Praxagoras, who gave wine and hot stimulants; and further ridicules him for neglecting the head, and merely applying fomentations to the feet. He does not approve of Asclepiades' practice of treating the disease with strong sternutatories, sinapisms to the head, and analep- tics. He finds fault with Themison for making his patient lie