FOWLS. SECT. LXXXII.] 13!) readily evacuated by the belly. The boiled are superior to the roasted and fricasseed j and those that live on dry and moun- tainous places are more digestible and less excrementitious than those which live in marshy places. Commentary. Hippocrates states that fowls in general are Comm. drier than quadrupeds. The driest, he adds, are, first, the wood- pigeon, then the common pigeon, and, thirdly, the partridge, cock, and turtle. The most humid or juicy, he says, are geese. Those which live on seeds are drier than the others. The flesh of ducks, and of all fowls which live in marshes, or in water, is of a more humid nature. (De Diaita, ii, 17.) In another place, he calls the tiesh of fowls one of the lightest kinds of food. (De Affect. 46.) Their general characters are thus stated by Celsus: "Ex iis avibus, quae in media specie sunt, valentiores eae, quae pedibus, quam quae volatu magis nituntur: et ex iis, quae volatu fidunt, timiiorcs quae grandiores aves, quam quae minutae sunt; ut ficedula et turdus. Atque eae quoque quae in aqua degunt leviorem cibum pnestant, quam quae natandi scientiam non habent." The cha- racter here given of water fowls has drawn upon the author the animadversions of Dr. Cullen. But rather than suspect Celsus of such a mistake, we are inclined to believe that the text must hv corrupt, and that we ought to read leniorem instead of leviorem. We arc confirmed in this conjecture from all the other authori- ties, as for example, Hippocrates, Galen, Aetius, Rhases, and Haly Abbas, having stated that the flesh of water fowls is more excrementitious than that of land fowls. Our author takes his account of fowls from Galen, or perhaps direct from Oribasius. Actuarius states that fowls are much lighter, but not so nutritious as quadrupeds j that they are drier, more fibrous, and form thinner blood; and that water fowls are the more juicy and fleshy. Having thus stated the general characters of fowls as articles of food, we shall now briefly notice a few of those which were in most esteem with the bons vivans of antiquity. The partridge was accounted a rare delicacy at the tables of luxurious Romans. See Martial (xiii, 65.) Simeon Seth says that it is easily digested, but ought not to be eaten the day it is killed. According to Rhases, it contains thick juices, is astrin-