587 PROLAPSUS OF THE NAVEL. SECT. LI.] colour of the eye he recommends the tepid bath, and the appli- Comm. cation to the eyes of the fumes of vinegar. For the cure of ^ ' jaundice of the spleen, he prescribes the common remedies, and mentions one which he says he learnt from a woman, and found very effectual. It was a draught containing lentils, fennel, and the urine of a boy not come to puberty. Jaundice being a dis- ease Avliich often goes off without any remedies, has been, in all ages, a favourite with empirics. Alsaharavius treats of the disease in much the same terms; recommends bleeding when it is connected with an inflammatory cause, and attenuants, bit- ters, purgatives, and the hot bath according to circumstances. Rhases, who gives a very full account of jaundice, states that the disease generally arises from obstruction either in the liver or its ducts. He particularly recommends drastic purgatives, such as scammony, along with wormwood, fennel-seed, and the like. When inflammatory symptoms are present he approves of bleeding and the warm bath. SECT. LI. ON PROLAPSUS OP THE NAVEL. The causes and surgical treatment of protrusion of the navel will be treated of in the Surgical part of the work. But, since some restore the parts to their natural state by medicines, we must now mention that method of treatment: Of fissile alum, dr. v; of lees of wine, dr. viij; of rose-oil, dr. x; of unripe gall- nuts, dr. ij; dilute with wine; make to the thickness of honey; and wash with it; and put on externally a sponge soaked in oxy- crate, and surround it with a bandage.—Another : Of the outer skin of bruised beans, of galls, of pomegranate flowers, equal parts; boil in water, and when dissolved pound carefully, and wash with it; and apply the sponge, as formerly said.—Another: Of the parings of lead, dr. xvj; of hemlock, of manna, of ceruse, of the juice of hypocistis, of each dr. j; dissolve in wine, and use as above described. Commentary. See in particular Oribasius (Morb. Curat. Comm. iv, 117.) It is not necessary to multiply authorities, as all en-' v ' tertain similar views upon this head. The following is a simple receipt given by Celsus: " Cicutaj et fuliginis, denar. j; cerussse