350 HEADACH. [book hi. SECT. IV. ON HEADACH. Headach, which is one of the most serious complaints, is sometimes occasioned by an intemperament solely ; sometimes by a redundance of humours, and sometimes by both; and sometimes it is occasioned by a procatarctic cause, such as ex- ternal heat, or cold, or drunkenness, or a blow. The most ve- hement pains of the head are excited by the active qualities, particularly heat. Those occasioned by dryness are not equally vehement; but a humid quality excites no pain of itself, unless it happens to be joined to heat, cold, or a fulness of humours. Headachs occurring in a fever having been treated of in the preceding Book on Fevers, we will now treat of the others. On headach from heat. When headach proceeds from ex- posure to heat, the skin feels hotter and drier than natural at the first application of the hand, and the eyes of such persons are red. They delight in cold affusions and ointments, and are benefited by them. The method of cure will correspond with that described as applicable for cases of headach in fevers. When the pain becomes chronic, we must have recourse to some of the under-mentioned applications. The following ap- plications to the forehead and temples will also be proper, namely, bread soaked in oxycrate and rose-oil, to which may sometimes be joined almonds; or roses either dried or fresh, or mixed with mint and pennyroyal; or bread with the leaves of the peach tree. Benefit may also be derived from basil, pounded with vinegar and rose-oil; or from ivy berries boiled in vinegar, and pounded with rose-oil; or from wheaten flour mixed with the watery decoction of wild thyme; or from cardamom toasted and triturated in vinegar and rose-oil; or from leaven with rose- oil; or from dried iris with vinegar. These applications must be changed frequently; for if allowed to remain long, they have no effect. Trochisks for headach connected with a warm intemperament. Of saffron, dr. v; of copperas, dr. x; of alum, dr. xvj; of myrrh, dr. vij; of the oil of unripe olives, dr. iij; of chalcitis, dr. iij; of gum, dr. iij; of austere wine, q. s. Use with oxy- crate, and, if watchfulness accompany it, add some of the soporifics.