59 sect, xlvi.] MASTICATORIES, ETC. The use of suppositories in the practice of medicine might be traced back to the earliest times. Mention of them occurs frequently in the works of Hippocrates. SECT. XLVI. ON MEDICINES WHICH EVACUATE PHLEGM FROM THE HEAD, MASTIC ATORIES, ERRHINES AND LINIMENTS TO THE NOSE. We evacuate humours fixed in the head, with the saliva, by mixing some pepper with mastich, if a small discharge only be required j or, if a greater evacuation be wanted, by giving di- rections to chew pellitory or stavesacre. The root of every species of anemone, when chewed, also excites the secretion of saliva, and the rind of the root of cappers. Serous superfluities may be thus evacuated; but, for thicker phlegm, we must gargle with mustard in vinegar and honey, or with sodden wine, hav- ing marjoram and hyssop boiled in it. I also mix this with the gargle formed of mustard in vinegar and honey. When we want to clear the brain of mucus, we must stimulate it by means of acrid substances, of which kind some are sternutatories. The juice of either pimpernel, of the anemones, and of beet purge by the nose. The juice also of the leaves of the wild cucumber may be applied to the nostrils, either alone or with the decoc- tion or juice of the beet. But sneezing is not at all applicable for crude humours contained in the chest, lungs, and head. The following ointment may be rubbed into the mouth : Anoint the roof of the mouth and uvula with a soap containing the juice of the beet. The same application may be used as an errhine. I have also often used the following composition, which is easily prepared: Macerate gith in strong vinegar for a day, then next day rub it with the vinegar, and pour it into the nose. Sometimes the gith may be rubbed with old oil; and I apply it in this manner. Archigenes used it in the same manner for obstruction of the nostrils. Crito used the former cure, along with vinegar, for jaundice. Commentary. This Section is taken from Oribasius. C (Synops. i, 21.) Hippocrates makes frequent mention of the caput-purgia, or