[book III. 4S8 SPITTING OF BLOOD. c omm. The account given by Celsus is very similar, and highly inter- esting. He approves of bleeding, the internal and external use of vinegar, and cold water to drink. Part of his treatment de- serves to be given in his own inimitable language : " Praeter hsec necessaria sunt quies, securitas, silentium. Caput cujus quoque cubantis sublime esse debet, recteque tondetur. Facies saepe aqua frigida fovenda est. At inimica sunt vinum, balneum, venus, in cibo oleum, acria omnia, item calida fomenta, conclave calidum et inclusum, multa vestimenta corpori injecta, etiam frictiones. In hoc casu per hiemem, locis maritimis ; per sestatem, mediterraneis opus est." Scribonius Largus, among other remedies, mentions sponging the chest with vinegar. Pliny the elder recommends the juice of henbane in hemop- tysis. (H. N. xxvi, 15.) See also Marcel. Empir. (17); Plin. Valerian, (iv, 69.) The account given by Aetius is full and judicious, but mostly borrowed from Galen. He approves of the internal use of vine- gar, and of applying to the chest wool soaked in the same. Oribasius, Actuarius, and Nonnus recommend internal reme- dies like those of our author. Alexander's observations are exceedingly judicious; but we can only afford room to state his opinion of external applications. He approves of embrocations by means of wool soaked in rose-oil, or the like, with some vinegar or austere wine not very old ; but recommends us to change the application frequently, as by allowing it to remain it will only irritate and provoke the flow of blood. With such precautions Octavius Horatianus, in like manner, approves of sponging the chest with sour wine and Avater, or vinegar. Alexander properly forbids us to give anything warm, and cautions against violent exercise, anger, venery, and saltish food. Galen expounds the pathology and principles of treatment so fully, that we cannot even venture to give an abridgment of his account, but will venture to recommend it to the serious atten- tion of the medical reader. We must not omit, however, what he says respecting the use of cold and astringent applications to the chest: " I do not, like most physicians, approve of applying externally astringents, or things which are of a cooling nature without astringency, in cases of hemorrhage; for it appears to