CHOLERA. [book III. 518 Comm. same time there are profuse sweats and deliquium, he approves of adding a small quantity of wine to the water. It is to be of a fragrant and astringent kind, so as to strengthen the .powers of the system. When all the symptoms get worse, when spasms of the legs occur, and the pulse becomes insensible, he advises us to give more wine and water. Should the vomiting continue, we must return to very hot drink and hot food, for, he remarks, the transition often proves beneficial. When all these fail, a cupping-instrument is to be put on between the shoulders or below the navel. He afterwards speaks of such applications as those recommended by our author, namely, calefacients applied to the belly, chest, and legs. He concludes with saying, that, if the symptoms, instead of improving, should get worse after this treatment, it will be proper for the physician to accelerate his retreat. When cholera is not attended with fever, Galen approves of giving a piece of bread soaked in diluted wine, of cold drink, and of applying cupping-instruments to the belly. When the patient is strong, he even recommends the cold bath. He di- rects afterwards astringent food, and also speaks of clysters, old wine, and asses' milk. He mentions with seeming appro- bation that Asclepiades gave tepid water at the commencement. Celsus depends most upon tepid water, dry cupping, and si- napisms to the belly. In extreme cases, he prescribes a light fragrant wine diluted with water. Alexander's account is very minute, but little different from that of Aretseus. In certain cases, he permits poppies to remove insomnolency and wine to support the strength. Like Hippocrates, he describes correctly dry cholera. In this variety, which he attributes to a bilious humour, he recom- mends purging with scammony or the picra of aloes. But in particular he approves of friction and the application of strong ligatures to the extremities; to the arms and hands, when the evacuations are by the belly; and to the feet and legs, when by vomiting from the stomach. Aetius, Oribasius, Actuarius, and Nonnus treat of the dis- ease in nearly the same terms as our author. For cholera, Marcellus recommends various astringent re- medies, both externally and internally. Myrtle-wine, he says, will stop the vomiting. He also commends opium.