G4 WATERS. [fiOOK the body and hence, the inhabitants of northern climates are remarked to possess this character. It is unsuitable, however, to all acnte disorders; and is also improper for certain chronic diseases, snch as consumption, cachexy, paralysis, apoplexy, and rheumatism Warm air consumes the body, attenuating and wasting the system, but it is preferable to cold air for imparting vigour and agility; it tries the powers, is useful m affections of the nerves and chest, but not in those of other parts. Ihick air has no other good property, except that it prevents the powers from being dissipated. Thin air is most conducive to health. The air of high situations is said by him to be more salubrious to all persons, except those labouring under diaphoresis or syn- cope, and the aged. The atmosphere of places near the sea, he remarks, is milder than that of inland parts. Places in the neighbourhood of marshes are at all times unhealthy; but, in summer, their atmosphere is pestilent, Those by a river side are cold and changeable. See more fully Stobseus. (Sermo xcix.) Hippocrates gives many interesting observations on the effect of climate, and the state of the atmosphere, in influencing the health; but they are delivered so much in detail, that my limits do not admit of my entering into an exposition of them. (De Aere Aquis, Locis.j The account there given of the effects of stagnant water when used as drink is particularly deserving of at- tention. He says it produces diseases of the spleen, dropsies, and the like. See Coray's edition of this treatise. Haly Abbas gives a very elaborate disquisition on this sub- ject. He describes minutely the characters of salubrious airs, and the changes produced upon them by the seasons of the year, the state of the winds, the nature of countries, and the stars, that is to say, the sun and dog-star. (Theor. v.) See also Rhasos (Contin. xxxiii); Avicenna (i, 2, 2.) SECT. L. ON WATERS. It is necessary also to be skilled in the good and bad pro- perties of waters, for of all things water is of most use in every mode of regimen. It is necessary to know that the best water is wholly devoid of quality, as regards taste and smell, is most pleasant to drink and pure to the sight; and when it passes