[book III. APOPLEXY. 398 . stupet. Fit interdum ictufulminis, interdum niorbo : 'a-wo^r)^iav ' hunc Grseci appellant. His sanguis mittendus est: veratro quoque albo, vel alvi ductione utendum. Turn adhibendse fric- tiones, et ex media materia minime pingues cibi, quidam etiam acres; et a vino abstinendum." Respecting the treatment of paralysis he delivers the following aphorism : " Si omnia mem- bra vehementer resoluta sunt, sanguinis detractio vel occidit vel liberal : aliud curationis genus vix unquam sanitatem restituit, ssepe mortem tantum differt, vitam interdum infestat." His other remedial measures are such as our author's, namely gesta- tion, the application of cupping-instruments or rubefacients to the affected part, the warm salt-water bath, and a restricted diet. According to Theophrastus, paralysis is occasioned by a defi- ciency or loss of the pneuma, i. e. vital heat. It is impossible to admire too much the brief but comprehen- sive account of apoplexy and paralysis given by Aretseus. He states decidedly, that there is sometimes a loss of motion alone, and sometimes of sensibility; the reason of which he supposes to be, that the sensatory and motory nerves are distinct from one another. This is the germ of the theory fully expanded after- wards by Galen. It appears, indeed, from the anatomical works of Ruffus, that the famous Erasistratus had attempted a similar classification of the nerves. Galen, however, has the merit of fully establishing the truth of the theory; and all subsequent writers on physiology stated it in nearly the same terms that he does, until ancient authority in medicine and its cognate sciences came to be despised. Aretaeus states it as a general rule, that when one side of the brain is affected the opposite side of the body is paralysed; but, when the disorder is in the spinal marrow, that the affection of the spine and the paralysis are on the same side. This arises, he supposes, from the decus- sation of the cerebral nerves; and this explanation must be ad- mitted even now to be tolerably correct. The causes of para- lysis, as stated by him, are falls, blows, cold, indigestion, de- bauchery, intoxication, and violent emotions of the mind.' His treatment is as follows : He inculcates, in the strongest terms that the great remedy for apoplexy is venesection ; and that the only difficulty, in general, is to determine the extent to which it is to be carried. He forbids the operation, however, when the senses are oppressed with much cold and torpor. When venesec-