[book ttt. JAUNDICE. 580 Most of our author's remedies are taken from Galen, who treats fully and scientifically of diseases of the spleen. He states, as a general principle of treatment, that the proper medicines in cases of indurated spleen are such as are of an incisive and attendant nature. He, therefore, approves of the mixture of bitter with austere things. Alexander forbids strong purging in the beginning of an inflammation either of the liver or spleen. The Arabians treat of these affections similarly to the Greeks. Haly Abbas remarks that the spleen can bear much stronger medicines than the liver, and recommends in the indolent dis- eases of it various bitter and very acid medicines. In inflam- mation he very properly bleeds. These are his general prin- ciples of treatment, the detail of which he explains at great length. Avicenna and Alsaharavius treat of these diseases more minutely than any other of the ancient authorities. Rhases recommends camel's milk in cases of indurated spleen. He joins Archigenes in directing the application of sinapisms and leeches to the side. SECT. L. ON JAUNDICE. Jaundice is a diffusion of bile over the whole body, some- times of black, as we stated when treating of diseases of the spleen, and sometimes of yelloAv. There are many varieties of this complaint, the causes and diagnosis of which are as follows: If jaundice occurring suddenly in a febrile complaint diminish the fever, it is critical, being occasioned by a metastasis of the matter from the deep-seated parts, and, therefore, stands in no need of medicines, but is soon removed bv baths and friction. But if it is attended with fever and bilious evacuations from the bowels, and if there be a sense of weight in the right hv- pochondrium, a hot inflammation of the liver is indicated, by which the blood, being rendered bilious, is conveyed over the whole body. When there is heat in the part without a sense of weight, the affection is occasioned by a hot intemperament alone of the liver. If it is without fever, and the alvine dis- charges are white, an affection of the gall-bladder, or of its ducts, is indicated. "When there is a sense of heaviness in the