SECT. XL.] LIENTERY. 521 fully efficacious. When the disease is protracted, we must have recourse to a dropax (calefacient plaster) along the abdomen, and the cerate from mustard, or mustard itself. The drinks which are taken should be simple, containing plantain-seed, or the seed of dock, or the rind of pomegranate, or dried services, or dried unripe grapes from the Aminsean vine, to the amount of three oboli j which things, when there is no fever, are to be taken in six cupfuls of an austere wine, but when there is fever in rain water. It will injure the stomach less if the dried crop of hens be sprinkled upon the drink. But diuretics, such as parsley, maiden-hair, and the like, occasion a metastasis of the fluid; and, in like manner, the compound ones, as that of Polyides (it is the sigillum), the trochisk from amber, that from Egyptian thorn, the one called clidium, and that from seeds. The fol- lowing one is most excellent: Of the seed of the wild dock, oz. iss j of plantain-seed, oz. j; of the juice of the hypocistis, dr. vj ; of gum or acacia, dr. iij j add to a decoction of the juice of quinces boiled to a third part.—Another : Of cumin, of pep- per, of Syriac sumach, of the flowers of the wild pomegranate, of each, oz. iss; of pomegranate-rind, oz. j ; of laserwort, oz. ss; either sprinkle a drachm of it dried upon the drink, or mix with oxymel, and give morning and evening.—Another: Of black myrtle, a spoonful and a half; of anise, of dried roses, of the flower of wild vine, of each, half a spoonful; of dates, xx in number; make trochisks, and give a drachm with water or diluted wine. And the theriac from vipers is also an excellent remedy for them. When the discharge is acrid and bilious, the food should be from chondrus, rice, alica, and the like; but some of the astringents should be boiled along with them, such as pears, apples, quinces, medlars, and such like. Boiled milk is also proper. The drink should be either a light watery wine, or some of the sweet potions. If the discharges consist more of phlegm, we may change the diet to the opposite kind, mixing the seeds of some of the stomachic vegetables, anise, cumin, or the seed of parsley. The dried lentil twice boiled is often of use to them, when eaten with a little vinegar or oxymel, and cabbages like- wise twice boiled; but it is better to make the second boiling in oxycrate. They should drink some of the older and more heating wines.