SECT. LXI.] THE MENSES. (ill discharge, or at least none of any consequence lias taken place, we must open a vein at the ankle, and abstract blood; but after the seventh or eighth day we must purge with hiera; aud after the fourth day a calefacient plaster (dropax) is to be applied to the lower part of the belly, loins, and thighs. Having drunk water for three days, let a cataplasm, made of equal portions of mustard and soaked bread, be applied until the equinox, after which let the patient bathe. Next month, let dried figs instead of bread be mixed with the decoction of fenugreek, of mallows, of pennyroyal, of rue, and of mugwort. And let oil of lilies (susinum) or of marjoram be injected into the vagina; and let the pessary called Enneapharmacus, or the Olibanius be intro- duced. A pessary consists of carded wool, rounded to the shape of the finger, and impregnated with the medicines. This mode of treatment is generally sufficient for restoring the menstrual evacuation; but if stronger medicines are required, they are as follows : Illyrian iris drunk with wine and cyperus, the root of wakerobin, cassia, the schenanth, valerian, a decoction of the root of elicampane, myrrh to the size of a Grecian bean drunk with must in half a hemina of honied water, and two heminae of the decoction of dittany, and ammoniac, and sagapene. To persons whose stomachs are less easily deranged, a small quan- tity of opopanax, made into a little ball, and steeped in boiled honey, may be given. Moreover, certain common seeds are calculated to promote the menstrual evacuation, but in an in- ferior degree, such as fennel, cumin, parsley, Cretan carrot, hart- wort, bishop's weed, sison, chick-peas, juniper-berries, and all the diuretics. But the following things are to be applied per vaginam : Myrrh triturated with the decoction of wormwood, or of lupines; or triturated with the juice of rue ; bdellium, in like manner; storax, the gum of the wild olive, and that of the juice of rue, in like manner; or the long birth wort made into the form of a collyrium; and so also the root of the great centaury, or of hellebore, or of the juice of scammony, and the medullary part of the wild gourd by itself, and mugwort formed with rue and galbanum, applied in the form of a fumigation. These things are calculated also to expel the foetus. Commentary. One may find in Hippocrates a long list of Comm. medicines possessed of real or imaginary virtues as emmena- ^ '