SECT. LV.] NAUSEA. 31!) sponge squeezed out of hot water. Avicenna recommends for Comm this purpose an instrument called chaizaran, and also directs us w— to use sugar, or a sponge with a small quantity of salt and rose oil. He likewise makes mention of the salt brought from India, possessing the colour of salt and the taste of honey, (iv, 1, 2, 22.) The Pseudo-Dioscorides recommends mint tritu- rated with honey, red sumach, and rose oil with honey, or by itself. (Euporist. ii, 18.) Prosper Alpinus held that the Indian salt, mentioned by our author and Avicenna, was the same as our sugar. But this opinion was controverted by Carolus Arantius, (Baptista Fierae Ccena.) Sprengel, accordingly, maintains that the Greeks and Romans were utterly unacquainted with our sugar. (Rei Herb. Hist., and Notse in Dioscoridem, ii, 104.) The mel arundinum appears, in fact, to have been a natural concretion, and it was most probably the same as the Indian salt. See Dr. Milward's Letter to Sir Hans Sloane. The cane from w hich the ancient sugar was procured is now called by botanists the bambusa urandinacea, or bamboo cane. See Book First, 96. SECT. LV. ON NAUSEA. When nausea comes on without being produced artificially, it is a clear inference that noxious humours are vexing the stomach. Some feel uneasy, but vomit nothing, the humour being retained in the coats. When the humours are pituitous, we must get them concocted by rest, spare diet, and sleep. But the thinner may be ejected by vomiting, produced either with the juice of ptisan, or with honied water. But those which are viscid and thick, stand in need of attenuant remedies, such as oxymel, and the like. But, when a noxious fluid is detained in the coats, the powder from aloes, called picra, is beneficial, but astringents are pernicious; whereas, if there be much fluid, but not of a noxious kind, astringents will be be- neficial, but the aloetic medicine will bring on marasmus. When cold is joined to humidity, we must mix calefacients with astringents. The symptom of the affection being of a cold nature is that there is no thirst, nor sensation of heat.