FEVERS. [BOOK 216 Cum, An inequality may take place in respect to one pulsation; ^^for the dilatation of the artery may be interrupted, and then completed, when it is called dorcadissans, caprizans or goat- leap; or the stroke may be suddenly repeated, when it is called dicrotos, which may be translated the double, reverbe- rating, or rebounding pulse. The term dorcadissans is derived from dorcas, an animal generally supposed to have been the goat, but it is now satisfactorily ascertained that it was the antelope dorcas or gazelle; and, in the Latin translations of Avicenna and Haly Abbas, it is rendered gazellans. It is said that when this animal leaps upwards it at first takes a short spring, then seems to make a sudden stop, and afterwards takes a much larger and swifter bound. This character was applied to the pulse when an imperfect dilatation of the artery is succeeded by a fuller and a stronger one. (Galen, de diff. Puis, i, 28.) It is thus described by Haly Abbas: " Gazellans pulsus est qui cum a celeritate incipiat antequam percussiat stat, dehinc velociter movetur: vocatur autem hujusmodi gaze- lenus sua ex similitudine caprioli saltu: quum capriolus quern Gazel Arabice vocant cum saltum dederit pedes tollit et sus- pensus pauco videtur tempore atque sic ad terram velocius redit." The translator of Alsaharavius renders it by fusalis. It is correctly stated by Fouquet that the second pulsation is necessarily larger than the first. The dicrotos consists of two pulsations, following upon one another so rapidly as to form, as it were, but one beat of the artery. In the translation of Alsaharavius it is called mallearis, and is thus defined: "Est autem pulsus mallearis qui percutit manum et recedit, deinde redit et percutit secundario." When there is a succession of pulsations which diminish in magnitude regularly, such a system of pulses is called myuri, that is to say, decurtate or sharp-tailed, from their supposed resemblance to the tapering tail of a mouse. Those who are acquainted with the Scholiast on Hephajstion, and the other ancient writers on prosody, will readily recognize a term with which they are familar. Galen inclines to the opinion that this state of the artery is connected with an intemperament of the portion where the expansion is limited. Of these pulses, some end in complete asphyxia, and hence are called swooning, failing, or fainting myuri, (Le Clerc renders it by le rnyurus