FEVERS. [BOOK 248 Comm. upon the doctriues of Galen, whom he finds fault with for recommending clesiccants and calefacients in every species ol quartan fever; whereas he maintains that when it arises from adust bile, refrigerants are indicated. He strongly commends emetics at the beginning of a paroxysm. He approves of peppers combined with opium, henbane, and other articles. Synesius and Constantinus Africanus admit the distinction made by Alexander, and nearly follow his principles of treatment Synesius makes mention of wormwood, which, however, had been recommended by Ruffus. (Ap. Aetium.) Serenus Samo- nicus also recommends wormwood: " Mira est absmthi cum simplice potio lympha." Celsus gives minute directions for conducting the treatment in all the stages of the complaint. He thus sums up the re- medies which he recommends : " In ejusmodi valetudme medi- camenta sunt, oleum, frictio, exercitatio, cibus, vinum." Serapion mentions black hellebore, agaric, and the lapis lazuli, as medicines which purge black bile. (De Antid. vi, 15.) Averrhoes, however, cautions against using black hellebore for the cure of quartans; expresses himself in dubious terms re- specting venesection; and, upon the whole, seems to place his principal reliance in things of a diffusible, attenuant, and pene- trating nature. Haly Abbas, Avicenna, and Rhases speak of venesection in much the same terms as Galen, that is to say, they recommend it when symptoms of plethora are present, but say that it may prove prejudicial in any other circumstances. They approve of emetics at the commencement, and of worm- wood in the decline of the fever. Avicenna appeals to Galen in favour of the black and white hellebore. Several of Rhases' authorities in his ' Continens' recommend bleeding. They in general approve of the early use of the bath, and of diuretics and sudorifics; and recommend, in the decline of the fever, things of a heating nature, such as pepper, anise, spikenard, ginger, &c. It remains to be mentioned that amulets were very much used in ancient times for the cure of quartans. Alexander Trallian had great confidence in them. Galen supposed that they owed their virtues to the physical properties of the sub- stances which were appended. iElius Spartianus, one of the writers of the Augustan History, says, that the emperor Caracalla