al0 FEVERS. [BOOK mm, and appears low, narrow, and short, when it is not so in reality, but seems so, owing to the thickness of the fat flesh, or membranes which press npon it. Sometimes too, the whole seems small, when it is not so in reality; and feeble in liKe manner. And what do I say? Sometimes an asphyxy, or com- plete loss of pnlsation, hath seemed to take place over the whole arteries when there is no such thing in reality; and this has happened, more especially to those who have felt them care- lessly, when the motion, being really indistinct, escapes notice, owing to the quantity of flesh; for it is impossible that a com- plete asphyxy could take place while the man is alive. In like manner again in the emaciated, small pulses appear great. W hen, therefore, the body is greatly wasted, the artery which runs along the spine has often been felt by persons touching the abdomen, and also the pulses in members which before used not to be felt. Wherefore we must attend to all circumstances, that we may not be mistaken in our diagnosis. A strong pulse is occasioned by the force of the natural faculty, when not coun- teracted by any other cause, such as the want failing, or from hardness of the instrument. But a feeble pulse may arise from weakness of the natural powers alone, although no other causes contribute. For a strong pulse stands in need of all the other causes for its formation j but the feeble is produced by weakness alone. The originally strong pulse accompanies moderate ages, seasons, places, and temperaments; but the feeble the immo- derate. A pulse changing from feebleness to strength is formed by the vital faculty growing strong, from a preceding state of debility. It is strengthened either by things within the body, such as concoction of the fluids, or an excretion of them, or passion; or by externals, such as wines, food, exercises, and whatever will rectify the intemperanient. The natural powers are weakened by want of food, watchfulness, immoderate eva- cuations, grief, cares, and more especiallypains inducing syncope, and whatever forms an intemperament. Some inexperienced persons have thought a hard pulse strong, but a person of ex- perienced understanding and touch will not mistake them; for a strong pulse, being mostly accompanied with greatness, is swelled up to loftiness and strikes the finger forcibly; but the hard does not admit of greatness, on account of the unyielding state of the artery. Wherefore a pulse becomes hard owing to