334 SMALLPOX AND MEASLES. [book ii. with apostemes, and his description of the symptoms is far from being accurate. Avenzoar, in his Treatise on Epidemical Diseases, treats in- cidentally of measles and smallpox, for the cnre of which he recommends principally gentle purgatives, such as tamarinds, with cooling and acid drinks, (iii, 3, 4.) Alsaharavius also mentions them briefly among the pestilen- tial diseases; but his description of them is not to be compared with that of Khases. According to Haly Abbas, variola is produced either by ex- ternal causes, such as a pestilential state of the atmosphere, or from respiring the air of a place which has been tainted with the effluvia from the pustules of persons affected with the dis- ease ; or it may arise from an ebullition of the blood when it is loaded with gross humours which nature endeavours to cast outwards. He then briefly describes several varieties of the disease, differing from one another in degrees of malignity; and among them he ranks rubeola, which is occasioned, he says, by a hot thin blood, and is not of a bad nature. In it, he says, the eruption, when at its height, resembles millet seeds, or is somewhat larger, the colour is red, and the pustules discharge nothing. The precursory symptoms of smallpox are fever, swelling of the face, itching of the nose, inflammation and red- ness in the face and other members, heaviness of the head, and roughness of the throat. (Theor. viii, 14.) With regard to the treatment of variola and rubeola, he recommends venesection during any of the first three days; or, if the patient be a child, he directs us to apply a cupping instrument to the back. The patient is then to be made to drink barley-water in which jujubes and sebesten plums have been boiled j syrup of poppies is to be added, if the cough be troublesome, or the pain of the throat severe; and spoon-meats prepared with spinage, orach, and the like, are to be given. When the eruption does not come pro- perly out, he recommends a decoction of fennel, lentils, figs, &c. to be taken cold.—By the way, this practice is favorably men- tioned by Fracastorius, a writer of the 16th century (De Morb. Cont.) For asperity in the chest he recommends the mucilage of fleawort, linseed, and the like, and forbids all heating things. The patient is to be kept upon a low diet, as in other fevers j and his apartment is to be fumigated with aromatics, such as