Sect, lxxiv.] POT-HERUS. 13 emng. The endive, he says, when boiled with vinegar is as- tringent. Rhases praises it as a deobstruent in affections of the liver. Apicius directs it to be dressed with fish-sauce and oil. Its boiled roots were also prepared as a pickle. The brassicai, or cabbages, were great favorites of the elder Cato. (De Re Rust.) Horace states correctly, that such as grow in the country are better than those which are raised about towns. (Sat. ii, 4.) According to Galen, their juices are laxa- tive, but their solid parts astringent. Brocoli, says Rhases, when not pickled are not heating, and being flatulent they en- gender semen : those that are pickled are more heating, occa- sion thirst, supply bad nutriment, and inflame the blood. Is brocoli an Italian word, or an Arabian, formed from caulis with a prefix? The halimus, according to Sprengel, is the atriplex halimm L., called by Miller the sea purslane j but by others it is referred to the salicomia frvticosa L. Dioscorides says that its leaves when boiled are used for food, (i, 120.) Rhases and Haly Abbas state that spinach is laxative and wholesome. The Greeks and Romans appear to have been unacquainted with it. The atractylis is supposed by Sprengel to be the carlina lanata L. a woolly carline thistle. Dioscorides and Pliny re- commend it as an antidote against poisons; but it seems to have been little used as a pot-herb. The nettle (either the urt'ica dioica or pittulifera) is men- tioned as a pot-herb by Theophrastus (H. P. vii, 7), and most of the medical authorities. Psellus calls it laxative. The scandix, or shepherd's needle, was in little repute as an article of food; and hence Aristophanes makes it a subject of reproach to Euripides, that his mother sold not good pot- herbs, but scandix. (A char, act. ii, sc. 4 j Plinv H. N. xxii, 38.) Galen says that the gingidium is eaten in Syria, like the scandix in his country. It has been supposed, by Bruver and others, to be the chserophyllum or chervil j but, according to Ludovicus Nonnius, this is a mistake. We are inclined to refer it to the daucus gingidium L., or picktooth. Galen, Aetius, and Simeon Seth speak of the cinara as an unwholesome pot-herb. It may be eaten, however, Galen savs, 8