m DISEASES OF THE EYE. [book hi. the lens, for which lie recommends astringents, and even copperas. On nyctalopia. Aetius recommends, according to the circum- stances of the case, general and local bleeding, drastic purgatives, errhines, and the like. He, Celsus, Alexander, Rhases, Avicenna, Mesne, Jesu Halv, HalV Abbas, and Alsaharavius, like our au- thor, speak favorably of the application from the roasted liver of a goat. Instead of it Hippocrates recommends the liver of an ox. His treatment otherwise consists of bleeding, purging with elaterium, and, in desperate cases, of trepanning the head at the bregma and. evacuating the water. (De Visu.) The general treatment of the Arabians is like that of the Greeks. Thus Alsaharavius recommends bleeding, purging with hiera, gargles, sternutatories, and the like. This is also the practice of Jesu Haly. The term nyctalopia is not used by all the ancient authorities in the same sense. Thus Hippocrates applies it to that morbid state of vision in which the patient is blind during the day but sees better in the evening. Aetius, Alexander, Paulus, and Actuarius, on the contrary, apply it to that state in which the patient sees clearly during the day but becomes blind in the evening. On glaucoma and suffusion. Aetius and Oribasius give nearly the same account of these complaints as Paulus, and yet that of Aetius seems slightly different. He says that there are two kinds of glaucoma: that the first, to which the name is properly ap- plied, arises from a dryness and concretion of the crystalline humour, which is changed to a sea-green (glaucum) colour; but that the other arises from a suffusion, the humour near the pupil having become congealed and dry. According to Leo, the affection of glaucoma arises when the crystalline humour is con- gealed, as it were, and having become white, obstructs vision : this occurs in old age and is incurable. Haly Abbas was aware that the disease is sometimes seated in the crystalline lens, but did not know that it always is so. Hippocrates recommends masticatories and the actual cautery. Haly Abbas and Alsaharavius approve of making trial of remedies similar to those mentioned by our author, before attempting the operation. Rhases forbids bleeding when the disease arises from the state of the eye itself. Canamusali, who flourished about the year 1258, recommends