skct. lxxxi ] FRUITS. m diee^T PCrSW,,S' fr°m readily Comm L : f!?Td**» be formed from it, and therefore he ■ > that it forms a crude chyme, and is of a cold, humid, and in- Ratable nature Celsus says that its nutritive powers are feebk Avicenna says that its juices are bad, and prone to putrefaction. Melons are said by Averrhoes to be of a cold nature, juicy, detergent, and diuretic. J y sum™ V°-^ !ignification 111 -hu-h the names of the tnu s are often applied by the Greek and Roman wniters we have felt considerable difficulty in distinguishing the articles treated of in tins chapter. This confusion is of very ancient date, for one of the Deipnosophists of Athene complains of the difficulty he found in comprehending the proper application of these terms, from their having been dif- ferently used by the authors who had treated of them, (ix 14 ) \Ve have been obliged for once to abandon the guidance of bprengel, but have done so with the greatest hesitation, and not until we had compared the descriptions of all the Greek Latin, and Arabian authorities. Schneider points out the con- fusion about the use of these terms, but does not sufficiently clear it up in his Index to Theophrastus. Ludovicus Nonnius may likewise be consulted with advantage. He supposes that Ine pepones of the ancients were our melons; and he is also inclined to believe that the melopcpon was a species of the same (De Re Cibaria, i, 16.) For want of a better term, we have ventured to translate it the squash, although we are uncertain whether the Greeks were acquainted with this fruit, now so common m the East and in America. SECT. LXXXI. ON THE FRUIT OF TREES. The fig and the grape hold the principal place among the autumnal fruits; for their juices are of a less bad quality, and they are more nutritious than the others.—Of these, the figs have the better juices and the more nutritious j they are laxa- tive, diuretic, and evacuate the kidneys, and particularly the very ripe. In like manner also the dried; but they are flatu-