[book III. 672 GOUT. Comm. the commentator on the former think theirs a different plant from the hermodactylus of the other Greek authors. This may- be true, and yet the microscopic eye of critics often fancies it can see differences which other people are puzzled to remark. We may mention further regarding the practice of Ca?lius Aurelianus, that he speaks of soothing the pains of rheumatism, more especially of the hip-joint, by music. On this practice see also Aulus Gellius (iv, 13); Athenaeus (Deipnos. xiv, 18); Apollonius (Hist. Marab.); Pliny (H. N. xxviii, 2.) There is nothing very important in Nonnus, Octavius Hora- tianus, or Oribasius. We shall now give a brief abstract of the curious treatise on the gout by Demetrius Pepagomenos. The work is dedicated to the Emperor Michael Paleologus, who flourished about the year 1260; and it was published by Morel at Paris, a.d. 1558. The author commences by explaining the nature of that derangement of the animal economy which oc- casions this complaint. This he does at considerable length, but in much the same terms as Macrobius, to whom the reader has been already referred for an exposition of the humoral pa- thology. His physiological opinions appear to us to be highly ingenious and philosophical. He comes to the conclusion that gout is occasioned by a collection of humours in the affected joint, these humours being the product of imperfect digestion and of the retention of excrementitious superfluities, which ought to have been evacuated from the system. He says the procatarctic or remote causes of arthritic affections are, long- continued indigestion, repletion with food, drinking too much wine, venery, unusual exercise, indolence, and retention of the natural secretions. Venery, in particular, is said to weaken the tone of the nervous parts. He then proceeds to explain that when crudities are formed in the system, those parts which are strong and vigorous cast them off, which those that are weak cannot effect, and hence collections of such humours take place in them. The prophylaxis of the complaint, he remarks, is easily laid down, but is difficult to follow, namely, to observe great moderation in eating and drinking, and to avoid indigestion. His grand principle of practice is evacuation, which, according to the general rule laid down by Hippocrates, is the proper remedy for repletion. He then shows that vomiting is the mode of evacuation most applicable in this complaint, because