ll8 ESCULENT ROOTS. [book i. According to Diphilus, in this state they axe more attennant COMM than in their natural state. (Deipnos. k, 8.) It is not well ascertained what the esculent bulbi of the an- cients were. Harduin conjectures that they were a delicious kind of onions. Matthiolus and Nonnius are wholly unde- cided. Sprengel inclines, with Dalecampius and Sibthorp to think that they were a species of muscari, or mf^acmtK The account given of them by Serapion, who calls them cap* sine tumcis, agrees better with the conjecture of Harduin. Eustathius Ukewise says that the bulbus was a wild onion (Ad Iliad, xih, 589.) Columella, Varro, Apicius, and Martial call them aphrodisiacal. The staphvlinus was probably the carrot, or daucus carota, but we are inclined to think that it also comprehended the pars- nip See Athen. (Deip. ix, 2.) Apicius, among other methods of dressing it, directs it to be done with salt, pure oil, and vinegar. . . The sisarum was probably the garden parsnip, pastmaca sativa L. . T The cams seems indisputably to have been the carum carui L. Dioscorides says that its boiled root may be eaten like the carrot. Seth praises it as being carminative, diuretic, and as- tringent. Apicius mentions it frequently along with spices and other aromatics. The characters of the onion, garlic, and leek are taken from Galen. Celsus calls them calefacient, and ranks them with things having unwholesome juices. Actuarius prefers the leek to the onion and garlic. The latter is warmly eulogised by Galen, as being the rustic's theriac. Horace had not so much favour for it. (Epod. iii.) Galen calls the ampeloprason the same as the wild leek. (De Fac. Simp, vi.) Dioscorides describes two species of the porrum, namely, the capitatum and sectivum. The asphodel {asphodelus ramosus) is mentioned as an article of food by the poet Hesiod. Galen, however, speaks of its being eaten only in times of scarcity. Galen directs radishes to be eaten before dinner, as a laxa- tive. He justly expresses his surprise at the practice of certain physicians, and other persons of his time, who ate radish after dinner to promote digestion. The wild radish was called ar- moracia by the Romans, as we arc informed by Dioscorides.