THE LIVER. SECT. XLVI.] f)(>7 the practice of the other sects. Thus he justly condemns as too Comm. bold and dangerous a measure the proposal of Erasistratus to ' * ' lay bare the liver, and apply the remedies direct to the part affected. He thinks Asclepiades improperly rejected gestation, baths, cataplasms, and emollient ointments. He also condemns the free use of cauteries to the affected side. Serapion, like Alexander, states strongly the danger of using discutients before emollients, lest the juices become indurated. No ancient author has treated of the diseases of the liver so fullv as Avicenna. He is most minute in his distinctions of disease, and particular in his application of remedies. Among other diseased states of the viscus, he mentions diminution of bulk. Had not inspectiones cadaverum been common in ancient times, the existence of this state of diseased structure could not have been ascertained. In abscess, he and Serapion make mention of taraxacum or the dandelion, which was recommended by the late Dr. Pemberton in cases of diseased liver, and is still used occasionally. Haly Abbas directs us, when suppuration takes place, to determine to the kidneys by diuretics ; and, when the abscess bursts into the cavity of the peritoneum, he advises us to open it. When it makes its way to the stomach or bowels, he recommends us to promote its discharge by purging. He re- marks that sometimes an abscess will form externally to the liver and put on the appearance of hepatic abscess. He directs it to be opened with aperient medicines or the lancet. He takes notice of the pain at the top of the shoulder, which, like Aretseus, he attributes to the dragging down of the parts by the heavy liver. In the cold aposteme (chronic inflammation?) he recommends wormwood, fenugreek, hyssop, spikenard, fennel, and the like. One of his favourite remedies for hepatic disease is rhubarb. Alsaharavius gives a long account of these diseases. Inflammation he treats by bleeding, various laxative and cooling medicines, emollient plasters, &c. In obstruction he gives rhu- barb, wormwood, fennel, endive, &c.; and bleeds, if there be a sanguineous plethora. He treats fully of a discharge of blood from the liver. When it arises from the bursting of a vein after excessive fatigue, he directs us to bleed; but when it proceeds from relaxation and debility, he recommends astringents externally and internally. The account of hepatic diseases given by Rhases in his 'Continens' is particularly excellent, but it is too lengthy