19 SECT. XV.] PREPARATORY FRICTION. with becoming earnestness, on the propriety of attending to the Coma regulation of the passions of the child, as being conducive to his health as well as to his morals. As soon as the boy is roused from sleep he is to be bathed; then he is to be allowed to play for an hour; afterwards, he is to have something to eat, and thou is to be allowed more play. Afterwards he is to be bathed; then he is to take food; and, if possible, he is to be prevented from drink- ing water immediately after a meal, as it has a tendency to make unconcocted chyle be distributed over the body. When six years old, he is to be consigned to the care of a teacher, but he is not to be compelled to remain constantly in school. Avicenna goes on to state that, at the age he has then reached, he is to be more sparingly bathed, and that his exercise is to be multiplied before eating. Like most of the ancient authori- ties, he forbids wine to a child. Thus, he adds, is the regimen of the child to be regulated until he reach the age of fourteen. (I, i, 4.) Averrhoes gives very sensible directions on this subject. He forbids the use of wine and ales until manhood. (Collig. vi, 6.) SECT. XV. ON THE PREPARATORY FRICTION. Before gymnastic exercises, the body ought to be rubbed moderatelv first with towels, and then with oil in the hollows 9 of the naked hands, until it be properly warmed and softened, and its surface have contracted a florid blush, and become dis- tended. Commentary. A more circumstantial account of the mode Comm. of preparing the body for gymnastic exercises is given by1 4 ' Oribasius. (Med. Collect, vi, 13.) It is taken, however, from Galen's second book of ' Hygiene/ See a similar account in Aetius (iii, 1), and Avicenna (i, 3, 2.) The object of it, according to Alexander Aphrodisiensis, was to soften the parts so that they might not be ruptured. (Prob. i, 119.) To rub the body with oil was a general practice of the ancients before strong exercises of every kind. Hence Horace characterizes an inactive person by his dread of oil, aCur olivum Sanguine viper- ino cautius vitat?"—that is to say, as his commentator Acron