WINE. [booki. 1/0 in a ereat degree the distribution of the food over the body rousn" nd ft the same time increasing the vital heat, and wrfh t he u marv and other secretions. It snits best he says, with er^ns of a'cold and dry temperament; and, therefore, * - w£ proper for old men. He adds that the immoderate use of wine Hssolves the vital tone, depresses the natural heat, and occasions apop "y, epilepsy, and tumours of the body. Macrobius attempts Z traced resemblance between the effects of habitual intoxi- cation and those resulting from exposure to extreme cold "Quascunque nimium algentibus,eadem contmgunt ebrns. Faint enimtremuli,Pallidi, graves; et saltu tumultuantis spmtus artus suos et membra quatiuntur. Idem corporis torpor ambobus, eadem linguae titubatio. Multis etiam morbus ille quern iraoaXv™ Gmti vocant sic nimio vino, et multo algore con- tingit» In like manner, a modern writer, Andreas Baccius, maintains that some wines are of a cold nature. Haly Abbas gives nearly the same characters of wine as feeth. His account of all the wines, natural and artificial, used in his time, is most ample. Alsaharavius forbids wine to be taken when the stomach is quite empty, or after a full meal. When taken seasonably, he says it improves the appetite, increases the vital heat, nourishes the body, and clears the senses. Avicenna, with his usual judgment and industry, collects all the information of preceding authors, to which he adds his own opinions. He remarks that the immoderate use of wine in- duces disease of the liver and brain, and debilitates the nerves. Wine, says Rhases, warms the stomach and liver, and dis- pels flatulence, promotes digestion, provokes the urinary and alvine discharges, and gladdens the mind. Serapion copies mostly from Galen in delivering the general characters of wine. He disapproves of wine made with salt water. For an account of it, see Pliny and Athenseus, (1. c.) The ancients were scarcely more agreed respecting the in- toxicating properties of wine than they were as to the powers of the cabbage in counteracting them. Old Cato the Censor, who was in the practice "of warming his virtue with wine," describes the following method of cooling it: "Si voles in convivio mul- tum bibere camareque, ante csenam esto crudam brassicam quantum voles ex aceto, et item ubi camaveris comesto aliqua