477 ASTHMA. SECT. XXIX.] give two every two days; for they will evacuate upwards .gently. To those who are choked for want of breath, give, of aphro- nitrum, dr. iij, with three cyathi of hydromel, and sometimes with cardamom, and it will relieve them immediately. It is also useful in ischiatic disease. Commentary. The following ancient works maybe consulted: Comm. Hippocrates (Aphoris.); Galen (de Comp. Med. sec. loc. vii); ' v ' (Visas (iy, 4); Aretseus (Morb. i, 11); Ccelius Aurelianus (Morb. Tard. iii, 1); Aetius (viii, 63); Oribasins (Loc. Affect, iv, 79); Aetuarius (Meth. Med. iv, 4); Marcellus (de Med. 17); Nonnus (127); Octavius Horatianus (ii, 2, 12); Serapion (ii, 24); Aucenna (iii, 10, 1, 38); Mesue (de iEgrit. Pect.); Haly Abbas (Pract. vi, 8; Thcor. ix, 20); Alsaharavins (Pract. viii, 5); Rhases (ad Alansor. ix, 56 ; Contin. viii.) Onr author's theory of the disease is borrowed from Galen, and seems very plausible. It being admitted by our best modern pathologists, that there is no organic alteration of structure in ordinary cases of convulsive asthma, it seems likely that the pa- roxysm is occasioned by thick and viscid humours infarcted in the lungs; or, most probably, in many cases from the system being loaded with such humours which nature casts off by the lungs. We need scarcely add, that it is now well ascertained that asthma is frequently produced by engorgement of the lining membrane of the bronchi, thus forming what is called the dry catarrh. Galen, like our author, maintains that the use of atte- nuant and detergent medicines is indicated. His internal reme- dies are squills, pepper, wormwood, opopanax, storax, sulphur, oxvmel, millepedes, &c. He forbids all things which are either of a very hot or cold nature, as in either case they tend to thicken the humours. Aetius gives nearly the same account as our author, both having evidently borrowed from Galen. He strongly praises vinegar of squills, myrrh, pepper, and the like. In certain cases he advises the application of the actual cautery to the head (see Book Sixth, Sect, i) under the impression that the disease is oc- casioned by a defluxion from it. He also speaks of burning the chest in several places for the purpose of making issues; and further recommends strong rubefacients. Among the articles recommended by Marcellus, the Empiric,