667 SECT. LXXVIII.] GOUT. sent day to be correct. Those who are old, or who have chalk- Comm. stones formed in their joints, or lead a laborious course of life, ' " ' or have dried bellies, cannot be cured bv any human means. Young persons not having tophi formed in their joints, and who live guardedly, and whose bowels will bear the proper treatment, may be cured. These complaints are best removed by dysenteries or other evacuations downwards. His principal remedies are purgatives administered by the mouth or by injection, and local applications of a cooling nature, and even pouring cold water on the foot. When the pain of the gout becomes fixed in a joint, he directs us to burn it with crude flax. Seneca mentions it as a monstrous example of the depravity of his age, that the women, by their luxurious habits, had be- come subject to gout. (Epist. 95.) According to Galen, gout and arthritic complaints are oc- casioned by a collection of some humour in the affected part. This humour may be blood, phlegm, or a mixture of phlegm and bile, or of blood along with these, or simply a crudity. This crude humour, he remarks, sometimes concretes into tophi. The first indication in attempting the cure is to evacuate the offend- ing humour by bleeding or purging; and then repellent and discutient applications are to be used. He has given a great many prescriptions for these. He dissapproves of the warm bath in rheumatic attacks; for, he says, although it appears at first to give relief, it ultimately aggravates the complaint. (Therap. ad Glauc. ii.) For an able and full explication of the ancient theory of the humours, and the manner in which they give rise to arthritic complaints, we refer the reader to Macrobius (1. c.) Unfortunately the chapter of Aretseus on the treatment of arthritic complaints has come down to us in a mutilated state. It appears however, that he trusted to hellebore as the great remedy in such cases. His local applications are wool dipped in rose-oil and wine; a sponge soaked in oycrate, or such like cataplasms. When the disease is hereditary, he says it is ge- nerally incurable. Celsus recommends various refrigerant and anodyne appli- cations to the affected part, such as a sponge soaked in cold water, or in oil and vinegar, or the same soaked in hot water having poppies boiled in it, or a mixture of pitch, wax, and