SECT. V.] 355 CEPHAL^A. When connected with bile, he directs the belly to be opened. Comnc. ^ ]ien i1: is occasioned by a sanguineous plethora, he recom- J mends general bleeding and the application of cupping-instru- ments to the nape of the neck. Rhases, as usual, treats fully of soda and all its varieties. When of an inflammatory nature, he recommends bleeding, purging, and the application of vinegar and rose-oil to the kead. When connected with bile, he directs first vomiting by drinking tepid water, and then to take purgatives, and afterwards wormwood. When the disease is protracted, he ap- proves of opening the temporal vessels, and of using sternuta- tories. When it arises from a blow, he recommends bleeding, , and purging with colocynth, &c. He states that Ruffus re- i commended the affusion of cold water, or of oils congealed in | snow, over the head. In obstinate cases, he directs the use of I the actual cauterv. SECT. V. ON CEPHALvF.A AND HEM1CRANIA. Each of these affections is a permanent pain of the head, i liable to be increased by noises, cries, a brilliant light, drinking of wine, and strong-smelling things which fill the head. Some ; feel as if the whole head were struck, and some as if one half, l in which case the complaint is called hemicrania. When the affection is seated within the skull, the pain extends to the roots of the eyes, and when externally it spreads around the skull. Pain then, accompanied with heaviness, indicates plethora; if with pungency, acrimony of the humours or spirits; if with throbbing, inflammation; if with tightness and without heavi- ness and throbbing, a fulness of a thin and flatulent spirit (gas ?) ; but if it be attended with throbbing, it is indicative of inflammation of a membrane ; if with heaviness, of a fulness contained within the membrane. If the putrid humour acquire heat, the headach will be attended with fever; and, in general, those in whom headach proceeds from inflammation have fever. When, therefore, the whole body is in a plethoric state, we must bleed (attention being paid to the strength), and use the more acrid clysters. Should there still appear to be a fulness of blood, we must open the veins of the nose, and endeavour to evacuate