COMM 5Q4 GONORRHOEA, [book nl' wards applied, made of dates, apples, flowers of the wild vine, ac acia, hypocistis, sumach, and the like. He may also be made to sit in a hip-bath of the decoctions of lentisk, of bramble, and the like, in wine, or even in water, and use desiccative food After a little while, he may take gymnastic exercises by which both the general system and the affected parts will be restored to strength. Redundance of semen has been, treated of sufficiently in the First Book, under the head o Hygiene; and there, too, impotence is treated of. A cool couch is beneficial in cases of libidinous dreams; also, laying on the right or left side; all medicines of a cold nature rubbed into the loins, such as coriander, hemlock, ceruse, and purslam, all of which are to be used with vinegar. Commentary. Celsus recommends strong friction, affusion of cold liquids, swimming in cold water, food and drink of a cooling nature, avoiding everything flatulent and calculated to engender semen, applications such as rue and vinegar to the part, avoiding lying upon the back, and so forth. Areta3us, in his chapter on Gonorrhoea, makes some very in- genious speculations on the effect which the semen genitalo exerts upon the development of the moral character. He remarks that a long-continued draining of the semen some- times occasions paralysis: he alludes to the tabes dorsalis, a disease well described by Hippocrates. He properly states that gonorrhoea proceeds from relaxation of the genital organs. With regard to the treatment, he recommends at first cooling and astringent applications to stop the flux, but these arc afterwards to be exchanged for calefacients and rubefacients. Castor, mint, and the theriac are to be taken internally, along with strong exercise. Galen defines gonorrhoea to be an involuntary emission of semen, arising from debility of the genital organs, especially of the spermatic vessels. Aetius gives a full account of gonorrhoea from Galen, and of oneirogmon from Philagrius, but his treatment is little dif- ferent from our author's. For the latter he directs the patient to take such things as are calculated to prevent the formation of semen, as rue, calamint, the chaste-tree, &c; and further re- commends astringent and refrigerant applications, lying on a