t2 REPLETION. [book i. moderately of watery draughts, and eat some pickle. But should he neither have alvine evacuations, nor digest readily, and if his whole body be heavy, averse to motion, and sleepy, and if his mind be oppressed with unusual sluggishness, these symptoms indicate plethora of the veins j and, when lassitude supervenes to these, it will be proper to enjoin quietude until digestion in the stomach be accomplished, and then to evacuate by labour. Comm. Commbntary. Our author, as usual, copies from Oribasius. ' ' ' (Synops. v, 28.) Hippocrates describes accurately the bad effects of plethora, but at so great length that we cannot venture to give an outline of his practice. We may mention, however, that purging with hellebore, emetics, the warm bath, and venesection are his most powerful remedies. (De Diseta, iii, 16 et seq.) Galen has also a treatise of considerable length on the same subject. Among the causes of plethora enumerated by him, we remark that he mentions the use of the warm bath after meals, whereby he holds that the system is overloaded with imperfectly concocted chyle. (De Plenitudine, and Meth. Med. ix, 5.) See also Rliases (ad Mansor. ii) ; Haly Abbas (Pract. i, 12) ; Alsa- haravius (Pract. v, 4); Averrhoes (Comment, in Cant. Avicennse); Avicenna (i, 2, 3.) Alsaharavius says that plethora is marked by ruddiness of the body, heaviness, torpor, large veins, somnolency, a large face, and brawny limbs. It is usually accompanied, he adds, by impairment of the understanding, forgetfulness, heaviness of the head, weakness of sight, great pulsation of the arteries, and a disposition to epistaxis. He recommends a restricted diet, consisting of articles not very nutritious, exercise, the bath, along with friction, and medicines calculated to evacuate the prevailing humour, whether blood, phlegm, or bile. Haly's account is very like our author's. Rhases gives a good description of repletion, which, he says, is generally brought on by excess in eating and drinking, along with too much indulgence in sleep. Avicenna's descrip- tion is similar.