APOPLEXY. 400 [book III. Comm. contains so much information. He distinctly and accurately —*—1 describes paralysis of the oesophagus and fauces. His treat- ment is, upon the whole, not very different from our author's; but his directions for the application of his remedies are ex- ceedingly minute and judicious. In the first place, he approves generally of venesection, calefacient applications to the extre- mities, a spare diet, and afterwards of cupping with scarifications. When the tongue is affected, hot gargles of mustard and vinegar are to be given; and, when there is paralysis of the bladder, the catheter is to be used. When the disease is obstinate, he approves of hellebore as an emetic, and of calefacient plasters, depilatories, cupping with much heat, embrocations of mustard, and such things as will produce a papular eruption, namely, flour of salt, nitre, and the like. He blames Praxagoras for recommending emetics indiscriminately, and Erasistratus for omitting venesection. He finds fault with Themison for being in too great haste to apply stimulants to the affected parts, and for having recourse to cupping before the disease had begun to subside. Though he permits the occasional use of hellebore, he disapproves of purgative medicines in general. For paralysis of the oesophagus he recommends us to apply a cupping-instru- ment, leeches, or cataplasms to the neck. Little additional information is to be got from the Arabians; and yet Avicenna, in particular, has treated the subject in a very masterly manner. The causes of apoplexy, he says, are either obstruction or repletion; and these are produced either by blood or a pituitous humour. We need scarcely remark that this accords with the modern division into sanguineous and serous apoplexy. Even in pituitous apoplexy he admits of venesection. He approves of vomiting when it can be pro- duced easily. Neither Serapion nor Avenzoar makes mention of venesection. Serapion commences his treatment with an emetic. When connected with plethora, Alsaharavius recom- mends general bleeding, opening the temporal veins, cupping the legs, restricted diet, applications to the head, such as oil of roses and vinegar, and acrid clysters. Haly's account is mi- nute and judicious. He attributes the affection to obstruction within the brain occasioning a loss or diminution of the powers of sensation or of voluntary motion. It is produced, he savs, by phlegm mixed with bile or blood; and sometimes arises from