[book t. 26 EXERCISES. ancient authors as a remedial measure. It was practised on the sea or in rivers. According to Aetius, gestation in general ventilates the natural heat, produces excitement, dispels col- lected humours, strengthens the frame, and rouses the actions when in an indolent state, (iii, 6.) Celsus has an interest- ing chapter on gestation. The following rule for the appli- cation of it is very judicious: "Gestatio quoque longis et jam inclinatis morbis aptissima est; utilisque est et iis corporibus quae jam ex toto febre carent, sed adhuc exerceri per se non possunt; et iis quibus lentae morborum reliquiae remanent, neque aliter eliduntur." Upon the whole, he holds it to be a doubtful prac- tice in ardent fever, although sanctioned by the authority of Asclepiades Bithynus: at all events, he insists that gestation is improper when there is any local pain or swelling. After cha- racterizing the different modes of gestation, he remarks respect- ing them: "Levia quidem genera exercitationis infirmis conve- niunt: valentiora vero iis qui jam pluribus diebus febre liberati sunt; aut iis, qui gravium morborum initia sic sentiunt, ut adhuc febre vacent, quod et in tabe, et in stomachi vitiis, et cum aqua cutem subiit, et interdum in regio morbo fit; aut ubi quidam morbi, -qualis comitialis, qualis insania est, sine febre, quamvis diu, manent." (ii, 15.) Galen eulogises hunting as being an excellent exercise to the body, and an agreeable recreation to the mind. He says, that by the mental excitement which it produces, many have been cured of dangerous diseases. (De parva Pila.) Rhases mentions, that during the prevalence of a certain pestilential epidemic, it was observed, that huntsmen were the only class of people who escaped its contagion. (Contin. iii.) The ancients have trans- mitted to us many elegant treatises, both in prose and in verse, on this delightful recreation. Those of Xenophon, Oppian, Gratius, and Nemesianus will be found particularly interesting. The younger Pliny attributes his recovery from a certain com- plaint, to the exercise of hunting. (Epist. v, 6.) The occupation of fishing, according to Plato, produces neither mental nor bodily excitement. (In Sophista.) Galen and Avicenna briefly mention it as an exercise which may tend to the pre- servation of health; but neither of them appears to have attached much importance to it. The poet Oppian, however, in his 'Halieutica' has celebrated the pleasures and dangers of fishing,