278 FEVERS. tBOOK "• him also observe this-what is the character of the present season, and what that of the whole year, for you will be able thereby to find out the best regimen; such, for example, as it the. temperature of the season ought to have been dry, but has become humid; in that case, it will be necessary, by a drying diet, to consume the superabundant moisture. Care also must be had of the belly, and when there is phlegm m the stomach it must be evacuated by emetics. And when a fulness ot blood prevails, a vein should be opened. Purgings also by urine, and otherwise by the whole body, are proper. But, it the patient is affected with ardent fever, and has a fiery heat about the breast, it will not be improper to apply cold things to the breast, and to give cold drink, not in small quantities, for it only makes the flame burn more; but in full draughts, so as to extinguish it. But if an ardent fever prevails within, and the extremities are cold, and the skin cold, the hypochon- drium distended, and the stomach sends the matters which have been melted, some upwards, and others downwards; if watch- fulness, delirium, and roughness of the tongue, are present; in these cases, calefacient remedies are wanted to diffuse the heat all over the body, and every other means ought to be tried, in order to determine the heat from the internal to the external parts. The following propoma may be used: of aloes, two parts; of ammoniac perfume, two parts; of myrrh, one part; pound these in fragrant wine, and give every day to the quantity of half a cyathus (3v.) I never knew a person, says Ruffus, who did not recover from the plague after this draught. So says Ruffus: but Galen says, concerning pestilential putre- factions, that to drink Armenian bole, and, in like manner, the theriac from vipers, is of great service; and that, in the plague which prevailed in Rome, all died who were not benefited by either of these things. Comm. Commentary. By the plague, as Galen explains in his 1 Com- 1—»—' mentary on Hippocrates,' is to be understood an epidemical fever of a fatal nature. Hippocrates has related several histo- ries of diseases which came under this description in his ' Epi- demics/ but they present such variety of symptoms, that we cannot undertake to give their general characters. It is de- serving of remark, however, that he several times makes men-