608 THE UTERUS. [book hi. Comm. called garum nigrum and garum sociorum by the Romans. '—* ' (Galen, Med. sec. loc. iii.) It is thus described by Martial: " Expirantis adhuc scombri de sanguine primo, Accipe fastosum munera cara garum." (Epigr. xiii, 56.) In the ' Geoponics' it is called garum hsemation. (xii.) SECT. LX. ON AFFECTIONS OF THE UTERUS ; AND, FIRST, OF THE MENSTRUAL DISCHARGE. With most women the menstrual discharge begins about the fourteenth year of their age ; a few have it earlier, in their thir- teenth or twelfth; and not a few are later than their fourteenth in having it. There is no limited time for the continuance of it, many having it only for two or three daj^s, most women for five days, some for seven, and a very few have it for twelve days. The menses cease about the fiftieth year of age, a few have them till sixty, and with some they begin to disappear about thirty- five, particularly with such as are fat. When, therefore, the evacuation is delayed, it will be proper to have recourse to baths and potions before the expected period, such as the frequent draughts from sesame, or the headed leek boiled together with pepper and rue. But they must be drunk in Cretan sweet wine. Having drunk a cotyle of it, let the woman excite the flow of the menses by walking; and let her eat calamary, cuttle- fish, and polypus, and other things of the same kind, for thev are particularly adapted for raising a tumult in the blood. Comm. Commentary. The following is a list of the ancient authors » ' on midwifery: Hippocrates (de Nat.Mulieb. j de Morbis Mulier. j de Steril.); Galen (de Med. sec. loc. ix, et alibi); Areta^us (Morb. Chron. ii, 11); Oribasius (Med. Collect, iv; Synops. ix); RufFus Ephesius (i); Actuarius (Meth. Med. iv); Aetius (xvi) j Soranus (de Arte Obitat.); Nonnus (103); Celsus (iv); Octa- vius Horatianus (iii); Pseudo-Dioscorides (Euporist. ii, 80) ; Moschion (de Morb. Mulier.; Isagoge Anatomica, xxix) ; Me- letius (de Nat. Horn. 24, seq.); Marcellus (de Medicam. xxxiii); Eros (apud Gynsecia); Pliny (H. N. xxviii, xxx); Avicenna