FEMALE FLUX. 018 [book III. If the blood is discharged pure as in venesection, we must at- tend carefully, lest there be any erosion of the uterus. The flux is recognized by the following symptoms : The parts are moistened with fluids of various colours ; the patient is pale ; is not nourished; and loathes her food; and is affected with diffi- culty of breathing when she walks j her eyes are swelled; and the discharge sometimes is accompanied with pain, and some- times without it; with ulceration or without it; and the ulcer- ation is inflammatory, foul, or clean. Wherefore, when the affection is of a humid nature, we must endeavour to remedy the general system by administering such things as are desic- cants, without being manifestly of a heating nature. The whole body is to be rubbed, and anointed with honey properly boiled, and we must give diuretic medicines, such as water in which asarabacca and parsley have been boiled, and evacuate the whole body by the bowels. In addition to these, purslain when eaten, and the juice of it when drunk, are beneficial. Also the flowers of the wild pomegranate, the fruit and flowers of bramble, that part of an oak which is under the membranous part of the trunk, and that which is below the peel of the acorn. Horse-tail in particular stops a red discharge, when drunk with water or wine; or hypocistis; the fruit of lentisk sodden with wine and drunk; Samian aster, Lemnian earth, the rennet of a hare, or of a kid, or of a lamb, or of a calf, or of a stag; grape-stones triturated, myrtles, dried unripe grapes, the bark of the pine, and those things recommended for uterine hemorrhage, unless the most drastic. When the flux is attended with pain, we must inject with an uterine syringe, or clyster instrument, the juice of alica, or of ptisan, or of tragus, or of rice, with some of the anodyne medicines. And during the exacerbations we must soothe; but during the remissions (for it has its periods) we must try to alter the system by different kinds of gestation, walking, voci- feration, anointing, cupping, dropaces to the parts above, insola- tion, friction, depilatories, detergent ointments, sinapisms, emetics from radishes, a restorative regimen, baths, wine, and variety of food. m. Commentary. By the term female flux, Ruffus describes th complaint now called the whites; but our author applies it t any vitiated state of the menstrual discharge.