GOUT. SECT. LXXVIII.j 603 without any decoction. For pains occasioned by intense cold, or infarction of tlie joints, this is a powerful remedy: Of old oil, lb. iss; of Alexandrian nitre, lb. j j of turpentine, lb. j; of euphorbium, oz. j ; of iris, oz. ij; of the flour of fenugreek, a sextarius and a half. In these cases the remedies recommended for ischiatics are excellently applicable. Many, in the case of those who are thus affected from a cold cause, apply, after the acme, mustard with dried figs and the other rubefacients, but some the preparation from cantharides. But these things prove injurious afterwards, unless one use the emollient applications, such as that from fuller's herb, the one called Pyxis, that of Basilius, that from the fir-tree, that from the poplar, those called Promium and Lysiponium, and the stronger of the Acopa: in which cases sympathetic affections of the nerves and impaction of the humours particularly take place. And the application from the urine of a mule, more particularly if applied at the acme, is beneficial in the cold rheums : and, in like manner, the trochisk from the two hellebores is applicable for the cedematous and spongy swellings; also fomentation with the toasted salts; or otherwise affusion or embrocation with hot sea water; and the plasters prepared from salts, those from strained lye and nitre, and the cataplasms of a like nature after the acme. Food of a drier nature, and not excrementitious, suits well with these; also abstinence from food, or a spare diet, and refraining from frequent baths. Having bathed, they should be rubbed with nitre and the other unguents used for friction. In the decline, they should have recourse in particular to gymnastic exercises and friction of the joints, and the natural baths, or the sand baths, and emetics from radishes and food from grain. Those properly prepared for it maybe vomited or purged with the white hellebore. On rheums from a mixture of humours. Those labouring under a mixture of humours, after the evacuation of the blood at the commencement of the disease, should use the topical remedies already mentioned. When the sanguineous plethora is of a more bilious and acrid nature,recourse maybe had to those things recommended for bile; when it is of a colder and more pituitous or melancholic nature, those afterwards mentioned, with the ex- ception of such as are very acrid; and if protracted, these also may be used. And this cataplasm is applicable at the commence- ment • Pomegranate rind, sumach, and polenta triturated with