THE STOMACH. SECT. XXXVII.] 509 spoonful in diluted wine. Those who form black bile, and have the stomach inflated, may, during the exacerbations, apply to it sponges soaked in the strongest vinegar, after which, if the complaints continue, alum with pulverized copper may be added to honey, and applied. Let them drink the juice of endive, or let mint be sprinkled upon the draught. When the stomach is inflated and distended, mix a moderate quantity of honey and pepper with the decoction of calamint, and give. For sub- version of the stomach, take of the juice of the kernels of the unripe pomegranate, p. iij; of the juice of mint, p. j; boil until it thicken, and give a mystrum (two spoonfuls?) of it before a meal. For salivation of the stomach. Rinse the mouth with vinegar of squills, the sauce of pickled olives, or the decoction of the green leaves. Or a very small quantity of the same may be swallowed. A still more effectual remedy is aloes dissolved in water. For those who cannot retain their food (who were par- ticularly called stomachics by the ancients), mix with honey the flour of fenugreek and the dried seed of mallows in powder, and apply. The cerate consisting of wax, the lees of oil of iris, and castor, is also proper. On anorexia. Anorexia is a loathing of food, either from the prevalence of an intemperament in the stomach, or a collection of humours. You may know a hot intemperament by the thirst, by the fetid and feculent eructations if compelled to take food, and from the circumstance that cold and intractable substances are most easily digested; and a cold by the opposite, for they neither have thirst, nor can they endure cold things, and they have sometimes acid eructations. Of those who have anorexia from humours, they who suffer from thin and sharp humours, have gnawing pain at the stomach, and are more affected with nausea and thirst. When the humours become putrid, they sometimes have fever. When they suffer from thick and viscid humours, these for the most part neither occasion acute pain nor thirst, but the common symptom of all these cases is nausea. Wherefore, if the humours are contained in the cavity of the stomach, they vomit them up; but, if they are absorbed and in- farcted in its coats, they have nausea only, but do not vomit, unless it be when they have taken food. Those, therefore, who have anorexia from a hot intemperament, should take cooling