FISHES. CBOOK1' 1 b2 1 „„tritious Simeon Seth and Aetius say that the river , rbad forthe stemaeh, indigestible, and apt to form Segm It appears from Anaxilas, as quoted by A hen.n , K head w» in most repnte. Archestratns says that ,t » "e T^e SSST-ST- Nonnius, Hardnin, Schneider, and Jay s the surmnllet, * "fi"T tioned as a rare delicacy of great pncc by Horace (Sat ^2 , r i ^nf iv 15) • Martial Xenia, 74 ; and Macrobius ("n 6.) Atl_ says of it, « Diodes writes that L"of the mullus is hard." (vii, 21.) Its liver prepared with oil and wine is said by Galen to have been esteemed as a ^W *ow much the murene was sought after by all the lovers of good eating in aneient Rome Pliny, Martial, and Macrobins inform ns that those from Sicdy were in most esteem ; and Brydone takes notiee of the peculiar esceUence, of the Sicilian murenes at the time when he performed his torn through that island. According to Icesius, it is as nntntions as the eel. (Athen. vii.) He mentions that the murene was called "the Helen of suppers;" and hence, no doubt, Linnaeus has named the fish murmna Helena. It was held in much esteem, he says, before spawning. (Ibid.) Apicms gives various receipts for the dressing of it. Pepper, wine, vinegar, and oil are ingredients in almost every one of them. The murene which was served up at the supper of Nasidienus had a sauce or soup formed of such things. (Horace, Sat. ii, 8.) It is related of Vedius Pollio, that he fed his murenes with the bodies ot condemned slaves. (Plin. Hist. Nat. ix, 23, and Tertulhan, De Pallio.) L. Crassus, the orator, put on mourning clothes for the death of a murene. (Macrobius, Sat. iii, 15.) The mu- ra>na ophis is mentioned by Galen as having the same character as its congener. The ancients were acquainted with several species ot mackerel (scomber scomber-), which Xenocrates represents as nutritious, but unpalatable and flatulent. The anguilla, or common eel, and the congrus, or conger- eel, were despised by the Roman gourmands, but were greatly esteemed by the Greeks. Icesius says that eels are the best of fishes. See Athen. (I.e.)