588 [iJOOK III. DEPILATORIES. c«»mm. elotse, denar. ivj plumbi eloti, denar. viij; ovis duobus; quibus —" ' etiam solani succus adjicitur." Haly Abbas properly remarks that the umbilical hernia is a protrusion of the omentum or intestine at the navel. He recommends various astringent plasters, containing cypress, galls, alum, &c. (Theor. ix, 36; Pract. vii, 51.) SECT. L1I. HOW TO MAKE THE CHIN AND PUBES CONTINUE LONG FREE OF HAIRS; ON THE PRESERVATION OF THE GENITAL ORGANS; AND, AMONG OTHER THINGS, OF DEPILATORIES. Mix equal parts of Cimolian earth and ceruse with the juice of henbane, so as to have the thickness of the bath-sordes; then add of oil of lentisk, q. s.; pound and use.—Another: Pound together the juices of hemlock, of deadly nightshade, of henbane, and of the most tender leaves of lupine, and an equal portion of fleawort, and use, having first scrubbed the part and washed. But for some days previously the patient must drink water. A depilatory for removing the hairs. Of the slaters which live about houses and roll themselves into balls, dr. ij ; of sandarach, dr. iv; of quicklime, dr. viij ; of old vinegar, one cyathus; of the lixivial ashes of figs, one cyathus; boil in a pot, and use in the bath.—Another, simple and devoid of smell: Of quicklime, one sextarius; of sandarach, oz. j; boil as aforesaid, and use. But the subject of depilatories is treated of along with the Dis- eases of the Eye. Comm. Commentary. Depilatories have always been made of si ~^ ' milar ingredients to those which enter into our author's pre- scriptions, that is to say, arsenic and quicklime have generally entered into the composition of them. The following is one from Baptista Porta: " Constat vivas calcis partibus quatuor, redactis in pulveris modum, auripigmenti singulari, et decoque." (Mag. Nat. ix, 4.) It appears from many passages in the Roman Satirists that the practice of applying depilatories to the obscene parts wa common in ancient times. Persius says : " Tu cum maxiffis balanatum gausape pectis, Inguinibus quart; detonsus gurgulio extct ?" (Sat. iv, 37.)