[book III. 364 PHLEGMON. ( OMM The Arabians call the disease karabitus. The symptoms, according to Haly, are heat not much increased, but the head warmer than the rest of the body j alienation of the mind; watchfulness, but sometimes somnolency, from which state the patient wakes with starting; blackness of the tongue; picking at the bed-clothes; pulse in all cases weak, small, and hard. He is very minute on the treatment, recommending bleeding from the cephalic vein ad deliquium ; cupping; gentle laxatives, such as prunes and tamarinds; vessels filled with cold water or snow applied to the head; in certain cases sinapisms to the feet; and, when watchfulness is protracted, applications to the head, containing poppies, mandragora, lettuce, &c. Alsahara- vius particularly mentions general bleeding, bleeding from the temporal vein or the angular vein of the nose, pouring decoc- tions of refrigerant herbs over the head, and, when the insom- nolency is obstinate, washing the temples with infusions of hyoscyamus, poppies, lettuce, &c. Avenzoar speaks of opening the artery in the head, an operation mentioned by Galen. Rhases directs us to pour vinegar and rose-oil from a height upon the head. His general remedies are similar to those of the others, namely, general and local bleeding, with gentle lax- atives, such as myrobalans, prunes, and tamarinds. Serapion and Avicenna direct much the same treatment as our author. SECT. VII. ON PHLEGMON OF THE BRAIN. When the brain is inflamed, it is often so swelled that the sutures of the skull are separated. The pain is very strong and permanent; there is much anxiety, and much redness of the countenance, with swelling; the eyes protrude, and the head swells. We must let blood from the arm, and also detract by the nose, and from the vessels below the tongue. We are also to use the fomentations suitable for inflammations of the head, and cataplasms of a moistening and concocting nature. Comm. Commentary. This Section is taken from Aetius (vi, 25), _v ' or Oribasius (Synops. viii, 11.) See also Avicenna (iii, i, 3, c. 4) ; Haly Abbas (Theor. ix, 4, and Pract. v, 14); Alsaha- ravius (Pract. i, 2, 9.)