374 [book hi. VERTIGO. SECT. XII. ON VERTIGO. Vertigo is occasioned by a cold and viscid humour seizing upon the brain, whence the patients are ready to fall down from a very slight cause, such as sometimes from looking at any ex- ternal object which turns round, as a wheel or top, or when they themselves are whirled round, or when their head has been heated, by which means the humours or spirit in it are set in motion. And sometimes it is occasioned by the anterior cavities of the brain being compressed in perforations of the skull for fractures, in which cases there are violent pains. When it is a primary affection of the head, it is preceded by strong pain m the part, by drowsiness, and noises in the ears; and some have either the sense of smell or of taste impaired. But in those cases which arise from sympathy with the orifice of the stomach, heartburn accompanies and nausea follows. The cure. Those affected with vertigo are to be roused at the onset, by using strong-scented things of a suitable nature, by frictions, and such like j and, during the remission, for the recovery of the complaint, they ought first to be bled, and then purged with hiera. And after an interval we must use an acrid clyster of centaury, or the decoction of colocjmth. After such evacuations, we are to apply to the back part of the head cupping-instruments with scarifications, and afterwards use mas- ticatories and sternutatories. When there is heat in the head and noises in the ears, inasmuch as they are occasioned by hot vapours diffused in the arteries, we must have recourse to ante- riotomy behind the ears, as will be described when treating of surgical matters. Comm. Commentary. See Galen (de Loc. Affect, iii, 12) ; Aretseus ' * ' (Morb. Chron. Curat, i, 3); Aetius (vi, 7); Oribasius (Synops. vi, 5); Actuarius (Meth. Med. vi, 2) ; Nonnus (35); Caelius Aurelianus (Morb. Chron. i, 2); Octavius Horatianus (ii, 2, 3); Serapion (i, 3); Avicenna (iii, 1, 5); Mesue (ii, 13); Haly Abbas (Theor. ix, 5; Pract. v, 20); Alsaharavius (Pract. i, 2, 6, 7) ; Rhases (Divis. 5 ; Contin. 1.) Galen agrees with Archigenes that vertigo may either be a primary affection of the brain, or may proceed from sympathy