xiii, 1, and xii, 2.) WATERS. l>OOK '• 00 discovered certain articics of food and £ bad properties of waters. ™« ^^S^ot boiled decoction of chick-peas, or eat them, others, wua with some smail fish, and fennel u>«; ^™dlted again eat beet and gonrds beforehand with salts an wine. Commentary. Our author has given an outline opinions on this subject, and for fuller information, we must to his work quoted in the preceding Section. The characters of the different kinds of water, by Celsus with his usual terseness: ^Aqua ^^^^J^ delude fontana; turn exflumine, turn ex puteo; port h*c ex_m e ant glacie; gravior his exlacu; gravissima ex palude^ (n^».) The" characters are somewhat differently Thus he states, that water from snow or ice is lighter and bettei SiaVrain water'; otherwise his remarks,an the ^^jaters are very interesting. He recommends a moderate draught of water at the commencement of a feast, m order-that the^ veins being in so far filled by it, may not greedily absorb the chyle before it is properly concocted. (Deipnos, n, and Phny, Hist. N OmXauthoi account is abridged from Galen and Oribasius (Collect. Med. x), or rather is copied entire from Euporist. (i, 14.) Aetius gives a fuller account extracted from Uuffus (lUHaly Abbas treats of this subject at great length His cha- racters of the different kinds of water agree very well with those riven by our author. He states that rain water is the purest, and snow water the most impure. Haly Abbas condemns the indulgence in a copious draught after a meal. The reasons he assigns for its proving injurious are, that it prevents the surface of the stomach from coming into proper contact with the food, and also that it reduces the natural temperature of the stomach. He recommends a person, if thirst be urgent, to allav it by drinking a small quantity slowly. (Theor. v, 29.) Alsaharavius advocates similar views. He also forbids drmk during the night, as the sensation of thirst may be fallacious; and at all events, he says, it is only increased by indulgence. (Theor.