m FRUITS. [BOOK ,' general characters as articles of food: apples are unwholesome and unsavoury swim m the> form bile, and occasion diseases. Of the ripe, sueh «.are sweet are more wholesome and more laxative from having no astrin-ency , the acid are more unwholesome and constipating, hut s-h as have also a certain degree of sweetness become more delicious, and are at the same time stomaclnc from having some astringency." The ancients appear to have been wel ac- quainted with the methods of making cider, perry, and the like See Macrobius (Sat. vii, 6), and Pliny (H. N. xiv 19.) The Arabian authors in general speak rather unfavorably of apples. Cornels, or the fruit of the cornus mascula, were m little re- quest as articles of food, and yet Pliny mentions that they were sought after in his time. The cydonia or quinces were in great repute, not only as articles of food, but as medicines. When unripe they are very astringent and contain much acid, and hence they were used m such cases as those in which the mineral acids are now gene- rally administered. (Pliny, H. N. xxxiii, 6.) They appear to be the " cana mala" of Virgil. Columella and Pliny describe three varieties, namely, the chrysomala, struthea, and mustca. These have not been satisfactorily determined. Some modem commentators have taken " the golden apples" of Theocritus and Virgil for oranges, but it is much more probable that they were a species of quince. No ancient author has noticed the orange. Pears, according to Simeon Seth, are of a cold and desiccative nature. They are compounded, he says, of astringency, sweet- ness, and sometimes of acidity; and some have a moderate de- gree of heating and desiccative properties. Averrhoes gives exactly the same account of them. Of pomegranates, he says, that some are sweet and some are acid; that all of them moisten, but that the sweet are of a more hot and humid nature. Homer enumerates the pomegranate among the fruits which were suspended over the head of Tantalus to tempt his appetite. (Odyss. xi, 588.) We may suppose, therefore, that the poet held it to be a most delicious fruit. Dioscorides says that the sweet pomegranates are stomachic; but that they are prejudicial when there is fever. Galen, who gives medlars and services much the same cha-