[book III. 506 ARMPITS. Commentary. See Oribasius (Synops. ix, 9) ; Aetius (xvi, 35) ; Nonnus (151) ; Scribonius Largus (102); Avicenna (iii, 12) i Haly Abbas (Theor. ix, 40 ; Pract. viii, 29) ; Alsaharavius (Pract. xiv); and llhases (Contin. xv.) A considerable part of this Section is copied from Oribasius. Aetius, however, has treated of these complaints more fully than any other author. He gives from Philumenus various prescrip- tions for inflamed breasts, the most important ingredients in which seem to be ceruse and litharge, with wax or honey. One of them also contains the recent leaves of henbane, evidently for the purpose of allaying pain. For indurated mammae he directs linseed, or the seed of fenugreek with hydromel to be applied. In short, his applications and our author's are very similar. He describes a certain induration of the mamma under the name of chondriasis. This affection is alluded to by Aristotle (H. A. vi, 20.) When an abscess forms, he recommends us to open it and evacuate the pus. Nonnus, as usual, copies from our author. Avicenna treats fully of these complaints, but his remedies are mostly borrowed from the Greeks. The most simple of his applications for apostemes of the breasts is a sponge squeezed out of tepid vinegar and water. Haly Abbas recommends the same, or a plaster of the oil of roses, bread, and the yelk of of an egg. When suppuration is expected, he directs us to ap- ply a cataplasm of figs. Alsaharavius treats minutely of this subject. When pain of the breast arises from coagulated milk, he recommends a piece of cloth soaked in warm water or vine- gar. When milk cannot be extracted from the breasts, he directs them to be sucked by means of a suitable instrument shaped like a nipple. To dispel coagulated milk llhases recommends a mixture of hot vinegar and rose-oil. He also recommends a composition of mint and common salt. SECT. XXXVI. FOR FETID SMELL AND SWEATING AT THE ARMPITS. Of liquid alum, p. ij; of myrrh, p. j; dissolve in wine, and use.—Another: Plunge heated Molybdama into fragrant wine, triturate with the wine, adding a little myrrh until it become of the thickness of the sordes in baths, then use. Another :