REGIMEN. [B0OK 1 74 then, they neither are flatulent, nor spoil the other articles of food When the air is cold the body must be warmed accord- ingly, and everything done, as in the commencement of winter. It may also be expedient, after the autumnal solstice, to have recourse to one of the afore-mentioned evacuations, lest any excrementitious particles being shut up in the system should prove hurtful during the winter. Commentary. This is copied from Oribasius. (Euporist. i, 10.) It is one of the aphorisms of Hippocrates that those who require bloodletting or medicine, should be bled or take medi- cine in the spring. (Aphor. sect, vi.) Galen, Rhases, Haly Abbas, and in short all the ancient authorities agree with him respecting this rule of practice. According to Alsaharavius, the pulse is stronger and fuller in spring than at any other season. (Theor. vii, 2.) Hippocrates and Galen lay it down as a general rule that the fullest diet is most proper in winter, and the sparest in summer. (Aphor. i, 18.) Rhases lays down very suitable directions for the regimen that is most proper during every season of the year, but they are scarcely at all different from our author's. As we have mentioned, he recommends depletion in spring before the heat set in. In summer, he approves of cooling acid fruits with cold water for drink. In autumn he directs abstain- ing from cold baths, and the use of a restricted regimen. In winter, he recommends a full proportion of calefacients, such as pepper, cumin, mustard, and rocket. (Ad Mansor. iv, 26.) Winter, he says in another work, favours the formation of flesh and blood, braces the bddy, and strengthens the powers. Spring fills the system with humours. Summer dissolves the humours, and weakens the internal powers. Autumn engenders bad hu- mours, bile, and blood. (Contin. xxxiv.) Haly Abbas recommends purging or bleeding in spring, to evacuate the superfluities formed and shut up in the system during winter. In summer, the regimen is to be cooling and diluent; little exercise is to be taken; the cold bath is to be used, swimming in cold water is to be practised: for food, chickens, fish caught among rocks, grapes, apples, and the summer fruits will be proper j but wine is either not to be