sect, xxxvm.l THE STOMACH. 513 stomach becomes settled. He also praises an acid mixture, Comm. containing pomegranate, endive, &c. Aretfcus gives a lively description of the feelings of a dys- peptic. The student who, heedless of the allurements of the senses and of the ties of nature, follows his divine pursuits with indiscreet ardour, and neglects to take proper food and exer- cise, is said to be particularly liable to affection of the stomach. The cure, he says, is to be effected by gestation, vociferation, a suitable diet, and indulgence of the patient's caprices as far as possible. Wormwood, ginger, aloes, and mastich are also proper. Alexander properly remarks that disorder of the stomach af- fects sympathetically the heart and brain. He treats fully of inflammation of the stomach, for which he directs us to give re- laxants and tonics, such as wormwood and mastich. He further recommends the application of a plaster, composed of emollient and stimulant ingredients, such as wax, turpentine, ginger, opo- panax, &c. It is singular that he and most of the ancient au- thorities have omitted to mention venesection for this complaint. We therefore entertain some doubts whether they meant by it the gastritis of modern Nosologists, which, by the by, is of so rare occurrence, that some late writers of high name are of opinion that it never occurs spontaneously. (See Christison on Poisons.) Some of the ancient authors, however, do recommend venesec- tion in this complaint, as for example, Serapion, Ehases, Avi- cenna, and Haly Abbas. Horatianus recommends the same for sudden pains of the stomach. Cselius Aurelianus, while treating in general terms of stomach complaints, recommends bleeding, " si in vehementiam passio venerit." He also prescribes cupping and leeching. His account of these affections is highly inter- esting, but so circumstantial that we dare not venture even upon an abridgment of it. Haly Abbas speaks of the inflammation ending in suppuration. To Alsaharavius we particularly invite attention. Rhases gives a copious statement of the opinions of all preceding authorities on this subject. 33