SFXT. XXVIII.] 471 CORYZA, ETC. especially when the coryza arises from cold. But these are re- medied by odoriferous substances with burnt linen, or by gith and cumin burnt and bound up in a linen rag. Let them also smell to the cyphi seleniacum, and let it be rubbed into the forehead; and to it let there be added one of the antiphlogistic plasters, such as the Icesian, the Oxera, the Barbaruni, and the Athena. For catarrh from cold it will be expedient to drink of cyphi, and to rub into the chest the juice of balsam by means of unwashed wool; or to apply calefaeients to it, along with storax, the ointment of iris, or that of dill. Let them also use hot and concocting food. But when the matter is already con- cocted, a masticatory will answer well with them, and detergent ointments (smegmata) to the head, such as the soap of Constan- tino, and the like. The cure of affections of the trachea, or hoarseness. For the complaint called arteriacus and branchus, those things already mentioned will apply ; but, in particular, when an inflammatory affection of the trachea and larynx prevails, wre must, at the commencement, use the emplastic remedies, until the inflam- mation become more moderate; such as those from Cretan sweet wine, tragacanth, gum, and starch, and a decoction of the fatty dates and that of liquorice, with rob, until it become of the con- sistency of honey. And we must use that class of electuaries called hypoglottides. But, above all things, the patient at this period must abstain from drinking wine; but when the inflam- mation becomes moderate, he may take some sweet wine. And let him use those spoon-meats w hich are made from honey and milk, with starch, and bread of fine flower, and almond emul- sions ; and let him take butter. When a humour remains fixed in the parts, he must have recourse to detergent remedies, such as the porridge of beans, and those things which are prepared from honey, cabbage, and well-boiled leeks. He may also take the hotter medicines, and those used for the cough, in the rob of dried figs, of frankincense, iris, turpentine, storax, galbanum, pepper, cinnamon, cassia, and the like. On cough. Coughs are to be cured by the same method, attending only to this, whether they be occasioned by sympathy with other parts, such as a defluxion from the uvula or head, and whether they be symptomatic of other diseases; in w Inch case, they are to be disposed of in the manner already men-