SECT. LXXI.] 635 THE UTERUS. Commentary. See Hippocrates (de Nat. Muliebri) j Galen c (sec. loc. ix, de Loc. Affect, vi, 5) j Aretseus (Morb. Acut. ii, 11); ^~ Celsus (iv, 20) j Moschion (de Morb. Mul. 129) j Eros (ap. Gynsecia) j Aetius (xvi, 78); Oribasius (Synops. ix, 47); Leo Jvij 20) j Actuarius (Meth. Med. iv, 8) j Nonnus (210) ; Alex- ander Aphrodisiensis (Probl. ii, 64) j Serapion (v, 27); Avicenna (iii, 20, iv, 16) j Haly Abbas (Pract. viii, 12 j Theor. ix, 39); Alsaliaravius (xxv, 2, 12); Rhases (ad Mansor. ix, 87, and Contin. xxii.) From the days of Hippocrates to those of Actuarius, and long afterwards, the hysterical convulsion was accounted for in the manner explained by our author. It accords not well with modern ideas upon the subject; and provided it be admitted as a fact that men are sometimes, though rarely, seized with hys- terical convulsions, there can be no doubt but the ancient hypo- thesis must at once fall to the ground. Perhaps a stickler for the ancient doctrine, while he admitted with Aretseus that men are subject to complaints resembling hysterics, might hold with a late intelligent writer, Mr. Tait, that men are never affected with the real hysterical convulsion. According to Hippocrates, this complaint most frequently attacks antiquated virgins or young widows. If the womb, he savs, ascend to the liver, the patient suddenly becomes speech- less, her teeth are fixed, and her colour becomes pale. His treatment consists of applying a tight swath round the middle, giving fragrant wine, applying fetid things to the nose, and fra- grant things to the uterus. The belly is to be purged, and castor and fleawort given internally. Herodotus, the historian, mentions that the ancient Scythians used castor for the cure of complaints of the uterus, (iv.) Galen is at great pains to explain how the uterus is retracted upwards and to the sides by its ligaments, but his explanation is too long for our limits, and therefore we must content our- selves with referring the curious reader to it. (De Loc. Affect, u. s.) He says, in another place, that when uterine suffocation takes place, there is loss of sense and of motion, a small feeble pulse, and sometimes asphyxy. He recommends agaric and plantain in wine; smelling to bitumen, castor, liquid pitch, cedar rosin, &c.; fumigating the parts with hartshorn, and ap- plying to them rue and honey upon wool.