sect, xxvin.] SYNOCHOUS. 259 mid the second in order is to contend with the prevailing canse ; tor the work of the physician in all cases is to rectify whatever is amiss about the body. (De Febribns, 29.) Celsus recommends venesection in all fevers at the commence- ment, provided the patient is not very young, weak, or has crudities m his stomach j but after the fourth day he does not approve of it. He also makes some ingenious remarks on the contrary methods of giving water and wine in cases of fever. He recommends the latter when there is cold, torpor, and rest- lessness. He likewise mentions the affusion of cold water and oil with the intention of changing the morbid state of action. In the Epistle of Vindicianus, physician to the Emperor V alentinian, there is an interesting history of a fever, arising from indigestion and obstruction of the bowels, brought on by excess in eating and drinking. In this case Vindicianus, in opposition to the advice of the other professional attendants, would not administer a clyster, and gave his patient nothing but salt and water, which procured first copious perspirations, and afterwards free evacuations of the bowels. He then directed him to use the bath, and completed the cure by giving worm- wood to remove obstructions. This is a well-marked case of intestinal fever. (Fabricii Bibl. Greec. t. xiii.) We may state the general characters of the urine as given in an interesting little treatise, < On the Urine/ lately published by Ideler. In synochous fevers, as being connected with fulness of blood, the urine is red, thick, and indicating by its colour and consistence the want of concoction. (DeUrinisCommentatio.) Haly Abbas, during the first three days, strongly recommends venesection, which, he says, will either have the effect of cutting short the fever at once, or of rendering it milder. His other remedies are altogether refrigerant, consisting of acidulated drinks, and gentle purgatives, such as prunes, tamarinds, and the like. Alsaharavius, in like manner, recommends depletion, and the refrigerant plan of treatment. Serapion strongly recommends bleeding, ad deliquium animi, which, he says, will probably have the effect of procuring dis- charges from the bowels, and of promoting perspiration. He admits of venesection even after the sixth or seventh day, when other circumstances indicate it. He further prescribes refrige- rant remedies, such as tamarinds, cassia-fistula, and the like.