DROPSY. SECT. XLVI1I.] mixture : Of balsam, of nard, of cassia, of cumin, of liquorice, of St. John's-wort, of bog-rush, of asarabacca, of carrot, of amo- mum, of myrrh, of Macedonian parsley, of sweet ha}-, of pepper, ot hartwort, of cow-parsnip, equal parts. Each of these pro- duces a good effect by itself, and in like manner all the diuretics. Squill baked and triturated Avith honey, and given as a linctus, provokes urine without trouble ; or it may be boiled in the water which is drunk. And the following is an excellent remedy: Boil lb. ij of the inner part of squills in iij sextarii of austere wine until it be reduced to one third; give every day of this wine, beginning with a my strum, until the dose amount to an ounce. The following is an excellent diuretic : Of moist alum, the .size of a bean; dissolve in water; strain through a linen cloth; and give to drink every third day, or every alternate day. Picra given in oxymel, the theodoret, and the trochisk from bitter almonds also suit with them. There are many hydra- gogues, but the following are of approved efficacy: The seeds of the thynielrea (grana cnidia), xl or 1; or lathyrides, xx or xxx; or of euphorbium, v or vj siliquse; or of flakes of copper, dr. ij or iij; being mixed with crumbs of bread and formed into pills; or the juice of the rind of elder-root, drunk with prepared wine; or of the leaves of mezeron, of burnt copper, and of anise, equal parts; give in water at first to the amount of dr. j; and afterwards of dr. ij, or more. And the following are admirable pills : Of aloes, of euphorbium, of grana cnidia, of each, oz. j; of rhubarb, oz. ss; mix together with the juice of cabbage, and form into pills, and give to the amount of viij or ix siliquse. And the antidote from cloves evacuates water in a wonderful manner. And we must try the effect of a hydragogue wine. The following makes an excellent one : Of squills, oz. iij ; of parsley-seed, of the rind of the root of capers, of pepper, of each, dr. iv; of peeled grana cnidia, dr. j ; of the Indian leaf, two balls; of best wine, xij heminse; of raw honey, dr. xvj; beat together, sift, and macerate in the wine, but triturate the squill. The dose is three cyathi. After the evacuation of the water, we must use the theriac. And ox-dung dried and drunk to the amount of a spoonful every day is of mighty use. We must use the most stimulant clysters, unless the belly be spontaneously very loose, in which case we must rather use things for drying it up. When women are affected with dropsy we must use this