494 PHTHISIS. [bo°k in. or water, he prudently directs us to judge of the case from the general symptoms. Unfortunately only a fragment of the chap- ter on the treatment has come down to us. It appears from it that he approved of a milk-diet and a sea-voyage. In cases of empyema he states that the matter sometimes forms a commu- nication with the windpipe, and is evacuated in that way, and sometimes it is carried off by the urinary passages. Celsus recommends in particular a sea-voyage, change of air, gestation in a couch, and a milk-diet. He cautions against the bath and exposure to the sun or cold. When other means do not effect a cure, he directs us to burn the chest in different places with the actual cautery, so as to form issues. See a strong recommendation of this practice in Caillot (Elemens de Physiologie, p. 6.) Galen has detailed the principles upon which phthisis ought to be treated in the fifth book of the ' Meth. Med/ He com- mends strongly a diet of milk, especially that of goats, which is, he says, of an intermediate consistence between the milk of cows and of asses. The ancients, he says, made consumptive patients suck a woman. Whatever kind be used, he recom- mends it to be drunk as soon as it is milked from the animal; and he further directs sometimes honey or a little salt to be added to it. According to Galen, portions of the lungs are sometimes brought up in the sputa. (Loc. Affec. iv.) Cselius Aurelianus also confirms this statement. (Tard. Pass, ii, 14.) Aretams, Alexander, and Leo further say that portions of the bronchia have been brought up with the expectoration. Alexander gives very judicious directions for the choice of milk, and treats of empyema otherwise very fully. He says, when pus is collected in the chest, the sound of it may be heard in succussions of the body. Aetius states, upon the authority of Archigenes, that in cer- tain cases empyema is formed without fever. This is now well ascertained to be the case. He approves of the cautery, like Celsus. His account of phthisis is taken from Galen. Cselius gives many important observations on the proper treat- ment of consumption, and strictures on the practice of the other sects. He remarks that in old coughs attended with fever, although the expectoration be at first transparent and not puru- lent, the complaint often terminates in phthisis. His descrip-