sect, lviii.] EMACIATION. m pulse; after food, of the bath, friction with oil, and the affusion Comm. of tepid water over the body; and also of red, thick, and sweet — Wines. (Ad Mansor. v, 60.) In auother work he delivers the opinions of preceding authorities, accompanied with his own remarks. He agrees with Galen, that emaciation generally de- pends upon the state of the liver. They recommend nutritive articles of food, such as boiled and roasted flesh, and the bath without friction, after a meal. Both speak favorably of pitching.' lhev also approve particularly of sulphureous and bituminous baths. With regard to the bath, they explain, in another place, that it is proper m these cases only after the food is digested; for if taken too soon after, it loads the body with unconcocted chyle; and that, if had recourse to at other times, it rather in- duces emaciation. Rhases again repeats that many of the legu- mma are very nutritive. He states that the wine should be particularly thick. (Contin. xiv.) Galen further says, that ema- ciated persons are to be recruited by thick wines, food consisting of thick juices, short exercises, and moderate friction. (Meth. Med. xiv, 16.) In another place he gives a very striking de- scription of the bad effects of inanition. (De Venesect, adv. Erasistrat.) We would further direct attention to the descrip- tion given by Hippocrates of a febrile state of the system, at- tended with delirium, which is sometimes brought on by too restricted a regimen in disease. (De Diaita morb. acut. § 11.) On the treatment of convalescents, consult Celsus (iv, 25); Galen (Hyg.); and particularly Rhases (Contin. xxxiv). We shall give Celsus' directions in his own words: " Ex quo- cunque autem morbo quis convalescit, si tarde confirmatur, vi- gilare prima luce debet; nihilominus in lecto conquiescerr : circa tertiam horam leniter unctis manibus corpus permulcere : deinde delectationis causa, quantum juvat, ambulare, circumcisn omni negotiosa actione : turn gestari diu : multa frictione uti : loca, ccelum, cibos srepe mutare: ubi triduo quatriduove vinum bibit, lino aut etiam altero die interponere aquam. Per hsec enim fiet, ne in vitia tabem inferentia incidat, etut mature vires suas recipiat. Cum vero ex toto convaluerit, periculose vitse genus subito mutabit, et inordinate aget. Paulatim ergo de- bebit, omissis his legibus, eo transire, ut arbitrio mo vivat." Galen and Rhases particularly recommend to convalescents to drink white astringent wines diluted with water. Both enjoin