EPISTLE OK DIOCLES. SKCT. C.] 185 the herb mercury, honied cukes; for all these things are laxa- tive of the bowels. Or, if any of these symptoms increase, mix bastard saffron with all these decoctions, tor thereby they will be rendered sweeter and less dangerous. The smooth cabbage boiled in a large quantity of water is also beneficial; this decoc- tion with honey and salt may he drank to the amount of about four hemim«, or the water of chick-peas or tares boiled may be drank in the same manner. Those who neglect the afore-men- tioned symptoms are apt to be seized with the following affec- tions: Diarrhoea, dysentery, lientery, ileus, ischiatic disease, ter- tian fever, gout, apoplexy, hemorrhoids, rheumatism.—When any disease is about to seize the bladder, the following symp- toms are its usual precursors: A sense of repletion after taking even a small quantity of food, flatulence, eructation, paleness of the whole body, deep sleep, urine pale and passed with difficulty, swellings about the privy parts. When any of these symptoms appear, their safest cure will be by aromatic diuretics. Thus the roots of fennel and parsley may be infused in white fragrant wine, and drunk every day when the stomach is empty in the morning to the amount of two cyathi, with water in Avhich car- rot, myrtle, or elecampane has been macerated (you may use any of these you please, for all are useful); and the infusion of chick-peas in water may be drank in like manner. On those who neglect these symptoms the following diseases are apt to supervene : Dropsy, enlargement of the spleen, pain of the liver, calculus, inflammation of the kidneys, strangury, distension of the belly. Regarding all these symptoms it may be remarked that children ought to be treated with gentler remedies, and adults with more active.—I have now to give you an account of the seasons of the year in which each of these complaints occur, and what things ought to be taken and avoided. I begin with the winter solstice.—Of the winter solstice: This season dis- poses men to catarrhs and defiuxions, until the vernal equinox. It will be proper then to take such things as are of a heating nature, drink wine little diluted, or drink pure wine, or of the decoction of marjoram, and indulge in venery. From the win- ter solstice to the vernal equinox are ninety days.—Of the ver- nal equinox : This season increases phlegm in men, and the sweetish humours in the blood until the rising of the pleiades. Use therefore juicy and acrid things, take labour, and indulge