SECT. XXII.] 425 DISEASES OF THE EYE. nant diseases of the eyelids, and not having found that it pro- Comm. duced any serious disorder in the ball of the eye, we would call the attention of modern oculists to this medicine as one from which, when properly managed, the best results may be expected. A^ hen the ophthalmy is of a cold natme, Avicenna approves of treating it by an attenuant diet, the bath, and white wine. In certain cases he directs us to pour cold water on the head. Haly Abbas describes three varieties of ophthalmy. The first arises from manifest causes, such as the sun, dust, and the like; and is to be cured by bleeding, purging, and cooling lotions, containing rose-oil, camphor, &c. In the second, the symptoms are more severe, being attended with greater redness and pain. It also is to be cured by bleeding, cupping, and emollient col- lyria. The third variety is chemosis. Alsaharavius treats of the disease at great length. When it is connected with a bilious cause, he directs us to purge, use the bath, apply vapours to the eye, and soothing collyria. Serapion, like Haly, describes three varieties of the disease by the names of tarkinisis, noutelinie, and kernwfil. Jesu Haly recommends general bleeding, purging, and fomentations, with the decoctions of fenugreek and fennel, for ophthalmy. It remains to be mentioned that Galen, Alex- ander Aphrodisiensis, and all the Arabian authorities have placed ophthalmy in the list of contagious diseases. See, in particular, Alex. Aph. (Prob. i, 35), and our brief sketch of the history of ancient opinions on contagion in the Second Book, Sect, xxxvi. The celebrated Fracastorius confidently main- tains that ophthalmy is contagious. (De Morb. Contag.) And we may further mention that all the authorities of the middle ages speak of ophthalmy as being contagious. On chemosis. By chemosis, modern oculists (as, for example, Scarpa) understand that state of ophthalmy when blood, owing to a rupture of one or more vessels, is effused into the cellular membrane which connects the conjunctiva to the anterior he- misphere of the eye. Our author's account is mostly taken from Oribasius, who, in his turn, borrows from Demosthenes. Galen and Octavius Ploratianus, without saying anything of the general treatment, merely recommend us to apply upon a clean linen cloth flics pounded with the yelk of an egg. Chemosis is Haly's third variety of ophthalmy, for which he recommends copious and repeated bleeding, cupping, gentle laxatives, cata-