510 [book III. THE STOMACH. things for diet, more especially such as are prepared from vinegar. A\ herefore give them bread that has been soaked in oxycrate, or oxycrate itself to drink, and oxygal (vinegar and milk), and that which is called melca by the Romans (it is a condiment from milk), endive, lettuces, and sometimes cold water: all these moderately, according to the degree of the prevailing intempera- ment; for the immoderate use of them is not only not beneficial, but often renders the complaint utterly incurable. When the affection is connected with coldness, it is to be cured by the opposite remedies; wherefore give to drink old wine and pre- pared wine, hydrogarum, and the decoction of anise, rue, and Macedonian parsley, and pepper, in hot common water; or the composition from the three peppers, or that from calamint. You may give also the theriac from vipers, which is also not in- applicable to those who loathe food from a collection of humours. Garlic, both as food and as medicine, is applicable to them. When the anorexia proceeds from a collection of humours, you may evacuate such as are thin and sharp, either by vomiting or purging downwards, and they may readily be made to vomit, by drinking beforehand tepid water, or hydromel diluted with a large quantity of water. But it will be better to give previ- ously some moistening food, such as the juice of ptisan, or the yelks of eggs. How to produce easy vomiting has been explained in the First Book. But if the patient be hard to make vomit, it will be better to determine the matter downwards, having pre- viously diluted their system by means of plenty of mild food. The cathartic medicine may either be the picra from aloes, that from quinces, which also admits of scammony, or that from rhodomel. If it be possible without the scammony to evacuate by a large dose of aloes, it will be better, because the scammony is bad for the stomach. When the anorexia proceeds from thick and viscid humours, you may cure them by attenuating and incisive reme- dies, such as oxymel, and the preparations from it and brine, as capers, olives, mustard, and the like. The remedies recom- mended for anorexia from a cold intemperament are not inappli- cable to these, and more particularly after evacuation. You may evacuate them by the oxymel called Julian. Externally you must use those unguents and emollient ointments which have power to warm and strengthen the stomach, such in particular as that from the unripe grape, that called Marciatum, and all the common