[book III. ANGINA, ETC. Comm. scarcely be improved upon : general bleeding, opening the veins l—*—' below the tongue, giving warm gargles and linctuses, shaving the head, wrapping the neck in soft wool, or applying fomenta- tions to it, giving honey and water, or ptisan not cold, and ad- ministering clysters or purgative medicines. According to Le Clerc, he performed bronchotomy in extreme cases. He refers, we suppose, to lib. iii, 11, ' de Morbis/ but the language is not so precise as to make it quite certain that bronchotomy was there meant to be described. Sprengel supposes that he only in- troduced a tube by the nostrils into the trachea. He describes a species of cynanche in which there is no external swelling, and which proves fatal in the course of a day, or at least of a very short time. (Prog.) Cynanche, he says elsewhere, is apt to be determined to the lungs. (Aph.) Fever, again he says, attend- ing ulcerated sore throat is bad. (Prog.) When the tonsils are swelled and red, he says it is dangerous to scarify them. (Ibid.) His commentator Stephanus remarks that when the disease be- comes indolent the part may be burned or cut. Aretams states that the parts affected with synanche are the tonsils, epiglottis, fauces, uvula, the upper part of the trachea, and, if the inflammation spread, the tongue and jaws. He makes a distinction between cynanche and synanche. The former is at- tended with swelling of the parts and other well-known symp- toms, of which he has given a striking description. In synanche (which he attributes to the pneuma being over-heated and over- dried), the parts, on the contrary, are contracted, and there is a strong sense of suffocation. This disease, he says, generally proves soon fatal, unless swelling and inflammation of the parts supervene, or erysipelas of the breast occur; in imitation of which, he states that a good physician will apply a sinapism or cupping-instrument to the chest to produce revulsion. In treating of the former variety of the disease, he begins with ad- ministering two clysters to evacuate the bowels and produce revulsion; he bleeds in the arm from a large orifice so as nearly to bring on deliquium animi, and he approves also of bleeding by opening the veins below the tongue : he recommends appli- cations at first of an astringent nature, but, if suppuration be expected, he directs hot ones from fenugreek, hot fomentations, sponges squeezed out of the decoction of bay or hyssop, and the like, to be used. In the other variety, he recommends us to deter-