SECT- *ȥ] PULSE. 205 iii a total loss of motion, and are called faiUm, or fainting myuri. 1 here are two varieties in respect to those which fail, for some ol them persevere in that state of smallness in which thev ter- minated, whilst others attain again their original magnitude, or less or more, and these are called recurrent myuri. Pulses also are called myuri, from their inequality in regard to one pulsation, concerning which we will speak presently. And this is the nature of that inequality of pulse, called systematic. But it takes place with regard to one pulse, or one part of an artery, or more, as perhaps with regard to motion, for the inequality is observed on one part of the artery, when the mo- tion of the artery upon the finger begins one way and termi- nates another, beginning quicker, and terminating slower, or reversely. This happens in a threefold manner, the motion cither remaining constant, or being interrupted, or recurring and beating double, as it were. If, then, remaining constant and uninterrupted, it should change from quickness to slowness, or conversely, such a pulse is said to be, and is of unequal velo- city. But if, after being interrupted by an interval of rest, it again appear quicker, it is called the goat-leap or dorcadissans, the term being derived from the animal dorcas, which, in jump- ing aloft, stops in the air, and then, unexpectedly, takes another and a swifter spring than the former. But if after the diastole it recur, and before a complete systole take place, strike the finger a second time, such a pulse is called a reverberating one, or di- crotos, from its beating twice. You may see such a thing take place upon a stithy, when a hammer, swung by the hand, first strikes the stithy, and afterwards, recoiling from the reaction of the stithy, strikes of itself a second or third time. And not only may an inequality in the time of motion take place as to one pulsation in one part of an artery, but also in regard to the strength of the power; not so, however, in regard to the extent of dilatation (for it is impossible that the same pulse in the same place should be great and small at the same time), nor in regard to the other kinds of pulses. But in different places different parts of an artery may exhibit a double inequality in one pulsa- tion. For the motion may continue constant, and be swifter at one finger and slower at another; or it may intermit, and one finger may perceive it, and another not. And also, in re- gard to the extent of the diastole, the same inequality becomes