56G THE LIVER. [bo°k in- Comm. tribution, and diuretic. His treatment of chronic disease is va- w-^ ried^ according as the matter passes by the urme or the bowels; but the chapter on it is incomplete. Celsus at the commencement recommends bleeding, purging even with black hellebore, cataplasms at first repellent and then calefacient. Diuretics are to be given, such as thyme, hyssop, &c.; and all cold things are to be avoided. When a vomica forms, it is to be opened and burnt. Alexander's account is full and judicious. He says that, m cases of obstruction of the liver, when deobstruents are given before the swelling is softened, the juices being overheated be- come like stones and cannot be discussed. He alludes, of course, to hepatic calculi, or gall-stones. He gives copious directions for emollient ointments to be rubbed into the side to dispel the enlargement of the liver. In treating of scirrhus, Aetius recommends the emollient oint- ments, cupping, leeching, calefacient plasters, sinapisms, burning by medicines or by the actual cautery. The account given by Actuarius is in so far important, as it shows that the views of practice had not changed in his days. In inflammation, he recommends to bleed two or three times, and to unite emollients with deobstruents in the external ap- plications. For a full exposition of the doctrines of the Methodists, we must refer to Cselius Aurelianus, of whose opinions we can afford room only for a very brief outline. The symptoms of scirrhus of the liver, as stated by him, are a round circumscribed tumour felt below the ribs, the colour jaundiced, the urine muddy, pain extending to the throat of the affected side, difficulty of lying on the left side, as this posture suspends the enlarged viscus. (By the way, Cassius assigns the same reason why persons la- bouring under disease of the liver or spleen lie easiest on the affected side. Probl. vi.) At the commencement he recom- mends fomentations, cataplasms, laxative food, and then cupping, scarifications, and leeching. When the attack is violent, vene- section is to be premised. Frequent changes, acrid food, and emetics with vinegar of squills or hellebore are also mentioned. He recommends a sea-voyage, vapour-baths, hot springs, the sand-bath, and various stimulant and rubefacient applica- tions to the side. He delivers his strictures very freely upon