SECT. LII.] 315 CANINE APPETITE. of inordinate appetite, both of tliem being in excess. Since, therefore, this affection is generally occasioned by an acid phlegm, we must use those things which will divide and dissi- pate it. Such, in particular, are all sweet and saline things, and those which are called heating detergents. We must, therefore, give largely of the heating wines. Such are the yellow in colour, and those which are red without being styptic. We must also give them the sweeter kind, although they should not be thirsty. When they come to dinner, we must give them first all fatty things, and everything beside which is prepared with much oil, and has no austere or astringent property. These, although they should not overcome the cause of the complaint, at all events, destroy the insatiable desire of food; but abstinence from them lessens the collection of phlegm in the stomach. We must also give pickles, and after them, plenty of the afore-mentioned wines to be drank. By persevering with these things for some time, the complaint subsides. Commentary. According to Galen, one of the causes of the Comm. canine appetite is an acid cacochymy, and another is an immo- '—"—1 derate evacuation of the whole body, occasioned either by strong heat or weakness of the retentive faculty, (u. a.) Hippocrates recommends the liberal use of wine, in one of his Aphorisms (ii, 21) ; and Galen, in his Commentary on the same, states that the wine should be tawny-coloured or red, and devoid of astringency. In another place, he directs us to purge away the offending humour with the hiera of aloes. (De Med. sec. Lo- cos, viii.) Our author borrows part from Oribasius. (Synops. vi, 34.) Alsaharavius recommends the same plan of treatment as the Greeks, when the disease is connected with a cold intempera- ment; but when with a hot, he directs us to have recourse to bleeding, cold fruits, and cooling applications over the stomach. (Pract. xvi, 11.) Rhases and Avicenna approve in general of our author's plan of treatment, to which, however, they suggest some improve- ments : when the cause of the complaint is an acid phlegm, they direct us to give fatty things, with mustard, pepper, garlic, and the like. When connected with black bile, they approve of bleeding. When it arises from worms, they, of course, ap-