LYCANTHROPIA. SECT. XVI.] 389 111 iffus. The diet should be light, and they ought to avoid every- thing that is flatulent. They are benefited also by the fruit of peony: fifteen of the black grains of which may be pounded with water and drunk frequently. Commentary. See Aetius (vi, 12); Oribasius (Synops. viii, com 2) ; Actuarius (i, 16) j Cselius Aurelianus (Tard. Pass, i, 3) ■ ^- Psellus (Opus Medicum); Avicenna (iii, 1, 5, 7); Alsaharavius (Pract. i, 33) ; Rhases (ad Mansor. ix, 12, Contin. i.) The other ancient authors treat the complaint, like our au- thor, by evacuants. Bleeding (Rhases recommends this to be done at the ancle), drastic purgatives, and friction of the ex- tremities are the common remedies. Alsaharavius says that, if not cured by bleeding, it is to be treated, as epilepsy, with hiera and the like. Even Cselius in this case nearly agrees with the others, recommending restricted diet, and, if the disorder is great, venesection. He also approves of applying cupping- instruments with scarifications on the side of the throat, and, when the disease is protracted, of emetics, and shaving the head. For the cure of incubus, Mesue and Rhases recommend bleed- ing and an attenuant diet. Ruffus, as quoted by the latter, recommends vomiting, purging, an attenuant diet, sternutato- ries, masticatorics, and ointments to the head, containing castor and the like. Psellus gives a very graphic description of incubus. (Op. Med.) SECT. XVI. ON LYCAON, OR LYCANTHROPIA. Those labouring under lycanthropia go out during the night imitating wolves in all things, and lingering about sepulchres until morning. You may recognize such persons by these marks: they are pale, their vision feeble, their eyes dry, tongue very dry, and the Aoav of the saliva stopped; but they are thirsty, and their legs have incurable ulcerations from frequent falls. Such are the marks of the disease. You must know that lycanthropia is a species of melancholy which you may cure at the time of the attack, by opening a vein and abstracting blood to fainting, and giving the patient a diet of wholesome food. Let him use baths of sweet water, and then milk-whey for three days, and purging with the hiera from colocynth twice or thrice. After the purg-