POT-HERBS. Ill SECT. LXXIV.] hortensis) and such like are succulent and laxative, but not nu- tritious. All the thorny tribe, such as the cardoons, the atrac- tylis, and such like are stomachic, except the cinara, for, being hard, it forms bad chyme j and, therefore, it is best to take it boiled with oil, fish-sauce, and coriander. The parsley, the horse- parsley {smyrnium olusatrum), the water parsnip, and the all- Bander, are diuretic; but the allsander is aromatic, and more acrid, diuretic, and emmenagogue, whereas the parsley and horse-parsley are sweeter, and, therefore, agree better with the stomach. The rocket {brassica entca) is hot, and forms semen; and, therefore, rouses to vencry and occasions headachs. The cress, basil (ocimum), and mustard are hot and acrid, particu- larly the cress; but all arc of difficult digestion, injure the sto- mach, and supply unwholesome juices. But the nettle is atte- nuant, laxative, and of little nourishment. The toothpick-fennel is like the shepherd's needle, possessing astringent and bitter qualities in no small degree ; it is beneficial to the stomach, so that those who have lost their appetite may eat it with advantage in vinegar; but it supplies little nourishment to the body. All the wild pot-herbs, as they are called, contain very bad juices. Capers, however, whet the appetite, remove obstructions of the Ever and spleen, and evacuate phlegm. They are to be used with vinegar and honey, or with vinegar and oil, before taking any other food. Commentary. Athenseus remarks that the use of pot-herbs, c as articles of food, appears to have been very ancient, since l_ several of them are mentioned by Homer. (Deipnos, i, 29.) Diphilus says, " all pot-herbs in general contain little nu- triment, are attenuant, engender bad juices, swim in the sto- mach, and are of difficult digestion." (Deipnos, ii, 28.) Actuarius states, that pot-herbs in general form a thin and watery blood, compared with that from thicker articles of food. The ancients ate their pot-herbs with much oil, and gene- rally a liberal allowance of hot spices. See Apicius (iii.) A sauce from pickled fish, vinegar, or old wine, was often added to the preparation. The poet Juvenal makes mention of a miser who ate his cabbage with the oil from lamps. (Sat. v, 87.) Celsus remarks of such things, " Quodcunque ex olio garove estur olus alienum stomacho est."