g4 THE HEART. [BOOK *' and Aristotle, for the ventilation of the innate heat; Hippocrates for its nutrition and refrigeration; and Erasistratns for the filling of the arteries with spirits. All these opinions are discussed and commented upon by Galen, who determines the purposes o respiration to be twofold: first, to preserve the animal heat; and second, to evacuate the fuliginous portion of the blood. He was aware of the analogy between respiration and combustion, and comes to the conclusion that they are processes of a similar na- ture • he accordingly compares the lungs to a lamp, the heart to its wick the blood to the oil, and the animal heat to the flame. (Galen, de usu Respir.) Aristotle gives the name of pneuma to the vital heat of animals, and ascribes the source and main- tenance of it to the double functions of respiration and digestion. (De Pneumate.) See further, Third Book, s. 27. The following extract from Alexander Aphrodisiensis will explain the opinions entertained by physicians and gowns of a later age: " Wherefore there is a natural tepidity, the same I mean as the innate heat, whence springs the origin of the ani- mal, its nature; for it is congenital with the animal, and there- fore is called natural, being in the main the instrument of the soul's powers." (De Feb. viii.) The following extract from Haly will show that the opinions of the Arabians on this subject did not differ from those of their Grecian masters, and more especially of Galen : «■ Respiration is necessary, for the sake of the heart, which is the fountain, and, as it were, the focus of vital heat, whence it is diffused over the rest of the body. It requires some aerial substance to ventilate the heat and ebullition of the heart, and in order to evacuate the fuliginous vapours which are found in it." (Theor. iii.) SECT. LXVI. THE MARKS OF THE TEMPERAMENTS OP THE HEART. These are the marks of an unusually warm heart: largeness of respiration, quickness and density of pulse, boldness and maniacal ferocity, the chest is covered with hair, particularly the breast, and usually the parts of the hypochondriac regions adjoining to it; and the whole body is hot, unless the liver powerfully antagonise. And capacity of chest is also a mark of heat, unless the brain in that case antagonise. But an un-