280 FEVERS. [book II. Comm. that the plague never attacked the same person more than once. —v—' This opinion, by the way, has been advocated in modern times by Massarius, Diomedes Amicus, Heurnius, and Sir William Pym, but general experience seems to be against it. Evagrius relates of the plague which prevailed in the reign of Justinian, that many persons who recovered from the first attack sunk under a second. Ficinus, Montisianus, Joubertus, and many late authorities, hold this opinion. He mentions that the dis- ease was supposed to originate in Ethiopia, and from thence to spread to Egypt, Lybia, and the Persian empire ; that in Athens it made its first appearance in the Pirseus, where it was at first suspected that the Peloponnesians had poisoned the wells. He says the previous summer was remarkably healthy. Thucydides' celebrated description of the plague is given in a poetical form by Lucretius (de Kerum Natura, apud finem), and by Ovid (Me- tamorphoseon, vii, 528.) Sophocles, the tragedian, appears also to have had the same plague in view. ((Edip. Tyran. ap. initium.) The Latin poet Silius Italicus evidently copies his images from it. (xiv.) See also Lucanus(Pharsal.vi), andManilius(Astronom.i.) Our next great authority on this subject is Celsus. In his account of the plague, we have to regret, however, that, although he dwells rather minutely on the prophylaxis and treatment, he has omitted to give us a description of the disease; and it is not easy to perceive the principles upon which some of his di- rections as to the prophylaxis and treatment are given. He recommends a journey to a distant place, or a sea voyage ; when this cannot be accomplished, gestation and gentle exercise in the open air, but he forbids all excess. He also forbids early rising, exercise with naked feet after a meal or the bath, also emetics, laxatives, and sudorifics. He directs people to drink, by turns, first water and then wine, (i, 10.) "With regard to the treatment, he disapproves, in general, of abstinence and purgative medicines, recommends bleeding, if the strength per- mit, more especially if the fever be attended with pain j but, if venesection cannot be practised, he directs emetics to be given. At an earlier period than in ordinary fevers the patient is to be put into the bath, and is afterwards to get hot undiluted wine, and everything of a glutinous nature, and flesh of this descrip- tion. In the case of young persons, he directs these remedies to be administered with great caution, (iii, 7.)