41 SECT. XXXII.] REPLETION. upwards, whatever is of difficult digestion, and engenders crude and thick humours, the herb rocket, leeks, and everything whose pungency ascends upwards. Let them also avoid reclining long m a supine position, cold, winds blowing direct in the face, smoke and dust; and pour daily into the eyes an infusion prepared thus : for a month and a day, put green fennels into an earthen vessel smeared with pitch on the outside, and pour in rain water, and then taking out the fennels, keep the water laid up for use. Commentary. This is copied from Oribasius. (Synops. v, 27.) Comm. Rhases gives very copious and sensible directions on this ^—' subject, but many of them are the same as those given by our author. He forbids all gross and diffusible articles of food, and also thick wines. Although he cautions against reading books written in small characters, he recommends exercising the eyes by looking at large letters or pictures. He also recom- mends various collyria, containing antimony, tutty, calamine, camphor, and the like. (Ad Mansor. iv, 22.) SECT. XXXII. ON REPLETION. Excess in diet is a very great error; for, even if the stomach should digest it properly, the veins, being over-filled, become affected, are distended and burst; they are obstructed, or filled up with vapours, and become much oppressed. In diseases nothing is worse than plethora of the veins ; for, in fulness of the stomach, the offending matters may be evacuated either upwards or down- wards, so that it is less pernicious than the other, and yet it is by no means desirable. But if there be too much food in the stomach, it must be immediately evacuated by vomiting, for there is a danger lest being digested it fill up the veins, more par- ticularly if the person who is guilty of the excess be not attentive to the necessary evacuations. Let him vomit, then, before the food become spoiled; or, if there be any objection to vomiting, it will be of great consequence to bring about frequent dis- charges from the bowels; or otherwise, he should indulge much in sleep, and drink often of tepid water. When he has digested properly, and more especially if he has had evacuations by the bowels, let him have baths and fomentations, and let him drink