[book hi. C22 THE UTERUS. Comm. our author's. He also gives, from Aspasia, a fuller account of • ' displacement of the uterus. Without doubt he alludes to retroversion and anteversion of the uterus, as they are called in modern works on midwifery. These cases generally occur in the first months of pregnancy, but there are instances of their happening in the unimpregnated state. (See Burns' Midwifery, i, 19.) The symptoms, as described by Aetius, are sufficiently well marked; retention of the faeces, owing to the rectum being obstructed by a tumour; pains in the region of the pubes, and sometimes retention of urine. He directs us to draw off the water by means of a catheter, and to bleed, give emmenagogues, and apply pessaries according to circumstances. Avicenna and Haly Abbas make mention of displacement of the womb, but they appear to have derived all their information from Aetius. We shall give a brief outline of Serapion's treatment in cases of uterine inflammation. He properly begins with bleed- ing first from the arm, and afterwards at the ankle. He then gives a laxative medicine, and applies a plaster to the re- gion of the uterus. When the complaint is at its acme, he directs us to use fomentations prepared by adding sedatives to such medicines as pomegranate-rind, endive, fleawort, fenu- greek, chamomile and dill. When the inflammation does not abate, he directs us to encourage suppuration by the combina- tion of maturative with calefacient medicines, such as a plaster containing fenugreek, barley-flour, figs, pigeon's dung, &c. Haly's plan of treatment is little different: General bleeding according to circumstances; cooling draughts composed of purslain, violets, spinage, &c.j plasters of violets, camphor, &c; hot baths prepared with melilot, mallows, linseed, &c. When there is heat in the parts, he directs us to introduce oil of roses, with the whites of eggs, the grease of hens, &c. to which opium may be added. When the pain is violent, he particularly re- commends cooling injections. Alsaharavius recommends bleed- ing from the arm and at the ankle, diluent and cooling draughts, local applications containing opium, seed of fenugreek, plantain, house-leek, &c. and the tepid bath. Rhases says that when the womb is displaced, there is vehe- ment pain with distension of the parts; the woman cannot rise nor sit but with difficulty; the urine is retained and sometimes