390 [book III. LOVE. ings, use the theriac of vipers, and administer those things men- tioned for the cure of melancholy. When the disease is already formed, use soporific embrocations, and rub the nostrils with opium when going to rest. Comm. Commentary. See Aetius (vi, 11); Oribasius (Synops. viii, ~^r"~' 10) j Actuarius (Meth. Med. i, 16) j Anonymus (de Lycanth. ap. Phys. et Med. Min.); Psellus (Carm. de Re Med. ibid.) ; AAdcenna (in, i, 5, 22); Haly Abbas (Theor. ix, 7, Pract. v, 24); Alsaharavius (Pract. i, 2, 28); Rhases (Divis. 10, Cont. i.) All the other authorities give much the same account of this species of melancholy as Paulus. If Ave adopt Dr. Mead's theory- respecting the dsemoniacs mentioned in Scripture, we may con- clude that the man, whose state is described in Luke (viii, 27), was affected with this disease. Dr. Mead is further of opinion that Nebuchadnezzar was seized with lycanthropia. The reader will find much curious information on this head in Burton's ' Anatomy of Melancholy/ from which all Mead's opinions are borrowed. The Arabian term is cutubut. Avicenna recommends the application of the actual cautery to the sinciput, when the other remedies fail. Haly Abbas de- scribes the disease by the name of melancholia canina. He says the patient delights to wander among tombs, imitating the cries of dogs; that his colour is pale; his eyes misty (tenebri- cosi), dry, and hollow; his mouth parched; and that he has marks on his limbs of injuries which he has sustained from falls. He recommends the same treatment as our author: indeed he evidently merely translates this section of Paulus. Alsaharavius seems also to allude to this disease by the name of melancholia canina. Rhases' account of it is quite similar to our author's. Schneider has given some interesting critical remarks upon this section of Paulus at the end of his edition of Meander's ' Theriacs.' SECT. XVII. ON LOVE-SICK PERSONS. It will not be out of place here to join love to the affections of the brain, since it consists of certain cares. For care is a passion of the soul occasioned by the reason's being in a state of