443 DISEASES OF THE EAR. SECT. XXIII.] Marcellus gives a long list of empirical applications, from Comm which, perhaps, something valuable might be extracted. He recommends, like some of the other authorities, a solution of alum in hot vinegar, with some honey. We shall see in the twenty-sixth Section that alum was much used for aUaying the pains of toothach. Among the ingredients in his injections we remark tepid milk, opium, castor, spikenard, saffron, opobalsam, millepedes, &c. The treatment directed by the Methodist Caelius Aurelianus is little different from that of the other sects. He approves of putting tepid oil into the ear; of stuffing it with wool; of using fomentations, cataplasms, leeches, and scarifications; and when the disease becomes chronic, of shaving the head, and applying acopa, dropaces, malagmata, and so forth. Serapion and Rhases treat the complaint exactly like our author. Avenzoar relates a case of inflammation seated in the meatus, Avliich he cured by filling it with oil of eggs. He further re- commends bleeding and the other remedies already mentioned. Avicenna treats of diseases of the ear most minutely and sci- entifically, but at too great length for us to do justice to his account of them. For pains from a hot cause he recommends camphor-oil, or oil of violets with camphor. Mesue also treats of these complaints very minutely. When the pain is violent, he recommends injections containing poppies, henbane, man- drake, nightshade, and the like. Haly Abbas, in such cases, also approves of rose-oil, with opium, the juice of mandrake, &c. Alsaharavius varies his treatment according to the nature of the exciting cause. When it is caused by congestion of blood in the organ, he recommends bleeding, abstinence from wine, a restricted diet, and pouring warm oil into the ear. When it arises from a cold cause he approves of oil of costus, of spike- nard, &c, and of applying to the ear a cataplasm of hot flour. On ulcers of the ears. Aetius and Alexander give various pre- scriptions for these cases. The fullest account, however, is contained in Galen (sec. loc.) When there is a discharge of pus, attended with pain, Octavius recommends alum, mixed with honey and oil. When ulcers of the ears are recent, Mesue recommends injections of honied water, wine and honey, vine- gar and honey, or the like, by a syringe. They are to be dried