467 Sect, xxvii.] ANGINA, ETC. mine outwardly by all possible nieans,such as by applications con- Comm. taining nitre, mustard, &c. He says the application of fire would be most suitable in such cases, but as it cannot be ap- plied from the situation of the disease, he recommeuds medicines which resemble fire (caustics), so as to stop the ulceration from spreading. The caustics and astringents mentioned by him are alum, galls, pomegranate rind, and in particular calcined chal- et t is. The last was a vitriol resembling sulphate of copper. (See the preceding Section.) He mentions that in this variety some were said to have opened the windpipe, in other words to have performed laryngotomy. He does not believe, however, that the operation had ever actually been performed, and dissuades from attempting it, as it would only increase the evil; and he apprehended that the wound in the cartilages would never heal. From his account of synanche, Le Clerc concludes that Aretams belonged to the Pneumatic sect; and although Ackerman is doubtful upon this point, we could point out many passages in his works Avhich have quite satisfied us on this point. By pneuma was probably meant the vital heat in the body, acted upon by a spiritual substance within us, the same being a portion of that principle which the ancient philosophers called nature. It was truly a vis medicatrix. (See Morb. Chron. cur. i, 7.) Cclsus, like Aretseus, describes the two varieties of the dis- ease, and recommends nearly the same treatment. Galen, and after him Aetius, give a similar account with great minuteness and precision. We cannot pretend to do justice to their treatment, and shall merely mention that, in the second variety, they praise mustard for a gargle, and elaterium as a purgative. It is worthy of notice that Galen describes a rare species of this disease, in which the tongue is so swelled that the mouth cannot contain it. (Meth. Med. i.) Alexander's directions are most minute and judicious, but Ave must be content with stating that he approves of opening the ranal and jugular veins, and that his treatment is otherwise similar to that of Galen. This is the first mention of opening the jugulars that occurs in a medical author. Octavius Horatianus we shall merely mention, in order to state that he has described the two varieties of the disease like the others. Cselius Aurelianus gives a singularly accurate and circum-