sect, lxxii.] DRY INTEMPERAMENTS. 103 sleep, Care should be taken by us, that all the cxcrementitious matters collected in the body be evacuated every day. Venerj hurts all those who are affected with dryness, and more espe- cially it joined to coldness, and is innocuous to the hot and humid alone. The cold and humid temperaments are bad, am! are very subject to rheumatic affections. They arc relieved by abstinence from the bath, by frequent and light exercises, and the use of moderately heating unguents. Those that arc natu- rally colder, but are well regulated as to dryness and humidity of temperament, ought to stimulate and increase their heat, but to choose the medium between a humid and dry diet. Commentary. See the authorities referred to in the pre- Comm. ceding Section. All, in a word, copy from Galen. (1. c.) ^-7* SECT. LXXII. THE CURE OF THE DRY INTEMPERAMENTS, OF THE STOMACH FOR EXAMPLE; THEN OF THE OTHER INTEM- PERAMENTS. A dry intemperament may cither be occasioned by the parts of uniform texture being drier than natural, in their solid parts, which is incurable; or by the natural moisture from which these parts derive their nourishment being lost. It is contained in all parts of an animal, being diffused through them in the form of dew, and can only be supplied by means of the food. The former variety is utterly incurable; and even the latter is of all states of the body the most intractable. But when the dryness is seated in the small veins and arteries, the cure may be attempted by filling each of the parts of uniform texture with their proper juices by a humid diet. A tepid bath is therefore beneficial, and the patient ought to remain long in the water. Immediately after the bath, let him take the milk of an ass newly drawn, to which a little warm honey has been added. Afterwards he ought to rest until he take a second bath. He ought then to be moderately rubbed with oil, if the milk appears to be digested, which may be judged of from his eructations and the distension of his belly. The proper interval between the first and second bath may be four or five hours at the equinox, if he be to bathe a third time, but, if not, it mav