[boos III. THE LIVER. 560 SECT. XLVI. ON THE AFFECTIONS OF THE LIVER. The affections of the liver being various (for it is subject to atony, inflammation, erysipelas, scirrhus, apostemes, ulcers, and obstructions), we shall treat first of atony of it, in which case, particularly those affected with it, are usually called hepatics. If, therefore, it evacuate the excrements in a state of chyle, but more liquid than natural, the distribution of the food to the liver being either diminished or altogether stopped, while the stomach is unaffected, it is to be inferred that the attractive power of the liver is in a weak state. But if they resemble the washings of newly-killed flesh, it is the alterative, and, as it has been called, the sanguificative power that is affected. But if the atony arise from a hot intemperament, in process of time it appears more feculent and very fetid, the bile being high-coloured and thick. Wherefore, the substance of the liver being already melted, the whole body also is melted down; and there is fever, anorexia, and vomiting of bile. When the intemperament is cold, the discharges are neither constant nor many, for the affection is a chronic one ; and for several days the discharges from the belly will be more abundant, but less fetid, like the lees of thick blood, approaching to black bile. And many and various colours indi- cate a cold intemperament; for the fever is obscure, the face not collapsed, and there is rather a desire of food. Whichever of these intemperaments prevails, if complicated with the dry, the excrements appear drier and fewer in number, and there is more thirst; but, if the humid, they are more liquid and abundant, and the patients have less thirst. When the liver is inflamed, there is, in all cases, pain in the right hypochondrium, extending up- wards as far as the clavicle, but downwards as far as the false ribs; an acute fever, dry cough, thirst, loathing of food, and difficulty of breathing ; the tongue at first appears red, but after- wards black; there is vomiting of bile, and the belly is consti- pated. These symptoms being like to those of pleurisy, we have stated the difference under the head of pleurisy. When erysi- pelas is seated in the liver, the inflammatory heat is intense, there is ardent fever, and marasmus supervenes. In particular, when the concave parts of the liver are inflamed, there is nausea and vomitings, anorexia, intense inflammatory heat, deliquium animi ■