502 THE HEART. [BOOK m< symptoms of fever, we have treated of in the Second Book This only may now be added, that when the collapse gams ground after friction and ointments have been applied to the extremi- ties, and after purification of the floor, and other cooling means, we must sprinkle upon the parts of the body which are sweating powdered myrtle, Cimolian earth, or amber, or pomegranate-rmd with manna, or Samian earth with gum; and cataplasms of mus- tard or pellitory, or adarce, are to be applied to the cold extre- mities, as far as to the groins and armpits. The food should be bread out of water, or out of cold diluted wine, swines' feet and the joints and snout, and fowls; all the things being given in a cold state. On the head and forehead is to be rubbed the juice of unripe olives, or some astringent application, with gum, and the decoction of roses; and a cataplasm is to be applied to the hypochondria and stomach, formed from dates, roses, the flower of the wild vine, acacia, hypocistis, and alum. On palpitation of the heart. " I knew a certain person," says Galen, " who suffered an attack of palpitation of the heart every year in the season of spring. Wherefore, having for three years experienced benefit from venesection, in the fourth he antici- pated the attack by getting bled, and escaped from it, and did so for many years afterwards, using at the same time a suitable diet. And yet even he died before attaining old age, as every other person in this complaint does, some being suddenly cut off in acute fevers by syncope; but some of them without syn- cope, being unexpectedly deprived of life, as if by apoplexy. The majority of those who are thus affected do not reach the fiftieth year of age, but pass the fortieth." Comm. Commentary. See Galen (de Loc. Affect.); Aetius (viii, 58); ' ' ' Oribasius (Synops. ix, 6); Actuarius (Meth. Med. iv, 3); Leo (iv, 21); Nonnus (134); Avicenna (iii, 11, 12); Serapion (ii, 27); Avenzoar, 1, 12); Mesue (de iEgrit. Pect.); Haly Abbas (Theor. ix, 22, and Pract. vi, 16); Alsaharavius (Pract. xiii); Khases (Divis. i, 58, and Contin. xvi.) Most of the knowledge which the ancients possessed of these obscure complaints may be found in Galen (1. c.) In the body of a monkey he had remarked hydrops pericardii, and in that of a cock he had detected a scirrhous tumour, from which he inferred that these diseases occur also in the human subject. One would