32g FEVERS. CBOOK cine containing the three peppers, and pepper itself. Those who fall into fainting fits owing to great heat, or insolation, or from remaining long in the bath, may be cured by being sprinkled with cold water, and exposed to the wind; by having their sto- mach rubbed, and getting wine and food. But if the swooning be occasioned by the greatness of the inflammation, or bad na- ture of the fever in the attacks, and if the patient is cold, we ou-ht to rub his limbs strongly, chafe him, apply ligatures, force him to keep awake, and abstain from food. And these things are to be done previous to the paroxysm. But those who have faintings from dryness, should get for food two or three hours before the paroxysm either the juice of chondrus, or bread out of water, along with the kernels of the pomegranate, or apples, or pears. But if great danger be anticipated, we must also give wine. Those who have sudden attacks of fainting are to be thus treated. And in all cases we are to find out the cause of the deliquium, and direct our attention to it. And sometimes the greatest care must be bestowed upon this symptom, which threa- tens danger, or death itself. Commentary. Nearly the same account of deliquium animi ' in fevers is given by Aetius (v, 101 et seq.), and by Oribasius (de Morb. Curat, iii, 7.) But all these authors are, in fact, in- debted to Galen. (Therap. ad Glauc. i.) Aetius thus states the distinction between syncope and deliquium : " Deliquium makes its attack suddenly, depriving the person of sense and motion, but is not necessarily accompanied with sweats; but syncope seizes upon persons both when asleep and when awake, and is necessarily attended with sweats, called syncoptic." Alexander delivers a full account of the subject; but his principles of treatment scarcely differ in any respect from those of Galen, (xii, 13.) Haly Abbas directs us, when the deliquium proceeds from a defluxion of humours upon the stomach, to apply ligatures to the extremities, to dash water on the face, to fan it, and to give vinegar and pepper. He recommends us to prevent sleep, which has a tendency to extinguish the powers of the primary viscera, by occasioning a determination inwardly. When it proceeds from dryness, he directs us to give wine, the decoction of quinces, of apples, and the like. If it happen at the commencement,