[book III. 630 THE UTERUS. anointed the pessary, dip it in the oil of privet, and apply. And the pessary called golden, the Libanian, and the Enneaphar- macus suit well with this affection ; but the Titian is more par- ticularly applicable. Comm. Commentary. Our author's account of these diseases is taken ' ' from Aetius, who professes to copy from Soranus the Methodist. None of the other authorities has treated of them so fully. Ber- nard justly remarks (ap. Nonni Ep. 208) that if the ancients had not been familiar with inspectiones cadaverum, they could not have described the diseases of particular parts of the uterus so accurately as they have done. Actuarius briefly states that scirrhus of the uterus is to be treated by applications of a diges- tive and emollient nature, namely, emollient oils and fats, mixed with such things as galbanum, bdellium, and the like. Of the Arabians, Avicenna is the most minute, but his treat- ment is borrowed from the Greeks. Haly Abbas remarks that scirrhus has a tendency to terminate in dropsy, and it is attended with sallowness, weakness, loss of appetite, amenorrhcea, swelling of the breasts and belly. His remedies are similar to those for cancer. See an interesting account of this disease by Lodovicus Mer- catus (ap. Gyneecia, 951.) SECT. LXIX. ON THE MOLE. The mole, too, is a scirrhous tumour, forming sometimes at the mouth and sometimes in the body of the womb, conveying to the touch the sensation of stone, and being attended with retraction of the parts above, and emaciation, paleness, loss of appetite, retention of the menses, and swelling of the breasts, so as in certain cases to raise suspicions at first of a conception; but in process of time the true nature of the complaint is de- veloped. Sometimes also it raises suspicions of dropsy, from which it is to be distinguished by the hardness of the swelling, and from there being no sound of water when tapped by the fingers, as is the case in dropsy. In certain cases, however, the disease actually terminates in dropsy, which for the most part proves incurable. In some cases, it also brings on a dis-