4/6 ASTHMA. [book III. (i. e. half an obolus) : form the whole into eight trochisks, and breath; and from their being obliged to keep the chest erect for fear of being suffocated, they are called orthopnoic. The affection arises from thick and viscid humours becoming infarcted in the bronchial cells of the lungs. Dyspnoea is a common symptom which accompanies these and many other complaints. The indication of cure in asthmatic complaints is to consume the viscid and thick humour by attenuant and detergent medi- cines. "Wherefore the vinegar of squills will answer well with them, and the oxymel prepared from it; the baked squill itself when triturated with honey; the antidote called hiera, continued purging with drastic medicines, and vomiting from radishes. And, in like manner, the round birthwort may be drunk, the root of the great centaury, the fruit and root of cow-parsnip, the fruit of calamint, hyssop, iris, and gith. Put a sextarius of slaters, into an earthen vessel, roast upon the coals; when whitened, pulverize, and, mixing with boiled honey, give a mystrum thereof before and after food. If there be any urgent necessity, before doing all these things, open a vein and evacuate proportionably to the patient's strength; and stimulate the belly by clysters. Externally to the chest we may apply cataplasms from figs, the flour of iris, and of barley, containing rosin, wax, and honey; and iris and manna may be sprinkled upon them. Some benefit may also be derived from raw barley-flour, with rosin, wax, iris, and manna. We may use the more heating ointments, such as those of iris, dill, and rue. But the following application is particularly proper: Of pumice-stone, p. j; of burnt lees of wine, p. iv; of arsenic, p. j; of the schenanth, p. ij; of alcyonium, p. j; of aphronitrum, p. ij; pound, sift, mix with the ointment, and with it rub the parts about the chest, and use emollient ointments for attracting the humours. A draught for asthmatics. Of poley, of southernwood, of castor, of ground pine, of ammoniac perfume, equal parts; mix with honey, and give.— Otherwise: Some give a spoonful of aphro- nitrum in three cyathi (cupfuls) of honied water.—Another: Of aphronitrum, dr. ix; of pepper, dr. j; of laserwort, dr. ss; give a spoonful in water.—Another: Of castor, of ammoniac perfume, of each, dr. vj; of pepper, xl grains; mix with must, and give to the size of a bean in honied water.—Another: Of mustard, dr. j; of the spuma nitri, three oboli; of elaterium, a diachylon