]28 SUMMER FRUITS. [BOOK decree The cucumber is of a less cold and humid nature than thTpompion, but is more diuretic; it is difficult to diges , and Us chyme is bad even when digested. ^^^^ class of fruits are of a cold and humid nature, supply little nou rishment, and that of a bad quality. Commentary. Galen explains that the Fructus Horsei are those fruits which grow up about the middle of the dog^ay. He says that they all contain unwholesome juices, which, H they spoil in the bowels, are apt to become deleterious poisons Mnesitheus says that all these fruits supply little nourishment but that what they give is of a humid nature, and does not disagree with the body. (Athenseus, u.) The gourd (koUk^), according to Galen, is the most in- nocent of this class of fruits; and yet, when it spoils m the stomach, it engenders bad juices. Diphilus, as quoted by Athenasus, says of it that it supplies little nourishment, is apt to spoil, dilutes the system, is readily discharged, contains good juices, and is more savoury when taken with water and vinegar, but more wholesome when pickled. Apicus gives many receipts for cooking gourds. By one of these we are directed to eat them boiled, with pickle, oil, and wine. Most of the other receipts contain a liberal allowance of spices and aromatics. Simeon Seth calls them digestible and wholesome, but not nutritious. . . The pompion (tt^wv), according to Galen, is juicy, deter- gent, diuretic, and laxative. Seth recommends persons of a pituitous habit of body to drink old wine with it, but such as are bilious to eat acid food. He remarks that it is apt to excite nausea. Actuarius says that, when digested, pompions form a thin watery blood. Apicius directs us to eat them and melons with pepper, pennyroyal, honey, or raisin wine, pickle, and vinegar; to which assafoetida may be added. Hippocrates calls them laxative and diuretic, but flatulent. Galen says of the melopepon, or squash, that its juices are not so unwholesome, nor so diuretic, nor so laxative, as those of the pompion. He adds that, although far from delicious, it is not so nauseous as the pompion. On the melopepon, see Harduin's notes on Pliny (H. N. xviii, 5.) Perhaps some of the authorities may have meant the melon by the melopepon.