SECT. XXII.] DISEASES OF THE EYE. 427 hoc vitio multum ambularc, multum cxcrceri, lavari s&pe, ibique desudare, multaque frictione uti neccssarium est." He also prescribes gargles, food of a middle quality, and various compound collyria, such as the rhiuiou which contained burnt copper, myrrh, Phrygian stone, &c. This affection, the dry ophthahuy, had been described by Hippocrates (Aph. iii, 12, 14.) Most probably, as Sichel suggests, it was the same as the catarrhal ophthalmy. See Littre (Hippocrat. t. iv, 418.) Celsus re- commends this collyrium also for the psorophthalmia, which he describes by the name of scabri oculi. For this last-mentioned affection he recommends various stimulant applications; and, when other remedies are not at hand, directs us to apply bread pounded in wine. The psorophthalmia is the prurigo oculi of Haly Abbas, for which, among other things, he recommends a composition containing pepper, sal ammoniac, saffron, spikenard, camphor, &c. He describes sclerophthalmia by the name of durities oculi, and recommends for it bleeding, gentle purgatives, emollient collyria, &c. On ectropion. Aetius, in like manner, recommends compo- sitions containing amigo seris, misy, and chalcitis. None of the subsequent authorities supply any additional information. Alsaharavius in particular gives a very accurate account of the disease, which, when it arises from a fungous excrescence growing from the inner side of the eyelid, he directs us to burn with caus- tics ; but, when it arises from a cicatrix, it is to be cured only by a surgical operation. This will be found described in the Sixth Book. In place of the caustics recommended by the ancients, Scarpa directs the argentum nitratum to be applied. On cegilops and anchilops. These are different stages of the disease now known by the name of fistula lachrymalis. Galen states that at the commencement it is to be cured by applica- tions which are repellent without being too stimulant. He gives a full account of the treatment recommended by Archi- genes. The first application mentioned by him is a cataplasm consisting of tares and honey. Scarpa, by the way, speaks favorably of the practice of iEgineta, Aetius, and Avicenna. Avicenna treats of the disease with great judgment. His first applications appear to have been intended to produce resolution; and, if these fail, suppuratives are to be applied. When the abscess bursts, the sore is to be reduced to a healthy state by