m FEVERS. CBOOK not only in the groin, but also in the armpits and below the ears Some were affected with deep coma, and others with wild delirium. Some died from sphacelus of the buboes, which, when inspected by the physicians after death, presented the appear- ance of a coal or carbuncle (anthrax). Some died at the com- mencement, and others after the lapse of several days. In certain cases the skin was covered over with black phlyctam* of the size of a lentil, which were usually succeeded by sudden death. Others were unexpectedly cut off by a discharge of blood. To women in the puerperal state it proved particularly fatal. When the buboes came to a proper suppuration, they generally proved a favorable crisis ; but when they did not sup- purate, they were commonly followed by a wasting of the thigh. One of the common consequences of the fever was an affection of the organs of speech. All the usual prognostics proved fal- lacious, and the effects of the common remedies were uncertain. In some cases the bath proved beneficial, and in others it had a contrary effect. At one time the amount of deaths in Con- stantinople ranged from five to ten thousand each day. (De Bello Pers. 22, 23.) This pestilence is described likewise by Agathias (v), and by Evagrius (Hist. Eccles. iv, 29.) It resembled the plague of Avignon, described by Guy of Cauliac. The symptoms of the plague, as enumerated by Avieenna, are as follows: Heat, and strong inflammation within, but which are not perceived outwardly; respiration large, fetid, and frequent; intense thirst, dryness of the tongue, with nausea and loss of appetite, such as, if not contended against, will prove fatal; enlarged spleen, great anxiety and restlessness, dry cough, prostration of the powers approaching to syncope ; delirium, re- traction of the hypochondria, insomnolency, with tepid heat of the body. Sometimes there are yellow, whitish, or red eruptions on the skin, which are of short continuance; or else aphthae and ulcers in the mouth. The pulse is generally frequent, small, and becomes stronger towards night. Occasionally there are dropsical swellings. The discharges from the bowels are bilious, mixed, fetid, unnatural, and sometimes contain black bile; at other times they are frothy and fetid, or unctuous, being produced by melting of the fat. The urine is watery, bilious, and melancholic. There is sometimes vomiting of black,