370 CATOCHUS. [book hi. they cannot wink. They seem also not to breathe, but to be as dead. The pulse is small, indistinct, and very dense. The discharges from the bowels and bladder are suppressed, or in small quantities. When the attack is moderate, they drink whatever fluid is poured into the mouth; but those who are overpowered by it reject the same by the nose. Those, there- fore, in whom the phlegm prevails over the bile, we distinguish from those affected with lethargy by this, that there is no swel- ling present, nor is the colour livid like lethargies, except to a very small degree ; and that they perspire moderately. The cases are dangerous in which there is much watchfulness, the urine is suppressed, the difficulty of breathing is intense, when they have sweats, and the drink regurgitates by the nose. If it be a woman that is affected, the complaint maybe distinguished from uterine suffocation by the circumstance that she lies in a natural state, is sensible when spoken to, can be roused, but sinks again into a state of sopor. Some say that catochus is a different complaint from the coma vigil, for that it has not a com- pound, but a simple cause; namely, a cold and dry matter which obstructs the posterior ventricles of the brain, and occasions the disease j in which case, the patient being suddenly seized with it, remains in the same posture as when taken with it, that is to say, standing or lying, with his eyes open or shut. The ancients, therefore, called such patients catochi, which signifies detained, but the moderns call the complaint catoche and cata- lepsy. The cure resembles that which is already described, but is to be varied according to the difference of the symptoms. Tlie cure of catochus. Wherefore we must have recourse to venesection, more especially when the face is ruddy, or if the strength does not contra-indicate, we must use clysters, some- times stimulant, when phlegm prevails; and sometimes emollient Avhen bile prevails. In like manner we are to apply other remedies, and give food sometimes every day, and sometimes only every alternate one. The affection is very dangerous when produced by an error of the food or drink, in which case the patient is to be made to vomit without delay, and kept upon a restricted diet; and the bowels are to be stimulated, and an embrocation with cumin or rue applied to the belly. They who have been seized with the complaint from intoxication, after their surfeit has passed off, must be cured by using a more liquid