lfi0 PARTS OF ANIMALS. [BOOK *' and testicles are strong-smelled and indigestible but those of cocks fed upon grain are sweet, and supply a good nourishment o the body; whereas those of bulls, buck-goats, and rams are indigestible, and contain bad juices. The brain produces phlegm, thick and bad chyme, is difficult to evacuate and ^^n- rious to the stomach, and occasions nausea; but when properly digested it is sufficiently nutritious. The marrow is oily and sweeter than the brain, but in other respects resemb es it Fat and suet contain little nourishment, and are hurtful to the sto- mach. The heart and liver contain thick juices, are difficult to digest and evacuate. But the liver of swine is better. lhe spleen contains bad juices, and occasions melancholic humours. The lungs are more digestible as being spongy, but contain less nourishment and form phlegm. The stomach, womb, and in- testines are hard, indigestible, and form phlegm. In general, the nourishment from wild animals is drier and less excrementi- tious than that from tame. All blood is of difficult digestion, especially the thick and melancholic, as is that of oxen; but that of hares is esteemed very delicious, and many are in the prac- tice of boiling it with the liver, and some with the other viscera. Some eat also that of young swine; and even Homer was aware that the blood of goats is eaten by certain people. Comm. Commentary. Since our author has stated very distinctly the characters of the parts of animals (having abridged the fuller account of Galen), it will serve no purpose for us to enlarge upon every one of these articles ; and, therefore, we shall be content with making a few cursory remarks. Tor further information, see Galen (de Alim. Facult. and de Euchym.) ; Oribasius (Med. Coll. v); Aetius (ii) ; Rhases (ad Mansor. iii, 11) • Haly Abbas (Theor. v, 22); Serapion (de Simpl. ex Animal.) Galen remarks that, as some rendered the liver of swine sweet, by feeding them upon dried figs, so he knew some persons who were in the practice of preparing the livers of geese in like manner, by feeding them upon milk, by which means they were rendered not only delicious, but also very nutritious, wholesome, digestible, and not difficult to evacuate. Oribasius and Haly Abbas speak of it in much the same terms; but Haly adds that much of it ought not to be eaten at once, as it is slowly