ILEUS. [book III. 540 Comm. afterwards another injection of hot oil and rue is to be given. Externally he applies various fomentations and dry cupping. He gives carminatives with anodynes and the theriac. When the bowels cannot be got opened otherwise, he recommends the purgative hiera. The food is to consist of soups made from do- mestic fowls, with cumin, nitre, &c; and, when there is no fever, he permits the use of hot wine. Celsus forbids wine, but his treatment otherwise is like that of Aretseus. He directs immediate venesection and cupping; and, if the pain be seated above the navel, he approves of eme- tics, but, if below, he agrees with Erasistratus in preferring pur- gatives, such as ptisan, with oil and honey. He directs us to apply cataplasms from the breast to the loins, to put the patient into a bath of oil, to inject hot oil per anum, and to use friction of the extremities. Our author follows Aetius and Oribasius closely, who, in their turn, are indebted to Galen. Nonnus seems merely to abridge our author. The causes of ileus are said by him to be obstruction of the bowels, inflamma- tion, indigestion, and colic affections. His remedies for children are embrocations, cataplasms, and fomentations j and for adults, also venesection, cupping, clysters, and the oily bath. When the food is rejected, he recommends sumach and cumin in oxymel, and also purgatives. It appears from Caelius Aurelianus that Diodes had been in the practice of giving a leaden bullet to swallow in this disease, no doubt with the same intention that quicksilver is now some- times administered. In the preceding Section, we have men- tioned that Alexander gave pills of lead for colic. Cselius, how- ever, disapproves of this practice. He finds fault with Hippocrates for recommending to inflate the bowels with smoke; for giving emetics; and for cooling the upper parts of the body. He himself approves of bleeding, oily clysters, baths of oil, and the like. The Arabians, like the Greeks, treat ileus by venesection, clysters, and so forth. They mention cooling plasters as an ex- ternal application; but we believe it was the practice of the an- cients rather to use hot fomentations than cold in this disease. Haly Abbas in general approves of venesection, but, in certain cnses arising from a cold cause, he joins Hippocrates in permit-