FEVERS. [book it. Comm. drink. And, by kindling a great pile, one may change the air from a hnmid state to that which is dry and hot, as they say was done by Acron of Agrigentum. Commentary. This Section is mostly taken from Oribasius (Synops. vi, 24, and Euporist. 1.) ... i The works of Hippocrates contain many interesting remarks on the origin and nature of epidemics. He states that diseases in general may be said to arise either from the food we eat or the air we breathe. When, therefore, a disease seizes on a mul- titude of persons of different ages, sexes, and habits, he justly infers that it must arise from the latter cause. (See de Flatibus, Epidem. cum Commentaries Galeni.) The fevers described by Hippocrates, in his ' Books of Epidemics/ are in general inter- mittent and remittent fevers. In his first and third books he describes forty-two cases of fever, twenty-five of which had a fatal termination. They had evidently been selected from a larger number. The descriptions are rigidly confined to a detail of the characters of the season and the symptoms of the epide- mic. In general, scarcely any remedial means are mentioned. In some of the cases slight exanthemata speedily disappearing are mentioned among the symptoms. These are more likely to have been petechia than the typhous eruption. It is reported of Hippocrates, that, like Acron of Agrigentum, he changed the morbific state of the atmosphere at Athens by kindling fires. (Galen, Therap. ad Pison; Aetius, v, 94.) Acron's method of purifying the atmosphere is mentioned by Plutarch (de Iside et Osiride.) For an account of Acron, see Fabricii (Biblioth. Grsec. xiii, 32); Conringii (Introduct.) and Mangeti (Bibl. Med.) Pliny says of fire as a corrective of the state of the atmosphere, " Est et ipsis ignibus medica vis. Pestilential, quae solis obscu- ratione contrahitur, ignis sufiitu multiformiter auxiliari, certum est. Empedocles et Hippocrates id demonstravere diversis locis." (H. N. xxxvi, 69.) "With the same intention Simeon Seth pro- poses fumigations with frankincense. The historian Herodian relates that fumigations with aromatics were recommended as a preventive of the plague, (i.) Galen, in like manner, attributes the origin of epidemics to the state of the atmosphere in a great measure, but also holds that the nature of the country may contribute ; as, for example;