SECT. XLV.] • > I!) THE KIDNEYS. 3 i; Pract. vii, 12) j Alsaliaravius (Pract. xx) j Rhases (Div. 70, Comm. and Contin. xxiii.) '—*—1 Hippocrates describes four affections of the kidneys, begin- ning with calculus. According to his theory, stones are formed from phlegm which has been converted into sand. See his theory fully explained (de Morbis, iv, 28, and de Aer. &c. 53.) He states distinctly that the formation of stones is the product of a preternatural heat in the bladder, with a thick and turbid state of the urine. (1. c.) He recommends fomentations with the juice of scammony, purging the whole body, tepid baths, and the like. He intimates, however, that when a stone is fairly formed, the only hopes of recovery are founded upon the ope- ration. It appears that in his days lithotomy was a separate branch of the profession ; for in his Oath he inhibits his pupils from performing the operation, and binds them to leave it to those who make it their practice. Doubts, hoAvever, are enter- tained of the genuineness of this piece. He mentions that hairs are sometimes passed in the urine; and the same fact is attested by Galen (Loc. Affect, vi, 3), Crelius Aurelianus, Aetius, Avicenna, and Alsaliaravius, among the ancients, and by recent writers on pathology. x\ctuarius calls them substances resem- bling hairs, of a handbrcadth or thereabout in length. (De Urinis, i, 16.) ITe held them to be connected with disease of the kidneys. (Ibid, iv, 20.) Galen says that all lithontriptics are of a cutting and deter- gent nature, the most of them being bitters. He makes men- tion of pepper, galbanum, ammoniac, aphronitrum, asarabacca, spignel, St. John's wort, &c. He does not hesitate, however, to declare it as his opinion that the only certain remedy for cal- culus is lithotomy. (Art. Med. 94.) Areta;us gives an interesting account of the affections of the kidneys and bladder. His remedies are similar to those of our author. For stones in the bladder he recommends, among other things, some quicklime with honied water, and diuretics. When a stone obstructs the passage, he directs us to push it back, or cut the neck of the bladder. He states that navigation and living at sea are beneficial in all affections of the kidneys. We may mention that this accords well with the late statistics of calculous diseases. Alexander, like our author, ascribes the formation of stones