60 EMMENAGOGUES. [book medicines which purge the head. On the composition of these medicines, see in particular Aetius (iii, 140-1); Nonnus (Epit 17); and Serapion (de Antidotis, vii, 31.) They contain such articles as these: pepper, nitre, white hellebore, spurge, gith, pellitory, mastich, turpentine, mustard, chalcitis, alum, and the like. The errhines were used principally in obstructions ot the nose, and when the sense of smell was impaired. The apo- phlegmatismi were supposed to prove useful in chronic affections of the head, impairment of the senses of smell and sight, and also when the tongue and throat were affected. Prosper Alpinus gives a full account of the errhines, masti- catories, and cough medicines of the ancients. (Med. Meth. iii, 11.) He makes the caput-purgia to be the same as the errhines, and the apophlegmatismi the same as the masticatories of the moderns. SECT. XLVII. ON EMMENAGOGUES. All diuretics promote also the flow of the menses, such as the decoction of the root of the cabbage, the root of the peach, rue, marigold, dittany, and the seed of rocket. The same effect may be produced by certain substances when applied to the mouth of the womb, as suppositories, such as rue rubbed with honey, or the juice of leeks, or finely-powdered germander, or myrrh, triturated in wine, or the rennet of a hare. Commentary. This Section is taken from Oribasius. (Synops. i, 22.) A fuller list of the medicinal articles which were supposed by the ancients to promote the menstrual discharge is given by Aetius. (iii, 153-4.) It contains cassia, myrrh, thyme, centaury, wormwood, nettle, elaterium, black hellebore, turpen- tine-rosin, cumin, sage, and the like. All these were used in injections and suppositories. The following were given by the mouth, and were held to be likewise diuretic: hedge-mustard, rue, marjoram, southernwood, sagapene, galbanum, spikenard, the herb mercury, savin, iris, birthwort, &c. See Albengnefit (Libellus.) Dioscorides is censured by Dr. Cullen as being too credulous in assigning emmenagogue properties to a variety of articles in