[book III. CHILBLAINS, ETC. of fresh axunge, oz. vij; of colophonian rosin, oz. ix ; of the juice (ire SECT. LXXIX. ON CHILBLAINS AND AFFECTIONS OF THE FEET AND HEELS. Chilblains are ulcerous affections forming about tlie fingers and toes in the season of winter. They should be bathed with tepid sea water, or the decoction of beet, or of lentil, or of bitter vetch, or of the root of kingspear. After this, triturate boiled lentils with wine, and apply in the form of a cataplasm ; or, apply tigs triturated with oil; or, triturate equal portions of alum and barley-flour in wine, and apply ; or use a cataplasm of dried lees of wine or of fresh bulbi triturated with wine; or boil garlic in oil, and having thrown away the garlic, melt a moderate quantity of wax with the oil, and apply; or boil pomegranate-rind in w ine, and having triturated, add to the rose-cerate, and use, having previously fomented the part with the decoction of lu- pines ; or apply manna and native sulphur with boiled hone}'. The juice of henbane rubbed frequently into the part removes the inflammation and pain. The Marcellian application for chilblains. Having scooped out the heart of a turnip, put into the cavity two ounces of wax, and the same quantity of lentisk oil; and having boiled them in a double vessel along with sea water, brine, or the decoction of lupines, bathe the part with the fluid; and having cooled the cerate which is melted in the turnip, apply it. For ulcerated chilblains : Of frankincense, of fissile alum, of reddle, of rosin, equal parts; dilute with axunge, and use. For ulcers with in- flammation, use the application called Hexapharmacon : Of oil, oz. ix; of bull's tallow and gall, of each, lb. ij; of litharge, oz. vj; of colophonian rosin, oz. iv; of honey, oz. vj. For fissures of the toes and of the whole feet. Anoint with liquid pitch; or, having burnt a river or sea-crab on coals, scrape off the shell, and having triturated it with oil, and made of the consistence of honey, and having wiped the fissures, apply. The inner part of squill boiled in oil and triturated with turpentine also answers well; and a goat's horn burnt and mixed with axunge. One must first clear the callous part, and then use the medicines. The plaster called the florid for fissures of the heels and soles. Of quicklime, dr. x; of ceruse, dr. xx; of wax, dr. xx or x\\ ;