FISHES. [book i. 158 +w ;r. thp heroic ases, it was seldom used Com. Eustathius says that, inflheroic a ^ ^ rrS^ Greece. See Athen. (vi, 12, ^S5W * tSe luxurious days of the Komans t£ rage for fishes esteemed as rare was excessive. See Horace, Juvenal, and Martial (pluries.) Wik- Hippocrates thus details the dietetical qualites of fish . Speak inggenerally, then, he says fishes are light food, both when boiled and roasted, by themselves or with other things. The differ from one another as follows: Those which live m lake,, the fat, and river fishes, are heavier; of sea fish, such m; are found near the shore are lighter, and those winch are well oiled are lighter than such as are roasted. The stronger kind^here- fore, are to be given when our object is to recruit, but the lighter when we wish to attenuate or reduce. (De Affect. 4b.) Celsus ranks fish among those things which hold an inter- mediate place between articles of a strong and of a weak nature. He thus distinguishes them from one another: " Levior piscis inter saxa editus, quam in arena, levior in arena, quam m limo : quo fit ut ex stagno, vel lacu, vel flumine eadem genera graviova sint: leviorque, qui in alto, quam qui in vado vixit." Plutarch states that fish is much more easily digested than flesh. (Sympos. iv.) For a full, interesting, and judicious account of the qualities of fishes as articles of food, see Atheneeus (Deipnos. viii.) We can only afford room to mention his opinion of their more general properties. He says, then, upon the authority of the Siphnian Diphilus, that of sea fishes those that live among rocks are of easy digestion, contain good juices, are detergent, light, and afford little nourishment; and that those which inhabit the depths of the sea are difficult to digest, very nutritious, and of difficult assimilation. Galen states that fishes which live in marshes, lakes, and muddy rivers, are the worst as articles of food, because they are little exercised in swimming, and have impure food. Such fishes as live in the depths of the sea, he says, are almost free from fault as aliment, for they are more wholesome and delicious than anv of the others. He mentions, as the characteristics of good fish, that they have no offensive taste or smell, have little fat, and can be kept for a considerable time without becoming