PHRENITIS. SECT. VI.] Less than a poison. Alexander, Aretreus, and Aetius agree that Com cold drink should be given with caution. Most of the authori- ties have correctly described the pulse as being small and dense. Our author's practice, in regard to bleeding from the temporal vein, is derived from Alexander, who gives a very interesting case, in which he applied it with great success. He recommends great caution in the administration of narcotics. Upon the whole he is favorable to the tepid bath, as serving to procure sleep, but he condemns the hot. Among the minutiae of prac- t ice, we may mention that Aretaeus and Celsus, like our author, recommend all pictures and such like gaudy objects to be re- moved from the apartment of the sick. Celsus directs us, in pointed terms, after bleeding and purging, to get the head shaved, and fomented with a decoction of emollient herbs. To procure sleep, he recommends us to give draughts containing poppies and hyoscyamus; or to apply the apples of the man- dragora below the pillow of the patient; or, to rub his forehead with amomum, or with the tears of mulberry. He informs us, however, that Asclepiades condemns soporifics, as inducing le- thargy. For the sake of procuring sleep he recommends gesta- tion performed at night, and of swinging the patient in a sus- pended couch. For the same purpose, the Pseudo-Dioscorides recommends us to introduce the juice of poppies or mandragora upon wool into the rectum. Crelius Aurelianus gives an admirable account of the symp- toms and treatment of this disease j and his views are, in this case, not very different from those of Hippocrates and Galen. He informs us that Asclepiades condemned venesection, which, he said was nothing less than murder ; that he disapproved of keeping the patients in a dark place ; and that he allowed them plenty of strong wine. Both Caelius and Celsus properly ani- madvert upon his treatment. Camus also blames Diocles for admitting of venesection after the seventh day, and for approving of too acrid clysters. He finds fault with Themison for allow- ing too much food and wine at the commencement, and for using the bath indiscriminately. He condemns the practice of Heraclides, because he applied the treatment of the Empirics injudiciously, and admitted of bleeding from the frontal vein, which, Camus says, is most prejudicial. The treatment recommended by Octavius Horatianus is little different from that of the others.