72 BATHS. [BOOK I- descent into the water ought to be without precipitation, in order that its impression may sink deep into the body when m a relaxed state. Commentary. This Section is taken from Oribasius. (Synops. i 29 ) A fuller account is given in the Med. Collect, (x, 3 et seq.) See further, Aetius (iii, 167); Haly Abbas (Theor. v, 13); Rhases (Contin. xxxvii) ; Avicenna (ii, 2, 15.) Hippocrates briefly mentions thermal springs of iron, copper, silver, gold, sulphur, alum, bitumen, and nitre. He speaks unfavorably of all such waters, as being hard and heating. {De Aer &c 35.) The ancient nitre or natron, it is now well known, was a native carbonate of soda. The alum, mentioned by Hippocrates and the other writers on the thermal springs, cannot have been the alum of modern commerce, since it is very rarely to be detected in mineral waters, but it must have been the alumen plumosum, or hair alum, which Klaproth found to consist principally of the sulphate of magnesia and iron. By far the most interesting account which has been trans- mitted to us of the thermal springs of the ancients is that given by Pliny in the 31st book of his < Natural History/ He more especially commends the medicinal waters near Baise, consist- ing of all the kinds mentioned by Hippocrates and our author, namely, sulphureous, bituminous, saline, &c. Some of them, he says, prove medicinal by their vapour. He speaks of their good effects in diseases of the nerves and joints, and mentions generally of them that they open the bowels. Pliny's account of the virtues of medicinal springs in different parts of the world is curious, but mixed up and disfigured with his usual traits of credulity and love of the marvellous. The tepid springs of Albula, in the vicinity of Rome, are briefly mentioned by Pliny (1. c.) ; Vitruvius (viii, 3) j and Pausanias (Messeniaco.) Among the natural springs of the Romans the Foiis Aponus, or Bagni d'Abano, near Padua, is particularly celebrated. Claudian's poem in praise of its medi- cinal waters is Avell known. He calls it " Publica morborum requies, commune medentum Auxilium, pnesens numen." Joannes de Dondis has given an elaborate disquisition on the