430 [book III. DISEASES OF THE EYE. rnboreque, et dolore." His remedies are like our author's. The same may be said of Alsaharavius. On trichiasis. Our author's treatment is mostly imitated from Galen. We shall treat more fully of the disease in the Sixth Book. Scarpa places no confidence in the operation of plucking out the hair, and yet it is favorably spoken of by most of the Greek and Arabian authorities, as, for example, Aetius, Avicenna, Alsaharavius, and Haly Abbas j and also by Rowley, and other modern oculists. Haly, like our author, directs us to touch the part from which the hair has been plucked with the blood of a frog, or of a dog's tick, or with the milk of a fig, or the gall of a hedgehog. Alsaharavius makes mention of the same remedies, and also of the mode of treating it by agglu- tinants. According to Actuarius, the disease consists in certain of the ciliary hairs being turned inwards and hurting the eye- ball, (ii, 7.) On encanthis and rhyas. Scarpa removes the encanthis by a surgical operation; but, from our own experience of the effect of septic medicines, such as arsenic, in similar complaints, we cannot doubt the propriety of the ancient practice in certain cases. Galen's applications contain copperas, misy, sal ammo- niac, and the like. Those of Aetius are nearly the same. He remarks that seamen are particularly liable to the complaint. Haly Abbas recommends general evacuation and escharotic applications. On ulcers. In the description of the ulcers of the eye our author follows Aetius. He, however, evidently was much in- debted to Galen (sec. loc. iv.) The Arabians copy from Galen, describing like him seven varieties of ulcer, which they treat upon general principles. See, in particular, Haly Abbas (Pract. v, 41.) Opium is one of his medicinal articles. Ceruse, starch, gum arabic, albumen, &c. also occur. See also Jesu Haly (ii, 50,) and Rhases (Cont. ii.) Celsus recommends various com- pound applications for ulcers of the eye, which he treats of very minutely. The collyria mentioned in this section will be found described in the Seventh Book of this work. On procidentia. Galen correctly describes procidentia as arising from ulceration of the cornea and protrusion of the iris. (l)e Diff. Morb. 13.) Aetius has treated of it with his usual