DURATION. SECT. V.] 193 Kgrotantram, passim. He agrees with the ancients, that deaf- Comm ness is an unfavorable symptom, unless it occur at the time of a crisis. Like the ancients, he considers the absence of thirst an unfavorable symptom in ardent diseases, as indicating that the system is insensible of its wants. SECT. V. HOW TO KNOW IF THE DISEASE WILL BE OF LONG DURATION. The duration of the disease may be ascertained from four things : from the movement of the disease itself, from the habit of the patient, from the pulse, and from the species of the fever. From the movement of the disease thus : if the four periods of a particular paroxysm have passed over quickly and m the least possible time, the disease will be an acute one, the furthest bound of which will be the seventh day, and generally it will come to a crisis on the fourth. If the periods of the first paroxysm occupy more time than this, but do not exceed twelve hours, the disease will still be an acute one, which will terminate within the fourteenth day. If it extend longer, so that the commencement and augmentation of the paroxysm alone occupy a longer period than a day or a night, such a disease will prove a long one. If the disease have no parti- cular paroxysms, but consist of one continued paroxysm, as it were, from beginning to end, as in synochous fevers, even in this case you may call the disease an acute one. It may be judged of from the habit of the patient; for if the face and the rest of the body are already considerably wasted, an acute disease is indicated; but if nowise reduced, a chronic one; for a great collection of offending matter is indicated, which will require a length of time for its concoction. It may be judged of from the pulse: thus, a great, strong, quick, and dense pulse, is indicative of an acute disease, but the con- trary of a chronic. From the species of the fever, inasmuch as hot and ardent fevers indicate an acute, whereas gentler, and, as it were, smothered fevers indicate a chronic one Commentary. Celsus thus states the prognostics of a pro- Comm. tracted fever: " Signa qusedam sunt, ex quibus colligere pos- 1—v—1 13