'he commencement of a feast, as whetters. (Deipnos. iv, 11.) sect, lxxv..] ESCULENT ROOTS. 117 before other food along with vinegar and fish-sauce, to loosen lie bowels, but by no means after a meal. The onion, garlic, leek, and dog-leek {ampehprason), being of an acrid nature, warm the body, attenuate and cut the thick humours contained in it; when twice boiled, they give little nourishment, but when unboiled they do not nourish at all. The garlic is more deob- struent and diaphoretic than the others; and the dog-leek, being wild, is drier than the common leek. Regarding pot-herbs in general, the raw, when eaten, furnish worse juices than the boiled, as they have more excrementitious juice. But those which are prepared for pickles with brine or vinegar and salt are stomachic, and whet the appetite, and discuss crude humours; but are of difficult digestion, and supply bad juices when too freely taken. Commentary. Galen thus delivers the general character of these substances: The roots of pot-herbs which are acrid, such 1 as those of onions, leeks, garlic, radish, and carrot, contain bad juices ; but those of turnips, rapes, and caraways hold an intermediate place between things of good and of bad juices. It is well known that the Romans had two kinds of herbs with esculent roots, called the napus and rapum, and that they are generally admitted to have been two species of the turnip. See Columella (de R. Rust, ii, 10) ; Pliny (H. N. xviii, 13) and the note of Harduin ; Sprengel (R. H. H. t. i.) The term bunias occurs first in Nicander j and that it was synonymous with the gongylis is declared by Galen and our author; and, further, that it was the brassica napobrassica L., or wild na- vew, is admitted by all the late authorities on classical botanv, with the exception of Dierbach, who most unaccountably con- tends that it is the B. oleracea. Galen says that unless well boiled it is indigestible, flatulent, and bad for the stomach. Seth assigns it the same qualities as our author. All account it diuretic and aphrodisiacal. Apicius directs the rapa and napi to be eaten with cumin, rue, vinegar, oil, &c. (iii, 13.) Cato the Censor was very fond of turnips, and used to prepare them with his own hands. It appears from Athenaeus that the ancients frequently ate their turnips roasted. They also ate turnips prepared as a pickle with vinegar and mustard at