rt) HYDROMEL. [BOOK " fo„ deity." See A*— Mfc the ****** toIXrtcording to certain fixed proportions such as one, part of wine and two of water, or two of wine and three of ater or *mm\ narts of both. (Eustathius in Odyss. vn.) In winter it Thereto drink iqnal parts of wine and hot water; bnt in Tinier two parts of waterwe*. added tooneofwine. Anonynin de Diaata ap. Phys. et Med. Mm. ed. Ideler, p. 197.) It ^ld appear that it was a common practice to drink wine w ith othei hot things in the morning during the cold months of winter. (Hierophilus de Nutr. Meth. ed. Ideler.) SECT. XCVI. ON HONEY AND HYDROMEL OR HONIED WATER. I Boiled honev is rather nutritious than laxative; but when unboiled the contrary. It agrees with cold and humid tempera- ments, but in the warm it is converted into bile. Honied water does not agree well with those who are affected with bitter bile being converted into bile. In such constitutions the honied water ought to be very weak; but it is not proper for those whose bowels are easily affected. The honied water may be prepared by adding eight parts of water to the honey, and thus boiling it until it cease from frothing. It is expedient also to clear away the scum as soon as formed. Comm. Commentary. Honey, says Hippocrates, when eaten with ^Y~~' other food, is nutritious, and improves the colour; but, when taken alone, it rather attenuates than recruits. Actuarius says that scummed honey, when taken with other food, is nutritious and laxative. Democritus said, that health was best promoted by lubricating the inside with honey, and the outside with oil. Honey and bread formed the favorite food of the Pythagoreans. Athenseus (Deipnos. ii, 7.) See also Oribasius (Synops. iv, 38) ; Haly Abbas (v, 27); Simeon Seth (in voce Mel.) Galen gives the following account of the phenomenon of a honey shower : " I have sometimes known in the season of sum- mer a great quantity of honey to be found upon the leaves of trees, shrubs, and certain herbs, so that the country people said, jesting, 'Jupiter has rained honey/ A cold night, as for