412 DISEASES OF THE EYE. [book hi. time, after the general evacuations use errhines and mastica- tories, shaving the head, and applying rubefacients to it. But to these must be joined the surgical operations for the head, namely, Angiology, Arteriotomy, Hypospathismus, and Peris- cyphismus, with burning at the vertex down to the bone. But cupping instruments, with scarifications applied to the hind- head, will produce a revulsion of the defluxion. The symptoms of defluxions external to the skull are distension of the vessels of the forehead and temples, forming, as it were, a band to the head, and the complaint being remedied by agglutinative ap- plications of a desiccant nature. When these symptoms are not present, and the defluxion proves of long duration, and sometimes is exasperated by sternutatories, the humour is to be supposed seated below the skull. On chemosis. The disease is called chemosis when both the eyelids are everted in consequence of a violent inflamma- tion, so that the eyes are scarcely covered by them, and the white of the eye is elevated above the black, is red, and occu- pies a large portion of the black. We must cure it by phle- botomy, purging, the white collyrium of roses, and the spodiac, with milk, or the white of an egg, and we may anoint the eye- lids, temples, and forehead with the same, and have recourse to paregoric fomentations and cataplasms. When the inflam- mation begins to remit, we may rub in the more acrid appli- cations, such as the green one from roses. On hyposphagma and emphysema. Hyposphagma is a rupture of the veins of the tunica adnata, occasioned most frequently by a blow. Bathe the eyes with the blood of the wood-pigeon, or of the common pigeon, or the warm milk of a woman in which a little frankincense has been triturated, and inject brine, more particularly that from Cappadocian salts, and use a fomen- tation from the decoction of hyssop. Swellings about the eyes from blows are remedied by repeated fomentations with oxy- crate, or a sponge out of oxycrate may be applied to them, or a liniment may be used, consisting of equal parts of burnt lapis specularis, and pigeon's dung, triturated with wine or vinegar. Or a cataplasm may be applied of new cheese, or of the rind of radishes, or of dried grapes without the stones. Each of these is to be mixed with oxycrate or honied water The same remedies apply also to emphysema.