GOUT. [BOOK III. 668 Comm. alum. The other points of his practice deserve attention, but 1—*—' we shall not enter upon them, as we wish to afford room for a fuller abstract of the doctrines of Alexander. Gout, according to Psellus, is occasioned by an atony of the nutritive faculty, whereby a thick humour is collected in the system. Scribonius Largus recommends his favorite remedy for local pains, namely, the application of a living torpedo to the part affected. Alexander begins with noticing the common opinion that gout is irremediable by the art of medicine, which he affirms not to be the case provided proper attention be paid to the different varieties of it. There are, he says, many causes of the disease; for sometimes a hot blood flows into the cavity of the joint and occa- sions violent pains; and, in like manner, a defluxionof bile getting between the tendons and ligaments occasions pain by burning and stretching the parts: phlegm likewise, by producing cold and compression, becomes the cause of violent pains; and in like man- ner the melancholic humour, not only by its coldness and pres- sure but also by occasioning a sense of heaviness, brings on no ordinary paroxysms. Sometimes a simple quality of the humours, such as heat, cold, dryness, or humidity, will cause a defluxion. The prevalence of a bilious humour is ascertained by the absence of swelling; from the pain being rather a fiery heat than dis- tension; and from the colour being red. The proper remedies in this case are cholagogues, which must not be of a heating nature nor offensive to the stomach; for when the stomach is deranged the nerves sympathise and rheumatism is the conse- quence. He gives prescriptions for a variety of such compositions containing scammony, agaric, and the like, mixed with pepper, &c. He particularly commends pills of scammony and worm- wood. He also recommends cooling and anodyne applications to the affected parts, such as rose-oil with the yelk of an egg, and the like. He enjoins particular attention to the diet, in order to avoid such things as have a tendency to form bile. He recommends moderate exercise rather before than after a meal, but forbids to cany it to excess. He speaks favorably of baths of common water. He concludes this part with minute direc- tions about the local applications: but, as we have abeady stated his principles, we shall not enter upon the detail of his practice.