154 MILK. [book I. SECT LXXXVII. ON THE DRINKING OF MILK. He who drinks milk ought to abstain from all other food until it be digested, and pass downwards. It is best therefore to drink it in the morning, newly milked, and to take>no food aft er it no any hard exercise, because this would make it turn acid. But it Titter to walk about gently, and rest between, without sleg. in. After doing this, the first part will be evacuated, and then one may drink another part, and when it is evacuated another may be taken. At first, therefore, it purges properly, not in- deed from the general system, but what was contained m thebelly. Afterwards it enters the veins, and nourishes excellently, and is no longer evacuated. In bilious defluxions, and colliquative diar- rhoeas, the milk should be given boiled. Boil it at first gen ly and for a short time, so that none of it may run over, and that part of it may be consumed. Afterwards it may be boiled more and more, taking care not to burn it, nor convert it into cheese. This will be best guarded against by boiling it softly, and clear- in- away what is separated by the agitation. It may be agitated with a smooth and slender reed; and, if it froth at the lips, this may be cleared awav with a sponge, for often the part there spoils all the rest. The milk then, as is said, ought to be boiled until it become thicker and sweeter than the raw. And the thin and serous part may be dissipated by putting heated pebbles into the milk. This is beneficial in defluxions of the belly, and particu- larly in bilious ones. Comm. Commentary. This account of the process of administering L-Y-J milk is taken from Oribasius, who, in his turn, is indebted to Ruffus. Avicenna, in like manner, copies from Buffus. There is not in any other ancient author so full a description of the process of boiling milk. On the ancient modes of preparing milk for various purposes, and their uses, see ' Geopon.' (xviii), and Pliny (Hist. Nat. xxviii, 38.) Pliny mentions that some cure gout in the hands and feet by milk. Simeon Seth joins our author, or rather Buffus, in recommending boiled milk in dvsenterv. He likewise praises its effects in phthisis and dry coughs. The method of preparing milk for use by putting heated