THE NAILS. SECT. LXXXI.] 679 circular body like the head of a nail, forming in all parts of the body, but more especially on the soles of the feet and toes. It may be removed in the course of some time by paring away the prominent part of the corn constantly with a scalpel, or rubbing it down with pumice. The same thing may be done with callus. The ashes of unripe lupines burnt, and mixed with honey, arc of use; or misy added to liquid pitch; or gith, with the urine of a boy not come to puberty; or bean-meal boiled with vinegar. And this is an application of approved efficacy for the same pur- pose : Of cantharidcs, of copperas, of castor, equal parts; mix with turpentine until it become of the consistence of a plaster, and apply to the corn previously cleaned all around.—Another : Of burnt lees of wine, of quicklime, of mistletoe, equal parts, with strained lye, or the urine of a boy not come to puberty. Commentary. Aetius delivers the treatment of corns fully, but his remedies, although similar to those of our author, are not of such ready application. Celsus says that, by simply paring corns, the part may often be softened. Afterwards rosin mixed with a small quantity of the lapis molaris may be applied. Avicenna states that, when the disease is not cured, it may end in cancer. Marcellus directs us to pare corns, and apply to them a composition of arsenic and turpentine rosin. For corns Rhases recommends a composition of red arsenic, quicklime, quicksilver killed, with the ashes of acorns {impure potash?) and oil. He also joins Galen in recommending a com- position of cantharides and arsenic. For the callus he recom- mends the juice of figs and of spurge. (Contin. xxxvi.) SECT. LXXXI. ON COMPLAINTS ABOUT THE NAILS ; AND, FIRST, OF WHITLOW. Whitlow is an abscess forming about the root of the nail. When, therefore, the whitlow is small and but commencing, galls with honey repress it, and prevent the formation of an abscess; or the trochiskof Musa, or the Here, in water. When a preternatural growth of flesh has taken place, the object is to consume and break it with things that are not of a corrosive nature. The