[book I. 10 ERUPTIONS. Comm. remarks that violent crying may occasion a descent of the v bowels. Syrasis, one of the commentators on Avicenna, recommends the tepid bath for young children, and food after it. He directs the nurse to exercise the child before putting him into the bath. From what we have stated, it will be seen that the ancient physicians did not approve of the cold regimen, absurdly proposed by certain modern philosophers as the most proper for infants. According to Athenseus, the sons of Roman freemen were prohibited from drinking wine until they were thirty years old. (Deipnos, x, 23.) Plato enjoins complete abstinence from wine until the age of eighteen, and great moderation until thirty. (Leg. ii.) SECT. VI. ON THE ERUPTIONS WHICH HAPPEN TO CHILDREN. Whatever eruptions appear upon the skin of a child, are to be encouraged, in the first place; but when the eruption is properly come out, it may be cured by putting the child into baths of myrtle, or lentisk, or roses, and then anointing with the oil of roses or lentisk, or with a cerate containing ceruse. And its body may be gently rubbed with nitre; but it will not bear hard friction. But a very good plan is for the nurse to be fed upon sweetish things. And the child's diet ought to be attended to, so that it be neither too full nor too spare. If the child's belly be constipated, a little honey may be put into its food; and if even then it do not obey, turpentine, to the size of a chick-pea, may be added. When the bowels are loose, millet, in particular, ought to be administered. Comm. Commentary. This Section is taken from Oribasius (Sy- ' ' nops. v, 6.) See also Aetius (iv, 21.) The Exanthemata here referred to would appear, properly speaking, to be the strophuli of Dr. Willan, but the ancients used the term rather vaguely for several eruptive diseases. (See Book Fourth.) The Exanthemata are the " pustulse parvse" of Eros (apud Gynsecia, p. 59.) For the Arabians, see in particular Haly Abbas (Pract. i, 20) ; Avicenna (i, 3, 1); Alsaharavius (Tr. xxvi, 7 and 8.) Alsaha- ravius describes two cutaneous complaints of infancy by the names of Alseafa and Alkaba. The former he describes as