SECT. LXXXII.] FOWLS. rior to the common domestic fowl. (Sat. ii, 2.) Simeon Seth, Ill pilaris. They also ate blackbirds. Galen speaks favorably of sparrows. Other small birds, as the lark and the siskin (spinus), are noticed by Athenaiiis as being sometimes eaten. Galen recommends the lark in colic affections. In general, however, the small birds were reckoned indigestible. [t is related of the gourmand Clodius .Esopus that, wishing to make a great display of prodigality at a feast, he caused song birds to be served up at it in place of beccaficM. See Valerius Maximus (ix, s), and Pliny (H. N. x, 71.) Even the nightie-ale was sacrificed to this monstrous taste. (Horat. Sat. ii, 3, 245.) Martial intimates that when he could get a fat turtle to dine upon he was indifferent about other delicacies. According to Averrhoes, it is of a hot nature, and lias a wonderful effect in sharpening the understanding. Apieius directs us to dress it like the partridge. Galen states that the turtle, partridge, and all fowls which are of a dry nature, should be suspended for a clay before they are eaten. Galen mentions that the flesh of pheasants resembles that of domestic hens, but is more nutritious and savoury. Simeon Seth says that it is wholesome, easily digested, and forms good blood. Averrhoes prefers it to all other fowls. The tetrao, which is mentioned by Pliny and Athenseus, is generally supposed to be the bustard; but Bellonius and Ludovicus Nonnius take it for the fasiano negro of the Italians, or the wood pheasant. Galen and our author have omitted to take notice of quails. Simeon Seth sa}rs that their flesh is heating, coarse, indiges- tible, and unwholesome. Rhases, however, says of the quail, that in lightness it is second only to the starling; that it is not very excrementitious, nor accounted very heating. Averrhoes says that it is of a moderate temperament, but somewhat heat- ing ; that it is delicate, forms good chyme, and is excellent food for persons in good health, and for convalescents. Lucretius and Galen mention that the quail can live upon hellebore. Q. Hortensius is " damned to everlasting fame," for having first presented the peacock at his table. (Varro, de Agricult. iii; Macrobius, Satur. iii, 13; Pliny, H.N. x, 20; yElianus, H. A. v, 25.; Tertulianus, de Pallio.) It came afterwards to be thought an exquisite delicacy, although Horace had declared of it that, were it not for its price, it would not be thought supe-