403 SECT. XX.] TETANUS. (ii, 10); Aetius (vi, 38); Oribasius (Synops. viii, 16); Avicenna Comm. (iii, 2, 5, 6, 7); Serapion (i, 27); Avenzoar (ii, 3, 16, and i, 10, 3); Alsaharavius (Pract. i, 2, 21); Rhases (Divis. i, 16, and Contin. i.) Aetius and Oribasius treat of spasms in nearly the same terms as onr author. We shall give an account of the doctrines of Aretseus and Caelius Aurelianus in the next section. The principles of our author's treatment are mostly derived from Galen. The Arabians adopt his views without the slightest modification. SECT. XX. ON TETANUS AND ITS VARIETIES. Tetanus also, being a spasm, takes place from the muscles of the body, and more particularly those about the spine, being as it were congealed by a cold humour, fixing both within and without; and hence they are incapable of bending them- selves. But when the parts of the body are bent forwards, the affection is called emprosthotonos; when backwards, opistho- tonos ; and, when the parts are stretched equally both ways, the affection is called tetanus. Pelops says that these affections consist of a tension and contraction of the muscles and nerves about the neck, by which stooping, nodding, and turning of the head are performed; that if the affection be seated in the pos- terior muscles of the neck, the disease is, from this circumstance, called opisthotonos ; when in the anterior, emprosthotonos ; and if both are affected, tetanus. The cause, he says, is a flatus, and thick and nebulous air filling the muscles. He says that it is very cold and congealed, and that this is the cause of the difficulty of motion ; and that, therefore, dry fomentations, and not moist, are most suitable to them. And these are the varieties of tetanus. " But," he adds, " the cure of all is the same, and does not change with the varieties. Wherefore, the most potent remedy for them all is a fever supervening, when there was none at the commencement." The symptoms are a moaning respira- tion, pulse rare and small, and sometimes a sardonic laugh comes on; the face is red, and their eyes appear larger than natural j their urine is either wholly suppressed, or it resembles common water, or is somewhat bloody, and contains certain bubbles ; the