SECT. XXII.] 417 DISEASES OF THE EYE. those from myrrh and nard. When the ulcers are cleaned, they may be cicatrized by means of the collyrium called cleon, in ad- dition to which it will render the scar of the same colour. On procidentia. Procidentia is a projection of the coat called uva {iris ?), formed by an ulceration or rupture of the cornea. When, therefore, it is small, so as to resemble the head of a fly, it is called myocephalon. When it increases more, so as to re- semble a grape-stone, it is called staphyloma; when it advances far forward, so as to protrude between the eyelids, it is called melon j and if it has become callous, it is called clavus. If, there- fore, the projection is small, like the head of a fly, we must use repellent and astringent applications, such as the chian, that called fuscum, the nard, and the theodotian, and those from olive leaves, and from horn. And we must bind upon them without pressure a piece of sponge which has been soaked in oxycrate, or astringent wine, or the decoction of roses, or the compress called splenium may be used. The best application for procidentia, and all ulcers of the eye, is the collyrium called olympiac or Olympus, with the juice of olive, or of knot-grass, or of poley. The same things are applicable to clavus and staphyloma, be- fore they whiten j for after they become white and callous, they are incurable. On hypopyon. Hypopyon occurs occasionally in the cornea, being sometimes deeply seated, and sometimes more superficially, the matter assuming the shape of a nail, and hence the affection has got the name of onyx. The indication of cure is either to dispel the pus by remedies possessing this property in a moderate degree, such as honied-water, and the juice of fenugreek, and the collyria formed from it, the libyanum, and those from frank- incense ; or to make it burst, and cleanse the ulcer by means of the more potent remedies, such as those called diasmyrna and the hygidian. For cases of hypopyon without ulceration one may use the following liquid collyrium : Of copperas, and of saffron, of each, dr. viij j of myrrh, dr. iv; of honey, lb. j. The phlyc- trcna, which is an elevation of the cornea, by a certain humour corroding its fibres, yields to the same treatment as hypopyon. The liquid collyria of Bassus for hypopyon. Of saffron, of aloes, and of myrrh, of each, oz. j; of wine, oz. iij j of the finest honey, oz. vj. The saffron is to be levigated with a small quan- tity of the wine, then with the aloes and myrrh; and when it 27