30 Comm. LASSITUDE. [BOOK 1 Commentary. These remarks of our author are very perti- nent; but Oribasius has given a more comprehensive view ot the subject, from the works of Antyllus. He thus describes the mode of performing vociferation : The bowels being evacuated, the person's bodv is to be first rubbed, and then the inferior parts and the face'are to be sponged with water. He is to begin talk- ing, at first, in a moderate tone, while at the same time he walks about, and afterwards, straining his voice to a louder tone, he is to repeat certain verses. (Med. Collect, vi.) Plutarch gives nearly the same account of it. He commends vociferation as giving strength to the internal parts, increasing the vital heat, purifying the veins, attenuating the blood, and dispelling the humours. He cautions, however, not to strain the voice to too great a pitch, lest it occasion rupture of any of the vessels. (De Sanit. tuenda.) Vociferation, according to Aetius, is an exercise of the chest and the organs of speech, improving the vital heat; attenuating and strengthening the solid parts of the body. He recommends it for the cure of asthma, orthopnea, phthisical and chronic pains of the chest, or apostemes when they burst; also, in tertian mter- mittents, and affections of the stomach attended with vomiting. It is unsuitable, he says, in complaints of the head, (iii, 5.) Celsus recommends loud reading for curing weakness of the stomach, (i, 8.) Galen scarcely takes any notice of vociferation, except that, in one place, he states that it exercises the chest and lungs. (De Sanit. tuenda, ii, 11.) Avicenna, in giving an account of vociferation, follows Aetius. He says, that it exercises the parts about the mouth and chest; and hence, that it improves the complexion. He likewise cau- tions us not to prolong loud enunciation, lest it occasion a rup- ture of the vessels. He directs us to begin moderate, and then strain the voice gradually, and afterwards to allow it to sink by degrees, (i, 3, 2.) SECT. XX. ON LASSITUDE FROM EXERCISES. That species of lassitude called the Ulcerose is occasioned by a collection of thin and pungent superfluities in the body. In the