SKf T- LX' ] TEMPERAMENTS. 85 Commentakv. This Section is copied from Oribasius (Svnops. Comm. de Opt Corp. Constat., de Sanit. tucnda, v, and Ars Med. 1>. the last mentioned, which was long the most celebrated of -11 his admired works, he ha, treated of the temperaments very systematically. Whatever OH basins, Panlns, or any subsequent author, whether Greek or Arabian, have delivered mi this sub- ject is alto-ether derived from the works of Galen. None of the Arabians has treated of the temperaments so earnedly as Haly Abbas. (Theor. i.) See also Averrhoes olhg. vi) j Alsaharavius (Theor. vi); Avicenna (Cant.) SECT. LXI. DIAGNOSIS OF THE TEMPERAMENTS. Those bodies which are of a hotter temperament than the moderate will have their teeth earlier than usual, and will grow m like manner. They feel warmer to the touch, and have less tat; they are of a ruddy colour, have their hair black and mo- derately thick, and their veins are large. But if such a one be also tat and brawny, and have large veins, he is fat from habit and not from nature. The following are the marks of a cold tem- perament: Such bodies appear cold to the touch, are without hair, and are fat; their complexion, like their hair, being tawny. But when the coldness is great, they are pale, leaden-coloured, and have small veins; and if lean, this does not proceed from nature, but habit. The dry is harder and more slender than the tem- perate—the hardness, indeed, being inseparable from the dry temperament; but leanness not only follows the congenital tem- peraments, but also those which are acquired by long habit. It is a mark of hardness when the body is rendered unapt for mo- tion, dry and parched, by drying applications. The humid, in all other respects, is like the temperate, but is softer and fatter, and the softness is inseparable from it; but the grossness not only follows the connate temperament, but also that acquired by long habit. It is peculiar to the humid temperament that the body is oppressed by things of a moist nature. The warm and dry temperament is extremely shaggy, having the hair of the head in early age of rapid growth, black, and thick; but, in after-life, baldness follows. The veins are large, as are likewise