SECT. III.] PITYRIASIS. 347 For fici. We give the name of fici to ulcerous excrescences which are round, somewhat hard, red, and accompanied with pain. They arise for the most part on the head, but also some- times on the other parts of the body. The best application for this complaint consists of fissile alum, of the calcined flowers of copper, of taurocolla, of each equal parts, with double the quantity of the flakes of copper; triturate with vinegar, and anoint. A proper application is also prepared from the burnt heads of the cackrel fish, the bulbi boiled, and their ashes mixed with vinegar. A dry application for jicose eruptions of the head and chin. Of misy, dr. iss; of chalcitis, dr. iiss; of squama seris, dr. j; of fissile alum, dr. j. Having washed, apply this powder in a dry state unsparingly, and allow it to remain. Next day, having again washed, wipe the part with a sponge, and apply it again. A thick scab will then fall from the ulcer. Repeat the same application the following days. The cure will be effected in a few days without leaving a cicatrix; but this medicine operates strongly. For lice in the head. Direct the head to be scrubbed with the decoction of lupines; or pound together stavesacre and san- darach, and rub them in along with oil or vinegar; or a small quantity of pepper may be added to old oil, so as not to occasion ulceration; or the juice of ivy with honey may be used; or mus- tard and vinegar; or the gum vernix, or liquid pitch with alum; or the expressed juice of the bay berries; or oil of radishes. I have always succeeded by pounding stavesacre with vinegar and oil, and anointing with this. Commentary. Drs. Willan and Bateman agree with all the Comm. best medical writers of antiquity in describing, by the name of' • ' pityriasis, a disease consisting of slight, scaly, and branny exfo- liations without ulceration. See Galen (Sec. Loc. i); Alexander (i, 3); Oribasius (Synops. vi, 25); Aetius (vi, 66); Actuarius (de Sig. Morb. ii, 5); Nonnus (4.) Actuarius, who gives a very distinct account of the disease, states in strong terms the danger of repressing the cutaneous eruption. (1. c.) It is the porrigo sicca of Celsus (vi, 2), who recommends for it shaving the head, and using slightly repressing applications, " quale est nitrum cum aceto, vel ladanum cum myrteo et vino,