[book III. DISEASES OF THE EYE. 114 eh Hops. A very good application is horned poppy and saffron, applied with the juice of perdicias {pellitory of the wall?) They must be frequently changed, and till then it will not turn to pus.—Another: Alica, boiled in vinegar and properly triturated, not only cures the disease at the commencement, but, after suppuration, it bursts the abscess and penetrates to the bone. By using it, you may cure not only segilops but anchi- lopS.—Another: Garden rue, levigated and boiled with pro- tostactos and applied, answers excellently for aegilops, penetrates to the bone, proving stimulating at first, but afterwards not so; and, what is wonderful, it does not leave an ugly scar. —Another : Pulverize snails with their shells and apply them; and sometimes aloes or myrrh may be added before the segilops is converted to pus; and after the abscess bursts it dries up the pus. On trachoma. Trachoma is a roughness of the inner sur- face of the eyelid, an intense degree of which has the appear- ance of clefts, and is called sycosis. When it becomes chronic and callous, it is called tylosis. We must use collyria for it, namely, the one from wine, and that prepared from the two stones; or the eyelid may be rubbed with the bloodstone it- self (haematites,) much washed in water. But the collyrium called harmation, with a little of the cycnarius, or the saffron collyrium, answer well with these, and Avith cases of psoroph- thalmia without ulceration, when rubbed upon the everted eye- lid. But if the callus be hard and do not yield to these things, we must turn the eyelid out and rub it down with pumice-stone, or the shell of the cuttle-fish, or fig-leaves, or by the surgical instrument called blepharoxyston. On chalazion. Chalazion is a concretion of an indolent hu- mour in the eyelid, for which pound ammoniac with vinegar, and anoint along with galbanum. It likewise has a good effect when joined with cerate and turpentine. On hordeolum, or stye. Hordeolum is a small oblong apos- teme on the tarsus of the eyelid. We may foment it with white wax; or throwing away the head of a fly, we may rub the part with the rest of its body; or wash with the decoction of barley. For lice in the eyebrows. Having first cleared away the pediculi, wash the part with tepid sea-water, and use the under-