FEVERS. CBOOK 238 Commentary. All subsequent writers on this subject are indebted to Galen for laying down, in the most satisfactory terms, the principles upon which the treatment of putrid fevers ought to be conducted. He particularly recommends bleeding ad deliquium. When this evacuation is neglected, the patient i only chance of safety is from a spontaneous hemorrhage or pro- fuse perspiration. He is so confident in the remedial powers of venesection, that he directs it to be performed as late as the seventh day, and even later, if the strength of the patient per- mit. He particularly directs us likewise to allow the patient to drink as much as he chooses of the coldest water, which, he says, when seasonably administered, is most efficacious in extin- guishing the febrile heat. This remedy, however, he says, is to be used with becoming caution. But, upon the whole, he stre- nuously inculcates that the safety of the patient depends upon the free use of phlebotomy and cold drink. When the fever abates, he allows wine. Alexander, although sufficiently dis- posed to differ from Galen, entirely concurs with him in opinion respecting the treatment of putrid fevers, for which he particu- larly commends bleeding and cold drink. When venesection is contraindicated by the weakness of the patient, he is to be treated by a refrigerant and diluent regimen. Aetius and Oribasius follow Galen, and their treatment, therefore, agrees perfectly with our author's. Synesius and Constantinus Africanus agree in recommending bleeding and cold drink. But when the patient is very weak, they forbid us to have recourse to the former, and, in that case, direct us to use gentle aperients, and medicines of a refrigerant and diluent nature, such as prunes, jujubes, purslain, and the like. Although Avicenna lays little claim to originality, his plan of treatment in this case is deserving of attention, as being directed by the soundest judgment. He begins with venesec- tion, if the patient's strength permit, and then opens the belly gently, but cautions against violent purging. He then gives first diuretics, and afterwards sudorifics. Unless when the stomach is loaded with crudities, he approves very much of cold drink. Though favorable to the seasonable practice of vene- section, he forbids it except at the commencement; and directs to proportion the loss of blood to the strength of the patient. He also forbids interference with the crisis by bleeding, purging,