[book III. 366 LETHARGY. SECT. IX. ON LETHARGY. Lethargy, which is a lesion of the rational part, has the same seat as frenzy, I mean the brain, but the matter which causes it is of an opposite nature; for it is occasioned by a humid and cold phlegm irrigating the brain. It is attended with an obscure fever, which is not very pungent, and with somnolency. The pulse is large, rare, and undulatory; the respiration is very rare and weak. Lethargies are altogether disposed to sleep; are roused with difficulty; can scarcely be made to answer questions; are forgetful and delirious; they yawn frequently, and remain sometimes with their jaws distended, as forgetting to shut their mouths; their evacuations by the belly are generally watery, but sometimes, on the contrary, the belly is dry; their urine is like that of cattle. Some have tremblings and sweatings. Cams being occasioned by the same matter as lethargy differs from it in this, that fever precedes carus and is more violent, whereas it is subsequent in lethargy; and in this respect also, that carus often supervenes upon other complaints, for it often follows paroxysms of fevers, epilepsy, and compression of the brain, as from the bone in fractures, or from the meningophylax pressing upon the anterior ventricle of the brain; whereas lethargy has a certain peculiar formation. The cure of lethargy. When the strength permits, we must open a vein; but, when it does not, we must use acrid clysters. We must also lay the patient in an apartment of large size, and having a moderate degree of light, and apply to the head an embrocation of oil to which castor has been added. Some, in- stead of the oil, use vinegar and rose-oil with the castor, by which they strengthen and warm the head at the same time. And, having anointed the rest of the body, particularly the extremi- ties, with old oil, they stimulate them with calcined nitre, pel- litory, pepper, or the granum cnidium. It is also possible, by making them into cerate with castor, to use them in this way. We must likewise apply strong-scented things, triturating thyme, marjoram, and pennyroyal, with vinegar. We may smear the mouth and palate with mustard pounded in a small quantitv of honey, and we may even remove with the fingers the phlegm which adheres to it. And, if they will admit it, it is proper to