sect, lviii.] CONSTIPATION, ETC. 323 ■nation of the stomach and liver, in which case lie recommends venesection. When connected with excessive heat of these parts, he approves of cold air, cold drink, and refrigerant draughts, containing prunes, tamarinds, camphor, &c. (xvi, 18.) The causes of hiccough, according to Serapion, are evacuation, repletion, pungent and cold humours. His remedies are emetics, calefacients, and attenuants, which are to be directed according to the nature of the exciting cause, (iii, 17.) See also Avicenna (m, 13, v, 25); Rhases (Divis. 62, ad Mansor. ix, 65, Cont. xi.) Rhases recommends calefacients, such as cumin, pepper, rue, and the like, in vinegar. He also approves of emetics and laxatives. Prosper Alpinus says that the ancient Methodists approved of oily emetics. (Meth. Med. vi, 8.) It will be remarked, that our author states that many persons are seized with hiccough if they take peppers with wine. Prosper Alpinus mentions that they had this effect on him (de Pnes. V. et M. gegr. iii, 9); and I have further to state the same of myself. Rogerius, probably copying from Rhases (for the practice of the earlier modern physicians is mostly borrowed from the Arabians), recommends principally calefacient, attenuant, and carminative medicines, mixed with gentle laxatives, such as prunes, (iii, 21.) SECT. LVIII. ON CONSTIPATION AND LOOSENESS OF THE BOWELS IN FEVERS. Those things which remedy a dry state of the bowels are treated of in the First Book sufficiently. But since a humid or loose state of the bowels may prevail in fevers, this also must be treated of; for many are cut off not by the fever itself, but by this symptom alone. In the commencement, we must not inter- fere with the discharge when it proceeds from corruption of the food and indigestion; but when the evacuation becomes immo- derate, it must be restrained. If the discharges are of an acrid nature, that which is given should consist of good juices, and be otherwise thick, such as spoon-meats from pearl-spelt (chondrus) and ptisan. Baths are also befitting after the complaint has be- come concocted. But when the discharges consist of phlegm