ISCHIATIC DISEASE. [book hi. 656 Comm. will be of service. He also makes mention of the bath of oil and various emollient ointments. He describes several methods of applying heat to the part, but condemns them in general, upon the principle that they increase the local irritation. He diapproves of diuretics as recommended by Diocles, and other- wise animadverts freely upon the practice of the other sects. The Arabians adopt the views of Galen and his followers with little addition or alteration. Thus Serapion recommends bleeding from the arm and ankle; clysters of drastic medicines, such as colocynth, centaury, hermodactylus, &c; soothing ap- plications externally; quieting medicines internally; emetics consisting of radishes, vinegar of squills, or even of white helle- bore. When these do not succeed, he recommends us to form an issue by burning the part with a red-hot iron. Avicenna agrees with Galen in condemning discutients and recommend- ing emollients at the commencement, and in preferring emetics to cathartics. For this purpose he particularly mentions a so- lution of nitre and vinegar. When the disease is combined with inflammation, Haly Abbas directs us to begin with vene- section if not otherwise contraindicated. He enjoins the neces- sity of abstaining from taking much food and things of difficult digestion. He directs us to pour water of a moderate tempe- rature over the part, and to rub it with an emollient oil; but he forbids refrigerant and astringent things, as they are apt to drive the humour inwards. He joins the others in recom- mending particularly the hermodactylus (soureniaron), both by the mouth and in clysters. When other means fail to re- move the pain, he directs us to apply a cupping-instrument with strong heat over the joint, or even to use the actual cautery. Alsaharavius recommends the same general plan of treatment. He directs the patient to abstain from the use of wine, or if he cannot observe this regimen, he recommends him to use the bath and friction with glass (pounded he probably means). He gives very excellent admonitions to guard against indigestion, and to avoid all things of a cold nature. On the ancient cauteries for disease of the hip-joint, see Book Sixth, Sect, lxxii. Most of the earlier modern writers approve of the application of the actual cautery for the cure of sciatica. See Rogerius (i, 74.)