204 FEVERS. CB0OK and, therefore, the interval of rest between two motions has been chosen. When, therefore, there is a long interval of rest, the pulse is called rare; when short, dense ; and when interme- diate, moderate. The eighth kind is in respect to rhythm. Rhythm, then, in general, is the ratio and proportion of one time to another. In regard to the pulse, it is, according to some, the ratio of the time of motion to the time of rest as ol the systole and diastole, to the intermediate time of rest; but according to others, it is the ratio of a time of motion and rest to another time of motion and rest, or of motion to motion. Of rhythm, then, there are two varieties, the rhythmic and the arhythmic. Of the arhythmic, there is a threefold differ- ence • first, when there is a slight departure from rhythm; se- cond, when there is a greater; and third, when there is no rhythm at all. Thus, for example; in a child, if his pulse has the rhythm of childhood, it is called its proper rhythm; if it has that of an adult, it is said to be an improper rhythm; or if it preserve no ratio at all, it is said to be devoid of rhythm. The ninth kind of pulses is found in all the other kinds already mentioned; namely, that which regards equality and inequality, which may be remarked either in one pulse, or in many, which last is called the systematic, of which we must speak first, as being more clear. An equal pulse, then, is that which is alike in order, as regards magnitude, strength, frequency, and certain other, or indeed all its other, characters. The unequal pulse is that which is unlike in order. For, if all are alike, as, for example, all deficient in magnitude, such a pulse is called equal. But if the first, second, and third appear alike, but the fourth unlike, it is clear that such a pulse is unequal as to magnitude. Of this kind are the intermitting and the intercurrent. For not only after one or more great pulsations may one smaller occur; but sometimes this motion is wholly lost, and one pulsation is said to be wanting. The other kind, the intercurrent, is the opposite to this; for when we are expecting an interval of rest, a supernumerary pulsation, as it were, occurs. When the second is a little smaller than the first, and the third than the second, and the fourth than the third in like manner, and so on- wards, such pulses are called sharp-tailed or myuri, deriving their names from figures terminating in a sharp point. Such as are altogether diminished, and never cease from this state, terminate