SECT. XLII,] DYSENTERY. 525 scybalai, he recommends powerful evacuants, such as colocynth, Comm. prunes, turbit, scammony, &c. One of Serapion's prescriptions ^—' contains burnt lead, sumach, myrrh, &c. By a stone, said by our author and Galen to be sometimes discharged in cases of tenesmus, must have been meant an alvine concretion of a hard nature. SECT. XLII. ON DYSENTERY. Dysentery is an ulceration of the intestines, sometimes arising from the translation of tenesmus, or some of the disorders of the bowels formerly mentioned, and sometimes being itself the primary affection; and it is attended with evacuations, at first bilious, and of various colours, then, accordingly, bloody, and at last ichorous, like that which runs from dead bodies. Dy- sentery, arising from black bile, is necessarily fatal, as indicating an ulcerated cancer. If, therefore, the appearances of ulcera- tion be discharged, mixed with the fseces, and attended with pains and tormina, you may be sure that the ulceration is seated in the small intestines, and is to be remedied by medicines swallowed by the mouth; but if the faeces be passed unmixed with the blood, it is an affection of the large intestines, and will yield rather to clysters. When there is a great discharge of blood by itself, the disease is called the bloody dysentery. Sometimes the blood which is discharged is blacker than natural and shining, owing to the liver's not digesting properly the food which is sent to it; and owing to an atony of the retentive or of the alterative faculty of the stomach, it is discharged from it like the washings of newly-killed flesh. This is called he- patic dysentery, and will be treated of along with the affections of the liver. In general, therefore, we must use those things which were recommended for creliac and other preternatural evacuations; but, in particular, the Lemnian earth cures a spreading dysen- tery when drunk or injected, the intestine being previously washed out with honied water, and afterwards with salt water; and the juice of purslain is proper for dysenteric affections when drunk, or the purslain itself when boiled in oxycrate and eaten. Plantain also is proper, and the fruit and leaves of the