THE KIDNEYS. 553 SECT. XLV.] into it bv a syringe honey much diluted with water, or the seed Comm. of cucumber with the same. The treatment prescribed by Cselius Aurelianus scarcely differs at all from that of the others in this case. One of the oldest writers on diseases of the kidneys is Ruffus, who lived, according to Suidas, in the days of Trajan j so that he was prior to Galen, and perhaps to Aretceus and Cailius Aure- lianus. As we have seldom occasion to meet with him in our researches, we shall give a fuller abstract of his opinions on this subject than we would otherwise have done. The symptoms of inflammation of the kidneys, as detailed by him, are pains below the loins, so that the patient cannot stand erect nor walk, but is obliged to lie upon his back, which position affords him most relief; the pains extending to the bladder and testicles; the extremities cold, more especially the legs and feet; frequent and painful desire to make urine, which is at first thin and watery, but afterwards becomes redder. These symptoms are followed by emaciation of the thighs and hips, debility of the limbs, and sometimes suppuration. His treatment is as follows: The patient is to be laid on a soft couch, and must abstain from food for one day, but long abstinence is forbidden. If the bowels require to be opened, this is to be done by means of emollient clysters, such as injections of hot water, decoctions of mallows, of linseed, or of fenugreek, to which may be added some oil. Large injections, however, are forbidden, lest they press upon the kidneys and occasion irritation. When the bowels are evacu- ated, and yet the pain does not remit, the parts may be wrapped in wool which is smeared with hot oil having rue, marshmallows, dill, or mugwort boiled in it. When the pain is acute, a vein at the elbow is to be opened; after which emollient cataplasms and plasters arc to be applied to the back when the kidneys are affected, and to the fore parts when the bladder. When these remedies fail to remove the pain, the loins and groins arc to be cupped, and then sponges squeezed out of hot water are to be applied, and the patient put into a hip-bath of hot water in which poppies, chamomile, and the like have been boiled. Then when the patient is laid in bed, let him be fomented with bladders half-filled with oil and water; and afterwards let cerates of the oil of privet, &c. or fragrant malagmata be applied. When the pain is excruciating, he directs us to give a decoction con-