102 COLD INTEMPERAMENTS. [book i. Venery is most inimical to dry temperaments Such ought ^o to abstain from exertions producing lassitude. exposure U> the sun and to avoid cares and watchfulness, lhose wiio arc Sy humid are apt in infancy to be seised and plethoric complaints, and also with putrid. They stand m need of more exercise, of a proper digestion m the stomacr^ Td of secretions by urine. Wherefore such persons are much renefiteThy tahing before diet the bath two or three times, "rl/the natural hot ones. They ought also£.promote he secretions by means of exercises and the bath,^andLby pro euring the alvine and urinary discharges before taking food Anything hinders them to use masticatories and cathartics, as also a wholesome diet, and wine of a diuretic quality. COMM Commentary. See, in like manner, Ga en de Samtate tuenda,vi); Oribasius (Synops. v, 51); Aetius (iv,9 ; Actuanus de Diita/c. 12.) Of the Arabians, Haly Abbas U the author who has delivered the treatment of the temperaments m the fullest manner. (Pract.i, 15.) , _ _ , It is to be remarked that the condition of the body named the hot intemperament by the ancients is the same as that now generally called a bilious habit. Accordingly, Galen directs the physician to attend whether any pain or sense of weight be telt in the region of the liver, as, in that case, he judges it unsafe to take the bath after a meal, and recommends him rather to give deobstruents, and to proscribe food of a thick viscid nature. He particularly recommends an attenuant diet, and medicines of the same description, namely, wormwood, anise, bitter almonds, &c. His views of practice, in short, appear to have been very judicious. SECT. LXXI. THE CORRECTION OF THE COLD INTEMPERAMENTS OF THE BODY. Of cold intemperaments, there are three varieties, the worst of which is the dry ; for such persons are from the first in that state which time brings upon old men. They ought, therefore, to use whatever is diluting and warming, such as moderate exercise, humid and warm food, the heating wines, and much