[book III. SPITTING OF BLOOD. 490 Comm. It seems there were disputes also about the propriety of ligatures to the extremities, but Cselius pronounces in favour of this practice. He informs us further that some questioned the pro- priety of giving vinegar, but he decidedly approves of it. When there is any inflammation, he disapproves entirely of astringents. He also condemns sudorifics and diuretics. He allows exercise only when the complaint has abated. Marcellus condemns ligatures to the extremities, but approves of applying to the chest a sponge soaked in cold water or acrid vinegar. We have not room for many extracts from the Arabians, who, however, supply little additional information, although they treat fully of the disease. We would refer to Avicenna's account as being particularly full and excellent. He approves of the internal use of vinegar, and when there is a tickling cough, of anodynes, such as mandragora, henbane, and poppy. Rhases and Serapion approve of sponging the chest with vinegar. Averrhoes, who is fond of contradicting preceding authorities, condemns the practice of giving vinegar in hemoptysis. Mesue recommends the use of chalybeate water for drink. He ap- proves in general of astringents. Haly Abbas gives a very full and interesting account of the causes and varieties of the dis- ease, and modifies his treatment accordingly. He recommends bleeding from the basilic vein, to be repeated if circumstances require, purging with gentle laxatives, such as myrobalans and rhubarb, giving demulcents, such as gum arabic and starch, to which poppy is sometimes to be added, for allaying irritation. He directs the bath, strong exercise, and vociferation to be avoided. When the disease arises from a cold cause (he means in cases of passive hemorrhage), he forbids venesection, and recommends stimulants, such as frankincense and myrrh. In certain cases he allows astringents, such as alum, balaustine, galls, sumach, &c. He also directs us to apply to the breast an astringent cerate containing roses, plantain, purslain, &c. Alsaharavius recommends bleeding, cold applications to the chest, opiates, and astringents, according to circumstances. Rhases states that opium, by thickening or congealing the blood, proves useful in hemoptysis. He approves very much of a milk-diet. In ge- neral he recommends venesection. He directs the physician to be at pains to ascertain from what part the blood proceeds.