SECT. LXXIX.] 677 CHILBLAINS, ETC. of linseed, one cyathus ; of sweet oil, oz. xl; nothing is so effi- cacious for softening the sole.—Another : Of goats' seam, of wax, of oil, equal parts; use.—Another: Having boiled pome- granate-rind in vinegar, apply for five days; then, having cleaned it away, apply quicklime with oil, or with bath sordes.—Another. Having boiled squill in oil, throw away the squill when boiled: having melted some turpentine in this oil, use. For fretting of the heels from long confinement in bed. Of wax, of oil, of litharge, of honey, equal parts. It answers with every ulcer of the soles, heels, ankles, and inner part of the toes, more especially if the sore be near the nail. For foul ulcers in the sole, and also for those in the pudendum: To be applied on a pledget. Of lees of oil, one cyathus; of vi- negar, one cyathus ; having boiled in a copper vessel until of the consistence of honey, and triturated separately with ij dr. of the I hikes of copper, and ij dr. of manna, add the ashes of a handful of soft unwashed wool which has been wrapped round a torch and burnt: mix all together, and use, diluting it with wine for wounds, and with must for those of the pudendum and sole. —Another : Of lees of oil, of scummed honey, equal parts. This also cleans the gums. For fretting of the skin by shoes. The lungs of a lamb, of a swine, or of a goat, make a good application. The burnt leather of old shoes does not answer when there is inflammation; but when the inflammation is over it answers w ell. Or, apply onions with the grease of a fowl; or sprinkle the part with burnt gall; or dissolve acacia in vinegar, and anoint with it. Commentary. See Hippocrates (Epidem. vii, 38); Celsus (v, 28) ; Scribonius Largus (86) ; Oribasius (Mori). Curat, iii, 56) ; Octavius Horatianus (i, 28); Aetius (xiv, 73) ; Actuarius (iMcth. Med. vii, 8) ; Nonnus (224) ; Avicenna (iii, 22, 2, and iv, 3, 2); Haly Abbas (Pract. iv, 17) ; Rhases (Divis. 125); Alsaharavius (Pract. xxix, i, 27.) These affections of the extremities Celsus recommends, in the first place, to be bathed with hot water in which rapes or \ ervain have been boiled. If ulceration has not taken place, copper, as hot as possible, is to be applied to the part, If ul- cerated, equal proportions of alum and frankincense, with wine, or pomegranate-rind, boiled in water and pounded, are to be applied.