skct. xxxix.] CHOLERA. 515 bath. Serapion, Rhases, tod Avicenna, recommend similar treatment, namely, purgatives and aromatics, such as aloes anise, calammt, cumin, and the like. Halv Abbas forbids all flatulent food, such as pulse, milk, and grapes; recommends the bath alter much exercise, and before dinner, and the stomacli to be rubbed, and a cataplasm of salt and cumin applied to it. He also prescribes many calefacient and carminative articles, such as anise, rue, castor with old wine, also the peppers, theriac, mithndate, hiera picra, &c. Alsaharavius recommends aromatics and carminatives, and afterwards that the pit of the stomach should be rubbed with calefacient oils. Averrhoes directs us to give all solid food, as flesh, puddings, &c. quite cold; but spoon-meats may be eaten as warm as the blood or somewhat warmer. This method, he adds, will clear the head and stomach of wind, beget finer blood, brisker spirits, and cause a lively circulation of all the humours. Rhases and Avicenna describe ulceration of the stomach very accurately, and also thickening of its coats. Avicenna mentions rupture of the stomach, but does not say whether he alludes to spontaneous rupture or rupture from accident. Actuarius has given amore distinct account of hamatemesis than any other of the ancient authorities. He says the blood may be brought up either pure or of a dark colour, and it may be occasioned either by external injuries or proceed from consti- tutional causes. The constitutional causes are commonly either general plethora or atony of the liver. In certain cases, he says, it proceeds from rupture of the vessels, and in others from re- laxation of them, in others again from corrosion. In melana, he says, the skin is pale. (De Diagnos. i, 39.) SECT. XXXIX. ON CHOLERA. Cholera is an immoderate disorder of the belly, with dis- charges upwards and downwards, arising from continued indi- gestion of the food. Persons are affected with indigestion sometimes from the badness of their food, and sometimes owing to a redundance of depraved humours. Wherefore, if the patient be seized with nausea and lancinating pains, while the food remains