EXERCISES. [book i. 24 Collect, vi, 33.) This exercise is mentioned by Hippocrates. (De Diseta ii.) Cornarius and the translator of Hippocrates confound it with the follis of the Romans; but Mercurialis clearly shows that they were quite different. The follis was a leather ball, inflated with air; such is the description of it by Caelius Aurelianus : " Follis erat pila magna ex aluta confecta, soloque vento repleta." Martial represents it as a becoming exercise for boys or old men: " Ite procul juvenes, mitis niihi convenit aetas, Folk decet pueros ludere, folle senes." (Epigr. xiv, 45.) They were different from the pila magna and parva; that is to say, the large and small ball. These balls were of different sizes, and were played with in various ways. They are minutely described by Oribasius. (Med. Collect, vi, 32.) See also Horace (Sat. ii, 2), and Martial (Epigr. iv, 15.) See a most learned and accurate account of all these sports in Mercurialis. (De Arte Gymnastica, ii, 4.) Galen has written a treatise on the exer- cise of the parva pila. To this class of exercises we may refer the pitching of a stone, which is mentioned by Avicenna. Our author has neglected to make mention of the halteres in this place, but recommends the exercise for the cure of elephan- tiasis, (iv, 1.) It is described by Galen, who says, it can be made to exercise the spine transversely. (De Sanit. tuend. ii, 11.) The exercise with them is thus described by Potter: "The exer- cise of leaping they sometimes performed with weights upon their heads or shoulders, sometimes carrying them in their hands; these were called aXri^tq, which, though now and then of dif- ferent figures, yet, as Pausanias reports, were usually of an oval form, and made with holes, or else covered with thongs, through which the contenders put their fingers." (Antiquities of Greece, c. 20.) Mercurialis describes them as masses or weights of dif- ferent materials, and of such a size as that they could be held in the hands. Ropes, too, he adds, were often fastened to them, to hold with. (De Arte Gymnast, ii, 12.) The Pythagoreans were fond of this exercise. (Iamblichus deVita Pythagorse, c. 21.) Thefunambulatio consisted merely in scaling ropes, which, as we may suppose, was done in various wrays. See Mercurialis (iii, 5), and Baccius (de Thermis, viii, 7.) The £K7rX£0pi'£a»', as Galen and Avicenna explain, consisted