TETANUS. 406 [book III. Comm. graphic manner. He advises the physician not to compromise ' 1 himself by meddling with the case when the disease is fairly established. His treatment is altogether soothing and relaxant. He recommends us to lay the patient upon a soft warm bed, and, from whatever cause the complaint arise, to begin with ab- stracting blood from the arm. Then soft liquid food is to be given, and the whole body wrapped in wool moistened with some calefacient oil; or bladders half filled with tepid oil are to be applied to the parts most affected. He directs us to cup the back part of the neck, but cautions against exciting irritation by the application of heat. To the wound he recommends sup- purative applications containing frankincense, turpentine-rosin, and the like; for he remarks (and the fact is confirmed by the experience of the late M. Larrey, who recommends a similar mode of practice) that, when tetanus supervenes, the sore be- comes dry. He praises castor and assafcetida as antispasmo- dics ; and, if these cannot be swallowed, they are to be given in an injection. He advises also hiera to be given in an injec- tion. Cselius Aurelianus enumerates nearly the same causes as Aretaeus, and describes all the symptoms of the disease with the greatest precision. His treatment also is nearly the same as that of Aretseus, namely, emollient applications to the neck, venesection, and oily clysters. He even enjoins the bath of oil, which has fallen into disuse in modern practice, most pro- bably solely on account of the expense with which it would be attended. He also permits sometimes the use of the common bath, but not of cold water. He allows wine in certain cases. He condemns Hippocrates for giving both wine and emetics, and having recourse to venesection, without due discrimination. He blames him also for recommending the affusion of cold water, inasmuch as he himself had pronounced cold to be injurious to the nerves, bones, &c. Galen, however, remarks, in his Com- mentary upon this Aphorism of Hippocrates (sect, v, 21), that cold, in this case, is not the direct cause of the benefit derived from this remedy, but (if we understand him right) that the shock which it imparts to the system proves beneficial, by rousing the vital heat and energies of the patient. Hippocrates, how- ever, as stated above, forbade the cold affusion in traumatic tetanus. Our author's opinion of this practice is just such as