SECT. XC.] FISIIRS 157 (! recian masters. Aviceima, Averrhoes, and Haly Abbas speak Comm. favorably of new cheese, as being of a cold and humid nature. ^"V~"J Hippocrates mentions a species of cheese prepared by the Scythians, from marcs' milk, and called by them hippaoe. (De An\) The same is noticed by Thcophrastus (Hist. PI. ix), and by Pliny (Hist. Nat. xxv, 44.) Cheese variously prepared and Served up was esteemed a great delicacy by the gourmands. See Athenams (ix, 14.) It was taken towards the conclusion of a feast. (Id. xv, 22.) SECT. XC. ON FISHES. That all fishes arc of a colder and more humid temperament is obvious. Those that arc found among rocks arc the best of all, being of easy digestion, furnishing good juices, and being moderately moistening when their flesh is not hard. Of those that do not abide among rocks, those that abide in the sea are much hotter than those that dwell among mud, or where rivers meet the sea. But still worse arc those which are found in marshes and stagnant parts of the sea. In particular, the mullet {cap}to) being a sea fish, is moderately sweet, not very indigesti- ble, and furnishes good chyme ; but the blood formed from it is thin and weak. So it is also with the bass [lupus). The sur- mullet, as being a sea fish, is harder than the others, friable, digestible, nutritive, sweet, and free of fat. Commentary. Ancient authors make mention of whole Comm. nations of mankind that subsisted entirely upon fish. For an ' v ' account of the Ichthyophagi, see Herodotus (hi, 20) ; Pliny (xi) ; Strabo (Geogr. xv); Diodorus Siculus (iv, 15); Ptolemseus (Geogr. iv); Arrianus (in Indicis) ; Solinus (Polyhistor, lxv); Philostratus (in Vita Apollonii, iii.) The description given of them by Diodorus is the most circumstantial and interesting. He says that the simplicity of their diet preserved them free from diseases, but that they were short-lived. A very interesting, and seemingly a very authentic account of the fish-eaters on the borders of the Red Sea is also given by Agatharcides. (Ap. Photium.) Pliny states that fish was used by his countrymen as food from the building of the city. (Hist. Nat. xxxii, 10.)