138 FOWLS. CBOOK u it was the acorns of the quercus ilex which the ancients used for food. . , Galen's opinion of chesnuts agrees with the account given by our author of them. Simeon Seth says that they are very nu- tritious, but are hard to digest and evacuate from the body; and that they are flatulent and astringent. Haly Abbas describes them as a proper article of food. At the present day, whole nations of mankind live upon chesnuts. The opinion of Mnisitheus regarding them, as quoted by Athenams, appears to be very judicious; he says they are difficult to digest and flatu- lent, but sufficiently nutritious if digested. The strawberries, or fraga, are mentioned by Virgil (Ec. m), and Ovid (Metam. i); but they are wholly unnoticed by the Greek writers. We consider ourselves here called upon not to pass over unno- ticed the fruit of the lotus tree, which is so celebrated in ancient poetry, and is also mentioned by the historians and writers on science. It is now well ascertained that the lotus-bread is pro- duced by various trees in the country surrounding the great desert of Africa. The most celebrated of these trees, or rather shrubs, is the celtis australis. Rennel and Park agree that its fruit is very wholesome. On the lotus, see further, Eustathius (in Odyss. p. 337, ed. Rom.); Dionys. (Geograph.); Schweigh (ad Athen. Deipnos. xiv, 65.) SECT. LXXXII. ON ANIMALS; AND, FIRST, OF FOWLS. The nourishment derived from fowls is less than that from beasts, and more especially swine, but they are of easier digestion, particularly the partridge, godwit, pigeon, hen, and pheasant. That from thrushes, blackbirds, and small sparrows (among which are those called pyrgitce) is harder; and still more so the turtle, wood-pigeon, and duck. But the peacock is still more indigestible, harder, and more stringy. The flesh of geese and ostriches is excrementitious, and more indigestible than any of the afore-mentioned; except their wings, which are not less wholesome than the same parts in other animals. The flesh of the crane is stringy and hard. In general, the young are more juicy, digestible, and nutritious than the aged, and are more