THE UTERUS. [book III. 632 Comm. Hippocrates relates a curious case of a calculus which was ' ' discharged from the uterus of a woman sixty years old, who had long felt pain in that region dum venere uteretur. Aetius also makes mention of the uterine calculus. Lodovicus Mercatus gives a curious account of this subject (Gynsec. 969.) Michaelis Angelus Moms relates a singular case of a woman who died of uterine calculi. (Mangeti Bibl. Chirurg. xviii.) SECT. LXX. ON INFLATION OF THE UTERUS. The uterus becomes distended with air from cold, from abor- tion, or difficult parturition : its mouth being shut up, or a clot of blood being fastened in it. The air is sometimes contained in the cavity of the uterus itself, and sometimes in the pores of its body. These cases are attended with swelling about the pubes and hypogastrium, with hardness, and a pungent pain, shooting as far as the diaphragm, the stomach, and the groins. When tapped with the fingers it sounds like the swelling of tympanitis. Wherefore it is to be cured, in the first place, by venesection, if nothing prohibits its use; and then, during the exacerbations, by abstinence from food; by embrocations with oil of rue; by hip-baths of the decoction of rue, of pennyroyal, of mugwort, of cassia, and the like; by cataplasms fr om the seeds of parsley, of cumin, of fennel, of anise, of bishopsweed, and of the flower of iris; by dry cupping, and cupping with scarifications. But when the complaint is protracted, we must have recourse to purging with the hiera picra, dropaces, sina- pisms, and the use of the natural baths. Let the midwife in- troduce her finger well oiled, and extract gently, if possible, the thrombus lying in the womb, by breaking it down, and then apply a cataplasm of figs, of nitre, and of wormwood. Emol- lient epithemes should be used, such as the Polyarchian, that from seeds, and that from bayberries. The pessaries should consist of rue, honey, and nitre; but the following one will be particularly applicable : Of fat figs pounded, dr. j j of cumin, dr. ij ; of aphronitrum, dr. j. But, owing to its acrimony, let it be previously dipped in milk. Emollient pessaries are also proper.