C48 DIFFICULT LABOUR. [book III. smeared with cerates or fatty substances, and gently dilated. And if there be any complaint in the parts, it must be previously attended to; and hardened faeces when retained must be ex- pelled by an emollient clyster. The membranes may be divided either by the fingers, or by a scalpel concealed within them, the left hand directing it. And some of the fatty liquids may be thrown up into the uterus by a syringe. When the foetus is in a preternatural position, we may restore the natural position, by sometimes pressing it back, sometimes drawing it down, some- times pushing it aside, and sometimes rectifying the whole. If a hand or foot protrude, we must not seize upon the limb and drag it down, for thereby it will be the more wedged in, or may be dislocated, or fractured; but fixing the fingers about the shoulders or hip-joint of the foetus, the part that had protruded is to be restored to its proper position. If there be a wrong position of the whole foetus, attended with impaction, we must first push it upwards from the mouth of the womb, then lay hold of it, and direct it properly to the mouth of the uterus. If more than one child have descended, they are to be raised upwards again, and then brought downwards. Everything is to be done gently, and without pressure, the parts being smeared with oil. The time for placing the woman on the stool is when the mouth of the womb is open and meets the finger, and when rupture of the membranes is at hand. If, owing to the death of the child, or any other cause, it do not advance, we must proceed to embryotomy. Commentary. Hippocrates has treated fully of Difficult Par- turition in the first book of his treatise f de Morbis Mulierum/ from which we shall select a few remarks to give the reader some idea of his practice in these cases. When the child pre- sents doubled at the mouth of the womb he directs us to push it upwards, and rectify the position so that the head may come down. When a hand or foot of a living child protrudes, it is to be pushed up in like manner, and the head made to present. When the leg or arm of a dead child protrudes, it is best, he says, to proceed in the same manner if possible j but otherwise they are to be amputated at a joint and the head opened. The process of opening the head is minutely described by him. He ad- vises us likewise to open the chest when any difficulty of delivering