SECT. XLIX.] THE SPLEEN. 577 SECT. XLIX. ON THE SPLEEN. The use of the spleen being to attract from the liver the me- lancholic humour, w hich is, as it were, the lees of the blood, if its attractive power be weakened, or the passage obstructed by which this was formerly attracted, the black jaundice is formed, blood in an unpurified state being distributed over the whole body; and if there be weight and distension about the spleen, or if there be also pain, obstruction is indicated; but if there be none of these, it is weakness of the attractive power. But vomiting of black bile taking place without fever, or any other symptom of malignity, indicates a weakness of the retentive faculty of the spleen. A weakness of the expulsive faculty will bring on anorexia, the melancholic superfluity being no longer carried to the orifice of the stomach and exciting the appetite. When the melancholic humour is infarcted in the spleen, in the first place inflammation of it occurs, indicated by heat, pain, and tightness, but afterwards it passes into scirrhus, the heat and pain having ceased, while the swelling and hardness remain. Persons thus affected have fetor of the mouth, their gums are corroded, and ulcers in their legs are difficult to heal. When the liver sympathises, dropsy takes place, as formerly mentioned j wherefore intemperaments of it are to be cured like those of the liver. But when inflammation is present, Ave must bleed from the left arm at the elbow, or at the extremity of the hand, in order that revulsion may take place from as great a distance as possible, and also because of some natural alliance between these parts. Then we are to apply a cataplasm of attcnuants which tire not manifestly caleficient, intermixing some of the astringents with them. Such is that natural substance called the flower of salt. And this is an admirable cataplasm : Of fenugreek, oz. iv; of barley-flour, of cresses, of each, oz. j ; of fat figs, lb. j; of the herb vervain dried, oz. j ; macerate the figs in the most acrid vinegar, and boil with the other things already bruised together, and then boil again; or apply goat's dung boiled with raw barley-meal in oxycratc; and, if you choose, it may receive also some flower of salt. But having first used a fomentation of oil of privet with a little vinegar, use the emollient ointments ; and first the more simple, such as this : Of wax, lb. iss; of the fat 37