537 COLIC. SECT. XLIU.j be approves of gestation, of friction of the belly with rubefa- Comm. eients j and of sinapisms, calefacient plasters, and the like. He ' " ' speaks favorably of a long sea-voyage, and of the use of medi- cinal springs, especially sulphureous, and directs indigestion and everything of a flatulent nature to be guarded against. Several of the other Greek and Latin authorities, especially Aetius, treat of colic with admirable precision; but, as their remedial measures are much the same as those already men- tioned, we shall not attempt to give any account of them. Serapion's divisions and treatment are nearly the same as our author's. Avicenna, however, treats of the complaint more fully and circumstantially than any other ancient author, but the length of his description prevents us from giving an abstract of it. We may mention, however, that when the pain is violent he approves of narcotics both by the mouth and in clysters. Among the causes of colic mentioned by Haly Abbas is debility of the intestine, so that it can neither digest the food nor eva- cuate it. Haly justly remarks that the inflammatory colic is the worst species of the disease, for that in it the patient expe- riences no relief from evacuations, and the danger is imminent. With regard to the treatment of it, he forbids purgatives, which do but increase the irritation; and recommends bleeding, emol- lient drinks, plasters, &c. In flatulent colic his remedies are purgatives and carminatives, such as hiera with anise, fenugreek, cucumber, mastich, &c. In all cases he approves much of clys- ters. Alsaharavius enumerates the following causes of colic: A hot intemperament, hernia, indurated faeces, cold humours im- pacted in the intestines, and the presence of some poisonous medicine. We dare scarcely venture upon an exposition of the minutiae of his treatment. When the disease is occasioned by retention of hard faeces, he recommends oily injections, baths, and diluent draughts. When it arises from gross humours, he agrees with Galen in approving of strong wine, clysters of dill, chamomile, fenugreek, and the like, boiled in water. Rhases directs us to give emetics when the disease arises from indiges- tion. He probably alludes to duodenal disease. He mentions alvine calculi and worms among the causes of colic. He par- ticularly recommends the warm bath and clysters. Our author's interesting account of the epidemical colic is copied by Avicenna; but neither he nor any other subsequent