SECT. XLV.] THE KIDNEYS. vitiated urine from the kidneys; but if the disease be of long Comm. standing, he proscribes both those measures. He recommends *~~ also a cooling diet, ruddy wine diluted, cooling applications to the pubes and loins, and, in certain cases, narcotics, such as opium and mandragora. Alexander's theory respecting the nature of the disease is the same as our author's, both having borrowed it from Galen, lie recommends food of difficult digestion, such as the feet of oxen, the flesh of pompions, chesiiuts, &c. He forbids all saltish, acrid, and diuretic articles. He says nothing of venesection. Actuarius recommends purgatives, in order to determine to the intestines, and astringent and refrigerant remedies in general. Avenzoar explains fully his views respecting the nature and treatment of diabetes, in which he follows Galen closely. But the fullest and most accurate of the Arabian authorities on this subject is Avicenna. In certain cases, he admits of venesection at the commencement. The remedies, however, in which he seems to place the greatest reliance, are emetics and sudorifics, which he gives with the intention of altering the determination of the fluids to the kidneys. He particularly directs the pa- tient to avoid taking all diuretic articles, to use exercise on horseback, moderate friction, and, in the decline of the disease, the tepid bath with fragrant wine. Serapion gives nearly the same account as Aetius, only he says nothing of venesection. Haly Abbas states, with his usual precision, the theory of Galen and the other Greek authorities, namely, that the disease is occasioned by a preternatural in- crease of the attractive faculty of the kidneys, arising from heat of the viscus. Agreeably to this theory of the disease, his re- medies are refrigerants and astringents. Alsaharavius advocates similar views of the nature and treatment of the disease. When the urine is thick, with some appearances of blood, he recom- mends venesection. According to Rhascs, the affection is con- nected with preternatural heat of the kidneys and debility of their retentive faculty. He says it resembles lientery of the intestines. To those who are conversant with the principles of ancient physiology, the theory advanced by Galen, and advocated by all subsequent authorities, will appear very plausible and ingenious.