BEASTS. [book i. 118 a Ovibasius ami Simeon Seth agree with our author C A.-lm«, Onbamn, a. e«.R,„entit,ous, and -that it is mfenor to pork, *****™ accuses Galen containing worse juices. Ave rhoes how , of h i-^JSS.*yt Halt—he whkh, he aftrms « mfe - o ^ ^ even speaks tavoraDij 01 that Rbases ranks mntton as second nl toW^ W^T the best mutton is that ot a smup a y £n directions for cooking mutton and amb. ™. All the ancient authorities speak of goats ttesn u same terms as our author; namely, as being acnl and con ahi nl unwholesome juices. Hippocrates says i has all the taming un Tbat of buck-goats is said by Galen to * tLe of rams and of bulls £ ffETpeaks'favoiably, as being next in excellence to pork then he ranks veal. But lamb, he says, » humid gela- rnous and mucous. Ukases and Averrhoes rank kid fir t, Id tken lamb. The poet Hesiod recommends M -- deb- cious article of food during the heat of summer. (Op. et Dies 590) According to Athemeus, kid imparts more firm and sub!taitial nourishment to the body than any other kind of flesh not even excepting pork and lamb, ix, 00.) The Arabians mention the gazelle (antelope dorcas) as being nearly allied but superior to the goat Simeon Seth sa^ that the flesh of the dorcas is better than that of any other wild animal, and that it is allied to the human body Hippocrates calls beef a strong, astringent, and indigestible article of food. Celsus ranks it among the articles which are not apt to spoil in the stomach. Oribasius says, that it is more than moderately nutritious, but imperspirable, and forms thick blood. Like Galen and our author, he says that it proves injurious to those who are subject to collections of black bile Seth says that it is difficult of digestion and distribution, but when digested, sufficiently nutritious. Rhases savs that it supplies much nourishment of a gross nature, and' forms thick blood. Averrhoes says that the flesh of heifers is good, not being so viscid, cold, and dry as the flesh of oxen. The sauces recommended by Apicms for the flesh of oxen and heifers contain various spices, and aromatics with vinegar, pickle, and oil.