413 sect, xxn.] DISEASES OF THE EYE. On prurient emphysema and psorophthalmia. Emphysema is an (Edematous swelling of the eyelids ; but psorophthalmia is a scabious eruption of the eyelids attended with pruritus, arising from a saltish and nitrous humour. They are remedied by oxycrate, the decoction of lentils, and a fomentation of roses. The following is a liquid collyrium : Of copper, dr. vj; of cal- cined noisy, and myrrh, of each, dr. iij; of saffron, dr. iss; of pepper, dr. j; of Chian wine, and Cretan sweet wine, of each 1^ cyathus j boil to the thickness of honey. This is the collyrium of Erasistratus called panchrestos, which applies to cynanche, ulcers in the mouth, and on the privy parts, and to the earache. They are to be rubbed with oil into the patient's eyebrows when he is going to sleep. Acid, saltish, and acrid things are to be abstained from. On sclerophthalmia and xerophthalmia. Sclerophthalmia is a hardness of the eye with difficulty of motion, pain, and red- ness, without wateriness. For this the eyes are to be fomented frequently with sponges out of hot water; and at bedtime the white of an egg with rose-oil, or the fat of geese, may be ap- plied to the eyelids. Let them avoid everything of a cooling and hardening nature; let the head be covered and anointed, and the belly kept open. Xerophthalmia is a pruriginous affection of the eyes without rheum. It is to be cured by baths, unguents, and a wholesome diet. Applications of an acrid na- ture are suitable to both, as they promote a flow of tears, by which the hardness will be softened, and the dryness rendered more humid. Such are the panchrestos of Erasistratus, and those called dicenteton and stratioticum. On ectropion, or eversion of the eyelids. This complaint is an eversion of the eyelid, occasioned either by a scar or fun- gous flesh. When it is occasioned by fungous flesh, and is of long duration, roast scraped verdigris, pulverise it and apply, or use burned lead washed with sulphur vivum, or apply both in equal parts, namely, the verdigris and the lead. Ectropion from a cicatrix, if at all remediable, must be cured by a surgical operation. On (sgilops and anchilops. ^Egilops is an aposteme between the great canthus of the eye and the nose, which breaking and being neglected, ends in a fistula that extends to the bone. Before the aposteme breaks out into an ulcer, it is called an-