[book III. 550 THE KIDNEYS. to viscid and thick humours which have been much heated or roasted. He says, in the language of the Peripatetic philosophy, that the material cause of calculus is a thick matter, but the efficient a fiery heat, in like manner as by heat and a suitable matter of such a nature tiles are formed which are insoluble m water. This theory is explained with great logical parade m the 'Isagoge' generally ascribed to Galen, but which Albertus Fabricius supposes to be a work of Demetrius Pepagomenos. Alexander's remedies are mostly the same as our author's. He speaks with surprising confidence of the efficacy of goats' blood; and, by the way, there is no lithontriptic which, both in ancient and in modern times, has been so generally cried up as it. His general treatment, which consists of bleeding, baths, emollient and paregoric medicines, is very proper. He remarks that cer- tain lithontriptics, if given unseasonably, increase the disposi- tion to calculus. Like our author, he forbids thick food, and attributes the best effects to drinking water. Those who wish to see a full exposition of the ancient views on this subject may consult Aetius. Like all the others, he says that milk, with the exception of that of asses, contributes to the formation of stones. He also recommends goats' blood. He gives very proper directions respecting the regimen after extraction of the stone, to prevent a recurrence of the complaint. Cselius Aurelianus makes no mention of lithontriptics, but he describes very properly the treatment when pain and in- flammation of the bladder supervene. It is altogether emollient and relaxant. The nature and treatment of calculous diseases are treated of in a very practical manner by Palladius in his Commentary on the sixth 'Epidem. Hippocrat.' He depends principally upon a restricted diet and light food. The Arabians treat of calculi at great length, but have the same ideas of the formation of them, and recommend the same remedies as the Greeks. We remark that Avicenna, Rhases, Serapion, and Alsaharavius mention among their lithontriptics barauch, or the nitrum of the Greeks and Romans, which was most probably an impure carbonate of soda. We need scarcely say that this alkali is now given upon chemical principles. Like our author, they make mention of glass as a lithontriptic. Rhases, Avicenna, and some of the others remark, and perhaps