475 SECT. XXIX.] ASTHMA. Bpecting the chalazia mentioned by Galen, and "the smooth, Comm. hard, and firm stone" said to have been expectorated by " Alexander's patient, we have a few remarks to make. The pas- sage in Galen's work where they are described is at ' de Loc. Affect/ iv, near the end. These sputa have been described by recent pathologists. Thus Audral calls them small clots, of a dull white, or inclining a little to yellow, from a small pin's head to a pea in size. (Clinical Medicine, 464, Engl, ed.) The mo- dern authorities agree that they are indicative of phthisis. Aretseus describes by the name of pneumodes, and as a specie s of asthma, a diseased state resembling that which we are treating of. The symptoms are dyspnoea, cough, and wasting; pulse small, frequent, and feeble; the sputa, if any, small, white, round, and like hail. The disease proves fatal in the course of a year, and often ends in dropsy and anasarca. The treatment recommended by the great Methodist Cselius Aurelianus is not much different from the practice of the other sects, only he enjoins a more rigid abstinence from wine and food of a heating nature. He also condemns the practice of inhaling the vapours of red arsenic (sandaracha), and the like. In pro- tracted cases he recommends a change of place. There is nothing original in the practice of the Arabians. Avicenna prudently forbids preparations of poppies after expec- toration has commenced. For coryza Haly Abbas recommends, if the patient's age and temperament permit, bleeding, a spare diet, abstinence from wine, fumigations with the vapours of cam- phor, lignum aloes, vinegar, &c; avoiding to lie on the back, and so forth. He treats at great length of coughs, distinguish- ing them according as they are seated in the throat, gullet, or lungs, and whether they be sympathetic or not. For hoarse- ness, he directs gargles from the seed of anise or fennel, or a decoction containing radishes, parsley, fennel, mastich, spikenard, iris, figs, &c. Alsaharavius treats fully of these complaints in much the same terms. SECT. XXIX. ORTHOPNCEA, ASTHMA, AND DYSPNOEA. Those who breathe thick without fever, like those who have fast, are said to be asthmatic, that is to say, to pant for