155 sect, lxxxviii.] CURDS AND WHEY. stones into it, is mentioned by Dioscorides, Pliny, and others. Serapion recommends heated iron. See the following Section. Galen was aware that milk coagulates in the stomach before it is digested. (De Al. Fac. iii, 15.) SECT. LXXXVIII. ON CURDS AND WHEY. By powerful boiling at a strong fire without smoke, the serous part of the milk is separated from the caseous, and is then strained through a sieve or piece of rag carefully, and to the serous part is added a moderate quantity of honey, or of vinegar and honey, or salts; and it is given to evacuate the bowels in the quantity of two sextarii to adults, and to younger persons not less than a sexta- rius. And milk thickened by ignited pebbles or iron may be given with advantage for dysenteries and alvine discharges. * Commentary. The method of preparing the schiston is thus described by Pliny: "Medici speciem unam addidere lactis I generibus, quod schiston appellavere. Id fit hoc modo : fictili novo fervet caprinum maxime, ramisque ficulneis recentibus miscetur, additis totidem cyathis mulsi, quot sint heminEe lactis. ' Cum fervet, ne circumfundatur, praestat cyathus argenteus cum frigida aqua demissus ita ne quid infundat: ablatum deinde igui refrigeratione dividitur et discedit serum a lacte." (Hist. 1 Nat. xxviiij 33.) The same process is briefly described by Dioscorides (ii, 77.) Pliny recommends the whey thus prepared for epilepsy, melancholy, paralysis, leprosy, elephantiasis, and arthritis. This preparation of milk is often noticed by the ancient authors on medicine. It evidently consisted of the whey of the milk, separated from the cheese by a peculiar process. The melca was a preparation from milk, and is mentioned by our author in the Fourth Book ยง 27. It also appears to have been a sort of curds and whey, or du lait caille of the French, prepared by pouring hot vinegar upon milk. The process is minutely described in the Geoponics (xviii.) The oxygal, or lac acidum, consisted of the caseous part of the milk, separated from the whey by a very complicated pro- cess, which is fully described by Columella, (xii, 8.) It is said by Galen to possess very refrigerant properties.