SECT, sccv.] xviNE. 175 used mlns time; that is to say, about the middle of the second century, P. C. Of wines, some are white, some tawny, and some dark coloured. The white is in nature the thinnest, diuretic, and heating, and being digestible it inflames the head, for it is a \v me that has a tendency upwards. A dark-coloured wine, which is not of a sweet nature, is very nutritious and astringent. Sweet wines, whether of a white or tawny colour, are very nu- tritious; for they lubricate the passage, and thickening the hu- mours, prove less troublesome to the head. The nature of sweet wines is to remain for a time in the praicordia, and to prove ex- pectorant, as Diodes and Praxagoras tell. Mnesitheus the Athenian says dark-coloured wine is very nutritious, the white very diuretic and very subtle, and the tawny dry, and of all wines the one that most promotes the digestion of food. Wines care- fully prepared with salt water are not of an intoxicating nature, they loosen the belly, occasion pains of the stomach, and produce flatulence, but promote digestion. Such are the Myndian and the Ilalicarnassian. The Coan is well prepared with salt water; the Ehodian has a less proportion of it; the Cnidian engenders blood, is nutritious, and laxative, but when drunk in large quan- tities it upsets the stomach; the Lesbian has less astringency and is more diuretic; the Chian is a most delicious wine, and especially the kind called Ariusian; but there are three varieties of it, the austere, the sweet, and the intermediate.—Of the Italian wines, the most delicious are the Alban and the Falernian. The Adrian is a diffusible, diaphoretic, and safe wine, (i, 25.) According to Galen, the csecuban, so frequently mentioned by Horace, was not any one sort of wine, but a general name ap- Dlied to all generous and old wines. (De Succ. bon. 2.) Old tvine was much sought after: Galen says everything is impaired by age but wine. (De Antidot.) The Falemian was reckoned best from ten to twenty : the Surrentine was not thought good until twenty-five. (Athen. i.) According to Actuarius, the thick wines are most nourishing md form the thickest blood, but are apt to occasion visceral mstructions; while, on the other hand, the thin wines are more itomachic and less nourishing. The sweet are the contrary; but he white are less hot than the others; the gold-coloured are more lot; and then the red. Wine, says Simeon Seth, is not only nutritious, but promotes