104 DRY INTEMPERAMENTS. [book i. be greater. And he ought to be rubbed with oil before putting on his clothes after every bathing. If, therefore, the milk agreed with him, we may give it to him after the second time, or if not, we mav give, instead, a ptisan properly boiled, or alica made into a ptisan ; he is then to rest until the third bathing, or otherwise until supper. His bread ought to be carefully prepared, baked in an oven, and of a fine quality; and as a seasoned he may eat those fishes which are caught among rocks, or the hake in a white soup. In a word, his food ought to be of easy digestion and nutritious, not oily and excrementitious. His drink should be wine that is weak, white, clear, bearing little water, and having some astringency. Such is the mode of cure for the greatest degree of dryness j but the moderate does not require the same restriction as to diet, which may there- fore be more generous. Let us suppose a dryness like the former, but mixed with a moderate coldness; and in this case, we must substitute certain calefacient articles; and, with regard to those mentioned above, we must add more honey to the milk, and give wine that is not so watery. We must also not only use things which are naturally heating, but which are so from their acquired qualities. And the body is to be rubbed fre- quently with the ointment of nard and mastich. When much coldness is joined to the dryness, know in the first place, that the complaint is difficult and intractable, but use the same re- medies, and also by itself honey that has been boiled and scummed, along with very old wine. The best possible remedy in such cases is that which is much used by pitchers ; and we must likewise rub the belly with it, and tear it away while it is yet warm. Such persons are also relieved by having a child of a full habit sleeping with them, so as to touch their belly. Let us next suppose that a moderate heat is joined to dryness. In this case, our first care ought to be, not to taste honey, and to use wine which is not aged, food which is tepid and milky, and to rub the belly with the oil of unripe olives, or with that of apples. But to cool such persons much is not devoid of danger, as their state is feverish when the heat prevails. Let us next suppose that a hot intemperament prevails, and that humidity is joined to it. Such an intemperament is to be cured by drinking cold water. The use of astringent food is also proper; namely, such things as are austere,