598 PRIAPISM. [book hi. appetite attending it. The part is swelled by a flatulent spirit engendered from viscid and gross humours by a moderate heat. It is clear, therefore, that the part is not to be heated but cooled moderately, with rose-cerate beat up with water, and with the cerate of chamomile applied to the penis and loins. The diet and medicines should be of an attenuant nature, without being ma- nifestly heating. We must also apply those things which are found, by experience, to be naturally efficacious. We may, there- fore, give them also to drink of the water-lily and the seed of the chaste-tree, and mix green rue with their condiments. Yet this must not be given at the commencement, since it is heat- ing, but after the use of other attenuants. If we practise evacu- ation, it must be by vomiting j for that by the belly often occasions a defluxion to the neighbouring parts. Exercise and friction are to be had recourse to for dispelling the flatus. In none of the cases which we have been mentioning does coition answer, unless when we have reason to suppose that there is a redundance of semen owing to restraint from enjoyment. Comm. Commentary. Many of the ancient authorities make no v ' distinction between satyriasis and priapism, but, according to CEelius Aurelianus, the former is an acute and the latter a chronic disease. Prosper Alpinus, the modern Methodist, says, there is this difference between satyriasis and priapism—that in the former there is violent venereal desire, whereas, in the latter, there is continued erection, but no desire nor emission of semen. It seems, in short, to be a sort of chronic chordee. Our author, Oribasius, Aetius, and Actuarius, follow the principles of treatment laid down by Galen. The latter speaks of the anti-aphrodisiacal medicines mentioned by our author. Alexander forbids the use of such things as are of an in- tensely cold nature, especially astringents and narcotics. He recommends friction, exercise of the upper parts of the body, and abstinence from flatulent food. All incentives to venery are of course to be avoided. Avicenna agrees with the Greek authorities respecting the anti-aphrodisiastical properties of rue. Like them, he re- commends emetics, but disapproves of drastic purgatives. When the affection is of an inflammatory kind, Haly Abbas recom- mends general bleeding, cupping, leeches, and applications of a