391 sect, xviii.] LYCANTHROPIA. laborious emotion. The following symptoms attend lovers : Their eyes are hollow, and do not shed tears, but appear as if overflowing with gladness, their eyelids move rapidly; and even, when none of the other parts of the body are affected, these parts are always so affected in lovers. There is no pulse peculiar to lovers, as some have supposed, but it is the same as that of per- sons labouring under care. When they call to recollection the beloved object, either from seeing or hearing, and more espe- cially if this occur suddenly, then the pulse undergoes a change from the disorder of the soul, and, therefore, it does not pre- serve its natural equability or order. Such persons, therefore, being desponding and sleepless, some physicians, mistaking their affection, have wasted them by prohibiting baths, and enjoining quietude, and a spare diet; but wiser ones, recognizing the lover, direct his attention to baths, the drinking of wine, gestation, spectacles, and amusing stories. Some must also be attacked with fear ; for, while they think of nothing but love, the affection is difficult to remove. "Wherefore, they ought also to be roused to emulation with regard to the objects of their peculiar interest in life; and, upon the whole, their understanding should be diverted to other concerns. Commentary. See Oribasius (Synops. viii, 9); Haly Abbas Comm. (Theor. ix, 7, Pract. v, 25) ; Avicenna (iii, i, 5, 23) ; Alsahara- ' * vius (Pract. i, 2, 17) ; Khases (Divis. 11.) Although Theocritus had declared that neither ointment nor powder is of any efficacy for the cure of love, several of the an- cient writers on medicine have given directions for the treat- ment of desponding lovers. Rhases, with unusual brevity, merely recommends, in gene- ral terms, repeated enjoyment, fasting, walking, and frequent intoxication. Avicenna, Haly Abbas, and Alsaharavius direct nearly the same treatment; and also mention hunting and sports. SECT. XVIII. ON APOPLEXY, AND HEMIPLEGIA OR PARALYSIS. When the common origin of the nerves is affected, and from it all the other parts of the body have lost their motion and sensibility, the affection is called apoplexy, by which the lead-