222 FEVERS. [BOOK "• Comm is now sometimes denominated creeping. In fact, Galen de- w-' its name from its resemblance to the motion of a creature creeping. (Svnops. 22.) It is said by the ancient authorities to occur in cases of sudden prostration of the vital powers, produced by inordinate evacuations, such as hemorrhage, cholera, diarrhoea, and the like. (De Prognos. Puis, ii.) The pulse called innuens et circumnuens, is said to occur only in cases of extreme debility and danger, more especially when attended with a great chill. It is connected, says Galen, with idiosyncrasy. (De Pr*s. ii, 11.) Is it the same as the pulse now named flickering ? Galen gives the following ingenious explanation why the pulse is contracted and frequent, in cases of acute inflamma- tions. He remarks that, if a person have an inflammation m a limb, he will experience most ease in a state of complete rest; but if obliged, by some urgent necessity, to perform a journey, he will find that he can accomplish this most easily by taking short and frequent steps. In like manner, when any part is inflamed, it would afford most relief if the motion of the arteries could be altogether suspended for a time; but, as this cannot be, nature renders the dilatation as confined as possible, and makes up for its smallness by frequency. (De Usu Respirationis.) SECT. XIII. ON THE ALVINE DISCHARGES. Of the alvine discharges, the best is that which is soft and compact, and is evacuated at the hour which is customary in health. Such excrement is yellowish, of the proper consistence, and not very fetid; for whatever is different from these is not good. That which resembles in colour the food which has been taken, or is thin, wants the natural juices, and is passed quickly, is indigested. But that which is intensely yellow, if evacuated in the beginning of a disease, indicates that the complaint is of a very bilious nature; but if after the acme, that the body is properly purged. The green is the sign of verdigris-green bile, but the black of black bile, or of adust blood mixed with it. The livid marks a coldness and considerable mortification of the internal parts. The oily is the mark of a melting of the fat in