sect, xxxv.] EPIDEMIC. 275 its vicinity to a gulf like the Charonian, from which miasmata Comm. are exhaled that taint the air and occasion diseases. In many ' passages of his ' Commentary on the Epidemics' of Hippocrates, he states that epidemical diseases arise from the condition of the country in which they prevail. Lucretius accounts for the prevalence of epidemical diseases upon similar principles : " Atque ea vis omnis morborum, pestilitasque, Aut extrinsicus, at nubes nebulaeque superne Per coelum veniunt, aut ipsa sa?pe coorta De terrd surgunt, ubi putrorem humida nacta est, Intempestivis pluviisque, et solibus icta." (De Rerum Nat. vi, 1100.) Sihus Italicus appears to refer an epidemical fever to the same cause, (xiv.) In his work, on the 1 Varieties of Fever/ Galen expresses his opinion on this subject very fully. He remarks that an at- mosphere of a hot constitution, such as generally prevails at the time of the rising of the dog-star, having been inhaled by the heart, increases the heat in it, from which it is diffused all over the system, and enkindles a febrile affection. In pestilential constitutions, he adds, it is principally by the respiration that the disease is contracted, although sometimes it may arise from the fluids of the body being disposed to putrescency, which is increased by the condition of the atmosphere; but for the most part epidemical complaints derive their origin from the atmo- sphere being tainted with putrid exhalations. The putridity of the atmosphere may be occasioned either by a multitude of dead bodies which have not been burnt, as is apt to happen in wars, or it may arise from the exhalations of certain marshes or lakes in the summer season, or sometimes the inordinate heat of the atmosphere may give rise to them, as happened in the case of the Athenian plague, according to the testimony of Thucydides. And here we must digress to remark, that Homer evidently ascribes the plague which attacked the Grecian army to the great heat of the sun. See the Commentary of Eustathius on the beginning of the Iliad; Ammianus Marcellinus (xix) j Heraclides Ponticus (Allegor); and Macrobius (Saturn, vii, 5.) Galen, however, inculcates that the constitution of the atmo- sphere alone is not sufficient to produce disease without a pecu-