THE STOMACH. 507 SECT. XXXVII.] Of litharge, dr. xvj; of myrrh, dr. ijj of amomum, dr. j ; mix with wme.—Another : Of liquid alum, dr. viij j of amomum, of myrrh, and of spikenard, of each, dr. iv; triturate with wine, and use. Commentary. See in particular Oribasius (Synops. viii, 36) ; Comm. Nonnus (155); Geopon. (xii, 26) j Alsaharavius (Pract. xv); Rhases (ad Mansor. v, 51, and Contin. xxxvi.) All the authorities concur in recommending for the cure of this complaint, a combination of astringents with aromatics. They therefore direct us to mix alum with storax, myrrh, and the like. Rhases recommends tutty with rose-water and camphor, and also various astringent and odoriferous liniments. The plan of treatment directed by Alsaharavius is deserving of attention. He recommends purging with the hiera picra. Alsaharavius further recommends a bath in which mint, marjoram, centaury, spikenard, and the like have been boiled. The part is afterwards to be rubbed with an ointment, consisting of litharge or tutty, mixed with alum, myrrh, &c. in fragrant wine. The ancients believed that living freely upon figs rendered the perspiration fetid. Eustathius, the commentator on Homer, makes mention of two Sophists, called Anchimolus and Mochus, who lived solely upon figs for food, and water for drink; and he adds that their perspiration was so fetid, that when in the bath everybody shunned them. (Ad Iliad, xiii, 6.) SECT. XXXVII. ON AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH, OF THE HYPOCHONDRIA, AND OF THE BELLY. Those complaints which occur in fevers, such as loathing of food, bulimia, the canine appetite, atony of the stomach, deli- quium animi, thirst, hiccough, nausea, and syncope, have been treated of sufficiently in the Second Book, and it would be out of place to say more about them. But inflammations of the orifice of the stomach and of the liver require the admixture of astringents; for, if treated by the relaxant method alone, it will prove dangerous. It will be necessary, then, whether oil be affused on the part or a cataplasm be applied, to add some of the astringents to it, such as wormwood or the nard ointment; or that of apples, or of quinces may be boiled in it. The follow-