OMM. on the humidity of the stomach. (Pract. tr. xvi, c. 1.) It is sucx. lxiv.] THE STOMACH. ,,, cold storaacli has a good appetite but not a good digestion, in particular with regard to such things as are of difficult diges- tion, and are of a cold nature, which therefore are apt to turn acid m it. And it delights indeed in cold things, but is readily hurt by the immoderate use of them. The intemperaments proceeding from disease differ from the congenital in this, that they long for opposite things, and not always alike. If the stomach then digests properly, it is of a moderate temperament; and if it does not it is of a bad ; but if its eructations are fetid, its heat is inordinate and inflammatory; but if acid, the con- trary. And in those who digest properly things of difficult digestion, the heat of the stomach is inordinate, and weak in those who cannot digest those things, but digest fishes. It must also be observed, whether or not the symptom is occa- sioned by any humour flowing from another part; for in pitui- tous constitutions acid eructations are apt to occur; but in the bilious, fetid airs and other disagreeable qualities are apt to prevail. The common symptom of them all is nausea. If the depraved humours swim within the cavity of the stomach, they float on the surface, and are discharged by vomiting; but if they are contained in the substance of it within its coats, they annoy it with vain attempts to vomit. Commentary. We shall now state briefly the opinions of c the ancients with regard to the functional office of the stomach. Actuarius says, " I am of opinion, that there are four species of concoction which are performed in different parts of the body : the first in the stomach; the second in the vena ramalis (vena portse?), meseraic veins, and concave part of the liver; the third in the convex part of the liver and veins proceeding from it; and the fourth, consisting of fabrication or assimilation, which takes place in the extreme parts of the body." (De Urinis.) The various modes of change or concoction which the food undergoes in the body, are minutely described by Macro- bins. (Saturnal. vii.) In another place, Actuarius says, " Digestion is performed by moderate heat and moisture." (De Spiritu Animali, p. ii, s. 1.) Alsaharavius in like manner states, that the digestive faculty depends partly on the heat, and partly impossible not to see that the gastric juice is alluded to in these