AFFECTIONS OF THE MOUTH. [book hi. 456 land snails burnt with honey; unwashed wool burnt with a little salts. With each of these,* for the sake of fragrance, let there be mixed the schamanth, or spikenard, Indian leaf (malabathrum), or cyperus, or iris. An application which will whiten the teeth, repress swelling of the gums, and produce fragrant breath. Of puniice-stone, of roasted salts, of iris, of each, dr. iv; of cyperus, dr. v; of spike- nard, dr. j ; of pepper, dr. yj; pulverize, and use. For teeth set on edge. Painful feeling in the teeth is relieved by chewing purslain, or by rubbing oil of unripe olives, or by lees of oil boiled in a copper vessel to the consistence of honey, and rubbed in after being long kept. For worn teeth. For worn teeth, apply, of bay-berries, of fis- sile alum, of the climbing birthwort, equal parts. For corroded gums. Of the flowers of roses, dr. viij ; of galls, dr. iv; of myrrh, dr. ij. Erosions and running from the gums are cured by washing with asses' milk, the decoction of olive leaves, or vinegar of squills; or by the following dry applications: the rust of iron, and flowers of the cultivated pomegranate. For swelling and fungous flesh of the gums, the juice of purslain re- tained in the mouth, the brine of pickled olives, warm oil of unripe olives, or lentisk oil, or oil of apples, or lees of oil, are applicable; and the following powders : the rust of iron or cop- per, the roots of birthwort, the seed of plantain, diphryges, cal- cined copperas, pomegranate flowers. For fissures of the lips. Rub with boiled lees of oil. Or this: Of geese fat, with honey and turpentine, equal parts; of the flowers of roses, of the sordes of unwashed wool, of rose- oil, a small quantity. On the disease called ranula. Ranula is an inflammatory swell- ing which forms below the tongue, particularly in children; wherefore rub the part with equal parts of misy and scraped verdigris (xyston) in powder; and to the chin apply the plasters called antherum, sphcerium, and the parygrum from eggs. But, in adults, divide the veins below the tongue in the first place. —Another, (it answers likewise with aphthae): Of scraped ver- digris, of galls, of chalcitis, equal parts. With must it will form a gargle.—Another: Having previously rubbed with the flour of tares and honey, anoint with galls triturated in honey, or with the flowers of roses in like manner, or rinse the mouth with a decoction of olive leaves. I