DISEASES OF THE EYE. 409 SECT. XXII.] Galen, in the work referred to above, explains the rationale Comm. of this affection with his nsual penetration, but at too great' " length to allow of our entering upon an exposition of it. The others treat of it similarly to our author. Thus Haly Abbas mentions various causes of tremors, such as old age, drinking cold water unseasonably, excessive indulgence in wine or venery, inanition, and the like. He recommends aloes and castor, the hot bath, friction with calefacient oils, and other such remedies. Serapion gives a sensible account of the nature of the affection, and recommends fetid or antispasmodic remedies internally, and friction with calefacient oils externally. When it is occasioned by exposure to cold, Rhases recommends the hot bath and in- solation. We may mention here that Hippocrates has given a very accurate history of a case of delirium tremens. (Epid. iii, 5.) SECT. XXII. ON DISEASES OF THE EYE J AND FIRST OF PAIN, FROM GALEN. When violent pains in the eyes take place, consider from what diathesis the eye happens to be pained in the inflamma- tions ; for they are either occasioned by the pungency of an acrid defluxion, or from the coats being over filled and stretched, or from the distension of thick humours or of flatulent spirits. When the pains proceed from pungency, they are to be cured by evacuating with purgatives, and by injecting into the eye the white of an egg. When the inflammation is concocted, if the body be free of impurities, the most befitting remedies are baths. Inflammations from plethora are to be cured by the detraction of blood, purging the belly, and applying friction to the inferior extremities. Those from distension are to be cured by first evacuating the whole body, then by occasioning a re- vulsion downwards of the humours, and afterwards by using topical applications of a discutient nature. The eyes must be fomented, and the decoction of fenugreek poured into them. When the vessels of the eye are distended with thick blood, while there is no plethoric diathesis in the general system, the patient must drink wine which has the power of heating, evacu- ating, and removing obstructions. On disorder of the eye, and particularly of ophthalmy. Dis-