34 LASSITUDE. [BOOK *' exercise will be sufficient; but if it be greater and deeper-seated, we must not permit such a one either to exercise or to take any motion whatever, but he must for one day remain without food, in a state of quietude and sleep j and then in the evening when he has been rubbed with emollient unguents, and bathed m tepid water, we must give him wholesome food and some soup. And we must also not restrict him from wine, for nothing con- tributes so much to the digestion of half-digested humours as wine Should the symptoms be removed by means of the afore- said treatment, we may allow the man to return to his usual employments; but if on the following day they should still re- main we must bethink ourselves of a more potent remedy. It his strength be good, we must have recourse either to phlebotomy or purging, having first determined which of these remedies we shall try. If he be weak, we must not bleed, but may purge him moderately. If there be many crude humours in the system, we must neither bleed, nor purge, nor exercise, nor move at all, nor try the bath; but we must keep him in a state of perfect quietude, and give him food, drink, and medicines of attenuating and incisive qualities, without being of a manifestly heating nature. We may give vinegar and honey, and occasionally some ptisan or honied water. And since, in such persons, the lower belly is apt to become swelled and distended with wind, and whatever food is taken to be converted into flatulence, it will be better to give some pepper along with the food. It will be better, too, to use the composition called Diospoliticus, and that simple medicine which consists of three kinds of peppers. Oxymel is also most proper. Let them likewise use a drink made from honey, particularly when it begins to become acid; and such wines as are gently acid, and such articles of food as are attenuant without being heating, as capers, if taken with vinegar and honey, or vinegar and oil. When the Tensive species of lassi- tude takes place without exercise, it indicates that a plethora distends the solid parts of the body. If the fulness be occa- sioned by blood, it will be best to open a vein, or scarify the ankles. If the Inflammative lassitude be spontaneous, it will not endure a delay of a few horns, much less of two or three days, for it straightway induces a strong fever, unless one anti- cipate by letting blood. It will be best, if possible, to abstract blood twice in one day ; for if care be taken that the first bleed-