424 DISEASES OF THE EYE. [book hi. which Galen remarks, that, in imitation of nature's method of removing the complaint, physicians are in the practice of pro- ducing an artificial looseness hy means of cathartics and clysters. Lead is an ingredient in several of Alexander's collyria. For periodical ophthalmy, Hippocrates recommends purging the head and bowels; and in certain cases bleeding, cupping, and restricted diet. Celsus, Galen, and, in short, most of the ancient autho- rities make mention of narcotics, such as opium and mandra- gora, but do not approve of them as common remedies. Galen, however, instances ophthalmy as one of the species of inflam- mation in which opium is admissible. (De Optima Secta, 9.) Alexander, in like manner, cautions against the indiscriminate use of opium to lull the pain. Some of his prescriptions for collyria, however, contain opium. Galen recommends scarifi- cations in chronic defluxions of the eye. Aetius lays down very proper rules respecting purging, fomentations, venesection, and baths. He properly remarks regarding the use of wine, that it is only applicable when the patient is of a dry and cold intempe- rament. Celsus is a decided advocate for fomentations with hot water in all cases of ophthalmy. The Arabians treat ophthalmy upon the same principles as the Greeks, without supplying much additional information. Mesue, like our author, recommends bleeding by opening the temporal artery, which operation he describes minutely. When, the bleeding cannot be stopped otherwise, he directs us to secure the vessel with a silk thread. He also makes mention of leeching and the actual cautery. He is very minute in his directions about his collyria. One of his anodyne collyria consists of the juice of hyoscyamus, mandragora, and opium ; and another con- tains camphor, saffron, hyoscyamus, and the like. The use of narcotics, however, is forbid by Jesu Haly. Rhases also rather disapproves of them. Avicenna makes mention of bleeding by the temporal arteries, the angular vein of the nose, and the frontal. When the usual remedies do not succeed, he approves of the cautery; and, in certain cases, recommends strongly the use of stimulant applications, such as res ustum, copperas, and arsenic. Galen, in like manner, makes mention of arsenic, and also of misy, sori, and chalcitis (substances resembling our sul- phate of copper) among his remedies for diseases of the eye. Having ourselves had occasion to use arsenic in certain malig-