SECT- XC J FISHES. in Aristotle, Oppian, and Cassidorus describe it as being a cunning Comm. fiah, which does not accord with the character of the pike — Bochart concludes that it is the fish called XaiWe, by the mo- dern Greeks ; varolo, by the Italians; and bar, by the French. It seems indisputable that it was the bass, i. e. labrax lupus Limer. Icesms, as quoted by Athenaeus, says of it, that it contains good juices, but is not v ery nutritious; nor readily eva- cuated, but is the most delicious of all fishes. Archestratus calls it < the offspring of the gods.- All the authorities, in a word, speak highly of it. Lupi caught in the Tiber were es- teemed the best. See Horace (Sat. ii, 2,) and Macrobius (Sa- turn, ni, 16.) There were two species, the lanatus and the varius, °f which the former was in most esteem. (M^ Pike iS un(luestioiiaDly the "lucius" of Ausonius {Mosem); but it seems doubtful whether it be noticed by the Greek writers. The hepatus would seem to be a congener. Galen says its flesh is intermediate between the soft and the hard. The barb {cyprinus barbus L.) is not described by the Greeks, but is mentioned by the Latin poet Ausonius (1. c.) who says of it that it is the only fish which is improved by age. The rhombus was esteemed a remarkable delicacy. The clas- sical reader will recollect the ludicrous importance attached to the capture of one by the flatterers of Domitian, as described in the 4th Satire of Juvenal. It is frequently made honorable mention of by Horace and Martial. According to Harduin and Nonnius, it was the turbot, yet not the common turbot of this country (pleuronectus maximus), but the species called car- relet^ in French (P. rhombus L.) Athenams calls it sweet and nutritious. Celsus ranks it among " res boni succi." Accord- ing to Athenseus, it is the same as the ^r,Vra of Aristotle. It is, we suppose, the ^laaa of Alexander (ii, 6.) It is the ^laiov of Seth (V. Notae Bogdani). He calls it wholesome and of easy digestion. The cephalus was a species of the mullet, as is stated by Harduin (ad Plinii Hist. Nat. ix, 26); Schneider (ad ^Eliani Nat. Anim. i, 12); and Ludovicus Nonnius. It is the mugil cephalus L. Oppian describes the fishing of it in the most striking manner. Galen remarks that the flesh of it differs much in quality, according to the nature of the place in which it is found. Athenaeus ranks it among the fishes which arc sweet n