631 SECT. I.XIX.] THE UTERI S. charge of blood. In general, therefore, it is proper that the patients should lie in a small, dark, and moderately cool house, upon a firm conch, with their feet raised, and in a state of quietude; for motion provokes discharges of every kind. And the swelling and hardness are to be cured by the remedies which we have mentioned for scirrhus and scleroma of the uterus j dropsical effusions by those recommended for dropsy ; and hemorrhages by those for the flux. Some call by the name of mole an unorganized mass of flesh which forms on the coats of the womb, and is delivered like the foetus. This species is to be managed by a relaxing treatment, so as to be speedily discharged. Commentary. By the first species of mole, fibrous tumour Co of the ovaria and perhaps also scirrhus of the neck of the womb are meant to be described. The other species is now well un- derstood, and is described by many ancient authors. See an account of it at the end of Aristotle's ' History of Animals f also Pliny (H. N. vii, 15, and x, 61) j Hippocrates (de Steril. xx); Plutarch (t. i, 252, ed. Xylander); Nonnus (212); Rhases (ad Mansor. ix, 88 j Cont. xxii) ; Moschion (de Morb. Mul. 125) ; Actuarius (Meth. Med. i, 56.) Galen and Avicenna agree in representing the true mole as a corruption of the male semen, and consequently they believed that it never occurs in virgins. 11 anneman and other modern authorities maintain the contrary. See ' Dissertations on the Mole' by Van Swieten (Comment. 1326), by Ambrose Pare (de Horn. Genit. xxxiii), by Martinus Akakia (ap. Gynajc. 773), by Lodovicus Mercatus (ap. Gymuc. 1013), by Leonardus Jacchinus (Comment, in llhasis, ix, 71), and by Euysch (Anat. Chirurg. Cent.) Aetius gives an account of the former species, but it is little different from our author's. He recommends, in the first place, emollient applications of all kinds, namely, baths, pessaries, and fumigations, and afterwards dropaces, sinapisms, and the like. The same plan of treatment is pursued by Avicenna. Haly Vbbas and Alsaharavius describe the two species of mole in exactly the same terms as our author. Rhases also describes the two species of mole, namely, the one which is hard and round, and the other or soft species to which the name is now o-cnerallv restricted.