sect. xiv.J MELANCHOLY, ETC. 387 black bile. When the patient is young, and of a hot tempe- Comm. rainent, Haly abstracts blood from the arm or temples. He approves particularly of hot drastic purgatives, such as black helle- bore, scammony, agaric, and the like. He also gives poppies, lettuces, &c. to compose the patient. He recommends chola- gogues, such as the decoction of wormwood, and the like. But his treatment is too minutely and circumstantially detailed to admit of its being done justice to within our narrow limits. The same may be said of the account given by Alsaharavius. Rhases in certain cases approves of venesection for the cure of melancholy: When connected with dyspepsia, he recommends emetics and purgatives, especially black hellebore. He also approves of the tepid bath. We must now mention the opinions of the Methodists. In cases of melancholy Camus Aurelianus disapproves of aloes and wormwood, as acting too violently; and also forbids venesection and purging with hellebore. On the contrary, he recommends astringent articles of food, and astringent applications contain- ing galls, alum, hypocistis, &c. to be laid over the stomach. Of mania he gives a fuller account, replete with much valuable matter, that does not readily admit of abridgment. He enume- rates many existing causes of the complaint, such as intoxica- tion, inordinate passions, indigestion, exposure to the sun, sup- pression of the hemorrhoidal and menstrual discharges, and the like. Maniacal persons, he says, are differently affected, one believing himself a cock, another a tile, another a god, another an orator, and such like ridiculous fancies. He then inculcates the important fact that the affection of the mind is always secondary, and not primary, as some had supposed. His moral and medical treatment is of the most emollient kind; and he enjoins retirement and quietude. When the patient's strength will permit, he approves of venesection, the application of cup- ping-instruments to the head, and leeches to any other parts of the body which may be particularly affected. He commends strongly the bath of oil and the natural hot baths. He also approves of hellebore. He condemns the practice of the other sects in many respects. He does not approve of abstracting blood from both arms, so as to produce deliquium, nor of keeping the patient constantly in a dark place, nor of opening the tem- poral artery. He disapproves of applying narcotic fomentations