CACHEXIA. [book III. 568 Comm. for our limits. He explains the pain at the top of the shoulder ^ ' in the same way as Aretseus. He mentions that gross food pro- duces enlargement of the liver, and hence animals fed on figs have large livers. For inflammation he recommends at first depletion and afterwards refrigerants, such as camphor, fleawort, and even snow-water. He recommends aloes with wormwood as a deobstruent cathartic. SECT. XLVII. ON CACHEXIA. We are accustomed to call the commencement of dropsical affections cachexia. Wherefore we must cure it by bleeding, if nothing prevent, at intervals, and continuing the abstraction until the third or fourth day. But, in an especial manner, we must evacuate those who have fallen into this affection from retention of the hemorrhoidal or menstrual discharge; as in those cases which arise from a copious evacuation, we must ab- stain from venesection, and by all means purge with the hiera from colocynth. The diet should be light and desiccative; and recourse must be had to natural baths, namely the aluminous, and more especially the nitrous, and then the sulphureous; but the other kind of baths may be taken at greater intervals. Let them be exercised in every way, more especially by those who are called jatraliptse. At last they must be put under a course of hellebore. They are wonderfully remedied by a propoma of wormwood, and by sinapisms and dropaces. If the affection is converted into dropsy, we must have recourse to the treat- ment applicable for dropsical cases in the manner about to be explained. Commentary. Almost all the authors referred to in the pre- ceding Section may be consulted on cachexia and dropsy. Aretseus gives an accurate account of this affection, which, he says, usually terminates in dropsy, phthisis, or wasting. He mentions many symptoms of it, such as oedema, difficulty of breathing, and so forth; and he correctly remarks that the alvine discharges are dry, white, crude, and without bile. His chapter on the treatment unfortunatelv is lost. Cpelius Aurelianus says that Themison w as the first who ex-