251 SECT. XXVI.] HEPIALUS. nuant nature, and then emetics, after which the phlegm is to Comm. be purged by means of colocynth and agaric, and cataplasms "~^~> and fomentations are to be applied to the pit of the stomach. Avicenna lays down the rules of treatment with so great mi- nuteness, that we cannot venture upon an abridgment of them. His principles, however, seem to be the same as those of Galen. Averrhoes recommends, for the first seven days, medicines of an incisive, attenuant, and deobstruent nature. He then gives cathartics which evacuate phlegm, such as turbith, agaric, and hiera picra, but forbids the use of colocynth. He approves very much of friction, the mode of applying which is minutely de- scribed by him. Rhases recommends much the same treatment. He, in particular, recommends turbith and agaric along with wormwood and mastich. Haly's remedies are mostly diluents and attcnuants. Alsaharavius recommends the same remedies as Rhases. SECT. XXVI. ON THE FEVER HEFIALUS, AND THE RIGOR The vitreous phlegm being the coldest of all, if it accumulate in the body, and remain free from putrefaction, it occasions the rigor without heat, which is not attended with fever. In those fevers which are kindled by the humours, it is putrefac- tion for the most part which kindles febrile heat. If it become putrid, and that through its whole substance, which is rarely the case, owing to its great coldness, it occasions quotidian fever. But when it is half putrid, and not equally through its whole substance, but some parts of it being putrid, and others not, it gives rise to the fever called hepialus, in which those affected have rigors and fever at the same time; for the parts of the humour which are not putrid being scattered through the veins all over the body, occasion rigor; but the putrid parts kindle fever. The word hepialus is either derived from rnriaq aXoq, i. e. the sea, which is mild in appearance, although for- midable in reality; or from 7/7rt(oc akmtuv, i. e. warming gently. And, as this fever is of the quotidian kind, being formed by phlegm, it is to be treated in the same manner; only that it requires remedies as much hotter and more inci- WITHOUT HEAT.