121 sect. Lxxvni.J FKUMENTACEA. teen parts of water, then mixing a moderate quantity of oil, and after it swells up, some vinegar. \Y ten properly boiled, a small quantity of salt is to be thrown in, and sometimes leeks or dill may be added. Oats and chondrus may be prepared in like manner as a ptisan Commentary. On the cerealia consult in particular Theo- Co phrastus (H. P. iii) • Dioscorides (ii) j Galen (de Aliment, i);"— Pliny (H. N. xviii) j Serapion (de Simpl.); and of the mo- dern authorities see, in particular, Harduin (Notajin Plin. 1. c.)j Paucton (Metrologie) j Dickson (Husbandry of the Ancients) \ Sprengel (R. H. H. and Notie in Diascor. 1. c.); Ludovicus Nonnius (de Re Cibaria, i) j and J. Bruyerinus Campegius (de Re Cibaria.) Among the cerealia, wheat, as Galen states, deservedly holds the first place, being in most general use and containing the most nutriment within a smaU bulk. He remarks, that it is the most glutinous of all the articles of this class. Haly Abbas likewise states that wheat is the most nutritious of all articles of food. Pliny asserts the same thing of it. He calls the siligo the delicice tritici. Galen explains the siJigo and similago in much the same terms as our author. The third species, or the autopyrus, he says, consists of all the parts of the grain, the bran not being excluded. Actuarius, on the other hand, says that the bran only is rejected. Is not the text of the latter corrupt ? Bran, Galen adds, is detergent, and con- tains little nourishment. Modern commentators have been greatly puzzled to determine what the siligo, similago, and autopyrus of the ancients were. It appears impossible to re- concile all the different descriptions of them given by ancient writers, and therefore we cannot but suspect that some of them must have written from an imperfect acquaintance with the subject. Upon the whole, we are inclined to think that we shall not be far from the truth if we set them down as varieties of flour or bread, as regards quality, corresponding in a great measure, to the kinds of bread now distinguished by the names of the wrhite, the wheaten, and the household. At all events the autopyrus is certainly analogous to the last. The furfura- ceus, or panis cibarius of Celsus, was made solely from bran. Theophrastus mentions that the lightest wheat imported to