SKCT. C. ] EPISTLE OF DIOCLES. 183 OMM. mentions, that having fallen into a state of insomnolency from c too much application to study, he cured himself by eating let- tuces and using the oil of the water lily externally. (Aph. u. s.) SECT. XCIX. OX SOMNOLENCY. If, on the other hand, the sleep be profound and heavy, we must abstain from frequent baths and cooling unguents; we'must use masticatories, and upon the whole change the regimen for one of a hotter, drier, and less nutritive character, because the affection is occasioned by a cold and humid matter irrigating the brain. Commentary. Sec the Commentary on the Sections on Comm. Lethargy and Cams in Book Third. SECT. C. THE EPISTLE OF DIOCLES ON THE PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. DIOCLES TO KING ANTIGONUS. Since of all kings you are the most skilled in the arts, and have lived very long, and are skilled in all philosophy, and have attained the highest rank in mathematics, I, supposing that the science which treats of all things that relate to health is a branch of philosophy becoming a king and befitting to you, have writ- ten you this account of the origin of diseases, of the symptoms which precede them, and of the modes by which they may be alleviated. For neither does a storm gather in the heavens but it is preceded by certain signs which seamen and men of murh skill attend to, nor does any disease attack the human frame without having some precursory symptom. If, then, you will only be persuaded by what we say regarding them, you may attain a correct acquaintance with these things. We divide the human body into four parts: the head, the chest, the belly, and the blad- der.—When a disease is about to fix in the head, it is usually announced beforehand by vertigo, pain in the head, heaviness in the eyebrows, noise in the ears, and throbbing of the temples; the eyes water in the morning, attended with dimness of sight; the sense of smell is lost, and the gums become swelled. When any such symptoms occur, the head ought to be purged, not in-