SECT. XII.] PULSE. 215 The character deep or high is easily understood, and is evi- Comm. dently produced by a free dilatation of the artery. It does not indeed appear evident how there can be a difference between a deep and a broad pulse, if the dilatation of an artery were equal on all sides; but Galen positively affirms that it is a fact ascer- tained by ample experience, that sometimes there is a free dila- tation of the artery upwards with a contracted one laterally, constituting a high and narrow pulse; and, on the other hand, that there is often a free dilatation laterally with a contracted one upwards, constituting a low and broad pulse. He gives directions for detecting these peculiarities of the artery. (De DifF. Puis, iii, 2.) The characters of quick and slow are derived from the length of time occupied in the actions of systole and diastole. They seem to be sufficiently well marked, and yet Fyens denied that there is any difference between frequency and quickness. However, many of our late authorities in medicine acknowledge a dis- tinction between these two characters, and they appear to us sufficiently obvious. In fact, Galen establishes the distinction in the most satisfactory manner. (De Dignos. ii.) The distinctions of strong and feeble are derived from the force with which the artery strikes the finger. No one can possibly mistake them. The relaxation and constriction of the arterial tube give rise to the characters of soft and hard, which are so obvious that they cannot be misunderstood. The character of hardness is called tension by Galen, who states that it is characteristic of inflammation. The next class of pulses derive their characters from the time which elapses between two diastoles or pulsations of the artery. They are called dense and rare, in the ancient system, being used in the same sense that frequent and slow are m modern works. The terms equal and unequal (or, as they might have been translated, equable and unequable) arise from the constancy or inconstancy of any peculiar character of the arterial pulsation. The regular and irregular are distinguished from these, inas- much as a series of pulsations, although unequal may be re- gular, when they observe a certain ratio, as when four strong pulsations are succeeded by a feeble one, and this series goes on successively.