4 PREGNANT WOMEN. [book t. of food, they advise us to tempt the appetite with a variety of savory things. To those who have a desire for eating earth, they particularly recommend starch. When the fluid which is vomited is of a thick and viscid nature, they recommend pickles, radishes, and oxymel, for an emetic. They also particularly direct astringent cataplasms and plasters to be applied to the preecordia. As the practice of the other authorities is conducted upon similar principles, we shall mention them very succinctly. For the depraved appetite which longs for earth, Serapion re- commends aromatic spices, such as cardamon, cubebs, and the like. For the continued vomiting, Alsaharavius directs plasters, containing the oil of spikenard, mastich, quinces, wormwood, and the like, or a vessel filled with hot water, to be applied over the stomach, pomegranate seeds to be held in the mouth; and that the patient should take gentle exercise, and abstain from all sweet things. Alexander Aphrodisiensis accounts for the disease in much the same way as Galen and Aetius. He says that, when the menstrual fluid is suppressed, a determination of it takes place to the stomach, until the foetus becomes as large as to con- sume it. Pliny strongly commends citrons for the cure of the disease. For the cedematous swellings of the feet and legs, most of the other authorities concur with our author in recommending astringent applications. The anthyllis, mentioned by him, is supposed by Sprengel to have been the cressa cretica. (R. H. Hist. p. 164.) We shall conclude our commentary on this Section with an outline of the directions given by Aspasia for the management of pregnant women. Women who have conceived are to be guarded from frights, sorrow, and all violent mental perturbation. They are to avoid gestation in carriages, severe exercise, inor- dinate breathing and blows about the loins; also the lifting of heavy loads, dancing, and sitting on hard seats. Likewise all acrid and flatulent food, strong clysters, and too much or too little food and drink are to be avoided. All discharges of blood, whether from the nose or hemorrhoids, are dangerous in the pregnant state. Moderate and wholesome food, gesta- tion in a sedan, gentle walking, soft friction, and the exercise