PLEURISY. [BOOK in' 490 m. come on. The milk of asses or of goats is what he prefers. He TITS of the Hippocratie tests of pus. Uhases describes species of consumption. One of them he represents as big sea'ted in the trachea. His account of the various mode, of treatment is most ample. He strongly commends the milk °f Galen, Rhases, and most of the ancient authorities held that consumption is contagious. See, further Anstotle (Prob.7) and Isocrates (JEginet.) Alexander Aphrodisiensis accounts foi the propagation of the disease by supposing that putrid matter is conveyed from the lungs of the affected person to others. (Prob. U' The historian Sallust uses the word tabes as synonymous with contagium, in the following sentence: «Tanta vis morbiuti tabes, plerosque civium animos invaserat." (Catahn. 36.) Livy does the same in several places. (See ii, 23.) SECT. XXXIII. ON PLEURISY. Pleurisy, properly so called, is an inflammation of the mem- brane which lines the ribs, and is attended with difficulty of breathing, cough, continual fever, and pain shooting to the cla- vicle and hypochondrium. You may distinguish pleurisy from inflammation of the liver (for in it there are all these symptoms), by the pain in pleurisy being pungent, and the cough being sometimes without expectoration (when it indicates that the disease is not yet concocted), and sometimes with expectoration, the appearance of which indicates the nature of the humour that occasions the complaint j for it is red and tinged with blood when a fulness of blood is the cause; yellow and palish when caused by yellow bile; white and frothy when from phlegm; and blackish when from the melancholic humour. And the pulse is hard and serrated. But, in inflammation of the liver, the pain is not pun- gent, nor is the pulse so hard; and the cough throughout is dry and without expectoration, and the face appears paler. Pleuri- sies from inflammation of the external muscles (which are not, properly speaking, pleurisies) are not accompanied with cough and expectoration, nor is the pulse hard; and if one touch the part affected with his hand, the patients feel pain; and if not resolved,