SECT. IV.] HEADACH. 353 Camus Aurelianus(deMorb. Chron. i, 1); Octavius Horatianus, Comm. ii, 1); Alexander (i, 10); Pseudo-Dioscorides (Euporist. i, 6) ; Actuarius (Meth. Med. vi, 2) j Aetius (vi, 40); Leo (Synops. ii, 1) j Nonnus (10) ; Serapion (i, 6) ; Avicenna (iii, 1, 2) j Avenzoar (i, 3); Mesue (de iEgr. Capitis, ii, 1) j Haly Abbas (Theor. ix, 3, Pract. v) j Alsaharavius (Pract. i, 2, 1); Rhases (ad Mansor. ix, 1, Contin. i, 21.) In headach from heat, Galen and Alexander concur in con- demning the use of poppies, hemlock, and mandragora, unless when compelled to have recourse to them by the continued watchfulness of the patient. Galen directs the application of snow to the head. Ayenzoar recommends the affusion of cold liquids from a height upon the head. Serapion mentions oil cooled with ice. When the pain is obstinate, Rhases approves of opening the temporal artery. When the pain is violent, the author of the e Euporista' recommends us to shave the head and bathe it with a decoction of narcotic vegetables. Galen expresses himself very clearly with regard to the sympathy be- tween the head and the stomach, from nervous communication. (Loc. affect, iii, 9.) For headachs arising from a hot or cold intemperament, Galen recommends the remedies called metasyncritica by the Methodists, for an account of which see Le Clerc. (Hist, de la Med. ii, iv, 1, 3.) He says, " Ce que Thessalus appelloit metasyncrise etoit un changement qu' il pretendoit faire dans tout le corps, ou dans quelque partie seulement." Such rube- facients as mustard, thapsia, &c. belonged to this class. See also Prosper Alpinus (de Med. Method, iii, 15.) The term signifies " altering the system;" and, therefore, we have gene- rally rendered it " alteratives" in the course of this translation. The treatment folloAved by Philagrius in the hot and fiery in- temperament of the head deserves to be noticed. In a case of this description having used many other cooling remedies in vain, he says he shaved the head and applied snow to it, by which means he extinguished the intemperament. (Theophilus, Sch. in Hipp. t. ii, 457, ed. Dietz.) This practice is borrowed from Galen, as above. Our author borrows his treatment of bilious headach from Galen and Alexander. To his judicious account of headach from wine or a blow, nothing need be added from any other 23