473 SECT. XXVIII.] CORYZA, ETC. with boiled honey.—Another: Of hyssop, of pennyroyal, of pepper, of each, oz. j; of Macedonian parsley, oz. ss; of honey, a hemina. For concocting an inveterate cough. Of honey, dr. xvj; of turpentine, dr. ij; of galbanum, dr. xiv. Haying boiled them together, and having formed to the size of beans or of walnuts, let them be sucked.—Another: A dry cough is cured by the arteriacs, and also by the drinking of hot water j for, not being able to expectorate, owing to the thickness of the phlegm, they are assisted in so far by diluents. A decoction from hyssop, and iris, and pine-nuts, also answers with them. A trochisk to be inhaled for a continued cough. Of storax, of pepper, of mastich, of Macedonian parsley, of each, oz. j; of sandarach, scr. vj; two bay-berries ; mix with honey j and fu- migate by throwing them upon coals, so that the person affected with the cough may inhale the vapour through a funnel. It answers also with those affected by cold in anywise. Commentary. All the writers referred to in the preceding Section (with the exception of Aretseus) may be consulted here. Galen, in the seventh book of his work, ' de Med. sec. loc.' has treated of these diseases so fully that he may be said to have exhausted the subject. We can only afford room for a few of his general remarks. He states that the arteriacs, or compo- sitions for affections of the arteria trachea, consist of three dif- ferent kinds of medicines. First, those called by him obstru- ents, and answering to those now called demulcents, such as Cretan sweet wine, tragacanth, liquorice, and the like, which act by smoothing the asperities of the parts. Second, the acrid, containing cinnamon, turpentine-rosin, and the like. Third, the intermediate, consisting of the juice of ptisan, almonds, and the like. He gives a great number of compositions from Andromachus, Criton, and others, which might deserve atten- tion. Of their ingredients some are expectorants, such as squills, myrrh, &c.; some demulcents, such as liquorice, tragacanth, &c; and some narcotic, such as opium, mandragora, hyoscyamus, and hemlock. With the medicinal properties of the last-men- tioned article (we mean the coniam maculatum), which Dr. Paris commends so highly in diseases of the chest, the ancients were sufficiently weU acquainted. For humid coughs Galen recom-