THE HEART. SECT. XXXIV.] almost suspect, however,that the ancients were more familiar with Comm. inspections cadaverum than they chose to avow. As a proof of' v ' this, we may mention what is related by Hcsychius of Hermogenes the rhetorician: w Hermogcnes the rhetorician having died was dissected, and his heart was found covered with hair, and greatly exceeding its natural size." (See also Snidas.) Respecting persons having hair on their hearts we quote the fol- lowing note from Eabricius (Bibliothcca Graeca, iv, 429): " Plura exempla hominum quorum cor pilosum est repertum collegit elegantissimus. Muretus (xii, 10, Var. Lect.); Pontanus (Bellar. Attic. 301), et Alexander Tassonus in libro Italice edito cui titulus (Pensieri Diversi, (vi, 30.) De Aristomene Mcssenio idem tradit prseter alios Dio. Ciuysost. (xxxv, 430) de Leonida Plutarchus in parallelis minoribus (306.)" It is proper to men- tion, however, that Senac is incredulous as to the truth of these stories (Essai, &c. 62.) On the subject we are treating of the learned Stephen Bernard has the following remark: " Apparet, ni fallor, ex hoc loco Pauli (iii, 68), veteres morborum sedes in cadaveribus rimari non neglexisse quod etiam patet ex illis quai de hepatis inflammationc habet (181), qui enim scire poterant aliquando partem ejus cavam, nonnunquam vero gibbam inflam- matione tentari nisi ex cadaverum inspectione?" (Ad Nonni Epit. 208.) Sec also Pliny (Hist. Nat. xi, 70), and the note of Harduin. Since all the writers subsequent to Galen merely copy from him, we need not say more of their opinions. We may state, however, what Actuarius says regarding the characters of the urine in affections of the heart. In hot intemperaments of the organ the urine at first is more acrid and thinner, but as the dis- order increases, it assumes an oily colour and consistence. The sediments become grumous, furfuraceous, scaly, and gritty. When it is affected with a cold intempcrament, the colour of the urine is whiter, and the sediment at first moderate and crude, but afterwards it becomes black. (De Urin. vii, 4.) The Arabians, especially Avicenna, treat of these complaints at great length, but without supplying much additional information. Avenzoar speaks obscurely of certain tumours resembling pellicles or cartilages on the pericardium. He mentions also hydrops pericardii, and abscess of the same. Pain of the heart, says Haly Abbas, mav arise from an intemperament, organic disease, or a