GENITAL ORGANS, ETC. <;o; SECT. LIX.] as his general plan of treatment is not very different from that Comm of Celsus, we shall not give an abstract of it. ' v For rhagadia Marcellus recommends a composition of litharge and rose-oil. He gives an interesting description of the process of curing hemorrhoids by an application containing arsenic, chalcitis, misy, and the like. This remedy is strongly recom- mended by the Pseudo-Dioscorides. He says that a mixture of equal parts of arsenic and sandarach will make them drop off in half an hour. (Eupor. i, 214.) The Arabians treat these diseases upon the same principles. Avicenna describes three kinds of hemorrhoids. The first kind are like warts; the next are of a bloody nature; and the third arc intermediate between these. He treats them, like the others, either by a surgical operation, or by powerful caustics, contain- in i;- arsenic, quicklime, and the like. When hemorrhoids arc gross, and do not yield to ordinary treatment, Haly Abbas directs us to apply septics, such as arsenic, quicklime, &c.; and when they become black, to dress them with ceruse ointment, or a mixture of rose-oil and the whites of eggs. Procidentia ani he treats, like Celsus, with astringents, such as galls, hypo- cistis, recrementum ferri, &c. For fissures he recommends emollient ointments containing ceruse, basilicon, wax, &c. Alsaharavins also approves of septic applications containing arsenic, &c. When the piles are old and callous, however, he prefers the surgical operation. He also prudently recommends gentle purgatives. Rhases directs, in cases of procidentia ani, when the anus is swelled, and the gut cannot be got readily replaced, the patient to be put into a warm bath and emollient applications used; afterwards astringents are to be substituted, and a bandage applied. He recommends us to extirpate he- morrhoids with the knife, the cautery, or caustic medicines; but advises bleeding in the first place. He says that when dressed with sandarach they speedily drop off. In prolapsus, when the anus is swelled, he directs us to bathe the parts with a decoc- tion of mallows, &c, then to smear them with mucilaginous substances; to replace the gut, and secure it with a bandage. The primary sauce mentioned in this Section of our author is thus explained by Lister: " Liquamen optimum. Istud garum a Paulo iEgineta vocabatur wpureiov, seu primarium, quod nobilissimum illud esset." (Ap. Apicium, vii, 6.) It was