IIEADACH. 301 SECT. XLIV.] SECT. XLII1. THE CURE OF CATAPHORA OR SOMNOLENCY. Sponge tlie forehead with oxyerate of the temperature of new milk; put tight ligatures round the extremities; and apply to the nose strong-smelling things of an incisive quality. In the remissions, apply cupping instruments between the shoulders along the spine. When the disease is protracted, errhines must be tried during the remission. Let the food consist of things having incisive and dividing properties, as recommended by us in our general directions regarding the health. Commentary. The treatment mentioned by our author is Comm. recommended by almost all the other authorities both before and after his time. See, in particular, Oribasius (Synops. vi, 33); Aetius (v, 117); Nonnus (Epitome, 146); Avicenna (iv, 1, 2, 18); Haly Abbas (Pract. iii, 23.) Prosper Alpinus gives an excellent account of the practice of the Methodists. It consisted of painful friction, tight ligatures, rubefacients applied to the extremities or head, sternutatories, and, in short, everything calculated to rouse. (Med. Meth. vi, 7.) SECT. XLIV. THE CURE OF HEADACH IN FEVERS. When headach proves troublesome in fevers, after the accus- tomed evacuations, in the decline of the paroxyms, the head ought to be anointed, first with the common oil from unripe olives, or with rose oil, to which a very small quantity of vinegar has been added; which, if it be the summer season, and the fever of the ardent type, may be used cold; but, in winter, if the fever be not ardent, it must be hot or tepid. In the oil may be boiled the juice of wild thyme and knot-grass {jwhjgonum); and in summer, the heads of the poppy, or the poppy itself may be added, as in winter, a moderate quantity of the hogs-fennel may be substituted in place of it. When the pain continues in the forehead, if the open of the head be bare, a poultice may be applied to it, made of old barley-meal and knot-grass; or, in like manner, of bread and roses, or of some myrtle or wild thyme. Some are rather benefited by an admixture of pennyroyal, and