sect, xxxvn.] VENERY. 47 rocket, or bastard saffron, or all too-other. Before food, let him also eat the small redbulbi roasted, with salt and oil, or a little of the squill dried in the sun. They may also use the com- pound preparations elsewhere described, and often indulge in obscene reading. Commentary. Athenams mentions that it was a practice Comm. with some to put sponges into beds, as incentives to venery. He states, upon the authority of Theophrastus, that certain me- dicines are possessed of aphrodisiacal properties, to an almost incredible degree. (Deipnos, i, 15.) He says the immoderate use of wine often induces impotence 3 and relates that it had this effect upon Alexander the Great. (Deipnos, x, 45. Hippo- crates mentions that many of the Scythians were afiected with impotence, by being constantly on horseback. (De Aer, &c. ah, 22.) See Coray's Note, and Littre's Hippocrates, (t. iv, p. 9.) It would appear that many of the ancient athlete, rendered themselves impotent by self-denial and immoderate exercise. (Galen, de Loc. affect, vi, versus finem.) The ancients held, that most of the testacea are aphrodisiacal. See Plautus (Casina, ac. ii, sc. 8, 1. 59,) and the note of Lambinus (Ed. Gronov.) j also Petronius Arbiter (Satyricon.) The rocket (eruca) was particularly celebrated as an aphro- disiacal herb. See Pliny (H. N. xix, 8), and Juvenal (Sat. lx, 134.); Columella (in Hort.); Galen (de Fac. Alim. lib. ii.) Ovid calls it herba salam. (Remed. Amor. 799.) On this subject, see Rhases (ad Mansor. v, 62, Contin. xxiv); Avicenna (iii, 20, 1); Alsaharavius (Pract. xxii, 11.) Rhases gives a long list of articles which were supposed to be possessed of aphrodisiacal properties, such as nettle- seed, elecampane, rape-seed, mint, rocket, cresses, cubebs, &c. Avicenna's account, however, is the fullest. He directs the parts to be rubbed with liniments, containing stavesacre,pellitory, squills, myrrh, assafostida, and the like. SECT. XXXVII. ON INORDINATE VENERY. Since by too much indulgence the body becomes flabby, cold, dried, and weak, it must be supplied with such things as will 1