500 PLEURISY. [BOOK in- Comm. nearly the same as those directed by the other sects, but he - attaches much importauce to his own method of applying them. In illustration of his principles, we shall mention a few of his strictures upon the practice of the others. He condemns Hippocrates for carrying venesection the length of producing deliquium animi, which he pronounces to be a very pernicious practice. Indiscriminate purging, he thinks, increases irri- tation He disapproves of abstinence for seven days, as en- joined by the father of medicine. Diodes he blames for en- joining the same rules with regard to bleeding and purging, and for allowing cold food in summer. Praxagoras he strongly and properly condemns for giving pepper or southern-wood m mulse; and also for recommending the warm bath, and fomentations to the side, which he justly remarks will only occasion cold to the patient; and for prohibiting venesection, when the disease is occasioned by cold, and the patient is old and weak. He finds fault with Asclepiades for saying that venesection is not proper in certain countries, as at Rome and Athens, whereas Cselms properly maintains that venesection is everywhere proper. It is worthy of remark, by the way, that prejudices against bleed- ing prevailed in Home when Galen wrote, and to a certain ex- tent do so still. Caelius also justly condemns his too free allow- ance of mulse, or wine and honey. He blames Themison for using acrid applications to the chest. Of his strictures on the treatment of Heraclides, the most just are his condemnation of the practice of giving mulse with rue, and garlic with vinegar, to remove the nausea; and of his direction to bleed only on the second day after two or three clysters had been given. Of the practice of the Arabians little need be said, as their views of treatment are entirely conformable to those of the Greeks. Avicenna's directions are most minute, and would fur- nish an excellent guide to practice. He forbids cold things, and approves of cupping and sinapisms only when the disease does not yield to the ordinary treatment. When insomnolency con- tinues long, he permits to give the syrup of poppies. Convales- cents are directed to avoid saltish and sharp things, repletion, the sun, wind, smoke, loud talking, and the like. Serapion, on the fourth day, adds liquorice to the decoction of barley. Mesue and Avicenna agree in opinion, that fomentations to the side do no good unless in slight cases, and when applied early. Mesue