m FISHES. CBOOK monk fish (igw«M), and the like, are harder and difficult to ™ est, and Ire nutritions. In general, those annuals winch have nard flesh are difficult to digest, and eontam much nourish- ment When properly digested, they furnish much and substan- tial nourisliment. Commentary. For an account of the «XAX,, or cartilaginea, see Aristotle (H. A. y); Pliny (H. N. is, 40); Oppian (Hali- eut, i) 5 ^lian (N. A. xi, 37.) ; Galen says that they are called ae\a^ from o-£X«c gw, be- cause their flesh has a shining appearance at night. He states that they are moderately nutritious. He remarks, that the parts about the tail of such fishes are more fleshy than the middle. According to Athenasus, the cartilaginous fishes m general are flatulent, fleshy, of difficult digestion, and, if eaten in great quantity, blunt the sight. (Deipnos. m) Dr Coray says that the French call the Vlvn ange or angelot, the Baroc raie bouclee or cavellade, the Ae«J0aToc raie miralet, the NapKr, torpille or raie torpille, and the Tpvywv pastmaque. Harduin gives them nearly the same French names. We are inclined to refer the pivn to the squalus squatina L. monk or an-el-fish : the j3arlc and Aeioj3<mC to the rata batis and rata varia, two species of skate; the uapKV to the rata torpedo or cramp-fish; and the rpvyuv to the rata pastinaca L. or fire-flair. SECT. XCIV. ON THE CETACEA, OR LARGE FISHES. The cetacea, such as the whales, seals, balance-fish, dolphin, and great tunnies, have hard and indigestible flesh, containing thick juices. When pickled, they are more moderately so. And of the other fishes, those which are most humid and excremen- titious are most fitted for pickling; but there is the same dif- ference in pickles as in the fishes from which they are formed. Commentary. Under the class cetacea (ktitoq), the ancient naturalists ranked all the large fishes, such as the whale, the dolphin, the shark, &c. Aristotle was aware that the class called plagiuri by Artedi, comprehending the whale, the dolphin, &c are viviparous, and have lungs like quadrupeds, instead of gill