SECT. LIX.] 325 HEMORRHAGE. principles. (Hi, 16, 1, 4.) Haly Abbas treats fever, when com- Co phcated with constipation, by giving gentle laxatives, such as ^ prunes and tamarinds, or, if these prove injurious to the stomach, by administering clysters. When the diarrhoea is complicated with a discharge of blood, he approves of adding to the other medicines Armenian earth, purslain, sumach, or such like as- tringents. (Pract. iii, 24.) See Serapion (iii, 17); Rfcases (Divis. 67.) According to Prosper Alpinus, the ancient Methodists ap- proved of astringent applications and astringent clysters for fe- brile diarrhoea. (Med. Meth. vi, 10.) Sydenham and Van Swieten agree with Alexander and Avieenna in forbidding to stop diar- rhoea in fevers by means of opiates, unless in extreme cases. SECT. LIX. ON TRICKLING OF BLOOD AND HEMORRHAGE FROM THE NOSE. Since a trickling of blood indicates a fulness in the whole body, or in the head, being occasioned either by expression or contraction, and as a free evacuation would relax them, and diminish the quantity, it may be proper to evacuate where na- ture points. With this view, I have ventured, in cases of quartan epistaxis, to open the vessels in the nostrils with the reed called typha. We must not be contented with a small evacuation, but must take away blood in proportion to the strength. Spontaneous hemorrhages from the nose in fevers, when critical, are not to be interfered with; but yet, if the flow of blood be immoderate, it ought to be restrained. In the first place, tight ligatures ought to be applied to the patient's extre- mities, and his head elevated. It would appear that a ligature to the privy parts, is particularly adapted for restraining bleed- ing from the nose. The nostrils ought not to be wiped, nor the part irritated, so that a clot of blood may be allowed to form. Let the nose be cooled by a sponge soaked in oxycrate, and the nostril plugged up with a pledget dipped in some of the astringent applications. The composition of them, and the rest of the treatment, we will deliver more fully in the following Book, "on topical affections."