649 sect, lxxvi.] DIFFICULT LABOUR. it is experienced. When in feet presentations the head is retained Com after the body is delivered, he advises us to introduce a hand be- tween the os uteri and the head and deliver it. When the secun- dines are retained, he orders us to extract them slowly, and for this purpose directs that the woman being placed on a stool, the child not having been separated is to be allowed to hang down, so that by its weight it may produce separation; and, lest its weight should occasion too strong pulling, he advises it to be laid on wool, or bladders filled with water, which being perforated, the child shall sink down gradually and draw away the placenta. We shall have occasion to treat of this practice further in the Sixth Book. Aristotle states that delivery takes place naturally by the head, but sometimes preternaturally by the feet. (H. A. vii, 7.) Celsus directs us when the child is dead, to introduce the hand, finger by finger, into the womb, and examine the presentation, which will be the head, the feet, or the body laid transverse. He states that the object of the operator is to bring down the body either by the head or the feet. When the arm presents, he directs us to bring down the head, which is to be seized by means of a hook fixed in the eye, ear, mouth, or forehead, and cautiously pulled along; and in doing this he properly directs us to pull with one hand and keep the other fixed at the in- strument. When the feet present, they are to be brought down and delivery accomplished in this way. When the child lies across, he recommends us, if the position cannot be got rectified, to fix the hook in one of the armpits and pull it down; but if other means fail, he directs us to divide the body at the neck and extract the parts separately. In extracting the secundines, he properly directs us to stretch the cord gently with the left hand, and introducing the right into the uterus, to separate the pla- centa from the womb and remove it along with the coagula of blood lying there. The causes of difficult parturition, and the methods of re- medying them, are more fully treated of by Aetius than by any other ancient writer; but, as Paulus evidently copies from him, we shall merely supply a few things which our author has omitted. Among the causes of difficult labour, he mentions too compact a union of the ossa pubis. When the woman is too young or too old, he justly remarks that she wants strength to