306 FEVERS. [BOOK ■ de Causis Sympt.' (ii, 5), < de Inequali Intemp./ <de Tremore, Palp et Rigore.' The last-mentioned work, m particular, con- tains some ingenious speculations on the nature of rigors. Our author has mentioned Galen's treatment. Hippocrates pro- nounces a rigor occurring in continued fever, when the patient is become weak, a mortal symptom. (Aphor.) Aetius states that tremors take place in fevers for the most part owing to errors in eating and drinking. Holding them to be connected with disorder of the spinal marrow, he directs us to apply to the back wool soaked in some stimulant oil, or to put the patient into a bath of oil. He recommends castor, both when taken by the mouth and applied externally with the embrocations, (v, 130.) According to the explanation of Palladius, rigors and tremors are occasioned by fumes or vapours arising in the internal parts, and being diffused over the body. (24.) The treatment recommended by Haly Abbas is simple and. judicious. He directs us to give draughts of hot water, to put the patient's feet into hot water, and to rub the feet, and, if necessary, the other parts of the body, with calefacient oils and the like. (Pract. iii, 20.) Avicenna gives a very accurate account of the different modes of treatment, but they are much the same as our author's. He approves of ligatures to the extremities, of rubbing them with stimulant oils, or even with liniments prepared with assafcetida and mustard. He says the bath of hot oil is very beneficial. He also recommends draughts of hot water, and potions con- taining opium, which, he remarks, will procure sleep and per- spiration. In certain cases he allows hot wine, which had been recommended by Hippocrates. (Aph. vii, 56.) He directs us to open the bowels with the hiera, or pills of assafoetida. (iv, i, 2.) Rhases particularly commends a draught of hot water. (Cont.xxx.) SECT. XLVIl. ON SWEATS. We must allow critical sweats to go on until they produce the necessary evacuation, and assist by means of moderate heat and rest, and by not wiping away the sweat (for one brings on another), by washing the mouth with warm liquids, by warn