m PROGNOSTICS. [BOOK n- languid*que aures et imis partibus leniter vers*, cutis circa frontem dura et intenta, color aut niger aut perpallidus. Other unfavorable symptoms are also strikingly portrayed . « Mali morbi testimonium est vehementer et crebro spirare : a sexto die cepisse inhorrescere; pus expuere; vix excreare; dolorem habere continuum; difficulter ferre morbum; jactare brachia et crura; sine voluntate lachrimare ; habere humorem -lutiuosum dentibus inhasrentem; cutem circa umbilicum et pubem macram, prsecordia inflammata, dolentia, dura, tumida, intenta, magisque si h*c dextra parte, quam sinistra est; pe- riculosissimum tamen est, si venae quoque ibi vehementer agituntur." Aetius and Oribasius, hke our author, borrow almost every thing from Hippocrates and Galen. Rhases and Avicenna, particularly the latter, treat of the prognostics in fever very fully. Avicenna, like Hippocrates, sets down deafness as an unfavorable symptom. Hippocrates had stated, that jaundice coming on before the seventh day is un- favorable ; but Averrhoes affirms, that all the Indian and Persian physicians reckoned it a favorable symptom. Rhases considers yellowness of the skin an unfavorable symptom, un- less the fever be of a bilious nature. Alsaharavius says it is an unfavorable complication when it does not prove critical. It is proper to mention here that Hippocrates modifies the above prognostic by stating in one of his aphorisms, that jaun- dice coming on on*the 7th, 9th, 11th, or 14th day is favorable, (iv. 64.) Alsaharavius states it as a dangerous symptom, when the patient lies on his back with his legs drawn up. This agrees with the prognostic of Celsus " Mors denuntiatur ubi geger supinus cubat, eique genua contracta sunt." Avicenna and Averrhoes state it as a fatal symptom when the patient sinks down in bed and exposes his hands and feet. (Averrhoes, Comment, in Cant. Avicennse.) According to Rhases it is a bad symptom when the patient has lost his modesty, so as to expose freely those parts of the body that should be covered. He holds also that it is a bad symptom when the vomitings resemble verdigris. (Ad Mansor. x, 21.) Prosper Alpinus gives an admirable account of the prognos- tics in diseases. See his work, <De Prsesagienda Morte et Vita