ISCHIATIC DISEASE. [book hi. G52 feet. Many of his authorities mention the warm bath and lubricants. From the sketch which we have given above, it will be seen that the Arabians have made mention of the forceps; but that most probably the Greeks and Romans were unacquainted with this instrument, as far, at least, as appears from their works on medicine which have come down to us. It is deserving of re- mark, however, that in the house of an obstetrix which has been excavated in Pompeii, there was found an instrument of art bearing a very considerable resemblance to the modern forceps. It is a well-known fact in the history of inventions that many useful discoveries have long been kept as family secrets. This was the case even of a late date with the Chamberlains, who were the first in modern times to use the forceps. SECT. LXXVII. ON ISCHIATIC DISEASE. Ischiatic disease, being of the class of arthritic complaints, is distinguished solely by the cause of it being seated in the hip- joint. The cause of it then is a thick and pituitous humour fixed in the articulation of the hip-joint. The pain in these cases extends from the parts about the buttocks and groins to the knee, and often as far as the extremity of the foot. When we see such a patient, in the beginning of the complaint, after the evacuation of the hardened fseces by a clyster, we must ab- stract blood from the arm at intervals j but if the disease be of some standing, we must abstract the blood from the ankle of the affected leg. During the exacerbations we must use this em- brocation : Of the oil of privet, viij cyathi; of vinegar, iv cyathi; of nitre, ij cyathi; of rosemary-seeds, j cyathus; to be rubbed in hot with unwashed wool. After which a cataplasm is to be applied of the flour of bitter lupines with oxymel; or of the flour of darnel with rosin, the root of the wild cucumber, nitre, cala- mint, rosemary-seeds, and bay-berries. Calamint alone with oxymel, or honied water, will form a proper cataplasm. And we may rub the parts with this paregoric-plaster : Of wax, dr. x ; of turpentine, dr. xxv; of verdigris, dr. yj; of myrrh, of galbanum, of iris, of each, dr. vj ; of gum vernix, dr. v. But they must take the propoma containing Cyrcnaic juice to the size of a bitter vetch, or a drachm of castor with three oboli of opopanax. And