[book III. AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. I.) 2 SECT. XXV. ON AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. How to preserve the face free from wrinkles. Of frankin- cense, dr. iv; of fucus, dr. iij; of washed litharge, dr. viij. Dis- solve them all in a decoction of brnised ichthyocolla, make tro- chisks, and use.—Another: Of ivory shavings, dr. viij; of male frankincense,of ichthyocolla, the samequantity. Use as aforesaid. For darkness of the face. Of iris, of ptisan, of braised beans, of each a sextarius and a half; of sal ammoniac, of burnt harts- horn, of ammoniac perfume, of each, oz. ij. Dissolve in water, and make trochisks, and having again triturated with water, anoint before bathing.—Another : Of ptisan, of tares, of frank- incense, of bruised beans, of Illyrian iris, of aphronitrum, of costus, of each, the fourth part of a chcenix; bitter almonds, xx in number; form with the white of an egg and the milk of an ass, and use as aforesaid. The trochisk peponatus also answers well. For freckles and lentigo. Of toasted Cimolian earth, half a hemina; of toasted aphronitrum, dr. viij ; of the flour of tares, dr. iv; of the refuse of bull's gall, dr. viij. Triturate and use.— Another : Of the lees of wine, dr. x; of the flour of tares, dr. x; of bruised beans, dr. x; of white hellebore, dr. v ; of aphroni- trum, dr. x; of alcyonium, dr. x. Triturate, and rub with it. For bruised spots, or hijpopia. First foment with the decoc- tion of fenugreek, and afterwards with that of melilot, mix the collyrium of Nilus from roses with water, and anoint; then use the myrrh collyrium. If these do not produce the effect, anoint with the collyrium of burnt sandyx ; or apply hyssop with water ; or bind hyssop into a piece of rag, dip it in warm water, and foment; or foment with strong salt water, and rub down the skin of radish with honey, and apply. This answers also for chronic cases. For chronic spots and lividity, take of Cretan hartwort, two parts; of Samian earth, one part; apply with honey, taking care that it do not produce an ulcer.—Another abster- gent application : Of hyssop, of thapsia, and of cassia, of each, dr. ij ; of wax, dr. ij; of turpentine, dr. j. Apply, taking care that it do not occasion an ulcer, and on that account removing it frequently. For vari or warts. They are small hard tumours about the