THE KIDNEYS. [book III. Comm. On hardness of the kidneys. Nearly the same account is given —' ' by Actius, and also by Avicenna, Rhases, Serapion, and all the medical authorities who have treated of this subject. Haly Abbas and Alsaharavius particularly commend the diachylon plaster. Ruffus, as quoted by Rhases, recommends rest, emol- lient clysters, the application of cupping-instruments to the back, tepid baths, refrigerant and sedative medicines internally. On diabetes. Aretseus remarks that diabetes is a wonderful affection, being a melting down of the flesh into urine, occa- sioned by a cold and humid cause like dropsy. The disease, he says, is of slow formation, but when completely formed speedily proves fatal. His description of the symptoms is very striking : a fiery thirst, a never-ending desire to make water, a parched skin, a dry mouth, and so forth. Diabetes, he justly remarks, is a species of dropsy, the water in the one case being deter- mined to the peritoneum, and in the other to the urinary or- gans. We have, in fact, known these diseases reciprocate. He recommends by all means attention to the thirst, endeavouring to allay it by means of the medicines called Adipsa; rectifying the stomach by purging with hiera; and applying epithemes of spikenard, mastich, and the like. For drink he directs us to give water in which the autumnal fruits have been boiled; and for food recommends starch, milk, and cold astringent wines, lie concludes by saying that the general remedies and regimen proper in dropsical cases will answer in diabetes, and particu- larly mentions the theriac and mithridate. Among the causes of diabetes he mentions poisoning by the sting of the African viper, called the dipsas. This subject Avill be found treated of in the Fifth Book. Celsus recommends exercise, friction, purging, astringent food, and austere wine. Galen states that he only recollected having met with two cases of diabetes. He maintains that it is such an affection of the urinary organs as lientery is of the bowels. He is decidedly of opinion that the kidneys are prima- rily affected, and not the stomach, as some had supposed. He rxplains his views of the nature of the disease with great preci- sion. (De Locis Affectis, vi, 3.) Aetius has given the fullest account of diabetes. Upon the authority of Archigencs, he recommends at the commencement bleeding and diuretics, the latter being given to clear away the