46 IMPOTENCE. 0OOK *• CoMM According to Avicenna, excessive indulgence breaks down the powers of the constitution, and superinduces either a cold intem- perament or hectic fever. Abstinence, on the other hand, by those who had been in the habit of indulgence, is said to bring on heaviness of the head and diseases of the joints and testicles. In this case, he recommends rue, and various other articles, which were supposed by the ancients to be possessed of anti- aphrodisiacal properties. Cicuta, according to Pliny, produces this effect. Alsaharavius forbids coition when the body is either reduced by abstinence or overloaded with too much food and drink. The proper season for it, he says, is after sleep, when digestion is accomplished, and towards morning. It is prejudicial, he says, in very hot seasons, and to persons of a dry intemperament. Rhases, like our author, says that moderate indulgence removes plethora, lightens the mind, and cures sorrow. According to Haly Abbas, the most proper time for enjoy- ment is after digestion, and when the food has descended into the stomach. If performed before sleep, he says, there is most chance of impregnation. Abstinence, when one had become habituated to the act, he says, weakens the natural heat, hurts the breast, stomach, and liver, induces coldness of the body, and renders it dry, sluggish, and enervated. Excess, on the other hand, brings on premature old age and consumption. It will be remarked that our author and Alsaharavius differ in opinion as to the best season for partaking of the Stop ipard See a learned disquisition on this and other similar matters in the c Symposiacon' of Plutarch. Pliny says of it " medetur et lumborum dolori, oculorum hebetationi, mente captis, ac melancholicis." (H. N. xxviii, 16.) SECT. XXXVI. ON IMPOTENCE. In cases of impotence, it may be proper to rub the parts frequently with an ointment containing a small part of the root of the narcissus, or the seed of the thymelaea, or pellitory, or stavesacre, or the seed of the nettle, or of anise. Let them also before their meals take a drink with pepper, or satyrium, or