8*CT. XII.] PULSE. 203 are to be named the narrow, the short, and the low. And with regard to those which are altered from the natural state in all their dimensions, that whicli is every way diminished is called smalJ, and that which is every way increased, great. The third kind of pulses is with regard to the tone of the vital strength. 1 he varieties are three, the strong, the weak, and the moderate. I he strong is that which strikes the finger of the phvsician strongly, and the weak, feebly and faintly; while the moderate is intermediate between them, and is held by some to be the natural one; for that the pulse is rendered stronger by passion and baths, not being naturally so. In reply to which, Galen contends that a pulse rendered stronger by non-natural causes soon undergoes a change; and that, therefore, a strong pulse, which does not readily change, may be natural and mo- derate. The fourth kind is in regard to the consistence of the instrument, I mean the body of the artery. In this respect there are three differences; for the artery is either harder than natu- ral, and is called a hard pulse; or softer, and is caUed a soft, or intermediate, and is called in this respect moderate. The fifth kind is in regard to the contents of the artery; and their dif- ferences are, the full, the empty, and the moderate, since every vessel must be full, empty, or moderately full of liquids. A full pulse, then, as Archigenes defines it, is one which indicates an artery that is completely full, and the impression of which is, that it is distended with fluids; and an empty one conveys an impression as if its contents were full of bubbles of air, so that the finger, when pressed upon it, seems to fall into an empty space. These five kinds of pulses regard one motion of the artery. And since the quality of the heat in the heart may be more developed than usual in the artery, some have hence reckoned a sixth kind of pulses. Of the other kinds, whether they are in regard to one or more pulsations, they derive their character either from the time of rest, or the rhythm, or their equality and inequality, or their regularity and irregularity. The kind, then, in regard to the time of rest, which is the seventh in order, is divided into the dense, the rare, and the moderate. And, since an artery has a double motion, composed of two opposite move- ments, it must of necessity have two seasons of rest: the one after the diastole before the systole, the other after the systole before the diastole, which to most people appears imperceptible ;