[book III. DISEASES OF THE EYE. 422 pepper, eighty-five grains; of fennel juice, dr. xvj j of ammo- niac perfume) dr. j. Triturate the dry substances with the juice, add four spoonfuls of honey, prepare and lay up in a copper \ essel for use. Before using, let him foment the eyes by im- mersing them in hot sea-water. On strabismus, or squinting. Congenital squinting is cured by the application of a mask, so that the children are compelled to look straight forwards j for strabismus is a spasmodic affec- tion of the muscles which move the ball of the eye. And the lamp should be placed fairly opposite, and not so as to shine obliquely. When the eye is turned to the nose, purple flocks of wool should be fastened to the outer angle of the eye, so that by looking steadily at them, the persons affected may correct the state of the eyes. On ecpiesmus. The eyes are sometimes forced out, so as to remain prominent. When this happens from strangulation, we must let blood from the arm \ but if otherwise, we must purge with black hellebore or scammony. When the eyes become prominent from the pain of labour, the complaint is often re- moved by the cleansing after parturition j hence we ought to promote it; and, in men, after phlebotomy, if it do not abate, we may affix a cupping instrument to the back part of the head, and apply wool smeared with honey, or flocks of it with water, and bind a compress gently above it. Cold salt water poured upon the face is likewise suitable to them, and also the juice of endive and knot-grass, rubbed in with the juice of poppy, and whatever else can repress and contract. On synchysis, or confusion. Confusion of the sight occasioned by a blow may be cured by bleeding from the arm, and by filling the whole eye with the blood of a newly-slaughtered animal, of a turtle in particular, but, if not, of a pigeon, and then applying soft wool which has been immersed in an egg beaten up with wine and rose-oil, and binding it on the place. The same thing is to be done next day; and on the third, it is to be fomented, washed with milk, and suitable cataplasms ap- plied ; after which it is to be anointed with the remedies for old affections, such as Chiac. For myopia. Those persons are called myopes,^r near-sighted, avIio, from their births, see near objects, but not those at a dis- tance. Such a state is wholly incurable, being occasioned