m EPISTLE OF DIOCLES. 0°OK in venery. To the rising of the pleiades are forty-six days Of the nsing of the pleiades : This season increases the bittei bile, and bitter humours in men, until the summer solstice. Use therefore all sweet things, laxatives of the belly, and in- dulge but sparingly in venery. To the summer solstice are forty five days.—Of the summer solstice : This season increases the formation of black bile in men, until the autumnal equinox Use therefore cold water, and everything that is fragrant; and do not indulge in venery, or do so more sparingly than is gene- rally directed regarding these matters. To the autumnal equi- nox are ninety-three days.—Of the autumnal equinox: This season increases phlegm and thin rheums in men until the set- ting of the pleiades. Use therefore remedies for removing rheums, have recourse to acrid and succulent things, take no vomits, and abstain from labour and venery. To the setting of the pleiades are forty-five days.—Ofthe setting of'the pleiades; This season increases phlegm in men until the winter solstice. Take therefore all sour things, drink as much as is agreeable of a weak wine, use fat things, and labour strenuously. To the winter solstice are forty-five days. M. Commentary. This Diodes was an ancient physician of -1 great eminence. Galen often mentions him along with his idol, Hippocrates, as the greatest of medical authorities. Cselms Aurelianus frequently quotes his opinions in respectful terms, although belonging to a different sect from his own. Pliny says that he was next to Hippocrates in fame as in time. Octavius Horatianus calls him the younger Hippocrates. Athenreus mentions a work of his on Poisons, and another on Cookery. Le Clerc questions the authenticity of this epistle, but seems to have had no other grounds for his scepticism than the general suspicion which has attached to all the Epistoke Grsecanicie since the memorable controversy between the Honorable Mr. Boyle and Dr. Bentley on the authenticity of the Epistles of Phalaris. It is published in the ' Bibliotheca Grseca' of Albertus Fabricius, who appears to have been satisfied as to its genuine- ness. Mr. Moir, the author of f Outlines of the Ancient History of Medicine,' condemns it as apocryphal, upon the authority of Schulze. (p. 76.) All we shall say on this point is, that the evi- dence against the authority of this Epistle appears to us to be very inconclusive.