633 SECT. LXXI.] THE UTERUS. Commentary. This complaint is mentioned by Hippocrates Comm. (Epidem. vii), and by Galen (Metli. Med. xiv, 7, and de Causis ^r~~> Sympt. iii, 2.) Our author's account of it is taken from Aetius. Octavius Horatianus and Nonnus direct similar applications, only the former says nothing of bleeding. Haly Abbas, in like manner, omits venesection, but recommends applications con- sisting mostly of carminative substances, such as parsley, birth- wort, dill, rue, and fennel. They are to be used in the form of baths, fomentations, and injections. Alsaharavius recom- mends bleeding, anointing the womb with oil of rue, baths pre- pared with rue, chamomile, mace, cumin, &c. cupping-instruments applied to the pubes, and so forth. Avicenna and Rhases refer to Aetius and Paulus, and treat of the complaint in like manner. See a full account of this disease by Lodovicus Mercatus (ap. Gynsec. 944.) SECT. LXXI. ON UTERINE SUFFOCATION, OR THE HYSTERICAL CONVULSION. Uterine suffocation is a rising up of the uterus, affecting sympathetically the most important parts, as the carotid arteries, the heart, and the membranes of the brain. The patients ex- perience, when the attack is at hand, languor of mind, fear, atony of the limbs, paleness of the countenance, and sadness of the eyes; and when the suffocation comes on there is deep sleep, mental aberration, loss of the senses and of speech, with con- traction of the limbs; the cheeks then begin to redden, and the countenance becomes turgid; but when the attack is going off, some moisture is to be felt about the genital organs; and rum- bling of wind in the intestines precedes the remission. The uterus is then gradually relaxed, and thus they recover their understanding and senses. The disease comes on periodically like epilepsy, and is occasioned by the uterus being gorged, or from semen or some other matter having become putrid in it. Of those attacked with it the greater number speedily recover, but some die suddenly during the paroxysms, their pulse be- coming dense and palpitating irregularly, and then asphyxia taking place; a little perspiration bedewing the surface of the body; and the respiration being at first feeble but afterwards