415 DISEASES OF THE EYE. SECT. XXII.] mentioned application to the tarsus : Of fissile alum, two parts; of stavesacre, one part; triturate, and use. On madarosis, or milphosis. This affection is a falling off of the hairs of the eyelids. Wherefore, after attending to the gene- ral health, use the detergent ointments called calliblephara. Of Cannel-coal, of Celtic saffron, of ladanum, equal parts; pulverize, and use.—Another: Of antimony, calcined and cleaned, dr. j; of lead, burned and cleaned, dr. iv; of saffron, dr. iv; of Indian nurd, dr. iij; pulverize, and use.—Another: Of the burnt bones of dates, dr. iij j of Celtic nard, dr. ij j pulverize, and use. This also cures scabious eves. That of Neopolites for milphosis and chronic affections of the eyelids. Of antimony, of cadmia, of chalcitis, of foreign misy, of each, equal parts; beat together coarsely, mix with honey; when roasted, triturate, and use. On ptillosis. Ptillosis is a callous thickening of the eyelids, of a red colour, and often accompanied with a falling out of the hair. In addition to those already mentioned, the following is an excellent application: Rub with mice dung burnt, and tri- turated in honey. For a falling off of the hairs of the eyebrows. Anointing the fingers with oil, or geese fat, rub them upon lead, and anoint with this.—Another, which also darkens the hairs: Triturate burnt Pontic walnuts with the fat of goats or of bears.—Ano- ther, which also applies to alopecia of the chin: Of henbane, dr. ij; of mice dung, dr. j; of maiden-hair, dr. j; of the ointment of iris, four spoonfuls. Pound well together, mix the ointment, and, having first fomented, anoint. If you previously shave the part, it will be the more efficacious. For trichiasis of the eyelids. Having first torn out the hairs which irritate the eye, anoint the part immediately with the blood of a frog by itself, or with the ashes of white chameleon, or the blood of bugs; or the juice of the fumitory, which grows among barley, mixing it with gum, or the ashes of pickled limpets with cedar rosin {gum vernix .?), or the ashes of the lotos; or liquid alum, called phorimum; or the blood of a tick taken from a dog. It is very efficacious. Agglutinative medicines. The following substances aggluti- nate the hairs when bent inwards: Bitumen, mastich, colopho- nian rosin, glue, the glutinous part of snails.