THE MENSES. SECT. LXI.] GOO (in, 21); Serapion (v); Avenzoar (ii, 5); Averrlioes (Collig. Comm. iv, 60); Albucasis (Chirurg. ii); Haly Abbas (Thcor. ix, 39; Pract. viii); Alsaharavius (Pract. xxv); Rhases (ad Mansor. ix; Contin. xxii.) The ideas entertained by the ancients respecting the nature of the menstrual discharge may be best learned from Aristotle (de Generat. Animal, i, 19.) Our limits will not permit us to do justice to his theory of conception. It may be proper to state, however, that he holds the menses to proceed from a san- guineous superfluity (Trsp'iTTtoiua) in the system. This theory found a strenuous advocate in his great commentator Averrhoes (Collig. iii, 29); and Buffon's views on this subject are very little different. Hippocrates, in like manner, taught that the male semen is a superfluity collected from all parts of the body, and fancied that if any part of the parent was maimed, the semen was defective, and gave rise to a similar defect in the child engendered. (De Aere et Aquis, 52.) Pythagoras called it the froth of the blood and the superfluity of the aliment. (Plutarch de Placitis Philos. v, 3.) Dutens gives a learned accomit of the ancient theories on the generation of animals. Suffice it to say, that Empedocles, Hip- pocrates, Aristotle, and most of the philosophers taught that all animals derive their origin from ova; but that Democritus and a few others maintained that they are produced from spermatic animalcules. (Origine des Decouvr.) It appears to have been the popular belief in ancient times that the moon exercises a certain influence on the womb; and hence Homer refers the sudden deaths of women to Diana. See Eustathius (ad Iliad, xx, 59.) We may allude in this place to the ancient belief in super- fo3tation. See Hippocrates (de Superfcet.) Asclepius, a com- mentator on this work, relates a singular case from his own personal knowledge. (T. ii, 470, ed. Dietz.) Aristotle relates several curious cases of superfcetation. (H. A. vii, 6.) SECT. LXI. ON RETENTION OF THE MENSES. The menstrual evacuation is sometimes retained owing to a weakness of the whole body, and sometimes owing to a parti- 39