DIFFICULT LABOUR. [book hi. 046 for eminences maybe detected which, during the exacerbations, are painful, bloody, and red, but, during the remissions, are wrinkled, free from pain, somewhat livid, and emit a slight dis- charge. If possible, therefore, in these cases, one must seize upon them during the remissions with a forceps and cut them out; or if not, we may touch them with astringent medicines, sometimes applying dined pomegranate-rind with galls, or some- thing such j and sometimes using those recommended for hemor- rhages of the uterus, which will apply both for fluxes and hemorrhoids. These are recognized by the uterus discharging blood constantly, or if at intervals, not in the menstrual period. Comm. Commentary. This section is mostly compiled from Aetius (xvi, 97, 107.) The astringent applications recommended by Aetius contain alum, pomegranate-rind, ceruse, litharge, burnt lead, hypocistis, &c. For condylomata, the Pseudo-Dioscorides recommends an application containing arsenic. (Euporist. ii, 218.) Avicenna and Rhases give a similar account of these com- plaints. They direct us to apply to hemorrhoids either such astringents as those directed above, or to remove them by a ligature. Haly forbids caustic medicines, as they may prove injurious to the uterus; and prefers extirpating them by a sur- gical operation. For fissures he directs us to use basilicon, with the fat of a duck or hen, and oil of violets, along with pitching and cataplasms. Alsaharavius directs us to extirpate hemorrhoids by an operation; and when the basilicon ointment does not succeed with the condylomata, to treat them similarly. As the ancients have not described polypus uteri by name, we are inclined to think that they must have comprehended it and all the other tumours about the uterus under the general appellation of hemorrhoids. SECT. LXXVI. ON DIFFICULT LABOUR. Difficult labour arises either from the woman who bears the child, or from the child itself, or from the secundines, or from some external circumstances. From the woman in labour, either because she is gross and fat, or because her whole womb is small, or because she has no pains, or is affected with fear, or because the uterus or some other part is inflamed or otherwise diseased,