362 PHRENITIS. [BOOK »I- or of calamint, or of rue; and then we must use errhines. After the seventh day, if the viscera be inflamed, we are to soothe them by cataplasms of linseed and raw barley-flour in oil and water. We are then to apply dry cupping or cupping with scarifications to the parts, and to the back part of the head and the spine. But, if the body be observed to be very squalid and hot, even if the fever remain, we must use baths of fresh water, and plentiful anointing, and give some thin and weak wine, in order to rouse the strength; we need not apprehend any mental alienation that will thereby be produced; for, either it will not take place at all, as the disease is on the decline, or, if it do, it may be easily removed. When the disease further abates, we must have re- course to gestation and suitable restoratives. Recovery may be promoted by avoiding intoxication, anger, indigestion of the food, and more especially exposure to the heat of the sun. Commentary. Hippocrates treats cursorily of phrenitis in ' several of his works, particularly ' de Morb/ (iii, 9,) and 'Epid.' See Galen (Meth. Med. xiii, de Loc. Affec. v, 4); Aretseus (de Morb. Acut. i, 1); Alexander (i, 13); Aetius (vi, 2) j Ac- tuarius (Meth. Med. iv, 2) j Nonnus (c. 25); Pseudo-Dioscorides (Euporist. i, 13) : Cselius Aurelianus (Morb. Acut. i, 1, &c.) ; Celsus (iii, 18); Serenus Samonicus; Octavius Horatianus (ii, 2); Serapion (i, 20); Mesue (de ^Egr. Capit. c. 19); Aven- zoar (i, 4, c. 6); Haly Abbas (Theor. ix, 4, and Pract. v, 13) ; Alsaharavius (Pract. i, 2, c. 8) j Rhases (ad Mansor. ix, 3, and Contin. i, 28.) Hippocrates, in his 1 Epidemics/ details several cases of phrenitis, which would appear to be remittent fevers, compli- cated with determination to the brain, rather than inflamma- tion of the brain. Galen gives a very circumstantial detail of the symptoms, which is well worth consulting. (Loc. Affec. 1. c.) Our author's description is very complete, considering its brevity. He closely follows Alexander, who agrees with him in recommending the most questionable part of our author's treatment; we mean the administration of wine. Of course, however, it must have been a weak light wine. He insists that when the strength is much reduced, it does more good than harm, by improving the powers of the constitution. Ceelius, however, says that wine is nothing