55 sect, xliii.] LAXATIVES AND DIURETICS. barb. Soft eggs, of pot-lierbs the beet and mallows, and the soup of shell-fish arc also laxative, and these probably will be sufficient. But if more powerful remed'ies be required, the herb mercury, boiled in water with salt, may be eaten, or the decoc- tion drunk; and, in like manner, the leaves of the elder tree (sambucus), or the root of the oak-fern (polypodium) to the amount of two drachms, may be sprinkled upon pickle, or swal- lowed in a ptisan ; or milk-whey, with salt; or honey, to the amount of three or four heminae j or the broth of an old cock, by itself or with two drachms of bastard saffron, or aloes, to the amount of about three chick-peas, may be taken at supper-time. But the best remedy is dodder of thyme, taken in wine after a moderate supper. But he that wishes to purge more strongly must take, in the morning, a drachm of this medicine infused in vinegar and honey, if in the spring season. Commentary. Oribasius treats fully of purgatives towards c the end of the 8th book of ' Med. Collect/ He gives a list of gentle laxatives. (Euporist. i, 45.) Hippocrates frequently recommends gentle purgatives for the preservation of the health. Of this class, the herb mercury appears to have been his favourite. Galen has given two distinct treatises on purgatives, and the cases in which they are applicable. He dissuades those who are in good health from taking them, but says that they may often be used so as to prevent the recurrence of diseases. Hence, he says, that he had often prevented gout and rheumatism from relapsing, by the seasonable administration of purgatives. He forbids purgatives when the hypochondria are distended with flatulence. Aetius gives a very lengthy account of the preparation of purgative medicines, which will be noticed more properly in the Seventh Book. He states that all medicines of a cutting or penetrative nature are diuretic. He mentions plantain, fennel, parsley, seseli, anise, valerian, bitter almonds, &c. (iii.) Celsus gives the following list of gentle diuretics : " Urinam movent qurecunque in horto nascentia boni odoris sunt, ut apium, ruta, anethum, ocimum, mentha, hyssopum, anisum, coriandrum, nasturtium, eruca, feniculum : prseter hsec, asparagus, capparis, nepeta, thymum, satureia, lapsana, pastiuaca, magisque agrestis,