472 [book III. CORYZA, ETC. tioned, or as will be described afterwards. An exposition of the compound remedies follows. Pills for catarrh and cough. Of storax, of myrrh, of opium, of galbanum, equal parts; mix with must, or pound by them- selves in a mortar, and make into pills the size of a tare. Give three, four, or five at bedtime, and swallow with some must. These things are for an acrid and thin rheum.—Another: Of the seed of henbane, dr. xij; of pine-nuts, dr. yj ; of saffron, dr. ij. Mix with rob or with must, and use. An electuary. Of honey, oz. j; of butter, oz. ss. Boil to- gether and give; and let the decoction of hyssop, of figs, of pine- nuts, and of iris, be swallowed. Pills for more inveterate coughs. Of storax, dr. yj; of myrrh, dr. iiss; of turpentine, of galbanum, of opopanax, and of iris, of each, dr. ij ; of white pepper, of nitre, of henbane-seeds, of the juice of poppy, of each, dr. j. Beat in a mortar without any liquid, form into pills, and use as formerly directed. For roughness of the windpipe, cough, and bloody expectora- tion. Of bitter almonds whitened, xxv in number; of toasted linseed, dr. iv; of tragacanth, dr. ij ; of pine nuts, xxx grains ; the yelk of an egg roasted in dough. The tragacanth is ma- cerated with water, and the whole mixed with must. If the sound of the voice be broken, mix honey instead of the must, more particularly when there is anything to expectorate. An arteriac to be kept below the tongue for those ivho have lost the voice, for hoarseness, and bloody expectoration. Of traga- canth, dr. vj ; of gum, dr. vj; of myrrh, dr. iss; of white pepper, xx grains; of saffron, dr. j j of liquorice-juice, dr. vj j the flesh of three dates; of Cretan sweet wine, q. s. The juice of the tragacanth alone placed under the tongue answers very well. Instead of the juice of liquorice, its decoction boiled down to the proper consistence may be substituted in quadruple quantity. An arteriac for loss of voice, suiting also for strengthening the voice. Boil six leeks to a third part; throw them away, but with the decoction mix the juice of alica and honey ; boil with them the yelks of three eggs previously boiled, stirring with a branch of dill. For coughs. Of pennyroyal, oz. ij - of pine-nuts, of bastard saffron, of linseed, of each, oz. j; of white pepper, oz. iv ; mix