lg8 FEVERS. [BOOK H- which the soul performs all the functions of the body. See Alexander Aphrod. (de Feb.) Thus, Palladius defines a fever to be " a preternatural heat, which begins in the heart, and is diffused by the arteries over the whole body, sensibly injuring the actions of the body.- Hippocrates, Galen, Aetms, Alexander Trallian Psellus, Leo, and Actuarius give similar definitions. Camus Aurelianus says of Asclepiades: «Febrium point signum calorem plurimum." (Morb. Acut. i, 14.) Isidorus defines a fever thus: " Febris a fervore dicta est; est enim abundantia caloris." (Orig.) Hippocrates, however, the great opponent of hypothesis in medicine, insists that there is more in a fever than a simple excess of pure heat; or, in other words, that the essence of fever is heat mixed up with noxious qualities. (De Vet Med. § 17.) The celebrated Erasistratus maintained an opinion, lately revived by Clutterbuck and Broussais, that fevers and inflammations are identical. See Mffligan's Celsus (p. 13 and 112); and Camus Aurelianus (de Acut. Morb. n, 3.) He further taught that in fevers the blood of the veins is thrown into the arteries. (Plutarch de Placit, Philos. v, 29.) The Arabians adopt the opinions of Hippocrates, Alexander, and Galen. Thus, for example, Haly Abbas defines fever to be a preternatural heat proceeding from the heart, and diffused by the arteries over all parts of the body. According to him there are three kinds of fevers. The first, are seated in the spirits, and affect only the heat of the body : these are called ephemeral fevers. The second, originate in a vitiated state of the fluids, which impart a preternatural degree of heat to the heart, whence it is diffused over all the body. The third arise in the vital organs and solid parts, from which heat is trans- mitted to the heart. (Pract. viii, 2.) See also, in particular, Rhases (Cont. xxx.) SECT. II. OF THE PRINCIPAL CONSIDERATIONS TO BE INQUIRED INTO WITH REGARD TO FEBRILE AFFECTIONS. The first thing to be considered is, whether the disease will prove fatal or not; then, if it is not to prove fatal, whether it will be acute or chronic (these considerations apply to other great disorders); and, third, whether it will come to a crisis all at once (which is peculiar to fevers), or be resolved gradually.