m FISHES. [BOOKI- Frequent mention of the squilla occurs in thewks of Horace I Juvenal, and Martial, as a favonte art.cle of food. A poet Athene says it should he prepared with fig leaves. According to Dioscorides and Alexander, the echmus ,s *■ machic and diuretic. iElian, m like manner, calls * a resto- rative to a weak stomach. (N. A. xiii.) A tl™ says that the crustaeea hold an interrnedxate place between the fishes and mollusca ; that they are therefore not so digestible as the mollusca, and form purer and thinner blood that the testacea, as they get no exercise, are less proper; and that all form a thin and watery blood. We need scarcely remark, that the Romans esteemed the cochlea, i. e. limacon, or white snail, as an exquisite delicacy. Simeon Seth's account is entirely borrowed from Galen. The receipts of Apicius for dressing the locusta and carabus contain pepper, cumin, rue, mint, vinegar, wme, and oil. It appears from the following lines of Juvenal that British oysters were greatly esteemed by the Roman gourmands : " Circaeis nata forent, an Lucrinum ad saxum, Rutupinove edita fundo Ostrea callebat prinio deprendere morsu." (Sat. iv.) Rochester is supposed to be the ancient Rutupinum. Seneca represents them as whetters and not food. " Ostrea non cibi, sed oblectamenta sunt, ad edendum saturos cogentia." The poet Matron, as quoted by Athenseus, calls them "the truffles of the sea." Athenseus says that oysters caught in the sea adjacent to a lake or river are the best. Xenocrates remarks that sea oysters are small and saltish. It does not appear that the ancients often used the sea tor- toise or turtle fish as an article of food, and yet it is clear from Athenseus (viii, 17), that it was sometimes eaten. See Schweigh. (1. c.) Zenobius says that the flesh of the tortoise, if eaten in small quantities, is apt to produce tormina, and that if eaten largely, it purges. (Cent, iv, 32.) See also Actuarius (iv.) It is to be kept in view that the Mediterranean turtle is generally unwholesome, and the ancients in general could have little acquaintance with any other species. vElian, however, makes mention of the Indian turtle. (N. A. xvi, 14.) See further