SECT, mn,] COLIC. 533 must abstain from bathing in drinkable water, unless compelled to have recourse to them by the urgency of the pain j when, having previously injected some of the afore-mentioned medi- cines, we must direct them to bathe, and be fomented within the heated walls of the bath, having been previously rubbed with some of the detergent ointments containing nitre. When the pain is violent, we must use those things which are mode- rately soothing, such as the trochisk of castor, either injected or taken by the mouth, and such like remedies. But powerful narcotics must be avoided, which allay the pain indeed for a short time, but render the affection more protracted by incras- sating the offending matter, and occasioning obstruction of the pores of the intestine. When the phlegm is attenuated, we must purge them with hiera picra, or such pills as these: Of aloes, of euphorbium, of pure granum cnidium, of scammony, equal parts. The dose is two scruples. A heating and desiccant diet will suit with them. At first, indeed, they should abstain from food, but afterwards take acrid food. Wherefore we must give them leeks boiled with prepared wine and parsley, and marsh asparagus, raw garlic, more especially if they do not dislike these things; and they may drink of the prepared wine, and take some bread with it. Afterwards we must give them whole- some and digestible food, avoiding a surfeit and indigestion. If it is a flatulent spirit which causes the pain, after carmina- tive injections and draughts, dry-cupping by means of large cupping-instruments, heated and fixed along the whole abdomen, often effects a cure. When the intestine is in a state of in- flammation, we must bleed from the arm; but if dysuria pre- vails, we must likewise open the vein in the ankle, and use the remedies already mentioned, except those things which are acrid and powerfully cathartic; and we must rather use soothing in- jections, cataplasms, fomentations, placing the patient in a hip- bath of oil. We may also apply cupping-instruments to them, and lay a cerate upon the abdomen, containing, of wax, oz. v; of chamomile, oz. ij; of rose-oil, oz. ij; of the flour of beans, oz. ss; five yelks of eggs pounded with the juice of linseed. The diet should be light, and such as that applicable in fever, until the inflammation be resolved. But if the pain arise from acrid and sharp humours, we must administer injections of oil, in which has been boiled fenugreek or marshmallovvs, with plain