AFFECTIONS OF THE MOUTH. [book hi. 4(50 Comm. of spurge (tithymallus) will make the teetli fall out. For the ^—' same purpose he likewise praises the power of pellitory and mugwort. After Hippocrates he approves of the application of small bags containing salts or millet. The medicinal substances recommended by Marcellus, the Empiric, are the same as those already mentioned. He praises strongly a composition consisting of acrid vinegar, alum, and cedar rosin, boiled to the consistence of honey and applied to the carious tooth. To prevent hollow teeth from falling out he directs us to fill the hole with the gum which grows upon the ivy. The juice of poppies pounded in a woman's milk and applied to a carious tooth is said to remove the pain instantly. As a den- tifrice he recommends finely-powdered glass with spikenard. Cselius Aurelianus recommends abstinence, rest, and rinsing the mouth with some astringent decoction containing white poplar, maudragora, poppies, henbane with vinegar, hot oil, milk and honey, and the like. He applies bags containing hot flour. If the pain does not abate, venesection is to be had re- course to, a cupping-instrument applied near the affected part, and the belly opened afterwards by a clyster. Sometimes the gums are to be scarified or separated from the teeth by means of a scarificator. Respecting anodyne medicines, he remarks that they diminish sensibility, but do not remove pain. He says, like the other authorities, that the juice of the tithymallus, or spurge, breaks the teeth—"dentes infringit." He disapproves very much of early extraction, and mentions that Herophilus and Heraclides of Tarentum relate cases of persons who had died in consequence of this operation. He says that in the temple of Apollo at Delphos there hung a tooth-extractor of lead, which was meant as a hint not to exert great force in extracting teeth. For bleeding of the gums he recommends alum with honey, and the like. Serapion, like the Greek authorities, mentions a variety of remedial means for diseases of the teeth. One of his prescrip- tions consists of burnt alum, with vinegar, salt, and sumach. When the pain is violent he directs us to fill the hole with opium or some other narcotic. Avicenna recommends general bleed- ing, the application of leeches to the gums, opening the ranal veins, and cupping below the chin. His compositions contain opium, burnt alum extinguished in vinegar, galls with vinegar,