388 INCUBUS. [book hi. Comm. to the head. He properly forbids all corporal punishment, al- L-^-J though he approves of contradicting the whims of the maniac, and of reasoning him into a better train of thought. Isidorus thus distinguishes epilepsy, melancholy, and mania : " Epilepsia autem in phantasia fit, melancholia in ratione, mania in memoria." (Orig.) The use of hellebore in mania and melancholy is often alluded to in the works of the Latin Classics. See, in particular, Horace (Sat. ii, 3); Perseus (Sat. iv, 16.) We are inclined to think that it was the black hellebore which was given in Anticyra. See Dioscorides (iv, 146.) Cicero makes some pertinent remarks on the distinction be tween mania and melancholy. (Tusc. Disp. iii, 5.) SECT. XV. ON INCUBUS, OR NIGHTMARE. Some say that this disorder is called ephialtes in Greek, from the name of a man, or from those in it fancying as if one leaped upon them. But Themison, in the tenth book of his Epistles, calls it pnigaleon, from a Greek word signifying suffocation. It attacks persons after a surfeit, and who are labouring under pro- tracted indigestion. Persons suffering an attack experience in- capability of motion, a torpid sensation in their sleep, a sense of suffocation, and oppression, as if from one pressing them down, with inability to cry out, or they utter inarticulate sounds. Some imagine often that they even hear the person who is going to press them down, that he offers lustful violence to them, but flies when they attempt to grasp him with their fingers. The evil must be guarded against at the commencement; for when it continues long, and attacks every night, it is the forerunner of some serious disease, such as apoplexy, mania, or epilepsy, when the exciting cause is determined to the head; for such as persons affected with epilepsy are, during the day, those labour- ing under nightmare are in their sleep. We must evacuate the patient's general system by opening a vein and administering purgatives. Black hellebore is especially serviceable to such per- sons when given to the amount of a drachm, if three oboli of scam - mony, and some of the aromatics, such as anise, wild carrot, and Macedonian parsley, be mixed with it. The composition called hiera, from wild gourd, is also of great service; it is thehiera of