360 PHRENITIS. [book III. humour; aud sometimes the yellow bile, being excessively heated and converted into the black, becomes the cause of the worst species of phrenitis. And sometimes the affection arises from the brain's sympathizing with the diaphragm by means of the nerves distributed upon it. But the aberration of intellect which occurs at the acme of very hot fevers, and that which is occa- sioned by sympathy with the stomach, is not called frenzy but delirium. Cases of true phrenitis are, for the most part, attended with watchfulness, but sometimes with disturbed sleep, so that the patients start, leap up, and cry out furiously; when the com- plaint is occasioned by a sanguineous humour, with laughter; but when by yellow bile, with ferocity; and when by a black, with unrestrainable madness. They forget what is said and done by them, their eyes are bloodshot, and they rub them; they are sometimes squalid, sometimes filled with tears, or loaded with rheums. The tongue is rough, there is a trickling of blood from the nose, they pick at flocks of wool and gather bits of straw, and have acute fever during the whole continuance of the dis- order. When a fever of a bad character is seated deeply, they have the pulse small and indistinct, with a certain degree of hard- ness. The respiration is large and rare when the brain is pri- marily affected. And, if the phrenitis be occasioned by sym- pathy with the diaphragm, the respiration is irregular, the hypo- chondria are retracted and have considerable heat; but, when it arises from sympathy with the brain itself, the parts about the face are hot and suffused with blood, and the veins are full. When a pituitous humour is mixed with the bilious, as the cause of the disease is compound, so also is its appellation; for it is called coma vigil. When a bilious humour prevails, persons so affected are troubled with watchfulness; and, when a pituitous is the cause, they lie in a state of coma. The elder writers before Galen called this disease catochus, but since then it has been called catoche and catalepsy. The cure of phrenitis. If the strength admit of bloodletting, we are to abstract blood from the arm immediately and freely; but, if the patient be delirious and will not present his arm, or if there be apprehension of hemorrhage after the bleeding from the patient tearing his arm during the agitation of his delirium, we must open the straight vein in the forehead, and take away at once a sufficient quantity of blood. We are to use clvsters