TETANUS. [book III. 404 belly is dried up; they cannot sleep; and often, from the vio- lence of the spasms, they are in danger of falling out of their beds j they sometimes have singultus, and pains in the head, or between the shoulders and loins; and some have tremors. The disease is occasioned sometimes, though rarely, by fatigue, by lying upon the ground, lifting of weights, a fall, a wound, a burn, and a blow, or any other thing which can bring on such an injury of the nerves. The disease is to be cured like con- vulsions from depletion. The cure of the varieties of tetanus. In treating tetanic spasms, we must begin with phlebotomy, and wrapping the parts in wool which has been dipped in oil, namely, the Sicyonian and castor with old oil; or a broad bladder containing hot oil may be ap- plied to the tendons. Cupping, with scarifications, is to be applied; for dry cupping is hurtful. The neck, both sides of the spine, the muscular parts of the breast, the hypochondria, and the region of the bladder or kidneys, should be cupped. We must not be sparing of the detraction of blood, nor yet take away too much at a time, but at intervals. The sweats should be absorbed by the wool dipped in oil, lest the patient happen to catch cold. If the attack of tetanus continue long, the patient must be put into a hip-bath of oil twice a day, but not allowed to remain long in it; for, of all applications, the bath of oil is the most debilitating. Let him drink tepid hy- dromel boiled to the one half; and the robust may take a drachm of opopanax; or, if not so much, three oboli, or at least one obolus, if we are afraid of its proving injurious to the stomach. We must also give gum ammoniac; or the Cyrenaic' juice, to the size of a tare, made up with well-boiled honey, may be swallowed. Two spoonfuls of the root of laserwort may be given in three cyathi of honied water, or in its decoction; or one drachm of myrrh, in honied water, or the decoction of hyssop. But the least dangerous and most effectual remedy is castor, to the extent of two or three spoonfuls, in divided doses. And it will do no harm, if you give it after a meal; but the drink and the other things should be taken slowly and by degrees; for if swallowed with difficulty, the drink regurgitates at the nose, the violent agitations of which bring on convulsions. The anus should be smeared with oil of rue, along with opopanax, and the same things are to be given in a clyster. The affusion of