25 KXKRCISES. SECT. XVII.] in running round the plethrum, or sixth part of the stadium, and always contracting the circle of one's course, until one stopt m the middle. The iriTv\t£uv3 as the same authors explain, con- sisted in walking upon one's toes, and tossing one's hands back- wards and forwards. The cricilasia appears to have been a large hoop, or circle, w hich was rolled on the ground. Even Mercurialis admits the obscurity of Oribasius's description of it. (Med. Collect, vi, 26.) The petaurum was a scat suspended by ropes, in which seat the person taking the exercise sat, and was tossed about by assistants. It is mentioned bv Juvenal (Sat. xiv), and Martial (Epigr. xi, 22.) Antyllus thus describes the effects of equitation on the human frame: "It strengthens the body, especially the stomach, more than any other mode of exercise; it clears the organs of the senses, and renders them more acute; but it is most inimical to the thorax." Oribasius (Med. Collect, vi, 24), Pliny (Hist. Nat. xxviii, 4-), and Aetius agree with Antyllus as to the good effects of equitation on the stomach. Hippocrates andCaeliusAurelianus state that equitation is hurtful in disease of the hip-joint. All agree that riding on horseback is hurtful in diseases of the chest. Of auopa, or gestation, there were various modes. That in a carriage was very ancient, and is often mentioned by the medical authors. It appears from Pliny (Hist. Nat. xvi, 42), that car- riages were generally made of fir, and that the axles were of ilex, mountain ash, or elm. Sometimes, however, the whole chariot w as adorned with gold and silver. (Pliny, Hist. Nat. xxiv, 17.) They appear to have been often covered in with skins. (Plutarch, Prob. Roman.) They were generally drawn by horses or mules, sometimes by oxen, and occasionally by slaves. They were so constructed that a person could either sit or lie, according to pleasure. (Galen, Hyg.) At first, according to Pliny, they had only two wheels; the Phrygians, he says, added two more; and Hippocrates mentions that the Scythians introduced the use of six-wheeled carriages. The sedan and chair are often mentioned by the Latin poets, as well as by the medical writers. It is suf- ficient for our purpose to state that they were so constructed, that one could either sit or lie in them. They sometimes had windows, formed from the lapis specularis. (Juvenal, Sat. iv, 21.) Navigation, or sailing in ships and boats, is often mentioned by