m FEVERS. [BOOK cases, we must give rue with wine, or nitre in honied water or hartwort, or carrot, or cumin, or ginger, or calammt, or Celtic nard These are the remedies for such cases as are occasioned by corruption of the food, cold, or plethora. When a redundance of cold and viscid humours is the cause, give castor to the amount of three oboli to drink in oxycrate, and the same thing will be ot use when applied externaUy to the skin, along with old Sicyoman oil. The vinegar of squills or oxymel may also be drunk with advantage. Retaining the breath is likewise of great use. . Commentary. This Section is copied from Oribasius (Sy- "J nops. vi, 42.) According to Galen's explanation, hi6cough is occasioned by any exciting cause which rouses the stomach to violent emotions He states that sneezing proves a cure to it. (De Caus. Sym. m, 6.) Celsus says, in like manner, < Singultus sternutamento finitur. He states that frequent and unusual hiccuping is symptomatic of an inflamed liver, (ii, 7.) Aetius, in like manner, says that singultus in fevers often arises from inflammation of the stomach and neighbouring parts. He treats of the complaint at great length. When it arises from pungent humours, he gives first emetics, and afterwards narcotics, such as opium, &c. He also applies a cupping instrument with great heat to the breast, stomach, and back, in certain cases, (ix, 5.) Alexander gives an interesting account of this affection, for which he recommends various remedies. When connected with inflammation of the stomach or liver, he begins with bleeding. When it is occasioned by thick and viscid humours, he recom- mends an oxymel of squills, the composition of which he minutely describes. He also speaks favorably of emetics. When the humours are of a pungent nature he approves of diluents and the drinking of tepid water. Sometimes, he adds, he has known a draught of cold water prove effectual, (vii, 15.) When singultus is connected with a cold cause, the author of the ' Euporista,' ascribed to Dioscorides, recommends us to put the feet into hot water, to take tepid draughts, and apply hot fomentations to the stomach, (ii, 4.) Though there is perhaps nothing original in the views of the Arabians, they treat of hiccough very fully and accurately. Among the causes of it, mentioned by Alsaharavius, is inflam-