252 FEVERS. [BOOK sive than the quotidian, as its phlegm is colder than that of the other The rigor without heat stands in need of heating things still more than the hepialus. Wherefore, the compo- sition of three peppers, that from calamint, and still more that from Cyrenaic juice are particularly suitable to this complaint, as also the remedies prepared from castor and the like. You will find a fuller account of these matters in the 46th section, « on immoderate rigor and cold.- The fevers called lrpynse and the typhoid or smoky, and whatever others are mentioned besides those described, being all of the same kind as the above mentioned, will require the same methods of cure as those which have been mentioned, or will soon be described. . Commentary. Hippocrates applies the term hepialus to a J fever occasioned by amenorrhea. He briefly notices the lipyria in several parts of his works, (as Coac, 32, 27.) Galen enters minutely into the consideration of the nature and causes of the hepialus, which appears to be a variety of the quotidian inter- mittent. He says the fever derives its origin from the putre- faction of a thick phlegm resembling melted glass. Its distin- guishing characteristic is, that the patient experiences a sensa- tion of heat and rigor at the same time. Aetius, and the other subsequent authorities, treat of the fever in the same terms. They recommend, principally, sudo- rifics and calefacients. Khases, Avicenna, Serapion, and Haly treat of the epiala, and the " frigus quod non calefit," as varieties of the quotidian. Alsaharavius gives a very distinct account of the epiala. He says it arises from a gross vitreous phlegm, and is attended with internal heat, and cold of the extremities. The pulse is small and weak, the urine white and unconcocted, and the perspira- tion suppressed, owing to the constriction of the pores and thickness of the humours. He approves of giving emetics, at- tenuants, and calefacients. The lipyrise are treated of by Serapion, Avicenna, Rhases, and Alsaharavius. They are said to be the counterpart of the epialee, being distinguished by in- ternal cold and external heat. Ithases describes the hepialus as consisting of internal heat and external cold. He says it arises from vitreous phlegm. The lipyria, he states, is one of the worst varieties of ardent fevers.