172 WINE. [book I. SECT. XCV. ON THE PROPERTIES OF WINE. He who has taken the subject of health into consideration ought also to be acquainted with the powers of wme Wine m general is nutritious, but that which is red and thick is more particularly so; but its juices are not good. The sweet a so is nutritious; but not stomachic. The astringent is stomachic, but is distributed with difficulty to the parts of the body and nou- rishes less. The white nourishes less still. Wine of a yellow colour is the best of all. That which is old is more heating and desiccant than the new. Such, in the main, are the proper ics of wine. But wine in general resuscitates the natural heat withm us and therefore it improves digestion, and forms good blood And being of a penetrating nature, it diffuses the nourishment all over the body, and therefore it recruits those who are ema- ciated by disease, for it gives them an appetite for food. It atte- nuates phlegm, clears away the bile by urine, and imparts a good colour To the soul also it communicates gladness and pleasure, and improves the strength. Such are the good effects of the moderate use of wine. But its immoderate use produces just the reverse; wherefore, those who are drunk become changed, are delirious, and disposed to heavy sleep. On that account, such an immoderate use of wine ought to be avoided; but at greater in- tervals it may be drank liberally, for it promotes the discharges by urine and perspiration. But it is better in such cases to vomit, by taking, beforehand, of honied water, so that one may not be injured by it. When one has drunk largely, it is not proper to take much of any other food; but while drinking, one should eat boiled cabbage* and taste some sweetmeat, particularly almonds. These things relieve headach, and are not difficult to vomit. It is also very proper to take the infusion of wormwood before drinking, for of all things it is the best preservative from surfeit. If one experience any painful effects from wine, one should drink cold water, and the next day again the infusion oJ wormwood; and by using exercise, friction, the bath, and re- stricted food, in this way get restored to health. Comm. Commentary. The opinions of the ancients on this interest w—' ing subject may be best learned by consulting Hippocrates (d