sect, xxxvi.j THE PLAGUE. 287 ing the plague of Florence: " E fu questa pestilenza di mag- Co gior forza, pcrcio che essa dagP infermi di queUa per lo com- ^ municare insieme s'avventava a' sani non altramenti che faccia ll fuoco alle cose secche o unte, quando molto gli sono aTvidaafce." (Decameron, Introduzione.) The result of our investigations into the opinions of the an- cients on this subject leads us to the conclusion, that all, or at least the most intelligent of the medical authorities, held that the plague is communicated, not by any specific virus, but in con- sequence of the atmosphere around the sick being contaminated with putrid effluvia. Hence, they maintained that mild fevers {awiqdug) which show no tendency to putrescency are not com- municable from one person to another. See Alexander Aphrodisiensis, (/. c.) Fracastorius, in like manner, considered putrefaction as the source of all contagion. (De Contag. i)j and nearly the same opinion was maintained by the learned Fernel, Franeiscus de Pedemont, Ingrassius, Ficinus, and others. (See Pnelect. Mar. 77.) Although Galen several times speaks of a poison being formed in the human body, he means that the animal fluids are so altered as to become deleterious, and does not hold that there is any specific virus transmitted from one person to another. (De Loc. Affect, v, 7, vi, 5; Epi- dem. iii. We may take this opportunity of stating that, after a pretty extensive investigation into the histories of pestilential epi- demics, we have come to the conclusion that the plague has almost invariably assumed one or other of the following phases: 1st. That of cholera and dysentery. The plague described bv Thucydides, and that of Ingrassias, and many other pestilential epidemics described in ancient and modern times, including the Asiatic cholera of the present age, belong to this class. 2d. That of profuse; and, as they have been termed, syncoptic sweats. The celebrated epidemic of the fifteenth century, now so ad- mirably illustrated by M. Hecker, is the best marked instance which we possess of this form of the disease. M. Hecker, in- deed, supposes that the Cardiac disease of the ancients was of a similar nature to the sweating sickness. But it strikes us (al- though we must admit that we have not had time to consider this point maturely), that the syncoptic fever or cardiac disease of the ancients, was not of a pestilential nature. 3d. The other