GOG [book in. GENITAL ORGANS, ETC. Comm. He begins by inculcating that there is danger in suppressing ""^ ' them suddenly. They are to be treated at first upon the soothing plan, by baths, emollient applications, and those directed for fissures. When these fail, strong caustics are to be applied, such as the composition consisting of arsenic, squama seris, and quicklime. Next day they are to be pierced with a needle. In certain cases he prudently directs bleeding from the arm. Procidentia ani is to be treated in the first place by fomenting the gut with austere wine and the like, and replacing it; and then applying the leaves of willow boiled in vinegar, a linen compress, wool, and a bandage. Fungous ulcers are to be bathed with tepid water, if in winter, or with cold if at any other season; and then sprinkled with squama seris, or dressed with a cerate containing the same with quicklime, &c. If these do not succeed, the parts must be burnt with potential or actual cauteries. Galen remarks that diseases of the anus are difficult to cure, because the part is possessed of great sensibility, and is exposed to be irritated by the alvine discharges, which contain bile, ichor, and the like. Styptic substances, which do not produce much irritation, are most proper for them, such in particular are many of the metals. He gives a long list of applications recommended by Andromachus, Asclepiades, and others, the principal ingredients of which are ceruse, litharge, alum, rose- oil, and the like. For procidentia ani he recommends various astringent applications containing galls, sumach, roses, pome- granate rind, burnt lead, litharge, &c. Aetius gives a long account of these complaints, but we must be content with a brief summary of it. He treats procidentia ani in the first place with astringent applications, containing galls, hypocistis, austere wine, and the like; but when these things do not succeed, he directs us to burn the verge of the anus with the actual cautery. Hemorrhoids he advises us to extirpate with the knife; but when the patient will not submit to this operation, he directs us to bum them with caustics, such as arsenic, quicklime, and the like. He recommends various combinations of these medicines for condyloma, acrochordon, and thymus. Octavius Horatianus may be consulted with advantage j but