SECT- LV-] REGIMEN. ;7 falling forwards, and by leaning upon it in ascending acclivities it will greatly assist in raising the body. Wlicn a traveller stops on a journey he should get his body anointed, take some food adapted for the summer, and a moderate quantity of drink. After dinner he ought to rest awhile before proceeding. But if compelled to go on, and oppressed with thirst, water, having some polenta sprinkled upon it, with a moderate quan- tity of salt, will be of service to him. He should be careful of heat and of the sun, and have his body covered so as not to be exposed to the sun, lest, during the journey, his limbs become dry and stiff. With these precautions, he will be less liable to lassitude, and all its accompanying evils. In winter, when it is cold, before setting out he ought to evacuate, get his body • rubbed with oil, and take plenty of the winter articles of food, and a little drink. He should also get not only his loins, but likewise his spine and chest, properly bound with a longer swath. \\ hen he stops, as sufficient coolness will be produced bv the relaxation, it will be better that he neither anoint, nor take food or drink, nor any other refreshment, if he mean to re- main there. But after long journeys, or excessive fatigue of any kind, even if a person do not complain of lassitude, it will be proper to treat him like those who do, for thereby there will be less danger of any bad consequences. Co mmentary. This Section is taken from Oribasius (Synops. Comm v, 31), who admits that he borrows, in his turn, from Diocles. 1—*—' The directions are, upon the whole, very judicious and proper. Galen forbids travellers who have been exposed to great cold to take heating things immediately after a journey. (Meth. Med.) Avicenna, Averrhoes, and Haly Abbas direct a traveller to get bled before entering upon a journey; and, in certain cases, this might be a very proper practice to prevent the blood from being inflamed by violent exercise, but, on the other hand, unless judiciously applied, it might bring on such debility as would render the traveller unable to undergo the necessary fa- tigue. They recommend him to hold in his mouth a small ball of the trochisk of camphor. The Arabians, it is to be recollected, maintained that the action of camphor is frigorific. Instead of the draught mentioned by our author, Avicenna recommends