454 AFFECTIONS OF THE MOUTH. [book hi. Comm. The 'lovOog is the acne of Drs. Willan and Bateman. Galen says these affections are to be removed by emollient and discutient applications in general. He treats very fully of hypopion or ecchymosis of the face. For it Alsaharavius recommends an application consisting of the infusion of radish and red arsenic. (Pract. iv, 4.) This must have been a powerful stimulant. Marcellus recommends to apply frequently a new sponge soaked in hot salt water. (De Medic, xix.) Rhases describes this affection by the name of pannus faciei. Among the ingredients of his compositions we remark fenugreek, ammoniac, frankincense, liquid pitch, &c. Some of them con- tain arsenic. He also recommends scarifications. SECT. XXVI. ON AFFECTIONS OF THE MOUTH; AND, FIRST, OF THE TEETH. The teeth are pained without inflammation of the gums, some- times from pain attacking the body of the teeth, and sometimes from the nerve which enters them being affected. Wherefore they require the strongest remedies; the greater part of which are prepared from the most acrid vinegar. "When the gums are pained from inflammation, the best application is oil of lentisk retained in the mouth in a tepid state. But see that it is new; for the older it is so much the worse is it for this purpose. This general rule ought to be observed, to evacuate first whatever humour prevails in the general system. For inflammation of the teeth. Wash with vinegar in which have been boiled galls, or the root of winter-cherry, or the seed or leaves of henbane, or pennyroyal, or the juice of nightshade, or the root of capers, or the leaves of myrtle, or poley, or the root of the wild cucumber, or the leaves of rue with oxymel, or hartshorn, or the vinegar of squills, or pellitory with hyssop. To the eaten part of the tooth apply storax with opium, or gal- banum, or sulphur vivum with lycium; or, let the patient inhale the steam from the seed of henbane through a small funnel. And the antidote of Philo, if applied round the tooth, removes the pain. When there is a defluxion on the teeth, rinse with a decoction of myrtle, lentisk, and galls, or of Syrian sumach, or of the flowers of the wild pomegranate, or of its rind. Sprinkle