SECT. T.XXXTV. | BEASTS. 145 SECT. LXXXIV. ON BEASTS. Among quadrupeds, swine's flesh is more nourishing than anv other food, because it is most nearly allied to the human in taste and smell, as some have declared who have tasted human flesh by mistake. But the nourishment derived from it is viscid and unperspirable. That from sheep is cxcremcntitious, and supplies bad juices. That from goats is acrid, and has bad juices. But the .worst of all is the flesh of the buck-goat as to the quality of its juices and to digestion. That of oxen forms melancholic hu- mours; that of hares has thick juices, but less so than that of sheep and oxen. That of roes is hard and of difficult digestion. In general, the flesh of young beasts is more humid, more tender, and more digestible than that of the aged; of gelded animals than of those having testicles ; and of the well-fed than of the lean. Commentary. Athenajus remarks that the flesh of beasts, c especially oxen, formed the principal part of men's food in the heroic ages, as appears from Homer. From one passage in the Iliad (xxiv, 263), and another in the Odyssey (ix, 220), it may be reasonably conjectured that they also lived upon lambs and kids. (Deipn. i, 19.) We may add, that Sophocles represents Pluloctctcs as living, while in Lemnos, upon the birds which he killed with his fatal bow. It is generally supposed that Pythagoras interdicted his disciples entirely from the flesh of animals; but the truth of the matter seems to be, that he re- commended a spare use of it, and allowed to eat such animals only as were used for sacrifices. See Iamblichus and Porphyrins (De Vita Pythagorae.) Plutarch, in two treatises, discusses the propriety of eating flesh. Hippocrates states the particular characters of the different kinds of flesh very correctly. He remarks that the flesh of wild animals is lighter than that of domesticated. According to Aristotle, the flesh of beasts which have been reared upon marsh pasture is less wholesome than that of beasts brought up on higher grounds. (Hist. An. viii, 12.) The general remarks of Celsus may best be given in liis 10