STERILITY. 643 SECT. LXXIV.] a moistening diet of pot-herbs, wine in moderation, and tliat not very old. But if conception be prevented by thick humours, and if they be of a pungent nature, the woman must be purged in a way suitable to each humour, and more particularly with the picra from aloes; then an injection with the whey of women's milk is to be administered, and a more suitable diet thought of. Pituitous humours are to be evacuated by exercise, sudorifics and emetics, or downwards by the bowels. The following me- dicine may be given: Of dodder of thyme, of euphorbium, of pepper, of carrot-seed, of the seed of Macedonian parsley, equal parts • triturate all together, and give to the amount of two drachms to drink. This purges well and heats the womb, so that it often makes the menses flow in cases where this discharge was stopped. As soon as this correction has become apparent, and the menses flow properly, then one must enjoy the woman as soon as the menstrual evacuation stops. When flatus in the womb prevents conception, the symptoms of which may be recognized from what we have said on inflation of the uterus, it is to be cured first by a spare diet, and administering cumin, dill, pars- ley-seed, and that of rue and anise; and by giving many of the aromatics, some to drink and others by pessaries. When the mouth of the uterus is shut up, it must be opened by injections of aromatics, and by using fomentations from mallows, linseed, fenugreek and oil, and sometimes of honey; or, by the stronger ones, composed of mugwort, fleabane, calamint, pennyroyal and chamomile. In addition to these we may use turpentine, nitre, wild cucumber, elaterium, cassia, and tar-water. When the mouth of the womb gapes, the diet, fomentations and medicines should be of a desiccant nature and astringent; and the flowers of pomegranates, lentisk, the roots of brambles, myrtle-berries, and those things applicable for a humid intemperament. Dis- tortions of the uterus are to be rectified by fomentations and emollient pessaries. In such cases, coition a posteriori would seem to promote conception. Commentary. Hippocrates, in his ingenious work on Sterility, Comm. assigns the following causes for a woman's not conceiving: First, ' " 1 because the os uteri is turned obliquely from the passage to it. Second, because the inside of the uterus being too smooth, either naturally or in consequence of the cicatrices of ulcers, it