INTOXICATION. 43 SECT. XXXIII.] SECT. XXXIII. ON INTOXICATION. To those who are intoxicated, vomiting is an immediate relief. It will be proper that they drink freely of water and honied water, so that they may vomit freely, and remove the uneasy feelings. After vomiting, let them use the bath, along with plenteous unction, and afterwards rest for some time, well covered up, until they have slept off their debauch. Commentary. These simple directions are extracted from Comm. Oribasius. (Synops. v, 33.) Hippocrates recommends an emetic '—*—' after intoxication. (De Diseta, iii, 4.) For the cure of intoxication Haly Abbas recommends the tepid bath, affusion of tepid water, and friction with oil. If headach prevail he directs cold rose oil to be poured on the head; or, if it is summer, cold water. After this the person is to be rubbed, and to take things of a cooling nature, such as prunes, tamarinds, and the like. (Pract. i, 8.) Rhases recommends vinegar and water, or the like, for drink; the application of vinegar and oil of roses to the head, and camphor and water to the nose. He also approves of emetics, and of putting the person's hands and feet into cold water. He says one ought to sleep long before going into the bath. (Ad Mansor. v, 71 and 77.) The practice of taking an emetic after a debauch is often alluded to in the works of the classical authors. Thus it is mentioned by Aristophanes in his ' Acharnenses.' Suetonius, in the lives of Vitellius and Claudius, states that these Em- perors were in the practice of procuring vomiting, in order to relieve themselves from the effects of excessive eating and drinking. See also Pliny (Hist. Nat. xiv, 28.) Athenaeus, upon the authority of Mnestheus, the Athenian physician, recommends that a person who has drunk wine freely should not go to rest until he has vomited more or less. He advises afterwards either the affusion, or bath of hot water. (Deip. xi, 67.) It appears, from Pliny, that the celebrated Asclepiades of Bithynia condemned the use of emetics, which were so common in his time. (Hist. Nat. xxvi, 7.) See also Celsus. (i, 3.)