THE KIDNEYS. SECT. XLV.] 551 justly, that white mine is one of the earliest symptoms of cal- Comm. cuius. For stone in the bladder Avenzoar recommends cubebs. ' ' ' Avicenna, Serapion, and Alsaharavius join the Greeks in com- mending the small sparrow (or, as some suppose it, the wren) as an efficacious remedy for calculus. It is said in the 'Isagoge' that its lithontriptic powers were discovered by dreams. We may mention that it has been ingeniously supposed that allu- sion is here made to magnetic somnambulism, which, it is main- tained, Avas one of the remedial means practised in the ancient temples of health. Haly Abbas ascribes the formation of stones to the concurrence of a viscid humour with heat of the part. Old men, he says, are most subject to renal calculi; for in them the watery part of the urine passes down to the bladder, while the grosser part or sediment is detained in the kidneys, and is converted into stones. Children are said to be most liable to calculi in the bladder, owing to their eating much gross food, and taking exercise after meals, by which means the system is loaded with gross impurities. With regard to the treatment, lie enjoins restricted diet, abstinence from gross food, and the use of medicines of an incisive and attenuant nature. The general treatment during a fit of gravel is well laid down by Alsaharavius, consisting of bleeding, cupping, the tepid bath, emollient clysters, &c. Rhases, upon the authority of Antyllus, states that stones are formed either from drinking turbid water or from imperfect digestion, whence the urine deposits a sedi- ment, which is converted into a stony hardness by the heat of the part. According to Theophilus, a thick and milky state of the urine is characteristic of calculous diathesis. (De Urin. 8.) Vegetius mentions that cattle, especially young ones, are liable to stones in the bladder, which are apt to fall into the urethra and obstruct the urine. He states correctly that a stone will sometimes make its way into the rectum. (Mulom. i, 46.) Alexander Aphrodisiensis states that young and old persons are most subject to calculus. (Prob. i.) From the late inves- tigation of Dr. Prout, it appears that children until fourteen years of age are most liable to stone; then persons after forty; while those in the intermediate period are but little subject to the complaint. With respect to the lithontriptics mentioned above, all we