ULCERATION. SECT. LXI.] 329 he recommends a piece of bread soaked in wine to be given. Com (Pract. iii, 25.) 1—r- The Arabians in general do not acknowledge the distinction between syncope and deliquium. See Averrhoes (Colliget. vii, 16); Serapion (vi, 19); Rhases (ad Mansor. x, 13.) Avicenna seems to point at the distinction, but it is not per- ceived by his translator. Rhases recommends the same treat- ment as Haly Abbas. He approves of hot wine, food of easy digestion, sprinkling of the nice with cold water, and the appli- cation of ligatures to the extremities. (Contin. xxxi.) SECT. LXI. ON THE TREATMENT OF ULCERATION UPON THE OS SACRUM. This affection occurs most frequently in protracted fevers, owing to the patients having been long confined to bed. When, therefore, the part begins to appear red, we make a circular piece of wool, of the proper magnitude, and lay it below the part, and afterwards prepare a rose or myrtle cerate, containing litharge or ceruse, and apply it. When there is inflammation, we may use a cataplasm of bread, with nightshade, or knot-grass, or plantain, or tender cabbage. But if the ulceration be spread- ing, we are to use a cataplasm of dried lentils, along with the inner rind of the pomegranate. Commentary. This Section is taken from Oribasius (Synops. Comm. vi, 44.) 1—*—' Aetius remarks that, in prolonged fevers, the fleshy parts of the body being wasted, ulceration takes place in those parts upon which the patient lies. These sores, he adds, spread deep, and have hard thick edges. When the back becomes red and painful, he directs us to surround the adjoining parts with a circle of wool, so as to relieve the affected part from the effects of pressure; and then a cerate of rose or myrtle oil, containing litharge, ceruse, and burnt barley is to be applied. He particularly com- mends a composition consisting of litharge, oil, wax, and honey, mixed with rose-oil. In short, his plan of treatment, like our author's, is borrowed from Oribasius. He concludes with di-