sect, xiv.] URINE. 225 worst of unconcocted urines. Next to these is the thin and white urine, which resembles water. Nearly allied to these, is another kind of urine, appearing in many diseases, and which is very like to the thin and white. The palish is next to this. Ihe pale may also be of a faintish golden colour, and is con- cocted in proportion as it partakes of this colour. It ought, however, to be as much different from water in thickness as in colour, if it is to be properly concocted. But if it preserve ex- actly its natural colour, and have a white, smooth, equable, and copious sediment, it is indicative of perfect digestion. A greater quantity than natural indicates that a crude humour is purged off; but if it is somewhat thicker than natural, and has a cer- tain sediment, it is not then altogether unconcocted. But if it have gritty, scaly, furfuraceous, black, livid, green, or fetid sedi- ments, such urine is altogether unconcocted and particularly mortal. But urine of a proper colour, and which at the same time has white, smooth, and equable sediments, or certain cloud- like appearances, or substances swimming in the middle of a like kind, is of all others the best. Of these characters, the sediment is of the most importance; next, the substances swim- ming in it; and third, the cloud-like appearances on its surface ; and, on the whole, of the substances which float in the urine the more they sink downwards so much the better. Commentary. See Hippocrates (Prognost. ii, et de Vict. Comm. Acut. c. 46); Galen (Comment, de Crisibus, i, 12); Celsus (ii, 7); i~^-J Tlieophilus (de Urinis); Actuarius (de Urinis); Abicianus (de Urinis; De Urinis secundum Syros, de Urinis secundum Persas, de Urinis Commentatio, ap. Phys. et Med. Grzec. Minor, ed. Ideler); Aetius (v); Avicenna (iv, 2,1, Cantic. p. 1); Averrhoes (Collig. iv, 21); Haly Abbas (Theor. iv, 12, x, 10); Alsaharavius (Theor. viii); Rhases (ad Mansor. x, 30, and Contin. xxxi) ; Psellus (Opus Medicum.) Of the ancient authorities who have treated of the urinary discharges, Theophilus and Actuarius are most particularly de- serving of attention. Besides the watery portion, the ancients distinguished three distinct substances in the urine: 1st, the hypostasis or sediment, which is the part that falls to the bottom ; 2d, the enseorema, or substances which float in the watery part, but have not weight to subside ; 3d, the nubecula?, or cloud-like 15