313 SECT. LI.] BULIMOS. exceptions), nature bestowed a stomach which is to them a re- Cqmm. pository of food, such as the earth is to plants, and she further u-^-J gave them a sense of want by which thev have the desire of being filled with food and drink in due season. This desire of being filled is called the appetite, which arises from a sense of want, when the veins of the stomach absorb, and, as it were, suck from it, whereby a painful feeling is excited, the proper cure of which is a supply of food. The sensation then of sucking constitutes hunger. The loss of appetite may arise either from the sense of the sucking being lost, or from the process of sucking (absorption ?) not taking place, or from the body not being evacuated. (De Causis Sympt. i, 7.) He treats of stomach affections very fully in his work « De Med. sec. Locos/ (viii.) Treatment similar to our author's is recommended by Alex- ander (vii, 7), and by Oribasius (Synops. vi, 35.) Avicenna evidently takes his plan of treatment from our au- thor, for he recommends emetics, and afterwards fragrant things, with a plaster composed of fruits laid over the stomach, and wormwood, aloes, &c, internally, (iv, 1, 2, 26.) Among the causes of loss of appetite mentioned by him in another place are general disorder of the constitution in fevers, severe thirst, repletion with depraved humours, and insensibility of the mouth of the stomach, so that it does not perceive the suction of the veins, (iii, 13, 2, 7.) Haly's treatment is nearly the same. He recommends fra- grant food and fragrant wine after the acme of the fever, gentle laxatives, and such modes of exercise as he can bear. (Pract. iii, 21.) SECT. LI. ON BULIMOS OR INORDINATE HUNGER. If want of appetite should pass into the opposite state, I mean an excessive atrophy, called bulimos, we must resuscitate such persons with roasted pork, or kids, and other savoury things; and, in a word, with every strong-scented thing, if the acute stage of the fever be past. We must bind the extremi- ties, and rouse, by pinching the cheeks, and pulling the hair and ears. When recovered, we must give bread that has been clipped in diluted wine, or any other diffusible thing.