624 [book III. THE UTERUS. draughts from the seeds of cucumber; but if it is discharged into the rectum we must throw up injections of lentils and pomegranate-rind. But if it burst into the womb, provided the pus be pure, we may inject rose-oil, or whitened oil, or the oint- ment composed of four ingredients, which is called basilicon, or fresh butter; but if a thin fetid ichor is discharged, as from a spreading ulcer, we must use an astringent injection of myrtles, dates, and dried lentils; and after the discharge of the humours, if there be inflammation, we must persevere with the cataplasms and hip-baths. When the aposteme is seated about the mouth of the uterus, and does not burst, after the parts which cover the pus have become thin, we must endeavour to procure the evacuation of the pus by a surgical operation, as will be ex- plained in the Surgical part of the Work. Commentary. Our author abridges the account given by Aetius, but has omitted some things of importance. Aetius directs us, when the abscess is forming, to apply fomentations by introducing a piece of sponge into the vagina, and to steam the uterus by means of a tube calculated to convey the fumes to it. When the pain is violent, poppy-heads are to be added to the cataplasms. The poppy is an ingredient in several of the cataplasms mentioned by Serapion. Avicenna's treatment is perfectly similar. Oribasius remarks that an abscess may burst by the os uteri, the bladder, or into the rectum. When it makes its way into the rectum, Haly Abbas prescribes clys- ters composed of such articles as lentils, pomegranate-flowers, Armenian earth, rose-oil, ceruse, dragon's blood, gum arabic, the yelk of an egg, and vinegar. His general treatment con- sists of pessaries, plasters, injections into the vagina, and clysters of various cooling and emollient articles. SECT. LXVl. ON ULCERATION OF THE WOMB. The uterus is often ulcerated from difficult labour, extraction of the foetus, or forced abortion, or injury of the same occasioned by acrid medicines, or by a defluxion, or from abscesses which have burst. If, therefore, the ulceration be within reach, it is detected by the dioptra, but if deep-seated, by the discharges;