( i)MM. FEVERS. [hook 1 '.)(> month8, some m seven years, and others, as it would appear, i» I twice or thrice seven years. Commentary. The Father of Medicine who was profomidly j skilled in Semeiology, appears to have ^^^^ ance to the observance of the critical days. At first, as Galen TIL, he seems to have been undecided respee^go£m days, and, accordingly, he gives a somewhat d^ejent Wot them in his 'Prognostics' and 'Aphorisms/ from what he has given Z his <Epidemics/ His latter list of critical days differs little or nothing from that of Galen. Galen reposes sneh confidence in the doctrine of critical dav s, that he affirms that, by a proper observance of them, the phy- sician may be able to prognosticate the very hour when a fever wm terminate. The following is his list: The 7th ,s particu- larly favorable; next, the 14th; next to these, the 9th 11th and 20th; then the 17th and 5th; afterwards he 4 h, 3d, and 18th The 6th is very doubtful and unfavorable ; the 8th and lOthi like the 6th; the 12th, 16th, and 19th, like the 8th and 10th Intermediate between these two lists of favorable and unfavorable days is the 13th. He informs us that Diocles and Archigenes held the 21st to be particularly favorable, but he a-rees with Hippocrates in rejecting it and adopting the 20th. Celsus follows the system of Archigenes. He says, " Kf>ieri,ioi dies erant, dies tertius, quintus, septimus, nonus, undecimus, quartus-decimus, unus et vicesimus ; ita ut summa potentia septimo, deinde quarto-decimo, deinde uni et vicesimo daretur. But he does not hesitate, afterwards, to express his distrust m the whole system; for, he adds, « verum in his quidem anti- quos tunc celebres Pythagorici numeri fefellerunt; cum hie quoque medicus non numerare dies debeat, sed ipsas accessi- ones intueri." The Greek writers subsequent to Galen adopt his system, with little or no alteration. Aetius arranges the critical days thus : First in order, the 7th and 14th; then the 9th and 11th; next to them the 17th and 5th; then, the 4th; and after- wards the 3d and 20th. The 6th is usually bad. The last of the ancient authorities, Actuarius, is very full and confident in laying down the received doctrines, with re- gard to the critical days. He follows Galen.