54 LAXATIVES AND DIURETICS. [book i. COMM Haly Abbas forbids emetics in chronic complaints of the bead Jltt especially if the person be threatened with Pbfluj£ He says that the repetition of them weakens the stomach and may induce hemoptysis. (Pract. i, 12, 13.) livers exactly the same detail of the cases m which emetics prove hurtful or beneficial. (Theor. X, 2.) Serapion gives a fall account of these gentle emetics. (De Antidotis, c. 36.) On the simpler methods which the ancients had recourse to in order to produce vomiting, see Prosper Alpmus. (Med. Meth. iii, 10.) . . We would here remark that the predilection of the ancients for vomits has appeared very extraordinary to some of our modern writers on dietetics, the more especially as it was sup- posed that the ancients made use of violent emetics, as tor ex- ample, the white hellebore, in such cases. It is certain, how- ever, that the ancients were acquainted with gentler means ot unloading the stomach on ordinary occasions, and that they seldom made use of such medicines as the hellebore, except m cases of disease; and, as we shall see afterwards, were well aware of the danger of giving strong emetics unseasonably. SECT. XLIII. ON -LAXATIVES AND DIURETICS TO THOSE IN HEALTH. Some of the ancients thought it sufficient for health that the bowels and urine should be evacuated once a day freely and fully, according to the quantity of food and drink which had been taken; and when the evacuations were agreeable to this rule, they were satisfied, or, if otherwise, they assisted them by taking, in order to increase the urinary discharge, shepherd's needle, parsley, asparagus, Macedonian parsley, anise, calamint, marjoram, wormwood, the roots of couch-grass and of golden thistle, tree-medic, and of maiden-hair; all these being boiled in water, so that the decoction might be drunk with wine. For these things purify the blood by the urine, and are of no small efficacy. Alvine discharges are to be assisted by giving turpen- tine to the quantity of an olive when going to rest, or, when it is wished to purge more effectually, by adding a little rhu-