365 SECT. VIII.J ERYSIPELAS. The Arabians call it massera. Phlegmon of the brain, ac- Comm. cording to Haly Abbas, is attended with swelling of the brain, ' * ' so as to occasion a separation at the sutures, redness of the face, acuteness of vision, and sympathetic affection of the sto- mach. He recommends bleeding at the arm, cooling laxatives, applications of cold things to the head, and so forth. The translator of Alsaharavius calls it ' flegmon' and ' apostema in cerebro says it is occasioned by a collection of corrupted blood in the vessels of the brain ; and directs general bleeding, opening of the nasal vein, or of the sublingual. Avicenna's account is nowise different from our author's. Hippocrates makes mention of sphacelus of the brain, which, he says, generally proves fatal in three days. (Aphor. vii, 48.) From the Commentary of Galen it would appear that by spha- celus he meant that state which is the result of an extreme degree of inflammation. Another of his commentators, Theo- philus, states that by sphacelus was meant incipient mortifica- tion. (Ed. Dietz. ii, 537.) It was therefore a species of ramol- lissement. See an elaborate disquisition into the nature of the sphacelus of Hippocrates by Dr. Coray. (Ad Hippocrat. de Aer. &c. 64.) SECT. VIII. ON ERYSIPELAS OF THE BRAIN. Erysipelas occurs also in the brain, and the patient suffers in the following manner : He has pain of the whole head, and feels as if there were fire in it; his face is cold and somewhat pale, and his mouth dry. Wherefore, bleed such a patient, and more particularly abstract blood from the veins under the tongue, and apply cooling things, such as we use in other kinds of erysipelas. Commentary. Aetius, Oribasius, Avicenna, Haly Abbas, Comm. and Alsaharavius treat of this disease in much the same terms as our author. Haly says there is less heat of the face than in phlegmon, nay, that the face even feels cold. Alsaharavius de- scribes it as being accompanied with violent pain, much inflam- mation, and blackness of the face. He approves of the depletory treatment in general.