144 EGGS. [book i. I Commentary. Our author, Oribasius, and Aetius copy their account of'eggs from Galen. . Hippocrates says that they are nutritious, strengthening, ana flatulent. See also Celsus (ii, 18.) See a curious account of the medicinal properties of eggs m Plinv. (H. N. xxix. 3.) Rhases recommends to eat eggs in a soft state, with peppei and marjoram. (Cont. xxxiii.) He says that the best eggs arc those of the hen and partridge, and next to them those of the duck. Those of geese, he says, should not be eaten. (Ad Mansor. iii, 13.) The ancients preserved their eggs in the flour of beans, chatt, or bran. (Pliny, H. N. x, 61; Columella, viii, 6 ; Varro, De Re Rustica, iii, 9.) Pliny mentions that, if an egg be macerated in vinegar, it will become so soft that it may be drawn through a ring without breaking. Harduin says that he had verified the truth of this fact by experiment. Horace affirms that eggs of an oblong shape are the best: " Longa quibus facies ovis erit, ilia memento Ut succi melioris et ut magis alma rotimdis Ponere." t .. , . (Sat. ii, 4.) We have here adopted the emendation of Bentley. The com- mentator Acron, however, read alba, but took it in the same sense as alma. The ancients used to begin their banquets with eggs, and hence the expression " ab ovo ad malum that is to say, from beginning to end of a banquet. Galen and Simeon Seth agree that eggs which are boiled hard, or which have been roasted in ashes until they are hard, become indigestible, and supply heavy nourishment to the body; but such as have been fried they more especially condemn. When boiled to such a consistence as that the white was just beginning to coagulate, they were called tremula. When so soft that the albumen was not all coagulated, they were called sorbilia. In both these states they are much approved of by Galen, Seth, and all the authorities. Galen especially com- mends the eggs of the hen and of the pheasant. Those of the goose and ostrich, he says, are inferior.