STERILITY. 641 SECT. LXXIV.] by a pessary of the sordes of unwashed wool, nitre, and turpen- Comm. tine-rosm, being simply an obstruction of the mouth of the womb. W~~J Commentary. Imperforate hymen and other obstructions of the vagina requiring a surgical operation will be treated of in the Sixth Book. The case here treated of is simply an ob- struction of the os uteri by a callous substance. The emollient treatment by pessaries here recommended appears very proper. Aetms makes mention of a more efficacious but dangerous ap- plication, namely, a piece of sponge spread with an ointment containing arsenic, alum, &c. Hippocrates had recommended an application containing verdegris. (De Steril. xii.) Avicenna treats the complaint solely by a surgical operation. Alsaharavius approves of the emollient treatment, such as de- coctions of mallows, fenugreek, linseed, &c. SECT. LXXIV. THE CURE OF STERILITY. It is a common direction, applicable both to the man and the woman, to preserve the whole body in a proper temperament, by exercise, food, baths, and everything else in moderation. What is most especially to be attended to is, not to allow them to get into a fat habit of body; for fat persons are unfit for the .propa- gation of children, owing to the want of agreement in their genital organs, and because they do not emit much semen. Nor are those who are much emaciated more so. All things which are heating and moderately flatulent assist, such as taking heating wine in moderation; and of potherbs, the rocket, clary (horminum), hedge-mustard, and the like; but they must, by all means, ab- stain from calamint and rue. When conception will not take place, owing to some cacochymy, we must purge it away, or dilute it by a proper diet. But women must attend particu- larly to the state of the uterus, and that the menstrual evacu- ation be not obstructed. When, therefore, the monthly purgation is near, the woman must attend particularly to take food and drink in moderation, and also some of those things which pro- mote the discharge, such as the fragrant and acrid pot-herbs, as scandix, samphire, fennel, parsley, and alsander. And the in- temperaments of the womb must be rectified. Wherefore the 41