sect, lix.] GENITAL ORGANS, ETC. (J 0f> at any time inflammation comes on, a cataplasm must be ap- Com plied. Spreading ulcers are to be treated with applications ^ containing the escharotics we have just mentioned. When a watery sanies runs from the sore it is to be treated with basili- con (tretrapharmacon) melted with roses and some frank- incense j and it is to be frequently bathed with hot water and covered up from the cold. The tubercles called phymata are to be burnt down with medicines or a cautery of iron, and when the crust falls off, the squama aeris is to be sprinkled on the part. Cancerous sores are to be extirpated by escharotics, as by a composition of quicklime, chalcitis (sulphate of copper ?) and arsenic; or they are to be cut out and the part burnt. Phagedenic sores in like manner are to be burnt with medicines or the actual cautery. Avicenna approves of Galen's rule of treatment stated above. When sores are recent, he recommends in particular aloes, and when more humid, burnt copper. When an incarnant is re- quired, frankincense is to be mixed. Prurigo is to be cured by venesection, purging, and liniments containing nitre, alum, sal ammoniac, or even stavesacre with vinegar or rose-oil. For prurigo, Alsaharavius recommends lotions of sea-water, decoc- tions of chamomile, saffron, and camphor pounded with vinegar, and the like applications. For hard pustules he recommends various corrosive applications, some of which contain arsenic. Haly Abbas remarks that ulcers on the genital membranes are attended with the same symptoms as those on other parts. On diseases of the anus. Celsus has likewise treated very fully of these complaints. For rhagadia or fissures he recom- mends first the hot bath, and afterwards cooling ointments, such as old oil with litharge, and unwashed wool spread with a com- position of liquid cerate and roses. The regimen is thus tersely pointed out: " Liquida, lenia, pinguia, glutinosa, meliora sunt." The tubercle called condyloma is said to derive its origin from inflammation, and is to be treated at first by making the patient sit in a hip-bath of water having vervain boiled in it; and then lentil with some honey, or a composition containing chalcitis, or alum with ceruse and litharge, or the like, is to be applied. If these do not succeed, the escharotics, such as verdigris, anti- mony, &c, or even the more powerful caustics are to be used. He treats hemorrhoids upon much the same plan as our author.