G74 GOUT. [»o°K nl- however, that a certain proportion of hellebore must have en- tered into its composition, as we have never found the eolchi- cum to act so violently as the eau is said to do. We have stated above that Cajlius Aurelianus makes no mention of the hermodactylus. However, the great modern advocate for Me- thodism, Prosper Alpinus, speaks favorably of it, and says de- cidedly that it is the colchicum of the Greeks. It appears not to have fallen into disuse in his time. (De Med. Meth. ix, 4.) The Arabians follow the Greeks closely in the general prin- ciples of treatment, only substituting certain articles introduced into the Materia Medica by themselves. Thus Serapion strongly recommends purging with myrobalans, prunes, and tamarinds. He, Avicenna, and Rhases, join in praising the virtues of the hermodactylus. Their local applications are similar to those of the Greeks. When the pain is violent, Serapion even ap- proves of pouring cold water upon the affected part. Rhases approves of burning the joint in certain cases. Avicenna di- rects us to cover the part with oil and salt, and thus to apply the cautery gradually. Avicenna speaks more favorably of bathing in thermal waters than any of the other authorities. According to Haly Abbas, arthritic diseases are collections of superfluities of the system in some joint which is labouring under debility. These superfluities are said to be produced by repletion and indigestion. The debility is generally occasioned by immoderate exercise, intemperance, debauchery, or some such cause; and a joint having become weakened, all the im- purities of the system are collected into it. He says that young persons and women who menstruate regularly are scarcely liable to the gout. He agrees with the authorities already mentioned in holding it to be hereditary. When the humour in the joints concretes into chalk-stones, he pronounces the case to be incur- able. When the disease is produced by a sanguineous plethora, he recommends us to begin with bleeding, and then to use cooling lotions, or even to pour cold water on the joint. When these do not succeed, anodyne applications, containing opium, mandragora, lettuce, saffron, and the like, are to be used. When the pain has abated, any swelling which remains may be dis- cussed by applying to the part a decoction of marjoram, melilot, chamomile, and the like. When the defluxion is connected with bile, he recommends first emetics, and then drastic purgatives,