SECT. LXXXVI.] MILK. 151 digested. Athenams speaks of it as a delicacy in great request Comm. at Rome. (Deipnos. k, 32). The liver of a white goose fed upon fatty figs is one of the delicacies mentioned by Horace as having been presented at the supper of Nasidienus. (Sat. ii, 8.) See also Juvenal (v, 114), and Persius (vi, 7.) If we may believe Martial, the liver, in these cases, sometimes grew to such a size as to surpass the body of the animal. (Epigr. xiii, 58.) We are informed by Pliny, that it was disputed to whom the culinary art was indebted for the discovery of this exquisite delicacy. (H. N. x, 21.) * 1 Galen states that all fat and suet are of an oily nature, and that they ought rather to be used as condiments than as articles of food. Serapion gives the most circumstantial account of the qualities of these animal oils. The vulva or womb of a sow was esteemed an exquisite de- licacy by the Romans. There were three kinds of it—that is to say, it was taken in three different states of the animal. The first, called ejectitia, was procured by forcing the animal to part with its young. The second, or porcaria, was the womb of the animal, taken after it had littered. The third, called sterilis, was the womb of a sow that had never been with young. This last is ranked by Celsus among those things which are useful to the stomach. See Plutarch (de Esu Carnium) j Pliny (Hist. Nat. xi, 37.) Simeon Seth, however, condemns it as indigestible. (See Not. Bogdani.) SECT. LXXXVI. ON MILK. Milk, when digested, is nutritive, but is injurious to the gums and teeth; and, therefore, after taking it, one ought to rinse one's mouth, first with honied water, and then with an astringent wine. It also produces headach, occasions flatulence of the sto- mach, and hypochondria, and engenders stones in the kidneys. The more watery kind contains less nourishment, but is more laxative, while, on the other hand, the thick is more nutritive, and moves the belly less. That of the goat is of a middling consist- ence, as that of the sheep is thicker; and it, immediately after the ewe has brought forth lambs, is thinner, but it afterwards be- comes thicker and worse.