sect, xxiv.] WRINKLES. 37 taking such food as is moistening and calefacieut." He strenu- Comm. ously defends the practice of allowing old persons to take wine, and gives a circumstantial account of the Greek and Roman wines best adapted to them. In the case of old persons he ap- proves of three meals in the day. He recommends the bath to be taken before dinner, which should consist of sea fish. He properly expresses his disapprobation of giving them aloetic pills to remove constipation of the bowels, and advises rather that they should be kept open with laxative herbs and oily clysters, in the manner stated by our author. Aetius remarks, in like manner, that old men are much hurt by strong purgatives, which only increase the disposition to costiveness. All that is required in such cases, he remarks, is to lubricate the rectum with an in- jection of oil. The Arabians follow closely in the same strain. Alsaharavius recommends old persons to drink strong diuretic wines. He also approves of the tepid bath, and friction with emollient oils. He disapproves of much exercise and of taking aloetic pills, instead of which he directs oily clysters and laxa- tive herbs. (Pract. xxvii, 10.) See more particularly Aver- rhoes' Commentary on the Cantica of Avicenna (tr. i.) They agree that if an old man had been accustomed to be frequently bled, the practice is not to be wholly laid aside. Avicenna par- ticularly approves of a milk diet. He recommends old red Mines, but forbids such as are new and sweet, (i, 3, 3.) Even Plato, the philosopher, permits old men to take a liberal allow- ance of wine, which he pronounces to be the restorative of youth, and the corrective of the austerity and despondency of old age. (leg. ii.) See also Athen. (Deip. x, 54, ed. Sclrweigh.) According to Hippocrates, old men bear abstinence better than those of any other period of life. (Aphorism.) The reason of this assigned by his Commentators, Theophilus and Damascius, is, that their innate heat is lower than at any other age, and consequently requires less pabulum to support it. (Ed. Dietz. t. iv, 277.) " SECT. XXIV. FOR A WRINKLED STATE OF THE BODY. A wrinkled state of the body may be removed by the farina of bitter tares, mixed with white vine.