sect, lxxxi.] FRUITS. m whlhT'1, ifrV0U m off «» taer membrane of dried ones en Tin ^ TeratCd iU ^ tlU'V ^ domelike the green Almonds have incisive and attenuating powers and therefore, they evacuate the intestines and chest? and more ^ pcciallysueh as are bitter; and, in like manner, the pis ac uch arc also more calculated for removing obstructions of tie *iver. Damascenes loosen the belly when eaten before food ;uor bmlca in honied ^ *** «*-«S£ cult digestion injurious to the stomach, and give little nourish- ment Carobs are of difficult digestion, bind the bellv, and pro- duce bad chyme. Sycamores are decidedly of a cooling and a moistening nature. Of the citron, the outer part is acrid and indigestible, but that part which is as it were its flesh, is nutri- tious, and yet it is hard to digest. The inner part, whether acid or watery, is moderately cooling. Acorns are nutritious, no less so than com, but of difficult digestion, contain thick juices and are slowly evacuated. Chesnuts are in every respect supe- rior to them. r 1 Commentary. It may be proper, in the first place, to dis- cuss briefly the question respecting the proper time for eatin- 1 fruit. Galen, Rhases, and Simon Seth direct to eat fruit at the beginning of a regular meal. It appears, however, to have been customary with the ancients, as it is in Britain at the pre- sent day, to cat all manner of fruits at the mensa secunda, or dessert, as we learn from many passages of Athena3us and Macrobius. Horace was fond of concluding his banquets with fruit. He speaks of finishing a frugal repast with hung grapes, nuts, and figs (Sat. ii, 2); and in another place he says: " Ille salubres /Estates peragct, qui nigris prandia moris Finiet ante gravem qure legerit arbore solera." (Sat. ii, 4.) We may mention, by the way, that Galen, on the other hand, positively forbids to eat mulberries after other food, and that it appears to have been the general rule in ages long after the time of Galen to eat figs and grapes at thebeginning of ameal. (Anonym, de Diseta, ed. Ideler, t. ii, 198.) But what Celsus says respecting the proper time for eating fruit is very much to the purpose : " Secunda mensa bono stomacho nihil nocet, in imbecillo coas-