[book i. 120 FRUMENTACEA. the Roman gourmands appear to have attached more import- ' ance to the truffles than the corn which they were supplied with from Africa : "Tibi babe frumentuui, Alledius inquit, O Lybie; disjunge boves dum tubera mittas. (Sat. v, 116.) Ludovicus Nonnius confesses himself unable to determine what species of mushroom the amanita; of our author were. Seth makes no distinction between them and the mycetai. See further Athen. (Deip. ii, 7, ed. Schweig.) SECT. LXXV1I1. ON THE FliUMENTACEOUS ARTICLES OE FOOD. Of the frumentacea, the chondrus is nutritious, and forms viscid chyme; but a watery preparation is unwholesome, be- cause, as it thickens quickly, it remains raw and unconcocted; but the juice of it is better when it is properly boiled whole, like a ptisan. The alica, in other respects, resembles the chon- drus, only that it binds the bowels more. Wheat, when boiled and eaten, is of difficult digestion and flatulent; but if digested it proves a very strong food. When made into bread, its indi- gestible and flatulent properties are removed by the leaven and salt which are added. The most nutritious of all the kinds of bread is that made from siligo; next, that from the similago; and, third, that which is composed of the entire grain. Coarse bread is less nutritious, but more laxative than the other kinds. Starch gives little nourishment, like washed bread. Barley is of a cold nature and detergent: when boiled like a ptisan it humectates; but when toasted, as in polenta, it dries. Polenta in summer, drunk with water before the bath, quenches thirst. Barley-bread is dry and of little nourishment. The pudding (maza) is of more difficult digestion, and more flatulent than barley-bread, and when it receives a little honey is laxative. Oats are heating and of little nourishment. Millet and panic are cold and dry, contain little nourishment, and bind the bowels. But the millet is in every respect superior to the panic. Rice is of difficult digestion, contains little nourishment, and binds the bowels. A ptisan is prepared, by adding one .part of it to fif-