237 PUTRID. SECT. XVIII.] the Arabians, see, in particular, Alsaharavius (xxxii, 6) • Haly c Abbas (Theor. viii, 5) j and Rhases (Cont. xxx.) llhases states "~ that putrid fevers are often engendered by eating too much fruit, such as peaches. He says they generally begin with de- pression of the pulse, horripilation, torpor, and somnolency. SECT. XVIII. THE CURE OF PUTRID FEVERS. When the powers of the constitution are strong, a person affected with a putrid fever ought to be bled in the commence- ment, provided there be no crudities in the stomach. But when the powers are weak, or the age of the patient is an objection, you must not bleed. After the evacuation by bleeding, it will be proper to clear away the putrid matters by urine, the belly, and sweating. And, if they have spontaneously been deter- mined towards the mouth of the stomach, they may be evacu- ated by emetics, but otherwise you must not produce an unna- tural irritation. Such things ought also to be selected as will effect the afore-mentioned evacuations without heating or drying, such as the juice of ptisan, honied water, oxymel, apomel, and the root of parsley. When the belly is not opened, an injection of mulse, with oil, may be given. The body is not to be rare- fied before evacuations; but, after evacuations, it may be rarefied by means of an oil possessing a gentle heat, such as that of cha- momile. At this season, all the secretions are promoted by drinking of some watery wine, and using a tepid bath of sweet water. When the strength of the fever is an objection, you must neither use wine, the bath, nor rarefying unctions; but, in such cases, drinking of cold water is the most suitable re- medy, if nothing prevent the use of it likewise. But if all the powers are strong, the fever of a very hot nature, with clear symptoms of concoction, cold water may be given boldly. But if he is muscular, and the constitution of the air hot and dry, he will not be hurt by being thrown into a cold bath. And if the fever is moderate, and the strength good, with symptoms of concoction, baths, the drinking of wine, and unctions of a rare- fying nature will be beneficial to such persons.