440 DISEASES OF THE EAR. [book hi. not to be interfered with, for they will commonly cease of them- selves; but, if they remain after the disease, having fomented with the decoction of wormwood, inject vinegar and rose-oil, or the juice of radish with rose-oil, or that of black hellebore with vinegar. For chronic noises occasioned by thick and viscid humours (which you may know from their coming on not suddenly, but gradually), syringe with vinegar, nitre, and honey.—Another: Of white hellebore, dr. ij; of castor, dr. ij; of saffron, dr. iij; of nitre, dr. xvj. Make trochisks, which tritu- rate in vinegar, and use. For chronic noises and hissing sounds. Triturate euphorbium with oil of privet, heat and use. When, from increased sensi- bility, they experience the sensation of vapours or spirits carried upwards, triturate castor and the seed of hemlock with vinegar, and inject. On difficulty of hearing and deafness. Those cases which are congenital, or which, although not congenital, are inveterate, and attended with complete deafness, are incurable; and those which, although not complete, are inveterate, prove also incu- rable, or difficult to cure. Those which are formed by a bilious humour ascending upwards, you may easily cure by evacuating with cholagogue medicines; and sometimes the complaint goes off spontaneously, when bile is discharged downwards. Deaf- ness, or difficulty of hearing, occasioned by crude and thick humours, you may cure by opening a vein, by purging freely with Hera, and by using masticatories, errhines, and natural or salt baths. It is also proper to inject into the ear those things which are recommended above for noises. But the fol- lowing are particularly applicable: Inject the urine of a goat and the gall of a goat together, or the gall singly; or the juice of rue with honey; or castor with the oil of dill; or the medicine cesypum with nard ointment; or the gall of a goat with galba- num; or this: Of castor, dr. ij; of nitre and white hellebore, of each, dr. j. For contusions of the ears. Hippocrates recommends us to ap- ply nothing to them; but since we are often compelled by those who have sustained the injuries to do something, we may use the following: Of myrrh, of aloes, of frankincense, of acacia, equal parts; anoint with vinegar or the white of an egg. Or, pound in a mortar the inner part of warm bread with honey,