LIENTERY. [book III. .520 Comm. With respect to diarrhoea, Celsus recommends us to give an ' " ' emetic; to anoint next day with oil; to give moderate food and undiluted wine; and to apply over the belly a cerate with rue. Cselius Aurelianus enjoins at first rest and abstinence, then astringent applications to the belly, next day astringent food, and then wine and the bath. Haly Abbas remarks that a diarrhoea is not to be rashly stopped unless it become excessive, in which case astringents are to be given, such as galls, roses, pomegranate fruit, &c. Serapion and Rhases mention an eme- tic as a remedy for diarrhoea. For the cure of diarrhoea, the veterinary surgeons recommend at first bleeding and hot water, and then astringents, such as sumach and pomegranate rind. (Geopon. xvi, 8.) SECT. XL. ON LIENTERY AND CELIAC AFFECTION. There are two varieties of lientery: the one arising from su- perficial ulceration of the intestines, and (according to some) from a cicatrix occasioned most frequently by dysentery or other defluxions; and the other from an atony of the retentive faculty of the bowels: the second variety being in our opinion connected with the cseliac affection; for in it the stomach being unable to concoct and distribute the food, it is discharged downwards in a smooth, undigested, and liquid state, the stomach in all cases labouring under a defluxion. But in lientery the passage of the food is quick, and the indigestion more intense; so that the appearance of the food which has been taken is preserved, and by these circumstances it is more especially distinguished from cseliac affection. Wherefore we must apply cataplasms of linseed with dates. And lentisk and bramble boiled with oxymel is a very effectual remedy; but, when there is flatulence of the bowels, we must mix some cumin, dill, and rue. If the defluxion increase, we may add quinces, moist alum, acacia, hypocistis galls, some or all of these. Cerates also made of myrtle-oil with some astringent wine are useful, and the caleficient epithemes from the bay-berries, or from seeds. But that from the flowers of wild vine, that from grape-stones, and that ascribed toAntyllus are more astringent. But the one called Erythrian is wonder-