371 SECT. X.] CATOCHUS. diet, such as the juice of ptisan. And the head is to be smeared with suitable ointments, which, if in summer, may be cold, but tepid, if in winter. If the surfeit do not pass off, nor the patient recover his senses, it will be time to give up the case as hopeless, and pack off. Commentary. Most of the authors referred to in the pre- Comm. ceding Section may be consulted on catochus, or catalepsy. It v—v—J is called by the Arabians subet ulsarl. On the characters of the pulse in catochus, see Galen (de Causis Puis, iv, 16.) Nonnus and other authorities remark that it is accompanied with fever. Their general treatment consists of venesection; clysters of the decoctions of rue and cumin, with nitre and honey; epithemes applied to the belly; and fomentations of water and oil to the head. Haly says that the disease arises from a collection of phlegm on the brain; from pressure in cases of fracture of the skull; or from the projection of the in- ternal plate of the cranium. His treatment is judiciously mo- dified according to the nature of the exciting cause. He approves of sinapisms to the head, friction of the feet, and so forth. Alsaharavius recommends venesection when the exciting cause is a bilious humour, but forbids it when the disease arises from a collection of phlegm. His treatment is judicious, but not much different from our author's. (Pract. i, 2, 13.) Rhases' general remedies are clysters, purgatives, restricted diet, and, if indicated, bleeding at the arm or ancles. C?elius Aurelianus describes the disease with his usual ac- curacy. He says it occurs in cases of continual, intermittent, and ephemeral fevers. The symptoms, as detailed by him, are acute fever, loss of speech, dulness of the senses, pulse large, strong, and full, and the eyes fixed. With regard to his treat- ment, he says nothing of venesection, but approves of fomenta- tions to the head of sweet tepid oil; and mentions common clysters, cataplasms to the loins, in order to relieve the reten- tion of urine j shaving the head, and applying cupping-instru- ments to it, scarifications along the occiput, baths, fomentations of oil, &c. He disapproves of the practice of Chrysippus and Themison, who recommended stimulant ointments to the head, shaving the head, and applying sinapisms to it with sternuta- tories and acrid clvsters.