508 THE STOMACH. [BOOK III. ing is a cerate which we frequently use : Of white wax, oz. j, (but if in summer, dr. vij); of aloes and mastich, of each, dr. j; add of the oil of unripe olives, or of apples and of nard, when going to use it, as much as will be sufficient to give it con- sistence. Or, if the stomach require greater astringency, as not being able to retain the food, mix also of oil of unripe olives, dr. j; or of the juice of wormwood an equal quantity; and, thirdly, of the juice of hypocistis, of wild vine, and of sumach. We must make the quantity of the cerate proportion- ate to the number of the other medicines. When the inflam- mation becomes protracted and hard, we must apply more com- plicated remedies, containing aromatic, emollient, and discutient ingredients, such as that prepared from melilot, the philagri- anum, and the fragrant. And a necklace of green jasper ap- pended from the neck, so as to touch the stomach, is of great use. In hot intemperaments of the stomach, or ardent affec- tions of it with prostration or deliquium animi, or anorexia from any other cause than fever, give cold water with the juice of unripe grapes, or the decoction of quinces, or of vine shoots, or the powdered seed of cucumber with cold water. Apply to the stomach a bladder filled with cold water, or the shavings of gourd. And the pills called Adipsa are to be given, as described when treating of thirst. The following medicine is proper for cooling and strengthening a watery stomach: Of green rose- leaves, dr. vj ; of liquorice juice, dr. iv, mix with sweet wine, and make into an electuar}^ to be allowed to melt under the tongue. When, on account of a gross phlegm, medicines are required to heat and incise it, the following one will be useful: Of the rind of fennel-root, oz. ij ; of vinegar, a sextarius and a half; of aloes, oz. iij; of honey, lb. iv; the roots being boiled in the vinegar, are to be squeezed out and thrown away, and honey being added, it is to be boiled to a proper consistence, and then powdered aloes sprinkled upon it. Give three spoonfuls of it with water. Some prepare it without the aloes. The composition from ca- lamint is also proper for such cases. When the food turns acid on the stomach, give in water for drink a drachm of coriander seed sprinkled upon it like polenta, or one spoonful of mastich, or two spoonfuls of the seed of the white lettuce. The following is a compound medicine : Of pepper, dr. j; of the seeds of dill, dr. iij; of cumin, dr. iv; triturate, and give at bedtime one