[book ii. FEVERS. 202 SECT. XH.—ON THE PULSE, FROM THE WORKS OF GALEN. The pulse is a movement of the heart and arteries, taking plaee by a diastole and systole. Its object is twofold, for by he diastole, whieh is, as it were, an unfolding and expan on of the artery the cold air enters, ventilating and resuscitating 1 a^ZgU and hence the formation of the vital spirits , and by the systole, which is, as it were, a falling down and con- traction of the circumference of the artery towards the centre the evacuation of the fuliginous superfluities is effected. lne arteries themselves are oblong hollow vessels like the veins, but consist of two coats, in order to fit them for the afore-mentioned motion, and because they have to contain blood and spirits They arise from the heart, and are distributed to all parts of the body : and, therefore, all the arteries pulsate m a similar manner, and like the heart, so that from one of them you may iudge concerning all the rest. But the movement of all cannot be equally well observed; for those which are situated m parts not fleshy may be more conveniently felt, whereas those that are in fleshy parts are more indistinct. Nor is any one more con- veniently situated for being felt than the one at the wrist. I be first kind of pulses is in regard to the time of their motion, as observed in systole and diastole. Its differences are, the quick, slow, and moderate; because every body which is moved must be moved quickly, slowly, or intermediately, as to timej that is quick which is moved over a great distance m a short time ; that is slow which is moved over a short distance in a long time ; and that is moderate which is intermediate as to motion. The se- cond kind of pulses is in regard to the extent of the diastole. For, since every body has three dimensions, length, breadth, and depth, and an artery is a body, it follows, that an artery must have these dimensions. When, therefore, an animal is in its natural state, you will find its arteries dilated moderately every way; but when not in its natural state, its dilatation will be deficient, or exceed according to some one of its dimensions. In calculating this, you must remember the natural state of the pulse; and if it is found to exceed in breadth, you must call it broad; if in length, long; and if in depth, high or deep. It is clear that the opposites to these, or those that are deficient,