311 SECT. L.] LOSS OF APPETITE. ing, frequent friction of the roof of the mouth, eructation, stretching of the loins, raising the head, turning to the side, gently chafing the extremetics, anointing the masseter muscles, pouring hot oil into the ears, applying a warm cushion under the chin. It is proper to avoid being roused suddenly from sleep, and also smoke, dust, acrid smells, pepper, castor, mus- tard, and mint. The smell of apples and polenta is proper, for it blunts the desire of sneezing. The empty sea-sponges do the same. When there is a frequent desire of sneezing without the ability, let the lips be composed, let the patient smell to acrid substances, and let the mind be relaxed. Commentary. Galen explains that sneezing is a still more Comm. violent effort of nature than coughing, and that its intention is ' v ' to remove irritating matters from the parts about the nose. (De Caus. Sympt. ii, 4.) Avicenna gives ample directions for the treatment of sneez- ing ; but they are evidently copied from our author, (iv, 1, 2.) The same may be said of Haly Abbas. (Pract. iii, 22.) Rhases recommends us to give warm gruel internally, to pour warm water on the head, and to apply oil of gourd, of roses, and the like, to the nostrils. (Cont. xxxi.) Cassius Medicus discusses the question why rubbing the nose and eyes stops sneezing. He supposes that it is by occasioning a discharge from these parts, whereby the exciting cause is re- moved. (Probl. 45.) SECT. L. ON LOSS OF APPETITE. When loss of appetite is occasioned by depraved humours, we must give those kinds of food and drink which will cither clear away such humours by vomiting, or downwards by the bowels, or those that by dilution will render them better. You have the materials of these things treated of in the First Book of this work. Should the loss of appetite be occasioned by de- bility, since all debility is owing to an intemperament of the parts, we must cure the species of intemperament by its contra- ries. Wherefore we will give a more particular account of loss of appetite in treating of stomach complaints in the Third Book.