[book II. 298 FEVERS. Comm. The different kinds of pain are fully treated of by Avicenna (i, 2, 3, 20), and by Haly Abbas (Theor. vi, 16.) Averrhoes has delivered the treatment of this complication of fever in nearly the same terms as Galen. When the pain is occasioned by warm air or flatulence, he particularly commends cupping applied with great heat. He agrees with Galen in condemning narcotics, when the exciting cause is of a cold nature. He also joins him in condemning hot fomentations and clysters, when the pain of the bowels is occasioned by a hot humour. (Collig. vii, 18.) See Rhases (Cont. xxxiii.) SECT. XLI. ON COLLIQUATIVE DIARRHOEA OR MELTING. When anything is discharged from the bowels which was not part of the food or drink that was taken, but of the fluids of the body which had flowed to them, (resembling the yellow bile which is continually discharged by vomiting and purging, but differing from it in fetor; and in this, that the alvine discharge is of a darker yellow, of the consistence of the sordes balneorum, oily, and adipose,) the disease is called colliquation or melting. At first the fat and newly-made flesh are dissolved and melted by the heat of the fever; but as the evil is protracted, some of the solid parts themselves are melted down. In this most unfavorable state of fever, a draught of cold water from the coolest fountain is the most proper remedy; likewise cold cata- plasms and epithems ought to be applied to the chest and hypochondriac regions, and cooling food to be given. Comm. Commentary. Galen mentions that a colliquative discharge 1 * ' from the bowels was a common symptom of the fatal plague which prevailed in his time. He adds that the faeces were ge- nerally of a deep yellow colour, and always fetid. (Comment, in Hippocrat. Epidem. iii.) In another place, he states that it is a fatal practice to bleed or purge in cases of fever complicated with diarrhoea. (Therap. ad Glauc. i.) Our author borrows from Oribasius (Synops. vi 30) or Aetius (v, 91.) The Arabians treat febrile melting upon general principles as explained under the head of Diarrhoea. 'i