9G THE HEART. [BOOK '* are mutually dependent upon one another, the heart being in- debted to the brain for supplying the parts concerned m respira- tion with muscular energy, and the brain being indebted to the heart for its vital heat, without which it could not continue to be the vehicle of sensibility and motion. (De Placitis Hippocrat. et Platon. pluries.) We have mentioned in the preceding Sec- tion, that the ancient physiologists looked upon respiration as being a process similar to combustion. See Galen (de Usu Respirationis), Alexander Aphrodisiensis (Probl. i, 16.) The heart, then, was supposed to convey heat to all parts ot the body, by means of the animal spirits incorporated with the blood in the arteries. Respecting the contents of the arteries, two hypotheses divided the ancient schools of medicine. The first was that of the celebrated Erasistratus, who maintained, that the arteries do not contain a fluid, but merely certain airs or vapours. The other hypothesis was that of Galen, who keenly attacked this, as he did most of the tenets of Erasistratus, and endeavoured to prove, by experiment, observation, and reasoning, that the contents of the arteries is blood, mixed, indeed, with a certain proportion of heat and airs, but in every respect a fluid, little different from that contained in the veins. It was also part of his system, that the right cavity of the heart attracts blood from the liver, and conveys it to the left, from which it is diffused all over the body by the arteries. He taught that, at every systole of the arteries, a certain portion of their contents is discharged at their extremities, namely, by the exhalents and secretory vessels • and that at every diastole a corresponding sup- ply is attracted from the heart. He decidedly inculcates, in op- position to Asclepiades, that it is the expansion or diastole of the artery which occasions the influx of the blood, and not the influx of the blood which occasions the expansion of the artery ; or, in other words, that the systole is the function of the heart, and the diastole its return to its natural state. (De Diff. Puis, iv, 10.) Though he demonstrated the anastomosis of arteries and veins, he nowhere hints his belief, that the contents of the former pass into the latter, to be conveyed back to the heart, and from it to be again diffused over the body. In a word, his system appears to have been nearly, or altogether, the same as that which wad afterwards taught by the unfortunate Servetus. It is clear, therefore, that Galen had made a very near ap-