sect, xxxviii.] SYNCOPE. 2£H cruditate nata." (Ad Mansor. x, 1-1,) He mentions emetics, Comm. but approves most particularly of friction. (Contin. xxx.) Averrhoes contends that, in such a case, it is lawful for a Mussulman to drink wine, although forbidden by the Prophet. He approves also of friction. (Collig. vii, 16.) Prosper Alpinus informs us that the Methodists, in such cases, gave wine and aromatics, and used evcrv means to rouse the system. (Med. Method, vi, 9.) SECT. XXXVIII. OF THOSE WHO HAVE FALLEN INTO SYNCOPE FROM THIN HUMOURS. Those who have fallen into a state of syncope from thin humours, must be treated quite oppositely to the manner de- scribed, for you will find the diagnostic symptoms quite dif- ferent. They must be supported by taking a little food fre- quently. And their case is to be thought hopeless when the liver or stomach is inflamed at the same time that the powers arc gone. In these affections, the expression of the counte- nance speedily becomes death-like. It is necessary to support their strength with food, but their skin must be condensed in- stead of being rarefied as in the former case. The air must be cooled, and they must be rubbed with astringent ointments. They must be furnished with food not very laxative, also bread and gruels from chondrus, with autumnal fruits that are austere, and not apt to spoil; these, either by themselves or with bread. A watery wine taken from the beginning with the food will be beneficial. Commentary. This is taken from Galen. (Meth.Mcd. xii, 6.) C See also Oribasius (Synops. vi, 27); Aetius (v, 98.) In this "~ case Alexander recommends nearly the same plan of treatment as Galen. He recommends for food things which are incras- sant and anti-discutient, such as the juice of halica, succorv lettuces, apples, pomegranates, pears, &c. They must be ad- ministered, however, in small quantities. He approves of giving a weak watery wine, not very old. He recommends friction with tonic and incrassant oils, such as the oil of apples, and other applications of a like nature.