106 ARTICLES OF FOOD. [book i. phlegm, in the body. In proof of this, we subjoin Rhases' brief description of them: " De complexione autem infirmi scias, quod si fuerit albi coloris admixti rubedini, et si fuerit bona carnis, subtilis cutis, et quando locum fricaveris, rubescit statim significatur quod materia est sanguinea. Et si corpus fuerit pino-ue et albi coloris non mixti rubedini, et corpus nudum pins, renis strictis, came molli, occultarum juncturarum, gracilmm ossium, et generaliter talis dispositio qualis est m corporibus muherum, significatur quod materia est phlegmatica. Et si fuerit macrum, citrini coloris, pilosum, et cum crassis vems, et manifestis juncturis, ostendit quod materia est cholenca. Et si fuerit niger color, durities corporis, pilositas, aspentas cutis, sig- nificatur quod materia est melancholica." (De Affect. Junct. 2.) It is to be understood, however, that Galen's system of the temperaments was not based, as has been often erroneously re- presented, upon any hypothesis respecting the humours. SECT. LXXIII. ON THE POWERS OF THE ARTICLES OF FOOD. Since an account of the properties of food is a part of the doc- trine of Hygiene, we shall add that to the preceding, having premised only a few remarks before delivering the particular rules on this head; for nothing is more indispensably necessary than to be well acquainted with the properties of food. Things of an attenuating power open the pores, and clear away the viscid humours which are impacted in them, and cut and attenuate the thick; but when persevered in as articles of food, they beget serous and bilious superfluities, or, if still longer continued, they render the blood melancholic. One ought therefore to abstain from the continued use of them, and in particular those who are of a bilious temperament;, for they only suit with those who have collections of phlegm, and of crude, viscid, and thick humours. Those of incrassating powers are sufficiently nutritious, and, if properly digested in the stomach and liver, they form good blood, but occasion obstructions of the spleen and liver. Of these some have only thick juices, as the dried lentil, but some viscid, as the mallows; and in some they are both thick and viscid, as the testaceous fishes. An attenuating diet is safer than an incras- sating for the preservation of health, but yet, as it supplies little