351 SECT. IV.] HEADACII. On headachs from a cold intemperament. In cases of head- achs from coldness, the symptoms arc just the reverse of those proceeding from heat; for the face is pale and not contracted, and the patients do not delight in cold things, nor are bene- fited by them. The diagnosis will also be confirmed by ad- verting to their diet, and the like. The ointments applied should contain rue, or the oil of bay. or of iris, or of nard, or the juice of balsam, more particularly if the excrcmentitious humours be thick and viscid. This must be rubbed into the forehead, and likewise preparations containing pepper and eu- phorbium. Also give thin wines and recommend exercise, hot baths, and occasionally an emetic from radishes. When the exciting cause is a chronic quality without plethora, use the following application: Of white pepper, dr. ij; of croco- magma, dr. ij; of fresh euphorbium, dr. viiiss $ of pigeon's dung, dr. iss; of the strongest vinegar, q. s. Having first rubbed the affected part, anoint with this. On headachs from a bilious humour. The symptoms re- semble those occasioned by heat, only there are more gnawing pains at the stomach, paleness of the countenance, and some- times a bitter taste in the mouth. This affection occurs most frequently in adults who are of a hot temperament, lead an anxious life, and are subject to collections of yellow bile. They must use tepid baths, and mild ointments, with a watery drink; and their whole diet should be moistening, and consist of good juices. The bilious humours must be evacuated with the de- coction of wormwood, or with aloes, or the antidote called hiera picra, either alone, or in combination with a little scammony, or the aloetic pills. The forehead is to be rubbed with the saffron trochisk, or with that called trigonos, or the like. On headach from sympathy. If the head be affected sympa- thetically with the general system, this must be our first care, by attending to the intemperament and the prevailing matter. If it proceed from plethora, more especially a venous one, we will bleed; but, if it be only an offending quality, we will use a purgative medicine. If the head sympathise with some par- ticular part, such as the liver, belly, or stomach, we must apply remedies to these organs. If a hot intemperament accompany, we give bread which has been steeped in a watery wine, or spoon-meats from chondrus. Moderately cooling and tonic