GOUT. [book in. 058 until roused by the proximate cause. Sorrow, care, watchful- ness, and the other passions of the mind, not only excite an at- tack of the disorder, but also generate a cacochymy either pri- marily or incidentally. Wherefore the causes of the complaint, as I have said, are various j but the differences of the noxious humours are in so far easily detected, being discovered by their colour and other symptoms. A bilious rheum, in addition to paleness and redness of colour, occasions a sensation of heat and acute pain, and is speedily determined to the skin, nor is it attended with much swelling. It is exacerbated by heating applications, and relieved again by cooling, which, for the most part, is the case with all the others, but more particularly when the exciting cause is bilious. Fever also frequently comes on at the height of the paroxysms, and then they are thirsty. Thus also you will find the skin darker when from a melan- cholic humour; white and watery when from a pituitous, in which case the pain is more latent and more slowly occasions swelling; and the colour is sanguineous when a bloody humour prevails. In order to form a more decided diagnosis, you will be assisted by taking into account the previous mode of life, and so forth. The cure of rheums from a bilious humour. The commence- ment of the cure, when from yellow bile, more especially if the quality of it occasion the disorder, should be the evacuation of the offending humour by purgative medicines, such as that from rhodomel, that from quinces, the antidote called picra, and aloetic pills. During the paroxysms, we may apply externally rose-oil with the yelk of an egg, and some wine, rubbing the part gently with it; and apply the herbs of a cold nature, such as nightshade, purslain, henbane, houseleek, marsh-lentil, endive, poppy, knotgrass, rose-leaves, and the like. These things may be sometimes rubbed in, and sometimes applied in the form of a cataplasm, with crumbs of bread soaked in oxycrate, or from barley-meal with rose-oil. When the inflammation of the joints is of an erysipelatous nature, a decidedly paregoric application is the peel of a fresh gourd laid on the part, or the fleshy part of a pompion or cucumber, both alone and with bread ; or the leaves of perdicium (jpellitory of the wall ?), and ivy with bread and fine polenta. And fleawort boiled in barley-flour mitigates the inflammatory heat in a wonderful manner; and so also the