PERIPNEUMONIA. [book III. 482 mm. pain. His account of the treatment is too long for our limits, but is well deserving of attention. According to Actuarius, in hot affections of the lungs the urine is first a bright yellow, but if the disease gain ground, and dyspnoea and thirst supervene, the urine becomes red and of a dark wine colour. (De Urinis, vii, 5.) As the Arabians treat the disease like the Greeks, it is un- necessary to say much of their practice. Haly Abbas describes the disease as a hot inflammation of the lungs, for which he re- commends bleeding, cooling and diluent draughts, containing linseed, fenugreek, barley, oil of almonds, liquorice, &c. Rhases describes a species of pneumonia, requiring the use of tonics, analeptics, and wine. He relates the case of a pa- tient who, he affirms, would infallibly have sunk under this dis- ease, if he had not resisted the advice of the other medical attendants, who prescribed the anti-inflammatory treatment and laxatives. Although our business be with facts and opinions, and not with words, we are confident we shall be excused in giving here a short verbal disquisition on one of the terms which occur in this Section, we mean pwyfiog, translated by us rale. It occurs again at Book Sixth, Sect.xxxin, in the description oilaryngototmj, and in Aretseus's description of asthma (Morb. Chron. i, 11.) Cailius Aurelianus thus defines the term : " gutturis stridor quern Graci rhogmon vocant." (Morb. Acut. ii, 10.) In the Latin transla- tions of the Arabians it is made oregmon. See Rhases (Div. i, 5.) About the terms used by Hippocrates in describing rales there is some difficulty, owing to the differences of the readings. Thus in the appendix to the work on Regimen in Acute Diseases we read pwy^j in some mss., and pw^pn in others. See Littre (Hipp. t. ii, 464.) In other places he uses ply^ig. (Ibid. 262.) In Psellus we read peyfi6g. (Op. Med. 1. 230.) These, as far as we know, are the only terms used by the ancients for the noisy sounds of the respiration in the throat and chest. Poyvog, in Latin rhonchus, we believe, always signifies snorwt,.