m CEPHAL^EA. [BOOK m' thereby to a sufficient amount. We must then give hiera sharp- enedwith vinegar, and use masticatories, or medicines for eva- cuating the phlegm by the mouth; also procure evacuations Irom the nose by means of errhines, such as the juice of elaterium, which may be poured in with milk; or the elaterium may be snuffed up dry, or else the juice of sow-bread or of leeks. Ine following are compound medicines: An errhine for chronic headachs, ophthalmij, and epilepsy. Of gith {nigella sativa), dr. viij; of sal ammoniac, dr. iv; of elaterium, dr. iv j pound and mix with Sicyonian oil, or that ot iris, or of privet, so as to have the thickness of cerate, and apply to the nostrils. An errhine to be snuffed up. Of dried sow bread, dr. vnj.; of red nitre, dr iv; or if, instead of the nitre, you will use elaterium, it will be still better. Snuff it through a reed. In more chronic cases use epithemes to the head and unguents, as the following : An epitheme for cephaUa. Of the ointment of iris, of hog s fennel and castor, of each, dr. j; of bay-berries, dr. ij; of the tops of rue, dr. iv; mix with rose-cerate, and having shaved the head, apply to the whole of it. A certain woman, by using the following application in cases of hemicrania, acquired wonderful celebrity : Having cut down the green root of the wild cucum- ber into small pieces, she boiled it and wormwood in oil and water until they were softened; and with the warm oil and water she fomented moderately the affected part; and, pound- ing the root and the wormwood, she made a cataplasm of them. And with this application she cured cases of hemicrania, both with fever and without. When a strong paroxysm takes place, so that the pain is insupportable, use paregoric and alterative applications like the following : An unguent for cephalaa. Of the juice of hog's fennel, dr. xvj; of the juice of poppy, of anise, of henbane, of saffron, of myrrh, of scammony, of each, dr. ij. Add to vinegar and make trochisks. When using it, anoint those who have pain of the head from thick humours or a flatulent spirit with it, along with vinegar or oxycrate. We must, likewise, use a dropax and sinapism, and the trochisk from thapsia. That, too, from writing ink is much approved of for the same cause, and is to be used, as will be described in the Book on Compound Medicines.