446 [book III. DISEASES OF THE NOSE. C omm. opened as soon as possible. It is from Galen, however, that all —•—' the subsequent authorities copy their account of parotis. He lays it down as an established rule of practice that no attempt is to be made to discuss the swelling by repellent applications, but that suppuration is to be encouraged by the proper means. When there is plethora of blood, he allows venesection; and, when attended with pain, he recommends paregoric cataplasms of linseed, fenugreek, chamomile, and the like. When any hard- ness remains, he prescribes some of the malagmata, or emollient plasters. He informs us that Archigenes applied figs boiled and pounded. Octavius Horatianus and some of the others mention this application. Of the subsequent authors, although they contain little additional information, Alexander may be re- ferred to as one who has treated of the complaint very fully and judiciously. He recommends bleeding before having recourse to topical applications. The Arabians adopt the views of the Greeks. Alsaharavius directs the use of diachylon plaster as a maturative application. When the inflammation runs high he approves of bleeding. SECT. XXIV. ON THE AFFECTIONS OF THE NOSE, AND OF THE SENSE OF SMELL. When the faculty of smell is impaired, but the speech remains uninjured, it is to be suspected that the anterior cavities of the brain are affected, being impaired either by a simple intempe- rament, or a collection of noxious humours. But if the voice be at the same time impaired, and have become thick, it is to be conjectured that the affection proceeds from certain noxious humours obstructing the ethmoid bones. Having ascertained the intemperament of the brain from the symptoms often men- tioned, use the opposite remedies. Evacuate the humours by masticatories, and more particularly by powerful errhines; but apply attenuant aromatics as for catarrh. But if you suspect a plethora of the whole body, in the first place evacuate it by venesection, or by purging with hiera. Do so likewise for polypus and ozsena. Then use the topical applications. Theriac also is drunk with great advantage. Polypus is a preternatural tumour formed in the nose, resembling the flesh of the polypus.