SIRIASIS. SECT. XIII.] 2 17 Another application for Siriasis. Place upon the open of the head, the leaves of that species of heliotropium called scorpiunis, the parings of a gourd, the membrane which envelopes the fleshy part of a ripe cucumber, the juice of the garden night-shade, with oil of roses. Commentary. See Oribasius (Synops. v, 13); Aetius (iv, 13); Avicenna (i, 3, 1); Haly Abbas (Tract, i, 20); Alsaharavius (Pract. xxvi, 9); Rhases (de Morb. Infant, c. 5); Pseudo-Dios- coridea (Euporist. i,9); Alexander Aphrodisiensis (Problem i,98); Pliny (Hist. Nat. xxxii, 48.) Aetius and Avicenna agree in describing it as an inflammation and swelling of the brain and its membranes, so as to occasion a hollow at the bregma, and as being attended with ardent fever. The. account given by the others is very similar. All recommend cooling and astringent applications to the part. According to £ Alexander Aphrodisiensis, children are most subject to this affec- tion, especially in the summer season; for which he attempts to r assign the reason. He describes it as an inflammation of the 3 membranes of the brain. The author of the ' Euporista' recom- mends the juices of various cooling herbs, as local applications. Pliny represents the heat of it as excessive. He says, "Siriasesque infantium spongia frigida crcbro humefectata, rana inversa adal- ligata efficacissime sanet, quam aridam inveniri affirmant." (1. c.) Although somewhat out of place, we shall venture to introduce here some account of two diseases of infancy which are omitted by our author, but are briefly described by Aetius and Rhases. For prolapsus ani, Aetius recommends various applications in the form of powder and fomentation; but states, that what he himself constantly made use of was tepid brine or salt water, (iv, 19.) See Rhases (de Morb. Inf. c. 21.) Umbilical hernia, he says, mav be occasioned by crvinff a blow, or a fall. For this he recommends various astringent pre- parations from alum, galls, &c, applied on a linen compress to the navel, (iv, 20.) Rhases recommends similar applications, and also a compress with the gluten of hides to be bound over the navel. (De Morb. Infant, c. 22.) As far as we can recollectj Hippocrates and his commentators are the only ancient authori- ties that make mention of inflammation of the navel after the cord has dropped off. (Aphor. c. Comment, ed. Dietz, p. 374.)