461 sect, xxvi.] AFFECTIONS OF THE MOUTH. and the like. He mentions the juice of tithymallus, and seve- Comm. ral other substances, a3 possessing the property of making the v ' extraction easy. Avenzoar recommends in particular bleeding from the ranal veins. Mesue's general treatment i s very judicious, but similar to that of our author and the others. He also makes mention of alum and vinegar. He says that some apply the actual cautery to the tooth. Haly directs us to heat two needles red hot, and then, having dipped their extremities in oil, to burn the hole of the tooth with them. He recommends us to fill the hole with a composition consisting of peUitorv, sal ammoniac, opium, and wax. Some of his applications contain arsenic. That this article would deaden sensibility, and might destroy the vitality of the diseased parts, we can readily suppose, but of course it would require to be used with extreme caution. Certainly not more than two grains should be used, and every precaution ought to be taken to prevent the patient from swallowing his saliva. Haly, like most of the others, makes mention of alum. Alsaharavius recommends general bleeding, cupping, scarifications, and leeches; then warm vinegar, or some warm anodyne infusion, is to be held in the mouth; or the part fumigated with the vapour of water in which opium, camphor, or henbane has been boiled. He speaks also of the actual cautery. Ehases recommends bleeding, cupping, alum in vinegar, opium, henbane, &c. The dentifrices and applications to the gums recommended by the Arabians are similar to those of the Greeks. See in particular Haly Abbas (Pract. v, 78); Rhases (Cont. v); and Alsaharavius (Pract. viii, 2.) Like our author's, theirs contain such astringents and aromatics as balaustine, sumach, galls, spikenard, wild mint, cinnamon, salt of gem, and the like. The pumice-stone in particular was much used for this purpose; but, as Dr. Hill remarks, it is apt to hurt the enamel. On ranula. Aetius, Actuarius, and most of the other autho- rities recommend similar applications. They consist of astrin- gents and escharotics. Avicenna calls the ranula an enlargement and induration of the sublingual gland. He approves of nearly the same treat- ment as our author. He recommends in particular burnt vitriol and hermodactylus with the white of an egg. Alsaharavius re- commends, in the first place, applications containing nitre, sal