457 sect, xxvi.] AFFECTIONS OF THE MOUTH. For inflammation of the tonsils. If the tonsils and uvula be inflamed in a fever, the most proper gargles are the decoctions of bran, or of roses, or of dates, or of Sebestcn plums, or of dried lentil. AY hen the inflammation is at its acme, or is on the de- cline, we mav mix with them some honcv, which we must not do at the commencement, nor during its increase, lest, by its acrid nature, it attract a defluxion. If it suppurate and burst, the patient must gargle with honied water, or with the decoc- tion of lentil, or of roses, persevering until it is completely re- solved ; or we may give him to gargle some of the mixtures for rinsing the mouth. If pestilential ulcers in the tonsils take place, we may use the afore-mentioned remedies, and particu- larly apply the gargle from mulberries with hot water, or hy- dromel, having the flowers of roses sprinkled upon it, or costus or sumach, either in powder, or in a decoction ; or a decoction of the dried leaves of horned poppy. It is bitter, and it answers best if you dissolve the juice, as we use it for collyria, in honied water. It may also be used with advantage by blowing in the dry herb, or applying it upon the finger. Care must be taken not to touch it with the hand, or, at least, it should be very gently. The trochisk of Andron is also of service. After the irritation from these things is removed, they should use a gargle of liquorice, or that from Scybelitic wine, and of saffron, and of Chian mastich, and of myrrh, and afterwards of starch and tra- gacanth. When the ulcer has stopped spreading, they may use a gargle of milk and Samian earth.—Another, for antiades : Pound sweet pomegranate along with its peel, and mix six parts of its expressed juice with one of honey, boil to the con- sistence of honey, and anoint.—Another : Of immature galls, oz. ij ; of fissile alum, oz. j ; of burnt sal ammoniac, oz. j ; touch with it in powder.—Another : Of galls, dr. viij ; of misy, dr. ij ; of roasted salts, dr. v; use in powder. Antias is a scirrhous swelling of the tonsils. On the uvula. When the uvula is inflamed, Ave must use the gargles recommended for inflammation of the tonsils, and those of a moderately astringent nature, such as the juice of pome- granate, applied by means of a small spoon, or the surgical in- strument invented for the purpose; and these things may be applied either by themselves, or with moderately boiled honey, or the liquorice root may be mixed with the pomegranate juice.