SATYRIASIS. [book hi. 596 SECT. LVI. ON SATYRIASIS. Satyriasis is a palpitation of the genital organ, accompanying some inflammatory affection of the spermatic vessels, with erection; and, if the palpitation do not cease, it is apt to ter- minate in paralysis of the spermatic vessels, or in spasms. Those affected with convulsion die speedily, having at last in- flation of the belly and cold sweats. This complaint some- times, though rarely, affects women. Wherefore we must open a vein without loss of time, keep the patient upon a spare diet without wine, and purge the belly, not freely but gently, every day. The best articles of food are beet, mallows, a little of the herb mercury, and the soup of the shell-fishes. ^ A simple clyster is no bad remedy. Diuretics must be avoided; and medicines of a cold nature are to applied to the loins, such as the juice of nightshade, of purslain, of henbane, or of hemlock. It may be necessary, also, to rub the penis and the perineum with some soothing and cooling things, such as litharge, Cimo- lian earth, and ceruse, dissolved in vinegar, water, sweet wine, or rob. It is hurtful to lie on the back. He may drink of the root of water-lily, iris, and maiden-hair. Rue is bene- ficial both in gonorrhoea and satyriasis. Give, likewise, food from grain in small quantity, and do not gratify the thirst. When the affection is protracted, cupping with scarifications, may be had recourse to; or, if a plethora be present, we may evacuate by leeches. A cataplasm of raw barley-meal may also be applied to the belly. Comm. Commentary. Aretseus has drawn a lively but disgusting 1—*~J picture of a person affected with this complaint, which it is to be h«ped that the "march of improvement" in morals has now rendered of rare occurrence. He calls it a most unseemly disease. According to his account, it will even prove fatal occasionally, and that within the space of seven days. He says the natural cure of it is a diarrhoea coming on with bilious discharges. This venereal mania, he says, is to be cured by bleeding from the arm or ankle to deliquium animi, purging with hiera, and wrapping the genital organs and ad- joining parts with wool dipped in rose-oil and wine, or in de- coctions of such narcotics as hemlock, nightshade, mandrake or