APOPLEXY. [book III. 394 After cupping, apply cataplasms containing pitch, rosin, or manna. A most suitable application consists of calamint, flea- bane, and nitre boiled along with mugwort, and some water is to be added, which is to be evaporated during the boiling. The belly is to be again opened by means of aloes, polypody, scam- mony, or the colocynth pottage. Fatty inunctions are to be made with old oil in which squill has been kept for forty days in the sun; or, if it be not at hand, you may boil in oil two ounces of squill, and anoint with it; or the seed of rosemary may be prepared in like manner, but an ounce of wax must be added, that it may not be too liquid. But, if you add of galbanum, of castor, of euphorbium, of adarce, and of nitre, of each, oz. ss, it will be a more potent remedy. The herb crowfoot, boiled in the oil, and preserved in the sun, is also an excellent application. Castor to the amount of a drachm, and opopanax swallowed to the size of a bean, will make suitable potions. But sagapene taken to the size of a tare in honied water, and castor with opopanax, and the Cyrenaic juice to the size of a millet, are admirable re- medies. The antidote from the three peppers is also beneficial. We may likewise use heating restoratives {acapa), and masti- catories. After the fourteenth day, we may give more copious food; and, when much benefit is derived, we may lead to the bath. After the thirtieth, it will be necessary to apply a dropax, use the bath, and afterwards put on a cataplasm of mustard, taking care in those cases in which both motion and sensibility are lost, lest from want of feeling they be allowed to burn too much. Where sensibility remains, rubefacients only are to be used. After it swells, we ought to lead to the bath, and cure with simple cerates. They ought to take the emetic after a meal, and that from radishes. They should be carried about in a chair, or in a car drawn by the hand, or in one drawn with a yoke. Otherwise, let them be put into one of the natural baths. A desiccative diet, spare drink, and friction will be proper. Let them, therefore, eat dry food, and struggle against thirst as much as possible. On paralysis with relaxation or distension. Since paralvsed parts are either contracted or relaxed, and this proceeds either from plethora or emptiness, it will be necessary to attend to this, and sometimes abstract blood, and sometimes not. Again, to relaxed parts we must mix astringents with the relaxing