sect, xxxvi.] THE PLAGUE. 281 The historian Appian, Lucian, Pliny, and Plutarch, mention Comm. wine as an antidote to the plague. Livy and other ancient writers say that the plague is sometimes occasioned by excessive cold. (Histor. v.) It is greatly to be regretted that Galen has given us no de- scription of the dreadful plague which prevailed in his time. It appears that he fled from Rome for fear of infection. He al- ludes to it, indeed, in several parts of his works, but in very brief terms, only mentioning that it put on the appearance of dysentery; and in one place he strongly commends the cele- brated theriac as a most efficacious remedy for the prevention and cure of pestilential disorders; and elsewhere he speaks favorably of the Armenian bole. Of the writers on medicine posterior to him, Oribasius and Aetius, like our author, give no further information on this important subject than what is con- tained in the brief extract from the works of Ruffus; and the others, with the exception of Nonnus and Psellus, do not treat of the disease at all, unless in an incidental manner. Nonnus, after briefly stating the causes of the plague, proceeds to lay down the principles for conducting the treatment. He recom- mends clysters, and, if the stomach be loaded with phlegm, emetics : if there be a fulness of blood, he approves of venesec- tion ; and also speaks well of giving diuretics. When symptoms of ardent fever are present, he directs cold drink to be given freely, in order to extinguish the febrile heat. He also recom- mends apomel, the water of ptisan with the seed of bastard saf- fron, or Armenian bole, or lapis lazuli. Psellus merely mentions, in very general terms, a few of the common symptoms of the plague. (Opus Medicum.) Actuarius, treating of anthrax, men- tions that it sometimes take place in epidemical affections. (Meth. Med. ii, 36.) Before proceeding to the Arabian authorities, we shall give a brief abstract of Procopius' description of the dreadful plague which desolated the Roman empire in the reign of Justinian. Its usual precursors were certain delirious fantasies and dis- turbed dreams, after which the fever made its attack suddenlv. The early symptoms, however, were not well marked, for there was neither increased heat nor discoloration of the skin, nor did the patient apprehend danger. Generally on the first or second day, but in a few instances somewhat later, buboes appeared