590 [book III. HERNIA. Of aloes, of pomegranate-rind, of frankincense, of the juice of hypocistis, of artificers' glue, of pitch, of bitumen, oz. iss; of sweet wine, q. s.—Another more complex application, which will answer also with adults, when the disease is not of long standing : Of chrysocolla, of taurocolla, of sarcocolla, of ichthy- ocolla, of gagate-stone, of blood-stone, of Syrian sumach, of manna, of acacia, of each, oz. iss; of the stone pyrites, of na- tive sulphur, of the breathing magnet, of fissile alum, of manna, of frankincense, of each, oz. j; of Brutian pitch, oz. v; of snails with their shells, oz. j; of the dross of silver, oz. iv; of galls, oz. j ; of squamse stomomatis (scales of steel?), oz. j ; of copper, oz. j ; of bitumen, oz. vj ; of myrtle-oil, q. s.; mix the dry things with astringent wine, until the preparation is of such a thick- ness as not to stain, and then use. If they cannot lie in a re- cumbent posture, bind the application firmly with a triangular bandage of thick materials and sufficient to retain the intestine. Let them abstain from flatulent food, much wine, frequent baths, strong motion, such as running, leaping, loud crying, and the like. For hydrocele, so as to evacuate the fluid : Of pepper, c grains; of bay-berries, lxxx ; of nitre, dr. xx ; of wax, dr. xl; mix with half a hemina of oil, and use.—Another excellent ap- plication : Of the flower of Assian stone, dr. vj; of grapes de- prived of their stones, dr. ij ; of Ethiopian cumin, dr. viij; of red nitre, dr. viij ; having triturated, apply, fomenting with it late and early. Some also add of sulphur, dr. viij.—Another: Mixing unslaked lime with bath-sordes, apply with cerate; and mix some nitre with the unslacked lime.—Another: Having burnt the root of a cabbage, add the ashes to old axunge that has been melted, and remove it every third day. To prevent a collection of water, use the following malagma: Of wax, lb. iiss j of pitch, oz. iv j of ammoniac perfume, oz. iv j of liquid alum, oz. iss. The plaster of the white poplars and the other epispastics are also applicable. Comm. Commentary. As these diseases will be treated of more ~^ ' fully in the Sixth Book, it is unnecessary to say much about them at present. Our author is most indebted to Aetius (xiv, 22.) Nonnus recommends astringent applications of a similar nature. (192.) When there is difficulty of reduction, fthases directs the use of