593 bect. lv.] GONORRHCEA. Many of our author's remedies are taken from Galen, but Com he has copied most closely from Oribasius and Aetius. The treatment of inflammation of the testicles, as laid down by Celsus, is very judicious, namely, bleeding at the ankle, a cataplasm of the flour of beans boiled in mulse with pounded cumin and boiled honey, and other similar applications. Win n it becomes indurated, linseed or the seed of fenugreek boiled in mulse, or the like, are to be applied. When the testicles swell from a blow, blood must necessarily be extracted from them, more especially if they are livid. Avicenna is particularly full upon these and all the other diseases of the obscene parts. For pruritus of the testicles and scrotum he recommends bleeding, cupping in the vicinity of these parts, the application of leeches, hot fomentations with acacia, sal ammoniac, &c, and the other remedies mentioned by Paulus. For apostemes he directs us to bleed in the arm and ankle, and to use applications similar to those of our author. Rhases recommends bleeding in the arm and ankle, and at first cold applications, consisting of vinegar and rose- water, which, if the complaint does not abate, are afterwards to be exchanged for suppurative ones. Haly's treatment is nearly the same. Alsaharavius, like Avicenna, treats inflam- mation of the testicles by bleeding in the arm and ankle, and using various local applications of a cooling nature. For pruritus he recommends applications containing ceruse, sulphur, nitre, sal ammoniac, and strong vinegar. Rhases mentions that he had an enlargement of the right testicle for which he took an emetic, whereby a manifest reduction of the swelling was pro- duced, and by a repetition of this process the complaint was entirely removed. SECT. LV. ON GONORRHCEA AND LIBIDINOUS DREAMS. Gonorrhoea is an involuntary discharge of semen, taking place frequently without erection of the privy member, owing to weakness of the retentive faculty. In this case it will be proper to keep the patient in a state of rest, covering the loins and pubes with compresses out of wine, oil of apples, or that of the flowers of the wild vine; and cataplasms may be after- 38