and Meth. Med. xiv, 18); Celsus (vi, 4); Aetius (vi, 05) ; ' * ' SECT- «•] THE HAIR. 339 preserve in a leaden vessel. At the time of using add to any fragrant ointment. Preservatives of the hair. Of maiden-hair, one part; of lada- num, two parts j add to wine and myrtle oil, and use.—Another . Pound the flower of anemone, and rub it in with oil. The same will blacken the hair.—Another i Pound the straight vervain dried with its roots, sift through a narrow sieve, and, having mixed with oil, so as to have the' thickness of the bath-sordes, lay it up in a copper vessel, and, when softened, use instead of oil in like manner. A watery infusion for increasing the growth of the hairs, and for blackening them. Of rain water, six sextarii; of Alexandrian sumach, three sextarii; of maiden-hair, oz. iv; of savin, oz. iv; of ladanum, oz. j j of dried gourd, oz. j j of myrtle, oz. j; allow to ma- cerate in a glass vessel for twenty days, stirring it twice a day with a pine spatula. On the following day plunge the comb into the infusion, and use once a day. And the seed of marsh-mallows, when rubbed in while in a bath, preserves the hair and pro- motes its growth. And, in like manner, oil may be rubbed in that has had the seed of marsh-mallows boiled in it, or added to it. For thinning the hair. Of the leaves of the fig-tree, of the rind of the white wild vine, of pumice-stone, of the shells of buccina?, of Cimolian earth, of each one mina. Put them into a new crude pot, and having covered it with clay, burn in a furnace, and pound, adding of aphronitrum half a mina, of the galls called omphacitse thirty in number, pulverize and use.— Another : Of aphronitrum, half a mina ; of roasted pumice-stone, four minse; of fissile alum (atumen scissile), of dried iris, of the black wild myrtle, of gum, of the root of bryony, of each dr. iv; of unripe lupines pounded, the fourth part of a gallon; use without tallow. For falling out of the hair. Rub in aloes, with black austere wine; or, the cover of the purpura boiled with oil; or, myrrh and ladanum, with wine and myrtle oil; or, pound burnt sheep's dung on a shell, and rub it in with oil, having first shav ed the head. Commentary. See Galen (de Med. sec. Loc. i, Parat. Facil., Comm.