3,2 FEVERS. [BOOK But in fevers we must straightway endeavour to bring back the appetite with aromatics, more particularly by giving polenta moistened with water, or oxycrate, or diluted wine, or a decoc- tion of some of the fragrant and astringent fruits; by gentle unction and moderate friction of the whole body, by chafing, by bathing the face, and swallowing a small quantity of water; and, by putting the fingers down the throat, the stomach has been roused to bring up the food, more especially if the fluid dis- charged be bilious or acid. After the first days, cataplasms of dates, of apples, of the wild wine, of wormwood, and of aloes, ought to be applied over the stomach. Let a variety of simple food be prepared, and from grain, having some difference from the common articles, but not very different from those used m fevers; and among them those fruits which do not readily turn acid, nor are very sweet, but are ripe; however, they are not to be eaten to satiety, but only so as to whet the appetite for other food. While they are eating, the most delicious articles ought to be present, which may have the power to provoke and incite the desire. After the fever is gone, should the want of appetite continue during the recovery, yellow parsnip boiled with oxymel, and lettuces, and pickled olives, and capers, and pickles, thebulbi, and every other stomachic should be thought of; and, in particular, those things should be recollected in which the patient delighted most when in good health. Walking, gesta- tion, vociferation, calefacient plasters, frictions, and exercises ought to be had recourse to. And drinking the propoma from wormwood, or from aloes, or swallowing the vinegar of squills to the amount of a mystrum, have proved excellent remedies. Comm. Commentary. Galen's explanation of the philosophy of the ' ' ' sense of appetite is very interesting. He remarks that the ap- petite is a refined species of touch, the seat of which is the mouth of the stomach, which, therefore, is supplied with nerves direct from the brain. He goes on to remark, that the earth is to plants what the stomach is to animals, supplying them with abundance of food as long as it is moistened by seasonable rains; but, when it becomes parched with drought, the plants in like manner are dried up for want of nutriment. (This com- parison is borrowed without acknowledgment from Aristotle.) To animals, then, as not being fixed to the earth (with a few