38G MELANCHOLY, ETC. [book hi, mad For the cure of melancholy he advises blood to be abstracted at the commencement, according to the patient's strength and condition. He approves then of giving black hellebore, and ot applying cupping-instruments over the liver, stomach, or to the head, according as these may happen to be affected. He re- commends then wormwood and aloes. When the menstrual or hemorrhoidal discharges are stopped, they are, if possible, to be restored; and for this purpose blood may be abstracted from the ancle, or even from the arm. He also approves very much of the natural hot baths. Celsus, in cases of melancholy and mania, recommends m particular vomiting and purging by hellebore; with the black species, if the patient is affected with grief; but with the white, if with gladness. He also approves of bleeding. Aetius gives an interesting account of the treatment of me- lancholy, principally extracted from the works of Galen, Ruffus, Posidonius, Archigenes, and Justus. The remedies which all of them seem to have reposed most confidence in are drastic purgatives combined with bitters and carminatives. They ap- prove, however, of general bleeding and cupping, when indicated by the symptoms of the complaint, and the state of the patient. Nonnus in like manner prescribes bleeding in the forehead, purging with hiera picra, acrid clysters, and bitters, such as gentian and staschas {lavendula stachas.) Alexander's plan of treatment is very circumstantially de- tailed ; but it differs very little from our author's, except that he recommends Armenian bole instead of white hellebore. Like Aretams, he strongly commends the use of the hot bath for the cure of melancholy. He speaks highly of a well-regulated diet, consisting principally of rock fishes, domestic fowls, and emol- lient pot-herbs, such as lettuces, mallows, and the like. He forbids cabbages, beef, the flesh of stags and of all other'wild animals. Instead of hellebore, Serapion and Avicenna parti- cularly praise the lapis lazuli. Haly Abbas gives a graphic delineation of the bizarre fancies, absurd fears, hopes, and vain imaginations of melancholies and maniacs. Like the other authorities, he attributes the disease to the prevalence of black bile. Without doubt, as has been often remarked, the alvine discharges in such cases are dark-coloured; and this, no doubt, gave rise to the ancient opinion that the disease originates in