VOMITING. [book i. 52 Comm. A state account is given by-BW (Couth, xi, 1.) He —' recommends emetics. (Ad Mansor. iv, 16.) SECT. XLII. HOW TO PRODUCE EASY VOMITING. , w to tllose who vomit with difficulty many disagreeable eons"! es are apt to happen, it will be proper to explainM what methods one may be made to vomit read^y, for tin operation evacuates phlegm and lightens fc W^ F JLt* a nerson who may have eaten immoderately bom surrei £U£££, and one who has taken too much wine bom • l ,Trt thereby Let the substances which are taken be and part acrid. Among these the radish . deserving of piaise and also the rocket, and old pickle, green marjoram, and a mall quantity of onion and leek. Vomiting is ^pro- moted by ptisans of pulse containing some honey; by soup oi Wed beans and the fat of flesh ; but one must not only take the juice, but swallow whole lumps of it; and one must not spend much time upon mastication; but these things ought to be soft from boiling. It is clear, also, that it is he sweetish kinds of wine which ought to be preferred, for such are aptest to swim upon the stomach; and tepid drink ought to be used. It is proper also to eat almonds dipped in honey, also sweet cakes and the moistened seed of the pompion and cucumber pounded with honey. The root likewise of the cucumber rubbed with honey has some effect. Those who wish to use more powerful medicines, mix some wine with a decoction of the bulb of the narcissus. Vomiting is also produced by the ointment of iris, if one will smear one's fingers in it and tickle one's throat. It is also to be attended to in vomiting not to intermit after vomiting is once begun; and to bathe the face and wash the mouth with sour wine or water, for this is beneficial to the teeth, and relieves the head. Comm. Commentary. This Section is abridged from Oribasius ^r-> (Med> Collect, viii, 21.) The opinions of Galen, Diodes, anc Archigenes, on this subject, may likewise be learned fron Oribasius. Galen recommends vomiting for collections ofyellov