THE KIDNEYS. 558 [book III. m. The ancients appear not to have known that the urine some- times possesses saccharine properties. Rogerius, like the ancient authorities, refers diabetes to a hot intemperament of the kidneys, whereby their attractive fa- culty is increased. (Tr. i, 54.) All the earlier writers on medi- cine appear to have held the same hypothesis. On strangury and dysuria. As these diseases arise from a variety of causes, our author has properly treated of them ac- cordingly. We do not find that the other authorities supply much additional information. Hippocrates mentions that there are many varieties of stran- gury. His remedies are the tepid bath, diluent drinks, diure- tics, and anodynes. Aetius states that the disease is called dysuria when the pa- tient has a desire and passes his mine with difficulty, and strangury when it is passed in drops. It is occasioned, he says, by acrimony of the urine, ulceration, or debility of the bladder. It may also arise from affections of the kidneys and liver, or from an intemperament. The treatment is to be varied ac- cordingly. When dysuria is connected with weakness of the bladder Leo recommends that pressure should be made with the hands on the hypogastric region. Avicenna is particularly full upon these affections. For ardor urince Haly Abbas recommends various emollient and coolin°- articles, such as mallows, the seeds of cucumbers, pompions, and the hot bath, &c. When it proceeds from an inflammatory cause, he recommends the treatment directed in the beginning of this Section. When these remedies prove ineffectual, the catheter is to be used. He says that one of the most common causes of the complaint is debility of the expulsive faculty of the bladder. Alsaharavius treats fully of these complaints in much the same terms. When dysuria is connected with inflammation, he re- commends bleeding, diluent drinks, and the warm bath. When it proceeds from a clot of blood he directs us to inject into the bladder the water of ashes. {Aqua cinerum, perhaps it should be aqua cicerum.) Rhases states that the complaint generally arises in old men from heat or ulceration at the neck of the bladder. He justly remarks that when retention arises from inflammation, no urine at all is passed, and the pain is constant •