75 SECT. LIV.] REGIMEN. drunk at all, or much diluted with water and cooled in snow; Comm. and venery is to be avoided. In autumn, the regimen is to be l— cooling and dcsiccative, the exercise moderate, the cold bath is to be avoided, but the tepid is to be taken, and much fruit is to be avoided. In winter, the regimen is to be heating and desiccative, and wine is to be taken moderately. The wine, he adds, ought to be strong and heating, to counteract the cold of winter; but much must not be taken, because it will dilute and humectate the body which stands in need of desiccation. W inc, too, he says, possesses little nourishment, whereas the system requires much support in winter. He recommends the flesh of quadrupeds and fowls for food. (Pract. i.) See, in like manner, Avicenua (i, 3, 5); Alsaharavius (Theor. ix, 2.) The poet Hesiod recommends a full diet in winter. (Opera et Dies, 1. 558.) Maximus Planudes, in a Declamation on winter, affirms that at this season the heat, being confined within the body, ope- rates more strongly in performing the vital functions than at any other season. This season, he says, is favorable to all classes of men except doctors; but they are sick at heart to see that no other persons are sick, and, bewailing their own misery, undergo the thirst of Tantalus amidst the rains of win- ter ! See Boissonade (Anecd. Grseca, vol. ii.) Among the works of the ' Physici et Medici Grseci Minores/ published a few years ago by Ideler, there are several small treatises, one by Hierophilus Sophistes, in prose, one by Theo- dorus Prodromus in iambic verse, and two others, anonymous, in which the regimen adapted to every month of the year is carefullv laid down, but the rules are too minute to admit of being given here. We may mention, however, that they gene- rally recommend pork, with peppers, and pure wine, as the best course of diet in winter. SECT. LIV. OF THE REGIMEN OF PERSONS ACTIVELY EMPLOYED. He who spends his time in business ought to consider whe- ther, in the former period of life, he had been in the habit of taking exercise, or whether, though not taking exercise, he bears