003 SECT. LIX.] GENITAL ORGANS, ETC. tion, sprinkle the ashes of bnnit cypress balls, having first washed the parts with wine, or the ashes of the burnt peel of dried gourd, or of the bones of dates in like manner, or the ashes of egg- shells and of fennel; or having mixed the juice of pomegranate leaves with an equal portion of white wine, wash with it for seven days. For callous excrescences : Triturate quick-lime and ar- senic with strong vinegar. It will answer well if you anoint with it in the sun. On hemorrhoids or piles. When piles discharge more than is proper, the consequence is, that the system is reduced to a watery state, and they lose their appetite. There is risk both from the hemorrhage becoming too profuse, and from its being altogether suppressed; and therefore the treatment is attended with difficulty. Wherefore, when the piles are numerous, one ought always to be left for the sake of purging the system. Some also are seated high up and do not make their appearance, which renders them difficult to be cured. Blind piles discharge nothing, but arc on that account more painful than the others. On them, therefore, rub the juice of sow-bread, which will open them. For immoderate discharges, take of the Egyptian thorn, of the leaves of the elder, of mugwort, of each, oz. v; boil in eight heminae of water to one-half, and add of ironwort oz. iv. The herbs arc then to be thrown away, and to the decoction the fol- lowing things are to be added in powder: Of melanteria, of round alum, of each, dr. viij j of litharge, dr. iv ; of galls, oz. iij; of misy, dr. ij; of endive, dr. ij. Dissolve this powder in the decoction, and bathe with it seven times in the day; but on the following day bathe with an equal quantity of another prepara- tion of the same kind, and on the third in like manner. If any part of them remain on the fourth day, pierce it with a needle, and if it has any feeling, or bleeds, prepare a decoction like the former, but add only one-half of the powder; but when you have washed with it touch with the powder, that they may be pro- perly burnt. For the inflammation apply a bread-poultice. Another: Having soaked pure bread in primary sauce, and having burnt it in a new pot, triturate, and apply it, having first bathed with wine. It is applicable also to excrescences.—Another: Of endive, dr. ij j of chalcitis, dr. j j of misy, dr. j; of copperas, dr. iij; of fissile alum, dr. ix ; of burnt copper, dr. j j of malan- tcria dr. j; use in a powder. The food for those who have im-