208 FEVERS. [book it. I the regular and irregular. Aud the intermediate pulses of all Z otter kinds are the natural, except that winch relates to strength and weakness, as we showed. But m t^e^' been describing, the equal alone is the natural, and all pottos are not natural, namely, the unequal, the regular, and the irre- gular These are all the kinds of pulses and their generic dif- ferences. Some add two others to these, the one m regard to the position of the artery, according as it seems to be carried upwards or downwards, to the right or to the left, and the othei in regard to the times of expansion. But these we treated of along with the undulatory and vibratory. And we, for the sake of brevity, have only delivered the simple varieties; but, trom what has'been said, one may easily connect them, and discover those which arise from their combinations. The causes affecting the pulses are next to be treated of, with which is connected the prognosis from them. We shall begin with those which respect magnitude, because it is more obvious than the others. A great pulse is produced either by some urgent necessity, such as an excess of heat in the heart requiring refrigeration, and, as it were, ventilation from without; or it may arise from leanness of the body, as we shall soon show. The excess of heat is occasioned either by natural causes, such as the ages of manhood and youth, or simply a hot season, place, or a warmer temperament,; or by non-natural causes, such as the air which surrounds us being hotter than common, hot baths, exercises, food, wine, heating medicines; or by preternatural causes, such as a hot intemperament, putrefaction of the fluids, passion, or the like. You may judge of these classes of pulse from the following observations. Those which are natural arc permanent and not very susceptible of change, whilst the others readily change, so that often while you examine them, or gene- rally after a very short time, they will altogether alter. A pulse also which owes its greatness to a hot bath has softness for an accompaniment; and hardness is generally combined with great - ness proceeding from a hot intemperament, especially when combined with dryness of the system. Those who have under- gone moderate friction or exercise have a pulse intermediate between hardness and softness; but they have the parts about the chest warmer than natural, which is the case also with those in a passion. Those that are influenced by food, the use of