B84 t. xxxn.] PHTHISIS. 4!>;-5 and i, 17); Noimus (123) ; Camus Aurelianus (Morb. Tard. ii, 14, and v, 8) ; Celsus (iii, 22) ; Octavius Horatianus (ii, 8); Marcellus (17); Avicenna (iii, 10, 5); Mesne (de^Egrit. Pect. u, 12) j Serapion (ii, 27) j Alsaliaravius (Pract. xiii, 3) j Haly Abbas (Pract. vi, 12, Tlieor. ix, 20); Avenzoar (i, 16, 4); Rhases (ad Mansor. ix, 69; Contin. x.) Hippocrates states, as tests of the nature of the sputa, that, if they possess a fetid smeU, or sink to the bottom of stilt water, they indicate great danger. When a collection of pus is sus- pected, he directs us to shake the patient, when a peculiar sound will be heard if there be fluid in the chest. And here, by the way, we may mention that Laennec gives Hippocrates great credit for his diagnostic talent in this case. It is in pneumo- thorax that succussion is applicable as a test of fluid being confined in the chest. In that case, he directs us to make an incision into the chest; in other words, he recommends paracentesis thoracis, an operation revived of late years, but with very equivocal results. Hippocrates, however, restricted the operation to those cases in which there is protrusion of the col- lected fluid. (An*. Int. xxv.) It would appear, from one of his Aphorisms, that the pus was let out either by a cutting instru- ment or the cautery, (vii, 43.) In his Prognostics, he pro- nounces a falling out of the hairs and a diarrhoea to be fatal symptoms in phthisis. He gives a very striking description of confirmed empyema. (Prognost. 17.) His account of the for- mation of hydrothorax (Affect. Int. xxv) has also been highly commended by the great master of auscultation. According to Hippocrates, phthisis is most common between the ages of eighteen and thirty-six. (Aphor. v, 9.) Aretaeus gives a good description of the phenomena attending empyema thoracis. He says that when the abscess points out- wardly, it separates the ribs from one another to make room for itself. It is occasioned, he says, by inflammation with a col- lection of blood. But the most graphic delineation of the phe- nomena of disease to be found in the whole records of medicine is that which he draws of a patient in the last stage of consump- tion. We will not mar it by attempting a copy which would fall so short of the original. He does not approve of the com- mon tests, as recommended by Hippocrates; and, instead of forming an opinion of the case by throwing the sputa upon fire