FEVERS. CBOOK 212 As to the myuri, in regard to one pulsation, called the failmg, and the failing on both hands (innuentes et circumnuentes), these happen to persons who are gradually wasted by inflammations not yet resolved, and to those who are wasted from whatever cause, the bodies around the arteries being melted down. Pulses of unequal velocity, and those called dorcadissantes or goat-leap, principally accompany febrile heat. But if the pulse render the commencement of the diastole feeble, and increase m velo- city towards the end and beginning of the systole, this indicates that putrefaction is prevailing, nature hastening on the discharge of the fuliginous superfluities. But if, on the other hand, it render the commencement of the systole feeble, and rather make speed towards the diastole, you may be sure that the heat is prevailing, and longing for refrigeration. These in fever are, for the most part, accompanied by density, and sometimes great- ness, if the powers be not restrained by the hardness of the instrument. When the hardness of the artery increases, and the powers are not weakened, the double or reverberating pulse is formed. The undulatory pulse most commonly attends the more humid affections, such in particular as anasarcous swell- ings, lethargy, and peripneumony. When the powers of life are beginning to fail, but are still making a faint struggle, the undulatory pulse sinks into the vermicular; but when they de- cline to their lowest ebb, this last passes into the ant-like or formicans. The hectic particularly attends those in consump- tion and marasmus. The spasmodic pulse takes place when the origin of the nerves is suffering from some inflammatory affec- tion, as in frenzy and acute attacks of epilepsy, when those affected with them die while they are yet warm, contrariwise to those in syncope, for they are alive after they have become cold. The clonodic or vibratory pulse takes place when the wants of the system require a great diastole, and the vital powers are sufficient for that purpose, but are opposed by the body of the artery; which, from its hardness, cannot be expanded to a large diastole, as happens in great inflammations and chronic obstructions. The serrated pulse is indicative of inflammation, and particularly in some tendinous parts. It is no less so of pleurisy, and when slight, indicates that the inflammation is gentle, and easily to be concocted; but when intense, that it is severe and of difficult concoction, and will be attended with