HEADACH. [book in. 354 author. Alexander justly remarks ^J^Jt^JZr the latter cause, it is very dangerous. He is ftto than our author in treating of headaeh from sympathy with theAver for which he recommends local applications °\»c00^™™ and a generous diet. Similar treatment, he adds, is to> b^pur- sued when it arises from a hot intemperament of the stomach, bowels, or spleen. . , , . According to Avicenna and Actuarius, frothy urme, that is to say, urine having bubbles on the surface, is characteristic ot Arabians generally treat of the disease by the name , °f He!dach, says Haly Abbas, is either seated in the head or arises from sympathy. When seated in the head, it eithei arises from an intemperament, or organic disease, or flatus, or a hlow One of the most common causes of sympathetic head- aeh is the presence of bilious matters in the stomach, which case is generally relieved by vomiting. Protracted watchfulness induces headaeh, by occasioning a corruption of the food in the stomach; and protracted sleep in like manner fills the bram with vapours. Excessive evacuation, by producing a dry in- temperament, proves a cause of headaeh. It is m this manner that epistaxis and monorrhagia occasion headaeh. Haly Abbas, like Galen, mentions as a cause of headaeh an excessive sen- sibility of the nerves which connect the brain and stomach. Haly further states that headaeh will arise from sympathy with the uterus, as after abortions, obstructions of the lochial or menstrual discharge, and the like causes. He remarks that violent headaeh will sometimes occasion loss of speech, owing to an affection of the nerve which is distributed upon the mus- cles of speech. His treatment, like our author's, is varied ac- cording to the nature of the exciting causes; and his account of it is so full and judicious, that we regret our limits do not permit us to give a more ample detail of it. His remedies are, general bleeding, cupping the extremities or back part of the neck, anodyne or cold applications to the head, drastic or gentle purgatives, and so forth. Alsaharavius treats the complaint upon similar principles. When it arises from heat, he recommends the affusion of tepid water over the head, and afterwards applies oils cooled in snow.