288 FEVERS. [QOOK form is the Glandular plague, which many late authorities would consider as the only form of the disease ; but as we think erro- neously, since the other types are often mixed up with this m the same epidemic. Thus in the plague of Aleppo, during the years 1760 1761, and 1762, although the ordinary form of the disease was the glandular, a considerable proportion of the cases assumed the first form which we have noticed. And in the plague of Athens, although it commonly put on the appearance of the first form, it would appear probable, from the obscure allusion to cu- taneous eruptions in the description of Thucydides, that a cer- tain proportion of the cases were of the second type. The three forms then would appear to us to be as closely allied to one another as diphtherite, ulcerous sore-throat, and scarlatina are; that is to say, that they are all varieties of one species of disease. SECT. XXXVII. ON THE TREATMENT OF THOSE WHO ARE SEIZED WITH SYNCOPE FROM CRUDE HUMOURS. Some are seized with fever while having a great collection of crude humours, and while the mouth of the stomach is at the same time disordered. In them the hypochondrium is distended with flatulence, the orifice of the stomach is more swelled than natural; in some the complexion is turned to a more white and watery, and in others to a blacker. None of these can bear the abstraction of blood without the most immi- nent danger; but they require evacuation, although they can- not endure phlebotomy nor purging, for even without them they are disposed to fall suddenly into a state of syncope. They are to be cured, then, by friction. It will be proper, at the commencement of the disease, to begin with rubbing the limbs from above, downwards, with moderately rough linen cloths, and afterwards, the whole arms from above, downwards. But when the limbs have been sufficiently warmed, and there is danger of a sense of lassitude, we must use a relaxing oil, and avoid all astringents. When it is winter, we must also use a sudorific one, such as the Sicyonian oil, or that of chamomile, After rubbing the limbs freely, we must next rub off the oil, and proceed to the spine, which we must rub in like manner and then immediately return to the legs, and from them to the