FEVERS. [BOOK "• 302 others, when the affection was of a hot nature, have rather been remedied, by having flea-wort {psyllium) added to the barley- flour or even by this substance alone, when boiled to the con- sistence of bird-lime. It must be frequently changed. Coriander with barley-meal maybe used in like manner. Aloes with vinegar are also to be rubbed in, or myrrh and ammoniac in like man- ner, and crocomagma. Pulsatory pains are dispelled by rue and mint, with bread, to which a little rose oil has been added. When the pain does not yield to the afore-mentioned remedies, we must first cut the hair close by the skin, and then rub some of the oily embrocations over it all; after which cupping-instru- ments are to be applied to the hind-head, and the extremities to be bound with ligatures, and chafed. Leeches also are a proper application. But if a catarrh or defluxion raise the pain in the head, we must apply the remedies which will afterwards be described in the proper place. But if exhalations from the stomach have been carried upwards, and hurt the head, we must attend to them, as is stated below. Commentary. Part of the directions delivered by Celsus for the treatment of headach deserves to be given in his own language: " Si capitis dolores sunt, rosam cum aceto miscere oportet, et in id ingerere: deinde habere duo pittacia, quae frontis latitudinem longitudinemque sequent: ex his invicem alteram in aceto et rosa habere, alterum in fronte: aut intinctam iisdem lanam succidam imponere. Si acetum offendit pura rosa uter- dum est, si rosa ipsa lsedit, oleo acerbo." If this does not suc- ceed, he recommends other more refrigerant applications pre- pared with iris, poppies, ceruse, litharge, &c. (iii, 10, 112.) When headach occurs towards the beginning of fever, Galen bleeds once and again, if there be nothing to contra-indicate depletion, and more especially if the patient be plethoric. He then attends whether it arise from fumes proceeding from the stomach, or constipation of the bowels, and corrects these con- ditions accordingly. If it make its attack after the seventh day, he first evacuates the bowels by clysters, then cups the back part of the head or neck, or uses paregoric applications, such as rose oil. with some vinegar, if in summer; but, if in winter, especially in persons of a cold temperament, the oil of chamomile, with a fifth part of vinegar. See further ' De Med. sec. Locos/ (ii.)