9 THE INFANT. SECT. V.] Aetius recommends the child to be brought up upon milk for Comm. twenty months. Moschion says, from eighteen months to two ^ years will be sufficient. Avicenna, like our author, mentions two years. It is stated by Selden, that the Hebrew women gave suck to their children for two years. This practice is enjoined in the Koran. Aetius is not so strict in regard to regimen as Galen; he allows us to vary the milk-diet, by giving occasionally soft eggs, mead, or sweet wine diluted with water, (iv, 28.) Moschion, Averrhoes, and Avicenna approve of exercising the child in a cradle, and of lulling him with music. When the cord falls off, Avicenna advises that the part should be sprinkled with the powder of burnt lead. Averrhoes disapproves of sprinkling the child's body with salt, as recommended by Galen. (Collig. ii, 6.) He agrees with Galen, however, in condemning the use of wine. He directs exercise for the child every day; after exercise, friction, and after friction, the bath. He forbids the use of the cold bath, how- ever, because it retards the growth. When the child does not sleep, Avicenna and Averrhoes recommend poppy in his food. (Cant, ii, 1.) Haly Abbas directs us, when there is any malformation of the head, to reduce it to its proper shape, and bind it firm. Like Galen, he recommends that the body of a new-born child should be sprinkled with salt and powdered roses, to harden the skin. He directs us to give the child, for the first two days, sugar, tritu- rated with the oil of sesame. He recommends the frequent use of the tepid bath. He properly directs the nurse not to expose the child's eyes to the strong light of day, nor to allow him to sleep in a strong sun, for fear of injuring his eyes. When a child cries, it is the duty of the nurse, he says, to find out the cause, as a child never cries except when something hurts it. The most common causes, he adds, are, heat or cold, fleas or gnats, hun- ger or thirst, retention of urine or of the faeces. For retention of the urine, he recommends melon-seed with julep both to the child and the nurse; and when the child's bowels are consti- pated, he directs the nurse to take laxative herbs, oil of olives, prunes, and so forth. It is clear, therefore, that he was aware that a child may be operated upon by medicines given to the nurse. (Pract. i, 20.) The directions given by Alsaharavius are very similar. He