OF THE UlAGNOBIS OF THIS DISEASE. 303 ■\ve find coagulated blood mixed with the matter effused, and in others small collections of serum. In the dissection of the body, the spermatic cord is tuberculated Disease m the with fungous tumours, which contain a soft W’^hite pulpy mass; and similar swellings adhere to the peritoneum within the abdomen. A tumour is found on the loins, reaching from thence upwards, behind the intestines, to the kidney. It covers the aorta and vena cava, and the kidney adheres to it: when cut into, there issues from the tumour a considerable quantity of matter which looks like thick cream, mixed with a small quantity of the colouring parts of the blood. The mesenteric glands are enlarged; the liver has tubercles in it; the thoracic duct is sometimes obstructed by a fungus or medullary secretion on it; the duodenum passes over, adheres to the tumour, and is narrowed by it, and the aorta and cava also adhere to it posteriorly. The coats of the aorta and vena cava become diseased. OF THE DIAGNOSIS OF THIS DISEASE. This is a difficult task. From hydrocele, the want of trans- Difference parency; “^the more globular foim of swelling ; the pain which hydro- occasionally attends it; its yielding, rather than extensively fluctuating, and the appearance of want of general health, become the means of distinguishing it. But from the hydatid testicle, when this disease arrives at the From hydatid pulpy state, the distinction is much more difficult, and the most experienced are liable to err. Pain in the part occurring at distant intervals; a sallow complexion, and the appearance of deficient general health are the criteria, but still I have known the best surgeons mistaken. I really am decidedly of opinion, that in hydrocele, hydatid, or fungous testis, no objection exists to introducing a lancet to discover the real nature of the disease. If it be hydrocele, the rush of water directly proves its nature. If it be the hydatid swelling, a little water, mucus, and blood escape; and if medullary, blood only; sometimes a little brain-like substance appears upon