ON THE TYING'OF ARTEiUES. 235- down upon it in order to secure the vessel; rather tie the biachial artery at the middle of the arm, and not make an incision upon the swelling at the middle of the elbow. To put a ligatuie upon the vessel here, amidst a mass of extravasated blood, is tedious, difficult, and dangerous. A young gentleman in the hospital bled a man, and in doing so Fatal case, penetrated the radial artery; thirty-seven ounces of blood were lost before he could succeed in stopping it; in three days the pressure caused so much pain that the man requested it to be lightened; this was 'done, and the bleeding returned ; at the end of the week one of the surgeons deemed it prudent to secure the vessel, and he did so at the part where the wound had been made ; the operation took an hour in perfonning, and it was excessively difficult to find the vessel. On the following day there were much irritation and inflammation, and on the tenth day from the accident he died. When I was with Mr. Cline, about forty years ago, one of my Case of the fellow-appi'entices came up to me in a great fright, and said, “ Lord! Cooper, what do you think I have done ?” “ Something very bad, surely,” replied I, “ or you would not look so pale.” “ Why, I have just been bleeding a man, and in doing so have punctured his radial artery.” “ Well,” I said, “ is he in the hospital ?” “ Oh, no, I have taken care of that; I bound up his arm as tightly as I could, and sent him away.” In two or three days this man came back, and showed his arm to the surgeon, who, very properly, upon seeing what was the matter, made light of it; told him that a trifling operation must be performed, and in a few days he would be quite well. The man, upon hearing that he was to be again cut, would not consent, and left the hospital. As he was w^alking up Holborn, he happened to see the shop of a barber-surgeon, and in he went; this learned gentleman, after having inspected the tumour, said that he would soon give him relief, by letting out the matter with his lancet; well, he thrust in the instrument, and the moment he did so, out gushed a quantity of arterial blood ; this so frightened the barber, that he rushed out of his shop, and left the poor patient to manage for himself; fortunately some person