291 SPERMATIC CORD, AND PARTS ADJACENT. muscle before it leaves the ing-uinal canal. Two long' and delicate Nerves of the branches may, however, be traced through the external ring, descending one on the fore, the other on the back part of the cord, until they are los t in the coverings of the testicle; tliis nerve is distributed in the coui'se of the cremasteric artery, at the epigastric. The second branch of the external spermatic is a cutaneous nerve, which passes under Poupart’s ligament over the iliac artei'y, and •divides into twigs, which supply the skin -at the groin, and descend upon the fore-part of the thigh. Some of these branches beco-me sub-cutaneous at the cremastic margin, and on the fascia data itself lower down. This nerve is larger or smaller in proportion to the size of the external cutaneous of the lumbar plexus, and some- times supplies a considerable portion of the skin ,pf the -thigh usually allotted to the latter nerve. Thirdly, the spermatic plexus*, twhioh may be considered as consisting of two portions; the one descending-afth tlie.spermatic vessels, the other coming from the interior of the pehds, in ;.clo!5e connection with the artei'y of the vas deferens. They meet at the internal ruig’. The first p.ortion is derived from branches of the sutperior mesen- teric, renal, and aortic plexus. Three or four branches pass dow-n . from the nerves which surround fhe •roo't of the superior mesenteric artei'y, some of which become attached to the spermatic ai'tery .-w-hore it arises from the aorta, while others join two or three small ganglia on the inferior cava, and which receive sevei-al filaments from the aortic plexus. From these ganglia small twigs are given ,off, which ^Iso become connected with the spermatic artery; and when the latter has passed over the cava, and joined the spermatic vein,,two or three considerable branches are received from the renal or emulgent plexus. The plexus thus formed, receiving two or three filaments from the aortic plexus, ascends with the spermatic artery, closely * This description is of the nerve at the right side.