148 ON INJURIES OE rili; HEAD. Bladder. The involun- tary functions. Pulse. Paralysis or Hemiplegia. Concussion and Compres- sion defined. Symptoms of concussion. voluntary power of the bladder become.s for the time extinct—the urine is retained, and you are obliged to pass a catheter for its removal, at the very time when the escape of the faeces cannot be controlled. But the involuntary functions of no organ are so soon affected by injuries of the brain as those of the stomach; this arises from the connexion before explained to you; vomiting, therefore, is one of the first symptoms, though the faeces pass involuntarily, yet there is such torpor of the intestinal canal that purgatives will not easily excite action, and there will be found considerable difficulty in procuring evacuations; the pulse is said to beat laboriously; for the heart being’ affected, it cannot readily get rid of its contents. The pulse, however, is not slow unless the body be at rest: for upon the'slightest exertion it becomes exceedingly quick: the pupils are dilated, and there is sometimes bleeding from the nose, which, when the patient has been kept lying on his back, often occasions vomiting of blood; when the injury has extended to the basis of the skull, producing fracture there, it is generally attended with bleeding from the ears. These cases are very dangerous., and persons usually fall victims to them. In addition to the symptoms already enumerated, there is often partial paralysis, or hemiplegia; squinting is occasionally produced; the natural direction of one or both eyes becoming changed; pennanent, partial, or total aberration of the mental faculties may also be added to the consequences already enumerated, arising from injuries of the brain. When asked to explain the difference between concussion and compression, you answer concussion is simply a shock which the brain has received, more or less severe, attended with laceration or not, and compression arises from either a depressed portion of bone, the extravasation of blood, or the formation of matter; and from whichever of these it springs, the symptoms will be the same. In describing the symptoms and treatment of these diseases more particularly,' I will first begin with Concussion. When called to a person whom you find in a state of stupefaction, but not to a great degree; regular pulse, tranquil and regular breathing; and the accident jhas existed some hours, you will generally be justified in