ON TIIK SIZli OF ANEURISMS, 206 Confound with lumbar abscess Appearing at the ischiatic notch. for any other complaint. One of the surgeons of this hospital, but who is since dead, had a patient with a swelling in his loins; this the surgeon took for lumbar abscess; he took out his lancet, and introduced it obliqtiely, when some florid blood issued by the side of the instrument. Adhesive plaster was put to the wound, and it healed; he died, however, from the bursting of the aneurismal sac internally. On examination it was found that the swelling was from the aneurismal tumour, the lancet had not penetrated into it, but wounded its coats. There is no pulsation to be felt in the loins from those tumours, nor was there any in the case I have just mentioned, and this is owing to the distance of the swelling from the aorta; thus men that are well informed in their profession may commit mistakes in these obscure cases. Aneurisms form in the cavity of the pelvis, in the ischiatic notch, and under the gluteus maximus muscle; you will be on your guard, therefore, when you find tumours on your nates. A man was sent from Gainsborough to the other hospital with an aneurism or tumour on the nates : I hesitated at first respecting its nature ; hemorrhage came on from the bladder, when it was immediately thought that the aneurism adhered to the bladder, and an opening into it had been formed, as it was afterwai’ds found to be the case on exami- nation. This is all it will be necessary to say to you on the subject of internal aneurisms, as the symptoms will vary according to the seat in which the disease may be found; the digestive organs will be in fault at one time, the urinary at another, according to the part on which the pressure of the aneurismal sac may rest; from the variety of symptoms, the diagnosis will of coui’se be found to be difficult. ON THE SIZE OF ANEURISMS. Number and The aneurism before me is the largest I ever saw (a. beautiful magnitude. specimen was here exhibited) : it begins in the aorta at the emulgent arteries, and extends into the cavity of the pelvis. It contained blood (and I am not exactly certain how much), but of an enormous