OF THE TREATMENT OF THIS DISEASE. -317 felt full and loaded. He was somewhat, but only for a time, relieved by^the hot bath, or fomentations. He tried blistering at five different times: applied two hundred leeches, at separate times, to the aflfected part: employed also various lotions, opium, and belladonna, with eveiy medicine which seemed likely to be useful in lessening the irritability; but all without benefit. I removed the testicle for him in 1823: he quickly recovered from the operation, and felt veiy grateful for his restoration to society. This case is drawn up by the gentleman himself, who came from Case. America to consult me; he also saw Mr. Abernethy and Mr. Pear- son. Having tried every variety of medicine and local treatment without advantage, and determined not to return to America with the disease, at his request I removed the part, and have since heard that he remains perfectly well. He says, “ For several years past my left testicle has been larger than my right; at times considerably so, especially when I have taken cold. Early last summer I began to be uneasy about it, but neglected to take advice. In August, I lost two children by the yellow fever, and in my anxiety I exposed myself to unusual fatigue; and in a few days after their death, the last week in August, I had for the first time pain in the left thigh and groin, also in the testicle, which was much enlarged. I then applied to one of our best surgeons, who made an incision into it, and let out a large quantity of water; this was about the 10 th of September: he then desired me to -suspend it, as I do now, and to use a lotion of the extract of lead and opium. In a few days after, the part again became painful, for which I applied tepid poultices of bread and milk, and bathed it in warm water. The pain continued, and in about six weeks after, the operation was repeated; but very little water was drawn off: no injection was used. For some time previous, and for about six weeks after the second incision, I took mercurial pills, two or three each day, and occasionally used mercurial friction on the thigh and testicle, keeping up a soreness in the mouth, but not producing much salivation. With some intermissions, this course