TIIEATMKNT OE INELAMMATIOX. 34 Secretions restored. Purgatives. To relieve these, the dresser was ordered to take some blood from the ai’m ; which he did ; but not having’ the fear of a lancet before his eyes, and forgetting that his patient was in the recumbent posture, he abstracted so large a quantity that he never rallied. The second mode of relieving inflammation is by restoring the secretions ; for whenever it occurs, at least in any violent degree, all the secretions are diminished or suppressed. The most impor- tant secretions are those of the liver, intestines, skin, and kidneys; and when these cease to perform their proper functions, irritative fever is the consequence. A deficiency of secretion in the alimen- tary canal is the cause of a great many of the diseases to which human beings are subject. The internal surface of the intestines is lined with glands ; the tube itself, on an average, is twenty-seven feet in length, and three inches in circumference; thus there are here about a thousand inches of surface, from Avhich, in health, continual secretion proceeds. What then must the result be of allowing such an extensive surface to remain inactive ? Of course, the production and continuance of iri itation and fever ! To excite the intestinal canal to action, therefore, should be one of our first objects. This may be done by purgatives; and they afford relief in nearly the same manner as the abstraction of blood from the arm; for a pint of serum will frequently pass off with feculent matter, after taking a cathartic. Purgatives have likewise another good effect, independently of restoring the secretions from the intestinal tube, viz. that of carrying off whatever feculent matter may be lodged in the intestines; but I do not believe that much irritation is produced by the accumulation of faeces in comparison with that which takes place from a stoppage or deficiency of the secretions. I have met with several cases in which a vast quantity of faeces had collected, yet little constitutional irritation was pro- duced ; similar cases frequently come under the observation of accoucheurs. In one instance, which I met with, the pressure from the faeces was so violent that it produced ulceration into the vagina ; yet the amazing quantity of feculent matter excited but little con- stitutional irritation. Some fluid formed a passage by the side of the