124 ON OANGllENE. Process'of Separation. Separation the skin. of continuing- for a few hours, is followed by a destruction of the vital power. These are the symptoms which ^ve obsei-ve in cases where 8'angrene is the result either of a high degree of inflammatory action, or of diminished power. When gangrene is produced by either of these causes, the process of separation soon commences. This process is one of the most curious operations of nature in the human body. There is nothing more extraordinary to my mind than the power which nature possesses of separating even large members without any danger from hemorrhage, or the smallest .jeopardy to life. Thus we see a limb of considerable size separate without in the slightest degree endangering the life of the patient. I here is an instance of this at the present time, in the other hospital, in a case of popliteal aneurism, which wdll afford you an opportunity of judging of this process of separation for yourselves.* The first appearance w^hich ive observe after the destruction of the life of any part is a white line, which nature foi-rns for the separation of the dead from the living parts. For this white line we anxiously look, since it is the barrier which nature sets up between the dead and the living parts, and it becomes a criterion of the cessation of the gangrenous disposition. At this w^hite line the cuticle IS raised. This elevation of the cuticle is a vesication, which forms a line of circumvallation around the gangrene. When the cuticle becomes separated, as it will in two or three days, w-e find a chasm beneath it, produced by the absoiption of the living skin in contact with the dead. The living skin is taken up by the absorbent vessels into the constitution, and in this manner the living parts are separated from the dead by a process of nature. If we w^ere to reason a priori on this subject, it might be expected that the absorbent vessels would rather remove the dead portion of skin in contact with the living; but this is not the case. The absorbent vessels act on the living parts, but not on the dead: nor is the dead skin absorbed after the time when granulations have * This man’s leg separated through the calf.—L.