376 Of THE OPERATION. How to be held. Position of the patient during the operation. The scalpel. The first inci- sion. Opening the urethra. because it is more easily cut into.; secondly, because the gorget or knife passes more readily by it into the bladder. When performing the operation, the staff is to be held by an assistant, perpendicularly, or nearly so; and its extremity should, if possible, rest upon the stone ; its groove is- to be slightly inclined to the left side of the rapha of the perineum. Nothing can be more unsafe than to incline the handle of the instrument towards the patient’s abdomen, as it draws its point out of the bladder into the urethra; and when the gorget or knife is passed on it towards the bladder, either is likely to slip between it and th6 rectum. Before commencing the first incision, the surgeon should see that the patient be placed evenly upon the table, so that one side be not higher than the other ; and also that the shoulders be sufficiently raised, and well supported. The knife, for commencing the incision in perineo, should have a considerably convex cutting edge, as by it the urethra is more freely opened. The scrotum being' elevated, the incision is begun oppo- site the under part of the arch of the pubis, and is continued on the left side of the raphe, along the perineum, as far as mid-way between the tuberosity of the ischium and the anus. The first incision should divide the skin, &c. and expose the accelerator urinae; the second should be carried between the left crus penis and the bulb ; the latter being pressed towards the right side by the fore finger of the surgeon’s left hand. A part of the accelerator urinse is divided, and the transversus perinei should be freely cut, as it forms a great impediment to the extraction of the stone, if undivided. The next incision should be made into the groove of the staff, by cutting into the membranous portion of the urethra; for this purpose the knife must be directed upwards, and not horizontally, otherwise the rectum is endangered : the opening made to expose the groove of the staff should be an inch in length. A gorget, or a knife Avith a probed e.xtrcmity, is next usually employed, to complete the opening into the bliidder.