43 LOCAL TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. and if lie were not removed, he would absolutely die, so extensive is the exhaustion that it occasions. Here, then, is direct proof of what heat and moisture can do, when they are applied generally; and, when used locally, their action on the part is precisely the same. . Fomentations are ordered precisely with the same view, viz. to Fomentabons. restore the secretions of the part, by which the tension of the vessels is removed, and the pain much abated. Fomentations occa- sionally are medicated, being- composed of camomile flowers, poppy- heads, &c., but I do not consider that these possess any advantage over mere water, at least where the surface of the skin is unbroken. Poultices are likewise used upon the same principle; the kind of Poultices, poultice is of little consequence, provided, as in the preceding case, the skin be entire. The next method of relieving inflammation is by the application Leeches, of leeches, which relieve upon the same principle as poultices and fomentations, viz. by abstracting from the part a portion of its fluids, and consequently lessening the pain and tension: after the leeches drop off, the bleeding must be encouraged; this may be done by bathing the part with warm water, and wiping it frequently with a wai*m sponge. To some persons, and in some situations, however, the are cation* of leeches is attended with veiy great inconvenience; as inconvenient, occasionally, for example, in inflammation of the testicles. We do not find this an inconvenience in the hospitals; but frequently, in private practice, we see persons in whom it is of the greatest consequence that a bleeding from these parts should be concealed. Now, as there is much mess, trouble, and consequent exposure, from an application of leeches, what ive do in such cases is this. we request the person to stand before us, and, with a lancet, puncture some of the small veins on the front of the scrotum; in this manner, and with a little warm water, you abstract any portion of blood you wish; and what is of very great consequence, you stop it when you please; for, liy placing the patient in a recumbent posture, and by applying some cold water to the punctures, the