ON FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. 165 the nose be blown, the air escapes through the opening in the bone, and getting into the cellular membrane under the skin, renders the forehead emphysematous. If, on the other hand, the fracture is compound, upon blowing the nose, the air rushes through the wound; so that in either case, the nature of the accident may be easily ascertained. Fractures of the skull, if unaccompanied with concussion or Fractures unite slowly. compression, as readily unite as fractures of the bones in any part of the body. Here is a curious case (exhibiting a skull) where a circular, or rather oblong, piece of bone was, as you may perceive, completely separated from this part of the os parietale by the cut of a sabre; and yet, from what you here see, it is evident that it became re-united. However, I wdll send it round, that you may have an opportunity of examining it for yourselves. Fractures of the cranium, therefore, easily unite. Where, however, large holes are made through the skull, the apertures do not again become filled by ossific matter, but by a tendinous structure formed from tbe bone and dura mater. The holes made in trephining are supplied in this manner, and not by bone. Also, when in fracture of the skull, where the bones are separated to any distance, the interspace will not become filled by bony matter, but remain open as you see it, (showing a skull which had been fractured, and the broken part widely separated.) Treatment of Fractures of the Skull.—When there is simple Treatment, fracture unaccompanied with symptoms of injured brain, you must not trephine, neither in compound fracture; but you must, by the application of adhesive plaster, endeavour to heal the wound in the scalp as quickly as possible. Let your constitutional treatment be that of depletion, by means of blood-letting and purgatives. This plan often removes symptoms of concussion, and even extravasation, which accompany these fractures; and often a few hours will show you that the application of the trephine, which you at first might have thought indispensable, is wholly unnecessary. It is wrong, therefore, to be too much in a huriy in these accidents; for irreparable mischief might arise from your converting a fracture,