213 ON THE CURE OF ANEURISMS. are useful; the one, abstraction of blood from the arm, when the pulse is hard and full, from which I have seen undoubted benefit arise. The other, the administration of the carbonate of soda, in considemble doses, which, with entire rest, seem to pi event the increase of the swelling: but the soda is at last obliged to be abandoned, on account of its producing petechise ; the irritability of the body is often so increased by an anti-phlogistic treatment, that the quickness of the pulse which follows, does as much injury as the natural force of circulation. As the spontaneous cure of this disease, however, cannot be so Onthe opera far depended upon as to prevent us from performing the operation in all situations where the artery is accessible, I shall proceed to describe to you the mode of perfonning the operation in the different parts of the body, confining myself in this evening’s lecture to the operation on the femoral artery. As we are occasionally under the necessity of performing the operation as it used to be done thirty- five or forty years ago, I shall, in the first place, say a few wmrds on the old operation. The operation for popliteal aneurism used to be performed in the old method, following manner:—A tourniquet was placed on the limb, and the patient laid upon his face. An incision was then made in the ham, to the extent of the aneurism, and the adhesive matter and coagu- lated blood removed from the excavation thus made. The aneu- rismal bag was then wiped out with a sponge, and the tourniquet was slightly loosened, in order to mark the orifice of the arteiy. The surgeon stood ready with a probe in his hand, and as soon as he saw the blood issue from the upper orifice, he passed it into the artery, and then separating that portion of the artery from the remaining parts, put a ligature upon it. When he had done this, he again loosened the tourniquet, and as soon as he saw what appeared to be venous blood spring from the lower portion of the artery (for the blood from the upper portion of the artery is florid, as arterial blood usually is, but in the lower portion it has the appearance of venous blood), he introduced the probe into the orifice, and put a ligature on the artery as before. An operation like this,