78 ON ABSCESSES. Danger of abscesses. Case. Abscesses are dangerous according to the following circum- stances :— First, from their size. It is not, however, the quantity of matter produced which renders them dangerous, but the difficulty which nature has in repairing the devastation made by excavation of the solids, from the pressure of the matter. An abscess may discharge a great quantity of matter, and the constitution may have been scarcely affected by it; but very soon after it is opened, the constitution begins to suffer. It is not, there- fore, the quantity of matter, but the process of restoration after the evacuation of the matter, which affects the constitution. The largest abscesses which occur in the body are those of the liver. Patients will sometimes recover from abscesses of this part, in which immense quantities of matter have formed. I remember one of enormous magnitude, from which the patient recovered. Dr. Saunders, the lecturer on medicine at Guy’s, asked me to see a woman who had a large abscess in the side. I made an opening into it with a lancet, and it discharged a suiqinsing quan- tity of matter, as much as would fill two-thirds of a wash-hand basin. I have heard, indeed, of much larger quantities of matter having been discharg’ed. After pressing out the matter, I passed a roller tightly round the abdomen, and brought the parts together, with a view of producing the adhesive process, which now and then occurs. I did not see the patient again, but some days after I met Dr. Saunders, who asked me how I thought the patient was going on. I told him I imagined he asked me, because he thought me very sanguine; and he replied, that I should be gratified to learn, that the woman was doing extremely well. In fact, the orifice had closed; no more matter was discharged, and the patient got ivell without any bad symptoms. I have mentioned this case, because it may guide your practice when you are operating upon large abscesses, and show you the propriety of endeavouring to procure the adhesive process, by bringing the sides of the abscess together. Very large abscesses sometimes terminate favourablv, but in a great number of cases they destroy life.