Case. I aatII ghm you a case relating to this subject:—Dr. Babington Remarks. Case. 184 ON AVOUNDS OF THE 15RAIN. aftei'Avards. If you read the Avorks of Mr. Pott on the injuries of tlie head, you Avill find the circumstance mentioned; and in the Avork of Mr. Dease, of Dublin, (avIio has published an excellent treatise on the subject) it is distinctly stated, that inflammation of the brain is occasionally postponed to three or four Aveeks after the accident occurs, and eA-^en then, the patient is not alAA^ays safe. and myself Avere sent for to see a person, a clerk to the fiim of Whitbread and Co., Avho, Avhilst riding on horseback, and being a short-siglfted man, and riding fast, struck himself violently against the bough of a tree Avhich AA’^as overhanging the road, and Avas brought to the ground by the force of the bloAV. He AV'as taken to Croydon, Avhei'e Dr. Babington and myself visited him. We found that he had been struck on the os frontis, just aboA^e the frontal sinuses, Avhere thej-e Avas a depression; and this Avas the first case in Avhich I Avitnessed emphysema of the forehead produced by bloAving the nose. We took all possible care of the case, bled him, regulated his diet, &c., till the inflammation had subsided. He came to toAvn three Aveeks after the accident, Avhen he asked AA’hether he might go to Rochester, to spend a little time Arith some friends, Avho Avere anxious for him to come. We told him that he might, if he AA^ould pay attention to himself, keep his boAA'els open, and regulate his diet. After the lapse of a AA'eek he became extremely ill, inflammatictovpf the brain came on, and he died. On inquiry, Ave found that he had neglected the directions given him, and alloAved his boAvels to get costive. It is alAA’ays a very serious case AA^hen there is a depression on the forehead after an accident, and I Avill mention to j'ou an instance of this kind, Avhich Avail shoAv you the necessity of enjoining on a patient Avith this injury strict attention to his mode of living’. A man Avdio had received a AA’ound in the forehead from a pistol- shot came to this hospital: the Avound healed kindly, but rhe depression remained. Whenever this man indulged in the use of