27 ON INFLAMMATION. sloiv in its progress, although easily excited; and at last, ulceration taking place, the discharge consists of curdy matter, or a thin serous fluid, not at all resembling the pus ■which is formed in healthy inflammations. The second kind of specific inflammation is caused by the appli- From poisons, cation of poisons. Thus, in gonorrhoea, the mattei secieted is "widely difierent from common healthy matter, ha'ving, in the first place, a much larger quantity of mucus mixed with it, and, secondly, when applied to a secreting surface, is capable of exciting in the part an action by which similar matter and the same effects can be produced. The matter of small-pox occasions the same lesult, and as far as constitutional effects are concerned, it does not seem material how large or how small a quantity of the poison is applied, the result in each case depending upon the state of the constitution. There is another kind of inflammation which I would call the Irritable m- flammation. irritable: in this disorder the nerves are much more affected than the blood-vessels. You are called probably to attend a person, who tells you that he feels in a particular part, as the hand or arm, a most agonizing pain; and if inexperienced in these matters, you will be inclined to doubt the correctness of your patient’s statement, and the more so as you can discover no alteration in the appearance of the part. It may not be amiss to mention here what happened to me some time ago. I was requested to see a lady having this Case, complaint in her foot; I tried by every possible means to remove it, but in vain. When unsuccessful, I invariably recommend the sufferer to some one else. This lady consulted two other very eminent surgeons, but their efforts, in like manner, were unable to afford relief; and finding that she got worse in town, she went into the country for change of air, where, without any medical means being employed, she entirely got rid of her troublesome companion. I saw this lady aftenvards, and she described the pain that she used to feel as horrible; it was constantly at the bottom of her foot; and if she walked but a very short distance, it occasioned a con- finement during four or five days. The eyes are very subject to this torturing disorder. But no