238 O \ Til 1' TYING OV A RT F, R 1 ES. occurring by wounds from glass, the ancurismal sac must be opened, and the artery tied above and below the opening. For aneurism. What is the anatomical direction here?—the answer is, the tendon of the flexor carpi-radialis—cut upon the radial side of the tendon, and you will immediately find the artery close to its edge. Instead of putting ligatures upon these vessels at the wrist for aneurism, or wounds of the palmar arch, it has been recommended to employ pressure, by means of cork folded in lint, and bound down by a bandage. This practice, when used, leads to great inflammation and irritation—and I would advise you against using pressure generally, and more especially as regards the ulnar and radial arteries, as they can be so easily tied if you possess the least anatomical knowledge; and if you do not know anatomy you had better never touch the body at all. TYING THE CAROTID ARTERY. Aneurisms of the scalp and their treat- ment. When this vessel is to be secured, it is desirable to make the incision as high as you can; the upper boundary, therefore, will will be the angle of the jaw, and below the omo-hyoideus; make your incision first, then high up, on the inner side of the sterno- cleido-mastoideus; upon drawing aside the edge of which you will distinctly see the omo-hyoideus obliquely crossing the artery. (Sir Astley here exhibited it in the dead body.) I have laid bare the carotid, and will now show you what you must principally take care to avoid in this operation, viz., the par-vagum, which accompanies the arteiy; if you were to tie this nerve you would endanger life ; well then, when you are about to pass the ligature round the vessel, if you raise it a little, you can readily discover whether the nerve be in contact with it, and thus guard against an accident which mio-ht lead to a fatal result. I will now conclude the lecture by saying a few words on aneurisms from arteries of the scalp. The first case of this kind that I saw was sent to me by Mr. Toulmin, of Hackney: in this instance I tied the artery proceeding to, and from, the tumour. If