448 Symptoms. Progress. Fluctuation. Solid enlarge- ment. or OVARIAN OR ENCYSTED DROPSY. y This is a bladder of water, formed within or upon the ovarium. The disease is, at first, discovered as a swelling upon the brim of the pelvis, from two to three inches above Poupart’s ligament, and is confined to one side of the pelvis. It is unattended with pain, and the general health remains uninjured. Under varied positions of the body, it moves, in some degree, from side to side. It is a very circumscribed swelling, and has an elastic feel; it is often accompanied in its early stages with an irritation to make water, and now and then with a difficulty in its discharge. As it gradually increases, it rises from the lower part of the abdomen to the upper, and occupies morQ and more the centre of the abdomen; at length it extends over to the opposite side from that in which it began: although it is generally largest on the side in which it commenced; at first the breathing is unaffected; bu t when the size of the swelling is very large, the action of the diaphragm is greatly impeded by its pressure. The fluctuation in this disease is much less distinct than in ascites ; but when it acquires considerable size, it becomes propor- tionally more and more perceptible. It depends, however, upon the thinness of the cyst. In ascites, the fluid is in direct contact with the peritoneum, on the posterior surface of the abdominal parietes; but in ovarian dropsy a cyst sometimes of considerable thickness inten^enes between the water and the peritoneum. The ovarium is subject to solid enlargements of very considerable bulk; and an ignorant surgeon might plunge a trocar into such a swelling, mistaking it for ovarian dropsy, which a little more attention to its want of fluctuation might have led him to discover. At first, the water which is formed in the encysted dropsy is contained, not in a single bag, but in several; the septa between which become gradually absorbed, and their number consequently diminished ; and this is another reason for the fluctuation being more distinct as the disease advances. The cj'st which is, at first. A