LOCAL TIIRATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 44 Case. Case. Case of irri- table nerve. blood will immediately cease to flow. In this way, then, you may take blood from the scrotum, when the testicles are inflamed, with very little trouble, and without any exposure. In deep seated inflammation, blood should also be taken by cupping. [The learned Lecturer here said, at the same time putting his hand upon one of the recently amputated stumps lying upon the table, that he had a few more remarks to make, but these would be on another subject: viz.—the occasional retraction of the skin of a stump, after amputation.] A surgeon, at Worthing, took off a boy’s arm, pretty near the shoulder-joint; the stump healed kindly, and all was thought to be doing well: some months after, hmvever, he complained of pain, and the skin retracted to such an extent, that the bone projected through it at least an inch; in this state, he came to town, and upon examining the part near the arm-pit, I put my finger upon a small tumour; this occasioned the boy to jump as though he had been electrified; I then performed the operation of amputation at the shoulder-joint, and upon examination, it was found that the tumour which had been touched before the operation, and produced the electric shock, was a large ganglion of neives, and it had given rise to the excessive irritability of the stump, and the retraction of the skin. Previously to the above case, a boy was sent to me, with a stump similar to the one I have just described, but in the leg; the ends of the bones were cut off, and the boy left the hospital apparently well; but soon after the arm case from Worthing had been operated upon, and the nature of the disease ascertained, this boy again re- turned, having his stump in a painful, irritable state, and the skin evidently retracted. Knowing now the cause of the mischief, I cut down upon, and took out the end of the posterior tibial nerve: the bad symptoms consequently disappeared, and the lad eventually recovered. Going round the hospital the other day, I met with another case resembling the above, but, in point of irritability, much worse. At the particular request of the woman, I amputated—the nerves np-