338 OV THE TUEATMENT OF SCllllUIOUS TUEERCLE- Vegetable diet. Local treat- ment. Leeches. have been expected to have arisen ; yet, in a few months, the disease returned in the breast; and, finding that it was making considerable progress, she determined to return to England. I saw her soon after her return ; but the change from d warm to a cold climate had produced no more favourable change than her visit to the warm temperature of Trinidad. The glands in the axilla were enlarged ; the breast was ulcerated ; her lungs had become affected; her body was emaciated; and it was evident she had but a short time to live. I also lately knew an Engli.sh lady visit the south of Europe, when labouring under this disease, and there she died of it. It is supposed that a vegetable diet, and food affording little nourishment, is conducive to recovery. There is no greater mistake. Whatever weakens leads to an inci’ease of the disease, and to a more rapid termination of the existence. Low living renders the person irritable, quickens the pulse, and makes the constitution feel the disease more strongly. Vegetable diet has not the least bene- ficial influence over this complaint. Wine and fermented liquors, given so as to produce a quicker pulse, or heat of skin, are equally improper, as a feverish state is equally pernicious wdth the nervous irritability which low living produces. In short, diet has no specific influence, and that which has agreed best with the patient at other times is the most appropriate under this disease. Meat once per diem, and weak wine and water, as a drink at dinner, agrees best. ^ I The other meals, morning and evening, to be as usual. The local treatment of the complaint consists in subduing inflam- matory action; by perspiration, by wearing oiled silk ; soap cerate, or a poultice of bread and poppy water; wearing a piece of fur upon the part, or a portion of hareskin, is found to tranquillize the disease. ' As the pain is occasionally severe, and the disease seems to grow by occasional determinations of blood, it is right at these times to apply leeches; four or six of them may be used, but it is wrong to weaken the patient by their application; and therefore great numbers of them, or a frequent repetition of their application,