164 ON FIIACTUUES OF THE SKULL. Case. Effect of a blow. Fracture of the frontal sinus. os occipitis, great injury is in this way done; as in veiy many cases a transverse fracture through the foramen magnum, cuneiform process, and part of the temporal bone is the consequence; a discharge of blood into each meatus auditorius, takes place, and where there is no other mischief, deafness often remains for life. A curious fracture within the orbit sometimes occurs, as in the case from which this specimen (pointing to one on the table) was taken, when destruction of life was the consequence of the injury received. I will give you the history of the case:—A child was playing with a scissors, when the point of it entered the upper part of the orbit, between the ball of the eye and the superior eye-lid; the scissors was with difficulty extracted; the child’s eye did not become inflamed; after the accident the child walked from Walworth to Mr. W., of Hatton Garden, who attended it; on the 10th day from the time of the mischief, symptoms of compression of the brain came on, rigors, inflammation of the brain supervened, and the child died; on examining the body after death, it was found that the scissors had penetrated through the orbitar process of the os frontis, and lacerated the dura mater; a considerable quantity of extravasated blood was found, and the anterior lobe of the cerebrum was punctured by the point of the scissors, from which it had received the injuiy. It now and then happens that a blow received upon the summit of the head will produce a circular fracture of the entire cranium, commencing at the top of the head, passing down on each side through the temporal bone, and meeting at the basis.—Mr. Chandler, late surgeon of the hospital, had a case of this description; there did not appear to be any extravasation or concussion; great irritation and violent inflammation succeeded, which destroyed the patient; and after death, it was discovered that there existed a complete circular fracture of the skull, and that the anterior portion could be freely separated from the posterior. I believe these cases alw ays terminate fatally. There is a curious fracture of the skull which occasionally takes place over the frontal sinuses. When the fracture is simple, if