118 ON ULCERS. Travers on Varix. Carbuncle Treatment. practitioner at Brentford; and both these gentlemen told me, that they would not again perfonn the operation for the world. If I were to tell you all the cases in which I have known it terminate fatally, I should recount at least a dozen. Another overwhelming objection to the operation is, that when it does not prove fatal, its ultimate effects are perfectly nugatory. If I were asked which of the following operations I would rather have performed upon myself, viz. the saphena major vein, or the femoral arteiy tied, I certainly should choose the latter. When an artery is tied, the inflammation is above the ligature, but in a vein it is below; in this case, the vessel becomes terribly distended, the inflammation uncommonly severe, and either extensive suppuration, mortification, or death, the result. Mr. Travers has written an admirable essay on this subject, which well deseiwes your attentive perusal. Ulcers are sometimes occurring in the cellular membrane, form- ing what we call chronic carbuncles. When the constitution is impaired, from whatever cause, it frequently happens that small swellings will foim under the skin. At first they are red ; then turn purple; and ultimately slough. The ulcerative process is slow in those cases. A white substance will soon be perceived at the bottom of the sore, and, as soon as this comes away, healthy granulations will rapidly form, and the wound become healed. Constitutional ti’eatment, however, in these cases, must not be forgotten; for unless you improve the general health, the ulcers will not get well. You should administer aperients, such as the infusion of senna, Epsom salts, &c., and give alteratives—the Plummer’s pill will be found the best. For females, whei’e great general debility has given rise to the formation of these sores, no medicine can equal in power the carbonate of ammonia. I shall have frequent occasion to allude to this. I generally give it in the following form;— R. Ammon. Carb. jSS. Aq. Month. Virid. 3V ss. Tinct. Cardam. Comp. 3SS. M. ft. mistura. Cujus cap. coch. dum 4ter. in die.