ON ANEUmSM OF THE AoETA. 205 the oesophagus, as in the preparation before me (pointing to one on the table), and a similar instance of which may be seen in the museum of the other hospital; when an aneurism presses on the oesophagus, adhesion of the coat of the sac to the oesophagus takes place, and afterwards an opening between the aneurismal bag and gullet is fonned; the patient vomits a considerable quantity of blood, and soon dies. I have seen three instances of this kind of aneurism in persons who have died of some other complaint. ANEURISM OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. When the aneurism is situated above the coeliac artery, a pulsation may be distinctly felt at the scrobiculus cordis; and a symptom which distinguishes this complaint is, that the pressure on the Symptoms, stomach caused by the aneurismal bag produces nausea and vomiting, and small quantities of food are immediately rejected. There was a case in this hospital of aneurism just above the coeliac arteiy, where the patient had frequent vomiting, constant nausea, and could not bear to take any food. When the aneurism is lower down in Sometimes the cavity of the abdomen, it often bursts into the intestine. Here bursts, is a specimen (holding it in his hand), where there is an opening in the jejunum and the fore part of the aneurismal tumour, of which Case, the patient died. It was taken from a near relation of an eminent physician. Dr. S. brought him, in order that I might give my opinion of a pulsation in the abdomen; he dined with me, we made as light of it as possible, and he was very cheerful at dinner; three Aveeks afterwards I ivas sent for, to Henley, to visit him; he was seized with discharge of blood by stool; he revived a little, and hopes of I’ecovery were entertained by his friends; the following morning, however, the discharge of blood returned and he died suddenly. When the aneurismal tumour presses on the spine, absorption ^.baorption of of the vertebrae takes place, as in this instance (exhibiting a the vertebrae, specimen); you will also find a large swelling in the loins; but you must be on your guard respecting this sivelling, lest it be mistaken