Anecdote. Anecdote. Effect of co]d. Case. I 40 LOCAL THEATiMENT OF INFLAMMATION. one evening into the garden, Avhen warm, my pulse being 86; at the expiration of an hour it was 76 ; at the end of two hours, it was reduced to 65; and had not only lessened in quickness, but also in fulness. Cold will produce torpor, and even death. A curious instance of this kind occurred near Halifax, in Nova Scotia: Dr. Scott had been dining a little way in the country' with some friends, and they were on their return at night, when one of the party separated from the rest, saying to a companion, that he would frighten some of them by-and-by. Hmvever, they reached Halifax without seeing any thing more of him. At this the party became alarmed for his safety, and returned for the purpose of find- ing him. He Avas discovered behind a hillock of snoAV, in an erect position, but quite dead. Another curious instance of this kind is related in Cooik’s Voyages, when some of the officers and creAv of one of the ships were landing at Terra del Fuego. Dr. Solander, who was of the party, particu- larly cautioned them not to go to sleep ; and said that it was exceed- ingly dangerous to do so in cold situations. It happened, however, that the Doctor was himself the first who became drowsy; it was with the greatest difficulty that his companions could keep him in motion; and it was only by the utmost perseverance that they succeeded in getting him back to the ship alive. When cold is applied to'an inflamed part, it lessens its nervous energy, and robs it of its heat; but cold must be severe indeed, if it bring the internal parts of the body beloAV a temperature of 98°. In this country, in the AAunter, many of the external parts of the body vary in temperatui’e from 20“ to 30“; thus a ther- mometer^ applied to the toes when they are cold, Avill be found to indicate 20“ of heat less than it Avould, if applied to the calf of the leg. Cold, applied in excess, destroys life, by extracting heat, without which the vital actions cannot be supported. ,On the Ihdng body you may apply cold to a part until it actually becomes frozen. Mr. Cline and Mr. Sharp were once attending a patient who had strangulated hernia; to reduce which they applied ice enclosed in linen cloths, and this they continued for thirty-six