210 ON THE FOUMATION OF ANEURISMS. Aneurism from a punc- ture. Dissection of aneurism. Diagnosis. the bursting- of an artery, occurred as follows;—A gentleman whom I was attending for another complaint, in attempting to raise himself in bed upon his hands, felt something snap in his right hand. When I next visited him, he told me the circumstance, and requested me to look at his hand. Upon putting my finger upon it, I felt a pulsating aneurismal swelling. I tried what could be done by pressure; but as this did not succeed, I found it necessary to tie the radial artery at the part where we usually feel the pulse. In this case, a bag of considerable size was foi-med by the cellular membrane, instead of the usual mode. A pointed body introduced into an artei-)^ will produce all the appearances of aneurism, and require the same treatment. In whatever way, in short, aneurism is produced, the surgical treatment of it will be the same. A curious circum&tance may be observed in dissecting an aneurism, after having turned back the aneurismal sac. You would suppose that when you had made an incision in the parts, you would immediately find the cavity in which the blood is contained; but this is not the case. On the inner side of the aneurismal sac a wall of adhesive matter is deposited in layers, so as to enclose the blood as completely as the aneurismal sac itself. Here is a preparation in which the aneurismal sac has been taken away, and yet you find a bag remaining entirely formed of layers of adhesive matter on the outer side of the aneurism. The process by which nature throws up one layer of adhesive matter after another, until a complete bag is produced, is beautifully illustrated in this preparation. You may distinguish aneurism from other diseases by the follow- ing marks:—If the aneurism be recent, by pressing your finger on the artei-y which leads to the aneurism, you will empty the aneurismal bag ; but if the aneurism be of longer duration, and the pulsation be but slight, place yourself by the side of the patient, observe carefully the size of the swelling, and, by pressing your finger on the artery above, you will see the aneurism sink down as