102 ON ORANL'LATION. Case of a negro. Experiment, reproduced, except two. In the first place, new skin, though differing somewhat in texture and smoothness, is still a substance similar to the original skin. Skin may be defined to bo a substance producing rete mucosum and cuticle. Are both produced by the newly-formed skin ? Undoubtedly. The cuticle is produced very quickly, and with respect to the rete mucosum, or covering matter of the skin, a little time elapses before it is produced; but it is produced, as the following fact will show:—The new skin of a negro does not become white, as in that of Europeans, but is at first red, and after a little time turns blacker than the original skin, I was struck with this in the other hospital, in the case of a negro, who had been a sailor in a privateer, and had received several wounds in different parts of his body. I observed that the cicatrices were every where blacker than the original skin. We may conclude, therefore, that the skin which is reproduced is true skin; that the cuticle is very quickly reproduced, and the rete mucosum after a short period. The cellular membrane is also reproduced, though it has at first the appearance of a solid fibrous mass, which requires some time before it is drawn into the reticular texture, similar to the original membrane. Tendons are very easily reproduced. If the tendo achillis be divided in an animal, it will be reproduced in about a fortnight or three weeks ; but it will be somewhat larger than the original tendon. The same thing takes place in the human subject; as you may see from a specimen in our museum of a tendo achillis which had been reproduced, and which is larger than the original tendon. Eveiy body knoivs that bones are reproduced; not only the shell of the bone, but the cancellated structure; not only the salt or phosphate of lime, but the cartilaginous substance in which it is deposited. Nerves are also reproduced, but there is some little doubt whether they assist at all in the restoration of sensation by anastomosis. Dr. Haighton made an ingenious experiment with respect to tlie union of nerves. He divided the par vagum, or eighth pair of nei-ves, in a dog, on one side, and then let the animal live for some time; he then divided the par vagum on the opposite side, and after