38G Nervous irritability in children. Peritoneal inflammation. Hffimorrhage. Case. OF THE CAUSES OF DEATH FROM THE OPERATION. The causes of death from lithotomy which I have witnessed are: First, Nervous irritability occurring in very young persons: they are generally pale and almost comatose on the day after the operation; on the day following, their eyes roll quickly, and there is excessive restlessness; they then become extremely weak, are convulsed, and expire. To relieve this irritable state, calomel and opium are the best remedies. Secondly, Peritoneal inflammation, occurring when much violence has been used in extracting the stone. The symptoms are; vomiting, tenderness in the region of the bladder, tension of the abdomen, and diflficulty in procuring motions. The treatment consists in administering calomel purges, in applying fomentations, leeches, and blisters to the abdomen; in bleeding from the arm, and the use of the warm bath. In inspecting these cases, I have seen not only inflammation of the bladder and peritoneum, but extravasation of blood between the bladder, pubes, and abdominal muscles, showing that the bladder had been drawn down during the extraction of the stone. The removal of a large stone, when the prostate gland is enlarged, kills in the same manner. Thirdly, Hsemorrhage. This I have seen repeatedly destroy life, and it has been with no small degree of surprise that I have heard it denied to be a cause of death. I cut a man in Guy’s Hospital at one o’clock in the day; the operation was soon over, and apparently under the happiest auspices; the patient was put to bed, and I soon after quitted the Hospital. In the afternoon the man became faint and vomited several times. At nine o’clock in the evening, the sister of the ward, in turning down the bed-clothes, found the lower part of his body surrounded with blood, and the man was extremely faint. Mr. Callaway, my apprentice, was sent for, but the patient died in an hour. A surgeon should not quit his patient until the bleeding caused by