302 DIRSECTION. discharges profusely, bleeds, and again sloughs, until the patient is exhausted by irritation and discharge. Towards the close of life, the pain is often excessively severe in the part, in the abdomen it is occasional only ; and the patient has vomiting, and frequent attacks of diarrhoea. I have known a person just before death have the following symptoms,—vomiting, hiccough, violent pain in the abdomen, swelling of the legs and thighs, tumour in the abdomen, and pain with tenderness on pressure over the abdominal muscles. DISSECTION. The true nature of the disease. The testicle in these cases vaiies in its appearance according to the stage of the disease. A secretion of soft pulpy matter, looking something like brain, is found deposited in the midst of the semi- niferous tubes in its early stages ; and :as the disease advances, and the testicle becomes enlarged, the seminiferous tubes are absorbed, and the peculiar secretion of this disease occupies their natural situation. I have injected several of these diseases, and we have heautiful specimens of them in the collection. The secreted solid substance is very paxtially vascular; in some paits the vessels are very numerous, in others they do not enter the disease; those which do, are so tender in their coats, that they readily give way to very slight force ; when ulcerated, the fimgus is found very wascular, other parts of the tumour appear broken-down, so as to :have lost their organization, and resemble cream; portions of the substance are solid like brain, but in separate masses; some have often also a woolly or flocculent appearance. The true history of the disease appears to consist in the part secreting, not common fibrous or adhesive matter, but a material of much softer consistence scarcely supporting vessels in some parts, whilst in others there is a rapid groirth of the blood vessels : in one case, therefore, it falls readily into disorgTmization ; in another, produces a projecting fungus so soon as ulceration allows the vessels a less limited growth; but more of this hereafter. In some parts