142 ON CAUUUNCLK. Case. Case. Treatment. Symptoms of Carbuncle. I attended a gentleman, an old surgeon, who, for the purpose of getting rid of a bunnion, had (most foolishly) put a lancet into it; gangrene followed, and he died. I was lately sent for by Mr. Holt, surgeon, of Tottenham, to see a gentleman, who, when cutting a corn, had carried the incision a little too far, so as to produce bleeding: gangrene here likewise took place. Old persons must, therefore, be cautious; for life being almost exhausted veiy little will extinguish it. A poultice, composed of port wine and oatmeal, Avill generally be found the best local application: and your internal remedy should consist of opium combined with ammonia. You must not expect that these cases will always recover. I have known, however, a single toe, a whole set, and even the entire foot, to slough, and yet the patient do well. In these cases you must never amputate— Avhether there be healthy granulations or not, do not amputate; for as surely as you do, mortification of the stump will supervene.* The next subject of which I shall speak is CAHBUNCLE. Of this I shall have but little to say, as many of the foregoing observations are equally applicable here. When carbuncle is about to take place in any part, it is generally preceded by pain, and at first a swelling of considerable hardness; this is occasioned by the adhesive inflammation: the surface of the tumour then assumes a livid redness and a spongy soft feel; little ulcers now form in the skin, which, from their number, give it a sieve-like appearance, so numerous are the orifices; from these a white discharge passes—this fluid resembles flour and water mixed together : and a man who has seen much of carbuncle, knows the nature of the disease instantly upon seeing the discharge. When the little openings are all formed into one, the dead cellular membrane begins to escape, for it previously cannot do so, from the smallness of the apertures. * The Chlorurcts of Lime and Soda have been found of essential service, at least as disinfecting agents.—L.