OF tllE TUNICA ALHUG1NEA TESTIS. 268 glandular structure of the testis, leaving a cavity in which it is contained ; but at the upper and posterior part of the testis, a little to its outer side, the tunica albuginea turns in towards the centre of the testis, and forms a triangular process, which, from its situation, I should call mediastinum testis. This inverted portion of the tunica albuginea sends forth numerous ligamentous cords. Some of these cords pass directly from the mediastinum to the anterior edge of the testis, and form pillars, which are strongly fixed to the inner side of the tunica albuginea, to prevent the separation of its sides ; others, and the greater number, hut smaller cords, descending upon the semini- ferous tubes, send forth lateral membranes, which fonn purses, to enclose the lobes into which the glandular structure is divided; and these are met by similar ligamentous cords and membranes from the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, to complete the envelope of the lobes of the testis. The tunica albuginea, therefore, is not merely a simple bag to enclose the glandular structure of the testis, but it forms a process which splits into ligamentous cords ; afid these send forth lateral membranes, which divide the glandular structure into lobes, in which the seminal tubes are contained. The membranes and cords not only support and connect the seminal tubes, but they form beds, upon which arteries, veins, absorbent vessels, and nerves, are spread. They have been called septa; but they really envelope the seminiferous tubes, convey to them the blood, and form bags, which support, confine, protect, and nourish the tubular structure of the testis. The outer surface of the tunica albuginea is covered by tbe tunica vaginalis testis, and this is formed of the peritoneum, which covered the testis whilst still in the abdomen. It is very thin, and is soon incorporated with the surface of the tunica albuginea, from which it can be separated only to a small extent; but as it is a serous membrane, it renders the outer part of the tunica albuginea a secreting surface. The tunica albuginea is by dissection farther divisible into two layers or portions. The outer tunic is fibrous, tendinous, and