231 ON THE TYING OF ARTERIES. clot of more than an inch in length was found to have sealed the vessel above the ligature: below the bifurcation, another, an inch in extent, occupied the right iliac artery, and the left Avas closed by a third, whieh reached as far as the aneurism: all were gratified to observe the arteiy so completely shut in forty hours, aneurismal sac, which was of a most enormous size, reached from the common iliac artery to below Poupart’s ligament, and extende to the outer part of the thigh. The artery was deficient from the upper to the lower part of the sac, which was filled with an immense quantity of coagulum. Here is a specimen, (the learned professor exhibited the aorta, which he tied,) in which you see a coagulum above and below the spot where the ligature was applied, sealing the extremities of the artery. Now, gentlemen, if I should perform this operation again, the The operation only difference that I ivould make, would be to cut the ligature close to the vessel, where it should take its chance, either to become enc)'sted or absorbed. I commenced the incision in this operation in the linea alba, two inches above the umbilicus, and earned it to the same distance below, taking care, in my descent, to avoid the umbilicus, by giving it a semilunar turn or curve. I was astonished to find with what ease I could pass my finger down to the artery. However great the apparent difficulty of performing this operation, there was in reality none. The principal danger appeared to arise from the irritation produced in the intestines by the ligature, and that is the reason why I should cut the ligature close to the vessel. During the operation the faeces passed off involuntarily, and the patient’s pulse, both immediately and for an hour after the operation, was 144 in a minute. I applied my hand to his right thigh immediately after the operation, and he said that I touched his foot, so that the sensibility of the leg wa^ I’^eiy imperfect. Time will show us whether this operation will be successful or not. I know, for my own part, that I would not hesitate to have my own aorta tied, if it would save my life for only forty hours.