I.OCAT, TUEATMENT OF INFEAMMATION. 42 Effects of the cold batli. Heat and moisture. cflects of the application of the cold bath; I found that when a person in health took a cold bath, who was unaccustomed to do so, that it produced irritation; hut on the contrary, when a person in a state of irritation, or febrile heat, went into a cold bath, it tran- quillized the nervous action, and exerted a beneficial influence. At one time, I had injured my health by being too much in the dissecting-room, and was in the habit of discharging from my stomach a good deal of blood; a considerable degree of sjunpathetic fever was the consequence; in this condition I went into the countiy, for the benefit of a pure atmosphere, and there had frequent oppor- tunities of noticing the influence of cold upon an irritable pulse, in my own person. Of an evening, when in the house, my pulse would be at 120, but upon going out into the cold air, it sunk in a veiy short time to 100, and by a long continuance in the cold, it became still less frequent. Thus, where there is great irritability of the nervous system, and where the heart is sending its blood through the different channels tvith accelerated motion, cold will prove invigorating, by destroying the first of these affections, and reducing the latter to the natural standard. In a word, therefore, cold relieves inflammation when locally applied—by abstracting heat—by lessening the diameter of the blood-vessels—and by diminishing the action of the part, through lessening its nervous irritability. The next mode of relieving inflammation is by the application of heat and moisture ; this looks like contradiction, but it is not so. It would be a contradiction to apply heat alone, and its application would certainly do harm; but the reverse is the result, when united with moisture; for the two produce relaxation, open the pores, give rise to perspiration, thereby removing congestion, and occasioning all the beneficial effects that would arise from the application of leeches. The sedative effects of heat and moisture are well exempli- fied by what happens when a person takes a warm bath; a man, for instance, with a pulse at 75, goes into Avater heated to 100 degrees; his pulse soon rises to 100, presently he perspires freely, his pulse becomes less frequent, yet soft; great relaxation follows,