no ON ULCKUS. Variety of (Iressings. Case. Constitutional means. Gentlemen, you must have recourse to a groat variety of appli- cations; for, after you have tried one, which at the beginning did good, you AviII, from the wound getting worse under its use, be oblipd to change it for another, and so on. There is at this time a girl in the other hospital with sloughing of the pudendum; a variety of means have been used, all of which, at the outset, relieved her a little; but none continued to do her good for any length of time, and she will, most probably, in the end, fall a victim to the disease: it is upon this account that I mention to you so many remedies. The carrot-poultice is also a very good application. The constitution of the patient must be attended to, or else the local means will do very little; therefore, local applications must be aided by constitutional remedies; and what is the best medicine that you can administer ?—opium and ammonia, gentlemen; twenty drops of tincture of opium, three times a-day, with ten grains of the ammonia, in an ounce and a half of camphor mixture, and a little (one drachm) of compound tincture of cardamom. This is the medicine which will agree best with the patient. He must be well nourished, or at least he must have as much as his digestive powers will allow; port wine also must be given, and spirits must be allowed to those who have been addicted to their use. By brandy and opium I have seen these sores cured; in fact, they are our sheet-anchors in the treatment of these ulcers. But more of this in another lecture, as I shall have to speak of gangrene again. Irritable ulcer. The next kind of ulcer that I come to is the Irritable Ulcer. This sore is extremely difficult to cure. How then are you to know it ? When you find the granulations most unequal; in some parts being very high, in.others veiy low. The discharge from the wound consists of a bloody pus. I do not know what to compare it to better (though it is not quite so good) than strawberry cream. {A laugh.) It is pus mixed with the red particles of blood. This sore may be known by the inequality of the granulations, the nature of the discharge, and the great pain and tenderness in the part; so that the patient, when touched in that part, is like a