92 ON granulation. Their powers of absorption. Lotio nigra. fluid conveyed by the vessels is partly converted into pus on the suiface of the ulcer, and partly returned back to the heart. Granulations are not good absorbent surfaces in ulcers recently oimed ; but if the ulcers have existed for any length of time, the a SOI ent vessels readily take into the system any substance which may be applied to them. In this way we frequently see persons sd ivated by the use of injections of the oxymuriate of mercuiy t t IS not an uncommon practice to inject a solution of a grain or two grains of oxymuriate of mercury into sinuses, for the pui-pose of stimulating the vessels. If the sinus has existed for a con- siderable time, the oxymuriate of mercury is frequently absorbed, and the mouth becomes affected in the same manner as if the meicuiy had been absorbed into the system by rubbing it into the skin, or taking it into the stomach. This proves that old granu- lating surfaces have the power of taking in, by absoi-ption, a fluid of this description. I have known what is commonly called the black wash, ivhich is composed of the liquor calcis and the submuriate of mercuiy, when applied to the surface of ulcers, produce an effect upon the mouths of persons who are easily affected by mercuiy. I believe that the wash of the liquor calcis and calomel often produces good effects in the cure of sores, by the mercurial action which it excites in the system, and not merely by its local effects on the sore to which it is applied. Ulcers are, however, frequently the means of producing baneful effects upon the constitution, by the readiness with which they absorb any substances which are applied to them. Liquor arsem- Thus, arsenic applied to the surfaces of sores is veiy frequently absorbed into the system; and on this account, arsenic is to be regarded as a very dangerous external remedy. With respect to the use of arsenic as an internal remedy, it ought never to be employed without extreme caution, and unless the patient is watched from day to day. I remember a case in the other hospital, of a patient who was brought in with a fungus of the eye, and who was under the care of Mr. Lucas, a man of great skill in his profession, and the father calls. Case of death from arsenic.