acute and chhonic abscess. 81 adhesive inflammation first begins; this is succeeded by the sup- purative: and, lastly, the ulcerative process comes on.; and it is generally three weeks from its commencement before matter is discharged. But chronic abscesses are slower in their march; take, for instance, the psoas abscess, to which we have alluded; it is often six months before matter makes .its appearance in that complaint. If a person comes to you with a psoas abscess, and you ask how long he has had pains in his loins, he will tell you for four, five, or six months past; seldom less than four, and generally for the space of six months. There are varieties in the irritability of different con- stitutions, but if you see a man with swelling in the groin, which, when he coughs, rebounds under your hand, and has a fluctuating feel, and who has had for four or five months pains in his loins, you will say that it is psoas abscess ; so these are the criteria by which you are to know it. Chronic abscesses sometimes occur in the female breast. A lady was sent to me from Sussex some years ago, to have hei Case, breast removed; knowing the surgeon who had recommended this person to me to be an intelligent man, I did not attentively examine the breast, but said to the lady, I will call on you soon, and perfoim the operation. I fixed the day, and was about to peifoim the operation, the patient being seated in a chair before me; when I said to the gentleman (Mr. Edwards) who was assisting me, I think that I feel a sense of fluctuation here, at least, I will not proceed to remove the breast, till I have ascertained whether it be mattei. I took a lancet, and made an opening into it, and out gushed a quantity of matter. Thus, a chronic abscess had existed in this part for a considerable time. Very lately, while going round Guy’s Hospital, one of the young gentlemen, or I believe. Mi. Key, brought me a woman who had a chronic tumour of the breast. On examining it, I perceived a slight fluctuation, and stated, that most probably it contained matter, but was told, in reply to this observation, that it had existed for four or five months; I said, however, it did not signify—asked for a lancet—made a puncture G