0>r THE DESCENT OF THE TESTIS, 28-5 opening' of the inguinal canal. It passes inwards towards the lower part of the rectus and pyriformis muscles, nearly in the line of Poupart’s ligament internally, and then divides into two branches : the first passes to the rectus and pyriformis muscles; the second descends upon the cremaster muscle, to which it gives vessels in its course, (see plate.) The vein accompanying this artery terminates in the epigastric vein, and a branch of a nerve attends them. The use of the cremaster muscle is to draw up the testis in coition; for it presses the testis against the pubis and abdominal ring, and thus aids the passage of the semen as it is secreted. When examined in a full-grown foetus, it appears that the testis has been drawn down into it, as into a purse; and if the testis has not long descended, and its adhesions to it are slight, it can be easily drawn from the cord and testis, excepting- at its lower part, where it firmly adheres to the tunica vaginalis reflexa, and to the remains of the gubernaculum, epididymis, testis, and ims deferens. The course and distribution of the blood-vessels, absorbents, and nerves of the cord, I have already described. OW THE DESCENT OF THE TESTIS. As the length of the spermatic artery seems to be necessary for Descent of its elaborate secretion, and its length is increased by the serpentine testis, course of the vessel, nature has provided that the testis should have been originally placed near the origin of its vessels, rather than the vessel should be formed through so long a space, and be from that cause in danger of imperfection; and that this is her design, is shewn by the ovaria being placed in the foetus, nearly in the same situation as the testes in the male. The testes, therefore, in the first seven or eight months of the foetal existence, are found situated upon the loins. They are said to be placed immediately below the kidneys, but this is correct only as regards the foetus in the earliest months; but they are placed upon the lower part of the psoag muscles in a foetus of five to six months.