144 ON ERYSIPELAS. Frequently the head. The influence of season. Treatment. It is seldom that the skin suppurates in these cases; the cellular membrane, however, occasionally does. It is very common for erysipelatous inflammation to terminate in gangrene. You must not consider all cases of inflamed skin erysipelas. I have often seen cases treated as such, where it would have been right to deplete. The best characteristic sign is its vesicular ajrpearance : and this constitutes a specific difference between it and common inflammation. The head seems to be more commonly affected by it than any other part; it often succeeds the most trifling injury of the scalp ; and, like carbuncle, when it occurs in this situation, generally destroys life. I had the misfortune to lose a lady of considerable consequence from its effects, where it came on after the removal of a small encysted tumour from the forehead. It made its appearance three days after the operation, and all the exertions of Dr. Baillie, and myself, were unable to arrest its progress. Thus a trifling operation on the scalp destroyed life, in consequence of having been succeeded by eiysipelatous inflammation: but I shall speak of this more particularly afterwards, for I have some doubts whether inflammations on the head, following slight wounds, be truly erysipelatous or not. After a person has once had this disease, he is very subject to it again; and some persons appear to be predisposed to its formation. It generally makes its appearance in spring and autumn, but seldom in winter, and not very often in summer. Whatever renders the body irritable predisposes to er}'sipelas. In hospital practice, surgeons were formerly exceedingly afraid to operate in autumn and spring; for it has often happened that the stimulating effects of adhesive plaster have produced this disease, and have led to the death of the patient. Sometimes it is epidemic, and some- times contagious. Treatment of Eri/sipelas.—In this town the following plan is pursued, and which,/or London, is undoubtedly the best:—You at first give calomel, for the purpose of restoring the secretions of the