199 ON ANEURISM. aneurism is one of very common occurrence ; there is an enlarge- ment behind the knee, just at the bend of the joint, with a pulsa- tion ; the foot and leg of thatare swollen; the swelling gradually increases, and the aneurism becomes of a dark colour , inflammation of the cuticle covering the sac ensues, vesication of the cutis, to the size of half-a-crown, takes place, and the skin m this part is quite insensible. In a few days an eschar is formed, the bag opens ; bleedings, one after another, take place, and the destruction of life is the stroyed. consequence. What you read in books respecting the mode in which death is produced in these complaints is, that the sac bursts, and the patient is destroyed by the sudden gush of blood; but I tell you, gentlemen, it is no such thing ; it is not from the sudden bursting of the aneurismal bag that the person dies, but by repeated bleedings from the part. At first the bleeding is small, but as the eschar increases, and the separation of the parts takes place, it becomes more ; the wound is produced by means of the sloughing' process, like a slough in any other part, and an opening is formed which leads into the aneurismal bag*. At the commencement the wound is small, and blood issues from the part; lint is applied to the wound, and the hemorrhage is stopped; but as the eschar proceeds, and the size of the wound increases, the hemorrhage returns; and thus, by repeated hemorrhage, destruction of life is produced, and not by any sudden discharge of blood from the sac ; it is not in aneurism of the extremities only that death thus takes place, but in aneurisms that occur internally; in the chest, for instance, the same circumstances happen as I have just mentioned. Aneurisms, if not operated on, are not always destructive of life. Not always I have, however, known the bursting of an external aneurism cause immediate death. A man had an aneurism in the groin, which burst on his making an attempt to throw off his bed-clothes, and to raise himself in bed—he died in a few moments. I have seen gangrene of the foot and leg, as far as the knee, from aneurism, take place, without destroying life. I saw a case where the foot and lower part of the leg became gangrenous in a man labouring under popliteal aneurism; they sloughed oft’; amputation was