OF THE OFERATION OF PAIIACENTESIS. 454 Danger of operating at the umbilicus. Operation. Canula left in the wound. Sometimes produces a cure. the bleeding continued into the abdomen, and the man died; upon inspection, the epigastric artery was found wounded. Reflecting upon this circumstance, he was led to consider, that an inch below the umbilicus in the linea alba would be the safest spot for the introduction of the trocar, as no vessel would be there endangered, and it was only required that the bladder should be previously emptied. This part has been therefore of late years usually selected for the operation. Some have recommended the umbilicus, but the frequency of hernia renders that spot unsafe. An inch above the umbilicus has been also advised ; but if there be hernia, it is equally dangerous with the umbilicus itself; and if the umbilical vein remain unclosed, there is a danger of haemorrhage in performing the operation at that part. Beside the danger to the epigastric artery in the operation performed at the part formerly selected, there was danger of wounding the spleen when it had become enlarged. The surgeon should place himself on a low stool by the side of the patient; the sheet is then tightly drawn by the assistant across the upper part of the abdomen, by which its lower part is rendered prominent, and the point of the trocar is placed an inch below the umbilicus, and is passed slowly and gently through the linea alba ; the trocar is then withdrawn, and the canula being left in, the water is allowed to escape through it. If any interruption to the passage of the fluid by the pressure of the omentum, or of the mesentery on the end of the canula arise, a probe should be gently passed through the interior of the canula to remove the obstruction. It has been recommended by Mr. Guy, of Chichester, and others, to leave the canula in the wound, occasionally to suffer the water to flow, and thus prevent its future accumulation. A slight inflammation of the peritoneum in these cases some- times succeeds the operation; and by the change of action thus excited in the vessels, its disposition to a future secretion is lessened, and in this way a cure is produced. Immediately after the operation has been performed, a belt is to be Pressure;