22 ON INFLAMMATION. Inflammation of the fasciae mistaken for Erysipelas. Muscles. Tendons. Absorbents. Arteries. Inflammation of fasciae is generally extensive, from the large surfaces they present; they are often seen inflamed in compound fracture, producing redness of the skin to a considerable extent, and it is a very unfavourable sign in this accident. When matter is produced by inflammation of this texture, and is seated under it, great irritative fever succeeds until it is discharged; as, for example, in the palms of the hands, or soles of the feet. When inflammation attacks muscles, it is known by the spasmo- dic twitchings which attend it. For instance, in a few hours after simple fracture, when the limb has been carefully adjusted, it be- comes disturbed by involuntary convulsive catchings, occurring when the patient is going to sleep, or awaking from rest. Tendons are not very susceptible of inflammation, but they sometimes become inflamed to a considerable extent. When this happens, for example, in the finger, the fore-arm swells, is red, and matter forms in the course of the tendon, which sloughs to its junction with the muscle: but in all to a greater extent than the surrounding soft parts. Punctured wounds of tendons are apt to produce tetanus more than wounds of other parts of the body. Matter formed under tendons burrows to a great extent, and produces violent irritation, as under the tendon of the occipito frontalis muscle, and the covering of the temporalis. Inflammation in the absorbent vessels is marked by red lines on the skin in the course of these vessels. These form hard knots, from the skin participating in the inflammation. Their glands be- come also inflamed, and both glands and vessels occasionally sup- purate. They more frequently inflame from common irritation than the absorption of poisons. The arteries are rarely inflamed, excepting after wounds, or the application of ligatures. Inflammation, however, of the arteries may be very extensive, when it occurs in a person whose health is very much deranged. I have known instances where it extended even to the heart. I was present when Mr. Cline opened the body of a man, who had a ligature put on tlie femoral artery near the groin, and ivho died at the second week from the operation. The internal surface of the artery was inflamed, as was also that of the