100 ON GRANULATION, Case. censure would be culpable; you have no right to say so; for it is a case that may happen to any of you. Deformities of this kind generally arise after the process of healing is completed; they are the effects of the contraction of the cicatrices, and not of the contraction of the skin at the time of the accident. Here the skin is contracted so as to pull down the chin, and evert the lip, so that the saliva runs over the surface of the breast, and is constantly excoriating it. All these results proceed, not from the production of the new skin, but from the contraction of the cicatrices after the production. I say this from having seen, among many other cases of the kind, the case of a child who was a short time since admitted into Guy’s. In consequence of the contraction of the cicatrices, the upper arm adhered to the fore-arm, and the thumb was drawn hack so as to be immovably joined to the upper arm.* I will mention another case of this kind. Some time ago, a young gentleman, who was playing with fireworks, happened to be slightly bui’nt in the forehead. His father, who was a very intelligent man, showed considerable anxiety, and expressed his apprehensions at the time, that some horrible deformity would arise from this accident; for he had witnessed instances in which the eyebrows * It would be tantamount to sacrilege in me to detract from those opinions of Sir Astley, founded as they are on the most extensive practice, with a mind peculiarly bent on prying into the secrets of nature ; neither is it the vanity of obtruding an isolated hypothesis on the profession, but a sincere desire to benefit suffering humanity, and in some degree to redeem the heaUng art from such an opprobrium. That such contractions do take place I am well convinced of; but if the healing process were not accelerated by astringents and escharotics, and instead of which, warm and moist poultices applied for a length of time, especially where there is a loss of muscular substance, no contraction would take place. I could enumerate a number of cases in support of this mode of treatment, but the brief space of a note will only permit me to state one. Case.—A young gentleman, while lecturing on heat at the Southwark Literary Society, had his hand severely burnt in several places with phos- phorus, owing to the high temperature of the room, and being in the vicinity of a large fire. Mr. Pilcher, Lecturer on Anatomy at the Webb Street School, and several other medical gentlemen present, rendered him everj'