OF THE NERVES OF THE TESTIS AND 294 The loss of a testicle. Case. The abstrac- tion of both. Case. has been twice married:—by his first wife he had one child; by the second he had five children. The removal of one testis does not seriously diminish the virile powers. A Gentlefnan had his testis removed in 1821, for an enlargement and great hardness. He recovered in three weeks. His wife, by whom he had already one child, nursed him dunng his confinement. In the month of March she proved pregnant, about nine weeks after the performance of the operation. Mr. Headiilgton, surgeon of the London Hospital, informed me that he knew a man who had lost one testis by an operation, and who had afterwards several children. A man, whose testis had been absorbed for fourteen years, by wearing’ a truss for hernia congenita, has since married, and has now a child net quite a year old. It has twice fallen to my lot to remove the testis of persons who had already lost one. The first operation wbs performed upon a man of the name of Wallis, who had one of his testes removed in 1799, by Mr. Cooper, my predecessor at Guy’s Hospital. The second operation was performed by myself in Guy s Hospital, in June 1801, for a chronic abscess in the testis. On visiting hiin four days after the operation, he informed me that he had, during the last night, an emission, which appeared upon his linen; and, struck with the curiosity of this circumstance, I requested my then apprentice, Mr. Travers, to occasionally visit him after his recovery, and he had quitted the Hospital; and I have myself, during the twenty-nine years which have since elapsed, repeatedly seen him. He had been married prior to the loss of one testis. For nearly the first twelve months, he stated that he had emissions in coUtt, or that he had the sensations of emission. That then he had erections and coitus at distant inteiwals, but without the sensation of emission. After two years he had erections very rarely and very imperfectly, and they generally immediately ceased under an attempt at coitus.