130 ON GANG RENE. Sectio-cada- veris. Experiment. in wliich the artery was injured. Howet'er, from the immediate insensibility of the limb at the time of the accident, from its cold- ness, from the swelling' which accompanied it, and also from the pulsation which existed opposite to the fracture, I was led to believe that the femoral artery was torn through. The question then arose whether we should amputate or not. Upon examination, I found the limb emphysematous; the air had extended into the cellular tissue up the thigh to the abdomen, and putrefaction had already commenced. I perceived, therefore, that the patient had but a few hours to live, and that it was useless to put him to the pain of an operation. Upon examination after death, by the medical gentlemen at Rochester, where the patient resided, it was ascertained that the femoral artery was divided. It seems extraordinary, when we contemplate the situation of the thigh-bone, that a fracture of it should not, in one case out of ten, produce a similar result. A little knowledge of anatomy, however, explains this circumstance. The artei^y is enclosed in a sheath, which so far protects it, and its elasticity yielding to the pressure of the bones, enables it to escape in a great majority of cases from the occurrence of this accident. The history of gangrene, as far as dissection enables us to judge of it, is this: the excessive action of the part closes the blood-vessels, and the blood contained in them becomes coagulated. This is a curious circumstance, which I ascertained by an experi- ment made on an animal. It is a well-known fact in physiology, that if a quantity of blood be included in a living vessel between two ligatures, at the distance of two or three inches, this blood remains about three hours before it becomes coagulated. To ascertain whether, if blood were admitted into a dead vessel, from which the air was entirely excluded, it would coagulate as it would in a glass out of the body, I put a ligature on the jugular vein of an animal, and another ligature at the distance of two inches from the first; then, cutting through the end of the vein, I brought it externally to the skin, so that it hung out from the wound. Having ascertained that the blood coagulates in three hours and a quarter