ON INJUIUES OF THE HEAD. 154 Case of over depletion. Examination. 4 to you. I am most anxious that you should omit nothing which may contribute to increase your professional skill, and enable you to afford the greatest possible sum of relief to the sufferings of your patients ; but they who blazon forth our profession as one which is attended with undeviating success, are only deceiving you. You must hear the untoward cases of your profession, as well as those of which the issue is favourable, in order to form a correct; judgment in your minds what your profession really is. It is for these reasons, gentlemen, that I shall never hesitate, coute qui coute, to detail to you, and perhaps to the public, those cases which have terminated unfavourably. I have a duty to perform, and I shall never shrink from the discharge of it. It is by detailing to you the unfavourable, as well as the favourable cases, that I can alone perform that duty; for it is by such a course alone that I can point out to you the rocks which you are to avoid, as w'ell as the havens in which you are to endeavour to anchor. The case to which I last alluded was one of concussion, accompanied with slight laceration of the brain, which occurred in the other hospital. The gentleman, under whose care the patient was, thought it right to bleed him, and that he could not bleed him too largely. He accordingly bled, not only from day to day, but twice a day. The consequence of this mode of treatment was, that the patient became perfectly pale, was in a state of considerable dejection, not of the mind, but of the powers of the body, and died without any symptoms of inflammation, ten days after the injiirj'. On examination of the body, it was found that there was a slight laceration of the brain, with some degree of extravasation of blood, but that not the slightest attempt had been made by nature to heal the wound. You are aware that the brain heals, like any other organ, by the process of adhesion; but in this case, the quantity of blood taken from the patient was so large, that the slight inflammation necessary to the adhesive process was removed, and the process of restoration consequently prevented. Still it is often necessary to take away blood, after the first large bleeding; but it