94 ON GUAXULATION. occurred in this town, and which I should have scarcely believed, if it had not come within my own knowledge, that of Sir William Blizard, and other surgeons. A person in this metropolis happened to have how shins. It was a part of his duties to teach ladies to draw and paint, and in the prosecution of this branch of his profession, he found his how shins, as he himself declared to me, a very great evil. He felt that his merits were less fairly appreciated, and his instructions less kindly received, by reason of the convexity of his shins; he was persuaded, in short, that his how shins stood between him and his preferment. Under this impression, he went to a very noted person in this town, and showing him his bone, said to him, “ Pray, Sir, do you think you can make my legs straight V’ “ Sir; ’ said the doctor, “ I think I can: if you will take a lodging in my neighbourhood, I think I can scrape down your shins, and make them as straight as any man’s.” A lodging was taken; the father of the patient assisted in the operation, and all three of them—the father, the son, and the doctor—took a turn in scraping down the convex shins. A great deal of rasping was required; an incision of veiy considerable extent was made in the skin, the integument was turned aside, and an instrument which was at that time contained in the surgeon’s case, called a rougee, was employed to scrape the shin-bone. When the doctor was tired of rasping, the father took a spell, and the patient, in his turn, relieved his father. At last the shell of the bone became so thin, that the doctor said they must proceed no further wdth that leg. The other leg was then rasped in a similar manner, and thus large wounds were produced in both of the shin-bones. The surfaces granulated very kindly, and little exfoliation of the bones took place; but, unluckily, the granulations would form bone, so that up jumped the bones of the shin again. The doctor, however, was not to be defeated, and accordingly put a layer of arsenic over the whole surface. It was in consequence of the effects of this application that I saw the patient. The arsenic was absorbed into the system, and he became paralytic in his arms and .