20 U\ INFLAMMATION, Heat. Swelling. Terminations of Inflamma- tion, suppurative, and sometimes a sloug-hing state. Therefore, an intel- ligent surgeon generally avoids cutting into an inflamed part, fron» the great pain which it inflicts, and from the restorative process being difficult, on account of the great irritability of the inflamed surfaces. Thirdly. Increased Heat. Mr. Hunter denied that this existed. He made an incision two inches deep into the gluteal muscles of an ass, and into the wound he introduced a tin canula, one and a half inch long, so that there was half an inch of wound below the canula; he then passed a plug of wood through the canula, to the bottom of the wound, and confined it there, in order to prevent an union of the muscles. This was on a Wednesday. Immediately after the wound was made, a thermometer was introduced into it, and the mercury rose to 100“, exactly as another did at the same time which had been passed into the vagina. On the next morning the plug was taken out, and the ball of the thermometer introduced to the bottom of the wound; the mercury rose to 100“; the plug was then again returned and secured as before. In the evening the experiment was repeated with the same result. On Friday morning the thermometer, when introduced, rose to 99® only; and in the evening it rose to 101“. On Saturday morning, when in- troduced again, the mercury reached 99“; in the evening 100“. Mr, Hunter also introduced a thermometer into the opening made during the operation for hydrocele, and it rose to 101“; after twenty- four hours it was no more than 100“. Though no increase of heat is manifested in internal inflammation, yet, when it occurs on the surface of the body, an alteration sometimes of several degrees takes place ; as on the inside of the thigh, where a blister was applied, the thermometer rose to 90“, while on the inside of the opposite thigh it only reached 83“. Fourthly. Swelling. This is owing in part to an increased determination of blood to the part, and also depends on effusion of the fibrin of the blood, which, in coagTilating, deposits serum in the surrounding cellular tissue. Inflammation has four termininations.