ON ABSCESSES. 79 The next circumstance which renders abscesses dangerous, is From their their number. Thus, the greater number of little abscesses on the surface of the body, in small pox, frequently destroy life. Here nature performs the suppurative process; the pustules die away, and the cuticle is separated from the surface of- the body; but nature has not the power, in many cases, of repairing the destruc- tion of the cutis ; the exposure of the nerves of the skin occasions great constitutional irritation, and the patient dies, as if destroyed by a burn or a scald. Abscesses are also dangerous, from their being situated in vitally From their important parts, such as the brain, heart, or lungs; or when they are not seated in parts of vital importance, from their pressure on essential oro’ans. O A w'oman was admitted into this hospital for a complaint in the Case, throat, occasioned by swallowing a pointed bone. All she complained of, at first, was a soreness in the throat; but she was shortly after seized with difiiculty of breathing, which increased greatly, and , she died. On examination after death, I found, upon making an incision into the pharynx, that between it and the fore-part of the vertebrae, a large abscess had formed, which, by pressing the phaiynx forward on the epiglottis and glottis, occasioned difficulty of breathing, and in the end destruction of life. Shortly after this. Dr. Babington came to this hospital with a friend of his, who was labouring under a great difficulty of breathing. He requested me to examine his throat; having put my finger on the back of the pharynx, and felt fluctuation there, I told him that this was a case of which I had seen an instance, where the patient had died fiom a collection of matter formed in the same situation. I imme- diately procured a seton needle, and including it in a canula, like a trocar, I put it down into the pharynx, let out a considerable quantity of matter, and the patient was relieved. Here was a case which, but for this operation, would probably have terminated fatally, by the pressure of the matter on vitally important parts. In the same manner, abscesses in the perineum, or between the prostate gland and the rectum, will, by their pressure on the urethra.