309 DISSBCTION. In the state which I have described the testicle remains foi Its further , . T progress. weeks, and sometimes for months; and then under severe catan or violent exercise, especially on horseback, it becomes very painful, with uneasiness of the loins and redness of the scrotum, which will be relieved by the means which are to be hereafter described; hut soon the symptoms return, and at length a suppurative inflamma- tion ensues, which usually happens at the extremity of the epididymis : a sinus follows, which discharges seminal fluid, stiffen- ina: the linen as semen is wont to do. From this sinus granulations spring, and produce an exuberant growth, forming a prominent granular swelling upon the scrotum. This still continues for an indefinite time, unless something he done by surgery for its relief. DISSECTION. Before this disease was understood, I have several times known the testicle removed for it, and the appearances upon dissection I have preserved in the collection. In the adhesive stage, a uniform yellowish white adhesive matter Adhes.ve loads the.tissue of the part; the seminiferous tubes remain, but are separated by the effusion which I have described. In the suppurative stage, upon cutting into the epididymis, and Suppurative sometimes into the body of the testicle itself, a small abscess is found, containing pus, mixed with adhesive or fibrous matter; and this state of the testicle will sometimes render its removal neces- sary. When it forms a granular swelling, it is found, upon dissec- tion, that a small opening is formed in the covering of the epididymis, through which the granulations spring and expand; and sometimes the testicle itself forms the gi’anulation from the abscess which it contains, and which passes through an opening in the tunica albuginea. These abscesses will sometimes, after dis- charging for months and even for years, absorb the testicle, and leave the patient with little more than the tunica vaginalis and the tunica albuginea remaining; and if both testes have been affected, impotence is the result.