OF THE OFF.llATION OF REMOVING A SCIIUIIIOUS TUBERCLE. 341. axillaiy side of the swelling’, and the other on the sternal: the portion of skin over the disease should be removed. Each incision should reach the pectoralis muscle, which should be distinctly seen, and clearly exposed in the operation. As the arteries are divided, an assistant should apply his finger upon them, until the whole of the parts to be extirpated have been removed. If a o-land in the axilla he enlarged, it should he removed, and Removal of ° axillary with it all the intervening cellular substance, as the absorbent glands, vessels between the swelling and the gland are contaminated ; for it is wi’ong, after removing a swelling from the breast, to make a separate incision to extirpate a gland; hut it should be an exten- sion of the first incision from the tumour to the gland. If several glands in the axilla be enlarged, their removal does not succeed in preventing the return of the disease ; some being’ still seated beyond the. reach of the knife. I once saw the axillary vein opened in the operation of removing several of these glands ; the gush of blood was considerable, but it was evidently of the venous character ; and a dossil of lint, placed in the axilla, stopped the haemorrhage, and the bleeding did not return. So soon as the operation is performed, the divided vessels are to be Vessels care- secured. From faintness and sickness the bleeding stops; but, as soon seemed, as action and warmth return, the vessels again bleed. It is there- fore necessai’y to put a ligature upon each artery, for nothing is more annoying to a patient, or alarming to her friends, than after- haemorrhages : the wound is obliged to be opened ; the patient becomes faint; the bleeding stops, and the vessels concealed in coagula are difficult to find. Much time, pain, fatigue, and alarm are saved the patient, by attention in securing the vessels at the conclusion of the operation. In dressing the wound, put a suture through its centre, for it Use of a produces adaptation, and preserves it better than adhesive plaster. I used to object to a suture, but experience has shown me its utility. The emplastrum thuris compositum and emplastrum saponis p. aeq. is the best which can be applied, being less apt to produce erysipelas than the common adhesive plaster.