43G Secondly, by excision. Operation. Objection to this mode. Thirdly, by ligature. Disease resem- bling polypus. OF THEIll REMOVAL BY EXCISION. This operation requires a pair of scissors ivith probed extremities, made straight, with long and slender blades. The patient being placed as in the former operation, the scissors are at first introduced shut, in order to ascertain the attachment of the polypus; and being then opened, the stalk of the polypus is cut through; then the surgeon, closing the other nostril, directs the patient to blow forcibly through that in which the operation has been performed, when the polypus is immediately ejected; but if the polypus appear in the phaj-jmx, the surgeon divides the stalk in the same manner as before, and then putting his finger behind the velum palati, he with it draws the polypus away through the fauces. In that way the largest polypi are to be removed; and I have never seen either danger or difficulty arise from its perform- ance ; but, on the contrary, have several times succeeded when the forceps by the nostrils had been employed in vain. It has been objected to this mode of operating, that very considerable haemorrhage is produced by it; but this can only arise from a very indiscreet manner of performing it, by repeatedly cutting the pituitary membrane, which could hardly happen with probed scissors. The third operation, namely, that by ligature, is now very generally abandoned by surgeons, on account of the difliculty of its application, and the necessarily imperfect removal of the disease. There is a disease in children very frequently mistaken for polypus, by men who have not had much experience in surgery. It is an elongation of the pituitary membrane of the nose, from relaxed constitution, and from effusion of serum into the cellular tissue of the part; it is red and veiy vascular. It appears more upon the extremity of the superior turbinated bone than upon the inferior; but I have seen it upon both. It sometimes becomes chronic. It requires alterative medicine, and the application of a solution of alum, or of sulphate of copper, or nitrate of silver. I