358 ON THK SEAT Of THESE DISEASES. Disease seated in this structure. basis of the nipple; and the cells thus produced become loaded with adeps, so as to sustain and preserve the projection of the nipple. If, then, a section he made of the nipple of the male in the adult subject through its centre, radiated ligamentous cords are found in its substance, and a strong network containing fat at its basis. In the plate this will he well seen in a section of the nipple of Coombs, lately executed for murder, whom I selected on account of his age, and because he was a healthy person. I made a section through the nipple, and then threw it into warm water to melt out the fat which it contained, and thus unloaded the strong network of cellular tissue at its basis. The evolution of the nipple is as follows: In both male and female infants a gland exists w'hich is the nidus of the future nipple, oimr which the skin is puckered into a small projection. This glandular substance lies concealed under the skin until near the age of puberty, and then it gradually evolves, and becomes everted into the nipple of the adult. In the male, the tubes through which the milk of the infant passes become liga- mentous cords in the nipple of the adult, and in the female, the similar tubes become the lactiferous ducts of the nipple. Thus it is that the nidus of the adult nipple is protected until the age of puberty. It is this structure, then, of the male and female nipple, prior to the age of puberty, at the time when evolution of the nipple is commencing,—which produces the sw'elling to which young people are subject, from the age of eight years to the period of puberty; for, when the action is greater than the evolution requii'es, a hard inflammatory swelling is produced. It is in this structure that in future years the malignant areola or mammillary tumour forms. Here the scirrhous tubercle commences, which destroys the nipple, and ultimately extinguishes the life of the patient. It is in this structure that the fungous sw'elling wdiich the plate exhibits is formed; and both of these are from the male. The female is less subject to the disease, because the mammillary substance is principally absorbed, and lactiferous tubes are formed in its stead.