ON ULCEUS. 107 arising' from the thickened state of the cuticle, which prevents the growth of the granulations on the edge. This may be corrected by the application of the unguentum hydrargyri fortius to the edge of the sore. Lotions are frecjuently applied with the same view, such as the Lotio zinci. sulphate of zinc, in the proportion of two grains to one ounce of water ; or the sulphate of copper, in the proportion of one grain to three ounces of water. The oxymuriate of mercury, and the liquor calcis, are also used for the same purpose. In addition to these applications, it will be necessary to bind up the sore with a roller, and to allow the patient to take a great deal of exercise ; for without exercise, a healing disposition will not be produced in the sore. It will be highly useful in these cases to employ some stimulating Empl. galb. plaster, such as the emplastrum galbani compositum, for the adhesive plaster will not answer the purpose: the sores are languid, and the object is to increase the action in the part ; this will be greatly assisted by giving the patient a nutritious diet, allowing him at the same time to take exercise, and, in fact, by doing every thing to improve the constitution. Well, the next stage of ulcers we come to, is that to be met with Inflcamed in patients on their admission into the hospitals. When the surgeon goes round the hospital on the first day after the taking in, he will meet with a number of persons with inflamed ulcers on their legs ; and what, I ask of you, is the character of these sores ? You know that there is a serous discharge from these wounds, a bloody ichor, composed of serum and the red particles of the blood—a disposition in many cases, to slough—that the surface is covered with a brown incrustation, and the skin and surrounding parts are highly inflamed. Well, then, you will find that the same treatment which is applicable to inflammation in general, will be of seiwice in these cases, where inflammation has been kept up for a long time to a high degree. Rest must be enjoined; the patient must also keep jjegt enjoined, in bed in the recumbent posture. Fomentations and poultices must be employed : fomentations will tend to produce a secretion