OF THE TKEATMENT OF ASCITES. 447 If -water has already formed in considerable quantity, and if the powers of the constitution are sufficiently strong for its employ- ment, the use of elaterium becomes not only justifiable but desir- able, as being the most powerful and successful mode of promoting the absoi*ption of the fluid which has been effused. But if the powers of the constitution have been much enfeebled, this remedy becomes dangerous from its severe effect. Even if the ascites be accompanied with other dropsical symptoms, the elaterium is still the remedy most to be depended upon, if the constitution will allow of its use. AV hen medicines fail of their wonted and expected influence. An operation and the accumulation is so considerable as to impede breathing, by preventing the free descent of the diaphragm, or when the patient finds it difficult to assume the recumbent posture, it becomes necessary to remove the accumulation by the operation of paracen- tesis. I have, however, known in a young person the operation performed for comparatively small collections of fluid, when the increase of the collection had ceased, and no disposition to its absorption had manifested itself. It is absolutely necessary that the fluctuation should be extremely distinct before the operation be proposed ; and in cases of diseased liver, spleen, omentum, and mesentery, there is danger of the surgeon’s being deceived respect- ing the disease. With regard to the result of the operation for ascites, when the Result of an dropsy arises from disease of the liver, or from organic alteration in the chest, the relief is only temporary; but when it is the effect of constitutional disease, as fever, or arises from functional change only, under these circumstances the operation of paracentesis is frequently followed by a cure. Even in diseased liver, after the removal of the water by the use of the medicines which we have already recommended, I have known the patient ultimately recover. Considerable pressure upon the abdomen after the operation, lessens the disposition to the return of the effusion. Before the operation of paracentesis is described, I shall speak of ovarian or encysted dropsy.