TUEATiMENT OE GANGRENE. 135 moans of leeches, may be safely resorted to. Thus, in compound fracture of the leg, for instance, gangrene may he prevented by the application of leeches, when it would not be equally safe to take blood from the arm. Soothing applications, such as poppy fomen- tations and poppy poultices, should be employed to subdue the excessive action which threatens the destruction of the life of the part. It wiU be necessary, at the same time, to attend to the constitutional treatment of the patient. In this metropolis, it is seldom safe to take blood from the arm General bleed- of patients to prevent gangrene. In the country, a different prac- tice may be pursued ; and it will frequently be necessary to take away blood in erysipelas, and other cases, in which we cannot and dare not deplete in town, where the constitution of patients is broken by intemperance, or enfeebled by deteriorated air. When you take away blood, however, to prevent gangrene, do not take more than eight or ten ounces, lest the vigour of the circulation, and consequently the neiTous powers of the constitution, should be too much diminished. Two or three CTains of calomel should be sriven at nio-ht, with a Constitutional . , , ^ ° , , Remedies, view of restoring the detective secretions ot the intestinal canal and the liver; and the liquor ammonias acetis, with a few drops of the tincture of opium, should be given several times in the day. By the calomel you restore the secretions; and by the opium you tranquillize the system, and diminish the irritability which leads to the destruction of the life of the parts. Do not begin by stimu- lating the constitution too much, in cases of gangrene. The effect of opium may, in some respects, be similar to that of taking a stimulus into the system, but it is by diminishing excessive action, at the same time that it increases the strength of the body, that opium becomes so valuable a medicine in these cases. The best means, therefore, of preventing grangrene, are to restore the secre- tions by calomel, and to diminish irritability by opium, and, in some cases, by taking away veiy small quantities of blood. If the gangrene arise from the application of cold, the treatment Benumbed, or must be different. In these cases, the action of the parts is feeble