191 ON INJURIES OF THE SPINE. tlie brain. An incision in the scalp should, therefore, be never made, but in cases of imperious necessity. ON INJURIES OF THE SPINE. Injuries of the spine produce effects similar to those arising from injuries of the head; the spine being liable to concussion, extravasation, fracture with depression, suppuration, and ulceration. Cases of concussion of the spine are not very unfrequent. Effects of. They occur more commonly in the lumbar region than in other parts of the spinal column. A violent blow on the loins produces paralysis of the lower extremities. The paralysis, ^owever, is not complete; the person is unable to support his body, but generally some power of moving his limbs remains. This paralytic state, arising from a blow on the loins, is in general easily removed in the following manner:— You apply cupping-glasses to the part, and take away blood from xreatment. it several times with the scarificator. If, at the end of a week or ten days, the paralytic state still continues, you must apply a blister to the loins, and keep it dressed with equal parts of the unguentum lyttae, and unguentum sabinae. The lyttae being in this way absorbed into the constitution, diminishes the disposition to paralysis, while the counter-irritation also produces good effects. Such is the plan of treatment to be pursued in cases of concussion of the spine. With respect to extravasation on the spine, the examples are but Extravasa few in which this has occurred. The cases which are more particularly impressed upon my mind are, first, one which was examined in this hospital by Mr. Henry Cline. A person received Case, a severe blow near the cauda equina, by the last dorsal vertebra. He had paralysis of the lower extremities, and shortly after died. The second case was one under Mr. Heaviside, in which I and Case Dr. Baillie were also consulted. A young gentleman was swinging with a party of boys, when one of his companions pushed him, that he might rise as high as possible, while two others ran in the opposite direction, and caught him in the neck with a rope, as he