OF THE NEUVF.S OF TIIF, TESTIS AND 292 Nerves of the testis. adhering to, and interlaced with, the vessels of the speiTnatic cord, and with them descending to the testis. The second portion of nerves going to the cord is derived from the hypogastric plexus, which sends some branches of nerves ascending Avith the deferential artery, and entering the cord at the internal I'ing, adhering in their course to the peritoneum of the side of the bladder and at the internal ring. The nerves then descend in the inguinal canal, and below the abdominal ring, on the coat of the vessels with which they are united, and almost incoi’porated. In tracing the nerves of the spermatic cord and testis below the ring, it is very difficult to distinguish them from the numerous tendons of the cremaster muscle, and from some cords which accompany the vas deferens and spermatic artery. If the peritoneum at the internal ring be examined, it will be found firmly united by tendinous cords to the fascia transA^ersalis. These cords, descending with the vas deferens, form a sheath to it, and, passing from one convolution to the other, presence it m its convoluted state, and terminate in being fixed in the cauda epidi- dymis, and lower extremity of the testis, blending there with the cremaster. In the same manner, cords pass doivn with the spennatic artery, and form a sheath, by which it is enveloped, to present its convolutions. It is only necessaiy to dissect closely on the coats of the vas deferens and spermatic artery, to at once discover these cords, especially below the external ring. The testis in youth is capable of being injected. At two years the vas deferens, epididymis, vasa efferentia, and rete exist; but the tubuli are imperfect, or are too small to receive injection. In advanced age the testis becomes reduced and relaxed, from the diminished sise of the seminiferous tubes, and from the smaller ouantity of fluid which they contain. It is common, in advanced age, to find the corpus epididymis