ON SUPPURATION. 69 moist, will often cause ulcers of this description to heal, when all artificial attempts have been completely unsuccessful. When the constitution has been long accustomed to a discharge Caution in . , . . 1 IT i stopping long from an ulcer, some caution is requisite when healing it: nature appears to produce a quantity of blood equal to the discharge which dischaiges. those sores have supported, and to continue to do so after it has ceased, for, if done too suddenly, hectic or apoplectic symptoms are veiy apt to supeiwene. This may be prevented by great attention to the secretions, by giving frequently calomel at night, and an aperient in the morning: or by taking away occasionally some blood, when the above symptoms supervene. Ancient surgeons obsen'^ed these; to obviate which they were in the habit of making issues in other parts of the body at the time of healing old sores. Quantities of matter, constantly discharging for a considerable period, inevitably act on the constitution as sources of depletion; and which, if suddenly discontinued, we may reasonably imagine would produce the symptoms before stated. There is no necessity, however, for issues to prevent them, as purgative medicines wall answer much better, and speedily carry from the system, by a natural channel, any increase of its fluids. Mr. Wilson, formerly a lecturer on anatomy in this town, in his younger days was for a long while annoyed by a spitting of blood, which threatened him with an attack of pulmonary consumption; at length an ulcer formed upon his arm, and shortly after the bleeding’ from the lungs ceased. The sore was an exceedingly obstinate one, and resisted for a great length of time all attempts that were made to close it; at last, however, it was accomplished, upon ivhich the bleeding from the lungs once more returned. A long-continued discharge from the ear has, upon being too suddenly checked, produced oppression of the brain. Suppm-ation is best promoted by the application of heat and moisture; but we shall treat of this subject more particularly when we describe abscesses.