445 OF ASCITES. ttie fluctuation in the abdomen to be indistinct; and, under the same circumstances, in tapping-, the quantity of fluid which has escaped has been a portion only of that contained in the cavity, part being confined behind the omentum. The usual quantity of fluid collected is from twenty-eight to Quantity of thirty pints; but when a patient has been tapped several times, the abdomen becomes much more enlarged, and the quantity is then from thirty to forty pints. In young persons the quantity is small; and the smallest quantity I have known drawn olF by operation was in a medical student; it amounted only to six pints. The nature of the fluid secreted varies but little in ascites; it is Nature of the fluid. much more watery than serum, containing relatively a small proportion of albumen. It has generally a watery appearance, has a slight yellow tinge, and does not vary in its appearance and consistence, as the fluid of other species of dropsy. If inflammation succeeds the performance of the first operation, flakes of fibrin or adhesive matter are contained in the fluid next discharged. The cause of dropsy, when it is confined to the abdomen, is most Cause, frequently a disease in the liver, which acts mechanically in producing it. The pressure which the diseased organ occasions upon the vena portae interrupts the free flow of blood through the vein, produces a congestion in the arteries and veins of the alimentary canal, and of the organs which are connected with it, and conse- quently leads to a greater effusion from the exhalent extremities of the arteries. Diseases of particular abdominal organs will, by the irritation they excite upon the peritoneum, occasion a greater determination to its secreting surface. Thus disease of the omentum, or of the spleen, will produce this effect. I have known diseased mesenteric glands produce ascites; and tw'o children, who, in my recollection, have been tapped for this disease, have recovered. Taking large quantities of spirituous liquors tends to produce this complaint, independently of the organic change it is likely to excite in the liver; its stimulus leading to a greater determination of blood to the vena portee than can readily