ON THE CURE OF HYDROCELE. 259 which you may ascertain by the great pain and redness of the scrotum, make an incision with the lancet into the part, and discharge the contents, and if the opening be not large, the cure will be effected by the adhesive process. Do not suppose that the operation for hydrocele by injection, simple as it is, altogether devoid of danger. There have been some instances in which death has followed, and many in which life has been endangered by it. Some gentlemen who now hear me, have had opportunities of mtnessing the practice of the hospitals for many years, and they must have seen many cases, in which extensive sloughing has been pi'oduced in consequence of injury caused by throwing the injection into the cellular tissue. I will tell you a case which happened shortly after I became Fatal case of surgeon at the other hospital. I injected the tunica vaginalis of a ceiiular1:issue patient for hydrocele, but did not succeed in curing him, for he came back two years after with his hydrocele as large as ever. He was naturally enough disappointed with me for my want of success, and he chose to put himself under the care of Mr. Forster. Hap- pening to cast my eye on the man, as I passed through the wards, I asked him what was the matter with him, and he said, “ Why, sir, I have got hydrocele; the disease which you attempted to cure has returned.” Some time after I did not obseiwe the man in the ward, and upon asking what had become of him, I was told that he had gone out of the hospital; but as I was walking home over the bridge, the man who told me so, accosted me and said, “ Sir, I beg your pardon for telling you a story; but the truth is, that man about whom you asked, has, indeed, gone out of the hospital, but I omitted to say, that he is dead.” The truth is, that one of the dressers, who was a very steady young man, performed the operation of injection, and that an accident happened to him, which, unless great care be taken, might have happened to any body. He did not attend sufficiently to keeping the canula within the tunica vaginalis; the consequence was, that a portion of the fluid went into the cellular tissue. The man experienced •excruciating pain, and the dresser immediately withdrew the canula, s 2