ox ULCEKATIOX. views, aud give efficacy to your professional researches, bo intimate is the connexion between every object of useful and scien- tific inquiry, that there is hardly one branch of knowledge which does not in some measure throw light and illustration upon another. The circumstance which I am about to mention, may illustrate this remark. Lord Anson’s book is one of the most valuable works which has appeared on nautical subjects ; nor is it without its use as illustrative of a principle in surgery. Lord Anson’s expedition to the Pacific Ocean was undertaken with a view of destroying the power of Spain in the New World. As he was obliged to sail sooner than he expected, many of the crew which he took out were invalids, some having cicatrices, and others having previously had fractured bones. In his passage round Cape Horn, he encountered very severe weather; many ships were obliged to return; some •were lost, and the crews of those which succeeded in getting at last to the Isle of Juan Fernandez, suffered great hardships. In doubling Cape Horn, the crew suffered severely from attacks of the scurvy; and it was remarked by the clergyman, who was an observing man, though he knew nothing of our profession, that the men who had had ulcers before were invariably attacked with ulceration in the same parts; and that if their bones had been formerly fractured, they became disunited. When the men obtained fresh vegetables, &c. on shore, they recovered their health; their bones united, and their sores healed. There cannot be a better example than this, to show the readiness with which newly-formed parts ulcerate, when compared with the original organs of the body. This does not sui-prise us, because we know that scurfy pro- duces the ulcerative process, attacking the gums, causing profuse bleeding, &c.; that the ulcerative process has a stronger disposition towards parts newly formed, and that in this case, therefore, it appeared in parts where ulcers had formerly healed, and in disunited limbs where callus had previously formed. The parts more remote from the heart ulcerate more readily than those in the vicinity of the heart. This circumstance led me to say, that when the vital action is feeble, and the power of the cir- Extremities prone to ulce- ration.