14 ON TURITATIOX. Rationale, Idiosyncrasies. Infancy and old age. ing manner. When any part of the body receive.? an injury, the nerves convey to all the important organs of the body, spinal mar- row, heart, stomach, &c., an impression of that injuiy. Nature immediately commences the restorative process, by stopping all the customary secretions; the various outlets being thus closed, the blood collects in large quantities in the heart and great blood-ves- sels, which propel the blood with increa.sed force to the wounded part; this gives rise to some form of inflammation, the one best suited to accomplish the desired effect. Here is an illustration of the manner in which nature contends for cure; during the battle, she occasionally requires to have her ardour checked, or calls for support in proportion to her want of power; we must watch her proceedings with an eagle eye, and be exceedingly cautious in all our proceedings ; for if we should open the various sluices of the body, and restore the secretions too soon, we may, by abstracting blood from the injured part, prevent the restorative process; or by increasing the excitement, disturb nature’s operations. The degree of con.stitutional irritation, resulting from injurv, depends on, several causes. First, on the importance of the part injured. Secondly, the extent and nature of the injury. Thirdly, the state of the constitution, age, and previous habits of the patient. Thus we see that constitutional irritation is very different in some persons to what it is in others; so that a wound, which in one man would be attended by the most dangerous consequences, might not, in another, disturb the functions of any important organ; this greatly depends on the state of the system at the time of the injury; his mode of living, and the climate in which he resides; excessive irritation frequently follows an operation on very young subjects, but rarely those performed on very old persons. In infancy, the irri- tability is excessive, and the system is easily excited to destruction: after the period of two years the irritability is considerable, but the powers of restoration are great; in old age, irritability is much diminished, but the powere of restoration are much less; thus, many gentlemen present would probably in autumn overcome a dis- ease, that in the spring would overcome them; that is, if they have Season.