318 OTEllATION OF CASTUATIOX. was continued for about four months. I laid in an horizontal posi- tion, except occasionally for a few minutes at a time, and drank only toast and water; lately I have taken Madeira and water, or ' one or two glasses of Madeira, at dinner. In December, a blister was applied to the scrotum, which produced a copious discharge. I think all these remedies gradually reduced the size of the testicle; but the pain continued; sometimes a sharp shooting pain in the groin; but generally a heavy, dull, constant pain. “ In March, I procured some leeches from New York, and applied seven; bathing with tepid water, by which I got away a 'considerable quantity of blood, producing great debility. In April, I again applied three leeches ; since which I used the lotion of lead and opium. “ At present the part is about the same size as it has been for two months past; but the pain is constant, and I cannot stand for ten minutes without increasing it considerably: there is great sensibility in the part; the slightest touch is painful. “ My general health is as good as it has been for years past; I am subject to head-ache, and other dyspeptic symptoms : a long residence in warm climates has injured my constitution.” OPERATION OF CASTRATION. Mode of per- I shall conclude the lecture with describing to you the operation formance. castration. The patient being placed upon his back, upon a table of convenient height, with his legs hanging over its end, and the hair of the pubis being removed, the surgeon begins his incision at the upper part of the external abdominal ring and extends it to the bottom of the scrotum. The lower part of the scrotum should be divided, or a bag of matter afterwards forms in it. The next incision is made upon the spermatic cord, just below the abdominal ring, so as to lay it distinctly bare, and to enable the surgeon to raise it. In this second incision, the external pudendal artery is divided, and affords a bleeding, which leads the surgeon to request it may be compressed by an assistant, until the testis be removed.