ON IIYDnOCP.LE. with a candle, and saw that it was transparent. Well, sir, 1 said. 24^2 Case. Double cavities. Case. would receive from the contraction of tlie abdominal muscles. Its transparency and lightness, however, would readily enable him to distinguish this complaint from hernia. Why, this very day, a gentleman came to me under the following circumstances; when he came into my room, he informed me that he had been twice tapped, and that he did not think the operations had been well performed: I looked at the swelling, and found that it extended to the abdominal ring; I examined the part very carefully, and requested him to cough; the moment he did so, the swelling was evidently forced down; well, said I, this may be hydrocele, but I shall not tap you; I requested a candle to be brought; no transparency was obseiwable; I desired him to lie down upon the chairs, when I found it to be hernia, and reduced it. This, then, shows how cautious we ought to be in such cases, before we introduce the trocar, for I might have been misled by the history of this case, and have proceeded at once to perform the operation of tapping: had I done so, in all probability, the trocar would have passed into this gentleman’s intestines. It was a hernia which had succeeded hydrocele. Another variety met with, is that in which a fluctuating swelling will remain, after a considerable portion of water has been removed. The first case of this kind that I saw was sent to me by Dr. Chest, and Mr. Roberts, of Gloucester. The patient had been under the care of those gentlemen, and had been tapped for hydrocele: a quantity of water was drawn off, but still a swelling remained. He was sent to town for me to see him, at which time the hydrocele had become nearly as large as before. Upon hearing the history of this case, the impression upon my mind was, that when the operation for tapping had been performed, the operator had let the canula slip out of the tunica vaginalis, which circumstance, I thought, had led to the retention of a portion of the fluid. Well, believing this, I passed in the trocar and canula myself; some water came away, but not all; this struck me as being very strange, for I had taken great care to keep the end of the canula within the tunica vaginalis. I examined the remaining swelling; found fluctuation; then tried it