Present mode. After treat- ment. Warmth necessary. Case. ‘-^22 OPERATION FOR POPI.ITF.AL ANF.URISM. kindly, and the ligature afterwards came away by suppuration and ulceration. Since Mr. Hunter’s time it has been tried again, but is now nearly given up by all in the profession. On the whole, rest assured, that the best mode of applying the ligature is that now commonly adopted; tie a tight knot with a fine ligature, and then cut one end of the ligature close to the vessel, and let the other hang out of the wound. If, in the operation, the artery has been disturbed much from the surrounding cellular membrane, for an inch or so, apply two ligatures, and divide the artery in the centre, and there will be room for the retraction of the artery; but if, on the contrary, it has not been much disturbed, apply only the single ligature ; broad ligatures must, however, on no account, be used, as they are veiy likely to produce constitutional irritation, and consequently cause the parts to suffer for a great length of time. When the operation fis performed, what you should do is this : you are to bring the integuments close together by means of, strips of adhesive plaster, leaving, however, a small space between each, so that the matter may escape through the interstices. No bandage, or roller of any sort, should be applied, as the blood-vessels of the limb would be compressed by them, and injury be done to the part. As for the position of the limb, it should be placed on a pillow, and on its outer side. If the patient were to rest on his heel, two evils would be likely to arise; first, there would be the necessity of supporting the knee by placing something under the ham which would stop the circulation in the vessels of the part; and, secondly, there is danger to be apprehended from gangrene, from the heel resting long in one position, as this is apt to produce sloughing of the parts. The outer position, then, is the one you should choose, occasionally changing it, so as to prevent pressure in any one particular part. Be on your guard, gentlemen, to preserv^e the warmth of the limb, for there is danger from gangrene in cold weather. Some years ago, I was very near losing a patient by not attending to this circumstance. A young gentleman on whom I had performed the