77 ON AB.-.t'i;sSES. body, perhaps for the remainder of life. In three or four months a considerable portion of exfoliated bone will be separated by the ulcerative process. You will find a case of popliteal aneurism in the other hospital, where the leg has sloughed a little below the calf. Almost the whole of the leg has separated, except the tibia and fibula. A veiy small portion still remains to separate. By my advice, nothing’ has been done to the living' solids, and the process of nature is left to take its course. You will soon see that the bones themselves will separate by the process of exfoliation, and thus nature will herself perform the operation of amputation without loss of blood, or any danger to life. ox ABSCESSES. I shall now proceed to the consideration of abscesses. An abscess is a collection of matter in a cyst, produced by inflam- Definition, mation, without loss of substance. What happens in the formation of abscess is as follows:—First, there is an inflammation of the . Formation of adhesive kind in the cellular tissue, by which the different cells of abscess, the cellular membrane become filled with adhesive matter. A slight ulcerative process takes place, the inflammation still proceeding, and a little cavity is formed by the ulcerative process, a space being left for the effusion of pus, the result of the second stage of inflam- mation. A drop of matter is secreted into the cavity, and as soon as it is poured out, the pressure on the side occasions ,an increase of the ulcerative process, which adds to the cavity previously formed. More matter is then produced, and the surrounding solids having a tendency to the ulcerative process, it is accumulated, so as to lead to absorption of the neighbouring parts. In the formation of abscess, the matter does not produce absorption of all the parts around equally, but it excavates chiefly on the side towards the skin, and very little in the opposite direction ; a circumstance which led to the reflection, that matter had no power of eroding, as was formerly supposed, when it was thought that matter acted chemically on the solids like an acid, or caustic alkali.