ON THE OPERATION OE TIlEPlIlNniG. 188 Danger of the operation. oundirfg’ the dura mater. When trephining on living subjects, you are informed of the progress you are making by blood issuing from the wound when you reach the diploe: and when you see the blood, you will know that you are half through ; but, recollect, in very young or old persons there is no diploe; therefore, very few turns of the saw will do. As you proceed with the sawing, you must introduce your probe, to see how nearly you are through ; you sound as you go on. When I find that I have sawn through in one part, I introduce the elevator, and lift the portion of bone, the parts not cut through being’ easily broken. I find by my probe that in the part near the sagittal suture I have sawn through ; I introduce the elevator, feel the bone move, and know that a very few turns will do, taking care not to lean on the side through which I have already sawn. The bone can be raised and loosened; I am quite certain that the dura mater is not injured, and by introducing the elevator, the bone may be removed from its place. Some people say that this is a trifling operation, not difficult to perform, nor dangerous : but they deceive you: it is one of the most dangerous operations in surgery; whilst performing it there is but a single step, a small net-work between your patient and eternity; saw through this, and destruction of life will generally be the consequence. Mr. Hunter made an assertion, that when the dura mater was wounded, the person never recovered; which, though not exactly borne out by the cases which have occurred since, shows the impression made on the mind of a man who was such an observer of nature. Before his death, Mr. Hunter saw a case of a wound of the dura mater recover. It is certain that there is less danger when the dura mater and pia mater are both injured: the danger is more when the dura mater is injured without the pia mater. I will give you the reason; in the former case, where both the dura mater and pia mater are wounded, a fungus immediately projects, and fills up the cavity. If, hoAvever, there is only a small opening in the dura mater, and I were to put some quicksilver into it, where would it go ?—into the lower part of the spine between the tunica arachnoides and dura matral covering; inflammation of