ON THE FUNGOUS OR MEDULEAUY TUBERCLE. 342 Arm to be supported. After-treat- ment. Differs from scirrhous. Occurs at all periods after puberty. Difference of feel. If erysipelas arise in the surrounding skin, apply flour or starch to the surface. The arm should be supported in a sling. The ligatures may be drawn away in seven or eight days. In those cases in which there is a general scirrhous inflammation of the breast, I never now perform the operation, because I never knew it succeed. In others, in which a number of tubercles form in the breast, the w'hole mamma must be removed. So soon as the patient has recovered from the operation, a medical alterative treatment should be pursued, to change the constitution, and prevent the disposition to a relapse into the former disease. ' ON THE FUNGOUS OR MEDULLARY TUBERCLE. This disease differs in many respects from the scirrhous tubercle. First, It occurs at all periods of life after the age of puberty, although still more frequently after thirty years of age than earlier. One of the worst cases I have seen of the complaint appeared at the age of twelve years, and destroyed life at sixteen. It began at the period of the evolution of the breast. It was removed by an opera- tion when of large size : a small tubercle reappeared, and it was also subjected to operation; but the disease again grew, and destroyed life. Secondly, this disease is not so hard as the time scirrhus, but has more the feeling of chronic inflammation at its early stages; and as it increases it becomes softer, yields to the impression of the finger, but immediately again fills as the pressure is removed. At this period the skin is of the natural colour, and it s6 continues whilst the tubercle is in its adhesive stage; hut, after a few months, the skin becomes livid, and then a distinct fluctuation may be perceived from a fluid being found, which is contained in a cyst. The veins of the surrounding skin become extremely enlarged and varicose, and the surface assumes an inflammatory appearance, of a darker colour than common inflammation. The cyst next ulcerates; or, if opened, in either case, discharges a fluid, which has the character of bile, composed