OF THE TREATMENT OF PILES OR HAEMORRHOIDS. 432 Ligature. Double ligature. Operation. hardened, so that the intestine internally had a curious spotted appearance. He was not, therefore, a healthy or sound man in other respects; and it is in such cases that unexpected symptoms arise after operation. As a ligature prevents the danger of bleeding, it is best to use it although the process is more tedious and painful. The pain which it produces may be mitigated by not drawing the ligature too tight. Draw down the pile with forceps, or a tenaculum, and tie a piece of waxed silk around it, draw the knot until the patient complains severely, then tie a second, cut off the ligature a little way from the knot, and return the intestine and pile. But in cases in which the pile is very large, a safer and less painful plan may be adopted ; namely, to pass a needle and ligature through them, and to cut them off beyond it. The mode of operating for these large haemorrhoids is as follows: Draw down the pile, pass a needle, with a double ligature, through its juncture with the intestine. Cut off the needle, and the two ligatures will remain on the pile ; then tie one above, and the other below, and thus the whole pile is included; then cut off the pile with a lancet or scissors beyond the ligature, and in the evening, or on the following day, the threads may be removed, as all danger of bleeding has ceased. By this operation haemorrhage is prevented, and the pain is exceedingly diminished, as the ligature does not require to be made very tight. The prolapsus ani generally soon ceases after the complete removal of the piles; but if it does n^t, cold and astringent injections should be employed, and the confectio piperis be given.* * Persons afflicted with piles will do well to observe the following plain rules. First, Never to strain at stool, for by the violent expulsion of the fasces, and the great haste with which it is frequently accompanied, the hasmorrhoidal veins become distended with blood, before there is time for them to return to their natural state. Secondly, Wash the part immediately with a sponge and cold water: the habit is cleanly, consequently salutary: and the cold water exerts a very considerable influence in astringing those over-gorged veins.