88 ACUTE AND CIIUONIC ABSCESS. Experiment. Device of the Norwich butcher. Cause of irri- tation. When an opening- is made into an abscess, very little irritation supervenes till the third day; I say the third day, because it is not till then that constitutional disturbance takes place. If asked whether air has any influence in producing local irritation, you may answer, yes ; but I say that it is not the case. Old surgeons, in their opinion on this subject, maintained that it was the admis- sion of air which produced the local irritation attending the opening of abscesses, and endeavoured to cure hydrocele by inflating it after the evacuation of the water. But what was the consequence? when the air became absorbed, the adhesive inflammation did not take place, and the hydrocele returned. Again, experiments have been made on animals : air has been blown into the cellular membrane of a dog ; nothing but a tempo- rary stiffness from the distention of the skin takes place, and when the air is absorbed, the crackling goes off without the adhesive inflammation. Dr. Haighton made an ingenious experiment some years ago ; he inflated the abdomen of a dog from an opening in the tunica vaginalis ; and this mode of doing it evinced his knowledge; for in the dog, and many other animals, there is communication with the abdomen from under the tunica vaginalis. The dog was let loose ; he was stiff for a few days, but when the air was absorbed he became quite well. I know a curious circumstance which took place at the depot at Norwich; it was at the time when persons were drawn to sei-ve in the army. A man, unwilling to become a soldier, came to the surgeon, and said that he had a large rupture, which disabled him; he showed it, and the surgeon sent him away. This man had made a puncture in the scrotum, and inflated it with a brass blow- pipe; the man himself mentioned it to a surgeon at Yarmouth as a joke. What takes place when air is admitted into the cavity of the chest ? An air-cell gives way, the wind goes into tlie cellul-ar tissue, the face and body become bloated up, but is afterwards removed by absorption, Avithout producing any inflammation; thus a person who holds that the admission of air into cavities produces the