OF REMOVING STONES FROM THE BLADDER. 394 fortnight afterwards, still impressed with the idea of stone, again sounded me ; but the stones, for the reasons hereafter given, escaped detection. To relieve my frequent inclination to make water, and to mitigate the pain I experienced in its discharge, I was recommended the use of an opiate glyster at bed-time, which afforded me considerable relief; but if the injection were omitted but for a single night, the symptoms returned with all their former violence. “ In this state of suffering I determined to consult Mr. Astley Cooper, and on the 17th of August went to towm for that purpose. Mr. Cooper, suspecting from my account, that a stone was present in the bladder, sounded me ; but after searching for some minutes was unable to detect one; he then directed me to discharge the water from my bladder, and the sound being again introduced was distinctly heai'd to strike upon a stone. He then informed me that there was no hopes of permanent relief but from the operation of lithotomy; at the same time remarking that, as I had not been sufl&ciently reduced by the irritation of the disease to render me a favourable subject for the operation, it would be better for me to return to Cambridge, and by pursuing a certain plan of diet and regimen, to reduce the high health which I appealed to possess. He also prescribed alkaline medicine, for the purpose of lessening irritation. With this advice I returned home, where I remained till October, 1820, pursuing the use of the soda and the opiate injection. My sufferings being alleviated only for the moment, and seeing no probability of experiencing further relief from medicine, on the 23rd of October I came to London to submit myself to the operation, and the 30th was the day proposed for its pei’formance. “ On the day appointed, Mr. Cooper, his nephew, Mr. B. Cooper,, and Mr. Merriman, jun. attended at my house. Upon sounding me, the instrument could be distinctly heard by every person present, and even by myself, to strike against a stone. Mr. Cooper, however, was of opinion that the stone Avas so small, as to admit of extraction without cutting into the bladder; and, therefore determined not to perform the operation, but told me that