96 OK ORAKULATIOK, when absorbed from the surface of sores, are very much the same as when it is introduced into the stomach.* Sensibility of Granulations possess nerves as well as arteries, veins, and granulations. i i . absorbent vessels. Granulations are sometimes extremely sensitive; but this is far from being the case in all granulations. We shudder at seeing a person handle a sore roughly, supposing that it must give the patient extreme pain. Granulations which spring from parts endued with great sen.sibility, such as muscles, are indeed extremely sensitive; but many granulations, such, for instance, as arise from bones, have no sensibility whatever. If ulceration be produced to a considerable extent in an exposed bone of the head, a probe may be put into it, while the patient is quite insensible of your touching his head. If you do this in the granulations arising from bones, and ask the patient whether you have touched him, he will say, “ No;” but if you apply the probe to the edge, or near the edge of the wound, he will feel it. Granulations, therefore, springing from bone in an uninflamed state of the bone, are not sensitive. Granulations, however, which spring from the cancellated bones sensible, structure of the bone, are, sometimes, extremely sensitive. I have, at present, a patient who had a compound fracture of the leg: the fracture was attended with abscess, and a small exfoliation of the bone took place. In this case, when a probe was put down into the cavity, the granulations from the cancellated structure of the bone were extremely sensitive. When the inflammation passes away, the sensibility of the part is diminished. The same thing happens with respect to granulations springing from tendons, (as the tendo achillis, for instance,) which are entirely insensible. So * A woman applied to me with a boy, about ten years of age, having Tinea Capitis ; she requested some active preparation which I did not think proper to trust her with. On the same day she obtained some tobacco liquor, with which she freely washed the child’s head: not many hours afterwards I was sent for, when I found the boy in a state of syncope, pulseless, congestion of the brain, in short, dying. I employed local depletion and diffusive stimuli, but he sunk eight hours after the first application of the tobacco liquor.—L. Except in bones. Cancelli of