112 ON ULCEUS. Case. Sinuous ulcers. a very hig-h opinion of its efficacy. I do not think much of it my- self in those cases; but, after the use of mercury, it diminishes the irritability of the constitution, and soon soothes the system into peace. With this view, its aid, combined with other remedies, may be of use. So much for irritable ulcers. Before I conclude this part of the subject, however, I will mention a case which just occurs to me : I allude to that of Mr. Lucas, the surgeon of the other hospital. That gentleman, in consequence of having pricked his finger, had a very irritable sore, which obliged him to go into the countr}', where he remained for a considerable time. The remedy which he found most eflScacious for bringing the sore into a healing state, was the application of a solution of nitric acid, very much diluted, and the compound decoction of sarsaparilla. From the latter he thought he derived considerable benefit. By these means, and by attention to his general health, he effected a cure; but his life was in consi- derable danger, from the irritable sore produced by this apparently trivial accident. Sinuous Ulceration.—It is necessary to explain here Avell what I mean. Whenever, therefore, a sore extends to any considei-able depth, so that the discharge has to travel through a channel before it arrives at the surface, such an ulceration is called sinuous. There are two reasons why these ulcerations are difficult to heal: first, from matter forming at the bottom, forcing its way through the passage, and thereby disturbing the healing process, by breaking down what- ever adhesions or granulations form on its sides; and, secondly, the same interruptions occur from the actions of the muscles, when these ulcerations happen in muscular parts. Thus, if the healing pi’ocess has commenced in fistula in ano, when the sides of the fistula are at rest, the first time that the person has a motion, the sphincter ani, by its action, will destroy all the newly-formed adhe- sions and granulations; consequently, if the sphincter be di\nded, and the parts have rest, granulations will form, remain undisturbed, and a cure be the result: this clearly shows that the motions of the sphincter occasioned a continuance of the evil.