OF THE OPERATION, 374 The most favourable age. Average number of deaths. Previous preparations. The table* Bandages. introduction of the sound ; but still they have more fever and dis- position to peritoneal inflammation, than at a later period of life. The age at which there is least danger from the operation is from three to twenty, for death is then a very rare occurrence. Under the age of two years, children often become convulsed and die from the operation, on account of their excessive irritability. The number of deaths from the operation, taking all ages, is one to eight. Fat persons at all periods, but more especially in middle life, are those who most frequently die. A surgeon sometimes proceeds to twenty or even thirty cases with extraordinary success; but then he loses several patients, which still produces the average I have experienced. A short time prior to the operation, in addition to the exhibition of purgatives, &c. an enema should be administered, in order to empty the large intestines, and particularly the rectum, which, if distended with fseculent matter, would be in great danger of being wounded. OF THE OPERATION. The table on which the patient is to be placed, should be two feet six inches high; it is to be covered with two blankets and a sheet, and several pillows are required to support the patient s head and back. Three bandages are required to secure the patient; of these, two are employed to confine each hand and foot of the same side together; a loop, at one extremity, is first passed around the ivrist, and the patient then grasps the outer side of the foot, about its middle, having the bandage passing from the wrist between the two; the bandage is then passed under the foot, brought round on its inner side over the instep, and so round the -WTist and ancle; after two or three turns around these parts, it should be passed over the hand and under the foot, then to the wrist and ancle again, until the whole is used. The other bandage is to be placed round the back part of the neck, and each extremity being passed under the ham of