174 ON WOUNDS OK THE BRAIN. Case. occurs that considerable portions of the brain are lost, and yet the mental and bodily functions continue unimpaired. Epileptic fits and hemiplegia certainly sometimes follow, as effects of such injuries ; but, on the other hand, brain to a great extent has been lost without having been succeeded by disturbance of either the mental or bodily functions ; numerous cases of this description are upon record ; several have fallen under my own observation. A case similar to the following likewise came under the notice of a surgeon at Brighton. A dresser of the late Mr. Chandler once came to me when I was in the other hospital, and said, “ Look here. Sir,” at the same time showing me a portion of brain, with a piece of the pia mater attached to it. I went to see this man, and found the representation of the dresser correct; there was a large transverse opening in the os frontis, through which a considerable quantity of brain had been lost. His mind was not at all affected ; neither were the bodily powers in the least disturbed; no bad symptoms of any kind followed the injury; the wound healed most favourably, and he was soon discharged. About a year afterwards, while I was at the house of a lady in the city, whom I was attending, a man walked into the room, and said to me, “ How do you do ?” Not recollecting him, I looked at him with some sort of surprise, as you may suppose, when he informed me that he was the man whom I had seen about a year before in St. Thomas’s Hospital, with a wound in the head, and through which he had lost some of his brain. I replied that I could readily believe him. He stated that he had been quite well ever since ; he had what he called an opening where he received the wound; was not subject to fits; and to show you that his mind (notwithstanding his familiar “ how do you do?”) had not sustained any damage from the accident, he was, at the time I saw him, conductor of an extensive business at the house where he was then living.* * Case.—While living in Bridge-street, I was sent for to the Brown Bear, public-house, opposite, to see a man whom I found firmly fixed on the kitchen- grate, with several persons endeavouring to drag him from it. The efforts of these persons being ineffectual, I looked underneath, and found that he was