224 OPKRATIOX FOR VOPLITKAR ANKURFSM. It therefore happens that aneurisms are reproduced by means of arteries which proceed from above the spot where the ligature is applied, to just above the aneurismal sac: these cases are, however, extremely rare. Separation of The time at which the ligature separates is generally from the the ligature, ^ fourteenth day; the fourteenth day is generally the extreme; the twelfth day the minimum of separation; but it is variable according to the different kinds of ligatures used. I have seen a ligature remain on as long as twenty-eight days, where a broad one had been used; I have known a ligature come off as early as the fifth day, but in this last case it was put on the bmchial artery for a puncture made in bleeding; on the eighth day it had come off, and no hemorrhage ensued; therefore, if early inflammation ensues, the separation will be repaid; but if there be a broad ligature, and the inflammation indolent, it will be from twenty-five to thirty days. Here let me give you one or two practical hints. If the ligature comes away, and without any hemorrhage, you will think the patient safe: he is not so by any means. Case of a sailor A man was pushing a knife through a cable, when it slipped. pierced the left thigh, and Tvounded the femoral arteiy; a tourniquet was applied, the best that could be made, for the accident happened on board a vessel in the river; he was brought to Guy s Hospital, and I was sent for. On my arrival, I found the knife had perforated the artery, and therefore applied a ligature above, and below the A-^essel; on the fourteenth day, they separated, about nine in the morning, I 'believe; about twelve he began to wash and clean himself, and soon after a jet of blood took place. I was sent for, applied other ligatures, and he was obliged to keep his bed nearly as long as before, though I think the ligatures separated a day or two sooner. When they separate, therefore, be on your guard, and let the patient remain quiet two or three days afterwards. Aneurism of The operation which has been shown to you, gentlemen, for the anterior popliteal aneurism, is the one used for aneurisms of the anterior and “bKterii. posterior tibial arteries, situated at the upper part. I saw Mr. Lucas, the father of Mr. Lucas, the late surgeon at Guy’s, perform