ox INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 147 the brain, will be but imperfectly understood. There is also another circumstance connected with the brain, to which I wish particularly to direct your attention, viz. its being the vehicle of the mind; or, rather, I might say, the medium through which the mind is communicated. The influence of the brain on the mind, and vice versd, will be amply demonstrated to you as I proceed. Now, when the brain receives an injury, the symptoms stated to Symptoms, be the result of that injury are, general loss of sense and volition, if the injury be considerable; but if not so severe, some portion of sense and volition will remain; for example, when you are called to the bed-side of a person thus situated, you find him to be w'hat is termed comatose. The stomach is affected through the medium of the par vagum or eighth pair of nerves; and from the general communication between the grand sympathetic nerve, and those of the brain, and spinal marrow, the functions of the heart and abdominal viscera become affected. If you speak sharply to him, he becomes roused for the moment, mumbles some brief answer to you, again lies down, and relapses into his former sleepy state: thus you observe partial mental faculties and volition still remain. This state you should minutely note, as it will greatly assist you in your after diagnosis; and you must be upon your guard that you are not deceived here; for a man in this condition very much resembles one in a state of intoxication; and this similitude often proves exceedingly harassing to the surgeon. He is probably sent for to a person who, it is stated, has received a severe injury of the head. He finds him with a very severe laceration of the scalp, together with stupor, and sometimes even stertorous breathing. Not knowing that the individual was intoxicated at the time of receiving the injury, the surgeon attributes the above symptoms to concussion or compression, when, after a few hours, the person recovers from his drunken fit, and it becomes apparent that he received no other mischief than a wound in the scalp. In addition to loss of sense and motion, the faeces involuntarily Effects on pass off, from the sphincter ani losing its retentive power through the sympathetic influence of the great sympathetic nerve—the L 2