OF THE TREATMENT OF PILES OR HiEMORRHOlDS. 427 The bleeding from the piles thus everted is often so profuse, that profuse the weight of the blood exceeds that of the faeces. They sometimes haemorrhage, vent a considerable serous discharge. When the number and size of the piles, and the degree of prolapsus becomes great, and there is much difficulty in their return, inflammation sometimes arises in them, and their return is rendered impracticable, without giving an unjustifiable degree of pain. When in this state, in addition to other suflerings, the urine is retained, the faeces pass with extreme difficulty, and there is a free sanious discharge from the part. When thus inflammation is the result of a strangulation of the piles from the pressure of the anus, it is immediately relieved by the return of the parts ; but often the inflammation precedes the descent, and then the parts are too tender to be returned. It now and then happens that by this process nature effects a spontaneous cure of the disease ; the parts proceed to gangrene, and a slough of the piles is produced, the rectum ceases to prolapse, and at least for a great length of time the patient is rid of his complaints The usual cause of piles is a sedentary habit, which leads to Causes, congestion of blood in the vessels of the rectum. hablts^^*^ A diseased state of the liver is also a cause, by preventing a free diseased return of blood. Obesity occasions them, by the pressure of the omentum and Obesity, mesentery upon the mesenteric veins. They, like fistula in ano, frequently arise from pectoral complaints. Pectoral which affect respiration and the freedom of circulation. disease. OF THE TREATMENT OF PILES OR HjEMORRHOIDS. If a patient applies with an external pile, open his bowels freely Of the external with confectio sennae and sulphur. Apply leeches to the parts, and a lotion of acetate of lead. If, when the inflammation be subdued, the vein remains enlarged and hardened, puncturn it with a lancet, and discharge a large and very firm clot of blood which it contains. If it suppurate, fomentation and poultice will be the best appli-