282 OF THE DISSECTION OF THE INGUINAL CANAL Dissection of tlie inguinal canal. An incision is to be made through the tendon of the external oblique, beginning above the abdominal ring, and extending near to the anterior and superior spinous process of the ilium. The edges of the divided tendon being then turned down, the inguinal canal is brought into view. At the lower part of the canal, just above the abdominal ring, the spermatic cord appears in the centre, the cremaster muscle between it and Poupart s ligament, above it the tendinous insertion of the internal oblique muscle, which passes behind the upper part of the abdominal ring, to the sheath of the rectus muscle. At the upper part of the canal, in this first view, the internal oblique is seen arising from Poupart’s ligament, and crossing over the cord and part of the cremaster muscles in the form of an arch; some of its muscular fibres blend with those of the cremaster. Upon raising the lower edge of the internal oblique from Poupart’s ligament, and turning it upwards, the transversalis abdominis appears. It arises from Poupart’s ligament under the internal oblique, and also blends with some of the fibres of the cremaster. It forms an arch over the spermatic cord, and is inserted, w'ith the tendon of the internal oblique muscle, into the tendinous covering of the rectus. But the lower edge of the transversalis has a very peculiar insertion, which I have hinted at in my work on Hernia. It begins to be fixed in Poupart’s ligament, almost immediately below the commencement of the internal ring, and it continues to be inserted behind the spermatic cord, into Poupart’s ligament, as far as the attachment of the rectus. Thus the inguinal canal is endowed with muscular contraction, which, under the action of the abdominal muscles, serves to close it, to lessen the propensity to hernia. Sometimes a portion of muscle descends from the tendon of the transversalis in the course of the linea semilunaris, to be inserted into the fascia transversalis, behind the cord, and into Poupart’s ligament, (see plate.) It is this circular insertion of the transversalis which is the cause.