ON irritation. 12 Local or ral. Local. Case. Case. Case. Case. the poor fellow dropped down and expired. His body, upon being’ opened, showed no marks of violence, gene- Irritation is either local or constitutional. Sometimes it is local, affecting only particular parts ; at others, attacking the whole system. A decayed tooth will produce an abscess, and the matter Avill escape by forming an opening through the cheek. This ulcer will be veiy difficult to heal if the tooth remain; but extract it, and the disease will quickly disappear, the cause of irritation being removed. Many cases of this kind have fallen under my observation, and I will relate a few by way of illustration. Two persons came to me from the same place, without knowing each other’s situation or intention; each of them had an abscess near the alveolar processes; which, on examination, I found exten- ' sive, producing an external opening. The disease had been of long standing, in both cases; I directed a diseased tooth near the ulcer, to be drawn, and the patients quickly recovered. A lady in Essex, had for a long period been afflicted wuth a fun- goid granulation, which protruded through an ulcerous opening in the cheek, and which had resisted the use of every means. Upon stating one day that a tooth near the part, was occasionally painful, she was recommended to get it drawn ; the tooth was extracted, and the fungus quickly disappeared. A gentleman of my acquaintance had, for many years, been % exceedingly annoyed by an ulcer on the chin; every attempt to heal it having- proved ineffectual, it was considered incurable. At length, one of the teeth opposite the wound becoming painful, it was extracted, when, to the delight and astonishment of the patient, his malady disappeared. Mr. Toulmin, of Hackney, attended a lady, on account of her suf- fering severely from a diseased tooth; and she appeared also to be affected with hemiplegia. Mr. Toulmin extracted the tooth by the lady’s desire, and in a short time the paralytic affection entirely subsided. These cases are mentioned, to show the importance of endeavour-