ON lllUITATION. 13 ing’ to ascertain tlie causes of diseased sympathetic actions, as the removal of those defects will depend on the cure of their causes. If the causes be undiscovered, the effects are likely to continue in spite of every means that you may employ. The constitutional or general effects of irritation are frequently Constitutional 1 symptoms. produced by the most trivial local cause. A person, on having a bougie passed into the urethra for the first time, feels faint, be- comes sick, looks pale, and, unless you prevent it, will fall on the ground. On placing him in the recumbent posture, with his head a little lower than his body, and as soon as the blood freely enters the brain, all his functions are restored; but constitutional irrita- tion frequently comes on in the evening, which, however, soon ceases. From the irritation of the urethra you see, gentlemen, that the stomach is influenced, the actions of the heart are sus- pended, and the powers of the mind gone. The symptoms of con- stitutional irritation following injuries are best exemplified in com- pound fractures. In these cases, the irritation runs very high, and the heart, brain, and stomach are much affected. A person re- ceives an injury to the leg, producing compound fracture of one or both bones; constitutional irritation commences generally in twenty- four hours; the patient complains of pain in his loins, extending up the spinal cord, and pain in the head. He then becomes rest- less, and his countenance anxious; the tongue at first is dry, and covered with a whitish fur; but, as the symptoms increase, it be- comes yellow, and lastly coated with a thick brown fur. There is loss of appetite, the stomach becomes irritable, and nausea and vomiting supervene. The secretions are diminished, and the stools are white. As the severity of the complaint increases, the pulse becomes quick, hard, irregular, and alternately intermittent. The respiration is hurried, intellect deranged; all impressions on the senses are painful; subsultus tendinum, hiccough, vomiting, and tension of the abdomen come on; the patient sinks into a low mut- tering delirium, and soon expires. Thus, in constitutional irrita- tion, whether from injury or disease, every part of the system is affected by it; and this effect appears to be produced in the follow-