190 WOUNDS OF THE SCALE. Mode in which they destroy life. A man came to the other hospital, a short time ag’o, with a wound of the head, from a blow which a companion had given him. The dresser thought it too slight a case for admission into the hospital; but a few days after the man returned with violent pain in the head, a considerable swelling of the scalp, and erysipelatous inflammation extending over the whole face and neck. He was admitted into the hospital for the erysipelatous inflammation, of which he afterwards died. Upon examining the body, there was found an effusion on the membranes of the brain between the tunica arachnoides and the pia mater. The other way in which wounds of the scalp destroy life is, by producing inflammation of the tendon occipito-fi'ontalis, which extends over the whole surface of the head. This inflammation covei’s the scalp and face, and assumes an erysipelatous character, but it is not true erysipelas. It has not the vesicles of blisters filled with serum, which commonly attend eiysipelas, but it has a tendency rather to suppuration ; and if the constitution has strength to produce this suppuration, it takes place between the tendon and the pericranium. In this way a very extensive abscess is often formed, into which we are obliged to make an incision, in order to discharge the matter, which cannot make its way through the tendon. Extensive disease is thus produced, and the inflammation attending it some- times destroys life. I have already alluded to a case that occuired recently, in which a person died of eiysipelas, which followed the removal of an encysted tumour. The tumour had been removed twice before, and, to prevent its recurrence, an incision was made so deep as to lay bare the pericranium, and in this operation the tendon had been cut through. There is a great deal of danger in inflammation arising from this cause, and it is on that account that I was anxious to point out to you, in a former lecture, the impropriety of making incisions in the scalp merely for the sake of exploring the nature of the injury. Third mode in which wounds of the scalp prove destructive, is by incisions being made to trace fractures of the skull, producing in this way great aggravation of the inflammation, and extending its influence to the membranes of