OF STONE IN THE BLADDER- 364 Pain after the discharge of urine'. degree, more according to the irritability of the patient, than the form or roughness of the calculus ; the pain is sometimes slight, but generally severe, and is described by the patient as a cutting sensation; or, sometimes, as if boiling water or lead were passing through the urethra. Relief is experienced by pressing on the glans penis, and adult persons do so; children nip and draw the prepuce until the latter becomes excessively elongated ; they also, under severe suffering, after passing urine, cross their legs, and press upon the organs of generation with great force. The adult, when voiding his urine, often rests his head against the wall, bends his knees, and relaxes the muscles generally. The pain is felt more after discharging the urine, when the bladder contracts around the stone, than before it is voided. Frequently the faeces pass at the same time with the urine, and a prolapsus ani is a common consequence of the excessive action of the muscles of the perineum and lower opening of the pelvis, more especially in children. I have seen the abdominal muscles thrown into the most violent spasmodic actions for some time after the discharge of the urine, in some of the.worst cases of stone. The bladder is very irritable, is capable of retaining but little urine, and becomes diminished in size. Sadden stop to Often, as the urine is discharging, a sudden stop to its flow is pro- duced with violent pain, from the stone falling on the beginning of the urethra and acting as a valve; as the force of the bladder’s contrac- tion lessens, the stone recedes a little, and the urine again escapes. Patients, therefore, pass their urine best in a recumbent posture, as the stone does not then fall upon the neck of the bladder. At first no change is produced in the appearance of the urine, which can direct the judgment; but when the disease has existed for some time, and more especially from violent exercise on horse- Urine becomes back, or in a rough carriage, the urine becomes bloody. A person bloody. having a stone in the bladder cannot ride far on horseback, without dismounting to pass his urine; and is obliged to quit a carriage often for the same reason. Discharge of disease increases, the bladder becomes more irritable, mucus. Bladder irritable. the flow of urine.