DISSKCTION. 344 Nipple not Fifthly, The nipple is not generally drawn in, nor is the skin drawn in. puckered, having the appearance of cicatrix, as in true scirrhus. Thus, this disease may he distinguished from scirrhus by a less circumscribed and more diffused inflammation; by less hardness ; by the formation of a cyst; by the extreme varicose state of the veins; by the fungus which sprouts from it after ulceration; by profuse bleedings; by extensive sloughing; by less pain; by a quicker progress to destruction; by the absence of reti’action of the nipple; by the want of puckering of the skin; and by the glands being less affected in the course of absorption. Health at first The patient’s constitution at first appears to suffer but little ; but unaffected. . , . after a time, when the process of ulceration begins, she becomes sallow and emaciated ; and from the frequent losses of blood has an extremely cadaverous appearance. mSSECTIOI?. Adhesive stages. Cysts. Origin. The tumour, in its adhesive stage, appears lobulated like an adipose swelling; but the substance, which is effused by the inflam- mation, is more compact, and varies in colour; in some parts assuming the character of common adhesive matter, in others it is softer and mixed with the red particles of blood. In its next stage it foi-ms a cyst, which contains the fluid that I have described ; and from its interior it is that the fungous growth proceeds, and this has the appearance, when cut through, of soft organized matter; in some parts extremely vascular, in others of the semblance of coagulated blood; other cysts are found containing bloody serum, and a semi- fluid mass, looking like putrid brain, or sometimes like cream tinged by the colouring particles of the blood. It adheres to tendinous structures more than others in its com- mencement; for example, to the aponeurosis of muscles, as that of the pectoral. I have seen tumours of this kind arise from the deltoid aponeurosis, from the sheath of the femoral vessels, and from the tunica sclerotica; but still the cellular structure, in each