196 OK FRACTURES OF THE VERTEBR/E. Case. it is completely torn; in others partially; and in some not at all. In cases where, it has not been torn, there would be hope from such an operation; and it is in these cases that the operation has been performed. Mr. Tyrrell has performed the operation since Mr. Cline, but both cases have terminated unfavourably. Whether future experiments may be attended with better success it is impossible to say. The proposal was laudable; the operation was easily per- formed ; and as to the result, if the spinal marrow were not torn, there seems no reason why a person should not recover after such an operation. We are obliged, however, to speak doubtingly on this subject, since the first experiments have been unsuccessful. If you could save one life in ten, ay, one in a hundred, by such an operation, it is your duty to attempt it, notwithstanding any objections which some foolish persons may have urged against it. Suppose any one now present were in this state himself; suppose him put to bed with a paralysis of his lower extremities, and fully acquainted with the inevitable result if nothing were done ; would he not be glad to have any attempt made to save him? Would it not be foolish and unmanly to say, he would rather die than have such an attempt made ? The operation is not severe; it cannot add to his danger; and as to the pain, no man would regard it. In the two cases in which the attempt was made, the operation did not shorten life ; on the contrary, there is reason to believe that it prolonged it. You will be justified, therefore, in making the attempt. Though I may not live long enough to see the operation frequently performed, I have no doubt that it wnll be occasionally performed with success. There is no reason why it should not; and he who says that it ought not to be attempted is a blockhead. OK SUPPUUATIOK AKD ULCERATIOK OF THE SPIKAL MARROW. The only case in which I have had an opportunity of ascertaining this disease by dissection, w^as the following: A gentleman who resided eight miles from London, had, by a fall.