108 ox ULCEUS. Gangrenous ulcers. Principle of treatment. lom the part; and poultices, by their soothing quality, to promote the growth of granulation; both will evacuate the matter from the wounds. Then, with these applications, the vessels begin to form, the soie assumes a better appearance, healthy secretions are throAvn out, and granulations shoot up ; fibrous matter is deposited, and in a little time you will have the skin covering the wound. Fomen- tations, poultices, rest, and the recumbent posture, must be enjoined, and the patient must be purged. The best cathartic that you can administer is calomel and compound extract of colocynth, five grains of each at bed-time, and a draught of the infusion of senna and sulphate of magnesia on the following morning. By this plan you will do more to subdue the inflamma- tion than by any other I know. If the part in the neighbourhood be much inflamed, leeches had better be applied near the circum- ference of the ulcer : with this treatment, in a veiy few days granulations will spring up, pus will be secreted, and the sur- lounding edges will assume a healthy appearance. Without, however, attending to the constitutional treatment, all your local applications will be of very little avail. — Gangrenous Ulcers.—TUs kind of ulcer you will veiy frequently see in a man, who has been in poverty and distress for a long time, going up and down the streets of London, looking out for an asylum where he may rest his head; this person comes to the hospital at last, in a reduced and emaciated state. When you see a wound of this description, you will know it by the surface being perfectly free from discharge; the surrounding edges of a livid appearance, with small vesicles or blistered spots on them ; and the patient suffering much from irritative fever. Seeing this state of the wound, then, you enjoin the patient the recumbent posture, which is essentially necessaiy to promote the separation of the dead parts. The principle of treatment in these cases is to produce a very slight increased action in the part. Sometimes, when the action is ' excessive, you must, on the contrary, soothe the part:—both will be sometimes good. When there is debility of the part, a slight