166 ON FRACTURES OF THE SKULL, which was simple, into one that is compound. Wait, tlien, gentlemen, for awhile, before you operate in such cases, for the purpose of seeing what effects may be produced by bleeding and purgatives. It not unfrequently happens in these hospitals, upon persons being brought in who have received injuries of the head, that the dresser in attendance will bleed them immediately after their admission, and at the same time send off for the surgeon; before whose arrival, however, the good effects of loss of blood are apparent, and the symptoms of concussion, and even of extravasation, have often disappeared. This shows how necessary it is that you should not be too precipitate. If you act prudently, therefore, in these accidents, you will try bleeding and purgatives before you operate; for whether you do so or not, the depletion wall prove of the greatest possible advantage in preventing inflammation, from which, arises the principal danger if not kept within bounds. The next subject to which I shall direct your attention is FRACTURE OF THE SKULL WITH DEPRESSION. Fractures with ^ 7®^ what you ought to do in such cases, and then depression. leave you to act for yourselves. In order to ascertain whether the symptoms arising from depression would come on immediately after Experiment. accident, I tried the following experiment;—A gentleman having brought me a large dog, I applied the trephine to his cranium, and took out a portion of the bone. I then, with the handle of a knife, separated the dura mater from the bone; for I found that I could make no impression on the brain until I had done so, and then pressed upon it with my finger. At first the animal did not seem to feel it; but upon pressing more deeply, it produced pain and irritation, and he endeavoured to avoid us. Upon still increasing the pressure, he became comatose, and fell. I kept him in that state for five or six minutes, when, upon removing my finger, he got up, turned round two or three times from giddiness, and Avalked away apparently little worse for the operation. A gentleman, who felt the animal’s pulse during the continuance of the