INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 5 the presence of mind to apply the key of the door to the femoral artery, by compressing' which he stopped the bleeding, and thus gained time for the application of another tourniquet. Some years ao-o, one of the dressers of Guy’s Hospital, in bleed- Puncturing . the artery, m ing a man, punctured the artery that lay under the vein (a situa- venesection, tion in which he ought not to have bled), and before the blood could be stopped, the person lost thirty-seven ounces. One of the surgeons cut down upon the artery at the elbow and secured it. In doing- this, he divided the principal veins ; inflammation and morti- fication came on, and death soon followed. I bring fonvard these examples to impress upon your minds that Recapitula- an imperative necessity exists for making yourselves well ac- quainted with anatomical science ; without which you cannot con- scientiously discharge your duty to society; and it is upon this that you must lay the foundation for your future advancement. The parts of the body most essential to be particularly studied are, the brain, bones, arteries, veins, neiwes, and joints. To each of these you must pay particular attention, and make yourselves Necessity for well acquainted with its form, situation, and functions; otherwise you will only be exposed to ridicule, and perhaps worse, if, in your practice, you should be ignorant of the nature of these structures. You should know the nature of the human machine well, or how can you pretend to mend it ? If you have a watch injured, you will not give it to a tinker to repair ; you will get the best watch- maker you can to set it right. How, then, can it be supposed, that the finest and most perfect organization we know of, when out of order, should be consigned to the hands of unlearned persons ? Mistakes of this kind do, it is true, sometimes happen, but much less often now than formerly. When you dissect, do not attack all the parts of the body at once. The best plan is, to take the portion you are examining to your room, and keep it fresh by plunging it into alcohol. Inspect it with care, and note down your observations. By these means a head will occupy your time for five or six weeks very advan- tageously.