or ENLARGED TONSILS. 442 Treatment. Removal sometimes required. By ligatures. Operation. Another mode. The treatment of this state consists in applying powdered alum to the surface of the tonsil; in using the sulphate of copper, in substance, so as to whiten the surface; or the nitrate of silver, which produces the same effect, and from the employment of which I have known great advantage derived; scarification I have also seen of service. If the disease resists these modes of treatment, it will be right to remove the enlarged portion of the gland, either by ligature or by excision. A ligature is employed in those cases in which the tonsil is pendulous, and in which the enlarged part is connected to the throat by a narrow neck. To apply a ligature, an iron is required, with a small fixed ring at its end, and a waxed portion of silk. The patient sitting before the surgeon, and the thread being passed through the ring of the tonsil iron, an assistant holds one end of the ligature against the cheek, and the surgeon retains the other in his hand. The iron is then carried above, behind, and then below the tonsil, and is, with the end of the ligature, brought out of the mouth; after thus nearly surrounding the gland, a single knot is made, and one end of the thread being again passed through the ring of the tonsil iron, the knot is by means of it made fast, and a second knot is then made, in the same manner. The silk is left upon the tonsil until it ulcerates through the gland, which it does in about a week. When the basis of the swelling is large, a needle has been advised, amed with a double ligature, which is to be passed through the base of the gland: then each ligature is to be tied separately, one before and the other behind the tonsil, and by this mode the ligatures are prevented-from slipping; but their application is very difficult, and, as far as I have seen, veiy imperfect. Rather than adopt it, I advise the removal of a portion of the gland by excision. This is to be done by a pair of curved scissors, _with probed By excision.