ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 153 is accompanied with extravasation of blood. By the knowledge of these facts we are led, without difficulty, to the principles of treatment. Treatment of Concussion.—The great danger which we have to Treatment, guard against, in the treatment ol concussion, is inflammation of the brain. This principle must direct our practice : and in older to prevent inflammation, we must take away a very considerable quantity of blood. By bleeding largely at first, we not only remoa^e existing Bleeding, inflammation, but we prevent that which would otherwise occur. This practice, howei'^er, may be carried to excess. There are some persons who say you cannot bleed too much in these cases ; but such an assertion only proves their ivant of understanding. You must regulate your conduct by the symptoms ; observe whether there be any hardness in your patient’s pulse, and whether he complains of pain in the head, if he have still the power of complaining : watch your patient with the greatest possible anxiety • visit him at least three times a-day, and if you find any hardness of the pulse supeiwening, after the first copious bleeding, take away a tea-cupful of blood ; but do not go on bleeding him largely, for you would by this means reduce the strength of your patient too much, and prevent the reparative process of nature. It is necessary that there should be a slight degree of inflammation, for without this, the reparative process cannot go on, and the patient cannot recover; but it will be your duty to keep this inflammation within due bounds. I shall mention a case in which fatal consequences ensued from the error committed by the surgeon in bleeding his patient to such excess, that the slightest degree of inflammation necessaiy to the process of adhesion was removed, and the reparative process of nature consequently prevented. In these lectures, gentlemen, I feel it to be my duty to Admonition, describe to you surgeiy as it is—and not in the glowing colours in which it is painted to you in books. You must be content to practise surgery as it is—not as is sometimes fallaciously represented