OK THE TREATMENT OF PILES OR HAIMORRHOIDS, 430 Excision. Case. tor excision, in the early part of my surgical career, I was a strong advocate ; for I found it a less painful operation than ligature, and it appeared to me not dangerous ; but as my experience increased, I was induced to change my opinion, and to consider excision as not divested of danger.* The three following cases are proofs of this : the first, dying of inflammation ; and the second and third from haemorrhage. I have also seen, in a fourth case, extensive suppuration produced by excision. Mrs. O , the wife of a respectable medical man, came to London to have some haemorrhoids removed; and I advised their excision, observing, that her constitution was of a feeble and irritable kind. I removed only one of three which appeared. In three days after the excision by scissoi’s, I found her complaining of great pain in her abdomen, from intestinal and peritoneal inflammation: she frequently vomited, and her abdomen became tense. The symptoms were not relieved, although motions were procured, and she died in a week from the operation. The internal surface of the intestine, and the peritoneum, were inflamed extensively. * A notorious quack, ambitious of Chirurgical notoriety, would try his hand on a poor unsophisticated Welchman, in the employ of Messrs. B. & P. for the cure of his piles. He excised one of considerable magnitude with his shop- scissors, but before the poor fellow got home, the haemorrhage became so profuse that the blood literally overflowed his shoes. This Pile-doctor was sent for to arrest the further effusion of blood, but all his efforts, from the previous evening till Seven o’Clock the next morning, were unavailing: persons about him declaring that he must have lost a pailful of blood, notwithstanding a large wash-hand basinful of Parker's Roman Cement, flour, brick-dust, and rags, were to be removed from his nates, before the bleeding vessel could be discovered. To repress the haemorrhage, I introduced a cylindrical tent into the rectum, and applied a ligature on the bleeding vessel; no peritoneal inflammation followed, but the man was a considerable time before he recovered. What a contrast! Sir A. Cooper is justly applauded for the candid admission of his unsuccessful cases—the hero of this note narrowly escaped immersion in a horse pond. L.