078 OF THE OPERATION. Size of the gorget. The knife. The forceps. 60 as to divide the left half of the prostate gland. It is necessary to press the beak against the groove as it glides along, and occa- sionally to move it slightly backwards and forwards, to be certain that no portion of membrane has got between the two. When the gorget enters the bladder, the urine flows out over its superior concave surface. The length of the gorget should be proportioned to the size of the patient. The breadth of its cutting part, when used for an adult, should not exceed one inch; and the blunt gorget should be used, if the fii’st opening be not sufficiently free. The gorget which I at first used in my own operations was double, and cut upon both edges ; but I thought it occasioned too much bleeding, and divided more than was absolutely necessary for the removal of the stone. The knife is now frequently substituted for the gorget, and that which I for some time employed, in various cases, was straight and narrow, with a probed end.* After opening the membranous part of the urethra, as before, I passed this knife along the groove of the staff into the bladder. In the young this answers very well, and also in a thin adult; but in a deep perineum, or enlarged prostate gland, I prefer the gorget, as being more definitive in its cut. Forceps of various sizes are also required to lay hold of the stone, and those employed must depend on the bulk of the patient: the handles should occupy two-thirds, and the blades one-third of the length. I have tried many others of different proportions, but think that which I have mentioned the best. Some of the blades must be flat, for small stones, or fragments of stones; some should be curved, to remove calculi from behind the pubes or prostate: one pair should be large, as small forceps will not retain a large stone in their grasp, with sufficient firmness to extract it. The forceps must be passed along the groove of the gorget with * Mr. Thomas Blizard, who was an excellent and successful operator, employed a knife of the same kind, e.xcepting that the beak was at an angle with the blade, instead of straight.