248 ON II YDllOC JiLK. Spontaneous cure. Case. Not always produced by a blow. Case. Palliative treatment of hydrocele. influence in this hydrocele, which results from inflammation; but in the other they have none. Hydrocele, if left to itself, will often undergo spontaneous cure. A man was brought into the other hospital w'ith a sloughing of the scrotum, a consequence of an inflammation occasioned by a hydro- cele ; the water was, in this case, discharged hy a natural process, and nature performed a radical cure by effecting a permanent adhesion of the parts. Hsematocele is sometimes founded on hydrocele. Dr. Saunders, formerly teacher of medicine at Guy’s, had a hydrocele, for which he applied to Mr. Lucas, my colleague at Guy’s, to have it tapped. In stepping upon a chair to reach a book, he fell against the back of the chair, and received a blow upon the scrotum, which repro- duced, as he thought, his hydrocele, and in a few days he went to Mr. Lucas to have it tapped, but, upon the Introduction of the trocar no water passed ; the doctor then consulted several surgeons, and at length Mr. Cline made an incision into the part, and the tunica vaginalis was found full of coagulated blood, which was discharged, a poultice applied, and he soon recovered. Haematocele is not ahvays produced by a blow. I attended, with Mr. Hicks in Bond-street, a gentleman who had a large pyriform swelling in the left tunica vaginalis, which had never been painful, and which had an obscure fluctuation. I made an incision into the swelling, in the presence of Mr. Hicks, and discharged near a pint of fluid blood. This swelling did not succeed a blow, but to excessive exertions which this gentleman had been in the habit of making. I shall conclude this lecture by describing to you the palliative treatment of hydrocele, reserving what I have to say on the radical or curative, treatment until we next meet. When persons are afraid of the curative treatment, or wdien it would be attended with inconvenience, as also in old people, the palliative wdll be demanded. It is a very simple operation, and one which any person can perform. Remember that the testicle is two- thirds of the way downwards at the posterior part; introduce,