104 ON ULCRllS. Definition. Appearance of an healthy ulcer. ulce^■5 in what may be termed their healthy state, I shall then detail the several circumstances which render their cure difficult and proceed to point out to you the remedies which are found to be the most efficacious in practice. An ulcer may be defined to be a granulating surface secreting matter. When an ulcer is in a perfectly healthy state, the appearances which it exhibits are as follo'ivs The granulations are florid; their blood-vessels possess a consi- derable quantity of arterial blood, and the freedom of circulation produces this florid appearance. The granulations are equal on the surface of the sore, rising a little above the edges; for it is necessary, in order that a sore should heal kindly, that the surface of the ulcer should be a little more elevated than the surrounding skin. The surface of the sore secretes matter which has a milky appearance, or rather the appearance of cream. The edge is whitish in colour, and adapts itself to the surface. In this mLner the granulations springing from the surrounding skin are veiy nicely adapted to the circumference of the sore, so that the granu- lations of the edge unite with those on the surface. When, therefore, you see the surface of an ulcer red, the granulations equal, the surface rising a little above the edge, the discharge of matter healthy, and the edge of the sore nicely adapted to the surface, you will say that this ulcer is in a healthy state. In order to produce this state of the sore, the best practice which you can generally pursue is to apply poultices and plasters. abscess, or when a wound is produced which cannot be healed by the adhesive process, the best application is a poultice, for the purpose of exciting the growth of granulations. This poultice must not be too warm ; it should be gently stimu- lating-, so as not to repress the growth of granulations, but to form a soft bed to which they may spring. The effect of the poultice is, by its warmth and moisture, to encourage such a degree of action as may promote the rising of the granulations. When the granu- lations have lisen to the edge of the sore, then the practice must be altered; and the object is to adapt the granulations of the edge