151 ON INJURIES OF THE HEAD. gradual diminution of ideas which have been more recently acquired, until at length they become totally obliterated. Old peisons aie observed to be fond of relating anecdotes of their youth, forgetting incidents of more recent occurrence ; and the change which takes place in the intellect, from injuries of the brain, is very similar to the effects of age. The patient becomes, as it were, suddenly old, loses impressions of a recent date, and is sensible only of those which he has received in his earlier years. Such is the state o mind veiy frequently produced by compression of the brain. With respect to the state of the brain, under concussion, when Concussion, the concussion is not extremely violent, there is merely a change in the circulation of the brain. A sudden shock will so far disturb the circulation of this organ. Its effects, as to produce diminution of the powers of the mind, as well as to impair the functions of the body. I shall have occasion to mention to you a most extraordinary case, in which the functions of the mind were suspended from an interruption of circulation in the brain, for upwards of thirteen months; the patient having, as it w'ere, drunk of the cup of Lethe during all that period. Any change of the circulation in the brain alters, in some degree, the powers of mind and body ; but if the agitation be very considerable, the powers of the mind will be for a time suspended. Thus, w'hen a pereon is said to be stunned, there is a sudden alteration in the circulation in the brain, and a corresponding loss of sensibility; but when the circulation is restored, by the means which I shall presently point out to you, the powers of the mind return with those of the body. When the concussion is very violent, a lesion of the brain takes place; but when it is slig’ht, no appearances can be discovered on dissection which indicate any alteration of structure. A person may die from another injury, accompanied with concus- Examination . ,1 , postmortem, sion; and on examination after death, not the least alteration may be found in the brain. This is not the case, however, where the concussion is violent. I have before me a great number of prepa- rations, from the brains of patients who have died of concussion.