55 adhesive inflammation. APPEAllANCES. make it a simple one. Within these few days you have had^ an opportunity of witnessing the fatal consequences of hemorrhage in a case of compound fracture; if the adhesive process had taken place, hemorrhage would have been prevented, constitutional irritation kept off, and recovery, in all probability, rendered sure. It is the same in formidable operations; the Caesarean operation. In operations which consists in making an incision in the course of the linea alba, for the purpose of extracting a foetus from the womb, is not dangerous, if the adhesive process takes place; now and then, from hemorrhage and exhaustion, it proves serious; but in most cases, the danger is slight, if union by adhesion be procured. To exemplify this by the operation for cataract: in this operation a wound is made in the eye—more than half of the cornea is cut; if the adhesive process take place within twelve hours, the flaps begin to adhere, and in twenty-four they are consolidated. Suppose, on the contrary, they do not adhere-violent inflammation supervenes, and the result is destruction to the eye of the patient; the success of the operation depends then, in this instance, on the adhesive process. In a person who had been in ill health, the inflammation might be too weak, and in another case it might be too strong; suppuration would be the consequence in both instances; the same • effect results in the two cases, though produced by very different causes. Again, in the operation for strangulated hernia, an opening is made into the hernial sac, which communicates with the cavity of the abdomen; and, if the parts are not aftenvards united by the adhesive process, the patient dies. In the operation for aneurism, it is adhesive inflammation which Aneurism, saves life; a ligature is applied to the artery, a coagulum of blood forms, the adhesive process commences, fibrin is poured out, and the internal coats of the artery are glued together; but for this, when the ligature gave way, hemorrhage would ensue. In the operation for the radical cure of hydrocele, we have a Hydrocele, beautiful opportunity of witnessing the effects of adhesive inflam- mation. After the water has been evacuated, a stimulating injection being thrown into the cavity excites upon its sides an irritation ;