367 DISSECTION. danger in the operation; for it is not the frequent introduction of Removal of the forceps into the bladder, but the violence which is used in gto^^es not extracting the stone or stones which produces mischief; thus the dangerous, removal of one large stone is more to be dreaded than that of many small. When more than one calculus exists, the first extracted is found Stones smooth, and often hollowed by the friction of the others; so ttha hollovpwl”'^ the form of the first shows the existence of a second or more. when more . than one. The form of stone varies extremely; but when there is only one. Form of it is generally oblong; when more than one, they are usually rounded and smooth; and when very large, they assume the form of the bladder. The surface of stones is sometimes smooth, as the uric acid Surface of calculus; a little irregular when composed of triple phosphate; and veiy rough if formed of the oxalate of lime: this latter is called the mulberry calculus. But the severity of the symptoms does not always depend on the irregularity of the surface of the stone, but on the irritability of the bladder. Calculi are generally composed of concentric lamellm, formed Composed upon a centre, called the nucleus. The colour of the difiFerent layers varies considerably, and the materials of which they are composed are of veiy different nature: some calculi are brown, some are white. The nucleus, or centre, is often some extraneous body introduced Nuclei, into the bladder, as a portion of coagulated blood, a piece of bougie, or catheter. In the collection at St. Thomas s Hospital are preparations exhibiting various foreign bodies, as forming the nuclei to stones; as a portion of slate pencil; a needle, which had traversed a part of the body previous to its entering the bladder; also a piece of tobacco pipe, which had been introduced into the urethra by the patient, to relieve some impediment to the passage of the urine, it broke and passed into his bladder, and was extracted some time afterwards by Mr. Godwin, surgeon, at Derby, with a stone formed around it. Sometimes a small stone of uric acid forms in the kidney, and