463 OF IIARF-Lir. risk of failure either as regards the union of the lip, or the life of the child. Nothwithstandins.' I feel it my duty to mention these adverse Sometimes an ^ J early operation circumstances, yet I have known the operation performed, and have beneficial, performed it myself in infancy, with very complete success ; and in those cases in which a fissure has existed in the upper jaw, the union of the upper lip has, by its pressure upon the bone, led to an approximation of the edges of the fissure so as to produce considerable advantage by the early operation. The operation may be performed with a simple interrupted suture Two modes of operating. or with pins. Mr. Cline, who had great experience in his pro- fession, preferred, and in his lectures recommended, the former. The timth is, that it may be very successfully performed with either ; but the interrupted suture is the most simple, and, as far as I have seen, equally effectual; it has this great advantage, that it prevents the disturbance to the adhesion, which the lip receives in the removal of the pins. The steps of the operation are as follows: The child is to be Operation, recumbent with its head placed over a pillow, the surgeon then extends the lip from the nose, and if any adhesion to the gum prevents its being extended, such adhesion must be first divided ; he next introduces a pointed and curved bistoury, at the angle of the fissure, carries it down to the red edge of the lip, and thus removes the surface from one of the sides ; the removal of the opposite surface is effected from the angle of the fissure in the same way. A straight needle armed with a waxed silk is afterwards passed through each side of the lip, at the juncture of the skin with the red part, and about the eighth of an inch from the raw surface ; then another needle and ligature being introduced through the integument, half way between the first suture and the angle of the fissure, the edges of the fissure are brought together by tying the portions of silk, the lower one should be secured first; and when both are tied, the ends of the silk are to be cut off above the knots, and thus the operation is concluded. There is not any necessity for applying adhesive plaster ; and the more the part is exposed to the