ON GANGRENE, 123 action, Bnt gangrene is sometimes the effect of a low degree of inflammation; as when it is produced by the application of cold. When a great degree of cold has been applied to any part for a considerable time, the part will become benumbed; that is, its nervous poivers will be diminished: and when it is thus enfeebled, it will be unable to bear a very slight degree of supeiwening inflammation, so that gangrene will be produced, and the destruc- tion of its life will follow. In this climate, however, destruction of the life of the part does not in general immediately follow. A person will come to the hospitals with his feet benumbed; he may have been wandering about the streets, unable to find a place of refuo-e; until he becomes, from this cause, incapable of walking. Great care must be taken, in these cases, not to apply heat very suddenly; even the common heat of the bed frequently occasions inflammation, which is extremely liable to proceed to gangrene, in consequence of the diminished nervous influence of the part. I knew a gentleman of the first consequence in this countiy, and Case, whose death occasioned perhaps as much i-egret as that of any one who has died for many years, who lost his life from an act of imprudence. He had been out shooting, and had exposed himself to severe cold; and finding his feet benumbed on his return, he immediately put them into warm water. The consequence was, that a gangrene took place, of which, notwithstanding all the care that could be taken of him, he died. In this climate it generally happens that inflammation succeeds the application of cold after an inteiwal of two or three days. By the use of some slight means of treatment this inflammation is generally suspended, and it is by the repetition of the inflammation, rather than by its severity, that the powers of the part become at last exhausted. In colder climates than our own the part exposed to cold becomes white, and the suspended circulation ib commonly restored by rubbing the’part with snow. If it he not very carefully treated, however, inflam- mation and sloughing is apt to come on. If a part be completely frozen, inflammation frequently ensues in a short time, and, after