OF THE OPEllATION OF PARACENTESIS. 455 tightly applied around the abdomen, to prevent the re-accumulation of water by lessening the determination of blood to the parts. The result of the operation is generally unsuccessful in ascites, Operation as the greater number of cases are accompanied with organic cesstul!*^^ disease: the operation only acts upon the effect, and not upon the cause, and the hope of permanent advantage must be derived from medical treatment, and not from surgical operation; but the removal of the water gives additional facility to the operation of the medical means which are employed. With respect to the ovarian dropsy, the operation is the only means of relief; but it generally fails in producing a permanent cure. In ascites forming after fever, and after a course of mercury, and in ascites unaccompanied by organic disease, I have known the operation succeed in producing a permanent cure. In ovarian dropsy, the instances of permanent cure from operation are exceed- ingly rare. The case which I have given from the neighbourhood of Dartford, shows the number of times this operation may be repeated. In the veiy young and in the very old, I have known the operation succeed. Of a spontaneous cure of ovarian dropsy I have known several Spontaneous cure of ovarian dropsy. The wife of a veterinary surgeon had an opening at the umbilicus Case, produced by ulceration, through which large quantities of fluid were for a length of time discharged ; but the opening ultimately closed, and the disease did not return. I have known the water discharged by the Fallopian tube; and I attended a lady in whom an ovarian cyst burst into the intestinal canal; for several years afterwards she was subject to occasional returns of the disease, but ultimately recovered. I have known a person die from suppuration of an ovarian cyst. The injection of an ovarian cyst has been occasionally practised Injection of with success ; but it has also failed ; so that its salutary influence remains in doubt.