ON IIYDKOCELK. 246 Diagnostic characters. Differs from Hernia. From varicO' cele. What had happened was this: the pressure of the truss had succeeded in destroying the communication between the tunica vaginalis and abdomen, and then the water had become absorbed. I advise you, should you ever meet with such a case, to pursue a similar practice; for, as you see in this case, the opening which exists may be closed, and if the person’s health be good, the water may be absorbed, thereby rendering an operation unnecessary. The result of that case gratified me exceedingly. Diagnosis.—Now, then, as to the best mode of distinguishing hydrocele. When a patient comes to you with a fluctuating swelling in the scrotum, in which the testicle is enclosed, you order a candle to be brought; then, squeezing the tumour at the poste- rior part, you distend the front so as to make it tense; a,pply the skin of the little finger, and that covering its metacarpal bone at the outer side, to the surface of the tumour, and then cause the candle to be held as close as possible opposite to where the two skins meet. In this way you will never fail to discover the transpa- rency of hydroceles which are formed in this climate, and it is only the clumsy, awkward mode in which the experiment is made, that occasions any person to be unsuccessful in it, which, if conducted differently, would lead to a satisfactory result. I have seen individuals, however, from Sierra Leone and the West Indies, in whom the tunica vaginalis had become so much thickened as to render the hydrocele perfectly opaque. From Hernia it may be distinguished by the occasional return of the hernial swelling into the abdomen; by the dilatation of hernia in coughing; by hernia descending from the abdomen, and by hydrocele augmenting from below upwards. Hydrocele and hernia are, however, sometimes combined in the same individual, when the hydrocele is placed before the hernia. Hydrocele is sometimes met with below an adhering omental hernia. Fluctua- tion and transparency are also diagnostic marks of hydrocele. Hydrocele may be distinguished from varicocele by placing the patient in the recumbent position, in which varicocele disappears. Diseased testicle may be easily distinguished from hydrocele by