329 ON The scirrhous tubercle. The cellular membrane becomes inflamed and hardened, and little tubercles form in the absorbent vessels under the integuments. affected. At this period, or sometimes prior to it, the glands in the axilla Th^glands become enlarged, and many of these are often affected. But if the gniarge. disease be on the sternal side of the nipple, the gland just above the clavicle at the lower part of the neck, is felt hardened and increased; for then the irritation is extended by the absorbents through the intercostal muscles to the internal mammary absorbent vessels and glands. When the glands in the axilla have been many of them enlarged Extends to and obstructed, I have seen the scirrhous, irritation proceed by the absorbents from the axilla to the back of the shoulder, on the scapula, and extend from thence to the glands above and behind the clavicle. Months and sometimes years roll on, and the disease continues Exists for in its adhesive stage, and it even often destroys without further destroyingM^ change occurring; but frequently it proceeds to a suppurative inflammation: then the skin appears of a livid redness; the pain becomes even more severe; a slight sense of fluctuation, or rather of yielding, is perceived in this part, which gradually ulcerates and discharges only a bloody serum; for true pus is not generated. Pus is attempted to be produced; but it is not formed upon the Becomes truly malignant surfaces, but only upon the surrounding parts, if 'ilcerated. they be ulcerated. I have, however, sometimes seen an approach to suppuration. The surface of the sore feels hard, like the original ,tumour, and character is remarkably insensible to pressure: and you therefore will observe the patient wipe it and handle it with a degree of roughness and want of gentleness, which surprises those who are unaware of its little sensibility. The granulations which spring from the sore are imperfectly formed; in some parts rising considerably, in others scarcely any are produced: they differ from common healthy granulations in their hardness, in their insensibility and in their secretion; which is, as I have stated, generally a bloody-coloured serum*