257 ON TIIK CURE OF HYDROCELE. better enabled to judge precisely of the strength of the stimulus by the use 'of the sulphate of zinc than by that of wine, which is subject to so much adulteration. Water itself will produce a stimulating effect, if used cold. A gentleman, whose name does not immediately occur to me, has written a treatise, in which he produces several cases of the successful treatment of hydrocele, by an injection of cold water. You must not suppose, however, that one fluid will answer the purpose as well as another; for I remember a case in Avhich an injection of milk, which was used by the surgeon on the supposition of its being a bland fluid, produced most horrible inflammation. The tunica vaginalis suppurated, and when an incision was made to discharge the matter, the milk came out in curds, and a great quantity of pus had been produced. Be upon your guard, therefore, against making experiments of Mode of this kind. When you inject for hydrocele, you should place the operating, patient in the recumbent posture, which will enable you to perform ^e operation more steadily. Before you introduce the trocar and cahula, make it a rule to squeeze the scrotum and tunica vaginalis, so as to make the part where the fluid is most distinct, very tense; then introduce the trocar and canula obliquely, in the same manner as in the palliative mode of treatment. Having passed the trocar and canula into the tunica vaginalis, withdraw the trocar, and push the canula alone carefully upwards, so as to prevent an injury to the testicles or spermatic cord. You should nip the tunica vaginalis round the canula, to guard against the instrument being diverted, and thus throwing a portion of the fluid into the cellular tissue.’ Having taken this precaution, you are gradually to throw up the injec- tion, turn the stop-cock, so as to confine it in the tunica vaginalis, and move the scrotum from side to side, so that the fluid may rlach eveiy part of the surface. The fluid should be suffered to remain from about four to five minutes. While it remains in the tunica vaginalis, the patient will complain of a good deal of pain; he wi^ rst feel as if the testicle were squeezed; he will then feel the pain running along the course of the spermatic cord at the spinal process o t e ilium, and at the loins where the spermatic plexus s