331 OF THE DISSECTION OF FEESONS DYING, ETC. absorbent glands, and from compression upon the veins of the axilla, from srlandular enlarp'ement. The constitution becomes excessively Destruction ^ ^ of lifo. irritated by the swelling", by the pain which attends it, and by the aug’mented disease in the breast, and thus gradually the patient sinks under her suffering-s. OF THE DISSECTION OF PERSONS DYING WITH SCIRRHOUS TUBERCLE, OR CANCER, The tumour in the breast is a solid mass, approaching- to the firmness of cartilag-e, waved upon its surface, composed of fibrous matter within, and the lactiferous tubes may be seen in white lines, takina: their course through it.* If macerated for a time in the Morbid same water, the scirrhous matter softens and leaves the cellular the^breast texture, in which it has been deposited, with its fibres thickened itself, and unnaturally strong. Processes extend from the swelling into the surrounding parts of the breast, which must be carefully felt for in the living subject, if an operation be performed. The blood- vessels at the edge of the tumour are more numerous than its substance, unless it be ulcerated, and then around the ulcerated part a great many are seen. It seldom happens, when a tumour of this kind exists in the breast, that only one is found, for there are generally several smaller in different parts of the glandular structure. The skin often adheres to the surface of the swelling, and the absorbent vessels of the skin have frequently little tubercles in their coats. If the swelling adheres to the pectoral muscle, scirrhous matter is deposited in the direction of its fibres, and it is converted into a hard and white substance; the glands in the axilla are changed in their internal appearance from the deposit of a scirrhous secretion resembling that in the breast, but more vascular and more quickly ulcerating, and then they become spongy. The glands above the Of the glands. * It sometimes happens, that earthy matter is secreted into the lactiferous tubes within the swelling; but this is by no means a constant appearance.