acute AXD CmiONIC AISSCESS. into It, which let out a quantity of matter; and went away smilinrc. I merely mention to you these cases, to put you on your guard : for I have seen breasts removed, which were only chronic abscesses ; and thus, from an ignorance of this circumstance, you might put your patient to a cruel operation, where a small incision would have done. Wnientof In the treatment of acute abscesses, the best medicine you can abscesses. give is the liquor ammoniae acetatis, sulphate of magnesia, and opium ; six oz. of the first, one oz. of the second, and a drachm of the tincture of opium, of which the dose is three or four table- spoonfuls three times a-day. By this medicine you lessen irritation, and expedite the suppurative and ulcerative processes: no medicine that I have observed, under such circumstances, gives so much lelief. The sulphate of magnesia prevents any costiveness from the opium, and the opium tranquillizes the neiwous system, and lessens pain. The local treatment consists in the application of fomentations and poultices : and why, you may ask, use both these remedies? To promote heat and moisture: a less quantity of blood is sent to the part, and a relaxation of the vessels takes place; this expedites the suppurative process, and that being done, the ulcerative process takes place with more ease. The kind of poultice to be applied to the part is of little importance ; linseed-meal and water, bread and water, &c. No stimulating action w'ould do ; the object is topieseive the heat and moisture of the part, and to prevent evaporation: let the part be enveloped in oil-silk, for, by its assist- ance, the heat of a part is pi‘eserved, and evaporation prevented. It is desirable in the suppurative process to prevent evaporation; oil- silk is what is generally used then in private practice; it is clean, agreeable td> the patient, and most conducive to his comfort. Mode of open- Before proceeding to the consideration of chronic abscesses, I will mg abscesses. words on the opening of abscesses. If an acute abscess seems disposed to go through its different stages without any interruption, the best practice is to leave it undisturbed. Acute abscesses, beginning under aponeurotic fasciae, ought to be opened as early as possible ; the earlier the better. The moment one drop