70 ON ULCEKATION. Definition. Effects of in- flammation on the blood-ves- sels. Effects on the absorbents. Ancient hypo- thesis. LECTURE IX. ON ULCERATION. Ulceration is the absorption of any constituent part of the body. I have already endeavoured to explain to you, that under the increased action of the vessels which accompanies inflammation, an increased deposit takes place from the arteries; also, that this deposit is according to the stage of the inflammation, and the part which the inflammation attacks; that the inflammation is either adhesive or suppurative, and that it ends in the one state in the immediate production of the process of adhesion, and in the other in the effusion of a quantity of purulent matter from the extremities of the vessels. But inflammation has not only an influence on the arteries; it has also an effect on the absorbent vessels, which are thrown into a state of inordinate action, whenever any considerable quantity of blood is thrown upon them. There is a natural balance between the action of the arteries and the absorbent vessels. In a state of health, and at the adult period of life, the portion of matter deposited by the arteries, and the portion taken into the system by the absorbent vessels, are, as nearly as possible, balanced. In youth a greater quantity is poured out by the arteries than the absorbents remove; but in age a smaller quantity is deposited than absorption is taking away. You find, therefore, that the balance is destroyed in a dijEferent manner at different periods of life; but when a considerable and inordinate absorption takes place of some part of the body, that absorption is denominated ulceration. It was foi-merly thought, that it was necessary to the ulcerative process, that matter should be formed; but this is not the case, as ulcei-ation often occurs without being accompanied by any purulent secretion. The formation of matter, therefore, is not necessary to the process of ulceration. The great cause of ulceration is inflam- mation united with pressure. If the inflammation be considerable.