49 COUNTEll IKlllTATIOX IN INFLAMMATION Electricity, too, ie attended with similar effects ; it acts strongly Eleetrieity. on the absorbent system. Mercury, likewise, does the same; and, speaking generally. Mercury, more decidedly so than either of the other remedies I have men- tioned. When a man dies in our foul wards, for example, in a state of salivation, we find that the alveolar processes which contained the teeth have been in a great measure absorbed. Friction has, of late years, got into great repute, for the cure of Friction, indurated and stiffened joints, occasioned by inflammation ; it was first recommended by the late Mr. Grosvenor, of Oxford, a man of strong mind, and who possessed a great share of common sense. This remedy was his hobby; and, like all other hobbies, it occa- sionally carried its rider into the mire; for Mr. Gi-osvenor some- times would recommend friction before the acute inflammation had terminated, consequently it was productive of mischief rather than benefit; in many instances, however, where judiciously employed, the most beneficial results have been obtained. A wentleman in the neighbourhood of Nottingham, when Case of ° . . . .£• 1 • 1 friction, shooting", received a severe injui"y to his knee; alter the violence of the first inflammatory symptoms had terminated, there remained considerable swelling, stiffness, and induration; for these he was attended by Mr. Attenborough, an eminent surgeon, of Notting- ham ; as the gentleman did not get better, Mr. Attenborough sent him to town, and here he for some time continued imder my care, and that of a physician ; still the joint remained in the same state, and the means used were inadequate to afford relief. I advised him to go to Oxford, and consult Mr. Grosvenor. This he did : | and as soon as Mr. Grosvenor saw him, and heard that his limb had been kept quiet, he told him to walk to the bottom of Christ Church Meadow, and then return, and dine, which he really did. Friction was used in this case with the greatest success, for, within six weeks after he went to Oxford, he called upon me in town, quite recovered, and thanked me for reconiniending him to Mr. Grosvenor. K