400 OF CALCULI IN THE UUETHKA. In the mem- branous part. (called lithontripteur) has been invented ; and, during the last year, successfully employed in Paris, by Mons. Civiale. A description of the instrument, of the mode of using it, and an account of three cases in which it has succeeded, have been published from a Report of the Royal Academy of Sciences. The size and straight form of the lithontripteur render it only applicable to peculiar cases. The urethra must have acquired its full growth, and the prostate gland must be in a healthy state, or the instrument cannot be employed with safety: even then the urethra must, in most cases, be gradually dilated by the passage of bougies, before the operation can be performed. When introduced into the bladder, the lithontripteur is not calculated to seize a large stone, as the claws or holders do not separate to a sufficient width to grasp it, which cannot be remedied unless the size of the instrument be increased, or the springs weakened. The lithontripteur is therefore only adapted to the case of an adult, havinar a sound state of urethra and prostate, provided the calculus be also of a moderate size. This instrument has not yet been successfully employed in this country. Mr. M^eiss, whose name I have already had occasion to mention, has made an instrument, which is well calculated to break stones of small size, and of not vei*y hard consistence: it is on the same plan as the urethro-vesical forceps, but having strong springs. He is now engaged in perfecting an instrument, which will divide a stone into minute pieces by means of a saw. OF CALCULI IN THE URETHRA. They may be best described in the three situations in which the surgeon is called upon to aid their passage, or to remove them by operation; viz. first, in the membranous part of the urethra; secondly, above the scrotum; thirdly, opposite the freenum. If you are consulted on account of a stone being arrested in iia progress at the membranous portion of the canal, you find the