52 Effects on the urethra. Trachea. Nature of ad- hesive matter. adhesive inflammatiox.—appearances. of cavities, such as the pleura and peritoneum, instead of the adhe- sive, were to receive and support the suppurative inflammation, effusion and death would be the inevitable consequences. For example, matter would be often formed in the cavity of the pleura, and empyema would generally destroy. The mucous membranes, as the urethra, for example, are affected by the suppurative inflammation. This is another of nature’s bene- volent and wise ordinances; for,, had they been subject to the adhe- sive, the outlets of our bodies would have closed, and life destroyed. Sometimes where inflammation of a mucous membrane is exceed- ingly violent, it passes into tlm adhesive inflammation, glues the paits together, and, unless relieved by an operation, would end in the destruction of life. I can relate to you an example of this : theie was brought to me from Exeter ’Change a kangaroo for dissection. His bed of straw had caught fire, but it was very soon extinguished; and the proprietor, knowing that he had not been severely burned, was at a loss to account for his death. Upon examination, his bladder Avas filled with urine, which was retained, in consequence of the closure of the urethra by the ahe sive inflam- mation ; the penis having been severely injured by the fire, the inflammation which folIoAved was violent, and passed at once into the adhesive form. Thus you may perceive that common gonor- rhoea would destroy life, if it were not so arranged by nature that mucous membranes are more readily influenced by the suppurative than by adhesive inflammation. When inflammation attacks the air-tube, it usually happens, that the mucus, which it secretes, becomes purulent; but in very violent inflammation, adhesive matter is effused, and produces the disease which is called croup. If the larynx be the seat of this disease, it frequently destroys life ; but when the inflammation is seated in one ot the bronchiae, the adhesive matter is coughed up, in an arborescent form, and the patient recovers. s appearances under adhesive inflammation. When an incision is made into a part affected ivith adhesh'e inflam-