ON SUPPURA’I'ION. 67 the glass; bile, urine, and in fact, all the fluids, are secreted from the blood, but in each instance the action of the vessels is different. Pus is composed of serum, and particles swimming in that serum; Composition there may be, also, a little coagulable matter in the serum: this, however, is hypothesis; that fibrin is poured out from the vessels in adhesive inflammation is not hypothesis, but, on the contrary, a well-ascertained fact. The globules of pus are the same as the globules of the blood, but the action of the vessels appears to take away their colour; their form is the same; size the same; these globules also resemble those that are contained in mucus. Pus, when healthy, is a bland fluid, and will not irritate the parts Healthy pus. that produce it. If poured into water, it sinks, because its specific gravity is greater than that of water. It appears to be composed of constituent parts of the blood, slightly changed in their character by inflammation. Healthy pus, I say, does not irritate parts; but surgeons formerly thought otherwise, and therefore used to cover the surfaces of wounds with sponge, for the purpose of sucking up the matter as fast as it was generated. When, however, pus is unhealthy, having mixed with it too large a portion of serum, or when bloody, then in passing over the skin it will irritate and occasion excoriation. This matter does not appear prone to putrefaction, in the healthy constitution, but in some persons it will, in a very short time, become inconceivablj’^ putrid and fetid. A butcher, when getting out of a hay-loft, missed his footing. Case, and in trying to save himself from a fall, had the misfortune to hitch his hand upon a hook, upon which the poor fellow hung like one of his own sheep. Eight days after the accident, he was ' brought to Guy’s Hospital; the next day his hand was opened, and the matter discharged was most horribly offensive; on the following day he died. Whenever the matter of an abscess becomes offensive, you should regard it as a bad symptom;—such cases are troublesome, and often' terminate fatally. Thus matter will be rendered offensive by local circumstances, as by a diseased bone. V 2