OF CAIXULUS IN THE FESIAEE, 4U4 The operation is not difficult, and is certainly not dangerous. If the calculi are in a single cyst, a single operation will produce complete relief; but if more than one cavity exist, other operations will be required. These calculi are composed of phosphate of lime. OF CALCULUS IN THE FEMALE. Operation sel- Lithotomy is much less frequently required in the female than in (iomnecessary. probably on account of the meatus readily permitting the escape of materials which would have become the nuclei of stones in the male, whether they be portions of gravel, of blood, inspissated mucus, or extraneous bodies. Symptoms. When the female labours under calculus, her sufferings are more severe even than those which the male experiences from this disease: at first the symptoms are of the same kind, as urgency to make water, and frequent inclination to do so; sudden stoppage to the ilow of urine; pain at the end of the urinary passage; and blood occasionally mixed with the urine. In addition to these symptoms, as the irritability of the bladder increases, the pain during micturition is excessive, and there is agonizing suffering after the discharge of the urine, from a bearing down of the bladder. Unnatural propensities in women. uterus, and rectum, with a sensation of their being forced through the lower opening of the pelvis. The retention of urine becomes imperfect, and the person is always wet, and smells offensively of urine. The sufferings of the patient at length render her incapable of moving from her bed. The calculus is usually lodged in the bladder, as in the male; but I have once seen a case in which the stone was placed half in the urethra and half in the vagina; the extremities of the stone were large, and connected by a narrow portion, which passed through an ulcerated opening in the under part of the urethra. Women sometimes render themselves the subjects of lithotomy from perverse or unnatural propensities. I have known a female put a pebble into the meatus urinariiis.