395 BY THE URETHRO-A'ESICAL FORCEPS. he would tiy less dang-erous means to rid me of this complaint; and, happily, under these circumstances, the operation was deferred. “ On the 3rd of November, I called at Mr. Cooper’s house, when he passed a full-sized bougie into the bladder, for the purpose as he said, of dilating the urethra, and thus giving the stone an opportunity of passing with the flow of urine. This operation was repeated on the 6th, 10th, and 13th of November; but on the 14th an inflammation took place in the prostate gland, from the intro- duction of the bougies, and put a stop to the prosecution of this plan of treatment. The effect of this inflammation was a retention of urine, rendering it necessary for Mr. Cooper to draw off my water every twenty-four hours; at which time the calculus could always be distinctly felt by the catheter. After the inflammation had subsided, the power of making water not having returned, Mr. Cooper passed an elastic catheter into my bladder, and directed me to wear it; teaching me, at the same time, how to withdraw it when it became either painful or obstructed; and, on several occa- sions, I discovered small white stones in the opening of the instru- ment, similar to those which had passed in 1818. Mr. Cooper, upon being acquainted with this circumstance, expressed a wish to remove the instrument himself; when, upon withdrawing it, a stone was seen large enough to fill the opening in the side of the elastic catheter. The passage of these calculi suggested to Mr. Cooper the possibility of inventing an instrument, by which he might remove those that remained in the bladder; and on the 23rd of November he brought with him some instruments contrived for the purpose; one of which he directly employed, and was so fortunate in the first trial as to remove eight calculi of small size. The operation was productive of a very inconsiderable degree of pain. “ On the 28th, eight more were removed by the same means, of a larger size than the former, two being as big as horse-beans. This operation was attended with even less pain than the former. “ On the 30th, eleven were extracted; three or four beino- engaged each time the instrument was withdrawn. The removal