405 OF CALCULUS IN THE FEMALE. A lady in using a catheter for herself, broke it in the bladder, and I extracted it in the presence of Mr. Ilott, of Bromley. , I have known women introduce extraneous substances into the vagina, to invite the operation for the stone. A girl, about twenty y^ears of age, came to St. Thomas s Hospital, Case, describing herself to suffer all the symptoms of the stone ; she was placed upon the operating table, before all the students, and Mr. Cline passed a sound to ascertain the presence of the stone; he struck some solid body, and a person of less caution might have immediately proceeded with the operation; but he said, “ I feel a solid body, which has not the hardness of stone; ’ he then examined by the vagina, and drew from thence a portion of coal, and afterwards several other pieces : she had no disease. I cut a woman in Guy’s Hospital for the stone, and found a large Case, piece of a brass nail in her bladder, which is now in the collection at St. Thomas’s Hospital. In the female, a stone will form around an extraneous body, as Stone formed on an extra- in the male, of which the following is a curious instance:—a woman neons body. was the subject of retention of urine, and required the frequent introduction of the catheter: she was under the care of Mr. Castle, surgeon at Sittingbourne; and one of his assistants having passed the catheter, allowed it to escape from his fingers into the bladder, and there it remained for several months ; she was then sent to Guy’s Hospital, where I sounded her and felt the catheter. I opened the urethra freely with a knife, and passing my finger into the bladder, found the catheter placed transversely in it, and on its centre a large calculus with each end free from such accumulation. I then brought down one end of the catheter to the meatus, with my finger, and thus removed it. The calculus deposit on the instrument weighed at least an ounce. Very large calculi can pass by the meatus. Mr. Giraud gave Large stones one of more than an ounce weight, which a woman had passed with ^rethra!^ her urine. The same medical treatment is proper in the female as has been Medical treat- recommended in the male, to lessen the patient’s sufferings. It