122 ox GANG RENE. severe ; «ie inflammation is very extensive; there is usually a blusli to a considerable extent; and there is generally, though not always a considerable degree of swelling. The secretion from any sore w ich may exist ceases, for the skin no longer perspires. The sur- face of the skin becomes of a dark colour; it is said to become purple, but it is rather of a brownish tinge. The cuticle is raised, a vesication is produced, and when this breaks, it is found to con- tain a bloody serum. When this serum is discharged, the skin assumes the gangrenous appearance, and becomes perfectly insen- sible. The vesication extends to parts beyond the ulceration; thus m sores of the leg we frequently see a large portion of the skin giving way, and the gangrenous vesications extending beyond the ulcerative surface. ?ymptoms?"^^ constitution suflFers considerable derangement from gangrene; there is a high degree of irritative fever, and the pulse is oftei exceedingly quick. The pulse is generally said to become slow when gangrene takes place, but I have never obseiwed this. I have indeed occasionally remarked but a few beats in a minute, because it is very frequently intermittent. Still the pulse is quick, though occasionally intermittent. It is said also to become soft, but°I should not say that this is the character of the pulse in gangrene. It is quick, very small and thready, and generally irregular. hiccoigh. "'ithout delirium, and it is attended also with vomiting and hiccough. Hiccough, indeed, is the character- istic sign of gangrene, and it takes place though the gangrene may be situate in a part very distant from the stomach; as for example, in the toe. The fact is, that v^hen gangrene arises from a diseased state of the constitution, the stomach is extremely deranged, and this derangement of the stomach is followed by a spasmodic con- traction of the diaphragm, producing hiccough. This symptom does not arise from any alteration in the action of the diaphragm, but from its sympathy with the deranged state of the stomach. If you wish to correct hiccough, you may arrest it for a time by giving some slight stimulus, or even by adopting opposite means. Thus a SSle suspend it for a considerable time, action. Such are the symptoms when gangrene is the result of excessive