247 ON HYDUOCELE. its wei^-ht and flatness, and the pain and sickness which it occa- J.'^^redTeT- sions; and often by the discolouration of the skin coveiinj, it, and by the semi-transparency and lightness ot one tumoui and the heaviness of the other. There is one disease somewhat difficult to distinguish from Hsematocele. hydrocele, viz. hsematocele: this is a collection of blood m the tunica vaginalis testis, and produces in lorm an exactly similar tumour to hydrocele; but the histoiy of the case is quite different, and your best guide. If you ask how it happened, the answer is “ Why I was riding, when the horse became restive, began to plunge, and threw me forward on the pommel of the saddle ; I soon aftenvards discovered this swelling. Then, if you inquiie whether there were any marks or bruises in the skin of the scrotum, the answer will he, ‘‘ Oh, yes ; it was black and blue.” Whenever you find a swelling thus suddenly formed after a blow, having the figure of hydrocele, you may be certain of its being blood. But, gentlemen, guard against mistaking this complaint foi diseased testicle. I was once present in the other hospital when a diseased tes- healthy testicle was removed, owing to this error; and some years since, one of the first surgeons in this town, after having lemoved a tumour from the scrotum, and when the gentlemen were leaving the theatre, desired them to wait a moment, and he would show them the disease of the testicle. However, upon cutting the part open, the great bulk proved to he blood, and the testicle was in a perfectly sound state. Such an unfortunate occurrence as this a man must for ever lament. The cause of hydrocele appears to depend upon increased secre- Its cause, tion, as the vessels are dilated, though there is generally no inflam- matory action. Inflammation of the testicles will give rise to hydrocele; for as From inflam ■ the inflammation disappears, hydrocele forms. This can generally be removed by exciting absorption: for which purpose give the pil. hydrarg. suhmur. comp., and apply to the scrotum a lotion com- posed of liq. ammon. acet., having dissolved it in some of the ammon. mur. These means will be found to have considerable