OF THE FUNGOID POLYPUS. 438 Colour. Produces de- formity. Destroys life gradually. Occurs at all ages. Case. Extends. Its colour is purple; its feel is firm. It sometimes bleeds with great freedom. It sloughs, and in its progress it produces great alteration in the form of the face, which it disfigures horribly. It extends into the sinuses, and frequently affects the lachrymal sac. It often alters the roof of the mouth, producing absorption of portions of the superior maxillary and palate bones. It is a long time in destroying life; the latter days of the patient cannot but excite pity in the most unfeeling bosom. Medicine and surgery do nothing for this disease: excepting opium, belladonna, hemlock, and hyoscyamus are administered locally and constitu- tionally, to mitigate, in some degree, the patient’s tortures; and the dose of the former is at last increased to keep the patient in a constant state of torpor. OF THE FUNGOID POLYPUS. The fungoid polypus occurs at all periods of life; but the best case which I can give of this disease is the following: A young gentleman came to my house with a large purple excrescence projecting from the nostril, which completely obstructed the passage on that side. I made a cast of this disease, which is now in the collection at St. Thomas’s Hospital. There w^as a copious discharge of sanious fluid from it; but the disease was little painful and the general health was, at first, but little affected. I passed a ligature around the root of the polypus as high as I could reach, and it sloughed away without haemorrhage. I was gratified with the result of this operation, as the patient appeared to be greatly relieved; but some time afterwards I heard that the disease had returned, and that it had been again removed. It again grew, and ultimately destroyed life. The head was examined, and the disease was found to have grown from a very small surface of the pituitary membrane. In general, the disease enters the difi’erent sinuses, affects the lachrymal sac, and ductus ad nasum; bleeds copiously, but has not