ON FRACTURES OF THE VERTEBRA'.. 194 Of the upper cervical. Cause of death. Fracture with out displace- ment. Case. horse, in consequence of the effort, fell on the opposite side, rolled over him, and broke his dorsal vertebrae. Paralysis of the lower extremities followed, but this gentleman lived four or five months after the injury. When fracture with displacement occurs between the fourth and seventh cervical vertebrae, the patient generally lives four or five days. I have known a person die as early as forty-eight hours after the injury. If the injury occur between the second and third, or between the third and fourth cervical vertebrae, the person dies on the instant. Those who have attended in the dissecting room can readily explain how this happens, and would, perhaps, feel themselves insulted if I were to explain it to them. Those who have dissected less, will excuse me for saying that instant death ensues in this case, because the injury occurs above the origin of the phrenic neiTe, which is the only agent in supporting respiration after pressure on the spinal marrow has occurred. The function of respiration, after pressure on the spinal marrow, is supported by the diaphragm only, and when the fracture with displacement occurs above the origin of the phrenic nerve, the diaphragm loses its power, and instant dissolution is the result.* But it sometimes happens that the cervical vertebrae are broken without displacement. When this occurs, some curious circum- stances take place. At the time I lived with Mr. Cline, the following case occurred:—A girl received a severe blow on the neck, after which it was found, that whenever she attempted to look at any thing above her head, she was under the necessity of putting her hands behind it, and gradually elevating it to the object. When she wanted to look at any thing beneath her head, she put her hands under her chin, and lowered her head to the object. If any other child in play ran against her and shook her body, the concussion produced uneasy sensations, and she would run to a * A luxation of this kind can only take place, either forward or backward, consequently, if instant means were employed to restore the parts to their natural situation, the pressure on the phrenic nerve would be removed, and respiration restored.—L.