348 OF TIIF, SIMPLE CHRONIC TUMOUR OF THE BREAST. Diagnosis. Dissection of the tumour. Cause. Treatment. Removal by operation. The diagnosis of this disease consists in the youth of the patient; in the absence from pain ; in the appearance of general health ; in the slow growth of the swelling ; in its superficial situation at first: in its extreme, mobility ; in its feel being that of the lobes of the breast enlarged, and therefoi*e it is a conglomerate tumour; the glands in the axilla being free from disease. Upon dissection, the swelling is found to be composed of a number of lobes connected together by a condensed cellular tissue, and which appear as enlargements of the lobes of the mammarj g’land. These lobes are composed of smaller, which, by macera- tion, may be separated. The appearance of the disease, ivhen cui into, is that of sweet-bread, that is, lobulated in every part, oi composed of large lobes, which are divisible into smaller. The cause of the disease is unknown. I have heard it frequentl) attributed, by the patient, to the pressure of the bones in her stays or that of some part of her di’ess. In the treatment of this disease, little is effected by medicine. 1 generally order the emplast: ammon: c. hydrargyro to be appliet to the part, and give hydrarg: c. creta with soda and rhubarb, bui the disease rarely disappears. The great gi’atification which th( patient receives in this case, is from the assui’ance that the com- plaint is not of a malignant nature. If the disease increases, in spite of an alterative treatment, anc the patient becomes anxious for its removal, there is very trifling risi from the operation, for I have frequently performed it at my owr house, and the patients have returned home immediately afterwards, When, however, these swellings grow to a very large size, the vessels supplying them become extremely increased; and 1 remember seeing one removed from the lett side, in which case the vessel that supplied the tumour was so large as to afford a gush oi blood, which alarmed the surgeon, from the idea of there being some communication between the tumour and the interior of the chest. When they are small, as they usually remain, it is right tc secure each vessel which continues to bleed, however slightly, or the wound will be obliged to be re-opened to secure it.