OF THE DIFFICHJ.TIES AND DANGERS OF 38‘2 Narrow pelvis. Large stone. firmly embraced, so as to impede the use of the forceps. This arises from the sudden escape of the urine which the bladder contained previous to the operation. The fungus of the bladder, and half of the organ near to it, embrace the stone closely, the forceps are passed into the anterior part of the bladder, and opened at its cervix; but, in attempting to seize the stone, only one of its extremities is nipped by the forceps, which slip from it immediately the surgeon tries to extract the calculus ; this occurs several times, until the patient becomes exhausted, when the contraction of the bladder subsides, and then the stone is readily seized. In such a case the flat forceps answer best, gliding most easily over the stone. If the patient does not retain his urine for a long period before the operation, this difficulty seldom occurs. In persons who have been the subject of rickets, the pelvis is sometimes so narroAV as to render the performance of this operation excessively difficult. I once saw Mr. Cline operate in a case of this kind, and only his coolness and perseverance could have over- come the obstacles it presented. The subject was a child; the tuberosities of the ischia were very near each other, and when the forceps were introduced into the bladder, only the handles remained external to the wound; the extremity of the stone only could be caught hold of, and from this the forceps repeatedly slipped. Mr. C. finding that the longest pair of forceps usually employed for children would not reach beyond the centre of the stone, and that it could not be held by them, introduced a pair of forceps made for an adult, and with these he succeeded in grasping the stone, but the opening of the pelvis was too small to admit of its being extracted whole; he, however, after repeated efforts, broke the calculus with the forceps, and remoA’^ed it by fragments. The child afterwards recovered. The stone is sometimes so large as to produce great difficulty in the extraction. The largest Avhich I have successfully removed has been be'tAveen five and six ounces; but I remember to have seen one in the Norwich Hospital, Avhich Aveighed eight ounces, and was extracted without being broken. If broken, a verA' large stone