275 OF THE CAFUT EPIDIDYMIS, Oil GLOBUS MAJOIl. its name is derived from its being' placed upon this organ, as the testes Avere anciently called didymi. It is of a crescentic form; its upper edge is rounded, its lower Its form, edge is thin. Its anterior and upper extremity is called its caput, the middle part its body, and the lower part its cauda. The caput and cauda hai''e been called globus major and minor; but there is no enlargement entitled to the name of globus minor. The epididymis is covered by the tunica vaginalis reflexa. The tunica vaginalis testis is continued from the side of the testis towards the epididymis, and passes directly over its caput and cauda; but in the centre it passes under the body of the epididymis to the spermatic cord; then turns, and lines the inner side of the epididymis, and rises oimr its sharp edge, to cover the upper part of its body, being continued, to form the tunica vaginalis reflexa. The cauda it coimrs superficially. The caput it closely invests. Thus each extremity of the epididymis is confined to the testis; but at its centre there is a hollow between the two, into which the point of the finger may be passed, and which is lined by the tunica vaginalis. When the tunica I'aginalis is raised from the epididymis, numerous cords and branches of blood-vessels, may be observed passing into it from the posterior to the anterior extremity, dividing it into lobes; and these cords are the insertions of the cremaster muscle into the epididymis. They also form bands, • Avhich prevent the convolutions of the tubes from being displaced. OF THE CAPUT EPIDIDYMIS, OR GLOBUS MAJOR. This part, although so called, is principally formed of the Caput lobes of the vasa efferentia, named by some anatomists coni vasculosi, M'hich are not situated in a single line, but some are placed behind others; so that the end of the epididymis is curved and double.. Between these lobes are formed tendinous cords, which separate and support them; and on the upper part of the vasa efferentia a