ON COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. 161 before its usual time; during the night, the servant was awoke by the apoplectic stertor of the child, which prevented her from sleeping; when she moved it, the child was not roused; she discovered that it was ill, alarmed the family, and at eight in the morninsr it died: it was found after death, that a considerable quantity of blood was extravasated in the brain. The son of a most respectable merchant in the city was d)-iving Case, to his country house at a short distance from town, in a one-horse chaise, when he was thrown out, and pitched with his head to the ground; he was stunned by the fall: he recovered a little, but looked very pale; he said that he was much hurt; a friend who was with him drove him home; in the evening he felt very heavy, laying his head on his hand; symptoms of compression of the brain came on; ten p.m., the family was alarmed; medical assistance called, but at two the following morning he died, all efforts to save him being unavailing. Extravasation with concussion renders the case of a different Extravasation , , - . 1 T 1 •! 1 with concus- nature; then the symptoms or concussion, such as 1 described to sion. you on a former evening, come on first, and the apoplectic stertors and other symptoms of compression succeed. Now for a case:— A gentleman was at a party with some friends. He drank freely Case, of wine, and became inebriated. His home was some distance from the place at which he was spending the evening; and his friends, seeing that he would be exposed to great risk, wished him to stop, but he could not be prevailed on. He mounted his horse; and on the way was thrown off. He was carried home; fell into a comatose state; symptoms of concussion first came on, loss of voluntary motion, at first no appearance of extravasation of blood was present; two, the following morning, apoplectic stertor came on, and at eleven he died. In this case, symptoms of concussion came on first, and those of Post mortem, compression aftenvards. Blood was found extravasated in the brain, as might be expected. It is found, gentlemen, that the extravasated blood, producing compression of the brain, is generally situated in three different parts; — M