393 BY THE URETHRO-VESICAL FORCEPS. month several similar calculi passed, to the number of about thiity, producing no other inconvenience than a slight smarting pain along the urethra. At the end of June, without any assignable cause, I was suddenly relieved from this discharge of calculous matter, and from every other symptom but that of a frequent desire to void my urine, which latter inconvenience occasioned me no feelings of anxiety or apprehension. “ In the ensuing winter I ivas seized with pains across the back and loins ; for which Mr. Brewster, of Cambridge, supposing they proceeded from gravel, ordered me medicines, which he considered likely to alleviate them, but without producing any permanent good effect. “ I was, however, still enabled to pursue my favourite amuse- ment of hunting, though frequently obliged to dismount to make w'ater ; at this time making no alteration from my accustomed mode of living. “ Without any material change, I remained until the December of 1819, when I found the exercise of riding was becoming consi- derably more painful, and the inclination to pass my water more frequent, attended with some degree of difficulty in its passage, and a change from its usual colour and clearness to a fluid resembling chocolate. For these symptoms several formulae of medicines having been prescribed without any material benefit, I was induced to consult Mr. Abbott, a most respectable surgeon, at Cambridge, who ordered me medicines highly beneficial in their first effects ; the relief, however, they afforded me was but of short duration, for my symptoms recurred with all their former violence ; and though the prescriptions were repeatedly altered at Mr. Abbott’s suggestion, no sensible impression could, by the most judicious treatment, be made on the disease. “ My friend. Dr. Thackeray, of Cambridge, was, in the June follow'ing, called in consultation with Mr. Abbott; and both agreeing that the symptoms were produced by stone in the bladder, the sound was introduced to ascertain its presence, but failed to discover it. My symptoms continuing unabated, Mr. Abbott, a