407 ' ON CALCULI IN THE SUBMAXILLARY DUCT. ischium : the beak of the straight bistoiy is then to be passed along’ its groove into the bladder, so as to divide the meatus and urethra obliquely downwards and outwards on the left side, between the vagina and branch of the ischium. The finger may then be passed into the bladder, to ascertain the situation of the stone, after which the forceps are to be introduced and the stone extracted. The curved forceps are sometimes necessaiy on account of the capacity of the bladder, and the usual position of the calculus, which rests behind the neck of the bladder, over the posterior and upper part of the vagina. A large stone is with difficulty extracted from the female, on Large stones .. difficult to account of the proximity of the meatus and pubes. extract. In all cases of this operation which I have performed or Operation witnessed, the urine has not been aftenvards retained ; but I would incontinence, not deny that a patient migffit recover the retentive power. As the loss of retention is a greater evil than I can describe, producing excoriation, and a very offensive state, I shall, in any future operation of lithotomy, try what may be effected by employing a suture to bring the divided parts together. ON CALCULI IN THE SUBMAXILLAUY DUCT. Stones forming in this duct produce [considerable inconvenience. Produce and the cause of the symptoms generally exists for some time before it is discovered. When I was living with Mr. Cline, he used frequently to say. Case. “ I have a spasm in my mylo-hyoideus muscle,” and it was usually at the time of eating that he made this observation t at length he said, “ I have discovered the cause of the uneasiness and spasm under my tongue, it arises from a stone in the submaxillary duct,” which he desired me to feel, and which I removed from him in the manner I shall presently describe. A medical man called upon me and said, ‘‘I have an irritation Case, and swelling under my tongue; 1 have taken great quantities of blue pill; but as my health has become impaired, and the disease