312 or THE lURlTAnLE TESTIS, Sometimes requires removal. Case, Granular swelling. Treatment, Pressure. Caustic, Removal. Many testicles condemned for removal I have thus known preserved. When the disease has proceeded so far as to produce an abscess in the testicle, it will sometimes require to be removed. One of our students, who afterwards became a surgeon in the cavalry, had an inflammation and chronic enlargement of the testicle, which had been repeatedly relieved by means similar to those which I have recommended; yet each time he returned to exertion, the inflammation and swelling were reproduced: tired by repeated dis- appointments, and unable to pursue his profession as he wished, he begged me to remove the part, which I did: and upon examination of it, after the operation, I found a chronic abscess in its centre. When the abscess is followed by a large swelling, produced by an exuberant growth of granulations (a granular swelling,) the treatment which is to be pursued is to be as follows: First. Try pressure with adhesive plasters; and if this does not succeed. Secondly. Sprinkle the surface with powdered sulphate of copper, or nitrate of silver, which gradually reduces it. I once knew arsenic applied freely upon the granulations, and it destroyed life. Thirdly. It may be removed by excision. An elliptical incision is made into the skin on each side of the projecting granulations, and then the knife is to be carried horizontally under the root of the swelling, where it projects from the opening in the tunica albuginea; and thus it is removed. The edges of the skin are then brought together by suture, and healed. Fourthly. But when the epididymis and testicle are much involved in the disease, and there is much loss of substance in the scrotum, it is necessary to remove the testicle. OF THE IRRITABLE TESTIS. Symptoms. This disease is known by the following symptoms:—the patient has an uneasy sensation in a part of the testicle; it is tender to pressure, tender also in exercise, and unusually sensitive at all times.