ON WOUNDS OF TIIF. BRAIN. Case. 179 When admitted into >St. Thomas s Hospital, theie was a consi derable loss of bone on the os frontis, over the right eye, where the pulsation of the brain was evident. A fungus swelling, in a sloughing state, occupied the middle of the wound, which was surrounded with red fleshy granulations ; and when the tumoui Avas pressed on, he complained of severe head-ache, which ceased on removing the pressure. On the day following his admission, I was desired to see him; and I immediately cut away the projecting part of the fungus, and recommended pressure to be made on the part, by means of a bandage, applying to the wound a pledget of lint, wetted with lime-water. No other treatment was found necessary; by these means the fungus was kept down, the ulcei gradually contracted, and on the 9th of August it was neaily skinned over, without one bad symptom occurring during the cuie. He always complained of head-ache when the bandage was applied tiffht. He took no medicine while in the hospital. Mr. Heniy, jun. of Keswick, was struck on the forehead by a portion of a small brass cannon, which burst while he ivas firing it. He Avas immediately afterwards found in a senseless state, but was in a few minutes able to rise and speak. Mr. Edmondstone, surgeon, Avas called in to see him, and arru^ed ten minutes after the accident. He found a Avound over the left eyebroAV, which he enlarged, and then discovered a comminuted fracture of the skull ; the fractured portions of bone were loose and detached; the dura mater was lacerated, so as to allow of the escape of about a tea- spoonful of the substance of the brain. The loose portions of the bone were removed, and the wound dressed. Soon after the operation he was sick; and his pulse being hard, he was bled tAvice in the following night. On the next day, some more brain, in small quantities, was removed Avith the dressing. A fortnight after the accident, a fungus arose from the brain, Avhich was treated by the pressure of lint dipped in lime-water, which considerably repressed its growth. Whilst pursuing the above plan of treat- ment, he one day complained of severe pain in his neck, for which he Avas bled freely; Avhen, in a fcAV hours after, the fungus suddenly n2