46 COUNTER-1 lUUTATlOX IN INFLAMMATION. Counter irri- tation. Blisters. very great advantage, as it enables you to remove your applications without disturbing the new skin. Now, where this covering is not used, the linen over the wound becomes dry, adheres to the newly- formed skin, and consequently, when you take away one, the other must come wdth it: in this manner the restorative efforts of nature for twenty-four hours will often be defeated in a single minute. The next method of treatment which we shall mention is that of counter-irritation. The power of this remedy is very great, and its advantages numerous; but the chief benefit that results from its employment, arises from its drawing off the blood from the neighbouring inflamed parts, whereby it checks the course of disease in important organs: thus, a blister at the nape of the neck, if early applied, will arrest an inflammation of the brain; a blister at the pit of the stomach will frequently overcome an inflammation of that viscus; a stimu- lating irritating lotion applied to the scrotum will often cui’e an in- flammation of the testicle. But counter-irritation, carried to excess, will do harm; you must, therefore, be particularly cautious as to the manner in which you use it. In parts that have no immediate connexion, it is really astonishing to observe its effects. In inflam- mation of the lungs, a blister applied upon the chest (parts between which there is no dii'ect communication) wull soon stop the disease, and be to the patient the principal cause of recoveiy. Blisters, likewise, applied to the front of the body, as on the abdomen, are extremely useful for the removal of inflammations of the liver, intestines, &c. Blisters are more generally used by surgeons for exciting counter- irritation than any other application. Issues and setons are also occasionally adopted. I again caution you against exciting such a degree of irritation as would affect the whole system: if you were to allow this to happen, you w’ould aggravate the original disease; it must therefore be limited, and kept ivithin proper bounds. Some- times, after the blister has been removed, it may be deemed prudent to keep the wound open; this you can accomplish by removing the loose cuticle, and by dressing the sore with savine ointment.