251 ON THE CURE OF HYDROCELE* Another case of the bursting of a hydrocele occurred in the Case of Dr. „ ^ ^ , n 1 Saunders, person of Dr. Saunders, of the other hospital, a person well known in the profession. Whilst standing on a chair to reach a book, he slipped his foot, by which means he received a blow on the scrotum, which was enlarged from a collection of water in it. Mr. Lucas, late surgeon of Guy’s, who had been in the habit of tapping him for this complaint, was sent for immediately after the accident, to perform the operation again ; the swelling was very large, and Mr. Lucas, not at all suspecting that the character of the complaint was changed, put a trocar into the scrotum, but no water came, which alarmed the doctor considerably. A consultation was held, at which many of the most eminent professional men of this town were present; the scrotum was swollen and harder than natural, blood was extravasated into the tunica vaginalis ; it was determined to attempt to relieve the swelling and ecchymosis by stimulant lotions, but these failing, an incision was then made into the scrotum, when there was found some coagulated blood, which had been substituted for the water. Thus then a blow on a scrotum affected with hydrocele will change that disease into hsematocele, which can be afteiwards cured by an incision. The cure of hydrocele is effected in three ways: 1st, by absorption ; Three modes 2dly, adhesion; 3dly, granulation. Now I observed to you in the treatment, last lecture that tvhen hydrocele is produced in the common way, medicine or local applications have hardly any influence on it; when it arises from a relaxed state of the vessels, stimulating medicines and blisters have no effect on the complaint. But I also stated on a former evening that hydrocele is produced by an inflammatory state of the parts, and that in these cases absorption by stimulating lotions should be promoted. I will now further add, that in young persons and children, who Cured by are not unfrequently subject to this affection, cure by absorption alone is effected, that is, by giving the hydrargyri submurias, scammony, rhubarb, and other medicines, so as to dispose the consti- tution to absorb. The liquor ammonias acetatis and ammoniae murias are the local applications generally made use of to promote