254 ON TIIR ClTRR OF IlYDROCRLK. Recapitulation Setons may be used for children. Operation by incision. taken from a person who died from the application of caustic, and this g'ives me an opportunity of showing you the state of the parts after the use of this application. The operation tvith caustic is dangerous to life, and ought not to be performed. OPERATIONS AT PRESENT USED FOR THE CURE OF HYDROCELE. There are but three operations I know of, which are occasionally had recourse to in the cure of hydorocele: 1st, setons; 2dly, incision; 3dly, injection. Setons are very rarely used, but I tell you, that they may now and then be, advantageously. The seton should be made in the following way: you should take a curved needle, and carr}’^ it into the tunica vaginalis and scrotum, just at the point where the trocar had been previously introduced, and include two inches above the point where the needle enters, and bring it out sufficiently long; the result is, inflammation generally ensues, water gTadually escapes, and as this takes place, adhesion of the tunica vaginalis comes on: this operation for adults has been generally abandoned, because better means have been employed; it is in those young persons whose hydroceles do not give way to the absorbent plan above- mentioned: then, if children about two or three years old have hydroceles, rather than inject, use the needle and thread: the thread should be allowed to remain for ten or fourteen days till inflammation and the adhesive process be set up ; this plan is much better for children than that of injection, because there is no diflBculty in doing the former, and there is considerable in the latter : for the operation of putting a ligature through the scrotum and tunica vaginalis is effected before the child knows any thing about it; in fact, after it is done, the child may run about, the knot being allowed to remain ; the water escapes by the side of the seton; for children, then, I believe this to be the best mode. The second plan is by incision. There is a difference in performing this operation now to what was done by Mr. Hunter, who had recourse to it in preference to that by caustic or seton;