ON THE SEAT OF THESE DISEASES. 356 alarm in the minds of the patients, so as to lead them to make application for surgical assistance. The medicines which I advised, and the applications which I proposed, appearing to have no influ- ence in preventing the progress of the disease, I recommended extirpation. Two of the patients recovered without any returning disease; the third, after a few months, sunk under what was believed to be hepatic disorder. More spongy I have given a plate of the appearance of one of these tumours: than scirrhous. _ _ * ‘ _ it is much more spongy than the true scirrhus. The vessels tvhich it possesses are more numerous, and their diameters larger, more especially of the veins. It not only adheres to the nipple, but it proceeds from its basis. The vessels which supply it are of consider- able size, and require to be carefully secured to prevent after- haemorrhage. In neither of the cases had it contracted adhesion to the pectoral muscle; and there was therefore no difficulty in detaching it from the surrounding parts. ON THE SEAT OF THESE DISEASES. Having thus described the diseases which are placed at the basis of the nipple, I shall now proceed to point out the structure in which these complaints begin; and which the plates connected with the work will very clearly explain. Discharge of A child born at the full period of gestation, whether it be male or fluid from the jg found to have, issuing from its nipple, a fluid of milky nipple of the ’ ? o rr ^ j infant, appearance, which, when alcohol is poured upon it, deposits a solid, which has the appearance of coagulated albumen. This fluid the nurses are in the habit of pressing out; as they pretend that it is liable to excite inflammation if suffered to remain. Whether this be the case or not, or whether the inflammation which sometimes ensues be the result of pressure and friction which the nurses employ, I am not able to state; but inflammation does sometimes ensue, and requires fomentation for its relief. Structure of Thirty-two years ago I first learned there Was such a discharge the part. from the nipple; and was led to examine whence it proceeded ;