99 . ON GRANULATION. The readiness with which the surface of a sore is covered in by Importance of cicatrization, depends very much on its form. A sore of a circular form requires a very considerable time before it will beal; whereas a sore of much greater length, but of less diameter, will heal more quickly. You may always pronounce, therefpre, that a round sore will be longer in healing than a longitudinal one, ccBtaris paribus, as for example, in the same patient, where the constitution is the same. The reason is, that the vessels have to elongate much less from the edge to the centre in a longitudinal than in a circular sore. The form, therefore, has an influence on the readiness with which cicatrization takes places. Sores are very often difiicult to heal, from their situation. Thus, Situation, if a sore be situated at the back of the leg, there will often be great difficulty in healing it. Indeed, such a sore can only be healed by raising the heel, and so loosening the skin, in order to give it a power of being drawm in, to form a new cicatrix. By this means the vessels are more readily elongated, and continually draw the skin nearer the centre of the sore. It appears, then, that the form and situation of the' sore have a very considerable influence on the healing power.* After the cicatrization of an extensive sore, more especially if it has been produced by a burn, the new formed skin contracts, occasioning great deformity; and if near a joint, further mischief ensues from its motions being impeded. Here is a model in plaster, on the table, representing the case of Contraction of a patient who had been severely burnt, and in which extensive deformity had supervened on the cicatrization of the wounds. The chin had become united to the breast, the arms to the sides, and the upper arm to the fore arm. Now, in looking at a case like this, some of you might be induced to exclaim. How abominably inattentive must the medical man have been who had the care of this patient, for all these conse- quences might have been prevented? If you said this, your * For this reason, ulcers situated over tendons, or about the ankle, will, for a long time, resist every means of healing them, on account of the granulations being disturbed by the slightest motion of the parts in contact.—L.