ON THE TYING OT ARTERIES. 234 First done by Dr. Post. brandies of nerves from the axillary plexus—you must carefully avoid including- these in the ligature; for it would be a fatal error if you were to tie them. The scalenus anticus being the boundary of the arteiy on the inner side, you cut down for the purpose of finding its inner edge; this you will find a useful guide. I have lately heard a person say, but do not know upon what authority, that the operation for tying the subclavian artery has been successful, but upon one side only. The first person who succeeded in this operation, was Dr. Post, of Philadelphia, an exceedingly clever, industrious surgeon. Since this gentleman, several others hai^e performed it, and the results favourable—a gentleman of the name of Liston, of Edinburgh, is one—Mr. Bullen, of Lynn, in Norfolk, another-—and you Lave lately seen a very successful one in the other hospital. Mr. Keate, sen., the uncle of the present Mr. Robert Keate, performed the operation below the clavicle, and the first time he did so it was completely successful; there may happen cases of axillary aneurism when the operation below the clavicle would be the best and safest, but unquestionably in ordinary instances that which I first described, viz. the one above the clavicle, is by far the most preferable. If, gentlemen, you were asked what artery chiefly supported the circulation after the subclavian had been tied, your answer would be the superior scapular. The late Mr. Taunton, lecturer on anatomy, had in his possession an excellent specimen of natural obliteration of the subclavian artery, and in this example the superior scapular had become very much enlarged. TYING THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. For a punc- ture in vene- section. This artery very seldom requires to be secured in consequence of aneurism; but it is often rendered necessary from other causes, such as wounds, and some of these wounds indeed, as in bleeding, give rise to aneurism. When an aneurismal tumour at the bend of the arm has been thus formed, let me recommend you not to cut