240 ox IIYDROCF.J.E. Hydrocele of two kinds. Described, Symptoms. Situation of the testicle. situated distinctly within it: and so is water in hydrocele completely within the tunica vaginalis. Hydrocele is a generic term, and a multitude of tumours have received this appellation. It is now, however, usually confined to two; I should, therefore, say that hydrocele is of two kinds, viz., 1st, of the tunica vaginalis; and, 2d, of the spermatic cord. HYDROCELE OF THE TUXICA VAGINALIS. Well, then, of hydrocele in the tunica vaginalis. The swelling at first shows itself at the lower part of the testicle, and gradually rises till it arrives at the abdominal ring; is of a pyriform shape; largest two-thirds of the way downwards; a little less at the bottom; and smallest at the ring. The common formation of hydrocele is unattended with pain, excepting, however, in those cases where it has been the result of inflammation; but, generally speaking, there is no pain, and the patient accidentally discovers the existence of the swelling, and often not until it has arrived at considerable magnitude. Commonly there is no redness of the scrotum—no discoloration. The ordinary situation of the testicle in hydrocele is two-thirds of the way down the tumour, at the posterior part. Here, I say, is its usual situation; but in this respect it sometimes varies, as I shall presently show you. In performing the operation for hydrocele, it is of the utmost importance that you should have an exact knowledge of the situation of the testicle,, for ignorance in this respect has often led to its being pierced by the trocar. You can easily discover the position of the testicle by a careful examination of the swelling, and by squeezing it with some degree of force at every part. hen you press upon the testicle, you will find that part of the tumour more firm; the patient will manifest much uneasiness, and complain that you give him a good deal of pain: in this manner, then, you can readily discover where it is situated. The weight of the tumour is but little (this of course means