232 ON THE TYING OF AUTEKIES. Case, ANEURISM OF THE CAROTID. I have twice performed the operation of tying the common carotid on account of the existence of aneurism; and as both these are already published in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, it will be only necessary to give a short account of them here, and of the mode in which this operation is to be performed. The first case is that of Maiy Edivards, fet. 44. The swelling occupied two-thirds of the right side of the neck, puhsated very strongly, and the integuments at the most prominent part of the tumour appeared very thin. It had existed six months previous to the operation, which was performed as follows:—On November 1, 1805, I made an incision two inches long, on the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, from the inferior part of the tumour to the clavicle, which laid bare the omo and sterno-hyoideus muscles, which being drawn aside towards the trachea, exposed the jugular vein. The motion of this vein produced the only difficulty in the operation ; as, under the different states of breathing, it sometimes presented itself to the knife tense and distended, and then as suddenly collapsed. Passing my finger into the wound, to confine that vein, I made an incision upon the carotid arteiy, and having laid it bare, I separated it from the par vagum, and introduced a curved aneurismal needle under it, taking care to exclude the recurrent nerve on the one hand, and the par vagum on the other. The two threads were then tied about half an inch asunder, being the greatest distance they could be separated: on account of the short space, I did not divide the artery. As soon as the threads were tied, all pulsation on the tumour ceased, and the wound was superficially dressed. Immediately after the operation, she was seized with a severe fit of coughing, which continued half an hour, when she became more tranquil, and slept six hours during the following night. She continued in a favourable state until the 17th, the tumour diminish- ing, and the wound healing : when the wound again opened, the