219 OPERATION FOR POPLITEAL ANEURISM. had not taken place before. I had a case in the other hospital, which was going on well to the fifteenth day, ivhen, as he was lying on the bed, a sudden rush of blood occurred, and had there not been a dresser in the room at the time, he must have died; ligatures were applied a second time. If an artery is whole when the ligatures are applied, separate it from the' cellulai membi ane sufficiently to allow of retraction: but if the artery is divided, as after amputation, there will be no occasion, as the vessel has already retracted before the ligature is applied, and this is the reason that there is less danger from hemorrhage when one ligature only is applied, than when there are two. But this operation led to another dangerous consequence—there Mr. Cline’s was the danger of the slipping of the knot. Mr. Cline, senior, in experiments, the operation for popliteal aneurism, put on two ligatures, and whilst the dresser was sitting by the patient, hemorrhage came on; the tourniquet was instantly applied, and Mr. Cline sent for; when he came, on looking into the wound, he saw one of the ligatures loose, and floating in the blood. On examination, he found that the ligature had escaped from the upper part of the artery, and that the lower one had nearly slipped. He immediately applied two fresh ligatures. Therefore there is the danger of the knot slipping where there are two ligatures used; and on this account it has been recommended that a needle should be put through the artery, with a fine ligature in it, as by this means the danger from hemorrhage would be prevented. It was found by Dr. Jones, who has written an excellent work Jones’s on the methods nature adopts in restraining hemorrhage, that if fine method, ligatures were applied on arteries, they would cut through the internal coat, and leave the e.xternal undivided; the elastic coat would remain whole. He tried experiments on animals, and from these he learnt that, when fine ligatures are applied, inflammation takes place, and the adhesive process is, in a veiy short time, produced, by which means the canal becomes obstnicted; he therefore recommended, that in operation for aneurisms, fine liga- tures should be applied only for a few hours, and then removed.