170 ON FRACTURES OF THE SKULE. These prin- ciples illus- trated. Case of fracture with compression. Use of the elevator. the dura mater and membranes of the brain has been excited by the depression of the bone, you cannot retard the progress to death by performing the operation. These principles may be illustrated by many cases. During the first year of my apprenticeship in these hospitals, I saw two instances : one, in a patient of Mr, Cline’s, and another in a patient of Mr. Birch’s. Mr. Cline’s patient was a man who came from Walworth, with compound fracture, from a blow on the head. A portion of bone had been forced into the cavity of the skull. Mr. Cline advised him to submit to the operation of trephining. The man said, “ You may do what you like ; I am no judge, but you are, so do what you please with me.” Accordingly, he walked into the operating theatre to be trephined; the portion of bone was removed; he walked back again to bed, and never had a bad symptom. A short time after, a patient under Mr. Birch, with fracture and depression, was told that he was in similar danger, and advised to undergo the same operation. He was, however, self-willed, and obstinately refused to submit to it. Eleven days after the accident, he was seized with pain in the head, and symptoms of inflammation in the brain, and when he became insensible, the operation of trephining was perfonned ; but it did not arrest the symptoms, and he died of the inflammation. In the other hospital two boys were admitted under very similar circumstances. The os frontis had, in one case, been broken by a kick from a horse, and in the other by a fall on the forehead. In the former case the portion of bone was raised, and the boy did well; but the mother of the other boy interfered to prevent the operation of trephining; and though it was performed after symptoms of inflammation had appeared, he died. It is quite true, that it often happens that fracture, with depression, is frequently not followed by inflammation, even when the fracture is compound; but we cannot be certain of this, and if it does ensue, we cannot save the patient by trephining at a late period. The rule, therefore, which I always follow, is this:—When I am