ADIir^SIVE INFLAMMATION. APPEARANCES. 57 spong'e should be applied, and all coagula of blood removed, as this is very essential to the union of the part; blood is not the means but the prevention of union in such cases, for unless it be taken away, the adhesive inflammation will not go on. There is one instance in which blood favours the process of adhesion, and that is in the application of a ligature on an artery; with this exception only, the opinion of blood favouring the process of adhesion is to be banished from your minds, for there are but tivo modes by which union can be effected, viz. by adhesion, and by granulation; therefore remove all clots of blood, which will only act as extraneous bodies and keep up irritation. You are to cut off one end of the ligature close to the vessel, and let the other hang out of the wound: it has been recommended to cut off both ends of the ligature close to the vessel; this plan has, however, been already given up. This was determined by Mr, Hunter, in the first operation he Effect of liga- perfomed for aneurism on the trunk of the artery above the tumour, instead of on the aneurism itself; for in that instance he cut the ligature close to the knot, and copious suppuration afterwards took place. Ligatures can only be removed from the vessels by suppuration or absorption (in the latter case they must be first dissolved and then removed by the absorbents;) and conceiving that if a ligature, composed of a substance easily soluble, were applied to a vessel, and cut close to the knot, it might be dissolved, and then absorbed, I applied a catgut one to the femoral artery of an old man, whom I operated on for popliteal aneurism, and cut it close to the vessel; this case turned out well, for adhesion followed and suppuration did not ensue. Although successful here, I have tried it in several cases since, and have failed in all, suppuration always coming on afterwards. I ajiplied a. silk ligature to the carotid of a dog on one side, and a catgut one to the carotid on the opposite side: upon killing the dog some days aftenvards, I found the second ligature (catgut) buried in a cyst, and that the first advanced by the process of ulceration to the side of the larynx. Experiment and observation show, then, that it is better to cut one end of the ligature off, and