OF THE DISSECTION OF PERSONS DYING WITH 332 Of the lungs. Of the liver. Of the uterus. Of the ovaria. Of the bones. Age at which this disease appears. clavicle are in the same state; and those on the left side, when enlarged, press upon the end of the thoracic duct, and disturb its functions, producing excessive pain for some time after taking food. The glands behind the cartilage of the ribs, when the disease is placed upon the sternal side of the nipple, are genemlly diseased< It often happens that the axillary glands upon the opposite side to the diseased breast are also enlarged and hardened. When the chest is opened, the lung on the diseased side, and sometimes on both sides, is inflamed, and partially adheres to the pleura costalis. Serum is found in the cavity of the pleura, on the diseased side, from which I have known death produced in a few days, after an operation of removing a scirrhous tubercle. When the finger is passed over the internal surface of the pleura costalis, little scirrhous tubercles are felt upon it, and the pleura on the surface of the lungs has similar, but larger, scirrhous swellings. The liver has frequently scirrhous tubercles on it, more especially when the disease in the breast is seated on the right side. The uterus is rarely free from disease; one, or sometimes several scirrhous tubercles are formed in it, and this produces the pain in the loins, of which the patient so frequently complains. I have also seen the ovaria enlarged, hardened, and tuberculated. The bones have frequently scirrhous deposits on the cancellated structure. We have the sternum, taken from Mrs. Edge, preserved in the collection at St. Thomas’s, with scirrhous secretion in it. We have the thigh bone of the same lady, which broke merely in her risino- from bed. We have a fractured thigh bone in the collection, taken from another patient, which broke by her turning in bed. We have also two most curious specimens of diseased spine, in which much of the bone has become absorbed, and scirrhous tubercles deposited in the spaces left by absorption. With respect to the age at which the disease appears, I have fre- quently seen it at all periods between thirty and seventy jears. I do not recollect more than two cases, in which the nature of the tumour was decidedly scirrhous, under thirty years. 1 have seen