OF CALCULI IN THE URETHRA. 401 patient having the strongest desire to void his urine; but able only to pass a few drops, ivith dreadful agony. You introduce a catheter to the membranous part of the urethra, and, feeling a stone grate against its extremity, you should immediately withdraw it, and pass a bougie as large as the passage will admit; when this touches the stone it should be left in, and the patient should be directed to sit in water as hot as he can bear it, and continue it as-long as he can: at the same time he should take opium with small doses of tartaiized antimony. In half an hour, or an hour, withdraw the bougie, whilst the patient tries to make water, when the stone, will frequently follow the bougie, being forced from him by the vis-a- tergo. I have found this plan to be the most successful. If the stone permanently lodges in the membranous portion of Operation to the urethra, pass a catheter down to it, and introduce a finger into cakulus^^^ the rectum, to press upon the canal behind the stone, so as to prevent any retrograde movement of it towards the bladder; then make an incision in perineo upon the calculus, and extract it with the common dressing forceps. If the stone be placed in the urethra above the scrotum, try to Stone behind press it forwards with the fingers, until it be brought before the ®crotum. scrotum; if this cannot be effected, it must be pushed back behind the scrotum, and there cut upon, if the use of the large bougie, as in the former case, is not successful. Do not cut through the scrotum to remove a calculus until all Scrotum must other means have been tried; and if it be at all necessary, which I ^ opened, doubt, let the external opening be free, so as to allow of a ready escape for the urine, aud thereby prevent its extravasation into the cellular tissue, which would produce extensive inflammation and suppuration. A catheter should be introduced into the bladder after the operation, and left there, that the urine may flow throuo-h it during the time the wound is healing. If the stone be situated near the glans, the surgeon should try to Stone near the press it through the meatus; but, if he cannot accomplish tins', he should introduce a common probe, curved at its end, behind the stone, and draw it forwards.