• ^ 272 OF THE UETE. Uete. Manner of dissecting it. Canals in the rete. semen from the tubuli; and it is to be distinctly understood, that these canals are not placed in the cavity of the tunica albuginea, as the tubuli are, but that they are situated between the layers of the tunica albuginea itself, in a substance which I have called the me- diastinum. This substance is placed at the posterior edge of the testis, but a little inclined to its outer side; and it is situated oppo- site to the epididymis. To dissect this structure clearly and distinctly first make a trans- verse section of the testis, and then, looking at its divided edge, it will be seen that the tunica albuginea is at that part readily divisible into three layers. The first layer turns upon the spermatic cord, uniting with the sheath which covers its vessels. The second layer unites with a similar layer on the opposite side, and forms a thick substance, between the fibres of which, interstices are left for blood- A^essels and absorbents: whilst the internal-layer, uniting with that on the opposite side, as well as with the preceding layer of the tunica albuginea, forms the process which I have called mediastinum, which projects into the testis between the tubuli; and it is in this substance that the seminal canals of the Rete are placed. The mediastinum is therefore composed of two bodies—the upper placed towards the spermatic coid, the lower towards the centre of the testis:—in the upper are situated blood-vessels ; in the lower, the canals of the Rete; and from the lower proceed the pillars which are stretched to the inner side of the tunica albuginea, to bind its sides together, and smaller ligaments are also sent to the lobes of the tubuli, to envelope and support them. If an incision be made in the long axis of the testis, from one e.xtremity to the other, the mediastinum will be seen projecting- downwards and forwards amidst the tubuli, reaching more than three-fourths the length of the testis, and its edge teiminates in forming its ligaments. In a testis which measured an inch and three quarters, the mediastinum was an inch and an eighth in length. In the whole length of the mediastinum, canals are passing, which form the rete, and when a transverse section is made of the mediastinum, these canals are very visible to the naked eye: they