OF THE OPEUATIOlf IN PETIINEO. 414 Other modes of relief. Most frequent causes of re- tention. Preferable operation. Case. Having described the different operations which are performed for the relief of a patient having retention of urine, I shall now proceed to point out the practice which I have myself pursued in these cases. I must premise, that I consider, from the experience that I have had in this disease, that nine tenths of the difficulties in passing the urine arises from strictures of the urethra, or from enlargement of the prostate gland : with respect to the latter, I have never yet seen a case in which I could not pass a catheter, made of proper form and size, although I do not wish to be understood to say, that there never can be such a case; but only, that in the course of a very extended experience I have never found an instance of it. I shall say more upon this subject when I speak of the diseases of the prostate gland; but shall now I'eturn to describe the mode of relieving retention from diseases of the urethra. The operation which I prefer is, to open the urethra only, and not to puncture the bladder, which I hold, in the male, to be scarcely eyer necessary. One night, when giving the surgical lecture at St. Thomas’s Hospital, a dresser of Mr. Chandler’s, then surgeon to the Hospital, came into the Theatre to inform me that a patient was labouring under retention of urine from the use of a caustic bougie ; that the man was in great pain, and that a catheter could not be made to pass the stricture. I said ■“ I will go with you into the ward after lecture, and do what is necessary.” The pupils accompanied me. Upon examination of the man, I found that the stricture was seated in that portion of the urethra which was covered by the scrotum. I tried to pass different instruments, but could not succeed. Reflecting on the case, it appeared to me to be exposing the patient to unnecessary pain and danger if I punctured his distended bladder; as, when I directed him to make attempts to discharge his urine, the urethra swelled excessively behind die stricture, from the urine passing as far as its seat. I therefore determined to make an incision into the urethra only, which I immediately did, being- directed to the place by the distention which an attempt to void the