200 ON ANEUIUSM. perfonned just above the ankle, and the patient recovered. Destruc- tion of life then takes place in aneurism from repeated hemorrhage and gangrene. Gangrene of a small part of the limb in aneurism may occur, and still be remedied by means of surgical aid. Aneurism of . The history of internal aneurism is different from that of the the heart. i t -n external. I will describe it to you in a few words, though the subject is by far too ample to be properly treated of at present. I mentioned to you just now, in the definition that I gave you of aneurism, that there was an exception to it, and that was the heart itself, when the subject of aneurism. Here is an aneurism (pointing to one on the table) of the heart; this and two others are all that I have ever seen; for what are often called aneurisms of the heart are not really so ; they are a simple dilatation of the ventricles. An aneurism of the heart consists of a bag formed out of the parietes of that organ, and in this bag an opening is formed, as in the aneurisms which take place in arteries. In this specimen there is a bag fonned of the parietes of the left ventricle, consi- derably larger than an orange, together w'ith an opening which communicates with it. Case.’ The other instances \^^l^ich I have seen of aneurism of the heart are the following: A soldier of the guards had committed some offence, for which he was severely flogged; being a determined fellow, he resolved not to cry, and whilst he was receiving the punishment he held his breath; a short time after this he was seized wfith violent pain in the chest; Mr. Palmer, surgeon to the guards, was sent for, and he found him dying, as he thought, of ascites and oedema of the lower extremities. He soon died, and on examination it was found that there was an aneurism of the left ventricle, which had burst, as the pericardium was very much distended with blood. Mr. P. of Chichester, surgeon to the militia, was sent for, to see a man who had symptoms of a diseased heart, and intermitting pulsation ; he had also ascites and oedema of the lower extremities. This man died, and there was found an aneurism of the left auricle. A curious circumstance in this case was, that the blood had