66 ON SUPPURATION. example, you all know that matter will be formed on its surface, for monthsand is the urethra destroyed by it ? No, but, on the contrary, is thicker than it was before the discharge existed; and, upon examination of this part after death, no ulcers have been discovered, even if the matter had been flowing for months: the ancients thought that gonorrhoea arose from ulceration of the urethra; this opinion, therefore, is also found to be wrong. Again, in large cavities, such as the chest and abdomen, an immense quantity of matter may be secreted, and yet, after death, no erosion of the solids will be discoverable; but the membranes lininsr their O cavities, namely the pleura and peritoneum, will be found very materially thickened. I remember, when there was a very warm discussion on this subject; the disputants used to put pieces of raw meat upon the surfaces of ulcers, and after suflfering them to remain for some time, would then carefully weigh them for the purpose of ascertaining the quantity of substance lost. Experiment. Pus, then, seems to possess no chemical quality by which it can act upon dead, much less can we conceive its power of dissolving living solids. Bones will remain for months and even years in pus without solution, and tendons continue in it for several weeks, and at last separate by sloughing. Experiments were made in this Hospital, whilst I was apprentice here, to ascertain if portions of meat would be dissolved in pus; but no diminution of their weight was found until the process of putrefaction commenced; it follows then, as milk, bile, saliva, or tears, are produced from the blood by the action of the blood vessels, so is pus but an altered state of the blood, produced by the extremities of the secreting vessels upon the natural surface, or upon the granulations of an ulcer. Pus secreted Pus is not a fluid produced by the dissolution of the solids; it is from the blood. secreted from the blood-vessels, but not until they have been acted upon by inflammation. The effects produced by the application of a blister exemplify this; when the cuticle is raised, first serum and fibrin are thrown out; remove the cuticle and apply upon the raw skin a piece of glass; at first no matter is to be seen, but in a few ■minutes you will observe it collect and adhere to the under side of