DUCTUS SPERMATICUS. 277 OF THE VAS DEFERENS, OR and bound down, by the tendinous fibres and insertions of the cremaster. It is at its beginning very much convoluted, though less so than the epididymis; and it does not form any distinct lobes. It descends below the cauda of the epididymis at its commencement, and for the first inch its convolutions are numerous; in the second inch of its ascent they become less in number; and in the third inch, from its beginning, in a great degree disappear. It then ascends to the external ring, passes through the inguinal canal, emerges at the internal ring, there entering the abdomen. It then quits the spermatic artery and vein, crosses the edge of the psoas muscle, and descends into the pelvis—first, by the side of the bladder; and, secondly, behind it, and between the vesiculse semi- nales to the prostate gland. The vas deferens is enclosed in a sheath, formed by the tendinous fibres of the cremaster, and is supported by ligaments of its own, which descend from the internal ring, which sheath may be readily found in the first three inches of the tube from the epididymis. The lio’aments are intended to strengthen the connection of the testis to the body, to support the testis, and to preserve the convolutions of the vas deferens, for which its two lateral band^ are particularly designed. It is situated posteriorly in the spermatic cord; and there is a Its relative space of a quarter to half an inch between it and the spermatic ^ ’ artery and vein. It is round and hard, and is thus easily distinguished fi’om the other vessels. It is distinctly muscular in the bull, and its fibres take a circular Structure, &c. direction, as may be readily seen in that animal, by examining the enlarged part of the vas deferens, which is situated behind the bladder. Where these vessels are placed between the vesiculae seminales, they become enlarged, and their interna surfaces cellular, secreting a fluid which mixes with the semen. The structure of the vas deferens near its termination bears a strong resemblance to that of the vesiculee seminales.