87 ACUTi; AND CHRONIC ABSCESS. 3clly. Hectic fever comes on when no matter has formed. A Case, woman, who had her leg' amputated, came into the hospital for a pain in the knee on the same side ; the symptoms of constitutional irritation were so severe, that in consequence Mr. Chandler held a consultation. The knee-joint was a little enlarged, and violent pain in the part, with great constitutional disturbance existed. Amputation was now performed above the joint, and after the operation I had an opportunity of examining the limb. There was no formation of matter in the knee ; in the condyles, however, ot the thigh-bone the ulcerative process had commenced, and the hectic fever was the effect, in this case, not of a disease oi the knee-joint, but of the cancellated structure of the thigh-bone. In those cases also where matter has been absorbed, no hectic fever has come on. Some years ago, my old friend, Mr. Cline, thought that psoas abscesses might be cured by causing the absorption of the matter, and he tried the effect of digitalis on a boy of sixteen years old, w’ho had a psoas abscess; the size of the tumour diminished, the skin becam*e flaccid; but as soon as the digitalis was left off, the matter returned again, and during the trial of the medicines, the pulse was lessened, and the boy a little weakened— symptoms which, as you well know, are produced by digitalis. But during this time, no hectic fever came on ; therefore, the belief of the absorption of matter being the cause of hectic fever is unfounded ; for it is only the result of a constitutional effort to repair an injuiy, or to cure a disease. The last circumstance that I shall mention, is the influence Influence of which the admission of air into cavities has in producing local iiTitation. Now, from what I stated concerning the absorption of abscesses, matter into the constitution, I think you will have agreed with me: whether you have or not I do not care; it is my duty to state to you my opinion—you must think for yourselves; only do not rest contented with thinking ; make obseiwations and experiments ; for without them your thinking v/ill be of no use. The circumstance, however, about the admission of air into abscesses, when they are opened, not producing local irritation, will be less readily understood.