OF AMPUTATION OF THE PENIS. 418 Destruction of the penis. Frequent cause. Medicine of no service. Irritating applications prejudicial. Arsenic. Removal. Operation. vanished. The glands sometimes ulcerate and produce a very troublesome sore, with everted edges and ii'regular surface, a serous discharge, and sometimes free haemorrhages. The penis continues ulcerating until that part which is naturally pendulous becomes destroyed, occasioning retention of urine, and great difficulty in its discharge at other times. The urine passing in various directions excoriates the scrotum, and leads to a most painful but lingering termination of existence. This disease is often the result of a natural phymosis, leading to a confined and irritating state of the secretions of the glandulae odoriferae; and, when the constitution becomes unhealthy, to the production of unnatural actions in the part. As to the treatment of this disease, nothing is to be done by medicine or applications, but to tranqullize the parts and to keep them clean. All irritating applications should be avoided. Poultices, ointments of bismuth, lead, chalk, opium, zinc, may be alternately employed, as that previously used loses its effect. Arsenic I have tried in these cases, but have never succeeded with it; on the contrary, it has greatly irritated and made the sore more extensive and the warts more numerous. The only means by which the effects of this dreadful malady can be averted, consist in the early removal of the diseased portions of the penis. It is required, in doing this, that the surgeon proceed somewhat beyond the exact limits of the disease; more especially must he examine with care the urethra and corpus spongiosum, in which the complaint is usually most extensive. The operation is dreadfully painful, but it lasts only for a moment. Its steps are as follow: First, Draw forward^ and elongate the penis as much as is possible. Secondly, Tie a piece of narrow tape tightly around the penis at the pubes.