.340 OK THE OI’EIIATION OK REMOVING A SCIRRHOUS TUBERCLE. lost but five patients ; two of erysipelatous fever and inflammation; one from hydrotborax, ivhicli was found upon dissection to be con- nected with the exterior of the disease into the chest, affecting the lungs and pleura; one, a woman of great bulk, in whom the breast was very large; and one from great age. To the second question the reply is made with more difficulty. A large proportion of cases return ; but fewer than formerly, if the patient, immediately after recovering from the operation, undergoes an alterative course of medicine. The only mode It may be truly said, in the present state of our knowledge, the of relief. operation furnishes the only hope of preventing the disease from proving destructive, with the exception of very advanced age, in which it makes little inroad on the constitution, and little progress Parts to be removed. Mode of operating. in the parts; Although the patient may not ultimately suiwive, yet it may be said, that in cases in which the disease does return, the patient is generally preserved fi'om a most painful and offensive state by the operation preventing ulceration. On these accounts, I recommend the patient to submit to it. Hope is revived, and the only chance for life is given. If the nipple be drawn in, it should be removed with the tumour, if any cords or roots can be felt proceeding from it, they ought to be removed ; and if the skin adheres to the tumour, or be in the least inflamed on its surface, it ought to be removed. It is not sufficient to remove the tumour, but the gland fiom the nipple to the tumour must be removed; and the surround- ing parts, to some extent, must be taken away : for the disease does not consist in the tubercle only, but there are roots pro- ceeding from it into the lobes of the breast in its vicinity. It will be sometimes necessary to remove the whole breast, where much is apparently contaminated; for there is more generally diseased than is perceived, and it is best not to leave any small portions of it, as tubercles reappear in them. The operation consists in making two semicircular incisions, nearly perpendicularly, which meet at their points; one on the