ON THE SIZE OF ANEtriUSMS. 207 iveig'ht. Here (showing- another specimen) is a popliteal aneurism of considerable size. The g-reatest number of aneurisms that I have seen in one case is seven, and this specimen on the table was taken from the man to whom I allude. He died of an aneurism at the bifurcation of the aorta; he also had one at the opposite ham, two above it, one in the groin, and two others. The iliac artery had been tied for femoral aneurism, and the patient did well for some time, but afterwards died. This man was a bricklayer’s labourer; had been accustomed to mount ladders, and cany weights up great heights ; had been in the habit of exercising his lower extremities a good deal: he was not very muscular, and the fatigue of his occupation was more than he could bear. I may observe here, that some aneurisms are local, and others Local and general; when they occur in the ham, they are frequently only constitutional local; but when between the groin and ham, or in the middle of the thigh, you very commonly find disease of other arteries- Therefore, in popliteal aneurism, you expect to find the aorta and larger arteries healthy. The age at which aneurisms generally occur is from 30 to 50 ; at that age, exercise is considerable and strength less. In very old which they . ... T 1 occur, age this complaint is not so common. 1 have seen a popliteal aneurism in a man of 80, four or five years ago, at the other hospital: on this man I tied the femoral artery, and he did extremely well. On a man of 69 I have operated, and that case did well. I saw a boy in this hospital, eleven years old, with aneurism of the anterior tibial artery. The man of eighty is the oldest, and the boy of eleven the youngest, that I have seen with aneurism. It is more commonly met with between 30 and 50, or rather between 30 and 40, than after that time. In cases of aneurism, the age is no objection to the operation. With respect to the sex in which aneurism chiefly occurs, the Sex. male is certainly much more frequently the subject of it than the female. I should say that the proportion of males to females is about five to one : and if we take only cases of popliteal aneurism, the proportion of males would be considerably greater. When