TREATMENT OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. 37 and the spiv, aeth, nitrici; it reduced the pulse, caused the absoi'p- tion of the effused fluid in the legs, and she rapidly recovered. This medicine reduced the inflammation, and at the same time increased power. The means, therefore, which are employed to lessen or remove Summary, inflammation, are those which restore the secretions, by opening the extremities of the arteries; and thus the heart is prevented from propelling a quantity of blood with violence to any particular part of the body. TREATMENT OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. The remedies employed in this affection must have a slow and Treatment of gradual action on the secretions, you cannot take this disease by gammat^n, storm; and, if your medicines are attended by violent actions, you will do harm instead of good. The principle on which this disease depends, is the same as in acute inflammation, viz. the arrest of the secretions. Chronic inflammation is frequently produced through the influence of the mind: thus, long continued grief will com- pletely stop the secretion of bile; again, loss of appetite, from a deficient secretion of gastric juice, is often occasioned by anxiety of mind; and even an ulcerated state of the stomach has been pro- duced by a long continuance of the same cause. But let what will cause the stoppage of the secretion, some enlargement will be the result; as swelling of the liver, of the testicles, or of the joints; the formation of common tumours, as the fatty, or those of a specific kind, as the fungous. In diseases of a chronic kind, give calomel and opium; and I cannot point out to you a better example of their good effects than is observable in chronic inflammation of the iris. A person comes into the hospital with iritis; he has a zone of red vessels round the cornea, on the sclerotic coat, and there are red or yellow spots on the iris; if the complaint has been violent, the spots are red, from their having become vascular. You give this patient five grains of calomel, and one grain of opium, twice a day for a fortnight, and