ON ULCtRS. 109 Stimulus should be employed; but when there is excessive action, it is to be avoided. Tlie best application that I know for producing a slight stimulus Nitric aci and checking gangi-ene of the part, is the nitric acid ; there is none equal to this : fifty drops of it to a quart of distilled water, will be found a most useful remedy. The acid may he increased to a drachm; this may be done or not, just as it may give pain to the part; but, generally, the average quantity is fifty drops. I have seen, in a short time after this application, a quick separation of the parts from sloughing, to which there is always a tendency; and healthy granulations spring up, being, as the chemists would call them, oxygenated; that is to say, the carbon being thrown off from the arterial blood in the vessels with which they are supplied. Here the granulations are of a beautiful florid red : this, then, is a most useful remedy. Oiled silk should he applied to the wound, so as to prevent Oiled silk, the smell arising from the parts tainting the room; for it is always considerable when the process of sloughing is taking place, and granulations are arising ; an advantage, though a slight one, compared with the others, in the use of the nitric acid, is, that the offensive smell is nearly taken away by it, the sulphuretted hydrogen is destroyed. Another very good application to sores of this kind is nitre, in the proportion of one drachm to a pint of water; this agrees very well with the sore, and has the same effect, though in a diminished degree. It appears that all the combinations of the nitric acid are good. Sulphuric acid is of use also in these cases, six drops of the acid to an ounce of water. The muriatic acid has not the same effect as the other two. If nitric acid be applied to the wound, the granulations will assume a red and healthy look. if the sulphuric be, they will have nearly the same appearance; hut if the muriatic acid he put to the wound, it will be seen that it will have a comparatively slight effect on the granulations, and, therefore, it is an inferior remedy in the treatment of these wounds. Poultices made of port wine, porter, dregs of lees, yeast, a large spoonful of it to a pint of meal, may he all used.