Of THE TREATMENT OF THIS DISEASE. 316 Case. Case, irritation by the application of a solution of nitrate of potash and muriate of ammonia, in a bladder. Bougies do not relieve it; but the ung: ly ttse, used to produce a slight discharge from the beginning of the urethra, I have known of service. The following are the three cases in which I have operated for the removal of the testis on account of this affection. Mr. G contracted a gonorrhoea at Paris, in October 1815, and in consequence had inflammation of the right testicle, for which he applied fomentations and took aperient medicines: the testicle continued swelled and painful until June 1816, when the employment of strengthening plasters removed all inconvenience; a slight degree of pain returned at intervals until June 1817, when he was again relieved by plasters, and thought himself sufficiently well to join his regiment. The exercise, which his duty obliged him to take, soon occasioned so much pain, that during the winter of 1817 and spring of 1818, he scarcely had a moment’s respite, but only used a blister, which he thought increased the tenderness. In May 1818, he returned to England, and bathed in the sea till September, at which time the pain was nearly removed, but he was unable to walk or ride. Since, he has not employed any remedy but nine weeks’ sea- bathing at Brighton, which produced no amelioration: h<^ was unable to walk ten-yards without experiencing considerable pain ; the only thing which appeared to relieve him was violent motion in a rough carriage. On account of the continued pain, confinement, consequent < depression of sprits, and loss of health, he determined on having the testicle extracted, which I removed on the 1st of March 1819. The wound healed slowly, and one or two small abscesses formed in the scrotum, but he ultimately did extremely well. Captain P. had an irritable state of the left testis, which commenced in March 1818. The vein of the spermatic cord felt distended; the part was exquisitely tender to the touch, and exercise produced pain, which was intolerable if the part was not supported : he could not rest on the left side, or bear the slightest pressure on the testis; he had increased pain in coitu, and after it the part