307 SCIRRHOUS TESTIS. Thomas Cheston, aged 44, who had resided at Tottenham, was Case, admitted into Guy’s Hospital, for an enlarged and hardened testis. The testis, when first enlarged, was impenetrably hard ; water formed around it, and the hardened mass was felt through the surrounding water, which, being drawn off, was found to amount to four ounces. His disease began in June, 1808, and he says, he first observed a pain in the loins, and, a month afterwards, hardness and uneasiness in the testicle: it gradually increased, but never became very large. The testicle and epididymis, when he came to the Hospital, were both affected, but the spermatic cord was not enlarged. He had much pain in his loins, more especially in stooping. His countenance became then sallow; his digestion impaired ; his leg and thigh (but first the latter) became enlarged and oedematous. He had been a strong muscular man, and thought he was in good health when the disease began. The testis was removed in March, 1809, and the wound slowly healed. He was discharged the Hospital as soon as the wound was closed; but the swelling in the thigh and leg remained, and he died a month after his return to Tottenham. On examination of the testicle, after its removal, it was found hard, white, very compact, tuberculated, and in a few spots very vascular. The epididymis was also enlarged. We have, in the collection of St. Thomas’s Hospital, three or four preparations of this disease, in which the appearances of the testis are as above described. The substance is white, very hard, tuberculated, carti- laginous matter in one part; some ossific matter in others. The disease does not increase, either in the part or in the abdomen, to the same magnitude as the fungous disease. This disease requires the operation for its removal: but if the Disease of the cord be effected, 1 have not known the operation to succeed; and, indeed, there is some danger to life in its performance. In visiting the wards of Guy’s Hospital, I saw a man who had a Case. X 2