ON THE OPEUATION OF TUEPH ININO. 187 know; opposite to the anterior inferior angle of the parietal hone is tlie great artery of the dura mater, and opposite to the posterior inferior angle is the great lateral sinus. Fractured portions of these bones may be raised by the elevator: and I may observe here, that this is the instrument chiefly used in cases Avhere the fractures are running in the direction of these parts. Mr. Key’s saw is a very useful invention. It is gratifying to Hey s saw. state that we are seldom now called to perform this operation. Suppose, however, you were called to a case requiring it, where Mode of per- . . j* -L - IT, forming the there was a wound, together with depression of the parietal bone, operation. you w^ould put your finger into the wound, and if the portion of bone depressed w^ere small, you would make a simple incision, and turn the integuments aside, so as to reach the bone. If, by this incision, you found depression with fracture, you enlarge it in the course of the fracture: if the depression were large, you would make a crucial incision, and turn aside the portion of integument, so as to open a space for the application of the trephine: then, 'with the back edge of the knife (which should be made a little -Stronger than usual,) you cut through the pericranium, and scrape it off. For this purpose the rougee was formerly employed. [There was a subject on the table, on which Sir Astley performed the operation as he went on describing it.] Now I put the pin on the skull, and the crown being adjusted, I fix it, and begin the circle. Well, gentlemen, having made a circle, I remove the pin: in young persons it will be necessaiy to do this soon, because the hone is readily sawn through. I never myself saw a case in which the pin entered the brain; but my nephew was present when the operation of trephining was performed, and the pin was forgotten, so that it entered the brain, and inflammation of the dura mater came on. I can conceive that a man, in his first operation, anxious how he shall succeed, might forget it. When using the saw, let your bearing on it be as even as possible, else you will be through one part of the skull before another. There is but one danger in performing the operation of trephining, and that is,