428 OF THE TREATMENT OF PILES OR HAEMORRHOIDS. Do not bleed. Mode of re- moval. Treatment of internal piles. Medical. Local. Diet. Hmmorrhage. cations : and when it bursts, if it shows no tendency to heal, it must be opened into the rectum. The excrescences left by external piles are growths only of the skin, and they may be freely removed when they become trouble- some. Subdue the inflammation first, with evaporating lotions, and then remove them by scissors, or by the knife. The former is by far the most painful mode to the patient, but most easily performed by the surgeon. These excrescences furnish no bleeding of any consequence. I generally pass a tenaculum through them, draw them towards me, and cut them off with a lancet. The treatment of internal piles is more difiicult, and requires attention to a number of circumstances. First. The medical treatment demands the exhibition of confectio sennae cum sulphure; the bals: copaibae is also a good medicine. If there be hepatic congestion, gentle doses of blue pill should be given, to restore the biliary secretions; in general, however, mer- cury disagrees in piles: Ward’s paste, or confectio piperis of the London Pharmacopoeia, is an admirable remedy, opening the bowels gently, and contracting the dilated vessels; soda and rhubarb I have known useful. If piles arise, as they sometimes do, from diarrhoea, the confectio opiata is the best medicine. The local treatment, to prevent their increase, is to inject cold water into the rectum twice per diem; a dilute aluminous injection is also useful, combined with decoction of oak bark. The diet must be attended to; animal food is better than vege- table, as occupying less bulk to affoi’d the same degree of sustenance, and consequently presses less upon the returning blood vessels. Mutton is the best butcher’s meat. White fish is easy of digestion. All flatulent food should be avoided. A good deal of exercise should be taken; and I have seen, in the incipient state of this disease, horse exercise of great benefit. When the piles bleed, the medicine should be infusum rosee cum magnesiae sulphate; cold water should be still injected.