OF IIARE-LIP. 460 Fissure only in the palate. Cause. Exceptions. Contrary effects. Fissure in the lip easily cured. Sixthly, The defect in the palhte is in some cases a circular opening', either in the bone or in the velum palati only. As to the cause of this defect, it may be remarked that such deficiencies are more frequently observed in the median line of the body than in any other parts. The body is constituted in the greater part of two halves rather than of one whole; thus it is obvious, that the brain and nervous system of one side of the body is distinct in its functions from the other side ; as for example, in cases of paralysis, the nervous defect is confined often to one half of the body. I have seen a child born with half its face; its arm and leg on one side much larger than on the other. With regard to the organs of sense, they are each of them double. In the organs of smell and taste, although less apparently double than those of sight, hearing, or feeling, yet the function of one half of the tongue and one half of the nose may be lost, and the other half remain perfect. It is at the median line that the union of the two halves of the body may be said to be produced : there it is that the nerves unite, and the blood-vessels inosculate; and from deficiency in that inosculation arises the defects which are so frequent in the central line of the body, viz. the defects in the lip and in the palate ; a want of the sternum ; a deficiency of the linea alba to a great extent; also of integument, pyramidal muscles, and fore part of the bladder ; the prepuce imperfectly formed at the freenum ; an aperture in perineo in the male giving the appearance of the hermaphrodite. The exception to this rule is in the abdominal viscera, which are supplied by azygos branches from the aorta and by nerves from the ganglia. On the other hand, the inosculation in some instances is unusually free, producing a closure of the anus, or of the pudendum in the female. The congenital defect in the lip may be readily repaired by the process of adhesion, and this becomes desirable not only on account