33 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. drawn from an animal before it dies, is about one pound to sixteen. I ascertained this fact in the following manner: I took a small dog, weighing fourteen pounds, and opened his jugular vein; in tills way eleven ounces were discharged, when the dog fainted. I then opened the carotid arteiy, and from this source obtained three ounces more. Thus, fourteen ounces of blood were drawn from a dog weighing fourteen pounds ; so that one ounce of blood to six- teen ounces of the solids is about the correct proportion. AVhen you bleed to relieve inflammation, the blood should be Mode of bleed- abstracted as rapidly as possible; therefore, the orifice made • into the vessel should be of considerable size ; for, if it be allowed to run slowly, the vessels have time to accommodate themselves to the diminished volume of circulating fluid ; so that the system scarcely receives any shock when blood is abstracted in this gradual manner. The grand object, indeed, is to produce fainting; to effect which, blood must be suddenly withdrawn. You may bleed so as to produce constitutional and local effects at Case, the same time. A patient of Mr. Foster’s, in Guy’s Hospital, who had a concussion of the brain, ivas bled in the external jugular vein; immediately after the operation, the pain of the head ceased, and the irritable fever disappeared. When you have accidents brought to you which will require a Bleeding in 1 „ .1 . . , 1. 1 r 1 1 Chronic cases, long time lor their recovery, you must be exceedingly careful how you take away blood from the general system, but must adopt in these cases local depletion; for if, as I have before remarked, you take away from the constitution too much of the vital fluid, nature will be unable to execute the usual processes for the restoration of the injured parts ; the most disastrous consequences, in such cases, follow the indiscriminate employment of blood-letting; and there is not to be found, in the whole range of surgical practice, a gi’eater error than this, as the following case M'ill illustrate. A fine youna: Case of a pa- • XI ® tient. bled to man, in the very prime of life, was admitted into Guy s Hospital, death. with simple fracture of the humerus, with slight abrasion of the fore-ann. Some time after his admission, he appeared to labour under constitutional irritation, and local pain near the seat of injury. D