ON SLI'HUUA'IION. Pus of a poi- sonous nature. Utility of pus. 68 For example, in diseases of the bones of the nose, the smell is more oftensive to my olfactory nerves than any thing I know in nature. When matter of a poisonous kind, the result of a specific inflam- mation, is applied to the surface of the body, it irritates, occasions inflammation and suppuration, and this newly-formed matter is of exactly the same description as that which produced it; at least the poisonous quality is retained undiminished in vimlence. This is illustrated by the discharge of gonorrhoea, chancre, small-pox,&c. To enumerate all the instances' would fatigue you. But these instances must be considered as additional arguments in favour of pus being a secretion. Suppuration is not wthout its advantages; in two points of vieAv it is very important. First. By forming a covering to granulating surfaces, thereby preventing the granulations from becoming diy through the in- fluence of the air; for, if they were not kept moist they could not push forward. Secondly. The suppurative process is the means resorted to by nature for effecting' the escape of extraneous bodies: thus a ball, by its pressure, gives rise to suppuration, and ultimately is discharged, excepting in such cases as we have before described, where it remains encased by adhesive matter. Another advantage possessed by pus, Avill lead to the healing of a sore without any adventitious aid. Thus we see in other animals, sores encrusted with the solid matter of pus left by evaporation: under this is fluid pus contained, and when the encrustation is removed, healthy granulations appear. In sores obstinately resisting different applications, I have seen them thus encrusted when left without applications of any kind, and heal gradually without further attention. Some wounds are very troublesome, and, do what we will, we cannot get them to heal. Now and then it happens, if you dis- continue your dressings to such sores, and let their surfaces remain exposed to the air, incrustations or scabs will form; under these, pus will be secreted, which, by keeping the granulations constantly