97 OK GRANULATIOK. granulations arising from fasciae, and the aponeuroses of muscles are endued with little sensibility. In general, therefore, although granulations springing from parts of great sensibility are sometimes exquisitely sensitive, those arising from parts in a great degree insensible, or entirely so, as tendons, are not sensitive; a circum- stance %vhich you cannot at any time go round a large hospital without having an opportunity of witnessing. Granulations are very readily united to each other. The mode Granulations , 1 • • 1 1 ^ 1 readily unite, in which union is effected, is, by bringing the edges oi the two granulating surfaces together, so as to produce the adhesive process. The surface of the granulations will be covered by adhesive matter, and you have only to apply the two surfaces to each other to produce an union. The knowledge of this principle is very often useful in the practice of surgery. A man has a considerable portion of the scalp raised from the skull, and the pericranium throws out granulations, w'hilst the raised portion of scalp is also granulating. Instead of waiting for the tedious process of the union of both surfaces, by granulations filling the cavity, you have only to place one portion of the granulations upon the other, bind them well down with adhesive plaster, and they will be sure to inosculate. In this manner, a surface, which it would otherwise have taken a long time to close, will be healed in a few days. The cavity^of the scrotum, after removal of the testicles, is often Advantage of covered with a great number of granulations, by bringing the surfaces of which together with adhesive plaster, a wound, which would otherwise require weeks in healing, will be healed in a very short time. It was upon this principle, namely, that of bringing together the Baynton’s granulating surfaces, that Mr. Baynton proceeded with so much success in the treatment of ulcers; so that our hospitals are now much less filled than they formerly were with those opprobria of our art. The next subject to w’hich I shall direct your attention is the closing of sores by cicatrization. The formation of the new skin with which a sore is covered over. Cicatrization. II