Spermatic cord described. Three inser- tions. 284 OF THE SPEHMATIC COUD BELOW THE EXTERNAL RING. edges of the external abdominal ring, and unites the cord to them, so as to conceal the opening until the fascia be removed. It descends upon the outer surface of the cremaster, adhering to it by a loose texture ; and externally it blends with the cellular tissue of the scrotum. The fascia descends to the lower part of the testis, still adhering to the cremaster, and surrounding it. The use of this fascia is to give support to the testis and its coverings; and by its loose connection with it and with the cord, still permits the free motion of the testis, and its power of eluding pressure or violence. The second covering of the cord is the cremaster muscle. Its origin is from Poupart’s ligament in the inguinal canal, between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. It there blends with some of the fibres of both of those muscles:—below the origin of the fibres of the internal oblique, it arises from Poupart s ligament nearly to the external ring; behind the spermatic cord it receives muscular fibres from the transversalis. It is also attached, to the inner side of the abdominal ring, to the lower part of the sheath of the rectus muscle. From these attachments it descends upon the spermatic cord in loops, as Cloquet, the excellent French anatomist, has shown. It envelopes the vessels and nerves of the cord in its descent, and forms numerous tendons, which resemble, in their first appearance, nervous filaments. Its insertions are as follows: First, it forms a tendinous sling, which envelopes the lower part of the tunica vaginalis. Secondly, it sends tendinous fibres into the inferior part of the testis and epididymis, and into the tunica vaginalis. And, thirdly, it blends with some cords which surround and enclose the lower part of the vas deferens, and which may be traced to the upper orifice of the inguinal canal, and pass down upon the spermatic vessels. The cremaster muscle has an artery to supply it with blood, which is the third artery of the spermatic cord. The cremuister artery arises from the epigastric, near the internal