OF THE OPERATION OF LITHOTOMT. 373 not in general recover from the operation. Pain in the loins, vomiting, or the discharge of matter, indicating disease of the kidneys, also form insuperable objections to the operation. A patient came into Guy’s Hospital to he cut for the stone; I Case, sounded him and found a calculus, but he made water almost imme- diately, and at the time discharged a considerable quantity of matter. I saw that he was emaciated; he complained of pain in his loins, and his stomach was much disordered. I therefore said, “ I will not operate upon this man, for he would die from the operation. In less than a month he died, and I was happy that I had not Operated, as one kidney was found wasted, and the other at least twice its natural size, with its cavities full of a purulent secretion. The success of one surgeon being greater than that of another chiefly depends upon his judgment in this respect, viz. not to operate w'hen there is much functional or any organic disease. The age of the patient does not much influence the result of the The age of operation, with the exception I shall mention. Old ag’e is not to be a bar to it, if, so far as the stone will permit, the patient be active, and has no other complaints. I generally, therefore, say to a patient, “ If the stone were removed, would you be capable of taking exercise? is your digestion good ? is your breathing free?”—If he answers. Yes, the operation may be performed. Mr. Cline operated successfully upon a patient at 82: Mr. Attenborough, of Nottingham, at a still more advanced age. I operated upon a gentleman aged 76, who had been near sixty years in the island of Jamaica: I performed the operation in 1812, and he died about ten years after, having returned to Jamaica and enjoyed his health there. About sixty years of age is the period at which stone is most Sixty a frequent in the adult, and then the operation is veiT^ successful. In the middle period of life, fever is more violent from the operation, and the patient is often too much loaded with adeps to be submitted to it. Fat persons do not generally bear operations well, they have little vital power; they should be reduced by diet and medicine, and they must be accustomed to irritation of the bladder, by the frequent