ON THE SCIRllIIOUS TUBERCLE. 330 The ulcei" frequently bleeds. Constitutional suffering. Case. Extension of the disease. Bleedings from the sore are frequent; they occur spontaneously, and relieve the patient’s sufferings; and the observation of this may have led to the use of leeches in the treatment of the first stages of the disease: they also arise from removing the adhering dressings, or from wiping the surface of the sore; and the flow of blood does not easily stop, as the vessels have little power of contraction; pressure, however, succeeds in checking the haemorrhage. The edges of the sore become everted, the ulceration gradually proceeds until a large ulcer is formed, and often a very deep excavation is produced, so as to expose and even ulcerate the pectoral mxiscle. At this period, and often before ulceration has commenced, the patient complains of rheumatic feelings in different parts of the body, but particularly in the loins and in the thighs ; but I have also knoAvn other parts, as the spine, become painful: violent pain and tenderness have been felt in the sternum and ribs, and the patient describes the pain to be that of animals gnawing the parts. I attended Lady M. who, for many weeks before her death, described herself to suffer daily the pains of the rack, arising from cancerous rheumatism. The appearances produced by this disease in the bones, I shall presently describe. Great dyspnoea is also attendant upon this complaint, and the patient cannot lie down in bed, or can only rest upon the diseased side; she is also frequently teazed with a cough, unattended by expectoration. Frequently violent spasms are felt, which are referred to the region of the stomach, and they are often attended with vomiting, but, I believe, they arise from a tuberculated state of the liver. The complexion is sallow, with now and then a slight flush upon the cheek. After some time the arm, upon the diseased side, begins to swell above the elbow, then the fore arm enlarges; at length the swelling extends to the axilla. Its feel is brawny; it does not pit so easily as common oedema; the swelling seems to arise from the loss of the power of absorption produced by the destruction of the texture of the