OF IIARE-LIP. 461 of the disgusting deformity which it produces, but also from its influence upon the nourishment of the child, its food retuming by the unnatural aperture in the attempt to swallow it. The edges of the fissure in the lip are therefore pared away, the raw surfaces are preserved in complete contact, inflammation arises, adhesive matter is infused, and vessels shooting into the adhesion produce a living union of the parts. It becomes a question of importance, at what period of life the Proper age for . , . 1 an operation. operation should he performed, whether immediately alter birth, at from three to six months of infancy, or after dentition is completed. It is undoubtedly true that adhesion is most sure to be lasting after the period of dentition, and that this operation, therefore, scarcely ever fails when performed between two years and the adult age; on the contrary, during dentition it is attended with some danger, and sometimes the adhesion is destroyed by the violent efforts of the child; soon after birth the operation often fails, and is attended with considerable danger. Of the proof of the danger during the period of dentition, I will mention the following case. A child of a clergyman, of more than Case, six months of age, was sent to me from the country to be submitted to this operation. I advised that it should not be performed, but the answer was that the mother could not bear to see the child with this deformity. I operated; the child became feverish, the gums inflamed, and an incisor tooth partially made its appearance; the child was attacked with purging of the most severe kind ; and, on the fifth day following the operation, it died. The danger, however, is much greater if the operation be Danger soon performed soon after birth; the nervous system is then exceedingly irritable, that convulsions are readily produced, and the loss of a small quantity of blood occasions a fatal influence, I was oper,ating, at Great Yarmouth, upon an infant with hare-lip Case, in the presence of Dr. Girdlestone, when he said, “ Have you no fears of the child’s dying ?” to which I replied, “ I never saw one die from this operation;” he told me that he had witnessed an