ON THE TYING OK AKTKRIEH. 226 First incision. Situation of the artery. [There Avas a subject on the table during the whole of the lecture, on which the learned professor showed each operation.] I do not make a straight incision in the course of the arteiy, but one of a semilunar form. I begin the incision a little aboA'e the abdominal ring, and extend it, in the shape of a crescent to the edge of Poupart’s ligament, and then continue it to about an inch and a half from the inner side of the spine of the ilium, where it terminates. By this incision I lay bare the tendon of the external oblique muscle; in the second I divide this tendon, and expose the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. Having arrived at this step of the operation, there will be no occasion to make any further use of the knife. The next step will be to raise the internal oblique and transversalis muscles from Poupart’s ligament, by introducing the finger behind them. Well, having done this, you reach the passage of the spermatic cord, and you feel it distinctly; and then behind this the pulsation of the iliac A’^essel. You now draw up the internal oblique and transversalis muscles Avith the finger, at the same time elevating the spermatic cord a little, and then carry the finger into the abdomen, behind the peritoneum, and you ascertain the beating of the iliac artery. Having found the arteiy, I put the aneurismal needle into the opening, and introduce it under the vessel. You will recollect that the artery is accompanied by a vein, and that the vein is on the inner side; the artery on the iliac, the vein on the pubic side; the operation may be performed Avithout the least difl&culty, and is as easy as tying the femoral artery; there is only one circumstance that occasions the least danger; and that is the epigastric artery passing up from the pubic side of the iliac vessel, and on the inner side of the incision; but this, hoAvever, may be avoided. I will clean the artery a little from the surrounding parts, and take it up; it is veiy desirable to ascertain that the vein is not secured, because the interruption to the return of blood Avould be very injurious; if the arteiy should be exposed as much as it is on the subject before me (an inch and a half), tAVo ligatures must be employed, but if a small portion only of the vessel is laid bare, a single ligature will be all that is required. When you use two