ON THE CURE OF ANEURISMS. 212 Medical raent. diminished, and he recovered the use of the limb. Six months after he first felt this sensation, and when he had been discharared from the hospital, I met him as I was walking across the square of the other hospital, I said to him, “ Why, Powell, you seem low-spirited; you ought to be cheerful, for you have had a very narrow escape." “ Yes," said the man, “ I am pretty well, sir, except that I have something alive in my belly." “ I hope you have," said I, “ for it would be rather awkward if you had not." On putting my hand on his abdomen, I felt a pulsating swelling there. This aneurism shortly afterwards burst into the abdomen, and the man died. On examination of the body, it was found that the aneurism in the thigh, just below Poupart’s ligament, had burst under the fascia lata; a great accumulation of blood took place, which pressed upon the vessel, and the femoral artery was obliterated. Sir W. Blizard had a patient at Walworth, with popliteal aneurism, which was cured spontaneously. Mr. Ford mentions several cases; and Dr. Baillie met with two cases of carotid aneurism, which cured them- selves. Mr. Cramp ton, the surgeon-general at Dublin, has given an account of a case in which the aneurism gradually wasted in the abdomen, and obliterated the aorta. An account of a similar case has been given by Baron Larrey, the French surgeon. An Irish gentleman, w'hose name does not at this moment occur to me, in passing through this metropolis, on his way to Paris, showed me a preparation from a case of sponta- neous cure of aneurism, in which the aorta was obliterated at the loins. treat- From the medical treatment of this disease, I must confess that I have seen but little advantage. Mr. Brown, a surgeon, who had an aneurism of the aorta, was exceedingly strict in his diet and in his exercise ; but he lived only a veiy few months. A gentleman, who had an aneurism of his aorta, took four ounces of food three times a day, and refrained almost entirely from exercise ; and although he began' this plan in August, almost as soon as the disease was distinctly discovered, yet he died in the following February. The result of my observation is, that two measures only