217 OPERATION FOR POPLITEAL ANEURISM. have sumved longer, had he been treated otherwise; and I will explain to you how it is that keeping the patients so low does not agree with them; by keeping them so low, the constitution is rendered irritable, and then whatever is lost in the momentum of the circulating fluid, is gained in velocity. I have seen loss of blood in the treatment of aneurisms occasionally useful. When the chest is affected, and breathing laborious, it will be right to take blood; and the best state in which the body can be kept is a little beloAv par; that is, a little under the natural state. Strict attention must be paid to regimen; and it would be highly improper to give stimuli of any kind. The second point is the chance of obtaining a cure by the Cure by application of pressure on the arteiy or aneurismal bag. Very ’ many years ago, I had an iron ring made, with a pad on the Outer side, and a screw on the opposite: this was put on the limb, pressure on the outside was made against the thigh, and on the inside against the arteiy; the use of this was worse than the operation. I applied it on a man at the other hospital, and I will tell you how long he kept it on—twenty-four hours only. In three hours from its first application he began to complain of pain; in a few hours aftemards it became worse; and in less than twenty-four hours the man said that he would submit to any operation rather than suffer the pain: therefore it is impossible to practise it. I have tried the same experiment on the upper extremity, but without its leading to any useful results. This plan of pressure on arteries does not succeed, and therefore ought to be abandoned. Well, gentlemen, I will describe the alterations which have taken Later improve place in the mode of performing the operation for popliteal aneurism ments. since the time of Mr. J. Hunter. Mr. Hunter made the incision in the middle of the thigh; the spot where it is made at present is one-third down, as in the middle of the thigh the arteiy is deeper situated; well, therefore, one-third down the thigh is the place where you ought to operate. Now, Mr. Cline (with whom I formerly lived) thought ^that it would be an improvement in the operation, if, instead of allowing the ligature to remain till the