357 ON THE SEAT OE THESE DISEASES. when, upon making a section through the middle of the nipple towards the ribs, I found a circular glandular stj’ucture, larger than a large pea, and situated directly behind the nipple. It is of a red colour, from its extreme vascularity. It contains ducts which open at the nipple; and from these may be pressed, first a milky fluid, afterwards a sebaceous matter. The nipple over it is situated in a depression, and appears recj. and granular in many subjects. The artery which supplies the gland is derived from the axillary; and the branches derived from, and distributed to the gland are numerous. Veins return the blood in the course of the arteries; and filaments of nerv'-es from the axillary plexus are distributed to it. All that is necessaiy to do, in order to observe this structure, is Mode of . exhibiting it. to make an incision through the centre of the nipple. In the foetal state, between the seventh and the ninth month, this glandular substance is found, but of smaller size. At the end of the first year, it is still large and continues so during the second and the third year; and thenceforward it seems to lessen in both male and female until the seventh and eighth year. It is most conspicuous in fat subjects, as it is kept extended from the nipple by the adipose substance. About the eighth year it begins to increase, but it varies as to Evolution of time in different persons; and as it grows towards the age of puberty the nipple becomes evolved from it. In the female, at the age of puberty two tumescences will appear; the one a small sphere directly surrounding the nipple; which then rather sinks into this little swelling; and the other a larger sphere which is composed of the mammary gland, or gland of the breast. Thus there is a mam- millary and a mammary growth; a mammillary producing the nipple, which is gradually evolved as the breast increases; a mammary which is composed of the lacteal gland, the lactiferous tubes of which proceed through the mammillary process. In the male, the mammillary gland forms the nipple; but instead of tubes proceeding through it, ligamentous cords are seen radiating from the point of the nipple through the mammillary substance. These ligamentous cords terminate in a compact cellular texture at the