ON THE DESCENT OF THE TESTIS. 287 If any one will be at the trouble to examine a foetus at the Descent of tjli0 testis eightli or ninth month, soon after the testis has descended, he ivill find that the cremaster may be readily turned from the sper- matic vessels and vas deferens, so as to leave them free from it; and it can be separated from the epididymis and testis, excepting- at the lower extremity of each of those bodies, and the lower end of the vas deferens, into which it is inserted, so that it forms a purse to the testis and cord, after their descent. In animals, in whom the testis remains in the abdomen, the cremaster still exists. I do not believe that it is the cause of the ascent of the testis, nor that it is designed as a suspendor, but as a compressor of the testis. I will merely put it as a query—if the descent of the testis may not be assisted by the pressure of the fluid, provided in the abdomen of the foetus to allow of the growth of parts, upon the pouch of the peritoneum, which adheres to the gubernaculum, and which assists in forming the tunica vaginalis reflexa ? If the testis has not descended at birth, it is often afterwards forced down either by a congenital hydrocele, or' by a hernia congenita. The descent of the testis begins at the vei-y earliest period of its formation; for it approaches the groin more in the fourth than the third month, more at the fifth than the fourth, and so proceeds. It reaches the scrotum about the eighth month, but varies greatly in point of time. The peritoneum, which is attached to the gubernaculum, and the loose peritoneum, which lines the lower part of the abdomen, descend with the testis between the eighth and ninth months; for it is to be understood that the testis is not drawn into the pouch, but the testis, pouch, and loose peritoneum of the lower part of the abdomen descend together. The peritoneum attached to the gubernaculum becomes the tunica vaginalis reflexa of the adult. That portion of it which covered the testis in the abdomen, is the tunica vaginalis testis of man; and that