221 OPERATION FOR POPLITEAL ANEURISM. a ligature composed of materials which would admit of solution . he would, by such an invention, greatly serve his profession. It has been said, that ligatures formed out of the untanned skins of kids will answer such a purpose ; that they will become ^absorbed , but they do not, I understand, succeed. I thought that a ligature made of catffut would admit of solution, and I tried it on a man of eighty years of age, on whom I performed the operation for popliteal aneurism; the catgut ligature was cut close to the vessel; the wound healed over, and no bad symptom followed. The experi- ment succeeded, it is true, in this case ; but I have used the catgut lio-ature in three other cases since, and did not find it at all superior to the common ligature : in each of the three cases, it came away by suppuration and ulceration, as in common cases; it did not therefore succeed. In the old person there was less tendency to inflammation, and that was the reason of it succeeding. I made some experiments on dogs, with a view to ascertain the Experiments solubility of catg'ut. I tied the carotid of a dog, and used the dogs, catgut ligature ; in a fortnight after I killed the animal, and found that the ligature had not been dissolved, but that it had cut through the artery, and was situated in a cyst, like that which is formed round a ball, between the divided ends of the vessel, in a quiescent state ; therefore this substance does not admit of solubility, but will remain sometimes without producing irritation. On the whole, catgut ligatures are not at all superior to the common ones. Some animal matter of the form of gluten, made into ligature, might do ; but this is mere conjecture. At present there is no ligature known which is capable of being dissolved and removed by the absorbents. Well, gentlemen, I have made all the observations respecting the The mode of improvements in the operation for popliteal aneurism that I intended, ligature, with the exception of the plan of cutting the ligature close to the knot, and then leaving it to its fate, and to come away as it can; but experience shows that the imtation which is produced by this mode is attended with great mischief. This is the plan Mr. Hunter adopted, when he put the ligature for the first time on the femoral artery, in operating for popliteal aneurism; the wound closed