139 TREATMENT OF GANGRENE. Now tho old surgeons, who observed nature well, adopted the very same plan in their amputations as nature pursues in these cases, the skin separates the longest, the muscles next, and then the tendons, together with the bones, which are left considerably shorter than the rest, as you may obseiwe from the specimen on the table. When bones ulcerate, the tendon soon separates, and the bones become covered in by skin and muscle; the limb, however, before me, was amputated. The cases in which you are called on to perform the operation of amputation are when the patient will not be able to sustain the shock to the constitution; then, gentlemen, if gangrene be going on in any part, or through the middle of the leg, by which the power of the constitution will be nearly destroyed, you may have recourse to an operation; but even here there will not always be occasion for it. You have an opportunity of seeing in the other hospital at present, in a case to which I have so often alluded, separation taking place above the centre of the leg; there is no necessity to amputate always under such circumstances, and you can give the patient a chance of his life, without resorting to it, if he dread the knife. I say, gentlemen, in constitutional gangrene never amputate till the sloughing process has commenced, and healthy granulations are to be seen on the sore; for if an operation be performed, the parts will assume exactly the same appearance after as before it. It is curious to see how the loss of a slight quantity of blood will destroy life in these cases. When I was a dresser at these hospitals, during my apprentice- ship, a case of sloughing opposite to the calf was brought in : Mr. Cline, my old master, on going round the wards, said to the dresser, that the projecting ends of the bone had better be removed. There were some granulations between the bones, which, in sawing them off, the dresser did not observe, and therefore cut through them; little hemorrhage ensued ; no ligature was applied; yet, on the same night, the patient died. There was a case under the care of Mr. Foster, in the other hospital, on which he performed the operation of amputation; there was gangrene on one foot, a slight gangrene on the nose, and the other foot. The leg was amputated; Case.