181 O'N AVOUNDS OF THE EIIAIN. you can see the pulsation of tl^e carotids, at some distance fiom the bed; this circumstance, of itself, would be quite sufficient to convince you that there rvas a great determination of blood to the brain. The next thing Avhich you obseiwe is, that the patient is seized with rigors, and these follow in very quick succession, hemiplegia likewise often attends, and is generally situated on that side of the body opposite to the Avound; the patient remains in a comatose state, but, when roused, will give you (until towards the very last) rational answers to such questions as may be put to him. These, then, are the ordinary symptoms of inflammation of the brain, arising from wounds of that organ. If the inflammation should terminate in suppuration, I have Formation of already shown you in a former lecture where the matter would be situated, viz., between tbe dura mater and skull (this rarely happens), pia mater and tunica arachnoides, pia mater and surface of the brain, and, lastly, in the substance of the brain itself. When pus is situated between the dura mater and skull, Pus between „ . , ,, , 1 1 -,1 1 1 the skull and trephining for its remoA''^al Avould be attended Avith complete success; jm-a mater. but the chances of finding it there are against you, as it is generally situated between the pia mater and surface of the brain, for which an operation would prove Avorse than useless. Another situation in the head Avhere matter has been found is, in the longitudinal sinus of the dura mater. This Avoman (holding up a preparation). Case. seA'enteen months before she died, fell doAvn stairs, and her head came in violent contact against a chest, by which she became stunned; for some time after the fall, matter Avas discharged from one of her ears; this at length ceased, and, to all appearance, she Avas entirely well. The pain, hoAvever, .again returned with evident symptoms of compression ; and sixteen months after the accident she Avas admitted into this hospital. After some remedies had been fruitlessly tried, and she had been here for a short time, it was thought advisable to apply the trephine; the operation Avas unsuc- cessful, and four days afterAvards she died. Upon examination it was found that there Avas a small quantity of pus embedded in the