ox SUrPUUATION. 63 the vessels dilate, and purulent matter is formed, even on serous surfaces. Some experiments have been made, which tend to prove that this theory is correct; for it has been found that injections which are sufficiently fine to pass freely into the vessels of mucous surfaces, will not penetrate in the slightest degree into the vessels of serous surfaces. I shall presently explain this to you more particularly. In one of the preceding lectures, it was mentioned, that dangerous consequences sometimes arose from passing bougies in very irritable habits; the danger in these cases depends upon the formation of the adhesive inflammation, instead of the suppurative. The duct or canal leading from the inner angle of the eye, and which conveys Lachrymal the tears into the nose, is mucous, and, therefore, when inflamed, usually suppurates; consequently it is only obstructed for a short period; and even this obstruction can be relieved at intervals, by pressing the finger upon the skin immediately under the corner of the eye, by the side of the nose, by which means the collected matter will be forced out at the puncta situated in under the eye- lid. Should the inflammation, however, be of the adhesive kind, then an obstruction will be formed, that can only be relieved by an operation. This complaint is named fistula lachiymalis. The tears now pass over the cheek, and not into the nose, because adhesive matter has glued the sides of the tube together. The operation for the cure of this is simple, and will be explained to you hereafter. The membrane covering the internal surface of the trachea is Trachea, mucous; and, therefore, when inflamed, usually suppurates; but in croup, large quantities of adhesive matter are thrown out, so as very frequently to occasion death. The coagulable matter adheres so firmly, that it cannot be disengaged by the ordinary efforts of expectoration; at last, from its increase, it fills the trachea, and suffocation is of course the result. Nature has, as we before remarked, wisely ordained, that the various outlets of toe body- should commonly be liable to the suppurative inflammation; and if this were not the case, life would be very much shortened indeed.