21 ON INFLAMMATION. First. Adhesion. This arises from the fibrin of the blood being Adhesion, effused into the cellular membrane, by which the parts become glued together. It had been supposed that it was albumen w'hich was poured out in inflammation; but in examining this subject with care, it is found that the character of the effused substance, in all respects, resembles the fibrin of the blood, and by this substance are the edges of the divided parts reunited. Secondly. Suppuration, or secretion of pus. This is composed Suppuration, of particles nearly similar to those of the blood, only differing in colour, swimming in a fluid resembling serum, and coagulating, as serum does, when exposed to the influence of heat. Thirdly. Absorption or ulceration. This arises from an in- Ulceration, creased action of the absorbents, produced by pressure united with inflammation, by which the parts are partially absoibed. Fourthly. Gangrene, which consists in the destruction of the life Gangiene. of an inflamed part. The arteries, enfeebled by excessive action, are deprived of their vitality, the blood coagulates in them, and gangrene is produced. These are the local effects ; the constitutional ones are similar to those of irritation, which I mentioned to you in the last lecture. Inflammation produces different results in different parts. When Inflammation , of texture. seated in the skin, it usually becomes extensive, because the sur- face is unbroken. Its colour is veiy florid ; it separates the cuticle in the form of vesications, which usually contain serum, but also in some cases fibrin; a serous effusion is also produced by it into the subjacent cellular tissue. In some instances it is preceded by fever, in others followed by it. In the cellular membrane, inflam- mation produces an effusion which obliterates or fills its cells; if it proceed, it occasions suppuration, and produces an abscess, the contents of which are frequently discharged by the process of ulceration. In debilitated irritable constitutions inflammation destroys the cellular tissue and produces carbuncle, which is a sloughy abscess in the cellular tissue. When chronic, it occasions tumours of various kinds, as the steatomatous or adipose; or, under peculiar circumstances, those of a malignant nature, as the scirr- hous, fungous, tVc.