ON ULCERS. 105 to tliose of the surface. For this purpose, adhesive plastei oi unctuous substances are employed, with a view of pressing down the granulations of the edge of the sore on those of the surface, so as to make them unite. These are the principles of treatment in the cure of ulcers. We first encourage the growth of granulations by the application of the gentle stimulus of poultices, and when the granulations have risen to the edge of the surrounding skin, we press down the granulations of the edge on those of the surface, either by the application of adhesive plasters, or of unctuous sub- stances. The more unctuous such substances are the better; for the vessels will have a greater facility in shooting towards the centre, and the granidations embedded in this unctuous matter will more readily extend along the surface of the sore. Such are the principles of treatment applicable to ulcers in the impediments healthy state ; we shall now proceed to consider the impediments to ^ the healing process which frequently occur, and which render a different mode of treatment necessary. The first circumstance which renders the cure of ulcers difficult. Granulations is the too prominent state of the granulations, producing what is ^ vulgarly called proud flesh. In this state, the granulations rising considerably above the edge of the surrounding skin, are neces- sarily prevented from uniting with those of the surface. In order to prevent the continuance of this state of the sore, the common treatment is to apply dry lint to the centre of the sore, and some unctuous substance to the edges. The lint, by its pressure, pre- vents the growth of granulations in the centre, while the unctuous substance allows the granulations on the edge to proceed and inosculate with those on the surface of the sore. The lint should not be applied to the edge of the sore, for if it be, the granulations will be prevented from proceeding towards the centre of the sore. The nitrate of silver, and the sulphate of copper, are employed for the purpose of destroying luxuriant granulations near the edges of the sore. Here our practice is just reversed. Lint is applied to the centre of the sore, for the purpose of keeping down the granu- lations on the surface; whereas the caustic is applied for the