ON THE FUNOOUS OR MEDULLARY TUIVEUCLE. 343 of serum with red particles, somewhat changed in their colour; the fluid leaves a yellowish red stain upon paper, and readily coagu- lates, as serum does, by exposure to heat. The appearance of the fluid dift’ers so entirely from that which is contained in the hydatid cyst, that any one acquainted with the two diseases readily distin- guishes the one from the other by it. After the cyst has been opened, a fungus sprouts forth, which occasionally bleeds profusely, but the bleeding is easily stopped by pressure; the discharge is excessive, wetting a handkerchief through in half an hour, and of a faint and most sickening odour ; the edges become everted ; a sloughing disposition manifests itself in some parts of the tumour, and occasionally in the whole of the swelling ; and I have known the entire disease slough away. I remember, during my apprenticeship at this hospital (St Thomas’s), Mr. Cline had a case in which the tumour sloughed away, and the wound healed, after which the woman was discharged from the hospital apparently cured; but I am not certain if the complaint did or did not return. In general, however, the profuse discharge, the repeated losses of blood, and the production of similar disease in other parts of the body, lead to the destruction of life. The patient falls a victim to this complaint much sooner than to the scirrhous tubercle, in the majority of cases dying in a few months from the first discovery of the disease. Thirdly, This disease differs from the true scirrhus in being much Less painful, less painful; in its earliest stages it is altogether free from pain ; and I have known it acquire great magnitude with little diseased sensation: even in its most formidable state it is seldom very sensitive. Fourthly, The glands in the axilla are not generally inflamed in Glands not the same manner as in true scirrhus, by irritation or absorption; for I have known a person die of the disease, without the axillary glands being affected: but in some instances they do participate in the disease. The cervical and internal mammary glands are also rai’ely affected.