411 OF rUKCTURING THE BLADDER BY THE RECTUM. Seventhly, A male flexible catheter is to he passed through the canula, cut to a proper length, so as to remain in the bladder, and is to be secured so as to prevent its escape. This opei'ation is easy of performance, requiring little anatomical knowledge, and has therefore usually had the preference given to it. Wlien the inflammation following the operation has subsided, After-treat- when all danger from extravasation of urine into the cellular membrane has ceased,-and the patient recovers his health, it is right to begin attempts to re-establish the urethra by the use of bougies, sounds, &c. and this may be generally effected. I saw a man from Essex, below Malden, whose bladder had been Case, successfully punctured by Dr. Hare, above the pubes, twelve months before, and who came to town to consult me, with a female catheter still remaining in the bladder, in the same opening at which the urine had been drawn off. I, after a time, succeeded in passing a catheter into his bladder through the urethra, the female catheter was removed, and he returned into the country with the wound above the pubes quite closed. An objection to this operation, formerly urged, was, that the Objection to canula remaining in the bladder produced irritation : this is obAuated operation, by the use of an elastic gum catheter, instead of the metallic one. OF PUNCTURING THE BLADDER BY THE RECTUM. When the bladder is greatly distended, and has not undergone Bladder any morbid change, it generally projects into the rectum ; so that if j™nfnto the the finger be introduced into the gut, a fluctuating swellino- is felt rectum, just beyond the seat of the prostate gland. When the prostate gland is enlarged, this part of the bladder is more remote from the anus and less accessible, although still within reach. Behind the prostate gland is a triangular space, bounded in the P‘''rt to be following manner:—on each side by the vasa deferentia and vesiculse seminales meeting at the prostate ; and the peritoneum is the boundary behind. In the centre of this space a trocar and