198 ON ANKUUISM, Three stages of external aneurism. Second stage. Third stage. and cranium, as to render the nature of the disease very often extremely doubtful. With respect to external aneurism, the symptoms may be divided into three stages. When you have an opportunity of seeing aneurism in its early stage, you will find a small tumour pulsating very strongly—much more strongly than in subsequent stages; for it may be taken as a general rule, that the force of the pulsation is in the inverse proportion of the size of the aneurism. When an aneurism is first formed, it contains only fluid blood ; and if you apply your finger to the artery between the aneurism and the heart, you will readily empty the aneurismal bag by the pressure. In this state there is scarcely any pain, and no other alteration in the limb than some irregularity of circulation, producing spasm in the muscles; and when the patient is going to rest, cramps in the legs, and sudden twitchings, which prevent him from sleeping. The next state in which we find aneurism is, when the blood is besrinninff to coagrulate in the interior of the sac, the coats of which are very considerably thickened. At this time, if you press on the artery, you may empty the sac in part; you will see the swelling re-produced when you take off the pressure. You cannot completely empty the bag by pressure, for a considerable degree of swelling will still remain. There is some degree of pain in the limb below in this stage of the disease, in consequence of the size of the swelling, and the pressure on the surrounding parts. The aneurism becomes a solid swelling, instead of a mere bag containing fluid blood, and the circulation is retarded by the pressure on the surrounding parts. In the next stage the aneurism has acquired considerable magni- tude, and'the pulsation is in a great degree lost. Pulsation may be observed in some one part opposite to the opening from the artery, but it is Seldom perceived over the whole swelling. A small portion of the blood still continues in a fluid state, but the greater part of it is filled with coagulum. In tliis state, if the aneurism be behind a joint, the motion of that joint becomes impeded. Popliteal