180 ON WOUNDS or TUT, DRAIN. Remarks. Symptoms of inflammation decreased, and soon entirely disappeared. The wound healed in fourteen weeks, and he has since remained well. I observed a circumstance in this young; gentleman, after his cure, which shows the influence of mental excitement in agitating the brain, and in increasing, upon the instant, the quickness of its action. Something passed in conversation which displeased him : and his brain, which could be distinctly seen beating through the opening in his skull, immediately quickened from eighty to one hundred and twenty in the minute. Struck with this appearance, I watched it for a few minutes, and, as his mind became calm, the pulsation gradually sunk again to about eighty. He had a great dislike to, and apprehension of, the finger being applied to the injured part; and as soon as I touched it, he receded from me, and I saw his brain beating with extraordinary velocity. These circum- stances strongly impress a conviction of the influence of mental and corporeal excitement, and of the necessity which exists of guarding against the one and the other. INFLAMMATION FOLLOWING WOUNDS OF THE BRAIN. I shall now speak more particidarly of the inflammation which follows wounds of the brain, wherein their chief danger consists ; which danger is much increased, if the dura mater be the part attacked. Upon the first approach of inflammation, the person complains of a great pain in the head ; very quickly falls into a comatose state ; and, when roused from this condition, the pain is excessive; the scalp, round the external wound, becomes oedematous, for if you press upon it, the impression of the finger is retained ; the edges of the wound have a shining glossy appearance, and from the ■wound itself is discharged a fluid, composed of blood and serum; sometimes the parts about the wound have a sloughy appearance ; the countenance is very much flushed, and the carotid arteries beat with very great force ; so much so, that if his shirt-collar be open.