OF ovarian dropsy. 450 Adhesion of the cyst. Burst by accident. Oase. Case. Medical treatment. Case. Diet. Case. At first, the bag does not adhere to the peritoneal lining of the abdomen; but as it becomes large, it gradually acquires such adhesion; and, upon dissection of these cases, the cyst is found to have united itself with the parietes of the abdomen, so as to leave no space between it and the peritoneum: the intestines and omentum are situated behind it, under great accumulation. The ovarian cyst sometimes bursts by accident. Miss Warner, to whose case I have already alluded, was thrown out of a one-horse chaise, and burst the ovarian cyst. She soon afterwards began to make large quantities of water, and the disease disappeared; but in seven years it returned, and she ivas obliged to be tapped. A lady with ovarian dropsy, in getting from her bed, fell against the corner of the night-chair, and ruptured the ovarian cyst, pro- ducing- extravasation of blood externally: her secretion of urine became abundant, and her abdomen much lessened; but the disease afterwards returned. With respect to the medical treatment of ovarian dropsy, I fear a difference of opinion with many other medical men, when I say, that medicine has but little influence over this complaint. I have seen the most gentle, as well as the most drastic medicines given to promote the absorption of the fluid, but without success ; and when we consider the little vascularity of the cyst in ivhich the water is contained, and also how little influence medicine has over common hydrocele, we shall not be inclined to expose our patients to the trial of these agents. Dr. Baillie and myself attended a lady together, who could only hiss her answers to our questions ; and when we asked the cause, we learned that for an ovarian dropsy, of which she afterwards died, she had undergone a course of mercury, which had occasioned a sloughing from the inside of her cheeks, without relieving her dropsy : the contraction of the cicatrices in the mouth had produced the alteration in her voice. With regard to diet, I tried in a case of dropsy the following experiment. I tapped a woman in Spitalfields, and I ordered her