406 OI' CALCULUS IN TllK FEMALE. Calculi ex- tractedwithout cutting. Case. Mode of ope- rating with the knife. might be thought that solvents could with advantage be injected, but the patients cannot bear them, and will not submit to their use, as they irritate excessively. Opium may be injected, or a suppositoiy be introduced; but they only relieve for a very short period. Stones of large size may be extracted from the female without the use of cutting instruments. Mr. Thomas has related, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, a case in which he dilated the meatus urinarius to extract an extraneous body from the bladder. Guided by this circumstance, I removed a calculus, having, by the use of sponge tent, dilated the meatus ; and in another case, by the dilating forceps, I took away a portion of a catheter. Dr. Nuttall and myself attending a case together, he objected to my mode of dilating the meatus, and thought that forceps with blades opening in parallel instead of divergent lines would be better. We walked together to Mr. Weiss, who, with his usual ingenuity, made a forceps upon that principle. Unless a stone be extremely large, it should be removed by dilatation of the ui’ethra, which may, by a speculum or pair of forceps, be opened sufficiently in a few minutes for this purpose. The advantage attending this mode of extracting a stone is, that the passage again contracts, and the urine is afterwards retained. In the first case in which I performed this operation in Guy’s Hospital, having used sponge tent, the patient perfectly recovered in a very few days. If the operation for lithotomy be required in the female, it should be performed in the following manner:—the patient having been bound in the same position as in the operation on the male; the sound is to be introduced (and it may be sometimes necessary to use a curved male sound, which Mr. Cline used to recommend,) in order to detect the calculus. The stone being found, a straight stafi’ is to be introduced when the sound has been withdrawn ; and this the surgeon should hold in his left hand,* with the groove turned to the left branch of the