11 ON lUKlTATJON. of the uterus : but there is no organ so much affected by irritation, or sympathetic influence, as the stomach. For instance, if a blow is received on the head, causing injury to the brain, vomiting is one of the first and most constant symptoms, being imparted to the stomach through the eighth pair of nerves, and by this we are led to detect the injury. Vomiting is produced when the testicles are injured, or intestines burst, wounded, or strangulated, and from a gall-stone passing the biliary duct; indeed, an obtuse pain in any part of the body will occasion sickness. The consequences of irritation are so numerous and important. The course of gentlemen, that I shall relate to you the medium of its communi- cation. Irritation is generally communicated through the medium of the neiwes, of which there are tAvo grand divisions in the body. The first composed of the brain, spinal marrow and their nerves, which naturally convey sensation and volition; the second consist- ing of the grand sympathetic nerve, the centre of which is behind the stomach, in the semilunar ganglion and solar plexus. The modes of sympathetic communication are various. In some in- stances, the course of irritation is from the irritated part to the sentient extremity of the nerve, as the pain experienced in the knee and foot from a disease of the hip. In other cases, the course of sympathy is from the affected part to the origin of the nerve, as in pain in the loins consequent on diseased testicles. Irritation on the nerves of the grand sympathetic is communicated to the stomach, probably through the medium of the semilunar ganglion, and all in- juries to the stomach are attended with serious effects. I could relate to you several instances in which injury to this organ had proved fatal. A man walking through Fleet-street, one day, hap- pened to quarrel with a woman, when another came up, and gave him a blow in the region of the stomach, which caused almost in- stantaneous death. On dissection, no cause could be found to ac- count for his sudden death. A man belonging to the India House, was attempting to lift a weight, when another came up, and jocosely said, “ Here, stand on one side, and let an abler man attempt it;” and at the same instant gave him a slight blow on the stomach, when