ON THE TYING OF AUTEIUES, 236 The operation Aneurismal varix. happened to be in the way, who bound up his arm, and brought him to the hospital; one of the surgeons put a ligature on the artery, and the man ultimately did well. , In tying the brachial artery, there is only one circumstance of any importance to bear in mind, and it is this: the vessel is accompanied by the median nerve; now% if you should include this in the ligature, it would either destroy the patient’s life or cause paralysis of the limb. When you are about to secure the brachial arteiy, the direction for the incision is the inner edge of the biceps muscle, and this cut almost immediately lays bare the median nerve. When the brachial artery is punctured with the lancet through the vein in bleeding, an adhesion is sometimes produced betw'een the one and the other; and the blood flowing from the artery into the vein, causes an enlargement of the latter, opposite the elbow joint. The swelling is called aneurismal varix, from the enlargement of the vein, and from its connexion with the artery. The swelling acquires the size of a pigeon’s egg, and then it usually ceases to increase. There is a pulsation in the swelling, with a thrilling sensation, and a hissing- noise. If the artery be compressed above, the swelling becomes flaccid, and can be emptied of its blood; but if the arm be compressed below the swelling, the pulsation continues, and the size of the swelling remains unaltered. The brachial artery, above the varix, becomes enlarged, owing to the greater quantity of blood which it conveys. The swelling of the vein proceeds to the size that I have mentioned, and then becomes stationaiy. A woman, vnth this altered state of the circulation, used frequently to exhibit her arm to the students for many successive years, and it seemed to remain annually the same. No operation has been required for this disease, in any case which I have seen of it, as it is not a dangerous state, either to the life, or even to the arm. It renders the arm weaker, and nothing more serious arises from it. Mr. Atkinson, a most respectable surgeon at York, sent me an Cose.