ox WOUNDS OF TIIF. BRAIN. 177 unquestionably the best, vH^. that of repressing; the growth of the fungus until the dura mater and scalp heal over it. This will be illustrated by the following cases : — John Dent, a boy, aged eleven years, received a severe blow Case, from the kick of a horse, on the anterior and inferior part of the right parietal bone, by which he was stunned. The same evening he was brought into St. Thomas’s Hospital, in a state of stupor, with a considerable tumour under the scalp. A longitudinal incision, to the length of two inches, was made, when immediately a portion of brain made its escape, about the si2e of a hazel nut; and, upon introducing the finger, a fracture was distinctly felt, yet no depression was evident; but on the further division of the scalp, in a transverse direction, and turning back the edges, a very consi- derable depression was distinguished ; in consequence of which the trephine was applied, and one angular piece of bone removed by the metacarpal saw; also, another piece, rather more than an inch in length, which was driven into the substance of the brain, was extracted with the forceps. During the operation, small quantities of brain were continually escaping with the blood; supposed to be about 3ij or 5iiss. Every depressed portion of bone being now sufiBciently elevated, the wound was dressed superficially, and notwithstanding the great degree of stupor and insensibility he laboured under, prior to the operation, his senses returned before Mr. Chandler (who operated) quitted the theatre, and from this time he appeared perfectly tranquil. The next morning he was ordered the common aperient medicine of the house, which was occasionally repeated. The wound was not dressed until the fourth day; when, upon the removal -of the dressings, there appeared a disposition to fungus, arising from the brain, which continued to increase for about a fortnight. Mr. Chandler then requested that the lint (with which it was previously dressed) should be dipped in lime-water, and the same degree of pressure made use of as before. His plan had not been persisted in for more than ten days, before every particle of fungus disappeared ; but it was observed, a short time afterwards, that the edges of the wound assumed a glossy N