328 0>} THE sciuniious TUBERCLE. Pain acute. Intermittent pains. More severe prior to menstruation. Gradual increase of the disease. Retraction of the nipple. Puckering of the skin. tubercle is not painful, but subsequently becomes so ; but then the pain is occasional only, occurring at distant intervals. The pain is exessively severe, commonly as a stab in the part; sometimes a burning heat; now a pricking sensation; then a sense of tearing, as if the nerves of the breast were torn out, or the breast itself tearing off. In other cases, the pain is more obscure, like the aching of rheumatism. It generally extends to the shoulder on the same side, and often afPects the nerves of the arm. The painful sensations in the breast recur about once in ten days or a fortnight, when the swelling begins to be painful; but more frequently, as the disease advances; and I believe there is an occa- sional determination of blood to the part, and that the disease increases, particularly when this painful period recurs. Prior to menstruation, (about four days,) the breast feels fuller, heavier, and much more painful; and although, from the last- mentioned period it may have been tranquil, it scarcely ever fails to have painful sensations at the return of the menstniations; but more so just prior to it, than at the exact moment; for it is relieved as soon as the evacuation begins, and is always much lessened after its cessation. The swelling gradually grows from the size of a marble, when it is first observed, until it acquires a magnitude of two or three inches in diameter; for it rarely happens that the true scirrhous tubercle increases to a very considerable bulk, and this circumstance is one of its criteria. The next change is a retraction of the nipple, and this occurs from the lactiferous tubes being drawn out of their course by the swelling, and consequently they draw in the nipple, in which they terminate; frequently also the nipple becomes red, inflamed, exco- riated, and sometimes ulcerated. A change is also produced in the appearance of the skin, it is puckered so as to resemble a cicatrix, and this arises from its adhesion to the surface of the tubercle. Frequently the follicles of the skin are filled with black sebaceous matter around the nipple, in the areola, and in the skin on the surface of the breast.