26 ON INFLAMMATION. Specific. Arthritic inflammation. Scirrhous inflammation. Scrofulous inflammation. is called healthy inflammation. JBut the second, or specific, is of a peculiar kind, and is called unhealthy. In this inflammation, the vessels have an entirely different action to what happens in the healthy state, and thus the fluids and solids they secrete, have a decidedly opposite character. There are two descriptions of specific inflammation: the first is produced by a peculiar condition of the constitution; and the second, by the application of a poison. Gout is an example of the first kind. If a man for a length of time yield to eveiy injurious excess, loading his stomach with food and wine, so as to weaken the digestive pow'ers, he probably excites in his system -what is called the gouty disposition ; he experiences dreadful pain in one or more of his toes, &c., and severe inflam- mation ensues, which frequently terminates in the secretion of a matter that speedily becomes solid, usually called chalk-stone; this name, however, is incorrect, as it has been proved by the analysis of Dr, Wollaston, to consist of uric acid and soda, consequently is now very properly named urate or lithate of soda. The formation of scirrhus or cancer is another example of specific inflammation, arising from a peculiar state of constitution. Let us suppose that two women receive each a blow on the breast; one woman with a constitution in a healthy, vigorous state, and the other with a system predisposed to the fomation of cancer; in the first individual the inflammation will be strictly healthy, going through its different stages until a cure is accomplished; in the other person, owing to a constitutional peculiarity, the same extent of injury will produce cancerous disease, a malady over which medicine has no influence, and extiiqiation is only an uncertain remedy. Persons aflflicted with cancerous or fungous complaints, are of exceedingly anxious minds (at least nine times in ten); this anxiety occasions a sort of irritable fever, which invariably proves detrimental. But the best example of specific inflammation is scrofula. Persons attacked by this disease have generally light hair, fair complexion, delicate appearance; when inflammation occurs. It is