OK THE DIAGNOSIS OK THE HYDATID TESTIS, 298 Mistaken for hydrocele. Marks of distinction Case. Case. This disease is often mistaken for hydrocele; and it must be confessed, that they are with great difficulty distinguished from each other. I do not believe that there is any surgeon who is candid, and who has had such opportunities as the surgeons of the large Hospitals possess of witnessing disease, who will not confess he has mistaken this disease in the testicle for hydrocele, and plunged a lancet into it, and has been surprised to find, that a little water and blood only have followed. The marks of distinction are a less extensive fluctuation, a much heavier swelling, rounded upon the fore part, and flattened upon the sides; the entire absence of transparency; the sensation of the testis being squeezed under pressure; the varicose state of the vessels of the cord and dilated veins of the scrotum; a division of the swelling into two, viz. testis and epididymis. Testis not felt as in hydrocele. Charles Demby, aged forty-nine, was admitted into Guy’s Hospital, 23rd of May, 1804, with enlargement of the testis. It began two years before in a diminution of the left testis, accompanied by a sense of weakness on the left side ; it afterwards gradually became larger than the other; and he applied, three quarters of a year after discovering this increase, to a surgeon of the first talent and respectability in the neighbourhood of London, who introduced a trocar into the testis, and a little water was observed to issue, but the quantity was very small. He immediately pronounced it a case of hydatid testicle: as it still continued to increase, the patient applied for admission into Guy’s Hospital. On the 29th of May I removed the testis, and upon cutting into it I found a purulent fluid in some of the cysts, and the appearances which I have described in others. The wound quickly healed, and he was discharged on the 16th of June, having thus early entirely recovered. Mr. Davie, surgeon, brought me a testis from a subject in the dissecting-room, in which one of the globular hydatids was lodged. It was enclosed in a distinct cyst, produced by adhesive inflammation ; the hydatid itself exactly resembled that which is so frequently met with in cysts of the liver.