ON' THE DESCENT OF THE TESTIS. 286 Descent of the testis. The testis is circumstanced as the other abdominal viscera, being covered by the peritoneum upon its fore-part and sides, but not posteriorly; and this portion of the peritoneum is the tunica vagi- nalis testis of the adult extended over the tunica albuginea. From the lower end of the testis and epididymis the gubernaculum proceeds, behind the peritoneum, but covered with it on its fore- part and sides. It is composed of several strong ligamentous fibres, which proceed through the inguinal canal to the cellular membrane of the scrotum, in which it is lost. The peritoneum of the lower part of the abdomen passes down upon, and adheres to the gubernaculum, so as to form a small pouch in the inguinal canal, to Avhich the cremaster muscle is attached. Above the testis, and behind the peritoneum, the spermatic artery passes from the aorta a little below the renal artery, and enters the posterior edge of the testis, which is not covered by the peritoneum. The spermatic vein passes from the posterior edge of the testis behind the peritoneum—on the left side, to the emulgent vein, and on the right, to the inferior cava. The vas deferens descends behind the peritoneum, from the lower end of the epididymis, passing posteriorly to the gubernaculum over the psoas muscle and iliac vessels, to the duct of the vesicula seminalis behind the bladder. The bladder, and even the vesiculce seminales, in the foetal state, are so little buried in the pelvis, that even the latter can be brought into view without dissection. The vas deferens is accompanied by the deferential artery, which springs from one of the vesical arteries of the hypogastric, and terminates in the epididymis and tunica vaginalis. The cremaster muscle, as far as I can distinguish it in the foetus, passes upon the gubernaculum to the epididymis and testis, and is attached to the process of peritoneum which descends with the testis as a pouch, to the lower part of the inguinal canal; and the testis descends into this muscle as into a purse, as it is directed down by tlie gubernaculum, and hence the loops which it forms.