311 treatment of chronic inflammation. lhe,i such a quantity as shall preserve that tenderness of the gums TwTyXp'y >=»'!''es twice in the week, or let the patient stand Local bleeding, before his surgeon and have the veins of the scrotum opened hy a '“Fourthly, apply upon the scrotum equal parts of camphorated Applications. mixture and vinegar. _ Fifthly, about every fourth morning give an active dose ot infusion of senna, with sulphate of magnesia and tincture of senna. In about three weeks, in this way, you will reduce the size of the Penod^^ part; and then, if the urethra has been diseased and the complaint cure, be sympathetic, you may introduce daily a silver sound, to remove any obstruction in the urethra, whilst the patient is still recumbent and living low ; when the disease will, at the end of the month, or five weeks, be cured. In the practice which I have had an opportunity of witnessing, it will be readily supposed I have seen a great number of such cases, and I can therefore speak with confidence of the result of the above treatment; but the following is an excellent example. An officer of the British army, of considerable rank, some years Case, ago, was seized with inflammation in his testicle, for which he applied to a surgeon; who, after various attempts to reduce it, told him that it yv&s a malignant disease, and that it must be removed. He submitted to the operation and quickly recovered. Some months afterwards the remaining testicle began to swell, and the symptoms were so exactly similar to those of the former disease, that he became excessively alarmed, and placed himself under the care of Mr. Rose, who requested a consultation with Sir Everard Home and myself. We found the testicle hard, swollen, and but little painful: his general health had suffered from a warm climate and exertions disproportioned to his strength. He was put upon the plan which I have recommended above^ and in a very few weeks was perfectly well. A fair inference may therefore be drawn, that the testicle which had been removed might have been saved.