Ill OM ULCERS. sensitive plant. As you Avill be sure to find considerable difficulty in the treatment of these sores, I will tell you, the best application that you can make use of is one compounded of the cetaceous ointment, gray oxide of mercury, and powdered opium: B; Unguent Cetacei Hydr. Nit. S gss. Pulv. Opii 5j. M. Fiat unguentum. This must be spread on lint, and applied to the part twice a-day. What are the internal remedies you ought to exhibit in these cases, gentlemen ?—calomel and opium; these are the medicines on which you are to rely ; a grain and a half of calomel and a grain of opium morning and evening. Nothing will be of so much service as this medicine.* It should not be carried so far as to produce ptyalism, or to affect the constitution severely; but it should be given so as to restore the secretions, and to diminish the action of the nervous system. The calomel will do the fii’st, and the opium will lessen, the nervous irritability. The treatment of inflammation has been improved of late by calomel and opium. The effect of this medicine in chronic inflammation may be seen iritis, in the disease called iritis. Here calomel and opium may be exhi- bited ; nor should a deposit of white matter, having the appearance almost of pus, into the anterior chamber of the eye, be any barrier to their use. Give five grains of calomel and a grain of opium night and morning; and in the space of a week, if the eye has not suffered a good deal, or become disorganized, this remedy will cor- rect the inflammation. We use other aids, such as the compound decoction of the sarsaparilla. Some think it a placebo; others have * Messrs. Reynolds, Gunton, & Co., Wholesale Druggists, in the Borough, prevailed on me to try the Naptha Barbadensis, as a dressing to indolent or intractable ulcers: and in justice to that article, I have no scruple in placing it amongst the most important therapeutic agents in such cases. My mode of applying it is thus: I spread the Naptha on thin paper, termed double crown, with which I cover the ulcer, and on a stronger paper I employ it as a strapping, on the principle of Baynton.—L.