ADHESIVE INFLAMMATION. APPEARANCES. 59 of plaster, for the purpose of letting' out any matter which might have collected. In six or eight days after the operation, it will be proper to dress the stump; but to do it before would be absurd. The treatment which is applicable to stumps is proper also for common wounds. The adhesive process is useful in the formation of cysts. Balls encysted have been known to remain in the body for many years. Morgagni, if I recollect aright, mentions a case where a ball lodged in a cyst in the lungs for a considerable space of time. If the ball be not encysted, it travels, and absorption of the parts through which it passes takes place. A few days ago, a gentleman called on me, who had formerly received a wound above the zygomatic arch, from a ball; he now had a swelling on the side of his face. I asked him whether he thought it contained the ball; to which he replied, no: upon cutting on it, however, I found it was the ball by which he had been wounded some years before. It had travelled beneath the zygoma to the middle of the cheek, on the surface of the parotid gland, from whence I removed it. Perhaps it was assisted in its course by the action of the temporal muscle. I saw a boy, who had then been attending a target at which some volunteers had been firing: he thought himself safe at a distance of thirteen yards; he was mistaken, hoAvever, for one of them shot him in the collar-bone. Some months after, he came to Guy’s Hospital, and I removed the ball from about the middle of the upper arm. Thus the ball, by its weight and pressure, had occasioned suppuration and ulceration, which had enabled it to travel to the situation from whence I extracted it. Another very important use of adhesive inflammation is that of Use of adhe- its dividing cavities into distinct parts, by which means it fixes a boundary to the suppurative process; thus it will divide the cavity of the abdomen into two, by throwing out adhesive matter on the surface of the colon, by which it becomes glued to the peritoneum. In abscesses, a cyst is formed by the adhesive process round the matter, which prevents its escape into the surrounding cellular tissue.