ox INFLAJIMATIOX. 23 external and common iliacs, and the aorta was of a florid red in- ternally, as far as the valves of the heart. A^eins which are inflamed from wounds, become like haul and Veins, broad cords, and extremely tender to the touch; and if it occur from bleeding', it extends from the orifice to the axilla. I have seen several patients die from this cause; and on examination, the innei coats of the arteries have been generally found adhering. I have seen suppuration of a vein, and I once saw an abscess in the longi- tudinal sinus of the dura mater, of which we have a beautiful speci- men in the anatomical collection in St. Thomas s Hospital. When inflammation of the veins is produced by the application of ligatures on them, it will be found to be greater below the ligature than above it. Nerves areveiy rarely inflamed, but when they are, the pain is Nerves, excessive, and there is a tingling sensation in the parts to which the nerve is distributed. Wounds of nerves, though extremely painful at the moment, are followed by little irritation. The wife of a medical gentleman was obliged to have the pos- Case, tenor tibial neiwe divided, for a painful tumour on the nerve, which I did in the presence of Mr. White, surgeon to the AVestminster Hospital; although the operation was dreadfully painful, and the pain extended through the brain, spinal marrow, and the nerves proceeding from it, yet it did not affect the nerves of the great sympathetic, directly or indirectly. I have also had occasion twice to remove portions of the sciatic nerve, when but little constitu- tional irritation followed. Severe pain takes place sometimes in the course of the nerves, but whether it be from inflammation or not, I have not been able to ascertain by dissection. When the pain is excessive, it is called tic doloureux. Ligaments, like tendons, are not very prone to inflammation in Ligaments, healthy constitutions; but the synovial membrane which lines them is highly so, and the inflammation has a tendency to go on to the suppurative process. In scrofulous persons, the synovial surface becomes inflamed, and the ligament covering it thickened, so as to produce great enlargement of the joints.