PRACTICAL WEST AFRICAN COOKERY22900444571Med K9807Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b28132762West African Cookery.PRACTICAL WEST AFRICAN COOKERY. BY S. LEITH-ROSS and G. RUXTON. CHICHESTER : J. W. MOORE, 39, EAST STREET.\ ni^ WELLCOMEiNSTiTUlfc [ LIBRARY Co!!. welMOmsc j Cali No. m sCHAPTERS. Preface Provisions Kitchen and Kitchen Utensils Cooks and Boys Native Products The Vegetable Garden Suggestions for Menus * Soup Fish Eggs Macaroni and Rice Fowls Mutton and Beef Vegetables and Salads Sweets Sauces and Savouries Bread, Scones and Cakes ... Odds and Ends Index Page 5 7 12 15 20 28 33 36 49 58 68 73 94 105 125 139 .150 158 168PREFACE. AN APOLOGY TO EVERY NIGERIAN READER. We left the writing of the preface to the end, thinking that once the word “ Einis ” had been written, it would take but a moment to pour out the paean of praise and self laudation to which we thought ourselves entitled. Alas, it is with no 9uch feelings that we turn back, but rather with humble mindedness and much misgiving. It is true that personal experience has bought all our know- ledge and that we entered into the work with no light spirit, but we have weighed and pondered every cup or spoonful as if it were the measure of gold and precious stones. Yet the satisfaction of certainty is lacking, the comfortable assertion of indisputable truth. Proportions, times, ingre- dients all mingle and fade and waver in tbe sunshine and once more Nigeria triumphs over logic, and smiles at common sense. Yet do not wholly condemn us for our errors but judge charitably,—for the sake of intentions so sincere. The needs of Northern Nigeria were those we had at heart when compiling this book, but it is hoped that it will apply equally well to other Colonies in West and East Africa. The main object in view was to enable the white man to obtain that well cooked and varied food so essential to health, and to facilitate economy by making every possible use of native foodstuffs, and by showing bow to minimise wastage of material on the part of the native cook.VI. The recipes, nearly all French ones, adapted to Nigerian needs, contain what would often appear absolute heresies to the home cook, but each one has been repeatedly tested and only written down when proved a success. All ingredients not absolutely necessary are in brackets, both in the list at the head of each recipe and in the body of the recipe itself. The Roman numbers I. and II. indicate the degree of difficulty ; those marked II should not be attempted until the I’s have been mastered. The vexed question of stock makes an added difficulty in African cookery. As repeated later on, the home stock- pot, simmering indefinitely on the fire, is an impossibility in Nigeria, and the “ stock ” we refer to in many recipes is in reality a soup made daily from the trimmings and bones of fowls or meat. We describe the method under “ Chicken Soup or Stock,” in the chapter on Soaps. Our best thanks are due to Mr. E. A. Brackenbury for his kind revision of the proofs. Zungeru. 1908. 1hi, 1910.PROVISIONS. The question of provisions is an important one. It is far more economical and satisfactory to take them out from England than to buy them locally, and a little care and forethought will enable you to make out a not too formid- able list. Expensive tinned meat, tinned game, pat6s and bottled fruit are both unnecessary and bulky ; an the other hand, peas, lentils, dried fruits and macaroni should be used much more than they are, All provisions should be of the best quality, packed in small tins which are more expensive but ultimately represent a saving as there is not so much waste. Any empty tins with tight fitting covers, such as biscuit tins or tea-cannisters, should be carefully kept and used to hold sugar, rice, etc., generally packed in soldered tins which, once opened, cannot be shut down again. If you are quite certain you will reach your station by river, the cases of provisions can be of any size up to seventy lbs., but for land travelling they must not weigh more than the carrier’s load of fifty-six lbs. A few Venesta boxes fitted with lids and padlocks are very useful on trek to hold those tins which are in daily use. All provision boxes should be numbered and the numbers repeated on an invoice showing the exact contents of each separate box. This prevents endless packing and unpack- ing in search of any one article. The following list of provisions is made out for one man, for one year, provided that during about four months of the year he can obtain fresh butter, milk and flour. It can only be approximate as in addition to the variations in individual tastes and needs, no one can reckon with the subtle Nigerian influence which respects neither weights nor8 measures, and whose greatest pleasure is to contradict with jeering emphasis all the hard won experience of former years. It is not possible to say “ I am certain ” of anything, be it only the number of days a tin of sugar should last. Living at headquarters or in the bush makes little difference in the amount of provisions required. The quantities given are generally too small rather than too large, but they will form a basis for the next tour’s calculations. PROVISION LIST. 4 i-lb. tins arrowroot, Bermuda. 6 small bottles anchovies in brine, Lazenby’s. 24 J-lb. tins anchovy paste. 18 £-lb. tins baking powder, Borwick’s. 12 1-lb. tins roast beef, Crosse & Blackwell’s. 6 tins of pressed beef. 3 1-lb. tins barley, pearl. 4 small tins barley, Robinson’s patent. 6 tins beans, Heinz’s tomato. 8 2-lbs. tins biscuits, Huntley & Palmer’s Fancy Lunch (11. 24 2-lbs. ,, ,, Assorted (2). 2 1-lb. ,, ,, Parmesan cheese (3). 6 1-lb. ,, ,, Thin Bath Oliver. 1 1-lb. tin blue, Coleman’s. 60 £-lb. tins butter, Esbensen’s Danish. 12 4-oz. bottles capers. 12 small bottles cheese, Crosse & Blackwell’s bottled. 18 tins cheese, Vezet Dutch. 6 jars cheese, Imperial. 3 tins chocolate cream, Bernese Alpine. 5 ^-bottles Chutney, Lazenby’s. 2 J-tins cloves. 15 |-lb. tins cocoa. 15 1-lb. tins coffee (4). 1. Only required if biscuits are eaten instead of bread on trek. 2. Best kinds are cream crackers, ginger nuts. Nice. Marie. vanilla wafers. 3. For savouries. 4. Unless coffee is bought at Onitsha or ordered monthly from England.9 9 i-lb. cornflour, Brown & Poison’s in soldered tins. 3 i-lb. tins currants. 6 i-lb. bottles curry powder. 12 2-oz. bottles essence, vanilla. 6 2-oz. jars extract of meat, Lemco. 36 7-lbs. tins flour, best. 18 1-lb. tins fruit, assorted 30 packets dried apples, Prevet’s. 10 packets dried mirabelles, Prevet’s. 10 packets dried apricots or quinces. 3 2-lbs. tins cooking figs. 2 2-lbs. bottles pulled flgs. 3 2-lbs. tins cooking plums. 2 2-lbs. bottles dessert plums, Clarke, Bordeaux. 1 lb. gelatine, best leaf. 2 small bottles herbs, dried mint. 3 small bottles herbs, dried thyme. 3 small bottles horse radish, Heinz’s dessicated. 24 tins jams assorted, Crosse & Blackwell’s. 2 small bottles jelly, calves’ feet. 3 small tins knife polish, Oakey’s. 28 1-lb. tins lard. 2 2-lbs. tins lentils, Egyptian. 6 2-lbs. tins macaroni, best ribbon, in tins with sunken lids. 12 1-lb. jars marmalade. 6 1-lb. tins meat rations, Army & Navy. 96 i-lb. tins milk, Ideal (5) 6 £-lb. tins mustard, Coleman’s. 2 i-lb. tins nutmeg. 6 2-lbs. tins oats, Quaker. 12 i-lb. bottles oil, best salad. 8 bottles olives, Spanish. 2 2-lbs. tins peas, split. 4 i-pint bottles pickles, Crosse A Blackwell’s mixed. 4 boxes plate powder, Goddard’s. 3 plum puddings, Army & Navy. 12 small jars potted moat, assorted. 3 i-lb. tins pepper, black ground. 2 small tins pepper, red Cayenne. 6 2-lbs. tins rice, Patna. 48 i-lb. tins salmon, Lazonby’s. 0nt1LeSigerhCo/re8h milk mailable, but can be 'hadlrom10 3 tins salt, Cerebos. 24 £-lb. tins sardines. 5 bottles sauce, Worcester. 2 bottles sauce, A. 1. 1 bottle sauce, Tabasco. 12 8-oz. bottles sauce, Heinz’s tomato ketchup. 12 small tins sausages, Oxford. 8 3-tablets boxes soap, Wright’s coal tar. 1 i-cwt. case soap, Primrose. 24 l£d. packets starch, Robin’s. 12 1-lb. tins soup, Crosse & Blackwell’s assorted. 2 6-tablet tins soup squares, Lazenby’s assorted. 6 tins soup, Maggi consommee in tubes. 5 gross Sparklet bulbs, size B (6). 18 4-lbs tins sugar, loaf in tins with sunken lids. 2 2-lbs. tins tapioca. 1 15-lbs. canister of tea. 2 tin openers. 3 2-lbs. tins tongue, Paysandu Ox. 12 1-lb. tins vegetables, Rodel’s tinned peas. 4 1-lb. tins vegetables, McDoddie’s spinach. 3 1-lb. tins vegetables, McDoddie’s Julienne. 12 ^-bottles vinegar, pure malt. 6 tins yeast cake, Huckvale’s Royal (7). Two small bottles of dried rennet could be taken if going to a part where milk is plentiful. Two tins of Army and Navy moth powder would be useful to preserve the clothes put away in boxes and two tins of Keating’s powder should be taken, also some strong disinfectant, such as Izal. A powdered soap called Lux, sold in packets, is excellent for washing flannels and woollens. All stores should be kept together in one place, locked if possible. Opened tins of jam, sugar, butter, should be stood in platefuls of water to keep away the ants. These and any other opened tins or bottles should always be kept in the pantry, never in the kitchen. As far as possible, stores should be given out once a 6. The large size of Sparklet bottle and bulbs is the best. 7. See chapter on bread.11 week. For one man, the required quantities are approxi- mately as follows ;—7 tins Ideal milk (if no fresh milk), one tin lard (if no native butter or oil), one tin butter, quarter lb. of tea, twenty-one Sparklet bulbs, third of a bar of soap (halt to be given to the boys and half to the cook). Every fortnight a tin of either macaroni, tapioca, peas or lentils could be given out. A pound of lump sugar contains about eighty pieces or two large breakfast cupfuls. One uses about ten lumps a day.12 Of KITCHENS and KITCHEN UTENSILS. It is best not to touch your provision boxes during the journey up country but to take out one or two specially made up “ chop boxes containing all that is necessary in the way of food for as many days as you require. Fresh provisions can be bought off the steamer and as they are often both dear and scarce on the way up river, it is as well to take eggs, bread, potatoes and some bacon or ham. It is advisable to have those loads which you want to use on the river journey, including the oook’s box of which we speak later, dearly marked with a coloured band or some other distinguishing sign, so as to be able to recognise them easily as they come out of the chaos of the steamer’s hold. Some people consider a luncheon basket unnecessary, but for the new-comer it saves much time and temper. It should be strong and contain, besides the usual fittings, two enamel dishes on which to serve the meat and vege- tables, two small tablecloths, three napkins and half a dozen cloths to be given out to the cook on the way. All kitchen utensils should be packed in a strong wooden “ cook’s box,” fitted with padlock and key so that they can be safely left in storage at Burutu when going home. The box must not be too heavy, and the size of a man’s load. The contents should consist of— One large iron kettle about eight pints. One small kettle, three pints. One frying pan. One iron Kenrick saucepan, three pints, fitted with cover. One iron Kenrick saucepan, five pints, ,. One stew pan Kenrick, six or seven pints, ,. One colander to fit the five piut saucepan. One grill (light),13 One cook’s knife. One wooden spoon. One ordinary knife, fork and spoon. One meat board and chopper. One tin opener. One small knife board. Two pudding dishes, half and one pint, in white enamel. Two one-lb. bread tins. One baking tin. Two pudding basins, half pint and one pint. Two large sparklet bottles (with spare tubes and parts) will also be required but these had better be carried separ- ately. Two enamel basins for washing up, one for the cook and a larger one for the boy, can be bought from the Niger Company. When starting on trek, as few utensils as possible should be taken; every native knows how to make excellent ovens with a large native pot sunk in the ground and should always be able to give good roasts and good bread. If no native pot is available the cook’s basin turned upside down, half buried in sand and covered with fire, will make an oven fit for baking bread. The man who lives in a station will probably have a small brick kitchen containing a diminutive range but little else. A shelf made from an old packing case will have to be put up to serve as a table and some nails will be wanted on which to hang the saucepans; this is important as otherwise they usually find their dwelling place on the muddy floor. The same arrangement can be made in the mud hut which serves as a kitchen in the bush. In addition to the absolutely necessary kitchen utensils required on the journey up country or on tour, we would suggest— One two-pint Kenrick enamel saucepan. One four-pint Kenrick enamel stew pan. One Wellbank boilerette or a double boiler. *One fish kettle, for fish, vegetables or a ham.14 One small thick omelet frying pan. One tripod. Two wire meat covers. One wire meat safe, folding. *One mincing machine. One grater for cheese. One grater for nut. One small fine wire sieve. *One potato masher. One meat chopper and meat saw. One French tin coffee pot. One coffee mill. One small coffee strainer. One bread board. *One swizzle. *One ljlb. cake tin. *One toasting fork. *One set cutters. *One pestle. One spare wooden spoon. One spare one-lb. bread tin. *One large baking tin. One spare two-pint pie dish. One spare four-pint pudding basin. Spare knife, fork and spoon. Four scrubbing brushes. The utensils marked with an asterisk are not indispens- able. If a mincing machine is taken, it must be of a very simple make, easily taken to pieces, and its cleanliness should be often inspected. A bottle can do instead of a pastry roller and a pestle could be made locally of any hard wood. The swizzle can also be made locally. The pudding basins and pie dishes should be of enamel, not of earthenware. A set of cutters takes little room and is useful for neatly stamping out scones or rounds of bread for savouries, &c. Three yards of “ household flannel ” should be bought to wrap round the basin in which the bread is set to rise. See chapter on bread making.15 OF COOKS AND BOYS. One can say that there are three classes of cooks: the coast man with wages from at least £2 10s. Od. to £3 a month; the native cook at £1 10s. Od. to £2 ; and the simple savage at £1 or less. (All three will ask for the weekly 2/- chop money). If by saving in other ways, you can afford to get a Coast Man, he is certainly the best, especially if he comes from Accra. He is a born cook, he understands recipes, can be taught almost anything and seems to have an instinctive knowledge of how things ought to look and taste. He has a fair idea of order and cleanliness, and under favourable circumstances, can be put in charge of the other boys. Knowing better the value of your possessions, he may be more inclined to steal but with a little luck you will find him a useful reliable man, able to look after your stores and much less wasteful than the ordinary native cook. He will want his passage money from Accra to Forcados (about £2) and will also demand a “ cook-mate,” whom you can allow him. As soon as the cooking falls below the usual standard, the cook-mate should be dismissed, as it is a sure sign that the cook is leaving him to do all the work. The native cook will meet you at Forcados. With equal eagerness he will press his “ book ” into your band or tell you guilelessly “ Me plenty book, big fire catch him, book no live ” ; it matters little if you believe him or not for at this moment only luck can help you in your choice. He may turn out quite good, and though never the equal of the Accra cook, will be anxious to learn and is often more useful on trek, to which the Accra man sometimes objects strongly.16 The simple savage can be picked up anywhere. He will be full of zeal, inconveniently so sometimes. As he has no pre-conoeived and usually mistaken ideas, it is easier to train him, and it is possible to get a great deal out of him if you are willing to give a little time and patience. It is of the utmost importance and difficulty to give orders to the cook in a way he will understand The Accra man can be talked to almost as to a home cook, but the native or “the savage ” requires greater simplicity of explanation and frequent repetition. It must always be remembered that he cannot have the least idea of how a dish ought to look or taste, he will never know why a white man prefers his soup thick and his sauce unburnt, and hardly anything in his own native cooking can help him to arrive at the results we expect of him. It must also be remembered that a native, when asked if he understands what you have told him, will almost invariably answer “yes” for fear he may anger the white man if he says he has not. All the recipes have been written so that they can be read to the cook without too many explanations, but to make sure that he has, if not understood, at least remembered, he should be made to repeat them to vou again. In the beginning certain broad rules should be as it were photographed on his memory; sooner or later they will impress themselves upon his intelligence. If he has succeeded in correctly preparing a dish he should be praised and should be made to repeat it several times immediately. Do not wonder if it suddenly becomes uneatable, but refresh his memory, upon which, lackiug as yet any culinary intelligence, he must solely depend. Regularity of attention is a first necessity ; most natives like and respond to a regular system of drill which saves the white man much time and trouble. Ten minutes every morning should be given to the cook for the purpose of17 ordering the day’s meal, ten minutes every evening, while the work is still fresh in his mind, to remarks and praise or blame. In the house as in the kitchen, regularity of attention is the only way of obtaining order and cleanliness without undue expenditure of time. If your household consists of a cook and a boy, the cook will do nothing but attend to his kitchen and boil the water for the bath and filter. The boy has to do all the rest of the work, clean, serve at table, filter the water and cool the drinks. If he is the only one, he should not be too small a boy, for though they often appear more intelligent than the elder ones, they are really not strong enough to do all the work. A “ parade ” will always rather appeal to a boy and will be little trouble to yourself; the household tasks should be clearly defined and certain things should be inspected on regular days at regular times. For example, Monday might be reserved for the inspec- tion of the kitchen. Examine the shelves, meat boards and the insides of the saucepans, see that two out of the three kitchen cloths are washed clean, throw away any useless empty tins or bottles which the cook loves to accumulate in dark corners, and remove any of his garments which you may find lying about. On Tuesday the boy should take the filter to pieces and clean it as well as the sparklet bottles; on Wednesday he could clean out the pantry and any cupboard where glass or crockery is kept. On Thursday the boy should clean the verandah, scrubbing it if possible, be it only with sand and water, and the cook should parade his pans, boards and cloths. Friday and Saturday should be kept for cleaning out the rooms. Have everything moved clear away from the walls and all mats, table covers and curtains vigorously shaken. The lamps should be cleaned every day at the same time as they are filled, it will only take a moment when thus done regularly. The coolers must be emptied out every three days and scrubbed inside once a week.18 The store room should be cleaned and any clothing put away in boxes, aired and inspected once a month. This may sound a great deal but the boys will soon get accustomed to having things ready so that the master can look them over in a very few minutes. The same plan can be followed even on trek. Monday for the chop boxes and cooking pots, Tuesday for the filter and sparklet bottles, Wednesday for the luncheon basket, Thursday for all the cloths and cooking pots, Friday for your personal boxes. The bed clothes should be aired all the morning on the verandah. The mosquito net must be put down before sunset, searched to see that no mosquitoes are inside and the edges tucked down under the mattress. Your washing will probably be done twice a week ; never allow your clothes to lie about in the boy’s house but have them washed directly and brought back to you as soon as they are dried and aired. If you are near a river, it is best to choose yourself the place where the boy should wash your clothes, otherwise, being socially inclined, he will go to the nearest and most frequented pool, more intent upon conversation than the cleanliness of the water. Tablecloths, towels and cloths can be put in cold water with a little shredded soap or ashes and boiled in a large native pot kept for that purpose. Whilst they are boiling, they should be gently stirred with a smooth stick. Wool or flannel should never be boiled but washed in tepid water and dried immediately. A powdered soap called “ Lux ” is excellent for washing flannel suits. Lamps burn much better if they are kept turned down for a few minutes after lighting them. If you only use a Lord’s lamp, and two hurricane lamps for the kitchen and pantry, four gallons of petroleum should last about three months. Candle lamps with punkah tops are useful and look well on a dining table. Knives should never be cleaned on stones, but always with the knife polish and on the knife board. Spoons and19 forks must be brightened with plate powder and a flanuel duster. Brass is better cleaned with damp ashes than with lime juice. A cheap alarm clock would be a source of great pride to the boy and an encouragement to punctuality. Cloths and dusters present a difficult problem which is perhaps best resolved as follows :—take out one dozen good teacloths, one dozen dusters (cheap) and two dozen strong kitchen rubbers. Give only three rubbers at a time to the cook, and two dusters and three tea-cloths to the boy. Inspect their cleanliness twice a week and do not give out new ones till the old ones are nearly worn out, they can then be used for floors and lamps. A few very cheap knitted rubbers or flannel dusters will bo needed for boots, saddlery, etc. Dissuade the boy from wearing a tea cloth, loosely knotted round his neck, while he is serving at table. Washing up must be done immediately after each meal and is easiest done in a large enamel basin which you can get quite cheaply at the Niger Co. It is as well to buy three of these basins, one large one for washing up, one smaller one for the cook and one spare one. See that the boy uses hot water, and that he washes the glasses first, then the knives, forks and spoons, and lastly the plates. The knives should never be left lying in the water or the handles crack. It is very difficult to induce a boy to use sufficient water for washing up ; he seems to consider it less trouble to wash everything in a pudding basin. As soon as he has finished, the teacloths should be hung up to dry. Serving at table is one of the things a boy will often take pride in. Allow ‘him a nice riga and encourage him to make the table look as nice as possible even in the bush.20 NATIVE PRODUCTS. On first arriving in Nigeria, it would seem as if meat, fowls and eggs represented the whole extent of local resources. A few months in the country will show you that much else can be obtained but it must always be asked for. The native will never bring anything to the white man on his own initiative, not from any ill-feeling, but because he thinks it “ no be fit for white man.” The Accra cook will, of course, especially affect to despise anything native! You must show that you know what the local products are and when they can be had, and if you insist sufficiently, they will soon be obtained. For the assistance of the newcomer, we give what we fear is a quite incomplete and sometimes inaccurate list of native grains and vegetables, and the best ways of using them. We include remarks on native milk, butter, etc., etc.; meat and poultry will be treated separately at the head of the various chapters in which they are dealt with. WHEAT (alkama).—Especially grown in the north, but found in Bauchi and around Wase. Makes excellent bread on condition that it is carefully ground and kept free from the dust of the Harmattan. The bread can be made wholly from Alkama flour, or mixed with an equal quantity of European flour. It makes, also, delicious pancakes. If one is certain of going to a province where wheat is easily obtainable, it would be worth while to take out a small handmill and to make all one’s bread with Alkama flour, thus greatly reducing the bulk of one’s European stores. GUINEA COEN (dawa).—The flour can be used for making porridge. A taste for it can be acquired in time.21 MAIZE (massara).—Exoellent for porridge and for scones, either ground to flour or slightly broken. It is best not to buy the maize ready ground on the market but to arrange with one of your boy’s wives that she should herself grind or break it for you, paying her a little over the ordinary market price on condition that it is free from grit and dust. You thus make sure of having the flour fresh and fairly clean. The handmill advised for grinding the wheat could also be used for the maize. NATIVE RICE (shinkafa).—Two different kinds are sold on the market: “ Shinkafa gumi,” which is not very good, as it has already been half-boiled to facilitate the removal of the husks ; and “ shinkafa danye ” (meaning uncooked), which though generally rather brown, is almost as good as Patna Rice. It must be very carefully washed several times, and half a lime squeezed into the water in which it is going to boil will help to whiten it. The native women know how to grind it, and it can then be used for thickening soups instead of flour, or for making ground rice shapes, or for porridge. ACHA.—Closely resembles semolina and can be had nearly all the year round. It is useful for porridge, fritters, soup and puddings. A MARA.—A tuber which grows wild in the bush and is gathered by women who grind it into a flour very much like cornflour, which can be used for thickening soup or for making into shapes. GROUND NUTS (gedda).—They can be obtained all the year round, but the chief crop is in November. They make excellent soup and stews and are delicious slightly dried in the oven and eaten instead of salted almonds. YAMS (doya).—They can be got almost anywhere in the southern provinces. As they can be easily kept for a long time, if in a dry place, one should lay in a good supply while their market price is reasonable. B22 SWEET POTATOES (dankali).—They can be usually obtained except in May and June. When they are quite fresh, just out of the ground, they should be laid in the sun for a day, they will then keep much better. Keep them in a dry place. TUMUKTJ.—A small tuber which cannot always be obtained but is worth while looking for. Fried, or mixed in a stew it makes an excellent vegetable rather resembling new potatoes. EIZGA.—A small tuber obtainable at the end of the rains and right through the dry season. CASSAVA (rogo).—It can be got everywhere and can take the place of yams or sweet potatoes. The very young leaves can be used as spinach if no other green vegetable can be found, or as a salad. Cassava dried, ground finely with a bottle and put in the oven just long enough to turn light brown, makes a very good tapioca. DUYx\N BISSA.—A creeper with an edible fruit about the size of a potato, and can be used as such. BEANS.—“ Wake” is the name of the ordinary bean, but the “ Waken bissa,” or climbing bean is much superior and exactly resembles the “haricot de soissons.” It is very good either fresh or dried and can be kept for a long time so it is wise to lay in a provision. It can be used for making soup, and is a useful vegetable during the dry season when everything else is scarce. ONIONS (albassa)—As these become very expensive during the rains, it is better to buy a supply of them during the dry season and keep them spread out on a layer of sand, taking care not to let them touch each other. Young onions can be had during the rains and are very good in a salad, or the green sprouts give an added ilavoui to soups and stews. In the north a kind of garlic can also be found, rather less strong than the European garlic.23 NATIVE SPINACH (alafu).—This grows very easily during the rains and some should be sown in every garden as it does not require the least care. It is best when the leaves are quite young and freshly picked. OKRO.—These are cultivated nearly everywhere, can be used for soup or as a vegetable, and are indispensable for palm oil chop. The young pods are best, and can also be made into a salad. PUMPKIN (kabewa).—By far the best variety is a dark green one covered with small raised white patches, called “ Kurzunu.” It makes a good soup and an excellent vegetable, either mashed or lightly boiled and then fried. GAUTA.—A fruit similar in appearance to a small tomato, but the taste is more like that of an egg plant; it is especially good cut in slices and fried. NATIVE ARTICHOKE (gwaza)—Has large green lily leaves. The root freshly pulled, cleaned and boiled is quite good. It must be freshly boiled, not bought cooked on the market. TATASSA.—A variety of large pepper which can be eaten stuffed or as a vegetable. PEPPERS (berkono).—Are found everywhere ; they are best fresh and are used instead of ordinary pepper for cooking. Soaked in sherry they produce an excellent sauce. Make a good provision of them while they are in season, dry them, and put them in a well-corked bottle. They will not be quite so strong as when fresh, but can well replace ordinary pepper. SOUR SOUR (yakwa).—The red leaves during the rains and the berries during the dry season can both be used to make a refreshing and pleasant drink. A nice jelly can also be made with the berries. GINGER (chitta).—Can generally be obtained on the market. Boiled when fresh it will make quite a good ginger beer.24 PINEAPPLES.—The cultivation of these seems to be slowly extending northward and already good specimens are grown in Lokoja. MANGOES.—These grow more especially in the southern provinces but will soon be found everywhere. They can be utilized as compote and preserves. BANANAS (ayaba)—Not very good as a rule and always over ripe when brought for sale. For their use, see Fritters, etc. Plantains are also obtainable on the way up river. LIMES (lemu).—These are plentiful nearly all the year and make most delicious lime drinks. PAW PAW (gwanda).—When ripe (during the dry season) this is an excellent fruit to be eaten fresh with a little sugar and lime juice. While still unripe it is invalu- able as a vegetable, or stewed, etc. DATES (dabino).—These can be bought, dried, in the more northern towns. They should be washed, folded in a wet napkin and kept between two plates for two or three days, when they will be almost as good as fresh ones. They are also very nice stewed in milk. COFFEE.—Good coffee is grown at Onitsha and can be bought there on the way up river. NATIVE HONEY (zumma).—At first sight one is apt to despise native honey as it certainty does not present au attractive appearance, but once cleared it is as good as any English honey, and is especially excellent with maize porridge or cakes, and with pancakes. It cau also be used to sweeten tea and coffee if sugar is running short. To clear it, the honey should be strained through a clean cloth (towel or handkerchief), then boiled and kept boiling for a good quarter of an hour. It can then be poured out of the saucepan, leaving the sediment, aud strained once more into any old glass jar. Well stoppered it will keep for any length of time.25 MILK, cows’ or goats’.—(madera, fresh milk; nono, sour milk). Unless one is perfectly certain that the milk comes from clean and healthy animals it is always safer to boil it. For directions as to keeping and use see page in Index. BUTTER (main shanu).—If you are sure of having a regular and sufficient supply of milk, it is best to take out a small hand churn and to make your own butter, but this is not often the case. For directions as to keeping and using see page in Index. GROUND NUT OIL (main gedda).—This is an excel- lent oil and can nearly always take the place of lard. It is obtainable almost everywhere, but care should be taken that it is quite fresh when bought. It is advisable to filter it through a muslin or handkerchief and then to boil it before using it. Poured into bottles, it will keep a long time. It is a good softener for boots and saddlery. SHEA BUTTER (main kadaniya).—If neither native butter nor ground nut oil is obtainable, clarified shea butter can be used for frying purposes, but it is much inferior. PALM OIL (main ja).—This oil is only found in the southern provinces and in the Kwolla district, north of the Benue. “ Palm oil chop ” is one of the best known dishes of the coast but requires an experienced cook and many native ingredients. We give here a list of fish which can be found in the Benue, and a rough description of their appearance. The Hausa names given are correct on the Benue and though they may not be quite the same in other parts of the country they may help to give some idea of what can be obtained. DAN SARIKI.—A fish with a long tapering body, elongated head, dark smooth skin almost black towards the tail, very small fins. Its flesh is free from small bones, and is at its best when the fish is about three feet long. It usually reaches a length of six feet. This is certainly26 the best edible fish and is especially good when boiled whole and served with white sauce, or eaten cold with mayonnaise. KARPASSA.—A small fish weighing between three and four lbs. It has much the same shape as a carp ; no small bones and a delicate flavour. It is very good boiled whole or baked in tbe oven. GIWAN RUWA.—Is the largest of all river fish ; it is of great girth and can weigh as much as 110 lbs. There are no small bones, and when the fish only weighs about twenty pounds it is good cut into pieces of three to four lbs., and boiled; the remains make up well into fish cakes or kedgeree. RAGON RUWA.—Also a very large fish, weighing up to seventy lbs., with a remarkably large flattened head, dorsal fin and smooth thick skin. It is at its best when weighing twenty lbs. and can be used by boiling it in pieces of from three to four lbs., and making up tbe remains with curry, or in kedgeree, salad or fish cake. TSAGE.—A small sprat-like fish with a tail half green and half red and red fins. When about three inches long is very good fried. KAURA.—A fish of the same kind as the Tsage but not quite so good. It can be used in the same way. MARI.—A fish about three feet long, with a large head and smooth brown skin. It is free from small bones but has a slightly muddy taste and is only good when curried or made up into a kedgeree or fish cakes. TARWADA.—A fish about three feet long, with a black smooth skin, white belly, large flat head and long feelers. It has always a muddy taste and should only be used, strongly seasoned, in curry or fish cakes, when no other can be obtained.27 FOWLS (kaza, p1. kaji).—The perilous youth of an African fowl leaves upon it an indelible impression. In an endless effort to escape, its body becomes all out-stretched neck and flying legs, petrified into an attitude of fear. Wild-eyed, shrill-voiced, neither oomfort nor security can change its haggard look, but regular feeding and restrained activity may perhaps do a little towards improving the for- lornness of its aspect. Buy the largest fowls you can find, feed them on mixed millet and maize and as much “ doussa as possible, give them plenty of clean water and shut them in every night out of reach of bush cats. Except in some favoured localities, only the bravest will attempt to rear chickens, for what between cats, rats, hawks, sundry horrible diseases and the incredible stupidity of the African hen, it is a most melancholy task. The only chance of success lies in keeping them shut up in an enclosure of wire netting (which must be brought out from England), or of roughly woven native mats, till they have attained the age of reason. If you rear ducklings do not forget to give them a large native pot sunk in the ground of their enclosure and regularly filled with water. TURKEYS (talatalo).—Quite good turkeys are fairly numerous in the north, and Loko on the Benue sells a great number of them. GUINEA FOWLS (zabuwa, pl. zabx), and BUSH FOWLS (fakara), are generally plentiful. PIGEONS (tantabara).—These are really only good when quite young and are best cooked in a pie. The “ green pigeons ” are delicious and are best roasted. FRUIT.—We do not give the names of any of the wild fruits found in the bush as they vary in each locality.28 THE VEGETABLE GARDEN. In Nigeria, a small vegetable garden is not only a distrac- tion but almost an absolute necessity, and with a little trouble you can make sure of a varied supply of vegetables from May to the end of November. Under certain con- ditions, proximity to a stream or well, it is even possible to have tomatoes, lettuces and beans all the year round, grown on a small space of irrigated ground. European vegetables, combined with the resources of the country, will provide the white man who has some little experience, with the fresh and varied food so necessary to health. Towards the end of March is the best time to begin sowing. This should be done in boxes raised on stones a few inches from the ground, in good light soil, enriched, if the ordinary soil is poor, with a little black soil, but it must on no account be heavy. A little gravel at the bottom will facilitate drainage. These boxes can easily be kept moist and the seedlings will still be under shelter when the first violent tornadoes break. The beds for their reception can be prepared at any time towards the end of ihe dry season. The chief cause of failure in Nigerian gardens is that not sufficient attention is given to the soil of these beds which must generally be enriched unless the garden happens to be on the site of an old village. Horse or sheep manure, never cow, and leaf mould found under old trees or along a river bank where maize has been grown, can be used. The black soil found near rivers is very good but sometimes too heavy unless mixed with about an equal quantity of ordinary soil. The ground must be well dug up ; the hoes of the natives are of not much use for deep digging and they take a little time to learn the use of a spade.29 The shade required by the transplanted seedlings should also be prepared. Forked sticks fixed round the beds at intervals and supporting other sticks will serve to hold up mats or palm leaves which will shelter the plants during the hottest hours of the day. Seeds must be sown lightly in the (boxes and almost on the surface, covering them with only a little fine earth. The earth must be kept just damp. Transplant with great care, using a spoon if you have no trowel. Transplant only in the evening, after a cool grey day if possible, water immediately and give shade during the whole of the first two or three days. In watering the beds take care that the earth does not cake on the surface, thus preventing the water penetrating to the roots of the plants. If a plant develops too slowly and poorly, push the earth a little away from its base, spread some manure very lightly around it and re-cover. It must be remembered that quick development is essential to the success of any Nigerian plant, otherwise it will surely fall a victim to its countless insect enemies. The following list of vegetables comprises only those that are easy to grow and give the most certain results. The directions given for their cultivation have been obtained from the Fathers of the Mission Africaine de Lyon. The most suitable varieties are given in brackets. They can all be obtained from Yilmorin Andrieux, Quai de la Megisserie, Paris, but Messrs. Sutton & Sons, Reading, could probably procure any of them or give similar varieties. TOMATOES (Mikado and Peach Bloom. Golden Nug- gets grow easily but are of a small variety, very good eaten raw. Peach Bloom and Golden Nuggets are only obtainable from Sutton’s).—Sow end of March in boxes, keep moist and in the shade. Transplant to beds early and often ; the oftener the young plants are transplanted the more vigorous they will become. They should be put deep in the ground, covering the lowest leaves. When finally bedded out, the30 plants should be three feet apart and firmly tied to a stick four feet high. To prevent the plant spreading outward, all side shoots should be pinched off with the fingers, never cut with a knife, so as to have only the one strong central stem. When the plant has fruited to a height of three or four branches, pinch off also the top of this central stem. By doing this the fruit will be much larger and the plant will continue to bear longer. Tomatoes can also be allowed to run like cucumbers over a mat or trellis of branches raised a foot off the ground, but this method is not so good. CUCUMBERS (Vert de Paris).—Sow in boxes, leaving a space of three inches between each seed. Transplant when the plant has four leaves. Dig fairly deep holes in non-manured ground, five feet apart, only one row, put mixed manure and soil at the bottom, cover and plant the seedlings on top so that the roots do not reach the manure till the plant is well developed. Let it run over branches laid on the ground, or better, over a frame-work of branches raised a foot above the ground. Give shade during the whole of the first three days, and later during the hottest hours. They require a good deal of water. DWARF BEANS (Petits Noirs d’Alger).—Sow in open ground. Dig holes three quarters of a yard apart, much ■larger and deeper than seems necessary, mix a little manure at the bottom and cover with earth. Sow the beans in groups of five or six and almost on the surface. Cover with leaves or grass till they have sprouted. As they grow, raise the earth round the stalks. No shade required. It is well to sow three or four times at a fortnight’s interval, so as to have a continuous supply. EGG PLANT (Monstrneuse de New York).—Sow thinly in boxes. Transplant when six or seveu inches high, plant in medium rich soil, a yard apart. See that earth does not cake round roots. Shade only during first days after trans- planting.31 LETTUCE (Grosee Blonde Paresseuse).—Sow in boxes. Transplant when three inches high; plant in well mixed and manured soil a good foot apart. With plenty of water they will grow very quickly. Should be sown at intervals so as to have a continuous supply. Give shade all day during the first three days, and later during the hottest hours. PARSLEY.—Can be grown in boxes under the verandah all the year round, or can be sown in the open, in good soil, well dug. Requires a little shade. RADISHES.—Grow in boxes or in the open ground. Thin out when they begin to form. Sow frequently. SWEET PEPPER (Piments Doux d’Espagne).—Sow in boxes. Transplant when three or four inches high ; plant in ordinary soil two feet apart. They are best planted in the middle of the rainy season and will not require watering while the fruit is ripening. No shade. CABBAGE (Chou Nantais or Jouannet).—Requires well prepared soil. Dig deeply, scatter dried and well broken up manure over the surface, dig it in and repeat the operation a second time. Sow thinly in boxes, thin out so that they can grow to a height of six inches without getting weakly. Transplant in the evening, plant in quincunx two feet apart. Water plentifully during first days and give shade. When they begin to develop, keep the ground well hoed between the plants and occasionally scatter, and hoe in, a little more dry manure. In soil sufficiently rich cabbages can develop hearts as white and firm as in Europe. Red cabbage can be grown in the same way and is good in salad or pickled in vinegar. BEET ROOT (Covent Garden).—Sow in boxes. Trans- plant when the root is about the thickness of a pencil; plant in quincunx a good eighteen inches apart, in good ground mixed with rich black soil, rather than manure.32 Transplant with great care so as not to break any of the fibres. If cool and cloudy weather no shade necessary. Hoe frequently. CARROTS (Demi Longues de Lucques).—Sow in open ground, in light soil, rich in decayed leaves. No manure. Sow in lines twelve inohes apart. Thin out at intervals; even quite young carrots not much thicker than a pencil give a good flavour to soup and stews. No shade necessary. TURNIPS (Marteau).—Sow like carrots but more lightly. Thin out when they begin to develop till they are six inches apart. Require much water at first; if ground suitable will grow quickly but should be eaten young or become rather stringy. Sow at intervals of three weeks. No shade required.33 SUGGESTIONS FOR MENUS. In the following recipes we have endeavoured to suppress nearly all tinned foods and to encourage the utilisation of rice, macaroni, eggs and especially fresh vegetables. In the menus suggested for the use of a man alone in the bush, we have supposed that he has neither even beef, mutton nor game and the one course of fresh fish included could be replaced by a tin of salmon. On those days when meat or fish is obtainable, he must remember to make out his menu so as to take full advantage of these resources and it is always advisable to try to com- bine a lunch of eggs, rice, stuffed vegetables, etc., so that the inevitable fowl appears but once a day. BREAKFASTS. Quaker oats porridge. Fried fish or fish pie, with \ tin salmon. Devilled fowl (remains of poulet menagere) Maize pancakes with honey. Maize porridge. Buttered eggs. Maize cakes with honey. Cottage pie (with remains of roast fowl.) LUNCHEONS. Rice and Tomatoes. Curried fish or remaining salmon with mayonnaise. Tapioca pudding. Stuffed eggs in batter. Vegetable curry or potato salad. Baked custard. Macaroni and cheese. Stuffed tomatoes or egg plant. Paw paw tart. Stuffed eggs with mustard and cress. Egg plant fritters with mashed yam and cabbage. Cheese.34 DINNERS. Tomato soup. Poulet Menagere and French beans. Plums or figs with custard. Cheese biscuits. Pumpkin soup. Joloff rice. Lime sponge. Eggs on anchovy toast. Yam and onion soup. Roast fowl with mashed yam and fried tomatoes. Caramel cream. Pickle cheese. Native bean soup. Boiled fowl with rice and fried cucumbers. Paw paw compote. Tomato savoury. The more elaborate menus which now follow comprise a soup, three courses, a pudding and a savoury. This would only be for a really big important “ tralala ” dinner. For dinners of three or four people or even seven or eight, a soup, two courses and a pudding or savoury would be quite sufficient. No cook at home could show as much ingenuity as the black man does when he succeeds in producing an endless succession of cou rses, created on a dilapidated range furnished with two saucepans and a frying pan. But would it not be better not to ask him to perform these feats, but rather to shorten the menu to what he can reasonably carry out and even to arrange for a cold entree or sweet which could be prepared beforehand in the calm of the morning ? Nigerian hospitality, is the kindest, most thoughtful and most generous in the world, but through force of circumstauce it is often symbolised by a hecatomb of tins. With a little forethought this could frequently be obviated and the result would be more original and varied. The menus given can seldom be followed out exactly, as various dishes may be out of season, but they could serve as examples of how to save the cook’s time if two dishes out of the six can be prepared beforehand. No tins are used, except salmon in case fish is not obtainable. Cold asparagus can always replace one of the dishes and mayonnaise of game or fowl makes a good ending to a35 dinner. Slices of ham hot and served on spinach make a nice entree. Little paper or china cases, called ramequin cases, are of use to those who have to give many dinners and enable them to transform a simple luncheon dish suoh as curried buttered eggs, oeufs priutanieres, etc., into a pretty entree. White Soup. Cold fish with mayonnaise or grilled salmon with sauce au beurre. Tournedosof beef or mutton. Roast duck with apple sauce, yam cakes and fried pumpkin. Caramel rice with custard. Stuffed olives on toast. Yam and young onion soup. Stuffed tomatoes. Roast leg of mutton with native beans and spinach. Poulet mayonnaise. Chocolate pudding. Pickle cheese. Tomato soup. Curried fish. Kidneys on toast. Poulet cocotte. Coffee cream. Horseradish savoury. Pumpkin soup. Fried fish with sauce hol- landaise. Poulet marengo with mashed beans and fried egg plant. Cold pigeon pie or cold tongue with salad. Snow eggs. Mustard biscuits. Mutton broth. Anchovy eggs with may- onnaise. Chicken croquettes with tomato sauce and mashed sweet potato. Boiled leg of mutton with caper sauce, rice and French beaus. Fruit salad. Parmesan biscuits. Onion soup. Macaroni bonne femme. Rolled fowl with sauce poivrade. Mashed pumpkin and fried sweet potatoes. Cold duck or guinea fowl with salad. Fruit fritters. Stuffed olives on toast. Ground nut soup. Fish au gratin. Mutton croquettes on mash- ed beans with tomato sauce. Poulet Fricassee with rice and fried cucumber. Paw paw tart with custard. Okro savoury, DINNERS. I36 SOUP. It is worth while to spend a good deal of trouble on teaching your cook to make nourishing soups. Besides its value as food, a good soup is the mark of a good cook. It needs much more care than one would suppose, but once the method is learnt, it will not be forgotten, and will greatly help in the proper preparation of stews and sauces, of which it generally forms the basis. What cookery books call a stock pot is not possible in Nigeria. Soup must be made from day to day. In stations where you know the market is inspected, three penny worth of soup meat can be bought every day, but in the bush it would not be advisable to let your boy buy meat on the native market in such small quantities. The best roasting meat does not make the best soup; on the contrary, a piece full of bone and muscle, such as the shin or the shoulder or ribs of mutton is much more suitable. It is not so much the quantity of meat which makes good soup as the way and time it is cooked. Even cooked meat, bones, trimmings of fowl and vegetables, make good soup if cooked properly and long enough. The cook must understand that the pot must be kept simmering for at least two or three hours after the first boiling point has been reached. Vegetables, in no matter how small a quantity, all improve the taste of soup, but only carrots, turnips, onions, tops of young onious and parsley should be used in beef, mutton or chicken broth. If other vegetables are used, then the soup is treated as a vegetable soup. The meat and vegetables must be carefully washed ; the lid kept tilted on the saucepan or the native pot so that the37 SOUPS. steam can escape, and the cook should be induced to take off all the scum as it rises before the first boiling point has been reached. The proportion of water to Nigerian meat should be about three pints to 2-lb. meat, or to l^-lb. meat and £-lb. bones. The quantities given in the following recipes are sufficient to make two good platefuls of soup. Soup is much better if made in rather large quantities, and can always be heated up again. If the soup is not all finished at dinner, the remainder can be kept till the following lunch, though it is safer to give a short boil in the morning in very hot weather. A native cooking pot with a lid is almost better than a saucepan for making soups, on condition that it is kept absolutely clean and scalded out with boiling water each time after use. Chicken Broth. (1). 1 fowl, old and skinny and freshly killed, if nothing better can be had. l£ pints water. 1 onion stuck with one clove. 1 teaspoon salt. 1 native pepper (berkono) or a pinch of black pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. (3 large carrots, 3 large tur- nips and a bunch of parsley if available). 1. Clean the fowl, cut off the wings and legs and break its carcase into four pieces. Put it all into the large saucepan or native pot, together with the neck, feet, the salt and pepper. Pour over the cold water and set it on a slow fire. With a spoon remove the scum as it rises to the top and throw it away. Keep the fire low so as to keep the pot from boiling as long as you can. If the soup is in a saucepan it should take about twenty minutes, or half an hour if in a native pot. 2. As soon as it boils throw in the onion, the berkono and the nutmeg (and the parsley, carrots and turnips split in four pieces). Throwing in the vegetables will stop the boiling, watch it till it boils again, then put on the lid a little sideways so that the steam can escape. cSOUPS. 38 3. Put the pot on the range as far as possible from the fire with just enough heat to keep it simmering. If on a native fire keep several large pieces of wood just burning so as to give out a slow and equal heat. Let it cook thus for at least a good hour, then pour the soup through the sieve and serve. Notes. After the second boiling point has been reached, pick out the legs and wings with a fork, cut off the best portions of the meat and return the bones to the pot. This meat can be cut into small squares and put back in the soup after it has been strained, together with squares of the carrots and turnips. If not served in the soup, the meat can be used for cro- quettes, cottage pie, salad, or for the stuffing of tomatoes, etc. A nice addition to the soup if it is served without meat is two or three thin slices of bread put in the tureen with the vegetables, or in the soup plate before pouring over the soup. Chicken Soup or Stock. (I). All the trimmings, liver, gizzard, and any bones of a fowl. 1 pint water. 1 large onion stuck with a clove. I teaspoon salt. 1 native pepper (berkono) or a pinch of black pepper. 3 carrots, 2 turnips and a bunch of parsley if avail- able. Even the trimmings of a fowl with the addition of vegetables or even only an onion will make a good plate of soup if thickened with rice, tapioca, or yolks of eggs (see Index). This chicken soup is also what we have called “ stock ” in the following recipes, and have used as a base for vegetable soups, stews and sauces. Unless you want a real chicken broth, never allow your cook a whole fowl for making soup; if each time a fowl is killed for roasting, boiling, etc., he keeps the trimmings and uses them as directed, he will have enough stock on hand for the making of his day’s soup, stew or sauce.SOUPS. 39 1. Put the trimmings into a two-pint saucepan or a small native pot, add the onion, pepper, salt, and cold water. Set on a slow fire, take off all the scum as it rises, and when it has reached boiling point, which ought to take at least twenty minutes, throw in the other vegetables if you have them, boil up again and then put by the side of the fire and let it simmer for a good hour. By this time the soup will be reduced to half a pint. Pass it through a sieve into a pudding basin and let it stand till required. Stock can be made in the same way with any bones of beef or mutton. Beef Broth. (I). lj-lb. beef and J-lb. broken bones. 3 pints water. 1 large onion stuck with 2 cloves. 1 teaspoon salt. 2 native peppers (berkono) or a good pinch of black pepper. (4 large carrots or 6 smaller ones, 4 medium sized tur- nips, a bunch of parsley, a small bunch onion tops.) 1. Cut the meat in pieces about two inches square, put them in your large saucepan or native pot, then add the broken bones. Pour over the three pints cold water and set on a slow fire. With a spoon remove the scum as it rises to the top, and throw it away. Keep the fire low so as to keep the pot from boiling as long as you can, this ought to take half-an-hour. 2. As soon as it boils, throw in the onion split in two, the salt and pepper, (carrots and turnips split in two, the bunch of parsley, the onion tops). Throwing in the vegetables will stop the boiling. Watch it till it boils again, then put the lid on a little sideways so that the steam can escape. 3. Put the pot on the range as far as possible from the fire with just enough heat to keep it simmering. If on a native fire, keep several large pieces of wood just burning so as to give out a slow and equal heat. Let it simmer thus for at least two good hours (the cook mate properly40 SOUPS. trained can attend to the fire). If the meat cooks too quickly the goodness goes from it and it falls to pieces. If this happens before the two hours are over, remove the soup and do not continue simmering. Pass the soup through a sieve, setting aside the vegetables. Serve with five or six slices of vegetables to each plate of soup, adding three or four thin slices of bread. Notes—1. This will make two platefuls of soup, what is left can be boiled over again early the next morning and used for white soups and tapioca soup. 2. If the buttock steak is used do not cut it in squares, but before putting it into the saucepan tie it with string into a square shape, take it out of the soup as soon as the meat is thoroughly done, this piece of meat can then be served with tomato sauce and pickles, or cold, cut into small dice and mixed with a salad of boiled yams or sweet potatoes sliced (raw onion and beetroot if obtainable). This is a safe way of eating beef, all germs being destroyed by the boiling, and is nice, especially when the meat is inclined to be tough. Mutton Broth. (1). 1 neck mutton or the bones and trimmings from a saddle of mutton. 3 pints water. 1 onion stuck with 2 cloves. 1 native pepper (berkono) or a good pinch of black pepper. 1 tatassa. 1 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons pearl barley. (1 bunch parsley or basil, 1 teaspoon dried tbsune, 4 large carrots or 6 smaller ones, 4 medium sized tur- nips.) 1. Break the bones and cut the meat in pieces. Put it into your large saucepan or native pot. Pour over the cold water and set on a slow fire. With a spoon remove the scum as it rises to the top and throw it away. Keep the fire low so as to keep the pot from boiling as long as you can, with a low fire this ought to take about half-an- hour. 2. As soon as it boils throw in the onion, the pepper,SOUPS. 41 salt, barley, (the carrots and turnips split in two, the bunch of parsley, the dried thyme). Throwing in the vegetables will stop the boiling, watch it till it boils again, then put on the lid a little sideways so that the steam can escape. 3. Put the pot on the range with just enough heat to keep it simmering. If on a native fire keep several large pieces of wood just burning so as to give out a slow and equal heat. Let it simmer thus for at least two good hours. Do not strain the broth but carefully pick out the bones. Cut the best parts of the meat in squares about half-an-inch large, also the carrots and turnips, place them in the soup and serve very hot. Note. If barley is not available, rice will do very well. A tablespoonful of English rice to be put in the soup half- an-hour before serving. If native rice is used, only a quarter of an hour before serving. White Soup. (II). 1 pint hot stock. 1 undiluted teaspoon Ideal milk. 2 yolks of eggs. 1. Break the eggs, separating the yolk from the white. This is done by holding the egg in the right hand and cracking it gently against the edge of a plate nearly all round the middle, then take it in both hands and break it open in the middle, holding it close over a plate. Do not let the yolk fall out but pour out the white on the plate, sliding the yolk from one half shell to the other. When the yolk is quite separated from the white, drop it into the enamel saucepan, and do the same thing for the second egg. 2. Mix the eggs with the milk, add a tablespoon of soup not too hot, stir well, add another spoonful, stir again and then pour on the rest of the soup. The soup should be very hot but not boiling, or it will set the eggs. If rice or tapioca is liked, a small tablespoonful can be boiled for twenty minutes in the stock before mixing it with the eggs and milk.SOUPS. 42 Rice Soup. (1). £ pint of stock. 1 small dessertspoon of rice. Wash the rice, put it into the boiling stock. For English rice boil twenty minutes, for native rice eight minutes. Tapioca Soup. (I). 4 pint stock. 1 small dessertspoon tapioca. Put the tapioca into the boiling stock and boil for fifteen minutes. The tapioca must be sprinkled lightly into the stock. If the grains are stuck together, crush them with a bottle before sprinkling them in the stock, otherwise the soup will be lumpy. When thoroughly cooked, the tapioca should look quite transparent. Tomato Soup. (1). 5 or 6 large tomatoes or 10 small ones. 1 pint water. 1 large onion or 2 small ones. 1 small teaspoon sugar. 1 teaspoon salt. 1 berkono or a pinch of black pepper. 1 teacup hot stock or milk (if Ideal, 1 tablespoon to a teacup of water). (A little dried thyme or a bunch of parsley.) 1. Wash the tomatoes, cut them in quarters, also the onion, and put them in the two-pint saucepan with the salt, pepper, sugar (and thyme or parsley). Pour on the cold water and set on a slow fire; when it has reached boiling point, set it a little aside and cook very slowly for an hour and a half, when the soup should be like a thick pur6e. 2. Five minutes before serving, strain the soup through the sieve, return it to the saucepan and add the hot stock or milk. If you add stock, the soup may boil again for two or three minutes, but if you add milk it should have been boiled beforehand, or it might be curdled by the tomatoes, and the soup should not be allowed to boil again. Two tablespoons fried dices of bread passed round with the soup are an improvement.SOUPS. 43 Onion Soup. (I). 1 teaspoon salt. 1 small teacup hot stock or milk (if Ideal, 1 tablespoon to 1 teacup of water). 1 yolk of egg. 2 middle sized onions or 3 smaller ones. 3 teacups water. 1 berkono or a pinch of black pepper. 1. Cut the onions into quarters and put them into the saucepan with the water, salt and pepper. Set on a slow fire; when boiling point has been reached, set a little aside and cook very slowly for a good hour, by which time the onions should be quite mashed. 2. Pass the liquid and mash the onion through the sieve into a pudding basin. Return the liquid and mashed onion to the saucepan and add the stock or milk. If you add milk do not let the soup boil again. 3. A great improvement to the soup is to put a yolk of egg into the tureen or soup plate. Mix it with a table- spoon or two of soup before pouring on the remainder. The soup must be very hot, but not boiling, or it will set the egg. A few thin slices of bread put into the tureen are also an improvement. Pumpkin Soup. (II). About a quarter of a melon- sized pumpkin. 2 pints water. 1 teaspoon salt. £ teaspoon pepper or 2 berkono. | pint stock or milk (if Ideal, 2 tablespoons, the rest of water). The Kurzunu, a dark green pumpkin covered with small raised white spots, is the best one for soup, though the ordinary kind can be used. 1. Peel the piece of pumpkin, cutting a good half-inch of rind away, clean out the thready part inside and the seeds. Cut into pieces about two inches square. 2. Have the water already boiling put in the pumpkin, salt and pepper, and boil for quite five minutes, then set aside and cook slowly for a good half-hour till the pumpkin is quite soft. 3. Pass the liquid and mash the pumpkin through theSOUPS. 44 sieve into a pudding basin. Return the liquid and mashed pumpkin to the saucepan and add the stock or milk. Let it simmer for a few minutes but not boil again. It should have the consistency of a not too thick cream. If too thick it can be thinned with a little water, if not thick enough it can be boiled down for a few more minutes. Note. A teaspoon of chopped parsley thrown into the soup just before serving is an improvement. Two tablespoons fried dices of bread passed round with the soup are an improvement. Yam and Young Onion Soup. (II). 1 breakfast cupful of yam, cut in pieces about two inches square. 1 teacupful of green onions, bulbs and tops, cut in pieces about 1 inch long. 2 pints water. 1 teaspoon butter or lard. 1 teaspoon salt. 1 berkono or a pinch of black pepper. 1 yolk of egg. This soup can only be had at the end of the rainy season when the onion bulbs just begin to form and the tops are still quite tender. 1. Put the yam, onions, salt and pepper in the sauce- pan or native pot and cover with the cold water. Set on a slow fire ; when boiling point has been reached, set a little aside and cook very slowly for an hour and a half till the yam is quite soft. 2. With a fork pick out a few pieces of the onion and put them on a plate. Pass the liquid and mash the yam and onion through the sieve. This ought to give about three-quarters of a pint of thick soup. Add to it the pieces of onion you had set aside. 3. Put the yolk of egg and the butter at the bottom of the tureen. Mix it with a tablespoonful or two of soup before pouring on the remainder. The soup must be very hot but not boiling, or it will set the egg. A few slices of bread can also be added. Note. If you have any stock you can make it up to the two pints by mixing it with water, and than nenhei egg nor butter will be required.SOUPS. 45 Cabbage Soup. (II). 1 middle-sized head of cab- bage or 2 small ones. 1 large onion stuck -with 2 cloves. A breakfast cupful of yam, cut in pieces about two inches square. 6 or 7 pints of water. 2 tablespoons native butter or lard. 3 teaspoons salt. 2 berkono or half a teaspoon black pepper. 4 turnips, 5 carrots a bunch of parsley if obtainable. 1. Split the cabbage in half, wash it well and let it stand in cold salted water. This is important to bring out the slugs. Halve the onions, peel the yam (carrots and turnips) and cut them in small pieces. 2. Melt the butter in a large native pot or your largest saucepan. When it begins to sing throw in the yam, carrots, turnips and onion. Fry them very slightly over a small fire until they are just turning yellow, taking care they do not burn. Then pour on the water by degrees, and add the salt, pepper (and bunch of parsley). Let the pot boil up, then set it a little aside and let it go on cooking very slowly for two hours. By that time the water is greatly reduoed, add a pint or more of hot water. Wait till it has fully come to the boil again and then throw in the cabbage. Keep boiling for twenty minutes, then set aside and simmer for an hour and a half. 3. Put five or six thin slices of bread in the soup tureen, pour half of the soup through the sieve straight on to the bread and add a few pieces of vegetable and cabbage taken out of the pot. Let it stand a minute or two and then serve. Note.—The remaining soup can be passed through the sieve and heated up for next meal and the vegetables can make a very good little dish by frying them in a dessert- spoonful of lard, or serving them “ nature ” with a little fresh butter melting on top,SOUPS. 46 Ground Nut Soup. (I). 1 pint of stock. I £ teaspoon salt. 1 teacup ground nut. | pinch pepper. Any stock from fowl or button broth or beef soup or even ivater left from vegetable soup can be used for a ground nut soup, or some stock made quickly with Lernco or Maggi. 1. Eoast and peel the gruund nuts and pound them to a paste in a native mortar if you have no proper kitchen one, mix them with a teacup of water. This makes a paste that you mix with the hot stock and let it boil for a quarter of an hour. Serve with little squares of fried bread. A teaspoon of vermouth can be added to each soup plate at table if liked, or a few drops of sherry and pepper. (See Index.) Dried Native Bean Soup. (I). £ breakfast cup of beans, wakin-bissa if possible, lj pints water, i onion stuck with one clove. 1 breakfast cup stock or milk. 1 teaspoon salt. £ teaspoon pepper. (A bunch of parsley). The beans should be soaked through the day in about two breakfast cupfuls of cold water, the length of soaking required depends upon the dryness of the beans. 1. Drain the water off the beans and put them in the saucepan with the cold water, onion, salt, pepper (and parsley if obtainable), let it boil till tbe beans are quite soft ; it they have been well soaked this should be in about an hour’s time. 2. Pass the beans through the sieve taking care to keep the water that drains from them. 3. Return the mashed beans and water to the saucepan. If there is less than a breakfast cup of water left, add a little more, hot. 4. Pour in the breakfast cup stock or milk and bring t-o the boil. The soup when ready should be of the consistency of cream ; if it is too thin it can be allowed to simmer a little until it has thickened.SOUPS. 47 5. Just before serving put in half a teaspoon fresh butter if available. Some finely chopped parsley added to the soup is an improvement, as are fried dices of bread. Note.—This soup can be made without either stock or milk if necessary. Fresh beans can be used instead of dried ; they require no soaking. Dried Pea Soup. (I). Small £ teacup dried peas. 1 breakfast cup stock or milk. 14 pints water. 1 large onion stuck with one clove. 2 berkonos, or a pinch of black pepper. 1 pinch of salt. 1. Put the peas to soak over-night in enough water to cover them. At 3 p.m., if the soup is required for dinner, put the peas into the two-pint saucepan together with the onion cut in quarters, the salt and pepper. Pour over one and a half pints water and bring it to the boil. When it is boiling put the saucepan aside, letting the contents continue to simmer till half an hour before dinner. The peas will then be like a thick puree. 2. Pass the peas through a sieve taking care to keep the water that drains from them. 3. Return the puree and water to the saucepan adding to them a breakfast cup of stock or boiled milk, let it simmer together. When ready to be served, the consistency must be that of thick cream, if too thin let it boil down a little, if too thick add a little more stock, milk or water. Serve plain or with a little dried mint, or a little fresh minced ham, or small dices of fried bread. Lentil Soup. (I). Small half tea-cup dried lentils 1 breakfast cup stock or milk lj pints water. 1 large onion 2 berkonos or a pinoh of black pepper. 1 teaspoon salt. Proceed exactly as for pea soup, soaking the lentils over- night. Lentils require an hour less cooking than peas.SOUPS. 48 Tinned and Dried Soups. (I). How to use Crosse & Blackwell’s Soups. Pour the contents into a saucepan, adding half the quantity of hot stock or water, bring to the boil. Note. The cook generally just heats the contents of the tin without adding either water or stock ; this is unwholesome and wasteful, as the soup can be used twice if mixed with water or stock, and without it, it is too thick. 2. The meat taken from Crosse and Blackwell’s soup called “ Soup and Bouilli ” can be used for meat croquettes or Cottage Pie. To use Lazenby’s Soup Squares or Maggi’s Soup. (1). It is best to follow the instructions found with the soups. It is always an improvement when stock can be added instead of water,—also, after having been brought to the boil, the soup should be kept simmering slowly for at least ten minutes. To use McDoddie’s Dried u Julienne.’ (I). If used with stock or with weak Lemco, McDoddie s dried “ Julienne” makes a good vegetable soup, One small table-spoon dried “ Julienne ” to one pint boiling stock or Lemco, let it boil together slowly for a good half hour. A one lb, tin of McDoddie’s “Julienne” is not bulky and will last a long time in the bush. To use Lemco. (I). 2-oz. jars of Lemco are the best to use, larger jars are apt to spoil by being kept open too long. One teaspoon to one breakfast cup ol water. Gener- ally Lemco is simply put into the cup and boiling water poured over it, but it is greatly improved by putting a tea- spoon of Lemco into the small enamel saucepan, adding a breakfast cup of hot water, bringing it to the boil and letting it boil slowly for three or four minutes adding a little salt and pepper. These are the proportions for a cup of beef tea for an invalid, but if only stock is wanted, to use with dried “Julienne” or to add to a sauce, half a teaspoon of Lemco to a breakfast cup of water is sufficient.49 FISH. For general remarks concerning the fish obtainable in Nigeria, see the chapter on native produce. When to cook Fish.—Fish caught, as is usual, during the night or in the very early morning, should be cooked as soon as it is brought to you, but if well cleaned and protected from flies, it is possible to keep it till lunch time. Any attempt to leave it uncooked till dinner time will be followed by dire results. Nigerian fish have an all per- vading odour probably unsurpassed by any other species. How to Divide Fish.—If a large fish is brought to you, have it cleaned, then cut off the head and tail, which can be given to the boys, leaving only a middle piece weighing about four pounds. You can then use the four pounds as follows :—Take off about a pound and divide it into fillets which can be fried for breakfast ; boil the remaining three pounds and serve for lunch with a white sauce. What is left over must be carefully put away in the meat safe, and can be eaten cold for dinner with mayonnaise or in a salad. Enough will still remain to be made into croquettes or kedgeree for breakfast the next morning. As fish is seldom plentiful, it is worth while to spend a little thought on the best ways to make use of it. How to Clean Fish.—The cook must not leave the fish lying in water for too long a time before cleaning it. If the fish has scales, they should be scraped off with a knife and the gills cut off. The fish should be cleaned without being slit open more than is possible, and all the blood carefully washed off.FISH. 50 HOW TO KNOW WHEN A FlSH 18 SUFFICIENTLY COOKED. —A fish is properly cooked when the meat separates easily from the bone (this can be tested with a fork at the tail end), and when the eyes drop out of the head. Fat for Frying Fish.—Good ground nut oil is certainly the best. Any fat used for frying fish can be used again several times, but for fish only. It is advisable to strain it after using, and to keep it in a glass jar, such as an empty dried fruit jar. 1 large onion. 1. Pour into your large boiler as much water as will be necessary to well cover the fish. Add the salt, peppers, the onion quartered, (if available, the vinegar, thyme and parsley.) Bring the water to a boil. 2. When boiling put in the fish, and if the fish is large and thick let it boil sharply for three or four minutes, then remove the boiler from the fire but leave it near enough for the water to continue bubbling slightly. 3. Try the fish with a fork to see if it is sufficiently cooked, raise it carefully out of the water and place on a hot dish. This dish, covered with a smaller one, can then be stood on top of the boiler near the fire in order to keep hot until the time of serving. On no account should the fish be left in the water. 4. Serve with a white sauce (see Index) mixed with capers if possible, or with a tomato sauce (see Index). Note. Instead of milk, the white sauce can be made with the water the fish has been cooked in, boiled down and strained through a sieve. Boiled Fish. (I). 3 to 4 lbs. fish. 1 tablespoonful salt. 4 native peppers (berkono). (2 tablespoonfuls vinegar, a bunch of parsley, a tea- spoonful of dried thyme.)FISH. 51 Cold Boiled Fish and Mayonnaise Sauce. (II). Fish cooked in the morning and kept till dinner time must be put in the meat safe and covered with a plate to prevent its drying; for the same reason, the skin should not be taken off till a short time before serving. Place the piece of fish whole upon a dish garnished with rounds of limes or tomatoes and with lettuce leaves or parsley. Serve a mayonnaise sauce (see Index) at the same time. Fish Salad. (I). Remains oi cold boiled fish. A piece of boiled yam or fair sized sweet potato. 2 tablespoonfuls olive or ground nut oil. 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 1 teaspoonful salt. 1 teaspoonful pepper. 1 teaspoonful chopped raw onion. (A hard-boiled egg, a tea- spoonful chopped parsley and 1 tatassa.) 1. With a fork, break up the fish into flaky pieces, removing all the skin and bones. Slice the yam and mix lightly with the fish. 2. Mix the oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, onion, (chopped parsley and tatassa if available,) and pour over the fish and yam. Mix well but without mashing, and garnish with the sliced egg. Note. Any mayonnaise left over from the day before can be beaten up with a little fresh oil and vinegar and used a3 a dressing for this salad. Fried Fish, large. (1). 5 or six fillets cut from any large fish. A breakfastcupful of ground nut oil (which can be kept and used again). 1 egg. 1 tablespoonful flour. 1 tablespoonful bread crumbs or 2 crushed biscuits. 1 teaspoonful salt. J teaspoonful pepper. A lime, 5 or 6 stalks of parsley. If you wish to fry any large fish such as ragon ruwa, giuan ruua, dan sartki or man, take the middle piece, separate the flesh from the bones, and divide lengthwaysPISH. 52 into fillets about four inches long, three inches broad, and half-inch thick. 1. Wash the pieces of fish in cold water, dry with a clean towel, and dust both sides with the salt and pepper mixed. 2. Put the oil into the fiat saucepan and set it to heat over a good fire, watching it from time to time to see that it does not burn. 3. Break the egg into a soup plate and beat it well. Spread the flour over one half of the cook’s board and the bread crumbs over the other. To obtain the bread crumbs put a piece of bread in the oven until it turns pale yellow, then crush it on the board with a bottle. 4. Turn the fillets of fish first in the flour, then in the egg, and lastly in the bread crumbs, presing them well into the latter, so that the crumbs adhere evenly to both sides of the fish. 5. By this time the fat should be ready for frying, that is to say it should have ceased to bubble and the smoke should be turning blue. It is as well though to test it by throwing in a small piece of bread, if you hear the little sizzling sound of frying, the fat is ready. Put the pieces of fish carefully into the fat which should cover them, turn them when they pass to a deep yellow colour, and take them out when they begin to turn light brown. Serve at once with quarters of lime. If parsley is obtain- able, throw a few stalks into the fat while the fish is frying, and take them out as soon as they are crisp but not black. Serve scattered over the fisb ; this is a great improvement. Pried fish is improved by being served with a tomato (see Index) or hollandaise (see Index) sauce. Note. It is absolutely essential that fish should not be fried till just before the time to serve, and that the fat should have reached the right degree of heat. The reason why things fried usually appear at table as black andFISH. 53 sodden horrors is that the cook, faithful to his habit of preparing meals an hour or two before the appointed time, has cooked them too slowly to begin with, and has then left them to soak in tepid grease till it is time to dish them up. Once the fish is prepared, it takes less than five minutes to fry it. Fried Fish, small. (I). Any small fish, tsage pre- ferably. A breakfastcupful of ground nut oil. 1 tablespoonful flour. 1 teaspoonful salt, i teaspoonful pepper. (A lime, 5 or 6 stalks of parsley.) If the fish are very small, less than three inches long, they need not be cleaned out. Wash them in cold water, dry with a clean cloth, sprinkle with pepper and salt, roll in the flour, fry in the same manner as described in the preceding recipe, and serve with quartered limes and fried parsley. Fish Croquettes. (I). $ teacupful cold boiled fish. 1 breakfastcupful ground nut oil. 1 teacupful mashed boiled yam or sweet potato. 2 eggs. 1 teaspoonful butter, lard or ground nut oil. 1 tablespoonful bread crumbs or crushed biscuits. 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 1 teaspoonful finely chopped onion. 1 pinch salt and pepper, black or red. (A teaspoonful minced parsley or tatassa and a pinch of nutmeg.) 1. Break up the fish with a fork, removing bones and skin. Mix to a paste with the mashed yam, add the salt, pepper, the chopped onion, (and if available, the nutmeg, chopped parsley and tatassa,) the butter, and lastly one of the eggs well beaten. If this paste is not quite thiok enough to be shaped, add a pinch of flour; if too thick, a little more butter or lard ; then shape with two knives into round cakes, f-inch thickness, and about two inches in diameter.54 FISH. 2. Put the oil into the flat saucepan and set it to heat over a good fire, watching it from time to time to see that it does not burn. 3. Break the second egg into a soup plate and beat it slightly. Spread the flour over one half of the cook’s board and the bread crumbs over the other; turn the cakes first in the flour, then in the egg, and lastly in the bread crumbs, pressing them well into the latter so that the crumbs adhere evenly to both sides of the cakes. 4. By this time the fat should be ready for frying; when it has ceased to bubble, carefully slide in the cakes, which should be covered by the fat. Turn them over as soon as they are yellow, and take them out when pale brown. Serve very hot; a good tomato sauce (see Index) improves them. Note. These cakes can be prepared some time in advance and set aside between two plates to keep them from drying, but they should not be fried before the time to serve. This is the best way of using any muddy tasting fish. Fish Pie. (I). £ teacupful cold boiled fish. 2 teacupful mashed boiled yam or sweet potato. 1 egg. 1 teaspoonful butter, lard or ground nut oil. 1 dessertspoonful of bread crumbs or crushed biscuit. 1 teaspoonful finely chopped onion. 1 pinch salt and pepper. (A teaspoonful chopped pars- ley or tatassa and a pinch of nutmeg.) 1. Prepare the mixture in the same way as for the croquettes. Put it into the small pie dish, spread over the bread crumbs and place in the oven till the top is slightly brown. This is a good dish for breakfast. Kedgeree. (I). I teacupful cold boiled fish. 1} tablespoonfuls rice. 1 hard-boiled egg. 1 teaspoonful butter or lard or ground nut oil if no- thing else. $ teaspoonful salt. 1 pinch black or red pepper. (A teaspoonful chopped pars- ley, a fresh tomato or half a tatassa.)55 FISH. 1. Throw the rice into a pint of boiling water and keep boiling till the rice is cooked but not mashy; this will take about twenty minutes for English rice and about eight minutes for native rice. Strain off all the water and leave the rice to dry in the colander at the door of the oven. 2. With a fork break up the fish, freed from skin and bones; break the hard-boiled egg. (If the tomato or tatassa (or both) are obtainable, cut them into small pieces, put them in the small frying pan, and turn them for a few moments over the fire with half-a-teaspoonful of butter, just to get rid of the moisture.) 3. Mix together the fish, egg, rice, salt, pepper (the fried tomato and tatassa if available). 4. Put the teaspoonful of butter, lard or ground nut oil into the flat saucepan, add the mixture and toss on a slow fire until all the fat is absorbed. This will take about five minutes, the saucepan being shaken the whole time until the mixture is perfectly dry. Serve very hot. Fish au Gratin. (II). 4 or 5 fillets of freshly boiled fish. 1 teacupful white sauce (see index.) A pinch of salt and pepper. 1 tablespoonful oreadcrumbs or crushed biscuit. 1 teaspoonful butter or lard. 1 teaspoonful chopped pars- ley and the same of finely chopped onion. 1. Divide the boiled fish into fillets as if for frying. Grease a pie dish, sprinkle the chopped parsley and onion at the bottom, lay in the fillets dusted with the salt and pepper, pour over the white sauce (if you have any leftover from the day before, it will do quite well) and cover with the breadcrumbs. Put the butter in three little dabs on top. 2. Bake in the oven for seven or eight minutes and serve when it is a good brown colour. Note. If you have any cheese, a tablespoonful of it grated and added to the white sauce is a great improvement. Fish au gratin makes a nice change from plain boiled fish.56 FISH. Grilled Fish. (II). The karpassa is really the only fish that can be grilled whole. If you have a larger fish, it is best to cut off a good slice from the middle about 2£ inches thick. Rub in salt and pepper and place on the grill over a good fire for about ten minutes, turning it once over carefully. When done put a dab of butter on top, sprinkle with chopped parsley and serve with quarters of lime and, if liked, a sauce hollandaise (see index) or melted butter (see index). A dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, another of tatassa, a teaspoonful of dried thyme, a pinch of nutmeg and two cloves. 1. Cut eight or ten fillets off a large piece of fish as if for frying. 2. Boil the bones, trimmings, head and tail of the fish in two pints of salted water. When the liquid has boiled down to one pint, take it off the fire and strain it. 3. Take a small native pot with a cover (telleJ, and put at the bottom a layer-of sliced onion and tomato. Lay on top 3 or 4 fillets of fish sprinkled with salt and pepper (chopped parsley, tatassa, thyme, and nutmeg if available). Cover with another layer of tomato and onion, then another layer of the seasoned fish and a final layer of tomato and onion. Pour over the pint of strained liquid and add the two berkono (and cloves). Put the cover on the pot and fit it down as well as possible. 4. Stand the pot in the vegetable boiler and pour in sufficient boiling water to reach half way up the pot. Put the cover on the boiler and keep the water boiling for 40 minutes. Serve in the native pot. Jugged Fish. (II) 2 lbs. of fish, uncooked. Trimmings and bones of the 3 or 4 tomatoes. 2 teaspoonfuls salt. 1 teaspoonful pepper. 2 native pepper (berkono). fish. 1 large onion.57 FISH. Curried Fish. (I). A useful way of serving any remains of cold boiled fish is to break it up slightly with a fork, mix it with a curry sauce (see index), and serve it up with a crown of boiled rice around it. Tinned Salmon. (I). Salmon and sardines are the only two really useful tinned fish. Salmon can be prepared in almost as many ways as fresh fish and the same recipes can be used for salad, croquettes, kedgeree and fish pie as for fresh fish. It is excellent grilled whole, hut as it is liable to break on the grill, it is best to turn out the tin into the frying pan and to fry it with a teaspoonful of butter or lard until a light crisp brown. Serve with sauce hollandaise (see index) or with melted butter (see index). It can be served cold with lettuce leaves, sliced tomatoes and oil, vinegar, salt and pepper or mayonnaise sauce (see index).58 EGGS. GENERAL. African eggs are mostly fit for elections only. The simplest way to determine whether they are still employ- able for less combative purposes is to place them in a basin of water. The good ones will lie on their sides at the bottom, the half-bad ones will also sink to the bottom, where they will stand on end, while the bad ones will float at the top, often with sundry painful bobbings. To keep a quantity of eggs, pack them in an old empty tin (flour or rice) filled with ashes. For boiling, ducks’ eggs are the best if perfectly fresh. Boiled Eggs. (1). Slip the egg gently with a spoon into boiling water and keep the water boiling sharply for one and a half minutes. This is quite long enough to soft boil an African egg. A duck’s egg will take longer, about two and a half minutes, but in both cases the water must not cease to boil while the egg is cooking. Never drop the egg into the water, but slide it in on a spoon. Poached Eggs. (1). Fill a frying pan with boiling water and add to it a tea- spoonful of salt. Break the egg into the pan. This is done by holding the egg in the right hand and cracking it gently against the edge of the pan nearly all round the middle. Then take it in in both bands and break it open in the middle, holding it close above the boiling water so that the yolk does not break as it falls in. When the white59 EGGS. is set, put the pan aside so as to let the eggs finish cooking slowly. Take them out gently with a spoon, put them on buttered toast, trimmiug off the edges of the egg if they look untidy and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Poached eggs are very good served on spinach, lentils, dried peas, mashed native beans, fried onions, mince meat, or served with a thick tomato sauce (see index). Fried Eggs. (I). Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter, lard or ground nut oil in the small frying pan over a hot fire ; when it has ceased bubbling, break in two eggs in the same way as was explained for poached eggs, and with a fork immediately bring the white well round the yolk. The eggs are cooked as soon as the edges are light brown and a little frizzled. Take them out of the pan, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and serve very hot. Never fry more than two eggs at a time in the small frying pan, as they must have plenty of fat round them. A few drops of vinegar added at the same time as the salt and pepper are a great improvement. Fried eggs can be served with fried bacon or in any of the different ways suggested for poached eggs. Of course the butter, lard or ground nut oil can be put back in the grease pot and used again. Buttered Eggs. (1). 2 eggs. A slice of bread about 3 inches long, 2 inches broad and i inch thick. 1 good teaspoon of butter or lard. A pinch of salt and pepper. (Half-a-teaspoon of chopped parsley.) Buttered eggs must be cooked over a slow fire and in the small enamel saucepan rather than in the frying pan. 1. Break the eggs into a cup and beat them lightly but not for more than a minute or two, add the salt, pepper and parsley if obtainable.60 BOGS. 2. Toast the bread till it is yellow, not brown, then lay it on the meat board and with a sharp knife trim off the crust and butter it slightly. 3. Put the butter or lard in the small saucepan. As soon as it is hot, at once pour in the beaten eggs, stirring gently with a wooden spoon. As soon as the eggs begin to set, take the saucepan off the fire and pile the eggs on the hot toast. The reason why buttered eggs are so often leathery is that they have been cooked too long or over too hot a fire. Curried Buttered Eggs. (I). 2 eggs. A slice of bread. 1 good teaspoon butter, lard or ground nut oil, if no- thing else is available. 1 small teaspoonful curry 1. Break the eggs into a and pepper. powder. 1 dessertspoonful milk (if Ideal is used, dilute 1 tea- spoon milk with 1 tea- spoon water. A pinch of salt and pepper, cup and beat them, add salt 2. Toast and butter the slice of bread. 3. Melt the butter in the small saucepan, add the curry powder and the eggs, stirring gently the whole time with a wooden spoon. As soon as the eggs begin to set, add the dessertspoon of milk, take the saucepan off the fire and pile the eggs on the hot toast. This dish can be used as a savoury. Buttered Eggs on Anchovy Toast. (I), Serve the buttered eggs on hot toast which has been buttered with anchovy paste instead of butter. Buttered Eggs with Tomato Sauce, (il). If you have any tomato sauce left over from the day before it can be used to vary the buttered eggs. Mix a tablespoon of the sauce, as thick as possible, into the eggs, just after they have set. Serve on hot buttered toast.EGGS. 61 Oeufs Printaniere. (II). 2 eggs. 1 good teaspoon butter or lard. A pinch of salt and pepper. 1 dessertspoonful small dices of fried bread. 1 dessertspoonful tinned peas or beans. After beating the two eggs, mix in a dessertspoonful of little dices of fried bread and a dessertspoonful of tinned peas or French beans left over from an opened tin, and cook in the same way as the plain buttered eggs. Serve, not on toast, but in a small dish. Buttered eggs mixed with small slices of fried tomato and onion are also very good. i teaspoon salt. An omelet cannot be good cooked in a thin frying pan It must be a thick one. 1. Break the eggs into a large cup or into the small pudding basin, add the salt and pepper (and the chopped parsley if obtainable.) With a fork beat the eggs till they are a little frothy on Lop, which should not take more than two minutes. It is equally bad to beat the eggs too much as to beat them too long in advance, which is what all cooks like to do. 2. Melt the butter in the small omelet pan, and when it has ceased to splutter and begins to turn brown, pour in the beaten eggs. 3. Slowly move tbe pan about till the eggs begin to set round the edges of the pan. 4. Carefully slip a knife under the edges of the omelet, so as to loosen it from the pan and to allow the still uncooked portion of the eggs to run underneath. Do this twice, slightly moving the pan the whole time. When only a very little liquid egg is left on top and the omelet is still quite soft, slip the knife right underneath, shake tbe Plain Omelet. (I). 4 eggs. 1 teaspoon butter or lard. A pinch of pepper. (1 teaspoon chopped parsley.)62 EGGS. pan so as to see whether the omelet is quite detached, then with the help of the knife, slide the omelet on to a hot dish and fold it in two. Never allow the cook to roll an omelet; an omelet that can be rolled is sure to be over-cooked. Omelet with Tomato Sauce. (II). thick 1 large tablespoon tomato sauce. (J teaspoon chopped parsley.) 4 eggs. 1 teaspoon butter or lard. i teaspoon salt. A pinch of pepper, Make the omelet in exactly the same way as the plain omelet. Just before the omelet is cooked and you are ready to slip the knife right underneath, drop in the middle of the omelet the tablespoon of hot tomato sauce (see index). Then slide it on to a hot dish, fold it over and serve at once. (II). 1 large tablespoon brown curry sauce. ($ teaspoon chopped parsley.) thick Omelet with Curry Sauce. 4 eggs. 1 teaspoon butter or lard. J teaspoon salt. A pinch of pejjper. Make the omelet in exactly the same way as the plain omelet. Just before the omelet has finished cooking and you are ready to slip the knife right underneath, drop in the middle of the omelet the tablespoon of hot curry sauce (see index), then slide it on to a hot dish, fold it over and serve at once. Omelet with Fried Onions. (I). 4 eggs. 1 teaspoon butter or lard. i teaspoon salt. A pinch of pepper. Half an onion. fl teaspoon chopped parsley.) 1. Slice the onion. Put one teaspoon of butter in a small saucepan. When the butter is quite hot, put in the sliced onion, move it about gently and fry till it is light yeilow. Take the saucepan off the fire whilst you make the omelet.63 EGGS. 2. Make the omelet in exactly the same way as the plain omelet. Just before the omelet has finished cooking and you are ready to slip the knife right underneath, lay the onions in the middle of the omelet, then slide it on to a hot dish, fold it over and serve at once. Kidney Omelet. (II). 4 eggs. 2 kidneys. 3 teaspoons butter or lard. 2 teaspoons flour. 2 tablespoons water or stock. 1 teaspoon salt. J teaspoon pepper. 1. Wash, skin and cut each kidney in three slices, then roll them in one tablespoon of flour mixed with a little of the salt and pepper. 2. Put two teaspoons of butter or lard in a small saucepan. When it is quite hot and bubbling, put in the sliced kidneys, fry them for three minutes, turning them once, then take them out with a fork, leaving the melted fat in the saucepan. Put them on a hot plate near the fire. 3. Shake the second teaspoon flour into the fat; when it is well mixed in, add the water or bouillon, stir well, let it just boil up and stand it on the corner of the stove. Put the kidneys back into this sauce, but be careful not to let it boil again. 4. Make the omelet in exactly the same way as the plain omelet. Just before the omelet has finished cooking and you are ready to slip the knife right underneath, drop in the middle of the omelet the kidneys and their sauce. Slide it on to a hot dish, fold it over and serve at once. Omelet with Sausages. (I). 4 eggs. i teaspoon salt. 1 sausage. A pinch of pepper. 2 teaspoons butter or lard. This is a good way of using up one or two sausages left from an opened tin.EGGS. 64 L Slice the sausage rather thinly. Turn the slices over the fire in a teaspoonful of hot butter, then set them aside. 2. Make the omelet in exactly the same way as the plain omelet. Just before the omelet has finished cooking and you are ready to slip the knife right underneath, lay the sliced sausage in the middle of the omelet, then slide it on to a hot dish, fold it over and serve at once. Note. Any remains of vegetables or of minced meat can be used in the same way. Cheese Omelet. (II). 4 eggs. 1 tablespoon grated cheese. 1 teaspoon butter or lard. i teaspoon salt. A. pinch of pepper. (J teaspoon chopped parsley.) Make the omelet in exactly the same way as the plain omelet, mixing the grated cheese with the beaten eggs. Hard-boiled Eggs. (I). Slip the eggs into boiling water and keep boiling for eight minutes. If they are to be kept hot, take the sauce- pan off the fire and leave the eggs in the saucepan until wanted. Never take off the shell until just before serving as the egg quickly turns black. If wanted to use at once cold, drop them into cold water before you peel them. To hard-boil a duck’s egg, ten minutes are required. Hard-boiled Eggs with Tomato Sauce. (II). Cut two hot hard-boiled eggs in half, cut a little piece off their bottoms so that they should stand up, and put them on a hot dish. Pour over them a teacup of hot tomato sauce (see index) but only just before serving, as the tomato quickly turns the egg black. Hard-boiled Eggs with Cheese Sauce. (II). Cut two hot hard-boiled eggs in half and put them on a hot dish. Pour over them a teacup of hot cheese sauce65 EGGS. (see index) and serve at once. The eggs and sauce can also be put in a pie dish sprinkled with a little bread crumbs and browned in the oven. Hard-boiled Eggs, Curried. (II). Cut two hot hard-boiled eggs in half and put them in the middle of a hot dish. Pour over them a teacupful of white curry sauce (see index), and serve with boiled rice round them. Stuffed Eggs in Batter. (II). For the stuffed eggs— 3 cold hard-boiled eggs. l£ tablespoons fresh crumb ot bread. 1 teaspoon butter, lard or 1 egg. 2 tablespoons flour. 3 tablespoons of milk (if Ideal, teaspoon milk and the rest water.) £ teaspoon obve oil or ground nut oil. ground nut oil. A pinch of salt. A pinch of pepper. A teaspoon chopped parsley, A pinch of salt. 1 breakfast cup of ground nut oil, in which to fry the fritters, and which can be put back again after use. For the batter To Make the Battee. Mix the flour and milk in the small pudding basin. Add the yolk only of the egg, the oil and the salt. Beat it all well together till it has the consistency of a thick cream. If too thin, add a little more flour ; if too thick, a little water. Cover the basin with a plate and let it stand till wanted, adding the white of the egg beaten stiff just before using. Fritters are much better if the batter is made a good two hours before it is wanted. To Stuff the Eggs. 1. Peel the eggs, cut them in half and carefully take out the yolk without breaking the white part. 2. Put the yolks into a cup, break them up with a fork, add the butter, lard or ground nut oil, the salt and66 EGGS. pepper, and the parsley. Soak the bread in a little water, about two teaspoonfuls, till it is quite spongy, then add it to the yolks and mix all together to a smooth paste, which must be stiff but not hard. If too hard, a little water or milk can be added. 3. Fill the empty white halves with the paste, shaping it into little domes. To Fry the Eggs in the Batter. 1. Heat the ground nut oil in the flat saucepan, there must be enough oil to cover the eggs. When the oil has ceased to bubble, test it by throwing in a small piece of bread. If you hear the little sizzling sound of frying, the fat is ready. 2. With a spoon slip the stuffed eggs into the batter, covering them evenly with the mixture, then put them carefully one by one into the hot oil and take them out as soon as they are of a bright yellow colour. They will come out quite dry and free from grease if the oil has been hot enough. Note.—As has already been said in the case of fried fish, the fritters should not be fried till just before the time to serve. Eggs done in this way are made into a more substantial dish by serving them on spinach. Anchovy Eggs. (I). 2 cold hard-boiled eggs. 1 teaspoon butter or ground nut oil. 1 teaspoon anchovy paste or remains of potted meat or tinned salmon mashed. A small pinch of red pepper. A pinch of salt. A teaspoon of chopped pars- ley. 1. Cut the eggs in half, slicing a little off their bottoms so that they shall stand up. Carefully take out ,the yolks and lightly break them up with a fork ; add the anchovy or potted meat or salmon, the butter, pepper and salt, unless anchovy is used, which is already sufficiently67 EGGS. salted, and the parsley if obtainable. Mix as lightly as possible so that the mixture should not be too pasty, and fill the empty halves with it. Stand them on a small dish. These eggs make a nice entr6e dish served with mayonnaise sauce (see index), or if each half is stood on a slice of tomato they can be considered as a savoury. Cold Hard-boiled Eggs with Mustard and Cress. 1. Cut the eggs in half, slicing a little off their bottoms so that they shall stand up. Carefully take out the yolks and lightly break them up with a fork ; add the mustard and cress, which should not be too finely chopped, the salt, pepper, mustard, butter, this last only if you have the grated cheese. 2. Mix as lightly as possible so that the mixture should not be too pasty, and fill the empty halves with it. Stand them on a small dish and serve. These eggs stood on a slice of tomato can also be served as a savoury. (I). 2 cold hard-boiled eggs. 1 tablespoon chopped mus- A pinch of salt, pepper and mustard. tard and cress. 1 teaspoon butter. £ teaspoon grated Parmesan cheese.68 MACARONI AND RICE. Plain Macaroni. (I). 1 breakfastcupful erf broken macaroni. 1 pint boiling water or stock. 1 teaspoonful salt, i teaspoonful pepper. A pinch of red pepper. 1. Break the macaroni into pieces about two inches long and throw it into the salted and peppered boiling stock or water, and boil for a good half-hour or longer, until it is quite soft but does not fall to pieces. 2. Empty it from the saucepan into the colander and carefully drain off all the water. 3. Dust with red pepper and serve in a vegetable dish or around mince, chicken, etc., or with poached or fried eggs. Note. The time required for boiling macaroni varies a great deal, according to its freshness. Ribbon macaroni cooks the quickest. Macaroni and Cheese. (I). 1 breakfastcupful macaroni. 1 tablespoonful grated cheese. 1 pint boiling water. A pinch of pepper and salt. 1 dessertspoonful butter. 1. Throw the broken macaroni into the boiling water, add salt and pepper and boil for half-an-hour or longer. 2. Empty it from the saucepan into the colander and carefully drain off all the water. 3. Put it back into the empty saucepan, add the butter, stir till it is melted and the macaroni is quite hot again. 4. Serve very hot, sprinkled with the grated cheese.69 MACARONI AND RICE. Baked Macaroni. (I). 1 breakfastcupful macaroni. 1 pint boiling stock or water, 1 good teaspoon butter or lard. 1 tablespoonful milk (if Ideal, a teaspoon mixed with water). 1 dessertspoonful of bread crumbs. 1 teaspoonful salt, i teaspoonful pepper. A pinch of red pepper. 1. Throw the broken macaroni into the boiling stock or water, add the salt and pepper and boil for half-an-hour or longer. 2. Empty it from the saucepan into the colander and drain off all the water. 3. Put the macaroni into a small pie dish, lightly mix in the butter and milk, sprinkle over with the bread crumbs and put in the oven for about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, until the bread crumbs are just browned. Macaroni and Tomato Sauce. (I). 1 breakfastcup of macaroni. 1 pint boiling water. 4 tablespoonfuls thick of to- mato sauce. 1 teaspoonful salt. i teaspoonful pepper. i teaspoonful sugar. (A tablespoonful of grated cheese if possible.) Boil and drain the macaroni as above, put it back into the empty saucepan, pour on the tomato sauce (see index), add the sugar (and the grated cheese), and mix lightly till the macaroni is quite hot again. Curried Macaroni. (I). 1 breakfastcup of macaroni. ^ teaspoonful pepper. 1 pint boiling water. 4 tablespoonfuls curry sauce. 1 teaspoonful salt. Boil and drain the macaroni as above. Put it back into the empty saucepan, pour on the curry sauce (see index), mix lightly until the macaroni is quite hot again. E70 MACARONI AND RICE. Macaroni Bonne Femme. (II). 1 breakfastcup 0/ macaroni. 1 pint boiling water, i tablespoonful flour. £ tablespoonful butter or lard. 6 olives. 1 good tablespoonful grated cheese. A pinch of pepper and salt. 1. Boil the macaroni in salted and peppered water and drain. 2. While the macaroni is boiling, make a brown sauce by melting the butter in a small enamel saucepan. When it is melted and begins to sing, shake in the flour and stir quickly with a wooden spoon until the flour and butter are mixed to a brown paste, then pour in the warmed stock by degrees, add the pinch of salt and pepper, let it come to the boil, then take off the fire and let it simmer five to ten minutes. 3. Put the macaroni back into the empty saucepan, add the brown sauce, the grated cheese, and the olives stoned and thinly sliced. Cook together for five minutes over a slow fire. Home-made Macaroni. (II). I pint boiling water. 1 yolk of egg. 1 dessertspoonful water or milk (if Ideal, $ teaspoon to a dessertspoon of water). 2 tablespoonfuls (about) of flour. A pinch of salt. 1. Mix the yolk of egg, salt and the water or milk in a cup. 2. Gradually add the flour and stir to a light dough, this will require about three good tablespoonfuls flour. 3. Sprinkle a little flour on the cook’s board. Drop the dough on the board and roll it lightly till it has spread out to a thickness of about one-eighth of an inch. Let it dry until you are able to cut it cleanly into strips about- a quarter of an inch broad with a sharp knife. 4. Throw the strips into the boiling water and boil for71 MACARONI AND RICE, twenty minutes. Drain and serve in the same way as ordinary macaroni, plain, or with cheese or tomato sauce. Note. This macaroni is quite easy to make, and well replaces the ordinary kind. Rice and Tomatoes. (I). 1 good tablespoon rice. 1 pint boiling water. 1 dessertspoonful butter or lard. 2 tomatoes. Half an onion. 1 tatassa. 1 teaspoon salt. £ teaspoon pepper. £ teaspoon sugar. 1. Wash the rice and put it into the saucepan contain- ing the salted fast-boiling water. Boil for about twenty minutes until the rice just begins to be soft. 2. Empty it from the saucepan into the colander and carefully drain off all the water. Leave it in the colander at the door of the oven so as to dry it. 3. Cut the tomatoes in pieces, slice the onion and mince the tatassa; then heat the butter in the large frying pan and fry the vegetables in it, dusting them with the pepper and sugar. 4. When the onion is yellow, add the rice and stir all together in the pan for about five minutes, until the rice has absorbed all the remaining butter. The rice must be continually stirred about or it will burn. When no grease at all is left, pile the rice into the small pie dish and serve very hot. Turkish Rice. (II). 1 good tablespoonful rice. 1 small breakfastcup boiling stock. 1 large tablespoonful lard or butter. Half an onion. A pinch of salt, pepper and 1. Wash the rice. red pepper. 2 tablespoonfuls of any scrap of cold meat or chicken, cut into small squares. (A dessertspoonful of currants and a dessertspoonful of grated cheese if possible.) 2. Melt the butter or lard in the large frying pan.MACARONI AND RICE. 72 When it is quite hot and bubbling, throw in the rice and fry it till it has turned a good deep yellow, stirring it about the whole time. 3. Tip the pan a little so that the fat drains off the rice, then take out the rice and put it into the boiling stock. Add the salt and pepper and keep slowly boiling until the stock has been all absorbed by the rice. Do not let the rice burn. 4. Slice the onion and fry it in what remains of the fat left from frying the rice. Throw in the little squares of meat and fry them also, but only just for a moment. Then mix together the onion, meat, rice, and the currants and grated cheese if obtainable. Serve very hot, piled in the small pie dish.73 FOWLS. It is advisable, if possible, to buy a number of fowls at a time and to keep them for ten or fifteen days so that they may have a chance of fattening. How to Kill a Fowl.—The common way of killing a fowl by cutting its throat and throwing it on the ground to bleed to death is both inhuman and absurb, rendering it even more dry and tasteless than it need be. A heavy blow with a mallet on the back of the head is by far the best and most merciful method. When to Kill a Fowl.—Kill as late as possible in the evening, do not pluck or clean it, but hang it by the legs in a cool place, so that the blood runs dowm and leaves the flesh whiter. This is important. Early next morning, pluck and empty carefully; keep the liver, which should be turned for a moment in the pan with a little hot butter, sprinkled with pepper and s.et aside. It is also as well to Bprinkle a little pepper inside the fowl. Try to persuade the cook not to soak the fowl in hot water in order to render the work of plucking easier, this process absolutely ruins the bird. After being plucked it should be passed over a flame so as to singe off any remaining down, but this should only be done if you have a careful cook. Length of Time to Keep.—This greatly depends upon the season of the year, the place where they are hung and the care with which they have been cleaned. But even during the rains, it is possible to keep a fowl till the following evening; it should be looked at after lunch, and, if the weather is very hot, it can be turned a few moments in the frying pan with a little hot butter or lard.74 FOWLS. Other Birds.—Pigeons killed in the evening must be eaten for breakfast or lunch; if wanted for dinner they must be killed in the morning. Guinea fowl and bush fowl killed in the evening must also generally be eateD for lunch next day, though it is possible to keep them till evening by turning them in a little hot lard about mid-day. Turkeys can be killed about four p.m., hung in a cool place, plucked and cleaned very early the following morning, and eaten in the evening. Fowls or any other birds killed in the morning and which are to be eaten for dinner should be wrapped in a paw paw leaf to make them tender. How to Truss a Fowl.—Correct trussing, necessitating various skewers and bits of string, is generally beyond the resources of an African kitchen, but the cook should be taught to neatly cut off the bird’s feet, the pinions, the neck close to its base, and to then bring the joints back close to the body of the fowl. The trimmings and the gizzard must always be kept for making stock. In all the recipes given for making up the remains of cold fowl, the remains of a turkey can be substituted for the fowl. We have given the recipe for a pie at some length as it is a very good one and a nice cold dish comes in so useful. Roast Fowl or Guinea Fowl. (1). i teaspoon salt. | teaspoon pepper. 1 good fowl or guinea fowl. 1 tablespoon butter or lard. J tablespoon water. For the 3 tablespoons bread crumbs, dried in the oven but not browned. The fowl’s liver. 1 teaspoon butter or lard. \ onion. Stuffing. 1 egg. J teaspoon salt. A pinch of pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. (A teaspoon of minced parsley and thyme if available.) It is difficult to make a cook believe that an African fowl requires only twTenty minutes roasting instead of the hourFOWLS. 75 or two he usually gives. Persuade him to try and you will see for yourself what an improvement it is. A guinea fowl will take about five minutes longer. 1. Fry the liver for a minute or two in half a teaspoon butter, lard or ground nut oil heated in the small frying pan. Take it out and mince it. 2. Mix in the small pudding basin the minced liver, bread crumbs, chopped onion, butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg (and parsley if available) and lastly the beaten egg. Mix to a thick paste and stuff the fowl with it. 3. Dip a feather into the tablespoon of butter or lard and paint the fowl over. Melt the rest of the butter in the baking tin and place in it the fowl, sprinkled with salt and pepper. Put the baking tin in the oven and baste with the melted butter, add the tablespoon water and a little more butter or lard when the fat begins to dry. Baste about four times while the fowl is roasting, thoroughly but quickly, so that the oven does not cool down. 4. If you have no bread sauce, serve the fowl with the little of gravy remaining in the tin; on no account add flour to it. 5. Bread Sauce.—This fowl is roasting. 1 breakfast cup milk or l£ tablespoons Ideal to a breakfast cup water. 2 tablespoons of dry white bread crumbs. sauce can be made while the Half a large onion. A small pinch nutmeg. A pinch of salt and pepper. 1. To make the white bread crumbs take a piece of the crumb of the bread and put it in the oven just to dry it. Do not let it turn yellow and as soon as it is dry, take it out and crush it with a bottle. 2. Slice the onion and put it in the small enamel sauce- pan with the cold milk, salt, pepper and nutmeg. Let it come slowly to a boil, watching carefully that it does not boil over. Remove it from the fire for a few moments,76 FOWLS. then put it back and let it boil up thus several times till the onion has become quite pulpy and has given all its flavour to the milk which has reduced to about a small teacupful. 3. When it is time to serve, mix the bread crumbs with the milk, which must not boil again or stand too long, or the crumbs will become pulpy and will not remain granu- lated as they should. Note.—Another good stuffing for a fowl is to fill it with a teacup of Turkish rice (see index), omitting the squares of meat. It is always preferable to roast a fowl in front of a fire rather than in the oven. It should be basted in the same way. Roast Duck. (I). 2 tablespoons lard or butter. | 1 teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon water. * i teaspoon pepper. For the 3 tablespoons bread crumbs, dried in the oven but not browned. The duck’s liver and a fowl ’ s liver as well if possible. 1 onion. 1 teaspoon butter or lard. 1 egg. 1. Skin and mince the the livers for a minute or 1 lard and mince them. Mi Stuffing. § teaspoon salt. | teaspoon pepper. 1 or 2 sausages or a little raw minced chicken, or ham, or bacon. (A teaspoon chopped parsley and a teaspoon dried thyme.) sausages, mince the onion. Fry ,wo in a small teaspoon butter or x, in the small pudding basin, the sausages, onion, livers, bread crumbs, butter, salt, pepper, (parsley and thyme if obtainable). Add lastly the beaten egg. Mix to a stiff paste and stuff the duck with it. If no sausages, or ham, or bacon, but only raw minced chicken, use two eggs. 2. Roast exactly like a fowl; paint with a little of the lard, sprinkle with salt and pepper and add the tablespoon water and a little more lard or butter if necessary to theFOWLS. 77 tin after the first basting has been done. A good sized duck will take nearly an hour to roast, a young one under three quarters. A third of a square of Prevet apple. 1 clove. 1. Soak the dried apple Apple Sauce. 1 teacup water. $ teaspoon butter. 1 teaspoon castor sugar. for an hour in cold water. Drain it and put it in the enamel saucepan with a teacup of cold water and the clove. Boil up slowly, then set aside and simmer for about three quarters of an hour till the apple has absorbed all the water and is reduced to a pulp. 2. Add the butter and sugar. If the sauce seems too thick, add a little water, if too thin let it boil down till you have the right consistency. Roast Turkey. (I). 6 tablespoons lard or butter, j 2 small teaspoons salt. 2 tablespoons water. 1 small teaspoon pepper For the 7 tablespoons bread crumbs dried in the oven but not browned. The turkey’s liver and two fowls’ livers as well, if possible. 2 onions. 3 eggs. Stuffing. 1 tablespoon butter or lard. 1 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon pepper. 3 sausages or a little minced chicken, ham or bacon, or a little potted meat. (A teaspoon chopped parsley and a teaspoon dried thyme.) 1. —Prepare the stuffing in exactly the same way as for a fowl or duck Pill the turkey with the paste. 2. Eoast in exactly the same way as a fowl or duck. A good sized turkey will take two hours to cook in an oven. Bread sauce can be served with it if liked. Note.—Turkeys, like fowls, are much better roasted before the fire than in an oven. It must also be remembered that a large sized turkey is sometimes too big to go into the oven of the ordinary Nigerian range. If impossible to roast in front of the fire, a large native pot must be used as an oven.78 FOWLS. Roast Pigeon. (I). Prepare and roast exactly as a fowl, but for eight or ten minutes only. A small dessertspoon of butter or lard placed in the baking tin is quite enough for two pigeons. It is a great improvement to put a slice of toasted bread under the pigeons in the baking tin. Serve the pigeons on the toast with the little gravy poured over them. Boiled Fowl with White Sauce. (I). 1 fowl. 2 pints boiling water. £ onion. 1 teaspoon salt and pepper About a breakfastcup of white sauce. 1 hard-boiled egg. (1 teaspoon chopped parsley 1 teaspoon dried thyme.) This is perhaps the best way to eat an old or freshly killed fowl. It must be remembered that for soup, a fowl must be put into cold water, but for eating, it must be put into boiling water. 1. Clean the fowl and out off the trimmings. Put them in the saucepan with the cold water, onion, salt, pepper (dried thyme and parsley if available), and bring to the boil. Put in the fowl and continue boiling for about twenty minutes till the fowl is done. Take the fowl out of the water and put it on a dish near the fire to keep hot. 2. Strain the water the fowl has boiled in and use a small breakfastcup of it to make a white sauce (see index). 3. Chop the hard-boiled egg and mix it lightly with the sauce, add a few capers if liked, and pour it over the fowl. / Poulet Fricassee. (II). 1 fowl. 2 eggs. Half-a-teacup fresh milk, or 1 dessertspoon Ideal to rest of water. 1 tablespoon butter. 1. Cut up the fowl, putting 1 tablespoon flour. 2 onions (one if large). 2 berkono or half-a-teaspoon black pepper. 1 teaspoon salt. (£ lime.) the legs, wings aud breast aside after having skinned them.FOWLS. 79 2. Make some stock (see index) with the trimmings, carcase, salt, pepper, one of the onions and a pint of water. Let it boil slowly till reduced to half a-pint, this will take about one-and-a-half hours. Strain the stock and keep it warm near the fire. 3. Cut the legs and wings each in two pieces. Put the butter in the large flat saucepan, let it get quite hot, but not brown. Put in the joints of fowl, and the breast, and toss them about without letting them take colour, sprinkle them lightly with the flour. Then slowly add half your quantity of stock, mix well and then add the rest, stirring it with a spoon so as to get the flour well incorporated with the stock. Add the milk (previously boiled), the other onion cut in quarters, pepper and salt. Let it simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. 4. Hard-boil one of the eggs. Take the yolk of the other egg and mix it in a cup with three tablespoons of the sauce the fowl is cooking in. Mix well together and return to the saucepan, which must not boil again. Serve with a little juice of fresh lime added to the sauce and the hard-boiled egg cut in four. Serve at the same time a little boiled rice or mashed yam or sweet potatoes. Fowl Stewed with Ground Nuts. (1). 1 fowl. 5 or 6 berkono. 1 breakfastcup ground nuts, | 1 teaspoon salt, roasted and peeled. j 1 sweet potato. 2 pints hot water. 1. Roast and peel the ground nuts and grind them to a paste in a native mortar or between two stones. Mix the paste slowly with one-and-a-half-pints of hot water. 2. Divide the legs and wings of the chioken in four pieces, put them with the breast into the saucepan. Pour half-a-pint of boiling water on the chicken, let it boil for two or three minutes, then add the ground nut paste, the80 FOWLS. onion cut in four, the berkono cut in small pieces and the salt. Let it boil for a good half-hour. Ten minutes before serving, add one raw medium-sized sweet potato, peeled but not cut; take it out before serving. Note.—This stew is best cooked in a small native covered pot, and is a good dish for the bush, as all the ingredients are easily obtained. Joloff Rice. (I). 1 fowl. 10 small tomatoes or 6 large ones. 6 tablespoons rice. 2 tablespoons lard or 3 table- spoons ground nut oil. 1. Cut the fowl as for a carcase that are left can be i 1 onion. 2 tatassa. 1 large teaspoon salt. 1 pinch pepper. (1 teaspoon dried thyme.) fricassee (the trimmings and sed for stock). Put the lard in the large flat saucepan or native pot, when hot put in the pieces of fowl, shake the pot and keep turning the pieces till they turn yellow, this will take eight to ten minutes. 2. Wash the tomatoes, put them on a plate and cut them horizontally in half. With a knife cut out the cores and put the halves aside on another plate. Then pass the cores, together with the juice of the tomatoes that has collected in the plate, through the sieve, so as to remove the seeds and keep all the juice. 3. Add the halves of the tomatoes, the peppers cut in two, the onion sliced, salt and pepper to the fowl, and go on frying and tossing for a few more minutes. 4. Mix the strained juice with enough hot water to make a pint-and-a-half of liquid, pour it over the fowl ai.u let it boil. 5. Wash the rice and when the contents of the sauce- pan are boiling fast, throw in the rice (and thyme). Boil for a good half-hour, first quickly and then slowly. As81 FOWLS. soon as the rice is cooked and the liquid is absorbed, the fowl is done. Serve very hot in a native pot with a napkin round. Marengo Fowl with Tomato Sauce. (II). 1 fowl. 6 large tomatoes or 8 smaller ones. 1 onion. 1 tablespoon butter, lard or ground nut oil. 1 dessertspoon flour. £ lime. 2 berkono or a pinch of pepper. 1 teaspoon salt. A bunch of parsley or a little dried thyme. 1. Cut the fowl as for a fricassee, skin the pieces (the trimmings and carcase that are left can be used for stock). 2. Put the tomatoes, cut in quarters, the onion sliced and half a glass of water into a saucepan. Bring to the boil and let it boil quickly for ten minutes, then pass the contents, mashing them well with the back of a spoon, through a sieve so as to remove the seeds ; this ought to give a large breakfastcup of tomato sauce. 3. Put the butter into the flat saucepan. When hot and singing put in the pieces of fowl, keep turning them till they are a good yellow colour, then sprinkle lightly with the flour. Move the saucepan a little aside and when the flour has been absorbed, pour in slowly the breakfast- cup of tomato sauce, add salt, pepper (parsley), two small pieces of lime peel and a little of its juice. Cover the saucepan and let it simmer. If the tomato sauce gets too thick, add a little water. Serve with slices of fried bread or in a ring of boiled rice, mashed yam or sweet potatoes. Palm Oil 1 fowl. 1 large teacup yam or sweet potato cut in pieces, 2 inches square. 1 onion. 3 tablespoons palm oil. Chop. (II). 1 breakfast cup okro. 2 or 3 tatassa. 5 or 6 gauta. 1£ pints water. 3 berkono chopped fine. 1 dessertspoon salt. 1. Cut up the fowl as for a fricassee and skin the pieces.FOWLS. 82 2. Put the palm oil in a native pot with a lid, when quite hot put in the onion and fowl, frying till a pale yellow, then add the water, okro, tatassa, gauta, chopped berkono and salt. Bring it to the boil, let it simmer for a short hour, then add the yam and continue boiling for twenty five to thirty minutes. If sweet potatoes are used, twenty minutes will be enough. Serve very hot in the native pot with a napkin folded round. Note.—There are many ways of making palm oil chop; this recipe is a mild one, the fresher the palm oil the better the dish is. Natives mix dried fish with the palm oil chop, but this is not much to the European taste. Exactly the same dish can be made with pieces of mut- ton, cut in two-inch squares. Curried 1 fowl. 1 dessertspoon curry. 1 large tablespoon butter, lard, or ground nut oil. Fowl. (I). 1 onion. 1 teacup stock or water. ; £ teaspoon salt 1. Cut the raw fowl as for a fricassee. 2. Put the butter in the flat saucepan. When quite hot, add the sliced onion, then the curry powder, fry till brown; add the pieces of fowl and fry to a deep yellow colour, then add salt and the teacup of stock or water. Let the curry cook slowly until half the liquid is absorbed. Serve with rice or mashed yam or sweet potatoes. Notes. 1. If the tomatoes or gauta are available they can be cut in quarters and added to the curry when the meat is half cooked. 2. Pigeons can be curried in the same way. 3. This is the very simplest of curries; there are many other good ones, but the ingredients not always being obtainable, we have not attempted to give them.FOWLS. 83 I \ Poulet Menagere. (I.) 1 fowl l£ tablespoons butter, lard or ground nut oil. 1 large onion cut in 5 or 6 pieces, not sliced. 1 teacup tumuku, risga or sweet potatoes, cut in one inch squares. 1 clove. 2 berkono or one good pinch pepper. 1 teaspoon salt, i teaspoon dried thyme or chopped parsley. 1. Put one tablespoon butter into the flat saucepan. When hot put in the tumuku or risga, which have been scraped, not peeled, or the pieces of sweet potato. Keep the pan moving till they turn yellow ; add the onion, taking care that it does not burn. When the vegetables are half cooked remove them from the pan, putting them in an empty frying pan to keep hot, but do not let them cook any more, 2. Add to the fat already in the saucepan (but be care- ful that no particles of the vegetables remain) the other half tablespoonful butter. When quite hot put in your fowl whole, and fry both sides equally till light yellow, then put back the vegetables, add the clove, the herbs, pepper and salt, toss once more on the fire, then put aside and cover the pan so that it goes on cooking very slowly, till the fowl and vegetables are thoroughly cooked. The whole process can be done in a little more than half an hour. If towards the end you fear it may burn, add half a tablespoon butter or lard, (water would entirely spoil the dish). Note.—This is a useful bush dish. Pigeons or ducks can be cooked in the same manner, allowing less time for pigeons and more for duck.84 FOWLS. Poulet Cocotte (II). 1 fowl. | pint stock. 1 tablespoon butter, lard or ground nut oil. 10 young green onions (if not available, onion cut in medium pieces). 1 teacup of tumuku, risga or sweet potatoes, cut in one inch squares. 1 tatassa. 1 clove. 1 piece of lime peel. 2 berkono or a pinch of pepper. 1 teaspoon salt. (1 teaspoon parsley and dried thyme). Fresh young carrots, turnips and French beans make this dish much better and if they are obtainable do not use the tumuku, risga or sweet potatoes. 1. Put in the native pot a tablespoon butter. When quite hot and singing, put in the fowl whole, keep it on a brisk fire, turning the fowl with a fork so that it gets nicely browned all over. When this is done take it out of the pot. If you have been using oil, pour it away, if butter or lard let it remain. Put in half the vegetables (carrots and turnips if large cut in dice) putting at the bottom those that are the longest to cook, then return the fowl and put the rest of the vegetables on top with the salt, pepper, lime peel, cloves and herbs, and pour over the stock. Bring to the boil, keeping the pot covered, then let it simmer very gently for an hour. The goodness of the dish depends on the slow cooking. When done, the fowl can be taken out, carved and replaced in the pot (leaving out the carcase). Serve in the pot in which it was cooked. Poulet Bordeaux (II). 1 fowl. 1 teacup stock. 1 tablespoon flour. 2 tablespoon ground nut oil or olive oil. (If no oil, butter or lard can be used. One tablespoon will be sufficient). J teacup claret. 1 clove. 2 berkono. A pinch of salt and pepper. (Parsley). 1. Cut the raw fowl as for a fricassee,FOWLS. 85 2. Put the ground nut oil in the flat saucepan. When hot and beginning to sing, put in your pieces of fowl and the liver ; keep turniug with a fork till they are cooked and nicely browned on all sides. This will take eight to ten minutes. Remove the pieces one by one, leaving the oil in the saucepan. Put the cooked pieces between two plates to keep hot. 3. Cut the onion in four, lengthways, toss it in the oil, add the flour, stir quickly till the oil and flour form a deep brown paste, then slowly pour in the stock being careful to keep the paste smooth. Add the claret and berkono, bring to the boil; move it aside and let it simmer for a good half hour. The sauce ought then to be reduced to a small teacupful. 4. Put the pieces of fowl back into the saucepan and warm them up thoroughly in the sauce. 5. Pry in a little oil two slices of bread cut in half and about a quarter of an inch thick. Take the pieces of fowl out of the saucepan, place them on a dish, dip the fried bread into the sauce, arrange it round the fowl and finally pour over the sauce. Note —Three tablespoons sherry or two tablespoons port can be used instead of claret. Pigeons are very good done in the same way, but must be fried whole or cut in two. Half a teaspoon Lemco to a teacup of boiling water can be used instead of stock. Chicken or Mutton Pilaff (11). 1 fowl. 3 tablespoons rice. 1 teacup ground nut oil. 1 tablespoon butter or lard. 1$ pints boiling water. 1 onion. 1 pinch nutmeg. 1. Put the whole fowl 1 pinch red pepper. 6 cloves. 1 small handful of freshly roasted and peeled ground nuts. (1 tablespoon currants if available). (having put aside the liver), the onion, cloves, black pepper and salt into the boiling water, F86 FOWLS. as soon as tender take the fowl out of the water, cut the legs and wings each in two pieces and put them and the breast between two plates to keep hot. 2. Break up the carcase and return it with the trimmings to the pot. Boil again till the water is reduced to a breakfast-cupful, strain and set aside. 3. Put the ground nut oil on the fire, when boiling put in the rice and fry to a light gold, tossing all the time. Pour off the ground nut oil (which can be used again). 4. Put the strained breakfastcupful stock in a clean saucepan, add the rice and keep simmering gently till the rice has nearly absorbed the stock ; add the pieces of fowl, the butter, nutmeg, red pepper, roasted ground nuts (and currants if available), let it cook gently for a few more minutes and serve very hot. Note.—Fried onions served round as a garnish is an improvement. Pieces of cooked mutton can be treated in the same way, boiling the rice in some stock made with the mutton bones. Rolled Fowl. (II). 1 fowl. 1 tablespoon white bread crumbs. 1 egg. 1 tablespoon butter, lard or oil. 1 dessertspoon flour. A small piece of onion. ^ teaspoon salt. £ teaspoon pepper. (6 olives and teaspoon chopped parsley if available). 1. Carve the legs, wings and breast off a raw fowl, carefully cut out the bones from the legs and wings, put the four pieces on the board and beat them as flat as possible. 2. Mince the breast and mix with it the bread crumbs, salt, pepper, the beaten egg and the onion minced (also the olives stoned and minced, and the chopped parsley). 3. Spread this mixture in the middle of the four pieces of fowl, roll them, and tie each piece round with thread. Boll them in a little flour.FOWLS. 87 4. Put the butter in the flat saucepan, when quite hot put in the rolls of fowl and cook them slowly, moving the saucepan so that they do not brown too quickly. A tomato sauce (see index) served with them, or a poivrade sauce (see index), is an improvement, or the rolled pieces of fowl can be dished on mashed yam or sweet potatoes or spinach. Chicken Fritters. (II). The wings and breast of a roast fowl. 1 small teacup batter. 1 breakfast cup ground nut oil. A pinch of salt and pepper. 1. Prepare the batter (see index); this should be done about two hours in advance if possible. 2. Neatly cut the wings and breast making six pieces, removing skin and bone. (The legs can be put aside to be devilled for the next day’s breakfast). Dust them with salt and pepper and roll them lightly in a little flour spread on the board. 3. Heat the oil in the flat saucepan ; there must be enough oil to cover the fritters. When the oil has ceased to bubble, test it by throwing in a little piece of bread. If you hear the little sizzling sound of frying, the fat is ready. 4. Dip the pieces of fowl into the batter, covering them evenly with the mixture, then put them carefully one by one into the hot oil, turn them once and take them out as soon as they are of a bright yellow colour. If the oil has been hot enough, they will come out quite dry and free from grease. If parsley is obtainable, a few sprigs thrown into the oil while the fritters are frying and taken out as soon as they are crisp but not black, are an improvement if served scattered over the fritters. The fritters can be eaten with tomato sauce (see index) or served on mashed yam, spinach, macaroni or cabbage. These fritters are quite easily made and are often useful as an entrbe.88 FOWLS. Devilled Fowl. (1). The legs of a fowl. 1 saltspoon salt. 1 small teaspoon butter or 1 saltspoon pepper. lard. 1 pinch red pepper. 1 small teaspoon mustard. 1. Remove the skin and score the flesh twice crosswise on each side. 2. Mix to a paste the butter, mustard, salt, pepper and red pepper and spread it over the legs, working it into the cuts. 3. Melt an extra teaspoon of butter, lard or ground nut oil in the small frying pan. When quite hot, put in the two legs and fry for ten minutes till quite cooked. Serve with fried or mashed yam or sweet potato. Note.—These directions are given for uncooked fowl; if already cooked, prepare in the same way but fry for three minutes only. Duck or turkey legs can be devilled in the same way. In all cases, it is a great improvement to prepare the legs the evening before and to keep them between two plates till wanted for frying the next morning. The mixture has thus more time to penetrate into the meat. Plain Croquettes. (I). About 4 tablespoons minced cooked fowrl. 3 tablespoons mashed cooked yam or sweet potato. 1 teaspoon butter, lard or ground nut oil. 2 eggs. ^ onion. 1 tablespoou brown bread crumbs or crushed biscuits, 1 tablespoon flour. A pinch of salt and pepper. 1 breakfast cup ground nut oil. (£ teaspoon chopped parsley and tatassa). 1. Free the meat from skin, mince it and put it in the small pudding basin. Add to it the onion and the yam, salt, pepper (and parsley or tatassa if available); lastly add one of the eggs well beaten. If this paste is not quite thick enough to be shaped add a pinch of flour. Shape it into small cakes.89 FOWLS. 2. Put the oil into the flat saucepan and set it to heat over a good fire, watching it from time to time to see that it does not burn. 3. Break the second egg into a soup plate and beat it well. Spread the flour over one half of the cook’s board and the bread crumbs over the other; turn the croquettes first in the flour, then in the egg and lastly in the bread crumbs, pressing them well into the latter so that the crumbs adhere evenly to both sides of the croquettes. 4. By this time the fat should be ready for frying, when it has ceased to bubble, carefully slide in the croquettes which should be covered by the fat, Turn them over as soon as they are yellow, and take them out when light brown. If they come out greasy, it is because the fat was not hot enough. Note.—These croquettes can also be made with minced mutton or beef. If necessary, they can be made without eggs or bread crumbs, adding a dessertspoon stock and a pinch of flour to the paste, and rolling them in flour only before frying. If used to make an entree for a dinner party they can be dished on mashed yam or sweet potatoes or tinned peas, or passed with a little tomato sauce. 1 tablespoon bread crumbs. 1 tablespoon flour. 1 breakfastcup ground nut oil. Kromeskies. (II). The best parts of a roast fowl. 1 small teacup white sauce. 1 egg. 1. Cut in very small and regular pieces all the white of a fowl. Do not mince it but lay the wings and breast on a board and cut with a sharp knife. 2. Have ready a small teacup of white sauce (see index) which has been allowed to simmer a little longer than usual so as to thicken it. Mix it very gently in a pudding- basin with the pieces of fowl. When well mixed, spread on a plate which has been slightly greased with butter, and let it stand for nearly an hour till quite cold.90 FOWLS. 3. Break the egg into a soup plate and beat it well; spread the flour and the bread crumbs on the cook’s board. 4. Divide the mixed fowl and sauce into portions about the size of a small egg and roll them into balls in the flour: dip them in the egg and then into the bread crumbs. 5. Heat the oil in the flat saucepan, as soon as it is hot enough for frying carefully slide in the balls and fry them till light brown. Take out of the fat and serve at once. Like the croquettes, kromeskies should be perfectly free from grease, if the fat is at the right temperature. Cottage Pie. (I). Remains of a cooked fowl. 1 tablespoon stock or 1 salt- spoon Lernco added to a tablespoon hot water. £ onion. 1 saltspoon salt. 1 saltspoon pepper. A good half-teacup mashed cooked yam or sweet potato. 1 teaspoon milk. £ teaspoon butter. 1. Free the fowl from skin and bone, mince it. Mince the onion and mix the two together, adding some salt and pepper and the tablespoon beef tea or stock. 2. With a feather paint the inside of a small pie dish with very little butter. Put the mince at the bottom. Mix the mashed yam with the butter and milk and the remaining salt and pepper, and spread it on top of the mince. Scrape lightly with a fork, put a little dab of butter on top, and place in the oven for about twenty minutes till it is a good brown. Note. This same pie can be made with minced mutton or beef. Dry Mince. (I). 4 tablespoons minced cooked 1 small teaspoon butter or meat. ! lard. £ tablespoon minced onion. (£ teaspoon chopped parsley.) A pinch of salt, pepper and red pepper. 1. Mix the minced meat, salt, pepper, red pepper, (and parsley if available.)91 FOWLS. 2. Melt the butter in the small frying pan. When it begins to sing, throw in the onion, and when it begins to turn brown add the minced meat and toss quickly on the fire till the fat is all absorbed. Serve with poached eggs, or mashed yam or plain macaroni. Notes. The same mince can be made with one-and-a- half tablespoons stock, milk or weak Lemco, or mixed with any remains of tomato, brown or white sauce. Mix the sauce with the mince after it has absorbed the fat of the frying pan, and let them heat up together. Cooked mutton or beef can be minced in exactly the same way. Chicken 2 fowls. 1 tablespoon flour. 1 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon pepper. 1 hard-boiled egg. 2 sausages or 1 small tin potted meat. 1 large onion. Pie. (II). pints water. 1 teaspoon butter or lard. Pie crust (see index). 2£ sheets of gelatine. $ teaspoon Lemco. (A. teaspoon chopped parsley, a teaspoon dried thyme, and a mutton kidney.) 1. Skin the fowls and cut them into joints; put the livers aside. Mix the flour with a little salt and pepper and lightly roll the joints and breast in it. Put them aside on a plate. 2. Make some stock with one-and-a-half pints water, the trimmings and carcases of the fowls, the onion, salt and pepper. Boil it down to a large breakfastcupful and strain it through a clean handkerchief. 3. Rub the inside of the large pie dish with a piece of raw onion and grease it with the butter or lard. Skin and mash the sausages or take the potted meat out of the tin. Take the two poorest legs, cut off the meat, free it from skin and sinew, mince it very fine and mix with the sausages or potted meat. 4. Lay four pieces of the fowl at the bottom of the pie dish and fill the hollows with a little of the minced fowl and sausage and stick in a few sliced pieces of liver (andkidney if obtainable). Press it all well down with a spoon sprinkle with salt, pepper (parsley and dried thyme if possible). Lay more pieces of fowl, sausage, &c., on top, adding slices of hard-boiled egg, till the pie dish is tightly packed. 5. With a feather and a little water wet the edges of the pie dish. Have ready the paste for the pie mist. Cut a strip the width of the edge of the pie dish and lay it all round. Wet it with a feather and then lay the remainder of the paste over the dish, press down the edges lightly all round the dish and cut off evenly what is left hanging down. 6. Make a small hole in the middle and pour through half of the strained stock. Cover the pie with a well greased piece of paper and put into the oven for about one-and-a-half hours. Do not take off the greased paper till half-an-hour before the pie is ready, or the crust will be burnt, taking it off at the end, allows the crust to get' browned. 7. Half-an-hour before the pie is cooked, put the other half of the stock into the small enamel saucepan. Add half-a-teaspoon Lemco. When hot but not boiling, put- in the gelatine, and as soon as it is quite dissolved, take it off the fire and immediately strain it again through the handkerchief. 8. Take the pie out of the oven and pour in the strained stock through the little hole, taking great care not to wet the crust round it. Put the pie in a cool place, and as soon as it is cold, stand it in a cooler, taking care that no water gets in, and covering the cooler with a cloth to keep out the flies. This pie made in the evening can be served for lunch next day, and even in hot weather, if kept in a cooler, will be full of firm jelly. Note.—Exactly the same pie can be made with ducks, pigeons or mutton, using their bones for the stock. If you can put any vegetables such as carrots and turnips in the stock, it is a great improvement. This pie can of course be eaten hot, but is nicer cold.93 FOWLS. Potted 1 roasted fowl. 2 sausages or 1 small tin potted meat or 2 table- spoons minced ham or bacon. 4 cloves. Fowl. 0). 2 berkono. 1 saltspoon nutmeg. ^ teaspoon salt. | teaspoon pepper. 1 teaspoon lard. 1 dessertspoon butter. 1. Free the meat from skin and bone and mince it fine. 2. Pound in a mortar (a native one will do if you have no proper kitchen one) the cloves, berkono, nutmeg, salt and pepper. When well pounded together add the minced fowl and skinned sausages or potted meat or minced ham. Pound to a paste and add the butter, mixing it all well together. 3. Put the paste into an empty jar (an Imperial cheese jar is a good one), and pack it in as tightly as possible with the back of a spoon. Heat the lard, and as soon as it is melted, run it on top of the jar; it will solidify and keep out moisture. In the dry season, potted fowl can last a week and is very nice for breakfast. Poulet Mayonnaise. (II). The best parts of a roasted | 2 heads of lettuce, fowl. j 2 tomatoes. 2 tablespoons sliced cooked ! (A teaspoon chopped parsley yam or sweet potato. 1 and basil.) Sliced cucumber, cold cooked beetroot cut in dice, French beans or even tinned peas or beans can all be used in this salad. Free the fowl from skin and bone, cut in small dice and mix with the yam also cut in dice, the tomatoes cut in small pieces and the lettuce cut in strips. Pour over the mayonnaise (see index) (and sprinkle with the chopped parsley and basil if available). Garnish, if liked, with slices of hard-boiled egg.94 MUTTON AND BEEF. In stations where there is no properly run meat market, or no “ mutton club,” it is most inadvisable to buy meat- on the native market. On the other hand, if you buy a sheep ior yourself alone or are made a present of one, it is difficult to know how to make use of it without too much waste. This is perhaps the best way: have the sheep killed at sunset, skin it and hang it till the following morn- ing. Cut it up as early as possible. Keep the brains, kidneys, one leg, the saddle, the best end of the neck, and give the rest away. The kidneys can be used for breakfast, the brains and the cutlets from {he neck for lunch, and either the saddle or leg roasted or braised or boiled for dinner. These can go on for the next day as a cottage pie or mince for break- fast, and cold with a salad or curried for lunch. The trimmings of the cutlets and the poorer end of the saddle will make enough soup for both days. As soon as the sheep is cut up, the saddle and the leg should be salted and peppered and kept in the meat safe. If about mid-day doubts arise as to their safety, they should be turned in the frying pan in a little very hot butter or lard. If you intend to boil the leg, it can be plunged for a moment into boiling water instead. Both these methods will preserve the meat safely till the evening. Meat, so long as it is protected from dust and flies, should always be freely exposed to the air, which will slightly harden the outer skin and thus preserve the meat. If the meat does not seem quite clean or has not beeu properly protected from the flies, it should be washed in strong vinegar and water before cooking.MUTTON AND BEEF. 95 Mutton or beef should only be wrapped in paw paw leaves if you have been obliged to kill it in the morning to eat the same day. The leaves make it tender but hasten decomposition. Beef should be kept and treated in the same way as mutton. The greatest care should be taken that the meat is sound. The amount of time required to cook meat can only be quite approximate, depending upon the size of the piece and the kind of fire. Twenty minutes to the pound is the average time required. A kitchen chopper and a small kitchen saw are indispens- able if you want to have neat joints. Roast Leg of Mutton. (I). A leg of mutton. 1 bit garlic or £ onion stuck 2 tablespoons butter or lard. in the upper part of the leg. 1 tablespoon water. j 1 teaspoon salt. ; 1 teaspoon pepper. 1. Trim the leg by cutting off any loose pieces of skin and scraping off the flesh and skin that adheres to the lower end of the bone for at least an inch. Lay the leg flat on the table and beat it into shape with the flat side of the chopper. This will also break the fibres and make the meat more tender; care must be taken not to break the bone. 2. Rub the leg with a little of the butter, melt the remainder in the baking tin, put in the leg and place the tin in a good oven. Baste it from time to time, add one tablespoon of water and a little more butter or lard if the fat dries up and sprinkle with salt and pepper. In a good oven a Nigerian leg of mutton will take less than an hour to cook. Roast Saddle. (I). Cut off the end of the saddle, keeping only the best middle part, t.e., about six good chops. With a knife, trim off the skinny edge of the flap. Divide the chine bone96 MUTTON AND BEEF. (which keeps the chops together) with a single sharp stroke of the chopper, but divide the central bone only, not the meat. Roll under what is left of the flap and tie the saddle round with a piece of string so as to get a neat rectangular piece. Roast for fifteen or twenty minutes in the oven or it is even better to braise it according to the following recipe. Braised Leg or Saddle of Mutton. (I). 1 leg or saddle of mutton. 1 tablespoon butter or lard. 1 teacup stock, water or a little Lemco. 2 large onions stuck with 2 cloves. £ teaspoon salt. | teaspoon pepper. (Bunch of parsley if available). When mutton is poor, as in Nigeria, it is generally nicer to braise than to roast it, the process is quite simple. 1. Put the butter in the large flat saucepan, when quite hot pub in the leg or saddle (if leg the handle joint should be cut off to make it smaller), turn it till it is a nice brown all over, add salt, pepper, the onion cut in quarters and the teacup of stock. Put the cover tight on the saucepan, let it simmer very slowly for one and a half hours if a leg, for half an hour if a saddle. Notes.—Any vegetables, carrots, turnips, yam or sweet potatoes can be added to the meat, put in the carrots and turnips at the same time as the stock, the yam or sweet potatoes when it is half cooked. A Welbank Boilerette comes in very useful for braising beef or mutton. Cold leg or saddle of mutton roasted or braised is good with any sort of salad or mint sauce (see index). Boiled Leg of 1 leg of mutton. 2 large onious stuck with cloves. 3 berkono or a teaspoon pepper. Mutton. (I). 1 teaspoon salt. (1 bunch of parsley or one teaspoon thyme, four car- rots and three turnips if available).97 MUTTON AND BEEF. To be tender, a boiled leg of mutton must be put into boiling water, not in cold. 1. Put in your big vegetable boiler or native pot sufficient water to well cover the leg of mutton, add the berkono and salt. When the water is boiling put in the leg, and the whole onion peeled, let it boil well for five minutes; then set aside and let it simmer for a short hour. 2. Serve the boiled mutton with caper sauce (see index) and boiled rice. The caper sauce can be made with the water the leg has boiled in. If the parsley, carrots and turnips are available, add them after the first boil up and serve as a garnish round the leg. Mutton Curry, (I). 1 breakfast cup of pieces of mutton cut in small squares 1 breakfast cup stock or hot water. 1 dessertspoon curry. 1 large onion. 1$ tablespoons butter or lard. 1 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons dried or Prevet apples, or two tomatoes, or two or three carrots. 1. Put the butter in the three-pint saucepan, when very hot put in the pieces of meat, fry till a little brown, then take them out. Fry the onion and curry powder. (If carrots, tomatoes or apples are available, they must be fried separately in a little extra butter, the carrots minced, the tomatoes sliced and the apples soaked and cooked before frying them). 2. Put the fried meat into the saucepan with the onion and curry (add the vegetables if any) then pour the stock in slowly and let it simmer for two hours. If it gets too dry add a little more stock. Notes.—For cooked meat, proceed in the same way, adding the meat to the fried onion and curry powder; use half the quantity of stock and let it simmer only twenty minutes. For beef, cooked or uncooked, the process is the same.98 MUTTON AND BEEF. Irish Stew. (I). 8 or 9 pieces cut from the best part of a neck of mutton. 2 onions. 1 teacup yam or sweet pota- toes cut in pieces one inch square. 1 dessertspoon flour. 2 berkono or a pinch of pepper. $ teaspoon salt. (A teacup carrots and turnips cut in pieces one inch square and a bunch of parsley if available). 1. Spread the flour on the cook’s board and turn in it the pieces of mutton which you have previously sprinkled with salt and pepper. 2. Put the pieces in the flat saucepan with enough cold water to cover them. Bring to the boil, when just boiling take off the scum with a spoon, then add the onions (and carrots, turnips and parsley). Move your saucepan a little aside, cover it and let it simmer very gently for an hour. Then add the pieces of yam or sweet potatoes and simmer for another three-quarters of an hour. It must simmer slowly, not boil, and the saucepan must be kept covered. Note. This stew is very good done in the Welbank Boilerette. Cutlets. (II). Cutlets from the best end neck of mutton can be good, even in Nigeria, if they are carefully cut and trimmed. 1. First saw off the chine bone, then the end of the row of bones level and cut off the outer flap ; take a very sharp knife and divide the row of cutlets down to the bone with one clean decided cut between each of them, and lastly, sever them one by one with a single stroke of the chopper. 2. Lay the cutlets flat on the board and give them a few strokes with the flat of your chopper, trim them into shape, remove the gristle and scrape off all the meat at the ends of the bones, exposing an inch-and-a-half of them.99 MUTTON AND BEEF. 3. To grill the cutlets.—Paint each side with a little butter or olive oil, sprinkle them with salt and pepper; place them on the grill, see that the bars of the grill are perfectly clean, first put the grill close to the fire so that the meat gets seized and the gravy preserved, then the grill may be slightly raised. Turn the cutlets by taking hold of the bone with your fingers, as the prick of a fork causes the gravy to flow out. Grill three minutes one side, two on the other. Serve the cutlets with mashed yam or sweet potatoes piled in a dome shape in the centre. Note. Cutlets can be cooked in the frying pan with a little butter or lard, but they are better grilled. Brains. (1). Sheep’s brains. | 1 berkono or a pinch of pepper, i pint boiling water. j A pinch of salt. 1 teaspoon butter. j (A tomato and a few sprigs 1 teaspoon vinegar. 1 of parsley). 1. Wash and soak the brains in cold water. Then carefully skin them. 2. Put the pepper and salt in the boiling water, put in the brains and boil them rapidly for three minutes. Take them out and drain them. 3. Melt the butter, mix it with the vinegar and pour over the brains. A sliced tomato and some sprigs of parsley can be fried and served around the brains. Brain Fritters. (II). Sheep’s brains. £ pint boiling water. 1 berkono or a pinch of pepper. A pinch of salt. 1 dessertspoon flour. Batter (see index). 1 teacup ground nut oil. 1. Prepare and boil the brains as above. Drain them, cut them in slices half-an-inch thick and roll them lightly in the flour spread on the cook’s board. 2. Heat the oil in the flat saucepan. When it is quite hot and has ceased to bubble, dip the slices of brain in the batter and drop them carefully into the fat. Take them out as soon as they are bright yellow and serve very hot.100 MUTTON AND BEEF. Broiled Kidneys. (II). Sheep’s kidneys. ! A slice of toast. 1 teaspoon butter or lard. (A teaspoon chopped parsley). A pinch of salt and pepper. 1. Carefully clean and skin the kidneys. 2. Melt a teaspoon of butter or lard in the small enamel saucepan, take it away from the fire and turn the kidneys in the melted butter so as to baste them. 3. Have the grill ready and very clean. Put on it the kidneys and grill them over a bright fire for about three minutes, turning them over twice. Place the kidneys on the piece of hot buttered toast, and if you have any good butter, mix a little dab of it with the chopped parsley and put in the middle of each one. Parsley alone can be used if you have no butter. Fried Kidneys. (I). Sheep’s Iddneys. A slice of toast. 1 dessertspoon butter or lard. (A teaspoon chopped parsley). A pinch of salt and pepper. 1. Carefully clean and skin the kidneys. 2. Melt the butter or lard in the small frying pan. When it begins to sing put in the kidneys and gently fry them on both sides. They must not cook too fast or they become tough, but they ought to be ready in five minutes or less. Serve them on hot buttered toast sprinkled with salt and pepper and with a little dab of butter mixed with parsley, if available, placed in tbe middle of each one. Note. If any bacon is being fried for breakfast, the kidneys can be fried in any of the melted bacon fat left in the pan instead of in butter or lard. Fillet of Beef. (I). About 2 lbs. fillet of beef. I i teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon butter or lard. 1 & teaspoon pepper. Trim the fillet, and, if possible, tie it in a rectangular shape with a piece of string.101 MUTTON AND BEEP. Paint the fillet with a little of the butter and sprinkle it with salt and pepper. Place the fillet in a baking tin with the rest of the butter and put it in a good oven for about half-an-hour. Baste it three or four times, being careful not to keep the oven door open too long. If the butter dries up add a little more butter or lard and very little water. Note. Meat roasted before the fire is better than when done in the oven. If roasted in front of the fire and the piece of meat is a small one, do not let the cook run the spit through the meat as he usually does, but make him lie the meat to the spit. If the spit is run through, the blood will flow out and the meat lose its juiciness. Tournedos. (II). 4 rounds of meat cut in the fillet about one inch thick and two inches across. 2 large tomatoes. 4 pieces of bread cut in the same shape as the meat. 1 dessertspoon flour. 2g tablespoons butter. J teaspoon made mustard. j teaspoon salt. I teaspoon pepper. (1 teaspoon minced parsley.) Slice the tomatoes 1. Cut the rounds from the fillet. so as to get two round slices from the middle of the tomato about half-an-inch thick. Cut the slices of bread the same size as the fillets. 2. Paint each side of the fillets with a little mustard. Mix the flour, pepper and salt together and turn the fillets in the mixture. 3. Put one tablespoon butter in the flat saucepan, when melted and singing, put in the rounds of fillet, cook for about two minutes over a slow fire, turn them over and cook for another two minutes. Take the fillets off and keep them hot between two plates. 4. Add one tablespoon butter to the fat left in the saucepan, when melted and singing, put in the four slices of tomatoes, give them one turn each side and then set them aside with the fillets. aMUTTON AND BEEF. 102 5. Fry the bread to a good yellow colour in the fat that remains in the saucepan. 6. Mix the remaining half-tablespoon unmelted butter with the parsley (if you have any). Get your dish ready and place on it the rounds of bread, putting on each round of bread a round of tomato and then a round of fillet (place on top of each fillet a little dab of mixed butter and parsley). Note. This dish can also be made with mutton cut from the saddle. It is a nice dish for an entr6e. Braised Steak. (II). 2 lbs. steak. 1 large tablespoon butter or lard. 1 teacupful stock, water, or a little Lemco. 2 onions. 2 berkono. £ teaspoon salt. (Bunch of parsley if avail- able.) 1. Put the butter into the large saucepan, when quite hot put in the steak, either whole or cut in pieces about two inches square; turn it till a nice brown colour, then add the onions cut in quarters, the pepper and salt, pour the stock into the saucepan, shut the lid down well and let it simmer slowly for an hour and a quarter. If the steak is cut in pieces three-quarters of an hour will be sufficient. Note. Yam, sweet potatoes, carrots or turnips cut in pieces can be added to the braised beef. The yam and sweet potatoes should be added when the meat is half cooked, the carrots and turnips at the same time as the stock. Boiled Ox Tongue. (I). 1 tongue. 3 berkono. 1 onion. 1 teaspoon salt. The length of time to boil an ox tongue varies according to the size, an hour to an hour and a quarter is about the usual time. 1. Clean and wash the tongue thoroughly. Put it in your vegetable boiler or a large native pot with enoughMUTTON AND BEEF. 103 water to well cover it, add the onion, berkono and salt. Bring it to the boil, taking off the scum as it rises. Move it a little aside and let it simmer gently till tender. Take it out of the saucepan and take the skin off at once. Note.—The tongue can be eaten hot or cold, but in Nigeria it is better cold and eaten with a salad. Beef Steak Pie. About 1 lb. of steak cut in strips about 1 inch broad. 2 sheep’s kidneys. 1 hard boiled egg. 1 dessertspoon flour. 1 small teaspoon salt. 1 small teaspoon pepper. 1 large breakfast cup stock. Pie crust (see index). 1. Mix the flour, salt and pepper on a plate. Turn in it the strips of steak and kidneys, cut in slices. Roll up the strips of steak and pack them in the pie dish, filling in the spaces with the sliced kidney and hard boiled egg. Pour over half the stock whioh should nearly fill the pie dish. 2. With a feather and a little water wet the edges of the pie dish. Have ready the paste for the pie crust. Cut a strip the width of the edge of the dish and lay it all round. Wet it with a feather and then lay the remainder of the paste over the dish, press the edges down lightly all round the dish and cut off evenly what is left hanging down. Make a small hole in the middle of the crust. 3. Cover the pie dish with a piece of well greased paper and put it in the oven for about two hours. Do not take off the paper till half an hour before the pie is ready or the crust will be burnt. 4. Heat the remaining stock, then take the pie out of the oven and pour the stock through the little hole, taking care not to wet the crust around it. This pie is better eaten hot.104 MUTTON AND BEEF. To Boil a Ham. (I) Soak the ham in cold water for at least fifteen hours, or more if the ham is a large one. Change the water once or twice if possible. The time a ham should soak varies a great deal according to its kind and size. Put the ham in the vegetable boiler or in a large native pot if the boiler is not big enough, with enough cold water to well cover it. Add two onions stuck with six cloves and a little dried thyme. Let it come to the boil, take off the scum and set the pot aside to simmer, counting twenty-five minutes simmering for each pound. A seven pound ham ought to simmer between three and three and a half hours. On no account must it be allowed to go on boiling quickly. If the ham is to be eaten cold, let it cool in the liquid it has cooked in, it will add to its flavour. When cold, take it out, skin and trim it, and cover it with fine yellow bread crumbs. In order to make the crumbs stick, the outside of the ham must be slightly warmed. Lastly, stick in cloves like little nails all over the ham, about half an inch apart. Tinned Meat. (1). “ Army and Navy Rations” or tinned stews of any kind should be heated by putting a tio into a saucepan of boiling water. Tinned cold meat, such as brisket of beef, spiced beef, brawn or tongue, should be put in a cooler as long as possible before opening. A great deal can be got out of a tin of Crosse & Blackwell’s “Roast Beef”; a soup made with the gravy mixed with an equal quantity of water and thickened with rice or atcha, a cottage pie (see index) or croquettes (see index) made with one half of the beef; and the other half, cut in small pieces and mixed with cold yam or sweet potatoes or native beans and tomatoes, will make a very good salad (see index).105 VEGETABLES. We have given an alarming amount of space to this generally neglected subject, but both from the point of view of health and of economy it is a really important one. It will be seen that quite a goodly number of vegetables can be obtained without having recourse to bulky and expensive tins, and an imaginative cook could find many more. Unfortunately, the black cook has a deep rooted contempt for all vegetable food, and his blank look fixed on the horizon while you endeavour to instil into him some enthusiasm on the subject of the boiling of onions is certainly disheartening. The chief points to make him grasp are :—that he must always follow the directions given for the putting of vegetables into cold or boding water and that the vegetables must be boiled slowly and thoroughly drained before serving. We have given several stuffed vegetables as they make quite a substantial dish and are useful in using up remains of meat. In the preparation of stuffings, one can always remember that if too thick, they can be wetted with a little stock, milk or fat, and if too sloppy, they can be thickened with a pinch of flour or a raw egg. All vegetables must be washed and the greatest care must be taken to wash lettuce and mustard and ci’ess twice over in boiled water. It is always wise to buy a provision of yams, onions and native beans at a time when they are plentiful, as their prices rise considerably. Yam or Sweet Potatoes Steamed. (I). Yam and sweet potatoes if fresh should be steamed, not boiled, if boiled they are liable to turn out spongyVEGETABLES. 106 1. Peel the yam or sweet potato, cutting them in pieces about one inch thick. Steam them (in a Welbank boiler- ette if you have one), if not, put them on a sieve and place the sieve on top of a saucepan filled with boiling water. Keep the water boiling and in twenty minutes the yam will be done. Sweet potatoes take a little less time to steam. 2. Mash the yam or sweet potatoes through the potato masher, or simply mash with a fork adding salt and pepper, then serve. Yam and Sweet Potatoes Boiled. (I). Boiled yam or sweet potatoes do not need to be peeled unless they are very dry or you need them to be cooked quickly. In this case, peel them and cut them in small pieces. 1. Place them in a saucepan just covering them with cold salted water, half teaspoon of salt to a pint of water. Bring them to the boil, then move the saucepan aside and let the yam or sweet potatoes boil slowly until they are soft. Serve them mashed through the potato masher or mash with a fork, adding a little pepper. Mashed Yams or Sweet Potatoes. (I). Yam or sweet potatoes. 1 teaspoon butter. 1 large tablespoon milk (or 1 pinch salt and pepper. 1 teaspoon Ideal and the rest water). 1. Lightly mash with a fork the yam or sweet potatoes that have either been steamed, boiled or baked. For one breakfast cup cooked yam or sweet potato allow one large tablespoon milk, half a teaspoon butter, one pinch salt and pepper. Mix thoroughly with the yam or sweet potatoes after they have been mashed. 2. Pile the mixture in a dome shape in the email pie- dish, place it in the oven for five minutes to brown.107 VEGETABLES. | teaspoon salt. |teaspoon pepper. Yam or Sweet Potatoes Baked. (I). 1 yam. 1 dessertspoon butter. 1 tablespoon milk. To bake a yam, cut a piece about six or seven inches long, do not peel it. Put it in the oven and in half an hour it will be ready to serve. A very good way of preparing baked yams is to scoop out the inside after they have been baked, mash it with a fork and mix with it one dessertspoon fresh butter, one tablespoon milk, half a teaspoon salt, half a teaspoon pepper, replace the mixture in the yam and serve it stand- ing up on a dish with a folded napkin round it, Baked sweet potatoes should be served in their skins, fresh butter served with them is a great improvement. Yam or Sweet Potatoes with White Sauce. (II). Whilst hot, cut a freshly cooked yam or sweet potato (boiled, steamed or baked) in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, and pour over a small teacup of white sauce (see index). Chopped parsley sprinkled on top is an improvement. Yam or Sweet Potatoes Fried. (I). Yams or sweet potatoes. l£ breakfast cups of ground nut oil. A little salt. 1. Peel and cut in pieces about two inches long, a quarter-inch wide, and a quarter-inch thick, enough yam or sweet potatoes to fill a breakfastcup. Do not wash them, but if possible rub them in a clean towel to dry off the moisture. 2. Put a breakfastcup-and-a-half of ground nut oil into the large frying pan. When it has ceased to bubble and begins to smoke, throw in the yam or sweet potatoes, which must be completely covered by the oil ; turn themVEGETABLES. 108 lightly with a fork till they are of a golden tint. Lift them out at once with a perforated ladle, if possible, or with two forks. Pile them on a plate, dust them with a little salt, and serve at once. Note. To be good fried potatoes must be sliced evenly, if not, some pieces will be cooked before others. It is essentia] that the fat should be very hot, otherwise the potatoes will be soft and greasy, also that the potatoes should be removed from the fat as soon as they are done. They should be fried just before being served. The oil can be used again. Doyan Bissa. (II). This is a good substitute for yam or sweet potatoes, it is best fried in the same way as yams and sweet potatoes. teacup of yam or sweet potatoes, cooked and mashed. dessertspoon milk (or 1 teaspoon Ideal and the rest water.) Yam or Sweet Potato Cakes. (I). 1 teaspoon butter. 1 yolk of egg. 1 dessertspoon flour. J teaspoon lard or ground nut oil. A pinch of salt and pepper. 1. Thoroughly mix in the small pudding basin the mashed yam or sweet potato, butter, milk, salt, pepper and lastly, the yolk of egg. 2. Sprinkle the flour on the cook’s board and empty on to it the contents of the pudding basin. If the mixture is too sloppy to shape properly, add a pinch of flour, then shape into small round cakes about half an inch thick and roll the cakes again in the flour on the board. 3. Melt the lard in the small frying pan—there will be just enough to grease it. Put in the cakes and fry them till they are light brown, turning them once over so that they colour equally on both sides. Serve at once. Note.—Mashed native beaus can be made up in the same way, also boiled rice or boiled atcha.VEGETABLES. 109 2 good tablespoons rice. 1 egg. 1 tablespoon milk (or 1 tea- spoon Ideal and the rest water.) 1 tablespoon flour. Rice Fritters. (II). J teaspoon baking powder. 1 breakfast cup ground nut oil, 1 breakfast cup boiling water. 1 pinch nutmeg. A pinch of salt and pepper. 1. Wash the rice and put it into the saucepan with the boiling water. Native rice, if the water is kept well on the boil, is cooked in eight minutes. Put the rice in the colander to drain and stand it by the fire. 2. Put the dried rice in the small pudding basin, mix in the flour, the yolk of egg (keep the white aside), the milk, salt, pepper, nutmeg. Beat the white to a snow and add it to the mixture : lastly add the baking powder. 3. Heat the oil in the flat saucepan. When it has ceased to bubble, drop in teaspoonfuls of the mixture one by one. This will form little croquettes. When they turn yellow take them out, place them on a sieve and shake lightly to remove the grease. Serve at once. Notes.—If English rice is used, proceed exactly in the same manner but the rice will take at least ten minutes longer to cook. If the fritters are required for a sweet, proceed exactly in the same manner, omitting the salt and pepper and substituting a good dessertspoon of powdered sugar. Croquettes of mashed yams or sweet potatoes, mashed native beans or boiled atcha can be made in the same way. A teacup of the yams, sweet potatoes, beans or atcha to the same proportion of ingredients. Tumuku or Risga. (I). 1 breakfastcup tumuku or 1 dessertspoon butter or lard risga. (no oil), li breakfastcups water or £ teaspoon salt. stock. \ teaspoon pepper. 1 teaspoon flour. 1. Wash the tubers in cold water and scrape off the fine skin with a knife.VEGETABLES. 110 2. Put the cold water or stock, the flour, butter or lard, salt and pepper into the saucepan, bring it to the boil. When boiling, put in the tumuku or risga. Move the saucepan a little aside and let it boil slowly till the tubers are done, they should be quite tender when tried with a fork. Serve them with a little of the liquid they have been cooked in. Native Spinach. (I). 4 handfuls of spinach leaves. £ teaspoon butter. 1 teaspoon milk. A pinch of salt, pepper and sugar. 1. Pick out the young leaves and strip them from their stems. Wash them twice very carefully in cold water and throw them into three pints boiling water in the large saucepan. Keep the water boiling fast for five or six minutes, and do not put tbe lid on the saucepan. 2. Empty tbe spinach into the colander and press it well down to drain out all the water, then put the leaves on the cook’s board and mince them with a knife. 3. Put the minced spinach in the small enamel sauce- pan with the salt, pepper, sugar, milk and butter. If milk and butter are unavailable, a dessertspoon of stock will do. Let the spinach simmer for five minutes until it is quite hot, stirring often, then serve. Note. It is essential that the spinach leaves should be thrown into boiling water. The tender leaves of young cassava make a good substi- tute for spinach, and are cooked in the same way. McDoddie’s Spinach. (1). Follow the directions written on the tin and boil with plenty of water. When drained, put the spinach in the small saucepan and season in the same way as the fresh spinach. A 1-lb. tin will go a long way in the bush and will be found useful.Ill VEGETABLES. Onions with White Sauce. (II). 1 large or 4 small onions. ] 2 berkono or J teaspoon black 1 teaspoon salt. I pepper. 1 teacup white sauce. Small onions are better than too large ones. 1. Peel off the outer skin of the onions, cut a thin slice off each top and put them in the saucepan with enough water to cover them, add the salt and pepper. Let the water come to the boil, then put on the lid and let them simmer slowly till they are quite tender but not falling to pieces. They can be tested with a fork. 2. Have ready the teacup of warm white sauce (see index). Drain the onions, place them in a vegetable dish, pour over the white sauce and serve at once. Notes. A tomato sauce (see index) is also good with onions, or they can be served as a puree after having mashed them through the sieve and mixed them with a teaspoon Ideal milk and half-a-teaspoon butter. This dish can be made into an entire by adding a dessertspoonful of grated cheese to the white sauce, then put the onions into a pie dish, pour over the white sauce, sprinkle with bread crumbs and put in the oven to brown. Stuffed Onions. (II). 2 large onions. 1 egg. 1 tablespoon white bread crumbs or crushed biscuits. 1 tablespoon of any minced meat or fowl. 1 teaspoon butter or lard. A pinch of salt and pepper. (A teaspoon minced parsley.) 1. Boil the onions as above but take them out before they are quite soft and scoop out the insides so that the onions form little cases. Keep the insides to mix with the stuffing. 2. Mix in the pudding basin the minced meat, bread crumbs, the insides of the onions, the salt, pepper, butter (and parsley if obtainable). Lastly add the beaten-up egg and if the mixture appears too wet, shake in a little flour.VEGETABLES. 112 3. Fill up the onions with this mixture, sprinkle the top with a few bread crumbs and put them in the oven for five or ten minutes according to the size of the onion. To prevent the top from burning, put a dab of butter or lard on each one before putting the onions in the oven. Native Pumpkin. (I). About a third of a medium- sized pumpkin. 1 dessertspoonful Ideal milk. \ teaspoon butter or lard. 1 teaspoon salt, i teaspoon pepper. The kurzunu, a dark green pumpkin covered with small raised white spots, is much the best, though the ordinary kind can also be used. 1. Peel the pumpkin, cutting a good half-inch of rind away, take out the seeds and cut into pieces about three inches square. 2. Throw the pieces into a pint of boiling water; this stops the boiling, add the salt, bring again quickly to the boil and then let it simmer for about twenty minutes, by which time the pumpkin should be soft. 3. Drain off the water and mash the pumpkin through the sieve, add the milk, butter and pepper and pile it in a pie dish. Lightly scrape the surface with the prongs of a fork and brown it in the oven. This makes an excellent vegetable if the right pumpkin is used. Fried Pumpkin. (I). Cut the pumpkin into small pieces about half-au-:nch square and boil and simmer them as above in salted water until soft, then drain them. Melt a dessertspoon of butter, lard or ground nut oil in the small frying pan ; when quite hot and bubbling put in the squares and fry them slightly brown. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and serve very hot.VEGETABLES. 113 Boiled Paw Paw. (I). Half a green paw paw. 1 small teacup white sauce, 1 teaspoon salt. if liked. £ teaspoon pepper. Paw paws are only good as a vegetable when they are unripe,(that is to say at the end of the rainy season. Peel half a paw paw, take out the seeds and cut in pieces about half-an-inch square. Throw into boiling water (about a breakfastcup of water to a teacup of paw paw), add salt and boil, then simmer, till soft. Drain off the water, dust the paw paw with pepper and pour over it the white sauce (see index), or serve plain. Paw paw can also be fried. After draining it, heat a dessertspoon of butter, lard or ground nut oil in the small frying pan; when bubbling, put in the squares and fry them slightly brown. Dust with pepper and serve. When the paw paws begin to turn yellow they can be boiled in the same way, drained, then mashed and mixed with a dessertspoon of Heinz’s dessicated horse radish (which has first been soaked in a little water) to a break- fastcup of mashed paw paw. Add a pinch of salt and pepper, half-a-teaspoon dry mustard and a teaspoon of butter or lard. Mix well, pile in a pie dish and put to brown in the oven. Served thus, paw paws taste very much like fresh turnips. Stuffed Paw Paw or Stuffed Cucumber. (II). 1 small unripe paw paw or cucumber. 2 tablespoons white bread crumbs or crushed biscuits 2 tablespoons of any minced meat or fowl. 1. Cut the paw paw or out the seeds. 2 tablespoons tomato or onion pulp. 2 eggs, whole. 1 teaspoon butter or lard. 4 teaspoon salt, j teaspoon pepper. (A teaspoon chopped parsley.) cucumber in halves and take 2. In the small pudding basin mix the bread crumbs, minced meat, tomatoes or onion, salt, pepper, butter, theVEGETABLES. 114 beaten-up eggs (and the parsley if available). Mix well but quite lightly and fill with the mixture the hollowed paw paw or cucumber. Sprinkle over a few bread crumbs, place on the top a small piece of butter or lard and put in a slow oven till the paw paw or cucumber is quite cooked. If there is any danger of their burning whilst in the oven, add a little butter or lard from time to time. Boiled Cucumber with White Sauce. (II). 1 small cucumber. £ teaspoon pepper. £ teaspoon salt. 1 small teacup white sauce (see index). 1. Peel and cut the cucumber into slices about half-an- inch thick. With a pointed knife take the seeds out of each slice and put the slices in as much boiling water as will cover them. Boil slowly for about five minutes, then drain off the water, put the slices in the vegetable dish, dust with pepper and pour over the white sauce. Fried Cucumber. (I). Cook in the same way but not quite so long. Dip the slices, which should not yet be quite soft, into a beaten yolk of egg and fry in a little hot lard or ground nut oil. Cucumber or Egg Plant Fritters. (II). i cucumber. To make the batter— 1 egg. 2 tablespoons flour. 3 tablespoons milk (if Ideal, one dessertspoon milk and the rest water. 2 teaspoon olive or ground nut oil. A pinch of salt. 1 breakfastcup ground nut oil, which can be put back again after use. 1. Mix the flour and milk in the small pudding basin. Add the yolk only of the egg, the oil and salt. Beat it all well together till it has the consistency of thick cream. If too thin add a little more flour, if too thick a little water. Cover the basin with a plate and let it stand till wanted, adding, just before using, the white of the egg beaten stiff.115 VEGETABLES. Fritters are much better if the batter is made a good two hours before it is wanted. 2. Cut the cucumber in slices half-an-inoh thick. With a pointed knife take the seeds out of each slice. 3. Put the slices into the small saucepan with just enough boiling salted water to cover them. Boil for about a minute-and-a-half and take them out as soon as they begin to soften. Drain them, and turn them in a little flour. 4. Heat the ground nut oil in the flat saucepan, there must be enough oil to cover the fritters. When the oil is very hot and has ceased to bubble, dip the slices of cucumber in the batter and slide them gently into the oil. Take them out as soon as they are of a bright yellow colour and serve at once. If the oil was hot enough, they should be quite free from grease. Note. Egg plant fritters are made in exactly the same way. If the egg plant is quite young, there is no need to cook it before frying it in the batter; if old, slice it and immediately give it one txirn in the frying pan with a very little butter or lard. Then turn in the flour, dip in the batter and fry. Fried Egg Plant or Fried Tomatoes. (I). 1 small egg plant or one large 1 teaspoon butter or lard or tomato or two small ones. ground nut oil. A pinch of pepper and salt. Young egg plants should be used for frying and for fritters. They should not be peeled or sliced till just before using as they turn black, and it is best to fry them in an enamel saucepan. 1. Peel and cut lengthways into slices about balf-an- inch thick. 2. Melt the butter or lard in the enamel saucepan. When quite hot, lay in the slices of egg plant, dust them with salt and pepper on both sides and fry, not too quickly,116 VEGETABLES. till they have absorbed all the butter. Serve at once, sprinkled with chopped parsley if possible. Note. Tomatoes can be fried in the frying pan; if small and ripe they should not be sliced but halved horizontally. Stuffed Tomatoes or Stuffed Egg Plant. (Ill 5 large tomatoes or seven or eight small ones. 1 tablespoon white bread crumbs or crushed biscuit. ^ teaspoon butter or lard. 1 small piece onion. 1 egg- A pinch of salt and pepper, red if possible. A pinch of nutmeg. (A teaspoon chopped parsley.) 1. Choose two of the best tomatoes, if they are large ones, or three if they are small. Cut a slice off the base of the tomatoes and carefully scoop out nearly all the pulp with a teaspoon. Halve the other tomatoes and scoop out all their pulp, which should then be passed through the small sieve to remove the seeds. Chop up the onion and mix it with the pulp. 2. Melt the butter in the small enamel saucepan and sprinkle in the flour as soon as the butter begins to sing. Stir with a wooden spoon, and when quite smooth add the tomato and onion pulp and cook till the mixture has become like a thick custard. 3. Pour it on to a plate and mix into a good paste with the bread crumbs, parsley, salt, pepper, nutmeg and the beaten egg. If the paste is too thin, add a few more bread crumbs. 4. Fill the two hollowed-out tomatoes with the paste, sprinkle over a few crumbs and place a dab of butter on the top. 5. Grease a pie dish with a little butter or laid, caie- fully place in it your tomatoes and put them in a slow oven for a good twenty minutes. If the oven is too hot and the tomatoes seem likely to burn or to get too dry, put a little117 VEGETABLES. more butter on top of each one. Serve in the dish they have been baked in. Egg plants oan be stuffed in exactly the same way, using of course their own pulp instead of tomato pulp. Gauta. (I). Gauta is a sort of native tomato with rather a bitter taste, but it makes quite a good substitute for tomatoes and is especially good fried. Tatassa. (I). These can be fried like tomatoes or stuffed in the same way. Fresh Maize. (I). Strip off the leaves and “ threads,” put the cobs in the colander placed over the large saucepan filled with boiling water and steam them till the grains are quite soft. Serve with butter and salt. The cobs can also be roasted in front of the fire. The ordinary native maize is poor, and it is quite worth while to try and grow any good American variety. Fresh Native Beans. Wakin Bissa. (I). 1 teacup beans. 4 teaspoon salt. £ onion. £ teaspoon pepper. 1. Wash the beans, put them with the onion into a saucepan with enough cold water to cover them. Add salt and pepper and bring slowly to a boil. Let them cook slowly till they are quite soft. Serve with just a little of the water they have cooked in and sprinkle, if possible, with chopped parsley or basil. Lentils or Dried Peas. (1). 2 tablespoons lentils or peas, j 4 pint water. 4 onion. I 1 saltspoon salt and pepper. Soak the lentils or peas in cold water for twelve hours. HVEGETABLES. 118 Drain off the water and put them in the saucepan with half a pint cold water, the onion, salt and pepper. Bring slowly to the boil, then set a little aside and simmer gently for two or three hours, till the lentils or peas are quite soft. The time varies according to their freshness. If the water has been all absorbed before they are cooked, add a little more. The lentils will not take so long to cook as the peas and should be taken off tbe fire before they become a mash. Add half a teaspoon butter or lard and sprinkle with chopped parsley, if possible, before serving. Cold lentils are very good in a salad. The peas must be mashed through a sieve and half a teaspoon butter or lard and a pinch of salt and pepper added to the pur6e before serving. Dried Native Beans. (I). These must be soaked and cooked exactly like dried peas or lentils. They can be served plain or mashed, sprinkled, if possible, with chopped parsley. Vegetable Curry. (I). 2 breakfast cups of vegetables I ^ teaspoon salt, cut iu 2-inch pieces. ! 1J tablespoons butter, lard 2 sliced onions. or ground nut oil. J pint hot water. ! 1 dessertspoon curry powder. Yam or sweet potato, onion, tomatoes and egg plant make a good mixture for curry; beans, pumpkin or half- ripe paw paws can also be used. 1. Melt the butter in the saucepan and when bubbling, put in half the sliced onion. When it is yellow, shake in the curry powder and fry for about two minutes, stirring all the time. 2. Add the hot water and the salt. When the water boils, put in the remainder of the onion and the cut up vegetables. Boil very slowly in a covered saucepan for about an hour until the vegetables are thoroughly cooked. When done, there should be little or no gravy. Serve very hot.119 VEGETABLES. Carrots. (II). Young carrots (those taken out when thinning the carrot bed) can be used as a vegetable, the larger ones are better for soup or a stew. Wash and scrape the carrots with a knife, do not peel them. Throw them into boiling water and let them boil for a few minutes, then move them aside and let them slowly finish cooking. Serve them with a little white sauce (see index) adding a little pinch of sugar. When cooked, they can also be turned in a little hot butter or lard, then sprinkled with salt, pepper and chopped parsley. Turnips. (II). Young turnips can be used as a vegetable; the large ones are stringy and can only be used for soup or a stew. 1. Wash and scrape six or eight turnips, cut them lengthways and crossways in two. Plunge them for five minutes in boiling salted water. 2. Drain the turnips and put them in a small saucepan with just enough stock, milk or water to cover them. Let them simmer at the side of the fire till quite tender. 3. Put half a teaspoon butter or lard in the small flat saucepan, when hot, put in the turnips and turn them about till they have absorbed the fat and are of a deep yellow colour. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and a little chopped parsley. Turnips are good boiled in the same wTay and then mashed. Add pepper, salt and half a teaspoon butter; if too thick mix in a little milk. Cabbage. (II). 1 head cabbage. 2 medium sized sweet pota- toes or good piece of yam. 1 dessertspoon lard or oil. 1 teaspoon pepper. 1 dessertspoon salt. 1. To clean a head of cabbage, cut it in four and let it soak for two hours in salted water before using it. The salted water will draw out any slugs, &c.120 VEGETABLES. 2. Take the outside leaves off (they can be kept for soup) plunge the cabbage into your largest saucepan or native pot filled with boiling water to which you have added nearly all the salt. Let it boil for an hour. Cabbage, like spinach, must be cooked in boiling water and in an uncovered pot, it must be boiled quickly and not allowed to simmer. 3. Steam or bake two medium sized or one large sweet potato, or the piece of yam ; when cooked crush it with a fork. Take out the cabbage, carefully draining it and pressing out the water; chop it, not too finely, and mix with the sweet potatoes. 4. Put the lard or oil into the flat saucepan and when quite hot and singing put in the cabbage and potatoes, keep moving them with a fork till the fat is absorbed and they brown slightly, dust with the remaining salt and pepper whilst still frying and serve very hot. Note.—Stuffed eggs in batter, fried tomatoes, egg plant, cucumber fritters, fowl fritters, or fowl croquettes served on top of the cabbage make a substantial dish which is quite enough for a good lunch. Beetroot. (II). It is worth growing beetroot in Nigeria although they do not reach a very large size. Flat round Egyptian ones seem to do best. 1. Wash the beetroot but do not scrape it with a knife for the least cut lets out the red juice. Cut off the leaves carefully. Fill the saucepan with boiling water and put in the beetroot and a little salt. Boil till quite tender (this can be judged by testing with a fork). If the beetroots are large you may bake them. When done, let them cool, peel and cut in rather thin slices, toss them in a pan with a little melted butter, salt and pepper. Serve sprinkled with a little parsley.121 VEGETABLES. Noth.—Cold beetroot sliced makes a very good salad mixed with sliced sweet potatoes. Beetroots thinly sliced and put in enough vinegar to cover them, adding a pinch of sugar, keep for two or three days and are nice as a condiment, but the vinegar must well cover them. Seasoned in the same manner and bottled in a glass jnr they keep quite a long time. French Beans. (I). Gather the beans when not too old. Be careful that the cook takes away the stringy part before cooking them, by nipping off the ends and tearing away the little strings down the sides of the bean. 1. Put the beans in boiling, salted water, keep boiling for about fifteen minutes, test them ; if soft, take them out and drain them. 2. To a breakfast cup of beans put in a saucepan a tea- spoon butter. Melt it, add the beans, toss them about two minutes over a slow fire, A few drops of lime or vinegar are an improvement. Note.—The water in which the beans have been cooked can be used as stock for soups. Tinned Vegetables, (I). The usual way of heating up tinned vegetables by simply plunging the tin into boiling water is not a good one. It is much better to persuade the cook to open the tin, drain off the liquid and to put the vegetables in the small sauce- pan with half a teaspoon butter, a pinch of salt and pepper, (a pinch of mint and sugar, if the vegetables are green peas) and a little minced parsley if obtainable. Stand this small saucepan inside a larger one containing boiling water and let the outer vessel boil freely until the contents of the inner one are thoroughly hot. French beans and green peas of a good brand and treated in this way are really nearly as good as fresh ones.122 VEGETABLES. The cook should never be allowed to leave the vegetables in the tin once it is opened. This is particularly dangerous in the case of vegetables, but half the tin can easily be kept till the next meal if the liquid is drained off, a little cold water poured over the vegetables, also drained off, and the vegetables put aside between two plates. If a change is wanted, this second half of the tin can be served cold in a salad with sliced yam or sweet potato and sliced tomato. It is a mistake to try and eat tinned asparagus hot, as the cook will generally break and spoil them. Put the tin in the cooler the night before it is wanted, open it only just before dinner, gently drain off the liquid and put the asparagus on a folded napkin in a long dish. Serve them with a little oil and vinegar sauce, or better still with a cold hollandaise (see index.) SALADS. Lettuce Salad. (I). Dressing loith oil (for a small salad) : — 1 small dessertspoon vinegar. 1£ dessertspoons olive oil or ground nut oil. £ teaspoon salt. | teaspoon pepper. (Half a teaspoon chopped parsley and basil or a tea- spoon of chopped red or green tatassa). It is always preferable to make the dressing yourself at the table. Sprinkle the parsley or tatassa, if you have any, over the lettuce, then put the pepper and salt into a dessert- spoon, mix them with a fork, pour on the vinegar, mixSALADS. 123 again, and pour over the lettuce. Pour on the oil and lightly mix all together, taking care not to crush the lettuce leaves. Notes.—Any salad is improved by adding a sliced hard boiled egg or a sliced tomato or a little sliced raw onion. It is very imprudent to eat lettuce that has not been twice well washed in cold boiled or filtered water. When you remember the strange liquids with which the gardener is wont to water bis lettuces, you will understand this recommendation. Tomatoes for salads or savouries are much nicer if they are skinned before being sliced. To do this, throw them for a moment into boiling water, tako them out, and you will find the skins peel off quite easily. Dressing ivithout oil:— 2 tablespoons milk (if Ideal, one dessertspoon to the rest of water.) 1 tablespoon vinegar. 1 teaspoon sugar. 1 saltspoon dry mustard. 1 saltspoon salt. A pinch of pepper. 1 hard boiled egg. Mix the salt, pepper, mustard and sugar with the vine- gar and pour over the salad. Mix a little and then pour over the milk, mix again lightly and then sprinkle over the crushed or sliced hard boiled egg. Yam or Sweet Potato Salad. (I). Boil or steam the yam or sweet potatoes, peel and slice them before they are quite cold. Pour on a dessertspoon vinegar at once, if possible a good hour before serving. Season at the table with the dressing with oil and vinegar already given, but allow a whole teaspoon salt and pepper and two dessertspoons oil to one of vinegar. This salad is much improved by adding sliced tomato or cooked beetroot and chopped onion, tatassa and parsley.124 SALADS. Bean Salad. (I). A salad of wakin bissa is quite good seasoned like a potato salad or with a mayonnaise sauce (see index) in- stead of the ordinary dressing. Tomato or beetroot is always an improvement, or chopped onion, tatassa or parsley. Beef and Yam Salad. (I). Any remains of cold beef or even mutton cut in small squares and mixed with sliced yam or sweet potatoes and, if possible, tomatoes, tatassa and onion, is a good way to use up any cold meat. Other salads can be made with mustard and cress, which is also good mixed with lettuce or yam salad, tomatoes and onions, boiled green paw paw and tomatoes, etc. Fish and chicken salads are given in their respective chapters. Cooked macaroni makes a very good salad, cut in small pieces, mixed with lettuce, hard boiled egg and minced fowl, seasoned with a mayonnaise (see index). Chutney Salad. (1). Boiled or steamed yam or sweet potatoes sliced and mixed with minced raw onion, minced chutney (parsley) and the ordinary seasoning makes a very good salad.125 SWEETS. So many extra ingredients and utensils are needed for the making of sweets that we have been obliged to give only the plainest and most ordinary ones. We do not even give a boiled pudding, knowing the doubtful condition of the necessary pudding cloth. Quite a number of dishes can be made with Brown and Poison’s excellent cornflour, which it is almost a necessity to have. We have given at some length three of the best ways of using it. The “Prevet” brand of dried apples is perhaps the best. They can be had from any export firm in tins containing one dozen squares. As soon as the tin has been opened, put the squares in a tin with tight fitting lid and they will keep good for any length of time. Half a square will make a small dish for one man. A quarter of a square is enough for an apple sauce or as a flavouring for curry. Other dried fruits of the same brand are very good, but apples and mirabelles are the best. Custards can be made with Bird’s Custard Powder, but the fresh custard is so much better and so easy to make that it is worth while to teach the cook how to do it. The only point of importance is that it should be made, not in a saucepan in direct contact with the fire, but in a pudding basin or a cup standing in a saucepan filled with boiling water. The proportions of Ideal milk to water vary a good deal in the following recipes according to the consistency required.126 SWEETS. Rice Pudding. (I). 1 heaped up tablespoon rice. £ pint milk (if Ideal, 1 table- spoon to the rest of water.) 3 lumps or 1 dessertspoon sugar. £ teaspoon butter. 2 or 3 drops vanilla essence. 1. Wash the rice. This quantity will be enough for one man only. 2. With a feather paint the inside of the smallest pie- dish with a little of the butter. Drain the rice, put it in the dish, pour over the milk, add the sugar and vanilla and float on top the little piece of butter that is left. Bake in a slow oven for a good hour. If you have no oven, the rice can be simply boiled in the small enamel saucepan with the milk, sugar and vanilla. Boil slowly till the rice has absorbed all the milk, stirring from time to time so that the rice does not burn. Note.— A pudding made of native rice will only take about half an hour to bake. A milk pudding can be improved by adding a few figs. Wash them, soak them, cut them in half and put them in the dish with the rice or tapioca. They will cook gently with the pudding and make it all the nicer. Tapioca Pudding. (I). 1 level tablespoon tapioca. £ pint fresh milk (if Ideal, I tablespoon to the rest of water). 3 lumps or 1 dessertspoon sugar. £ teaspoon butter. 2 or 3 drops of vanilla essence. 1. If the tapioca has stuck together in lumps, crush it with a bottle. Paint the inside of the smallest pie-dish with a little of the butter, and about two hours before the pudding is wanted put in the tapioca with the milk, sugar, vanilla and the remaining butter and let it stand. 2. Fifteen minutes before the time to serve, put the pie-dish in the oven to bake and brown on top.127 SWEETS. Atcha Pudding. (I). This is made exactly like tapioca pudding. The atcha should be washed before being put to soak in tbe milk. Bread and Butter Pudding. (I). 3 slices stale bread, less than a quarter of an inch thick. 1 teacup milk (if Ideal, 1 tablespoon to the rest of water). 1 dessertspoon sugar. 1. Paint the inside of the of the butter or oil. £ teaspoon butter or oil. 1 egg. A pinch of nutmeg or 2 or 3 drops vanilla essence. (1 dessertspoon dried currants). smallest pie-dish with a little 2. Cut each of the slices of bread into four pieces and arrange them in the dish. Sprinkle between each slice a little of the sugar (and some of the currants if you have any). 3. Beat up the egg and mix it with the milk, add the vanilla and pour it over the bread. Let the dish stand for five minutes until the bread is well soaked but not mashy. Sprinkle over the remaining currants, dust over with the nutmeg if you have not put any vanilla in the milk and put on top any remaining butter. Put in a good oven and bake for ten minutes. The top of the pudding must be brown and crisp. Baked Custard. (I). 2 eggs. 1 teacup milk (if Ideal, 1 tablespoon to the rest of water). 1 dessertspoon sugar. 1. With a feather dish with the 2 or 3 drops vanilla or any other essence. $ teaspoon butter or a little lard or oil. paint the inside of the smallest pie- butter or lard. 2. Beat up the eggs but only so as to mix them thoroughly. Mix them with the milk, sugar and flavouring. If you have used butter to grease the pie-dish, float the remainder on top.128 SWEETS. 3. Place the pie-dish in the oven and bake for five minutes. It is move prudent to stand the dish in a baking tin filled with boiling water so as to prevent it baking too quickly. Plain Custard. (I). 2 very fresh eggs. J 1 small dessertspoon sugar. 4 large tablespoons milk (if i 3 or 4 drops vanilla essence Ideal, 1 tablespoon to 3 of j orl small teaspoon whisky, water). j brandy or gin. 1. Put the yolks only of the two eggs into the small pudding basin and slowly stir in the milk. Then add the sugar, finely crushed, and the flavouring. 2. Stand the basin in the flat saucepan containing enough boiling water to reach half way up the basin. Hold the basin firm with the left hand and stir slowly with the right till the mixture has the consistency of thick cream. Then remove it quickly, pour it into two small glasses or a cup, stand in cold water and serve with stewed fruit. Note.—Flavoured with vanilla only, this custard is very good for an invalid and is quickly made. Snow Eggs. (II.) 3 very fresh eggs. 1^ tablespoons sugar. 1 breakfast cup milk (if Ideal, Afew drops vanilla essence two tablespoons to the rest i or one dessertspoon of of water). whisky, brandy or gin. 1. Separate the whites from the yolks of the eggs, put the yolks aside. Put the whites iu a soup plate, add half the sugar, very finely crushed, and beat with a fork for at least ten minutes, till the whites are absolutelj' stifl. 2. While the whites are being beaten, put the milk and the remaining sugar on the fire in the flat saucepan. As soon as it boils, set it a little aside or it will boil over. When the whites are ready, put the milk nearer the fire again so that it just bubbles and float on top of it, one by one, tablespoonfuls of the beaten whites. Turn them once129 SWEETS. over. A minute on each side ought to be enough to set them; if they remain any longer they will shrink and harden. With a spoon, take them off the milk and put them in the dish the pudding is to be served in. 3. Take the milk off the fire, pour it out of the sauce- pan and let it cool. Fill up the same saucepan with enough water to come half way up the small pudding basin and set it to boil. 4. Put the three yolks in the small pudding basin and slowly stir in the cooled milk and the flavouring. 5. Stand the basin in the saucepan of boiling water and continue slowly stirring until the custard becomes like a thick cream. Then take it quickly 'away and pour it into the pudding dish, taking care not to pour any over the beaten whites which should float upon the custard. Put in a cool place and serve cold. Caramel Cream. (II). 2 eggs. 1 teacup milk (if Ideal, one good dessertspoon to the rest of water.) 6 lumps or one large table- spoon sugar. 2 or 3 drops vanilla. These quantities are for one man only ; for two, double the quantities and use the larger pudding basin. 1. Put the flat saucepan on the tire with enough water to reach three quarters of the way up the small pudding basin (or a breakfast cup would do). Set it to boil. 2. Stir well together the eggs, milk, four crushed lumps or one dessertspoon sugar and the vanilla. 3. Put the remaining two lumps or half dessertspoon sugar in the small enamel saucepan with a few drops of water and move it about on the Are till it melts and turns deep brown. Take it quickly away and pour it into the small pudding basin or breakfast cup. Turn the basin about so that the melted sugar coats the bottom of the basin and nearly half way up the sides.130 SWEETS. 4. Pour in at once the mixed eggs and milk and cover securely with a saucer. It is even advisable to put a small weight on top of the saucer so that it does not lift when the water bubbles. Set the basin in the boiling water and keep the water boiling for ten minutes. Take the basin out, stand it in cold water; when quite cold turn it gentlv over on to a dish and the cream will slip out. Coffee Cream. (II). This is made exactly like the caramel cream except that the milk, before mixing it with the eggs, must be flavoured with coffee. Put a teacup of water in the small saucepan. When boiling, add a dessertspoon ground coffee, boil for one minute, take away and strain. When cool, add two dessertspoons of Ideal milk, mix well together and add the eggs. Proceed exactly as if you were making a caramel cream. Note.—If you have fresh milk, boil a little more than a teacup, add the ground coffee to it instead of to water, boil for one minute, then strain. Caramel Rice with Custard. (II). 2 tablespoons rice. 1 breakfast cup milk (if Ideal, 1J tablespoons to the rest of water). 1 egg. 1^ tablespoons sugar. 4 or 5 drops of vanilla. Custard (see index,'. 1. —Put the milk and one tablespoon sugar in the small enamel saucepan. When boiling, add the washed rice and boil gently for twenty minutes, occasionally stirring till the rice is soft and has absorbed all the milk. Take the sauce- pan off the fire and let it cool down. 2. Separate the white from the yolk of the egg. Beat the white to a stiff snow. Mix first the yolk with the rice in the saucepau, then the white aud add the vanilla. 3. Melt the remaining sugar in the small frying panSWEETS. 131 with a few drops water. As soon as it turns deep brown, take it away and pour it into the small pudding basin. Turn the basin about so that the sugar coats the bottom and nearly half way up the sides, then fill the basin with the rice and cover securely with a weighted saucer. 4. Stand the basin in the flat saucepan containing enough boiling water to reach three quarters of the way up the basin and leave it there for twenty minutes. Take it out and stand it in cold water. When quite cold, turn it over gently on to a plate. Pour the cold custard round the pudding. Blanc Mange. (1). 1 teaspoon butter. A few drops of vanilla or other essence, 2 tablespoons cornflour. 1 pint milk (if Ideal, 2 table- spoons to the rest of water). 6 lumps or l£ tablespoons sugar. 1. Mix the cornflour to a smooth paste with three tablespoons cold milk. 2. Put the sugar and the remaining milk into the large enamel saucepan. As soon as it boils, move the saucepan aside and when it has cooled a little, gently mix in the corn- flour paste, the butter and the vanilla essence. Let it boil up again for at least ten minutes, stirring all the time, till reduced to three quarters of a pint. 3. Rinse the large pudding basin in cold water, immediately pour in the cornflour, and stand the basin in a cooler, covered with a cloth for a good hour. Turn out when required and serve with jam, native honey or a little milk. Note.—Blanc mange can be equally well made with Amara flour. Orange or Lime Sponge. (II). 2 tablespoons cornflour. 3 eggs. 1 pint water. 2 oranges or two limes. 20 pieces of lump sugar.132 SWEETS. 1. Rub the pieces of sugar on the outer rind of the limes or oranges till they are quite yellow. 2. Mix the cornflour with a little water to a smooth paste and put it in the enamel saucepan, adding slowly the rest of the water. Bring it to the boil quickly, add the sugar, the juice of one lime or orange and the yolks of eggs. Let it boil slowly for eight minutes, stirring all the time, put it aside to cool. 3. Beat up the white of the eggs to a stiff snow, and mix it lightly to the mixture in the saucepan when it is a little cool. Rinse the large pudding basin in cold water, immediately pour in the mixture, stand it in the cooler and when required for serving turn it out gently on to a plate. Chocolate Pudding. (II). 2 good tablespoons cornflour. 12 lumps or 3 tablespoons 5 teaspoons cocoa. sugar. 1 pint milk (if Ideal, 2 table- A few drops vanilla essence, spoons to the rest of the water). 1. Mix the cornflour and cocoa together, add four table- spoons milk. Mix it into a paste, slowly adding the rest of the milk and the crushed sugar, put it into the large enamel saucepan, bring it to the boil, stirring well. Let it boil for eight minutes, stirring continually, add a few drops vanilla and take it off the fire. 2. Rinse the large pudding basin in cold water and immediately pour in the pudding and stand it in the cooler for a good hour. When required for serving turn it out gently on to a dish. Banana Fritters. (II). 2 bananas. ] 1 breakfast cup ground nut oil. Batter (see index). 1. Slice the bananas lengthways. If possible, soak the slices for an hour in two tablespoons water mixed with one tablespoon gin, and sweetened with a teaspoon sugar. This will give them much more flavour.SWEETS. 133 2. Have the batter ready and the oil very hot in the fiat saucepan, take the slices out, dip them in the batter, slide them carefully into the hot oil. Fry till bright yellow, take them out, drain them well and serve very hot, sprinkled with sugar. Note.—Bananas are also very good, simply sliced, put in the glass dish and covered with cold custard. (See index). Paw Paw Fritters. (11). 1 teaspoon gin. 1 dessertspoon sugar. Batter (see index). 1 breakfast cup ground nut oil. 1 large unripe paw paw. 1 teacup water. The juice of half a lime and some of the peel. 1 clove. 1. Cut the paw paw in quarters, peel them and take out the seeds. Cut about eight rounds out of these quarters about an inch and a quarter across and a quarter of an inch thick. 2. Put in the small enamel saucepan the cold water, lime juice and peel, sugar and clove. As soon as it boils put in the rings of paw paw and boil slowly till the paw paw is almost soft and transparent. 3. Take out the rings and put them to soak in a dessert- spoon of the syrup they have been cooking in mixed with a teaspoonful gin. Let them soak for a good hour. 4. Have the batter ready and the oil very hot in the fiat saucepan. Take out the rings of paw paw, dip them in the batter and slide them carefully into the hot oil. Fry them till they are pale yellow, take them out, drain off the grease and serve very hot, sprinkle with sugar. These fritters, well made, are quite delicious. Pine Apple Fritters. (II). Cut five or six slices about a quarter of an inch thick from a fresh or tinned pine apple. Peel them well and cut out the hard core with a pointed knife. Soak them and fry them in batter exactly like bananas. iSWEETS. 134 Note.—Any peaches or apricots left over from an opened tin can be used in the same way. Sweet Omelet. (I). 3 eggs. 1 tablespoon jam. 1 dessertspoon sugar. 1 good teaspoon butter. 1. Break the eggs, letting the yolks fall into the small pudding basin and emptying the whites into a soup plate. Beat the whites to a snow, not too stiff. 2. Well mix the yolks with a fork and add the powdered sugar. Lastly put in the beaten up whites. 3. Melt the butter in the small omelet pan ; when quite hot and singing pour iu the eggs and treat them like you would for a plain omelet. When done, slide on to a hot dish, put the jam in the middle, fold the omelet and serve very hot sprinkled with a little sugar. Note.—The omelet is much improved by adding a dessertspoon brandy or kirsch to the eggs before pouring them into the frying pan. Pancakes. (I). 3 good tablespoons flour. 2 eggs. 4 tablespoons milk (if Ideal, tablespoon to the rest of water). 1 dessertspoon sugar. 1 large tablespoon butter, lard or ground nut oil. (A few drops of vanilla, whisky or brandy if possible). These proportions will make six small pancakes. 1. Sift the flour through the sieve and see that it is quite dry. 2. Break the eggs, separate the whites from the yolks and beat up the whites to a stiff snow, beating them iu a soup plate with a fork. 3. Mix the flour and milk in the small pudding basin, add the yolks of the eggs and the sugar and stir to a smooth paste. Lastly add the beaten whites aud the flavouring if you have any. Let this mixture stand if possible for an hour or two before using.SWEETS. 135 4. Have a good fire burning and the small frying pan very clean. Melt in it just enough butter, lard or oil to well grease the pan, less than half a teaspoon ; as soon as it begins to sing, pour in a small tablespoonful of the mixture and move the pan about so that the bottom is entirely covered with a very thin layer of paste. As soon as the pancake begins to set, keep the edges free from the pan with a knife and shake lightly to prevent the pancake from sticking. When the under part is turning yellow in the middle and light brown on the edges, take the pan off the fire and jerk it upwards so that the pancake turns completely over. When both sides are yellow in the centre and brown round the edges, the pancake is done. Slip it on a hot plate and keep it near the fire. 5. For each new pancake, melt a little more butter, lard or oil in the pan. Serve them piled up with halves of lime, native honey or jam. Note.—Pancakes can be made with the flour of native wheat (alkama) in exactly the same way. They are also very good made with massara flour which would require only one egg instead of two. Wash the plums in cold water and put them in the small enamel saucepan with the cold water, sugar, clove and lime peel. Set on a slow fire and as soon as it boils, set it aside so that it goes on cooking very slowly. Add the claret if you have any. Good plums will take about twenty minutes to cook. Serve them cold with the juice they have been cooking in and pass the custard. at the same time. Stewed Plum* and Custard. (I). 10 plums. 1 small teacup water. 1 large dessertspoon sugar. 1 clove. A little lime peel. (2 tablespoons claret if available). Custard (see index).SWEETS. 136 If the plums are not of the best quality, they should be soaked for an hour in cold water before stewing them. The same remark applies to figs. Stewed Figs. (I). Dried figs can be cooked in the same way but without the addition of claret. They can be served cold with custard. Stewed Prevet Apples. (I). Half a tablet of dried apple. 1 clove. 1 teacup water. A little lime peel. 2 teaspoons sugar. 1. Break the half tablet into small pieces and soak for an hour in cold water. The soaking is not an absolute necessity. 2. Drain the apples and put them iu the small enamel saucepan with the cold water, sugar, clove and litne peel. Put it on a slow fire and as soon as it boils, set it aside so that it goes on cooking very slowly till the apples are quite soft and have absorbed nearly all the water. Serve hot or cold. Note.—If preferred, the apples, when soft, can be passed through the sieve and served in a puree. All other Prevet fruits are prepared in the same way, except that they must never be passed through a sieve. They must always cook very slowly. Paw Paw Compote. (1). 1 quite unripe paw paw. J pint boiling water. 1 tablespoon sugar. A little peel and the juice of a lime. 2 cloves. 1. Peel the paw paw and clean out the seeds. Cut it in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, enough to fill a breakfast cup. 2. Boil the half pint water iu the small enamel saucepan with the sugar, lime peel and juice and the cloves. When137 SWEETS. boiling put in the sliced paw paw and continue boiling very slowly for an hour and a half till the paw paw is quite soft and has absorbed nearly all the water. Pass the paw paw and the juice that still remains through the sieve into the glass dish and serve cold. Paw paws are delicious done in this way and taste almost like fresh apples. Mangoe Compote. (I). Take five or six mangoes, full grown but still green. Peel and slice all the flesh from the stone. Put the slices in the small enamel saucepan with enough water to cover and one tablespoon sugar. Bring slowly to the boil, set aside and simmer till the slices are quite soft. Serve in the juice they have cooked in. This same compote, cooked a little longer so that all the water is absorbed, and with a little more sugar, can keep for a long time if put in a glass bottle with a tight fitting cover. Paw Paw Tart. (II). 1 quite unripe paw paw. i pint water. 1 tablespoon sugar. A little peel and juice of a lime. 2 cloves. Pie crust (see index). 1. Cut the paw paw in slices enough to fill up a break- fast cup and cook it exactly as for a paw paw compote. Do not mash it, but put the slices and the juice in the middle size pie-dish. 2. With a feather, wet the edges of the pie-dish. Have ready the paste for the pie crust Cut a strip the width of the edge of the dish and lay it all round. Wet it with the feather and then lay the remainder of the paste over the dish, press down the edges lightly all round the dish and cut off evenly what is left hanging down.SWEETS. 138 3. Put the pie in the oven and bake for about half an hour. Serve hot or cold with small glasses of custard (see index) if liked. Note.—An apple tart can be made in exactly the same way, using a square of dried Prevet apples. They should, of course, not be passed through the sieve before putting them in the pie-dish. Bottled fruit to be used in a tart must always simmer with a little added sugar for about half an hour before putting it in the pie dish. Glasses of custard served with any fruit tart are always an improvement. Fruit Salad. (I). Whenever possible, keep the tin of fruit in a cooler over- night. Empty the contents into a glass dish an hour or two before serving, add to them two good tablespoons gin, or kirsch, or brandy, and a little crushed sugar. Stand till required in a cool place. Two different kinds of fruit, plums and apricots, or pears and peaches, make a good salad which can be further improved by adding some slices of preserved ginger. Best of all is a salad made of one tin of fruit mixed with fresh pine apple, or bananas, or oranges if obtainable. ♦ee*139 SAUCES. Sauces.—The proper amalgamation and cooking of the flour and butter and the right degree of colour (pale yellow for a white sauce, deep brown for a brown one), at the moment when the milk, stock or water is poured in, is the whole secret of sauce making. Once the cook has mastered it, the number of varied sauces he can produce becomes only a question of different seasonings and extra ingredients. The proportions given in the following recipes will make a teacupful of sauce; if more is wanted, double the pro- portions. The quantity of butter required will vary according to the amount of moisture left in it after it has been washed; only boiled native butter is free from water. We have given the average quantity required, but the cook must use bis judgment. White Sauce. (I). 1 teacup milk, or 1 dessert- spoon Ideal to a teacupful of water. £ tablespoon flour. £ tablespoon butter or lard. A pinch of salt and pepper. 1. Melt the butter in the small enamel saucepan. When it is melted and just begins to sing, but before it turns at all brown, very lightly shake in the flour. Stir quickly with a wooden spoon until the flour and the butter are mixed to a smooth paste, looking like honey. 2. Pour in the milk by degrees, stirring all the time. It is good to warm the milk slightly beforehand by standing it near the fire. Add the salt and pepper and let the sauce come slowly to a boil. Keep boiling for two or three minutes, always stirring it, then stand it by the side of the fire to keep warm, but do not let it boil again.SAUCES. ] 40 A white sauce is improved by adding to it a very few drops of vinegar or of fresh lime juice, it is always good to pass the same through the fine sieve when done, to remove any lumps that might be left. Note. White sauce served with fish can be made with a teacupful of the water the fish has boiled in instead of milk. White sauce served with fowl can be made with a tea- cupful of the water the fowl has boiled in. Parsley Sauce.—To make a parsley sauce, make the sauce in exactly the same way and add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley before serving. Caper Sauce.—To make a caper sauce, add a dessert- spoonful of capers just before serving. They must not be allowed to boil. Anchovy Sauce.—To make an anchovy sauce, add before serving a teaspoon of anchovy essence. Egg Sauce.—To make an egg sauce, add to the white sauce after it has finished boiling, one hard-boiled egg lightly broken up with a fork. Cheese Sauce. (II). This is made in exactly the same way as the white sauce, only adding, after it has finished boiling, a dessert- spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. Let it cook for a few minutes with the sauce but do not let it boil again. Curry Sauce. (I). 1 teacup milk or 1 dessert- spoonful Ideal to a teacup of water. i tablespoon flour. i tablespoon butter, lard or ground nut oil if nothing else is available. 1 teaspoon curry powder. A pinch of pepper. (Half a lime if obtainable). 1. Melt the butter in the small enamel saucepan.SAUCES. 141 When it is melted and begins to sing, add the curry powder. Stir quickly with a wooden spoon, and when it is well mixed with the butter, shake in the flour and continue stirring until you have a smooth paste looking like honey, but a little darker. 2. Pour in by degrees the milk which has been slightly warmed by standing it near the fire. Add the pepper and let the sauce come slowly to a boil. Keep boiling for two or three minutes, always stirring it, then stand it by the side of the tire to keep warm, bnt do not let it boil again. Note. Curry sauce served with fish can be made with a teacupful of the water the fish has boiled, in instead of milk. Brown Sauce. (I). 1 teacup of stock or water. i £ tablespoon butter or lard. J tablespoon flour. ] A pinch of salt and pepper. 1. Melt the butter in the small enamel saucepan. When it is melted and begins to sing, shake in the flour. Stir quickly with a wooden spoon until the flour and butter are mixed to a smooth brown paste. The essential differ- ence in making a white sauce and a brown sauce is that in the latter case the flour must be allowed to cook longer, so that it becomes a good brown colour. 2. Pour in by degrees the stock or water which has been warmed by standing it near the fire. Add the salt and pepper and bring the sauce slowly to the boil. Keep boiling for two or three minutes, stirring the whole time, then stand it by the side of the fire to keep warm until needed. It is good to pass the sauce through the fine sieve when finished. Note. This very simple sauce can be improved by adding a teaspoonful of vinegar after it has finished boiling, or a pickled gherkin can be sliced up in it. If you have no stock, water will do instead, mixed, if possible, with a half-teaspoonful of Lemco.142 SAUCES. Sauce Poivrade. (II). 1 breakfastcup stock. 4 tablespoons vinegar. 1 dessertspoon flour. 2 dessertspoonfuls butter or lard. 1 onion. 3 cloves. 2 berkono. A pinch of salt. This is a good sauce with venison, game or mutton, or croquettes. 1. Melt one dessertspoonful butter in the small enamel saucepan and fry the onions in it till they are of a good brown colour. Add the berkono, cloves and salt. Pour in the stock and the vinegar and let it all boil together till it is reduced to a teacupful, then take it off the fire and strain it through the small sieve. 2. Melt the other dessertspoonful of butter in the small enamel saucepan. When it is melted and begins to sing, shake in the flour, stir quickly with a wooden spoon until the flour and butter are mixed to a smooth brown paste. Then slowly pour in the fceacupful of stock and vinegar and let the sauce come to a boil. Keep boiling for no more than a minute or two, always stirring, then stand it by the side of the fire to keep warm until it is needed. Wine Sauce. (II). This sauce is made just like a sauce poivrade, only instead of vinegar mix a good half breakfast cupful of claret, or a wine glass full ol port or sherry with the stock, then pour it on the fried onions and proceed in the same way as for the sauce poivrade, letting it reduce to a teacup- ful, before pouring it on to the butter and flour. Tomato Sauce. (I). 1 pint water. 6 good sized tomatoes. Half a large onion. 1 dessertspoonful butter or lard. 1. Cut the tomatoes and 1 dessertspoonful flour. J teaspoon salt. | teaspoon pepper, (A bunch of parsley and a teaspoonful sugar). ion into quai’ters. Put themSAUCES. 143 in the three-pint saucepan with one pint of cold water, the salt and pepper (and the parsley and sugar if obtainable). Put on the lid and boil very slowly for three quarters of an hour, till the liquid is reduced to a breakfast cupful. 2. Take the saucepan off the fire and pour the whole of the contents through the wire sieve into a soup plate. 3. Put the butter into the empty saucepan. When melted and beginning to bubble, shake in the flour and stir until the flour has absorbed all the butter. Then pour in the mashed tomatoes and liquid left over and let it cook slowly for ten minutes, stirring from time to time. A small pinch of sugar added to the sauce is an improvement. Butter Sauce. (I). 1 dessertspoonful butter. A few drops of fresh lime juice. A pinch of salt and pepper. (Half a teaspoon chopped parsley). This sauce can only be good if made with good tinned butter or fresh native butter. Put the butter in the small enamel saucepan and stand it near the fire so that it heats but does not even begin to sing. Add the salt, pepper, lime juice (and parsley) and serve at once in a small hot cup with grilled or fried fish. This sauce barely takes two minutes to make and must be served immediately. Sauce Holiandaise. (II). 2 yolks of eggs. 2 tablespoons milk (if Ideal, 1 teaspoon to the rest of water). 1 small dessertspoon good butter (lard will not do). Half a teaspoon vinegar and a few drops of fresh lime juice. A pinch of salt and pepper. 1. Lightly mix the yolks in a cup with the salt, pepper, butter and milk. 2. Stand the cup in a saucepan containing enough boiling water to reach half way up the cup. Stir theSAUCES. 144 mixture with a teaspoon till it looks like a custard, then remove the saucepan from the fire, add the vinegar or lime, and serve the sauce in the cup it has been cooked in. Very good with fried or grilled fish or grilled salmon ; can also be served cold. Mayonnaise. (II). 1 yolk of egg. A pinch of salt and pepper. 4 tablespoonfuls olive oil. £ teaspoon of mustard. 1 teaspoonful vinegar. 1. Break the egg, letting the yolk only drop into a breakfast cup. With the left hand hold the cup by the handle, with the right hand hold the bottle of oil, which must be poured in drop by drop. After every four or five drops put the bottle down and stir very smoothly with a teaspoon from left to right. The oil must be completely mixed each time with the egg before adding any more and the stirring must be done very smoothly and always in the same direction. 2. When the oil has been all dropped in, the sauce should be like a thick cream. Add the vinegar, also drop by drop, then the salt, pepper and mustard. If not wanted immediately, it can be left in the cup, which should be covered with a saucer and stood in cold water. This makes mayonnaise just for one, double the quantities for more. Notes.—The reasons why mayonnaise so seldom succeeds are:—that it is made in a hot kitchen, the cook probably holding the cup in a very hot hand; that the oil is poured in too quickly and not stirred smoothly and continuously; that the vinegar is poured in too quickly and curdles the sauce; and most important of all, that the egg was not perfectly fresh. A dessertspoonful capers or a chopped sweet pepper (tatassa), green or red, can be added to the sauce just before serving and make a slight change.SAVOURIES. 145 Mint Sauce. (I). 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. l£ tablespoonfuls dried mint 1 small tablespoonful water. or fresh minced basil. 1 tablespoonful crushed sugar. If using fresh basil, mince it only just before using. Mix together the vinegar, water, sugar and mint or basil, let it stand for an hour or two before serving. A Sauce for Puddings. (II). 2 tablespoons sherry. I 2 yolks of eggs. 1 tablespoon castor sugar. I 1 tablespoon cold water. Well mix the yolks, sugar, sherry and water and pour the mixture into the small enamel saucepan which should be stood in a larger saucepan filled with boiling water. Beat with a fork till the sauce has the consistency of custard and is all frothy on top. Serve hot. If no sherry is available a dessertspoon of brandy or whisky with enough water added to make up a tablespoon- ful of liquid, can be used instead. SAVOURIES. A few extra tins and 3ome imagination is all that is required to make a variety of savouries, a dish which generally interests the cook and is surely a legitimate luxury in Nigeria. We give again some of the most useful condiments which will help to vary the list. Anchovy paste. Bloater paste, Potted shrimps, Lax. Anchovies in brine. Tabasco sauce. Plain and stuffed olives. Capers. Grated Parmesan cheese iu small bottles. Parmesan biscuits, Huntley & Palmer’s. Thin Bath Olivers. Nepal and cayenne pepper.146 SAVOURIES. A visit to Fortnum and Mason will provide you with many ideas and if such luxuries as foie gras and caviare are attainable they can certainly give you the best. Savouries should be served up very neatly and very hot. Slices of bread slightly fried in a little butter can nearly always take the place of toast, are easier for the cook to prepare and will remain crisp. Eggs on Anchovy Toast. (I). 1 slice bread. 2 eggs. 1 teaspoon anchovy paste. A pinch of pepper and salt. 1 small teaspoon butter or l&rd. 1. Cut a slice of bread a quarter of an inch thick, halve it, trim off the crust, leaving two pieces about two and a half inches long and two inches broad; or the bread can be stamped into rounds of about one inch and a half diameter, with the cover of a tin. 2. Boil the eggs hard, crush the yolks lightly with a fork without making them into a paste, mix with them half of the butter, the pepper and salt. 3. Put the rest of the butter into the frying pan ; when quite hot and singing, put; in the slices of bread, toss them till they are crisp and golden on both sides, turning them once. Little butter must be used and it must be very hot, otherwise the bread will be greasy. 4. Butter the bread with anchovy paste and with a fork pile on top the crushed yolk of eggs. Serve at once. Note.—The same savoury can be made with lobster paste or bloater paste instead of anchovy. Anchovy eggs and capers.—The same as above, putting a few capers on top of the eggs. Anchovy eggs and olives.—Put a stoned olive on top of the eggs.147 SAVOURIES. Stuffed Olives on Toast. (II). 4 olives. 1 teaspoon butter. 2 eggs. A pinch red pepper and salt. 1. Prepare two pieces fried bread as explained for anchovy eggs, or toast the bread. 2. Boil the eggs hard, crush the yolks lightly with a fork, mix with them half of the butter, the pepper and salt. Pile them on the bread, standing two stuffed olives (if the slices are round one olive is sufficient) on each little piece. Note. To stone an olive, cut it round close to the stone as you would peel an apple, and fill it up with anchovy paste mixed with a little butter. Mustard Biscuits. (I). Butter twro thin Bath Oliver biscuits and put them into the oven. When the butter has soaked in, take them out and butter them with a little made mustard and place them again in the oven. Take them out when the mustard has soaked in, and serve very hot and immediately or the biscuit will be soggy, instead of crisp as it should be. Parmesan Cheese Biscuits. (I). Butter two Parmesan cheese biscuits and put them into the oven. When the butter has soaked in, take them out and spread them with a little bottled Parmesan cheese and sprinkle a little red pepper on top. Serve them very hot and at once. Pickle Cheese. (II). One thick slice Cheddar or Dutch cheese, (enough when pounded to produce about two tablespoons.) 1 to 2 tablespoons of butter. f of a pickled walnut or a little liquid from piccalilli. 1 teaspoon made mustard. A drop of tobasco sauce. Pound all the ingredients well together in a mortar, till quite smooth and well mixed.SAVOURIES. 148 Serve heaped in a glass dish (or in a saucer) passing hot toast at the same time. It is a very good and easy savoury. The amount of butter should vary according to the fat in the cheese. Tomato Savoury. (I). 2 round slices of bread. 1 good tomato. 2 eggs. 1 small teaspoon butter. 1 teaspoon capers, minced pickled walnut or chutney. Pinch of red pepper. 1. Boil the eggs hard. 2. Plunge the tomato for one minute into boiling water and peel at once. 3. Mix the yolks of the eggs, the butter and capers thoroughly to a paste. 4. Out two slices of tomato the same size as the bread and lay them on top. Cut two rings from the white of the eggs, which you have been careful not to break in extracting the yolk, lay them on the tomatoes and fill them up with the mixed yolk of eggs. Note. This savoury is to be eaten cold, and as it can be prepared beforehand it is useful. Okro Savoury. (I). Plunge the okro into boiling water, take it out, mince it finely and fry lightly in a little olive oil. Add a few drops of vinegar and a pinch of pepper. Spread it on hot toast and sprinkle with a little crushed hard boiled yolk of egg or with a little grated Parmesan cheese. Sardines on Toast. (I). 2 sardines, I 1 teaspoon butter. A slice of bread I A small pinch red pepper. 1. Skin the sardines, fry them lightly in half of the butter, sprinkle them with a little red pepper and keep hot between two plates.SAVOURIES. 149 2. Put the remaining butter in the small frying pan ; when hot, put in the bread and fry till golden. Put the sardines on top and serve. Stuffed Eggs with Mustard and Cress. See index. Kidneys on Toast. (I). See index. Horseradish Savoury. (II). Cut a slice of bread in half, trim off the crust, leaving two rectangular pieces, butter them. Take one and a half tablespoons dessicated horseradish (previously well soaked) mix it with the yolks of two hard boiled eggs and a little butter, spread it on the bread. (Sprinkle a little parsley on top, if obtainable). Curried Buttered Eggs. (II). Are nice as a savoury ; a little tomato sauce can be mixed with the curried eggs before piling them on the toast. Any mince, highly seasoned and mixed with a little dry mustard and spread on toast or fried bread makes a nice savoury. Ham toast is especially good. Salmon or lobster left over from an opened tin, mixed with a little red pepper, yolk of egg, butter and a little dried mustard, well pounded to a paste and served on toast, is also good. +■ K150 BREAD, SCONES AND CAKES. The first attempts at bread-making are seldom successful, and there will be many deceptions before satisfactory results are obtained. The most usual errors are that the dough is kneaded too long and too heavily, and that too much liquid is added to it. If the dough is worked as it should be, one should use about two teacups of water to two-and-ahalf level breakfastcups of flour, i.e., one pound of flour. These are the correct proportions, but an un- practised cook will probably require more water, and in any case, the amount depends greatly on the condition of the flour. A special board should be kept on which to make the bread. The flour should be of good quality, quite dry and sifted through the sieve. A quick oven is required at first and should then be allowed to cool down a little while the bread is baking. If an equal quantity of milk and water can be used to make the dough, the bread will be all the better. If Alkama flour is used, a little less liquid will be required. It should be sifted two or three times before using. Excellent bread can be made with Alkama mixed with an equal quantity of English flour. According to our experience, the best and easiest way to make bread in Nigeria is to use Huckvale’s Royal Yeast Cake, obtainable from the Army and Navy Stores. It is best to take out six tins and to have a fresh supply sent out every three months. It is cheap, light and not bulky. The cook will say he does not know how to use it, but, if you patiently give him the right proportions every time, he will soon get used to it and it is much safer and nicer151 BREAD, SCONES AND CAKES. than the native yeast or baking powder generally used. We give directions for making bread with these also, but if baking powder is used we think it better to make small rolls rather than loaves. As we give full explanations of how to knead and bake in the recipe for bread made with yeast cake, we do not repeat them when speaking of bread made with native yeast or baking powder. With a practised cook, very little more than one pound of flour should make a 1-lb. loaf; a 7-lb. tin of flour should give six 1-lb. loaves. Do not let the cook bake too much at a time, three 1-lb, loaves are quite sufficient, less would be better. The scones, especially those made with massara. are excellent, and should be tried by everybody. A very good yeast can be made with dried hops, but the process is rather more complicated. Bread made with Yeast Cake. To make one 1-lb. loaf. 2£ level breakfastcups flour. About 2 small teacups warm water. Jr of a yeast cake. i teaspoon salt. A pinch of sugar. If the bread is to be ready for next day’s lunch, set the yeast to rise in the evening. 1. Measure the flour, sift it and set it aside. Dissolve a sixth part of a yeast cake in a teacup of luke-warm water, add the pinch of sugar. When the yeast is quite dissolved, which will be in about half-an-hour’s time, pour it into the large pudding basin and mix with it enough of the flour to make a thick smooth paste. Beat it for a minute or two with a spoon till it looks slightly frothy. Cover the basin with a thick cloth (a cheap stuff called “household flannel” does very well), wrap it in another and stand it in a warm, but not too hot place. An equal temperature, with no chance of draughts, is especially needed. In the bush, the basin, wrapped in flannel, might be stood in a box covered with a cloth.BREAD, SCONES AND CAKES. 152 2. By morning, the yeast should have risen, swelling the paste into a sort of sponge, frothy on top. If not sufficiently risen, stand it near the fire, the warmth will quicken the action of the yeast. 3. When it is risen, put what remains of the flour into a small enamel basin (bought from the Niger Co.), make a hole in the middle and pour into it the risen sponge. Dissolve the salt in a teacup of luke warm water (or milk), and pour in gradually, stirring your flour into the sponge at the same time. 4. When well mixed, begin kneading the dough with your fists, working always from the sides of the basin towards the middle. Have a little flour beside you in which to dip your hands if the dough sticks, or if it sticks very badly, add a little more flour to it. If, on the contrary, the dough is too dry, add a little water. The right consistency should be a smooth mass, very soft and yielding to the touch, yet not sticky or pasty. 5. When the dough comes clear away from the sides of the basin, put it on a board sprinkled with flour arid continue working it quickly, always with the fists and from the edges inwards, doubling it and turning it round and round. When it can be cut without any of it sticking to the knife the dough is ready. The kneading should take about ten minutes. 6. With a feather and a very little ground nut oil paint the inside of the 11b. baking tin and dust in a little flour. Shake the tin so that the flour is dusted only very lightly over the bottom and sides. Put in the dough, cover the tin with the piece of flannel and stand it rather near the fire until the dough has risen to the top of the tin. This will take, according to the temperature, one and a half to two hours. 7. Place the tin in a good hot oven. Keep the heat equal the whole time. Bake for about three quarters of an hour. When nearly baked, take the loaf out of the tin,BREAD, SCONES AND CAKES. 153 put it back again upside down and finish baking in that position so as to get a good crust on the bottom as w'ell as the top. Notes.—The above proportions are a safe base to go on, but they are subject to many variations. A personal experiment will best help you to judge why the bread is good or bad. Too much yeast will make the bread over dry. To save trouble the cook will try to keep part of the dough to start the next lot of bread. This can be done when using native yeast but not when using yeast cake. It should be mixed afresh before each baking. Bread made with Native Yeast. To make a lib. loaf:— 2£ level breakfastcups of j i teaspoon salt. flour. 1 small breakfastcup native beer. A native beer, called “ brukutu ” on the Benue, is the best to use as yeast. Its greatest drawback is that its cleanliness is sometimes doubtful. Freshly brewed in the morning it will be ready for use on the following morning. Tell the cook to make only one loaf the first day as it will be very bad, the second day it will be better and will continue improving, as each time the bread is made a piece of dough is put aside to be used for the next baking. After a little time the bread will be found to be really quite good. If palm wine can be found it should be used instead of native beer. 1. Put the flour into a small enamel basin, mix in the salt, make a hole in the centre and slowly pour in the beer stirring in the flour at the same time. 2. When well mixed, begin by kneading with your fists and continue till the dough comes clear away from the sides of the basin, adding a little flour if necessary.BREAD, SCONES AND CAKES. 154 3. Put on the board sprinkled with flour and continue kneading till it can be cut without it sticking to the knife. Put it in the greased and floured tin and stand near the fire to rise. It may take three to four hours, according to the strength of the beer. 4. Bake exactly like bread made with yeast cake. Note.—This bread is only good when a piece of dough kept from the last baking is used as yeast. Before the dough is shaped into a loaf, cut off a piece about the size of a small egg and keep it, deeply buried in flour in an old cup or bowl, covered with a cloth or plate. Next time bread has to be baked take out the piece of dough the evening before, and put it in the pudding basin, pouring a breakfast cup of luke-warm water over it and adding a pinch of sugar. Keep it till the morning and mix it into the flour to make the dough as usual, adding a little water if necessary. Before shaping, again cut out a small piece and keep in the same way till required. Rolls made with Baking Powder. 1| breakfastcups flour. 9 tablespoons milk or water. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 1 saltspoon salt. 1 teaspoon butter or lard. 1. Mix the baking powder and salt with the flour, then rub in the butter, slowly add the milk and make quickly into a dough, adding either a little more flour or milk or water if needed. This bread does not require to be kneaded but must be formed into a dough as quickly as possible and immediately put into the oven. 2. When mixed, put the dough on the board sprinkled with flour, divide into eight equal portions, pat into shape with two spoons, and place them in the oven on a well greased baking sheet. When risen into nice round shapes and slightly browned they are ready to be taken out. Notes.—To make a 1 lb. loaf the quantities given should be doubled.BREAD, SCONES AND CAKES. 155 This recipe may be varied by using five tablespoons of English flour to three of alkama or oatmeal; this makes very good little loaves. Scones. 11 breakfastcups of flour. 1 good teaspoon baking powder, About 5 tablespoons milk (if Ideal, 1 tablespoon to the rest of water). i saltspoon salt. 1. Mix the flour, well dried and sifted, with the salt and baking powder. Slowly stir in enough milk to make a paste thick enough to roll. 2. Sprinkle some flour on the board, lay on the paste and roll it out with a bottle to the thickness of half an inch. Cut into triangular shapes and put immediately on a greased baking sheet in the oven. The scones rise at once and will be cooked in a few minutes. Notes.—In the bush, these same scones should be made with a teaspoon butter or lard mixed with the flour. They can be then cooked in a greased frying pan over a not too hot fire, instead of in the oven. They would be easier to cook in the frying pan if cut into rounds with the lid of a tin. They should be turned over when nicely browned. The 3ame scones can be made for tea by adding an egg, a dessertspoon castor sugar and a good tablespoon currants when mixing the flour. Massara 4 heaped tablespoons mas- sara flour. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 1 egg. 2 lumps or 1 teaspoon sugar. A pinch of salt. Scones. 3 tablespoons milk (if Ideal, one teaspoon to three tablespoons water), i teaspoon butter or groimd nut oil. 1. Slightly beat the egg and mix it in the pudding basin with the well-sifted massara flour, sugar and salt, add the156 BREAD, SCONES AND CAKES. butter and the milk and mix to a paste. This paste cannot become sufficiently stiff to be rolled like ordinary scones, it must just be shaped on the floured board with a spoon and knife as quickly as possible. Flatten it out to one and a quarter inch thickness and cut into rounds with a cocoa tin, (the lid would not be high enough). 2. Put on a greased baking sheet and put in the oven for ten minutes. They must be carefully watched as they burn easily. Take them out of the oven as soon as they are light brown. Rock Cakes. 6 heaped tablespoons flour. 4 good tablespoons finely crushed sugar. 3 good tablespoons currants. 3 good tablespoons butter or lard. About 1 or 2 tablespoons milk, (if Ideal, 1 teaspoon to the rest of water). 2 eggs. 1\ heaped teaspoons baking powder. A pinch of salt. The butter or lard should have been kept over-night in the cooler to make it as hard as possible. 1. Mix the flour, salt, sugar and baking powder in the large pudding basin, add the butter or lard, breaking it into the flour with the fingers and mixing it well. Slightly beat the eggs and pour them in, mix all together with a knife, add the currants and a little milk if the paste is too sticky, but it should not be made at all sloppy. 2. Divide the paste into little heaps and put them on a greased baking sheet. Bake immediately in a quick oven for about a quarter of an hour. It must always be remembered that anything made with baking powder must be mixed and baked as quickly as possible. Plain Currant Cake. l-lb. flour. 4-lb. butter or lard. 5 eggs. 4-lb. sugar. 4-lb. currants. 2 or 3 tablespoons milk. 1 dessertspoon baking pow- der.BREAD, SCONES AND CAKES. 157 1. Put the flour and baking powder into a basin, rub the butter well in, add the sugar and currants. 2. Beat up the eggs in a basin, add the milk, then pour it into the basin with the flour and mix well (do not beat it) with a fork. 3. Pour the mixture into a cake tin, place it in a hot oven, if possible do not open the oven door for the first twenty minutes, and bake for one and a half hours.158 ODDS AND ENDS. Tea. A tin of tea should always be kept tightly shut, or the contents will lose all their flavour, for this reason it should never be left in the kitchen where it will surely remain open. If possible, give out only a week’s supply at a time. A quarter-of-a-pound should be enough for one man, and a small teaspoon will make one cup of tea. Keep a small kettle solely for boiling water for tea, coffee and cocoa, and it is always best to put the tea your- self into the teapot and to have the boiling water brought to you. If you make your boy look on it as a sort of “ju ju palaver,” he will quite enjoy racing across the compound to bring you the water as hot as possible. It will be just off the boil, but all the same, better than what would be made in the kitchen. Fresh, cold water must be used and taken off the fire as soon as it has reached boiling point, i.es, as soon as it bubbles. No man need endure the trial of drinking tea out of a tin teapot during the whole of his tour. An earthenware one can be bought at the Niger Co., and being part of the “ju ju ” and therefore to be handled carefully, may last for many months. Breakfast Coffee.—Put half-a-pint, i e., an ordinary tumbler or a breakfastcupful of cold water in the small enamel saucepan. When boiling fast, put in a good dessertspoonful ground coffee. Boil for five minutes with the lid on. Stand for a few moments near the fire to let the grounds settle, then strain into the coffee pot through the coffee strainer. Keep the pot warm near the fire while you bring half-a-pint of milk to the boil If you use Ideal,159 ODDS AND ENDS. allow two good tablespoonfuls to a small half-pint of water or the coffee will be poor. These quantities will give a breakfastcup-and-a-half of coffee. If sugar is scarce, native honey can be used to sweeten it. Black Coffee.—The best and safest way is to make it one-self. Messrs. Picard, Regent Street, sell a simple one- cup coffee machine, which is excellent, uses very little coffee, and, if the water is brought to you boiling as for tea, your coffee will always be good. Messrs. Picard have also a speciality of ground coffee, which can be sent out fresh every two or three months. If you use an ordinary coffee pot, what is generally known as the French pattern in earthenware or tin, with double strainer, is the best. Allow one dessertspoon of coffee and one coffee cup and a quarter of water for each cup. Put the coffee in the space between the two strainers. Heat the water in the small kettle and as soon as it begins to boil, pour it slowly through the top strainer on to the coffee. Not much more than a teaspoonful should be poured on at a time, and the water in the kettle should be kept boiling. It will take almost six minutes to make a cup, but the full flavour of the coffee will have been brought out. It is as well to stand the pot in a saucepan of hot water while the water is being poured on, especially if several cups are being made. Serve in the coffee pot itself. To Roast and Grind Coffee.—Coffee is much better freshly roasted, so only a little should be done at a time. It can be done in a frying pan over a good, but not too quick fire, and the berries must be moved about the whole time with a wooden spoon. They are ready when they have turned a good deep brown ; any burnt berries should be picked out and thrown away, and the good ones should be kept in a tin with tight-fitting lid. Grind only very little at a time in a small coffee mill.ODDS AND ENDS. 160 Cocoa.—The proportions vary according to the brand. An excellent and inexpensive cocoa is sold by the Civil Service Stores. As boys are always wasteful with it, it should be only given out in small quantities. Put about a teaspoonful in a breakfastcup with one or two lumps of sugar, pour on a little boiling water, mix to a smooth paste, then fill up with more water and add a dessertspoon or more of Ideal milk. It is even better to mix the Ideal with cold water, boil up together, then pour on the cocoa and then return the cocoa to the saucepan for one more boil. Porridge, with Quaker Oats.—This must be made in the Welbank boilerette or in a small saucepan standing in another filled with boiling water. Count four-and-a- half tablespoons of water or milk (if Ideal, mix one dessertspoon to four tablespoons water), to two table- spoons oats add a pinch of salt and cook for twenty minutes, stirring often. Porridge, with Maize (Massara).—The massara can be either crushed into small pieces or ground till it looks just like semolina. Make exactly like Quaker Oats porridge, counting one breakfastcup water to two-and-a- half tablespoons massara. Add a pinch of salt and two lumps or one teaspoonful sugar and cook till all the water has been absorbed. The time and proportion of water vary according to the freshness of the maize. This porridge is very good eaten with native honey. Breakfast Cakes with Quaker Oats.—To make four small cakes, put two tablespoons oats and four-and-a-balf tablespoons water or milk (if Ideal, one dessertspoon to four tablespoons water), in the double boiler or in a small saucepan standing in another filled with boiling water. Cook for twenty or twenty-five minutes till the water isODDS AND ENDS. 161 absorbed, turn on to a plate, flatten out to about three- quarters of an inch thick, allow to cool and then cut into rounds with the lid of a small tobacco or cocoa tin. Melt just enough butter, lard or ground nut oil to grease the small frying pan. Lift the cakes with a knife into the pan set on a medium fire. Turn them over with a knife when they are yellow; they must not be actually fried but just dried. Serve hot with native honey. Note.—The only way to have good porridge is to keep to the proportions of one part of oats to two parts and a quarter of milk or water, and to have it always cooked in a double boiler or in a saucepan standing inside another one. The massara makes even better cakes than the oats. The proportions must be two-and-a-half tablespoons massara to a breakfastcup of milk or water. If the massara is rather old, a little less liquid will be required. Milk.—It is usually safer to boil it, but if you can make perfectly sure that it comes from healthy animals and you have it in sufficient quantities, it is difficult to resist the temptation of having cream, and during the coolest months it is quite possible to keep the evening’s milk till about ten o’clock tbe following morning. It should be put into a wide enamel basin or a very clean wide calabash, covered with a piece of muslin or mosquito curtain (the air must be able to penetrate freely), and stood in a cooler. The cream should be skimmed off in the morning and can be kept even till luncheon time if the day is cool. It is needless to say that the strictest cleanliness is necessary and milk should never be stood close to other eatables. If you wish to take boiled milk with you on trek, be careful that it has quite cooled down before pouring it into the bottle. Junket.—Can be made with dried rennet, obtainableODDS AND ENDS. 162 from the Army and Navy Stores. The instructions are given on the bottle, and it is quite worth trying where milk is plentiful. The milk should be slightly warmed before the rennet is added, and it should be put to set in a cool place. Junket can also be made with boiled milk. Cream Cheese.—Boil the milk and add the same quantity rennet as you do for a junket as soon as the milk is nearly cool. Let it stand till the whey separates from the curds, then take off the curds, mix them with salt, tie them up in a clean fine cloth and let them hang till all the moisture has dripped out, then press them into shape with the back of a spoon. Butter.—Is generally bought from the Fulani, and if you have only a small quantity at a time and it looks fairly clean, it need only be washed with filtered water. Beat up the water and butter together with a fork, pour off the water, repeat the process, press the butter with the back of a spoon so as to drain off all the water, add a little salt and pack it tightly into an empty jar (an imperial cheese jar or small glass bottle having contained crystal- lized fruit would be the best). If you have a large quantity it is better to boil it. Put the butter on the fire in a large native pot and boil it till the water has evaporated from the butter, taking off the scum as it rises. When it boils silently and appears clear with little or no froth, take it off the fire. Let it stand for a few moments so that what little sediment is left goes to the bottom, pour it off without shaking into another native pot (or into glass jars if you have enough), and add a little salt. If you use a native pot in which to keep the butter, keep it tightly covered with a piece of thin cloth tied round the mouth of the pot with a string. Butter should never be kept in the kitchen, the cook should take his day’s supply every morning, putting the pot back again in a cool place.163 ODDS AND ENDS. Carefully boiled and salted, this butter will keep for months, and its use will of course represent a great economy. Tinned Butter.—All the tins of butter should be kept in as cool a place as possible, and each tin should be put in the cooler for some hours before it is opened so that the contents should be more or less solid. When required, empty the tin into a soup plate, pour on enough cold water to cover the butter (soda water or sparklet would be even better), and beat both together with a fork. Then drain off the water, pressing the butter with the back of a spoon so as to get rid of all the moisture. Add half-a • teaspoon salt to the butter, put it in an empty jar (an imperial cheese jar is convenient), press it down tightly, keep the jar covered and standing in a soup plate full of water when not in use. Frying.—We would like to again emphasize the fact that fat must be very hot before it is possible to fry in it If using butter or lard, it should have ceased to bubble, be quite still, and a little smoke should rise from it. Ground nut oil takes much longer to heat than either butter or lard, it must also become quite still and the smoke must be turning'blue. All fat can be used several times over if any little bits of batter, etc., are carefully picked out after each frying. The fat used for frying fish should be always kept in a separate jar. Batter.— One egg ; two tablespoons flour ; three table- spoons milk (if Ideal, one teaspoon to the rest of water) ; half-a-teaspoon olive oil or ground nut oil; a pinch of salt. Mix the flour and milk in the small pudding basin. Add the yolk only of the egg, the oil and the salt. Beat it all well together till it has the consistency of a thick cream. If too thin add a little more flour, if too thick a little water. Cover the basin with a plate and let it stand till wanted,164 ODDS AND ENDS. adding just before using the white of egg beaten stiff. If possible, always prepare a good two hours before it will be required. Pie Crust.—One good teacup flour; half a small teacup lard ; a pinch of salt; a very small teacup water, as cold as possible, The proportions will make enough crust to cover the large pie dish. If wanted for a tart, put a very small pinch of salt and add a small teaspoon sugar. Use only filtered water, taken straight from the cooler, and mix the paste in the coolest place possible. The cook should wash his hands in cold water before beginning. The flour must be dry and well sifted, and the tin of lard should have been kept in the cooler to make it as firm as possible. 1. Mix the flour, salt (and sugar if required) in the large pudding basin. Add the lard and mix well and quickly with the back of a wooden spoon; pour in the cold water a little at a time until you have made a dough which will come freely away from the sides of the basin, and will be soft but not sticky to the touch. If the lard was firm, a small teacupful will be needed. 2. Sprinkle the bread board with a little extra flour, lay the dough on it, flour your hands well and quickly roll the dough on the board with the palms of your hands. If it sticks to the board, scrape off with a knife and sprinkle on more flour. Continue rolling till it no longer sticks to the board or the hands, and feels elastic to the touch. 3. If you have no pastry roller, use a bottle rubbed with a little flour to flatten out the ball of dough. Always roll away from, never towards, you, and turn the paste about so that it gets rolled in every direction and has shaped into a broad oval. Roll lightly and quickly and stop as soon as you have obtained tbe right thickness. The dough can be made before preparing the pie, but it should not be rolled out till you are ready to lay it on the pie dish,165 ODE’S AND ENDS. Note. Fresh native butter, well washed and drained, can be used with an equal quantity of lard, and greatly improves the crust, especially for a tart. Bread Crumbs.—We mention two kinds in the fore- going recipes, w7hite and brown. The white must be prepared just before using by putting a piece of stale bread in the oven; take it out as soon as it is dry but has not at all coloured and is still quite white; crush it by rolling a bottle over it. The brown bread crumbs should be made in advance. Cut thin slices of bread and put them in the oven with any bits of crust. Leave them there till they turn bright yellow and are quite crisp. The oven ought not to be too hot or the bread will burn. Take out the bread and crush it in a mortar or by rolling a bottle over it. If possible, sift the crumbs through a sieve and keep them in a well- corked bottle. The cook should prepare these crumbs each time he has any bits of bread left over, so as to have a supply always ready. A Few Plain Dishes for Invalids.—We give a rough list of the most suitable recipes, indicating when necessary what ingredients had best be left out. Chicken Broth (page 37) Beef Tea Boiled Egg ... Poached Egg... Boiled Fish ... Plain Macaroni Boiled Chicken Bice Pudding Tapioca Pudding Blanc Mange Plain Custard Caramel Cream Jelly Arrowroot Barley Water Egg Flipp (page 39) (page 58) (page 58) (page 50) (page 68) (page 78) (page 126) (page 126) (page 131) (page 128) (page 129) (page 166) (page 166) (page 166) (page 167) Omit the onions, clove, nutmeg, and use very little pepper. Serve plain with a little boiled [rice. Omit the butter. n n Flavour with vauilla only. Omit the spirits ; could be flav- oured with vanilla. L166 ODDS AND ENDS. Arrowroot.—One dessertspoon arrowroot, one teacup milk (if Ideal, one large dessertspoon to the rest of water), two lumps sugar. Mix the arrowroot to a paste in a cup with two dessert- spoons cold milk. Put the remaining milk and the sugar in the small enamel saucepan. When boiling, pour it on to the paste and stir. The arrowroot can then be returned to the saucepan, brought to the boil and allowed to simmer for two minutes, but this is not necessary. Arrowroot can be made with water if no milk is available. Cornflour.—The same proportions and made in the same way as arrowroot, but in this case it is necessary to return the cornflour to the saucepan for an extra boil. Chicken Jelly.—Make a chicken broth (see index) with one whole fowl and the carcase and trimmings of another if available; use the same amount of water but omit the onion and use very little pepper. A few carrots and parsley can be added. Let the broth boil down to nearly half a pint, then strain it through a cloth. Let it stand for a short time and strain again. Put it back again in the empty saucepan, add a quarter teaspoon Lemco, heat to nearly boiling point and then dissolve in it two- and-a-half leaves of gelatine. When dissolved strain again into a cup, cover it carefully and stand it in a cooler. If the jelly has been made in the evening, it will be firm by next morning. Barley Water.—Robinson’s Patent Barley is much the best and easiest to use, and is not at all bulky. Mix one teaspoon barley flour to a paste with two dessertspoons cold water. When well mixed, add the juice of half a lime, a little peel and four or five lumps of sugar, according to taste. Pour on a pint boiling water, drink hot or cold. If liked, some milk can be added just before drinking. Barley Water with ordinary Barley.—Well wash two good handfuls of barley. Put it in a saucepan with167 ODDS AND ENDS. two pints cold water and boil slowly for two hours. Strain through a clean handkerchief, add about two tablespoons sugar and the juice of a lime if liked. Egg Flip. —To make a large tumbler full, three-quarters of a pint of milk (if Ideal, two tablespoons mixed with a little less than three-quarters of a pint of water); one very fresh egg; three or four lumps sugar; one tablespoon brandy, whisky or gin. With a fork beat up the egg in a cup, then pour it into the large tumbler. Pour in the milk gradually, swizzling strongly, and, when quite frothy on top, add the sugar and brandy and swizzle once more. Lime Drink.—The Nigerian limes are delicious and make a far better drink than any bottled lime juice. It must of course be made according to taste, but it is as well to tell your boy exactly bow much sugar you like, or whole tinfuls will disappear. For a small tumbler, the juice of half a lime and two lumps of sugar ought to be sufficient. Cocktail without Egg.—Mix a tablespoon castor sugar (or four lumps crushed) with a teaspoonful of lime juice, three-and-a-half tablespoons gin, three tablespoons water and a few drops of bitters. Add a pinch of nutmeg and four or five small pieces of lime peel and swizzle well. Sherry and Pepper.—Four level tablespoons of peppers (berkono) red and green mixed, to half-a-pint, i.e, a tumbler of sherry. Look over the peppers and pick out all the bad or discoloured ones. Put two tablespoons in the small enamel saucepan, pour in the sherry and bring to the boil. Remove the saucepan from the fire and take out the boiled peppers, replacing them by the other two tablespoonfuls of fresh ones. Let it cool and then pour sherry and peppers into a small bottle, It can be used immediately, owing to half the peppers having boiled in the sherry and thus imparted their flavour.168 I NDEX. Page Page Anchovy eggs ... 66 Chicken broth... ... 37 ,, „ and capers 146 „ fritters 87 ,, ,, and olives 146 .. jelly 166 „ sauce 77 .. pie 91 Apple sauce ... 77 ,, pilaff ... 85 Apples (prevet) stewed 136 ,, soup or stock... 38 Arrowroot 166 Cocktail without egg ... ... 167 Atcha pudding 127 Cocoa ... ... 160 Coffee black ... 159 Banana fritters... 132 „ breakfast 158 Barley water (with Robinson's „ cream ... ... 130 barley) 166 „ to roast and grind 159 Barley water (with ordinary Chocolate pudding ... 132 barley) 166 Cornflour 166 Batter ... 163 Cottage pie 90 Bean salad 124 Cream cheese... • • • 162 Beef broth 39 Crosse and Blackwell’s soup ... 48 ,, fillet of ... 100 Croquettes plain 88 „ steak pie... 103 Cucumber boiled 114 ., and yam salad ... 124 „ fritters 114 Beetroot 120 „ fried 114 Blanc mange ... 131 ,, stuffed ... 113 Brains... 99 Currant cake (plain) ... ... 156 Brain fritters ... 99 Curried buttered eggs... 60 & 149 Bread and butter pudding 126 » .. .. °n Bread crumbs... 165 anchovy toast ... ... 60 Bread made with native yeast 153 Curried buttered eggs wi th to- „ „ „ yeast cake 151 mato sauce ... 60 ,, sauce ... 75 Curried fowl ... ... 82 Breakfast cakes with Quaker Curry ... 140 Oats ... 160 Custard baked... ... 127 Brown sauce ... 141 „ plain ... ... 128 Butter... 162 Cutlets 98 Butter sauce ... 143 Butter (tinned) 163 Doyan bissa ... ... 48 Dried peas ... 117 Cabbage 119 „ pea soup ... 47 ,, soup... 45 ,, soups ... ... 48 Caper sauce ... 140 Duck roast ... 76 Caramel cream 129 „ rice with custard 130 Eggs boiled ... 58 Carrots 119 „ buttered... ... 59 Cheese omelet... 64 „ curried buttered 60 & 149 ,, sauce ... 140 Egg flip ... 167INDEX. 169 Page Page Eggs fried ... 59 Kidneys broiled .. 100 „ hard boiled ... 64 „ fried ... .. 100 „ „ „ with tomatoes 64 Kidney omelet . , 63 .. „ ,, ,, cheese sauce 64 Kidneys on toast ... 149 curried ... 65 Kromeskies ... 89 „ ,, „ with mustard and cress 67 Lazenby's soup squares ... 48 Egg plant fried 115 Leg of mutton, boiled... • • 96 „ „ fritters 114 ,, „ ,. braised . . 96 ,, „ stuffed 116 „ „ ,, roasted • • • 95 Eggs on anchovy toast 146 Lentils • • 117 „ poached... 58 Lentil soup ... ... 47 Egg sauce 140 Lettuce salad ... • • 122 Eggs stuffed in batter... 65 Lamco ,,, 48 Lime Drink ... • • • 167 Figs stewed, with custard 136 Lime sponge ... .. 131 Fish au gratin... 55 „ boiled ... 50 Macaroni baked • • • 69 „ cold with mayonnaise sauce 51 „ bonne femme 70 „ croquettes 53 ,, and cheese ... 68 „ curried ... 57 ,, curried • • • 69 „ fried (large) 51 ,, home made... • • • 70 „ „ (small) 53 „ plain • • 68 „ grilled ... 56 ,, and tomato sauce ■ . ■ 69 jugged 56 McDoddie’s juliene ... 48 pie 54 „ spinach ... . . 110 „ salad 51 Maggis soup ... 48 Fowl boiled ... 78 Maize (fresh) ... 117 ,, curried... 82 „ porridge 160 „ devilled 88 Mango compote . . . 137 ,, potted ... 93 Marengo fowl . . 81 „ roast 74 Massara scones • • « 155 „ rolled ... 86 Mayonnaise sauce • • » 144 „ stewed with ground nuts 79 Milk • • • 161 French beans ... 121 Mince (dry) ... 90 Fruit salad 138 Mint sauce ... ... 145 Frying... 163 Mustard biscuits 147 Mutton broth... 40 Gauta... 117 ,, curry ... • • • 97 Ground nut soup 46 „ pilaff ... 85 Ham to boil ... 104 Native beans ... ■ • • 117 Horseradish savoury ... 149 „ „ (dried) ... ... 118 ,‘ „ soup 46 Irish stew ... 98 „ ,. spinach... NO Joloff rice 80 Junket... 161 Oeufs printaniere 61 Julienne (McDoddies) 48 Okro savoury... ... 148 Olives stuffed... 147 Kedgeree 34 Omelet with cheese ... • . 64170 INDEX. Omelet with curry sauce » „ fried onion „ „ kidney „ plain ... ,, with sausages ... ,, (sweet) „ with tomato sauce Onion soup Onions stuffed „ with white sauce Orange sponge Ox tongue boiled Palm oil chop... Pancakes Parmesan cheese biscuits Parsley sauce ... Paw paw boiled ,, compote ... „ fritters „ stuffed tart Pickle cheese... Pie crust Pigeon, roast ... Pine apple fritters Plums, stewed, with custard ... Porridge with maize ... ,, with Quaker Oats ... Poulet, Bordeaux ,, Cocolte „ fricassee „ mayonnaise ... „ menagere Prevet apples, stewed Pumpkin, fried ,, native „ soup Quaker Oats porridge Rice fritters ... „ pudding... „ soup „ and tomatoes ,, Turkish ... Risga ... Rock cakes Rolls made with baking powder Saddle of mutton, roasted Page Salad, bean ... 124 „ beef and yam ••• 000 124 „ lettuce... ••• 000 122 „ yam, onion and chutney 124 ,, yam or sweet potato ... 123 Salmon, tinned ... 57 Sauce hollandaise 143 „ poivrade ... ... 142 „ for puddings ... ... 145 Sardines on toast ... ... 148 Scones ... ... 155 „ massara ... ... 155 Sherry and pepper ... ... 167 Snow eggs ... ... 128 Spinach, native 110 Steak, braised... 102 Stock ... ... ... 38 Tapioca pudding ... ... 126 ,, soup ... ... ... 42 Tatassa 117 Tea 158 Tinned and dried soups 48 „ meat ... ... ... 104 „ vegetables ... ... 121 Tomatoes, fried ... ... 115 Tomato sauce... ... ... 142 „ savoury ... ... 148 „ soup... ... 42 Tomatoes, stuffed ... ... 116 Tournedos, beef or mutton ... 101 Tumuku ... ... 109 Turkey, roast ... ... ... 77 Turkish rice ... ... ... 71 Turnips 119 Vegetable curry 118 White sauce ... 139 ,, soup ... ... ... 41 Wine sauce ... 142 Yam or sweet potato, baked ... 107 boiled... 105 cakes ... 108 fried ... 107 mashed 106 salad ... 123 steamed 105 „ „ with white sauce 107 „ and young onion soup ... 44 „ onion and chutney salad... 124 Page 62 62 63 61 63 134 62 43 111 111 131 102 61 134 147 140 113 136 133 113 137 147 164 178 133 135 160 160 84 84 78 93 83 136 112 112 43 160 109 126 42 71 71 109 156 154 95Fortnum & Mason, ltd., Piccadilly, London. Messes and ..... Individuals in all parts of West Africa supplied at Competitive Prices - PROVISIONS GROCERI ES WIN ES & SPIRITS TOBACCOS CAMP FURNITURE TENTS RIFLES & GUNS TROPICAL CLOTHINGFOR West African Cookery The Purity of LEMCO offers you the best security against the dangers of meat in the tropics. Its use means wholesome—appetising— more digestible—more nourishing food, having the full rich flavour of freshly cooked beef. LEMCO is unaffected by the intense heat and moisture of the West African climate, and keeps its purity for years. This is due to the extreme care exercised in its preparation,— the natural salts of the beef being retained, and all fatty matters excluded. For use in emergencies LEMCO has no equal. It is a splendid pick-me-up after fevers and breakdowns ; mixed with milk, or soda water, it creates a most refreshing, health-giving beverage,—stimulating after exertion, and a tonic to the digestive and nervous systems. all pure concentrated beef. -THAMES HOUSE, LONDON, E.C.Northern Nigeria, British East Africa, Southern Nigeria, Uganda, Gold Coast, Nyassaland, Sierra Leone, Somaliland. Information and Advice regarding necessary Equipment, Route and Transport, CAN BE OBTAINED GRATIS by Civil Officials and Military Officers appointed to any of the above Colonies and Protectorates on application to— WAY & Co., Ltd., DEWAR HOUSE, 11/12, HAYMARKET, LONDON, S.W. AGENCY BUSINESS of every, kind undertaken, also packing, despatching, and forwarding of Baggage for shipment, Complete Equipments purchased and Deferred Payments arranged on Special Terms. Accownts collected, Salaries drawn, Family and other Remittances made, and general Banking facilities granted. Baggage, &c„ Stored. Newspapers and Periodicals despatched. Goods purchased and sent out to Customers, also to Clubs, Messes, Ac. INSURANCE. LIFE (with Special Rates for Africa), FIRE. MARINE and ACCIDENT, also TRUSTEE and EXECUTOR BUSINESS. REVERSIONS. *Che African’ £lqucur Scotch $ Irish Whiskp, SPECIALLY BLENDED FOR WAY & CO., LTD. WAY & CO., LTD., have made a careful study of the Wines and Spirits most suited for the Tropics. Their selected Wine List will be sent on applica- tion. All goods are well packed for export. Estimates given for COMPLETE MINING OUTFITS including Surveying Instruments, Tools, &c. THE “HA^DY-COSY” BED. A Light Steel-frame Portable Folding Bed. It is a folding Portable Bed—Strong and Rigid. It does not squeak or become shaky. It is very comfortable to sleep on. It can be changed into a hammock in twenty seconds. Very suitable for Ambulance 'purposes: can be used as a STRETCHER.Provisions and Outfit. Griffiths, McAlister & CO., export Precision IftercDants, $c., 29-31 Manesty's Lane, Liverpool. 14 Billiter Street, London. E.C. Suppliers of all kinds of Provisions, Camp Equipment, Medical Stores, Wines, Spirits, and Mineral Waters, &c., for Exploring and Mining Expeditions ; also for private use abroad. .’. All Goods suitably packed for Hot Climates and made up in loads suitable for all modes of Transport. CONTRACTORS TO THE CROWN AGENTS FOR THE COLONIES. Telegraphic Addresses “ COOMASSIE” LIVERPOOL. “ APPEASABLE,” LONDON. Codes used—A B C, 4th and 5th Editions, and Lieber’s. ESTABLISHED 1880. Suppliers to Sir Ernest Shackleton’s Antarctic Expedition, 1907-1909 ; Captain Scott’s Expedition, 1911 ; and Dr. Manson’s Expedition, 1911.MACONOCHIE’S Preserved Provisions ARE SPECIALLY PREPARED FOR TROPICAL CLIMATES SOUPS* Ox Tail, Mock Turtle, Julienne, Mulligatawny, &c. Fisb. Preserved Herrings, Herrings in Tomato, Soles, Mackerel, Haddocks, &c. meats. Beef, Mutton, Lamb, Veal, Pork, Curries, Cutlets, Tongues, Brawns, &c. Game and Pouitrp. Roast Partridge, Pheasant, Grouse, Hare, Venison Cutlets. Duck and Green Peas, Fowl, Turkey, Rabbit. Sweets. Apple, Gooseberry, Plum, Ginger, Marmalade and Apricot Puddings. Every description of Table Delicacy perfectly preserved in Glasses and Tins. Sauces, Pickles, Essences of Meats, Extracts, Flavouring Essences, &c. MACONOCHIE Bros., Ltd., LONDON, England.McDODDIE EVAPORATED VEGETABLES. As supplied to H.M. War Office and India Office, to all great Expeditions, and to Mining Camps throughout the World. Many Gold Medal, and High Awards. Specialities— POTATOES. ONIONS. CABBAGE. JULIENNE. CARROTS, TURNIPS, PARSNIPS, &c (A pound of Cabbage is sufficient for about 30 persons). Guaranteed Pure. An inexpensive luxury in all Countries of extreme tempeiature where English Vegetables will not grow. ask your store dealer for them. Sole Manufacturers— McDODDIES, Addington Square, LONDON, S.EMiller Brothers (OF LIVERPOOL) Ltd., LAGOS. IBADAN, ABEOKUTA, SAPELE, WARRI, BENIN, CALABAR, OPOBO, CROSS RIVER, BONNY, and NEW CALABAR. Large Assortment of English and Continental Provisions, Wines, &c. Camp Outfit, Clothing, &c., &c PRICES ON APPLICATION. jWP. F. ESBENSEN'S GUARANTEED PURE Danish Butter IN TINS. Largest sale throughout — West Africa.For Pie Crusts, Cakes, Puddings, Cooking and Frying, THE LEADING COOKS USE AND RECOMMEND "ATORA” REFINED Beef Suet. It supersedes Raw Suet, Lard and Cooking Butter. 1 -lb. equals 2-lbs. Raw Suet. SUPPLIED IN AIR-TIGHT TINS with keys for easy opening. Prepared solely from Fresh English BEEF SUET. Sole Manufacturers— HUGON & Co, Ltd,, PENDLETON, MANCHESTER.By Special Warrant of Appointment To His Highness The Khedive. By Royal Warrants of Appointment To His Majesty the King of Spain. To His Majesty the King of the Hellenes. To His Majesty the King of Portugal. CONNOISSEURS SMOKE TEOFANI'S Cigarettes. GRANDS PRIX. GOLD MEDALS. HORS CONCOURS (MEMBRES DU JURY). BELGIUM A.NTWEP.P BBUS8ELS rAiiio Egyptian (ooal). Per 100 Extra Fine 7/9 Surfine 6/9 No. 8 6/3 Pharoah’s Dream, No. 9 5/0 Turkish (round). Per 100 Achilles, gold tipped 10/9 Yenidjeh Grand 8/9 Yenidjeh Petit 7/9 Rahat, No. 2 6/3 If any difficulty in obtaining them, please write for Price List No. 90 and Samples to the Manufacturers, TEOFANI & Co., Ltd., LONDON, W.C. To all countries in which Parcel Post is in force, quantities of 1000 Cigarettes and upwards of one or assorted brands, dispatched in bond. Cigarettes for warm or damp climates packed in vacuum air-tight tins.' > ' ... . ,