/<4 ■ 22503046227UMAN PHYSIOLOGY BY WILLIAM FURNEAUX SPECIAL SCIENCE TEACHEH, LONDON SCHOOL HOARD AtlTHOR OF 'elementary PHYSIOGRAPHY' 'ELEMENTARY CHEMISTRY' E' WITH 218 ILLUSTRATIONS EIGHTH EDITION LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. 39 PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON NEW YORK AND BOMBAY 1898 All rights rvseii<cdO WELLCOitAii LIBRARY General CoUectio^^PREFACE This work is intended for those who desire an easy introduction to the study of the Human Frame. The matter embraces those parts of the subject which are con- tained in the Elementary Syllabus of the Science and Art Depart- ment, but IS not confined strictly within those limits. A short chapter on the Ear has been added (thus completing the outline of the organs of special sense), and also another on the Larynx and the Voice. And again, although the students working according to this Syllabus are not required to obtain any 'information upon points of structure needing the use of the compound microscope ' with the exception of the characters of the corpuscles of the blood, yet in many other instances such information has been given. It is eminently desirable that the student should avail himself of every opportunity of making his study thoroughly practical. The author therefore has given, here and there, many hints as to how he should proceed in easy dissections; and has introduced a number of simple experiments, so that the knowledge gained may be of a sound character. It is too often felt that such practical and experimental methods of acquiring information are roundabout and tedious; but the author's experience has taught him to affirm that it is the readiest, surest, and certainly the most pleasant way of attaining the end in view. In reading this book for the first time it may sometimes be advisable to omit those details which are printed in the smallervi HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY type, leaving them for the second perusal, when the broader features of the subject have been grasped. No time or pains has been spared in well illustrating the work. A number of the cuts have been selected with care from Quain's 'Anatomy,' Gray's 'Anatomy,' and Owen's 'Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of the Vertebrate Animals '—some of these having been modified, to render them more suitable for the requirements of the elementary student. The remainder have been drawn specially for this work by the author, with a desire to satisfy a long-felt want for a profusely-illustrated elementary treatise on this particular subject. W. S. F.CONTENTS LESSON •"''^'^ I. THE GENERAL BUILD OF THE HUMAN BODY ... I II. THE SKELETON '2 III. THE SKELETON {continued) 19 IV. THE SKELETON {continiieci) ..... . . 25 V. LIGAMENTS. CARTILAGE. JOINTS 34 VI. THE COMPOSITION AND .STRUCTURE OF BONE . . . 40 VII. THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 45 VIII. THE STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE 5^ IX. THE LEVERS OF THE BODY 54 X. THE CHEST AND ABDOMEN . . . - • • 59 XI. THE ANATOMY OF THE FACE AND NECK ... 62 XII. THE ORGANS OF THE THORAX 66 XIII. THE ORGANS OF THE ABDOMEN 7° XIV. THE CHEMISTRY OF THE BODY 75 XV. WASTE AND REPAIR—FOODS 81 XVI. THE TEETH AND MASTICATION . . . . . . 87 XVII. GLANDS—THE SALIVARY GLANDS AND INSALIVATION . 93 XVIII. THE CESOPHAGUS AND DEGLUTITION. THE STOMACH AND GASTRIC DIGESTION 9^ XIX. THE INTESTINES AND INTESTINAL DIGESTION . . . I06 XX. ABSORPTION . . . . HI XXI. THE BLOOD 117 XXII. THE HEART AND ITS DISSECTION 122 XXIII. THE BLOOD-VESSELS AND CIRCULATION . . . • I30 XXIV. THE TRACHEA AND LUNGS I40viii HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY LESSON PAGE XXV. WHY WR HREATIIK—VRNTIl.ATION .... I45 XXVI. now WE UREATIIE 147 XXVII. THE LIVER . • . . • • 153 XXVJII. THE SKIN '61 XXIX. THE KIDNEYS ... '69 XXX. 'IHE NERVOUS SYSTEM —NERVES '74 XXXI. THE BRAIN 179 XXXII. THE SriNAI, CORD 1^6 XXXIII. SENSATIONS—TOUCH '92 XXXIV. THE TONGUE AND TASTE—THE NOSE AND SMELL , . 197 XXXV. THE EYE AND VISION 202 X.XXVI. THE EAR . . r ' • 222 XXXVII. THE VOICE ': ' ' . 226 XXXVni. EPITHELIUM ' SYLLABUS ^ EXAMINATION. PAPERSHUMAN PHYSIOLOGY LESSON L THE GENERAL BUILD OF THE LIUMAN BODY. The word physiology is derived from the two Greek wordsphnsis, nature ; and logos, a discourse. Literally speaking, therefore, the subject embraces all the various branches of natural science. But the term physiology is now generally applied only to the study of the functions of hving beings. Animal physiology deals with the functions of animals, but the term is now usually restricted to the study of man ; and accordingly the object of this work is to give a brief and simple outline of the life-processes of the human body. Of course it is impossible to understand the functions or uses of the various parts of the body without a knowledge of their struc- ture ; hence that branch of science which is called anatomy (Gr. ana, up, and tenmo, I cut) must go hand .in hand with physiology. The most obvious division of the human body is into head, trunk, and li/nbs or extremities. The head includes the face, and a bony box called the cranium which encloses the brain. The trunk encloses a large cavity which contains the parts that are engaged in the circulation of the blood, respiration, digestion, etc. The upper portion of the trunk is called the thorax or chest, and the lower portion the abdomen or belly. These two parts are separated by a fleshy partition called the diaphragm ; hence we speak of the cavity of the chest as distinct from the cavity of the abdomen. The limbs are arranged in two pairs—the arms, or upper ex- tremities, and the legs, or lower extremities. The body is made up of a large number of parts, each of BELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 2 which has its own particular function to perform. These parts are called organs. Thus, we speak of the heart as the chief organ of circulation, the stomach as an organ of digestion, the lujigs as organs of respiration, and the muscles as the organs for producing motion. The various organs of the body may be conveniently arranged in groups or systems, according to their respective functions. The chief of these systems are : — I. The osseous, or bony system. 2 The muscular system. 3. The digestive system. 4. The absorptive system 5. The circulatory system. 6. The respiratory, or breathing system. 7. The excretory, or purifying system. 8. The nervous system. All the organs of the body are more or less complicated in structure. Each one is built up of elementary structures which are called tissues. For example, the heart is composed of a fleshy substance which we term muscular tissue, some fatty substance or adipose tissue, nervous tissue, and a certain amount of connective tissue. The osseous (Lat. os, a bone) system consists of a large number of bones, which constitute the skeleton, and form a strong frame- work, which supports and protects the softer structures of the body. These bones are connected together in such a manner as to form joints or articulations (Lat. articulus, a joint), and are bound firmly together at these joints by strong white fibrous bands called ligaments (Lat. ligo, I bind). In some parts of the body, where an elastic and yielding substance is required, which is at the same time very strong, cartilage or gristle takes the place of bone, as in the more prominent part of the nose. We may regard the backbone as the central portion of the osseous system, for a glance at the accompanying figure wall show that the other bones of the skeleton are connected either direcdy or indirectly with it. This bone (or, rather, column of bones) passes through the hinder part of the trunk of the body, part of it belonging to the neck, part to the back, and part to the loins. The ribs are connected with that portion which lies in the back, and, extending round the chest, are for the most part connected with the breast-bone in front. At the upper part of the chest are the shoulder-bones : to these the bones of the arms are attached. The lower portion of the backbone is wedged in between the bones of the hip, which form a hollow basin-like cavity, and support the organs of the abdomen.3 GENERAL BUILD OF THE HUMAN BODY B 24 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY The skull rests on tlie upper extremity of the backbone. It consists in part of a large, hollow, bony case. Continuous with the cavity thus formed is a tube which runs through the l)ackbone. Hence it is common to speak of the human body as enclosing two distinct tuljes or cavities : —one surrounded by the skull and the backbone, and the other the great cavity already mentioned on page I. And this is true not only of the human body, but also of the bodies of all the back-boned or vertebrate animals. The cavity formed by the backbone contains the great nerve called the spinal cord, a prolongation of the brain. The arms and the legs resemble each other very closely in the general arrangement of their bones. The upper arm consists of one bone, which corresponds with the bone of the thigh. The fore- arm consists of two bones arranged t \ 'III' "iff mx M. side by side, as does also the leg. •'y/C'' 1 mW\ bones of the wrist and hand, yl^^^^^fe^'S i"i^uch resemble those of the ankle and foot respectively. Muscular System.—The bones of the skeleton are all surrounded by more or less flesh or muscle. Each muscle is composed of bundles of fibres. These fbres have the power of contracting in the direction of their length and so shortening the muscles ; and thus the bones with which the ends of the muscles are connected are brought nearer to- gether. It is in this way that we are enabled to exercise the body in various ways. The muscles, too, assist very largely in givmg a rounded form to the body. , . , . t-u Muscles are of two V.md&—voluntarv and involuntary. 1 He former are under the control of the will, while the latter are not ^Ve have examples of voluntary muscles m those of the face and the limbs. The muscles of the heart and the stomach are of the involuntary kind. . i ui, Those muscles which move the bones are connected with them bv strong white fibrous masses called tendons (fig. 4 )• The digestive or alimentary system (Lat. alimentum, nourish- ment) consists of the food-passage and the various organs which pre- pare the digestive fluids. The food-passage consists oi^^^nwuth pharynx, mophagus or gullet, stomach, and intestines. (See fig. 80.) Pig. 2.—The Ligaments of the Wrist.GENERAL BUILD OF THE HUMAN BODY 5 The pharynx (Clr. phartinx, the throat) is the cavity situated behind the mouth, with which it is continuous. Fig. 3.—The Superficial Muscles of the Body, viewed from hefore. Tjie oesophagus (Gr. oiso^ I shall bear ; and phago, I eat) is a tube, about ten inches long, connecting the pharynx with theELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 6 stomach- a large food while certain serves to contain the 1'- , x'^ ii a'. u Fig. 4.—The Tendons of viewed from before to 5, muscles ; i' to 5', respective tendons. pouch-like organ, which fluids are acting upon it. After the food leaves the stomach, it passes through about twenty-six feet of tubing called the intestines, which consist of the small intestine (about twenty feet in length), and the large intestine (about six feet). The circulatory or blood system consists of the heart and blood-vessels. The heart is a hollow, muscular organ, provided with valves. It serves as a kind of force-pump to distribute the blood to all parts of the body. The blood-vessels consist of arteries, veins and capillaries. The arteries convey blood from the heart; and they divide and subdivide into smaller and smaller branches, till at last they form very mi- nute vessels called capillaries. These capillaries unite, forming small veins ; and by the junction of these, larger and larger vessels are formed, which at length discharge their contents into the heart. Veins, therefore, are vessels which bring blood to the heart : and capillaries are the minute blood-vessels which connect the small arteries and veins together. The absorptive system consists chiefly of vessels which collect dis- solved nutritious matter from various parts of the body, and convey it into the blood system. The nourishing material is thus distributed throughout the system to repair waste and to further growth. The respiratory system consists principally of the larynx, trachea or wind-pipe, and the lun^s. The larynx, sometimes called the voice-box, be- cause it contains the '■cords' or mem- branes by means of which the voice is produced, is the enlarged, upper part of the passage leading from the mouth Muscles and the Forearro, theirGENERAL BUILD OF THE HUMAN BODY 7 lo the luiiRs. The trachea is a tube extending from the larynx o t e upper part of the chest. Here k divides into two branches one o^N^^^ch enters each lung. The lungs (often called the /ig/rfs) Fig. 5.—General Diagrammatic View of the Circulatory System, showing the arrangement of the heart and the larger blood-vessels. H, the heart. The arrows indicate the direction of the blood-stream.8 ELEMENTARY I'HYSIOLOGY are large spongy organs. 'I'hey contain a very large number of small air cavities, and are richly supplied with blood-vessels. It Fig. 6. —The Absorptive System—general diagrammatic view IS in the lungs that the blood is aerated by being brought contact with the air we breathe.9 GENERAL BUILD OF THE HUMAN BODY There are other organs, called the excretory organs, which perform the office of removing certain impurities from the blood as it circulates through them. The chief of these organs are the liver, the kidnevs, and the skin ; to which may also be added the lungs: for, in ^addition to being aerated, the blood, while in the lungs, is caused to give up a gas called carbonic-acid gas, which it has collected in its passage through the various parts of the body. The liver is a very large reddish-brown organ, which prepares a substance called bile from the blood. Although the separa- tion of bile may be re garded as a process of blood - purification, yet the bile itself is utilised in the digestion of food. The liver, therefore, is not simply an excre- tory organ, but may also be said to belong to the digestive system. The kidneys, two in number, are im- portant blood-purifiers. They separate a poison- ous substance called urea from the blood. The skin, which en- tirely covers the exterior surface of the body, is more than a mere pro- tective covering, for its deeper layer contains numerous small bodies, in which a process of blood - purification is carried on, the impu- rities separated being conducted by minute tubes to the pores or openings which may be seen with a lens on the surface of the skin. The nervous system consists of two parts. One of these is called the cerebrospinal system, and the other the sympathetic or ganglionic system. The cerebro-spinal system consists of the brain and the spinal cord, together with the numerous nerves which proceed from these organs to almost all parts of the body. The sympathetic system (see fig. i6i) consists of a large number of small masses of nerve substance (ganglia), and the nerves connect- Fig. 7.—Front View of the Larynx, Trachea, and Lungs. I, larynx ; 2, trachea ; 3, lungs.10 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY ing them and radiating from them. The former system supplies all the voluntary muscles and the organs of the five senses-the Fig. 8.—The Cerebro-spinal System. skin, or organ of touch; the tongue o-'^™;^,^^^j^o^^Tgfr; of organ of smell; the eye, or organ of sight, ana tne ear, 611 GENERAL EUILD OF THE HUMAN BODY hearing. The sympathetic or ganglionic system supplies the involuntary muscles. The two parts of the nervous system are not entirely separate, being connected by numerous nerve filaments. By means of the nervous system we receive impressions from the external world through the organs of the senses. The nervous system also, by its connection with the muscles, causes and controls the motions of the body. THE SYSTEMS OF ORGANS. SUMMAEY. The osseous system . . The muscular system . The alimentary system The circulatory system The respiratory system The excretory system . j' Cerehro-spinal Nervous 1 ^y^*""' [sympathetic Backbone. Ribs. Breast-bone. Shoulder-bones. Bones of the hip. Bones of the skull. Bones of the limbs. Voluntary muscles. Involuntary muscles. Pharynx. Oesophagus. Stomach. Small intestine. Large intestine. Heart. Arteries. Capillaries. Veins. Larynx, or voice-box. Trachea, or wind pipe. Lungs, or lights. Liver. Kidneys. Skin. Brain. Spinal cord. Nerves. Ganglia. Nerves. QUESTIONS ON LESSON I. 1. What arc the uses of ligaments, cartilage, and tendons^. 2. What are the chief characteristics of muscle ? 3. Enumerate the chief systems of organs, giving the names of the various organs in each system. 4. Describe the organs of the alimentary system.. 5. Give a short description of the organs belonging to the circulatory system. 6. What are the organs connected with respiration ? 7. Name, and briefly describe, those organs which purify the blood by excretion ? 8. Give a brief description of the nervous system. 9. Distinguish between the cerebrospinal and sympathetic systems.ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 2 LESSON II THE SKELETON. Bones of the Trunk. Having briefly considered the general build of the body, we will now study more jnrticularly the nature of the skeleton. This book deals exclusively with the structure and functions of the human body; and, unless otherwise stated, the illustrations all refer to man. Ne\ertheless, it must be remembered that the structure of the human body is in all its broadest features similar to that of many of the lower animals; so much so, that a descrip- tion of the human body may be illustrated by the dissection of one of these animals. It is very desirable, therefore, that even beginners in the study of human physiology should examine the bodies or parts of such animals as can be conveniently procured. Thus, a knowledge of the position and uses of the various parts of the skeleton may be obtained by a thoughtful inspection of the bones of a rabl-it. Or the student may easily prepare for himself a complete skeleton of any small animal by burying the body juKt beneath the suiface of a wet soil. In a few weeKS the llesh will have decomposed to such an extent that the skeleton may be washed clean in running water, and afterwards bleached by exposure to the sun. \\'e shall first study the backbone, or central portion of the skeleton, and the bones directly connected with it. The backbone, vertebral column, or spinal columa is com- posed of a series of bones called vertebrcc (Lat. verto. I turn), and forms a kind of axis with which all the other parts of the skeleton are connected. The base of the skull rests on the uppermost of these vertebi-ffi, and the lower portion of the column is wedged in between the bones of the hip. The backbone is usually said to consist of thirty-three bones, but only twenty-four of these are jointed in such a manner as to be movable on each other, viz. the bones of the neck, back, and loins. The lower part of the column consists of nine bones fused together. The seven highest vertebra belong to the neck, and are called the cervical vertebrae (Lat. cervix, the neck). The next twelve are called the dorsal vertebree (Lat. dorsum, the back); these belong to the back and support the ribs. The remaining five movable vertebrae belong to the loins, and are called the lumbar (Lat. lumoiis, the loin) The lowest lumbar vertebra rests on the broad surface of a13 THE SKELETON kind of curved wedge, formed by the next five vertebra fused together into one firm mass of bone. This wedge is called the sacrum (Lat. sacred), and to its lowest and narrowest end is attached the coccyx (Lat. a cuckoo), which consists of four very im- perfectly formed vertebras, corresponding with the tail in other animals. The sides of the sa- crum are united with the two large hip-bones, and form a basin-like cavity called the pelvis (Lat. a basin). These will be more conveniently described with the bones of the limbs. In order to understand clearly the construction and uses of the vertebral column it will be neces- sary to notice the form of a single vertebra ; and though the vertebras diffei from each other in detail, yet all are constructed on the same plan, and a gene- ral description of one Avill answer for all. A vertebra consists of a bony body from which spring two arches^ the latter uniting in such a manner as to form a kind of ring which encloses the spinal cavity. From the outer circumference of this bony ring are given off three projections, which are called processes. The body is the front portion of the vertebra, and the process which projects from the arch, exactly opposite the Fig. 9.—The Verte- bral Column, viewed from the left side. C 1, first cervical vertebra ; D i, first dorsal vertebra ; 1, I, first lumbar vertebra ; S i, first sacral vertebra,' Co I, first coccygeal vertebra. Fig. 10.—The Verte- bral Column, viewed from behind.ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY body, is called the spinous process. Two other processes arise from the sides of the ring, and are called lateral processes. process ; 4, lateral processes. Fig. 12.—A Cervical Vertebra (3rd). A, viewed from above; B, viewed from the right side. Numbers as in fig. il. Fig. 13.—A Lumbar Vertebra (3rd). A, viewed from above ; b, viewed from the right side. Numbers as in Fig. 11. These projections from the vertebrae serve as places of attachment for the ligaments which hold the bones firmly together ; and also15 THE SKELETON for the muscles by which we are enabled to bend the back and to move those bones that articulate with the vertebral column. Between the bodies of the vertebrae are pads of elastic cartilage or gristle called intervertebral cartilages. These unite the vertebrae, and form with them a flexible column. In old age the cartilages of the backbone become hard and less flexible, so that the back can no longer be bent, except to a very slight extent. The points in which these vertebrae differ from each other may receive a passing notice. The bodies of the vertebrse increase in size from the first cervical to the lowest lumbar, so as to be able to support the greater weight they have to bear. The bodies of the cei-vical vertebra being small, we have seven joints in a short column of bones. This gives great freedom of motion to the head and neck. The first two cervical vertebrae will be specially described in our next lesson. The long spinous pro- cesses of the dorsal vertebra;, which show so plainly in the backs of thin persons, and the large spinous and lateral processes of the lumbar vertebree, serve for the attach- ment of the powerful muscles by which we are enabled to bend the body. The dorsal vertebra are also provided each with two facets, sometimes called the articular pro- cesses, with which the heads of the ribs form movable joints. Fig. 14.—First Dorsal Vertebra, with the first pair of Ribs, and a portion of the Sternum. I, body of the vertebra; 2, spinal cavity ; 3, spinous process : 4, lateral processes ; 5, articular facet of lateral process ; 6, articular facet for the head of the rib. (These two facets form, with the rib, movable joints.) 7, ribs ; 8, cartilage or gristle connecting the ribs with the sternum ; 9, sternum, or breast-bone. It will now be seen that a number of these vertebras, arranged in a column, will not only form a powerful and flexible .support, but that the vertebral arches will form a long bony tube. This tube is called the spinal canal, and contains the great nerve known as the spinal cord, to which the bones of the vertebral column serve as a strong protection. The ribs or costae, twenty-four in number, are curved bones connected in pairs with the dorsal vertebrae behind, and, except the last two_ pairs, with the sternum (Gr. stemon, the breast) or breast-bone in front. Each pair of ribs thus forms a circular arch called a costal arch (fig. 14). That portion of the rib which forms a movable joint with the articular process of the dorsal vertebrae IS termed its head. The other end is in most cases attached byi6 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY means of costal cartilage to t he breast-bone—a long, flat, and soft bone, the lower part of which is formed of flexible cartilage. It will thus be seen that the ribs, together with the backbone and the sternum, form an elastic framework with movable sides. This acts as a protection to the organs contained in the chest or upper portion of the trunk, and assists largely in the process of respira- ^'°"The ribs are not placed horizontally, but incline downwards Pig. 15.—The Bony Framework of the Chest, viewed from the right side. (See also fig. 134-) I, backbone ; 2, ribs : 3. breast-bone. Fig. 16.—The Breast-hone. A, viewed from before ; B, viewed from the right side; i, 2, 3- 4, 5, 6 and 7 are the surfaces to which the correspondmg costal cartilages are attached. from the backbone, so that when they are raised and depressed, as they are during the inspiration and expiration of air in breathing, u'e capacity of the chest is alternately increased and decreased. We may now notice the manner in which the pairs of ribs differ from i,\tW Tn the first place we observe that the upper pairs form sniall17 THE SKELETON rartila-e next above it, so that they are united to each other before they reach the sternum. The eleventh and Iwelftli pairs are not connected at all with the breast-bone. The last five pairs are called false ribs ; and of these the eleventh and twelfth pairs are termed free or floating ribs. The collar-bone, which is attached to the sternum, and the shoulder-blade, which lies behind the upper ribs, will be best described with the bones of the arm. SUMMARY. Taule of the Bones of the Trunk. { Small bodies. ' Neck—7 Cervical VERTEBRAL COLUMN RIBS Back—12 Dorsal. . Loins—5 Lumbar , Sacrum—5 Sacral . Coccyx—4 Coccygeal 7 Pairs true . . 5 Pairs false . . . ^ (Spinous. Processes I L^^^^^l_3n,all. / Give attachment to ribs. Larger bodies. /•Spinous—long, ■p Lateral ^'^"'^^^^^H Articular-^united with ( heads of ribs, j' Very large bodies. ' T ( Spinous. . Long processes f United, forming a wedge. ] Fixed between hip-bones. I" Rudimentary. I Correspond with tail in lower ani- ( mals. I Connected by their own cartilages I with breast-bone. 8th, 9th, and loth pairs—each con- nected with the cartilage above it. iith and 12th pairs—floating or free—fixed at one end only. QUESTIONS ON LESSON II. 1. Describe the structure of the vertebral column. What is the spinal canal 1 2. Describe the structure of a vertebra. How many vertebra belong to the neck, back, and loins respectively ? 3. How are the vertebrae connected with each other ? On what does the flexibility of the vertebral column depend ? 4. In what respects do the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar vertebrae differ from each other ? How do these differences affect their uses ? 5. Describe the sacrum and coccyx. 6. Describe the general arrangement of the ribs. In what respects do they differ from each other ? 7. What are the functions of the vertebral column and ribs ?ELEMENTARY rm^OLOGY Fig i7._Side View of the Skull. bone : 12?superior ma.iUao-; i3 and 14, .nferior max.lla.y. Y\a 18 -Top View of the Skull. .rronta-. bone: p. paneta, bones; o, occipital bono ; «. anU c. su.u...19 LESSON III. THE SKELETON [coulimied). The Skull. The skull consists of the cranium and the face. The cranium is a large and hollow bony case which encloses the brain. The face Fig. 19.—The Under Surface of the Skull. ''.'!;fn;'l°''"'fM'"^-\''°"^'' m' P'''^'^^ sand 8 are on the sphenoid hone; 6, hinder ufwei nnr,Ln^f"^ • ."f K' ^"""^ '• 9.' "t'^ ^heek-bones ; lo, temporal bones ii, tamen magnum.''"^ ^"^^ ' "''"^"^ ''""^ = '3, condyles of the occipital bone forms the front and lower portion of the skull. The cranium is usually said to consist of eight bones and the face of fourteen ; c %20 ELEMENTARY 1>I1YSI0L0GY but it must be understood that in early childhood some of these h n^s consist of parts which are quite d.stmct ; also that, m the adult some of the bones which are considered to be distmct are fused together into one mass. Fig. 20.-The Skull (Front View). The bones of the cranium or brain-case are One occipital. Two parietal. One frontal. Two temporal. One sphenoid. One ethmoid. They ..re united by means of irregular saw-like edges whieh firmly lock them together.21 THE SKELETON The occipital bone (Lat. ob, against; and caput, head) forms tne back and a part of the base of Ihe skull. Its lower portion is perforated by a large circular opening, about an inch and a half in diameter, called the foramen magnum (Lat. forame7i, a hole ; magniis, great), by which the brain cavity is made to communicate with the spinal canal. On each side of the front portion of this cavity is situated a rounded projecting mass of bone called the condyle (Gr. a knuckle). These two condyles fit into two corre- sponding depressions in the first cervical vertebra, thus forming a pair of joints which pemiit of a rocking or nodding motion of the head. The upper edge of the occipital bone is united with the parietal bones (Lat. paries, a wall), which form the side walls and the greater portion of the roof of the cranium. The frontal bone (Lat. frons, the forehead) forms the front of the cranium. It is united with the two parietals behind, and extends over the forehead, forming the roofs of the sockets or orbits of the eyes. The frontal bone in a Fig. 21. - The Sphenoid Bone, viewed from before. young child is divided into two parts by a space which is continuous with the \ine of division between the parietal bones. The base of the skull, in front of the occipital bone, is formed by the sphenoid bone (Gr. spheii, a wedge ; and eidos, form). It much resembles a Ijat in shape. It is wedged in between the other bones of the base of the skull, and extends forward to meet the frontal bone in the orbits. The ethmoid bone (Gr. ethmos, a sieve ; and eidos, form) fills the space between the sockets, and is so called because it is perforated by a large number of small openings, through which the branches of the nerve of smell pass frorn the brain to the nose. This bone is very irregular in form, and extends into the cavities of the nose. ' The temporal bones (Lat. iempus, time) are so called because they are situated in those parts of the head (the temples) where the effects of time are so often first shown by the appearance of white hairs. They are attached tc the sphenoid bone in front, the parietal bones above, and the occipital bone behind. They also send out processes which unite with the cheek-bones, form- ing bony arches.22 ET.EMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY The bones of the face are as follows :— Two inferior turbinated. One vomer. Two malar. 'l\vo superior maxillary. Two palatal. Two nasal. Two lachrymal. One inferior maxillary. The superior maxillary bones (Lat. maxilla, a jaw) f.jrm the upper jaw, and the greater portion of the palate or roof of the mouth. In them are hxed the upper set of teeth. Behind these bones are the two palatal bones (Lat. palatum, the roof of the mouth), which form the hinder portion of the palate. The nasal bones (Lat. nasus, the nose) are two very small bones, situated between the sockets of the eyes, and forming the upper and hard ridge of the nose. Very near these bones, separated from them by a narrow portion of the superior maxillaries, are two sinall bones called the lachrymal bones, Fig. 22.—The Inferior Maxillary Bone. c, the condyles, which articulate with the temporal bones. "empoTal ^^^k »hiih hn« akeady been ,„«U,o„e<l. The The remaining bone of the i^^e is J , ^ 1^^^,^^. ^^t of teeth. It It is the largest bone in the ace and f ^ '^^^V^i^rocesses which form ^SSln r t^J^^ ^^ese joil are so constructed23 THE SKELETON that the lower jaw has not only a vortical movement, hut is capable also ol mol'ion sideways and backwards and forwards. _ It will be observed that several bones enter into the formation of the orbits or sockets of the eyes. The upper part of each orbit is formed by the frontal and sphenoid bones ; the inner portion by the lachrymal plate ; the lower portion by the superior maxillary ; and the outer portion by the malar or cheek-bone. These orbits (Lat. orbita, a track in which a body turns) con- tain the eyeballs, the muscles which turn the eyeball, and a certain anaount of fatty matter which acts as a padding to protect the delicate organ of vision. We must now notice how the head turns on the vertebral column. It has already been seen that the skull rocks or nods Y\g. 23.—The Atlas, or First Cervical Vertebra; viewed from ahove. 1, the anterior arch; 2, the posterior arch ; 3, spinal cavity ; 4, lateral processes ; 5 marks the position of the odontoid peg of the axis ; 6, concave surfaces whicli articulate with the occipital bone. The dotted line marks the position of the ligament which secures the peg. The body is absent, but is represented by the odontoid peg of the axis. Fig. 24. —The Axis, or Second Cervical Vertebra. A, viewed from .above and behind ; b, viewed from the right side ; i, odontoid process ; 2, body; 3, spinal cavity ; 4, lateral processes ; 5, spinal process. on the vertebral axis by means of a pair of joints, formed by projections {condyles) of the occipital bone, and the corresponding depressions or sockets in the first cervical vertebra, the atlas. But, were these the only joints permitting a movement of the head, that motion would be restricted to nodding. We know, however, that the head turns freely to right and left. This is explained as follows. The second cervical vertebra, the axis, sends upward a tooth-like projection called the odontoid process (Gr. odoiis^ tooth ; and eidcs, form). This peg forms an axis on which the atlas turns, and is kept in its position against the front inner surface of the atlas by means of a powerful ligament. Thus, when the headELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY. 24 turns to right or left, the skull and the alias move together, both rotating on the process of the axis. SKULL Cranium (brain-case) \ Face Bones forming' the Orbits SUMMARY. 1 Occipital—at back and base of skull — foranien magniuii. 2 Parietal—the side walls and roof. 1 Frontal—the forehead bone. 2 Temporal —bones of the temples. I Sphenoid—irregular, bat-shaped. 1 Ethmoid—spongy, between the nasal and brain cavities. 2 Superior maxillary—upper jaw. 2 Palatal—form back part of palate. 2 Nasal—form the bridge of the nose. 2 Lachrymal—on nasal side of orbits- con- tain the tear ducts. 2 Turbinated—scroll-shaped bones of the nose. , , r 1 1 Vomer—separates the right and left nasal cavities. 2 Malar—cheek-bones. I Inferior maxillary—the lower jaw. Lachrymal—inner portion. Superior maxillary—under portion. Malar—outer portion. QUESTIONS ON LESSON III. How many bones go to I Distinguish between skull, cranium, and face. 2, the cranium. How are these bones united with Desc?ibe°?riefly the positions and forms of the bone, of the cranimn. ^^^l?^^^.^flamen magmim. ? Where is it,_and wha is Us use Describe the arrangement by which the head is enabled to nod. r; VP 1 list of the bones which form the lace. ,., ^ , r .i L^ wl^dfof tiese bones are the teeth fixed ; and which of them form tl. 8 L1h"?er of the joint by which we move the lower jaw 7 o Nime the bones which form the orbits of the eyeball.. ,o. DesSie tl'e arrangement which enables us to turn the head to the ugh. and left. r i i. i 11. Make out a table of all the bones of the head. 3- 4- 5- 6. 7-25 LESSON IV. THE SKELETON {continued^. The Bones of the Limbs. Each of the upper extremities consists of the shoulder, the upfie/ arm, the forearm, the wrist, and the hand. The bones of these Hmbs may be classified as follows : — } Togetherfo™i„g,he..WW/.. Humerus or bone of the upper arm. Radius ]- In Carpal or wrist-bones. Metacarpal bones, in the palm of the ha?id. Phalanges ox finger-hones. The clavicle (Lat. clavis, a key) is so called from its fancied resemblance to an ancient key. It is commonly known as the collar-bone. One end of it articulates with the top of the sternum, and the other extremity forms a joint with the scapula near its junction with the bone of the upper arm. The clavicle tends to keep the shoulders back. It is short and imperfectly formed in the rounded shoulders of the cat and the dog ; and in the horse and the sheep it is wanting. It forms, however, an essential part of the skeleton of the monkey, the squirrel, and other climbing animals. The scapula or shoulder-blade is triangular in form ; it con- sists of a broad flat portion, and a prominent ridge or spine at the back of this. The front surface is smooth and concave, and glides over the back convex surface of the chest. The outer end of the clavicle articulates with one of the two processes which project from the top of the scapula, and is attached to the other process by means of strong ligaments. At the upper and inner part of the scapula there is a shallow concave surface—the glenoid cavity (Gr. glen", the pupil ; ^wAeidos, form)—which receives the rounded head of the bone of the upper arm. It will thus be seen that the scapula is united to other bones only at or near the shoulder-joint. It has, therefore, great freedom of motion. The humerus or bone of the upper arm is very strong. It consists of a long portion called the shaft, and two enlaro-ed ex- tremities called the heads. As already mentioned, the upper head26 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY Fig. 26.—The Riglit Scapula from behind. I, edge of the glenoid cavity; 2, the blade ; 3, the spine ; 4, the process which articulates with the outer extremity of the clavicle. 1 Fig. 25.--Bones of the Upper Limb. Fig. 27.-The Shoulder-Girdle and Head of the , clavicle; scapula; 3, hu- ^ HumerUS merus : 4. "1"^; 5, radius ; . ^( the scapula ; V blade . 4, ^lenoul 6, carpal bones ; 7. m'^t^" '"''"'^"•'^ ' ^^^'^uy ; 5. head ol the humerus, carpal bones ; 8, phalanges.27 THE SKELETON fits into the glenoid cavity of the scapula. The joint thus formed permits of a greater freedom of movement than any other joint in the body. This is due to the fact that the head of the humerus is much larger than the shallow cavity which receives it. On this account, too, the shoulder-joint would be very easily dislocated, were it not that the two processes of the scapula bend over the 5, metacarpal bones ; 6, phalanges. cular ligament. head of the humerus and prevent its getting out of joint when too great pressure is brought to bear on it. In the forearm there are two bones—the idna and the radius. The ulna (Lat. the elbow) is thick at its upper extremity, which forms a hinge joint (a joint which allows of motion in one plane only, like the hinge of a door) with the lower head of the humerus. This extremity of the ulna also sends a projection behind tlie28 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY humerus, forming the olecranon process ((ir. oktie^ihe. elbow; and kranion, the top) or prominence of tlic elbow, which gives attach- ment to certain muscles, and prevents the forearm from moving too for back. The radius is slender at the toj), where its shallow cup-like end articulates with a convex surface furnished by the humerus. Its lower extremity is enlarged, and gives attachment to the bones of the wrist. If we rest the forearm flat on a table, with the palm of the hand uppermost (an attitude which is called supination), the ulna and the radius are parallel with each other. If we now turn the hand round till its back is uppermost {pronation) the ulna does not change its position; but the lower end of the radius turns round this bone, crossing it, and carrying the hand with it. Thus the upper slender end of the radius rotates on a pivot formed by a rounded portion of the lower head of the humerus, and is held in its position by a circular ligament, while its lower extremity revolves round the ulna. The wrist is composed of eight small bones, called carpal bones (Gr. karpos, the wrist), arranged in two rows of four. These bones are united with one another and with the neighbouring bones by means of ligaments, in such a manner that each one is capable of a slight ghding motion. The wrist is thus rendered flexible ; and this flexi- bility, combitied with the rotatory motion of the radius, gives great freedom of movement to the hand. Five long bones, called metacarpal bones (Gr. uieta, beyond ; and karpos, the wrist), form the palm of the hand. One of these passes from the wrist to the thumb, and the other four from the wrist to the fingers. These bones may be easily felt oy pressmg the fin'-ers of one hand over the back of the other. It will, o course, be observed that the metacarpal bone which is connected with the thumb is capable of motion to a for greater degree than the others. It is on this that the utility of the thumb depends, for we are enabled to move the thumb round till it is m opposition to the fingers, and thus to firmly grasp large objects and to pick up small ones. Fig. 31 The Right Hand from before. carpal bones ; m, metacarpal bones ; I, 2, and 3, phalanges.Fig. 32.—The Bones of the Tipper and Lower Limbs, so placed as to show corresponding parts. B, The Upper Limb. 1, scapula. 2, glenoid cavity 3, humerus. 4, radius 1 j^^^^^^ 5i ulna I 6, carpus or wrist —8 bones. 7, metacarpus. • 8, ph.ilanees of fingers. The patella has no corresponding part in the arm. _A, The Lower Limb. 1, OS innominatum. 2, acetabulum. 3, femur. sifibutah"^" 6, tarsus or ankle—7 bones. 7, metatarsus. 8, phalanges of toes. 9, patella.ET.EMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 30 The phalanges {(ir. pJialanx^ a line of soldiers ; a rank) of the fingers are united to the metacarpal bones. There are three of these in each finger and two in the thumb, making a total of fourteen for each hand. The bones of the lower extremities are :— Pelvic or hip bones. Femur or thigh-bone. Patella or knee-cap. Tibia or shin-bone. Fibula or splint-bone. Tarsal or afikle-loJies. Metatarsal or instep-bones. Phalanges or toe-bones. The bones of the calf. The pelvic or hip-bones are also called the ossa innominata or innominate bones (Lat. in, not : and nomen, a name). If we Fig. 33-—Pelvis and Sacrum, seen from before. I, sacrum ; 2, ilium; 3, ischium ; 4, Pubis ; 5, acetabulum. examine these in the skeleton of a young child, we find that each OS innominatum is composed of three distinct parts which meet at a deep cup-lik6 depression called the acetabulum (Lat^, a cup for holding vinegar). The broad upper portiori is called the ilinm (Gr eUeo, I twist); the lower part, the ischium (Gr. uchton, the hip); and that portion which is joined to the other innominate ^"""ThtlcSulum receives the rounded head of the thigh bone. The bones of the pelvis are supported like a bridge on the legs as pillars, and serve in turn as a support.for the internal organs of the abdomen or lower part of the trunk.THE SKELETON 3I The femur or thigh-bone corresponds with the humerus of the 'irm In general form it resembles that bone, but is much larger ^ and stronger, having to bear the weight of the body. Its upper extremity is provided with a rounded head which articulates with the acetabulum of the hip-bone, forming a ball-and-socket joint, somewhat similar to that of the upper arm, but differing in one important respect. The rounded head of the femur is much more prominent than that of the humerus, and the acetabulum is much deeper than the glenoid cavity of the scapula. Thus the thigh has not the freedom of motion of the humerus, but is less easily dislocated. The calf-bones, like those of the fore.- arm, are two in number—the tibia or shin-bone, and the fibula (Lat. a clasp or buckle) or splint-bone. These bones cor- respond with the ulna and the radius, but the fibula does not rotate round the Fig. 34.—Right foot, viewed from above. a, b, cd, c, /, g; and h, the tarsal Dones ; I to V, meta- tarsal bones ; i and 3, pha- langes of great toe ; i, 2, and 3, phalanges of second toe. Fig. 35.—The Bones of the Foot, viewed from the side, showing the arched form. tibia as does the radius round the ulna ; it is slender throughout its length, and is firmly fixed to the tibia at both ends. The32 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY tibia forms, witli the femur, the hinge knee-joint wliich corre- sponds with the similar ioint of the elbow. The knee-joint is protected by a small bone, the patella (Lat. a little plate), called also the knee-cap and the knee-pan. The bones of t\\e foot consist of the /arsal or ank/e-l?ones, the metatarsal or instep-bones, and the phalanges of the toes. The tarsal bones are seven in number. One of them is much larger than the others, and, projecting backward, forms the heel. 1 he metatarsal bones are similar to the metacarpal bones of the hand. They are five in number, and are connected with the phalanges of the toes The number of bones in the toes is the same as in the fingers and thumb, the great toe representing the thumb. The foot is arched in form, and is prevented from falling flat by powerful ligaments. This arched form gives great strengtli combined with elasticity. SUMMARY. / Clavicle or Collar- bone Shoulder-girdle _ Scapula or Shoulder- ^ blade Upper arm . Humerus /Ulna Forearm VRadius. Wrist or Carpus 8 Carpal bones . . Hand ... 5 Metacarpal bones Fingers. . . 14 Phalanges. . articulates with sternum and scapula. Blade. Spine. Glenoid cavity—articulates with upper rounded head of humerus, forming a ball- and-socket joint. Process — articulates with clavicle. Upper head—articulates with glenoid cavity. Shaft. Lower head—articulates with radius and ulna, forming a hinge joint. Upper head large—articu- lates with the humerus. Shaft. Lower head small. ■ Upper head small—bound to the ulna by a circular liga- ment. Shaft. Lower head large-articu- lates with the carpus. ( Slight gliding movement, \ rendering the wrist flex- i ible. J Connecting the fingers and I thumb with the wrist. ( 2 in the thumb, i 3 in each finger.THE SKELETON 33 Hip . o Thigh Knee Leg . Ankle Instep Toes. 2 Ossa innominata Femur Patella /Tibia Fibula 7 Tarsal bones & Metatarsal bones 14 Phalanges. . Ilium. Ischium. Pubis. Acetabulum—a cavity which articulates with the round- ed head of the femur— ball and socket. Upperhead—articulates with the acetabulum. Shaft. Lower head—forms a hinge joint with the head of the tibia. Protects the knee-joint. Upper head—articulates with the femur. Shaft. Lower head—articulates with the ankle. Slender throughout its length. Fixed to the tibia at both ends. ( Connect the bones of j toes with those of ( ankle. ( 2 in the great toe. 1 3 in each of the others. the the I. 2. J* 4- 5- 6. 7- 9- lo. II. QUESTIONS ON LESSON IV. Describe the form and arrangement of the bones of the shoulder-girdle. Describe and compare the joints of the shoulder and elbow. In what way is the motion of the forearm limited ? How are the various movements of the hand brought about ? Describe the structure of the wrist. On what does its flexibility depend ' Describe the arrangement of the bones in the hand. Describe the arrangement of the bones in the thigh and leg. How does this arrangement differ from that in the corresponding parts of the upper limb ? Compare the shoulder-joint with that of the hip; and the elbow-joint with that of the knee. Compare the arrangement of bones in the leg with that in the forearm Describe the bones of the ankle and the foot. Write out in tabular form, a complete list of the bones in both upper and lower limbs; and in such correspond. manner as to show the parts which D \34 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY LESSON V. LIGAMENTS. CARTILAGE. JOINTS. The ligaments are strong, white, fibrous bands^ which bind the bones together. Being more or less elastic, they allow of the necessary freedom of motion to the bones, and at the same tmic protS the joints from external injury and tend to prevent d.slo '''''li;ese ligamentous bands may easily be observed by carefully ^^S- t-7T.^iZ. Fic. 37.-The Shoulder-Joint, showing Ligaments ments of the Elbow- i/. and Tendon .moving the «esh f.o. a c U a r^^^-^^ It may be nofced at the same t, ^^.^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^ irranel t»dot and tW mustno^be confused .vithligaments, which always bind bone to bone- ^ ^ substance. B^rif p^^orednr:h;^^aty^dening of cartUage. TheLIGAMENTS. CARTILAGE. JOINTS !5 skeleton of a very young animal consists entirely of cartilage, and as the animal develops into maturity, the bones become gradu- ally harder by the slow absorption of mineral matter derived from its food substances, till at last the skeleton consists almost entirely of bone. Cartilage is not supplied with blood, hence it is white or semi- transparent. When boiled for some time with water, it yields a substance called ehon- drine (Gr. choiidros, cartilage), which closely resembles gelatine, be- ing soluble in hot water and forming a ' jelly' on cooling. Those cartilages which are converted into bone during growth are called temporary cartilag-es; whilst those which remain un- changed are termed permanent cartilages. The uses of carti- lage are various. It is tough, fiexible, and elastic; and will be found in all parts of the body where these properties are essenrial. Sometimes it helps to form a flexible frame- work, as in the costal cartilages of the walls of the chest. The intervertebral carti- arf flevl.li'' '"f'^'j^^" Cartilages7f are tlexible pads which the Breast. bind the vertebras to- ''°"..^heendsoftheribs, with their cosul cartilages and gether, at the same enVT^lTt.ZT'""'f'^''^^^^^^ rime allowing a certain £^^=r.:ii.^r{^ffl^aSt degree of movement, the effect of a blow or shock" tlth'erust^rcl^tilte'r'lf n 236 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY rleenen the bony sockets of various joints by surrounding them at fheh ed'es in the form of a ring. The sockets^ thus deepened are better enabled to hold the rounded heads of the bones which Yig, 39.—Interior Surface of the Parietal Bone, Showing the irregular, notched edges of the suture. Fig 40.-Section of the Eight Foot. ^LIGAMENTS. CARTILAGE. JOINTS 37 which glide over each other. In such cases the cartilaginous surfaces are smooth, thus making the motion easier. The cartilage which serves this purpose is called articular cartilage. Joints are distinguished as immovable and movable. Immovable joints are those in which the bones are in actual contact, i.e. without any intervening cartilage ; and are incapable of motion on each other. In some such joints, as in the skull, Fig. 41.—The Joints of the Pelvis. I, ligament of t_he_vertebrae ; 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8, other ligaments ; 9 and 10, ball and socket joint of the hip in part dissected, to show the synovial cavity ; and also the ligament {liga- 77tenUim teres) which connects the ball of the femur with the interior of the acetabulum. each bone has a very irregular sawlike edge, and the teeth or pro- jections of the opposite edges are firmly dovetailed together. Immovable joints are often called sutures (Lat. sutura, a seam). Movable joints are those in which the bones forming them are capable of motion against each other. These joints are sub- divided into pei-fed or complete^ and imperfect or incomplete. The perfect joints are of four kinds, viz :—(i) gliding-joints, consisting of bones which slide over each other, as those of the ankle and wrist; (2) ball and socket joints, consisting of a rounded head which rotates in a hollow socket, as the hip-joint and shoulder-joint; (3) hinge joints, like those of the elbow and the38 ELKMICNTARY PHYSIOLOGY knee ; and (4) pivot joints, in which a projection of one bone serves as a pivot for the rotation of the other, as the joint formed by the atlas and the axis. In each of these joints the articulating surfaces of the bones are covered with a thin layer of articular cartilage, and thi.^ Fig_ 42.—Section througli the Pivot Joint formed by the Atlas and the Axis. I, section through the odontoid peg, ' showing synovial cavities before and behind ; 2, cut portion of the atlas ; 3, the transverse ligament which holds the peg ; 4, surface of the atlas which articulates with the skull. Fig, 43.—A Lumbar Vertebra, Viewed from above, showing the inter- vertebral disc of cartilage. Fig. 44.-Section through Lumbar Vertebrae, Showing an Intervertebral disc of cartilage. rartihee is acain covered with a membrane called the synovial scp.uated from each other by a layer of carflage. The bones,LIGAMENTS. CARTILAGE. JOINTS 3$ therefore, do not move on each other, but all motion is due to the flexibility of the layer of cartilage between them. The vertebrae with the intervertebral cartilages form such joints. SUMMARY. 1. Ligaments bind bones together. 2. Tendons connect muscles with bones. 3. Cartilage is tough, flexible, and elastic. When boiled it yields cJion- (iriite, which resembles gelatine. Chondrine is insoluble in cold water, but dissolves in hot water, forming a jelly on cooling. -becomes converted into bone in adults, not converted into bone. 5. Kinds of Cartilage :— {a) Temporm-y- {b) Permanent- 6. Uses of Cartilage :— {a) Forms strong yet flexible frameworks. {b) Acts as buffers in deadening shocks and blows. {c) Deepens the sockets of joints ; example—the hip-joint. {d) Covers the articulating surfaces of bones, thus reducing the friction. Immovable, 7. JOINTS - /Perfect . Movable . Imperfect Sutures—skull. / Gliding joints—ankle and wrist. Ball-and-socket joints—• shoulder and hip. Hinge joints—elbow and knee. Pivot joints—^joint of atlas and axis. Vertebral joints. QUESTIONS ON LESSON V. 1. What are ligaments 1 Where are they to be found ? 2. ^Vhat is the difference between ligament and tendon ? 3. What is car/z'/fljij ? Describe its chief characteristics. 4. Describe the chief uses of cartilage. Illustrate your description by reference to various parts of the body. 5. Describe briefly the various kinds oi joints, giving examples of each kind 6. Describe the manner in which the bones of the skull are united to each other. 7. By what means are the bones enabled to move smoothly over each other ' 8. Describe the ankle and wrist joints. 9. Give a full description of the shoulder-joint. Illustrate your answer bv a sketch. ^ 10. Draw a sketch and give a description of the hip-joint. Show how the bones forming this joint are held together. 11. Give an example and explain the action of a pivot joint. 12. Describe the manner in which the bones of the vertebral column are con- nected together. 13. Write out in tabular form, a list of all the various kinds of joints, givine examples of each kind. ' & s 14. Why in old age is the back generally stiff"?ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 40 LESSON VI. THE COMPOSITION AND STRUCTURE OF BONE. Weigh a bone of a rabbit, sheep, or other animal, and then put it into a hot and clear fire. Let it remain till it is at a red heat throughout. Now remove it carefully from the fire, let it cool, and weigh again. It will be noticed that the bone has lost about one-third of its original weight, and that what remains is a white and brittle substance. That which has been burnt away by the fire is the organic or animal matter of the bone ; while that which remains is the earthy or mineral substance, sometimes called the ash. From this we learn that bone consists of about thirty-three per cent, of animal matter, and about sixty-seven per cent, of mineral matter. The proportion of animal to mineral substance is not the same in all bones. The sternum and the scapiila contain a smaller proportion of mineral matter than other bones. The flexible bones of a young child also contain little mineral substance, while the brittle bones of aged persons contain a much larger proportion. In the above experiment we completely destroyed the animal matter, and obtained the pure mineral substance or hone ash. By the following experiment we shall be able to dissolve out all the mineral substance, and thus obtain the animal matter :— Place a bone taken from a recently killed animal in a vessel of weak hydrochloric {muriatic) acid {one part of the strong acid to about six of water), and let it remain for a day or two completely covered by the acid. Now pour off the liquid, and cover the bone with fresh acid, setting it aside agam for some time. It will be noticed that the bone gradually becomes softer under this treatment, till at last it is flexible and elastic, like a piece of india- rubber. This is due to the gradual removal of the mineral substance it con- tained. This experiment teaches us that the hardness of hone is due to its mineral matter, and that the animal substance resembles cartilage or gristle. In this experiment we notice also that the mass of animal matter retains the form of the bone from which it was obtained. In our first experiment, too, we found that the mass of mmeral substance was also of the same form as the bone. Hence we conclude that both animal and mineral substances are weU blended together in the bones. The animal matter of bone may be converted mto gelatme in the following manner :— Take some bones that have been recently removed from the body of an animal, break them in pieces, and boil them in water for a considerable time. After this pour off the liquid and let it cool. As it does so it will iorm aTHE COMPOSITION AND STRUCTURE OF BONE 41 jelly. The animal matter of the bone has been partially separated by pro- longed boiling, and has been converted into gelatine. While Studying the skeleton the student will have noticed that the different bones of the body vary considerably in shape. They are generally classified as— I- Long bones, as the femur and humerus. :"*'^'^;"^S^^^I\ 2. Short bones, as those of the wrist and iMW^ ankle. 3. Flat bones, as those of the top of the skull. Irregular bones, as the vertebras. Fig. 45.—Longitu- dinal Section of tlie Femur, show- ing the Compact and Cancellous Tissues, and the Medullary Cavity. Fig. 46—Section of the head of the Femur. a, compact tissue ; 5, cancellous tissue. The long bones, like the femur, tibia, &c., consist of a long sAa/l, terminating at each end in a /zead. Take a long bone, such as the femur (which should be from an animal recently Nnw Innl- n^ ^^illed), and saw it longitudinally into halves. ronTnirrnVft H "'"'^''^^"^ Structure of the bone, compaimg it with the accompanying diagrams. It will be seenELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 42 that the bone consists of two distinct kinds of substance. Its outer portion is composed of a very hard and compact substance, somewhat resembUng ivory. This is called the compact or dense tissue. It is thickest along the shaft, and is very thin around the heads. The heads of the bone are filled with a less compact mass, which is so porous and light that it is called the spongy or cancellous (Lat. cancelli, a grating) tissue. In addition to these two kinds of tissue, the central cavity of the bone contains a soft pulpy substance, called the marrow ; the cavity itself is called the medullary cavity. The marrow consists of fat cells and blood- vessels supported by a very delicate connecting membrane. The Fig. 47.—Transverse Section of the Compact Tissue of Bone. Magnified 150 diameters. I, Haversian canals ; 2, lacunae ; 3, laminae. blood-vessels enter the cavity through small openmgs m the compact tissue, which may be seen on the outer surface of the bone. There is also a kind of marrow in the pores of the cancel- lous tissue, but it differs from that of the medullary cavity, m that it is reddish in colour, more fluid, and contains much less fat. The short and the irregular bones have no medullary cavity, but consist of a thin outer layer of compact tissue, filled in with cancellous tissue. The flat bones consist of a layer of cancellous tissue between two layers of the compact tissue. _ That part of a bone which assists in formmg a joint is covered with a smooth layer of articular cartilage. The rcmamder of theTHE COMPOSITION AND STRUCTURE OF BONE 43 surface is covered with a tough and fibrous membrane, called periosteum (Gr. peri, around, and osteo?i, a bone). Blood is supplied to the bone by small vessels from this periosteum, which pierce the bone underneath it. Other small vessels pierce the articular extremities, and pass to the cancellous tissue. The circulation of blood within the substance of the bone is brought about by means of a number of minute canals, which are to be found in all parts of the bone. Fig. 48.—Section parallel to tlie surface from tlie Shaft of the Femur. Magnified 100 diameters. a, Haversian canals ; b, c, lacunas. In order to study the minute structure of bone it will be necessary to cut a very thin slice from the compact tissue, and grind this down till it is semi- transparent. If the cutting be made transversely, it will show, under the microscope, cross sections of minute canals, called Haversian canals from Havers, who first discovered them. These canals vary in size, the average diameter being about ^ of an inch. The Haversian canals are surrounded by small, irregular spaces called lacunae (Lat. cavities), arranged in con- centric circles, and so giving the bone a laminated appear.ancc. Thp lacuna?44 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY comnninicate with each other, and with the Haversian canals, by means oi very mimite canaliculi which radiate from them in all directions. If the section of bone be made longitudinally instead of transversely, then the Haversian canals will be opened along their length, as they run in the direction of the long axis of the bone. They will then be seen to branch and communicate with one another. The Haversian canals are well supplied with blood-vessels. The canali- culi and lacuna? take up the nutrient matter from the blood, and distribute it throughout the bone. SUMMARY. Bone. COMPOSITION . -{ Animal Matter STEUCTURE. Long bones Short bones Flat bones Irregular bones Mineral Matter . ■< / May be dissolved out by acid. Forms the done ash when a bone \x burnt. Forms about two-thirds the weight of bone. Least in the flexible bones of a child. Most in the brittle bones of aged persons. \ Less in the sternum and uapula. Resembles cartilage—'n, flexible and elastic. Yields gelatine on boiling. Forms generally about one-third the weight of bone. {Humerus, Raditts, Examples | Ulna, Femur, Tibia, I Filmla. Articulating portion, covered with smooth Heads cartilage. { Shaft Thin compact tissue. Filled with cancellous tissue. (Thick compact tissue. \ Often contains a meduC- \ lary cavity, i Composed of blood-ves- V „ sels and fat. Marrow j Supported by delicate \ connective tissue. ( Examples—Bones q{ wrist and ankle. \ Thin compact tissue. \ Filled with cancellous tissue. (Frontal, Parietal, ' 1 Occipital. C Layer of camellous ,j tissue. I Two layers of com- \ pact tissue. r Examples— Vertebra:. \ Structure—Similartoshortbones. Examples ComposedTHE COMPOSITION AND STRUCTURE OF BONE 45 INVESTMENT . Articular Carti- lage. ICovers articulating surfaces. Smooth. Covered with synovial membrane. Periosteum Strong fibrous membrane. ■ Covers the bone with the exception of articulating surfaces. ' About in. in diameter. Run lengthwise through the compact tissue. MINUTE STRUCTURE, Haversian Canals \ Branched. Contain blood-vessels. Cummunicate with lacttnce hy means of canaliculi. i Surround Haversian canals in rings, k Lacunae ... -I Give off canaliculi in all directions. I Absorb and distribute nutriment. QUESTIONS ON LESSON VL 1. How would you remove the animal matter from bone, so as to obtain the mineral substance it contains ? 2. How would you obtain gelacine from bone ? 3. What is bone ash ? How would you obtain it ? 4. How would you remove the whole of the mineral or earthy substance from a bone, in order to get the animal matter ? 5. Describe the composition of bone. Do bones vary at all in composition ? If so, give illustrations. 6. WTiat are the differences between the bones of a young child, the bones of a middle-aged adult, and the bones of persons of extreme age ? 7. Describe the different kinds of bones, pointing out their variations in structure. 8. What is marrow ? What is its use ? 9. Compare the structure of the pa-rietal bone with that of the femur. JO. With what kinds of covering are bones invested ? 11. How are bones supplied with blood ? 12. Describe the mimtte structure of bone, as revealed by the microscope. Illustrate your description by sketches. By removing the skin which forms the exterior covering of the body, we expose to view masses of flesh or muscle (see fig. 3), similar in appearance and structure to what we call lean meat, which is really the muscle of the various animals used for food. The general character of muscle may well be studied by examining a piece of beef. It is reddish in colour, but this is due to the presence of blood, which circulates through every part of it. LESSON VII. THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM.ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 46 If we steep a piece of beef for a very long time in cold water, a large proportion of the blood oozes out and tinges the water, leaving the ilesh or muscle of o pale whitish colour. We notice also that it is composed of fibres. A large number of these mus- cular fibres, arranged side by side, and bound together by a skin or membrane, form a muscle ; and the various muscles of the body make up the muscular system. 'J"here are two kinds of muscles, voluntary and in- voluntary. The former, being under the control of the will, are those which give us the power of volun- tary motion and of loco- motion ; and these form the great bulk of the muscular system. The latter kind are to be found distributed in the substance of various in- ternal organs, and in the walls of blood-vessels; and are concerned in producing those movements over which the will has no control, such the beating of the heart. as and the motions of the sto- mach and intestines. Both voluntary and involuntary muscles are composed of fibres, but there is a distinct difference in the form of the fibres, as will be shown pre- sently. Most of the voluntary muscles are connected with bones at one or both ends, and every fibre composing them has the power, under the mfluence of the will, of contracting in length. One end of such a muscle is generally fas- tened by means of a tendon to a fixed bone, and the other end to the bone to be moved; so that when the muscular fibres contract, the whole muscle shortens, becoming consequently thicker in the middle, and causing one of the bones to be moved. Fig. 49. -Front View of the Muscles of tlie Trunk.THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 47 As an illustration of this, lay the left forearm on a table before you, and crasp the mass of flesh which forms the front of the upper arm with the right hand Now gradually raise the left forearm, still keeping the elbow on the table' and notice how the muscle thickens as the hand rises. The chief muscle engaged in this motion is one called the biceps muscle (Lat. bi, two; and caput, a head), because at its upper extremity it has two heads with separate tendons. These tendons are united to the scapula at the shoulder- joint, while the lower tendon is fastened to the radius, very near the elbow- joint.' The points of union with the fixed bone (the scapula) are called the points of origin of the mus- cle ; the point at which the muscle is attached to the bone to be moved (the radius) is called its point of insertion ; and the thick, fleshy, middle part of the muscle is known as its body. Some few of the muscles have no tendons, the muscular fibres being connected directly with the bone ; while others, instead of being of the form just described, are broad and flat muscular sheets. Some muscles are not connected in any way with bones. These often enclose cavi- ties, in which case they are called hollow muscles, and are generally of the involuntary kind. Exam- ples are to be seen in the heart and stomach. After a bone has been moved by a mus- cle, it is brought back to its former position by the contraction of a second muscle on its opposite side. Hence we find that muscles are generally arranged in pairs, ea^h muscle of a pair being antagonistic in its action to the other. Those muscles which are used to bend the limbs are called flexors; while those which straighten the limbs are called tensors. so.—Side View of the Muscles of tlie Face and Neck. ex- _ Muscles may be made to contract by the application of some kind of stimulus or irritant. The stimulus is generally conveyed to the muscular fibres by means of the nerve which distributes its branches among them. But muscular contraction may also be produced by mechanical irritation, such as48 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY pinching or cutting ; or l)y electrical in ilalioii, such as is produced hy the electric shock ; or Ijy cheiiiical sliiimli, such as irritant poisons. Muscles may be made to respond to stimuli not only during life, but also shortly after death has occurred. Thus, the limbs of a recently killed frog may be made to jump violently by sending an electric current through them. Just after death, the muscles of an animal are soft and pliant as during life; but after a short time they become so stiff and Fig, 51.—Back View of the Muscles of the Trunk. Fig. ^2.—Back View of the Muscles of the Arm. The large central muscle of the upper arm is the biceps mrtscle. hard that it is impossible to bend the limbs without a danger of injuring the bones or joints. This death-stifFening, or rigor mortis is due to the coagulation (Lat. co, together, and ago, I drive) of a fluid substance in the muscle, called myosin. In the humanTHE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 49 body this coagulation usually sets in at from four to six hours after death, and continues for one, two, or three days, The erect position of the human body is maintained by the combined influence of a large number of muscles acting at the same time. The whole weight of the body rests on the arches of the feet; and the body may be supported in any position providing its centre of gravity is situated vertically over any point in the space enclosed by the feet. On account of the large number and suppleness of the joints, the centre of gravity cannot be main- tained in such a position as described above without the contraction of certain muscles which give a degree of rigidity to the body. (Fig. 54.) The muscles of the calf prevent the body from falling forward, but the contraction of these alone would pull the body backward, as they act on the thigh-bone, just above and behind the knee-joint. These muscles are therefore opposed by another set in front of the thigh, which connect the hip-bone above with the bones of the leg below the knee, and which, by their contraction, pull the leg straight. Then, again, these muscles tend to pull the trunk of the body forward, but they are balanced by the powerful muscles of the buttocks and back. Further, the contraction of the muscles of the back of the neck would pull the head backward, were it not for the contraction of antagonistic muscles which connect the lower part of the face with the sternum and collar-bone. When a person begins to walk, he first inclines the body for- ward, then raises one foot, swings the leg forward one step, and puts the foot to ground again. Now, just for a moment, the legs form with the ground an isosceles triangle, and consequently the trunk of the body is a little lower. But, before the foot reaches the ground, the contraction of the calf of the other leg raises th^ heel, and propels the body forward. The weight of the body is thrown on the first foot, and the one behind swings forward and E Fig- S3-~The Biceps Muscle. I, clavicle ; 2, scapula ; 3, humerus ; 4, radius : 5, ulna; 6, the biceps muscle.ET>EM N TARY P11YSIOLOGY passes in front of the other. A forward motion is thus given to the body, which is maintained without the • » expenditure of much muscular force. It ^r~^cl will be observed that both feet are never ~ off the ground at the same time in walking; also that, as the forward motion of each leg is a S7vinging motion, it follows the law of pendulum motion—the longer the pendulum the more slowly it swings. Hence the natural step of a child is quicker than that of a tall man. Running differs from walking in that the heels are never brought to the ground, and both feet are off the ground at the same time for a brief period at each stride. The contraction of the muscles is also much more rapid, and, in ^ addition, the sudden straightening of the legs, by the contraction of the muscles of the thighs, adds greatly to the force with which the body is propelled forward. Jumping resembles running, as far as the action of individual muscles is con- cerned, but both legs act simultaneously instead of alternately, so that the body is thrown forward to a greater distance. Fig. 54.—Diagram showing the Action of the chief Muscles which keep the Body erect. Muscles which tend to keep the body from falling forward. I, muscles of the calf; 2, of the back of the thigh; 3, of the spinal column. Muscles which tend to keep the body from falling backward. i' muscles of the front of the leg ; 2', of the front of the thigh; 3', of the front of the abdomen; 4', of the front of the neck. The arrows indicate the direction ' ' m which these muscles act. QUESTIONS ON LESSON VII. 1. Describe the general character and appear- ance of muscle. 2. What is the difference between voluntary z.xA involuntary xcMS.cX&^'i Give examples of each. 3. Describe the manner in which muscles are connected with bones. 4. Describe the action of any one voluntary muscle, showing how its form changes during this action. 5. What is a tendon 1 Where are tendons to be found ? 6. Define the terms origin and insertion as applied to muscles. 7 Why are voluntary muscles generally ar- ranged in pairs which act in opposition to each other ? . , , j 8. How is the erect posture of the body main- tained ?THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM 51 9. Describe the action of the muscles concerned during zualkuiir, nmnins and jumping. ^ 10. Mention the difierent ways in which a muscle may be made to contract 11. \\hat axt flexor muscles and extensor muscles ? 12. What is Hgor mortis ? How is it caused ? LESSON VIII. THE STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. There is a distinct difference between the structure of voluntary muscles and that of involuntary muscles. But the two kinds resemble each other in that— (1) They are both composed of fibres. (2) The fibres of both have the power of contraction. (3) -Both produce motion by this contraction We will first study the structure of voluntary muscles. As already stated, we include under this term all those muscles which may be set in motion by an effort of the will. If we remov^e the skin from the leg of a rabbit, we at once expose several of these voluntary muscles, each of which is connected with two separate bones. Then if we trace one of these muscles to one of Its ends —its origin or its inser- tion—we notice that it is con- nected with the bone by means of a tendon. Again, we may see that each of the muscles of the „ 55.—A small Portion of Muscle, consisting of larger and smaller Fasciculi. A, natural size ; b, magnified five diameters. X S'e^Ll.nl^^*' ^"'"'--'^ of » *i„ and trans- pointta\?rsmalfoi&' ' ""T' °' *is last .points.ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 52 composed of bundles of fibres, but that each l?undk is made up of still smaUer bundles, eaeh of which is distmcdy visible to the naked eye. These smallei- bundles are called fasciculi (T.at. fasciculus, a htde bundle) ; and the fineness or coarseness of a muscle depends on the relative sizes of these small bundles of fibres. Thus, in the powerful muscles of the leg, the fascicuU are much larger than in the softer muscles of the cheeks. If it is desired to study the structure more minutely, it will be necessary to take pjg, 56.—A few Muscular Fibres, being part of a smaller Fasci- culus, more liigMy magnified, a, end view of fibres ; 5, side view of fibres ; c. a fibre split into fibrils. Y\„ 58.—Involuntary Mus- cular Fibre-cells from Human Blood-vessels. Magnified 350 diameters Y\<g. 57.—A muscular Fibre rup- tured, so as to exhibit tbe Sarcolemma. Pig. 59.—Muscular Fibres from the Heart, showing the Striations and the Junctions of the Cells. Highly magnified.53 THE STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE 1 ver}' small portion of muscle, and, after teasing it out till it is so fine as to be almost invisible to the naked eye, examine it with the help of a good microscope. In this way we may learn that the fasciculi are composed of fibres, each of which is not more than j^th. of an inch in diameter on an average ; and that these fibres are coinposed of still smaller fibres called fibrillae {l^zX. fibrilla, a little fibre). \Vhen the fibrillse are examined under a high magnifying power, they are seen to consist of little disc-shaped bodies, united in such a manner as to pro- duce transverse markings. It is on this account that voluntary muscle is often called striped or striated muscle. Every fibre in a voluntary muscle is enclosed in a sheath of connective tissue called sarcolemma (Gr. sarx, flesh ; and lemma, a husk). This is a very thin, transparent, and comparatively tough membrane, which will some- times remain entire after the enclosed fibrils have been ruptured by stretching or twisting, as represented in fig. 57. Involuntary muscle is also called non-striated, or unstriped muscle, because it does not present transverse markings when examined under the miscroscope, as does voluntary muscle. Involuntary muscle is often made up of bundles of fibres ; but the fibres, instead of being of uniform diameter throughout, are composed of elongated cells which are generally pointed at their ends. These fibres have no sarcolemma. The muscular fibres of the heart differ remarkably from those of in- voluntary muscles in general, as they are striated transversely, like those of the voluntary muscles. They are composed of quadrangular and branched cells, which exhibit longitudinal as well as transverse striae. SUMMARY. Under the control of the will. Composed of bundles of fibres. These bundles composed of smaller bundles {fasciculi), visible to the unaided eye, and surrounded by sheaths. Fasciculi composed of fibres, each of which is surrounded by a sheath of sarcolemma. VOLUNTARY MUSCLE.' (Striated or Striped.) Average diameter about ^ in. Fibres made up of minute fibrillce {fibrils). Fibrillse composed of disc-like bodies, and are consequently striated transversely. Not under the control of the will. Found chiefly in the muscular walls of the internal organs and vessels. Fibres composed of elongated cells with pointed ends, not marked transversely. Involuntary, yet striped or striated. Striated longitudinally as well as transversely. \ Fibres composed of oblo7ig and branched cells. QUESTIONS ON LESSON VIII. I. Describe the structure of voluntary muscle. What is sarcolemma''. What is its use ? Describe the manner in which voluntary muscles are connected with bones. What are voluntary and invohmtary muscles ? Give examples of each Describe the structure of involuntary muscles. In what respects do they aittcr from voluntary muscles ? Descril)e the structure of the muscular fibres of the heart INVOLUNTARY MUSCLE. (Non-striated or Unstriped.) MUSCLES OF THE HEART.54 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY LESSON IX. THE LEVERS OF THE BODY. A lever is a rigid bar which is capable of turning freely about a fixed point called the fulcrum. In fig. 60, the bar WP is free to swing or turn on the fulcrum F. If we apply a downward pulling force at the point, P, that end of the lever will move downward ; Fig. 60.—Illustrating the Lever (First Order). \v, a weight suspended at one end ; f, the fulcrum ; p, the point at which the power is applied. but this pulling force may be resisted by suspending a weight at the other end of the lever. Thus we have two forces acting on the bar—one applied at the point P, and the other, the downward tendency of the weight suspended, acting at the point W. Levers are classified under three orders according to the relative positions of the fulcrum, the point at which a power is applied, and the point at which this power is counteracted by a Fig. 61.—A Crowbar, used as a Lever of the First Order. weight or any resisting body. The three orders are known as the first., second., and third. Levers of the first order are those in which the fulcrum is between the poiver and the iveight. The following are a few familiar examples :—55 THE LEVERS OF THE BODY (i) The crowbar, when used to Hft a weight at one end by the appHcation of power at the other. In this case a block of wood usually forms the fulcrum. (Fig. 6i.) ® the Fig. 62. —A Lever of Second Order. p, power; w, weight; f, fulcrum. F'g- 63.—A Crowbar, used as a Lever of the Second Order. restmg (2) The see-saw. (3) The beam of a pair of scales. (4) The poker, when on a bar of the grate, and used to lift the coals in the fire. Levers of the second order are those in which the weight is behveen the fulcrtim and the power. The following are ex- amples :— (i) The crowbar, when used for lifting a weight, while one of its © Fig. 64.—A Lever of the Third Order. F, fulcrum. -The Treadle, illustrating a Lever of the Third Order, Fig. 65.- \v, weight: p, power : ends rests on the ground. (Fig. 63.) (2) The wheelbarrow. In this case the fulcrum is the point where the wheel rests on the ground. Levers of the third order are those in which the poiver isELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 56 applied at a point between the fulcrum and the weight. As an ex- ample we may mention— The treadle of a machine. We may now proceed to notice examples of levers which are to he found in the human skeleton. Levers of the first order :— (i) The head rocking on the atlas. The fulcrum is formed by those parts of the atlas that support the condyles of the occipital bone (see page 19). When the muscles of the back of the neck contract, the face is raised. When the antagonistic Pig. 66.—The Head rocking on the Atlas, illustrating the First Order of Levers. Fig. 67.—Tapping the Toe on the Ground. muscles in the front of the neck contract, the back of the head is raised. So that the face and the back of the head alternately represent the power and the weight. (2) Lift one foot, and then, by tapping the toe on the ground, we use the foot as a lever of the first order. In this case the power is applied behind by the contraction of the muscles of the calf, the fulcrum is at the ankle, and the ground offers the resist- ^^^Ja) The motion of the body on the hip is another illustration. The hip-ioints form the fulcrum ; and the contraction of the muscles connecting the pelvis with the bones of the leg provide Ihe powe° In this case the power (and the weight) may be alternately in front and behind.57 THE LEVERS OF THE BODY Levers of the second order :— (i) Illustrated by lifting one leg oif the ground. In this case the hip-joint is the fulcrum, the leg is the weight to be moved, and Fig. 68.—The Motion of the Body on Fig. 69.—Lifting the Leg, the Hip. the lifting power is produced by the contraction of a muscle which extends from the hip-bone to the knee-cap. (Fig. 69). Fig. 70.—Raising the Body on the Toe. (2) Raising the body on the toe.—The toe rests on the ground, thus forming the fulcrum. The weight is that of the body sup- ported at the ankle, and the power is supplied by the contraction of the muscles of the calf, which are connected with the heel-ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 58 Levers of the third order :— (i) Raising the forearm.—Here the elbow-joint forms the fulcrum, the forearm and hand the weight to be raised, and the power, which is supplied by the contraction of the biceps muscle, is applied at the radius. Fig- 71- —Raising the Forearm. (2) The extension of the leg after bending.—The knee-joint is the fulcrum, the lower leg and the foot the weight to be moved, Fig. 72.—Extension of the Leg. and the power is applied at the tibia in front of the leg, by means of muscles passing from it, over the knee-cap, to the hip. The student should now endeavour to find for himself other examples of the three orders. To this end he may with advantage consider the motions of the lower jaw, the ribs, and other motions of the limbs.THE LEVERS OF THE BODY 59 A Lever Orders of Levers. SUMMARY. A rigid bar. Movable round a fixed point (fulcrum). (One is called the power. If acted on by two forces ■ The other is called the weight or ( resistance. 'Crowbar. See-saw. Poker. .The balance. 2nd—Weight between fulcrum andZ^^'^^''| ^^edbarrow V 3rd—Poiver between fulcrum and weight | '^^^^•||g ^ , 1st t>;'«'«'-Illustrated by | ^o-i^i^g of head on atlas. 1st—Fulcjtim betweeen power and weight Levers of the Body. Motion of body on the hip. 2nd Or^^r-Illustrated by | '^f':^^^ ^"^^ ground •' I Raising the body on the toes. Zrd Or^.r-Illustrated by I g^i^f. forearm. J Jixtending the leg. QUESTIONS ON LESSON IX. What is a lever ? Illustrate your answer by an example. Give common examples of the three orders of levers. Give an example of each of the three orders of levers as exemplified in the human body. Show how the three orders of levers may be illustrated by the foot. LESSON X. THE CHEST AND ABDOMEN. The student will remember that the body of a vertebrate animal contains two distinct tubes or cavities. One of these is sur- rounded by bony walls, and includes the cavity of the skull and the spinal canal, which communicates with it. The other is the great cavity which contains the organs of digestion, circulation, &c. We will now proceed to notice the form of the great body cavity ; and here we strongly recommend the dissection of a small animal. In this in- stance an animal no larger than a rat will answer the purpose. Lay the dead animal on its back, stretch out its limbs, and pin them firmly to a flat board. Now take a sharp-pointed knife, and cut the skin from the throat in a straight line down to the tail, taking care that the knife does not e iter htto the Hesh at anypoi7U._ Now loosen the skin from the flesh, and pin it also to the board, spreading It out, right and left, to the greatest possible extent. The arrrange- ment of the ribs may now be seen, with the thin walls of muscle or flesh6o ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY (intercostal muscles) which unite iheni. These, together with the back-bone iDchind, and the l)reast-l)one in front, form the walls of the upper portion of the great cavity. The lower portion has no such firm framework. It is supported by the vertebral column behind ; but, round the sides and front, the walls consist of flesh and fibrous connective tissue only. The flesh consti- tutes the muscles of iho abdomen, abdomen being the name of the lower portion of the great body cavity. ;pig. —The Cavities of the Human Body. I, bodies of the vertebrae ; 2, spinous processes of the vertebrae ; 3, spinal canal ; 4, breast-bone ; 5, diathraprm ; 6, thora.\ ; 7, abdomen. Fig. 74.—The Diaphragm, &c. a, sixth dorsal vertebra ; b, fourth lumbar vertebra : c lower cartilaginous extremity of the breast-bone (ensiform cartilage) ; d ({, a great blood-vessel (aoria) passing through the diaphragm; e, oesophagus; /, opening through which a great vem (mferior vena cava) passes; i, 2, and 3, tendinous portion of the diaphragm ; 4 and 5, muscular portion of the dia- phragm ; 6 and 7, the pillars of the diaphragm. These are povierful muscles which connect the ten- dinous portion of the diaphragm with the spinal column. 8, g, and 10, intercostal muscles. Now insert the point of a knife just at the lower extremity of the sternum, and cut through that bone toward the throat, thrusting the knife no deeper than is absolutely necessary. The front walls of the cavity, consisting of the ribs and the intercostal muscles, may now be carefully cut away, so as to_ ex- pose the interior. If we now carefully remove the organs which are contained in this portion of the body cavity (the heart and the lungs) we shall find tha.6l THE CHEST AND ABDOMEN it is completely separated from the lower portion by a partition which is partly fleshy or muscular, and partly tendinous. In a small rabbit, for instance, the central portion is tendinous, and so thin that it is transparent; while round its edges it is muscular. Thus we see tliat the great body cavity is divided into two distinct parts by a muscular and tendinous partition. The upper part of this cavity is called the thorax or chest; the lower portion is called the abdomen or belly ; and the arched partition which separates these is called the diaphragm (Gr. dia, across ; and phragma, a fence), also known as the midriff. The thick and fleshy portion of the diaphragm or midriff of the ox is sold by the butcher under the name of skirt steak, or beef skirt. The abdomen (Lat. abdo, I hide) or lower portion of the great cavity may now be opened in a similar manner to that described above, without injuring the diaphragin. It will be noticed that certain vessels pass through this partition, and these are attached so firmly to it that the organs with which they are connected can- not be removed without injury to it unless the vessels are cut above and below. After removing the organs of the abdomen we notice that its walls have no bony support excepting at the back, as they consist of the abdominal muscles and fibrous tissue only. The arrange- ment of these muscles is illustrated in fig. 49. We leave the study of the organs of the great cavity for future lessons. SUMMARY. / Thorax or Chest THE GEEAT , CAVITY . \ Diaphragm Abdomen Shape Walls Sides— Front- j Conical, with the diaphragm t as its base. j Back—Vertebral column, f Ribs. 1 Intercostal muscles. (Sternum. 1 Costal cartilages. Floor—Diaphragm. ( A muscular partition, dividing the thorax ' from the abdomen. Convex above and ( concave below. (Roof—Diaphragm J Back—Vertebral column. I Sides and Front — Abdo- V minal muscles. Walls QUESTIONS ON LESSON X. 1. Describe the general stmcture of the body of a vertebrate animal. 2. Where is the thorax ? What are the structures which surround it ? 3. How would you proceed in order to examine the diaphragm of a small animal ?62 ELEMENTARY rHYSIOLOGY 4. \yhat is llic abdomen ? J)c.sciibc ihc nature of its walls 5. C.ive a short description of the diaphragm. ''"Sld'S^r' "^'^'^ 'ollowing:-..^.^.,.,.,.,,^, LESSON XI. THE ANATOMY OF THE FACE AND NECK. It will be advisable to study the anatomy of the face and neck before learning the nature of the organs contained in the thorax and abdomen, as by adopting this plan we shall be able to under- stand better the connection between the organs of the face and those of the two divisions of the great body cavity. The accompanying diagram exhibits a medial section of the face and neck, that is, a section carried from the tip of the nose backward, thus cutting through the middle of the cervical portion of the vertebral column. We first proceed to note the positions of the chief bones of tlie face, &c., as exposed in this section; and we again remind the student of the advantage to be gained by comparing the structure of the human face and neck with that exhibited in a'similar section of the head of some small animal. The sphenoid bone separates the upper and back portion of the cavity of the nose from the cavity of the skull. The ethmoid bone separates the same two cavities more to- ward the front. The nasal bones form the upper and hard portion of the ridge of the nose, the lower portion of which is constructed of cartilage, and is therefore flexible. The cavity of the nose is limited below by the superior maxil- lary bones, and the palatal bones behind them; these forming together the hard palate. It will thus be seen that the nasal cavity occupies a very large proportion of the face. It is divided centrally from front to back by the thin bony plate called the vomer, and its outer or right and left walls are formed by the superior, middle, and inferior turbinated or scroll-like bones, the upper two of which form part of the ethmoid bone, while the lower or inferior are distinct bones. Below the nasal cavities, and separated from them by the hard palate, is the cavity of the mouth. The roof of the mouth is con- tinued backward from the hard palate by the soft palate, which is composed of fleshy substance, without any kind of hard support; and behind this the cavities of the mouth and nose both lead into a cavity called the pharynx.THE ANATOMY OF THE FACE AND NECK 63 The lower part of the pharynx is continuous with a fleshy tube tvhich leads downward from it, passing completely through the thorax and the diaphragm, and then entering the stomach. This tube is called the oesophagus, gullet, or food-passage. Thus, after food or drink has passed througli the mouth, between the tongue and the palate, it enters the pharynx, and is then con- veyed to the stomach by means of the oesophagus. Fig- 75-—Medial Section of the Face and Neck. 1, sphenoid bone; 2, nasal cavity ; 3, brain cavity ; 4, ethmoid bone ; 5, frontal bone; 6, nasal bone; 7, superior maxillai-y bone; 8, palatal bone; 9, superior turbinated bone; 10, middle turbinated bone ; 11, inferior turbinated bone ; 12, soft palate ; 13, upper part of pharynx ; 14, lower part of pharynx ; 15, cesophagu'; ; 16, larynx ; 17, glottis ; 18, epi- glottis ; 19, opening of Eustachian tube ; 20, inferior maxillary bone ; 21, tongue ; 22, tonsil; a \.of, bodies of cervical vertebrae ; s, spinal cord ; p, processes of cervical vertebrje ; f, portion of occipital bone. There is another tube that leads downward from the pharynx. It is situated just in front of the oesophagus, and is that hard tube which may be felt in the front part of the throat. This is called the trachea (Gr. iradius, rough) or windpipe. The upper part of the trachea is larger than the rest, and forms that promin-64 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY ence in the front of the throat which is sometimes called Adam's apple. It is the larynx or voice-box, so called because it contains the vocal cords by the vibration of which the voice is produced. The trachea, including the larynx, is composed of rings cartiInge or gristle, connected by means of soft fibrous tissue; and this will account for the irregularity or roughness experienced by pressing the fingers down the front of the throat. The opening leading from the pharynx into the larynx is called the glottis. It is surmounted by a cartilaginous lid called the epiglottis (Gr. e/>i, upon) which opens and shuts like the lid of a box. During breathing, speaking, &c., the glottis is open, the epi- glottis being in the position shown in fig. 75; but during the act of swallowing, just at the moment when food or drink is passing the top of the larynx, the glottis is closed, thus preventing any solid or liquid matter from entering the trachea. We may now trace the course taken by air during the act of inspi- ration. If the mouth is closed, the air inspired passes through the nostrils and then along the loAver part of the nasal cavities. It next enters the pharynx by means of two openings called the posterior nares or posterior nostrils, one of which leads from each nasal cavity. The air then passes down the pharynx, through the glottis, to the larynx and trachea, and thence into the lungs. If the mouth is open during ordinary breathing, some of the air still passes through the nose, taking the course just described. That which enters the mouth takes a shorter course, passing direct from the mouth into the pharynx ; and then, joining the former current, goes with it through the glottis, the larynx, and the trachea. The pharynx has seven passages communicating with it. Five of these have already been mentioned. They are— {a) The passages (posterior nares), leading from the nasal cavities. (b) One communicating with the mouth. {c) The oesophagus. (d) The larynx. Fig. 76.—Section of the Face and Neck, Showing the direction taken by the air during breathing, &c.65 THE ANATOMY OF THE FACE AND NECK The other two are the Eustachian tubes, which form communica- tions between the upper part of the pharynx and the cavities of the middle portions of the ears. (See fig. 205.) SUMMARY. Superior turbinated bone. )ne. separates cranial and nasal / Including { M7dd7e"\JrbinaTerbone' STRUCTURES SUR- ROUNDING THE ■< NASAL CAVITIES THE PHARYNX Commuiiicates with THE PALATE THE TRACHEA FOOD PASSAGE COURSES OF THE AIR Ethmoid ^oneV^'l^l^.^^^ Partly forms outer side walls of nasal cavity. Vomer—Separates right and left nasal cavities. Nasal bone—Forms upper part of the ridge of the nose. Nasal cartilages—Form the flexible framework of the nose. Sphenoid bone—Lies between the posterior portion of the nasal cavity and the brain. Superior maxillary bones )_ Form the hard palate of Palatal bones ) the mouth. Nasal cavities, by the posterior nares. Mouth. Middle ear, by the Eustachian tubes. Trachea, by the glottis. (Esophagus, by which it is connected with the stomach. , . j Superior maxillary bones, palate | p^j^^^j Fleshy. Forms the back portion of the roof of the mouth. Between the upper pharjmx and the mouth. [ Rings of cartilage, Composed of J connected by [ Soft fibrous tissue. _ x- (Called the larynx. Upper portion | ^^^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^^ Mouth. Pharynx. QEsophagus. Stomach, &c. , Nostrils. Posterior nares. Pharynx. Glottis. Trachea. ^ Lungs. 1Mouth. Pharynx. Glottis. Trachea. Lungs. Hard Soft palate I. 2. FELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 66 I QUESTIONS ON LESSON XI. Describe the structures which surround the cavities of the nos- 2. In what way is the cavity of the nose separated from that of the brain ' 3. Describe the structure of the pa/a^e. 4- description of ihc p/iatynx. What are the openings leading 5. Describe the positions, and compare the structures of the hac/iea and of the (xsophagus, 6. Describe the course taken by food and drink after leaving the mouth. 7. What is the course taken by the air during ordinary breathing (i) When the mouth is closed, and (2) When the mouth is open ? 8. Describe the position and use of the epiglottis. 9. What do we mean when we say that a particle of food has ' jrone the wrong way' ? LESSON XII. THE ORGANS OF THE THORAX. The thorax or chest contains— The trachea and its branches. The lungs. The heart and its great vessels. The oesophagus. The trachea or wind-pipe passes downward from the throat into the thorax ; and in the upper part of this cavity it divides into two branches called bronchi. One of these (the right bronchus) leads into the right lung, and the other (the left bronchus) into the left lung. These bronchi divide and sub- divide in the substance of the lungs till their branches (bronchial tubes) penetrate every part of those organs. The lungs or lights are two large spongy organs which occupy the greater portion of the thorax. They are quite distinct from each other, although at some parts their adjacent surfaces are in contact. A large portion of the volume of the lungs is occupied by the air-tubes (branches of the trachea) and the little air-cells in which they terminate; hence the extreme lightness of these organs. To show this lightness a lung or a part of one may be floated on water. The general character and appearance of these organs may be learnt by examining the lights of a sheep or smaller animal, but it must be remembered that during life the organs are much larger, being inflated with air. The heart is a hollow muscular organ situated nearly in the middle of the front and lower part of the chest, just above theTHE ORGANS OF THE THORAX 6/ Fig. 77. —The Organs of the Thorax. I to X, ribs; I to 10, costal cartilages on the left; a, sternum; b, clavicle; (the inter- costal muscles are left out in order to show the organs inside the thorax); c, trachea ; right lung ; e, left lung ; f, apex of the heart ; base of the heart (the white line round the heart represents the pericardium) \h. upper surface of the diaphragm ; liver \k, stomach: /, intestine. The last three organs are beiieaih the diaphragm, and therefore belong to the abdomen. F2ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 68 diaphragm. It is somewhat conical in form, and is placed Nvith Its broad portion or base uppermost, and with its apex or pointed end turned downward and toward the left. Its size is about equal to that of the closed fist, and in the adult it weighs about nine ounces. The heart contains four cavities through which the blood circulates ; and by its powerful contraction it forces this fluid through all the blood-vessels of the body. The thorax contains the great blood-vessels which are con- nected with the heart. These all enter or leave at the base, and are called arteries if they convey blood from the heart, and veins if they convey it to the heart. Fig. 78. —Transverse Section through the Thorax. The section is carried above the heart, but below the division of the trachea. I, sternum ; 2, body of dqrsal vertebra ; 3, spinous process ; 4, spinal cavity; 5, rib; 6, inner layer of pleura ; 7, outer layer of pleura; 8, pericardium; 9, right bronchus ; 10 left bronchus; 11, oesophagus ; 12, heart; 13, aorta, ascending; 14, aorta, descending; 15, left lung; 16, right lung ; 17, pulmonary arteries. The oesophagus passes down the neck close behind the trachea, then between the lungs behind the heart, and through the diaphragm to the stomach beneath. The organs just mentioned completely fill the thorax during life; but, when the chest of a dead animal is cut open, the lungs collapse, even if they are uninjured. If, however, a suitable tube be inserted in the trachea, the lungs may again be inflated by blowing into them. Both heart and lungs are invested by double membranes.69 THE ORGANS OF THE THORAX That which surrounds the heart is called the pericardium (Gr. peri, about; and kardia, the heart), and that which invests each lung the pleura. In both cases one layer of the membrane is so closely attached to the organ that it can be separated only with difficulty, while the other is reflected back from this so as to form a double bag or sac. The outer layer of the pericardium en- velops the heart loosely, and is generally torn or cut when that organ is removed from the thorax. The outer layer of the pleura is firmly attached to the walls of the chest. (See fig. 78.) TEACHEA or WIND-PIPE LUNGS or LIGHTS. HEART . (ESOPHAGUS i SUMMAKY. Leads from the mouth to the lungs. Composed of rings of cartilage connected by soft fibrous tissue. /■ xi.e upper, enlarged portion of the trachea. Larynx J Sometimes called the voice-box. \ Contains the vocal cords. Bronchi | "^"^^ S"^^^*- divisions of the trachea. I One enters each lung. Bronchial tubes—the subdivisions of the bronchi. Light, spongy bags. Contain air-cells—2X the terminations of the bronchial lubes. Almost fill the thorax, C A membrane surrounding the lungs. Pleurae -! , One covers the lungs. (Composed of two layers -1 The other lines the chest t walls. A hollow muscle (involuntary). Weighs about 9 ozs. Occupies lower, front, middle portion of the chest. Rests on the diapliragm. Its apex or point turns downward towards the left. Has four cavities. Forces the blood to all parts of the body. j' A membi-ane surrounding the heart. 1 f Onp nffnr^ \ Pericardium C One attached to the ■ Composed of two layers} rr,}^^^^^: ihe other envelops V it loosely. Leads from the mouth to the stomach. A soft, fleshy tube. Lies behind the trachea. Then passes between the lungs, and through the diaphragm. QUESTIONS ON LESSON XII. 1. Give the names of the chief organs of the thorax, and describe briefly the position of each. 2. Where is the tracheal Where does it begin, and where does it end ? 3. What are the bronchi and the bronchial tubes ? Where are thev to be found ?70 . ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 4. (jive a brief description of the lungs. In what part of tlic body are they situated ? 5. Name the organs wliich toucli the upi)er surface of the diaphragm. 6. Give a brief description of the heart. Say exactly where it is situated, and name the organs adjacent to it. 7. Describe exactly the position of the (esophagus. Where does it begin, and where does it end ? 8. Describe the pericai-cimm and the pleura. LESSON XIII. THE ORGANS OF THE ABDOMEN. The organs of the abdomen include— The oesophagus (lower portion). The stomach. The intestines. The liver. The pancreas. The spleen. The kidneys. The bladder. The oesophagus passes through the diaphragm, and imme- diately widens out into the stomach. The stomach is a membranous and muscular bag, about ten inches in length from right to left, situated in part against the front wall of the abdomen, just beneath the diaphragm. It lies in part under the left portion of the liver. The stomach is somewhat pear-shaped, its larger end, called the cardiac extremity, being on the left, and the narrower end, called the pyloric ex- tremity, on the right. The oesophagus enters the stomach at about two or three inches from the cardiac end, the opening being called the cardiac orifice ; and the narrow end of the stomach communicates with the intestines by an opening which is called the pylorus (Gr. pulouros, a gate-keeper). The upper surface of the stomach is short and concave, while the lower is long and convex. The former is called the lesser curvature, and the latter the greater curvature. The right upper surface of the stomach is covered by the liver, which lies between it and the diaphragm. Food-substances enter the stomach by means of the cardiac orifice, and, after being thoroughly mixed with the digestive fluid of the stomach, pass through the pylorus into the intestmes. The intestines consist of two distinct portions, the small intestine, and the large intestine, both together occupying a largeTHE ORGANS OF THE ABDOMEN 71 portion of the abdominal cavity. The small intestine is a con- voluted (twisted) tube, about twenty feet in length. For about ten inches, commencing at the pylorus, it is called the duodenum (Lat. Fig. 79.—The Viscera of the Thorax and Abdomen, viewed from the Front. I, ribs, the front portions of which, together with the sternum, have been removed ; 2, bones of the pelvis ; 3, diaphragm ; 4, thorax ; 5, abdomen ; 6, right lung ; 7, left lung ; 8, heart; 9, stomach ; 10, right lobe of the liver ; 11, left lobe of the liver ; 12, spleen ; 13, pancreas ; 14, small intestine; 15, large intestine 16, bladder.72' ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY diiodcm\ twelve), being considered to be about twelve finger- breadths long. The upper two-fifths of the remainder is called the jejunum, and the lower three-fifths the ileum (Gr. ///<?, I twist). There are, however, no distinct lines of separation between these three parts. The large intestine is a wider tube, about sbc feet long, and varying in width from one inch and a-half to two inches and a-half. It is divided into the cccaiin, colon., and rectum. The caecum or blind intestine (Lat. cccciis, blind) is a kind of .pouch, situated on the right side of the abdomen, below the junction of the small intestine (the ileum) with the large intestine. The colon extends up^vards from this point, till it reaches the level of the lower surface of the stomach ; it then turns to the left, passing under the stomach, and is again deflected downward till it termi- nates/"^^sl^the rectum (Lat. straight)—the last part of the intestines. Thus the colon is arranged like three sides of a square, the parts being called the ascending, transverse, and descending colon respectively. The mouth, pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, and intestines together form the alinientary canal (Lat. altmentutu, nourishment), and each part does its share in the digestion of the food and the separation cif'the nutritious from the non-nutritious portions. The iiver is a very large reddish-brown organ, consisting of two lobes or parts—the right and the left—and weighing three or four pounds. The upper surface of the liver is convex and smooth, and fits closely against the under and concave surface of the diaphragm. The right lobe is larger than the left, and extends well over the right side of the abdomen, touching the intestines and right kidney; while the smaller and left lobe crosses the middle line and partly covers the stomach. The liver prepares-j'a fluid called the bile, which assists in the process of digestion. This bile is stored in a bladder called" the gall-bladder, situated on the under surface of this organ. The paifftreas (Gr. J>a7t, all ; and kreas, flesh) or sweetbread is another organ which prepares a digestive fluid—the pancreatic juice. It lies just behind the stomach and extends from the duo- denum to the spleen. It 'is about seven inches long and one and a-half wide, and weighs about three ounces. The fluid which it prepares is conveyed into the duodenum by the pancreatic duct. The spleen or milt is a dark purple-grey organ, Aveighing about six ounces, and situated closely against the cardiac extremity of the stomach. It is engaged in the production of some of the constituents of the blood. The kidneys are two bean-shaped organs, measuring aboutTHE ORGANS OF THE ABDOMEN 73 four inches long and two and a-half broad, and weighing about four ounces each. They are situated at the back of the abdomen, one on each side of the vertebral column, deeply seated in the flesh of the ^oins on a level with the upper lumbar ^^rtebrse. These are the organs which we find imbfedded in the flesh'and fat of the ' loin of mutton.' The use of the " kidneys is to separate cer- tain poisonous substances Avhich have accumulated in the blood during its circu- lation throughout the body. These impurities are con- veyed away from the kidneys by two tubes called ureters, which communicate with, the bladder. The bladder is a very strong membranous and muscular bag which lies in'' the cavity of the pelvis. This organ serves to con-^ tain the fluid (the urine) which is being constantly excreted by the kidneys, thus enabling it to be dis- charged at intervals. Most of the organs of the abdomen are surrounded and supported by a mem- brane called the perito- neum (Gr. peri, about ; and teino, I stretch). This is a double membrane forming a shut sac, resembling the corresponding membranes (the pleurae and pericar- dium) of the thorax. Its outer layer lines the inner surface of the abdomen, and the other layer is reflected round the various organs, forming their exterior coverings. Some of the folds of the peritoneum connect portions of the intestines with the posterior walls of the abdomen. These are called the mesenteries (Gr. imsos, middle ; |and entcrojt, the intestine). Fig. 80. —The Abdominal Portion of the Alimentary Canal. c, cardiac opening of the stomach ; p, pylorus; D, duodenum ; j, jejunum ; i, ileum ; cc, ca;cum ; AC, asce' ding colon ; TC, transverse colon ; DC, descending colon ; R, rectum.ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 74 (Esophagus. Stomach Intestines . .Liver Pancreas Spleen . . Kidneys. . Bladder . . Peritoneum SUMMARY. Organs of the Abdomen. Lower portion only. Q . . ( Cardiac—left side. * penings \ pyig).j(^_j[^^ ) Lesser cwvature—upper surface.* 1 Greater cw-valtire—lower surface. Curves , Touches \ Pancreas \ , , Intestines)^''^'''^' Spleen — leli side. IDuodemm — lo inches. Jejunum—Z feet. Ileum—12 feet. / Ccecum or blind intestine. ♦ (Ascending Large . Colon \ Transverse \ Descerlding Rectum or str&iglil gut ■ Together about 6 feet. Weight- Lobes . Touches Use . . Three or four llite. Right—large. * Left—smaller—covers part of stomach. Stomach. Diaphragm. Right abdominal wall. Intestines. Prepares the bile—a digestive fluid. Gall-bladder—stores the bile. Weight—3 ounces. Position—between duodenum and spleen. Use—prepares a digestive fluid (pancreatic juice). Weight—6 ounces. Position—against the cardiac end of the stomach. Use—elaboration of the blood. Right and left. Positions—one on each side of upper lumbar vertebrae. W^eight—4 ounces each. Use—Separates poisonous matters from the blood. Ureters—convey these excretions to the bladder. Position—in the cavity of the pelvis. Use—to contain the excretions of the kidneys. y (I. Lines interior of abdomen. Layers | Surrounds abdominal organs. QUESTIONS ON LESSON XIIL Name the chief organs of the abdomen, and state briefly the position of What are the organs which touch the under surface of the diaphragm ? Give a brief description of the stomach. What organs surround it ? What is its use ? Describe the form and arrangement of the intestines. With what organs are they connected ?75 THE ORGANS OF THE ABDOMEN 5. Name the various parts of the alimenlary canal, taking them in order ; and say which parts belong to the thorax, and which to the abdomen, 6. Give a brief description of the liver. With what organs is it in contact ? 7! Describe the forms, sizes, and positions of the pancreas and the spleen. Of what uses are these organs ? 8. Where are the kidneys situated ? Describe their general form, size, and use. 9. What part of the body is occupied by the bladder ? What is its use ? 10. Give a general description of the arrangement and use of the peritoneum. LESSON XIV. TBE CHEMISTRY OF THE BODY. All substances are either elementary or compound. An elementary substance or element is a substance which consists of only one kind of matter, and therefore cannot be di- vided into two or more simpler substances. A compound substance is one which consists of two or more elements chemically combined, and may be ana- lysed or split up into these elements. The following simple experiment illustrates these definitions:— Put a little red oxide of mercury (red precipitate) into a test-tube, and heat it in the flame of a spirit lamp. After a short time a greyish deposit will be formed on the cool part of the tube, which deposit consists of a number of minute globules of the liquid metal called quicksilver or mercury. While this deposit is being formed, pass into the tube a smouldering taper or chip of wood, and it will immediately burst into flame. Thus we have separated the oxide of mercury into two distinct substances:—one is the metal mercury, and the other is a gas which sup- ports combustion much better than air. This gas is called oxygen. Hence the oxide of mercury is a compound sub- stance ; and, since the two substances oxygen and mercury cannot be further simplified, they are called elements. Over sixty elementary substances are known Fig. 81.- Showing how to decom- pose the Bed Oxide of Mer- cury. are known to chemists Four of these are gases at ordinary temperatures, two only ar. liquids, and the others are solids. About fifteen of these elements have been found in the human body. The chief of these are— Oxygen, forming about 72 per cent, of the weight. Carbon „ „ 13-5 Hydrogen „ „ 976 liLliMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY Nitrogen, forming about 2-5 per cent, of the weight. Calcium „ „ 1-3 Phosphorus „ 1-2 „ „ . Sulphur „ „ 15 Sodium, chlorine, fluorine, potassium, iron, magnesium, and silicofi are also present in small quantities. Each of these is present in combination with others, thus giving rise to a variety of chemical compounds; but oxygen, nitrogen, and hydrogen also exist in small proportions in the elementary form as gases. Thus we see that the body is made up of a number of chemical compounds, each compound being formed by the union of two or more elements. These compounds are the proximate principles which enter into the formation of the various tissues of the body. Before proceeding to describe the chief compounds of the body, we will study the general characters of its four chief elements, viz. oxygen, carbon, hydrogen, and nitrogefi. The simple experiment described above is sufficient to illustrate the chief characteristics of oxygen. It is an invisible gas, which powerfully supports combustion or burning, but is not itself com- bustible. Oxygen forms about one-fifth of the volume of the atmo- sphere, and is that constituent of the air which supports combustion and animal life. It also forms eight-ninths of the weight of water, and is so abundant in the earth's crust that it is calculated to form more than one-third the weight of the whole globe. Carbon is a solid element which is capable of existing in a variety of forms. As a natural mineral substance we are familiar with it in two {oxms,—black lead {phimbago or graphite) and the diamond; the latter being its purest and crystalline form. Charcoal and lamp-black are artificial varieties of carbon. When carbon burns, it combines with the oxygen of the air, forming an invisible compound gas, called carbonic acid gas. This gas is also produced by the combustion of any compound substance which contains the element carbon, such as coal, coal gas, wood, oils, spirits, &c. (See page 78.) In order to ascertain the chief properties of hydrogen gas, it will be advisable to resort to a few simple experiments:— (a). Fit any kind of bottle with a good cork, through which passes a straight glass tube ; and see that the apparatus is air-tight with the exception of the tube through which the gas has to pass. Put into the bottle a few scraps of zinc, and cover these with diluted sulphuric acid (about eight parts of water to one of the strong acid). Hydrogen gas immediately begms to come off, and, being lighter than air, may be collected in an inverted bottle. (/>). Collect some of the gas in a dry bottle as above described, and then hold the mouth of the bottle near a flame, taking great care that no flame is brought near the apparatus in which the gas is being generated. The hydrogen77 BODY THE CHEMISTRV OF ft THE gas will burn with a pale blue flame, and form a deposit of water on the sides of the bottle. Hydrogen combines with oxygen {from the air) when it kirns hence water is a compound consisting- of hydrogen and oxygen. ' {c). Fill another jar with hydrogen, and pass into it a lighted taper. The taper is extinguished as soon as it enters the gas, but the gas itself burns. Thus we learn that hydrogen is not a supporter of combustion. (Fig. 83.) If water contains oxygen, how is it that water will not support combustion ? We answer this by saying that the oxygen in the water is not free, but is in combination with hydrogen. Air supports combustion because the oxygen it contains is free, the air being a simple mixture of two gases, and not a chemical compound. Fig. 82. — Showing how to prepare and collect Hydrogen gas. Fig. 83- Fig. 84.—Showing how to prepare Nitrogen from the Atmosphere. Nitrogen is the other gas of the atmosphere, and it may be separated from the oxygen with which it is mixed by the following srniple process:— ^ iuuuw T,.n^^''f/'T" ^1^''^ °^ '^"^^ phosphorus on a cork floating in a dish of water Ignite the phosphorus and then cover it quickly with a hell Inr ^ J mouthed bottle._ As the phosphorus burns, tL volLTof the at 4 omesTelr and the water rises to take the place of the era. consumed Thl nv, f ' air has combined with the DhosDhorns nnH r^lf. , ^^^.O-^ygen of the gen occupying about fourtfifcf K originTar °A LT"'/'" "^5^" nitrogen does not support combustion NUr^i^ '- ^ ^^^t its use in the atmosph'L i^ to mod fy the v^oSTctlo^oTThe'"'^^' render the air fit for the support of animauSe Of hl'^o'e^^tnffi"^^^^^^^ " formed by the combustion yuro^en , and that carbonic acid gas is produced by the com-78 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGV bustion of carbon ; the element burnt in each case combining with the oxygen of the air. Nearly all combustible substances contain both carbon and hydrogen; hence, when these substances burn, they produce both carbonic acid gas and water. We may illustrate this in the following way :— Hold a dry tumbler over the flame of a candle, and the inside of the glass will be quickly covered with a deposit of water formed by the combustion of the hydrogen in the candle. Repeat the above experiment, and then remove the tumbler, closing it quickly with a glass plate or a piece of cardboard, so as to retain some of the gas produced by the burning of the candle. Now open it just a little, pour in a little clear lime-water, close again quickly, and shake it. The lime-watei turns milky, which proves the presence of carbonic acid gas. The heat of the candle-flame is due to the combustion of carbon and hydrogen; and the carbonic acid gas and water formed may be termed the products of combustion. Organic substances (animal and vegetable substances) are generally prone to decay and putrefaction. This decay is a chemical change by which the organic substance is decomposed into gases which pass off into the air. Thus, a piece of animal flesh contains the elements oxygen, carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and small quantities of phosphorus and sulphur. And if this flesh be allowed to putrefy, the following gases are slowly given off" into the air:— Water vapour, composed of hydrogen and oxygen. Carbonic acid gas, „ carbon and oxygen, Ammonia, „ nitrogen and hydrogen, Carburetted hydrogen, „ carbon and hydrogen. Sulphuretted hydrogen, „ sulphur and hydrogen. A certain proportion of mineral matter enters into the com- position of all parts of the body, but the proportion varies con- siderably in the various organs and tissues. The amount of mineral substance in any part may be determined by completely burning that part, till nothing but a white ash remains. This ash is the mineral or inorganic substance, all the animal or organic matter having been changed into gases during the combustion. Every tissue and fluid of the body is composed of a number of organic and inorganic compounds -r.-,^ The organic compounds of the body may be classified into— (i) Non-nitrogenous, containing carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen °"^^'(2) Nitrogenous, containing nitrogen, as well as carboti, ^-"^Son-S compounds include/./, and amyloids, and certain organic acids.THE CHEMISTRY OK THE BODY 79 The fats and oils are sometimes called hydro-carbons. They consist of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, but the proportion \i oxygen is small. ^ . , , •. ,, ..^ The amyloids (Gr. aniulon{ starch, and eidos, form) include those compounds which resemble starch in chemical composition. They contain the same three elements that form fats and oils, but the proportion of oxygen is larger. In these compounds hydrogen and oxygen are present in the same proportion in which they com- bine to form water. The chief amyloids in the body are glycogen glucose or grape-sugar, and lactose or milk-sugar. The nitrogenous compounds are generally classified into proteids or albuminoids and gelatinoids. The albuminoids include all those compounds which resemble albumen or white of egg in composition. They are found in all the hvmg tissues of the body, and consist of carbon, hydrogen oxygen, and mtroge^t, together with a small proportion of sulphur ox phosphorus. The chief albuminoids of the body are- Albumen, found in the blood and 77tost tissues. Globulin, found in the blood and many of the tissues. Myosin, found principally in muscles. Fibrin, formed in blood as it coagulates or clots. Casein, found in the milk. The gelatinoids are those compounds which resemble eela- tme. The chief are :— ° Gelatine, formed by boiling bone. Chondrin, found in cartilage. The inorganic or mineral compounds found in the body are derived from our food and drink. Many of these pass through the body without undergoing any change, but others form a necessary part of the structure of certain tissues. Thus, the bones comnonndf T^^"^ P^^^^"^^ °f '^'^ -ineTa compounds. The chief inorganic compounds are water, calcium carbonate, calcium phosphate, and common salt ..Ki^^^^r^^ ^^^^^ ^^'■S^ly living animal and vege- table substances, yet It is regarded as an inorganic or mineral com- pound More than two-thirds of the weight of the body is water This IS derived chiefly from our food and Wk, but a"^small quantky formed in the body. The uses of water in the body are-^^- ^ I. lo render the tissues soft, elastic, and flexible. This mav e easily Illustrated by heating a tissue till all the water ha been Jnven off, when it will become hard, horny, and brittle .ody in : td f^rr'""' ""^^ ^'^ P^^^ ^^e ^xcretiJn° P'°''^''^' of absorption, secretion, and80 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY Calciam carbonate (carbonate of lime) is composed of the metal calcium together with carbon and oxygen. It exists largely in the Iwnes and teeth. Clialk is a variety of this compound Calcium phosphate (phosphate of lime) consists of calcium, phosphorus, and oxygen. It forms more than fifty per cent, of the weight of bone. Bone ash (see page 40) consists chiefly of this compound and calcium carbonate. Sodium chloride or common salt consists of the metal sodium and a yellowish-green gas called chlorine. It is present in small ^Md^nWiies in \-i&^x\y all parts of the body. , , , ,1,^ Many other inorganic substances exist in the body ; and the most important of these will be mentioned in connection with the special functions in which they are concerned. THE FOTJS CHIEF ELE- MENTS OF THE BODY. Oxygen Carbon 1 Hydrogen CO o Pi INORGANIC SUBSTANCES FOUND IN THE BODY SUMMARY. A gas. Powerful supporter of combustion. Not combustible. Forms one-fifth of the volume of the air. Forms eight-ninths of the weight of water. A combustible solid. Varieties—charcoal, lampblack, black- lead, and the diamond. Forms carbonic acid gas when it burns. Contained in most combustible substances. A very light gas. Combustible. - Forms water when it burns. I Does not support combustion. I Forms one-ninth of the weight of water. An inactive gas. Does not support combustion. Forms four-fifths the volume of the air. Fats and oils—not much oxygen. ■(Glycogen ^Hydrogen and . J Glucose (grape sugar) ^ oxygen as m Lactose (milk sugar) ) water. Albumen—blood and most tissues. Globulin—blood and many tissues. Myosin—muscles. Fibrin —blood. .Casein—milk. (Gelatine—bone. Gelatinoids , \ chondrin—cartilage. water-Forms more than two-thirds the weight of the body. Calcium carbonate-Calcium, carbon, and I ^^^^^ CaSmVospliate-Calcium, phosphorus, | teeth. common salt-Sodium and chlorine-in nearly all parts. Albuminoids or ProteidsWASTE AND REPAIR—FOODS QUESTIONS ON LESSON XIV. 1. Define ekmtnt and compound. Illustrate your answer by an experiment. 2. Describe the general characters of the four chief elements found in the body,_ What other elementary bodies exist in the body ? 3. Describe the chemical composition of water and air. 4. What is meant by decay ? What are the chief products of the decay of organic matter ? Give the chemical composition of each, 5. What is the difference between a nitrogenous' and a non-nitrogenous organic compound ? Give examples of each class. 6 Name the chief nitrogenous constituents of the body, and say where each may be found. 7. Compare the chemical composition of fat, sugar, and albumen. 8. What is the proportion of water in the body ? What is the use of this water ? ^. Name the chief mineral substances of the body. Give the chemical com- position of each, and say where each may be found. LESSON XV. WASTE AND REPAIR—FOODS. That the body is continually wasting away may be proved as follows :-— (1) Let the expired air from the lungs strike the surface of a cold object, such as a looking-glass, and a deposit of water is formed. Again, place the palm of the hand on the surface of a very cold slate or plate of glass, and let it remain for a few seconds. On removing it a similar deposit of water will be seen. Thus we learn that water is continually passing off from the lungs, and through the pores of the skin. Water, we remember, is composed of the elements hydrogen and oxygen ; hence we are made acquainted with two sources of loss of these elements. (2) Now blow air from the lungs through a glass tube, and let it bubble through clear lime-water. In a very short time the lime-water assumes a milky appearance, thus proving the presence of carbonic acid gas (see page 78). The lungs, therefore, are a source of loss of carbon and oxygen. In order to ascertain the amoicnt of loss in a given time, let a person weigh himself accurately, and then, after a few hours, during which time no food or drink should be taken, let him weigh himself again. The chief sources of loss to the body are— (i) The lungs. (2) The skin. (3) The kidneys. By means of the lungs we lose both water (in .the form of vapour) and carbonic acid gas. a82 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY By means of the skin we part with water, a small quantity of mineral salts, and a little carbonic acid gas. The kidneys are the source of a considerable loss of water, and a very large quantity of iirea. The loss by the skin varies very considerably. The exu- dation through its pores is commonly known as perspiration or sweat. In hot weather, or during violent exercise, we perspire very freely ; so much so that the skin becomes covered with globules of water, containing carbonic acid gas and urea in solution. But in cool weather, and during rest or the taking of gentle exercise, the liquid exuded evaporates into the air as fast as it reaches the surface, and consequently the perspiration is tTi sc ti sihlc. From" the above we learn how the four chief elements of the body—oxygen, carbon, hydrogen, and nitrogen, are lost. The loss of hydrogen and oxygen in the form of water is very variable, and is replaced largely by the water contained m our foods and drinks. The loss of carbon and nitrogen is repaired by the use ot organic food-substances, and amounts to an average of 4,500 grains of carbon and 300 grains of nitrogen daily in an adult person, takins; moderate exercise. „ v • j ^ The high temperature of the body (98-4" F.) is produced and maintained by chemical action. This action is chiefly oxidation, very closely resembling that which takes place when a candle burns (see page 78). The materials to be oxidised are supplied through our foods. A constant supply of oxygen gas is also obtained by the blood as it circulates through the lungs; and we may regard the carbonic acid gas given off as the product ot the continuous oxidation of carbon in the body. , ■, If we cease to take food for any considerable time the body gradually wastes away, and in a few days a marked change is pro- duced in the general appearance. The discharge of waste matter by means of the lungs, skin, and kidneys still continues, and every muscular exercise adds to it. As no food is being taken, the temperature of the body is maintained by the oxidation and con equent wasting away of the tissi,^s. After a few days he temperature decreases, till, at about the ^^"^^f ^^^^"^^^ J,^^^^^^^^ body has lost about forty per cent, of its weight and reduced to a temperature of about 70° F, when death from starvation nuts an end to the painful existence. r u j ^ Beta considering the manner in which the waste of the body may be most advanta|eously repaired, it will be necessary to learn the nature of the various food-substances of which we make ^^^lood-substances may be divided into organic and inorganic.WASTE AND REPAIR—FOODS 83 Organic foods may be subdivided into animal and vegetable foods; and each of these again into nitrogenous and non-nitro- genoits. Among the animal nitrogenous foods may be mentioned— (1) Albumen. This substance may be obtained from white of egg, of which it forms about 20 per cent. It is a clear and trans- parent Hquid when fresh, but coagulates, when heated, into a white opaque solid. (2) Casein (Lat. caseus, cheese). This compound exists largely in milk, from which it may be separated in a solid form by the addition of an acid. This is illustrated in the making of cheese;—the milk is separated into curds and whey by the ad- dition of rennet, and the curd from which the cheese is made contains the casein. (3) Fibrin (Lat. fidra, a fibre). Fibrin exists in blood. (4) Myosin (Gr. mus, a muscle). This is an important con- stituent of the juice of muscles. It is converted into syntonin by the addition of an acid. The above four nitrogenous substances all closely resemble each other in chemical composition, and are all termed albumi- noids. (5) Gelatine. This may be obtained from bones by boiling. It swells considerably in cold water, but does not dissolve. It is soluble m hot water, and when the solution cools it forms a 'jelly.' The different kinds of glue are varieties of gelatine. The chief vegetable nitrogenous foods are :— (1) Gluten. This substance exists in all cereal grains. It forms about 50 per cent, of wheat flour, from which it may be obtamed as follows Tie a little wheat flour in a calico bag, and well knead it in a vessel of water. A substance passes through the mterstices of the calico which gives a milky appearance to the water. This substance is starch. After removing as much as possible of the starch in this manner, the contents of the bag will consist of a very sticky substance, which may be drawn out into threads. This is gluten. Gluten so closely resembles fibrin that It IS sometimes termed vegetable fibrin. (2) Legumen. Legumen exists largely in all kinds of peas and beans, and other seeds. The principal non-nitrogenous foods are : ^ (i) Starch. This is a vegetable substance which exists largely m various parts of plants. A method of separating it from flour has just been described ; it may also be obtained in large quantities .rom potatoes, rice, arrowroot, &c. It is insoluble in cold water, buu dissolves slightly in hot water, forming a kind of jelly on cool- G2?84 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY (2) Sugar. There are several varieties of sugar derived from l)oth plants and animals. Cane sugar, beet sugar, grape sugar, and 7/iilk sugar are the chief. The solid part oi honey also consists largely of grape sugar. These varieties of sugar are all more or less soluble in water. (3) Gums. These are also vegetable products, obtained from various parts of plants. (4) Fats and Oils. These are obtained from both animal and vegetable sources. Fats are solid, derived chiefly from animals; oils are liquid, and are obtained chiefly from fruits. They re- semble each other in chemical composition, and are insoluble in water. The inorganic or mineral foods consist chiefly of water. common salt, calcium carbonate, and the phosphates of calcium, magnesium, potassium, and sodium ; also certain salts of iron, &c. These foods are not, with the exception of water and common salt, generally taken separately ; but they all exist in the animal and vegetable substances we eat. Life cannot be sustained on mineral foods alone, although these may contain all the elements required to make good the waste. Neither can life be permanently sustained by any one class alone of the organic foods. Hence it follows that our food must consist of mixtures of these. But the various food-substances we employ do generally consist of such mixtures ; for instance, wheat flour contains the nitrogenous substance gluten, the non- nitrogenous substance starch, and also various mineral salts de- rived by the wheat plant from the soil in which it grew. Again, butcher's meat contains the nitrogenous myosin, the non-nitro- genous fat, together with mineral salts obtained indirectly from the soil. We may now study the manner in which life may be best sus- tained by ordinary food-substances with the greatest economy as regards the work thrown on the various organs concerned. We have seen that the daily waste of carbon and nitrogen from the system amounts to Carbon ..... 4,500 grs.—about 10 ozs. Nitrogen. .... 300 grs.—about f oz. Now let us suppose a person to feed on bread only. In order to obtain the necessary quantity of nitrogen to repair this waste, he would have to eat nearly 4^^ lbs. daily. This weight of bread contains Carbon 9,000 grs. Nitrogen , . . . 3°° gi^s. Hence he would be compelled to take about double the quantity of carbon required in order to obtain the necessary weight ofWASTE AND REPAIR—FOODS 8$ nitrpgen. This not only implies a waste of food substance, but also that a great deal of extra work is thrown on certain organs. Next, let us suppose that he feeds on lean meat only. Then, in order to obtain the necessary quantity of carbon, he must eat no less than 6^ lbs. daily, as this weight of lean meat contains Carbon 4,500 grs. Nitrogen . . . . 1,35° gi's- In this case we notice a similar waste of nitrogen, the removal of which would also give an undue amount of work to the organs concerned. But it is possible to take such a mixed diet of bread and meat as will supply all the requirements of the system, and at the same time yield but little waste material. In doing this we also reduce the total amount of food taken. Thus : 2 lbs. of bread contain . . carbon 4,500 grs., and nitrogen 150 grs. f lb. of lean meat contains . carbon 500 grs., and nitrogen 150 grs. Total .... 5,000 grs. 300 grs. So that by eating no more than 2| lbs. of solid food daily we should be enabled to repair all the waste of the body, taking an excess of 500 grains of carbon only. This clearly shows the ad- vantage that may be gained by a mixed diet which is selected with due regard to the requirements of the body. A model food is one which contains nitrogenous, non-nitro- genous, and mineral food substances in the proportions in which they are required to make good the waste of the body. Among such foods may be mentioned (i) milk, on which young animals entirely subsist ; and (2) eggs, which provide all the nourishment to young birds till they are hatcned. The following tables give the exact composition of these : I. The Composition of Milk. Human Cow's Water 890 858 ' Caj(?z« (nitrogenous) . 35 68 Solids .(^oi^-nitrogenous). 25 38 ] Sugar (non-nitrogenous). 48 30 , Salts .... 2 6 1000 1000 2. The Composition of Fowl's Eggs. White Yelk Water 78 52 Nitrogenous matter ... 20-4 16 Fatty (non-nitrogenous) matter . — 307 Salts ...... 1-6 1-3 lOO'O lOO'OELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY Nitrogenous foods are frequently termed tissue-forming foods: and non-nitrogenous, heat producers. But this method of clas- sification is very misleading, since both nitrogenous and non- nitrogenous are oxidised in the body, and, therefore, both help to maintain the high temperature. It is known, however, that none but nitrogenous food-substances are capable of forming tissues. SUMMAKY. Sources of loss to the body:— {a) Lungs; much waUr and carbonic acid gas. (b) Skin : much ivaier and a Httle carbonic acid gas. (c) Kidneys : much ivale7- and urea. (The amount of loss increases with muscular activity.) , Alhumen—white of egg. 03 P o o ANIMAL, Nitrogenous Non- nitrogenous Nitrogenous. Casein—milk and cheese. Tibvin—blood. Myosin—muscle. Gelatine—bone. Fats and sugar. -cereal grains. Gluten- Legumen— ■ Starch—all parts of plants. Non- Sugars—all parts of plants. nitrogenous 1 Gums—all parts of plants. Oila—fruits. f Water, common salt, calcium carbonate, calcium phos- t phate, dj'c. 3. Life cannot be sustained by nitrogenous, non-nitrogenous, or mineral foods alone : all three kinds must be used. VEGETABLE MINERAL In mixed 4. Daily loss . In bread In lean meat (Bread—2 lbs. '^^^M Meat-4 lb. Carbon Carbon Carbon Carbon : Nitrogen:; 15 Nitrogen:: 30 Nitrogen:: 3^ Nitrogen:: 16 I. I. I. I (nbout). Hence the advantage of the mixed diet in making good the daily loss with but little waste. 5. A model food is one which will supply che necessary elements in about the same proportions as they are given off" from the system. QUESTIONS ON LESSON XV. I What proofs can you give to show that the body is continually wasting away ? 2. What are the chief sources of loss to the body ? 3. What is the nature of the waste materials thrown off by the lungs, the skin, and the kidneys respectively? 4. How would you prove that carbon is oxidised in the body? 5. What is the cause of the high temperature of the human body ? 6. Why does an animal die when it ceases to take food ?WASTE AND REPAIR—FOODS 87 7. Give a list cf animal and vegetable food-substances, and classify them according to their chemical composition. 8. How would you obtain starch and gluten from wheat flour ? 9. Compare the chemical composition of starch and fat. 10. What are the chief mineral constituents of our foods? Describe the composition of each. 11. What would be the disadvantage of feeding on bread or meat alone ? 12. Explain clearly why it is better to make use of a mixed diet of bread and meat." 13. What is a model food ? Describe the composition of one such food. 14. Why are nitrogenous foods called i'ww-^rwerj, and non-nitrogenous foods heat-producers ? State any objections you may have to this method of classification. LESSON XVL THE TEETH AND MASTICATION. Each tooth has a crown, a neck, and a j-oot consisting of one or more fangs. The crown is the part which protrudes beyond the gum into the mouth. The neck is that slightly constricted portion which is embraced by the gum ; and the fang or fangs include all that part of the tooth which penetrates into the jaw-bone. If we examine our teeth we shall notice that they vary much in general form. Those in the front of each jaw are provided with sharp, chisel-like edges, and are consequently well adapted for biting or cutting : these are called the incisors (Lat. incido, I cut). Next to these, on each side, is a single tooth of about the same size, which has a somewhat pointed crown. This is called the canine or dog tooth (Lat. canis, a dog), because its position in the human skull corresponds with that of the long, conical, tearing tooth in the skull of the dog and other carnivorous (Lat. caro, flesh; and voro, I devour) or flesh-eating animals. The human canine tooth may also be said to slightly resemble that of a carnivorous animal in general form, inasmuch as its.summit is more or less conical. Beyond these canme teeth on either side is a pair of premolars or bicuspids (Lat. bis, twice ; and cuspis, a pointed extremity), so called because each has two cusps or ridges on the top of the crown, separated by a furrow. Beyond these again are larger teeth, each possessing two or more fangs, and having a very broad and irregular surface well adapted for the grinding of foods ; hence these teeth are called the molars (Lat. mola, a mill). A child of about six years possesses twenty teeth, called the temporary or milk teeth. These consist of four incisors in the front of each jaw, a single canifie tooth on each side of these in cisors, and a pair of molars on each side beyond the canines. AtKLEMF.NTARY PHYSIOLOGY 88 the age of about seven years these milk teeth begin to be cast off, their places being taken by the permanent teeth which grow be- neath them ; and, at about the age of twelve, all have in this way given place to the permanent set. The permanent teeth of the adult number thirty-two. They consist, in each jaw, of four incisors, two canines, four bicuspid, and 3 4 Fig. 86.—Section of the Jaws of a Child of Z\ Years, showing the Milk or Deciduous Teeth, Fig. 85. — Showing the also the Permanent Teeth in Process of four kinds of Human Formation. Teeth. di, the milk incisors ; dc, the milk canines ; (^3, and d^, the I, incisor tooth (exterior view) ; milk molars; zi and /2, the permanent incisors; c-,_the 2, canine tooth (exterior permanent canines ; ^3 and p\, the permanent bicuspids ; view) ; 3, bicuspid tooth (side ?;zi, the first permanent molars, which have already made view showing the two cusps); their appearance; 1112. and the second and third 4, molartooth(exteriorview). permanent molars. six 7nolars. The last of the molars are called the wisdom teeth; they do not appear till between the seventeenth and twenty-fifth years. The mass of a tooth consists chiefly of a hard substance called dentine or ivory (Lat. de7is, a tooth). It resembles in composition the compact tissue of bone, but contains a much larger proportion of mineral matter (seventy-two per cent.), and is consequently harder. The mineral matter, like that in bone, consists chiefly of calcium phosphate and calcium carbonate ; and the animal matter may also be made to yield gelatine by boiling. In structure dentine differs from bone, as it contains no Haversian canals, lacunas, &c..THE TEETH AND MASTICATION 89 but is penetrated by a multitude of very delicate tubes which communicate with the cavity of the tooth. This cavity is called the pulp-cavity. It contains a very soft substance—the pulp. This consists of a mass of minute blood- vessels and nerves which enter through an opening at the point of each fang. The dentine which forms the crown of the tooth is covered with a substance called the enamel. It is the hardest substance in the body, and contains only two or three per cent, of animal Fig. 87.—longitudinal Section of a Molar Tooth. k, crown ; n, neck \ f, fangs ; e, enamel; d, dentine ; c, cement; p, pulp cavity. matter. When examined under a high magnifying power, the enamel is seen to consist of exceedingly fine hexagonal fibres. The root of each tooth is surrounded by a substance called the cement. This substance is softer than the dentine, and in structure resembles bone—it contains la&utm and canaliculi, but no Haversian canals. The use of the teeth is to masticate the food, that is, to reduce it to such a finely divided state that it may be readily acted on by the various digestive fluids. It has already been noticed that the different kinds of teeth are adapted for different modes of action;go ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY and we may now observe how this variety of action is still further increased by the complex movement of the lower jaw. When we Fig. 88. —Vertical Section of Premolar of Cat. c, pulp-cavity ; i, enamel; 2, dentine; 3, cement; 4, periosteum ; 5, bone of the lower jaw. bite our food we move the jaw perpendicularly, and make use of the front or incisor teeth. After this, it is passed over, to theTHE TEETH AND MASTICATION 91 molars which thoroughly crush and grind it. Now this grinding could not be carried on effectually if the lower jaw were capable of a vertical motion only. But if we observe the motion of the jaw during the grinding of the food, we shall find that it moves a little to the right and left, and also forward and backward. The broad and rough surfaces of the molar teeth are consequently caused to slide over each other, thus thoroughly grinding the food which may be between them. The carnivorous animals have not broad molars like ours. They bite and tear the flesh on which they feed, generally giving the jaw an up and down motion only. The herbivorous animals, on the other hand, have very large and perfect molars, and they give to the lower jaw a much greater variety of motion than we do. This may be readily observed in the cow, sheep, goat, and horse. During mastication the food must be continually moved about so that every portion of it may be brought between the molar teeth. This is effected by the muscles of the tongue, cheeks, and lips. Fig. 90.—Enamel Fibres. Magnified 350 diameters. A, the sides, and d, the ends of the fibres. The action of the muscles concerned in mastication would generally be regarded as a voluntary action; but it is often partly or wholly an involuntary act, since it not unfrequently continues for some time while we give no thought whatever to it, as for example, when we are eating and engaged in reading at the same time. In this case the reading may absorb the attention to such an extent that we become unconscious of the continued action of the lower jaw.ELEMICNTARY PHYSIOLOGY 92 SUMMAEY. I. The Milk Teeth. Upper jaw Lower jaw Upper jaw Lower jaw M 2 C I I 2. The Permanent M 3 0 B 2 2 C I I I 4 4 Teeth. C I I 3. Structure of I 4 4 a Tooth. C I I B 2 2 M It M 3) 3^ 20 TOOTH Dentine or Ivory Enamel . Cement Pulp Cavity Biting Chewing Forms the greater portion of the tooth. Harder than bone. Contains 72 per cent of mineral matter. Hardest substance in the body. Composed of very delicate fibres. Contains only 2 or 3 per cent, of animal matter. Softer than dentine. True bone. Contains lacunas and canaliculi. Surrounds fangs. Contains pulp. Pulp consists of nerves and blood vessels. 4. Mastication. Chiefly by the incisors. Motion of the jaw vertical. Chiefly by the molars. Aided by the muscles of the tongue, cheeks, and lips. Motion of the jaw varied. QUESTIONS ON LESSON XVI. 1. Describe the general fonn and structure of a tooth. 2. Name the different kinds of teeth, and point out the distinguishing characteristics of each. 3. Why are the canine teeth so called ? In which of the lower animals do we find such teeth well developed ? 4. Show in what way the form of a molar tooth is well adapted to the purpose for which it is used. How is the utility of the molar still further increased by the movements of the lower jaw ? Describe the arrangement of the teeth in a child of about six years. Describe the arrangement of the different kinds of teeth in the jaws of an adult, giving also the number of each kind. Describe fully the structure of a tooth as shown in a section ; and give the general characters of the different materials of which it is composed. What do you suppose to be the usual cause of toothache ? How does the motion of the lower jaw of a dog, wlien feeding, differ from that of the cow ? 10. Why do we masticate our food ? 11. Is the motion of the jaw in eating a voluntary or an involuntary act ? Give reasons for your answer. 5- 6. 7- 8. 9-93 Fig. 91.—Simple Secreting Glands. I, straight tube ; 2, sac ; 3, coiled tube. LESSON XVII. GLANDS-THE SALIVARY GLANDS AND INSALIVATIOK A g-land is an organ which has the power of separating certain materials from the blood which flows through it. Glands are of two kinds ; secreting and excreting. A secreting gland (Lat. se, aside; and cerno, I separate) is one which prepares a substance from the materials of the blood ; in other words, it manufactures a material which did not pre-exist in the blood; this substance being set apart for some future use in the body. Each secreting gland is provided with a system of blood- vessels, and generally a duct or tube which conveys away i the material prepared. An excreting gland (Lat. ex, out; and cerno) does not prepare a substance, but simply separates a ma- terial from the blood which is afterwards to be expelled from the body. These glands also are provided with ducts for the removal of the ex- cretion—the substance ex- creted. The sweat glands of the skin are an example of this kind of gland. There are other bodies known as ductless glands, w^iich, as their name implies, have no ducts. The functions of these organs are not well understood, but they generally appear to be concerned in the elaboration of the blood. The spleen is one of the ductless glands. Many of the membranes which line the cavities of the body and its organs also have the power of secretion, hence they are called secreting membranes. The amount of substance secreted obviously depends on the extent of the Fecreting surface. Hence we sometimes find the membrane drawn up into folds in order that its surface may be increased. On the other hand, we often find the secreting membrane dipping down into the substance beneath in such a manner as to form a multitude of minute tubes, each one having an opening at the general surface. This forms the simplest kind of gland, called the simple tubular gland. In many cases the tubular gland is developed into a coil or convolution, thus adding still more to the secreting surface. The lubular gland is also sometimes enlarged till its shape is somewhat globular ; Fig. 92.- Simple Glands, with pouched sides.94 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY and again, it often enlarges still more, till its outline consists of a number ot little pouches, all communicating with one common cavity. This last form of gland is generally known as the lobulated gland. Some glands develop to such an extent that they consist of a number of bodies resembling the simple glands just described, but all communicat- ing with one common duct. These are called compound glands. If they consist of a number of branching tubes they are called compound tubu- lar glands ; l)ut if composed of a group of sacs or lobules with one common outlet they are termed race- mose or compound lobulated glands. But although the glands vary so con- Compound Tubular Gland, siderably in form, yet they are all constructed on one general principle —all consist of a secreting membrane which is closely surrounded by a net- work of minute blood-vessels. The whole interior of the alimentary canal, from the mouth to the rectum, is Hned with a soft kind of skin called the mucous membrane. At the margins of the lips this membrane is con- tinuous with the skin which covers the exterior surface of the body. The mucous membrane is richly supplied with minute simple or compound glands called the mucous glands. These separate from the blood a watery fluid called mucus which serves to keep the membrane moist. In addition to the mucous glands the structures surrounding the cavity of the mouth are provided with numerous others called the salivary glands. These are all compound lobulated glands, Fig. 94.—Compound Lobulated Glands. A, a complete gland with its duct, ; b, a single lobule enlarged, with d, its duct. and secrete a fluid called the saliva which aids considerably in the process of digestion, as will be presently shown. The most important of the salivary glands are the three pairs known as the parotid, the submaxillary, and the sublingual. The parotid glands (Gr para, near : and ous, the ear) areTHE SALIVARY GLANDS 95 situated below and in front of the ear. They are the largest of the salivary glands. Their ducts, which are about one eighth of an inch in diameter, open into the mouth through the cheek, just opposite the second m.olar teeth of the upper jaw. The submaxillary glands (Lat. sub, under ; and maxilla, a jaw) j^re about the size of plums. They are situated beneath the lower jaw, one on each side. The ducts of these glands open into the mouth under the tip of the tongue, and may be easily seen by means of a looking-glass. Fig. 95.—The Salivary Glands. One side of ihe lower jaw has been removed, and the face dissected, in order to show the salivary glands of the right side. The outlines of the sublingual glands (I>at. sub, under; and lingua, the tongue) may also be seen by means of a looking-glass. They are no larger than almonds, are situated on each side of the bridle, forming ridges between the tongue and the gums of the lower jaw, and are covered only by mucous membrane. Each of96 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY these glands has several ducts, some of which open into the duct of the corresponding sul)maxillary gland. The fluid secreted by the salivary glands- the saliva—is a transparent, watery fluid, slightly alkaline ' in its action. In the mouth it is always mixed with the secretion of the mucous glands, hut if obtained direct from the duct of a salivary gland its compo- sition is as follows :— Water 9,94i (Mineral salts ... 23 Solids j Ptyalin . . . . 14 (Other matters ... 22 10,000 Ptyalin (Gr. pfuo, I spit) is a nitrogenous substance, and may be described as the active principle of the saliva, for the value of the saliva as a digestive fluid depends on its presence. Many of the food-substances we eat contain a large proportion of starch, which is an insoluble substance. No food-substance can be of any use in the body until it has been brought to the liquid state. Starch, therefore, is useless as a food until it has been dis- solved. The ptyalin has the power of doing this. It converts the insoluble starch into a soluble variety of sugar called grape- sugar. In order to illustrate this action, put a little of the solid ptyalin or some saliva, or even a portion of a dried salivary gland, into a vessel with some starch, adding also some water unless the liquid saliva is used. Keep the mixture at a temperature of about 100° F., and the conversion of starch into the soluble sugar commences at once. In the mouth also this change commences as soon as the saliva mixes with starchy foods, and some of the grape sugar formed is absorbed at once by the mucous membrane of the mouth, by which means it enters the blood system, and its circu- lation thus commences. The unchanged starchy substances are swallowed, together with some saliva, and the conversion of starch into sugar is continued in other parts of the digestive tube. The saliva acts only on starchy foods. _ , / , ■ , In addition to the action of the saliva just mentioned (which may be termed a chemical action) it is useful also as a mechanical a<rent and a general solvent. AVith the mucus it moistens the mouth, thus facilitating speaking and assisting mastication. It dissolves savoury substances, thus enabling us to taste them. It ' An alkali is a substance which has a soapy taste and feel, and has the power of neutralising acids. Acids are distinguished by their sharp, sour ?asTe. Acids turn vegetable blue colours red ; alkahes turn vegetable reds blue.97 THE SALIVARY GLANDS also assists in forming the food into a soft mass previous to swal- lowing. The rate of the secretion of the saliva is from one to two pounds daily. The secretion is probably continuous, but is always increased by the introduction of a substance into the mouth. This substance need not necessarily be digestible or even tasty, for the saliva may be readily produced by the sucking of a glass bead or a pebble ; and even the odour of a savoury dish will ' make the mouth water.' The salivary glands of children do not act till about the fourth or the sixth month. It would seem, therefore, that children should not be fed with foods containing much starch before that age. We shall, however, learn that the saliva is not the only fluid which is capable of digesting starch. GLANDS (Function) GLANDS (Forms) SALIVARY GLANDS SALIVA SUMMARY. Secreting. Excreting Ductless . Simple Compound Parotid . Submaxillary Sublingual . Composition . Uses . . . Rate of Secretion 1 i Prepare and separate a fluid from the blood. Example—salivary glands. Separate waste materials from blood. Example — sweat glaiids. Have no duct. Example—the spleen. Probably engaged in the elaboration of the blood. Tubular. Lobulated. Tubular. Lobulatcd. Situated under and in front of the ear. Largest. Duct opens opposite the second molar. Under the lower jaw. Size of a large plum. Duct opens at the bridle of the tongue. Under the tongue. Size of an almond. Several ducts. Water. Salts. Ptyalin—WvG. active principle. Other matters. Chemical—changes starch into grape-sugar. Moistens mouth—facilitates speaking. Mechanical-! ^^issolves savoury substances —thus aidmg taste. Assists in swallowing by ' forming a soft bolus. From one to two pounds daily. Probably continuous. Accelerated on taking food. None in children til! four or six months^ HkLteMENTARY PIlYStOLOGY &8 QUESTIONS ON LESSON XVII. 1. What is a gland ? Give examples of the different kinds b( glands. 2. Describe some of the various forms of glands. .3. Describe the general character and use of mucous meinbraue. Mention any part of the body where this membrane may be found. 4. Describe the form, size, and position of each of the chief salivary glands. Where are the openings of the ducts of these glands ? 5. W'hat is the saliva ? Describe its composition. What is its use ? 6. What quantity of saliva is secreted daily ? Is it always secreted at the same rate? If not, state the circumstances which accelerate or retard its flow ? 7. What is ptyaliiil How would you illustrate the action of ptyalin on certain food-substances? LESSON XVIII. THE (ESOPHAGUS AND DEGLUTITION. THE STOMACH AND GASTRIC DIGESTION. The oesophagus is the narrowest portion of the ahmentary canal, and, although generally described as muscular, it consists of three distinct coats.^—The outer coat is thick and muscular, and con- sists of two distinct sets of muscular fibres, some running longi- tudinally, i.e. lengthwise down the tube, and the others passing in a circular direction round it. The inner coat is a mucous mevi- bmne, which, as its name implies, contains mucous glands ; it is drawn up into longitudinal folds, thus increasing the amount of secreting surface. The middle coat consists of a loose filamentous membrane called connective, areolar, or fibrous tissue, which imites the outer and inner coats of the tube. After the food has been masticated and thoroughly mixed with the saliva, it is collected into a bolus by the tongue and the muscles of the cheeks, and then passed between the tongue and the palate till it reaches, the back of the mouth. This muscular action may be voluntary, but is usually performed uncon- sciously. The food must now pass into the pharynx without touching the posterior nares or entering the glottis. This is accomplished as follows The larytix and pharynx are both raised together and carried forward under the tongue. The glottis is closed by the epiglottis ; and the posterior narcs are shut off by the sides of the soft palate. The contraction of the muscles at the back of the mouth forces the food over the epiglottis into the pharynx. The pharynx now contracts above it, and the bolus is forced into the99 THE CESOPHAGUS AND STOMACH oesophagus. The student should observe the motion of the larynx in swallowing by pressing the fingers lightly on the front of the throat during the act. As soon as the food enters the upper portion of the oesophagus, the circular muscles in the walls of that tube contract just above it, thus forcing it a little downward. This action is repeated by all the circular muscular fibres throughout the tube, each set con- tracting just above the food only till it passes into the stomach. It must not be understood, however, that the food is forced down the oesophagus by a series of distinct movements or jerks ; but that the successive muscular contractions produce a regular wave like motion throughout the tube. The longitudinal muscular fibres also contract at the sides, thus helping the oesophagus to grasp the food more effectually. It will have been observed that the act of swallowing is purely a muscular action—that the food does not fall into the stomach by its own weight, but is forced downward. This being the case, the act of swallowing may be performed with the body in any position. Thus jugglers sometimes eat, and even drink while standing on their heads, drink being conveyed into the stomach in exactly the same manner as solid food. After the food has passed to the back of the mouth, the remainder of the act of swallowing or deglutition {Lat. de, down \ and glutio, I swallow) is purely involuntary, and consequently we cannot then stop the bolus in its passage to the stomach. The mucus secreted by the internal mucous membrane of the oesophagus, acts as a lubrica7it, and thus facilitates the passage of the food. When the oesophagus is not engaged in swallowing, it is flat- tened, its front and back walls being in contact. In order that the act of deglutition may take place with regularity and ease, the bolus of food must be sufiiciently large to be within the grasp of the contracting muscles. It is on this account that some persons experience a considerable difficulty in swallowing a pill, especially if it be a small one, unless food or drink be taken at the same time. The general form, size, and position of the stomach have already been described in Lesson XIII. ; we have now to notice the structure of its walls, and its action on the food. The walls of the stomach consist of four distinct coats. The outer coat is a layer of the peritoneum which is reflected round most of the organs of the abdomen. It is a serous membrane, that is, one which secretes a watery fluid called serum. The use of the serum is to moisten or lubricate the surfaces of organs which glide more or less over each other. The other three coats of the stomach correspond exactly with H 2ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 100 [»^mt0 » a>»wi<m a> or 9 » ' * t» IM- it* «»■ C <B 9 ■» ^ 49 9 9 ^ ^.^^^ those of the CKSophagus, and are, in fact, continuations of them. The outer of these, which, of course, lies next the peritoneal coat, is muscular; the next is composed of areolar tis- sue, and the inner coat is a mucous membrane. 'I"he muscular coat of the stomach consists of three sets of involuntary muscular fibres. The outer set run longitudinally from the cardiac orifice to the pylorus, and are continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus. The middle set of fibres encircle all parts of the stomach, and are especially numer- ous at the pyloric end. The inner set consist of oblique fibres. They are continuous with the circu- lar fibres of the oesophagus, and exist chiefly at the car- diac end of the stomach. By means of these mus- cles the contents of the stomach are kept in a continuous circular motion, passing from the cardiac end to the pylorus along the greater curvature, and back to the cardiac end along the lesser curvature : and, as with the oesophagus, these motions are best maintain- ed when the stomach is moderately distended with food - substances, so that the muscles can grasp them on all sides. The walls of the sto- mach are capable of great distension ; consequently it can adapt itself to the quantity of food it contains, Fig. 96.—A Section through the "Walls of the Stomach. Magnified 15 dia- meters. 1, surface of the mucous membrane, showing the openings of the peptic glands ; 2, mucous mem- brane, composed almost entirely of glands ; 3, sub- mucous or areolar tissue ; 4, transverse muscular fihres ; 5, longitudinal muscular fibres ; C, peri- toneal coat. Fig. 97.—Muscular Coat of the Stomach, IJxternal layer of longitudinal fibres, p, pylorus ; c, cardiac end ; ce, oesophagus. and, at the same time, be always in contact with the food so as to act on it.THE CESOPHAGUS AND STOMACH lOI The circular muscular fibres at the intestinal end of the stomach form a strong band which serves to keep the pylorus closed. Such circular muscles are called sphincters {Gr. a tight band). This sphincter remains at first firmly closed during digestion; but, as the process continues, it slowly relaxes, thus allcJwing the digested portions to pass through into the intestines; and, towards the termina- tion, it allows all the con- tents of the stomach to pass. The time during which substances remain in the stomach varies consider- ably with the nature of the food and the method of cooking. Usually it is not less than one hour. Fig. 98.—Muscular Coat of the Stomacli. and seldom more than five Middle layer of circular fibres. hours. The mucous membrane of the stomach is smooth, level, and soft, when the organ is moderately distended ; but is drawn up into longitudinal folds when the stomach is empty. It consists almost entirely of minute glands, which secrete mucus to keep the surface moist, and, during digestion, a powerful fluid known as the gastric juice or gastric fluid. These glands are called gastric glands or peptic glands (Gr. pepto, I cook, or digest). They are tubu- lar glands, the openings of which may be seen on the surface of the mucous membrane by the aid of a lens. When the stomach con- tains no food, the mucous pig. 99.—Muscular Coat of the Stomach. membrane is very pale ni inner layer of oblique fibres. colour, and is moistened by mucus only ; but as soon as food is introduced, or even a non- digestible substance, the supply of blood increases, the mucous membrane becomes of a bright pink colour, and the secretion of the gastric fluid immediately commences. Xt is difficult to ascertain accurately the c[uantity of gastricI02 Kr.EMENTARY PMYSIOLOGY fluid secreted m a given time, hut after careful experiments and observations it has been estimated that from ten to twenty pints of this fluid are poured into the stomach every twenty-four hours. The gastric fluid is a clear and colourless liquid, having a slightly saltish and acid taste. It possesses the power of coagu- lating or curdling albumen, and has antiseptic properties, that is, Fig. ICX5.—The Stomach and the Duodenum, laid open to show the Mucous Membrane. I, CESophagus ; 2, mucous membrane of the stomach : 3, pylorus ; 4, duodenum; 5, the ducts which convey the bile from the liver; 6, gall-bladder ; 7, common duct ; 8, the pancreatic duct. the power of preventing putrefaction. It is on account of this latter property that * high game' may be eaten with impunity. The composition of the gastric juice is shown in the following table :— Water ' . . . . 994-4 /Pepsin . . . . . . . . 3'2 Common salt . . . . . . . i"5 Solids Hy^lrochloric acid 'muriatic acid) ... '2 I Potassium chloride ...... '5 Calcium chloride . . . . . . "i ^ Phosphates of calcium, magnesium, and iron . •! looo-o Pepsin is the active principle of the gastric fluid. It is a nitrogenous substance which has the power, in the presence of an acid, of dissolving nitrogenous foods. Pepsin may be obtained■103 THE CESOPHAGUS AND STOMACH in a dissolved form by thoroughly washing the mucous membrane of the stomach of any animal with water ; or it may be procured an the solid form from the chemist. The power of pepsm as .a digestive fluid may be illustrated by the followmg experi- ment :— Cut up a little lean meat into very small pieces, thus imitating mastication. Put ihem into a vessel with some water, a little pepsin, and a drop or two of hydrochloric acid. Heat this mixture up to a temperature of 100° F. (the temperature of the body), and keep it at this for a few hours, stirring fre- quently with a glass rod to imitate the motions in the stomach. The meat thus treated will be reduced to a pulp as in the stomach. The gastric fluid has no action on starchy foods, neither does it act on fats. The former, however, are dissolved in the stomach by the swallowed saliva, but the acidity of the gastric juice somewhat retards this action. Fatty tissue .consists of fat cells united together by areo- lar tissue, and each cell consists of a particle of fat surrounded by a cell-wall of albuminous (nitrogenous) substance. Con- sequently, when fatty tissue passes into the stomach, the areolar tissue and the albumi- nous cell-walls are dissolved, and the fat itself is set free in the form of minute globules, giving the whole contents of the sto- mach a milky appearance. This milky fluid is called chyme (Gr. cheo, I pour) because it \s> poured into the intestine. It consists of— {ci) Saliva and partially dissolved starchy foods. lb) Gastric fluid and partially dissolved nitrogenous foods, (c) Undigested fat in the form of minute globules. . \d) Mucus from the mucous glands. (e) Indigestible substances. The character of the chyme varies considerably according to Fig. loi.—Peptic Gland from the Mucous Memhrane of the Sto- mach.. Highly magnified.ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY I04 the nature of the food taken ; but it is generally a thick, milky, acid fluid, possessing a disagreeable odour. ' 'Hie changing of the food into chyme by the gastric fluid is called chymification. The average time occupied in producing this change is from three to four hours. The information we possess concerning these changes in the stomach is the result of a number of observations made on living and on recently-killed animals ; and not a little is due to the investigations of Dr. Beaumont who had an opportunity of witnessing the action of the gastric fluid in a Canadian whose stomach had been perforated by a bullet. Dr. Beaumont introduced various substances into his stomach, and noted the time required to chymifv various foods, A few of the results obtained are as follows :— Time occupied in Chymiflcation. Boiled rice Boiled tripe Raw apples Boiled salmon . Boiled sago Boiled, cured cod-fish Boiled beans Sponge cake Baked potatoes. Roasted goose . Boiled gelatine. Broiled lamb . Boiled beef Boiled apple dumplings Hours I I 2k 4 2h Roasted beef . Boiled mutton . Boiled carrots . Roasted mutton Bread Boiled potatoes Boiled turnips . Cheese Boiled eggs (hard) Fried eggs Boiled cabbage. Boiled or roasted fow Roasted pork . Boiled gristle . Hours 3 3 3.^ 3^- si 3i 3* 4 4 5^- 5h Some albuminous substances, such as casein (of milk), are coagulated or curdled by the gastric fluid, thus becoming solid before being digested. The soluble and diffusible substances formed by the action of the gastric fluid on albuminous foods are called peptones. These peptones are at once fit for absorption, and are to a certain ex- tent taken up by the mucous membrane of the stomach, and pass into the blood circulation. SUMMARY. CESOPHAGTIS Narrowest portion of alimentary canal. Length about 9 inches. Communicates between pharynx and stomach. Pass- ing through the diaphragm. ,1. Outer muscular I Coats Circular fibres. ■ 2. Middle areolar (filamentous). 1 3. Inner mucous.THE CESOPHAGUS AND STOMACH DEGLUTITION 1. 2. Food collected into a bolus by tongue and cheeks. Glided between tongue and palate to back of mouth. Voluntary. Or may be performed unconsciously. Muscles contract at back of the mouth. Larynx and pharynx raised and carried forward. Glottis closed by the epiglottis. Posterior nares shut off. Pharynx receives food and contracts above it, forcing it down into the cesophagus. Involuntary. I Food forced down the oesophagus by the wave-like J contraction of the muscular fibres just above it. I Thus carried into the stomach. \ Involuntary. / Coats I. Outer Peritoneal A serous membrane. { M u < o SH 03 3. Areolar . | 4. Mucous Motions Glands Cause food to revolve GASTRIC FLUID I Outer longittidinal fibres. 2. Muscular. j Middle circular fibres. ^ Inner oblique fibres. Composed of loosely-woven fila- ments. Smooth, soft, and level. Drawn up into folds when not dis. tended. Composed almost entirely of tubular peptic or gastric glands. Very pale when inactive. Turns bright pink on introducing a substance into the stomach. From cardiac oj-ijice iopylot us along the greater curvature. Fiom pylorus \o cardiac orifice along the lesser curvature. , Tulntlar. . . I Open at the surface of the mucous membrane. V Secrete diucus and gastric juice. General properties—Clear, liquid, saltish, acid. Quantity secreted daily—10 to 20 pints. Water. Pepsin. Common salt and other salts. Plydrochloric acid. / Dissolves nitrogenous foods. No action on starchy foods. No action on fats ; but Dissolves the albuminous walls of the fat cells, also the tissue which binds the cells together, thus liberating minute globules of fat. Converts albuminoids into diffusible pep. tojies. Converts foods into chyme. Coagulates certain albuminous foods before ^ digesting them. Acts as an antiseptic. Contains Action.io6 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY QUESTIONS ON LESSON XVIII. 1. Describe the form, size, position, and structure of the cesophai^tis. 2. DescrilDC the action of the parts concerned in the act of swallowing. To what extent is this a vokinlary action ? 3. Describe carefully the action of the muscular fibres of the oesophagi^? during deglutition. 4. What is the cause of the difficulty sometimes experienced in swallowing a pill? 5. Describe the structure of the walls of the stomach. 6. By what means is the food kept in motion during gastric digestion';; Describe this motion. What purpose is served by this motion ? 7. Describe the general appearance of the mucous membrane ol the stomach (i) When the organ is empty, and (2) When food is introduced. 8. Describe the general characters and composition of the gastric Jluiii. 9. What is the action of the gastric fluid on (l) starchy fluids, (2) nitrogenous foods, and (3) fats ? 10. What is pepsin ? What is its use ? How may it be obtained ? 11. What is chyme? Of what does it consist ? 12. Describe fully the various changes which take place in the food while in the stomach. 13. Explain the term diymificaiion. 14. What are peptones ? Where and how are they formed ? How do they differ from the materials from which they are produced ? LESSON XIX. THE INTESTINES AND INTESTINAL DIGESTION. The general form and arrangement of the mtestines have been described in Lesson XIII. . Both large and small intestines, hke the stomach, consist ot four coats. These coats also correspond with those of the stomach, being arranged as follows ;— 1. Outer serous coat, formed by the peritoneum, 2. Muscular coat, composed of (a) External longitudinal fibres and ib) Literrial circular fibres. 3. Areolar layer. 4 Mucous membrane, forming the mterior surface. The mucous membrane of the small intestine is m part drawn up into folds, like that of the stomach, but to such .-n extent that thev do not disappear when the tube is distenaed. These lolds are called the valvulse conniventes. They serve to increase the area of the secreting surface, to prevent the food from passing too rapidly through the intestine, and to assist the mmng of the food with the digestive fluids which are poured into the mtestines.THE INTESTINES AND INTESTINAL DIGESTION 107 The mucous coat of both large and small intestines also resembles that of the stomach in that it consists chiefly of glands. But the glands are of various kinds; some are tubular, and arranged parallel with each other. Others {Peyer's glands) are somewhat globular or ovoid in form, and are distributed singly {solitary) or in groups {Feyer's patches). Others, again, are minutely lobulated {Brunner's glands), and are so large as to be* visible to the naked eye. The ducts of all these glands (excepting the Beyer's glands, which have no ducts) open on the internal surface of the intestines and thus pour their secretions into the alimentary canal. Fig. 103.—A Small Por- tion of the Mucous Membrane of the Small Intestine. Magnified 12 dia- meters. Fig 102 -A Portion of p^y^^,^ surrounded the Small Intestine by tubular glands ; b, villi ; laid open to show the openings of the tubular Folds of the Mucous g'^"'^^- Membrane (Valvulae Conniventes). The nature of the secretions of these glands is not well under- stood. Some of them probably secrete mucus only ; others are sup- posed to resemble the salivary glands and the pancreas in function. The interior surface of the small intestine is covered also with a multitude of minute projections called villi (Lat. shaggy hair) which give the surface a fine velvety appearance. These, however, will be described in our next lesson, as they are engaged in the absorption of nutritious matter rather than in the digestion of food. When the partially digested food passes from the stomach, through the pylorus, it almost immediately mingles with two very important digestive fluids, called the bile and the pancreatic fluidio8 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY respectively. The former is i)repared by the liver, and the latter by the pancreas. Both these Uuids enter the duodenum at or near the same point, one being conveyed from the liver by means of the bile-duct and the other from the pancreas by the pancreatic duct. The pancreas is a lobulated gland, situated within the curve of the duodenum, as already described in Lesson XIII. In structure it closely resembles the salivary glands. The liver will be fully described in Lesson XXVII. Fig. 104.—The Stomach, Duodenum, Liver, Spleen, and Pancreas. I, stomach ; 2, pylorus ; 3, duodenum ; 4, liver (under surface); 5, gall-bladder ; 6. pan- creas ; 7, bile duct; 8, pancreatic duct; 9, spleen; 10, aorta; 11, portal vein; 12, splenic ariery ; 13, splenic vein. The pancreatic juice is a colourless and transparent fluid ; which is slightly alkaline and viscid, and of which twelve to sixteen ounces are secreted daily. It contains— Water „ , ( Pancreatin I Inorganic salts, &c. . 1000'O ts The function of this fluid resembles that of the saliva, but is more varied in its action. Thus, it converts starchy foods into soluble grape-sugar; but like the gastric fluid it dissolves albumin- ous and gelatinous foods, converting them into peptones ; it also emulsifies fats, rendering them U for absorption.THE INTESTINES AND INTESTINAL DIGESTION I09 A simple experiment will enable us to understand the meaning of the term enmlsifies. Pour into a glass vessel about an ounce of water, and then a little oil or melted fat (if the latter, the water should be hot). The two liquids remain quite distinct, the oil or fat floating on the water. Now shake the mixture vigorously, and the oil or fat is separated into globules which are dis- tributed throughout the water ; but, on allowing the mixture to rest for a short time, the liquids separate again. Hence we say that oil is insoluble in water. Next, add a little alkali (potash or soda) to the mixture and shake it again. At once a milky fluid is formed, which is termed an emulsion. The fat or oil has been separated by the alkali into extremely minute particles which remain diffused throughout the liquid. The bile is a yellow or greenish-yellow fluid, also slightly alka- line, having the following composition :— Water 859-2 parts /Bilin .... Fat. . . . Solids \ Cholesterin Mucus and colouring matter I Salts .... 91-5 9-2 2-6 29-8 77 lOOO'O The bile is secreted continuously, at the rate of from thirty to forty ounces daily. If not needed, at once for digestion, it passes into the gall-bladder, where it is stored until required. If digestion is going on, it passes direct from the liver, where it is secreted, to the duodenum. The chief uses of the bile as a digestive fluid are (i) to assist in emul- sifying fats, (2) to moisten the mucous membrane of the intestine, and (3) to act as a natural purgative by assisting the muscular motions and the secretion r/ of the intestines. When the chyme passes into the small intestine, it is soon mingled with the pancreatic fluid, the bile, and the secretions of the intestinal glands; and these fluids, together with the saliva and the gastric fluid which form part of the chyme, complete the process of digestion. All kinds of foods are now being dissolved, and by the worm-like motions kept up by the muscular fibres of the intestines, the whole is urged slowly on. The dissolved portions are rapidly absorbed by the mucous mem- Fig. 105.—The Ileo-csecal Valve. a, ileum ; b, ascending colon ; c, cae. cum ; d, junction of the caecum and colon ; e and f, loose folds of the mucous membrane, forming the ileo-caecal valve ; g, vermiform appendage-110 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY branc, while the undigested and indigestible portions pass onward towards the rectum. As soon as the chyme is subjected to the influence of the bile and pancreatic fluid, its appearance is changed, the emulsified fats giving it the appearance of milk. The term chyle is applied to the emulsified contents of the small intestine. After the chyle has passed through the whole length of the small intestine, it enters the large intestine through an opening which is guarded by two folds of the mucous membrane, 'i'hese folds project into the large tube, and so prevent the reflux of the contents into the small intestine. Thus they form a valve between the ileum and the cccciim, which is known as the ileo-caecal valve. Digestion continues in the large intestine ; the dissolved por- tions are gradually absorbed, leaving a residue which becomes more and more solid. The time occupied by the food in passing through the intes- tines varies considerably. Perhaps the average for the small intes- tine is twelve hours ; and, for the large, from twenty-four to thirty- six hours. Coats SMALL , INTESTINE \ Digestion. SUMMARY. \ Serous—a continuation of the peritonetim. , f External longitudinalfibres. Muscular , ,,y,^,^^,. Areolar. rValvulae conniventes—folds of membrane. / Tzcbular, Glands | Globular. V Lobulated. {Mucus. J A secretion resem- bling ,the pancrc- \ atic fluid. ^Villi—engaged in absorption. Continued action of saliva and gastrii fluid. Bile—Emulsifies fats. , Converts starch into Mucous- Secretions Pancreatic fluid sugar. Dissolves nitrogenous foods. Emulsifies fats. LARGE INTESTINE I Digestion completed. Fluid portions absorbed, leaving n solid residue.THE INTESTINES AND INTESTINAL DIGESTION III STJMMARY OF THE PROCESS OF DIGESTION. Starchy foods Nitrogenous foods Fats Mineral salts gastric Solution commenced in the viotith by the saliva. Continued in the stomach by the swallowed saliva. Completed in the hitestmes hy the intestinal juices Solution commenced in the stomach by the fluid. Continued in the intestines by the gastric fluid which has passed through the pylorus, by the pancreatic fluid, and also (probably) by tl:e intestinal secre- tions. Fat globules loosened hoxix their nitrogenous cell-walls and membranes by the gastric fluid. Digested in the intestines by the bile and the pan- creatic fluid. Dissolved by the various digestive fluids. 1. 2. 4- 5- 6. lO. II. 12. QUESTIONS ON LESSON XIX. Describe the structure of the intestines. In what respects does the mucous membrane of the intestines differ from that of the stomach ? What are the valvulce conniventes ? What are their uses ? Describe the general form and position of the pancreas. What is the nature of the fluid which it secretes ? Describe the action of the pancreatic fluid on various kinds of foods. What are the general properties of the bile 1 Where is it prepared ? Where does it enter the alimentary canal ? What are the uses of the bile ? Wiat is chyme ? Of what does it consist ? Describe the changes which talce place during its formation. In what part of the abdomen does the small intestine communicate with the large intestine ? How do they join ? What is the condition of the contents of the small intestine just before passing into the large intes- What changes does the food undergo in the large intestine? Describe the nature of the food materials in a beef-steak pudding. Where are these materials digested? Name the fluid or fluids con- cerned in the digestion of each. Describe the action of the gastric fluid, the pancreatic fluid, and the bile, respectively, on fatty tissue. LESSON XX. ABSORPTION. The object of the present lesson is to show how the nutritious matter derived from the food during the process of digestion enters into the blood system. Food is taken in order to repair the waste which is continuaU^ELEMENTARY niYSIOLOGY 112 going on in the various tissues of the body, and also, during youth, to allow of the growth and development of the system as a whole. In the alimentary canal the various food-substances are simply digested, that is, either converted into a soluble form, or else separated into such minute particles that they are capable of beinr? transmitted through moist membranous structures. But now it is necessary that the materials so digested enter the blood system. They are then conveyed to the various tissues and added to their structures, while the blood at the same time removes from these tissues those materials which have performed their office, and which are termed the waste products. The passage of the nutritious substances from the digestive canal to the blood system constitutes the process called absorption. We have noticed that the process of digestion commences in the mouth, and is continued more or less throughout the alimentary canal. We have also learnt that the whole of the canal is lined with a soft mucous membrane which is richly supplied with blood-vessels, and that as soon as the digestion of a food- substance commences, the dissolved portions begin to penetrate the soft membrane and pass through the thin walls of the minute blood capillaries. Thus we become acquainted with one process by which nutritious matter enters the blood—a process which wc may term the absorption by blood-vessels. We shall presently leam, however, that there is another and distinct process of absoriJtion, carried on by a complicated system of vessels especially adapted for the purpose. The blood-vessels seem to exercise no choice in the materials absorbed. Every kind of food is readily imbibed provided it is dissolved or reduced to such a finely-divided state that it is capable of permeating their walls. It must be remembered that this absorption is carried on almost exclusively by the minutest blood-vessels (the capillaries), the walls of which are exceedingly thin. The other portion of the process of absorption referred to above is carried on by a system of vessels called the lymphatic system {see fig. 6), and the function performed by the vessels of this system is of such an important character that they are often said to constitute the absorptive system. The lymphatic system (Lat. lympha, clear water) is so called 'because its vessels usually contain a watery fluid. It consists of .lyjnphatic capillaries, lymphatic vessels, glands, and two vessels -called lymphatic trunks, the larger of which is situated at the back 'Of the thorax and is called the thoracic duct. The lymphatic capillaries are very minute vessels (Lat.113 ABSORPTIONELEMENTARY rilYSIOLOGY capillns, a Iiaii ) which originate in the organs and tissues of nearly every part of the body. Those which have their origin in the walls of the intestines differ from the others in that they contain, during digestion, a fluid resembling milk in appearance. They are consequendy distinguished from the other lymphatic capil- laries by the name lacteals. (Lat. lac, milk.) We now proceed to study the nature and uses of these lacteals. Fig. 109.—Lympliatics of the Head, Neck, Thorax, &c. I and 2, the upper portion of the thoracic duct, showing itsjunciion with the venous system. It will be remembered that the small intestine is lined inter- nally by a mucous membrane which is characterised by a number of minute hair-like projections called villi, giving the mem- brane the appearance of a yellowish or pinkish velvet. Each villus is supplied with a network of blood capillaries, and also one or more lacteals. These vessels are very advantageously situated for absorption, as they are surrounded on all sides byABSORPTION Fig. 110.—The Tho- racic Duct. r, the thoracic duct, in front of the vertebral column ; its upper ex- tremity communicating with the venous system at the junction of the left jugular and left sub- clavian veins (compare with fig. 6); 2, recep- ticulum chyli; 3, in- ferior vena cava, lower portion ; 4, superior vena cava. digested food-substances, only an extremely thin layer of tissue separating. Hence in the villi absorption goes on very rapidly, both by the blood-vessels and the lacteals. This is also supplemented by means of other blood-vessels and lacteals which lie in the mucous membrane behveen the villi, andValso in the corresponding membrane of the large intestine where there are no villi. The absorption as carried on by the lac- teals differs in one important respect from that by the blood-vessels, since the former have the power to select the fatty constitu- ents from the various products of digestion, while the latter possess no power of selection. During fasting the lacteals contain a clear, transparent fluid, closely resembling that which fills the other lymphatic capillaries; but during digestion they contain a milky fluid called chyle (Gr. chulos, juice), the change in appearance being due to the innumerable particles of fatty matter absorbed from the intestine. The chyle is collected by lymphatic vessels, which resemble thin-walled veins (see page 131)= Like veins, they are also provided with valves which allow of the passage of fluid in one direction only, viz. towards the thoracic duct', and the valves are arranged at such short distances from each other, that, when full, the lymph-vessels have a knotted or beaded appearance. As the chyle moves onward, and especially as it passes through the lymphatic glands, the number of oily particles diminishes, cor- puscles resembhng the white corpuscles. of the blood (see page 117), and a nitrogenous substance called fibrin are formed : in fact, as it approaches the blood system which it is ultimately to enter, it becomes more and more like blood, excepting in the matter of red corpuscles which give the colour. We may therefore regard the lymphatic glands as being concerned in the elaboration of the blood. I 2ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY Ii6 The lymphatic capillaries in other parts of the body have their origin in the spaces between the various structures. Their office is to collect the fluid part of the blood which exudes through the walls of the blood-vessels, and substances which, though having once formed part of a tissue, are not yet waste materials, but are capable ■ of reorganisation, and may therefore be adapted for nutrition. The lymph thus absorbed by the lyDiphatic capillaries is col- lected by the lymphatic vessels, and transmitted through lymphatic glands, becoming more and more like blood (excepting in colour) as it proceeds. All the lymphatic vessels, including those which convey the chyle from the intestines, finally empty their contents into one of the two lymphatic ducts. The smaller of these, called the right lymphatic duct, enters a large vein at the right side of the root of the neck. The larger duct—the thoracic duct—lies just in front of the vertebral column. Its lower end, situated in the upper portion of the abdomen, is four or five times as wide as the upper part, and is called the receptaculum chyli or receptacle of the chyle. The remainder of the duct lies at the back of the thorax, and its upper end leads into a larger vein at the root of the neck on the left side. Thus we have been able to trace the passage of food materials from the mouth, till they finally enter the blood system. SUMMARY. { Absorption by Blood- vessels LYMPHATIC SYSTEM Lacteals Other Lymphatics Crlands I Thoracic duct From the mucous membrane in all parts of the alimentary canal. No power of selection— Every kind of food absorbed if dissolved, or if so finely divided that it can permeate the walls of the blood capillaries. / The lymphatics of the intestines. Many originate in the villi of the small intestine. During digestion—a milky fluid Contain {chyle). Dtiringfasiing - di watery fluid. Absorb fatty substances. Absorb the fluid portion of blood (lymph) which has exuded through the blood-vessels. Also other substances for reorganisation. Engaged in elaborating blood from the lymph and chyle. In front of backbone, chiefly in thorax. Receptaculum chyli—lower portion—situ- ated in the abdomen. Receives lymph and chyle, and pours them \ into the blood system.117 ABSORPTION QUESTIONS ON LESSON XX. !. What is meant by absorption ? What are the organs concerned in the absorption of nutriment ? ::. WTieredoes the absorption of nutritious matter commence ? In what parts is it continued ? 3. How does the absorption by blood-vessels differ from that by the lacteals ? 4. What are lacteals and lymphatics ? 5. Describe the structure of a vilhis. In what way is it particularly adapted for absorption ? 6. What are the organs and vessels which make up the lymphatic system ? 7. What is the difference between lymph and chyle ? S. How is the food conveyed from the alimentary canal into the blood ? 9. What is the thoracic duct ? Where is it situated ? What does it contaia during fasting, and what shortly after a meal ? I o. What are lymphatic glands 1 What is their use ? LESSON XXI. THE BLOOD. The blood consists of a colourless alkaline fluid called the Hquor sanguinis, and myriads of minute floating bodies called vrpusdes. The liquor sanguinis (Lat. sangtm, blood), called also the plasma, consists of water in which is dissolved certain mineral salts ind albu7nen and other nitrogenous matter. The blood corpuscles are of two kinds, usually termed the red md the white or coloiirless The red corpuscles are minute circular discs, concave on both jiides, having a diameter of about a^Vu inch, and a thickness of f bout mch. If placed flat, edge to edge, ten millions of ihem would be required to cover a square inch. They are so humerous in the blood that they make it a thickish liquid, and probably form about forty per cent, of the total weight of the blood jvVhen examined singly under a powerful microscope they are not •ed, but of a pale yellowish colour ; yet these are the bodies vhich, when seen en masse, give to the blood its uniform red colour These corpuscles seem to be supported by a firm elastic framework' ;o that they readfly change their shape in passing through narrow ipertures, and regain it immediately after. The white or colourless corpuscles are a little larger than the •ed, being about inch in diameter. Being composed of a -ery soft, jelly-hke substance {protoplasm) they readily change .heir form. Ihey much resemble a minute animal organism,Ii8 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY found abundantly in stagnant water, called the amaba. 'J'hey also, like the amoeba, are constantly shooting out irregular processes, and are therefore said to be capable of amoiboid movements. The colourless corpuscles are not nearly so numerous as the red, the proportion being about one to five hundred. The proportion, however, varies considerably, being dependent on the kind and amount of food taken, age, &c. When freshly-drawn blood is allowed to remain at rest for a few minutes it becomes semi-solid and jelly-like by the formation of what is called a clot. At first the clot thus formed constitutes the whole mass of the blood, and is of the same uniform colour. But after a short time a very pale yellowish, liquid begins to ooze out and collect on the surface. The clot becomes gradually smaller as this liquid exudes, till, at the end of a few hours, it "is much firmer, and floats in the yellowish fluid. The clot is due to the formation of fibrin—a sub- stance which is not present in living blood, but is formed spontaneously, after the blo6d has been drawn, from mate- rials in solution. This change in the blood is termed coagu- lation ; and the liquid which separates from the clot is called serum {zvhey). The serum is almost entirely free from corpuscles, these being entangled with the fibrin. The following tables will assist in making this change clear Fig. . III.—Blood Corpuscles, as seen under a powerful Microscope. r, red corpuscles lying flat; r", red corpuscles on edge and viewed in profile ; r", red cor- puscles arranged in rouleaux ; p and^, colour- less corpuscles. Blood (before coagula- tion) Coagulated blood ' Liquor sanguinis , Corpuscles Water Salts Albumen Fibrin Corpuscles Water. Salts. Albumen. The elements of fibrin. Red. Colourless. Serum. I ClotTHE BLOOD 119 If fresh blood be stirred briskly with a bunch of twigs, the fibrin is formed very rapidly, and collects on the twigs, leaving behind a red fluid called defibrinated blood (blood deprived of its fibrin) which will not coagulate. Thus :— [Elements of fibrin . . Fibrin. . . Albumen \ Liquor sanguinis. ^ g^j^^ Serum ^ Blood. .] i Water > I Defibrinated Wood, [corpuscles ' The coagulation of blood may be retarded, and even prevented, by keep- in"- it at a temperature below 40° F., or at a higher temperature than 120° F. The addition of common salt, or contact with living tissues, will also prevent this change. On the other hand, coagulation may be hastened by free access to the au\as by exposure in a shallow vessel), by allowing the blood to remain at perfect rest, or by bringing it in contact with foreign (non-living) matter. In the last case, the coagulation is rapid in propor- tion to the surface which is in contact with the blood ; hence the reason for whipping with a bunch of twigs. Under ordinary circumstances the coagulation sets in before the corpuscles have time to subside or settle to the bottom of the vessel ; but the red corpuscles have a tendency to adhere to each other when the blood is at rest, forming rolls or columns resembling piles of coins, the piles being connected with each other at their ends so as to form a kind of network which sinks more quickly than would jrig. 112.—Red Corpuscles single corpuscles. When this change takes place arranged in Rouleaux, rapidly, the red corpuscles subside before the fibrin is formed. In this case a red clot is formed by fibrin and red corpuscles at the bottom of the vessel, over which is a yellowish clot produced by fibrin and colourless corpuscles, together with a few of the red variety, sufficient to impart a buff-yellow tint. This upper layer is commonly known as the buffy coat, and is often cup-shaped in form, ov/ing to the great shrinking of the fibrin on account of the absence of the network of red corpuscles. The colour of the blood is due to the presence of a nitrogenous sub- stance, called hsemoglobin, in the red corpuscles. This substance contains a considerable proportion of iron oxide, and has the power of combining with oxygen gas. As the blood flows through the capillaries surrounding the air-cells of the lungs, the hcemoglobin combines with oxygen from the air, becoming of a bright scarlet colour. The blood thus changed in colour returns to the heart, by which it is forced throughout the body. Then, on passing through the tissues of various organs, and especially the muscles, the hfemoglobin gives up some of its oxygen, which seems to be held by only a feeble chemical affinity, to the carbon and hydrogen of these tissues, forming respectively carbonic acid gas and water. The hsemoglobin then changes to a dark purple or purple-black colour, and the blood again returns to the lungs with the carbonic acid gas in solution. In the lungs this gas is given off into the air and expired, while the haemoglobin receives a fresh supply of oxygen from the inspired air. From the above description it will be readily understood why the haemoglobin has been termed the oxfg^n carrier of the blood. f120 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY In the body the bright scarlet blood is usually found in the arteries (vessels which convey blood from the heart), while the Clark purple blood usually flows through the veins (vessels which convey blood to the heart). Hence the bright blood is often termed arterial, and the dark blood venous. _ When a drop of dark blood from a vein is left exposed to air, It absorbs oxygen from the air, and soon becomes bright. This change may also be illustrated as follows :— Half fill a test-tube with dark venous blood, and .shake it up with the air contained in the tube. It will speedily turn to a bright scarlet ; but, if set aside for some time, will gradually turn dark again. This experiment may be varied by causing air or oxygen to bubble through a vessel containing venous blood. The temperature of the blood is 98-4° F. in health, but is not exactly tlie same in all parts of the body at the same time. The high temperature is due to chemical action, chiefly the oxida- tion of carbon and hydrogen of the tissues. The blood is warmed as it passes through muscles, glands, and other active organs ; but is cooled slightly in the capillaries of the skin. The quantity of blood in the body also varies with certain conditions, but is usually estimated at about one-tenth the total weight of the body. The following table shows the composition of human blood as far as its proximate principles are concerned :— Water Red corpuscles (dry) Albumen (dissolved in the serum) Fibrin (elements of) Fatty matter Common salt . Other salts Colouring matter, waste, and accidental matters, &c. 785-0 130-0 70-0 2- 2 1-4 3- 6 1-8 6-0 looo-o When blood has been dried by the evaporation of all its water, its ultimate or elementary chemical composition is almost identical with that of dried flesh. Under these circumstances the composi- tion of blood is Carbon . . . . . . . . 5S-0 Oxygen ........ 19-0 Nitrogen 17-5 Hydrogen . . , . . . . .7-0 Ash (mineral matter) . . . . . .4-5 Some of the uses of the blood have already been pointed out in connection with certain organs, and others have yet to be mentioned. The chief uses, however, may be summarized as follows :— I. It serves as a storehouse for nutrient matter absorbedTHE BLOOD 121 from the foods, and conveys the nutriment to all parts of the body. 2. It conveys the materials from which the secretions are formed to the various glands which prepare them. 3. It carries the oxygen gas to all the tissues where the process of oxidation goes on, thus being essential for the maintenance of the high temperature of the body. 4. It collects up waste materials, and conveys them to the excreting organs for separation and removal. 5. It serves to distribute heat throughout the body. 6. It moistens the various tissues. / Liquor Sanguinis Composition of the BLOOD SUMMARY. f The Hquid of the blood. PFater. { G Contains \ Corpuscles CLOTTED BLOOD Serum. . Fibrin. . Corpuscles Dissolved allmmen. Mineral salts. The elements of fibrin. Discs, round, with concave sides. Diameter, inch. Thickness, inch. Yellowish when viewed Red . . J singly. Have a tendency to adhere and form piles when the blood is drawn. Contains iron oxide. The oxygen car- rier. Shape constantly varying. Diameter, -^^^ inch. Colourless -! Transparent, jelly-like. Resemble the amceba. One to every 50c red. Water. Dissolved mineral salts. Dissolved albniiie7i. Formed during Hasmo- (, globin I Clot—floats in the serum. BLOOD Arterial Venous Temperature Quantity . . coagulation. Red and white Bright red. Rich in oxygen. Usually contained in arteries. Dark purple. Usually found in veins. Contains | ^^^^ oxygen than arterial blood. I More carbonic acid gas. Converted into arterial blood by absorption of oxygen. 99° F. One-tenth the weight of the body.ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 122 J- QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXI. Dcscrilie the appearcince of the corpuscles of the blood as seen with the aid of a microscope. How do the red corpuscles differ from tlie while? Describe the changes which take place when a vessel of freshly-drawn blood is left exposed to air. What are the materials dissolved in the fluid part of the blood ? 4. Describe an experiment by which you would deprive blood of its fibrin. 5. "What is clot ? Of what is it composed ? 6. What is meant by dcfibrinated blood ? Illustrate your answer by an experiment. 7. What is meant by the term * buffy' coat' as applied to blood ? Under what circumstances is it formed ? 8. How would you convert venous into arterial blood ? Where does this change take place in the body ? 9. What are the differences between arterial and venous blood ? 10. Where and how, in the body, is arterial blood changed into venous? 11. What is the cause of the high temperature of the body ? By what means is the temperature uniformly distributed ? 12. Mention some of the chief uses of thel)lood. ITS DISSECTION. The heart is a hollow muscular organ which, by its contraction, forces the blood through the whole system of blood-vessels. A general description of this organ has already been given in Lesson XII., and we shall now pro- ceed to study its structure and action. The student is strongly recom- mended to procure a sheep's heart from the butcher, and dissect it with the help of the simple instructions here given. Many of the sheep's hearts sold have a deep cut on the front. This is made on opening the carcase of the animal, while Fig. 113.-The Sheep's Heart, carelessly chopping through the br^^^^^^^^^^ viewed from behind. Select one which is free from this defect, and viewed rom Demna. ^^.^^^ blood-vessels at the base (upper and broader Portion) are not c^se y Sf the left auricle; 5. the aorta; cut. If a superabundance of fat surrounds 6, the pulmonary arteries; 7, pul- -^^^^ Qf heart, remove the greater poi- monary vein trunk ; 8, vena cava . jjj ^ cutting any of the vessels, inferior ; 9, vena cava superior. uon ui il \> imuu j123 THE HEART AND ITS DISSECTION The student, having provided himself with a sharp knife with a pointed blade, a few wood skewers, and a jug of water, may now proceed with the examination and dissection of the heart as follows :— Place the point of the knife just underneath the surface of the heart, so as to raise a portion of the very thin membrane or skin which closely invests it. This membrane is the inner layer of the pericardium, the outer layer of which, it will be remembered, surrounds the heart loosely, and is cut or torn away in removing the organ from the chest. A few remaining portions of this outer Fig. 114.—The Sheep's Heart, viewed from before. I, right ventricle ; 2, left ventricle ; 3, right auricle; 4, left auricle; 5, the aorta; 6, a cut branch of the .lorta ; 7, pulmonary artery. To open the right ventricle, cut as shown by the thick unbroken line. To open the left ventricle, cut along the thick dotted line. Between these two -n-. mv« tt.,~ tt.„„(. _„j i*- lines is a groove containing a blood- Fig. 115. —The Human Heart and Its vess -1, marking the position of the Vessels, viewed from before, septum which separates the ventri- ^-^-^^^ ventricle; 2, left ventricle; 3, root of the pulmonary artery cut short; 4, 4', and 4", the aorta; 5, right auricle ; 6, left auri- cle ; 7, veins which unite to form the vena cava superior; 8, inferior vena cava ; 9, he- patic vein; +, coronary arteries. layer may still be seen attached to the great blood-vessels at the base of the heart, for it is here that the inner adherent layer is reflected back to form the outer and loose layer. Now notice the two thin fleshy flaps which lie over the base of the heart like ears, one on each side. These are the auricles (Lat. anrimla, a little ear). They are hollow, and, of course, when distended with blood, do not lie so flat. Notice also the general conical shape of the heart.ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 124 We may now examine the blood-vessels at the Ijase of the heart. If some of them appear to be small, portions may be cut down till we arrive at the pomt where the smaller vessels unite to form a large one. In this way we may readily reduce the number of blood-vessels to about seven. .Some of these have very thick, firm, and clastic walls, which retain their circular form although the vessels are quite empty. These are the arteries, which convey the blood from the heart. The other vessels have thinner walls, which are comparatively inelastic and limp. These are the veins, which bring the blood to the heart. It is now necessary to learn which is the right and which the left side of the heart. On the surface will be seen two grooves, on opposite sides, one Fig. 116.—The Human Heart from behind. I, right ventricle ; 2, left ventricle ; 3, 3', and 3", the pulmonary arteries and their branches 1 4 and 4", the aorta ; 5, right auricle ; 6 is placed on the division between the right and left auricles ; 7, superior vena cava ; 8, inferior vena cava ; 9, hepatic vein ; 10, 11, and 12, right pulmonary veins ; 13 and 14, left pulmonary veins ; +, the coronary arteries. situated in front and the other behind. Inside the heart, extending between these grooves, is a fleshy partition which separates two cavities called the ventricles (Lat. ventriculus, a little belly)—the right and the left. These ventricles constitute the greater part of the heart, and are much stronger and more muscular (fleshy) than the auricles. We may now readily distinguish between the right and the left ventricles by pressing their walls between the finger and thumb, the walls of the left ventricle being much thicker than those of the right. Now hold the heart before you in the position it would occupy (see fig. 115), supposing it to be the heart of a person facing you : that is, with its base uppermost and its apex inclined to the left (your right), the left ventricle beingTHE HEART AND ITS DISSECTION 125 on your right, and vice versd. From this stage it will be assumed that the student is able to distinguish between the four cavities of the heart, viz.— the right and left au?-icles, and the right and left vejitricks. By means of the wood skewers we may now learn the manner in which the various vessels communicate with these four cavities. The arteries will thus be seen to lead direct from one or other of the ventricles, while the veins communicate directly with the auricles, and indirectly through these with the ventricles. Care must be taken to avoid tearing or breaking any of the interior structures while applying these tests. • The great blood-vessels may now be named as follows :— 1. Largest artery, leading direct from the left ventricle, called the Aorta. 2. Two other arteries, leading direct from the right veiitricle^ called the Eiglit and Left Pulmonary Arteries. . 3. Two large veifis, commu- nicating with the right auricle, called the Inferior and the Supe- rior Venae Cavse. 4. Two veifis, communicating with the left auricle, called the Pulmonary Veins. The Aorta (Gr. airo, I raise up) conveys blood from the left side of the heart to all parts of the body. The Pulmonary Arteries (Lat. pulmo, a lung) convey blood from the right side of the heart to the hcngs. The Venae Cavae collect the blood from all parts (the superior from the upper, and the inferior from the lotver parts), and carry It mto the right cavity. ^ The Pulmonary Veins collect the blood which has circulated m the lungs, and convey it into the left cavity. It will be noticed that the auricle and ventricle of each side ot the heart communicate with eacn other, so that the blood which has entered the auricle can pass into the corresponding ventricle We must now examine the interior of the heart For this purpose proceed as follows Hold the heart with W.?,front surface toward you (see fig \\a\ and mil-P n clean cut through the wall of the right ventricle, aboS hSf an from ^^^^^ groove before mentioned, and extending from the top of the ventricle to he apex of the heart. Now open the ventricle by pushing asfde this cut wdl and observe the following points in connection with its sfructure •- cohLn7of flesh ?nohf^' ventricle is almost entirely n^^,sc^clar, and numerous ""^^^^^^ from its surface. Some of these stand out hke pyramids, and are called the papillary muscles (Lat! pafSa Fig. 117.—The Semilunar Valves of the Trunk of the Pulmonary Arteries, the Vessel being cut and laid open.ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 126 a nipple). To these/fl/Z/fo arc attached very fine tendinous threads (chordae tendinese), which are again connected at their other and upper ends with thin membranous Jlaps or cusps. The cusps are three in number, and lie loosely against the walls of the ventricle, but it will be readily understood that a Fig. 118. -The Human Heart. The Left Auricle and Ventricle opened, and part of the Wall removed to show the Interior. I, pulmonary veins : i', the left auricle ; 2, a narro\v portion of the wall of the auricle and ventricle preserved ; 3, 3'. s", wall of the left ventricle; 4, a small part of the wall of the ventricle preserved with a papillary muscle attached to it; 5, papillary muscles ; 6 and 6, the segments of the mitral valve ; 7, the interior of the aorta, just above its semi unar valves • 7', the arch of the aorta ; 8, the root of the pulmonary artery with its semilunar valves ; 8', a separated portion of the pulmonary arterj', remaining attached to the aorta by a cord, 9 ; 10, branches of the aorta. pressure of blood in the ventricle would act on the under surfaces of these cusps and cause them to rise. Under these circumstances the tendmous cords are stretched, and the edges of the cusps meet so as to stop the commumca-THE HEART AND ITS DISSECTION 12'/ tion between the ventricle and the auricle above it. The three cusps thus form a valve called the tricuspid valve ; and, from the arrangement we have just observed, it is clear that this valve will allow a free passage of blood from auricle to ventricle, but not in the opposite direction. If we now prolong the cut towards the origin of the pulmonary arteries until we lay open the trunk which gives rise to these vessels, we shall find another set of valves called .the semilunar valves (Lat. semi, half; and hina. n Fig. 119.—Interior of the Riglit Side of tlie Human Heart. I, superior vena cava ; 2, inferior vena cava; 3, interior of the right auricle; 4, semilunar va ves of the pulmonary artery; 4', papillary muscle ; 5, 5', and 5", cusps of the tricuspid valve, 6, pulmonary arterj'; 7, 8, and 9, the aorta and its branches : 10, left auricle • 11 left ventricle. ' ' the moon). These are three semi-circular membranous pouches, with their convex surfaces turned toward the ventricle. They therefore offer no obstruc- tion to the blood as it passe?, from the ventricle, but a backward tendency of the blood would fill the pou.hes, causing their edges to meet, and thus closine the passage into the ventricle. ^ Now remove the left auricle completely, with its pulmonary veins, and128 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY notice the thinness and irregularity of its walls. We are now enal)lcd to look down into ihe cavity of the left ventricle, which resemliles the right in that a membranous valve lies between it and the auricle. This valve is called the mitral valve from its supposed resemblance to a bishop's mitre : it is also called the bicuspid valve, being composed of two cusps or flaps. As the left ventricle is as yet uncut, we may easily study the action of the valve as follows :—Pour a little water into the ventricle, close the aorta which leads from it, and then squeeze the ventricle between the fingers and the thumb. Each time we do so, we notice that the cusps of the valve float up on the surface of the water, till they partially or entirely close the ventricle. If we remove the right auricle with its vessels (the venee cavse), we shall find that its structure is much like that of the left auricle. Again, by cutting through the walls of the left ventricle, we notice that this cavity closely Fig. 120.—The Base of the Heart. The auricles have been cut away, and the valves are closed. The pericardium has also been removed to expose the muscular fibres. ,, , , , . , I and I , right ventricle; 2, left ventricle; 3, wall of right auricle ; 4, w.all ofleft auricle; 5, 5', and 5", the tricuspid valve ; 6 and 6', the mitral valve ; 7, pulmonarj' arter>'. 8, aorta , 9 and 9', coronary arteries. resembles the ventricle already dissected, but that its walls are very much ^^''^Lastly, lay open the aorta as we did the Pulmonary ^^-^^^f^'^"^ j^f,'^'^; the origin of this great artery, we shall notice another set of semilunar valves, which are also arranged so as to prevent the blood from flowing back ^o the heart. If instead of laying open the aorta, we cut U shorUmmedrat^ above the semilunars, we may fill the three little pouches with water thus illustrating their action, i.e. their tendency to close the passage fiom he aorta into the ventricle when acted on by a pressure from above. Just outside the semilunars of the aorta may be seen two small openmgs The e are^he origins of the coronary arteries, by which the heart itself is supP^ed xN^th blood for its nourishment. This blood is afterwards collected up by the coronary veins; and branches of both the coronary arteries and the coronaryTHE HEART AND ITS DISSECTION 129 veins may be seen on the outer surface of the heart, the main vessels lying in the grooves outside the edges of the middle partition, and in the grooves between the auricles and the ventricles. (See figs. 115 and 116.) HE AST Right cavity Left cavity . r Bight auricle CAVITIES of the HEART Right ventricle Left auricle »■ Left ventricle SUMMARY. f Right auricle \ Between these the tri- I Right ventricle) cuspid valve, f 'Left auricle 1 Between these the bicuspid t Left ventricle ) or mitral valve. Thin irregular walls. Vena cava superior—from upfev Vessels \ J""''^'- . ^ . , , Vena cava mjerior—from tower \ parts. , Thick walls. Bapilla7y muscles. Chordcs tendinece. Th7-ee cusps—form the tricuspid valve. .Right pulnio7tary I artery—to light Semilunar J lung. I valves just Le/t pulmonary [ belowjunc- artery—to left tion. lung. Thin irregular walls. Right pilmonary vein—hom right bmg. Left pulmojtary vein—from Vessels Vessels king. Very thick w^lls. Papillary muscles. ChordcB tendinece. Two cusps—form the bicuspid or mitral valve. Vessel—The aorta—to all parts. Semilunar valves at its origin. Corojtary arteries commence just outside the semilunar valves. QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXIL ^' ^^heS^ pericardium, and the manner in which it envelops the 2. What are arteries, and what are veinsName the great arteries and Zd flow: in eal' '""^'^ ^'^'"''^ - ^^-^ ^ hla^T^"^ distinguish between the arteries and the veins of the What are the auricles ? Where are they situated, and what are they like ' l"n wS:^h/° the heart differ from the venS ? in What do the ventricles differ from each other ' tricles. ^h'^'^ ^•^^ exposed on opening one of the ven- KELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY I30 7. Where is the iricttspid valve 1 What is its use? How would you illus- trate its action ? 8. lk'scril>e the structure of the initi al valve. 9. Where are the seiiiihtnar valves V Describe their structure and their mode of action. 10. Where and what are the coronary arteries and the coronary veinsl 11. If you were shown a sheep's heart, how could you tell which was the right side and which was the left ? 12. How do the semilunar valves differ from the other valves on the same side of the heart ? LESSON XXIII. THE BLOOD-VESSELS AND CIRCULATION. The system of blood-vessels through which the blood circulates consists of arteries, capillaries, and veins. The arteries, as we have al- ready learnt, have strong, tough, and elastic zvalls, and convey the blood stream fro}?i the heart. These vessels have three dis- tinct coats :— 1. The outer strong and tough layer of areolar tissue, containing elastic fibres. 2. The middle muscular and elastic coat. This layer is so thick in the large arteries that it forms the greater part of the wall. The muscular fibres encircle the vessels. 3. The internal coat formed of layers of elastic tissue, lined with a delicate layer of epithelitim. The large arteries divide into branches as they proceed from the heart, and these branches again divide and subdivide into smaller and smaller arteries, till at last they give rise to the smallest vessels — the capillaries. The capillaries (Lat. capillus, a hair) are very minute vessels, having an average diameter of about ^Vo of an inch. They are pj„ 121. — Transverse Section through a small Artery and Vein. A artery ; v, vein; e, epithelial lining ; \n middle muscular and elastic coat, thick in the artery, much thinner m the vein ; a, outer coat of areolar tissue (magnified 350 diameters) generally arranged like the meshes of a network, though the formTHE BLOOD-VESSELS AND CIRCULATION I3I of this network varies considerably in different parts. The walls of capillaries are exceedingly thin, so that fluids very readily ooze through them, and, on this account, the changes which the blood undergoes during its circulation take place chiefly in these vessels. After the blood has passed through the meshes of the capil- laries, it is collected up by very small veins. These small veins unite, forming larger and larger veins, till at last they open into the great veins which take the blood direct into the auricles. The structure of veins is very similar to that of arteries. Their walls are composed of the same three coats, but they are thinner, and the muscular and elastic fibres are not nearly so abundant. Hence the walls collapse when the veins are empty. Fig. 122. — Capillary Blood- vessels in the Web of a Frog's Foot, as seen with the microscope. a, small artery ; b, capillaries ; c, small vein. The arrows show the course of the blood. Fig. 123.—Diagram showing the Valves of Veins. A, part of a vein laid open, with two pairs of valves. B, longitudinal section of a vein, showing the valves closed. c, portion of a distended vein, ex- hibiting a swelling at a pair of valves. Most veins are also provided with valves like the semilunar valves of the heart, sometimes arranged at very short intervals. All these valves are situated with their free edges turned toward the heart. Hence they allow the blood to flow freely towards that organ ; but any backward tendency on the part of the blood would fill these pouch-like valves, causing them to extend across and to close the vein. In small veins the valves are sometimes smgle, but generally they are arranged in pairs. Arteries are generally deeply set, while many of the larger vems are situated very near the surface of the body, so near that their direction, as shown by the bluish tint visible through the skin, maybe easily traced. If we lay bare the arm, we notice several of these veins on the front surface, and by pressing the K 2ELEMENTARY rilYSIOLOGY 132 finger along one of these in a direction opposite to the course of the blood we cause the blood to flow backward on the valves, thus filling them out, stopping the vein, causing it to swell out and present a knotted appearance. If we thus prevent the blood from passing through one of the veins of the arm, we do not interfere with the general circulation, as the veins are connected with each other by numerous branches, and thus the blood can readily take another course ; and, the total capacity of the veins being much greater than that of the Fig. 124.- -Vein with Valves open. Fig. 125.—^Vein with Valves closed ; the stream of hlood passing oif by a lateral branch. arteries, they are capable of conveying to the heart much more blood in a given time than they receive. . Some veins have no valves. Among these may be mentioned the vence cavce, the pulmonary veins, xhe portal vein which supplies the liver, the hepatic vein (Gr. hepar, the liver) which takes blood from the liver, and the renal veins (Lat. renes, kidneys) which lead from the kidneys to the vena cava inferior. , ,, j Having noticed the chief characters of the different blood- vessels, we now turn our attention to the action of the heart, commencing for convenience at that period immediately follovv-ing the contraction of the ventricles, and during which the heart is passive The cavities now dilate, and the blood flows freely from the vence cava; and the pulmonary veins into the right and kitTHE BLOOD-VESSELS AND CIRCULATION 133 auricles respectively, and thence into the ventricles. But as the auricles receive more than passes at once into the ventricles, their walls become fully distended. They then contract simultaneously, each one forcing its contents into the ventricle below it, the force of this contraction not being sufficient to send the blood back into the great veins, where it would be resisted by the pressure of the fluid they already contain. As the ventricles fill, the cusps of the tricuspid and mitral valves float up on the surface of the blood. Now follows the simultaneous contraction of the ventricles, the effect of which is to close the valves between them and the auricles, and also to open the semilunars at the entrances of the Fig. 126.—Diagram showing the Fig. 127.—Diagram showing the position of the Valves of the position of the Valves of the Heart while the walls are re- Heart during the contraction of laxed. the ventricles. great arteries. The cusps of the tricuspid and mitral valves are raised with such force that the chordae tendinese are tightly stretched, and the regurgitation of blood into the auricles is rendered im- possible by the meeting of the edges of the cusps. The chief use of the tendinous cords is to prevent the valves from going too far into the auricles. It will thus be seen that when the ventricles contract there is but one course on each side open to the blood, namely, that furnished by the great arteries—the pulmonary arteries and the aorta, on the right and left respectively. These vessels are not only filled with blood, and that almost suddenly, but their walls are distended, since the blood is forced into themELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 134 more rapidly than it can be received by their branches. The walls being elastic, they recoil on the blood, thus tending to force it both back into the heart, and also into the smaller arteries. But the backward pressure fills the pouches of the semilunar valves, with which the arteries on both sides are provided, thus preventing its motion in that direction ; hence we see that the elastic recoil of the arteries assists the action of the heart in pro- pelling the blood through the system. The whole of the action just described occupies less than one second, and at every contraction of the ventricles about three ounces of blood are forced into each of the two arterial systems. We may feel the beating of the heart by applying the hand to the chest. This is due to the tilting forward of the apex of the heart just at the commencement of the ventricular contraction, and its consequent beating against the walls of the chest, between the fifth and sixth ribs, and about two inches to the left of the sternum (see fig. 77). The frequency of the beating varies considerably with the age, activity, and various other circumstances. The average rates for persons of different ages are as follows :— During the first year 120 per minute. ,, second year. .... no ,, ,, third year . . . . -95 j, seventh year . . . -87 ,, ,, fourteenth year . . . . 85 to 80,, In the adult . . . . . . 80 to 70,, In old age . . . . . . .701060,, By applying the ear to the chest of another person we can hear the sounds of the heart. For every beat there are two distinct sounds, followed by a pause. The first sound is dull, and is supposed to be produced by tlie vibration of the tricuspid and mitral valves, and also by the contraction of the walls of the ventricles. The second sound is short and sharp, and is undoubtedly pro- duced by the sudden closure of the semilunar valves. The pulse in the arteries is due to the sudden distension of their walls immediately after each ventricular contraction. We have already noticed that the blood is forced into the aorta by a series of jerks, each corresponding with the contraction of the left ventricle. Thus a rush of blood is produced in this vessel by each contraction, and is transmitted by it into the smaller arteries. Hence, if we cut an artery, the blood always issues in jerks. But as the arterial walls are elastic, and are distended by the blood- pressure, the recoil tends to diminish the suddenness of each jerk, and, consequently, to convert the intermittent into a continuous stream. Thus, if we cut a very small artery, we notice that the jerks are prolonged considerably, so that the flow is almost con- tinuous. \THE BLOOD-VESSELS AND CIRCULATION 135 This action of the elastic walls of the arteries may be well illustrated by the following experiments :—Fasten one end of a long glass or metal tube to the stop-cock of a water pipe by means of an india-rubber tube as short as possible, and fix a small nozzle to its other end. Then turn the cock on and off alter- nately and rapidly, to imitate the intermittent discharges of the ventricles. The water will issue from the other end of the pipe in a series of jets, each jet ceasing the moment the water is turned off. Next, substitute a long india- rubber tube for the one just used, and repeat the experiment. It will now be found that a continuous stream issues from the tube. The pressure of water stretches the elastic tube, and, when the stream is turn'ed off, the india-rubber recoils on the water, and the intermittent flow is changed into a continuous stream. As the blood passes from the larger into the smaller arteries, and then into the capillaries, it comes in contact with a gradually increasing amount of surface. This multiplication of surface greatly increases the resistance offered to the blood by friction, which also tends to equalise the current as well as to reduce its velocity. Not only is the surface increased, but also the total sectional area of the small arteries or capillaries of any part is much greater than that of the large artery or arteries supplying that part, so much so that the velocity of the blood in the capillaries is only that in the aorta. As the blood passes onward into the veins, the velocity again increases, owing to the decrease of area, but the circulation in these vessels is less rapid than in the corresponding arteries, the capacity of the former being two or three times that of the latter. These facts explain how it is that, while the flow of blood from a cut artery is intermittent and rapid, the stream from a vein of the same size is continuous and slower. The time required for a portion of the blood to make a complete circulation, i.e. to pass through arteries, capillaries, and veins, is less than one minute. Seeing that the blood passes so slowly through the capillaries this may appear incredible, but it must be remembered that each portion of the blood passes through only a very short distance of capillary tube, probably less than i of an inch in any case. We may now view the circulation as a whole, tracing the course of the blood from a certain point till it arrives at that same point again. The blood which has been collected from all parts by the venaB cavae is poured into the right auricle. It then passes into the right ventricle, and is forced through the pulmonary arteries into the lungs. After circulating through the capillaries of the lungs, where it gives up carbonic acid gas and absorbs oxygen, it is collected by the pulmonary veins, and conveyed by them into the left auricle, and thence into the left ventricle. This ventricle contracts, forcing the blood through the aorta and its branches into capillary networks in all the tissues, excepting those few, such as the outer skin, the nails, hair, enamel of the teeth, &c., which are bloodless. It is then collected up by veins which convey it directly or indirectly into the venae cavae, thus completing a revolution. It will thus be seen that there are two distinct circulations by which the blood can pass from one side of the heart to the other. One is called the pulmonary circulation, by which it passes frotn136 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY the right side to the left by means of the vessels of the lungs. The other is the systemic circulation, or the circulation generally through the whole system, commencing at the left ventricle, and terminating at the right auricle. Fig. 128.—Diagram illustrating the Circulation. 1, right auricle; 2, left auricle ; 3, right ventricle; 4, left ventricle; 5, vena cava superior ; 6, vena cava inferior ; 7, pulmonary arteries : 8, lungs ; 9, pulmonary vems ; 10, aorta; II, alimentary canal; 17, liver; 13, hepatic arteiy ; 14, portal vein ; 15, hepatic vein. The pulmonary circulation (Lat. pulvw, a lung) is not nearly so extensive as the systemic, and less force is therefore needed toFig. 129.—General View of the Heart and Great Blood-vessels of the Trunk. A, right auricle ; b, left auricle ; c, right ventricle ; d, left ventricle ; e, ribs ; f, kidneys • I, arch ot the aorta ; 2, descendihR aorta ; 3 and 4, right and left carotid arteries ; 5 and 6,' right and left subclavian arteries ; 7, arteries supplying the lower extremities ; 8, pulmonar^ artery ; 9, vena cava superior : 10 and 11, right and left subclavian veins ; 12 and i:! ri^ht and left jugular veins ; 14, vena cava, inferior ; 15 and 16, veins which collect blood from the lower extremities.ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 138 produce it, hence the reason why the walls of the right ventricle are so much thinner than those of the left. The shortest course which the blood can possibly take is, however, not through the lungs, but through the coronary system, or system of the heart. In this instance it enters the coronary arteries just outside the semilunars of the aorta, passes through a capillary network, and is then collected up by the branches of the coronary veins, which pour it direct into the right auricle. Thus the blood completes a circulation without ever leaving the heart. The course of the blood in the body was first demonstrated by Harvey in the seventeenth century, and the following were among the proofs he gave as the results of his experiments :— I. The heart propels in half an hour more blood than would make up the weight of the whole body. the beats of the heart. 3. Tie the great veins and the heart becomes pale and bloodless. 4. Tie the great arteries, and the heart is unduly distended. 5. All the valves are so arranged as to allow of a passage of blood in one direction only. 6. Poisons injected into a single blood-vessel soon produce an effect on the whole body. To these may also be added— 7. When an artery is cut, the bleeding may be stopped by press- ing on the part above the wound, i.e. on the side nearer the heart. 8. When a vein is cut, we stop the bleeding by pressing on the portion below the wound. 9. The blood may actually be seen in motion, by the aid of a microscope, in the capillaries of the web of a frog's foot. 2. The spurting of blood SUMMAEY. Take blood from the heart. CI. OmI&x areolar. ^ . 2. Middle muscular and elastic— / Arteries 3. Inner epithelial. Assist in propelling blood by their elastic recoil. BLOOD- VESSELS 1 Capillaries Connect small arteries with small veins. Arranged like networks. Very thin walls. , Diameter about inch. / Convey blood to the heart. Coats—same as in arteries, but less muscu- \ Veins . lar and elastic tissue. Generally provided with valves—like the semilunars.THE BLOOD-VESSELS AND CIRCULATION 139 Auricular Contraction ACTION OF THE HEART Ventricular Contraction \ CIRCULA- TION Beating Sounds In arteries In capillaries In veins Simultaneous. Blood forced into ventricles. Force not sufficient to cause regurgitation into the veins. Valves between the auricles and ventricles closed. Chorda tendinea tightly stretched. Semihmars forced open. Blood forced into the great arteries. Apex of heart tilted forward against the front wall of the chest. From 60 (old age) to 120 (young child) per minute. Dtill sound—closure, of Iricuspid ^nA mitral valves, and contraction of ventricles (?). Sharp sotind—?,ViM&n closure of semilunars. Followed by a pause. In jerks [pulsations). Very rapid. Elastic recoil tends to produce a continuous stream in the smaller arteries. Very slow and uniform. Great resistance offered by the capillary walls. Much faster than in capillaries. Not so rapid as in arteries. Steady flow. Valves prevent backward flow. COURSE OF THE BLOOD Right auricle Right ventricle Pulmonary arteries Lungs (capillary system) Pulmonary veins Left auricle Left ventricle Aorta Capillary networks in parts Venae cavee. Right auricle. Pulmonary circula- tion. all Systemic tion. circula- QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXIIL 1. How would you distinguish between arteries and veins? Describe the structure of each. 2. What are capillaries? Where are they found? WTiat is the size of a capillary ? 3. What is the use of valves in veins ? How are these valves constructed ? 4. Name arteries that have valves, and veins that have no valves. 5. Plow would you determine the positions of the valves in the veins of your own arm? 6. Describe fully the action of the heart and its valves.140 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 7. Describe the condition of the heart and its valves (i) just before the con- traction of the ventricles, and (2) just after this' contraction. S. What is the use of the chordic Undinecc'i 9. Describe fully the action of the semilunar valves. When are they shut and when open ? What shuts them ? ' 10. What do you mean Ijy the beating of the heart ? At what rate does the heart beat ? 11. Describe the sounds of the heart. How are they produced ? 12. What is the pulse? What causes the pulsation of blood in the arteries? Why is there no pulsation in the capillaries and the veins ? 13. How does the blood flow from (i) a cut artery, and (2) a cut vein ? 14. Describe the course of the blood as it passes from the right to the left side of the heart ; and also as it flows from the left to the right side. 15. What is the shortest course the blood can take? 16. Give proofs that the blood circulates. LESSON XXIV. THE TRACHEA AND LUNGS. The trachea consists of a series of cartilaginous hoops, shaped like the letter C, and arranged so as to be complete before and deficient behind. These rings are surrounded externally by fibrous connective tissue, which also joins their extremities, thus completing the tube behind ; it also fills in the spaces between the rings. It will thus be seen that the trachea is a resistant and elastic tube, which, though always open for the passage of air, will yield with the bending of the neck, and will also allow of the distension of the oesophagus, which lies against its posterior portion where the cartilage is absent. The two upper cartilaginous rings, which are much larger than the others, form the framework of the larynx. The first, called the thyroid cartilage (Gr. thureos, a shield; and eidos, form), is very wide in front, forming the prominence known as Adam's apple, but is open behind, and is connected by means of ligaments and muscles with a small U-shaped bone, the hyoid hone (Gr. letter v; and eidos, form), situated just above it. The second cartilage is the only complete ring in the windpipe. It is called the cricoid cartilage (Gr. krikos, ring ; and eidos, form). Its broadest portion is behind, while in front it is so narrow that a space is left between it and the first, this space being occupied by the fibrous tissue. Of course, this second ring will not so freely admit of the disten- sion of the oesophagus behind it, and this will account for the sharp pain we experience in the upper part of the throat when we swallow a large and hard substance, such as a solid piece of food which has not been properly masticated.THE TRACHEA AND LUNGS HI The bronchi resemble the trachea in general structure, being composed of similar rings of cartilage and fibrous tissue. Ihe cartilages, too, are incomplete behind. Fig. 130,—The Trachea. Front. Fig. 131.—The Trachea. Back. h, hyoid bone; tt\ thyroid cartilage'; c, cri- a, arytenoid cartilages ; h, hyoid bone ; coid ; e, epiglottis; tr, trachea; b and tt', thyroid cartilage; c, cricoid ; e, epi- b', bronchi. glottis ; tr, trachea ; b and /■', bronchi. The bronchi subdivide into smaller and smaller tubes, called the bronchial tubes, which penetrate every part of the lungs, and finally terminate in groups of air-cells. In the bronchial tubes142 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY the rings of cartilage are incomplete, and become more and more so as thet ubes subdivide into smaller branches, till in the smallest divisions they disappear altogether. 'I'hc trachea and its branches are all lined internally by a delicate mucous membrane, the inner surface of which is formed of a layer of ciliated cells. These are cells, the free surfaces of vi^hich are covered with minute hair-liJce projections called cilia (Lat. ciliuvi, an eyelash). 'J'he cilia, by their continuous vibratile motion, tend to move any foreign matter, which may come in contact with the inner surface of the air passages, towards the mouth. In this way the lungs are kept comparatively free from particles of dust, &c., derived from / the air we breathe ; and great vessels, and the oesophagus (see Lesson XII.), conse- quently their general form coincides with that of'this cavity. Both right and left lungs are divided by d^ep depress ons into lobes—the right into three, and the left into two. The lobes are again divided by lesser depressions into lobules (see fig. 7). Each lobule is a miniature representation of the whole lung, being supplied with its own systems of air-tubes and blood-vessels. The lungs are supplied with dark ve7ious blood by means of the pulmonary arteries which proceed from the right ventricle. These arteries divide and subdivide into smaller and smaller branches, penetrating every portion of the organs, till at last they during inflammation the phlegm discharged from the mucous membrane is always urged towards the larynx, from which it is discharged by coughing. Were it not for this pro- vision, it is clear that we should constantly be in danger of suffocation, con- sequent on the accumula- tion of matter in the air passages. The lungs are spongy and elastic bags, consist- ing of air-tubes and cells, blood-vessels and elastic tissue. They fill the cavity of the thorax, with the exception of the space occupied.by the heart, the Fig. 132.—Groups of Air-cells at tlie termi- nation of a small Bronchial Tube.THE TRACHEA AND LUNGS form capillary networks which surround and he on the vvalls of thc air-ceUs. These walls of the air-cells are extreniely thm as are also the walls of the capillary vessels, and thus the blood is brousrht almost in contact with the inspired air nis in these capillaries that the venous blood becomes con- verted into bright arterial blood, by exchanging carbonic acid gas collected in the tissues of all parts of the body for oxygen gas absorbed from the air contained in the air-cells. ^, . . , The blood thus changed is collected by small veins, formed bv the union of the capillaries ; and these veins unite, forming lar-er veins, ultimately giving rise to the pulmonary veins, which pour their contents direcdy into the left auricle of the heart. Although we are continually expiring and inspiring air, yet the Fig. 133.—The Pulmonary Circulation. I, heart; 2, right lung ; 3, left lung ; 4, right auricle ; s, left auricle ; 6, right ventricle; 7, left ventricle ; 8, pulmonary arteries ; 9, pulmonary veins ; 10, aorta ; 11, venae cava. Ihe arrows indicate the direction of the blood-stream. The shading represents venous blood. lungs are never empty—in fact, the amount of air which enters and leaves the lungs during ordinary breathing is small compared with that which remains after each expiration. The air which passes in and out of the lungs in ordinary quiet breathing is called the tidal air, and amounts to from 20 to 30 cubic inches in an adult person. After each expiration, however, about 200 cubic inches still remain in the lungs, this being termed the stationary air. By making a very deep expiration we can expel about a half of this (the supplemental air), and the lungs then contain about 100 inches of residual air which cannot be expelled.144 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY From the above statements we learn that the lungs contain about 230 cubic mches after an ordinary inspiration; that is the 200 inches of stationary air, together with the 30 inches of tidal air. By taking a very deep inspiration we can add al)out 100 mches to this, bringing tlie total up to 330 cubic inches, thus inflating the lungs to their full capacity. The term complemental air has been applied to the 100 inches added by the deep in- spiratory effort. An adult person at rest breathes about fifteen times a minute ; and, knowing this, we can easily calculate the total quantity of air inspired and expired in a given time. For example, in twenty-four hours this would amount to 30 X 15 X 60 X 24 = 648,000 c. ins., or 375 c. ft. This quantity, however, is largely increased, and may be more than doubled, by physical exertion. Children breathe much more rapidly than adults- about thirty times a minute. ■ SUMMARY. I Cartilaginous rings, j Fibrous tissue. ^ Lined with ciliated epithelium. I C-shaped. j Complete in front. Incomplete behind. Connected by fibrous tissue. Right and left. In structure similar to trachea. Rings of cartilage very imperfect. Cartilage disappears in smallest tubes, which terminate in groups of air-cells. Thyroid cartilage j {^^""S^- , , , ^. , I Incomplete behind. Cricoid cartilage—A complete ring. Vocal cords. Epiglottis—Closes the glottis. Three lohes. Two lobes. Air-vessels— Brondiial tubes and cells. I Pulmona7-y arteries. Blood-vessels ] Capillaries. ^ Pulmonary veins. lOOresidual—never 200 stationary TRACHEA Structure Rings . . Bronchi . Bronchial tubes I LARYNX LUNGS Two rings Contains . Right . . Left . . Vessels { CO 3 / After ordinary expiration . After deep expiration . . i After ordinary inspiration \ After deep inspiration . . expelled. 100 supplemental. 100 residual. 100 residual 1 ^ 100 supplemental ]'^''^'''"'"'y 30 tidal or breathing air 100 residtial \ 100 supplemental \ ZO tidal [330- 100 coviplemental) 230.THE TRACHEA AND LUNGS QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXIV. 1. Describe the general form, size, position, and structure of the trachea. 2. IIow does the structure of the trachea differ from that of the oesophagus ? 3. Describe the general form and structure of the laiynx. 4. IIow do the smallest branches of the trachea terminate in the lungs ? 5. What provision is made for the discharge of any foreign matter that may find its way into the air-passages ? 6. Describe the general form and position of the lungs. How does the right lung differ from the left ? 7. Describe the manner in which the blood circulates in the lungs. Name the vessels concerned in this circulation ? 8. Where does arterial blood become ve?ious, and where does venous blood become arterial 1 9. How does the blood which leaves the lungs differ from that which enters them ? 10. How much air enters and leaves the lungs at each breath ? To what ex- tent may this quantity vaiy ? What is the greatest, and what is the least quantity of air which the lungs may contain during life ? LESSON XXV. WHY WE BREATHE—VENTILATION. In Lesson XV. we learnt that all living tissues were constantly wasting away, and that not only was it necessary that they should be repaired, but also that the waste substances should be removed from the system. Now, the lungs are included among those organs which remove waste matter, but we have to learn that they are at the same time sources of gain as well as of loss to the system, or at least to the blood. We have noticed that arterial blood becomes venous in the capillaries of the tissues of most parts. This is due to the fact that some of its oxygen has united with carbon and hydrogen of the waste matters, forming carbonic acid gas and water. The oxygen supply was obtained from the air-cells of the lungs, and was con- veyed to all parts by the blood stream. Life could not be maintained for even a short time without this chemical combination, for not only is it a great source of heat, by which the high temperature (99° F.) of the body is maintained,' but is also a means by which waste organic matter is converted into simpler compounds {carbonic acid gas, ivater, and urea) pre- vious to removal. Thus the lungs are a source of gain to the blood ; and the oxygen niiported by these organs is utilised in converting waste or dead animal matters into substances which can readily be taken L146 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY up by the blood and transported by that fluid to those organs which are destined to remove them. Wlien the dark venous blood reaches the capillaries which surround the air-cells of the lungs, it is immediately changed in colour, becoming bright scarlet. Carbonic acid gas passes through the thin layer of membrane which separates the air from the blood, and oxygen gas passes from the air into the blood. \Vc see, then, that the lungs do not prepare carbonic acid gas, but simply serve as a means by which this ga-s, brought by the blood, is separated from the system. The readiness with which the diffusion of gases may take place through moist membranes may be illustrated as follows:—Fill a bladder with venous blood, and suspend it in ajar of oxygen. The oxygen will be absorbed, and the blood will soon acquire the properties of arterial blood. Again, suspend a bladder of arterial blood in a jar of carbonic acid gas, and the blood will soon become venous. The extent to which these changes take place in the body may be judged by comparing expired with inspired air. The latter contains about 79 per cent, of nitrogen, 21 per cent, of oxygen, with only about "04 per cent, of carbonic acid gas, and a variable proportion of water vapour; while the expired air contains about 5 per cent, more carbonic acid gas, 5 per cent, less oxygen, and an increased proportion of water vapour, the nitrogen remaining the same. It follows from this, that if a person were to shut himself up in a room without any means of ventilation whatever, the air he breathed would gradually lose its oxygen, and gain a correspond- ing proportion of carbonic acid gas. Wlien one or two per cent, of the oxygen had thus been removed, a feeling of general uneasi- ness would arise, accompanied by headache; and as the loss increased, there would not be sufificient oxygen in the inspired air to change the colour of the blood. This would certainly be the case when the loss of oxygen and the gain of carbonic acid gas rose to ten per cent. The blood would then be venous through- out the system. Carbonic acid gas, which is in itself slightly poisonous, would saturate the blood; and this, together with the oxygen starvation, would speedily cause death from asphyxia (Gr. a, without; and sphuzOy I throb—cessation of pulse, caused by suffocation). It is probable that in this case death would be caused by the deprivation of oxygen rather than by the poisonous effects of car- bonic acid gas, for it has been proved that air containing 10 or 15 per cent, of this gas produces no immediate effect on the animal system providing the supply of oxygen be proportionately increased.WHY WE BREATHE—VENTILATION When an animal is strangled, choked, or drowned, the same disease (asphyxia) ensues. In these cases no oxygen can enter the blood, while the carbonic acid gas is fast accumulating by the oxidation of the tissues, and soon saturates the blood, all of which rapidly becomes venous. The occurrence of death m a few minutes shows the importance of oxygen gas in the renewmg of the blood. We have now learnt the necessity of ventilatmg our rooms — that is, of allowing for the removal of the expired air, and for the access of pure air from the outside atmosphere to take its place. QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXV. 1. What changes take place in blood as it passes (i) through the capillaries of the lungs, and (2) through the capillaries of the muscles ? 2. What is the temperature of the blood? How is this temperature maintained ? 3. What is the difference between inspired and expired air ? 4. What is asphyxia ? How is it caused ? 5. What is the direct cause of death when an animal is strangled ? 6. How is it that a person turns black in the face when he is choked ? 7. If a number of people were shut up in a close room without any ventilation, what changes would the atmosphere undergo? What would be the probable condition of the atmosphere (l) when the people began to complain, and (2) when they began to die? 8. What is meant by oxidation ? How do we know that oxidation is always going on in the body ? LESSON XXVI. HOIV WE BREATHE. Before we go on to describe the manner in which the air is caused to enter and leave the lungs, it will be desirable to recall a few particulars concerning the structure of the chest and the lungs. The walls of the chest are formed by the back bone behind, the breast bone or sternum in front, the ribs with their intercostal muscles around the sides, and the membranous and muscular diaphragm below. The heads of the ribs form movaOie joints with the dorsal vertebrze, and the other ends of the ribs are con- nected in front with the sternum by the flexible costal cartilages. The lungs fill the greater part of the conical cavity of the thorax —all excepting the small portion occupied by the lower trachea, the oesophagus^ and the heart with its great vessels. They are enclosed in a double membrane—the pleura—one layer of which148 KLEMENTAKV I'ilYSlOLOGY is firmly attached to the outer surfocc of the organs, while the otlier hnes the cavity of the chest, being closely adherent to its walls. Thus the chest is an air-tight cavity, having no ^/>^r/communi- cation with the atmosphere ; while the lungs maybe considered as bags filling this cavity, being themselves filled out with air which enters through the trachea. Although in fig. 78 a space is represented between the two layers of the pleura, this is not actually the case, the space being inserted only for the sake of distinctness : the two layers of the pleura are practically in contact with each other, there being nothing between them save a very little watery fluid (serum) which is se- creted by the membrane, and only suificient of this to allow of a free gliding motion during the respiratory move- ments of the chest and lungs. Such a secreting closed sac is called a serous membrane. If a hole be made in the walls of the chest, the lungs immediately collapse, be- coming considerably smaller; and while the chest is thus perforated breathing is very difficult, or, if the opening is Fig. 134.—The Framework of the Chest, large, quite impossible. It A, first dorsal vertebra; b, last (12th) dorsal verte- is the natural elasticity of the bra; 1 to 12, ribs ; s, sternum; c, costal carti- JungS which CaUSCS them tO shrink away from the walls of the chest ; hence it must be that in their normal condition they are stretched by some force which is able to overcome this elasticity. Respiration is the result of the alternate expansion and con- traction of the walls of the chest. In inspiration (Lat. in, and spiro, I breathe) we enlarge the chest by means of certain muscles, and so tend to produce a vacuum (an empty space) between the lungs and the chest; and, as a natural result, air rushes in through the trachea, thus causing the lungs to expand with the chest. When these muscles cease to contract, the elasticity of the lungs causes those organs to return to their former volume. The walls of the chest follow the lungs, and the air taken in is expelledHOW WE BREATHE '49 again. This is the act of respiration (Lat. re, again ; and spiro, I breathe). Fit up an apparatus as represented In fig. 135, in which A is a stout glass tube, provided with a sound cork, B, and also an airtight piston, C, resembling that of an ordinary syringe. A short tube, D, passing through the cork, has a small india-rubber bag tied to it. Fit the cork in the tube while the piston is near the top. Now, by lowering the piston we increase the capacity of the cavity containing the bag. The pres- sure outside the bag is thus lowered, and air rushes into it through the tube D till a balance is restored. The bag is thus stretched. As soon as we let go the piston, the elas- ticity of the bag, being free to act, drives out the air just taken in, and the piston returns to its former place. It will be noticed that in this experiment the elastic bag and its tube represent the lungs and trachea ; and the vessel enclosing it, the thorax. If while the bag is inflated a hole be made through the cork into^ the tube, air rushes in, and the bag collapses, thus illustrating the effect of piercing a hole in the walls of the chest. We have now to study the mechanism by which the chest is made to contract and expand. Inspiration is a muscular act by which the cavity of the chest is zvidened and deepened. The latter result is brought about by the contraction of the diaphragm, which causes it to become less arched. This contraction would also make the chest narrower by exerting a pulling force on its side walls to which the diaphragm is attached, but this is prevented by the action of the intercostal muscles. The intercostal muscles connect the adjacent ribs throughout their length. They consist of two thin layers of oblique muscular fibres which occupy the spaces between the ribs. These layers are termed respectively the internal and extet'nal. The internal intercostal muscles pass obliquely doivnwards and backwards from the lower margin of one rib to the upper margin of the next. The external intercostal muscles incline downwards and for- wards, and are much stronger than the internal. The ribs also are inclined considerably downwards and forwards ; and as the intercostal fibres are placed obliquely with regard to the ribs, when they contract they tend to arrange themselves at right angles with these bones, and in doing so the ribs are either raised or de- pressed. The external intercostal muscles raise the ribs, widening the cavity of the chest, and thus assisting inspiration. Fig- 135-—Appa- ratus for il- lustrating the Movements of Bespiratioa.ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY The internal intercostal muscles depress the ribs, thus making the chest narrower and assisting expiration. The student may construct for himself the simple apparatus illustrated in figs. 137, 138, and 139, which will at once make clear the action of the intercostal muscles. A B is an upright liar of wood which represents the spine. With this are jointed two parallel bars, C D and E V, which represent two of the rilis. Another bar, ]J F, represents the slcriuan. The joints at C, D, E, and F are all movable. An elastic band is now stretched obliquely between these parallel bars thus representing the intercostal muscles. If the band passes downwards and backwards {i.e. towards the spine) as in fig. 138, Fig. 136.—Intercostal Muscles. iv', v',and vi', 4th, 5th, and 6th dorsal vertebrae ; v, vi, and vii, 5th, 6th, and 7th ribs ; 5, 6, and 7, 5th, 6th, and 7th costal cartilages ; i, sternum; 2, external intercostal muscles; 3, internal intercostal muscles, the external layer having been removed. it represents the internal intercostals. As it contracts it tends to bring its two ends as near together as possible, and in doing this it pulls down the bars representing the ribs. By stretching the band downwards and foi-iuards, as in fig. 139, we illustrate the action of the external intercostals, which by their contraction raise the ribs. We are now better able to understand the respiratory move- ments, which may be briefly described as follows :— During inspiration the diaphragm descends, making the chest deeper ; and the external intercostals contract, thus raising the ribs and making the chest ivider. The capacity of the chest being thus enlarged, the lungs are inflated as before described.HOW WE BREATHE 10 c •> In tranquil breathing the inspiration of air is effected chiefly by the diaphragm in men, while in forced inspiration the inter- costals play a very important part. In women the diaphragm does not play so important a part as the ribs. As the ribs are raised during inspi- ration, the sternum will of course rise with them. This movement may be noticed by laying the hand on the front of the chest while taking a deep inspiration. Again, when the dia- phragm moves, the organs of the abdo- men must follow its movements, and this causes a visible motion of the walls of the abdomen. Hence respi- ration which is effected chiefly by the diaphragm is often termed abdo- minal respiration, while that pro- duced chiefly by movements of the side walls of the chest is called costal respiration. After the lungs have been inflated by the inspired air they are stretched considerably, and their elasticity is sufficient in Fig. 137. Fig. 138. — Illustrating the Action of tlie Internal Inter- costals. Fig- 139. — Illustrating the Action of the External Inter- costals. quiet breathing to expel the air without the aid of any muscles. But in a forped expiration the internal intercostals are broughtELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY into play, and also the muscles of the abdomen, which latter act on the organs of the abdomen, thus exerting indirectly an upward pressure on the diaphragm. Although the respiratory movements are generally purely involuntary, yet they are brought about by muscles which are under the control of the 7vill; and are sometimes partially or entirely voluntary, as in speaking, singing, and blowing. We may now notice some of the more important respiratory acts which differ from ordinary breathing. Generally speaking, while respiration is going on, the glottis (the aperture at the upper end of the trachea) is open so as to allow a free passage to the air. In speaking or singing the vocal cords are stretched across the larynx, leaving only a narrow space for the passage of air (see fig. 217). Under these circumstances the cords are made to vibrate by the air current forced between them, thus producing the voice. A sigh is simply a prolonged inspiration, followed by a rather sudden expiratory movement. The former is produced chiefly by the action of the abdominal muscles, and the latter is due to the elastic recoil of the lungs and the walls of the chest. When the mind is intensely concentrated on some particular subject for a long time, the breathing becomes so quiet that the blood is imperfectly aerated ; and this feeble respiration is compensated for by deep involuntary respirations (sighs) at intervals. Hiccough is a sudden inspiration, produced by the spasmodic action of the diaphragm. Being so sudden, the aperture of the glottis is unprepared for the rush of air, and hence the peculiar sound produced by the vibration of the vocal cords. Coughing is generally preceded by a deep inspiration. The glottis is then closed firmly by the muscles of the larynx, and the expiratory muscles suddenly contract. At first the force is not sufficient to open the glottis, but at last the vocal cords are sud- denly burst open, and the air is noisily expelled. Coughing is a means by which any mucus or other matter which irritates the walls of the air passages may be got rid of. Sneezing is produced much in the same w^ay as coughing, but the tongue is raised against the soft palate so as to divert the air current through the nose. Sniffing consists of a series of short inspirations ; but, the mouth being closed, the whole of the air inspired is made to pass through the nostrils. Sobbing is a series of convulsive inspirations, each taking place while the glottis is more or less closed. Laughing consists of short and rapid expirations. Yawning is a long inspiratory act, accompanied by a stretch- ing of the muscles of the mouth and face.HOW WE BREATHE Chest enlarged INSPIRATION EXPIRATION i SUMMARY. External intercostals contract. Raise the ribs. Make the chest wider. Diaphragm depressed. . Chest made deeper. Lungs expand with the chest. Air rushes in through the trachea, filling the larged lungs. Elastic walls of the thorax recoil Elastic lungs recoil. Internal intercostals con-- tract. Ribs depressed. Chest becomes nar- rower. Diaphragm raised. Chest made shallower. Abdotninal muscles con- tract. Abdominal organs press on under side of dia- phragm. \ Air forced out through the trachea. en- Chest made smaller Forced •expira- tion. QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXVI. 1. Describe the structure of the walls of the chest. 2. Describe the arrangement of the organs of the thorax, and the arrange- ment and nature of the membranes which surround the lungs. 3. What would be the effect of an opening through the wall of the chest ? Explain the cause. 4. Would it be possible for a person to breathe while the wall of the chest is perforated ? Give reasons for your answer. 5. How do the walls of the chest move during respiration ? 6. In what way do the ribs move ? By what mechanism are they moved ? 7. How does the contraction of the diaphragm produce inspiration ? 8. Through what passages does the air move in breathing ? 9. Describe fully the manner in which the intercostal muscles move the ribs. 10. What are the forces which expel the air from the lungs in expiration? 11. Describe the course of the air and the movements which take place during coughing, sneezing, and sniffing. 12. What is a sigh ? How does it differ from an ordinary inspiration ? LESSON XXVII. THE LIVER. The liver is the largest gland in the body. In the adult it weighs from 50 to 60 ounces, and forms about one-fortieth the weight of the entire body. It is situated at the top of the abdomen, with its upper and154 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY convex surface fitting closely against the under and concave surface of the diaphragm. The liver consists of two parts called lobes—the right and the left. Of these the right is much larger than the left. The former also extends well over the right upper portion of the abdomen, while the latter is not large enough to reach the left side of the body, although it lies over a considerable portion of the stomach. The upper, convex surface of the liver is very smooth- and regular ; l)ut the under surface is j^ry irregular, and is broken Fig. 140. —The Under Surface of the Liver. I, right lobe ; 2, left lobe ; 3, gall-bladder; vena cava inferior ; 5, portal vein ; 6, hepatic artery ; 7, hepatic duct. by the entrance and exit of the various vessels which belong to the organ. The liver is extremely well supplied with blood vessels, and in it the blood is deprived of a large quantity of the impurities which it has gathered from various parts of the body. It is almost entirely surrounded by the peritoneum, which invests it loosely. The vessels of the liver are— (i) The portal vein. /(2) The hepatic artery. ' (3) The hepatic vein. / (4) The hepatic duct. The first fk?'ee of these are blood-vessels, and the last conveysTHE LIVER away from the liver a fluid called the bile, which is prepared from The° first hvo convey their contents to the organ, and the last ^'"^Thrportal vein (Lat. vena price, or vein of the gate-the gate being the depression between the lobules of the hver) conveys fo the liver a large volume of blood which it collects from the veins of the sto?nach, intestines, pancreas, and spleen This blood has already circulated through the capillary systems of these organs, and is therefore of a dark purple colour, and at the same time is very rich in nutritious matter. The hepatic artery (Gr. hepar, the liver) brings to the liver a supply of bright arterial blood direct from the descending branch of Lhe aorta. The office of this blood is to nourish the structures of the liver. The blood of both these vessels, after it has circu- lated through the capillaries of the liver, is collected by the branches of the hepatic vein, which vessel con- veys it directly into the ascending or inferior vena cava (see fig. 128). The hepatic duct con- veys the bile into the gall- bladder or into the duo- denum—to the former if digestion is not going on, and to the latter if the di- gestive organs are active. The branches of the portal vein, the hepatic artery, and the hepatic duct all run together, side portal canals. ■ The substance of the liver is made up of small lobules, each about one-twentieth of an inch in diameter, and therefore distinctly visible to the naked eye. Each lobule is formed of a peculiar Fig. 141. -The Portal Vein and its Branches. I, liver, under-surface ; gb, gall-bladder ; st, sto- mach ; sp, spleen ; /, pancreas ; dii, duodenum ; ac, ascending colon ; cd, descending colon ; a, b, <r, d, e, the portal vein and its branches. Por- tions of the duodenum and colon have been removed. by side, in canals which are called156 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY arrangement of the small branches Fig. 142. — Longitudinal Section of a Portal Vein and Canal. Magnified about 5 diameters. a. portions of the canal from which the vein has been removed ; b, side of the portal vein in con- tact with the canal ; c, the side of the vein which is separated from the canal by the hepatic artery and duct, with areolar tissue (Glisson's capsule); d, internal surface of the portal vein, through which are seen the outlines of the lobules and the openings, e, of the interlobular veins ; g^, hepatic artery ; h, hepatic duct. Fig. 143.—Transverse Section of a small Portal Canal and its Vessels. I, portal vein ; 2, interlobular branches; 3, other branches; 4, hepatic duct; 5, hepatic artery. and capillaries of the four vessels of the liver. It will now be convenient to trace the branches of the.se vessels separately, in order to learn their relations to each other. The branches of the portal vein give off small veins which surrotmd the lobules and separate them from each other. These small veins are consequently call- ed the interlobular veins. The interlobular veins give off still smaller branches, which run to- ward the centres of the lobules, and give rise to a close network of capillaries. These capillaries then unite to form other small veins which collect the blood and convey it into vessels which oc- cupy the centres of the lobules, and which are called the intralobular veins. The intralobular veins then convey the blood to the bases of the lobules, and into the larger sublobular veins, around which the lobules are placed. The sublobular veins unite to form the hepatic vein, which vein carries the blood direct to the ascending vena cava. Thus the interlobular veins are the dis- tributing branches of the portal vein ; and the intralobular veins and the sublobular veins may be regarded as the collecting branches of the hepatic vein ; the two sets of branches being united by the capillaries of the lobule. The hepatic artery, as already stated, brings bright arterial blood to the various structures of the liver, for these structures, like all other parts of the body, need a supply of oxygen gas. The branches of this artery are dis.- tributed like those of the portal vein ; and the blood brought by them is, after circulation through capillary systems, returned either into the subdivisions of the portal vein or into the capillary network of the lobules. Thus the brightTHE LIVER 157 —the hepatic vein. Fie 144 -Cross Section of a Lobule. Magnified about 60 diameters. innninhuHrvein- - its smaller branches, collecting blood from the capillary network; '"inSlrTranche^^^ portal vein, with their subdivisions passing inwards towards the capillary network in the substance of the lobule. The spaces between the blood-vessels of the liver are filled with minute cells, about one-thousandth of an inch in diameter, called hepatic cells or liver cells. The blood capillaries run between these, and all changes which occur in the blood as it circulates through the liver are brought about by the action of the cells, which are separated from the blood only by the exceedingly thin walls of the capillaries. The materials which are separated from the blood in the blood ca- pillaries appear to pass through the liver cells to another set of capillaries which are called the bile capillaries. These unite Fig. 145.—Diagrammatic Representation of a Lobule in section. Tbe section takes the course of the intralobular vein. interlobular branches of the portal vein ; h, intra- lobular branches of the hepatic vein ; s, sublobular vein. The arrows indicate the direction of the course of the blood. The liver cells are represented in part only, PELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 158 to ft)rm smnll biliary ducts, which by their further union form the two larger ducts. One of these conveys the bile from the left lobe, and the other from the right, while both unite to form the hepatic duct. The gall-bladder is connected with this tube by a duct of its own, called the cystic duct (Gr. kustis, a bladder), and these two unite into the common duct, which leads direct to the duodenum. The gall-bladder is a pear-shaped bag, situated on the under surface of the liver. It is supported by the peritoneum, which passes below it; and its broader end projects be- yond the front margin of the liver. The cystic duct is connected with the narrow end. The most important function of the liver is the secretion of the bile. And this single function serves a twofold purpose : for, not only is the bile turned to account as a powerful digestive fluid, but its separation from the blood is a means of the removal of an excess of carbon and hydrogen which has accumulated in that fluid; these ele- , ,. „ , ments being found largely —Stomacil, Liver. Pancreas, and • r •' X4/. Obuiiiav-^^iiivoi, iauuicao, a,uu SOmC Of the COm- , ^ , \ A A 7 ,• 11 pounds carried off" by the st, stomach ; /, pylorus ; a, duodenum ; /, liver ; g, gall- ^ . •' bladder; ^a, pancreas ; j/, splcn. The stomach and Dlle. the liver have b«en raised to expose the pancreas and The SCCretiOn Of the the gail bladder. Fig. 146.—Longitudinal Section of an Hepatic Artery. Magnified about 5 diameters. H, hepatic vein ; portion of the canal from which the vein has been removed ; b, openings of the intralobular veins, situated in the centres of the lobules. Fig.1S9 THE LIVER bile is continuous, but is retarded during fasting, and in(||eased on talcing food. The quantity secreted daily is from thirty to forty ounces (about a pint and three-quarters). Sometimes some of this is reabsorbed into the blood, owing to an obstruction in the hepatic duct; and the result of this is a disease called Jaundice, charac- terised by the yellow colour of the skin. Fig. 148.—The Gall-bladder and its Vessels. I, right hepatic vessel ; 2, left hepatic vessel; 3, hepatic duct; 4, cystic duct ; 5, gall-bladder; 6, common duct. The liver prepares another substance called glycogen, which resembles starch and sugar in composition. During digestion the portal vein conveys to the liver much more saccharine matter than is required for immediate use in the system, A portion only of this leaves the organ through the hepatic vein, while the excess is converted into granules of glycogen in thfe cells of the lobules. When digestion is over, and the liver is no longer receiving abundance of absorbed nourishment from the alimentary canal, the store of glycogen I'ecently laid by is gradually reconverted into sugar, and conveyed into the venous system through the hepatic vein. It thus appears that the liver performs the im- portant function of regulating the supply of sugar to the system by detaining a portion while it is being rapidly absorbed, and giving this off slowly during fasting. The sugar thus regularly supplied to the system is probably oxidised in the tissues, thus helping to maintain the high temperature of the body. The liver also seems to have the power of arresting various poisonous substances which have found their way into the blood. Thus, if any metallic poisons have been taken into the stomach, they reach the liver by the portal vein, and are there detained.ELEMENTARY rUYSIOLOGY i6o VESSELS OF THE LIVEK. Blood vessels Bile vessels i SUMMARY. [ Stomach. Portal vein-fromU"'-,''"-"''''- Spleen. ', Pancreas. Hepatic artery- from aorta. Hepatic vein—to vena cava inferior. j" Cystic duct and gall Hepatic duct-to J . Common duct V duodenum. and —> ® - C5 W an o OS COURSE OF THE BLOOD IN THE LIVER. PORTAL VEIN. ; Branches of Portal Vein, i i Interlobular Vessels—between Lobules. ^l' ^ -i > Capillary Netruorks m the substance of the Lobtiles. -i- 4- Intralobular Veins—in centres of Lobules. Sublobular Veins—under the Lobules. ; HEPATIC VEIN. COURSE OF THE BILE. Bile Capillaries->Bile Ducts-> HEPATIC DUCT Cystic Duct and Gall-bladder. {Digestive organs inactive. ] BILE Glycogen Purposes secretion Secretion of ( \ Common Duct and Duodenum. {Digestion going on.) Digestive. Removal of excess of carbon and hydrogen from blood. 30 to 40 ozs. daily—continuous. Retarded during fasting. Accelerated on taking food. ( Resembles starch and sugar in composition. -\ Prepared in the liver. Reconverted into sugar. ( Apparently oxidised in the tissues—thus producing heat. QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXVII. 1. Describe the general form, position, and size of the liver, mentioning the various organs with which it is in contact. 2. Describe the membranes which surround and enter into the substance of the liver. • • r 3. Name the various vessels connected with the liver. Give the ongm of each, and describe the nature of the lluid contained in each one.THE LIVER l6l 4- Describe the gall-bladder. Where is it situated ? What is its use ? AVhat does it contain? Give the names of the vessels connected with it. In which direction does the fluid move in these vessels ? Illustrate your answer by a sketch. 5. What is the nature of the fluid contained in the portal vein ? Where does this fluid come from ? 6. I low is it that the liver discharges less blood than it receives ? In what respects does the blood discharged differ from that received ? 7. What is a portal canal ? What does it contain ? 8. What is the size of an hepatic lobule ? Describe the arrangement of its constituent parts. How does the blood circulate through a lobule ? 9. Where is the bile formed ? Describe the course of its circulation {a) when the digestive organs are active, and {l>) after fasting. 10. What are the chief functions of the liver? 11. What is the quantity of bile secreted daily ? What becomes of all this ? 12. What are the chief uses of the bile ? (See Lesson XIX.) 13. What is glycogen ? Where is it formed, what is its use, and what becomes of it ? LESSON XXVIII. THE SKIN. The skin or integument forms a protective covering over the whole of the body. It consists of two layers, the epidermis and the dermis. The epidermis (Gr. epi, upon ; and derma, the skin) cuticle, or scarf-skin, covers every part of the dermis or triie skin. It is hard and horny, and composed of minute scales which are being continu- ally worn away from the surface. The thickness of the epidermis varies in diffe- rent parts. In the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet—parts which are much exposed to great pressure—it is as much as of an inch, wliile in some parts the thickness is less than of an inch. The surface of the epidermis presents a multitude of minute openings when viewed with a magnifying glass. These are called the pores of the skin, and are really the openmgs of the ducts of little glands which secrete the sweat or perspiration. The epidermis itself contains no blood-vessels and but few nerves, its office being simply to protect the deeper layer of the M Fig. 149.—Magnified View of the Epi- dermis, showing' the Pores. sELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 162 skin' If we thrust a needle through the epidermis without pene- trating the dermis beneath, we feel no pain and shed no blood, but, as soon as the dermis or true skin is injured, we feel a sharp sensation of pain, and more or less blood flows. The internal cavities of the lx)dy are all lined with a soft, pinkish membrane called the mucous membrane; and this is continuous with the skin at the margins of the lips, the nostrils, the eyelids, &c, , ^ . The deeper portion of the epidermis, which connects the outer, horny layer with the true skin, is softer and less transparent. It is made up of minute cells, some of which contain granules of pigment or colouring matter. Healthy skin is always more or less pinkish in colour. This is not due to the pig- ment cells, but to the presence of blood capillaries in the der7nis, the colour of the blood being seen through the transparent epi- dermis. We sometimes describe the skin as 'dark' or 'fair,' 'tawny' or 'blonde'; and in these in- stances the differences in the tint are due to the amount of pigment in the cells of thepigmejit layer. In the European this amount is generally small; it is _^ ^.^^-^^^v^.-^^ crreatest in the skin of the negro. Fig. xsor-Vertical section through The pigiiaent ^ ^4*^^^^^^^^ fhe Skin of a Negro. Magnified also called the ^^te macos^ 250 diameters. (mucous net), and the Maipigluan a, dermis, or true skin ; be, undermost layer layer, of the eoidermi. : b represents the dark layer of pigment cells; d, epidermis, com- cells of the rete mucosum are posed of horny scales. nourished by the blood which circu- ally worn off by friction from the outer layer. The emdermis, being impermeable to moisture, sen-es to protect the hv'ng tissues%enea it against the absorption o S ons. When it is perfect, poisonous substances may be freely handled ; but these substances are readily absorbed into the ^^0^ when the cuticle is cut, or when a small portion of it has been torn off.163 THE SKIN The dermis, true skin {cutis vera), or corium consists of fibres of connective and elastic tissues, interwoven with minute blood- vessels and nerve fibres. Its surface is drawn up into finger-like projections called papillae, the largest of which are about of an inch in length. The outer portion is extremely well supplied with blood-vessels. Every papilla has its loop of capillaries. The deeper portion of the dermis is looser in texture, and contains an amount of fatty tissue. Beneath this again is a loose Fig. 151.—Vertical Section of the Skin and tlie Sub-cutaneous Tissue. Magnified 20 diameters. a, horny layer of epidermis; b, Malpighian layer of epidermis; c, corium ; e, papillae; f, fat clusters; g, sweat glands ; //, sweat ducts; z, pores. cellular tissue—the sub-cutaneous tissue—which contains a large proportion of fat. The use of this latter tissue is to fill up all the irregularities of surface in the underlying parts, and to give the rounded form and plumpness to the surface of the body. The fatty tissue also, being a bad conductor of heat, serves to keep the body warm by preventing the outward passage of heat. The sensibility of the skin as the organ of touch is due to the distribution of nerve fibres which terminate in the papillje of the M 2l64 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY dermis. These nerve-endings vary considerably in form, and possibly also in function, and will be described in a future lesson. The pores of the skin have already been mentioned as the openings of the ducts of the sweat g-lands. By making a section of the skin we are enabled to trace these ducts to the deeper portion of the dermis, where the glands are situated. As the ducts pass through the epidermis they are twisted like a corkscrew, but lower down they are straight or only slightly curved. On reaching the deeper layer of the dermis, or, sometimes, on entering the sub- cutaneous tissue, the ducts are coiled up into litde balls. These little bodies constitute the sudoriferous, sudoriparous (Lat. sudor, sweat) or sweat glands. Each gland is sur- rounded by a dense network of blood capil- laries, giving it the appearance of a reddish ball. As the blood circulates through these vessels, the fluid which we call the perspira- tion or sweat is separated from it, passing up the duct till it reaches the surface of the skin. The perspiration is a watery fluid, con- taining a small amount of dissolved common salt, together with smaller quantities of other salts (see page 8i). K XxXXXe carbonic acid gas , is also given off by the sweat glands, but this ''^l-iei^'ofTlwea? insignificant compared with that which gland, -with its escapes by the lungs. Duct. From what has been said it is clear that a, the gland surrounded wc must look upou the skin as an excretory S^nr"?^rough''Ihe orgau—that is, one by which waste materials dermis; c, its continua- g^j-g separated from the blood circulating in t"cosumr''and it. Like the luugs, it is a source of loss to through the upper epi- ^|^g blood ; but whilc the lungs give off a great amount of carbonic acid gas and water vapour, the skin excretes but litde carbonic acid gas. The excretion of the perspiration is contmuous but exceed- ingly variable, the average quantity discharged bemg probably about hvo pounds per day in the adult. , , , The chief use of the perspiration is undoubtedly the protec- tion of the body from too great heat, or, in other ^yords, the equalisation of the temperature of the system. When the surface of the body is cold, the supply of blood to the skin is decreased by the contraction of involuntary muscular fibres which reduceTHE SKIN 165 the size of the blood-vessels. At the same time the ducts of the sweat glands are contracted, and consequently the secretion of the perspiration is slow. But when the body becomes overheated by exercise, or when the surface of the body is exposed to great heat, the muscles of the skin relax, the supply of blood mcreases, the gland ducts open wider, and the perspiration is given off freely. The evaporation of this moisture tends to reduce the temperature of the skin, and consequently that of the body. We now see how necessary it is that the skin should be cleansed from any matter which may tend to clog its pores, for if the perspiration cannot be freely discharged through the pores, it is reabsorbed into the blood, thus throwing extra work on the other excretory organs, ^specially the kidneys, which excrete water and urea. The lungs, skin, and kidneys are all similar in their action ; but the work of the skin is more closely allied to that of the kidneys than to that of the lungs. Hence, when the action of the skin is retarded by exposure to cold, the extra work thrdSvn on the kidneys frequently causes a disease in these organs, they being unable to perform their own function in addition to that of the skin. The analogy between the functions of the skin and the kidneys may also be noticed from the fact that in summer, when the skin is active, the excretion of the kidneys diminishes; a.ndvice versa. The sudoriparous glands are distributed all over the body, but not equally. In the lower limbs and back they are estimated at about 600 to every square inch of surface, while in the palms of the hands there areas many as 2,500 in the square inch'. Generally speaking, the fluid portion of the sweat evaporates as fast as it reaches the surface of the body, and consequently we have no visible evidence of the excretion unless we apply the skin to a very cold surface, when the vapour given off is condensed. Hence the term insensible perspiration. But in summer, especially during activity, the fluid collects in globules on the skin, and the perspiration becomes sensible. It may also become sensible under the influence of some kinds of mental emotion. Nails and hairs are out-growths of the epidermis or cuticle, and both agree with it in general structure. A nail is simply a thick layer composed of the thin horny scales of the outer portion of the cuticle. At the ' root' of the nail the skin is folded back on itself, so that two layers are facing each other. Thus the nail at this point grows by additions of epidermic cells above., below, and behind; the new growth above and below adding to the thickness of the nail, while additions received behind continually push it forward. The nail continues to receive additions in its thickness on the under surface as long as it remains attached to the skin below it.ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY t6C Each hair consists of a root or bulb and a shaft or stem. The root is imbedded in a recess of the skin called the follicle, which is formed by a layer of the dermis, lined with a thin continuation of the cuticle. 'I'hese two layers form a sheath which invests the Eig- I53-—Section through a Nail. 1, epidermis ; 2, dermis. root of the hair so closely as to be often pulled out with the hair. From the bottom of the follicle there rises a small papilla which is supplied with blood-vessels, and this is the growing point from whfch the hair is pushed forward by continual additions. The shaft of the hair is, like the epidermis generally, devoid of blood- Fig. 154.—Vertical Section through a small portion of a Nail. Highly magnified. A, dermis; b, rete mucosum ; c, the nail, composed of thickened epithelium. vessels and nerves. It generally consists of a central medullary portion or pith, surrounded by a fibrous cortical part. In some hairs the medullary portion is wanting. Each hair is provided with small glands which secrete an oily fluid to lubricate the hair and the surrounding skin. These areTHE SKIN 167 called the sebaceous glands (Lat. sebuvt, suet). They consist of little saccules communicating with a common duct which oijens into the neck of the follicle. Hairs are also provided with muscles. These are composed of involuntary fibres, and pass from the side towards which the Fig. 156.—Section of tlie Skin, showing the Hair Follicles, Sebaceous Glands, and the Muscles of the Hairs. a, epidermis ; 5, dermis; c, muscles of the hair follicles ; d, sebaceous glands. hair slopes obliquely to the outer layer of the dermis. It is evident, therefore, that when they contract they tend to make the hair more erect.ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY f Epidermis Eote Mucosum Dermis Glands Nails . ^ Hairs / Composition - Quantity , V Uses . . SUMMARY. Composed of flattened scales. Horny and transpai-ent. Ivipervieahlc to fluids. No blood-vessels, and but few ftei'ves. Simply protccli-uc. Surface continually removed by friction. Softer and less transparent. Contains pigment cells. Gives colour to the skin. Fibres of connective and elastic tissues. Numerous blood-vessels and mrves. Drawn up into papillcc. Fat-cells in deeper portion. ^Situated deep in the dermis. Consist of coiled tubes. Surrounded by capillary net- tvorks. Sweat . / /N^fly , ^I'-^^glit ■\ Ihrougli dermis. J Twisted in epi- I dermis. jOpen at the sur- ^ face {pores). 'Secrete perspiration. I Connected with hairs. Ducts \ Sebaceous j Secrete an oily fluid. I [ Discharged ^ Secretion the follicles. Lubricates the hair and skin. Thick, horny plates of epidermis. / Only where adherent to skin. Growth . ] Above, below, and beliind at >■ the root. Pushed forward by growth behind. (Interior medullary portion or pith. Outer cortical or fibrous por- tion. (Bulb-iike at lower extremity. I Imbedded in follicle. Pushed outward by growth at the base. Glands—sebaceous (see above). Muscles—tend to erect the hair by their contraction. Water. Salts—especially common salt Little carbonic acid gas in solution. Average about two pounds a day. Greater in summer than in winter. Greater during activity. Removal of waste matter. Tends to reduce the temperature of the body by its evaporation. Shaft Root.THE SKIN QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXVIII. 1. Of what parts is the skin composed ? How do these differ from each other ? , „ 2. What are the pores of the skin ? What purpose do they serve ? 3. AVhat is the difference between the skin of a European and that of a negi'o ? 4. What is the use of the epidermis ? 5. What purpose is served by the fatty tissue imbedded in the deeper portion of the dermis and in the tissue beneath it ? 6. Where are the sweat glands situated ? What are their uses ? Describe briefly the structure of these glands. 7. What do you know about perspiration 1 What circumstances determine the amount of perspiration secreted ? 8. How much perspiration is secreted daily ? How is it that we sometimes see it on the surface of the skin, while at other times it is insettsible ? 9. Compare the function of the skin with that of the lungs. 10. What is the structure of a nail ? tl ow does a nail grow ? 11. Describe the structure of a hair, and say how the hair is connected with the skin. 12. "SVhat are sebaceous glands ? What is their use ? 13. By what means is the hair made to * stand on end ' ? LESSON XXIX. THE KIDNEYS. The kidneys, two in number, are situated at the back of the abdomen, one on each side of the upper lumbar vertebrae. They are deeply seated in the loins, behind the peritoneum, and are held in this position by their own vessels, and by a quantity of areolar tissue which usually contains much fat. They measure about 4 inches in length, 2-^- inches in width, and i^inch in thick- ness, their weight being about 4i- ounces each. The kidneys are arranged with their concave surfaces directed towards the vertebral column ; and the right kidney, which is usually shorter and thicker than the left, is generally a little lower, probably on account of the downward extension of the large right lobe of the liver. The surface of the kidney is smooth, and of a deep red colour. It is covered with a thin fibrou^ coat—the capsule—which invests the organ closely, but which can easily be detached. In the concave surface of the kidney there is a longitudinal depression called the hilus, at which the vessels and nerves enter or pass out. The concavity of the kidney is usually filled in with areolar and fatty tissue, through which the "vessels pass to and from the organ ; and by carefully removing this substance three vessels may be traced to their entrance into the kidney.170 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY These vessels of the kidney are (i) the renal artery (Lat. rencs^ the kidneys), which conveys bright arterial blood direct from the descending branch of the aorta ; (2) the renal vein, which collects the blood that has circulated in the capillaries of the kidney, and carries it direct to the ascending or inferior vena cava ; and (3) the ureter, v/hich carries away the fluid secreted from the blood, and conveys it to the bladder. We must now study a longitudinal section of the kidney. A clean cut should be made from the outer convex surface straight through to the hilus. It will be noticed that the ureter opens into a cavity with a number of short wide prolongations. The cavity is called the pelvis of the kidney, and its branches, calices (Lat. calyx, a cup). AVe also observe that the solid por- tion of the kidney consists of an inner medullary substance which has a fibrous appearance, and an outer cortical sub- stance of a darker colour. The medullary sub- Fie 157.-The Kidneys, Bladder, and their stance is not really fibrous, Vessels. Viewed from behind. but consists of a multitude R, right kidney; U, ureter ; A, aorta ; Ar, right renal of minUtC tubeS arranged artery ; Ve, vena cava inferior ; Vr, right renal vein ; j^^ separate COnical maSSCS Vu, bladder ; Ua, commencement of urethra. ^^^^^^ pyramids. The apex or point of each pyramid is tfirned toward the pelvis of the kidney, into which it projects, presenting a number of minute openings which are the terminations of the little tubes of the pyramid. By squeezing the cut kidney, a little watery fluid may be made to drain from these litde tubes into the pelvis. From this cursory examination of the kidney it would appear that the blood from the renal artery is abundantly supplied to the cortical portion of the organ (hence the dark colour), where a171 THE KIDNEYS process of excretion goes on, and that the watery fluid (the tirine) there separated passes through the minute tubes of the pyramids into the pelvis, whence it is conveyed to the bladder by the ureter. This is actually the case ; but in order to understand how this is brought about it will be necessary to give a more detailed exami- nation, aided by the microscope. If we examine a thin prepared section of the kidney under a powerful microscope, we notice that the straight tubes of the pyramids (the uriniferous Pig. 158.—Longitudinal Section of the Human Kidney. One-half the natural size. a, cortical substance ; b, pyramids—broad portions ; c, calyces of the pelvis laid open ; c', calyx, unopened ; d, summits of the pyramids projecting intocalices ; e, narrow parts of pyramids ; pelvis ; n, ureter ; h, hilus ; s, extension of the hilus. Fig. 159.—Diagram show- ing the relation between the Uriniferous Tubes and the Blood-vessels. a, small branch of the renal artery; a', smaller branch passing into a capsule ; c, a Malpighian cap- sule ; t, convoluted uriniferous tube; ff', small blood-vessels from the capsule, which sub- divide into capillaries f>, sur- rounding the tube, and finally terminating in e, a small branch of the r&tjal vein. tubes) radiate towards the cortical portion, branching as they go. On reach- ing the cortical layer they are distributed irregularly, interlacing each other, and finally terminate in little expansions called the Malpighian capsules. Into each capsule a small branch of the renal artery enters, and immediately breaks up into looped capillaries which nearly fill the cavity of the capsule. The blood is then collected up by a small vein, which again breaks up into a capillary network around the walls of the uriniferous tube, and is finally con- veyed away through the medullary portion to the renal vein. Thus we have another example (see page 155) of blood passing through two distinct capillary systems before entering the great vein which takes it to the heart. The excretion of the kidney is filtered from the blood both through the thin walls of the capsules and also through the walls of the tubules which are surrounded by the second capillary network. It is probable that the watery172 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY part of tlie urine is separated in the capsules, while the solid portion is excreted chiefly from the capillaries surrounding the tubes. The ureters arc the two tubes which convey the fluid excreted by the kidneys into the bladder. They are about fifteen inches in length. The upper end of each, as we have seen, expands to form the pelvis of the kidney ; the lower extremity passes obliquely through the walls of the bladder at its base. The bladder is a very strong oval bag, about five inches long, situated in the cavity of the pelvis. Its walls contain abundant vivoluntary 77iuscidarfibres, and it is covered externally by a layer of the peritoneum. It has three openings, two of which—the openings of the ureters—have already been mentioned. The third communicates with a duct called the Urethra, by which the bladder is emptied of its contents. The neck of the bladder, that is, the narrower portion which gives rise to the urethra, is sur- rounded by a circular {sphincter) muscle which is generally in a state of contraction, and thus the passage of liquid from the bladder is prevented. But at intervals this muscle relaxes, while the walls of the bladder contract, and consequently its contents are discharged. The secretion of the urinary fluid by the kidneys is continuous, and it passes into the bladder, drop by drop, through the ureters. It will be seen, therefore, that the bladder simply serves to contain the urine so that it may be discharged at intervals from the body. No obstruction is offered to the fluid as it passes from the ureters into the bladder, but it cannot pass backward again into these vessels readily on account of their oblique openings ; and, further, because of small elevations of the mucous membrane at these openings which act as valves. The urine consists of urea and uric acid (both nitrogenous substances), other salts, and certain gaseous substances, dissolved in a large quantity of water. The quantity and composition of the urine vary considerably with circumstances, but it is estimated that the kidneys of a healthy man excrete about three pounds of water a day, in which is dissolved a little more than one ounce of urea, and about ten grains of uric acid. We must therefore look upon the kidneys as great sources of loss to the blood, and in this respect they are like the lungs and the skin. Of these three sources of loss the kidneys only excrete large quantities of nitrogenous matter. The following table will help us to compare the functions of these organs :— Sources of Loss to the Blood. m, , j Much water. 1. ine iungs. \^^^^ carbonic acid gas.THE KIDNEYS i Much water. 2. The skin ] Little carbonic acid gas. i Little urea. Much water. 3. The kidneys] Much urea. I Little uric acid. The blood which leaves the kidneys by the renal veins is often said to be the purest blood in the body. It has lost much nitrogenous waste matter. Of course a certain proportion of the blood which enters the kidneys goes to nourish the walls of the vessels of which the organs are almost entirely composed. Hence this blood would tend to become venous by its loss of oxygen and its gain of carbonic acid gas. But this is counterbalanced by the excretion of the urine, which contains relatively more carbonic acid gas and less oxygen than the blood from which it was formed. As a result of this, the blood of the renal vein, which has lost so much nitrogenous matter, is still arterial in character. ^ Weight Position Covering Vessels KIDNEY . Eenal artery Beual vein. Ureter Pelvis Structure Excretion BLADDEB Structure Vessels Use SUMMAEY. About 4 ounces. At the back of the abdomen. One on each side of the upper lumbar vertebrae. The capsule—a thin fibrous membrane. j A branch of the ao7-ta. T Contains arterial blood. ( Leads to the vena cava inferior. \ Contains the purified blood. J Leads to the bladder. \ Contains the urine. Enlargement of the ureter. Gives off prolongations called calices. Composed of minute tubes. Arranged in cones or pyra- 7nids. Tubes open into the pelvis. Cortical por- f Outer portion of the kidney, tion 1 Darker in colour. Excretion continuous. / 3 lbs. water. I oz. urea. Daily . . ■] 10 grs. uric acid. Various salts. ^ Dissolved gases. Strong oval bag. Involuntary muscular fibres. Lined with mucous membrane. Surrounded by perit67ieum. Ureters—convey urine from the kidneys. Urethra—for the discharge of the urine. To retain the urine, and To discharge it at intervals. Medullary portion174 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXIX. 1. Describe the general form, size, and position of the kidneys. 2. Describe the structure of the i<:idney as far as it can be seen without the use of a microscope. 3. Name the vessels of the kidney. Describe the nature of the fluid contained in each, and say in which direction it flows. 4. Compare the blood of the renal artery with that of the renal vein. 5. In what way do the kidneys purify the lilood ? Should the kidneys cease to perform their function, is it likely that other organs would do their work? Give reasons for your answer. 6. Describe the nature of the urine. IIow does it get from the kidneys to the bladder, and what prevents it from immediately leaving the bladder? 7- Describe the chemical composition of the chief ingredients separated from the blood by the kidneys. How did these materials get into the blood ? 8. Describe the structure and use of the bladder. 9. Describe the manner in which the urine is separated from the blood as it circulates in the kidney. LESSON XXX. THE NERVOUS SYSTEM—NERVES. Almost every movement of the body, whether voluntary or involuntary, is brought about and governed by some portion of the nervous system. If we will to do anything, we do it through the agency of nervous matter, which acts as a medium between the mind and the muscles. Thus the nerves do not produce motion by their own contraction, but by their influence over the muscles in which their fibres terminate. The nervous system consists of two distinct.parts, called the cerebrospinal and the sympathetic systems. The cerebro-spinal system consists of the brain, the spinal cord, and all the nerves given off from the brain and the cord. All the vertebrate animals possess such a system. The nerve fibres of the cerebro-spinal system are distributed chiefly to the skin, thus giving us the sense of touch ; to the other organs of sense—the nose, tongue, ear, and eye; and also to all the voluntary muscles. The sympathetic or ganglionic system consists of a number of ganglia (knots) of nervous matter which give off nerve fibres. The chief portion of this system comprises a double chain of ganglia, si- tuated one half on each side of the vertebral column, and extending from the skull to the pelvis. It also includes various ganglia which supply fibres to certain internal organs. The nerves of theFig. 160.—The Cerebro-spinal Cavity and its Contents. F, T, o, frontal, temporal, and occipital portions of cerebrum ; c, cerebellum ; mo, medulla oblongata; Ms, upper and lower extremities of the spinal cord ; ci, the first cervical nerve; di, the first dorsal nerve; li, the first lumbar nerve. Fig. 161.—The Sympathetic Chain of the Right Side, showing its connection with the principal Cerebro-spinal Nerves. »176 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY sympathetic system are chiefly suppUed to these organs and the blood-vessels, thus controllhig the involuntary movements, and regulating the supply of blood to the various parts of the body. Nerve substance or nerve tissue is eitlier cellular or fibrous. I'he cellular tissue is composed of branched cells together with interlacing fibres, and, on account of its colour, is called grey substance. It is found in the brain, the spinal cord, and iri all the other tierve centres. Fibrous nerve tissue is composed of fibres only, and is of two kinds—and white. The white fibrous tissue is an essential constituent of the cerebro-spinal nerves: it also enters largely into the structure of the brain and cord. The grey fibres are found principally in the nerves of the sympathetic system. Fig. 162.—Nerve-cells from the Grey Matter of the Brain. Each white nerve fibre is a minute semitransparent filament when fresh. But a few hours after death it undergoes changes and is then seen to consist of an outer membrane, in the middle of which is a coagulated central thread (the axis-cylinder), surrounded by a white sheath. The grey fibres closely resemble the white, but the white sheath enclosing the axis-cylinder is wanting. Each 7ierve is a bundle of such fibres, passing to or from a nerve centre, generally bound together by a delicate sheath of connective tissue called the neurilemma (Gr. neuroti, a nerve ; and le7nt?ia, rind). It may be easily distinguished in the body of an animal as" having the appearance of white or cream-coloured threads. We may pass on at once to notice the essential difference between nerves and nerve centimes. A nerve, composed of ner\'e fibres, has no power to generate what we may call a nerve impulse, but it can conduct an impulse already produced, along its fibres, either to or from the nerve centre with which it is connected. On the other hand, a nerve centre, which consists partly of theTHE NERVOUS SYSTEM—NERVES 17; greyish nerve cells, has the power to generate or produce an impulse as well as to conduct it—it serves as a receiver and a transmitter as well as a generator. We may compare a nerve centre to a galvanic battery, and the nerves to the wires which convey the electric current. The battery generates the electric current, which flows along one of the wires, and returns to the battery by the other wire, thus com- pleting the circuit. The battery, like the nerve centre, generates, receives, and transmits; while the wires of the battery, representing the nerves, simply conduct. This simile may be yet further extended, for as one wire of the battery takes away the current and the other brings it back, so there are nerve fibres which conduct nerve impulses only to a nerve centre, while other fibres convey them only from the centre. Those nerve fibres which conduct im- pulses only to a nerve centre are called afferent (Lat ad, to ; and fero, I carry) or sensory fibres. By means of these we are capable of feeling pain or of experiencing any other sensation. For example, when a body vibrates rapidly, and the vibrations are transmitted through the air to the ear, they are taken up by the auditory nerve and conveyed to the brain, producing the sensa- tion called sound. Thus the auditory nerve is an afferent or sensory nerve. Those nerve fibres which convey im- pressions only from a nerve centre are termed efferent (Lat. e, out; and fero). They are also called motor, because their office is to produce motion.' They origi- nate in a nerve centre, and they terminate m muscular fibres. When they receive an impulse from a nerve centre they convey that impulse to the fibres they govern, causing hem to coritract. Thus, when we hear a sharp sound beh nd us, we quickly turn the head, or start running. The sound v bra tions, o re,,h.ng the brain, set up a disturUce in the o'gan nerves Tch%;fnnl" ^^^ucted through the efi^erent or ml; caTsS ttm toToSacf"" "^^^ ^ ^-^s, and always result ?rom t^TrUatiS 0^^^?."'"" ' "^^-^ Fig. 163. Fibres. White Nerve Magnified. N17^ ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY Some nerves are purely sensory, that is, consist of sensory fibres only. Other nerves consist of sensory and motor fibres, and can consequently convey nerve impulses in both directions, only, of course, not by the same fibres. Such nerves are termed mixed nerves. The nerves which enable us to see, hear, and smell are purely sensory ; but most of the nerves in the body are composed of mixed fibres. NERVOUS SYSTEM NERVE STJl STANCE NERVE FIBRES NERVES f Cerebro- Bpinal ^ Sympathetic, Cellular . Fibrous . Fresh. . . After death Afferent . Efferent . Mixed. ■ SUMMARY. . . I Brain and its nerves. Consists ol I gpjn^al cord and its nerves. ., 1 , (Organs of sense. Fibres distributed to | y^j^^^^^y „,uscles. Double chain of ganglia, on , each side of the vertebral Consists of \ column. .Various disconnected ganglia. f The internal organs. Fibres distributed to The walls of blood- \ vessels Greyish—in nei-ve centres. S Nerve fibres—forms nerves, and enters into I the structure of nerve centres. A simple semitransparent filament. ( A tube, containing a ' AVhite opaque substance, surrounding ^ The axis-cylinder. ( Convey impressions to a centre only, i Also called sensory nerves. Convey impressions from a centre only. Fibres terminate in muscular fibres. Also called motor nerves. Contain both afferent and efferent fibres, QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXX. X. What do you know of the general arrangement of the parts iormmg the nervous system ? .9 To whit nolnts are its nerves dis- 2 What is the cerebrospinal systemt To what points aie °^ 1 „ o trPP stretches out his hand to pluck it. What .1 6. A boy, seeing an apple on a tree stietches o^ ^„ stances ?179 LESSON XXXI. THE BRAIN. The brain—the great nerve centre of the body—is the large upper portion of the cerebro-spinal axis filling the cavity of the cranium. It consists chiefly of soft nerve-substance, the general appearance and character resembling that of a sheep or rabbit. The average weight of the adult human brain is about three pounds, but the size seems to vary very considerably. Fig. 164.—The Human Brain. ^ Th?^''T ' ^' ^"^bellum; c, pons Varolii; d, medulla oblongata 3^nr/fh •'^ represented as separated from one another somewha more than is natural so as to show their relation better. The surface of the brain is covered with a very thin and delicate membrane called the pia mater (Lat. pious mother) which consists of a thickly meshed network of small arteries and veinT supported by connective tissue. It is from this membranlZj the brain receives its supply of blood, and consequently it contams. none but very small blood-vessels. Outside the p a^^ate i a delicate and transparent serous membrane (see page Ts) cal ed form). Over this is a third membrane, the dura mater (Lat. hard N 2ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY i8o IS mother), wliich is very tough and fibrous. Its outer surface jo rough, and in contact with the inner surface of the skull, while the inner surface is smooth, and is opposed to the outer surface of the arachnoid. The brain consists of several parts, the chief of which are :— 1. The cerebrum or greater brain, which fills all the upper and frontal portion of the cranium, and weighs about nine-tenths as much as the entire brain. 2. The cerebellum or lesser brain, which lies underneath the back portion of the cerebrum. 3. The pons Varolii (Lat. J>ons, a bridge), a broad band or bridge of nerve matter which connects the right and left portions of the cerebellum, passing round the medulla. 4. The medulla oblon- gata (Lat. oblong marrow), which connects the brain with the spinal cord. If we make a section of the brain, we may observe the arrangement of the white and grey nervous matter composing it. In the cerebrum and cere- bellum we find the grey matter surrounding the white matter, while in the medulla oblongata the ar- rangement is reversed. The student, remembering the soft semi-solid condition of the brains of an animal, may be- at a loss to know how a section of the organ is to be made ; therefore we give the following simple and easy method by which the brain may be hardened and afterwards cut for examination :—Place the complete but skinned head of a rabbit or other animal mto a jar of methylated spirit, and let it remain in this for a few weeks. At the end of this time dissect away all the flesh, leaving the skull clean, at least 011 the whole upper surface. Now, with a small fret-saw, cut gentlythrough the^ skull in several directions, and remove the bone, piece by piece, tjll the brain has been entirely exposed. If the brain seems still too soft to handle, let it soak in the spirit a little longer. It will be noticed that several nerves pass from the under surface of the brain through openings in the bones, and it will be well to preserve the origins of these nerves attached to the bram as far as possible. The cerebrum consists of two large hemispheres, the right and Yig, 165.—Section through the Cerebral Hemispheres, showing the arrangement of the White and Grey Matter.THE BRAIN l8l the left, separated by a very deep fissure. It is composed of a thick layer of grey matter surrounding white fibrous nerve-sub- stance. The grey matter is drawn up into a number of folds or convolutions, by which its surface is greatly increased; and as the pia mater (which, it will be remembered, is the source from which the substance of the brain is supplied vith blood) dips into all the fissures between these folds, we tiave reason to believe that the use of this arrangement is to provide the brain with a plentiful Fig. 166.—Tlie Upper Surface of tlie Cerebrum, showing its division into two Hemispkeres, and also the Convolutions. supply of blood. The other coats of the brain—the a?-achnoid and the dura mater—do not dip into the fissures of the grey matter, but pass straight across them. The functions of the cerebrum.—The cerebrum is the chief seat of sensation, intelligence, the tvill, and the emotions. When we examine the brains of various animals, we notice that the size of the cerebral hemispheres and the complexity of the convolutions are proportional to the intelligence of the animal. Thus, in theELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY rabbit, the, cerebrum is small in proportion to the brain as a whole, and Us surface is smooth. In the ape, the cerebral hemispheres are proportionately larger, and their surfaces are drawn up into a number of convolutions; while in man they are large and still more convoluted. We derive our knowledge of the functions of the cere- brum'partly from cases of injury and disease of that organ, and l^artly froni observations on the lower animals. When the cer.- l)rum is diseased or injured, the power of manifesting mental faculty is more or less lost; when the cerebrum of an animal is injured, the animal is deprived of all power of voluntary move- ment, and remains in a state of stupor; it retains, however, the power of performing comphcated actions involuntarily. The cerebellum or lesser brain also consists of two hemispheres, each composed of an external layer of grey matter surrounding white fibrous substance. The grey matter is also convoluted, but in a different manner, and the pia mater dips into the fissures in its surface. The chief function of the cerebellum appears to be the regulation or co-ordination of all muscular movement. It is the organ by which the mind gains a knowledge of the conditions and positions of the muscles, which know- ledge is essential to their har- monious action, especially in such complicated movements as walking and running. When the cerebellum of an animal is injured, it can move any voluntary muscle at will, but it cannot walk or fly, nor can it balance its own body, since the muscles do not act with any regularity. Thus, voluntary movements do not orighiate in the cerebellum, but only the power of co-ordinating these movements. An animal retains sen- sation when its cerebellum is injured, and injury to this portion of the brain causes no pain. The medulla oblongata is a mass of white and grey matter which connects the brain with the spinal cord. It is about an inch in length, and is broader above where it is continuous with —Section through the Cerebellum. Showing the peculiar arrangement of the white and grey matter, forming what is known as the arbor vita (tree oi life).183 THE BRAIN the hemispheres of the brain. Its grey matter occupies the Fi<T 168.—The Under Surface of tlie Brain, showing the Origins of " the Twelve Pairs of Nerves. A, cerebrum; B, cerebellum; c. medulla oblongata; d,pons Varolii. The Roman numerals distinguish certam of the cranial nerves. breathing and swallowing. Hence, when it is destroyed the breathing instantly ceases. It is the only means of communication between the brain and the cord, and is therefore important as a conducting medium. It also possesses properties similar to those of the spinal cord, which will be explained in our next lesson. From the under surface of the brain twelve pairs of nerves are given off. These are called the cranial nerves, and are numbered from before backwards,184 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY The first pair are the olfactory nerves or the nerves of •^mr-U Ti,» IwnrorSe°'nf "< " to .hl'Sco": nerves or^™""" <>' eye^.he optic nerve., „r The third pair are called the motoros oculi (movers of tVi^ o.,^^^ tv, S^fourti «air" ^1" "'"■^^"-'■^ ^^'^''^'^ moieThe^eyeba/ls eyes "^'^ ^^''y o"'^ of the muscles of the fibre^^''' v^- 7""'^ ^''"■^^ containing both and semorv fibres. Lach one divides into tluee branches, and they are consequently cS Fig. 169. —The Cranial Nerves of the Left Side. the trigeminal nerves. They supply the skin of the face, the muscles of the lower jaw, and the tongue. The sixth pair are supplied to the muscles which turn the eyeballs out- wards. Thus the muscles of the eye receive nerve fibres from three distinct pairs of nerves—the third, fourth, and sixth. The seventh pair are called the facial nerves, since they supply fibres to the muscles of the face. The eighth pair are the auditory nerves—the sensojy nerves which supply the ear. The ninth pair are mixed nerves, called the glossopharyngeal (Gr. glossa.THE BRAIN the tongue ; and pharynx). Their sensory fibres enable us to taste, while the motor fibres supply the muscles of the pharynx. The tenth pair are termed pneumogastric nerves (Gr. pneuina, breath ; and gaster, stomach). They are very important mixed nerves which send fibres to the larynx, lungs, heart, stomach, and the liver. The eleventli pair are motor nerves which supply certain muscles of the neck. The twelfth pair are motor nerves which supply fibres to the muscles of the tongue. , Coverings Structure -< <- Functions Pia mater Arachnoid. Dura mater I Cerebrum . Cerebellum - Medulla . Cerebrum . Cerebellum Medulla SUMMAEY. / Inner, delicate, vascular, i Closely invests the brain. Follows all the convolutions, A serous membrane. Tough, fibrous. Outer surface rough, and in contact with the skull. Inner surface smooth. Right and left heinispheres. Surface convoluted. Fills all upper portion of cranium. Grey matter outside. Right and left hemispheres. Surface drawn into folds. Fills occipital portion of cranium. Grey matter outside. Connects the brain with the cord. Grey matter inside. Chief seat of sensation. The organ of the will and voluntary motion. The seat of the intelligence. The seat of muscular sense (see jiage 193), Co-ordinates muscular movements. Governs the muscles of respiration and deglutition. A conducting medium between the brain and the cord. QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXXI. and the manner in which it is Describe the general structure of the brain, protected. ^^'^nf °^ i.^? • ^^^'^"^e the relative positions of each part, and pomt out their chief structural differences Describe the structure and functions of the cerebrum. What would be the result of mjury or disease in this portion of the brain ' InteuiTncer believing that the cerebrum i^ the seat of the Describe briefly the structure and functions of the cerebellum What would be the result of the destruction of this organ ' SrVctu?: "wilt w/Tf f ^^'-'9?? Descrile its general form and In oved v "^"^ ^^PP'" P°'^^i°" the brain wereELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY LESSON XXXII. THE SPINAL CORD. The spinal cord is a long cylinder of nerve matter which is con- tained in the spinal cavity formed by the vertebral column. It extends from the medulla oblongata to the first lumbar vertebra, and measures about eighteen inches in length. It is nearly as thick as the little finger. , , , Like the brain, the spinal cord is closely mvested by the pia mater from which it receives its blood supply. Over this lies the slrous arachnoid membrane, and exterior to the arachnoid is a continuation of the diira mater of the brain. The araclinoid memb^aie of the cord, unlike that of the brain, is not in contact with the pia mater, but forms a loose bag around it. The dura mater, also, does not lie close against the vertebrae as it does against the cranium, but is separated from them by a layer of fatty tissue which forms a soft pro- tecting covering, enabling the back to bend without injury to the cord The studenf may often procure an uninjured piece of the cord from the < loin ' of mutton, the ' sirloin' or the ' rib' of beef._ After noticing its general character while fresh, he should soak it in spirit till sufficiently hard for cutting sections. On making a transverse section of the spinal cord we notice that the grey nerve-substance is in the interior and is surrounded bv white matter. The cord is divided into right and jeft parts by two deep depressions or fissures. The front or anterior fissure is wTder than the other, but not so deep. The posterior fissure is not a true fissure, but simply a layer of thin connective tissue penetrating almosi to the centre. In the centre of the cord is a veJy small canal-the central canal-which can be seen only with "^^^^^^ off from the spinal cord, right and left, throuZuUts w^^ length. These are termed the spinal nerves. In ?h? cervical and dorLl regions they emerge m pairs, passing out on each side through openings between the vertebr^. There are thirty-one pairs of these nerves. At the lower end of the cord the spinal neries come off crowded together in the form of a paraUel bundle which is called the cauda equina (Lat. horse tail), from its fancied resemblance to the tail of a horse. The ffrey matter of the spinal cord projects backward andFig. 171.—Transverse Section of the Spinal Cord. a, anterior fissure; /, poste- rior fissure; c, grey mat- ter; pn, posterior nerve- root ; ac, anterior cornu or horn of grey matter; pc, posterior cornu. Fig. 172.—Transverse Section of half the Spinal Cord. Magnified 8 diameters. I, anterior fissure ; 2, posterior fissure ; 3, central canal; 4, grey matter ; 5, white matter ; 6, posterior cornu ; 7, anterior cornu ; 8, posterior nerve-root; 9, anterior nerve-root. Fig. 170.—The Spinal Cord and its Nerves (the Spinal Nerves), together with the Sympathetic Chain on one side. pons Varolii, below which is the medulla oblongata ; c i to 8, the cervical nerves ; D i to 12, the dorsal nerves; 1.1 to 5, the lumbar nerves ; s i to 5, the sacral nerves ; 6, the coccygeal nerve ; x , the terminal fibre of the cord ; a to .r, the sympathetic chain, showing the connection with the spinal nerves.i88 ELEMENTARY rilYSIOLOGY root. These two roots unite to form a spinal nerve trunk. The nerve trunks are thus formed by the union of anterior and pos- terior roots ; and after division and subdivision they supply fibres to the skin and the voluntary muscles. Each of the posterior roots has a ganglion, the use of which is unknown. The functions of the roots of the spinal nerves have been ascertained by llic following observations:—i. If the anterior r Yig. 173.—Hoots of a Spinal Nerve issuing from the Cord. A, from before ; B, from the side; C, from above; D, tbe roots separated. I ■ anterior fissure ; 2, posterior fissure ; 3 and 4, lateral grooves of the cord ; 5, anterior root; ' 6"posterior root'; 6', posterior ganglion ; 7, the united or compound nerve ; 7', the posterior branch. In A one anterior root is divided and turned upwards. roots of the spinal nerves supplying a certain limb are injured, the power of voluntary movement in that limb will be more or less destroyed, and the limb will hang in a flaccid condition, but sensation will remain unimpaired. If one of the roots is divided, any irritation applied to that portion which remains m contact with the cord will cause no sensation, nor will there be any movement of the limb in question. But if the other portion of the divided root be irritated, the muscles of the limb will contract.THE SPINAL CORD Thus we learn that the anterior roots consist of efferent or motor fibres only. . • ^ovf 2 If the posterior root of the nerve supplying a certaui pait is similarly injured, the animal will still have control over the voluntary muscles of that part just as if nothmg had happened, but the part will have lost all power of sensation. Again, if the root is divided, any irritation applied to the portion in contact Avith the cord will cause more or less pain; but no effect is produced by the irrita- tion of the other part. Therefore we conclude that the posterior roots consist of sensory or afferent fibres only. Similar observa- tions teach us that the spinal nerves, formed by the union of the anteiior and posterior roots, are mixed nerves, that is, nerves com- posed of both sensory and motor fibres. For, if the spinal nerve sup- plying a certain part of the body is injured to such an extent that its fibres are severed, both sensation and voluntary movement are lost to that part. Further, any irrita- tion received by that portion of the nerve Fig. 174.—IllustratiTig the Functions of th.o Eoots of the Spinal Nerves. n, anterior root; /, posterior root. Divided at a.—Irritated at i : no result. Irritated at 2 : contraction of muscles supplied with fibres from the root. Divided at p.—Irritated at 3 : no result. Irritated at 4 : pain produced. Fig. 175.—Illustrating the Functions of the Spinal Nerves. Divided at a.—Irritated at i : pain. Irritated at 2 ; muscular contraction. still in communication with the cord will produce sensation; Avhile irritation to the other portion will cause muscular contraction. It is an interesting fact that, when the portion of a divided spinal nerve which remains in communication with the brain is irritated, or, when the corresponding portion of a divided sensory root is irritated, the sensation is not felt at the point where the irritation is applied, but is always referred to the part in which the fibres of the divided nerve or root icrminate. Thus, if190 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY he a n Z .1/ V'V" "'^ '•^""g'^ commurncation witt ! mnlv IS V ^ """^ sensory nerves, and the l.rain simply refers the sensation to the extremities of the irritated nerve. We may now study the functions of the spinal cord When the spinal cord is cut through or injured at any point, all power of voluntary movement and all sensation is lost to every part of the body supplied with fibres from nerves which originate below that pomt. Therefore the cord is a medium by which motor and sensory impressions are conducted to and from the brain. If we now pinch or otherwise irritate the limbs which are thus cut oft from the brain, they are suddenly drawn up by the contraction of their muscles, and this entirely without any exercise of the will. Such an action is termed a reflex action. It consists of a disturb- ance of sensory fibres which is conducted by a sensory nerve to a nerve centre, and a reflection of this disturbance from the nerve centre through one or more motor nerves, causing a contraction of the muscles in which the motor fibres terminate. It will thus be seen that the spinal cord is not merely a conductor of impres- sions, but that it is a centre for reflex actions. This power is possessed by the grey matter of the cord only, the white substance being simply a conductor of impulses. Hundreds of reflex actions are going on continually in our bodies without our knowledge, and among them we include the so-called vital fimctions of the important organs, the cessation of which would cause instant death. Thus, the action of the res- piratory muscles is the ultimate result of a reflex action. In this case the irritation of the sensory nerves concerned is due to the imperfectly aerated condition of the blood. The impression thus made is conveyed to the medulla oblongata, and is thence reflected through motor nerves which govern the intercostal muscles, the diaphragm, &c. Even walking, reading, and other familiar actions of voluntary muscles may be reflex movements. Of course such movements are sometimes purely voluntary, especially in child- hood, but in time the muscles become so used to certain succes- sions of movements, that they act in their accustomed manner without the control of the will. We may walk without knowing that we are walking; and, in reading, we often unconsciously utter certain sounds on seeing the signs which have so frequently caused us to produce these sounds voluntarily.191 THE SPINAL CORD It appears that consciousness tends to prevent or reduce the numbe of reflex movements. Thus, the tickUng of the feet during sleep will_ cause m scula contraction more readily than when we are awake. And again the unexpected motion of an object near the eyes causes the eyehds to close instantly; whereas, had we been prepared for it, we should probably have been able to keep the eyes open. . It has been ascertained that the majority of the motor fibres, which originate in the brain, pass down to the front of the medulla, and then cross over, and descend in the cord on the opposite side, while the remaining fibres descend the cord on the same side. Hence, if one lateral half of the cord is injured, the power of voluntary movement will be almost entirely lost on the same side of the body, below the seat of the injury, but will be practically unimpaired on the opposite side. The sensory fibres, on entering die cord, pass chiefly up the same side to the medulla, and then cross oyer o the other side of the brain, while some cross to the opposite side immediately on entering the cord. This being the case, injury to one lateral half of the cord will cause impaired sensation chiefly on the same side ot the body. THE SPINAL COED Position . Length Thickness Coats . . Structure Nerves Functions SUMMARY. J In the spinal canal formed by the vertebral 1 column. About eighteen inches. Extends from the medulla oblongata to the first lumbar vertebra. About one-third of an inch. Pia mater—delicate, vascular. Arachnoid'—^exows, forming a loose bag. Dura mater—tough, fibrous. (A layer of fatty tissue lies between the dura mater and the bony canal.) Grey matter internal. White matter external. A nierior fissure. Posterior fissure—deeper and narrower. Central canal—microscopic. Thirty-one pairs—between the vertebrae. Crowded at the lower extremity of the cord—Cauda equina. Each trunk formed by the union of two roots. p f Anterior—motor. ^ 1 Posterior—sensoiy. Conduction of impressions. A centre for reflex action (grey matter). Sensory fibres—cross as they enter the cord. Motor fibres—cxo?,s in the medulla ob- longata. Beflex action A disturbed condition of sensory fibres— Conducted to a nerve centre— Reflected by the nerve centre along motor fibres to their terminations in muscles— Muscular contraction.192 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXXII. I. Describe the structure of the spinal cord as revealed in a transverse sec- tion. Illuslratc your description by a sketch. 2- nowjs^ the spinal cord protected? Compare it in this respect with the 3. Ilow are the spinal nerves arranged.' How do they pass out from the spmal canal ? 4. Describe the arrangement and the functions of the roots of the spinal nerves. ' 5. How would you prove (i) that the anterior roots consist of motor fibres only, (2) that the posterior roots consist of sensory fibres only, and (3) that the spinal nerves contain both sensory and motor iiljrcs? 6. Give a proof that the spinal cord is a nerve centre. 7. How is it that a man in a fit, though quite unconscious, may m on breathmg regularly ? What part of the nervous system keeps up and regulates the act of breathing ? 8. Why is a man whose back is broken unable of himself to move his legs though they may move involuntarily when the feet are tickled ? ' 9. Wlien a man's neck is broken death is sometimes instantaneous. How is this brought about ? 10. How do we know that the nerve fibres which are employed when a limb is moved are different from those which are set in action when pain is felt in that limb ? ^ 11. When your leg is kept for a long time in one position it sometimes 'goe^ to sleep.' What is the condition of the limb at this time, and how is it brought about ? 12. Instances of injury or disease have been met with in which the power of movement in a limb has been lost and yet feeling has remained, and others in which feeling has been lost and yet the power of movement has been retained. State what parts must have been affected by the injury or disease in these cases. LESSON XXXIII. SENS A TIONS— TO UCH. The nervous system is the medium by which we derive a know- kdge of the existence of the various parts of the body, and of the external world. This knowledge is based upon sensations. In _ order to produce a sensation of any kind, three distinct conditions are necessary. These are:—(i) some disturbing con- dition which irritates one or more sensory fibres; (2) the trans- mission of this irritation along the sensory fibres to the nerve-centre (the brain); and (3) the translation of the irritation in the nerve- centre into a state of consciousness. Some of the sensations, such as sight and hearing, are produced by means of a specially constructed organ of sense, so that theySENSATIONS—TOUCH are distinctly local in their character. Such sensations are called special sensations. Others are not localised, but are produced through the agency of nerves which are very widely distributed. These sensations are called common or general sensations, and by them we are made aware of the general condition of the body. Among the common sensations may be mentioned pain, warmth, hunger, fatigue, and faintness. Although some of these sensations are sometimes distinctly localised, yet, at the same time, they are accompanied by a general sensation. For instance, during hunger a distinct pain is felt in the region of the stomach, while there is also a feeling of general discomfort. One of the common sensations is that which has been termed the 'muscular sense.' It is that sensation by which we become acquainted with the condition of the muscles. Although the mind may be unconscious of the existence of the muscles of any particular part, yet it is made aware of their condition, and is able to regulate their contraction with extreme precision. Thus, when walking on a windy day, we incline our bodies in proportion to the force of the wind. A person, by means of this sense, may perform such complicated acts as writing or pianoforte-playing without the aid of sight. It is the muscular sense which enables us to estimate the weight of a body by the effort required to lift it. We are most conscious of this muscular sensation when we make the muscles rigid by an effort of the will. The special sensations are five in number. They d,re—toicch, smell, taste, sight, and hearing. Sensations are also classified as objective and subjective. Those sensations which are produced by external objects or conditions are called objective sensations. Sometimes, however, the exciting cause is a peculiar condition of the cerebrum itself, and the sensations thus produced are termed subjective. As examples of these may be mentioned noises in the ears, flashes of light before the eyes, and peculiar odours experienced when there is no external cause to produce them. The mind generally refers such sensations to external objects, and hence arise illusions. Sensation may be produced by the irritation of a sensory nerve without the agency of the corresponding organ of sense. Thus, the sensation of sound may be produced by the irritation of the auditory nerve. The irritation of a nerve of special sense however, does not produce pain. The sense of touch, is sometimes classed among the general sensations, inasmuch as it is very widely distributed, and is so closely allied to feeling and pain, which are general sensations. But touch proper is a sensation by which we gain a knowledge of the external world, while feeling and pain are sensations by which QELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 194 \vc arc made aware of certain conditions of various parts of the body. The following example will help to make this distinction clear:—The point of a needle is pressed against the skin. A sensation is at once experienced. This sensation is that of touch, and is at once referred to an external object. But if the needle is made to penetrate beneath the epidermis, a sensation of ])ain is produced, which continues after the needle has been withdrawn. The pain is no longer referred to an external object, but reveals to us a changed condition in a particular part of the body. Fig. 176.—A Nerve of the Finger, with ^.^ lyy.—Section of a Papilla of the Skin, Pacinian Bodies |i,o^ng a Touch Corpuscle. Highly attached. Natural j^^agnified. size. t, tactile or touch corpuscle ; d, nerve fibres passing up to it. The sense of touch may be regarded as a modification of com- mon sensation; and all parts of the body which are supplied with sensory nerves are to a certain extent organs of touch; but this sense is perfected only in the skm, tongue, and lips. The sensibility of the skin is due to the presence of nerve fibres distributed through the dermis. Some of these nerve fila- ments subdivide in the skin, and possibly terminate in individual cells ; but many of them, especially in the more sensitive parts ot the skin, end in minute bodies of various forms.SENSATIONS—TOUCH The largest of these are oval bodies having a diameter of from to — of an inch. Tliey are called Pacinian bodies, after Pacini, their discoverer, and are abundantly distributed in the skin of the hands and feci. Other smaller bodies, called touch corpuscles or tactile corpuscles, are abundant in highly sensitive parts of the skin. In the most sensitive parts of the skin papillae are very abun- dant, and the epidermis lying over them is thin. Many of the papillce are also supplied with touch corpuscles. In other parts, as in the heel, the outer skin is so thick that the sense of touch is dulled. The degree of sensitiveness of the skin may be measured by the power of distinguishing between two or more sensations pro- Fig. 178.—Papillse of the Skin from the Palm of the Hand. Magnified 60 diameters. The epidermis has been removed. duced at points very near each other. For instance, open a pair of compasses till the points are one inch apart. Apply the.se points to the palm of the hand, and two distinct sensations are produced. Now apply the points to the skin of the arm, and the sensation is such as would be produced by the application of a single point. Hence we say that the hand is more sensitive to touch than the arm. Two distinct sensations may similarly be produced On the tip of the tongue, fore-finger nose palm of the hand back of the hand back of the neck thigh back at a distance of rl^ of an inch. 1 i|- inch. 2 inches. '.I _ As a further illustration of the varying sensitiveness of the skin, move the compass points over the skin, from the cheek to the hps, and the distance between the points appears to be gradually increasing. This power of distinguishing between sensations is not due to the thinness of the epidermis, but to the abundant distribution of the nerve filaments. o ?196 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY SUMMARY. SENSATIONS Special senses CONDITIONS NECESSARY SENSATIONS 9 NERVE-ENDINGS Not localised. General or 1 No special organs concerned, common ) Examples:—pain, warmth, hunger, fatigue, fainlness, muscular sense, ike. Special organ—the skin, tongue, and lips. Special organ the nose. Tasie ,, ,, the tongue. Hearing „ ,, the ear. ^ Sig/it ,, the eye. 1. The irritation of sensory fibres. 2. The transmission of this irritation to the brain. 3. The translation of the irritation into a state of consciousness. Objective—Caused by irritation produced by outside objects. Subjective —Caused by a disturbed condition of the cerebrum. Terminal filaments—probably ending in the cells of the skin. . , 1 • Pacinian bodies—visible to naked eye-mtheskm of the hands and feet. Touch corpuscles—smaller—abundant in highly sen- sitive parts of skin. SENSITIVENESS OF SKIN | Thinness of the epidermis. -depends on The number of nerve endings in a given area. QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXXIIL 1. What is the difference between common and special sensations? Give examples of each. 2. What is meant by muscular sense ? Give an illustration. 7 What are the conditions necessary to produce a sensation ? Give examples ^' of sensations produced without the aid of a special organ of sense. 4. May the sensation of sight be produced without the use of the eye ? If so, 5 What°il Leant by the terms subjective and objecdve as applied to sensations ? 6. On what does the sensitiveness of the skin depend ? 7 Describe the various modes of the termination of nerve fibres in sk n. 8. What do we mean by saying that the lips are more sensitive to touch than the arm ? How may this be proved ?197 LESSON XXXIV. THE TONGUE AND TASTE. —THE NOSE AND SMELL. The tongue is a muscular organ covered with mucous membrane. It is attached by means of muscles to the lower jaw, and is also connected behind with the hyoid bone. The organ of taste is the mucous membrane of the tongue, especially that at the upper and back surface, and also the mucous membrane of the posterior portion of the palate. On the under surface of the tongue the mucous mem- brane is smooth and thin, like that of the walls of the mouth generally ; but its upper surface is rendered rough and sensitive to taste by a number of papillae which are richly supplied with nerve terminations. The papillae of the tongue are large compared with those of the dermis ; they are also quite distinct from each other. The smallest and most nu- merous of these are conical or cylindrical in shape, and are called filiform (Lat./Z/w/, a thread). Mixed with these are a number of larger papillce called fungiform fungus, a mushroom) on account of their resemblance in form to certain of the fungi. They each consist of a round and broad extremity supported on a narrower stalk, and are Fig. 179-—The Upper Surface of the Human Tongue, At L v^'^f'^;^ ^'^^^ their deep red colour. b i mnnS 'r-^"" '^^'^ ^^^^^ to twelve very etferT-^^.h t^'^'^- '^'^ 'i^T ^^^^^"^^y' ^« ^o form the letter V with the pomt turned backwards. These are termedELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY the circumvallate papillae (T.at. circuin, around ; and valhm, a rami)art) because they arc each surrounded l)y a kind of wall or rampart. All the papilla are richly supplied with blood-vessels and nerves. The nerve fibres are obtained from two sources—the glossopharyngeal and the ffik pairs of cranial nerves. The former nerves supply the back of the tongue and of the palate, while the latter send their fibres to the middle and tip of the tongue. It is probable that both these nerves are nerves of taste, although they appear to be dissimilar in their functions. It is easy to prove, for instance, that different portions of the mucous membrane of the tongue and palate possess different powers. Sweet and salt tastes are perceived more readily at the tip than at the back of the tongue. Sugar may be brought into contact with the back of the tongue or palate without any taste being detected, at least until the tongue and the palate have been pressed together. Bitter tastes are perceived best when applied to the lack part of the tongue, and acids at the edge. Fig. 180.—Sectional View of a Fungiform Papilla, showing p- i8i_Section of a Circumvallate the arrangement of its Blood papilla, showing the Distribution of Vessels. its Nerve-Fihres, a, artery ; v, vein ; c and d, capillary loops; e, epithelium. It appears that, in order to produce the sensation we call taste the particles of the substance tasted must come m actual contact with the nerve-terminations of the mucous membrane ; that is, they must penetrate the outer layer of the membrane which covers he nerve-endings. Hence the substance to be tasted must either e in solution, or must be capable of being dissolved in the saliva or the mucus of the mouth, so that it may be easily absorbed We must also remember that there is no sensation without he brain-that we do not taste a substance till the irritation of the sensory fibres has been transmitted through these fibres to the brain.TONGUE AND TASTE—NOSE AND SMELL 199 stance frequently suggests the taste, and the taste sonietinies suggests the odour. When the sense of smell is temporarily destroyed during a severe cold, taste is often partially or entirely lost until the sense of smell returns. This explains also the common practice of holding the nose while taking a dose of nauseous physic. The organ of smell is the mucous membrane which lines the surfaces of the ethmoid bone, this portion only of the nasal cavities being supplied by filaments of the olfactory nerves. Fig. 182.—Nerves of the Outer Wall of the Left Nasal Cavity. During ordinary breathing through the nose, the air passes gently through the lower and wider portions of the nasal cavities, without disturbing to any great extent the air which is enclosed by the scroll-like folds of the turbinated bones. Consequently, even though the air may contain particles of odorous matter, few or none of them come into contact with the terminations of the olfactory nerve, and little or no sensation of smell is experienced. When we wish to perceive an odour more distinctly, we 'sniff' the air. In doing this we dose the mouth so as to direct the whole of the mspired air through the nose ; and then draw in the air by repeated short and sudden inspirations. This causes up- ward and abrupt rushes into the nasal cavities, the effect of which IS to disturb the comparatively still air of the olfactory part of the nose, and to exchange some of it for the air containing the odorous substance. As soon as the particles of this substance touch theELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 200 olfactory nerve-endings, a sensory impulse is transmitted to the brain, and the sensation of smell is experienced. The loss of smell during a cold is sometimes due to the Fig- 183.—Section of the Nasal Cavities, seen from behind. I frontal bone ; 3, perpendicular plate of the eihmoid bone ; 4, ethmoidal cavities ; s, middle- ' turbinated bone 6, inferior turbinated bone ; 7, vomer ; 8, malar or cheek-bone. Fig. 184.—Nerves of the Septum of the Nose, seen from the right side. swollen condition of the mucous membrane surrounding the eth- moidal cavities, by which they are shut off from the common cavity through which the air passes.TONGUE AND TASTE—NOSE AND SMELL 20I Mucous mem- braiie Papillae STIMMAKY. A muscular organ. Covered with mucotis membrane. Smooth and thin on under surface. Raised into numerous papilla: on the upper surface. Filiform . I Elongated and pointed. I bmallest and most numerous. / Resembling certain fungi in form. Fungiform -j Larger than the filiform. j Distinguished by their deep ' red colour. f The largest. Arranged in the form of the letter V. I At the back of the tongue. I Surrounded by a wall or ram- ^ part. f Supplies the back of the pharyngeal 1 tongue and palate. f Supplies the fore portion of I the tongue. Nerves Circumval- late Glosso- Fifth pair Both pairs of nerves probably concerned. Substance to be tasted must be soluble. The irritation of tlie sensoiy nerves must be transmitted to the brain. Sweet and saline tastes perceived chiefly by the tip of the tongue. Bitter tastes at the back part of the tongue, acid at the edge. Closely associated with the senses of touch and smell. The mucous membrane of the ethmoidal portion of the nasal cavities. Air must enter the ethmoidal cavities. Particles of the odorous substance must come into contact with the olfactory fila- ments. The irritation thus produced must be trans- mitted to the brain. Organ Conditions { QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXXIV. 1. Describe the general structure and uses of the tongue. 2. How does the mucous membrane of the tongue differ from that of the other parts of the mouth ? 3. Describe the general form and arrangement of the different kinds of papillce on the surface of the tongue. Of what use are these papilla; ? 4. From what sources does the tongue receive its nerve supply ? 5. What is the organ of taste ? What are the conditions necessary for the production of the sensation called taste ? 6. Mo\y do the different portions of the mucous membrane of the toncrue differ with regard to the sensations they produce ? *^^^^^^^^^^ ^. ^"•^"^^^^'^"''^^^P'^^^^Jj|jj^^l P^9>''.^'^^J^ ^^'.P'^'' ^malely,as^c^iate(l with sh^escribe the general structure of the walls of the nxsal cavities. How Q are these cajoties separated from the mouth, the brain, and from each 'Kt (3w>. O^^yWhaX. is the course taken by|the air when we breathe (i) with the moutli open and (2) with the mbuth shut? 10. l]y what part of the nose do we smell ? How does sniffing assist the sense of smell ? LESSON XXXV. THE EYE AND VISION. The organ of vision consists of the eyeball, which, with its muscles, blood-vessels, nerves, fatty tissue and other protecting structures, completely fill the orbit or eye-socket. Fig. 185.—Section through the Orbit and its Contents. a, frontal bone; b, superior maxillary bone ; c, eyebrow; d, eyelids; e, coniuiictlva ; f, the muscle which raises the upper lid ; ^and^', recti muscles ; A inferior oblique muscle cut across ; i, optic nerve ; 2, cornea; 2', sclerotic ; 3. aqueous chamber ; 4, crj'stalline lens , 5, vitreous chamber. In front the ball of the eye is protected by movable folds of the skin or integument called the eyelids. The inner surfaces of the lids are lined by a mucous membrane called the conjunctiva, which is also reflected over the front of the ball. The upper eyelid is larger and more movable than the lower one, and it isTHE EVE AND VISION 203 The four recti (Lat. rectus, straight) chiefly by the elevation and depression of this lid that the eye is opened and closed. The eyelids are closed by the contraction of muscular fibres which are arranged in the form of a ring around the eye. This circular muscle is called the orbicularis (Lat. orbi- culus, a little circle). The lower lid has no special muscle to depress it, but the upper eyelid is raised by the contraction of a muscle which comes forward from the back of the orbit. The eyeball is moved by six muscles, four of which are called straight muscles, and the other two oblique. " ■ 't . - - -^ come forwards from the back of the orbit, and are named superior, in- ferior, external, and internal, from their positions. The superior rec- tus muscle turns the front of the eyeball upwards, the inferior rectus turns it downwards; and the external and internal recti turn the front of the eyeball outwards and inwards respectively. The superior oblique muscle comes forward from the back of the orbit, and then, becoming ten- dinous, passes through a kind of pulley of fibres attached to the frontal bone. It then turns backwards and outwards, and is attached to the outer and back portion of the eye- ball. Hence, when this muscle contracts, it turns the eyeball ob- liquely outwards and downwards. The inferior oblique muscle springs from the lower and front portion of the orbit, and passes obliquely back- wards and outwards. By its con- traction the front of the eyeball is turned upwards and outwards. The front of the eyeball is kept clean and moist bya saline fluid which is secreted continu- ously by the lachrymal gland (Lat. lachryma, a tear). This gland is about the size of a small almond, and is situated in the upper and outer portion of the orbit. It is very similar to the salivary glands in structure. It is pro- vided with several small ducts by which the lachrymal fluid is con- ducted to the upper surface of the eyeball. The fluid gradually moves over the surface of the ball, assisted by every motion of the eyelid, till it reaches the inner angle formed by the eyelids, having carried 186 and 187.—The Muscles of the Right Orbit. sphenoid bone ; 1, muscle which raises the upper lid ; 2, pulley and tendon of the superior oblique ; 3, tendon of the superior rectus ; 4, external rectus—partly removed in fig. 188; 5, inferior oblique muscle; 6, inferior rectus; 7, internal rectus ; 8, optic nerve.204 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY with It any particles of dust which may have adhered to the eyeball. The lachrymal fluid now enters the nasal or lachrymal duct by rneans of two small laclirymal canals, and is then conveyed into the nose. When there is a redundant secretion of the lachrymal fluid, such as may arise from irritation of the conjunctiva by powerful vapours &c., or from some strong mental emotion, the nasal duct cannot \ u Fig. 188.—Lachrymal Apparatus. I, lacl^mal gland ; 2, nasal duct; 3, the muscle which raises the upper lid. convey away the fluid as rapidly as it is secreted. The tears then accumulate between the eyelids and the eyeball, and at last roll in drops over the cheeks. In addition to the muscles mentioned above, the ball of the eye is protected and supported by a large quantity of loose fatty and connective tissue, which, acting like a cushion or pad, serves to deaden the effect of pressure or blows. The general form of the eyeball is globular, but the front portion projects somewhat, being a portion of a smaller sphere. It measures about one inch in diameter. The eyeball has three distinct coats. The external consists of the sclerotic coat and the cornea^ the middle coat is formed byTHE EYE AND VISION 20$ the choroid membrane and the iris ; the inner is termed the ^^^^^Tlie sclerotic coat (Gr. skleros, hard) or tunic of the eye is a strong opaque fibrous membrane which extends over the whole of the ball with the exception of about one-sixth of its surface in front. This coat is the thickest, and by far the strongest, and is the one on which the maintenance of the form of the eye depends. The cornea (Lat. corjm, a horn—a transparent horny coat) is continuous with the sclerotic coat, and covers the front of the eye- Fig. 189.—The Choroid Membrane and Iris, exposed hy the removal of the Sclerotic and Cornea. c, part of the sclerotic thrown back ; b, ciliary muscle; c, iris ; e, one of the ciliary nerves ; /, blood-vessel. ball. It forms the prominent spherical surface before mentioned, and is clear and transparent. It is not supplied with blood- vessels. The choroid coat is a dark-brown membrane lying within and against the sclerotic. It consists of a thickly set network of blood- vessels, supported by connective tissue, and loaded with cells con- taining a dark pigment or colouring matter. One use of this coat, as we shall presently learn, is to darken the chamber of the eye, and thus prevent the reflection of light. Just before the choroid coat reaches the edge of the cornea, it becomes modified, being200 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY raised inlo a number of ridges which constitute the ciliary pro- cesses. The iris (Lat. a window) is the circular curtain, seen through the cornea, which gives the colour to the eye. Its outer border is continuous with the choroid coat, which, like the sclerotic, docs Fig. 190.—View of the Human Eye, divided horizontally through the middle. I, conjunctiva ; 2, cornea; 3, sclerotic ; 4, sheath of the optic nerve ; 5, choroid ; 6, ciliary processes ; 7, iris ; 8, pupil ; 9, retina ; 10, anterior limit of the retina; II, crystalline lens; 12, suspensory, ligament; 13, ciliary muscle; 14, aqueous chamber; 15, vitreous chamber; 16, yellow spot ; 17, blind spot. not extend over the front of the ball. It is perforated in its centre by a circular aperture called the pupil. The iris is a con- tractile membrane. It is provided with unstriped muscular fibres, some of which are arranged in a ring around the pupil, while the others are radiating. When the circular fibres contract, the pupil is made smaller ; when the radiating fibres contract the pupil is207 THE EYE AND VISION dilated. By these means the diameter of the pupil is made to vaiy from ird to o'^th of an inch, and the quantity of light admitted into the eyeball is regulated. The outer rim of the iris is firmly connected with the external coat of the eye, at the junction of the cornea with the sclerotic coat, by the ciliary ligament. The retina is a delicate membrane which lies within the choroid coat. It is only from ry^o^th to gLth of an inch thick, and covers the whole of the cho- roid with the exception of the ciliary processes. It consists of an --r^^^aa^— expansion ofthe fibres of the optic Fig. 191.—Ciliary Processes and nerve, supported by an extremely Eetina as seen from behind, delicate connective tissue. Twice the natural size. Close behind the iris is a doubly i,- P"pil; 2, posterior surface of the iris; /^r\»-iTTov 4-^r..-,r.»^^..^.,i- U J 3i circular muscle of the iris; 4, ciliary convex, transparent, solid body processes; 5, portion of the chorpid. Fig. 192.—The Connections of the Cornea, Sclerotic, Iris, Ciliary Muscle, Ciliary Processes, and Lens. I, cornea; 2, conjunctiva; 3, sclerotic; 4, aqueous chamber ; s iTis ; 6. centre of the lens • 7, capsule ofthe lens; 8 cilmry muscle ; 9, ciliarj' process; 10, choroid ; 11, retina (anterior portion); 12, vureous chamber. v called the crystalline lens. Its front surface, which is less convex than the back, is in contact with the iris ; and a space is enclosed208 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY between these structures and the cornea in front. The crystalhnc lens measures about .i,rd of an inch in diameter, and consists of layers, one within another, like the onion. If the lens be hardened in alcohol, these layers may be easily separated from each other. The crystalline lens is surrounded by a membrane called the capsule, and is kept firmly in its place by a strong and elastic frame called the suspensory ligament, which extends from the capsule to the ciliary processes of the choroid. This ligament keeps the crystalline lens in a state of tension. Muscular fibres radiate backwards from the junction of the cornea and the sclerotic, and are attached to the outer surface of the choroid coat. These fibres form the ciliary muscle. When they contract they pull the choroid forward, causing the suspen- sory ligament to relax. This in turn causes the crystalline lens, which is also elastic, to shorten its diameter and become more convex. The space between the cornea in front and the iris and lens behind is filled with a watery fluid known as the aqueous humour, and the whole of the globe of the eye behind the crystalline lens is filled with a transparent semi-solid substance called the vitreous humour (Lat. vitreus, glassy). We shall now perform a few experiments to illustrate the uses of the various structures of the eye :— Hold a convex lens so that it faces the sun, and place behind it a sheet ol paper or a piece of ground glass to act as a screen. If we move the lens to or from the screen, we shall notice that, when at a certain distance from the latter, a very bright spot is produced by the meeting of the rays which pass through it. Hence we learn that, wlien rays of light pass through a convex lens, they converge to one point (the focus) (fig. 193). Now take the lens into a room which is illuminated only by a smgle candle- flame and turn the lens to face this flame at the distance of a few feet, agam holding the screen behind. We now notice that, at a certain distance from the lens we get a sharp, distinct, and inverted image of the flame on the screen. Since the image is inverted, we know that the rays from the candle have crossed each other previous to the formation of the image (fig. 194). _ If we bring the candle-flame nearer to the lens we shall observe that the distmct image is formedbehind (fig. I95)> and vice versd. Thus, if we want a permanent distinct image of a moving object, we must keep the screen in aTHE EYE AND VISION corresponding motion. From this experiment we learn that, a convex lens will form an inverted image of a luminous object; and that, tlie nearer the object is to the lens, the greater is the distance between the lens and the image. Next, substitute for the lens just used another one with more convex surfaces, and notice that the distance at which the distinct image is formed is less than in the preceding experiment. And by repeating the experiment with a variety of lenses we shall learn that, the more convex the lens, the shorter the distance at which the sharp image is produced ; and vice versd. Fig. 195. We will now turn our attention to a piece of apparatus by which we can illustrate the uses of the various parts of the eye : In fig. 196 A is a water-tight box, the back, B, of which consists of a square of glass, the rest being made of wood or metal blackened on the inside In the centre of the front, F, is a circular hole, over which is fitted a watch-glass with its convex surface turned outward. G is a sheet of ground glass which may be moved forward and backward in the box so as to receive images formed at various distances from the watch-glass. D represents two 'diaphragms ' with different apertures, which, being placed behind the watch-glass, mly be used to limit the amount of light admitted ; and L is a convex lens attachedELEMENTARY PIIYISOLOGY 2IO to a handle. Fig. 197 represents the same apparatus in section. If we cover the box with a black cloth, we convert it into a ' camera obscura,' that is, a dark chamber in which the images of outside oljjects may, with the aid of the lens, be caught on a screen. If we fill the box with water, the convex surface of the liquid in contact with the watch-glass itself acts as a convex lens, thus producing an image without the use of the latter. The student will now notice that the apparatus just described represents the various important structures of the eye. The wood or metal forming the greater part of the box represents the sclerotic ; the black lining, the choroid; the watch-glais, the Fig. 197, cornea ; and the ground-glass screen, the retina. The diaphragms are to take the place of the iris; and the magnifying-glass that of the crystalline lens. The water in the box represents the humours of the eye ; and by using a transparent material for the back, we are enabled to see the images whicn fall on the ground-glass screen. The following experiments are to be performed in a darkened room :— Place a lighted candle a few feet in front of the watch-glass, and on a level with its centre. Now move the ground-glass screen to and fro between the watch-glass and the back of the box till a distinct inverted image of the candle is thrown on it. The rays of light from the candle, on reaching the watch- glass, are refracted or bent, producing an image (fig. 198). The water is the Fig. 198. refracting medium in this case, and, having a convex surface in contact with the watch-glass, it acts like a convex lens. Thus we haVe illustrated the use of the transparent cornea of the human eye, and also of the watery fluid ^^^Nov/*repeat this experiment, first placing a convex lens behind the watch- glass and notice that the image is formed at a shorter distance than when the water is the only refracting medium (fig. 199)- I" ^'le same manner the crystalline lens assists in the formation of images m the eye, and helps to bring the images forward to such an extent that they are clearly defined on the retina.THE EYE AND VISION 211 While the image of the candle-flame still falls on the ground-glass screen, insert one of the diaphragms between the watch-glass and the lens. The image now is not so bright as before, since a large proportion of the light is shut off, but it is sharper; or, in other words, the definition is better. Also, by using diaphragms with different apertures, we find that, the smaller the Fig. 199. aperture, the sharper the image. Thus we have illustrated the use of the ins—the diaphragm of the eye, in shutting off the extraneous light which tends to blur the image produced. We may illustrate the formation of images in the eye by a more simple apparatus than that just described :—Procure a globular glass flask to represent the eyeball, and attach to the side of it a circular and perforated piece of opaque paper to represent the iris (fig. 200). Now fix a convex lens on a cork, and a piece of ground glass on another cork. Place the convex lens in front of the iris, and the ground-glass screen a few inches from the flask on the opposite side. The lens, of course, represents the crystalline lens, Fig. 200. and produces the same effect as it it were behind the iris; and a clear inverted image of a candle-flame may be formed on the ground glass by adiustinc the (hstance as in our previous experiments. As our last illustration, we may compare the eye as an optical instrument to the photographer's camera. This consists of a dark box fitted with a con- vex lens in _front_ and a ground-glass screen behind. Rays of light from illu- minated objects in front of the camera first pass through a diaphragm which cuts off the outer rays. The central rays then pass onto the Ls,% wh c they are made to converge and form inverted images on the screen Thi' screen is niovable, so that it may be adjusted to receive the images of ob/ect^ at different distances without changing the lens. >J"Ji-lis In the eye the retina is the screen on which the images fall • but this screen is not moved forwards and backwards as in the p 2ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 212 photographer's camera. If we look at an object at a certain distance, we see that object distinctly because its image is distinct on the retina ; but other objects in the same direction which are either nearer or more remote are more or less indistinct. If we now direct the attention to another object nearer than the first, the image of this object becomes sharp on the retina. And, since the retina has not moved, the refractive power of the eye must have increased in order to 'focus' this nearer object. This change has been brought about by the ciliary muscles acting in- directly on the crystalline lens (see p. 208). When we turn from near to distant objects, the opposite change takes place. The ciliary muscle relaxes, the suspensory ligament is pulled towards the edge of the choroid, and the lens becomes less convex. Thus Fig. 201.—The Photographer's Camera. A, a brass tube containing the lens'and the diaphragm ; b, the screen on which the image falls. the adjustment of the eye depends on the ciliary muscle and its consequent action on the crystalline lens. In some persons the cornea is more convex than usual, and in others the refractive power of the crystalline lens is above the average. In these cases the retina is too far back for the image to be sharply defined, and consequently the vision is ir. dTstfnct. Such persons are said to be short-sighted; and they may remedy their defective vision by wearing concave glasses, which cause rays of light to diverge. , As old age advances the cornea frequently becomes less con- vex and the refractive power being as a consequence decreased ?hereUna is not far enough back to receive the sharply-defined maFe of near objects. In such cases the persons are long-sighted,THE EYE AND VISION 213 and should wear convex glasses to assist the convergence of the it may now be asked, if the images of objects on the retina are inverted, how is it that we do not see the objects themselves inverted? In answer to this we may say that we do not see with the retina, but with the brain. The rays of light make impressions on the nerve-endings in the retina, but there is no sense of vision until the disturbances in these nerve-termmations are transmitted through the optic nerve and reach the brain, which is the seat of all sensation. The retina is not equally sensitive in all parts. A certain point almost exactly opposite the centre of the_ pupil is by far the most sensitive to luminous impressions. It is marked by a slight depression of surface, of a pale yellowish colour, and is called the macula lutea, or yellow spot (fig. 190). When we look at an object, that part of it is most distinctly defined in the retinal image which is in a straight line with the yellow spot and the centre of the pupil. When we wish, therefore, to see an object as clearly as possible, it is necessary to turn the eyeballs so that it shall be on this line—the axis of vision. The optic nerve enters the back of the eyeball at a point about •^Vth of an inch from the yellow spot on the nasal side. This point is insensible to light, and is known as the blind spot. To prove this, close the left eye, and look steadfastly on the left dot below with the right, holding the page at a distance of about a foot. Now move the book very sloivly towards the eye, keeping it still steadily fixed on the left dot. At a certain point (generally about six inches from the eye) the right dot will suddenly disappear, owing to its image falling on the blind spot; but, on bringing the book nearer, it will reappear as its image leaves this point. The retina has the power of retaining the impressions made on it for a short time—about -^th of a second. Consequently, the falling raindrops often look like lines, the spokes of a rapidly re- volving wheel do not hide objects behind them, and a lighted stick moved very rapidly appears as a line of light. The sensibility of the retina is readily exhausted. Thus, if we look at a very bright light for a time, that portion of the retina on which its image falls soon becomes exhausted ; so that, if we turn from the bright light and look on a sheet of white paper, we see a dark spot. The rays of light from the apparently dark spot fall on the part of the retina which has been exhausted.ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 214 White light is composed of a multitude of colours, the colours of the rainbow—as may be proved by allowing a beam of such light to pass through a prism of glass. If we look steadily for some time on a bright red spot on a sheet of white paper, and then turn the eyes aside to a clear portion of the paper, or to the ceiling, we see a green spot. The sensibility of that portion of the retina on v/hich the red rays fell has been exhausted .so far as those rays are concerned, and it remains sensitive only to the other colours which compose white light. Consequently, when the white light from the paper falls on the exhausted ])ortion of the retina, the red rays produce no effect, and we see the comple- mentary colour to red ; that is, the colour produced by the com- bined effect of all the other rays of the white light. Conversely, if we exhaust a portion of the retina with green rays, we produce the complementary red image. Some persons are colour-blind, that is, they cannot dis- tinguish between two or more colours, different rays affecting the retina in exactly the same manner. This is probably due to a defect in the retina. SUMMARY. Eyeball. Muscles. Blood-vessels. Nerves. Fatty tissue. Lachrymal or tear apparatus. Consist of folds of the skin. Lined with a mucous membrane (the con- junctiva), which is also reflected over the front of the ball. Closed by the circular orbicularis muscle. Upper lid raised by a special muscle. ^Superior -turns the eyeball upwards. Inferior—turns the eyeball dorvmvards. External—i\y[x\% the eyeball otUiuards. Internal—turns the eyeball *■ i7iwards. (Superior—turns the eyeball ) outwards and downwards. ) Inferior—\mm the eyeball \ outwards and npzvards. Lachrymal gland- in the upper and outer part of the orbit. Several small ducts. Constant. Contents of the Orbit . f Lids THE EYE .- 4 Recti. Muscles . . - 2 Oblique Lachrymal apparatus Secretion Moistens the eyeball. Carried off by the nasal duct.215 THE EVE AND VISION Coats Lens THE EYE (continued) Chambers . Optics Outer I Sclerotic Coniea f Choroid Middle viris Interior Eetina (Tough, fibrous \ opaque! Transparent. Covers the front central portion of the eye. Contains black pigment. Terminates in front by the 1. ciliary processes. 'A circular perfor- ated diaphragm. Aperture called the piipil. Pupil contracted by circular mus- cular fibres; and Dilated by radial fibres. [tures. (Nervous struc- 1 Connective tissue. Situated just behind the iris. Double convex. Elastic. Back surface more convex than the front. Enclosed in a capsule. Held by the suspensory ligament at its circumference. [ciliary /nuscle. Ligament relaxed by the contraction of the / Between the iris and the \ cornea. ^ Contains a watery fluid, j" Includes the greater portion 1 of the ball. 1 Contains a transparent jelly- \ like substance. The eye a camera ohscura or dark chamber. Rays of light converge as they enter the cor- Convergence increased by the lens. \iiea. Image (inverted) falls on the retina. ( Cornea or lens too convex. Short sight \ Remedy — wear concaiv ^ glasses. ( Cornea or lens too flat. Long sight \ Remedy — wear convex ^ glasses. f At entrance of optic nerve. \ Totally insensitive to light. of an inch outside the I blind spot. Marked by a slight depres- sion, [retina. Most sensitive part of the Retina retains impressions for about ^th of a second after its exciting cause ceases. Aqueous Vitreous Blind spot Yellow spotELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 2l6 QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXXV. 1. What structures form the orliit of the eye? What does the orbit contain? 2. How is the ball of the eye protected from injury ? 3. How are the eyelids moved ? 4. Describe the arrangement of the muscles which move the eyeball. De- scribe also the action of each muscle. 5. Where do the tears come from ? Why do the tears roll over the cheeks when people cry ? 6. Are tears produced at all times ? If so, what becomes of them ? 7. Describe the structure of the ball of the eye. 8. Where is the cornea '! What is its use ? 9. What is the 2>/j ? Where is it placed? What is its use? How does it act? 10. What is the pupill How and why does it change in size ? 11. What is the relina'i Where is it situated ? Which portion of the retina is most sensitive, and which portion is quite unaffected by light ? 12. Through what parts of the eye must light pass before it reaches the retina ? 13. What is meant by ' long-sight' and ' short-sight' ? What is the cause of each, and how may each be remedied ? 14. Sometimes, as in cases of cataract, the crystalline lens has to be removed. What difference does its removal make in the power of seeing 15. Why is the eyeball black inside ? 16. Describe an experiment by which you would illustrate the formation of images in the eye. 17. What change takes place in the form of the crystalline lens when we direct the attention from a near to a distant object ? 18. Compare the eye with a photographer's camera. 19. Why does a rapidly revolving spark look like a circle of fire ? 20. What do you notice when you look at a sheet of white paper after gazing intently on a bright green object? Explain the cause. LESSON XXXVI. THE EAR. The ear consists of three parts :—the external ear, the middle ear or tympanuin, and the internal ear or labyrinth. The last of these divisions is the essential part of the organ of hearing, the other two being concerned merely in the collection and transmission of sound vibrations. The outer ear consists of the pimia (Lat. a wing), that part which projects from the side of the head, and the auditory ca7tal. The pinna, being concave, is especially adapted for the collection of sound waves which are reflected by it into the canal. It consists of a cartilaginous framework, surrounded by a certain amount of fatty tissue and a few small muscles, the whole being covered with integument. The pinna is thrown into several elevations and depressions, the names of which may be learnt from the accompanying illustration.THE EAR 217 Fig. 202.—Outer sur- Fig. 203.—Outer sur- face of the Pinna of face of the Eight the Right Ear. Pinna, showing its I, helix; 2, antihelix; 3, tra- mUSCleS. giis ; 4, antitragus; 5, con- cha ; 6, lobule. Fig. 204.—Inner sur- face of the Eight Pinna. Fig. 205.—Diagrammatic front view of the Left Ear. A portion of the temporal bone has been detached. 1, the pinna and lobe ; 2 to 2', the auditory canal ; 2', the tympanic membrane ; 3, the cavity of the middle ear-above 3 is the chain of small bones ; 4, Eustachian tube ; 5, the facial and auditory nerves; 6, placed on the vestibule of the labyrinth, above the fenestra ovalis, a^c, e and/, portions of the temporal bone • i, internal carotid artery ; d, branch of the facial nerve.ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY The auditory canal extends inward from the pinna to a distance of alxjut i.| inch. Its inner extremity is closed by a very thin nicmljrane called the drum of the ear (or the tympanic membrane), which is stretched across ii obliquely. The walls of the canal are formed jiarlly by cartilage and jiartly by bone, and are lined with a continuation of the skin. This skin, at the outer portion of the canal, is provided with small hairs, and also a number of glands, similar in structure lo the sweat glands, which secrete the cerumen or ear wax. Both the hairs, which are inclined outwards, and the wax, lend to an est dust particles, and to prevent the intrusion of insects. Fig. 207.—The Eight Bony Labyrinth. I, vestibule ; 2, fenestra ovalis; 3, 4, and 5, semicircular canals; 6, 7, and 8, the cochlea; 9, fenestra rotunda. The smaller figure below shows the natural size. Fig. 206.—The Left Tympanic Membrane and the Auditory Bones. 711, malleus ; z, incus ; st, stapes ; py, pyramid from which the tendon of the muscle of the stapes emerges ; it, tendon of a muscle cut short; la, anterior ligament of the malleus ; Is, superior ligament of the malleus ; ligament of the incus ; cli, branch of the facial nerve. The middle ear or tympanum (Lat. a drum) is a small irregular cavity in the temporal bone. It is separated from the auditory canal by the tympanic membrane, and contains a chain of small bones by means of which the vibrations received by the drum are transmitted across the cavity to the inner ear. These bones are three in number, and are called respectively the malleus or hammer, the incus or anvil, and the stapes or stirrup. The handle of the malleus is attached throughout its length to the drum of the ear, and_ con- sequently vibrates with it. The vibratory motion is then taken up by the incus and the stapes in turn. This last bone fits into an opening in the inner wall of the tympanum, thus transmitting the sound vibrations to the inner ear. The fuiddle ear contains air, and communicates with the pharynx (^^ee p. 6v) hy means of the Eustachian tube. By this arrangement the airTHE EAR 219 pressure Is generally equalised on the two sides of the drum. The Lus aclna. U be bein.^ narrow: is easily blocked by the meeting of its opposite walls ; and this occurs at a moment when the pressures on the internal and external surfaces of the drum are unequal, "a peculiar sensation is experienced, and hearincT is for the time defective. But by performing the act of swallowing, the tube is opened and the normal pressure restored. The internal ear consists of a very complex cavity hollowed otit of the bone (the osseoics labyrinth), which contanis a similar cavity membranous labyrinth) bounded by membranous walls. The osseous labyrinth consists of three parts :—the vestibule (Lat. vestibulum, an entrance), the semicircular canals, and the cochlea (Lat. a snail). Fig. 206.—Interior of the Left Labyrinth. I, 2 and 3, semicircular canals ; 4, cochlea; 5, vestibule. Fig. 209.—The usseous Cochlea divided through the middle. Fig. 210.—Diagrammatic view of the Osseous Cochlea laid open. The vestibule is the central chamber of the osseous labyrinth ; it commu- nicates with the SQmicircul^ir canals behind, and the cochlea in front. It is separated in part from the tympanum by an opening—the fenestra ovalis (the oval window)—to which we have already referred as being closed by the broad part of the stapes. The semicircular canals are three tubes which communicate with the vestibule by five openings. They are dilated at their ends, and two of them unite at one extremity before entering the vestibule. The cochlea is a spiral tube, in shape like the shell of a snail. It consists of two and a half turns, wound round a central pillar called the modiolus (Lat. the nave of a wheel). A thin layer of bone projects from the modiolus, following the convolutions of the cochlea. The cochlea communicates with the tym- panum by an opening called the fenestra rotunda (round window), which is closed by a membrane. The membranous labyrinth lies within the osseous labyrinth, and agrees with it in general form. The space between them is filled with a fluid220 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY called the perilymph (Gr. peri, around ; and lyniplia, clear water). The membranous lahyrinlh is itself filled with a liquid called the endolymph ((jr. endo, within ; and lynipha). A number of minute crystals of cari>onale of lime, called otoliths ((Jr. ous, the ear; and lithos, stone) are suspended in the endolymph of the membranous labyrinth. Fig. 211.—Plan of the Right Membranous Labyrinth. Branches of the auditory nerve supply fibres to the membra- nous labyrinth. The terminations of these fibres end in cells which are provided with delicate hair-like processes projecting into the endolymph, some of them lying in close proximity to the otoliths. We may now trace the path along which the sound vibrations travel. The waves collected by the pinna are reflected into the auditory canal, at the extremity of which they impinge against the • Fig. 212.—Diagram illustrating the relative positions of the various parts of the Ear. 1, auditory canal : 2, tympanic membrane ; malleus ; 4, incus ; 5, stapes ; 6, fenestra ovalis; 7, fenestra rotunda; 8, Eustachian tube ; 9, membranous labyrinth; 10, semi- circular canal; 11, vestibule ; 12, cochlea. ■um. The vibrating membrane then communicates its motion the chain of small bones, by which it is transmitted to the peri- 'j mph of the inner ear. This fluid comrimnicates the vibration toTHE EAR 221 f Outer P4 Middle Internal Finna Canal Bones the endolymph, and thence to the otoliths, hair-hke processes, and the terminations of the auditory nerve. This nerve conveys the disturbance to the brain, giving rise to the sensation of hearing. Sound vibrations may also be transmitted to the auditory nerve through the bones of the skull, without penetrating the structures of the ear. It is probable that the cochlea enables us to determine \he pitch of a note, and also to distinguish between the qualities of different sounds ; while the semicircular canals aid us in distinguishing sounds according to their intensity or loudness, and also in determining the directions from which the sounds proceed. STJMMAEY. Cartilaginous framework. Fatty tissue. Muscles. Skin. Collects sound waves and reflects them into the auditory canal. 11\ inch long. 1 Closed internally by the d7-um. 1 Glands—secrete ^wax.'' i Hairs—directed outwards. An irregular cavity in the temporal bone. i Malleus. \ Incus. ' Stapes. I Fenestra ovalis—closed by the stapes. ] Fenestra rotunda—closed by a mem- ^ brane. TT ^.-v 1 (Central portion. "^^''^''^''^^XFenestriovalis. (Three in number. I Open into the vestibule. {A spiral tube. I 21 turns round the modio- 1 lus. \ Fenestra rotunda. Within the osseous. Similar in shape. Surrounded by perilymph. Contains endolyiiiph. Otoliths and hair-like processes. ^Terminal fibres of auditory nei^ve. Pinna. Auditory canal. Drum. Ossicles. Perilymph. Endolymph. V Otoliths and hairs. Auditory nerve. Brain. Openings Osseous labyrinth. Canals Cochlea Membranous \ labyrinth Path of the Sound WavesELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 222 QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXXVI. {^f^"^"!^^ ^^^^ structure of tlie outer car, and explain the uses of its parts. 2. \\ hat IS the drum of the ear ? Persons are sometimes rendered permanently deaf by a violent explosion. Explain how this happens. 3. Describe the arrangement and uses of the parts of the middle ear. 4. Write what you know alraut the structure and functions of the inner ear. 5. A person may be deaf although the ear is perfect in all its parts. Explain this. 6. In what way does a vibrating body produce the sensation of hearing ? LESSON XXXVII. THE VOICE. The organ of voice is the larynx, which is a modification of the upper portion of the trachea. It consists of a cartilaginous frame- I, hyoid bone ; 2, thyroid cartilage ; 3, cricoid ; 4, first cartilaginous ring of the trachea ; 5, membrane ; 6, ligaments work, the parts of which are movable on each other, the motion being produced by the contraction of various muscles. The223 THE VOICE thyroid and cricoid cartilages have already been described (see p. 140). The highest (posterior) portion of the cricoid is surmounted by two pyramidal cartilages called the arytenoid cartilag^es. These form movable joints with the cricoid, to which they are held by ligaments. They must also necessarily accompany the cricoid cartilage in all its movements. The arytenoid cartilages are connected with the interior surface of the front part of the thyroid cartilage by means of two bands of Fig. 214.—Back view of the Larynx. , thyroid ; 2, cricoid; 3, arytenoid cartilages; 4, upper ring of the trachea ; 5, ligaments; 6, epi- glottis. Fig. 215.—Side view of the Larynx. I, hyoid bone ; 2, thyroid ; 3, cricoid- anterior part ; 4, crico - thyroid muscle ; 5, crico-arytenoid muscle. elastic fibres which are imbedded in folds of mucous membrane. These fibres form the so-called vocal cords. They are both at- tached to the thyroid cartilage close to the middle line, and con- sequently, when they are stretched, their edges are brought nearly parallel, so that only a thin slit is left for the air to pass between them. The epiglottis has nothing to do with the production of sound. It IS a cartilaginous lid, the lower and narrower portion of which is fastened by elastic bands to the front part of the thyroid carti-ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 224 lage. Its use is to close the upper opening of the larynx (the space between the vocal cords) during the act of swallowing, thus Fig. 216.—Posterior Muscles of the Larynx. I, posterior crico-arytenoid ; 2, arytenoid ; 3, 4, oblique fibres passing round the edge of the arytenoid cartilages to form 5, the muscles which connect these cartilages with the epiglottis. preventing particles of food or drink from passing into the trachea. During quiet breathing the vocal cords are relaxed, the glottis Is wide, and the air passes through freely. When we wish to speak or sing, we cause certain muscles to stretch the cords and bring them near each other. Under these conditions the out-rushing air sets them in vibration, thus B Fig. 217.—Three Views of the Larynx during Life, as seen by looking down the throat with the aid of the Laryngo- scope. A, during the sing- ing of a high note; B, during quiet breathing; C, while taking a very deep breath. base of the tongue; e, upper free part of the epiglottis ; e', lower por- tion of the epiglottis ; ^/i, front wall of the pharynx behind the laiynx ; a, tip of the arj'tenoid cartilage ; cv, vocal cords ; c7>s, superior or false vocal cords, which do not aid in the production of the voice; ir, front wall of the trachea; i, commence- ment of the two bronchi. producing sound. The contraction of muscles connecting the thyroid with the arytenoid cartilages (the thyro-arytenoid muscles) causes them to approach each other,THE VOICE 22^ and so relaxes the vocal cords. When the crico-thyroid muscles contract, they cause the cricoid cartilage to rotate in such a manner as to tilt the arytenoid cartilages backward, and so to put the cords on the stretch. Other muscles are so arranged that they pull asunder the edges of the arytenoid cartilages to which the cords are attached and thus open the glottis; while others, acting in the opposite direction, tend to bring the cords close to and parallel with each other. The pitch of a note depends on the number of vibrations per second : the more rapid the rate of vibration, the higher the pitch. For example, 128 vibrations per second will produce the bass C ; 256, the tenor C ; 512, the treble C; and 1,024, the octave above ; and so on. If we stretch a wire or string, we can make it vibrate by pluck- ing it; and by either shortening the string or by increasing the stretching force, we in- crease the rate of vibration, and so heighten the pitch of the note produced. The rate of vibration also depends on the thickness of the string ; the thicker the string, the less the rate of vibration. The more the vocal cords are stretched, the higher the pitch of the note given out. We may imitate the production of sound by the larynx as follows :—Take a glass tube, about | of an inch in diameter, and grind one end down to an angle of 45° on two opposite sides (see fig. 218). Now stretch over these ground edges two thin strips of elastic band, leaving only a narrow space between, and secure by tying round with thread. By blowing a current of air between these stretched bands they are made to vibrate, thus producing a sound ; and by altering the length of the tube, and changing the stretching force of the elastic bands, we can vary the pitch of the note. The quality of the note depends on various conditions, among which may be mentioned the shape of the mouth, the position of the tongue, the communica- Fig. 218.—Illustrating the manner of pro- ducing a Musical Sound by sending a current of air between two stretched Elastic Bands. tion or non-communication between the pharynx and the nasal cavities, the position of the larynx, &c. th/firr^i^!'''""' the larynx of the male is constructed exactly like that of nrr2r= • ' • T ''^•''^'"S ^ ^^''^^'^ ^^^y"-^ of *e male rapidly increases m size becommg more prominent in the front of the throat. The vocaSck - t''^"^ ^<^°'^rpponding increase in the length of the vocal cords ; ncncc the change in the pitch of the voice.ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 226 SUMMARY. LARYNX Thyroid Cricoid Arytenoid Glottis Epiglottis ^ Vocal cords . The upper cartilage. Wide in front; open behind. A complete ring cf cartilage. Wide behind ; narrow in front. Small pyramidal. Surmount the upper posterior edge of the cricoid. Jointed with the cricoid. The communication between the pharynx and the larynx. Bounded on each side by the vocal cords. A thin movable layer of cartilage. Closes the glottis during the act of swal- lowing. Bands of elastic fibres. Embedded in mucous membrane. Relaxed during quiet breathing. Stretched during speaking and singing. Attached to arytenoid cartilages behind, and to the thyroid in front. QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXXVII. Describe the structure of the larynx. What are the vocal cords ? In what way do they assist in the production of the voice ? By what means are we enabled to sing notes of different pitch ? ^ ' Describe the arrangement of the vocal cords. How do their positions va^ (i) when we sing a note of high pitch, and (2) when wg heave a deep sigh ? / LESSON XXXVIII. EPITHELIUM. In Lessons XXIII. and XXIV. the word epithelium occurs. This terra is applied to the cellular tissue that, continuous with the epidermis, lines the entire length of the digestive tube, as well as the ducts of the glands which pour their secretions therein; also to the membranes that form the linings of the blood-vessels, lymphatics, and serous cavities; the respiratory passages; the sensory surfaces of the mouth, nose, eyes, and ears; the cavities of the brain ; and the central canal of the spinal cord. In structure, epithelium consists of cells of various shapes, sometimes arranged in a single layer (simple epithelium), andEPITHELIUM 227 sometimes in several superimposed layers (laminated epithelium). Each cell has within it a portion of denser substance called the nucleus. The different varieties of epithelia are classified according to the form and arrangement of their cells, or according to the functions which these" cells perform. Thoee epithelial structures which consist of flat scale-like cells are known as squamous, or tesselated epithelia. In these the cells are either cemented together by some kind of intercellular substance, or they are united by partial fusion, or by the inter- fJ9--Squamous Epithelium Fig. 220.-Overlapping Squamous of the Peritoneum. Magnified Cells from the Inside of the 400 diameters. Mouth. Magnified 260 diame- ters. locking or overlapping of their edges. The epidermis (fig. 150) is of this character; and it will be remembered that, in this instance, there are numerous superimposed layers of cells The epithelial lining of the heart, blood-vessels, lymphatics, and all serous cavities, consists of very flat squamous cells, often arranged m a single layer, and to this the special term endothelium is more commonly applied. In the linings of the ducts and cavities of glands we meet with spheroidal cells, which have often become polygonal bv riiutual pressure; and as these cells are the active agents by which the various secretions are prepared from the blood that circulates- in the neighbouring capillaries, the epithelial tissue which they torm is often spoken of as secreting or glandular epithelium Examples of this variety may be seen in the peptic glands of the stomach (fig loi), in the tubules of the kidney, and in the salivary glands.228 ELEMENTARY I'lIYSIOLOGY The raucous membrane of the stomach and the intestine, and the ducts of the glands which lie embedded in it, are lined by a layer of elongated cylindrical or prismatic cells, arranged with their long axes at right angles to the free surface. Such cells . ]■ i (elf ' Fig. 221. —Columnar Epithelium from the Intestinal Villus of a Eabbit. form what is called columnar epithelium, and may exist in a single regular layer, or in several layers more or less irregularly arranged. The free surfaces of the epithelial cells of certain parts are clothed with minute hair-like processes called cilia, there being Fig. 222.—CUiated Epithelial Cells from the Trachea of a Cat. from ten to thirty attached to each individual cell. These cilia are perpetually in motion, lashing to and fro m such a manner that all those of the same surface tend to propel any particles which come into contact with them in one direction. Thus, if the ciliated epithelium in question happens to Ime a cavity, all foreign matter resting on the surface is urged on towards the orifice of the cavity.229 EPITHELIUM The cells of ciliated epithelium are generally cylindrical or columnar in form, but are sometimes squamous or spheroidal. This kind of epithelium lines all the air-passages of the lungs, and the respira- tory tracks of the nostrils; also the cavities of the brain and the central canal of the spinal cord. from what has been said it will be seen that the function of epithelium may be the protection of other tissues, the production of motion, or the preparation of a secretion; or two of these functions may be performed by one and the same epithelial lining. Some epithelial cells have also a sensory function, such as those which line the olfactory region of the nose, and those which form the sensory surface (retina) of the eyeball. SUMMAEY. Fig. 223.—Ciliated Epi- thelial Cells from the Mouth of a Frog. Mag- nified 300 diameters. /Definition Structure EPITHELIUM / Kinds . several Lin es and v Functions Tlie cellular tissue which lines the cavities and vessels of the body. Consists of cells of various shapes. Simple—a single layer of cells. Laminated — cells arranged in layers. Squamous—flat scale-like cells. heart, blood-vessels, lymphatics, serous cavities {Endothelium). Spheroidal—globular or polygonal cells. Found largely in glands, and hence called glandular epithelium. Columnar — elongated cells. Lines stomach, intestines, and the ducts of glands. Ciliated—free surfaces clothed with vibra- tile cilia. Cilia perpetually in motion. Air-passages and cavities of the brain. Protection. Secretion. Sensation. Motion (ciliated). QUESTIONS ON LESSON XXXVIIL 1. What is epithelium ? Where is it to be found ? 2. What do you know of the structure of epithelium ? 3. Name the different kinds of epithelium, and say what you know of their respective characters and positions. 4. What are the functions of epithelium ? 5. What are cilia? What is the special use of ciliated epithelium ?KLKMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 230 SYLLABUS (science and art department). First Stage, or Elementary Course. Questions will be confined to the under-mentioned points in the elements of Anatomy and Physiology. Candidates are expected to have seen the corpuscles of the blood under a microscope magnifying about three or four hundred diameters. It is also desirable that they should have made themselves acquainted in like manner with the general microscopic characters of the cells constituting epithelium. Other details of structure needing the use of microscope will not be asked for. The information demanded under "Chemical Preliminaries" is hmited on the one hand to elementary and fundamental chemical principles, as applied to the animal body, and on the other to the important properties of the chief chemical substances composing the body and food; in respect to these points the answers must be precise, but no further chemical knowledge will be required. No candidate will be allowed to pass who in the answers makes gross errors concerning the general build of the body and the relations of its several parts, the structure and working of the heart and the main facts of the circu- lation, the mechanical and chemical changes of respiration, the chemical nature of food, its changes in the alimentary canal, and its use in the body. A. Anatomical Preliminaries. The general build of the body. The form, the position, and the uses of the following parts of the skeleton : —skull, vertebras, ribs, sternum; scapula, clavicle, humerus, radius, ulna, carpus, metacarpus, phalanges (of the hand); pelvis, femur, tibia, fibula, tarsus, metatarsus, phalanges (of the foot). The more obvious distinctive characters of skin, mucous membrane, glands, connective tissue, tend on, ligament, cartilage, bone, muscle, and nerve. The position in the body, and the general form and size, of the following internal organs:—The brain and spinal cord ; the pharynx, gullet, stomach, and intestines ; the salivary glands, the liver, and the pancreas ; the posterior nares, the larynx, trachea, and lungs; the diaphragm; the kidneys and the bladder ; the heart and the great vessels; the spleen. B. Chemical Preliminaries. The simpler chemical properties of carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen; the meaning of the terms "element," "compound," "decomposi- tion," " oxidation," as illustrating elementary chemical principles. The composition, nature, and properties of air, water, carbon dioxide (carbonic acid), and ammonia. The chemical elements of which proteids, fats, and carbohydrates are com- posed ; the'general chemical properties of these substances, and the relative proportions in which the several elements are present in each of them. The composition and general nature of urea.231 SYLLABUS C. General View of the Animal Body in Action. The movements of the body as the result of muscular action. Muscular action viewed as chemical change (oxidation) of the muscle, whereby energy is set free, and waste of substance caused. The blood as the agent which (a) removes the waste, and {d) supplies fresh nutritive material to make good the waste. The waste matter in the blood got rid of by the excretory organs. The fresh nutritive material in the blood supplied to it from food by means of the digestive organs. The control of the muscles by the nervous system, consisting of {a) sensory or afferent nerves, (d) the brain and spinal cord, (c) motor or efferent nerves. The general functions of the brain and spinal cord. The maintenance of the erect posture. Local and general death. D. Special Physiology. a. The Blood. The form, size, and structure of the corpuscles of the blood. The general composition of the blood. The phenoinena presented by blood drawn from the body ; clotting of blood. b. The Circulatory System. The general structure of the heart ; the form and arrangement of its chambers ; the nature of its walls ; the form and position of its valves. The differences between the right and left side of the heart. The action of the heart as a force-pump. The mode and action of the valves during the heart-beat. The general differences between arteries, capillaries, and veins. The course of the circulatiouj and the reason why the blood moves in only one direction. The characters of and differences in the blood-flow in arteries, capillaries, and veins. The meaning of the "pulse." Tlie evidence of the circulation obtainable in the living body. c. The Alimentary System. The general form and arrangement of the alimentary canal in its several parts. The more obvious characters of the mucous coat, and the differences in respect to it between the stomach and the small and large intestine. The relationship of the salivary and gastric glands, and of the pancreas and liver, to the ahmentary canal. The character and uses of their secretions ihe general nature of food. The classification of food-stuffs. The changes the several food-stuffs respectively undergo in the alimentary canal, and how these are brought about. The manner in which nutritiiFe matters are absorbed and innutritious matters got rid of from the alimentary canal. The economy of a mixed diet. d. The Liver. Position and general structure of the liver The blood supply to the liver. The obvious characters and properties of bile. c. The Respiratory System. The arrangement of the ribs, sternum, intercostal muscles, and diaphragm. The manner m which the walls and^floor of the chest change their posifion during the respiratory movements. ^ pobiiion respTc^fvel^' ^""^ ^^""^^^ ''^'^^ ^"'"'"S inspiration and expirationELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 233 The course taken by the air when breathing through the nose. In what respects the air whicli leaves the lungs diflers from that which enters them. The obvious differences between venous and arterial blood. Where and how venous blood is converted into arterial, and arterial into venous blood in the body. How venous blood can be converted into arterial blood out of the body. The conditions which give rise to asphyxia. f. The Urinary System. The structure of the kidney so far as it is visible to the naked eye. The composition of urine as far as its chief constituents are concerned • the significance of these as waste products. g. The Skin. The obvious differences between the dermis and epidermis. Tiie general composition of sweat. The more obvious functions of the skin. h. Animal Heat. The sources of the heat of the body. The manner in which heat is dis- tributed through the body, and in which the temperature of the body is regulated. i. The Muscular System and Animal Mechanics. The structure of muscle, of tendon, and of bone, so far as it can be made out by the naked eye or a simple lens. The mode of attachment of muscles to bones. The nature of joints, with examples of ball-and-socket, hinge, and pivot joints. The different kinds of levers, with examples of them in the body. The way in which muscles lead to the movements of the body. k. The Senses. The different kinds of sensations. The means of measuring the acuteness of the sense of touch in various parts of the body. The general sti'ucture of the organs of smell and taste, and the manner in which their functions are performed. The general structural arrangements of the eye-ball. Such characters of the cornea, sclerotic, choroid, iris, aqueous and vitreous humours, crystalline lens, and retina as can be observed by ordinary dissection. The uses of the cornea, iris, and crystalline lens. How the pupil is enlarged and made narrower, and for wha.t purposes. The change undergone by the lens when looking from a distant to a near object ; the object of this change. The blind spot, and what it teaches. The essential facts as to the structural an angements of the ear so far as they are required to explain how sound-waves are conveyed to the nerves of hearing. /. Tlie Nervous System. The chief parts into which the brain may be divided. The structure of the spinal cord so far as it is visible to the naked eye. The arrangement and the functions of the roots of the spinal nerves. The general way in which the spinal cord is connected to the bram by means of the spinal bulb or medulla oblongata. The evidence that the spinal cord is capable of effectmg reflex action. The general phenomena presented by an animal deprived of its bram, as illustrating some of the more important functions of the brain.structures in the skin which correspond to these uses ? (9) EXAMINATION PAPERS. Insteuctions. If the rules a7-e not attended to, the pape?- will he cancelled. You may take the Elementary, or the Advanced, or the Honours paper, but you must confine yourself to one of them. Put the number of the question before your answer. The value attached to each question is shown in brackets after the question, but a full and correct answer to an easy question will in all cases secure a larger number of marks than an incomplete or inexact answer to a more diffi- cult one. TJie Exa?nination in this subject lasts for three hours. You are permitted to atte7npt only eight questions. Elementary Stage. i88' 1. How many ribs have you ? Where are they placed ? How do they move ? What moves them ? What purpose is served by their moving ? How do the lower ribs differ from the upper ones? (i6) 2. When you cut open a large vein and see the valves, what do they look like ? Describe a simple method of proving on your own body how the valves of the veins act. What is the use of the valves, and what would happen if the valves of the veins of the leg were absent or did not act ? (i6) 3. What do you understand by the abdominal cavity ? How are its walls formed ? What part of the alimentary canal is placed in it and what is not ? What is the general disposition of that part of the alimentary canal which lies in the abdominal cavity ? (16) 4. Of what chemical elements is the fat of meat composed ? Of what chemical elements is the lean of meat composed ? Why is it possible to live on the lean of meat alone, but not on the fat alone ? And why is it best to eat both lean and fat ? (16) 5. When a man gets a large piece of meat in his windpipe, he is choked, and when he goes into foul air, such as ' choke-damp,' or is shut up in a con- fined space, he is also choked or suffocated. What is the immediate cause of the choking or suffocation which takes place in both these cases ? (9) 6. _ What is the pulmonary artery ? Where does it start from and where does it lead to? Describe carefully the appearance of certain structures which may be seen in it just as it springs from the heart. (9) • 7. Of what two parts is the skin composed, and how do they differ from each other ? What are the most important uses of the skin, and what are theELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 234 8. Several large arteries are spread over the stomach and intestines, and break up into capillaries in the walls of those organs. By what course does the blood get Ijack from those capillaries to the right side of the heart ? {9) 9. When any one cries where do the tears come from ? Are tears produced when one does not cry, and if so why are they not seen ? (9) 10. What is gastric juice ? Where and how is it formed ? Of what use is it in digestion ? 11. The blood flows through a muscle along blood-vessels, arteries, capil- laries, and veins, all closed tubes, and yet the blood nourishes the musculai fibres which are outside these blood-vessels. How does the nourishment then get from the blood-vessels to the muscular fibres ? (9) 12. You can move your fingers and you can feel with your fingers. Instances of injury or disease have been met with in which the power of movement in the arm has been lost and yet feeling has remained, and others in which feeling has been lost and yet the power of movement has been retained. State what parts must have been affected by the injury or disease in these cases. (9) 1884. 1. What is a capillary? About how wide is a capillary? In what parts of the body are capillaries found ? What changes does the blood undergo in the capillaries of the lungs ? What changes does the blood undergo in the capillaries of a muscle ? (16) 2. How is the skull fastened on the spinal column ? How are the move- ments of turning and nodding the head brought about ? Why does a man nod when he goes to sleep sitting up ? (16) 3. Where is the mitral or bicuspid valve placed ? WTiere are the aortic semilunar valves placed ? How does the mitral valve differ from the aortic semilunar valves in structure and action ? (16) 4. What food-stuffs are present in each of the following articles of food :— a slice of bread and butter, a basin of porridge, a mutton chop, a boiled potato, a glass of milk, a boiled cabbage? One kind of food-stuff differs in a most important particular from all others. What is that kind of food-stuff, and what is that important particular ? (16) 5. What is the sternum, and what is it made of? How are the bony ribs connected with it ? In what way does it move during breathing ? (9) 6. What is it gives to blood its redness ? Suppose you were able to remove from blood all the red corpuscles, without otherwise changing it, what kind of fluid would be left behind ? i.e. What would the fluid look like and what would be its chief properties ? (9) 7. What is the large intestine ? Where is it placed ? W^here does it begin and where does it end ? What changes does the food undergo in it ? (9) 8. "What does fresh bile look like ? Where does it come from, and where does it go to ? What are its uses ? (9) 9. What is the crystalline lens ? Where is it placed ? Sometimes the crystalline lens has to be removed ; what difference does its removal make to the power of seeing ? (9) 10. Explain what is meant by the roots of spinal nerves. How may it be proved that the two roots of a spinal nerve have different functions ? (9) 11. Describe the various movements which make up the act of walking. Explain why the top of a man's head moves up and down as he walks, _ (9) 12. Very often when your leg is kept for a longtime in one position it ' goes to sleep.' What is the condition which we thus call ' going to sleep," and how is it brought about ? (9^EXAMINATION PAPERS 235 1885. 1. What is the shape of the human thorax or chest? What structures form its walls ? Name all the important organs which are contained in it, and state the position of each. (16) 2. In what important respects does the blood in the pulmonary veins differ from the blood in the pulmonary artery ? Describe the structures in which the bronchial tubes end, and explain how these structures are adapted for bringing about the above differences. (16) 3. Describe what is seen when the right auricle of the heart is laid bare in a sheep's or bullock's heart, and give an account of the walls of the auricle, and of the position and characters of the several openings leading into and out of the auricle. Why does the blood not flow back into the veins when the auricle contracts ? (16) 4. Describe carefully the form and position of the stomach. Of what structures are the walls of the stomach composed ? What parts of an ordi- nary meal are digested in the stomach, and what parts are digested else- where? (16; 5. Of what parts is a tooth composed ? How do these parts differ from each other ? How is a tooth fastened into the jaw ? (9) 6. What is the position of the kidneys, and what is their general structure? \Vhat changes take place in the body when the kidneys are so injured or diseased that they are no longer able to secrete urine ? (9) 7. In what parts of the body are no blood-vessels found ? How are these parts nourished ? (9) 8. What is the medulla oblongata ? Where is it placed? Why does an animal generally die when the medulla oblongata is seriously injured ? (9) 9. In what parts of the body is connective tissue found ? What does it look like when examined by the naked eye, and what does the microscope show it to be composed of ? ^g-^ 10. What, in speaking of the eye, is meant by the ' blind spot' ? How may its existence be shown? What conclusions may be drawn from its pre- sence ? 11. What is the thoracic duct? Where does it end ? What does it con- tain after an ordinary meal ? What does it contain when no food has been taken for some time ? 12. Sometimes persons are killed by sleeping in a close room m which a charcoal stove is burning. What is it, in such a case, which kills them ? (9) 1886. 1. About_how much air do we take into the chest at a breath' What makes it go m ? What makes it come out ? What is the effect on the lunes of trying to take a deep breath, if, while trying to take it, we keep the note and mouth tightly closed ? ^ 2. What is the composition of fat, and how does it differ from that of sugar ? What is meant by the digestion of fat ? Where and how does it take PlD.CC . / A\ h.^f what parts is the wrist-joint made up ? How do the movements of the hand which you can make at the wrist-joint differ from those of the foot which you can make at the ankle-joint, and why ? 4- How, in a living body, does the blood flow from a cut artery • and how &stoo !hTb,; 1"^'^ ^^^''"^"^ cases? 1?o'w can you best stop the bleeding from a cut artery, and how from a cut vein ? (16) .236 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 5. Wliat is a muscular filne ? About how big is a muscular fibre of one of your own muscles? Explain how muscular fibres are built up into an ordinary muscle. (gj 6. Mow docs the arrangement of the blood-vessels and the circulation of the blood in the liver differ from the arrangement of the blood-vessels and the circulation of the blood in a muscle ? What purpose is served by the peculiar blood supply of the liver ? (9) 7. Where is the spinal cord placed ? Where and how does it end above and below ? What can you learn concerning its structure without using a microscope ? (9) 8. How does the upper part of the cavity of the nose into which the nostril leads differ from the lower part ? What different functions are performed by the two parts ? (9) 9. Of what two distinct parts is the skin made up? How do they differ from each other in structure, and what are the chief uses of each part ? (9) 10. What is saliva? Where and how is it formed? What are its uses ? (9) 11. Explain how it comes about that your body has about the same tem- perature on the hottest day in summer and the coldest day in winter. What is that temperature ? (9) 12. When a body has been buried for some time, nothing is left but the bones. Why have all the other parts disappeared, and what has become of them ? (9) 1887. 1. Where is the tricuspid valve placed ? What is its form and structure? Describe how it appears when seen in a sheep's heart. Explain how it works in carrying on the circulation of the blood. (16) 2. Where is the diaphragm placed ? What important organs touch it on the one side, and what on the other ? What structures pass through it, and through what part of it do they pass ? What are the two kinds of tissue of which it is mainly made up, and how does each of these act in carrying on the work of breathing ? (16) 3. Where does the small intestine lie ? Where and how does it begin, and where and how does it end ? What is the general structure of its walls ? What changes does food undergo in the small intestine ? (16) 4. What parts go to form the elbow-joint, and how are they arranged to form that joint ? How is it that we are able to move the forearm on the arm in one way only, and that to a certain extent only ? (16) 5. What is the colour of venous blood when it flows from a vein, as for instance when a man is bled in the arm ? What is the colour due to ? If venous blood were spread out in a thin sheet over a large surface, would it change colour ? If so, why ? (9) . 6. What is the nature of the several food-stuffs present in milk ? Why is milk so largely used, and so desirable an article of food ? (9) 7. Describe what may be seen by the naked eye, or with the help of a simple lens, when a long bone in a dried skeleton, the femur or humerus for instance, is sawn through lengthwise. How would a bone, taken from a recently dead body, and similarly sawn through, differ in appearance from the above ? (9) 8. How do the ' red ' and ' white corpuscles' of the blood differ from each other ? About how big is a red corpuscle and a white corpuscle in human blood ? What is the name and nature of the fluid in which the blood corpus- cles swim in a living blood-vessel ? (9)EXAMINATION PAPERS 237 9. What is the medulla oblongata, and where is it placed ? What is its form and general appearance ? What are its more important functions ? (9) 10. When is the pupil of the eye large, and when is it small? How does it become large, and how does it become small? What purposes are served by these changes in its size ? •,■)?' 11 What is the general composition of urine ? What substances which are present in urine and so leave the body by the kidney, also leave the body by the skin or by the lungs ? What substances present in urine do not leave the body in appreciable quantity by the skin or lungs? , r „ j o 12. When a man faints he generally falls down. Why does he fall down ? 1888. 1. mat structures form the roof, the front wall, and the back wall of the cavity of the abdomen ? Mention the most important organs which he m the cavity of the abdomen, and describe as accurately as you can the general form and position of each of these important organs. (lo) 2. State the exact place in the aorta and in the pulmonary artery where valves are found. Describe the form of these valves, and their nature (as far as can be ascertained without a microscope). Explain exactly what happens to them during and after a contraction of the ventricles. (16) 3. How does the blood in the pulmonary veins differ from the blood in the pulmonary artery ? How is that difference brought about ? Under certain circumstances the blood in these vessels may be almost exactly alike : What are these circumstances ? (16) 4. Give an account of any one of the ribs, say the fifth or sixth, describing its form, and stating how it is connected to other parts of the body. In what ways can it be moved by muscles, and what muscles can move it ? (16) 5. What is meant by a food-stuff? What are the three chief classes of food-stuffs, and how do they differ from each other? Give examples. (9) 6. How are spinal nerves joined on to the spinal cord ? What is the evidence that the two roots have different uses? (9) 7. What is the portal vein? Where does it begin? Where does it end ? Is the blood flowing in the portal vein always of the same quality, or does it varj' ? If so, when and how ? (9) 8. What is cartilage, and how does it differ from bone ? State as fully as you can, all the places in a grown-up body in which cartilage is found. (9) 9. What does a nerve look like when seen with the naked eye ? What is shown by the microscope to be its structure ? What is going on in the nerves of the arm when we move the arm ? (9) 10. What is meant by the clotting of blood, and what changes take place in blood when it clots ? What other fluids in the body, besides blood, clot like blood ? (9) 11. With what part of the nose do we smell? What is the nerve by which we smell ? From what part of the brain does it start, and how does it reach the nose ? Why does closing the nostrils do away with certain so-called tastes ? (9) 12. \Vhat is perspiration, and how is it produced ? What is meant by ' sensible' and ' inseasible' perspiration ? (9)238 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 1889. I. What is tiic composition of ordinary atmospheric air? State exactly how expired air dilfers from inspired air, and explain how these differences can a^i^tdK^aiJ^r ' ''"''"^ ^^^'^ stom;ph'''^ wJ", ^"''"ll ^^\^°^y' general structure oP^he s omach. What are the chief changes that an ordinary meal undergoes in the stomach, and in what condition does the food which is not absorbed by the stomach pass througli the pylorus into the duodenum ? (l e) 3; capillary? About how big is a capillary? How does a capillary differ from an arfery and from a yein ? What changes take place in the blood as it passes through a capillary in such a tissue as a muscle ' In what parts of the body are no capillaries to be found ? /jc) 4. Describe the form and general structure of the left ventricle of the heart Describe the valves as they may be seen when the cavity is laid open. Explain how the ventricle empties itself at each beat of the heart. (15) 5. Give an account of the position and general structure of the liver Where does most of the blood supplying the liver come from ? Does that blood which thus reaches the liver while digestion is going on, differ from the blood which reaches the liver when no food has been taken for some time ? If so, how? (joj 6. Explain how it is that the body has always nearly the same temperature, whatever be the temperature of the surrounding air. (lo) 7. What is "serum" of .blood? What are the most important bodies present in it? How does serum differ from plasma ? (10) 8. What is the pupil ? By what means does it grow larger, and by what means does it grow smaller ? Why does it generally become small in the light, and large in the dark ? (10) 9. What is meant by proteid food ? Give examples. Why cannot we live without proteid food ? Why is it desirable to have other food beside proteids ? (10) 10. What is the form, general structure, and position of the spleen ? Where does the blood coming from the spleen go to? (10) II. Describe the structure of a muscle as far as can be made out without a microscope. What is meant by the contraction of a muscle ? What change of form takes place in a muscle when it contracts ? (10) 12. What are the lacteals? How does the chyle which they contain after a meal get into the blood ? • (10) 1890. 1. W^hat structures form the walls of the thorax, or chest? How is the thorax made air-tight ? What important viscera are contained in it, and what positions do they occupy in it? Explain how changes in the diaphragm alter the size of the thorax. (15) 2. If a heart, a sheep's heart, for instance, removed from the body, were put before you, how could you tell which was the top, which the bottom, which the front, and which the back ? What are the chief differences between the left ventricle and the right ventricle, and what purposes are served by these differences? (15) 3. What is the spinal cord ? Where is it placed ? Explain how the spinal cord is protected from injury by the structure and arrangements of the walls of the cavity in which it lies. (15)EXAMINATION PAPERS 4. Of what chemical elements are fat and starch composed ? How do fat and starch differ from each other ? What changes does starch and what changes does fat undergo in the alimentary canal ? Where and how are those changes brought about ? (l5) 5. What do the red and white corpuscles of the blood look like when a drop of blood is examined under a high power of the microscope, and how do they differ from each other ? Sta:te an important use of the red corpuscles. (10) 6. What is the most important substance and, next to the water, the most abundant substance present in urine ? Of what chemical_ elements is this substance composed, and how does it come about that the kidneys are always to a greater or less extent engaged in secreting this substance ? (10) 7. How in a dead body can you tell an artery from a vein? What are the chief differences between them, and why are they thus different? _ (lo) 8. What are the two chief parts of the skin, and how do they differ from each other? How does the skin of the lip differ from the skin of the heel, and why ? (10) 9. What differences can be observed, without the aid of any microscope, between [a) a bone just fresh from the body, {b) one which had been dried and kept for some time, and (^r) one which had been steeped in acid for some time? (10) 10. What is meant, in speaking of vision, by " the blind spot," and how can its presence be demonstrated ? What conclusions concerning the nature of sight can be drawn from the existence of the blind spot ? (10) 11. What parts go to form the hip-joint? What movements of the hip- joint can be carried out? How are they limited', and why? (10) 12. Describe the course taken by the air in breathing until it reaches the glottis or pharynx; and explain why it is better to breathe through the nose than through the mouth. (10) 1891. 1. Describe the form, position, and general appearance of the sternum. What is the nature of the material of which it is composed ? What changes of position does it undergo in breathing ? (15) 2. Give an account of what may be seen by examining the right auricle of the heart from the outside. State how you would proceed to lay open the cavity of the right auricle in order to show to the best advantage the structure and relations of the auricle, and carefully describe what may be seen in the auricle thus laid open. (15) 3. Describe the form, position, and general structure of the small intestine. How does the small intestine differ from the large intestine ? State briefly the changes which the food undergoes, (i) in the small, (2) in the large intestine. ' " (15) 4. Give an account of a valve in a vein, describing how it appears when seen by the naked eye or with the help of a lens. Describe its nature, and explain how it works. Which veins possess many valves, which few, and which none at all ? (15) 5. What is the nature of cartilage? How does it differ from bone, and from tendon ? State as fully as you can in what parts of a full-grown body cartilage is found. (lo) 6. Describe the portal vein, stating how it begins, where it runs, and how it ends. Does the blood, as it passes along the portal vein after a full meal has been taken, differ from the blood passing along the same vein when no food has been taken for some time ? and if so, how ? (10)ELEMENTARY I'lJYSIOLOGY 240 _ 7- ^yhat is the structure of the diaphragm? How does the diaphragm act in breathing ? (\ \ 8 What is a clot of blood composed of? When you cut a large cIo°t of blood open, does the msidc look different from the outside? and if so. why' How may a colourless clot be obtained ? (jo) ' 9. When you touch a body with your finger, you can tell whether the body IS rough or smooth ; why cannot you do this if the skin of the finger be injured or removed ? In what part of the body is the sense of touch most acute ? in what parts least? How can you determine this accurately? (10) 10. What is the general structure of the spinal cord? Explain what happens if the spinal cord be damaged, (i) at the level of the bottom of the neck, (2) at the level of the middle of the back. (lo) 11. Explain as fully as you can what you do when you " hold your breath." What changes are taking place in your lungs while you are holding your breath ? Why cannot you hold it for more than a very short time? (10) 12. After violent exercise a man says "he is very hot." Is he really hotter than usual ? If not, explain how this is ? (lo) 1892. 1. What is the abdomen? What structures form its walls? State the more important organs which are placed in the abdomen, giving the position of each, and explaining in particular the manner in which the alimentary canal passes through the abdomen. (i^) 2. Describe the semilunar valves of the aorta, stating their exact position, their appearance, form, and structure (as far as the latter can be made out without a microscope), and explaining how they act in the work of the circulation. (i^j 3. Explain how the chest is enlarged when we breathe in, and how it becomes small^ again when we breathe out, and show why air goes into the chest in breathing in, and why it comes out in breathing out. About how far into the chest does the air which we take in at an ordinary breath go? (15) 4. What is the general structure of the mucous membrane of the stomach, and what are the characters of the juice which it secretes ? Describe the changes which a piece of meat and a piece of bread undergo in the stomach. (15) 5- How would a cupful of blood drawn from some artery in a limb, say the artery in the thigh, differ in appearance from a cupful of blood drawn from the neighbouring vein ? To what important changes undergone by the blood in passing from the artery to the v-ein is this difference of appearance due ? Where and how have these changes been brought about? (10) 6. State the structure of a muscle and of its tendon as far as can be made out without the use of a microscope. What happens to the muscle and to the tendon when the muscle contracts? (10) 7. What is bile ? Where is it formed ? .Where does it flow to when food has recently been taken, and where does it go when food has not been taken? What are its chief uses ? (10) 8. In what parts of the body are capillary blood vessels most abundant and most close set ? In what parts of the body are they scanty and far apart ? From what parts of the body are capillaries entirely absent ? (10) g. What is the crystalline lens ? Where is it placed ? What is its use ? When and why does it change in shape? How is the change brought about? (10) 10. Describe the general structure of a kidney, and state the general nature of the work which the kidneys perform. If the kidneys fail to excrete urine what changes lake place in the blood ? (10)EXAMINATION PAPERS 241 II What do you understand by absorption from the alimentary canal? What are the things which are absorbed from the alimentary canal ? What are the two paths along one or other of which the absorbed matters travel, and whither does the one and the other lead them ? (10) i'> Explain how it is that when a man "breaks his neck" he dies at once, but if he " breaks his back " he may live for a long while afterwards.^ n 11 a person who is standing or sitting up feels faint, what is the best thing to do to prevent his fainting? Explain the reason of the measures which you would adopt. ^ 1893. I. What is the spinal column or backbone ? Of what structures is it made up, and how are these structures connected together so as to form the back- bone ^ How does the spinal column end above and below ? (IS) 2 How can you tell by examining the outside of a heart which is its right side and which is its left side ? What are the differences between the tnside of the right and left sides of the heart ? To what differences in the use of each side of the heart do these differences in structure correspond ? _ (15). 3. Where is the large intestine placed in the body ? How does it begin and how does it end, and how does it lie between its beginning and end? How does it differ in structure from the small intestine ? What changes does food undergo inside the large intestine ? (i5) 4. In what direction and in what manner does the blood flow in a large artery as of the leg, and in what direction and in what manner does it flow in a large vein of the same leg ? What makes it flow in the direction and in the manner you describe in the artery and in the vein ? How does the blood pass from the artery into the vein? What is the blood doing while it is passing from the artery into the vein, and what is the use of this to the leg? (^S) . 5. What does a long bone taken fresh out of an animal look like when it is cut into two lengthwise ? What would it look like if it were cut in two after it had been boiled or had been buried for a long time ? What is the cause of the differences? What happens to a bone when it is burnt in a fire ? (10) 6. By what organ is urine formed ? Where is this organ placed on each side of the body, and what does it look like ? What are the most important substances of which urine is composed? Where do these substances come from before they find their way into the urine, and why must they always be got rid of to a greater or less extent ? _ (lo) 7. Your body is always warm while it is alive, and it is just as warm on a cold day as on a hot day. Why is your body warm, and how is it kept equally warm both in cold and hot weather? (10) 8. With what kinds of food-stuffs should the body be supplied each day, and in about what proportions ? How do the several food-stuffs differ essen- tially from each other? On which one food-stuff could an animal be kept alive ? Why is it better and more economical not to eat this one food-stuff only but to mix the others with it? (10) 9. Where is the pancreas or sweetbread placed in the body ? What is the pancreas ? What does the pancreas do which makes it useful to the body ? (10) ID. What muscles are attached to the eyeballs ? What movements of the eyeball are brought about by the contractions of these muscles ? What is the cause of squinting ? • (10) II. What nerves are connected directly with the spinal cord, and how are they connected ? If you saw one person who could move his arm but could RELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 242 not fed with liis fingers, and another person who could feel hut could not move his arm, what parts would you suppose were injured or diseased in each 01 these persons ? ^j^j 12. If you take a sharp walk or a quick run you hreathe faster. What is the cause of your breathing faster, and of what- advantage to the body is the quicker breathing ? What other things besides rapid exercise make a person breathe very quickly, and how is it that they thus alTect the breathing? (10) 1894. 1. Where and how is the diaphragm placed in the body? What organs lie immediately above and what immediately below it ? What structures pass through it ? How does the diaphragm work in breathing, and what makes it work? (i^j 2. How would you place a heart in front of yourself so as to see the left auricle most easily ? What does the left auricle look like as seen from the outside, and what does its inside look like when laid open ? What blood vessels enter the left auricle, and how is it connected with the left ventricle ? (15) 3. What is the general shape and appearance of the stomach ? What is its general structure ? In what way does the internal lining of the stomach differ from that of the small intestine? What changes does proteid food undergo in the stomach ? (i^) 4. How can you tell the difference between a large artery and a vein of the same size as seett by dissection in a dead body ? What further differences are there between an artery and a vein besides those you can make out by mere dissection ? What are the special uses of these differences? (15) 5. What are lacteals, and where do they occur? What is in them when an animal is fasting, and what is in them alter a meal of mixed food ? How are their contents finally passed into the blood ? (10) 6. How can you show that there is a " blind spot" in each of your own eyes ? What does the blind spot teach us as to the nature of sight ? (10) 7. What movements can you make with your hand at the wrist joint ? How do the movements you can make with your foot at the ankle-joint differ from those you can make with your hand at the wrist ? What are the differ- ences in the joints which cause the difference in the movements? (10) 8. What do you understand by a " reflex action " ? What structures are essential for the occurrence of a reflex action ? Give two or three examples of reflex action as it may be observed in your own body. What is the use of reflex actions ? (10) 9. Of what two parts is the skin composed? What are the more obvious and important differences between these two parts ? What are the chief uses of the skin to the body ? (10) 10. What are the various causes or conditions which make a person breathe faster than usual ? What is the exact cause and what is the real use in each case of the faster breathing? (10) 11. What is the spinal bulb or medulla oblongata, and where is it placed in the body ? What is its form and general appearance ? What are its more important uses? (10) 12. What part of the nose is used for smelling ? W^hat nerve is used for smelling? With what part of the brain is this nerve connected, and how does it pass from the brain to the nose ? Why cannot you either smell or taste properly when you have a bad cold in your head? (10^EXAMINATION TAPERS 2. How is the small intestine placed in the body? What are the chief 1895. I What structures form the walls of the thorax or chest? What organs lie inside the thorax ? What movements do the walls make during inspiration, and what movements do they make during expiration? How are these move- "'^2' Whlrdffferences of structure are there bet\yeen the right and left ventricle of a heart? To what differences in action do these differences correspond? What is the form and structure of the valve between the left auricle and left ventricle, and how does this valve Work so as to carry on the circulation of the blood ? , . , , , tt a ■2 Where and how is the spinal cord placed in the body? How does it end above and how does it end below? What structures are given off at repeated intervals from the spinal cord, and what are the uses of these structures '* \ o' 4 What are the essential differences between fats and carbohydrates? Where and how are fats digested, where and how are carbohydrates digested in the body? ^ , ,. ^ . ^^5) 5 Describe the position and general structure of the liver. What is there peculiar about the blood-supply to the liver ? What is the most obvious use of the liver, and wlmt are the arrangements by which that use is carried out ? (10) 6. What changes can be seen to take place in blood after it is drawn off from the body and kept for some time ? What has taken place z'n the blood to cause these changes which you can see? (10) 7. Describe how the skull is attached to the spinal column or backbone, and explain how this attachment enables you to (i) nod your head up and down ; (ii) turn your head from side to side. (lo) 8. What is the structure of a muscle and its tendon so far as these can be made out by careful dissection, without having recourse to a microscope? How are the muscles usually placed and attached to the bones so as to lead to the movements of the body? (10) 9. Of what substances is sweat chiefly composed ? By what organs other than the skin are some of the constituents of sweat also got rid of from the body? How does it come about that perspiration is usually "insensible," and what has happened when it becomes " sensible " ? (10) 10. If you cut through a large clot of blood or piece of lean meat, the inside is of a much darker colour than the outside. Explain why there is this difference of colour. What important facts do you learn from the above observation? (10) 11. What is the pupil of the eye? When and by what means does it become smaller, and when does it become larger ? What are the uses of the pupil becoming smaller and larger? (10) 12. If you keep your leg or arm too long in a bent position it often " goes to sleep." What has happened in your leg or arm when it has thus "gone to sleep," and why is it nearly useless to you while in this condition? (10) 1896. 1. What is the general structure of a lung? How and why does the condition of a lung when taken out cf the thorax differ from its condition before it was taken out ? How does the latter condition account for the expanding of the lung when the thorax becomes larger ? (15)-44 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY and essential points of the structure of the small intestine? Fvnl.;n . worl, and how can you prove '^^^^i^^k)^ ^^f^^.^^^ (7 ^ 4- >M .it are capillaries? What is about the average size of n .^, -m^ , What IS the general structure of a capillary, and how cfoes U differ f^^m Z ffor^? p't"'^'^'' "'"'^^ ^'^^^ l'^^ importance anS use of this / Wl . P^^'l '^"^y ^'^^'-^ no capillaries? (ic) 5- What IS the general shape and appearance of the jawbone? lloCv i<; the jawbone fastened to the skull? In what ways can yoi move your kw and how are these movements produced? "'uve your jaws, 6 What is the appearance to the naked eye, and what is the nature of cartilage ? How does cartilage differ from bon^ ? Where is carriage found in a grown-up body, and what is its use in each case ? "lage lounu f'i^^-^y gl^'-ids placed in relation to the alimentary canaP What IS their general structure? What are the general characters, aJd wha't IS the use of their secretion ? ' , ' 8. The body is always undergoing waste of substance. How is'this waste brought about and what forms does it take ? How and by what means IS this waste made good when the body remains in health ? do) 9- What IS the composition of air ? How is this composition changed by breathing? How is the change produced, and how can you proJe by expenment that it takes place? What is the final effect on the body of breathing the same portion of air over-and over again, and what are the steps by which that final result is brought about ? (lo) A,n ^°'r appearance of a large nerve as seen with the naked eve ? What further structure can be made out by means of a microscope ? What do you suppose is taking place in the nerves of your leg when you move your ' (lo) 11. Describe the general structural arrangements of the ear so as to explain how sounds are made to affect the nerves of hearing. What may have gone wrong in the case of a person who is deaf? (lo) 12. What is the general condition of an animal, such as a frog, when deprived of its brain ? What may we learn from this condition as to the chief uses of the biain on the one hand, and of the spinal cord on the other? (lo) 1897. 1. What is the general shape and appearance of the sternum? How is it connected to other parts of the body ? How does it move in breathing, and how are these movements brought about ? (icj 2. What large blood-vessels are joined to the heart? How are they joined on, and what are the chief differences between the general structure and use of each kind of these large blood-vessels ? (l^) 3. What is the serum of blood ? What are the chief substances of which it is composed ? What is the difference between serum and plasma, and what causes this difference? What are the uses of plasma in the body? (15) 4. How IS the brain placed in the body ? What are the chief parts of which it consists ? What causes may lead to a person suddenly fainting or becoming otherwise insensible, and how do these causes bring about" the result in each case ? (i^jEXAMINATION PAPERS 5. What is the nature of the secretion formed by the pancreas ? What is the use of pancreatic juice ? What circumstances lead to the most plentiful flow of pancreatic juice, and how do tliey act? (10) 6. What is the general nature and appearances of "connective tissue'| ? Where is connective tissue found in the body, and what are its exact uses in each place you mention where it occurs ? (10) 7. Where is the spleen placed in the body? What is its shape and general structure and appearance ? From where does the spleen get its blood supply, and to where does the blood go when it leaves the spleen? (10) 8. When an animal is copiously fed, it gains in weight. To what is this gain in weight chiefly due, and how is it brought about ? Does the body of a well-fed (fattening) animal get rid of more or less waste than that of a poorly-fed one ? (10) 9. What is the general nature and structure of an artery ? What evidence is obtainable in a dead body, and what evidence can be obtained in a living body that the blood really circulates? (10) 10. What bones go to make up the foot and ankle, and how are they arranged? In what way does their arrangement (i) resemble, (li) difier from, the arrangement of the bones of the hand and wrist? (10) 11. What is perspiration or sweat? Of what is it chiefly composed? What is its use, and what causes lead to a person sweating at one time much, and at another time but little ? (10) 12. What is the organ of taste? What is its general structure, and what are the special features in its structure by which we are enabled to taste ? Why does a bad cold in the head largely do away with our powers of tasting? (ip) 1898. 1. How is the diaphragm placed in the body ? Of what two kinds of tissue is it chiefly made up, and how do these act in carrying on the work of breathing ? What structures pass through the diaphragm, and where do they pass through it ? (15) 2. Where are valves found in the heart ? . How are they attached to the heart ? How do they work when the heart is beating so as to make the heart act as a force-pump ? (15) 3. What are the essential differences between the blood in the right and the left sides of the heart? Where does the blood come from to reach each side of the heart ? What has caused the difference between the two kinds of blood? (i^) 4. What differences can be seen between a large artery and a large vein when dissected out of a dead body ? What difference is there between the general way arteries and veins are usually placed in the body, and what experiments or observations can you make on yourself to show this difference in their position ? (15) 5. Through what part of the alimentary canal does the food pass after it leaves the mouth and before it enters the stomach? What is the general nature and structure of this part of the alimentary canal ? By what means is the food made to pass through it? (10) 6. How is the bone of the upper arm (humerus) attached to the body ? How and by what means can this bone be moved, and why can it be moved more freely than the bone of the leg at the hip-joint? (10) ^ 7. What do you understand by the expression "the clotting of blood '?ELEMENTARY I'HYSIOLOGY 246 Wli.-it changes take place in blood when it clots ? Is there anv other fluid in the iKKly wh.ch clots like hlood, nn.l if so, ^vhat is it ? ^ i t o. \\ hat are Ih milk so largely iisi an article ol food ? r. Vx,,"'"'^ '"^^ I'luou, 11 so, wnai is it i* dol b What are the several foo.l-stuffs which are found in milk? Why is .mik so largely used as an article of food, and what makes it so desirable as „nrL^i I ''y^"^"'' ^'^""2 person is so easily able to stand ui)i.ght and mamtain an erect position. Why does a person in the erect position fall down "in a heap" when he receives a violent blow on The 10. What is the shape and appearance of a kidney? What is the cenelal structure of a kidney? What is the exact use to the body of the worl" ti e kidneys perform ? ^ 11. In what way are the spinal nerves connected directly with the spinal cord ? In what way would you have to injure these connections in one person so that he could feel with his fingers but not move his arm, and in another person so that he could move his arm but not feel with his fingers ' (10) • 1^^]'''^^ll"- " ^^'l''^ 'P°^ " ■ 1-1"^ can you show that there IS a blind spot in each of your own eyes? What do vou learn from the existence of this "blind spot" as to how you see the objects around y^"- (10)V INDEX ABD Abdomen, i, S9> 6i, 70 — organs of, 70 — muscles of, 46, 48, 152 — walls of, 152 Absorbent system, 6, 8, 112 Absorption, III — by blood-vessels, 112 — by lymphatics, 112 — by villi, 114 Acetabulum, 30 Adam's apple, 140 Adipose tissue, 103 Afferent nerve fibres, 177 Air, complementary, 144 — composition, 146 — expired, 146 — inspired, 146 — residual, 143 — supplemental, 143 Air-cells of lungs, 66, 141 Air-passages, 64, 140 Albumen, 79, 83 Albuminoids, 79, 83, 104 Albuminous substances, 104 Alimentary canal, 72, 94 — system, 4 Ammonia, 78 Amoeba, 118 Amyloids, 79 Anatomy, i Animal nitrogenous foods, 83 — physiology, i Ankle, 31, 32 Antihelix, 217 Antitragus, 217 Aorta, 125, 128 BLO Aqueous humour, 208 Arachnoid membrane, 179, 186 Arms, 4, 25, 48, 49 — bones of, 25 — muscles of, 48 Arterial blood, 120, 143 Arteries, 6, 68, 120, 130 — pulmonary, 125 — renal, 170 Artery, hepatic, 155, 156 Articulations (see Joints) Artificial digestion, 103 Arytenoid cartilages, 223 Ash, 78 Asphyxia, 146 Atlas, 23, 38 Auditory bones, 218 — canal, 218 — nerve, 184, 220 Auricles, 123 Axis, 23, 38 Backbone, 2, 12, 13, 14 Ball-and-socket joints, 37 Biceps muscle, 47, 49 Bicuspid teeth, 87 — valve, 128 Bile, 9, 107 — capillaries, 157 Bladder, 73, 17?. Bladebone, 25 Blind intestine, 72 — spot, 213 Blood, 117 — arterial, 120, 143ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY 248 BLO Blood, circulation of, 135 — coagulation of, 118 — colour of, 119 — composition of, 120 — defibrinated, 119 — quantity of, 120 — sources of gain to, 173 — sources of loss to, 172 — system, 6, 7 — temperature of, 120 — uses of, 120 * — venous, 120, 143 Blood-vessels, 6, 7, 68, 124, 130 Body, general build of, i — divisions of, i — cavities of, 59 Bone-ash, 40, 80 — cancellous tissue of, 41 — compact tissue of, 41 — composition of, 40 — hardness of, 40 — marrow of, 42 — structure of, 41 Bones (see Skeleton) — carpal, 28 — forms of, 41 — metacarpal, 28 — metatarsal, 31, 32 — nasal, 22 — tarsal, 31, 32 — turbinated, 22 Bones of ankle, 31, 32 — of arm, 25 — of cranium, 19 — of ear, 218 — of face, 22 — of fingers, 28, 30 — of foot, 29, 31 — of hands, 28 — of leg, 29, 30 — of limbs, 25 — of nose, 21, 22 — of skull, 19 — of trunk, 12 — of wrist, 28 Brain, 9, 179 Bread, 84 Breast-bone, 2, 15, 16, 35 Breathing, 145, 147 Bronchi, 66, 141 Bronchial tubes, 66, 141 Brunner's glands, 107 Bufify coat, 119 CIL Ci^iCUM, 72 Calcium carbonate, 80 — phosphate, 80 Calf of leg, 31 Camera obscura, 210 Canaliculi, 44 Canine teeth, 87 Capillaries, 6, 130 — flow of blood in, 135 — size, 130 — structure, 131 Capsule of crystalline lens, 208 — of kidney, 169 Carbon, 76 Carbonate of lime, 80 Carbonic acid gas, 76, 81 Cardiac aperture of stomach, 70 Carotid arteries, 137, 217 — veins, 137 Carpal bones, 28 Cartilage, 2, 34 — articular, 37 — costal, 35 — of the breast, 35 — of the ear, 216 — permanent, 35 — temporary, 35 — uses of, 35 Cartilages, intervertebral, 15, 35, 38 Casein, 79, 83 Cauda equina, 186 Cavities of the body, 59 ' Cement of tooth, 89 Cerebellum, 180, 182 Cerebral hemispheres, 180 Cerebro-spinal system, 9, 10, 174 Cerebrum, 180, 181 Cervical vertebrse, 12, 14, ic Chalk, 80 Cheek bones, 22 Chemical compound, 75 — element, 75 Chemistry of the body, 75 Chest, I, 16, 59, 66 Chlorine, 80 Chondrine, 35, 79 Chordse tendinese, 126 •Choroid, 205, 210 Chyle, no, 115 Chyme, 103, 109 — receptacle of, 116 Chymification, 104 Cilia, 142INDEX CIL Ciliary ligament, 207 — motion, 142 — muscle, 208 — processes, 206 Ciliated epithelium, 22S Circulation of blood, 135 — coronary, 138 — portal, 155 — proofs of, 138 — pulmonary, 135, 136 Circulatory system, 6 Circumvallate papilla, 197 Clavicle, 25, 26 Clot, 118 Coagulation of blood, II8, 119 Coccyx, 13 Cochlea, 219 Collar-bone, 25, 26 Colon, 72 Colour-blindness, 214 Colours, complementary, 214 Coiumnje carnete, 125 Columnar epithelium, 228 Combustion, 78 Common duct, 158 — salt, 80 Common sensations, 193 Compact tissue of bone, 42 Complemental air, 144 Complementary colours, 214 Complete joints, 37 Compound, chemical, 75 Concha, 217 Condyles of occipital bone, 21 Conjunctiva, 202 Convolutions of the brain, l8l Cords, vocal, 6, 223, 224 Cornea, 205, 210 Coronary arteries, 12S, 138 — circulation, 138 — veins, 128, 138 Corpuscles of blood, 117 Costal arches, 15 — cartilages, 16 Coughing, 152 Cranial nerves, 183 Cranium, 19 Cricoid, 140 Crystalline lens, 207, 2IO Curds, 83 Cuticle, 161 Cystic duct, 158 Daily waste, 84 FAS Death stiffening, 48 Decay, 78 Detibrinated blood, 119 Deglutition, 98 Dentine, 88 Dermis, 163 Diaphragm, 60, 61, 149, 150 Diet, 84 Digestion, 93 — salivary, 96 — gastric, 103 — intestinal, 108 Digestive system, 4 Dissection of the heart, 122 Dorsal vetebrje, 12, 14, 15 Drinking and eating, 99 Drum of ear, 218 Ductless glands, 93 Duodenum, 71 Dura mater, 179, 186 Ear, 216 — bones of, 2l8 — outer, 216 — middle, 118 — inner, 219 Efferent nerve fibres, 177 Eggs, 85 Elbow joint, 34 Elements in the body, 75 Enamel, 89, 91 Endolymph, 220 Endothelium, 227 Epidermis, 161 Epiglottis, 64, 223 Epithelium, 226 Erect position of the body, 49 Ethmoid bone, 21, 62, 199 Eustachian tubes, 65, 217, 218 Excretory organs, 9 Expiration, 151 Extensor muscles, 47 Eye, 202 Eyeball, 204 — muscles of, 203 Eyelids, 202 Eye-sockets, 23 Face and neck, 62 Face, bones of, 62 Facial nerves, 184, 217 Fang of tooth, 87, 88 Fasciculi, 51, 52250 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY FAT Fats and oils, 79, 84 Fatty tissue, 103 of skin, 163 Femur, 29, 31, 41 Fenestra ovalis, 217 — rotunda, 219 Fibres, muscular, 51 Fibrillce, 53 Fibrin, 79, 83, 118 Fibula, 31 Filiform papilltc, 197 Flavour, 198 Flexor muscles, 47 Flour, 83 Food passage, 4, 63 Foods, 81, 82 — mineral, 84 Foot, arched form of, 36 — bones of, 31, 32 — section of, 36 Foramen magnum, 21 Forearm, 27 Frontal bone, 21 Fungiform papillae, 197 Gall bladder, 72, 158 Ganglia, 174 Ganglionic system, 11, 174 Gastric digestion, 103 — fluid, loi antiseptic properties of, 102 composition of, 102 Gelatine, 79, 83 Gelatinoids, 79 General build of the body, i Glands, ductless, 93 — excreting, 93 — gastric, loi — intestinal, 107 lachrymal, 203 — mucous, 94 — nature of, 93 — parotid, 94 — peptic, loi — salivary, 94 — secreting, 93 — sublingual, 95 — submaxillary, 95 Glenoid cavity, 25 Globulin, 79 Glossopharyngeal nerves, 184 Glottis, 64 INC Glucose, 79 Gluten, 83 Glycogen, 79, 159 Grape sugar, 79 Gullet, 5, 63, 68, 70, 98 Gum, 84 Hair, 166 — muscles of, 167 Hand, bones of, 28 Haversian canals, 43 Hasmoglobin, 119 Head, bones of, 19 — motions of, 23 Hearing, 220 Heart, 66, 122 — action of, 132 — auricles of, 125 — beating of, 134 — dissection of, 122 — fibres of, 52 — sheep's, 122 — sounds of, 134 — valves of, 127 — ventricles of, 125 — vessels of, 125 Heat-producing foods, 86 Heel, 32 Helix, 217 Hemispheres of brain, 180 Hepatic arterj', 155, 156 — cells, 157 — duct, 155 — lobules, 156 — vein, 155, 156 Hiccough, 152 Hinge joints, 37 Hip joint, 13, 30, 37, £7 Hollow muscles, 47 How we breathe, 147 Humerus, 25, 26 Hydrogen, 76 Hyoid bone, 140 Ileo-C/ECAL valve, no Ileum, 72 Ilium, 30 Illusions, 193 Immovable joints, 37 Imperfect joints, 37, 38 Incisor tooth, 87251 INDEX INC Incomplete joints, 37 Incus, 218 Inferior maxilla, 22 — turbinated bones, 22 — vena cava, 125 Inorganic foods, 84 — matter of the body, 79 Inspiration, 149 Instep bones, 32 Integument, l6l Intercostal muscles, 60, 149 Internal ear, 219 Interlobular veins, 156 Intervertebral cartilages, 35, 38 Intestines, 6, 70, 106 — digestion in, 107 — glands of, 107 — large, 72, 110 — small, 71, 106 — structure of, 106 Intralobular veins, 156 Iris, 206, 210, 211 — muscular fibres of, 206 Ischium, 30 Ivory, 88 Jejunum, 72 Joint, 34 — ankle, 32, 36 — elbow, 27, 34 — hip, 30, 37 — knee, 32 ■— shoulder, 27, 34 — wrist, 28 Joints, 34 — ball and socket, 37 — gliding, 37 — hinge, 37 — immovable, 37 — imperfect or incomplete, 38 — movable, 37 — perfect, 37 — pivot, 38 Jumping, 50 Kidneys, 9, 72, 81, 169 — capsule of, 169 — circulation in, 171 — excretion of, 172 — structure of, 170 — vessels of, 170 Knee joint, 32 LYM Labyrinth of ear, 219 Lachrymal bones, 22 — fluid, 203 — glands, 203 Lacteals, 114 Lactose, 79 Lacunae, 43 Large intestine, 72 Larynx, 6, 9, 64, 140, 222 — cartilages of, 140, 223 — muscles of, 224 — structure of, 222 Lateral processes of vertebrse, 14 Laughing, 152 Left auricle, 125 — ventricle, 125 Legs, bones of, 30 Legumen, 83 Levers, 54 — first order, 54, 56 — second order, 55, 57 — third order, 56, 58 — of the body, 56 Ligaments, 34 — of breast, 35 — of elbow, 34 — of hip, 37 — of shoulder, 3^ Limbs, bones of, 25 — compared, 29 Liquor sanguinis, 117 Liver, 9, 72, 153 — circulation in, 156 — secretion of, 158 — structure of, 155 — vessels of, 154 Lobe of ear, 217 Lobulated glands, 94 Lobules of liver, 155 — of lung, 142 Long sight, 212 Lower jaw, 22 Lumbar vertebrce, 12, 14, 15, 38 Lungs, 6, 7, 9, 66, 81, 140, 142 Lymph, 116 Lymphatic capillaries, 112, 116 — ducts, 115, 116 — glands, 113, 115 — system, 6, 8, 112 — vessels, 113, 115, 116 Lymphatics, 113 — of arm, 113 — of head and thorax, 114252 ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY MAC Macula lutea, 213 Malar bone, 22 Malleus, 218 Malpighian capsules of kidney, 171 — layer of skin, 162 Marrow, 42 Mastication, 89 Maxillary bones, 22 Medulla oblongata, 180, 183 Medullary cavity of bone, 42 Medullary portion of kidney, 170 Membrane, arachnoid, 179, 186 — mucous, 94, 106, 142, 162, 197 — secreting, 93, 94 — serous, 99 — tympanic, 218 Membranous labyrinth, 219 Mesenteries, 73 Metacarpal bones, 28 Metatarsal bones, 31, 32 Middle ear, 218 Midriff, 61 Milk, 85 Milk sugar, 79 Milk teeth, 87 Milt, 72 Mineral foods, 84 Mineral matter in body, 78, 79 Mitral valve, 128 Mixed diet, 85 Model foods, 85 Modiolus, 219 Molar teeth, 87 Motor nerve fibres, 177, 189 Motores oculi, 184 Mouth, 62 Movable joints, 37 Mucous glands, 94 Mucous membrane, 94, 106, 142, 162, 197 Muscles, 4, 45 — abdominal, 152 — biceps, 47, 49 — contraction of, 46 — extensor, 47 — flexor, 47 — general characters of, 45 — hollow, 47 — intercostal, 60, 149 — involuntary, 4, 52, 53 — keeping body erect, 49 — of arm, 48, 49 — of eyeball, 203 0RJ3 Muscles of face and neck, 47 — of larynx, 224 — of trunk, 46, 48 — structure of, 51 — voluntary, 4, 51 Muscular fibres, 51 involuntary, 46 of heart, 52, 53 voluntary, 46, 51 — system, 4, 5, 45 Myosm, 48, 79, 83 Nares, posterior, 64 Nasal bones, 22, 62, 200 — cavities, 22, 62, 200 — ducts, 204 Neck and face, 62 Nerve centres, 176 — fibres, 176 — tissue, 176 Nerves, 174 — cerebro-spinal, 186 — cranial, 183 — functions of, 176 — motor, 177, 189 — sensory, 177, 189 — spinal, 186 Nervous system, 9, 174 cerebro-spinal, 174 sympathetic or ganglionic, 174 Neurilemma, 176 Nitrogen, 77 Nitrogenous compounds, 78 — foods, 83 Non-nitrogenous compounds, 78 — foods, 83 Nose, 62, 199 — bones of, 62 Objective sensations, 193 Occipital bone, 21 Odontoid peg, 23, 38 GEsoi^hagus, 5, 63, 68, 70, 98 Oils and fats, 79, 84 Olecranon process, 28 Olfactory nerves, 184 Optic nerves, 184, 213 Orbicularis muscle, 203 Orbicular ligament, 27 Orbits of eyes, 23, 202INDEX ORG Organic compounds, 78 Organs, 2 — systems of, 2 Ossa innominata, 30 Osseous labyrinth, 219 — system, 2 Otoliths, 220 Oxidation in the body, 81 Oxygen, 75 Pacinian bodies, 195 Palatal bones, 22 Palate, hard, 62 — soft, 62 Pancreas, 72 — function of, 108 Pancreatic juice, 107, 108 Papillae of dermis, 163, 195 — of tongue, 197 Papillary muscles, 125 Parietal bones, 21, 36 Parotid glands, 94 Patella, 32 Pelvis, 13, 37 — bones of, 30 — of kidney, 170 Pepsin, 102 Peptic glands, loi Peptones, 104 Perfect joints, 37 Pericardium, 69, 123 Perilymph, 220 Periosteum, 43 Peritoneum, 73, 99 Permanent teeth, 88 Perspiration, 82, 164 Peyer's glands, 107 Phalanges of fingers, 30 — of toes, 32 Pharynx, 5, 62, 64 — passages of, 64 Phosphate of lime, 80 Photographer's camera, 211 Physiology, I Pia mater, 179, 186 Pinna of ear, 216 Pivot joints, 38 Plasma, 117 Pleura, 69 Pneumogastric nerves, 185 Pons Varolii, 180 Pores of skin, 161, 164 SAL Portal canals, 155 — circulation, 156 — vein, 155 Posterior nares, 64 Premolar teeth, 87 Process, odontoid, 23, 38 Processes of vertebrce, 13 Products of combustion, 78 Pronation, 27 Proteids, 79 Protoplasm, 117 Ptyalin, 96 Pubis, 30 Pulmonary arteries, 125 — circulation, 136 — veins, 125, 127 Pulp cavity, 89 Pulp of tooth, 89 Pulse, 134 Pupil, 206 Putrefaction, 78 Pylorus, 70 Pyramids of kidney, 170 Quality of sounds, 225 Quantity of blood in body, i Receptaculum chyli, 116 Radius, 27, 29 Recti muscles, 203 Rectum, 72 Reflex action, 190 Renal artery, 170 — vein, 170 Rennet, 83 Residual air, 143 Respiration, 148 Respiratory movements, 150 — organs, 6 Rete mucosum, 162 Retina, 207, 210, 213 Ribs, 2, 15, 16, 148, 149 Right ventricle dissected, 12 Rigor mortis, 48 Roots of spinal nerves, 186 Rouleaux, 119 Running, 50 Sacrum, 13, 30 Saliva, 94, 96ELEMENTARY PHYSIOLOGY ^54 SAL Salivary glands, 94 of children, 97 Salt, 80 Sarcolemma, 52 Scapula, 2, 25, 26, 34 Scarf skin, 161 Sclerotic, 205, 210 Sebaceous glands, 167 Secreting glands, 93 Semicircular canals, 219 Semilunar valves, 127, 128 Sensations, 192 Sense, muscular, 193 Senses, 192 Sensibility of skin, 163 Sensory nerves, 177, 189 Serous membranes, 99 Serum, 99, 118 Sheep's heart, 122 Shin bone, 31 Short sight, 212 Shoulder, bones of, 2, 25, 26, 34 — joint, 34 Sighing, 152 Singing, 152 Skeleton, 3, 12 Skin, 9, 81, 82, 161 — sensibility of, 194 Skull. 4, 19 Small intestine, 71, 106 Smell, 199 — loss of, 200 Sneezing, 152 Sobbing, 152 Sockets of eyes, 23, 202 Sodium chloride, 80 Soft palate, 62 Sources of loss to blood, 81 Special sensations, 193 Speech, 152 Sphenoid bone, 21, 62 Sphincter of pylorus, loi Spinal column, 12 — canal, 15 — cord, 9, 15, 186 — nerves, 186 Spinous processes of vertebrDS, 14 Spleen, 72, 93 Splint bone, 31 Stapes, 218 Starch, 79, 83 Stationary air, 143 Sternum, 2, 15, 16, 35 TIS Stomach, 6, 70, 99 — structure, 99 Striped muscular fibres, 53 Subcutaneous tissue, 163 Subjective sensations, 193 Sublingual glands, 95 Submaxillary glands, 95 Sudoriferous glands, 164, 165 Sugar, 84 Superior maxilla, 22 — vena cava, 125 Suspensory ligament, 208 Sutures, 36, 37 Swallowing, 98 Sweat, 82, 164, 165 — glands, 93, 164, 165 Sweetbread, 72 Sympathetic system, 9, 174 Synovia, 38 Synovial membrane, 38 — cavities, 36, 38 Syntonin, 83 Systemic circulation, 136 Systems of organs, 2 Tactile corpuscles, 195 Tarsal bones, 31, 32 Taste, 197 Tear bones, 22 Teeth, 87 — kinds of, 88 — of carnivorous animals, 91 — of herbivorous animals, 91 — permanent, 88 — temporary or milk, 87 Temperature of the blood, 120. — of the body, 82, 164 Temporal bones, 21, 217 Temporary teeth, 87 Tendons, 46 Thigh bone, 29, 31 Thoracic duct, 115, 116 Thorax, i, 16, 59, 66 — organs of, 66 — walls of, 16 Thyroid cartilage, 140 Tibia, 29, 31 Tidal air, 143 Tissue-forming foods, 86 Tissues. 2 — adipose, 103 — muscular, 51INDEX TON Tongue, 197 Tooth, structure of, 87 Touch, 193 Touch corpuscles, 195 Trachea, 6, 7, 9. 63, 66, 140 Tragus nerve, 217 Transverse colon, 72 Tricuspid valve, 127 Trigeminal nerves, 184 Trunk, i — bones of, 12 — muscles of, 46, 48 Tubular glands, 93 Turbinated bones, 22, 62 Tympanic membrane, 218 Tympanum, 218 Ulna, 26, 27 Unstriped muscular fibres, 53 Upper jaw, 22 Urea, 9, 27, 29, 82, 172 Ureters, 73, 170, 172 Urethra, 172 Urine, 172 Uriniferous tubes, 171 Valves, bicuspid or mitral, 128 — ileo-csecal, 110' — of heart, 127 — of veins, 131 — semilunar, 128 • — tricuspid, 127 Valvulse conniventes, lo6 Vegetable fibrin, 83 —■ foods, 83 Veins, 6, 68, 120, 131 YEL Veins, valves of, 131 Venffi cavaj, 125 Venous blood, 120, 143 Ventilation, 147 Ventricles of heart, 124 Vertebrae, 12, 13, 25, 38 Vertebral arches, 13 — column, 2, 12, 13, 14 Vertebrate animals, 4 Vessels of kidney, 170 — of liver, 154 Vestibule, 219 Vibrations and sound, 225 Villi, 107, 113, 114 Vision, 202 Vitreous humour, 208 Vocal cords, 6, 223, 224 Voice, 222 Voice box, 6, 64, 222 Voluntary muscles, 46 Vomer, 22 Walking, 49 Waste and repair, 81 Water, 77, 79 — composition of, 77 — in body, 79, 81 Whey, 83 White corpuscles of blood, 117 Windpipe, 6, 7, 9, 63, 66, 140 Wisdom teeth, 88 Wrist, 28 Yawning, 152 Yellow spot, 213 PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, LONDON AND BECCLES.ELEMENTARY SCIENCE MANUALS Written specially to meet the requirements of the Elementaey Stage OF SciENOii Subjects as laid down in the Syllabus of thb Directory of the Science and Art Uepautment. Practical Plane and Solid Geometuy. Including Ciiapbic Arith- metic. By I. II. M0UUI8. 2s. GeOMETIUCAL DitAWING FOE AUT tsTUDiiNT:!. Uy I. H. Mottuis. Kcvlscd and Kniarged. Is. 6ci. Text-Book on Practical, Solid, oit DisscKiPiivE Geometuv. By David Allan Low. Tart I., 2s. Part 11., 3s. An Introduction to Machine Drawing and Design. By David Allan Low. W itb 97 Illustrations and Diagrams. 2s. Building Construction. By Edward J. Bukuell. With 308 Illus- trations and Working Drawings. 2s. 6cZ. An Elementary Course of Mathe- matics. Containing Arithmetic; Euclid (Book I., with Deductions and Exercises); and Algebra. Revised and Enlarged. 2s. 6d. Theoretical Mechanics. In- cluding Hydrostatics and Pneumatics. By J. E. Taylor. M.A., B.Sc. (Lond.). With numerous Examples and Answers, and 175 Diagrams and Illustrations. 2s. 6d. Theoretical Mechanics—Solids. By J. E. Taylor, M.A., B.Sc. (Lond.). With 163 Illustrations, 120 Worked Examples, and over 500 Examples from Examination Papers, etc. 2s. 6d. Theoretical Mechanics—Fluids. By J. E. Taylor, M.A., B.Sc. (Lond.). With 122 lUustrations.numerous Worked Examples, and about 500 Examples from Exammation Papers, etc. 2s. Gd. A Manual of Mechanics. With 13a Illustrations and Diagrams, and 188 Examples, with Answers. By T. M. GooDEVE, M.A. 2s. 6d. Sound, Light, and Heat. By Mark R. Wright, M.A. With J60 Diagrams and Illustrations. 2s. ed. Physics. Alternative Course. By BIark R. Wright, M.A. 242 Illustra- tions. 2s. 6d. Elementary Practical Physics : a Laboratory Manual for use in Organ- ised Science Schools. By W. Watson, B.Sc. With 119 Illustrations and 193 Exercises. 2s. 6d. Magnetism and Electricity. By A. W. PoYSEu, M.A. 235 lUuBtratiuiiB. 2s. 6d. Organic Chemistry : the Fatty CoMi'ouNDs. By U. Lloyd Wuitei.ey, F.I.C., F.C.S. 45 Illustrations. 3». 6^. Inorganic Chemistry,Theoretical ANij Practical. By Wiiliam Jago, F.C.S., F.l.C. With 49 Woodcuts and numerous Questions and Exercises. 28. 6d. An Introduction to Practical Inorganic Chemistry". By William Jago, F.C.S., F.l.C. js. 6d. Elementary Practical Chemis- try: a Laboratory Manual for use in Organised Science Schools. By G. S Newth, F.l.C, F.C.S. With 108 Illus- trations and 254 Experiments. 2s. 6d. Practical Chemistry: the Prin- cif)les of Qualitative Analysis. By William A. Tilden, D.Sc. is. 6d. Elementary Inorganic Chemis- try. By W. FuRNEAUX. 2s. 6d. Elementary G eology. By Charles Bird, B.A., F.G.S. With Coloured Geo- logical Map of the British Islands, and 247 Illustrations. 2s. 6d. Human Physiology. By William FURNBAUX, F.R.G.S. With 218 Illus- trations. 2s. 6d. A Course op Practical Ele- mentary Biology. By J. Bldgood, B.Sc. With 226 llhistrations. 4s. 6d. Elementary Botany. By Henry Elmonds, B.Sc. London. 319 Woodcuts. 2s. 6d. Steam. By William Ripper. With 142 Illustrations. 2s. 6d. Elementary Physiography. By J. Thornton, M.A. With 12 Maps and 249 Illustrations. 2s. 6d. Agriculture. By Henry J. Webb, Ph.D. 34 Illustrations. 2s. ed. Hygiene. By J. Lane Notter, M.A., M.D. (Dublin), and R. H. Firth, F.R.C.S. With 83 Illustrations. 2s. 6d. Metallurgy. By E. L. Rhead. With 94 Illustrations. 3s. tid. LONGMANS, GEEEN, AND CO. LONDON, NEW YORK, AND BOMBAYi ,3 i >