146 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. Fractures are of common occurrence, and are usually recognised by local irregularity and tenderness of the spine, and the sudden development of motor symptoms. The higher up in the spinal column the fracture or dislocation lies-thus affecting the cord-the greater will be the resulting paralysis ; and consequently respiration may be earned on by the diaphragm alone, all the other nerves save the phrenic being inactive. iTTimediate Tveatment.~hx most cases a plaster jacket should be applied in the horizontal position (see Chap. xxii.). In extreme cases the patient should be laid at once on a water-bed, and the site of the lesion, together with the condition of the bladder and rectum, ascertained. Defective innei-vation of the parts supplied beyond the seat of the lesion predisposes to trophic changes, bed-sores, and inflammations. The greatest care must be exercised in drawing off the urine, which should be done at regular intervals with a disin- fected catheter. The overflow of an over-distended bladder must not be taken for normal micturition. Attendajit Dangers.—patient is specially liable to pulmonary troubles. Hypostatic congestion, bronchitis, and inflammation may prove speedily fatal, for he may have lost the power of coughing. At points of pressure bed-sores arise ; hence the use of cages to protect the toes, and the necessity for shilting the position daily to some slight extent, and keeping the patient dry (p. 134). Careful investigation and records should be made at intervals of the extent and nature of the paralysis—sensory or motor, &c., the condition of the various reflexes, and the existence or development of hyper- aesthetic areas or zones. _ Prognosis.—The slightest return of motor power within the first six months, any improvement in the cystitis which is so generally met with, or a more healthy condition and healing of the bed-sores, are favourable prognostics. {2) Broken ribs arise mostly from blows and squeezes, but may also be caused by violent muscular action on the part of the patient himself, as, for example, in coughing. The patient endeavours to keep the part at rest, and so abstains from taking a long breath, any attempt at which causes severe local pain. If the pleura be wounded, he would fain cough, but dare not do so. If the fragments have injured the lung, he may expectorate blood. On manipulation, local tenderness is manifest, and crepitus may sometimes be made out ; but too active endeavours to elicit this should not be made. The stethescope may help; as a rule, the methods referred to on p. 120 are most serviceable ; and pain on pressing the rib at a distance from the injury indicates fracture. Where fracture exists, a species of plaster cuirass may be formed out of overlapping strips running from spine to sternum of the whole affected side. In doubtful cases it is always well to give support, and a Domet-roller, disposed in a series of sloping figure- of-eight turns around the thorax, will do what is necessary. For great dyspnoea after thoracic injuries, bleeding has been used with benefit.