EMERGENCY CASES. 8a f5n<^er may be used to guide the tube past the epiglottis when there is much coughing and spasm of the constrictors. As soon as the tube is into the cesophagus, the patient's head must be brought forward, and the tube pushed on with a somewhat upward lift. Should the patient's jaws be voluntarily or involuntarily locked, considerable force may be required to force them open. A screw-gag is made for the purpose; but failing this, a screw-driver or similar instrument inserted between the teeth will suffice to make a beginning, wedges of wood or cork can then be introduced to keep the ground once°gained, and the jaws may be forced open more and more until sufficient room is gained to pass the tube. To prevent its being bitten, either side-gags of wood or cork may be kept in place, or the centrally-perforated one may be used. Syphoti Substitute /or Stomach-pump.—K\\ that is really required is an india-rubber tube, which, when passed into the stomach, is long enough to have its end brought below the level of the stomach, so as to produce syphon action. After the tube is in the stomach, fluid must be poured down by a funnel-spout, a syringe, or even from the operator's mouth on an emergency (Harvey). When the tube is filled, its outer end must be compressed, and brought lower than the end within the stomach, when the fluid contents of the stomach will flow out, by syphon action. As the exhausting action is gentle, unless a very long tube is used, this method, while equally efficient, is safer than the stomach-pump, as there is less risk of injuring the mucous membrane. One great advantage, moreover, is the impossibility of its going out of order, as it contains no valves. li desired, it would be easy to attach a T-tube, so as to have a different entrance and exit pipe, as already indicated in the fore- going section on the stomach-pump. General Treatment.—(i) Get rid of as much poison as may still remain unabsorbed in the system. (2) Neutrahse it, and dirninish its effects. (3) Give chemical and physiological antidotes, and treat symptoms. I. For poisons taken by the mouth and not already ejected, give emetics:— (1) Sulphate of zinc 20-30 grs. in half a tumbler of warm water. (2) Ipecacuanha in powder, in 15 to 30 gr. doses in warm water, or 3iij to 3vj doses of Vinum Ipecacuanhae. (3) Mustard, a table-spoonful in a tumbler of warm water. (4) Apojnorphia, ^ grain hypodermically ; y% gr. by the mouth (one of the least depressing and most rapid emetics). (5) Sulphate of copper, 10 grs. in warm water (apt to irritate). (6) Tepid water, large draughts of, soapy, greasy, or salt— followed by irritation of the fauces with the finger or a feather. It necessary, any of these emetics may be repeated once or twice. Corrosive and the more irritant poisons which damage the mucous membrane of the stomach, contra-indicate emetics, and still more the use of the stomach-pump. However, they usually cause vomiting by their own action. Narcotics, such as morphia and opium (unless in excessive quantities, when it irritates), make vomiting extremely difficult.