A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 235 if during healing of the wound care be taken to bandage the stump well and keep the knee flexed, section of the tendo Achillis is seldom necessary. When the stump has healed, the patient bears his weight on what remains of the sole of the foot. At first there may be aching and weakness as the arch of the foot sinks down. After this has occurred there will be no further trouble, and the only artificial limb required is a stiff-soled boot, lacing well above the ankle, and having cork or other stuffing to fill the place of the parts of the foot which have been lost. For a Syme's or Pirogoff's amputation, a cheap and useful, though not ornamental, artificial limb consists of a bucket ending in a rounded leather end, sufficiently long to equalise the two limbs, and taking its bearing either on the face of the stump or at some of the points, before mentioned, above it. When an artificial foot is desired, the axis of movement of the artificial ankle should not be below the level of the stump, as it is usually made, but is more naturally placed slightly above it. Moreover, and what is of greater importance, the face of the stump should rest not on the foot-portion—but on the leg-portion of the artificial limb, which should then be joiiited to the foot-part. If this is done, the face of the stump has weight to bear, but has no friction. By the usual method—where the stump rests on the foot-piece—friction on the face of the stump is inevitable, and probably explains why so many otherwise good stumps are comparatively useless for the "bearing" of an artificial limb. (i!'.) Artificial Ankle- and Foot-Joints.—Q>i these there are no end. The first point to understand is—What can an artificial ankle- and foot-joint not do, that a natural one does? Next, what may it be expected to do? A minute's reflection will make it plain that no artificial jomt can imitate active muscular contraction—e.^., forcible extension of the foot as in rising on the toes, and that the active balancmg lateral movements of the foot can never be replaced if the natural mechanism be lost. What can an artificial foot and ankle theii do ? It can imitate the appearance and sovie of the movements of the original, and permit of a more or less haltmg gait. Marey, in his analysis of the human step in walking, has shown that the traiectory of the knee of the supporting leg is nearly m a straight line—z.e., that the knee joint neither rises nor falls as the leg passes from the position directed obliquely backward (as the heel comes down), through the vertical, to that sloping obliquely forwards as the toe leaves the ground. Owing to the active muscular changes at the ankle-joint, this is attained with a longer stride than would be otherwise possible. Without such an actively changing ankle and foot, the stride must be less, but the same straight-hne-trajectory of the knee can be obtained by ensuring that the leg from the knee downwards rolls forward on a sole, curved in the arc of a circle whose centre is at the knee-joint, and whose radius i! ^qual t° distance between the knee and the so e of he Jh's Pmduces the same effect as if the knee were the axle of a wheel and the so e of the foot part of the circumference. This curve of sole is