SURGICAL APPLICATIONS OF ELECTRICITY. 175 the wire in the opposite direction to the first. (2) When a second coil of wire is placed outside the first, and when in the latter a current is alternately allowed to flow and is interrupted, sudden currents are "induced" and run through the second coil in the reverse direction to those in the first or inner coil. The intensity of the induced currents in the second coil increases with the number of turns of wire which this coil contains and with its proximity to the first coil. In the faradic apparatus a special mechanism is provided lor automati- cally and rapidly making and breaking the first current. By adjusting the rheophores the induced current from the first, or both currents from the second coil, may be passed through the electrodes. When the rheophores are attached to the first coil, only the induced current passes through them—for reasons that we need not stop to discuss. The current thus utilised is therefore rapidly interrupted in one direction. When, however, the rheophores are connected with the outer or second coil, both currents—z'.^., those in opposite directions —are passed through the electrodes. For this reason (and also because these currents are generally intensified by numerous tjirns in the second coil) the physiological effects produced by the currents from it are greater than those produced by the first coil. A Magneto-faradic machine is sometimes used instead of the faradic current. The construction of this apparatus depends on the fact (l) that alterations in a magnet are produced by a bar of soft iron being brought near and then removed away from it, while at the same time the iron bar is itself magnetised and demagnetised in the process. And (2) that if the poles of the magnet and the iron bar are each surrounded by a coil of wire, each of the above changes is accom- panied by the development of an induced current of electricity in the surrounding coils. By turning a handle in one of these machines, two iron bars are made to revolve rapidly past the poles of a fixed magnet, and, by special arrangement of coils of wire, the currents thus induced in them can be led in to the rheophores to which electrodes are attached. The apparatus requires no galvanic cell, but needs some one to turn the handle, and for this reason, as well as because the shocks are found to be rougher, it is less used than the faradic apparatus. It is, however, not liable to go out of order, and may be used in hospitals where assistants are generally easily procured. Electro-Diagnosis is based upon variations which, in certain diseases of the nervous or muscular system, occur in the kind and extent of response of muscles to stimulus, applied by electricity either to the nerve alone or to the nerve and muscle together. As the subject mainly belongs to medical cases, we shall not do more than thus merely mention it in passing. Electro - Therapeutics. — In many cases of partial muscular paralysis, such as that from infantile paralysis, nerve lesion, or which follows long disuse from rheumatism, joint disease, or fracture, the application ol Electricity may with advantage be combined with iVIassage (Chap, xix.) and hot and cold douching. CatUion .'—When any lesion of the brain or spinal cord has caused