6 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. The bowels should be well opened the day before an operation, and no food should be allowed for at least four hours before anes- thetics are administered. In women, no operation should be undertaken during, or immediately before, the menstrual period. (2) Local Treatment.—The area of skin which may be covered by dressings should be thoroughly cleansed with soap and water, and afterwards also with turpentine, or with washing-soda, and all hairy parts shaved. Afterwards, a towel soaked in 1-20 carbolic lotion, or 1-2000 corrosive lotion, should be applied, and covered with a mackintosh. These proceedings should be carried out, if possible, the night before any operation. (3) Special Treatmcttt.—For operations about the face in men, the directions regarding shaving are especially necessary, as it is a troublesome delay for the surgeon to have this to do before he can begin the operation itself. In operations on the bladder, rectum, and perinseum, besides the previous opening medicine, the lower bowel should be cleared out by an enema, a few hours before the operation. Although this is the nurse's duty, the House-Surgeon must see that it is done. There are many cases where necessity precludes any preliminary treatment, except, perhaps, a hiuried cleansing with washing-soda or turpentine, and a nail-brush, to prepare for the more effective acting of the antiseptic lotion. The best that is possible under the circumstances must, of course, be the rule. Where plastic operations involving the transplanting of skin- flaps by stages from distant parts are to be undertaken, the parts which are to be held in apposition must be fixed in their place for some days before, so that the patient may be accustomed to the constraint. II. After Operation.—(i) ConstitiUional Treatment.—After any capital operation the patient is usually kept on milk-diet for a few days until the effects of the anesthetic have passed off. When patients complain of much pain, the best analgesic is opium, given as morphia, hypodermically or by the mouth. The amount of the dose will vary with the patient's tolerance of the drug; but it is best to begin with small doses—say, % of a. grain, which may be repeated if necessary. Children, aged people, and those with renal disease or bronchitis, bear opium badly. In sleeplessness, where there is no pain, paraldehyde, bromide of ammonium, chloral, sulphonal, and hyoscyamus, prove useful. As soon as digestion permits of it, fish or chicken is added to the diet (see Appendix £), and, as soon as possible, full hospital diet is ordered. If the bowels do not act of themselves, they should be opened on the third or fourth day by an enema or simple laxative. The tongue, as indicative of the state of the digestive system, should be looked at from time to time. The late Mr. Syme's favourite remedy in liver and stomach derangements was powders of rhubarb (grs. v.) and soda (grs. v.) given once or twice daily before meals for a few days; to this bismuth may sometimes be added with ad van-