A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 172 pole. Metals have been arranged in order according to the ease with which they are attacked. Thus, in dilute sulphuric acid, the order would be amalgamated zinc, ordinary zinc, iron, tin, lead, copper, silver, platmum, and carbon. The further apart the metals are in the series, the greater the difference in their "potential"—the greater the tendency for a current to flow from the one to the other in a " cell." Electro-Motive Force is the magnitude of the cause which produces the electric flow. It will, of course, vary with the metals chosen, and with the fluid in which they are immersed. Amalgamated zinc is generally chosen for the negative pole metal or negative plate; copper, silver pure or platinised, or carbon, for the other or ■positive plate. As the cell works, a layer of hydrogen gas tends to gather on the positive plate, a process which is caWed polarisation, and which is important because its effect is to interfere with the original current by sending one in the reverse direction. Polarisation is a frequent cause of disorder in batteries. To obviate it (i) the positive plate is made rough, so that the hydrogen may form air-bells and escape by rising to the surface. (2) Some substance which absorbs hydrogen by uniting with it is interposed between the two plates—e.g., binoxide of manganese in the Leclanche cell, bichromate of potash in the Grenet cell, sulphate of copper in the Daniell cell, &c. The electro-motive force is always the same for the combination of any two metals immersed in a given fluid to form a cell, however large or however small the surface of metal exposed to that fluid be. It has been likened to the '' head " of water, which is always the same for a given height to which a quantity of water may be raised, how- ever any other conditions as to size of pipe, &c., may vary. The electro-motive forces of a number of cells can lae superposed by coupling the cells together in series—i.e., connecting the positive plate of one cell to the negative of the next, and so on ; thus multiplying the electro-motive force by the number of cells em- ployed. The flow of Electricity is always more or less resisted, both within the cell [internal resistance), and there especially in the corroding fluid, which acts as a conductor; and also outside the cell [external resistance), in the wire or other conductor, which unites the two poles. The resistance, like that of a pipe to the flow of water through it, is in inverse proportion to the cross-section of the con- ductor, and in direct proportion to its length. Thus, the smaller the cross-section of the conductor, and the longer it is, the greater will be the resistance which it offers to a current of electricity, and vice ■versA. Hence, the larger the "plates" of a cell, the greater the cross-section of the fluid conductor between them, and so the less the " internar' resistance of the cell—a factor which can be still further diminished by bringing the "plates" nearer together. When the cells of a battery are united, not "in series," but '■'■in surface''— i.e., with all the positive poles, and all the negative poles joined to one another, the electro-motive force remains as that of a single cell, but