JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. 182 (/; ) For Cross-pieces.—In all cases of iron equal in breadth to that of the upright, but of half the thickness. AT B —The walkinr splint differs from the bed splint in coming down only'to the lower part of the thigh; in being somewhat stronger, and m having its lowest cross-bar longer (see Fig. 144). Unless where there is marked deformity, the first moulding of the upi-i<^ht is to be made from the sound side; and for this purpose the patient is made to stand upright, the affected limb being raised by supports until the pelvis is horizontal. ^ ...r 1 ■ -u Since Thomas first described his splint, he has simplified its shape. For ordinary subaciile and chronic cases the tmnk and lower-limb ± Fig. 144.—Diagram of Thomas's Hip Splint, side view {after Thomas). N.B.—The second bend beyond the arrow's point has now been given up. portions of the upright bar are each quite straight and parallel to one another, only not on the same plane. At the level of the buttock the bar is bent forwards at an angle of about 145° for 2 or 3 inches before being brought back to its former direction. Thus the plane of the lower part will be about I inch or IA inch in front of that of the upper part (Fig. 144). For acute cases with distinct angular deformity, the upper and lower portions of the splint must be kept at an angle so as to fit the patient's abnormal position. As the acute stage sub- sides, the splint may be gradually straightened. Position of Cross-pieces.—The to]3 and bottom ones are fixed ijy a rivet and washer to the two extremities of the upright bar. The intermediate cross-piece is attached just below the buttock bend, i.e., from I to 2 inches below the middle of the upright according to the size of the spHnt. It should grasp the patient's thigh just below the groin (see Figs. 142, 143, and 145). Length of Cross-pieces.—Each cross-piece should be long enough to embrace more than two-thirds of the patient's trunk, thigh, and leg respectively. In practice, Thomas re- commends the top cross-piece to be 2 inches less than the full length of the vertical bar, the mid cross-piece to be about \\ inch more than half the length Fig. T45.—Thomas's Walking Hip Splint applied.