6$ A SURGICAL HANDBOOK, and decided action is necessaiy-come both Surgical Cases (strictly so called), and Cases of Poisoning. A. Surgical Emergency Cases. In the prognosis of surgical cases, as of others, we have to consider remote as well as immediate dangers. The latter draw attention to themselves, but the former, only appreciated by experience, are apt to be unheeded until the time for their possible remedy has gone. Under the head of "emergency" cases we wish, therefore, to allude briefly to the diagnosis and treatment of cases involving both classes of danger. (i) Retention of Urine, almost invariably found in men. If recent, causes great pain and feeling of distention, and demands relief by the patient's symptoms no less than by the dangers which threaten him. If left to itself, the pressure, aided by ulceration behind the stricture, may cause a rupture of the urethra, and extravasation of urine into the pennseum, or, with only a slight blow on the abdomen, a still more serious pelvic, or abdominal extravasation from a rupture of the bladder. Failing these, suppression of urine, and urEemic poisoning may occur, from backward pressure upon the kidneys, or there may be a long standing after-paralysis of the bladder. The cause of ike refeniion may be anything that obstructs the canal of the urethra—whether stricture, enlargement of the prostate, inflammation or abscess of the body of the penis, urethral calculus, or spasm of the constrictor. (Retention due to paralysis of the bladder is a serious symptom of a more extensive paralysis.) The diagnosis of the retention is made by percussion and palpation just above the pubes, taken together with the previous history. The distended bladder can often be made out as a fluctuating tumour, reaching even as far as the umbilicus, and can be felt from the rectum. The diagnosis of the cause of the retention will vary with the conditions. (a.) Retention from Stricture of the Urethra.—Here we have generally the history of a gradually diminishing stream with painful and frequent micturition, following sooner or later after gonorrhcEa or an injury to the perinseum; exposure to cold, or a bout of drinking, may determine the complete obstruction. By passing the finger gently along the urethra from the outside, the amount of callous thickening in and around the tube can be recognised. When an urgent case of stricture is brought to hospital, the patient should be put to bed, if possible, before any effort is made to treat him. Treatment.—Having gently ascertained the amount of bladder distention, the house-surgeon selects a medium-sized (say number 8, English) catheter, and after it has been well oiled—(using carbolic 1-40, or eucalyptus I-12) passes it along the urethra*to e-xplore its condition and find the seat of stricture. In most cases, this will be just in front of the triangular ligament, but there may be several