253 APPENDIX. can be got in a crude state from the tar distillers, by gentlemen who prefer to make the preparation themselves. Those who may- prefer it ready prepared can get it from Mr. Critchley, 88 Upper Pitt Street, Liverpool. Now as to the various modes of application. When I desire its action as a moist application, I cover the locality, or bury a portion of the limb in the prepared sawdust, immediately covering the sawdust with either guttapercha tissue or sheets of tinfoil. If I am using it for compound injury to the hand or wrist, a bare sheet- iron splint is applied and strapped to the part for the purpose of fi.vation, and the whole is then covered with an ample quantity of the dust, sustained by a cloth and bandages. When using it for a com- pound fracture of the forearm, two hollow sheet-iron splints of suitable length are selected ; their concavities are well filled up with sawdust, and applied so as to protect the wound, as well as to fix the fracture. Should two splints not sufficiently cover them, a third of a similar pattern is added. The same plan is followed with compound fractures of the humerus. The reader will note that in using the sawdust to injui-ies of the hand, the support is applied primarily, the dust after. I follow the same rule with compound injuries of the ankle and foot; the means of fixation, if practicable, is first applied, then the dust. Occasionally, of course, this is not possible, and the order has to be re- versed. In compound fractures of the leg I select an iron trough boot, whicH I half fill with sawdust and place the limb on the bed of dust, then reduce the deformity; fill up the trough as high as possible with dust, then apply my bare sheet-iron splints, lining them with the dust contained in the trough. For compound injuries of the knee-joint, and fractures of the thigh, I apply my ring splint, with its special mode of fixed extension, then bury the limb in the dust, which is sustained by a bedroom towel and a few bandages." [Thomas). E. Sick-Eoom Cookery Receipts. Since the proper cooking and serving-up of food are so important in the nutrition of patients, we make no apology for adding a series of well-tried sick-room cookery receipts to our Surgical Handbook. For these we are entirely indebted to Miss A. M. Griggs, who has tested their value, and makes frequent use of them in her classes. Soups and Beef Tea. Chicken Soup. Required—A young chicken (the remains of the chicken, of which the breast was used in the chicken panada, p 2i;8, may be utilized). 2 pints fresh cold water. Yolks of 2 eggs, K teaspoonful salt, i giU of cream. 12 peppercorns. Slice of dry toast, I blade of mace. Small "bouquet garni" (i.e., a sprig of thyme, parsley, and bayleaf). Cut the chicken into small joints, remove the skin, and put the joints mto a basm with sufficient boiling water to cover them, and allow to