66 EMERGENCY CASES. strictures. Next, a soft instrument, either india-rubber or one of the French black probe-pointed kinds, is to be taken and an effort made to pass it. Successively smaller numbers must be tried, and should the smallest fail, metal catheters must be used. In proportion as greater command is obtained with these by their rigidity, so is there greater risk of their doing harm, especially when of small size. Until the feeling of being grasped is perceptible, the greatest gentleness must be employed, lest the urethra, anterior to the stricture, should be perforated and a false passage made. When the stricture has been entered, there will be generally increased pain. Any attempt at withdrawal will be resisted by the grasp of the stricture, and the operator may have more confidence in gently pushing the instrument on. In some cases an injection of I or 2 drachms of a 5 per cent, solution of cocaine will relieve spasm and facilitate the passage of the bougie. After great difficulty has been met with in passing an instrument, it is often well to tie it in for six or eight hours, so as to produce vital dilatation. When the smallest instruments are tried without avail, and if the symptoms are not very urgent, a morphia suppository should be given, and the patient put into a warm hip- or general bath. The urethral injection of cocaine may also be repeated. He may then be able to pass urine himself, or the next attempt with the catheter may be successful. If, however, the symptoms are urgent, there should be no hesitation in aspirating just above the pubes. This is an extremely simple proceeding, may be repeated without hesitation over and over again (during five weeks it has been done regularly), and by removing the distention, it at the same time often relieves the spasm which complicates the stricture. The patient can often make water afterwards without assistance, or at least the surgeon's trouble is much relieved. What is true for retention from stricture is true for retention from other causes :—in all cases of urgency and difficulty, aspirate above the pubes. Should there be no exhausting-bottle at hand, a vacuum is easily produced by first heating and then cooling a bottle with a tightly- fitting cork, perforated to transmit a connecting-tube. At the same time, negative pressure is not really required ; an aspirating-needle, or fine trochar, is sufficient, and involves no danger so long as the surgeon sees that the intra-bladder pressure is naturally present, or is maintained by the hand over the abdomen until the needle is withdrawn Where the bladder-wall is thick and hard from old standing inflammation, it tends to keep m a semi-contracted state; if compressed beyond this it expands again at once like an india-rubber ball; and would draw air and organisms into the bladder, if the compressing hand were relaxed while the tube was patent. (b.) Retention from enlarged Prostate is most frequent in old men but otherwise from previous history might be mistaken for stricture. Except where the middle lobe is enlarged alone, and towards the bladder a finger in the rectum feeling the prostate will generally make the diagnosis plain. Should the nature of the retention be doubtful, the passage of a large instrument will remove the uncer- tainty. No obstruction will be felt until the prostate is reached, and