APPENDIX. 246 Staining Solution. Fuchsine, 2 grammes, . . . . = 2 per cent. Absolute alcohol, 20 cub. cent., . . = 20 Water, containing 5 per cent, of carbolic acid, 80 cub. cent., . . . . = 80 ,, Place some of the solution in a watch glass over a spirit-lamp, and float the cover-glasses, film downwards, on the stain. Heat gently, till steam rises, for 5 minutes. Place in 25 per cent, sulphuric acid for one second ; transfer to absolute alcohol till decolorised. A contrast stain is now got by placing the cover-glasses in watery solution of methylene blue for half a minute, after which they must be washed in distilled Water and mounted. The tubercle bacilli come out pink, and other organisms and structures blue. B. Instruments and Appliances for various Operations. Previous to an operation, and preferably the night before, it is well to lay out the necessary instruments and, in addition, others which are likely to be required, should any complications or emergency arise. If the steps of the operation be gone over seriatim, and each instrument selected as it would come into use, there is little chance of any omission. In the following lists, the requirements at the more common major operations have been mentioned; but in order to avoid repetition, the first two lists on Anaesthesia and General Requisites have been given separately, and must be added to each of the others. Immediately after use, the instruments must be carefully cleansed and dried, and again inspected before being put away. I. For Anaesthesia (see page 12).—Chloroform, ether, hypodermic syringe, artery forceps (Fig. 181, towel or inhaler, cocaine. II. General Requisites.—Forceps—dissecting, dressing, artery, com- pression (as Plan's, &c.)—aneurism needle, director, retractors and blunt hooks, scissors, needles, silk, catgut, drainage tubes, sponges, syringe, lotions, dressings, bandages, safety-pins, mackintosh, razor to shave with. III. Amputations.—Tourniquets ; amputating knives—these, if to be used for tj-ansjixion, should be half as long again as the diameter of the limb to be removed; saws, bone- and lion-forceps, splints; also I. and II. IV. Excisions.—Tourniquets, strong bistouries, periosteum detachers, butcher and ordinary saws ; bone-, lion-, and necrosis-forceps ; gouge, sharp spoon, splints; also I. and II. V. Necrosis. — Tourniquets, probe, bistouries, periosteiim detacher, gouge, mallet and chisel, bone- and necrosis-forceps, splints; also I. and II. „ , VI. Trephining.—Bistouries, periosteum detacher, trephmes. Hey s saw, elevators, bone-forceps, fine aspirator needle, tooth-picks ; I. and II. VII. Operations on Jaws and Excision of Tongue.—Tooth forceps, mouth gag, bistouries, metacarpal saw, bone-forceps, lion-forceps, strong scissors, vulsellum [bradawl and wire]; small sponges, firmly secured to holders, or tied on sticks, are required, and if a preliminary tracheotomy be employed, or a tube passed into the larynx, the suitable instruments must also be provided ; I. and II. VIII. Tracheotomy (see page 86).