A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. pillows is simple and often effective, but may fail to ensure sufficient steadiness. Having made provision for supporting the leg, the surgeon must next adjust weight and puHey at the proper level. After the foot of the bed has been raised (on blocks, &c.) to allow the weight of the body to act as a counter-extending force, the pulley must be fixed, For this purpose an apparatus may either be attached to the bed, or be independent and stand separate. In either case it must be movable—not only up and down, but also laterally, as may be required. [a.) In the Royal In- firmary, Edinburgh, an apparatus, easily applied to the bars of a crib, is used in some wards. It is said to have been in- troduced from Liverpool (Fig. 147)- (b.) In others, an up- right bearing the pulley is lashed to the bed, or fits into a scaffold which hooks on to the end of the bed. The scaffold can be moved laterally, and the upright raised as desired by ad- justing iron pins (Fig. 14S). [c.) Marsh figures in his F!g. 147.—Attachment for weight and pulley, work on Diseases of Joints a simple stand, with a projecting arm, which can be moved up and down as required. To the projecting arm the pulley for the ex- tending cord is fixed. Other apparatus, probably equally simple and effective, might easily be devised. (d.) Where the child is laid in a crib with long uprights, the pulley may be made of an empty cotton reel, running on a pencil or penholder, made fast to two bars at the proper level, or suspended from above. /Materials for Extension.—Yor applying extension we require strong moleskin plaster, broad tape, scissors, stout needle and thread, cotton bandages, and a piece of wood as long as the breadth between the malleoli, or a square of wood of these dimensions w^ith a hole in the middle, and having short straps and buckles nailed to any two of the opposite sides (see Fig. 147). Bricks or wooden blocks 3 or 4 inches high, on which to raise the bed, are also needed, and a weight, either in the form of a bag to be filled with sand or shot, or in that of 4 lb.- or I lb.-masses of lead or iron, bored in the centre for convenience in taking off or putting on. The plister strips (one for each side of the leg) must be long enough