ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. 3° contractions which result from extensive destruction of ^ki" must be obviated by stretching the cicatrices when young. A httle may be done by resisting contraction during healmg, but generally such efforts only stop the healing process. Skin and epithehum-gra.tmg should of course be practised in large sores. , r k o Some surgeons are greatly in favour of oily dressings for burns Antiseptic ointments, such as boracic, may be used, or I'nt in a modified carron oil, i.e., equal parts of hme water and lo per cent, of eucalyptus in olive oil. The value of the 'carron oil is probably that the lime favours the formation of an emulsion be ween The oil and the water, and that the evaporation of the water keeps the part cool. The escape of the water, however, tends to make the cloths stick when they are removed from the sore. _ Much shock is to be expected in extensive bums, especially in children. Prognosis in such cases is grave, and stimulation is indicated from the first. , . . r ^t, (7) Treatment of Ulcers.—The general indications lor the treatment of ulcers are—(i) to purify the surface of the sore, and free it from irritation; (2) to stimulate the circulation of the part, if it be sluggish; (3) remove obstacles to venous return, and treat any constitutional condition that may exist. (1) Locally, foul ulcers in the skin should be dusted with iodoform, and dressed with Hnt, exactly fitting the sore, soaked in antiseptic lotion, and kept moist with oiled silk, which overlaps the lint all round with a ^-inch margin. Should granulations become oedematous, and the heahng be sluggish, stimulate the surface by touching it with blue stone (sulphate of copper), or by dressing with an astringent, such as 4 grs. to the ounce of sulphate of zinc. Bright red, "healthy" granulations should, after being washed with a stream of boracic or weak lotion, be covered with protective, over which is laid absorbent antiseptic wool, or boracic lint applied wet and allowed to dry, in situ. The region of the ulcer should be kept as far as possible at rest. Thus, rest in bed is generally indicated in leg-ulcers, especially if extensive. In the case of ulcers elsewhere, fixation of the part should be carried out by a splint. Before removing the dressing from an ulcer, the whole should be softened by soaking with lotion, to prevent any part from sticking in. (2) Tertiary Ulcers of gummatous origin, are generally benefited by free blistering round the sore, in addition to other treatment. In Callous Ulcers the thickened brawny condition of the surround- ing parts may be got rid of by various means, all of which, however, seem to act in common by stimulating the circulation ; thus, free blistering of the surface of the sore and of the surrounding skin, firmly strapping the part, or compressing it with an elastic bandage, or rubbing and kneading it once or twice daily and fomenting it with hot water, have each and all been found useful. To strap an ulcer, strips of plaster should be cut, yi-'mch. wide