202 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. applied round the patient's neck, so that it supports the chin and occiput comfortably, and the straps attached to it are hooked on to the cross-bar, the degree of traction made upon them being regulated by the feelmgs of the patient" (Orthopadu Surgery, p. 463). (i.) Walker RiisselVs Modification of the" Jury-mast. "—A modifi. cation of this appliance was introduced by Drs. T. Walker, of Peter- borough, and Frank Russell. Instead of arching a steel rod over the back of the head to carry the cross-bar, they brought up the sides of the head two prongs of a fork from which to take the points for suspension. The lower part of the fork was fixed indirectly to a plaster jacket. The following details have been kindly supplied by Dr. Russell: The fork is fastened by screws to the chest-piece. The latter is a slightly curved piece of iron, 5 or 6 in. long, Ys, in. broad, and ^\ or ^ in. thick. Lateral pieces of roughened tin give it greater security in the plaster jacket, and projecting from the front of it are two screws, % in. thick. These, when passed through corresponding slots on the handle of the fork, are fixed there with nuts. The screw should project |i in. beyond the end of the nut. The fork consists of a flat plate (handle) about 8 in. long, % in. broad, and y\ in. thick, ending above in a fork large enough to pass across the patient's throat, and whose prongs, terminating in hooks turned outwards, reach to a point either above or below, but not opposite to the ear. The prongs of the fork are necessarily bent, at first back- wards and then upwards. Each of the two slots cut in the handle should be about ij^ in. long, and should be just wide enough to admit the screws without side play. The fiat piece of iron " is fixed under the last layer of the jacket, during its application, great care being talcen to place it exactly in the median line of the body, and to bring its upper end to within 1 >4 in. of the top of the sternum." The nuts are removed, and the screws are protected by an envelope of lint while this piece is being fixed to the jacket. When the plaster is hai-d, the slots of the fork handle having been passed through the projecting screws, and the level of the prongs adjusted, the whole is made fast by screwing home the nuts. Straps round the chin and occiput, from the hooks of the prongs, are used to suspend the head. (f.) Fleming''s India-rubber Bags (Yig. 171).—"The arrangement consists of two or three sets of fusiform india-rubber bags, connected by a narrow flexible but non-elastic material, and having at the free end flaps by which they can be laced together. In each set the bags are internally in communication with each other, and from the lowest depends an india-rubber tube, with a stop-cock, to which the nozzle of an ordinary blower fits. A size suitable to the particular case having been selected, it is, while collapsed, laced rather loosely round the neck. " On inflation, the lower bag rests upon the root of the neck, the clavicle, and the muscles of the shoulders, while the upper bag moulds itself, along the posterior portion of the jaw, the mastoid process, and the skull, back to the occipital region. The front of the apparatus, where it is laced is, on inflation, rather withdrawn from the neck, so that no pressure on the trachea is produced.