263 APPENDIX. and it will then be ready. Reverse the pan over a hot omelet dish, and serve the omelet quickly with the brown side uppermost. The omelet should be brown and firm on the outside, but soft and creamy inside when broken. iNote. — '&e. most careful to keep the omelet pan clean, and to use it for nothing but omelets.] To Poach an Egg (inexpensive). Required— I egg. I slice of toast. Have a shallow pan with boiling water ; to i pint of water allow i tea- spoonful of salt and i tablespoonful of vinegar. Break the egg into a cup, and, when the water is boiling very fast, pour the egg into the pan and let it cook gently for 2 minutes ; lift it out, with a perforated slice, on to a piece of nice hot buttered toast, and serve at once. Drinks. Coffee (inexpensive). Required— I tablespoonful of coffee. % cupful hot milk, I cupful of boiling water. The good quality of the coffee will very much depend upon the way in which it is made, and upon the fresh and thorough roasting of the berry. Good coffee should always leave a coloured stickiness round the cup, and should never be boiled, but made with boiling water, and served very hot. A simple and plain method to make coffee is in a jug. Heat the jug and dry it, put in the coffee and pour the boiling water over it. Cover tightly and allow to stand on the hob, or by the side of the fire, for 5 minutes. Pour a little coffee into a cup and back into the jug. Repeat this, cover again, and leave for 10 minutes to become clear. Serve with hot milk. [Note.—In cooking milk, watch it constantly, and remove from fire just before it boils.] Tea (Inexpensive).—Have a kettle of fresh water, and infuse the tea directly it boils. The long boiling of the water causes the tea to have a fiat insipid taste. Make the teapot very hot, and dry it thoroughly. Allow I teaspoonful of tea for each person, and i teaspoonful over (this is allowing 2 cups of tea for each). Pour on the boihng water, let the tea stand covered from 3 to 5 minutes, never longer. Pour off the tea into a fresh hot teapot or jug. On no account allow the tea to remain longer on the leaves, or it will become bitter. A Cup Of Chocolate. Required— 2 ozs. of chocolate. % pint milk. I egg. Sugar to taste. Put the chocolate into a saucepan with the milk, and, when hot, work with a spoon into a smooth paste free from lumps. Stir over the fire and boil for 5 minutes. Beat the yolk and white of the egg to a stiff froth, and strain into a jug, strain on to this the chocolate, and beat with a whisk for 5 minutes, or until the chocolate is quite frothy. [A small tcacupful is sufficient to give at a time with a httle sponge- cake or finger biscuit.]