APPENDIX. 252 This is twisted and dried, as a whole, or in strips according to the thick- ness required. (a.) Lister's Cliroiiiic Acid Catgut.—Pure carbolic acid (absolute phenol), I part dissolved in 20 parts of a solution of chromic acid in water (i in 4,000). As. soon as the solution has been made, introduce into it catgut equal in weight to the phenol used. Steep for forty-eight hours ; take out the catgut and dry it on the stretch. When dry, steep it in 1-5 carbolic oil, and it is ready for use. (i!'.) Mace wen's Chromic Catgut.—Make a watery solution of chromic acid, i to 5. Add i of this to 20 of glycerine. Hanks of catgut are steeped in this for seven or eight months—i.e., until they become dark and semi-translucent. They are then ready for use, and are stored in carbolic (i-io) glycerine; this resists action of tissues for fourteen days, and is absorbed in twenty days. {c.) Later Method.—Make A solution of chromic acid in water (i in 5). Soak gut in B for four days ; dry, then store it in C. This lasts for about a week in the tissues. If gut were steeped in B for two days it would last four or five days, and be useful for sutures. Macewen's Chicken-tione Drainage-tubes.—The tibia and femora of a chicken (after having been cooked) are scraped and steeped in hydro- chloric acid and water (1-5) until soft. The articular ends having then been snipped off, the endosteum is raised at one end, and pushed through to the other along with its contents. They are next re-intro- duced into a fresh hydrochloric acid solution (1-5), till they become somewhat softer and more pliable than finally required. Lastly, they are steeped in carbolic acid and glycerine (i-io) for a fortnight, when they are ready for use. Holes may be punched or clipped. Duration in the tissues, about eight days. If steeped in a chromicised instead of a carbolised solution, they will last from fourteen to twenty-one days. Juniper Oil Catgut.—Kocher recommends the following :—Immerse catgut for 24 hours in good oil of juniper, prepared from the berry: transfer into and preserve in absolute alcohol until required. To make the catgut last for a week in the tissues, treat it as foUows before puttmg it into the juniper oil—wash in alcohol, then soak for 48 hours m a quart of 5 per cent, carbolic acid containing 30 grains of bichromate of potash. Thick catgut requires a longer immersion.—Gerster. Thomas's Pitch Pine Sawdust.—"Ol eucalyptol, giv; crude car- B C A in glycerine (i in 5). carbolic acid in glycerine (i in 5).