264 APPENDIX. Cocoa (inexpensive). Required— 2 ozs. of cocoa nibs or flakes. 3 pints cold water. Put the cocoa into a very clean saucepan with the water, and simmer, with the lid on, by the side of the fire for 5 or 6 hours. Strain. Add y< cup of milk to cup of cocoa. [Cocoa nibs are cheaper and purer than many of the prepared powders.] Barley Water (inexpensive). Required— 2 ozs. of pearl barley. % lemon. I oz. of loaf sugar. i quart of water. Wash the barley, put it into a clean saucepan, with i pint of cold water, allow to boil for 5 minutes, throw away the water and wash the barley again. Return the barley to the saucepan with a quart of cold water, the sugar, and thin yellow rind of the lemon. Simmer for about 2 hours, strain through a piece of fine muslin, squeeze the lemon and add the juice, and allow to cool before serving. Be most careful not to give the sediment; a good plan is to strain off the barley water when it is cold into a second jug. Rice Water (inexpensive). Required— 1 oz. whole rice. 4 large raisins. 2 pints water. [i tablespoonful of brandy, if ordered.] Wash the rice well, cut the raisins into pieces, but do not remove the stones. Put the rice and raisins into a clean saucepan with the water, and boil for about i hour. Skim occasionally. Strain through muslin, and serve cold, with or without the brandy, as ordered. Apple Water (inexpensive). Required— 4 firm apples. i pint water. 2 ozs. lump sugar. 3 cloves. Wash and wipe the apples, cut into slices, but do not pare or core them. Put them into a clean saucepan with the water, sugar, and cloves, and let them come to the boil. Strain through muslin, and serve when cold. Toast Water (inexpensive). Reqtiired— I slice of bread. 1 quart of cold water. Take a slice of bread, about iK inches thick, dry it slowly, either in a slow oven or about 1 foot away from the fire. Then slightly brown the bread close to the fire, but do not burn it, put it into the water in a jug. Cover and let stand for i hour, strain through muslin, and serve. Make fresh every day. Wine Whey. Required— pint sweet milk. i wineglassful of sherry. Heat the milk, pour in the wine, and stir until it curdles. Strain, and it is ready to serve. If liked a little sugar may be added after it is strained. Tamarind Whey. Required— I pint milk. 3 ozs. tamarinds. Heat the milk, stir in the tamarinds, and continue to stir until the milk