A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 223 set aside without further boiling. If no millciness is produced as the mixture cools, the urine may be confidently pronounced free from sugar, for no quantity above a fortieth of a grain can escape such a search, and any quantity below that is devoid of clinical significance." (c.) Bile.—A test for bile is equivalent to a test for bile-pigments. Test for Bile-pigments.—Place a few drops of urine on a white porcelain plate, and near it lay a few drops of nitric acid. Bring the two fluids in contact by inclining the plate, and if bile be present, a play of colours will appear violet, green, red, which rapidly passes away. The Test for Bile Acids is less certain. {d.) Pus and Mucus.—Take any ot the doubtful sediment, and treat with concentrated caustic potash; pus will become a tough muco-gelatinous mass, mucus a thin flocculent fluid. Blood.—Take about a drachm of the suspected urine in a test tube, add a drop or two o/ Ireshly-prepared guaiac (made with rectified spirit), and mix thoroughly; then add about a drachm of ozonic ether, and gently shake. A bluish tint will be given to the ozonic ether as it separates from the urine, if blood has been present. Examination of Deposits.—Before minutely examining any urinary deposit with the microscope, its "naked eye" characters should be carefully noted. When the deposit after standing is small, and yet where its microscopic examination is important, the clear urine at the top of such a jar should be decanted off, and the remainder poured into a conical glass. After a second decantmg, some of the subsequent deposit may be removed with a pipette, and placed on a glass slide under a cover-glass. Sir Henry Thomson advocates the simple expedient of allowing tlie urine to stand in a corked bottle placed with the cork downwards. The deposit which afterwards adheres to the cork can be easily examined. For our purpose deposits may be divided into two groups— I. Utwrganised Substances (soluble in moderately strong solutions of either acids or alkalies)—amorphous urates or phosphates, crystals of uric and oxalic acids, or of triple phosphate, and, rarely, cystme. II. Organised Substances (more or less altered by weak acids or especially alkalies, but not dissolved by them)—epithelial cells, pus blood, or mucus, spermatozoa, tube-casts, micro-organisms, and toreign particles, which have obtained access to the urine. For the examination of all these deposits, magnifymg powers of 50 and 350 will be found sufficient. I. Unorganised Substances.—A. In an Acid Unne.—[i) Urates form a loose deposit mingled with mucus, varying from a trick-red to a dirty yellow colour. They are distinguished from all other deposits («) by being completely soluble by heat, {Ji) by forming a film on both the surface of unne and on the sides of the vessel in which the urine has cooled {Roberts). They may be combined with other deposits. Under the microscope they are amorphous and granular. , , , • (o) Uric ^«y.-Insoluble in dilute acids, soluble m caustic alkalies, in weak solutions of carbonate of lithia, potash, or soda, and