TREATMENT OF PATIENTS AFTER OPERATION. 7 tage. ^^^lere the liver seems sluggish, a bitter infusion, with dilute mineral acid and tincture of nux vomica, is useful. Iron is often indicated by the anaemic state _ of the patient, and other remedies may be required according to circumstances. (2) local Treatment. — The local treatment involves wound- dressings, which are elsewhere considered (p. 16). (3) Special Treatment.—[a.) In all cases of operation about the anus and rectum, such as for fissure, iistula in ano, or piles, the bowels should remain unopened for about two days, and be opened on the third morning by castor oil or other mild aperient. The free opening of the bowels before the operation, and the low diet after it, generally suffice to keep the bowels from_ moving of them- selves for some days, ^^^len morphia suppositories have been given to soothe pain after the operation, the bowels will be still more bound. It is better not to wait until the bowels move of themselves, because by that time firm faecal masses will have formed. These would be more irritating to the recent wound than the earlier passage of a liquid stool. An enema is necessarily contra-indicated. It should be remembered that operations upon the anus, and in its neighbourhood, are apt to cause retention of urine by reflex spasm of the constrictor urethra. Some surgeons on this account pass a catheter at the end of the operation, and in any case provision must be made for drawing off the water within eight hours of that time, and for repeating the proceeding if need be. {b.) The treatment of the bowels after the relief of a strangu- lated hernia, whether by taxis or by operation, is a matter of dispute. Some surgeons invariably administer opium or morphia, and keep the patient on low diet, to prevent any motion of the bowels for a week or ten days. This is done to ensure rest for the injured and probably inflamed bowel, and may in some cases be necessary. Other surgeons act on the principle that if the bowel be inflamed, its peristalsis will be thereby checked, so that unless local pain or general restlessness call for the use of opium, it may be omitted, and the action of the bowels left to nature. The latter seems the more rational plan, and is the one which we advocate. Where it is known that the bowel itself is injured, efforts will, of course, be made to ensure absolute quiet for the injured part, opium or morphia continued for a week or ten days, and the patient fed by nutrient enemata, supplemented only by small quantities of fluid food given by the mouth. (f.) After Ovariotomy, or other intra-peritoneal operation, there is also need for keeping the alimentary canal as quiet as possible to give rest, and especially to avoid sickness, lest the muscular efl"orts of retchmg should tear open the recent wound, and should start hemorrhage Dr. Keith's plan is to give only a few tea-spoonfuls 01 water, cold, if there be a tendency to sickness, but otherwise hot, lor the rest of the day after an operation. During the night, if urine is being freely passed, 3 or 4 ounces of water may be allowed. Next day, tea-spoonfuls of hot water when thirst is complained of. Should