APPENDIX. 247 IX. Excision of Breast, Ligature of Vessel. Hernia, and Operations on Jiectum and Anus.—h\%t.om\es, a.nd I. s.n6.\\. X Operations on t/reMra.—Warm boracic lotion, and syphon or syrin^re- catheters, silver and gum-elastic; grooved staff, grooved probe, Syme°s staff, instruments for internal urethrotomy, bistouries, gum- elastic catheter; carbohc oil, i-2o; I. and II. XI. Operation for Stone.—SNaxm boracic lotion, and syphon or syringe; sound, catheters. , ,• i_ Crushing—BovLgxQS for dilating urethra, tenotomy knife, hthotntes, set of evacuators and washer out, extra pillow for pelvis. Cutting.—U\lholomy knives and sounds, bistouries, lithotomy-for- ceps and scoop, Petersen's rectal tampon, blunt hooks and retractors, lithotomy tube; also I. and II. XII. Operations involving the Peritoneal Cavity and Colotomy.— Makin's intestinal clamps. Where a cyst has to be removed, an aspira- tor or ovariotomy trocar must be in readiness ; also numerous large cyst and pressure-forceps, and pedicle clamps. In every case, the instru- ments and sponges are to be carefully counted before and after operation. The lotions should be heated, and the sponges and towels also wrung out of warm lotion. A long mounted needle is often useful in dealing with renal and biliary calculi; also I. and II. C. Various Practical Hints and Suggestions. Extraction of Teeth.—The two chief points requiring attention in the e.xtraction of teeth are (i) to get a firm hold of a strong part of the tooth as far up the fang as possible; (2) to loosen the tooth before trying to draw it out. (1) Since many teeth which require extraction have their crowns more or less softened with decay, the need of taking a firm deep hold will be all the more apparent. The forceps must first be fitted accurately round the neck of the tooth, but not tight enough to hold it; they must then be pushed firmly, and often heavily, between the tooth and its sur- rounding gum and alveolus before the grasp is tightened. In the tipper jaw, while the patient leans well back with the mouth open, the operator can easily press his forceps upwards. In the lower jaw, how- ever, a different manoeuvi"e is necessary. After the forceps, held in the operator's right hand, have been fitted on to the neck of the tooth, the operator presses them down with the thumb of his left hand placed upon them within the mouth, while the rest of the fingers of this hand are outside the mouth and grasp the lower jaw from below. (2) As soon as the operator has, in either of these ways, taken a firm grasp of the tooth, he begins to rock it in its socket, pressing always more forcibly outwards, towards the cheek, than inwards. When, by this lateral movement, the tooth has been "started" from its socket, a drawing movement must be added, and, by a combination of the two, the tooth will be extracted. The outward pressure is more effectual than inward pressure would be, partly because the outer wall of the sockets is much thinner than the inner wall, and hence more easily yields, and partly because the fangs of the'teeth are broader externally than internally, and hence would resist pressure inwards more effectually than pressure outwards. Instruments Required (according to J. Smith).*—" Five pairs of ■► Notes on Dental Surgery, by J. Smith, M.D., LL.D., &c., 1887: Maclaclilan & Stewart, Kdinburgh.