DISLOCATIONS, SPRAINS, AND BRUISES. 155 The thvnnbs may be protected with a napkin. Subsequent retention and treatment are as in simple fracture of the lower jaw. (7) Dislocation of the Hip-joint presents the marked feature of an inverted limb, when the head of the femur has passed backwards or upwards. If it lies forwards and downwards in the obturator foramen, the toes are pointed and the limb abducted and everted. In every case, the leg is so fixed, that attempts to straighten and flex up the knee or hip-joint are always associated with more or less of a rocking motion of the pelvis, which takes place through the lumbar vertebrae—as may be established if one lays his hand under the back, while he puts his patient through these movements. In direct displacement forwards, the head of the bone is readily felt out of place. Tke posterior displacements are the more common. Reduction is most readily effected under chloroform. The patient is laid on his back, and as soon as he is deeply "under," the surgeon flexes the leg on the thigh, the thigh on the abdomen. Thus he relaxes the ilio-psoas and iUo-femoral band (Y-shaped Ugament), and, Fig. 128.—Reduction of Dislocation of Hip. moreover, causes the head to descend and lie rather in relation with the rent in the capsule through which it emerged. He then, graspmg the patient's ankle, circumducts the limb outwards and extends, and the head enters its socket. If the dislocation be of the obturator or pubic form, the first part of the procedure is similar, but the surgeon circumducts to the inside. As Prof. Chiene briefly puts it:—Where the head lies to the outside of a vertical Ime drawn through the acetabulum, circumduct outwards after flexion ; if it lies to the inside, circumduct imvards. it may happen that the head travels backwards and forwards between the ol.turator foramen and the region of the sciatic notch, in place of entering the acetabulum, while one attempts reduction. II the surgeon will, however, execute the movements, while he lifts the patient by the leg, as it were, it will be found that the head usually clears the rim of the cotyloid cavity, and becomes replaced.