8 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. there be sickness with thirst, water or milk and water may be admmistered per anum instead of by the mouth. After flatus has been passed as it usually is twenty or twenty-four hours after the operation he diet is gradually improved, beginning with milk and water. JNutnent enemata may sometimes be required, should tendency to vomiting continue (see p. lo). (d.) Operations o« Me Genito-Urinary Tract—The chief noint to be attended to in the after-treatmenTof patLts whose^'ni o- urinary tract has been operated upon, is to diminish the acidity of the urine and lessen the work of the kidney by keeping doNSTi the albuminoid element in the food. A diet, consisting chiefly of milk and starchy foods, is best for this purpose. When the kidney has been injured, the bowels must be kept open. Fcetid urine may be improved by the free administration by the mouth of boracic acid oz. sat. solution every three hours), sulpho-carbolate of soda (20 grs. every two hours), naphthalin, and probably also by sandal- a-'t"l''°P^'^''' "^^'^ the injection of weak antiseptics into the bladder. _ Washhig Old the Bladder is often of great service when the urine is putrid, and the mucous membrane unhealthy. Some surgeons use a double-way catheter. With this instrument, fluid is injected by one of the channels, while it flows out by the other; but as the mucous membrane is not thus distended and its folds exposed to the fluid, we prefer the ordinary single-way catheter. The fluids at first used must be warm (80° to 100° F.) and unirritating antiseptics—e.^., 1-4000 corrosive sublimate lotion, half strength boracic lotion, or 1-200 carbolic acid; quinine 2-3 grains per ounce, wdth I min. dilute sulphuric acid per grain; iodoform 2-4 grains per ounce, with a little mucilage to suspend it (Erichsen). When the urine is no longer septic, astringent injections may be required—acetate of lead, X grain to 5i (in urine alkaline and depositing phosphates, Thomson); nitrate of silver, X to ^ grain to gi; tannin, i grain to gi- The qtiantity of fluid injected must depend on the state of the patient's bladder—as much as can be borne without much inconveni- ence. Sir Henry Thomson limits the amount to 2 ounces. A catheter (soft for preference) is passed into the bladder, and the urine drawn off". The selected fluid is then injected with a syringe (Higginson's ball or ordinary piston syringe), or is allowed (by syphon or water-head, .^e p. 9) to flow in from a height of i or 2 feet at most. It is then allowed to escape, and is probably at first turbid ; the process is repeated until the returning fluid is clear. Foulis has introduced a simple and cheap apparatus for washing out the bladder (Fig. i). He attaches a stopcock to the lower part of a common-handled mug, holding a pint. From the stopcock he leads an india-rubber tube to the catheter, to the end of which he fi.xes a T-tube. In washing out the bladder he has only alternately to open and close the end of the T-tube, and fluid will enter or leave the bladder as desired. (e.) Operations ott the Mouth or Jaws.—After extensive opera-