55 ARREST OF HAEMORRHAGE. gives way, a great gush of dark blood takes place. It ceases as soon as the patient lies down, and holds his leg vertically up- wards. Even while he is erect very slight pressure, if accurately applied, as by means of a dossil of lint and a bandage, at once arrests the flow. (5) Bleeding from the Bladder, when troublesome, is almost invariably from a tumour. No effectual cure can be expected short of removing the tumour, but the bleeding may sometimes be diminished by complete rest, internal styptics, and injections. Sir H. Thomson advocates the injection of nitrate of silver, 'I gr. to the ounce, gradually increased to I gr. to the ounce, or perchloride ol iron, 30 min. to 5i. to water oiv. Hazeline or ergot internally may be given at the same time. (7) Bleeding from the Kidney, when extensive, may be the result of injury, or of an operation upon or near the kidney, or it may arise from a tumour-growth. No direct application can, of course, be made to the kidney, unless there is an open wound. The patient must be kept at rest, and on milk-diet. Ergot or hazeline may be tried internally. The bowels must be kept relaxed to prevent irritation from hardened feces. Pain is to be subdued by morphia. Sickness, when it threatens to appear, is avoided by simple and sparing diet. See also p. 219. (S) Bleeding from the Mouth is commonly from the tongue, secondary to some operation. In an emergency, the lingual artery may be compressed, and at the same time brought forwards by the finger, passed back to the epiglottis, and then hooked forwards so as to bring the soft parts with it [Heath). If the wound be recent, the artery maybe secured with forceps and tied; if not, the part must be plugged, with styptics, if need be. Should bleeding recur, the hngual artery may require to be tied—either in the submaxillary triangle, or just behind the great cornu of the hyoid bone. (9) Bleeding from the Tonsil sometimes occurs after tonsilotomy, and generally comes from an unusual or enlarged branch of the ascending pharyngeal artery. Whether the operation has been done with the tonsilotome or with the knife, if the abnormal artery be there, it will bleed when cut. From the position of the bleeding point, a ligature is very difficult to apply to it. Digital pressure maintained for some minutes, or the pressure of a hot sponge, may be enough._ Should these measures fail, clear away all clots, and apply styptic pads, holding them in position for from five to ten minutes; and if this be insufficient, the point of an actual cautery will be needed. In a few cases, ligature of the common carotid has been required; but in spite of even this, death has sometimes ensued Fortimately, however, the bleeding after tonsilotomy is generally slight, and ceases spontaneously in a few minutes. It is worthy of note that in at least three recorded cases, previously ™TfiStyTnduced'^ °^ vomiting, whether spontaneously (10) Bleeding from the Palmar Arch has been already alluded to. The reason for the difficulty is, that in the palm, the superficial