20 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. are most suitable for this. It is insoluble in watery solutions, but dissolves in chloroform, ether, and oils. It has almost entirely replaced chloride of zmc in operations about the face and perineum: JXussbaum recommends a solution of iodoform (iodoform, lo- sul- phuric ether, 70 ; distilled water, 200) for washing out foul cavities Caution!-Iodoform should always be used with great discretion. 1 here is no occasion to apply it in large quantity to wounds and absorbing surfaces. Children, as well as old and weak people, are especially hable to be affected injuriously by it. Fatal results have loilowed from its accumulation in the deep recesses of wounds alter _ insufflation. The symptoms vary from sudden collapse associated with bram-symptoms and vomiting, to milder forms of loss of appetite, mental depression, and excitement. When the patient complains of feeling its taste and smell in everything, its use must be discontinued, and the patient stimulated and treated to plenty of fresh air. (d.) Boric, or Boracic Acid, is one of the mildest and most unirritating germicides we possess. It may be used in saturated watery solution (i to 30), or dusted on copiously when finely powdered. It is specially applicable in open wounds after their preliminary purification with stronger agents, and highly suitable for irrigating the bladder. It is practically non-poisonous. (e.) Chloride of Zinc, in the strength of 40 grains to the ounce of water, is a most potent and lasting disinfectant. It is a valuable medium with which to soak strips of lint for use as plugs after operations in the vicinity of the oro-nasal cavities. It will maintain its action for forty-eight hours. It is, however, somewhat painful, and latterly iodoform, or iodoform mitigated with boric acid or bismuth, has supplanted it to a great extent. (f.) Other Antiseptics.—Amongst the many other powerful antiseptics, all of which have had their advocates, we may mention salicylic acid, benzoic acid, thymol, acetate of alumina, naphthalin, subniirate of bismuth, iodol, aristol, and eucalyptus ml. The latter is largely used in place of carbolic oil for disinfecting catheters, as being less irritating. Creolin and hydronaphthol are highly recom- mended. Mode of using Antiseptics during Operations.—Previous to operation, the skin should be washed with soap, and shaved, the razor acting like the strigil of the Roman bathers, and then thoroughly scrubbed with carbolic lotion (i to 20). The skin-purification should be thorough. For this many employ a preliminary washing with turpentine or some alkali. It is always good, when circumstances permit, to have a towel soaked in carbolic, bound over the spot, for at least thirty minutes before operating (see ante, p. 5). The patient should be warmly covered with blankets. By spreading one or two sheets of mackintosh or guttapercha, covered with carbolised towels, over the blankets, &c., in the vicinity of the field of operation, an antiseptic area is provided, whereon instruments, &c., may be laid with safety. A mackintosh beneath the patient serves to protect the blanket. Everything being