233 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. A bathing truss (covered with waterproof) should be worn in the bath. Some surgeons hold that the truss should never be removed, day nor night. Umbilical hemife must be treated with a spring truss and a flat pad. For Children.—In children, trusses similar to those used for adults are generally indicated. For umbilical hernia the spring may be replaced by a belt. In male infants the form of hernia almost exclusively met with is the ingriinal. If the skin will not bear the pressure of a pad with the ordinary spiral truss, a pad of wool kept in place, with the looped (p. 112) or a spica bandage (plain or elastic) will often suffice; or the worsted truss re-advocated by Lund (NMuierian Lectures, 1885) should be employed. A skein of Berlin worsted, 22 inches long, and con- sisting of 20 threads, is passed round the child's waist (Fig. 187). The end passing round the side opposite from the hernia is held at the seat of the hernia, while the other end is passed through it, and after encircling the thigh is fixed with tapes or a safety-pin to the waist part. Two such trusses may be kept in use, each being washed alternately. Umbilical hernia in infants, when not very bad, is best treated by Skein ot two strips of plaster crossing at the umbilicus, WorsteiTxruss for and drawing the abdominal walls together at Infants, that point. For irreducible hernia in any region, where an operation is not indicated, Bryant recommends a hollow metal pad lined with wash- leather, and made to fit exactly by being moulded over a cast of the hernial protrusion. B. Artificial Limbs. The subject is important, not only because certain stumps are said to be better suited than others for artificial limbs, but also because a surgeon should at least be able to advise his patients as to the form of artificial limb available for their particular case and circumstances. We shall accordingly consider the following heads:—(i) The "bearing" points in the lower limb after amputation. (2) The sites for amputation in the upper and lower limbs most suitable for the adaptation of artificial substitutes. (3) The nature and mechanism of artificial limbs. (4) General hints on the use of artificial limbs. (i) "Bearing" Points—After Amputation.—As might have been expected, the best "bearing" points are the natural ones ; at the heel first, then that on the bent knee. Thus, in a favourable case, after Hey's or Chopart's amputation (and there is no reason why, as a general rule, cases should not be favourable), the patient walks on the heel, and on what remains of the sole, without trouble. Also, in amputation just below the knee, the joint may be kept bent, and the patient can then generally bear his full weight upon it, although with the risk of developing a "housemaid's knee."