ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. loosely in place, and special watch be kept against the risk of fresh bleeding, while at the same time the general indications as above are carried out. Should bleeding break out at any time in a smart stream and resist moderate pressure, elevation of the limb, and rest, an effort should be made to detect its source. If from a large artery, and if graduated pressure with styptics fail or seem unadvisable, the only resources are ligature of the main trunk higher up or amputation. If it be from a large vein, localised pressure is generally sufficient, aided by styptics, and by the removal of all obstacles to the venous return. If the bleeding should be in the form of a general capillary ooze, the hmb must be raised, and the part injected with a hot antiseptic lotion, or swabbed out with turpentine or hazeline, after which a_ dressing with firm pressure should be applied, and the general circulation kept down. Plugging is not generally required. (C.) Eeactionary Haemorrhage occurs a few hours after a recent wound, on the return of strong blood pressure after a condition of shock. _ Blood-clots are pushed from the mouths of vessels, but remain in the wound as a kind of poultice, which encourages vascular dilation. To check this form of bleeding, the wound should be e-xposed, and the amount of bleeding noted. Sometimes cold or hot antiseptic injections will suffice. If not, the wound must be opened up, and the clots removed. Should this fail, the bleeding point or points must be found, and secured with a ligature. Where no single point can be seen, and if the above measures have failed, reactionary oozing must be treated like secondary capillary oozing. General oozing may be expected in hsemophilic patients, and in parts congested either from previous inflammation or from undue prolongation of the " bloodless " method. CHAPTER VII. ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE {Continued.} Contenta.-Treatment of Bleeding from Special Parts.-Bone: tIII'T V""\?''^P^'''''''^^-F™™ the Nose; Rectum; after Lthotomy; from Vancose Veins; the Prostate; the Bladder; the K dney; the Mouth; the Tonsil; the Palmar Arch-HEemophilia- O w-.,.. '"rr'''°e the Main Arteries-Traiisfusion-(<z.) Of Water or Sahne Solution—(^.) Of Blood. Bleeding from Special Parts. The various rules which are given for stopping bleeding after particular operations, are based-not on any differlnce in the p o- cesses of heahng of vessels in diff-erent parts-but upon the differences m their position, and therefore in theit accessibility, in the nature of