SURGICAL APPLICATIONS OF ELECTRICITY. 177 all at the outside, and generally less. The sitting, which should only last for from ten to twenty minutes, may be repeated daily, or once or twice a week, according to circumstances. Motor Duchenne, followed by Erb and others, has shown that on the skin over all superficial muscles there exists a special spot which yields the maximum of contraction, when an electrode conveymg a tnven current is applied to it. These spots are called the ''motor points" of those muscles, which respond to the stimulus thus applied. They should always be utilised in the application of electricity to muscles.* Mode of Application.—Yox the galvanic current, one electrode, of large size, and for preference the anode (positive), should be placed against the patient's sternum or back, whilst the other electrode is pressed against the part to be stimulated. The size of the latter electrode will vary according to the concentration of stimulus re- quired : thus, a single fine nerve, on the motor point of a small muscle, will require a small electrode firmly pressed down, and larger areas will need larger electrodes, but somewhat stronger currents. For the faradic current, one electrode (either will do) is usually placed over the main nerve supplying the muscle, while the other is applied over its motor point. Electrolysis is the term applied to the decomposition of water, or other fluid or soft solid medium, by the passage through it of a strong current of electricity. The medium decomposed is known as the electrolyte, and when this happens to be water, hydrogen gas is found to gather round the negative pole, and oxygen round the positive pole. When the electrolyte is an organic fluid, such as blood, small quantities of strong alkali are found round the negative pole, and small quantities of strong acid round the positive pole. These minute quantities of acids and alkalies produce their characteristic effects upon the tissues, but have never been found carried into the general circulation. It is to this their local action, especially that of the negative pole, that J. Duncan attributes the benefit of electrolysis for vascular tumours and goitre, while the destructive efiect of the negative pole has also been recommended for the dissolution of urethral and other strictures. The cases in ordinary practice, for which (according to J. Duncan) electrolysis is best suited, are—subcutaneous noevi on exposed parts of the body, where therefore a scar is undesirable, cirsoid aneurisms, and intra-thoracic sacculated aneurisms not amenable to other treat- ment. The same authority has also obtained good results in many cases of goitre. The methods employed are similar in the above cases. The battery should consist of from three to six large cells, such •Although their relative position will v.nry slightly in different individuals, still with a few trials they will soon be found at or near certain spots. These are indicated in the following diagrams, in Landois & Stirling's Text Book of Numan Physiology, 3rd Edition, viz.:—Figs. 418, 419, 420, 421, 430, 431, whicii see.