JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. 203 "In practice, I find it best, in the majority of cases, to adjust a piece of poroplastic round the neck like a wide turn-down collar. The apparatus is light, can be worn in the upright, or in the recumbent position, and, when covered with a scarf, is scarcely perceptible. No inconvenience has been complained of by the wearers, except that, in one case, the heat was objected to ; but this I hope at least to mitigate by fluting the inner surface."—British MedicalJotmial, Jan. 3, 1885. liy this apparatus the head is partly raised, and the neck is fixed. As a simpler application of the same principle, Davy uses "plain cylindrical collars, much like swimming collars. In country practice, Fig- 172.—Moore's Collar. Fig. 171.—Fleming's Pneumatic N.B.-The lower e.\tra Collar. turns have been lately added. a dry piece of inflated gut answers very well, but in towns india- rubber is best, and is easily covered with fur, so as to imitate a victorine" {British Medical Journal, July 4, 1S85), while Pughe has found very serviceable for poor patients "a collar made of soft leather filled with sawdust," Horsehair would be lighter and more elastic. (d.) Moore's Collar.—A steel collar (Fig. 172), the invention of a blacksmith for his own little girl, is described by Clark, of Glasgow (Fig. 173). "It consists of two incomplete rings (A and B)—the upper for supporting the head, and the lower to rest on the shoulders. Being formed of one piece of steel, the two rings are continuous at the back; and the upright portions, passing from the lower to the upper, support the latter, and, when in use, support the head also. The lower ring is formed of round steel; but it is flattened for the upper, the flattening commencing about the middle of the vertical supports. The upper ring being formed of the ends of the bar is incomplete in front; but the extremities are joined by means of wire, or are loosely clamped, their ends being turned down to form flanges, so_ as to facilitate this connection. On the upper ring is placed a piece of millboard, and this serves to support a pad, suffi- ciently broad and thick to form a comfortable rest (Fig. 173). At the back there is a tie to keep the apparatus in place when in use. M