PLASTER-CASTING. setting than cold; and in winter the chill should be taken off the water for the patient's comfort, when the cast is from the living person), sprinkle lightly into the waitr—without sttrnng—spooniul after spoonful of the dry plaster until it rises up through the water, and shows just beneath the surface all over. There is now enough. Stir the whole rapidly, working it up from below and from the sides. When mixed, it is ready, and, although quite fluid at first, soon becomes thick. It will be found that nearly an equal bulk of plaster and water are used, and that the mixture is only a little less than twice the bulk of water taken. When a plaster-cast is to be taken from the mould, ink or some other colouring-matter should be added to the plaster for the mould as it is being mixed. The reason for this will be afterwards explained. (2) Taking the Mould.—If the amount of surface to be cast is such that it can be pulled out of a one-piece mould, the process is so much the simpler. Although the pliable soft textures can be withdrawn from a plaster mould, which partly surrounds them, the extent to which this can be done will vary with the part, and must be learned by practice. A plaster-cast and mould, on the other hand, being both rigid, can only be separated when, besides not sticking, they do not enclose one another. Suppose the back of a man's hand is to be cast. Shave off all hairs from the dorsum of hand and first phalanges—the soft hairs on a woman's or child's hand may be smoothed down with soap and vaseline—next lay the hand, fingers and thumb together, prone on a board spread with a piece of paper. Partly fill up the hollow under the wrist to prevent the plaster from getting too far round. See that the hand is well smeared with oil or vaseline. Mix sufficient plaster of Paris to cover the hand all over with a half-inch thick layer. When first made, the plaster will be too thin to lie on the hand; very soon, however, it will become like cream. In this state lay it over every part of the back of the hand and fingers, and, as it thickens, plaster it on more and more. Care must be taken to see that every part is uniformly covered; there is a risk that some parts will be as thin as egg-shell and break very easily, while others have more than their share. When every part is satisfactorily covered, leave the plaster for five or ten minutes to set. This process will be mdicated by its growing distinctly, though not uncomfortably, warm. Before the mould is ready to lift, any small projection, when tested, should crack off as a whole, and not crumble under the finger. When sufficiently hard, it should be cautiously lifted from the hand. \Vhen both sides of an object (say, the hand) are required, the mould must be taken off in two pieces. There are many ways of doing this, but the " thread " plan is perhaps the best. Mix plaster as before, but in two portions, one after the other- one IS to be laid down first as a bed-and when it is thickening and can be heaped up into a level layer, the hand is allowed to sink a very little way mto it. Next make a fresh quantity of plaster, and as It thickens take a piece of strong pack-thread or thin twine, and