167 MASSAGE. CHAPTER XIX. MASSAGE. Contents—Utility of Massage—Physiological effects produced by it— Objects aimed at in the use of iV'Iassage—Movements employed : )" Stabile " (Pressing, Hacking, Thrusting, Tapping, Pinching) —{li.) " Labile" (Stroking, Kneading, Rubbing)—Time to be occupied at each Sitting — The Effleiirage-Pitnssage-EJfkurage sequence—Surgical conditions in which Massage will be beneficial— Caution. Although the term "massage" has been objected to, as now meaning more than merely "kneading," still it is a convenient word to express those manipulations of muscles, joints, and other parts, which are often so very useful as a means of treatment. It seems right in a work of this sort to explain the methods employed, and indicate generally their applications to disease, for there can be no doubt that "massage" is invaluable in certain cases, and no well-educated surgeon or physician should be ignorant of its general principles. Many are deterred from studying the subject by the assertion that no one can learn it without special personal instruction. Schreiber, however, in his eminently scientific Ulamtal of Treatmejit by Alassage, says as to this, that "the necessary knowledge and skill can very well be mastered luithont an instmctor, if, with each manipulation, the final end, namely, the physiological effect, be kept strictly in view." Physiological Effects.—What, then, are these physiological effects ? 1. Soothing and gentle stimulation of ciUanemis iiei-ves by stroking the skin. 2. Encouraging venous and lymphatic ciradatioii by stroking towards the heart. The vessels reached will depend on the part and on the depth of pressure. Following from this, there results increased activiiy of the circulation of the part so treated, i.e., dilated arteries and capillaries, and a more rapid current of blood, and, in consequence, increased warmth, more active nutrition, and the removal of effused material. Muscles after massage have their electrical conductivity as well as their voluntary motor^power greatly increased, and they recover from exhaustion much more rapidly than when left to themselves. 3. Mechanical stimulation of the tissues, leading, probably, to molecular changes, and resulting in increased activity of circulation and of metabolism. The tissues most usually affected besides the blood-vessels are the muscles, nerves, and in pathological conditions, mtlammatoiy exudations. There is no reason why gland-tissues might not be affected in a similar way.