14 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. right heart becomes distended and general congestion occurs. We have already alluded to this, as seen in the case of drunkards IHs enough to remove the towel and encourage respiration. In anxious cases, 'he external jugular vein may be opened; or, if the heart have \ r^^' ^^ntncle might, as a last resort, be punctured with the hypodermic needle, blood withdrawn, and the endocardium at the same time stimulated. Extreme pallor and irregular and feeble pulse presage cardiac syncope, for which ether may be given, either hypodermically or on the towel. Sudden heart-failure is not prone to occur when the patient is well "under." It will be noted how much can be learnt by watching the aspect of the patient's face. The pallor of syncope and sickness, the congestion of respiratory embarrassment must be well watched, in contrast^'with the normal colour of the lips and ears. To sum up : we expect that no operative procedure whatsoever should take place till the patient is fairly "under;" that as soon as hew under—as evidenced by the muscular rela-xation, cutaneous insensibility, and loss of conjunctival reflex—the anaesthetic should be at once removed ; and that in the event of any respiratory trouble arising which is not at once relieved by pulling fonvard the chm, or by forcible traction on the tongue with artery-forceps the alarm should be given, and artificial respiration promptly begun. It is difficult to form an accurate judgment as to the beneficial results gained by the preliminary hypodermic injection o{ atropia and morphia. There does not seem to be sufficient evidence as yet, that danger or sickness is lessened by it. Where, however, extensive operations have to be performed in the region of the mouth and jaws, the patient's sufferings are mitigated, and less chloroform is required by this mixed narcosis. Moreover, the operator may be greatly assisted by the patient clearing his mouth while still remaining insensible to pain. Certain disadvantages are apt to attend the administration of chloro- form in small rooms with exposed gas or lamp lights. A decomposition of the vapour takes place and intensely irritating products are formed. On one occasion where the room was heated by a small oil stove, an operation had to be hurriedly concluded, on account of the discomfort caused by the chlorine compounds liberated from the chloroform, and the patient had an attack of bronchitis in consequence. The well-known inflammable nature of ether also calls for caution when it is used by night or in proximity to a naked light. All operation theatres should have covered or electric illumination. (2) Ether is held in favour as the safest anassthetic by many surgeons, notably so in England and America. It would appear, however, that in this respect its virtues have been exaggerated, and fatahties during its use are not extremely rare, as is shown by some recent American writings. It may be used with advantage where chloroform is contra- indicated. It should not be employed for children, who always bear chloroform well and safely. It is contra-indicated in cranial surgery, since it congests the brain; and it is open to similar objections in pulmonary and renal weakness, where it is more or less obnoxious from chilling the lung or irritating the kidne)'s. There are two methods of giving ether, known respectively as the " Open " and the " Closed " methods.