A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 12 centres are usually involved before Ihe cardiac, and hence embarrassed or shallow breathing—which we can readily obviate—foretells immediate danger, and gives rise to the simple nile —" Watch the breathing." Very rarely does the heart stop first, or suddenly, without warning. This does, however, happen. It has been associated with operations in the region of the fifth nerve, when the patient was not deeply under the influence of the drug, with epilepsy, and where special idiosyncrasies may have e.xisted. Chloroform is only contra-indicated in all cases of weak, irregular, cardiac action—be the cause of this what it may—fatty heart, anaemia, shock, fear, depression, or old age. Mode of Ad?>iiniste}-{ng Chloroform.—The more simple the apparatus used by the chloroformist, the better. A small towel, a pair of common artery-forceps to pull forward the tongue, should occasion arise, together with a hypodermic needle and ether for emergencies, constitute his requirements. The towel possesses the advantage of allowing one to study the face, and feel the breathing directly. It should be folded into a square, and about an inch of its margin turned up so as to form a pad or roll, which may be laid against the chin, and kept free from chloroform. The patient's stomach should be empty. It is better for him to have had no food for at least four hours prior to operation. He should lie on his back, with the head comfortably supported on a pillow, and all clothing encircling the neck and chest should be loosened. About a dram or two of chloroform is now to be sprinkled over the towel; the patient is told to breathe easily and close his eyes, and the towel is gradually raised in front of the face. If the patient feel uneasy, or if he should complain of choking, the towel should be withheld for a moment till a full inspiration of pure air has been taken. If there be an accumulation of saliva in the mouth, he is asked to spit into a towel. Quiet should always be maintained, since the sense of hearing is sharpened by chloroform, and since the period of excitement which ushers in chloroform-narcosis is often increased by external agencies. Should the patient become greatly excited, it is not advisable to struggle against him. On the contrary, he should be allowed to grasp the hands of an assistant, who will follow and guide his movements. Securing the patient to the table before he is "under," or other restraint of any kind only provokes resistance. In some people, more especially in drunkards, the stage of excite- ment is often prolonged ; and as the patient struggles and holds his breath, the veins become congested and turgid, and a species of tetanic spasm sets in, during which the respiratory muscles are apt to become fixed. Under such circumstances, the towel should be removed until the patient has cleared his lungs of the chloroform- vapour, and once more breathes with regularity; by that time the administration may be resumed again with safety, the congestion and spasm having passed off. As soon as the patient rests quietly, and no longer responds to pinching, his limbs lying limp and motion- less, his conjunctival reflex may be tested by raising the upper