ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. I? with that in which the skin is unbroken. Speaking generally, we may say that inflammation does not attend subcutaneous injuries. Wherever the skin is destroyed, however, external noxious agents are brought into contact with the injured tissues, and inflammation and fever ensue. This is entirely due_ to the growth and development in the wound-secretions of micro-organisms, which, abounding more or less in the atmosphere, are deposited everywhere. These germs vary in number, quality, and vitality—many of thein, more especially those associated with putrefactive changes, thrive_ in dead or dying tissue, aided by moisture and heat, conditions which they find in wounds. It is against such organisms coming directly from without that the surgeon battles. A second series of microbes, not only attack wounds from without, but often gain entrance to the system through the ahmentary, respiratory, and other tracts. Many of these give rise to special diseases, such as tubercle, and the like. Sometimes they retain their vitality in the tissues and the blood-stream for a considerable time, and only give direct evidence of their presence by congregating and multiplying at spots where there has been some local^ injury sustained, or where some local weakness exists. It is in this way that we explain the micro-organismal formation of abscess. If inflammation and blood-poisoning, ensuing on the receipt of a wound, be thus caused, it follows that all successful wound-treatment is based upon a recognition of the germ-theory, and should be con- ducted entirely on the antiseptic principles of Lister. Hence, our object is not so much to treat the wound itself, as its surroundings. We must either destroy the germs when they have gained entrance, and thereafter exclude them ; or we must render the wound an unfitting nidus for their growth, or entirely prevent their entrance. Antiseptic Methods and Materials.—The antiseptic methods and materials used by different surgeons vary considerably. The principles are the same. The surgeon's hands and those of his assistants, the instruments, sponges, and everything which is brought in contact with the wound must be carefully purified and rendered antiseptic, as is also the skin of the part operated on. The surgeon either operates under a cloud of carbolic spray (l to 30) ; or irrigates the wound with some antiseptic lotion ; or does not act on it in any way beyond drying and draining it. In the last instance, he trusts to the dryness of his wound and the vitality of the tissues, which have not been irritated by applications, as being sufficiently inimical to any stray organisms which may have entered. Bleeding vessels are twisted or tied with purified catgut or silk ; drainage-tubes are inserted, and the wound is closed. Some surgeons contrive to leave their wounds untouched for fourteen or twenty days after operation, and then remove the dressing to find all healed. This end they attain by the most scrupulous attention to antiseptic detail, and by the use of trust- worthy catgut and decalcified bone tubes. Others, again, dress always at the end of twenty-four hours, and then remove the drainage-tubes. They again dress about the seventh day, to remove