69 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. r.Ti"l"^'° peritoneum, and septic peritonitis has been vc es abhshed, the patient's chances of recovery are greatly dinnmshcrd, if not entirely destroyed. e greatly (5) Strangulated Hernia is always a matter of great anxiety S'sho VTe'"" f'^V^ house-surge'on may have to i!tk is h?w Jar should he go in efforts at taxis before sending for the visiting surgeon, and what treatment should he adopt pending his arrS ^ It IS impossible to lay down definite rules for all cases but the following general indications may be useful — ' No effort at Taxis should be made {a) if there be signs of local change, such as inflammation, emphysema, or bruising, at the hernial protrusion. S> {b.) If extensive efforts have been already made without success before admission. {c ) If symptoms have been very acute, i.e., great pain, vomiting, and collapse—even although lasting for a few hours only. Kd.) If the distinct symptoms, even though not very urgent, have continued lor two or more days. The indications of strangulation ?lx&—locally hardness and irreduc- tility, pain and tenderness, loss of impulse on coughing ; remotely pain m the abdomen, often felt at the umbilical region, nausea, sickness and vomiting, becoming stercoraceous, collapse with rapid weak pulse 1 here IS generally complete constipation; but the passage of faeces which had lain low in the great intestine is sometimes deceptive. Mr. Spence's dictum used to be: "When in doubt, operate;" and the house-surgeon may assume this as the indication for sending for his " Chief." Meanwhile, the pubes should be shaved, the parts covered with a towel soaked in carbolic (1-20), or corrosive sublimate (i-iooo), and an ice bag laid over the hernia—at least, for an hour or so. The foot of the bed may also be well raised. Any great pain should be soothed by morphia. By these means the tension in the sac will be lessened, and the way prepared either for taxis or an operation, as the visiting surgeon may think fit. On the other hand, should the symptoms be slight and of short duration, the house-surgeon may very gently try taxis, but the efforts should be gentle and short. Should the parts seem inclined to yield, a slight interval may be allowed to give a chance to the cold, and to the raised position of the pelvis, when a second trial, aided with chloroform, may be made. Should this fail, a " doubt" will exist, and the case must be treated accordingly. It is not the purpose of this work to discuss the form of operation for strangulated hernia. Taxis is performed by first relaxing the hernial openings by raising the shoulders, and flexing and adducting the thighs (femoral, and inguinal hernia). The surgeon grasping the protrusion with one hand, draws it away, and at the same time gently compresses it, while with the other, applied at the neck, he pushes up bit by bit in the direction of the canal-opening. This it will be remembered runs in the same direction as the hernia in the