63 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. over the desired spot. Considerable patience is often expended before the leech can be induced to fasten; when it has once taken hold, it may be left till it becomes distended, and drops off. Leeches to mucous sui-faces (as of the vagina), must be applied in carefully adjusted test-tubes, or in leeching glasses—z.e., tubes open at one end and at the other end narrowed so as to allow the head only of the leech to protmde. When much blood has to be removed, the leech-bite should be fomented with warm water. When the bleeding continues too long, pressure with a pad will generally stop it; but if this fail, the leech-bite should be touched with a point of solid nitrate of silver. The continuance of the flow is due to the anti-coagulating substance secreted from the leech's pharynx (Haycrafl). (2) Cupping, like leeching, has now gone too much out of use. In dry cupping, the blood is only drawn to the surface; in wet cupping, it is withdrawn from the body. (a.) For dry cupping, if a cupping glass is not at hand, an empty jelly-can (jam-pot), cup, or strong tumbler, will do as well. A flat surface of skin should be chosen ; this should be wetted. The interior of the cupping-glass should then be well heated (to expel the air), either by holding it over a spirit lamp, or by throwing a piece of lighted paper into it. In the latter case, the paper should be extinguished by clapping the glass against the skin ; in the former case the glass should be withdrawn from the flame, and immediately pressed into its place on the skin. A vacuum is produced inside the glass, and the skin, deeply congested, rises up into it. (b.) For wet cupping, a set of cupping knives are needed; these consist of 10 or 12 sharp blades, working in a half circle through slits in a metal plate fixed to a frame. The distance to which the blades pro- ject beyond the plate can be regulated by a screw. The blades are first brought through their course against a spring, and are held there by a catch, " full cock." When a button is pressed, they spring back at once, sweeping over the slits to the depth already regulated, and of course make corresponding cuts in whatever comes in their way. The depth of the wound must vary with the patient's skin. It should be just through the skin, but not into the subcutaneous fat, lest pellets of fat should block the cuts, and stop the needed bleeding. Having adjusted the depth of the knives, and having placed the instrument at " full cock," the surgeon first dry-cups the desired place; then pressing the brass plate against the skin, he discharges the knife- blades, and immediately applies the exhausted cupping-glass again, which will now rapidly fill with blood. It must be emptied, and re- applied as often as required. The wound, after having been cleaned, should be dressed with dry boracic lint, or absorbent wool. (3) Venesection.—Used generally to be practised from the median basilic vein. A fillet is placed on the upper arm, to retard venous return, and an oblique puncture is then to be made through the skin, into the vein, with a sharp-pointed bistoury, or lancet. Blood will now flow freely. If it becomes sluggish, the patient should work the hand and fingers vigorously. From 8 to 20 ounces may be withdrawn at a sitting. In special cases, any distended vein may be selected. A dry pad fixed over the wounded vein is all that is needed to stop the blood, after the fillet has been removed. (4) Arteriotomy may be needed when blood has to be abstracted rapidly. The temporal artery is generally chosen from its convenient