57 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. a sharp-pointed curved bistourj^, he then sHts up both layers of the prepuce as tar as the corona. Each half o. the prefuce is then grasped with catch forceps and held away from the glans, while the surgeon trims the superfluous prepuce (both layers with scissors-leavmg a margin all round and not touching the tranum. As the parts are generally vascular, allow blood to return, and tie all bleeding points before stitching up. Powder with iodoform and dress with strips of dry boric lint. Change dressing on second or third day, or at a later date if possible. (10) Phymosis—where the prepuce cannot be drawn back over the glans penis, may be congenital, or acquired from venereal mflammation. In slight non-inflammatory conditions, the prepuce may be gradually stretched by being drawn back daily. In more severe cases circumcision will be required. (i I) Paraphymosis is where the prepuce, after having been drawn behind the glans, cannot be restored to its natural position. The narrow orifice of the prepuce becomes a tight constriction behind the glans, which in turn swells, and so aggravates the mischief. If the condition be not relieved in time, there is a risk of sloughing of the glans, as well as of the prepuce at the point of constriction. Treatment.—OW the glans, and try to reduce by grasping the skin of the penis between the fore- and middle-fingers of each hand, while with the thumbs the glans is pressed back. Should this fail, wrap the penis in cotton wool, and then compress it with an elastic bandage for twenty minutes. A second attempt to reduce may now be made, followed by a repetition of the elastic pressure, if need be. Another method is to grasp the glans with the tips of the thumb and next two fingers, and thus to draw on the penis, then with the fingers of the other hand to try to slide the prepuce over the glans. Should these manipulations fail the constricting parts must be incised. CHAPTER XII. ON BANDAGING Contents.—Uses of Bandaging — The Roller Bandage—Rules for Bandaging—Typical Cases: How to Bandage [a.) the Foot; [b.) the Hand—Cautions to be observed in Bandaging—The "Spica" Bandage for (i) the Heel—(2) Knee-joint—(3) Elbow— (4) Groin ("Ascending" Spica)—(5) in Femoral Hernia (" Descend- ing" Spica)—(6) Shoulder—(7) Double Spica of the Groin—(8-9) Single and Double of the Mamma—(10) The Head (how to cover (a.) the Forepart; [b ) the Posterior Segment; (c) the whole Scalp)—(11) How to Bandage the Fingers. The bandage is one of the most ancient forms of surgical apparatus, the simjalest and most convenient. It is employed under varying