157 EXTEMPORARY APPLIANCES. CHAPTER XVIII. EXTEMPOEARY APPLIANCES AND CIVIL AMBULANCE-WORK. Contents. — Extemporary Appliances in Civil Life — Accidents — Fractures—Extemporary Splints—How to lift and carry an Injiu'ed Person—Extemporary Stretchers and Slings—Bleeding Wounds —Domestic Antiseptics available—Bleeding from an Artery— Extemporary Tourniquet—Rules for Bearers of the Wounded— Formation of Ambulance Classes. In time of war, the necessities of the case demand that use should be made of whatever comes first to hand for the extemporary manufacture of splints and stretchers. As no amount of precautions and no organisation can ever entirely obviate the difficulties of attending to the Wounded in war, the utilisation of arms and accoutrements for making splints and stretchers, and the possible applications of a triangular handkerchief as a simple form of bandage and retentive apparatus, have been made the special study of military surgeons in civilised countries. In recent years it has been recognised that circumstances much resembling those of war very frequently occur in civil life—in so far, that accidents of all kinds happen when no trained assistance is at hand, or special apparatus is available. On this account, Civil Ambulance classes have been formed all over the country in order to train non- professional persons to give " first aid " to the injured with such apparatus as may be generally available. So much attention has been given to this subject by lay-people, that few medical men—far less medical students—could, without having specially studied it, put up an ordinary fracture on the street so neatly or so well with umbrellas, sticks, and handkerchiefs, or other extemporary apparatus, as a well-trained member of one of those classes. Considering that many of these men are skilled mechanics, and that they enter upon this practical work with the keenest interest, we need not be surprised that their standard of excellence is very high. It, therefore, becomes the profession to see that they are not out- stripped in this matter by their lay brothers. We shall here briefly indicate the chief points requiring attention; practice must do the rest. Fractures—(A.) Of the Lower Limb.—It is of great importance to decide at once whether or not a fracture is probably or possibly present, because fixation of the broken bone should be ensured before the injured person is lifted or disturbed. _ The Diagnosis must be made chiefly from the helpl essness of the limb, the pain, and the distortion, as it is not always advisable to test for crepitus, if it should not be manifest on the first genUe handling. In doubt, treat as if a fracture were present. n