A SURGICAL handbook: 136 An attempt at treatment should be made. It fails where the strength or condition of the patient cannot stand the demands of the con- finement required. The chest should be examined ; and care as to the state of the circulation, and renal secretion, may save much initial trouble. The difficulty attending expectoration in bronchitis, the tendency to hypostatic congestion, and the embarrassment to breathing, swallowing, defascation, and '= '\ micturition, which attend the depend- "^^^IjA V I ant position of the patient's body, have ^ to be combated, till there be some degree of tolerance to the new state of affairs. The administration of digi- talis, ammonia, and bark; the use of enemata, the catheter, and massage of the body will do much to improve the general condition. (a.) First Method—The long Splint •with Extension.—In using the long splint with extension, the following articles are required:— Materials. — Extension-plaster and tapes ; three Domet bandages; a splint 4 inches broad, of suitable length, to extend from the axilla to beyond the foot, and a sheet; safety pins; a broad Domet roller for the chest; a foot-piece for the long splint; fine wadding; bed props; weights, cord, and pulley. Apply the extension - plaster as described (Chap, xx.) Roll the splint in the sheet or tablecloth, leaving enough free to envelop the limb ; lay [AlI|rT| it alongside the patient, and slip it IQ -I I under the leg as in Fig. 105. The ^^rTA loose end is then folded over; the weight for extension adjusted, and the bony prominences being suitably padded, the sheet may be secured to the splint with pins (Fig. 106). The thoracic binder is now passed under the patient (Fig. 105) and pinned. Finally, raise the foot of the bed as in F"ig. 107. Long Splint with Perineal Band.—It sometimes happens, owing to the form of the bed or other circum- stances, that extension with weight and pulley caimot be carried out. We may then employ the lone; splint with the permreal band. ^\ nh this a couple of large handkerchiefs folded en cravatie takes the Fig. 106.—The Long Splint used with extension. {h.) Second Method—The