244 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. from base to apex. If necessary, all the organs of the neck and chest may be removed e7i masse. This is done bv T'"\''^\'^^ f." °f then th. strng the\n e through the floor of the mouth, so as to divide the mucou! membrane c o e to the jaw all round. When this is done, the tongue may be pulled downwards and outwards, and as the larynx, trachea! oesophagus, and great vessels, are pulled forwards, they may be stripped from off the prevertebral muscles and cervical vertebr^ 1 he vessels passmg over the first rib are next divided, the contents of the posterior mediastinum, as far as may be, detached from the vertebi-ce and the structures piercing the diaphragm cut; whereupon we may lift out everything-and examine the parts in detail. The larynx, trachea, bronchi, and oesophagus should be slit up The Abdomen.—An inspection having been made prior to re- moval of the thoracic viscera, the abdominal organs may be now more carefully examined, and, if necessary, removed. For this purpose, double ligatures should be applied to the cardiac and pyloric extremities of the stomach, the beginning of the jejunum and the sigmoid flexure. The bowel may be removed for complete examination by cutting between the ligatures and dividing the omentum and mesenteries. The stomach, liver, duodenum"^ and pancreas may now be removed together. The duodenum should be laid open, and the patency of the bile-passages ascertained by pressing upon the gall-bladder, and by introducing a probe-pointed knife and shtting them up. Sections may be made of the liver and pancreas, and the stomach opened. The kidneys, ureter, and bladder, together with the rectum and ovaries in the female, may now be removed. The size and consistence of the kidney should be noted, and also the thickness and adhesion of the capsule. It should then be laid in halves with a knife, the pelvis opened, the ureters followed up, and the bladder incised. The Spinal Cord is reached by laying the body prone, and making a mesial incision from the ligamentum nuchce to the sacriim. The arches of the vertebrse should now be exposed, divided with saw and chisel, and removed as in the dissecting-room. At the conclusion of the autopsy the organs may be carefully replaced, and the incisions closed with a continuous suture. The body should be left exactly as found, the grave-clothes replaced, and the most scrupulous care exercised to avoid leaving even the trace of a stain. The operator's hands should be held from time to time in running water from a tap, if possible, or washed with turpentine and carbolic lotion.