APPENDIX. Beef-Tea. Required— I lb. freshly-killed lean beef. x pint cold water, teaspoonful salt. Remove all skin and fat. Cut the beef into small pieces ; do not chop it or a good deal of the juice will be squeezed out and lost. [A still better plan is to scrape or shred the beef, as this breaks it more thoroughly down and allows the water to mix better with it. This plan talces a long time.] Place the beef, with the water and salt, in a stone jar, with a tightly- fitting lid, and allow to stand for lo minutes. This soaking in cold water and salt will draw out the juices of the meat. Then place the covered jar in a saucepan (with a lid) half full of boiling water, and cook thus for 60 minutes. If the water in the saucepan boils away, add more. The reason beef-tea is put into a jar, and not directly mto a saucepan, is to prevent it from boiling, which is considered to diminish its digestibility. [If more convenient, the jar containing the beef, &c., may be placed in a moderately hot oven and cooked there.] When the beef-tea has been cooking for 30 minutes, open the jar, and with two forks separate the beef, which is apt to cake together into lumps ; cover and return the jar to the saucepan. When the beef-tea is sufficiently cooked, pour it off from the meat, but do not strain it, at least not through a fine strainer, as that would keep back the sediment, which is a valuable part of the beef-tea. Pour into a basin, and squeeze the meat with the back of a spoon so as to get out all the juice. If there is a suspicion of anv fat floating on the top, remove it with porotis paper; or better still, let the beef-tea, if not required at once, become cold and remove the fat with a heated spoon. If the patient is allowed to eat the fibre of the meat, pound it in a mortar, pass it through a hair sieve and thicken the beef-tea with it. As. patients quickly tire of beef-tea, it is advisable to alter the flavour occasionally. By the addition of a sprig of parsley, thyme, and bayleaf tied together and put into the jar for about 15 minutes, and removed before serving, a pleasant flavour will be obtained. If the flavour is liked, a small piece of onion, previously scalded, may be placed in the jar for a few minutes while the beef-tea is cooking. Any vegetable or herb palatable to the invalid may be used for a change. A tea made of equal quantities of lean beef, veal, and mutton, in the proportion of i lb. of mixed meat to i pint of water and >4 teaspoonful salt, is often palatable. Serve beef-tea hot, in a cup or bowl only % parts full in case of spilling, with thin dry toast cut into small neat pieces upon a plate. Place the cup and plate upon a tray, with a clean and neatly-folded napkin. Beef-Tea quickly made (inexpensive). Required— 4 ozs. of freshly-killed lean beef. i gill cold water. % teaspoonful salt. Cut the beef into small pieces, sprinkle the salt, and pour the water, over It. Cover and allow to stand for 10 minutes. Pour into an uncovered saucepan, place over a slow fire, and beat with a fork until the meat changes colour-. On no account allow the tea to boil. Pour the tea off the meat, remove the fat, and serve.