64 EMERGENCY CASES. position and size, and from the ease with which it can be stopped by pres5Ui-e. The artery must be wounded, but not divided entirely. When the requisite amount of blood has been obtained, the vessel should be completely severed, and firm pressiu-e with a pad applied. Counter-u-ritaiion may be applied by blisters, by cautery, or by other means. . By Blisters.—A fly-blister of the desired size is applied to the skin, and left on for 6 to 8 hours; or blistering-fluid is painted on the part until it becomes white. The blister which rises is then snipped, and the raw part dressed with zinc ointment, oil-silk, or wet boracic lint. By Cautery.—(a.) The button cautery.—This is heated in the gas or spirit-lamp, as indicated in Fig. 30, until the forefinger feels uncomfort- able; and is then rapidly tapped over the skin at various places, so as to leave a reddened spot behind it each time. (/3.) When the actual cautery is applied, a red-hot iron, or the thermo-catttery, is needed, and an ansESthetic is indicated. The skin should be first cleansed. The burn ought not to destroy the whole depth of the epithelium; ii the seared part be at once covered with collodion, no further dressing will be needed. When it is desired to prolong the action of any counter-irritant, the raw surface should be dressed with sabine ointment, which irritates it, and keeps it open. By Potential Caustics (see Appendix^. By Croton Oil, which, when rubbed into the skin, is a powerful counter-irritant, and causes a smart pustular eruption. Tincture of iodine is a mild counter-irritant. The liniment of iodine is much stronger. Fig. 30.—Heating the Buttou Cautery. CHAPTER IX. EMERGENCY CASES. Contents.—A. Treatment of Surgical Emergency Cases—(i) Reten- tion of Urine (from Stricture of Urethra; Enlarged Prostate; Spasm of Constrictor; Acute Inflammation of the Prostate; Ure- thral Calculus)—(2) Possible Rupture of the Urethra—(3) Possible Rupture of the Bladder—(4) Possible Injury of the Intestines— (s) Strangulated Hernia—(6) Severe Compound Fractures and Dislocations—(7) Injuries to the Eye—(8) Lodgment of Needles under the Skin—{9) Foreign Body in the Nostril—(10) in the Ear- In) Obstruction to Respiration (from Swelling of the Fauces; Croup, or Diphtheria; Foreign Body in the Air-passages, Pharynx, or CEsophagus)—^r?z/?cz'(z/ Respiration—Treatment of the Apparently Drowned—(13) Severe Head Injuries—(14) Cut-throat. Under the category of "emergency" cases—cases in which prompt