227 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. often appears as whitish flakes and shreds, which, although indicative ot no serious derangement, may occasion much groundless alarm. so like the irregular cells of cancer that no deduction can be safely drawn from its presence eithei for or against malignant disease. Renal epithelium generally more or less altered, is often seen in the urine when the kidneys are diseased, and accompanies a deposit of lube- (2) Tube-Casts consist of either fibrinous or blood casts of the .•n u ^^"""^^ ^^'^ ^l^^^sd epithelial Uning of the tubules, still holding together and shed as a whole. .^T^e recognised varieties are, epithelial (Fig. 183), opaque granular lii'ig. IS4), transparent or waxy, fatty, and blood-casts (Fig. 182). As several varieties may occur together in the same urine, conclusions must be cautiously drawn from the prevailing types, rather than from mdividual specimens, and only after repeated examination. With these precautions and with the patient's previous history in view, Roberts says that ■ ■ the following conclusions are generally wan-anted:—(a.) Epithelial casts and blood-casts indicate a disease of recent origin. Vb.) Trans- parent large waxy casts, mixed with dark granular casts, indicate a chronic disease, {c.) Epithelium and casts containing much fat, indicate fatty degeneration." These tube-casts are generally present in albuminous urine, and take a long time to settle. Twelve hours should be allowed. The methods indicated before for collecting deposit should be adopted, and arc specially necessary. (3) -^"■f Cells can be recognised under the microscope in urine without much trouble. When in large quantity their presence may be inferred from the naked eye appearances alone. (4) Blood Corpiscles are not quite so easily recognised, owing to their liabiUty to alteration (Fig. 182.) Their bi-concave character is very soon lost by imbibition in most urines. In some cases they are found shrunken. Where there is a doubt, they may be recognised by " the extreme tensity of their outline, the absence of visible cell-contents, and especially of a nucleus, and their feeble refractive power " [Roberts). _ While in an acid urine both pus cells and blood-corpuscles remain visible for several days, in an alkaline urine they are rapidly dissolved and disappear. (5) Spermatozoa are easily recognised by their characteristic tad- pole appearance. They are physiologically present in the urine after connection or a nocturnal emission, but in certain cases, as the result of masturbation or excessive intercourse—more rarely, however, than is popularly believed—they may be seen after straining at stool or at the end of micturition. The whitish fluid passed in many of the cases of so-called spermatorrhoea has been found to be more ol'ten prostatic than seminal. Contrary to the statement of many quacks who prac- tise upon the bad consciences of their dupes, spermatozoa are very easily recognised in urine, even alter it has begun to decompose, and are little liable to be conlused with anything else.