2IS A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. urates while an opacity seen at first may be due to oil-globules, as m chylous unne or fatty embolus, to the effect of copaiba or cubebs taken internally, or, most frequently, to pus. When pus is detected, its source should be ascertained if possible, inat irom the urethra will be swept out with the first few ounces of uru-ie, which should therefore be collected separately, if the remainder ol tlie unne comes away clear, the diagnosis is pretty certain, but if not an ettort may be made to distinguish between pus from the kidney and ttiat from the bladder. By first washing out the bladder and then tying m a catheter, a sufficient sample may be obtained. If it be uniformly turbid, the source of pus will be above the bladder; if clear probably in that viscus (rAoOTJo«). In an alkaline urine, turbidity generally indicates decomposition, with a ropy deposit of altered pus and mucus. (6) The Reaction of Urine in health is generally acid, due to acid phosphates and urates, and also to free acids—such as lactic, oxalic, and acetic. After food has been absorbed, the reaction becomes more or less alkaline as it leaves the kidney, although after mingling with the acid urine in the bladder, it may never be actually alkaline when passed from the tirethra. The secondary effect of a meal, especially of animal food, is to increase the acidity of the urine. It has been pointed out that the acidity of the urine varies inversely with the secretion of the gastric juice. When there is much acid in the stomach, a less quantity is excreted by the kidneys, and vice versd—opium increases acidity of urine {Harriso?i). Urine may be pernianeittly alkaline (i) from the presence of large quantities of alkaline phosphates, as occurs sometimes in patients when in an anaemic and depressed state. (2) From the internal use of alkalies (caustic and carbonated) and alkaline salts of acetic, tartaric, citric, malic, and lactic acids. (3) From cold bathing. (4) From ammoniacal decomposition where, through the agency of micro-organisms, urea unites with water to form carbonate of ammonia. The reaction of urine often throws great light upon clinical symptoms. An undztly acid condition seems chiefly to excite the mucous membrane of the urinary tract, and over-stimulate its nervous and muscular activity, producing symptoms very like those of calculus in the kidney or bladder. In some cases it may be the cause of small quantities of blood and pus in the urine, which still further complicate the diagnosis. An alkaline condition from any of the above causes e.xcept the la.st (decomposition) seems to have no effect on the urinary passages, and is not liable to form any calculus. On the other hand, lu-ine alkaline from ammoniacal decomposition is a strong irritant of the mucous lining of the whole urinary tract, sooner or later inflames it, and tends to deposit phosphatic salts. An important reladon has been traced by Lister between the state of the mucous membrane and the acdon of micro-organisms. If the former be healthy, the luine seems able to withstand the action of micro-organisms even when implanted