JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. iSo Joint rest is obtained by {a.) Ahsohtte fixation, which not only obviates the first, but also the second source of irritation, for when a joint is steadied in its position of greatest ease without the muscles, they, being no longer needed, relax. As a result, joint- compression is relieved, and so inflammation tends to subside, after which a return to the natural position of the joint is soon possible. (/;.) Extension at Jiist in the line of the deformity is often of great service in acute and subacute cases (Marsh). Extension without fixation, and extension tending at once to reduce a deformity in acute cases, are equally erroneous means of treatment, although the former has had strong advocates in America. To prevent the evils attendant on bearing weight, the patient must either be kept in bed, or be supplied with an immobilising apparatus, which transmits the body-weight otherwise than through the affected joint. The latter method is preferable in the less ad- vanced chronic cases, since it allows the patient to enjoy some open- air exercise ; the former is necessary in acute or in severe chronic cases. In subacute and chronic cases Thomas latterly reduced the de- formity rapidly by bandaging the limb into the splint, and by tightening the bandage as soon as it became slack. It is well to note that when a joint has to be kept absolutely quiet, other joints must also be fixed whose muscles either pass over the affected one, or are in co-ordination with its movements. Thus, in bad cases, the knee should be fixed with the hip, the ankle with the knee, and the elbow and hand with the shoulder. A. Treatment of Special Joints. (i) The Hip-joint—(a.) By TJiomas's Hif splint.—The hip may be fixed by Thomas's hip-splint in all cases where fixation is needed, whether the patient be going about, or be confined to bed. The splint may be applied to the hip at any angle, and this may be altered as required. One great advantage claimed for this splint by its inventor is, that surgeons at a distance from large centres can with its aid treat their patients at home "with no more mechanical assistance than can be rendered by the village blacksmith and saddler, and the poorer class of sufferers will, at a small cost, be assisted as effectually as the wealthier classes."—Thomas. The following description* will sei-ve to explain the apparatus and its mode of application :— _ The Splint consists of an upright bar or stem of flat malleable iron moulded to the body, and furnished with three transverse * Taken partly from Thomas's own book and from conversations with himself. Pi. J v-T ^"i-^'^ S-"" =>nd application of the splint by Jones, i„ iha British Medical jlouritanorOcl.i.iiiT.