ANESTHETICS: GENERAL AND LOCAL. 15 (a.) The " Open " Method.—This resembles the ordinary mode of giving chloroform. The ether is either poured on the hollow apex of a towel rolled into a cone, or on a sponge placed within the towel, and the cone is then held over the patient's nose and mouth. The ether is renewed as required, and care similar to that exercised in the administration of chloroform is carried out. As a rule, the stage of excitement is more pronounced, the face undergoes peculiar vascular changes, and the administration requires to be more continuous than with chloroform. For the open method, Allis' ether-inhaler has certain advantages. It consists of a light metal framework, on which a bandage runs vertically in a zigzag manner, the whole being surrounded by a strong rubber collar. This is placed over the respb-atory passages, and the ether dropped con- tinuously on the bandage. {b.) The " Closed" Method possesses the peculiarity of requiring that the patient should breathe and rebreathe his own expired air, so that partial asphyxia is made use of as an ansesthetic; less ether is required, and there is not so much chilling of the lungs. It is carried out by means of a special inhaler—Ormsby's or Clover''s being commonly employed. Such inhalers consist of a mask or face-piece, to which is affixed a rubber bag, into which and from which the patient breathes. There is an interpolated chamber or sponge for ether, so that the respired air is. thus charged with the aucesthetic. The air-pad of the face-piece should be blown up and soaped, if the patient possess a beard, so that it may securely fit when pressed down firmly on the face. In the case of the Clover's Inhaler, the ether-chamber is charged with a measure of ether, and the index turned so that the patient breathes and rebreathes into- the rubber balloon. After one or two respirations, the administrator gradually turns the index so that ether is admitted, and by degrees a quarter, half, and finally, all the air breathed consists of ether vapour, the face-piece being closely pressed down. By means of a valve a little fresh air may be given when necessary, but this is most readily accom- plished by removing the mask. Sickness after anaesthetics, when obstinate, may be cured by giving the patient very hot water to sip, or by the administration of an eighth of a grain of morphia in pill, with perhaps a little cocaine. A sinapism over the stomach often gives relief. (3.) Cocaine.—For the production of local anjesthesia there is no agent equal to cocaine. Care should be taken to obtain a good preparation, since the impure forms are highly irritating. Two solutions are commonly employed, a 10 per cent, and a 5 per cent. These should be freshly prepared by dissolving I or 2 grains of cocaine in boracic acid lotion, as required. {a.) The stronger solution is used for external application to m?v hp'c ' 'f P^^^tf^te ordinary cutaneous epithelium. It may be sponged, pamted on, or rubbed in with a pledget of lint effect b^'th.^'" r"';- Sives the more ra^id a^nd lasting effect, but the application will vary with the accessibility of the no n-k 1' r ^° conjunctiva, spray the nostrils and throat, rub the tonsils and pharvnx. and so obtain