A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 8i antimony (with great depression), digitalis, lead, colocynth, colchicum, and phospliorus. Nature of the vomit, if any.—Bloody and coffee ground in irritant poisons. Black or dark green, luminous in tlie dark, with odour of garlic, in phosphorus. "Emergency" Apparatus.—Every hospital and, indeed, every general practitioner should be provided with emergency apparatus and the necessary antidotes and hypodermic solutions, with directions at hand to aid the memory in case of need. Messrs. Maw, Son & Thomson have brought out veiy neat special hypo- dermic cases with bottles to fit the nozzle of the syringe. The bottles contain Huggett's "permanent hypodermic solutions," for which the following advantages are claimed:—"Readiness for immediate use;" " permanency and non-liability to the slightest decomposition; " " being non-irritating, they are not liable to cause abscesses or set up inflam- matory symptoms; their uniform strength and dose, which are guaranteed; the active principles being in solution are without doubt more reliable than medicaments in any other form." Messrs. Burroughs & Wellcome likewise furnish antidotes in a still more concentrated form. Their soluble compressed tabloids are de- scribed as follows by the Medical Press and Circular:—" Each little tabloid contains as a vehicle a quarter of a grain of sulphate of sodium, with morphia, atropia, and other alkaloids usually employed for hypodermic medication. The use of sulphate of soda is an advantage over other vehicles, as it promotes absorption without causing pam or irritation, and acts as a disintegrator, forming an almost instantaneous solution with 3 to 5 drops of water." In this form apomorphia, atro- pine, morphine, &c., may be given. The tabloids may also be taken by the mouth Certainly they occupy a minimum of space, and are beautifully put up in small glass tubes. The advantages claimed ior them are—" Absolute accuracy of dose; ready and entire solubility; compactness and portability ; perfect preservation ot the drug." The Stomach-pump.—A necessary instrument to have in readi- ness is the stomach-pump, or a syphon substitute. There are two kinds of stomach-pump in use— ., , . , , , , (1) The best kind has an exit-pipe, provided with a branch at risjht angles to it close to the syringe; a flute-key arrangement shuts one and opens the other, as required. By alternately opening arid closincr these while the piston is being worked, fluid may be made either to enter or leave the stomach by the oesophageal tube. (2) Another kind has a valve preventing entrance at one opening, and exit at the other; so that fluid which enters the syringe by one opening always leaves by the other. By means of adjustable nozzles the stomach-tube may be attached to eiiher, and so fluid pumped either in or out of the stomach, as required. To fass the Tube. Smear the tube with olive ofl, vaseline, or elycerine; bend its end nearly to a right angle; niake the patient open Se mouth, and hold the head well back at first. Pass he tube straight to the fauces, avoiding the tongue as much as Po^s'bk, a^^^^ -gently push it on, directing the patient to "swallow it.' The left fore-