119 ON FRACTURES. examination, Iiave the limbs stripped and exposed_ It is a good rule to remove the clothing from the sound limb first, after which the injured limb can be more readily freed. In like manner, when the patient is able to put on his coat or trousers, he should always with the injured extremity. It is best to cut away the clothing ufbad cases. The companion-limb should be laid m a position similar to that of its injured fellow, and having ascertained whether there has been any former lesion or deformity, both may be compared. A glance may reveal the presence of abnormal elevations, de- pressions, or the filling up of hollows. Measurements should now be made. For this purpose certain fixed bony points should be selected on each side, and marked with ink. In the case of the leg we would indicate the anterior-superior iliac spines and the tips of the external or internal malleoli. The surgeon then stretches an inch-tape or bandage from the one point to the other, so that it barely touches the skin; and looking vertically down on the ink-marks, reads off the length. For comparison and measurement both limbs should be laid in the same position. It must be remembered that normal limbs are subject to slight variations in length—the left leg being not infrequently longer than its fellow; and again, old inflammatory affections may have modified growth by causing increase or decrease in length. The surgeon should also gently pass his finger along the line of the fractured bone, noting any irregularities, as well as the locality and extent of the area where the jiatient has pain or tenderness. It is now generally possible to say whether there be a fracture or not. One can form a fair estimate of the injury and of the dressings required. If there be no great amount of swelling, the_ sooner apparatus is applied the better. This should be of as simple a character as possible, consistent with efficiency. Setting of the Fracture.—The setting of the fracture, and its retention in the proper position, depend on a knowledge of the chief displacing cause. This varies greatly. The force itself may have been the means of carrjang the broken ends apart, and all that is needful, now that the violence has expended itself, is simple reposition. Again, fittisctdar action may have wrought the evil, or may keep fractured surfaces asunder; in which case, relaxation by position of the muscles concerned, or gradual exhaustion of them by means of continuous extension will succeed. The weight of the limb, causing an outward rotation or separation of surfaces, is easily counteracted by giving support. The nature of the Ihie of fracture, be it transverse or oblique, is also a matter of great moment, and must be taken into careful consideration in adopting a mode of treatment. Before setting the fracture, make sure that your splints are of the proper size. This is easily done by shaping them on the normal limb. All being in readiness, the surgeon sees that the limb is firmly and steadily grasped above the seat of fracture by an assistant, while steady continuous extension is made helotv—the surgeon laying his fingers over the fracture, and manipulating there, if need be.