CASE-TAKING. 3 the mode of closing the wound, the drainage, and dressings used, if in any way unusual. For future reference the fluids or tissues removed should be described, and the results of microscopic examina- tion recorded. Progress.—On graphic temperature charts, the pulse and tempera- ture is to be set down. These are to be noted night and morning in ordinary cases, but as often as every hour or every two hours in bad septic abdominal or head cases. Termination.—If in death, its cause and the results of post- wojiem examination; if in discharge Irom the hospital, the condition is to be noted. Should the patient return to report progress, a note of the condition should be added to the case, also any change of address if such has taken place. N.B.—^Where possible a drawing or photograph should be taken ot the patient or affected part. In many cases a cast will be found useful. Application of the above.—Tubercular disease of the right knee-joint. Catherine C, aged 28, single, domestic servant, living in Comar, Strathmore, by Claynonis, admitted June 4th, 1890, under Mr. Sawyer's care, to ward 5, Royal Infinnary, Edinburgh, com- plaining of a " bad knee." History of present Disease.—Ten years ago, alter a severe cold, the patient noticed a peculiar numb sensation on the outside of her right knee. This continued for some weeks, and was then followed by swelling and pain of a shooting character, which sometimes wakened her from sleep. Six months later the patient went to Claynonis Infirmary, with her knee drawn up and still swollen, although less painful. The joint was painted with iodine, and extension was applied to the leg with the effect, however, at first, of increasing the pain in the knee. This treatment was kept up for five months without doing any material good. During another month, fly blisters were repeatedly applied, but also without effect. The patient then went to Strathpeffer for two months, and says that the waters there did her a great deal ot good. Next summer she repeated her visit to Strathpeffer, and the summer after that she stayed at the sea-side, where she also got benefit. Since then she has been at home, able for the most part to walk about and work a little, and troubled with pain only when she did too much. Within the last year, however, the knee has grown weaker and more pamful, and for the last six months she has only been able to hobble about with the aid of a stick. She has worn a splint from time to time to keep the leg straight. Previous Health.—Up to ten years ago she was lairly healthy, although troubled from time to time with enlarged cervical glands. Social History.—Except that she had been a good deal in-doors, her mode of life was satisfactory. Family History.-Father alive and healthy; mother died in childbirth eighteen years ago. She has four brothers and two sisters alive and strong. One brother died of inflammation of the lungs after three weeks' illness. Two of her aunts, on her mother's side, died of consumption.