140 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. loop of strong elastic tubing to the extension-tapes, and passing this over the fool-piece, keep up traction (Fig. in). Others prefer the apparatus (Fig. 112), where both fragments are acted on by elastic force. Malgaigne's Hooks give good result, when used with antiseptic precautions. The skin must first be carefully purified (p. 6), and the hooks disinfected. They are then forced into the upper and lower fragments, which are now approximated by a few turns of the screw. An antiseptic dressing is put on over all. At intervals of one or two days, the dressing is removed with antiseptic precautions, and the screw again tightened. An attempt should always be made to secure osseous union. Moreover, since we usually only succeed in getting a short liga- mentous uniting medium by the methods above described, and since this is extremely liable to stretch to an almost un- limited extent, if subjected to early strain, it follows that the longer the knee can be kept stiff in the position of extension, the better for the patient. Hence, the limb may be put up in starch at the end of eight or ten weeks. In sixteen weeks gradual attempts may be made to Fig. 113.-Fan-shaped Plaster for extension. get a little flexion, but nine or twelve months should elapse before full flexion is allowed. It is questionable to ■what extent a surgeon is justified in cutting down upon and wiring the fragments in order to obtain osseous union. Stellate and longitudinal fractures are not so troublesome, and may be treated with a simple figure-of-eight bandage and posterior splint. (4) Fracture of both Bones of the Leg.—When both bones of the leg are broken, there is usually marked displacement. This is not so when one alone gives way, as then the other acts as a splint. The customary displacement of shortening and rotation of the lower fragment outwards, may be met by careful setting and by extension with weight and pulley. When the break is very low down, so that it is somewhat difficult to get a grasp of the lower fragment, an attempt may be made by incorporating fan-shaped plasters (Fig. 113), with a bandage covering in the foot and ankle. {a.) First Method—In the Extended Position.—For all fractures of the leg, there is no apparatus of such universal application as the Box splint. Materials.—Two splints of light wood, K inch thick, 4 inches broad, and long enough to extend from above the knee to a hand's-breadth below the sole. Three towels ; both of similar length, and two some- what smaller. SUp knots ; bandage ; wadding.