70 EMERGENCY CASES. inguinal form, while in femoral hernia, the protrusion passes up and out, and hence will have a corresponding relation to the canal. (6) Severe Compotind Fracture or Dislocation.—While, as elsewhere laid down, the first object aimed at should be to render all compound wounds a-septic, the injuiy may yet be so severe as to necessitate an immediate amputation or excision. When the parts are severely bruised and crushed, the impossibility of saving them will be evident. In others, however, the matter may be difficult to settle. Causes for anxiety are, the absence of pulsation in the main vessels below the seat of injury, or of capillary circulation, illustrated by pressing and rela.xing any vascular part; extensive stripping otf, or undermining of the skin, great comminution of the bones, and a pulpy bruised state of the muscles, even though the skin seem fairly natural. The elasticity and pliability of the skin will permit of an almost complete pounding and crushing of the deeper te.xtures, without external marks being visible, at least at first. However, the vitality of the skin may be so injured by stretching and bruising, that it will afterwards die, although at first it looks only a little pale or livid. The patient's constitution will also have to be considered. With a vigorous patient, especially if below middle life, efforts to save a limb maybe made, which it would be unwise to attempt with a broken-down or elderly patient. (7) Injuries of the Eye. — {a.) Foreign bodies on the surface must be removed from the conjunctiva at once. If loose, and not immediately apparent, they will be found beneath the upper lid, which should be everted as follows :— Direct the patient to look down to the ground ; lay hold of the margin of the upper lid (or of the eyelashes), and draw it down, and away from the globe ; then, placing a blunt pencil, or the flat handle of a pocket-knife upon the upper part of the upper lid to steady it, rapidly fold the lid upwards, and it will become everted. If, while it is held thus everted, the patient looks down, the upper angle of the conjunctiva can be easily explored, and any foreign particle picked off or wiped away. Should a small particle of stone or metal have lodged in the surface of the cornea, constituting a "fire," it must be very care- fully removed with a spud, the cornea having previously been rendered insensible with a few drops of cocaine (4 per cent.) The greatest care must be taken to avoid unnecessary injury to the corneal epithelium in this process. _ [b.) Where the eye has been cut, any escape of the vitreous humour IS serious. One of the immediate risks in cuts of the eye-ball is a prolapse of the iris ; therefore, if the cut should be at the centre, the pupil must be dilated with atropia; whilst, if it be at the mar-^in. It must be contracted with eserine. A diy pad and bandage must then be applied on the closed eyelid. It is not usually necessary' to do anything further at the time, unless the corneal cut should gape very widely, when it may be drawn together with a fine stitch. (8 Lodging of Needles beneath the Skin.-This is a common accident, and often causes greater anxiety to the patient than the slight risk involved can account for. No attempt should be made to remove a foreign body, unless it can be seen or felt through the unbroken skin. In a suitable case, begin by rendering the part