126 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. axillary handkerchiefs (Fig. 88). The presence of knots behind may be obviated by interlacing the ends and tying in front (Fig. 89). Should the handkerchiefs threaten to mount over the neck and so '■<■'. <.', '/. relax, they may be secured to a pelvic band by intermediate slips. This is a better plan than using a series of figure-of-eight turns. At the end of three weeks the arm may obtain a little freedom. (2) Fractures of the Body of the Scapula are caused by extreme violence, and hence are com- monly associated with other injuries of an even more serious character, such as frac- tures of the ribs. The mobility of fragments, crepitus, and pain serve Fig. 8g.—Method of bracing back the Shoulders with Interlaced Handkerchiefs. Diagnosis. for diagnosis _ Treatment consists in retention by means of figure-of-eight turns with a Domet roller. The rarer fractures which are met with at the neck are only diagnosed by excluding the possibility of other injuries. Where the line of the fracture passes at the omo-hyoid notch, marked tenderness, with perhaps crepitus and abnonnal mobility, is felt on manipulating the coracoid process. Where the glenoid alone is detached, a dislocation is simulated; but the contour of the shoulder is restored by merely supporting the elbow, and lost again on withdrawal of support—conditions which we do not obtain in dis- location. Treatment is similar to that of fracture of the clavicle; a light axillary pad, sling to sup- port the elbow, and retention- bandage. (3) Fractures of the Hum- erus may involve the extremities or the shaft. Shortening is one of the main features when the shaft gives way. Displacement is due to the direction of the force, character of the fractured surfaces, and the relation of the break to the deltoid and muscles attached to the region of the The musculo-spiral nerve may be injured, or 3 2 1 Fig. 90. — Gooch-Splints shaped for Fracture of the Humerus—Nos. i and 2 are cut to avoid pressure on the internal condyle, 3 is used to command the rest of the arm as in Fig. 91. bicipital groove.