47 ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. membranes, which seem to stand without damage a temperature which would blister the skin. If we have to produce constriction of vessels at a distance below the skin by the continued action of either heat or cold, we should prefer the latter. It would be more difficult to maintain the constricting high temperature on the deep parts, and, if it were maintained, its effects on the intervening tissues would be serious. When temperatures from 120° to the boiling-point and onwards are brought to bearon the tissues, effects other than those produced merely by muscular spasm are seen. There is (besides injury visible only by its results) first coagulation of albuminous sub- stances and softening of connec- tive tissue; a higher temperature still more coagulates the one ss—Pacquelin's Cautery. Heating and hardens the other; while the Knife before pumping in Benzoline the temperature of dull red-hot vapour, iron coagulates and hardens all tissues, and kills them at the same time. Cautery.—The actual cautery is thus a most powerful styptic, as it, when properly applied, shrivels up all the tissues into a hard mass. The greater the heat, the more rapid and the more superficial its effect; so that if a blunt-edged blade be used white-hot, the vessels bleed nearly as much as if they had been cut across with a sharp knife ; while if a dull-red or black heat be employed, ihe progress is slower, but the shrivelling and occlusion of vessels complete. Pacquclin's thermo-cautery is used where vascular textures not easily accessible have to be divided (Fig. 25). It is also of service in searing the skin, or otherwise, where the actual cautery is required. In vising this instrument, the knife must be thoroughly heated in the spirit-lamp before the benzine vapour is blown in, otherwise the knife is only cooled by the cold blast. The galvano-cautery is employed for cutting through the vascular base of polypoid growths, where direct access to the divided vessels is impossible, as in the removal of a fibrous polypus from the naso- pharynx. From what has been already said, the advantage of using the wire at a dull-red heat will be apparent, but this has been found somewhat difficult in practice to regulate. Cold.—From almost time immemorial, cold has been used to check bleeding, and there is not the slightest doubt that cold does constrict blood-vessels. The effects of prolonged cold in producing pallor of the skin is well-known, and probably was the clue that first led to 4