A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 122 dered necessary. All splints should be removed, the limb should be washed, and a little rough manipulation during the process wil prove beneficial, by causing a fresh effusion of formative lymph. A more efficient apparatus must now be applied. Should fibrous union and false joiret eventually form, nothing short of breaking down or removal of the uniting medium in some way can do good, since no amount of mere rest will induce ossification of fully formed fibrous tissue. " Greensiick Fracture " is the term applied to the bending which bones in children are prone to undergo in place of fracture. Treat- ment is that of fracture. During the forcible replacement the bone may yield. The collar-bone and forearm are most commonly affected. Dislocation versus Fracttire.—It is convenient to consider dislocation along with fracture. The general characters of disloca- tion are fixation and distortion of the joint involved, due to a change in the relative position of the bones which form the articulation. Fractures, on the other hand, display abnormal mobility and distortion as regards the relation of certain parts of the bone to each other at the seat of injury. It is only when fractures occur in the vicinity of joints, more especially if of the nature of diastasis (epiphyseal detachment with no true crepitus), that there is difficulty in coming to a definite conclusion. By manipulation and support, we may restore the outline of a broken bone. Deformity again occurs when we remove the support. On the other hand, a dislocation is difficult to replace ; but, when once reduced, tends to maintain its position. Naturally, there are numerous exceptions to such generalisations, as when, for example, dislocation occurs at some shallow ligamentous joint presided over by powerful muscles, in which case, although reduction be easy, retention is even more difficult than in fracture. The sooner a dislocation is reduced, the better. This can in many instances be effected by rapid manipulation if one takes the patient unawares. Failing this, the administration of an anesthetic will remove all difficulty. The limb is then to be kept at rest, and after a suitable period of quiet, passive motion is carried out. B. Special Fractures—Upper Extremity. (i) Fracture of the Clavicle is an exceedingly common injury. The typical displacement of the shoulder downwards, mwards, and forwards, occurs when the break lies at any point internal to the coraco-clavicular ligament. There is generally some irregularity at the seat of fracture, unless it lie between the conoid and trapezoid ligaments, in which case localised tenderness on pressure, taken in conjunction with the history of the case and the condition of the limb, affords ground for a positive diagnosis. . ,1, - If the fracture lie external to the coraco-clavicular ligament, tnere is little tendency to downward displacement ; but forward rotation becomes gradually well marked, should suitable treatment not be adopted.