PLASTER- CASTING. 240 The only way to prevent air Imhhles from forming between the mould and the cast is to pour the plaster slowly and by instalments into the mould, and to keep constantly shakmg and turnmg the mould round and round all the time. Sometimes it is an advantage to pour the fluid plaster into and out of the mould once or twice, m addition to turning it round and round. If plaster be poured in without these precautions, air-bells will certainly disfigure the cast. When the mould is nearly full, a loop of string should be pushed into the plaster to hang the cast by afterwards. (4) Removing the Castfrom the Except in almost flat casts, this must be done at the expense of the mould. In all ordinary casts, only one copy can be made from the original mould. Additional copies can be taken from this by making either an elastic gelatine mould or a plaster "piece-mould." The plaster-cast, which has been filled into the mould, should be set aside for twelve hours. With a chisel and hammer the mould must then be chipped away piece-meal, care being taken not to let the chisel cut into the cast. The advantage of staining the plaster of the mould will now be apparent. It will be found an advantage to begin at the edges, and special care must be taken of any projecting or thin piece of the cast lest it be broken off with the mould. To harden the plaster of Paris it should be slowly dried, then soaked in a saturated solution ol alum, and slowly dried again. This improves it greatly. Boiled linseed oil softens the surface of the plaster. It the cast is to be painted, one or two coats of Damar varnish or ot size, as a preliminary, will prevent the paint Ivom being absorbed too quickly by the porous plaster. (a.) A Gelatine Mould is made by suspending the cast, bone, or other object to be copied, in a wooden box large enough to give an intei"val of at least an inch between the object and all sides of the box. Into this is poured very strong gelatine, or glycerine and gelatine, while hot and fluid. When the mould is cold, the sides of the box are taken ofl", and a cut made in the gelatine all round, half way up the most prominent parts of the object. After lifting off the top halt ol the mould, the object can be pulled out of the lower half. The two halves should then be laid together, and a hole cut out of the upper one, opposite its highest point. The .sides of the box are now replaced and bound in position, and, in addition, the top of the mould must be held down to prevent the plaster from escaping, leaving, of course, the top aperture free. A plaster-cast can then be run into this gelatine mould, which, from its flexibility, can be lifted off from the rigid cast without injuring it. For small objects a small bowl serves well. The gelatine can be lifted out, cut as desired, and replaced in position. {b.) A '^Piece-Mould'' is marie ot plaster of Paris, and being rigid as well as the cast, must be made of many pieces, each of which can be lifted off without going round a corner. The object to be copied is first mapped out into areas where casts will lift off; the first area is banked round with clay, the second and succeeding pieces