25° APPENDIX. (3) Soak in i per cent, solution of commercial salt of sub-sulphite ot place the smaller one, which must have previously been heated by allowing boiling-water to stand in it for a minute or two. Put the hnseed meal required into the smaller basin, pour in boiling-water gradually, and beat with the spatula into a thick paste. Now take one of the heated plates, lay out on it the linen in which the poultice is to be placed, and spread over it quickly with the spatula the mixture from the basin. Dip the spatula into the larger basin of boiling water, otherwise the mi.xture will stick to it, and not spread freely on the Unen. The poultice should be about K-inch thick all over, and a margin of about i y^ inch should be left all round the linen to turn up over the edge of the poultice. If the poultice has to be carried some distance to the patient, it should be placed between two heated plates. The poultice should be gently applied, and, in the event of there being much discharge from the wound, it will be found an advantage to lay some absorbent cotton wool round it; over the poultice a piece ot waterproof material; and then cotton wool or flannel should be placed to prevent evaporation and to retain the heat better. The poultice should be fixed in its place by a bandage or handkerchief. Poultices should be applied as hot as the patient can bear them, without any material between the sore and the mixture, otherwise their value is diminished. They should be changed at least eveiy three hours. It is hardly necessary to add that the poultice should at once be burned after removal. (2) Oatmeal Poultices are made in the same way as linseed, but some authorities recommend that the meal should be previously boiled. (3) Starch Poultices.—The starch should be first made into a stiff paste with cold water, and then mixed with boiling water to make it hot before being applied. (4) Bread Poultices.—Boil some stale bread with water for five minutes. Drain off the water, and spread the bread on a piece of linen. A few drops of warm oil should be placed on the poultice, and so prevent it from sticking to the patient. (5) Bran Poultices are made by pouring boilihg water on to the re- quired quantity of bran, and stirring well. Antiseptic Precautions.—To any of the above poultices there may be added powdered charcoal, powdered boracic acid, or iodoform, to diminish foetor and fermentation. The material should also be freely dusted over the surface of the sore, before the poultice is applied. (6) Mustard Poultice.—When mustard leaves are not available, a mustard poultice can be made either by spreading mustard, prepared as if for use at table, on linen, or by simply shaking dry mustard over a linseed poultice, and then applying it to the patient. How to Cleanse and Purify Sponges.—Sponges, when new. are to be repeatedly washed out of hot water, dried, and beaten until the sand is shaken out. Some recommend that they should then be steeped in an 8 per cent, solution of hydrochloric acid, until all calcareous particles are dissolved. They are then to be stored in 1-20 carbolic acid, and kept ready for use. . After having been 7csed at Operations for sometime.—(i) tree them from grease by steeping in a concentrated solution of washing soda. (2) Then soak for twenty-four houi's in permanganate of potash i gr. to I oz., and wash again in clean water.