EMERGENCY CASES. 72 amount.on the two side. ^^^^^^^^ ^ o[ signs of obstruction or disease m uic a.ii s , .,, the Darts below are at fault, we must determine which is most to Sanfe comparing the manifest dyspnoea the ^ly^geal thoracic sounds. An indication may thus be gamed, but precision Sl\ng?^?obstruction to be at the glottis, the treatment will van. with the cause and with the views of the operating surgeon. Some of the more frequent causes of obstruction are :— {a.) S^velHng of the Fauces and GlotHs.-K^ the result of a burn- a ch Id having tried to drink scalding tea for instance It is difficult to say to what extent the swelling will go in any one case. Efforts should be made to limit it by giving the patient ice to suck, and applying cold continuously to the outside of the throat, and by scarifyini the swollen fauces. Tracheotomy should be Postponed as long as possible; but provision for it should always be at hand, as it may be required at a moment's notice. In any case while dangerous symptoms last, every draught of cold air should be excluded from the patient, and steam from a bronchitis-kettle constantly plied round him. , , , ^ .u r„. (b ) Croup a7id Diphtheria.—may be classed together, lor although well-marked examples of each are distinct from one another, many cases are very doubtful. The points of distinction are considered to be the following-viz., that croup is a local mttam- mation of and exudation of false membrane in the larynx, extending downwards into the bronchi, producing also spasm of the glottis. It is said to kill by dyspnoea alone. When the local obstruction is removed, improvement is rapid. Diphtheria, on the other hand, is (in the later stages at least), as much a general as a local disease. There is also an exudation, but this is partly a slough, and when removed leaves a raw surface. The fauces are affected first. The same tendency to spread down into the lungs exists; but there is, besides, a general poisoning and depression for which local symp- toms do not account. Recovery is slow and often complicated with paralysis and by albuminuria. Should diphtheria be diagnosed, the question will be—is the patient suffering Irom tracheal obstruction, or from general poisoning? If from the former, an operation may Idc considered; if from the latter, it would be of little permanent use. When the local symptoms seem to be getting steadily worse and to be the chief evil, the free entrance of air should be ensured. Symptoms are then relieved. If it be a case of croup, the chief consideration will be :—is the