i83 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. of the vertical bar, and the bottom cross-piece to be two-thirds of the length of the mid cross-piece. In the walking splint, however, the lowest cross-piece is equal in length to the mid-piece. Mode of Attachment of the Cross-pieces.—Each is riveted at its middle point to the upright bar. Thus the spHnt as it leaves the blacksmith's hands is adaptable to either side of the body. The surgeon with his wrenches only requires to give a slight rotation to the upright bar on its own axis. This twist is given just above the buttock bend, and has the result of making the upper or trunk portion of the vertical bar look obliquely towards the opposite side, while the lower part looks straight forward. Thus for a left splint, the upper part of the vertical bar will look obliquely towards the right, and vice versd. In adapting the splint after its application, a rotatory tendency to any particular side is to be met by opening out the portions of the crass-pieces on the same side, and bending in those on the opposite side, i.e., if there is rotation towards the right, relax the right parts and tighten in the left parts of the cross-pieces. A bandage on the leg and thigh, applied in a direction contrary to that of the rotation, is also recommended for keeping the splint in its place. The above directions are meant for fitting splints to cases in which there is no deformity other than that of flexion. Where there is also adduction or abduction an additional half wing should be fixed on to the upright bar between the level of the patient's iliac crest and last rib. For adduction, this wing will be on the same side as the disease, for abduction, on the opposite side. Where the extra wing cannot be obtained, one-half of the top cross-piece may be bent downwards instead. Sometimes children whose condition requires rest in bed, try to get up and walk, when they are not being watched. To prevent harm from this, Thomas fixes on his " nurse," consisting of a piece of iron screwed on to the lower end of the upright, so as to project below the foot, and make walking more difficult and less harmful. Fig. 146. Wrench {after Thomas). When the more acute symptoms have subsided, and the patient is deemed well enough to be out of bed, the boot on the sound side is raised on a patten, and crutches are provided. The affected leg thus hangs, and extends the hip-joint by its weight. Owing to the artificial rigidity of the hip- joint, the patient cannot easily sit, and prefers either to stand or to lie. Where a patient suffers from double disease, or where there is marked deformity, a double splint is recommended. The distance between the two upiights will then be I inch more than the interval between the two posterior superior spines. A cross-bar joining the two uprights, just above the lowest cross-pieces, will add much to