EXTEMPORARY APPLIANCES. 16S (7) of frost-bitc, (8) of lime in the eye, (9) of supposed death. C. Illustrations of the temporary treatment of the following simple fractures—(i) collar bone, (2) upper arm, (3) fore-arm, (4) the hand, (5) thigh, (6) leg, (7) foot, (8) lower jaw. Third. Lecture.—To be devoted to practical work, when the members of the class will exercise themselves in the use of the triangular bandage and the temporary treatment of the different fractures mentioned in the previous lecture. Fourth. Lecture.—A. (i) General description of the circulation of the blood, and the mechanism by which it is carried on— (2) Distinction between arterial, venous, and capillary hasmor- rhage—(3) Names of the main arteries of the body, with their situations — (4) Points where arterial circulation may be arrested by pressure—(5) Dangers of hsemorrhage. B. General treatment of haemorrhage:—I. Internal hceviorrhage— First aid in cases of (i) bleeding from the nose, (2) spitting of blood, (3) vomiting of blood. 11. External hcEinorrhage—■ (ij Application of cold, either by water or e.vposure to air— (2) Elevation of part—(3) Local pressure—(4) Distant pressure on main artery supplying wound, either by hand or tourniquet —(5) Three kinds of tourniquet; elastic, screw, and improvised. C. Show mode of applying elastic or screw tourniquet, and of making an improvised one—Give illustrations of arrest of haemorrhage from (i) scalp, (2) neck, (3) armpit, (4) upper arm, (5) fore-arm, (6) hand, (7) thigh, (8) ham, (9) leg, (10) foot—Give illustrations of temporary treatment of a compound fracture, with haemorrhage in upper or lower extremity. Fifth Lecture.—To be devoted to practical work, when the members of the class will exercise themselves in the arrest of haemorrhage in various situations, and in the temporary treatment of compound fractures. Sixth Lecture.—A. Short account of respiration, its objects and mechanism. B. Fainting, its causes, symptoms, and treatment—Immediate treatment of those apparently drowned, or suffocated by (i) hanging, (2) poisonous gases, (3) choking—First aid in cases of (i) burns and scalds, (2) bites by animals possibly rabid, (3) tears from machinery, (4) crushed and bruised parts, (S) stabs. C. Show mode of performing artificial respiration (Sylvester's method), and also the temporary treatment of fractm-ed ribs. Seventh Lecture.—To be devoted to practical work, when the members will exercise themselves in performing artificial respiration, and in the arrest of hemorrhage from supposed cases of ruptured varicose veins, stabs, tears from machinery, and gunshot wounds. "Eighth Lecture.—A. Short account of the nervous and digestive systems. ° B. .Symptoms and first treatment of shock or collapse C. I-irst aid m cases of (i) those stunned by a fall or injury to the head (2) of convulsions, (3) of epilepsy, (4) of sunstroke, 5 ot persons found msensible, (6) of suspected poisoning.