74 EMERGENCY CASES. finder reveal nothing, a probang may be passed down the oesophagus. If a foreign body be felt in the upper half ol the passage, long forceps may be tried, to grasp and remove it. Should this endeavour fail, CESophagotomy will be indicated. For Fish-hones and other irregular bodies, the umbrella-probang is useful (Fig. 31). This, while closed, is passed beyond the intruder, and then, when opened, is withdrawn. Frequently it brings with it the foreign body entangled in its meshes. For Coins, the coin-catcher {Fig. 32) is useful—a gag must be Fig. 32.—The Coin-catcher. used to keep open the jaws. The coin-catcher being passed, is then carefiilly withdrawn. If the coin comes too, the operator must be ready to guide it past the epiglottis with his left forefinger. It is apt to slip off the coin-catcher at this point, and either stick at the epiglottis or be swallowed again. Artificial Respiration may be necessary after the obstruction to the breathing has been removed in any of the above cases. In asphyxia, generally, for several minutes after breathing has ceased, the heart continues to beat. So long as it does so, the prospects of restoration by artificial respiration are good. When the heart's action, however, as well as the movements of respiration, has stopped, the chances are very small. Although Milne Murray has shown by experi- ment that in aTzzzwaA animation may be restored by artificial respiration after both pulse and breathing have ceased, clinical experience proves that in vian the prospects of recovery under similar circumstances are by no means so good. Many methods of artificial respiration have been proposed, the object in all, however, is to alternately increase and diminish the capacity of the chest, so as to make air pass in and out. The simplest and readiest way, is to press with the hand upon the sternum and then suddenly relax it. Sylvester's method which is the common, and a more efficient plan, is carried out as follows: the patient's head is kept low, the chin being drawn well up, or the tongue pulled out with forceps; the chest is raised; one person then grasps the patient's arms just above the elbow, and draws them with a sweep to above the head (Fig. 33); in about two seconds, he brings them down again to the front side of the chest, against which he presses them very firmly (Fig. 34), while an assistant at the same time drives the abdominal viscera upwards, towards the diaphragm to complete expiration. After a pause of four or five seconds, the movement is begun again. About fifteen respirations per minute are all that is required. Marshall HaWs Plan of rolling the patient alternately from his