S° ^ SURGICAL HANDBOOK. the lung in phthis.s. It might therefore be expected to S of use well '""!^in"t' P^^'r^'.'^ '"i- f-'- of inter'narL^mo" rnage as well. Tmcture of hazelme in 5-10 min. doses is akr, strong y recommended. Other agents have beenTec;mmended but the evidence in their favour is doubtful recommenaed, but (B.) Secondary Haemorrhage differs practically from Primary Hemorrhage m this, that the bleeding comes from vessels wW mouths are softened by granulation, and are therefore ncapable of holding a ligature the surface of the wound being also obscured by ?hTST' ''^ '•'f textures cannot be distingufshed^ fn]^ '"^^"^bly from a septic and sup^rating wound and may set in at any period while the suppuration is goinf on. When silk hgatures were used in septic woinds, Secondarf hsemorrhage was most common at the separation of the ligature about it r day; but it might appear at any time, if the ulceration extended to the coats of any large vessel. Th^ worst teature ot Secondary haemorrhage is—the uncertainty of its onset It often comes on while the patient is asleep, without disturbing him m the least, often while he is improving in health, and when the wound, except for a slight suppuration, seems rapidly healing. On this account, wounds suppurating near large vessels, (especially if recently ligatured), must be watched with the greatest care. No loreign body should be allowed to press upon the wall of a large vessel especially not on an artery. The effect of the resistance of the blood within the vessel and the pressure, however gentle, of the foreign body outside of it, is nearly certain to lead to ulceration through the coats. On no account, for instance, should a drainage- tube be allowed to press upon the sheath of a large artery. Lives and limbs have been lost by the faulty position of a drainage-tube before now. As soon as Secondary haemorrhage is discovered, check it by pressure, if possible, upon the main artery leading to the part. Next, after assistance has been called, find out by the colour of the blood and nature of its flow, if it seem arterial or venous—remem- bering, however, that often in Secondary haemorrhage the flow from an artery is continuous, and not intermittent, since the blood may escape from a small hole, and flow through blood-clots and granula- tions. Often when the first compression is released, the bleeding has ceased—only to return, however, in a few days or hours, when the circulation has improved and the ulceration again made way. Should the bleeding have ceased when the means of stopping it are at hand, precaution against its return should be adopted. The circulation in the part must be diminished by posture, and functional rest; deep clots should be left undisturbed, superficial ones removed; the wound may be cleansed with antiseptic lotions, and a pad placed over the bleeding spot. In a limb, a tourniquet may be left