i66 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. Ninth Lecture—for Males only.*—A. Removal of Injured by means of stretchers, special attention being directed to (i) the proper carriage of the stretcher, (2) the manner of placing it, (3) the loading and unloading it, (4) the position of the patient on it, (5) suggestions as to overcoming difficulties on the road, (6) hints as to the conveyance of stretchers by rail or country carts. B. Short account of some of the improvised methods of removing injured persons when no stretchers or regulai' conveyances are available, as by the two-handed, three-handed, and four-handed seats. C. Give illustrations as to how to prepare and fold up a stretcher. Tenth Lecture—for Males only.*—Stretcher drill in presence of and under direction of Lecturer. SYLLABUS OF LECTURES TO WOMEN ON HOME NURSING AND HYGIENE. I. The Sick-Room.—Introductory Remarks. The Sick-Room—its Selection, Preparation, Cleaning, Warming, Ventilation, and Furnishing—Bed and Bedding. IL Infection and Disinfection.—Infectious and Non-Infectious Cases—Quarantine of Patient—History of a Fever Case— Disinfecting and Disinfectants. IIL Details of Nursing.—The Nurse: Management of Nurse's own Health—Regulation of Visitors—Washing and Dressing Patients—Bed-making—Changing Sheets—Lifting Helpless Patients. rV. Details of Nursing.—Sick Diet: Administration of Food, Medicines, and Stimulants—Observation of the Sick as to (i) Rigors, (2) Sleep, (3) Pain, (4) Posture, (5) Sldn, (5) Appetite, (7) Vomiting, (8) Cough, (9) E.xpectoration, (10) the Effects of Remedies. V. Details of Nursing.—Taking of Temperature—Baths—Bed- Sores—Delirium—Nursing Sick Children—What to prepare for the Physician's and Surgeon's visit. VI. Application of Local Remedies.—Poultices—Fomentations- Blisters—Ointments—Leeches—Padding—Splints—Bandaging —Personal and Family Hygiene—Management of Convales- cents. Should move information be desired, consult one or other of the numerous Handbooks in existence.t * In Ladies' Class, Lectures on Sick Nursing will take the place of these ■^Tsuch as The Ambulance Pupil (Crosby, Lockwood & Co.): Aid to the Injured and Sick, by Dr. Gill ^Allman & Son); Common Accidents, by Dr. Andrew Wilson (Chatto & Windus), &c., &c.