54 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. be^user'C^'i' '^"''f '^""^^'^^ ^ sound may enrl of . ^ equally good way is to make the silk fast to the end of a gum elastic catheter, which can be easily passed from he nostnl mto the pharynx ; when there either it or he'^^read mTv be drawn wuh forceps through the mouth. As soon as the ^Hk is secured, the catheter may be withdrawn (Fig. 27) In bad cases the posterior plug may be left in position for (2) Troublesome bleeding from the rectum va^y occur from ulcer- n L '"A" """"f"'" u""'' °' "^^y the removal of internal to stoD rwL f " ' f^-tenal, venous, or capillary, and is difficult to stop—chiefly because the sphincter prevents ready access to the bleeding pomt. _ Should the bleeding continue after fhe removal of clots and injection of hot water, apply cocaine and use a speculum. If the vesse can be seen, it may be stopped by the application of a strong s yptic. Should this fail, give chloroform • stretch the sphincter! and pull down the affected mucous membrane; search for the bleeding point and tie it. Digital pressure may be employed; this was kept up by Synie for several hours in a case where he had cut off an internal pile (before he had taken to the ligature). When surgeons used simply to cut off internal piles without further precaution, bleeding was common, and often fatal. Now bleedine is stopped by tying or crushing the base of the pile, or by cauterisini the cut surface, men other means fail, the rectum may be plugged with a tampoon, care being taken to avoid over-stretching of the sphincter. (3) Bleeding after Lithotomy may be from the veins of the prostate, or some perineal vessel, which, if visible, should be tied 11 hot injections and raising the pelvis fail, use a tube and a petticoat, or a Brown's tampon. (4) Bleeding from the Prostate may come on in old men, apart from any operation. It is then probably from varicose veins. The bowels should be opened, and the patient kept recumbent with the pelvis raised. Ergot may be administered internally, and the bladder washed out with hazeline solution. Wlien other means have failed, relief has been given by incising the prostate by the lateral operation. (5) Bleeding from Varicose Femj.—Excessive heemorrhage follows the rupture of varicose veins in the lower extremities. While the patient is erect, the flow of blood is backward from the heart. The enlarged veins are frequently buried in brawny, infiltrated, inflamed tissues; but sometimes traverse the base of an ulcer, which may be insign:hcant in size and appearance. When the wall of the he vein