256 APPENDIX Beef-Tea Trtth Oatmeal (Inexpensive). Required- I tablespoonful of fine oatmeal. K pint of cold water. I pint of beef-tea. Z^L""^^ oatmeal into a basin and cover it with the cold water let it stand for 30 minutes, stirring continually, and then strain it thVouI a fine strainer, pressing the oatmeal as dry as possible. Pour the dear part of the beef-tea on the strained oatmeal and water, bo 1 for 10 minutes, stirring continually. Pour on to the sediment of the beef- tea, mix thoroughly, and season. Raw Beef-Tea. Required— 2 ozs. freshly-killed lean beef. 2 tablespoonsful of cold water, teaspoonful salt. Scrape the beef, over it sprinkle the salt and pour the water. Cover and allow to stand for 10 minutes. Stir and pour off the tea, and it is ready. [A few drops of browning or ketchup will improve the colour of the beel-tea, but be careful to serve it in a coloured or opaque glass as its appearance is not appetising.] Beef Essence. Required— I lb. freshly-killed lean beef. teaspoonful salt. Cut the meat into very small pieces, sprinkle the salt well over it put it mto a jar and cover with a lid. Place the jar in a covered saucepan of boiling water, or moderately hot oven, for 5 or 6 hours. Press the beef, and pour off all liquid. Remove the fat with a piece of porous paper, and serve a teaspoonful of the essence at a time. [To hurry the process a tablespoonful of water may be poured over the beef and salt, and two hours will then suflSce to draw out a good deal of the juice from the meat.] Fish. iV.S.—White fish, such as haddock, whiting, cod, or turbot, shottld always be preferred for invalids to oily fish, such as salmon, herring, or mackerel. Boiled Fish and Sauce (Inexpensive).—Have a very clean fish- kettle, with a strainer, with salted water (i teaspoonful salt to i pint of water), just enough to cover the fish. Too much water will wash away the flavour. Remove the fish from the water directly it is cooked, or it will become soft and broken. It may be kept hot over the water, on the strainer, covered with a cloth or flannel. A whole fish should be put into cold water ; a slice or piece of fish into boiling water. Do not pour the water over the fish, but place the fish in the water, directly after it has been well washed in cold water and salt. The time for cooking will depend upon the thickness. Wliiting or flounder requires about . • 5 minutes. Sole, ,, ,, . . 7 ,, Haddock, ,, ,, 10 to 15 ,, Slice of cod or skate, ,, ,, 12 to 15 ,, Put a skewer or fork close to the bone, and, if the flesh feels tender and will leave the bone, the fish is cooked enough. If the flesh feels hard,