ON BANDAGING. 98 circumstances and for many purposes, but its chief use is to give rest and support. With it one may retain splints and dressings, prevent and cure swelHng, or check bleeding. Impregnated with some stiffening agent such as plaster of Paris, it gives us a rigid material most useful in the treatment of fractures and of other lesions. Simplest Form of Bandage.—Inasmuch as the proper applica- tion of a bandage requires an appreciation of certain principles necessary to attain the end in view, it is well to study the most elementary and fundamental form at length ; this is the roller- bandage. It is intended in what follows that the student should apply the bandage as he reads, and carry out all the manipulations as they are described. The Roller-bandage, as provided in hospital, is usually made as follows :—Procure 6 yards of calico, about i yard in width, and remove the selvedges. Mark off with scissors short strips of the desired breadth; then grasp the alternate strips gathered in two separate bunches, and pull in opposite directions. From such a web one may thus obtain— 16 rollers, 2.\ inches broad; suitable for the head and upper limbs. 12 ,, 3 „ „ lower limbs. 8 „ 4 „ „ trunk. These are frequently known as eights, twelves, and sixteens. The strips must now be rolled. Start at one end as if making a cigarette with the fingers and thumb. Lay ^—R-r^^CT^*\ the small roll on a flat surface, such hand, and rolled with the fingers as shown in Fig. 39. In using a winding machine (Fig. 40), care must be taken that the first few turns on the central pin are not very tight, so that when the bandage has been rolled, by grasping it firmly and reversing the handle once or twice, the pin is freed and may readily be withdrawn. To finish off the bandage, a few stray threads from the margin may be wound around the roll to keep it together, and the trayed edges trimmed. To apply the bandage, select the size required, break the encircling threads, and liberate the free end or "tail." The compact roll is known as the "head," and we may further recognise an anterior and posterior surface, an upper and a lower margin. We may now look at the surface which we are about to bandage. Note that it is always curvilinear. It may be resolved into a series as a table, or on the thigh ; steady the loose strip with the left hand; press the right palm firmly against the roll and run it down over the strip, which will coil round, and we get a firm uniformly wound bandage. Or, again, the small initial roll may be held between the forefinger and thumb of each Fig. 39.—Rolling the Bandage.