'37 SURGICAL HANDBOOK. blood-vessel; 2 Reactionary, that which appears on the return of quickened circulation after a collapsed condition-^.", withS s™ or eight hours of the mjuiy; 3. Secondary, that which occurs durin ' the process of healing of the vessel. uuung A. Primary Hemorrhage.-During an operation, bleeding may be avoided by temporary pressure on the main vessels leading fo^he part, mth subsequent closure of the wounded vessels by ligature orsion styptic, or cautery. In other cases, the vessels, as they are bemg divided, may be closed by the use of the ecraseur or caute^ or, again, the vessels may be exposed and seized with forceps before waTds'"'^ divided, being permanently secured immediately after- The Temporary Closure must be carried out differently in different parts of the body. In the extremities (unless when close to the trunk) the mam vessel can be secured by the pressure of a tight band, applied by a tourniquet, elastic bandage, or elastic band («.) The Tourniquet in use now is only slightly modified from the original mstrument devised by Petit. The instrument is in such irequent use that a description of it would be superfluous. The following points must be attended to in applying the band to the tourniquet: —(I) The receiving side of the buckle must be towards the limb, and about 2 inches of band must be left between the buckle and the first roller; (2) the band must pass only over the rollers of the plates, so that when the ■instrument is ready nothing should be seen from below but the brass margins (Fig. 9); (3) lastly, before being handed to the operator, the two plates should be screwed close together. A pad is generally used with the tourniquet, and is applied differently by different surgeons. Usually the pad, in the form of a medium-sized roll of cotton bandage, is placed over the main vessel of the limb, and over Fig. g. this in turn the lower screw-plate; when so applied, the pad serves the double purpose of increasing the pressure on the main artery and Petit's Tourniquet, to show use of Rollers.