A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. to the crest of the ilium, and a little beyond it, and afterwards from pe vll "t^tS '"-^i '^T^ 'he entire trunk fSm th^ pelvis to the axillae has been encased. The bandage should be placed smoothly around the body, not drawn too tightf and especial with ^ } °^ ^^""^^^^ 'h°"^'^ '^^ ^"bbed most Thoroughly with the hand by an assistant, that the plaster may be closely incorporated in the meshes of the crinoline, and bind together the various bandages which make up the jacket, thus makinl it much stronger than if attention is not paid to this particular. If vou notice any spot which seems weak, or likely to give way, pass the bandage over it, and then fold it back on itself, and do this until you have placed several thicknesses of bandage over this point being careful to wet all well together, and then pass a turn completely around the trunk to retain any ends which may have a tendency to become detached."—Sayre. As soon as the plaster has sufficiently set, lay the patient down on a sofa, mattress, or air-bed; meanwhile remove the dinner and ihac pads, and press gently in front of each anterior iliac spine to widen the jacket laterally. For a child with a narrow pelvis, bayre advises to mould a waist to the jacket by pressing it in " at the sides above the ilium, and in front and rear above the pubes." Should a window be required for dressings, it should be cut while the plaster is still damp. The position of the window may be indicated by a pin left projecting while the bandage is beine applied. " Although the plaster sets in lo or 15 minutes, it is not thoroughly hard until quite Aiy—i.e., not for 24 to 36 hours. Unless unavoidable, keep the patient horizontal for this time. Furneaux Jordan's Laminated Plaster Method, as described by the author in the British Medical Journal, July, 1S82, is as follows :— " The surgeon first determines how much of the limb or trunk it is well to cover. A pattern is then cut—one of the layers of checked muslin does very well for this purpose, as it is stiff enough to keep its shape, and is easily marked with a pencil. Afterwards, other pieces of muslin are cut of the same size and shape. Six or seven layers make a good average splint; three or four will do for a child ; eight or nine may be needed for a heavy, restless, or delirious patient. The first layer is laid flat on the table, and sprinkled with a layer of good dry powdered plaster, which is smoothed over with a spatula or paper-knife; on this, with its margins corresponding, is placed the next layer of muslin, which in its turn is sprinkled with plaster. The process is repeated until all the layers are in place. The splint is then slowly and carefully folded or rolled up and kept dry, ready to be dipped in water when wanted. The water—let this be well understood—immediately passes through any number of layers of muslin and plaster, thoroughly drenching them both in less than sixty seconds. " The part to be encased is drawn into position, and held so until the plaster partially sets. If the fingers of the extending hand be in