176 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. the paralysis, no electrical treatment should be employed until all central mflammation has subsided, because it has been found tha peripheral stimuh to the nerves are transmitted in a greater or les tion ther°e ''"'^ '° '° ^Sgravate existing inflamma- Selection of the for,n of Current suitable for each particular case is of course, greatly a matter of experience, but the general indication available to beginners has been simply and briefly stated by Wood (Iherapentics), thus " ^/waj/j select that cjcrrent which produces the greatest member of contractions with the least amoimt of fain " in order to do this, we are then told to begin with " the rapidly interrupted faradic, or the rapidly interrupted chemical current and always when these fail to ehcit response the slowly-reversed chemical current, which, if necessary, may be increased in strength until the patient can no longer bear the pain." The rapid interruptions are made automatically by the interrupting apparatus, the slow inter- ruptions and the reversal of the chemical current must be made by the operator's hand working the special mechanism provided for the purpose in the batteries as now sent out for medical purposes. Ex- perience has shown that during the continuous passage of a current of electricity of moderate strength through a motor nerve, or through a nerve and muscle, no appreciable effect is produced ; but that when the current is suddenly interrupted, or suddenly allowed to pass again, a sudden contraction of the muscle takes place. This explains why a rapidly interrupted current produces more contraction of muscle than the same current flowing continuously. Further, it has been found that a "descending" current—i.e., where the negative pole is applied nearer to the peripheiy than the positive pole- produces a greater effect than an "ascending" current, when the circuit is completed or closed—z.e., when the current begins to flow; but that, on the other hand, an ascending current produces a greater effect than a " descending" current, when the current is suddenly interrupted. Also, it has been found that an alternately reversed current produces a greater effect than a current (even though inter- rupted) which flows always in the same direction. Hence the rules given above. Although it is probably not the actual contraction produced which is beneficial to an impaired muscle, still it has been found in practice that the currents which elicit contractions, as above stated, are those from which greatest benefit is obtained— while strong stimuli, which have ceased to elicit contractions, should be given up, as they have been found to do more harm than good. In many cases, the first signs of returning motility are slight voluntary contractions, even when electrical stimuli are powerless to produce any. Duration of Application.—This will depend on the number of muscles to be stimulated, and on their condition. The weaker they are, the shorter time should they be treated with electricity. I'atigue of the muscle is always deleterious, and should be avoided. It is usual to stimulate for a few seconds each muscle of an affected group in succession. No one muscle should have more than five minutes in