ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. CHAPTER V. ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND-TREATMENT ^Co,itinued). Contents-B Special Wound-Treatment.-Gun-shot, Lacerated, and Punctured Wounds-Di Tendons-Nerve Injunes- ITurns^rd Ss-Ulcers^-Sto Gr<r//^».o--Smuses-Ery^ Whitlow—Blisters. B. Special Wound Treatment. (I) Gun-shot Wounds.—Gun-shot wounds in civil practice are cenerally caused by accidents with fowling-pieces charged with small shot, or they result from homicidal or suicidal wounds from pistol or revolver. • • r i. It need, perhaps, hardly be insisted on, that a-septicity of such wounds, as of others, is one of the most important elements m their treatment. When none of the body-cavities have been penetrated, the first indication will be arrest of Hemorrhage, temporarily with a tourniquet, then permanently. Under antiseptic precautions, portions of clothing, wads of paper or other foreign soft matter that may have been carried into the wound should be at once removed, likewise splinters of wood and greatly comminuted fragments of bone ; the finger, properly cleansed, should be used as an exploring probe. If small shot in great numbers, or a bullet, have lodged, they should be searched for and removed, and the wound should be washed out with antiseptics. Isolated pellets may be safely left alone. The surrounding parts should be thoroughly cleansed and purified, an antiseptic dressing applied, and the whole fixed in a splint. Penetrating wounds of the abdo77ien are dealt with _ elsewhere (see Chap. ix.) When these wounds occur in the thorax, little can be done except to stop superficial bleeding, remove superficial foreign bodies, apply antiseptic dressing, and keep the patient perfectly quiet, resting chiefly on the injured side. In the s/eu/l—besides the general principles already laid down, the indications for treatment are mainly those of depressed fractures of the skull (see Chap. ix.) Some general rules, framed for the examination of gunshot wounds in military practice, may be mentioned here. (1) Ascertain, if possible, the exact position of the patient at the moment of injury, and the direction from which the injury came. This will greatly help diagnosis of the probable injury and the track of the shot. (2) Examine the clothes, to see if any parts are wanting, and hence, possibly carried into the wound. (3) Search for bullets by passing the hand lightly over possible seats. Should symptoms of septic inflammation appear in the track of the