ma A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. CHAPTER XXI. JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS, Contents. — Remedial Effects of Absolute Rest—Local Sources of Irritation obviated by Rest—General principles of Treatment bv Fixation and Extension—(A.) Treatment of Special Joints-— ^ ,^'P"j'^'"v';r(=') Knee-joint-(3) Ankle- and Tarsal-joints— (4; Shoulder—(5) Elbow-joint. Remedial Effects of Absolute Rest. — In certain chronic diseases of the joints—of the type known as strumous or tubercular —the appropriate treatment in the early stage seems chiefly to be prolonged rest. The tubercle bacillus, though associated with, and probably the cause of, these chronic inflammations, may often be destroyed by the tissues under the conditions of improvement of the patient's general health, and rest to the aff"ected part (possibly also compression and counter-irritation). The rest, to be eflScient, must be complete and prolonged for weeks, months, or even years —so long, in fact, as signs of disease continue, and for weeks after they have disappeared. Although in most of our General Hospitals, patients suffering from these chronic joint diseases may not be retained during the whole period necessary for their treatment, still the time allowed is often sufficient for improvement to begin, after the careful application of the immobilising apparatus which is necessary to complete the cure at home. Local Sources of Irritatio7t obviated by Rest.—The local sources of irritation to an inflamed joint which are obviated by ensuring its perfect rest, are:— (1) Voluntary Movements.—These cause friction of the synovial and cartilaginous surfaces within, and of the fascia and tendons around the joint, besides compression of the joint-surfaces by the necessary muscular action. (2) Mtiscular Spasm.—This indeed limits movement, and fixes the joint in the position of greatest ease; but continuous muscular action is involved, which helps to cause rapid muscular wasting, and continuous compression of joint-surfaces. (3) Transmissioti of Body-Weight (in spine and lower limb), which, besides involving compression of articular surfaces and of bones, necessitates, reflexl)', some action of surrounding muscles, however rigidly the joint may seem to be steadied.