85 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. treatme^°of r^^^T ^°i^°^^-Having thus discussed briefly the Ser detdl ^h. generally, we shall now describe in greater detail the symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of some of the more common forms met with. betiif^iT ^^^Tfy laudanum) or Morphia-poisoning, begms ^vlth cerebral excitement, and soon passes into giddiness drowsiness, and stupor, succeeded by perfect insensibility. From r^^.r. iff P^t'f^«fy at first be roused, but he speedily relapses. Afterwards it becomes impossible to rouse him. Pulse at hrst small, quick, and irregular; respiration hurried; skin warm and moist; all other secretions suspended. When coma sets in breathing is stertorous; pulse slow and full; pupils at first contracted towards a fatal termination, dilated. Face placid, pale, and ghastly; eyelids heavy; lips livid. An excessive dose may excite vomiting by its irritant action, otherwise vomiting is not easily produced. In the worst cases muscles are flabby and relaxed • lower jaw drops; pulse is feeble; sphincters are relaxed. Diagnosis is to be made from alcoholism and from apoplexy with contracted pupils, i.e., in the pons varolii, (Wilkes). Judge by the history and smell of the breath (though alcohol and opium may have been combined). In many cases, correct diagnosis niay be impossible, until the stomach-pump reveals the contents of the stomach. Treatment.-—Emetics—ox, better, washing out the stomach with the stomach-pump. Preserve the contents of the stomach for after- examination. Rouse the patient by douching the head, slapping with vvet towels, tapping on the forehead, faradic current; and force him to walk about. Have relays of assistants, two at a time, to drag him about. Stimulate him by hot coffee. Murrell advises a pint of hot coffee per rectum. Give atropine, of grain subcutaneously, repeated in a quarter of an hour. Some advocate X to K grain, repeated in two hours. Patient may be allowed to sleep, when the tendency to intense stupor has passed off. (2) Alcohol.—Acute—When an excessive dose of strong alcohol is taken, or when raw spirits are given to children, the drug acts as a rapid poison, and sometimes kills on the spot. If this does not happen, the patient becomes more or less collapsed; pupils are dilated—often contracted; muscles relaxed. The patient is helpless, becoming soon comatose. If left in this state, he may rapidly sink. Treatment.—Wash out contents of stomach, or give emetics; stimulate by warmth, and hot coffee per rectum, and rouse by means similar to those recommended for opium-poisoning. (3) Hydrocyanic (Prussic) Acid, and cyanide of potassium, used in photography, produce similar symptoms. Their effect is extremely rapid—from I to 2 grains of the pure hydrocyanic acid have proved fatal, and larger doses are certain. In doses insufficient to kill at once, the poison produces insensibility, pallor and swelling of the face, slow laboured respiration ; eyes are fixed and glazed; the body becomes rigid—often convulsed.