216 THE URINE. within the bladder; but if it be already irritated or inflamed, the fermentative process is easily started, and, once begun, it still further destroys the resisting power of the mucous lining, and decomposition goes on unchecked. In most cases, contamination of urine by micro-organisms is pro- duced by the use of dirty catheters, the risk of contamination being greatest in those cases where instrumentation is most required—t.^., in stricture, prostatic enlargement or paralysed bladder, or when a calculus is present. Besides the irritating eflect of decomposing urine, the tendency to deposit ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate adds greatly to the patient's danger ; a previously existing calculus will be increased, or a new one formed, or the lining membrane of the bladder be encrusted with phosphates. Although uric acid calculi are slightly soluble in urine rendered artificially alkaline, no method of dissolving phosphatic calculi has yet been discovered, either by injections into the bladder, or by the administration of drugs, hence a phosphatic coating stops any attempt at removing a calculus by other than surgical means [Roberts). An unduly acid state of the urine may be caused by (i) an increased quantity of lu-ic acid as in gout. This is clinically important as indi- cating a liability to the formation of a calculus in the urinary passages, or as causing symptoms like those due to a calculus. (2) By excess of lactic acid due to acute rheumatism. (3) By acid fermentation, occurring for some hours or days in healthy urine, and preceding the ammoniacal decomposition which sooner or later sets in. If, however, contamination, from previously ammoniacal urine, occur, the alkaline change will begin at once. This omission of the acid fermentation is liable to happen in certain weakly states of the mucous membrane of the bladder, or when the urine is neutral or alkaline to begin with. The Specifl-C Gravity of the urine, taken along with the total quantity passed, is a direct indication of the activity of the kidney- substance and of the quantity of solids excreted. Necessarily, it will vary with the amount of fluid drunk, and of that removed by the skin and bowels. As the relative and absolute amount of solids excreted varies from time to time according to meals, fasting, and exercise, an average can only be arrived at by mixing together the whole urine passed during twenty-four hours. In this way the total quantity has been found to average about 50 ounces, and in like manner the average specific gravity has been found to be about 1,020, taking water as 1,000; variations, however, from i,oo5 to 1,030 are not uncommon. Apart from varying quantities of fluid drunk or excreted by other channels, a high specific gravity, with a pale urine, points to diabetes mellitus with sugar in solution, with a dark urine to feverish condi- tions with urea in solution ; while a low specific gravity, with a pale urine, leads to a suspicion of chronic kidney disease, and possibly albumen. Even where no albumen can be detected, a persistently low specific gravity should always make a surgeon anxious. The kidneys in such cases arc not doing their work properly, and hence not only impair the patient's general health, but are apt to fail