ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND-TKEATMENT. 32 covered is first rawed, or it may be left bare as the result of operation or accident, and a sponge is bound on it for 15 minutes, till all bleeding has ceased. Then with a razor, a large ribbon-like graft, equal in length and breadth to the razor-blade, is shaved Irom the anterior aspect of the patient's thigh, or other sei-viceable locality. This is transferred to the sore, and the process is continued till the area is covered. The extremely thin layer of skin removed leaves a surface which is bedewed with a slight ooze of blood; healing takes place with extreme rapidity, and the patient suffers no inconvenience. This operation requires the administration of aji antesthetic. The conditions should be a-septic rather than anti- septic, since the least amount of irritation gives the best result. Weak boric lotion or distilled water are the most suitable agents. Direct transplantation of skin.—A pattern of the surlace which requires covering should be drawn on the skin. The part removed should include all the layers, and the fat adherent to its deeper parts must be carefully removed with curved scissors. The prepared skin is now bound down under a dressing to the bare area rawed for its reception. The wound left by the removal of the skin must be purified, and drawn together with button and secondary sutures {vide p. 22). Catition.—Syphilis, tubercle, and small-po.x have been transferred by skin grafting. More extensive methods of grafting, where a pedicle of unsevered skin maintains the vitality of the graft till it has united with its new environments, do not come within the compass of the present work. (9) Sinuses, or discharging channels which refuse to finally close up, owe their existence to some local or constitutional cause. They may thus be due to a piece of necrosed tissue, bone, tendon, or gland lying deeply, to want of rest, or to a tubercular or syphilitic condition of the lining granulations. The treatment will, therefore, be to remove the dead tissue, scrape away the diseased lining, purify with antiseptics, keep the part at rest, and improve the patient's constitutional condition. (ip) Erysipelas and Erythema are, fortunately, much rarer since the introduction of antiseptics than they were a few years ago. They are still liable to appear in surgical wards, however, as patients with wounds septic, though not erysipelatous on admission, may develop erysipelas after they have been in the ward for a few days, while other patients, who have had previous attacks of the disease, are liable to have it again in their wounds, although apparently there has been no fresh infection. 11 1 It is most important to remember the extreme contagiousness of erysipelas, and to take the most rigid precautions to prevent it from spreading. No case of erysipelas should be admitted within the precincts of an ordinary surgical ward, and every patient that shows signs of the disease should at once be removed to an isolation-ward, kept special y for the purpose. The bedding should then be purified, and the bed (as well as wall and floor near it) sponged well with carbolic before it is returned to the ward. 3