A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. upon the swelling. When the thigh ring cannot pass the knee, owing to its being swollen, the ring may be cut or sawn through, opened out, and, after it has been passed over the knee, bent in again with a wrench. ^ Thomas's Knee-splint has been used for fractures and other con- ditions besides those of knee-joint disease. When extension is required, it can be applied to the foot by means of the lower staple (Fig. 156, a). (3) The Ankle- and Tarsal-ioints.—For the ankle- or tarsal- joints lateral pasteboard or leather splints will ensure fi,\ity and compression. The foot must not, however, be put to the ground. {a.) In many cases Thomas''s Knee-splint, with a foot-splint to steady the ankle, will be found useful. He uses it constantly for this purpose. (,b.) Gatngee's method of cutting lateral pasteboard splints lor the ankle, is both simple and economical of material. It may be described as follows:—Take a rectangular piece of mill-board,* which measures in length from the knee (above or below as required) to the middle of the sole of the heel, and half the circumference of the foot at the instep, more; and in breadth is equal to the circumference of the leg at the ankle. Along the middle of this, lay a line „. ^ _ , which extends to within half the cir- iig. 100.—Fattern for paste- r r i-u r j. r ii. 1 board splints for foot. cumference of the foot from the ends ; and from the extremities of this line, draw others at right angles to it, each running in an opposite direction to the other. The pattern of the two splints will now be complete (see Fig. 160). With a penknife make cuts in the board along the lines, and, by bending, break off the two pieces, which ■can be softened and applied in the usual way. {c.) When the foot has to be fixed while room is left tor dressings at the ankle, a wire-splint should be made to fit the calf of the leg, and support the bones of the leg well. To this a foot-piece is attached, but bulging laterally or posteriorly to give room for ■dressings at the ankle. The foot is fixed to the foot-piece by flgvire- of-eight turns passing under the heel, which has been previously well-padded. The leg can be easily secured to the leg-piece by turns of a bandage. (d.) In Esmarch's iron " stir7-up-splint" \h& leg-part fits on to the front of the leg, and the connecting rod of strong iron arches over the dorsum of the foot to the sole-piece (Fig. 161). _ {e.) Volkman's anterior ruooden splint is similar in principle (Fig. 162). Macintyre's splint (see Fig. 120) may also be used for some cases. (4) The Shoulder-joint can only be completely controlled when the whole arm with the hand is fixed. The simplest way is to put a good layer of cotton-wool next the skin of the trunk, and bandage • Gamgee advised the use of that which had not been finally pressed.