230 THE SYPHON AND ITS USES. (M For u<ask{ng out the Stomach or Bladder when it is desirable to withdraw the fluid introduced into the cavity. This can be easily attained by introducing a side pipe near the entrance to the cavity (coupliniT on a short glass or other T-tube answers well). 1 he tluid from the^cavity can then be either allowed to escape by opennig the side pipe (the supply pipe being closed for the tune), or it may be withdrawn by syphon action by attaching to the side pipe a tube which reaches lower than the fluid in the cavity. By alternately opening and closing the entrance and exit tubes when once filled, as desired the cavity can be alternately filled or emptied. Of course, one tube may be made to fill and empty the cavity by alternately raising and depressing its end. This is simpler, but is less convenient, than the other method (see also p. 8). The Thread-Syphons are chiefly used to irrigate wounds by mois- tening a cloth kept over their surface. A bottle containing the irrigating fluid (water or antiseptic lotion) is fixed to a cage over the wound. The amount of irrigating fluid is regulated as above. Below the limb, a mackintosh must be placed to catch superfluous lotion. J. Duncan has also utilised this thread-syphon to withdraw from a urinary fistula urine which had previously escaped over the patient's skin and had caused great irritation with threatening bed-sores. He inserted wetted worsted threads inside a piece of india-rubber tubing; one end was passed into the wound, the other was carried over the edge of the bed into a basin of lotion. The threads carried every drop of urine into the basin below, and a certain amount of pus also; but as this partly clogged them, they had to be changed every day. Tying a Catheter into the Bladder.—In almost all cases it is for the male bladder that this operation is required. The conditions rendering such a procedure necessary are various— such as to produce "vital" dilatation of a stricture to establish the urethral channel after perineal section, or to drain the bladder. In the latter case it is not advisable to keep the same catheter in for more than three or four days at the outside, nor to maintain the drainage for much more than a week at a time. For stricture twelve hours, or after perinseal section forty-eight hours, is generally long enough. To minimise irritation, a soft instrument (soft rubber or gum-elastic) should be chosen, if it can be passed into the bladder. The instru- ment, when there is difficulty in passing it, may be made temporarily rigid by the insertion of a bougie which fits its calibre. After the bladder has been reached, the bougie may be withdrawn. The eye of the catheter should be just within the bladder—z.e., just at the point where urine begins to flow when the instrument is pushed in. Unless means were taken to secure it, the catheter would very soon be forced out of the bladder. Moreover, a soft instrument, unless fastened to the penis itself, must be kept rigid with a stilette as far as the bulb of the urethra, otherwise, though fixed beyond the meatus, it is apt to double on itself and come out. The stilette of a gum- elastic catheter, if cut to the requisite length, and wrapped with