1 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. CHAPTER I. CASE-TAKING-. Contents.—Importance of accurate " Case-taking "—How to record a case—Outline of a systematic plan—Application. Tpiere are few parts of a Medical Student's training niore important than that of systematically recording the condition, treatment, and progress of patients, when under Medical or Surgical care. The scientific knowledge of disease is based on information thus acquired. In practice, too, success in diagnosis and treatment can only be founded on the careful and accurate study of individual cases. In the Hospital practice of a Medical School, therefore, the objects of case-taking are no less scientific than educational, and both of these will be kept in view, in the directions which follow. How to Record a Case.—Descriptions of cases may be either written into a regular case-book, or they may be first taken on separate sheets of paper, and afterwards bound together. In either way, the details must be systematically indexed and entered under distinct headings such as the following :— 1. Name and Age. 4. Disease. 2. Sex. 5. Treatment. 3. Date of Admission. 6. Result, Date of Discharge or Death. These, when filled in, stand as a brief abstract of each case, and when the page on which they are recorded is added, they serve as a useful index at the beginning or end of the series. Outline of a Systematic Plan.—Wlien a Student begins to take cases, he should have a Tabulated Scheme before him, as a guide to the questions which he is to ask. This outline, being framed to suit all kinds of cases, will be too full for those in which only one organ or part of the body is affected. Still, it is well to form a habit of systematically examining every important organ or system, and should nothing be wrong, the phrase "health otherwise good," or "other systems normal," will express what is wanted. Upon the due action of every important system depend the health of the individual, his tendency to inflammation, his power of healing, and Ms resistance to the influence of micro-organisms.