APPENDIX. 249 spoonfuls per pint), castor oil (J^ to i oz.), turpentine (r oz.), sulphate of magnesia (i oz.). Glycerine in small quantity also acts most rapidly and efficiently, and may be employed as an enema (1-2 drachms injected with a small syringe), or as a suppository either of strong glycerine jelly or saturated on a plug of cotton wool about the size of a filbert nut. (2) For Cleansing the Mucous Membrane, when it is ulcerated or diseased.—Six or eight ounces of warm fluid are sufficient. It should be charged with boracic acid, Condy's fluid, chlorate of potash, or any weak antiseptic. The possibihty of some absorption should be borne in mind, although the greater part of the enema will be returned. When it is desired to wash out the rectum, the syphon principle is best (see p. 229). (3) For Nourishing the Patient.—When the stomach cannot retain food or drink, or where complete rest to the alimentary canal is required, the absorptive power of the rectum must be utilised. As the rectal mucous membrane cannot digest, all nutrient enemata should be pre- digested. Moreover, to ensure retention, the amount at each injection should not exceed 2 ounces. When this form of alimentation is continued for long, the rectum should be cleaned out every second or third day by a large enema of hot water (see also p. 10). When, with intense sickness, great thirst is complamed of, frequent 2 ozs. enemata of warm water will give much relief. (4) For Stopping Diarrhxa.—An enema of 6 ozs. of starch, in which drm. of tinctura opii is suspended, will sometimes be successful when the mucous membrane of the lower end of the bowel is involved. hi Receiving an Enema, the patient should recline on the left side with a towel or mackintosh below him to catch any drippings. As Symington has pointed out, the lowest portion of the rectum is always firmly closed by the immediate contact of its walls. For from half to three-quarters of an inch, therefore, the injection nozzle, preceded by a well-oiled finger, must be firmly and steadily pushed upwards and slightly forwards, until it gets through this elongated barrier. It is then to be directed somewhat backwards. After it has got through the outer barrier, the nozzle can be retained with ease ; but short of this, it will be ejected at once. The same applies to the introduction of sup- positories. Some patients prefer to introduce the enema nozzle them- selves. The form of instrument most frequently used is a Higginson's syringe. With this, by working a ball, a continuous stream can be produced in one direction. A syphon, or funnel with tube attached, would, however, serve the purpose equally well, and be much simpler (p. 229). As soon as the nozzle is in position, the fluid must be slowly and steadily pumped in, or allowed to flow in. How to make Poultices.—Poultices are now much less used than they were When required, the material chiefly used in hospitals for makmg them is Unseed meal; but oatmeal, starch, bread, bran, &c , rnay also be employed. Care must be taken in making poultices that they should turn out neither too dry nor too moist. (i) To make a Poultice of Linseed.—iiz.y& a kettle of water boiling. Imseed meal two kitchen bowls (i large, i small), a spatula, old linen, I or 2 heated plates. i t- < , First put some boiling water into the larger basin, into this basin 17