ANESTHETICS: GENERAL AND LOCAL. ir ■ In f^ensh conditions (septic and otherwise) the digestive juices lose their power-hence the indication for giving artificially-digested food in extreme cases. When the mouth becomes dry and parched ■for lack of saliva, arrow-root, rice, and other starchy foods are contra-indicated, unless previously acted on by malt or pancreatic extract V^'^'"^^")- I" these cases the use of artificially-prepared foods specially intended for infants will be found of service. The various kinds'^ seem to have this in common, /^f , t^ey co" ain starchy foods more or less changed by malting {Melhn s, Angells, and Savory & Moore's, are all highly recommended). CHAPTER III. AN.ffi!STHETICS: GENERAL AND LOCAL. Contents.—The Condition suitable for Operation—Importance of Per- sonal Experience in the Administration of Anaesthetics-(i) Chloro- form : Mode of Administration—Dangers and Cautions—Respiratory and Cardiac Complications: how to meet them—(2) Ether: Adminis- tration of (a.) by the "Open," [b.) by the "Closed," Method— (3) Cocaine —Caution ! —(4) The Method oi producing Local Insensibility by the Ether Spray. The drugs most commonly employed for the production of general anaesthesia are chloroform and ether. The condition suitable for operating, is that in which the patient is said to be "under." This implies muscular relaxation, and the cessation of all reflex motion, other than that associated with respiration and circulation. Short of this stage, it is not safe to operate. While sensation re- mains, shock might readily ensue, and a reflex inhibition of the heart through the vagus might cause death. If the administration of the drug be pushed too far, respiratory paralysis arises, and this in its turn is followed by stoppage of the heart, if preventive measures be not at once adopted. Hence, the administration of an anesthetic involves grave responsibilities, requires the undivided and unceasing attention of the administrator, and should only be earned out by, or in the presence of, a qualified practitioner. Although the risk which attends the careful administration of chloroform or ether IS but small, it is difficult to exaggerate the perilous position of the patient where due care is not exercised. The student should seize every opportunity of giving anesthetics, as nothing short of actual experience can give him the necessary self-rehance and watchfulness. (i) Chloroform is the more potent and useful of the two drugs. By far the greater number of accidents which occur with it are due to an over-dose, or to lack of care on the part of the giver. In poisoning from chloroform, it fortunately happens that the respiratory