^ SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 24 withdrawn fh ' 1 ^ approximated (Fig. 4a). The hooks are now VMthdiawn. the hps of the wound are found to be free from tension Fig. 4a.—Modified Quilled Suture. and accurately closed. The deep rubber sutures may be divided on the 2nd or 3rd day, the superficial on the 5th or 7th, and then a coating of col odion should be applied. If drainage is necess^irv the tubes should be brought out through special apertures, and no^ in the line of the wound. Drainage is carried out by means 01 ordinary mbber tubing glass tubes, or by media which become absorbed, as decalcified bone tuljes (see Appendix) or prepared catgut. Where the drains are not absorbed, there is a great advantage in making separate aper ures for them at llie most dependent part, encouraging union by the first intention along the line of incision. A dependent aperture IS made by thrusting a closed forceps through the tissues till the skin is tense over it, and then incising. In this way danger of injuring blood-vessels or other important structures is reduced to a minimum. To finish the Dressing.—Ovitx the stitches a layer of "Protective" may be placed, which keeps the edge of the wound moist, and allows discharge to escape without caking into the dressing beyond. I lie original object of the protective, as its name implies, was to defend the edges of the wound from the antiseptic in the dressing. With dry dressings, however, an efficient covering lor the lips of the wound IS found in three or four folds of soft unprepared gauze, which has been steeped for 24 hours in some antiseptic lotion, and which is squeezed dry prior to application. This does not adhere, and remains soft and pliant. Next, the pads of dressing are placed with intelligence, arranged so as to receive the discharge and to press together the sides of cavities. Finally, a firm bandage, splints, and other supports, as need be. Treatment of Discharge.—Should discharge appear at one spot, the surface there may be touched with an antiseptic lotion and a