A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 194 S^^^c f 9' GP parallel to the sides, and cut out the a m Th?f These splints have next t^ be fitted to the A nw. ' °f the arm and shoulder, A D bemg at the acromion. The inner splint is reversed, G E being Z.^ ""-f ^""^ ^'^^ If these paper splints nrfrnn, ! W 1. "^^'f °/ '^""^ ™t pasteboard or poroplastic felt, and after having been softened applied to the imb. When, along with fixation, the elbow is to be left free for the application of dressings, some form of bridge splint must bl usee, such as that advocated by Robert Jones of Liverpool Fi? CHAPTER XXII. JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS- Contents.-B The Spinal Column-General Treatment-Caution !_ Artific al Supports in Spinal Disease-(i) Methods for ensuring Rigidity and Support to the Spine-The Plaster-jacket- t!;1 . u use considered-(^.) Materials for making the Jacket-(p.) Methods of Application-(2) Methods of ensuring Support m High Dorsal and Cervical Caries-The Jury-mast"— Pneumatic and other Special Collars, &c. B. The Spinal Column. In acute cases, especially where accompanied with considerable pam, patients suffering from disease of the spinal column should be treated in bed, as this is the only way of giving complete rest to the spine. Extension by weight and pulley is often of service. Professor Chiene advises that— When the lumbar region is affected, the foot of the bed should be raised, and extension plasters applied to both legs. When the mischief is in the cenical region, extension should be apphed to the patient's head, while the same end of the bed is raised to allow the weight of the body to act as a counter-extending force. The patient's head in this case must rest on a low pillow, and be steadied laterally by sand bags. When the mid-dorsal regiott is affected, the bed may be kept horizontal, and extension applied to the patient's legs and head. Extension-plasters may be fixed to the legs in the usual way; to the head, the apparatus may be fixed to a cap fastened round the forehead and below the occiput, and, if need be, secured below the chin. Fleming of Glasgow recommends an apparatus patented by Hilliard, Instrument-maker, for carrying out spinal extension. Attachment to the head is taken from a strap passing below the