EMERGENCY CASES. 68 (2) Possible Rupture of the Urethra.—II a case of fracture or crush of the pelvis, or severe injuiy to the perinseum, be admitted, the house-surgeon's duty is at once to pass a catheter and di^w ott the urine. Should the instrument pass easily and there be no blood, the urethra may be considered safe. Should, however, blood be oozing from the meatus, and the passage ot a catheter be irn- possible, the urethra may be considered to be torn across. _ Should there be some blood and a rugged feehng as the catheter is being passed, the tear will be partial. In the latter case,_ the patient should not be allowed to try to pass water himself; it should be drawn off at intervals of six or eight hours, for three or four days, or a catheter tied in continuously. Wlien there is a complete rupture —any severe retention being meanwhile relieved by aspiration—the visiting surgeon should be sent for, and preparations made for perineal section. . (3) Possible Rupture of the Bladder.—Such a condition may be expected when a person with a more or less filled bladder receives a violent blow in the hypogastric region, or when the pelvis is severely crushed. The diagnosis is chiefly made from the hematuria, not traceable to the kidney or ureter, from the small quantity of urine obtainable, and from the collapse. The patient must be put to bed, and treated with warmth and opiates, while the visiting surgeon is sent for. Preparation meanwhile should be made for laparotomy. (4) Possible Injury of the Intestines.—Where there is a penetrating wound of the abdominal wall, whether from a stab or a bullet, it may be assumed that if the abdominal cavity has_ been reached, the intestines or other viscera will have been injured. Only in rare cases do they escape. Again, should the abdomen have been severely crushed or heavily struck, any ol the viscera may be injured without the slightest trace oi violence being visible on the outside. For penetrating wounds of the intestine it is now generally acknow- ledged that (at least, if the case can be seen before severe peritonitis has occurred) laparotomy should be at once performed, so that aper- tures may be sutured and bleeding points tied. If the probable injury could be as nearly surmised in non-penetrating abdominal injuries, the treatment would be similar. We may, therefore, lay it down as a rule that, in all cases where from the nature or history oi the injury, especially if accompanied by great shock and by vomiting and hiccough, severe injury of the intestines is suspected, the patient should be sent to bed and kept absolutely quiet, while opium or morphia is administered. Nothing should be given by the mouth except a little ice to suck. Should extreme collapse indicate stimulants, ether may be injected hypo- dermically, or an enema of beel-tea and brandy administered by the rectum. Meanwhile, the visiting surgeon should be sent for without delay; a ew hours may make all the diPTerence between the success or failure of a possible operation. If we wait until intestinal contents