.187. A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. shaving off hairs. Then wilh a cotton bandage make a few turns round the ankle, to protect the malleoU. Next heat the plaster- strips, apply them evenly to the limb, making additional snips where necessary, and cover the whole with the roller-bandage. At the upper end, turn down a few inches of the plaster so that the sticky side presents to the bandage ; this helps to give greater security. Another method of avoiding trouble with hairs is to carry up the leg a layer of bandage, to which, and not to the skin, the plaster is applied, the whole being fixed by a second layer of bandage. "VVhen the plaster is secure, fasten the tapes to the buckles which are fixed to the square of wood below. Next pass a strong cord through the hole in the wood, and knot it to prevent its slipping out. The other end goes over the pulley, and carries the weight.* Place the limb now in the desired position, supporting it wilh pillows, or on an inclined plane; adjust the pulley, and attach the weight. The amount of weight for a child of five or six years of age should be 3 or 4 lbs., and more in proportion for an adult. It is best, in all cases, to begin with a light weight and gradually increase it, till the muscles are relaxed and the patient feels comfortable. The plaster is carried above the knee, to prevent the ligaments of the knee from being relaxed by the continuous extension. As a general rule, children in hospitals lie very quietly and make no efforts to get up. Should they be restless, besides a long splint applied to the sound limb, the following chest-band may be used:—'' The chest- band consists of a piece of webbing, passing across the front of the chest and ending in two loops, through which the two arms are passed, and through which is threaded another piece of stout webbing, which runs transversely across the surface of the bed, under the child's shoulders, and is fastened at its two ends to the sides of the bedstead " (Aiarsh). In some cases, where distortion is not an obstacle, fixity of the hip-joint may be attained by the single or by the double long spHnt, extension being produced either by the perina2al band and foot- extension, or by the weight and pulley. (2) The Knee-joint.—The principles of treatment which have been discussed for the hip-joint apply equally to the knee, where they are more easily carried out, owing to the greater accessibility of the joint. When left to itself in a state of strumous disease, wherever this has begun, the knee-joint tends to become more and more flexed, till in some cases, it can flex no more. The lateral and crucial ligaments are at first softened so as to allow the tibia to be gradually dislocated backwards and rotated outwards by the flexor tendons, but, if the disease subsides, they contract and oppose the return of the bone to its old position. The primary cause of the de- formity is therefore muscular. On the other hand, the deforniity which occurs in acute synovitis, depends mainly on mechanical dis- * The object of the wood is to keep the tapes from pressing unduly on the malleoli. A simpler way than the above is to unite the two tapes below he foot to the ends of a piece of stick, and extend by fixing to the centre of the stick a cord which carries the weight.