67 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. there the difficulty, and a serious one, will be met with. To obviate the alteration in curve of the urethra due to the enlargement, which may be lateral as well as from below, we may use (i) a sofc catheter with a "coude " or " bi-coud(5 " end; (2) a metal instrument with an extra large bend; or (3) a well-curved gum-elastic catheter with siilette, passed down to the obstruction. If the catheter be gently pressed onwards while the stilette is being withdrawn, the point of the former will be raised up and may be so guided past the obstacle into the bladder. Should the prostate bleed, as it often does freely, the eye of the catheter may be blocked ere it reach the bladder. It this be the case a catheter with a plug at its extremity should be used; or a plug may be extemporised by winding a few turns of silk round the end of the stilette. To avoid any risk of leaving the plug behind, one end of the silk that made it should be left attached, and allowed to pass up the catheter beside the stilette. Caution!—\xi no cases should greater care be taken to prevent septic mischief from entering the bladder than in those of prostatic enlargement, especially when relieved for the first time after an attack of retention. The whole of the urinary tract, from the kidneys to the prostate, is ready to inflame, even from the retention and the means necessary to relieve it; and should septic fermentation once begin, the combination of increased inflammation and septic poi- soning will rapidly carry off the patient. {c.) Retentio7i from Spasm of the Constrictor, when occurring apart from any stricture, generally results from some irritation to the perineal nerves. After an operation about the anus, or for piles or fistula, it is frequent, and is sometimes caused in children by worms. Similar spasms may also occur m the course of feverish attacks, sometimes traceable to the highly acid, and hence irritating, quality of the urine. Treatmcjtt.—Soothing treatment such as an opiate, or perinseal fomentations, are often sufficient; failing these, the passage of a soft instrument, with gentle, steady pressure when the obstruction is reached, will be required. (d.) Retention from Acute Inflammatioit of the Prostate.—In these cases, the pain and feverishness of the prostatitis is an earlier and more prominent symptom than the retention. Soft catheters should be used, and if even these cause great irritation, it would be well to relieve by aspiration for several days. The rest thus gained to the prostate might turn the scale between suppuration and resolution. Retention from other conditions of the penis, such as urethral abscess, is to be treated on similar lines, i.e., by soothing, gentle use of soft instruments, and, if need be, aspiration. (e.) Urethral Calculus, if it cannot be made to pass outwards, or seized with forceps and withdrawn, must be cut down upon. The visiting surgeon should, therefore, be scut for; l)ut immediate reliel can be given by aspiration.