134 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. strengthened by daily sponging with some hardening antiseptic lotion, such as spirits of wine and corrosive sublimate i'2000, after which It must be carefully dried. In women it is advisable in many cases to draw off the water with a carefully purified catheter three times a day, and in both sexes the perineum may be dusted with tinely-powdered boric acid. Some difficulty is usually experienced at hrst in the use of the bed-pan. Where the patient is strong enough, he may assist by flexing the sound limb, and raising his pelvis with the aid of his arms and leg, while the slipper i-^ intro- duced from before. Mattresses are also to be had with a moveable pelvic segment, which on withdrawal permits of the introduction of the pan. Application of Extension—General Utiles.—Features common to the majority of fractures of the lower extremity are found in the obliquity of the fracture, generally from above downwards and forwards ; the shortening, and the tendency of the lower fragment to roll outwards. There is also seen drawing up of the heel. The position of extension is suitable during treatment in most cases, more especially since we can by a glance recognise to what extent eversion of the limb has been remedied. The internal edge of the patella, the internal malleolus, and the ball of the great toe, should always be seen to lie in the same vertical plane when the limb is extended. The application of extension is treated of in detail in Chap. XX. In the case of fractures, the plasters should stop short at the seat of injuiy. The limb is then to be laid in position between sandbags, for three or four hours, so that the plaster may get a grip, or we at once proceed to apply the necessary splints. After the lapse of suitable time, and having affixed the splints, buckle the foot- piece to the extension-straps, secure the pulley to the foot of the bed, and put on the weights. From six to eight pounds is about enough for an adult. If spasm ceases and the limb is comfortable, there is sufficient weight. Next raise the foot of the bed on props, and the patient's body acts as the counter-extending force. The limb should be carefully measured every day ; and whenever the limbs are of equal length, weight must be decreased. Take off weight also if there be pain in the joints below the fracture. It is essential that the plasters should gi'ip the skin over the lower fragment, rather than act as if through the medium of a joint, as this involves strain of the capsular ligaments. (i) Fractures of the Femur, like those of the humerus, may be considered according to the portion which they involve. Shortening is sometimes of little value as a diagnostic of fracture of the neck of the femur. This symptom is usually delayed, and may lake a day or two to develop when the fracture is intracapsular. It is sometimes inappreciable, if the fracture be impacted. In the latter case, the history and presence of antero-postcrior broadening, with flattening latterly, and tenderness of the trochanter major, enable one to come