THE URINE. 214 (3) The Odour of Urine is peculiar to itself; familiarity vyith it is necessary for the detection of abnormalities, and for diag- nostic purposes, as it is often important to know whether certain doubtful fluids contain urine or not. Urine alkaline from decomposi- tion smells of ammonia, while when alkaline from fixed alkali, "it has a sweetish aromatic odour like that of the fresh urine of the horse or ox" {Roberts). Blood or bloody discharges give it a stale offensive odour; turpentine, one like that of sweet violets ; while copaiba, cubebs, and sandalwood oil, communicate their own peculiar odour which is easily recognised. (4) The Colour of Healthy Urine varies from a pale straw tint to a full amber-yellow in different individuals, and is generally darker in the morning than at other times; the colour is deepened by feverish or rapidly-wasting conditions, and by muscular exercise and severe sweating. Pale urine occurs from dilution when much fluid has been drunk, also in anaemia, diabetes, chronic forms of Eright's disease, and after hysterical or nervous paroxysms. A pinkish red pigment called furpurine is found in the urine of patients when feverish, and when suffering from severe organic disease— especially of the liver; it has a strong affinity for uric acid and urates, and gives them their familiar brick-red colour. A black pigment— melanin—accompanies sometimes melanotic tumours. A dark pm"ple band is seen at the junction of the urine and the nitric acid, when the latter is allowed to flow slowly into a test-tube containing the suspected urine. When taken internally, rhubarb and senna colour the urine of a brownish-yellow, logwood of a reddish, and santonin of a bright yellow tint. Carbolic Acid when absorbed into the blood tends to irritate the kidneys, and gives to the urine an olive-green colour, varying in depth. The colour does not usually appear until some time after the urine has been passed. Creosote and the external use of tar ointment may also cause dark- ening of the urine. Blood, when first added to urine, colours it red. Should the reaction be acid, the hseraoglobin is soon altered, and gives a dark or smoky tint to the urine ; in a urine alkaline from fixed alkali the colour is said to be unchanged. In ammoniacal decomposition of urine it is soon changed. Bile Pigments in the blood are excreted by the kidney, and give a dark yellowish or greenish hue to the urine, which froths easily and shows a corresponding tint on the bubbles. As bile pigments can be detected in the urine both before and after any recognisable changes in the colour of the skin, their presence may be of great service in detecting or tracing obstractive jaundice, as from gall stones or pressure on the bile ducts. In large quantities bile pigments turn urine of a colour vaiying from a saffron-yellow to a dark olive-green. (5) Urine is normally quite transparent. In an acid urine, an opacity which only appears after cooling will be due to excess of