4 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. cIpW 1 Admission.-The patient is a thin, fair, and delicate looking young woman, with a weary, tired expre sion. She IS confined to bed, or the sofa, and can only walk with the a"d ol a stick and supported by a friend. The affected leg is partly flexed, and lies on its outer side. She complains of little or no pain when the limb is at rest. On Inspection.—Th^ right knee is greatly swollen, especially at the inner side and round the patella. The swelling is not abi-uptly marked otl, and is accompanied by no discolouration. One or two scars, the result of some irritating application, are seen over the joint. The thigh and calf are greatly atrophied as compared with the other side. On Palpation.—TYiQ temperature of the right knee is felt to be raised above that of the adjacent parts of the limb and ot the opposite knee. The swelling is soft and elastic but without any definite fluctuation. There is tenderness on pressure all over, especially opposite the internal semi-lunar cartilage and over the outer tuberosity of the tibia. The patella is fixed, and the joint cannot be flexed or extended for more than about twenty degrees without much pain. Distinct lateral movement can be produced, although it is accompanied by considerable pain. Eespiratory System.—She has no cough, but over the apex of the left lung there is some dulness on percussion, and prolonged expiration on auscultation ; otherwise normal. The condition of the other systems calls for no special remark. Diagnosis.—Tubercular synovitis, beginning as an ostitis which has extended over the cartilages at their margins and has involved the ligaments. Tendency to phthisis at the apex of the left lung. Treatment.—On June 12th the knee-joint was excised under chloroform by Mr. Sawyer. The whole of the synovial membrane was dissected away from above the patella by A. G. Miller's method, and what remained at the back was scraped and pared with scissors. The sawn surfaces of bone were healthy, except at one place on the outside of the tibia in which were tubercular granulations. This was gouged out, and the ends of the tibia and femur were then kept in apposition by means of steel pins driven upwards from below the joint and left projecting there. The usual antiseptic precautions were obsei-ved. After the dressing was applied the limb was fixed m a Watson's splint, and was slung after the patient was put to bed. Progress.—The case was dressed on the second day when the drainage tubes were removed, again at the end of a week when the stitches were taken out, and for the third time at the end of three weeks when the wound was found quite healed. At the end of six weeks the pins were removed. A day or two afterwards the limb was encased in plaster of Paris, and the patient sent for three weeks to the convalescent hospital. On her return she was sent to the country for two months, wearing a starch bandage. When this was removed the bones were found to be firmly anchylosed, and the patient went home wearing a high-heeled boot, and much improved in her general health.