147 ON FRACTURES. (3) Fractures of the Pelvis are common, as the result of severe crushes The patient frequently suffers from shock. Possible Complications.—injuiy is of moment from the liabihty to damage of the pelvic organs, and hence the question must be asked: '^Has the patient made water or not? If he has not, _a duly purified, soft rubber catheter, or failing that, a gum elastic instrument should be passed and the water drawn off. If any difficulty be met with and blood appear in the urme, the propriety of tying in the catheter may be discussed. This should certainly be done, if on inserting the finger into the rectum any irregularity of the pubic arch denoting fracture be felt. When the urethra has been injured by fracture of the pelvis, the rupture is in the membranous urethra posterior to the triangular ligament, and if extravasation of urine occurs, it will be intra-pelvic, perhaps unrecognised, and liable to do more damage than tlie familiar extravasation into the perinseum and scrotum, associated with rupture anterior to the ligament. If one cannot pass an instrument, it is probably better, meanwhile, to aspirate the bladder, and at the earliest possible opportunity put the patient in the lithotomy position, incise longitudinally, and, if possible, suture the ruptured channel, leaving in a tube to drain the bladder, posterior to the site of injury. Prognosis.—If the bladder and urethra have escaped, fracture of the pelvis does not generally give rise to much anxiety. Examina- tion from the rectum and along the crests of the iliac bones wiU reveal the line of the lesion. Rest in bed and fixation by a roUer- bandage and pillows serve as treatment. E. Fractures of the Head and Facial Bones. All head injuries require consideration and care. From lack of attention grave results may follow the simplest lesions, and from want of observation important data may be missed. Wher- ever the skin is broken, the most stringent antiseptic precautions should be enjoined. They are absolutely essential when the bone is in any way injured. Should sepsis occur, there is practically no limit to the ulterior consequences, and these may vary from a local redness to a general meningitis. (a.) Scalp wounds are to be treated on general principles. Owing to the great vascularity, every shred of tissue that is not killed outright should be preserved. The hair should be shaved off, and everything most rigorously cleansed with antiseptics. By means of acupressure (p. 45a) a more rapid arrest of bleeding may sometimes be obtained than by the use of ligatures. (b.) Compound Depressed and Punctured Fractures always require trephining—probably all simple depressed fractures should be elevated or treated in the same way. An exception may be made with young children, where, unless the symptoms are rapidly progressive and life is threatened, it is legitimate to delay, as the young and elastic calvarium usually rises.