2 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. It IS usual in hospitals to have the case-taking card on a separate slip of paper, so that it may be used conveniently at the bedside. The following scheme embraces what is generally required :— Scheme for taking Surgical Cases. Disease or injury. Name—Age—Married or Single—Occupation—Postal Address— Date of Admission—Surgeon in Charge—No. of Ward—Hospital- Patient's own Complaint. History of Present Disease or Injury.—To bring out (i), 2/ disease, its time and mode of onset, its supposed cause, and its progress; also the result of any treatment previously employed. (2) If an injury, the time and exact mode of its occurrence, conse- quence up to date, and result of treatment employed. History of Previous Health.—Noting especially any serious illness or accident, any manifestation of syphilis, tuberculosis, or rheumatism, or any previous attack of the present disease. Social History.—Patient's occupation and its surroundings. Habits, as to ventilation, exercise, food, alcohol, and tobacco. Family History.—To find out if there be any taint of syphilis, or any tendency to tubercle, gout, rheumatism, or tumour growth, or to weakness in any special organ or system. Condition on Admission.—Begin by a brief, pointed description or word picture of the patient. Note any condition of shock, excite- ment, coma, &c., that may have been present; also any character of the gait, need for support, or mode of lying. 1. Affected part.—(a.) Subjective—Patient's sensations, as to heat, pain, throbbing, stiffness, &c. ? (b.) Objective—(i) On i>ispection, note any change in colour, size, pulsation, contour, position. (2) On palpation (handling), note the relative temperature; the nature of pulsation; the consistence, relations, and connections ol any swelling; the condition of the neighbouring lymphatic glands. 2. Respiratory System. — Indication of bronchitis, tuberculosis, or pneumonia ? 3. Circulatory System.—Condition oi the heart and vessels? 4. Digestive System.—Condition of the mouth, teeth, and tongue ; of the appetite, digestion, and evacuations ; state of the liver. 5. Skin.—Perspiration, eruptions, cicatrices, pigmentation, tem- perature. 6. Nei-vous System.—Alterations in motion, sensation, reflex action, or cerebral functions. 7. Genito-urinary 5;'.rft'OT.—Micturition, as to Irequency and pain ; condition of urine (see Chap. xxiv.). [In women, catamenia, children, miscarriages.] Diagnosis.—Including examination of fluids withdrawn, or of portions cut off for diagnostic purposes, as well as remarks made by the surgeon. Treatment.—All the measures used in treatment are to be mentioned. If an operation be undertaken, the operator should be asked what description he wishes given of it. The anresthetic (if any) should be mentioned, and the patient's behaviour under it; also