237 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. On these general pnnciples it is not difficult to see how efficient and yet cheap limbs may be constructed, of which the Beaufort limbs may be taken as the type. The old-fashioned bucket and pin le^s, and kneeling legs will, it is hoped, soon be replaced by as cheap but more efficient substitutes. [d.) Artificial ^rwj.—Many expensive patterns are in vocnie, but for cheapness and efficiency the Beaufort arm is the bestr This below the elbow, consists of a closed hand with movable thumb closing with a spring, which is opened out as the arm is moved from the side. When an object is to be grasped, the arm is moved away from the side, and the opened thumb is made to surround the object. If the body be now brought up to the arm, the spring is allowed to close the thumb, and so to secure the object. For amputations above the elbow, besides this thumb-movement, an elbow-joint is provided, which can be either kept extended or firmly locked at a right angle, as required. (4) General Hints.—As stumps are apt to atrophy at first from disuse, then to regain something as they are put to a modified use, the wearers of artificial limbs must be cautioned that alterations in the new limb and its padding will be needed to correspond to those changes. It is better not to allow a patient to use crutches, or an inferior form of artificial limb at first, lest bad habits of walking should be learned which cannot be afterwards broken off without great trouble. CHAPTER XXVII. PLASTER-CASTING. Contents.—Use of Plaster-Casting to the Surgeon—How to prepare the Plaster—How to take the Mould—How to make the Cast— How to remove the Cast from the Mould—Casting in Gelatine and Glycerine. Plaster-casting is often useful to obtain a permanent record of abnormalities, and as a means of enabling instrument-makers at a distance to fit apparatus accurately. The stages of casting may be divided into—(i) Mixing the plaster; (2) taking the mould; (3) making the cast. (i) Mixing the Plaster.—The plaster of Paris used is of good medium quality, about pd. a stone ; not the extra fine kind used by dentists, nor the coarser sort for rough castings. It should be thoroughly dry, and can be baked in an oven, or by the side of the fire, if at all damp. Take, in any common bowl, half as much water as is required of the mixed plaster (warm water causes more rapid