229 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. th™^ ^' P^""' °f t'^^ l^elow the surface of the water, which then, of course, fills it. Compress part of the long arm firmly, and while still holding it tight, bring it quickly over the edge and below the level of the wlter in the vestel; now let go and the water will flow down. Pinch the long arm till the syphon is wanted (2) A [b) Suck the fluid into the tube with a syringe, modification of this is made by substituting cotton or worsted threads for the tubes. If the thread be wet, one end dipped m a basin or jug and the longer end brought over the edge, fluid wi 1 drop from the longer end exactly as if it were a syphon tube. (3) The difference between the "syphon" and the "water-head" principle is, that the latter requires a vessel with an outlet pipe below. Instrument-makers supply special vessels for the purpose, with stop-cocks and gauges. Dr. Foulis has recommended as a cheap substitute a common tin handled mug (Fig. i), into the side of which, near the bottom, ^ a stop-cock has been sol- " dered. When the vessel is raised, the fluid it contains will flow out by the tube. Modes of Using the Apparatus. — Either a "syphon" or "water-head" apparatus may be used :— (1) Instead of a syringe for irrigating wounds or abscess cavities, or for wash- ing out the mouth (after operations), the nose ("nasal douche"), the ear ("syring- ing the ear "), or the vagina (" vaginal douche "). Nasal Douche, though pos- sible with a syringe, can be best applied with a continuous stream from a syphon or water-head of about a foot's pressure. The perforated terminal nozzle should be large enough to completely plug the nostril. The patient, who must lean over a basin, should be instructed to keep his mouth open and breathe through it, while he raises the soft palate so as to enable the fluid entering by the one nostril to flow round the upper part of the pharynx and leave by the other (Fig. 185). Warm |^ per cent., saline solution answers very well, or a weak antiseptic. In Syringing the Ear the pinna should be dra\vn steadily upwards and backwards while the stream of warm fluid is directed along the roof of the canal. A funnel fitted to the ear should guide the returning fluid into a basin. Care must be taken not to force a strong stream against the membrane, lest it be ruptured. (2) When provided with a suitable nozzle, as an efiicient form of enema afpai'atus. Fig. i8s.-The Nasal Douche.