A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 221 twenty-four hours has been measured, a portion should be placed in a narrow cylindrical jar, holding about a pint, and be allowed to stand ; in an hour or two afterwards the examination may be made, noting:— 1. Colour. 2. Odotir. 3. Froth, whether permanent (i.e., indicating albumen) or not, or if tinged with bile. 4. Reaction.—This is to be tested with litmus paper. The ordinary blue colour will be changed to red if the reaction be acid ; and, if previously reddened, will be turned blue again by an alkaline reaction. Where ammonia is the cause of alkalinity—as in decomposition—it may be driven off with gentle heat so as to allow the red colour to re-appear. With other forms of alkalinity, this is not possible. Violet litmus paper available for either acid or alkaline reaction is sometimes used, while instead of reddened litmus paper, yellow turmuric paper—turned brown by an alkali—is sometimes employed. 5. Specific Gravity is generally ascertained by means of a urino- meter, or hollow glass cylinder, weighted with mercury below and having a graduated stem above. In water the stem should sink as low as the mark looo; the more solid matter suspended in any fluid, the higher will the stem rise. As the fluid tends to rise up aroimd the stem, the figures should always be read off by placing the eye on a level with the surface of the liquid in the jar. The urinometer should be entirely immersed once or twice before being read oiT, and should not be allowed to rest against the sides of the vessel. Examination for Substances in Solution.—Next, we test for substances in solution. (a.) Albumen—i.e., serum albumen, which for practical purposes is the only form whose presence is important. (a) By Boiling after Acidiilatioit.—"A test-tube is charged with about 3 fluid drachms (10 cc.) of urine. To this is added a single drop of acetic acid. The upper half of the column is then heated to ebullition. If albumen be present, the upper boiled portion of the column will show opalescence in contrast with the lower halt, which remains unchanged. If the urine be alkaline, it should be carefully neutralised by adding successive drops of acetic acid, until the litmus paper shows a distinct, but slight, acidity, and then the final drop of acid is added before boiling. Even if the urine possesses its natural acidity, it is better to add a drop of acid, if you want to bring out the maximum sensitiveness of the boiling test. When performed with these precautions, the boiling test is the most sensitive and the most rehable of all albumen tests" (Roberts). If urates be present, boiling alone is sufficient, as the urates indicate acidity. Heat redissolves the urates, and as the boiling-point is ap- proached a cloud of albumen will appear, if present. Should the urine have been alkaline, or faintly acid, when boiled, a cloud of phosphates is likely to appear. This cannot be distin-