SHOCK AND WOUND-FEVER. bo burn, loss of blood, great pain, or extensive operation—the symptoms and treatment are similar. The Symptoms are pallor, and moisture of the slcm—feeble, fluttering pulse—soft shallow breathing, and great languor. The Treatment may be summed up briefly as follows :— (1) J?eiu/ ot immediately severe pain by hypodermic injection of morphia, and removal of any obvious cause of suffering. (2) Zealous supply of external warmth by hot bottles, hot plates, and blankets—administration of hot tea or coffee, Liebig's extract, or gruel. (3) As to alcoholic stimulants—Omit them if, with the above means, the patient tend to rally, as they are apt to cause an over- reaction. If, however, reaction be delayed or seem doubtful, ply the stimulants ad libitum, till improvement begins. Where the patient cannot swallow, give enemata of brandy or whisky (1-2 oz.), or inject ether or alcohol (30 min.), subcutaneously, and repeat if required. Syncope, or fainting, is treated by increasing the cerebral circu- lation, and stimulating the sensory nerves. In many cases, if the patient be sitting when faintness comes on, much benefit wiU be derived from bending the trunk and forcing the head well down between the knees. After fainting has occurred, the patient should be laid flat on the back, and all tight clothing on the chest or abdomen relaxed. The face may be slapped with wet towels, and the nostrils stimulated with ammonia-vapour. A stimulant of wine, spirits, ether, or sal-volatile, should be given, as soon as the patient is able to swallow. Wound-Fever.—{a.) Pulse-Indication3.—In regard to the pulse-records, it may be noted that, to surgeons, the frequency is of the highest importance, and a continuously rapid pulse may give warn- ing of evil long before the temperature signals danger. Besides fre- quency, rhythm is also to be noted. A pulse over 120, with variable regularity, always gives rise to anxiety. It will be found that the pulse of inflammation generally, is hard and full, while that of peritonitis is small and wiry. Previous to operation, there should be a careful examination made of the state of the circulation. The force of the heart's action, as modifying the choice of an operation or ansssthetic; the condition of the pulse, as indicating the presence of atheroma; aortic regurgitation and the tension associated with kidney-disease: are also well worthy of study. Slowing of the pulse is characteristic of cerebral compression. {b.) Temperature-Indications.—Rise of temperature is a con- dition seen in fever and inflammations. Since the temperature is not so likely to be influenced by emotional and slight causes as the pulse. It furnishes more reliable data; but there are certain dangerous conditions, which are often not characterised by a rise of temperature. Thus we find that some rapid and violent septic poisonings, peritonitis, empyema, and also cerebral abscess may exist without It. _ Again, very high temperatures have been recorded as the result of injuries in special regions—as, for example, in fracture of the