31 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. and 3 inches longer than the circumference of tne limb. The hmb should first be bandaged nearly up to the ulcerated spot, then successive pieces of plaster should be applied, beginning just below the ulcer. Apply the middle of each strip at the part of the limb opposite to the ulcer, then bring either end forwards over the ulcer to over-lap in iront of it. The bandage should afterwards be con- tinued up the limb, well above the ulcer. Should the application seem too tight, reUef may be given by carefully dividing with scissors the plaster opposite the ulcer. When removing the plaster in two or three days, it must be divided at this place, and care- fully pulled forwards at each side in one piece. (3) The need for aiding venous return is almost exclusively found in ulcers of the leg, where varicose veins very frequently complicate, if they do not cause the ulcerated condition. Rest in bed in itself aids venous return, and in many cases is alone necessary for a cure. Where such confinement is impossible, support to the limb with a firm domet, or an elastic bandage will sometimes suffice. Bandaging acts probably in several ways—i.e., by supporting the venous walls when they tend to dilate, by aiding lymphatic absorption, and by stimulating the tissues by the mechanical pressure. The constitutional conditions most frequently complicating ulcers are the strumous and the tertiary syphilitic. The strumous taint is best treated by good food, fresh air, and exercise, with cod liver oil and iron (iodide or syrup of the phos- phates), and malt extract taken internally. In tertiary syphilis, iodide of potassium (5 to 15 grs. thrice daily), is generally indicated, but in cachectic cases, a treatment more like that for " strumous " patients will be found best. Any other general derangement complicating an ulcer, must, of course, be treated; thus the liver and bowels may require regulation, or dyspepsia call for special diet. A weak heart must be strengthened, and the system generally braced up. (8) Skin-Grafting.—To further the cicatrisation of large granulat- ing surfaces, epithelial grafts may be used. In order to attain good results, it is absolutely necessary that the granulating area be healthy and a-septic. The skin from which the grafts are taken should be first purified—that of the thigh or arm is usually selected. The surgeon pinches up the skin lightly, and shaves off a superficial portion, which should include the Malpighian layer. In doing so, he just draws blood. Having in this way removed a fragment about a quarter of an inch square, he lays it on the back of his purified thumb-nail, and divides it into a dozen pieces, which are now to be laid on, raw surface downwards, at intervals over the granulating surface. The grafts and epithelial edges are next to be covered with overlapping protective, and a moist boric lint-dressing, laid over all, and secured with a bandage. The coarse superficial epidermis of the grafts speedily disappears ; but in a few days a new epithelial formation sprouts from each centre. This method has been modified by Thiersch, who, in a somewhat similar manner, grafts directly on to a raw surface. The area to be