A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 73 obstruction above or below the glottis and trachea? in other words, would an opening into the larynx or the passage of a tube from the mouth do any good? If so, and if steaming, nauseants, and poultices and sometimes bloodletting have done no good, an operation will be indicated. The rules for an emergency case of tracheal obstruction from any other cause may be likened to thos* for simple croup. (c.) Foreign Body in the ^zV-Zaj-ja^ogj.—Whether this be a seed, small coin, or other object, it places the patient in imminent risk of choking at any moment. It may be lodged in one of the ventricles of the larynx, or have passed down the trachea into the bronchi. If a patient be brought into hospital with a history that points to such an accident, and should no symptoms be immediately pressing, he should be put to bed as quietly and speedily as possible, no exertion being permitted, lest the foreign body be disturbed and come into a more dangerous position, or cause spasm of the larynx. All prepara- tions for tracheotomy (see Chapter xi.) should then be made, and the visiting surgeon sent for. A bad fit of choking may necessitate tracheotomy at any moment. No efforts should be made at inverting the patient and shaking the foreign body out, so long as it lies in a harmless place, or, unless the operator is prepared to perform tracheotomy at once. The glottis might become suddenly closed, either by reflex spasm or by direct lodging of the foreign body between the cords. ((/.) Foreign Body in the Pharynx.—An obstruction, such as a piece of meat, is generally remedied by withdrawing it, or pushing it down with the finger. Sometimes a hard body lodged in the oesophagus (below the larynx) may interfere with respiration, by pressing forwards into the unprotected part of the trachea. These rarer cases will require special treatment. (e.) Foreign Body in the (Esophagus.—Many foreign bodies, even of large size, when swallowed pass down to the stomach, and are discharged per anum. They may stick in the oesophagus, however, Fig. 31.—The Umbrella-Probang.—a, closed ; b, open. and either cause difficulty in swallowing, or involve risk by ulcerating through the oesophagus into the aorta or air-passages. Sometimes they lodge in pouches of the mucous membrane, and pass for long undetected. If inspection of the fauces and examination with the