268 APPENDIX. Appendix F. This^^^n'J^^/*^®f ^^strnments by steam without rusting them.* This can be done if the instruments are heated to boiling point before the steam reaches them, especially also if the carbonic acid gas near °he instruments be reduced to a minimum. Both of these canVe f^filled Dy a simple piece of apparatus, which any good tinsmith can make. Fig. i88.—Cathcart's Steriliser. " An oval tin pot (A) like a fish kettle, and measuring i6 inches long, 9 inches broad, and 6 inches deep, is surrounded on all sides, except at the lid," by a similar but larger vessel (B), i inch of space being left between them. The outer compartment (B) is provided with a hole (i) for filling in the water, which can be plugged by a cork, with an exit tap (2) for emptying, and with a stop-cock (3) near the top, which opens and shiits communication with A. A has a tightly fitting lid. The instruments to be sterilised are placed in A. They may either lie on the bottom or be in glass tubes or metal boxes. The lid of A is shut down, and water in the outer vessel (B) is made to boil by a Bunsen burner or on the fire. For about 10 or 15 minutes the steam is allowed to escape, for the double purpose of dry-heating the instmments and of driving off the carbonic acid from the water. At the end of that time, the stop-cock is opened between A and B, and the filling hole (i) in B is plugged with a cork. Steam then rushes into and fills A, and escapes at crevices round the lid. The instruments can in this way be steamed for as long as is required, after which the cork is taken out from I, the stop-cock turned off again, and the lid taken off. The steam at once escapes, and the instruments are found dry and free from any trace of rust. The smaller boxes containing instruments will have some vapour condensed on the inside of their lids, and there only, because the cold air from above cools the lids first. After the lids have been wiped dry on the inside, the rest of the bo.xes and their contents will be found to be dry also. The instruments free in A will be qiiite dry. During the steaming, some vapour condenses on the inside of the lid of A, in spite of its being protected on the outside by a felt cover. Sometimes the condensed water drops on to the instruments or boxes * See Edin. Med. Journal, August, i8go.