2S7 APPENDIX. the fish must be cooked longer, for underdone fish is not only unsightly but most unwholesome. Sauce for boiled Fish. Required— A piece of butter size of half an egg. I dessertspoonful of flour. I small cupful of milk. }^ teaspoonful of lemon juice. I tablespoonful of the water in which the fish was boiled, teaspoonful salt. Melt the butter, add the flour, and mix over the fire until there are no lumps, pour on the milk and fish liquor, and stir constantly until boiling. Cook for 3 minutes, add the seasoning, and serve with the fish in a separate vessel. Broiled Fish.—This method of cooking fish is most suitable to small flat fish, or a slice from a thick fish. Have ready a very clear fire, throw on a little salt to allay the smoke. Put on the gridiron, and, when it is quite hot, rub all the bars on either side with suet, so as to prevent the fish from sticking. Wash well, and dry the fish; rub it with oil, pepper, and salt. Place the fish on the gridiron, and turn it constantly for from 5 to 9 minutes, according to its thickness. Serve hot. [A more delicate way is to wrap the fish in an oiled paper before putting it on the gridiron. This way requires great care to prevent the paper from becoming charred, and to cook the fish thoroughly.] Fried Fish. Required- Flour. Bread crumbs. I egg. Fish (sole or haddock). Place on the fire an iron saucepan three-quarters filled with clarified fat or dripping, to become hot while the fish is being prepared. Remove the skin and bone from the fish, and cut it into pieces about 2 inches square. Wash and dry the fish, then dip it into flotir to absorb all moisture, next cover the fish with the egg (yolk and white well beaten together), then toss the fish in bread crumbs. It is advisable to have the bread crumbs in a paper, as then the fish may be tossed without being handled. Try if the fat is hot enough by throwing in a tiny piece of bread. If the bread becomes brown at once the fat is ready. The fish may be fried for about 3 minutes, but too many pieces must not be put in at once or the fat will be cooled. On no account put the fish in before the fat is ready, or it will become a greasy sodden mess, instead of a crisp brown appetising morsel. Lift the fish from the fat on to a piece of porous paper to absorb all grease, and serve hot on a folded napkin or fish-paper. Meats. Lamb Chop (for a Convalescent). Required— I Iamb chop from the loin. Very small piece of butter. White pepper and salt. 2 tablespoonsful of cream. (}4 of a teaspoonful of each). Trim the chop neatly, and lay it upon a well-buttered, enamelled dish that will stand the fire. Sprinkle over the chop the pepper and salt,