35 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. IS wounded, and the mechanical obstruction is applied to preserve the patients life, the vital processes which produce the second stage begin to act. and probably long before the whole mass of granulations has been fully developed, parts ot it have begun to form the final cicatricial tissue. As the conditions brought about in the two later stages belong to processes which involve active changes in the tissues th?mselves- processes which, for want of a better word, we may call vital—it is not unnatural to expect that these two stages will be very much alike under all circumstances, and in whatever varied ways the conditions necessary to the first stage may have been brought about. And, indeed the more accurately the processes involved in the healing of vessels are studied, the more distinctly does this come to be recognised. _ Leaving aside here the discussion of the many abstruse questions included under the general terms in which the two later stages have been_ stated, we may return to the first stage, and see how its conditions may be carried out. The ''Natural" Arrest of Hemorrhage.—1{ we confine our attention to Arteries, in the "Natural" arrest of Haemorrhage, i.e., in the cessation of bleeding which occurs when the parts are simply left to nature—the details of the process vary somewhat according to whether the vessel be cut only partially or entirely across. In the latter case, the artery contracts at the point of division, and at the same time retracts within its sheath in virtue of the state of elastic tension in which it normally lies. The blood, as it spurts from the open mouth of the vessel, deposits itself in the form of blood-clot, partly in the now empty sheath, and partly in the surrounding tissues of the wound. This clot gradually increases, forming layer by layer from the blood as it flows, until, if the vessel be a small one, say, a digital artery, the external plug so formed, in addition to the contraction of the coat, stops the bleeding. Should the vessel be a large one, say, the femoral, the current of blood will sweep away any clot that forms, and the patient will rapidly bleed to death, unless other aid be at hand to save him. Again, should the vessel be a medium-sized one, say, the radial, although the clot will be swept away at first, the rapid loss of Ijlood will cause fainting, and during the period of enfeebled circulation which exists while the fainting lasts, a clot may have had time to form, large and firm enough to resist further bleeding when consciousness, and with it quickened circulation, returns. After the mouth of the vessel has been closed by this external clot, a thrombus or internal clot forms inside the vessel, and, extending up within it for a variable distance, still further resists the force of the blood-stream, although it probably is not in itself quite sufficient for that purpose. In the "Natural" arrest, therefore, when the vessel is divided across, the mechanical agent is the contraction of the vessel and the presence of an external blood-clot aided by an internal one. Should the artery be only partially divided, the retracting tendency makes the wound in the vessel gape the more, so that the