95 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. kept in bed for three or four days after the operation. If a 5 per cent, solution of cocaine is shaken up in the hydrocele sac and allowed to escape, just before the iodine injection, the pain is very much dimin- ished. After this, the swelling gradually diminishes till it disappears. A solution of corrosive sublimate recommended by Miller (Lancet, 1886) has proved very successful without causing inflammation or laying the patient up; a drachm or two of 1-2,000 is generally sufficient. Miller recommends 15 min. of a solution of I grain in I oz. of distilled water. Many other fluids have been advocated, and their use has been attended by greater or less success. (6) Paracentesis Abdominis may be required for extreme ascitic distention ; the point selected should be in the linea alba 3 or 4 inches above the pubes. The bladder should be empty at the time of the operation. Usually, the patient is supported into the sitting position. To prevent distention of the abdominal veins by the too rapid relief of abdominal pressure, it is well to pass round the abdomen of the patient a broad flannel bandage, which is split in the middle for one end to pass through ; the two ends are then drawn upon by an assistant at each side, and the loop round the patient is thus steadily tightened as the fluid escapes. The danger of syncope from too rapid relief of abdominal pressure, applies equally in large psoas or other intra-abdominal abscesses; where either the evacuation should be partial at first, or compen- sating abdominal support should be ensured. A medium-sized trochar and canula should be selected. The surgeon having satisfied himself by percussion that there is no bowel in the way, enters the instrument, and, on withdrawing the trochar, catches the fluid in a vessel held ready to receive it. _ A very convenient and gradual mode of withdrawing ascitic fluid is by means of a Southey's tube. One of these, with its tube attached, is inserted into the linea alba, and left there for several hours, until a sufficient escape has taken place. (7) Paracentesis Thoracis may be required tor simple pleuritic effusions, when very large, and persistent, or for those of any size which have turned purulent. As the inspiratory movements of the chest are apt to draw air and with it organisms into the pleural cavity, an ordinary trochar should not be used. For diagnostic purposes a hypodermic needle may be pushed into the pleural cavity, and the syringe filled Avith the fluid ; but when fluid has to be drawn off in quantity, some form of aspirator must be used, i.e., either with an exhausted bottle or with a syphon tube attached. The part of the chest usually selected is about the level of the angle of the scapula in the mid-axillary line. To avoid the inter- costal vessels, the surgeon (where there is room for choice), selects the lower part of the intercostal space. In the use of the Aspirator the following points must be attended That before and after use the whole apparatus is run through with carbolic acid I-20, and that before use the needles and canulsB