A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. not only dangerous in itself, but one whose practical value by no means serves to compensate the additional risks run in carrying These dangers of blood transfusion are chiefly (i) the formation of thrombi in the small vessels of the lungs and gastro-intestinal mucous membrane, which cause the dyspnoea, cardiac weakness, pains in loins and abdomen, and sickness and diarrhoea, seen in varying degrees in difterent cases; (2) setting free hsemoglobin in the general circulation and causing the fever and haemoglobin which are also sometimes seen. Although these bad results are not invariable, there is no known way of foretelling their occur- rence. "For practical purposes" . . . "all the advantages to be gained by transfusion may, I believe, be equally well, and more readily obtained by an infusion of a neutral saline, such as 3^ per cent, solution of common salt (about one drachm to the pint)."— Hunter, B?-it. JMed. Journ., Aug., 1889. Mtinchmeyer's method of translusion has been strongly recom- mended. It consists essentially of injecting into the subcutaneous cellular tissue from one to three pints of the simple saline fluid already mentioned. An aspirator needle is thrust into the sub- cutaneous tissue (between the scapula: for preference). To the needle is attached two or three feet of india-rubber tubing leading down from a funnel. The saline fluid is poured into the funnel and is dispersed in the cellular tissue by gentle massage. A syringe could be substituted for the funnel. All the instruments used should be first cleansed with an anti- septic and afterwards washed out with boiled water. CHAPTER Vni. SHOCK AND WOUND-FEVER. Contents.—Shock—Symptoms and Treatment—Syncope—Wound- Fever—Pulse and Temperature Indications—Treatment—Inflam- mation—Treatment by Antiseptic Poultices, by Blood-letting and by Counter-irritation. Shock.—Whatever be the cause of the condition—f.^>-., extensive crushing of a limb, or especially, of the abdominal viscera, severe