A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 128 rig. 92. — Shoulder-cap Shaped from Cardboard, a, and Moulded, b. upper fragment and rotating the lower, deep-seated crepitus may be elicited. This symptom is of course absent if the fracture be impacted, and it is better to arrive at a conclusion by eliminating other injuries, and avoiding such rough means of establishing a diagnosis. Somewhat allied injuries—such as split- ting of the head of the humerus, detachment of the great tuberosity, &c.—are recognised by noting any broadening of the head and by a careful comparison of both shoulders. Treatment.—AH the above injuries may be treated on one plan. Set the fracture; pad the axilla; apply an external rectan- gular splint with a shoulder-cap, and band- age carefully from below upwards as far as the elbow. Finally, secure the arm to the side with a second roller, which may also support the forearm, or use a sling for this purpose. Some authorities dispense with a sling, and (more especially in the case of fractures above the level of the surgical neck) are content to fix the parts by means of the bandage (Fig. 61). Others, again, lay stress on the use or non-use of the sling in fracture at the surgical neck. Where the fracture is very oblique, it is better not to support the elbow, but to let it hang, as in Fig. 91. In any case an external shoulder-cap and axillary-pad may be used (Figs. 92 and 93). It sometimes though rarely happens that in fracture of the surgical neck the upper fragment is tilted outwards, and cannot be replaced. Under such circumstances the lower frag- ment should be brought in line with the upper till union is obtained. Middeldorf's splint secures this end con- veniently. Stromeyer's triangular pad makes a comfortable and steady splint (Fig. 94) for fractures of the humerus. The parts are carefully ad- justed on the cushion, and secured to it by straps. {b.) Fractures of the Shaft are recognised with ease. Shortening is generally pro- nounced, the fracture being commonly oblique, with the Fig. 93.—Shoulder-cap applied in Fracture fragments carried past each of the Neck of the Humerus. Other. Gooch's splints, padded and cut away so as to avoid pressure on the bend