ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. 30 outer clot has less chance of forming than if the division had been complete. Under favourable circumstances, however, the clot does form, and unless the current be so strong as to make it yield and produce a false aneurism, the processes of healing will go on as in the first case. When an artery, instead of being cut across, is torn, twisted, or bruised across, its inner and middle coats are curled up inside the outer one, and so, by blocking the lumen, stop the bleeding; when, in addition, the outer coat is either twisted or drawn out into a fine thread, the occlusion is still more complete. Probably when the inner coat is thus injured, the internal clot or thrombus forms more strongly, and acts more efficiently in closing the vessel, than when it is divided by a clean cut. The '■'■Artificial'" Arrest of Hanwrhage. — In " Torsi oti" and " Fordpressure," therefore, whether deliberately performed by the surgeon, either directly with forceps, or indirectly by the use of the ecraseur, or cold snare, or accidentally done by the violence of machinery, the mechanical occluding agent is the twisted or torn ends of the broken vessel, aided by the formation of an internal clot. In the use of the Ligature, the mechanical agent is the tight band round the tough outer coat, after the inner and middle coats have given way and have retracted. An internal clot is also formed in this case, but is not of great service in maintaining the occlusion. By the time the process of sealing up by granulations has been completed, the ligature is useless. In the old days of silk ligatures in septic wounds, the ligature, being saturated with fermenting discharges, was a source of irritation to its surrounding granulations, and became loosened by making them suppurate. If the suppurating or liquefying process went too far into the sealing mass, the vessel was opened again, and secondary hemorrhage, formerly very common, was the result. In a-septic wounds, on the other hand, the ligature of catgut, silk, and probably of any organic material, is absorbed by the granulation cells, and disappears without any suppuration at all. The risk in these cases is the softening not of the sealing mass, but rather of the ligature, or of its slipping before the sealing mass is ready to take its place; or, on the other hand, in a large vessel, the risk lest the granulations— even when fully formed—should not have a consistence strong enough to resist the pressure of the blood-stream. When External Styptics are used, the mechanical agent is PfOD^Dly either (i) a firmer than natural clot induced directly by the hot iron, caustic, or chemical agent, or indirectly by the altered state of the surrounding tissues; (2) an occlusion of the mouths of the vessels by shrivelling and spasm either of the surrounding parts, of the vessels themselves, or of both. When internal styptics are used, either the coagulability of the blood is increased, or a condition ot temporary ansemia of the part is caused by local spasm of the arterial walls, producing a result like that occasioned by the general slackening of the circulation in fainting. One or all of these conditions may be present in the use of different agents, their exact