A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 27 bullet, free incisions must be made to permit of drainage and irrigation. (2) Lacerated Wounds owe their dangers to the injury as well as division of the parts affected, and to the frequency with which septic matter is rubbed into them. Even with the greatest care and trouble, it is generally impossible to purify them in the ordinary way. Consequently, the immediate dangers and subsequent troubles of sepsis are specially great. When a lacerated wound is first seen, the surrounding skin should be cleansed and purified, and the wound itself freed from all apparent dirt, and afterwards scrubbed with either 1-20 carbolic, or i-iooo corrosive sublimate, lotion. It may then, after bleed'ing points have been secured, and torn nerves and tendons brought together with catgut stitches, be protected by an antiseptic dressing. In the hand and arm, however, all doubtful cases should be immersed in a bath of warm antiseptic lotion—Corrosive sublimate lotion_ 1-4000 answers well, and cases kept in it for several days have in the writer's experience shown no sign of poisoning*—Car- bolic acid about 1-80 or 100, salicylic acid 1-300, or boracic acid, saturated may also be used.t The fluid should be renewed daily, and every three or four hours part of it may be replaced by hot lotion, as the bath cools. The patient's head and shoulders must be propped up in bed. The bath (Fig. 7) may either rest upon the bed, or be supported alongside the bed, on a slightly lower level than the mattress. Fig. 7.—Arm Bath. On the third or fourth day, or even sooner, the limb may be safely withdrawn from the bath, and treated with ordinary antiseptic dressings. Many limbs and lives may be saved by this treatment which, without it, would be lost. The difficulties involved in immersing the foot or leg in a bath (Fig. 8) are greater than those met with in immersing the upper limb. A very large metal leg-boot has also been made for this purpose, and might prove of service. Only the parts below the *A warning of danger will be given, however, by the precipitation of an orange deposit when the urine is treated with sulphide of ammonium. t i'he warning of extensive absorption of carbolic acid will be given by a greenish discoloration of the urine.