A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 21$ {a.) Contusion of the kidney. (l>.) Congestion of the kidney, similar to that produced by turpen- tine or canthandes, following the injury, or owing to the displacement ol a previously encysted calculus. (c.) Congestion due to an embolus, or thrombus, the result or accompaniment of the injury. _ (d.) Kidney uninjured at first, but secondary inflammation spread- ing to It from surrounding damaged tissues; here ha:maturia appears late. '^'^ (e.) Shaking of the kidney. This may cause hsematuria in some persons without, but generally indicates, a renal calculus. Other sources of renal hemorrhage are calculi, new growths, tubercular or putrefactive pyelitis. In addition, hsematuria, apart from an injury or from an embolus, may be expected in acute nephritis of whatever kind; in the course of chronic nephritis, from direct or indirect effect of a calculus, or from excess of uric or oxalic acid in the blood. When the source of bleeding is the bladder, a calculus, a simple or malignant tumour, cystitis, tubercular ulceration, or (after a severe injury) a rupture, may be traced as its cause. Bleeding often comes from dilated veins about the prostate in old men, and as the blood may easily pass back into the bladder, the diagnosis may be difficult. Hae;maturia and serious lesions of the urinary tract are sometimes traced to a parasite (bilharzia hasmatobia), and bleeding occasionally follows the sudden evacuation of an over- distended bladder. From the urethra, besides the causes of bleeding already noticed, a new growth, urethral calculus, or chancre, may be accountable. In women the menstrual flow or blood from a tumour at or near the cervix, escaping by the vagina, may contaminate the urine and simulate hasmaturia. (5) Pus in the urine—pyuria—like blood, may have its source in any part of the urinary tract. Its effect upon the transparency of urine, and the simple means available for tracing its source, have already been described under the head of Tratisparency of Urine, p. 214. Coming from the kidney, pus may indicate pyelitis (by extension of septic mischief from the bladder, from tubercular deposit, or from the irritation of a calculus), a tumour, suppuration within the kidney, or acute nephritis. When the bladder is its seat, it may be due to cystitis, tumours, tubercular ulceration, a stone, or bilharzia. From the urethra, gonorrhrea or gleet is its usual source, some- times a urethral abscess, and rarely a tumour, urethral chancre, or secondaiy syphilitic ulceration. Bilharzia hsematobia is said to lodge most frequently in the prostatic urethra. The Occiirence of Urinary Deposits.—After urine has been allowed to cool and stand for several hours, a deposit is generally seen, varying from a delicate cloud of mucus in health, to distinct sedi- ments in disease. The naked-eye and microscopic characters of these