TEE A TMEN7 OF PA TIE NTS BEFORE OPERA TION. S CHAPTER II. ON THE TREATMENT OF PATIENTS BEFORE AND AFTER OPERATION. Contents.—I. Treatment before Operation—Constitutional, Local, Special—Success of operation greatly dependent on state of patient's "general health." 11. Treatment after Operation—Constitu- tional, Local, Special—[a.) After operations about the Rectum and Anus, on the Genito-Urinary Tract, after Ovariotomy, &c. ; [b.) after operations about the Mouth and Jaws—Difficulties in administering food: how to meet them—Nutrient enemata— General hints on nourishment. It would be difficult to over-estimate the importance of this subject. For convenience, we may consider it under the heads of Constitu- tional, Local, and Special Treatment, before operations, and after them. I. Before Operations.—(i) Constitutional Treatment.—It has long been recognised that the result of operations much depends on the patient's general health, and this may be paraphrased into the efficiency of all the organs tinder the conditions which follow the operation. To secure this, some preliminary treatment may often be called for, either (i) to regulate some system or organ, and improve the blood; or,_ (2) to accustom the patient to the fixture and surroundings which must follow the operation. In many patients a special diet, rest in bed, or particular drugs, may be required to improve digestion, stimulate elimination, relieve congested liver or kidneys, regulate the action of the heart, or improve nutrition. For instance, persons who reg^ularly overload their system with an excess of alcohol, keep up the appearance of health for a long time if they are able to take active exercise. Should they be suddenly laid up, however, from a fractured Umb or other cause, their health at once gives way. Symptoms of delirium tremens appear, and wounds are exceedingly apt to develop erysipelas or other septic conditions. In such cases, preli- mmary treatment by sparing diet, and diminished allowance of alcohol, laxatives, and rest in bed, would go far to lessen these unfortunate tendencies. In other cases, tonics, iron, and cod-liver oil may be required, and so on. Where cases are not systematically taken, the heart and lungs should be examined, and the digestive system enquired into, the mommg and evening temperatiire ascertained, and the urine tested. It IS better to have this examination of the heart made while the patient is resting quietly in the ward, rather than add to his alarm by sounding the heart, just before the ansesthetic is given.