JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. 201 The patient being laid prone on the hanimoclc is made to grasp the ends of the rod with the hands; the forehead is supported against a band stretched between the two stays. While thus suspended, the patient remains quite comfortable diu'ing the application of the plaster bandage, and until the plaster has set. He is then taken down, and the edges of the hammock are trimmed off with scissors. 2. Methods of Support in High Dorsal and Cervical Caries.—As the upper limit of the ordinary jacket is determined by the axilla, it is evident that diseased vertebra; in the upper dorsal and cervical regions must have some other and special means of support. To some of these a brief allusion lias already been made; further details are, however, here necessary. (a.) Sayre's "Jnry-!?!ast."—Sayre describes his "jury-mast" as follows:—"There are some cases of spondylitis in which the cervical or upper dorsal vertebras, or both together, are involved. In these cases treatment by the plaster jacket alone can do but little, if any, good. It then becomes necessary to treat the disease by the use ot an instrument which I call the 'jury-mast' (Fig. 169). This consists of two pieces of malleable iron, bent to fit the curve of the back. To the lower portion are attached three or more strips of tin, long enough to go nearly round the body. These strips are roughened like a nutmeg-grater, by having holes punched out through them in both directions, in order to firmly fasten the strips to the jacket. The tins must be rough on both sides, else the layer of the jacket on the smooth side will not hold the tin, and the jury-mast will slip up and down. _ " From two cross-bars at the upper extremity of the curved iron pieces, springs a central steel shaft, carried in a curve over the top of the head, and capable of being elongated at will. To this is attached at its upper extremity a swivel cross-bar with hooks, from which depend straps supporting a head-and-chin collar. This cross- bar must be placed above the curved steel arm, or it will be liable to become detached, owing to the constant traction on the screw by which it is held in place. "The apparatus is thus applied (Fig. 170):—The patient having been encased in the usual manner in a few thicknesses of plaster- roller, the jury-mast is put on over this, care being taken that the rnalleable iron strips are bent so as to conform to the surface of the plaster, on each side of the spine, and that the shaft over the head be kept in the same line with the spinous processes. The extremity to which the swivel cross-bar is attached should be over the verte.x of the head, so that when the straps are applied the line of traction shall be neither too far forward nor too far back. The perforated tins are carried partially round the body. The apparatus having been thus carefully adjusted, fresh layers of plaster bandage are applied over it in order to hold the instrument fimily in its place, the assistant being careful to rub the bandage into all the inequalities caused by the instrument. ^ "After the jacket is thoroughly hardened, the chin-piece is to be