APPENDIX. 259 of the mixture. Pour this on to the pounded chicken, and stir over the fire till it thickens. It must not boil. Dip the toast into hot milk, and pile the chicken rai.xture on to the toast. If liked, squeeze a httle lemon juice over it. Serve hot. Vegetaljles. Snow-Flake Potatoes (inexpensive). Required— Freshly boiled potatoes from the pot. Pass the potatoes quickly through a vv-ire sieve, and lift them with a slice on to the hot dish, on which they are to be served, without press- ing them in any way. [If preferred, the potatoes may be heated or slightly browned on the top, after they have been passed through the sieve.] To boil a Cauliflower. Required— I cauliflower. i tablespoonful of vinegar. Water. Salt. Remove all the coarse outer leaves from the cauliflower, but let the small close leaves remain to protect the flower. Wash, and place the cauUflower in a basin, with cold water to cover it. Add the vinegar, and let the cauliflower lie for 30 minutes. The vinegar will draw out any insects that may be secreted in the leaves or flower. Wash the cauliflower again in fresh cold water, and plunge into a saucepan of boiling water, containing i teaspoonful of salt to i quart of water. Let the water boil rapidly till the cauliflower sinks to the bottom of the pan, and the stalk is tender, about 20 to 30 minutes are reqtiired. Lift into a hot vegetable dish, and pour sauce over. Sauce. Required— I oz. butter. % pint milk. K oz. flotu-. teaspoonful salt. Make in the same manner as directed for sauce for boiled fish (p. 257). Puddings and Jellies. Custard Pudding. Required— 3 eggs. pint of milk. I teaspoonful of sugar. y oz. butter. Take the yolks of three eggs and i white, beat well with the sugar, add the milk. Butter a pie-dish, strain the milk, &c. into the dish, and place it in a vwderatelv hot oven to cook for about 10 minutes. The dish must not be moved in the oven until after the eggs are set, or the ctistard will curdle, and not become firm. Bread Crumb Pudding (inexpensive). Required— I heaped tablespoonful of bread crumbs. ^ oz. of butter I gill of milk. 3 pg ^^^^^^ ^Sg- A grate of nutmeg. Heat the milk, and pour it over the bread crumbs, butter, and suo-ar m a basin beat with a fork until quite smooth. Whip the yolk and white of the egg together, and mix all well together. Butter a smaU