^7 ^ SURGICAL HANDBOOK. Of these the angled tubes of R. W. Parker (Fig. 35). are much to be preferred on anatomical grounds. The small flange f^ s™g th^ nner tube had better be removed, when good nursing cannot be^hld DnTwl "^'"^ prevent the tube from being easily removed if blocked nf^rltn '"^^''Sble when the trachea lies deep in the midst of greatly swollen tissues (Fig. 36). Fig. 36.—Durham s Lobster Tail Tracheotomy Tube. The outer tube f A), can be projected and fixed at any distance from the shield by means of the screw and collar at (B) The mner tube (C), is provided with a jointed tail which enables it to fit the outer tube. The surgeon generally enters the trachea above the isthmus of the thyroid gland. This is known as the "high" operation. It is more easily accomplished than the "low" operation, belovir the level of the isthmus, where a more prolonged and difficult procedure is required, since here the trachea lies deeper. Indications for Trache- otomy are presented by the increasing dyspnoea of the patient. There is no time to delay when there is progressive cyanosis, embarrassed respiration, and sinking-in of the intercostal spaces, false ribs, and root of the neck. Chloroform must be given with great care, and very little is required. In adults cocaine suits admirably. It IS well to roll the patient (especially if a child) in a towel, so that the arms may be secured by the side. The neck and chest should be bared, the neck laid over a pillow and the head curved back so as to pull the windpipe from out the thorax, and increase its cervical extent. The head must be kept perfectly steady and straight. An accurate knowledge of the landmarks of the neck is essential. Where one cannot make out the pomum Adami, as in young children, the more resisting ring of the cricoid cartilage may be felt, when the trachea is traced from below. First Stage.—The surgeon, standing on the patient's right side, with the. palm of his left hand towards the patient's chin, lays his left forefinger on the tip of the thyroid cartilage, while the thumb and middle finger on each side serve to fix the trachea; and makes an incision prolonged from below his finger, through skin and fascia, exactly in the middle line, over the thyroid isthmus, to about an equal distance beyond it. Skin, fat, and fascia, with perhaps a few twigs of the anterior jugular vein, are thus divided. Bleeding points are secured with forceps. Second Stage,—The surgeon now inserts his finger into the wound