JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. i88 Fig. 151.—E.xtensioii applied to a flexed knee. tension of the capsule by effused fluid. The joint assumes the position of greatest capacity of the membrane, which is that of slight flexion. Although anchylosis of a joint is always a disadvantage, there is in every joint a position in which anchylosis is least disadvantageous, and there are some joints in which anchylosis is less of an evil than it is in others. Those which can, so to speak, best permit of an- chylosis are the Knee, and—owing to the great mobility of the Scapula-the Shoul- der. The knee, when anchylosed, should be slightly flexed; if quite straight, it is apt to be in the way, while not more use- ful ; if much bent, it is a useless encum- brance. Hence, and also because slight flexion is the natural position of repose of all joints, we should fix diseased knee- joints in this position, or gradually bring them back to it, if they have already left it. Reduction of too great Flexion—{a.) By Fixation and Extension. —In reducing too great flexion of the knee, the same means must be taken as were indicated for the hip. Whether fixation or extension be employed, the deformity in acute cases must be respected in the first instance, and no effort made to overcome it until irritation and muscular spasm have subsided. Hence, instead of extending the limb by weight and pulley towards the bottom of the bed, the sur- geon should first support the thigh, so that the downward line of traction on the tibia is in the line of the deformity (Fig. 151). By degrees, as irritation subsides, the line of traction may be more and more altered until it comes to correspond with the axis of the thigh {Marsh). (6.) By Lateral Splints.—Where there is no great deformity, some surgeons prefer well-padded lateral poroplastic, pasteboard or leather splints. In order to limit movement it is not always necessary to shape the splints quite accurately—a broad, straight strip down each side IS often enough, if well bandaged (Fig. 152); but if the greatest rigidity IS needed, the side-splints must be cut to the shape of the Lent knee. A simple way is to take a doubled piece of paper, long enough to go 7 or 8 inches above and below the knee, and an inch or two wider than half the circumference of the thigh. Place the limb 13 152.—Straight pasteboard splint for knee.