POST-MOR TEM EXAMINA TION. 243 be firmly adherent, ^is in children, the dura mater must be carefully Svid^ an round wUh a probe-pointed bistoury, and the anterior and Dosterior attachments of the falx severed.] On rer^oval of the calvarium, the tension and condition of the dura should be noted ; the great longitudinal sinus slit up and examined ; the anterior end of the falx cut ; and the dura divided all round so that it may be raised and its under surface studied. The pL mater and cerebral surface may now be investigated, after ^yhich the brain has to be removed as in the dissecting-room, viz :- by raisin- the frontal lobes, dividing the nerves sertatun carefully cuttin- the tentorium along its attachment to the temporal bone, and severing the medulla and vertebral arteries as low as possible. The brain nfay now be laid aside in the skull-cap, while the base of the cranium is carefully examined, its sinuses opened, the dura stripped off in a search for fractures, and the condition of the middle ear Attention is now directed to the brain. The lateral ventricles may be laid open by horizontal slices from above downwards, and the basal ganglia exposed by transverse sections. The cerebellum is cut into vertical and transverse sections, but the nature of the examma tion must largely depend on the character of the special lesion. Neck and Thorax—The viscera of the neck and trunk are reached by a mesial incision which extends from the chin onwards, by the left side of the umbilicus, to the pubes. By entering the peritoneal cavity at the ensiform cartilage, the fingers may be intro- duced and used as a director, so that the bowels are shielded while the abdomen is opened. The cage of the thorax is exposed by bold sweeps of the knife on the sternum and ribs. The sterno-clavicular articulations should be opened, the costal cartilages divided rather obliquely inwards close to the ribs, and the diaphragm separated below. We are thus able to throw the sternum and cartilages up- wards, and to complete its disarticulation. The position and condition of the thoracic viscera may now be studied, and before they are handled we should also note the condition of the abdominal organs. The skin and pectorals should be tucked over the ends of the ribs, so that the hands are protected as they are introduced to explore the pleural cavities. The pericardium is now to be opened, and the heart examined in situ. Heart and Lungs.—By following the course of the blood through the heart, we arrive at a conclusion as to the amount it contains, the state of its walls, valves, and cavities. The right auricle is opened by an incision, throwing the superior and inferior venae cavae into one. The right ventricle is next to be laid open by an incision immediately to the right of the septum ; the left auricle by cutting from the entrance of the pulmonary veins downwards and forwards, in front of the appendix ; the left ventricle by an incision along its anterior surface, immediately to the left of the septum. The heart may be now removed by dividing the great vessels, and the competency of the valves and state of the coronary arteries ascertained. The lungs may next be separated, and cut in section