169 MASSAGE. tip of one or more fingers, with their phalanges (especially 2nd), or with the knuckles. The simple pressure may be modified by lateral or rotatory movements, or by passing into a rubbing or kneading movement. The amount of pressure employed will vary with the depth to be reached, and the object to be attained (Fig. 138). (2) "Tapping, thrusting, hacking" (i.e., " Tapofenient") indicate sudden effects produced more or less forcibly. " Tapping " is done with the pulp of the fingers from the wrist, as in percussing the chest, or by knocking, as at the door, with the knuckles. "Tln-usting" is poking up the deeper parts with the tips of the extended fingers, knuckles, or closed fist. "Hacking" is striking the muscles with the ulnar edge of the opened hand or fingers, according as more or less force is required. It is used in dealing with the larger groups of muscles, and with deep nerves (Fig. 139). Under this head may also he included "shakings" of various parts, and "vibrations," or more rapid and finer "shakings." Both are methods of producing mechanical stimulation. (3) "Pinching"is a grasping of the soft parts, either with the tips of the thumb and fingers, or with the pulp of the same, applied specially to muscles and groups of muscles. A series of pinches following one another along the mus- cles in a centripetal direction is said to force onwards the venous blood and lymph. This may result to a certain extent. Those who insist most, however, on the neces- sity for anatomical know- ledge in the masseur, seem to forget that to a certain extent in all muscles, and very markedly so in some, the blood-vessels enter the muscles at certain points from which they afterwards radiate. We would, there- fore, believe that the chief value of this manipulation is the mechanical disturbance produced. A modification of pinching consists in "squeezing" the tissues between the ball of the thumb and the tips of the fingers, after the fashion of what schoolboys term a " Horse bite"—one of their numerous forms of mild torture. (l>.) Labile Movements comprise stroking, rubbing, and kneading. ^' (I) Centripetal stroking or " milking," when applied to the veins and lymphatics, is known as efflenrage." This increases the circulation, and aids absorption. It precedes and follows most other movements to clear out the main trunks and prepare for their being Figs. 140 and 141.—"Pinching."