76 EMERGENCY CASES. blowing movements with perfect regularity so that foul air may be pressed out, and pure air be drawn into lungs, about eight or ten times a minute, for at least one hour, or until patient breathes naturally." „ , , , , , , ^i. Besides artificial respiration, efforts should be made to rouse the system by various forms of stimulation, such as by vapour of ammonia to the nostrils (burning feathers before the nose, hartshorn, &c.); ether or alcohol vapour by the lungs, by subcutaneous or rectal injection; flipping, pinching, and blistering the skm; interrupted current to the skin, muscles, or over the heart; friction and hot bottles to the extremities. (12) Treatment for those apparently drowned.—No time should be lost in trying to restore respiration. Weeds and mud must be cleared from the mouth, and water squeezed out from the lungs and stomach, as Howard describes (p. 75). Artificial respiration by either Sylvester's (p. 74) or Howard's method (p. 75) should then be begun. Meanwhile, the limbs should be smartly rubbed towards the trunk with the hands or warm flannels. If circumstances permit, the patient's wet clothes may be removed and warm blankets be substituted, while hot bottles, bricks, or plates are laid against them. On no account, however, should artificial respiration be intermitted, except for a few seconds at longest, until half or three quarters of an hour after the heart has ceased to beat. Should spontaneous efforts at respiration return, exertions should be renewed, and at the earliest date that swallowing seems possible, brandy and water should be placed at the back of the tongue with a spoon. While circulation continues, a hypodermic of ether (20-30 min.), if available, may be given. After consciousness has returned, a warm drink of weak tea or coffee, beef-tea, or weak alcohol, should be given, and the patient put to bed with plenty of warm blankets. For some days after immersion, the patient must be treated with great care, lest pneumonia should develop. (13) Severe Head-Injuries.—When a patient is admitted with a severe head-injury, the question of trephining will often arise, and the house-surgeon may be in doubt whether or not to send for the visiting surgeon. As authorities differ on these matters, we can only here indicate views generally accepted:— Do not expect Trephining— (a.) If the fracture seem to be chiefly on the base {i.e., if blood and cerebro-spinal fluid run from the ears, or blood from the roof of the nose, or pharynx, and if there is no special paralysis or twitching pointing to localised hemorrhage. Treatment.—Get the bowels well opened, shave the scalp, and put on an ice-bag, and keep the patient quiet. {b.) If the fracture be a simple one of the vault with not very extensive depression, and unaccompanied by definite symptoms. Treatment, as above. (c) In a slight case of compound depressed fracture, where there seems good hope of keeping the wound a-septic. Treatment—Dress wound, otherwise as above.