ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. 19 ments. The weaker solution (i to 40) is employed in connection wth parts and instruments already purified, and for irrigation. A solution in the proportion of I to 15 is used for the spray, which is diluted with a cloud of steam to the strength of I to 30. Carbobc acid is used as a dressing in the form of gauze. Carbolic acid in oil or glycerine is frequently used for catheters and dressings (see Appendix). Caution!—Carbolic acid poisoning exists in varying degrees. The passage of urine which is olive-green, and which darkens gradually on standing, is the first indication of carbolic acid absorption, and is in itself of little moment. Headache, giddiness, and sickness, are of greater import, more especially when these are associated with the absence of sulphates from the urine. In extreme cases, low temperature, extreme depression, and collapse ensue. Treatment consists in a change of dressing, together with the administration of sulphates, which, it is hoped, will combine with the free carbolic acid in the system, and be excreted as harmless phenol-compounds by the kidneys. In addition stimula- tion may be required. (b.) Corrosive Sublimate is at present one of the most univer- sally employed antiseptics, being cheap, effective, non-volatile. It, however, corrodes all metals, and hence, can only be used in glass, porcelain, or vulcanite. In solution, I to 500, it has been used for the hands and skin, but in this strength is rather irritating. I to 1000 is the stronger form of solution used for general purification, while I to 2000-5000 is that employed for irrigation. When used to purify septic wounds, it should be employed in large quantity, as the mercury is speedily used up by forming compounds with albumen, and the lotion is thus apt to become inert. The addition of common salt to the solution, prevents this action. Absorbent wool, gauze, jute, and wood-wool, are all to be had charged with Corrosive Sublimate, and make excellent dressing- materials. Caution!—Corrosive Sublimate solutions must be used with the greatest care. It is probable that more deaths have occurred from the use of mercurial salts as antiseptics, than from that of carbolic acid. Irrigation of absorbing surfaces—as, for example, the tunica vaginalis and pleura—is fraught with danger. Diarrhoea, vomiting, collapse, and death may rapidly ensue. Large moist dressings of corrosive must always be avoided. If evaporation be prevented, then the skin becomes irritated, and absorption rapidly follows. In order to obviate the danger so often produced by corrosive sublimate, other compounds as effective and perhaps less irritating have been advocated. Amongst these we may mention sal alembroth, and biniodide of mercury. (c.) Iodoform has obtained a great reputation from its marked deodorising properties, and from its supposed special action in tubercular inflammation. It should be lightly dusted over the wound. The fine sublimed crystals, mitigated with boracic acid or bismuth.