EXTEMPORARY APPLIANCES. 163 they will have, in addition, a hemostatic effect, and should replace the dry ra"- (iV!^.—Although a recently washed and clean cloth is not necessarily a-septic, it will be more nearly so than one which has been collecting dust from all sides smce it left the washing-tub.) . , , 11 ^ i Domestic Antiseptics are :—Tui-pentme (also an excellent hemo- static) and alcohol in the form of spirits, strong wines, or methylated spirits of wine; treacle or golden syrup, or a symp of ordinary sugar ; glycerine. Powdered charcoal, or sulphur, is also efficacious, and is often to be had. ^, . , , In some country-places peat-turf is abundant. This has been largely used in Germany for wound-dressings. It should be crumbled fine, freed from lumps, and applied to the wound in bags of muslin, if possible. . i , j Bleeding from an Artery.—^hen a large artery is wounded, and direct pressure upon it is not possible, the bleeding must be controlled by digital compression (Fig. 136*), or by a tourniquet. An extem- porary one may be made from any scarf or piece of rope, as follows (Fig. 137):—Knot the band round the limb so loosely that the fingers may easily pass beneath the band; take a piece of strong stick and twist it into the loose band; then take a piece of paper and lay it on the skin just below the stick, to prevent the skin being nipped in ; now, twist the stick round until the band is sufficiently tight. If a hand- kerchief or scarf be used, a stone or other fiiTn substance may be folded into it to form a pad over the main vessel of the limb. It should never be forgotten that the pressure of a tourniquet, though sometimes neces- sary, is always more or less injurious, and in five or six hours is likely to kill the tissues below the point where it is applied. (3) The third object, fixation, should be ensured by applying an extemporary splint to the limb after the bleeding has been stopped and the wound occluded. Rules for Bearers of the Wounded.—The niles given in military works for carrying wounded men on stretchers are:— (1) To place the patient towards the injured side, in a wound of the chest or lower limb. (2) Towards the sound side, if the upper limb be injured. (3) On his back with legs drawn up, if the abdomen be wounded. These indications may also be of service in carrying hospital patients to and Irom the operating-theatre. The front bearer in carrying a stretcher should be ottt of step with, the rear bearer, to * See also p. 56. • • Fig. 137.—Extemporised Tourniquet.