A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. ro weeks and even months; and in certain circumstances the rectum becomes the only available channel for introducing nourishment into the system. The physiological facts on which the proper management of rectal ahmentation depends, are briefly: that while the absorptive power of the large intestine is very great, digestive powers may be considered to be wanting in its juices altogether, and that, as its chief function is expulsive, fluids or solids introduced per anum, large in amount, or with irritating qualities, will be expelled before absorption can occur. Nutrient Enetnata should, therefore, be pre-digested, should be small in amount (from 2 to 6 ounces), should be injected slowly, and as nearly as possible at the body-temperature (95° to 100° F.) Under favourable conditions, a reverse peristalsis seems often to occur, and the materials of enemata injected shortly before death have been found afterwards at the csecum. The food injected should be (i) peptonised albuminoids, in the form of peptonised meat-juices sold ready for use (Johnston's, Darby's, Brand's, &c.); beef-tea, or white of egg, digested with pepsin and hydrochloric acid, or more conveniently with Benger's Liquor Pancreaticus, or some of the peptonising powders sold by chemists—(Fairchild's and the zymine powders sold by Messrs. Burroughs & Welcome act admirably); (2) Diastased starch in the form of prepared malted foods, or starchy foods acted on by malt extract, or by artificial pancreatic juice; (3) Or the combination of starchy and albuminoid foods contained in peptonised milk, or jieptonised milk-gruel {v. Roberts' directions given along with Benger's Liquor Pancreaticus). N.B.—Recent experiment by Huter seems to have established that the mi.xture of a gramme (15 grs.) of common salt with the white of each egg renders the albumen almost as ready for rectal absorption as peptonising does. This method from its simplicity will be of much practical use. Peptonised suppositories are a convenient form by which albuminoid substances may be administered. To lessen the irritability of the rectum, all fffical matter should be cleared out from it by an enema of warm water, with or without soap, before rectal ahmentation is begun, and from time to time during its progress. The same care in maintaining an excess of carbohydrate over albuminoid food (in proportion of about 4 to i) must be taken in dealing with this, as with the ordinary mode of feeding by the mouth. Nourishment: General Hints on.—Speaking generally, the nourishment of patients recovering from an operation is to be maintained on the principle of giving nutrition without increasing the nitrogenous waste. Beef-tea, chicken-broth, and other meat- infusions are recognised as stimulants to tissue-change rather than foods proper. They should not be omitted ; but starchy foods should be chiefly relied on, and it should be remembered that meat- infusions alone will cause more rapid wasting than no food at all.