83 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. Except when contra-indicated as above, wash out the stomach with the stomach-pump in all cases where vomiting cannot be produced, or when any doubt exists as to poison remaining in the stomach after vomiting. II. Neutralise and dilute fnineral acids with alkaline carbonates, well diluted in water or milk; with lime water; or with chalk, whiting, whitewash, wall plaster, or magnesia (heavy or the heavy carbonate), suspended in milk or water - or with water alone. Neutralise alkalies with acids, such as weak acetic, or mineral acids, lime juice, orange or lemon juice. For both acids and alkalies give demulcents, such as olive oil, milk, thick gruel, white of egg and water or milk, gum and water. III. Treat collapse by stimulants—e.g., alcohol, as brandy or whisky in doses from 3i to 5iv according to circumstances; ammonia (sal-volatile); ether, by mouth or hypodermically (% to I drachm); strong hot coffee (or tea), by mouth or per rectum ; strong beef tea or Liebig's extract; and by applying warmth by hot bottles, and warm blankets. Give morphine where there is great pain. Special Treatment.—In carrying out the directions as indicated in the Table of Treatment for Special Poisons given below, it will be understood that the following general methods apply to all, unless where statement is made to the contrary. (1) Emetics and stomach-pump. (2) Stimulants, where there is collapse. (3) Artificial respiration in all sudden and extreme cases, especially where the heart beats after respiration has ceased. (4) Massage in the form of superficial effleurage to stimulate the heart, and of muscle-kneading to increase metabolism; this, however, slows the pulse, and increases muscular activity (see under Massage). (5) Faradic current, where stimulation is needed (see under Electricity). Where any of the above methods are especially applicable, they are mentioned in the Table. The cases are all supposed to be acute. Drugs marked with a star (*) are to be given hypodermically. treatment for special poisons. Poison. Treatment. Acid, Carbolic, . */a oz. Epsom, or Glauber's salts, in ^/a a pint or more of water. Emetics, or stomach-pump, and wash out with the above. White of egg in water. Stimulants and warmth {Murrell). Acid, Ozalic, . (See detailed Treatment, p. 86). Acid, Prussia, . (See detailed Treatment under hydrocyanic acid, p. 85).