ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. Facility in tying arteries is an important accomplishment, and saves much time in an operation. Eveiy young surgeon should practice the art with string on a piece of cloth, until he can do it without effort—reflexly, or in the dark. When a large artery is tied in its continuity, the knot must be a "reef," firmly and securely fastened with, perhaps, two or three extra turns. For different materials used as ligatures, see Appendix. (2) Torsion.—For the smaller vessels, all that requires to be done is to seize the open mouth with pressure forceps (Fig. 19), or special torsion forceps (Fig. 20); draw it out a little, and twist it four or five times round—some say, until it breaks off, but this is not necessary. Larger vessels must be steadied after being drawn out by one pair of forceps, while they are twisted three or four times round with another pair. Experience has shown that torsion is a perfectly safe method of clos- ing even the largest vessels. However, for large vessels anywhere, and for smaller ones, unless when lying in unusually lax tissues (as in the scrotum, or beneath the mucous membrane of the rectum), ligature under antiseptic precautions with absorbable material, is equally effi- cient and more rapid, as obviating the need for so carefully isolating the vessel. A modification of torsion is forcible pulling out. Victor Horsley, in excising the thyroid gland of monkeys, seized the arteries, and drew them out from the gland, until they tore away. The broken vessels were in this way simultaneously divided and closed, and gave no ftu-ther trouble. Under certain circumstances, this method might be useful. (3) Acupresstire has now fallen almost entirely into disuse. It was introduced by the late Sir J. Y. Simpson to obviate in a decomposing wound the irritation of silk threads, which only conducted the septic mischief closer to the wounded and healing artery. One of the methods employed may be sometimes useful on the scalp, or in the face, where there is difficulty in finding the wounded vessel, and where further cutting is undesirable. This method con- sists in passing below the vessel, at a little distance from the wound, a needle, round whose projecting ends a loop of wire or silk is after- wards wound, so that the artery is compressed between the needle and the silk.