ON BANDAGING. 100 J- ^otAr sinrp our bandage is of uniform breadth, the bcreasing diameter, smce i'^""''^ p, ^ ^ reverse, Fie. 41.—Bandaging the Foot.-(A) Fixing; (B) Reversing ; (C) Figure-of-Eight; (D) Complete. left forefinger against the dorsum of the foot rather to the outer side of the middle line; pronate, and circumduct the head by sweeping it to the inner aspect of the foot over the forefinger, and then out- wards, so that a fold forms. The posterior surface of the bandage is now exposed, the upper margin points to the toes, and the head no longer rolls on the foot, but requires to be unwound, as we carry the roller under the sole upwards with a gentle spiral ascent. As the bandage passes from the outside to the inside of the limb, it is received by the left hand, and transferred again to the right hand. The bandage now reaches the point of the former reverse, but at a higher level, overlapping two-thirds of the last turn, and a second reverse is required. Again we repeat our former manceuvre, fixing the margin in the same line as our previous fold. We may note that now we bring the anterior aspect of the roller into view, and the bandage again rolls. In this way, we make two or three reverses, alternately rolling and unwinding the bandage, exposing alternately its anterior and posterior surfaces. As we mount the instep, how- ever, it will be found that the bandage no longer lies smoothly, that is because we approach the junction of two cones at the heel, and wherever that occurs the figure-of-eight is required (Fig. 41, C). In place of reversing, we pass round the outer malleolus, and so come down from behind the inner malleolus, over the dorsum, under the sole, ascend on the inner side, cross the dorsum, and so back to the internal malleolus. This is repeated until such time as we reach the ankle, when, as we now meet a simple cylinder, two or three spirals are available. The bandage once more shows by its tendency to stray that we are at the cone of the calf, and again reverses are employed. To finish the bandage, a figure-of-eight turn is made