JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. 1S4 tlie strength of the double splint. This cannot, however, be easily applied when the two hip-joints are at markedly different angles. Thomas urges surgeons to learn how to mould the splints to fit the patient, and figures wrenches made by the Lowel Wrench Company, Ahiss., U.S.A., which he uses for the purpose (Fig. 146). Two are needed. The surgeon, when he has seen that the blacksmith has rightly made the general proportions of the splint, sends it to the saddler to be padded with a single layer of boiler-felt (No. I thickness), and covered with basil leather. The ends of the body-crescent are to be united by a strap fixed to one side, and buckling or buttoning on to the other. A brace over the shoulder of the sound side supports the splint. This brace and the secondary straps to steady it are illustrated in the diagrams (see Figs. 142, 143). For his poorer patients Thomas uses a simpler plan. Each end of the uppermost cross-piece terminates in a hole about half an inch in diameter. The middle of a piece of bandage is passed below the upper cross-piece, where it is attached behind to the upright bar. The ends of the bandage, after having been twisted together for a short distance above the splint, are brought over the patient's shoulders, and are passed through the holes in the upper cross-piece before being tied together. Thus the bandage fulfils the double purpose of keeping the splint up, and fixing together the ends of the cross-piece. The thigh and leg may be either bandaged to the corresponding part of the splint, or be fixed there with shields similar to those described for the knee-splint. Figs. 142, 143, and 145, after Thomas, illustrate the application of the splint. {b.) By Extension.—V^htn it is decided to apply Extension, the patient must be kept in bed, lying on a fimi mattress. The first thing to do is to see what position the thigh assumes when the patient's pelvis is made to lie even—z.e., when the line joining the two anterior superior spines is at right angles to the axis of the trunk, and when the lumbar region of the spine rests against the bed. Whether this position be one of flexion and adduction of the thign, flexion and abduction, simple flexion, or without deformity ^h^} ' '"■"^ °f ^^hi* traction is to be al first made l^yhere there is marked flexion, the lower limb must be raised either on pillows or on an inclined plane. One objection to the inclined plane is the necessity of extending the knee while the thioh is Hexed ; but inconvenience from this results only when the flexion IS great. IVhere abduction is combined with flexion, the inclined plane lies by the side of the other limb. IVhere there is adduction, the incline plane should be arched to allow the sound limh to pass "r i"". \u " 'L'^'f P'^''^"' restless, a long splint may be ap- plied to the sound ^^Az. The plan of raising the affected limb on