APPENDIX. 266 A Refreshing Egg Drink (inexpensive). Required— 1 yolk of egg. i teaspoonful of sugar. I tablespoonful of milk. Soda or potash water. Beat the yollc of egg and sugar together, add the hot milk (or i table- spoonful of sherry not heated). Strain into a tumbler, and fill the glass with soda or potash water, and serve whQe effervescing. Egg Drink for a Dyspeptic (inexpensive). Required— I white of egg. i giu of milk. Whip the white of egg to a very stiff froth, and stir lightly into the milk. Serve with thin dry biscuit. Egg Cream. Required— 1 gill milk. Yolks of 2 eggs. 2 lumps sugar. Wliite of i egg. 1 gill cream. i gill bramble or black currant syrup. (i.e. Yi gill hot water poured over i gill of jam and strained.) Whip the cream until stiff. Warm the milk and sugar, pour on to the yolks and white, stirring all the time; return to the saucepan and continue to stir until thick, but do not boil or the eggs will curdle. Strain on to the syrup, and when cool add the cream. [Always strain any mixtm-e containing eggs before giving it to an invalid.] Oatmeal Gruel (inexpensive). Required— 3 tablespoonsful of medium oatmeal. Sugar to taste. I pint milk. Small piece of butter. Put the oatmeal into a basin with the milk, and let it stand for 30 minutes, stirring occasionally. Strain the milk into a saucepan, press the oatmeal as dry as possible, and stir over the fire until boiling, and boil for 10 mmutes, still stirring. Poiu- into a basin over the butter and sugar, and stir until the butter is melted. Serve hot. [To make gruel from prepared groats—Mix i tablespoonful of groats with 2 tablespoonsful of cold milk, add these to nearly i pint of hot milk. Boil 10 minutes, and serve hot.] Kice Gruel (inexpensive). Required— '% lb. of whole rice. 1 pint of water. 2 lumps of sugar. i inch of cinnamon stick. [i tablespoonful of brandy.] Wash the rice thoroughly, put it into a saucepan with the water, sugar, and cinnamon; let boil, and skim well. Put the lid on the pan and simmer for 60 minutes, when the rice ought to be soft and pulpy. Take out the cinnamon, beat the gruel with a fork to make it of imiform thickness. Serve a little warm, with or without the brandy.