JOINT-FIl^ATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. 197 time, it will be necessary to apply a pad under the shirt over each breast before the plaster bandage is put on. These pads should be removed just before the plaster sets, and at the same time slight pressure should be made over the sternum for the purpose of indenting the central portion of the plaster jacket, and of thus giving form to the body, and removing pressure from the breasts."— Sayre. (SajTc's " dinner pad," is a folded towel placed temporarily over the abdomen to make room in the jacket for expansion after a meal; it has been found unnecessary by many surgeons.) The inner semet chosen should consist of thick flannel, fitting closely to the skin without wrinkles, reaching from the axilla to the trochanters ; it is supported by tapes over the shoulders, and is fastened below by tapes tied over a perinceal pad. Over this a second semet may be fitted, but still better a piece of woven webbing (procurable from Turnbull & Wilson, Edinburgh), which extends from the axilla to the knees, and is thus long enough to be doubled back over the outside of the jacket when it is finished. The advantage of a double semet has been already pointed out (p. 196). How to pttt on the Jacket—The Suspension Apparatus.—^Vhen the semet and the padding have been adapted, the patient must be partially suspended while the plaster is being applied. Sayre urges surgeons to notice that the sus- pension is to be only partial—up to the point at which the patient feels comfortable, and no further. This generally means raising the heels slightly off the ground, while the toes touch it (Fig. 165). The suspending apparatus recommended by him consists of a " curved iron cross-beam, to which is attached an adjustable head-and- chin collar with straps, and also two axillary bands.* To a hook in the centre of the bar is fixed a pulley, the other end of which is secured either to a hook in the ceiling, or to the top of an iron tripod about 10 feet in height." ■'^'S- 165.—Application When by this or similar means the patient jLto^^yArllj-r^ has been carefully suspended, the rolled plaster bandages must be applied as follows:—Each bandage as required is placed end uppermost in a basin containing water enough to cover it. As soon as the air-bells have ceased to rise, the bandage must be taken out, and gently squeezed to remove any superfluous water, it is then " applied round the smallest part of the body, and is carried around and around the trunk downwards * Dr. J. Taylor adnses that these should be made rigid—pieces of cui ved and well-padded iron tubing would serve the purpose well.