.IP3 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. travel over the tip of the lieel, so that its most projecting part is embraced by the tense middle portion of the turn and the two margms are left loose. Pass over the dorsum and again round the heel, diverging from the tip, so as to fix the lower loose margin : the next turn, passing round the heel at a higher level, includes the upper loose margin. In this way the middle third of the first turn over the heel is exposed, and the succeeding turns confine and overlap the loose margms of their predecessors. The bandage may be carried over the forepart of the foot and up the leg, if necessary, buch a bandage serves to retain dressings, &c., but is not frequently required. ^ ■' (2) Divergent Spica of the Knee-joint.—T\iQ limb must be slightly flexed. Lay the tail against the inner condyle. Pass the roller over the front of the patella, and outer condyle back to the starting point. The second turn travels in a similar direction, but at a lower level, so that the lower loose margin of the first turn is fixed, and in a similar way the third turn secures the upper loose margin. A transverse Fig. 45.—Divergent Spica of the Knee-joint. elliptical series of margins, which imbricate, are thus seen in front of the knee-joint, and a limited range of movement is allowed, as the layers glide easily on each other like scale-armour as the limb swings to and fro. Such a bandage may be useful in giving support to a joint which has been inflamed. It specially protects the posterior and lateral aspects of the joint; the anterior does not require such covering, owing to the patella. In cases of varicose veins, an ordinary bandage carried from below upwards, and over the knee, will allow the patient to walk freely, if the divergent spica be employed. (3) Divergent Spica of the Elbow differs in no respect from that of the knee. It is employed in cases where we keep the arm at rest in the flexed position, as after fractures and injuries to tk£ joint. (4) Spica of the Gi-oin: tJu Ascending Spica.—lAns is simply a