261 APPENDIX. Beef-Tea Custard. Required- Yolks of 2 eggs. I gill beef-tea (free from fat). White of I egg. J4 teaspoonful salt, to season. Yi teaspoonful pepper, to season. Whisk the yolks and white till quite frothy, add the beef tea. Add the seasonin<^, and cook by steaming. Pour into a buttered basin. Butter a piece of paper, tie this tightly on to the basin, and place it in a sauce- pan of boiling water, taking care that the water only comes three- quarter parts up the basin. If the water boils away, more must be added. Cover the saucepan with a tightly-fitting lid, and let the custard steam thus for 20 minutes. Do not let the water boil too rapidly or the custard will become honey-combed instead of being firm and smooth. When cooked, remove the paper, reverse the basin over a hot plate, take away the basin, leave the custard standing, and serve. . , . , , [For convenience in tying on the paper, it is advisable to use a pudding basin with a rim at the top.] Beef-Tea Pudding, steamed (inexpensive). Required— 2 tablespoonsful of fine bread crumbs. I gill of hot beef tea. I egg. Pour the beef-tea over the bread crumbs, mix thoroughly, a.dd the egg well beaten and the seasoning. Pour into a buttered basin, and sfeam for 20 minutes. See directions in beef-tea custard. Beef-Tea Pudding, Ijaked (inexpensive). Required— 3 tablespoonsful fine bread crumbs. A piece of butter about the size of an egg. 1 gill hot beef tea. 2 yolks and 2 whites of eggs. Pour the hot beef-tea over the bread crumbs and the butter, beat with a fork till the butter is melted, then add the 2 yolks; whip the 2 whites to a stiff froth, stir them lightly into the mixture; pour the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake in the oven for 10 minutes. Port Wine Jelly. Required— 2 wine glasses of port wine. i teacupful of warm water. I oz. of isinglass. 3 ozs. of white sugar candy. y^. oz. of poimded gum arabic. Put all these ingredients into ajar. Place the jar in a saucepan, with cold water reaching half-way up the jar. Cover and let the water simmer for about 6 or 8 hours, adding more as it evaporates. Stir the contents of the jar from time to time; when they are all mixed and quite dissolved, pour the jelly into saucers and allow to become cold. Portable Jelly. Required— 2 ozs. gum arabic. 2 ozs. isinglass. 2 ozs. of white sugar candy, i nutmeg, gi-ated. I pint of port wine. Put all into a jar standing in a saucepan of cold water, and stir the