A SURGICAL HANDBOOK 29 of abnormal distribution or anastomosis. As the result of loss of the nerve stimulus, the muscles supplied by the divided nerve begm to degenerate rapidly and shrink. In recent wounds, the severed nerve-ends should therefore be carefully sought for and sutured together with fine catgut. .Subsequent restoration of function ensues. In old-standing cases, there seems to be no limit in time which forbids successful suture-the first sign of repair is return of motor power. Pressure paralysis, as, for instance, the wrist-drop due to inter- ference with the musculo-spiral nerve in the axilla from the use of a crutch, yields to massage, electricity, and superficial stimulation. (6) Burns and Scalds may be considered together as being both injuries caused by heat. They generally consist of more or less extensive injuries of the skin. The depth of tissue affected is not at first apparent, as frequently much is injured beyond what is actually destroyed. The points to be attended to in their treatment are (i) rendering and keeping them a-septic, and (2) preserving them from every form of mechanical or chemical irritation. Since from burns large raw surfaces frequently result, which at first are highly absorptive, the antiseptics employed must be not only unirritating but non-poisonous if absorbed. Hence carbolic acid and strong corrosive sublimate lotions are to be avoided. We may use, however, weak corrosive sublimate (1-2000), salicylic acid (1-300), or sulphurous acid (1-8 B.P.) lotions, boracic acid ad lib., or eucalyptus oil, 10 per cent. After granulations have formed, the risks of absorption are much less. Since heat is itself a jsowerful antiseptic agent, the affected surfaces will be at first a-septic. The surrounding skin must, however, be thoroughly cleansed and purified, and, as a pre- caution, the burned surface should be sponged over as well. In all cases where the a-septicity is doubtful, an anaesthetic should be given, and the part well scrubbed with an antiseptic. Blisters should be cut and the fluid allowed to escape. Small burns should then be covered with wool and flexile collodion, while larger burns may be freely dusted with powdered boracic acid, and wrapt in absorbent antiseptic cotton-wool. Should a-septicity have been ensured, no further dressing should be required. An a-septic burn heals with much less destruction of tissue, with much less local or general irritation and less after-scarring than a septic burn, and with none of its septic fever. When burned or scalded surfaces are septic, the surgeon's first object will be to get rid of all dead epidermis and skin. What is already loose must be peeled off or clipped away, and charcoal poultices (see Appendix), and moist antiseptic dressings must be used to hasten the separation of the rest. Irrigation with antiseptic lotions must be frequent, and in some cases the use of a local bath of warm antiseptic lotion may be employed. When granulations have well developed, their surface should be covered with protective or with a moist antiseptic dressing. The