217 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK should an operation involve a strain upon their functions, and to break out into active disease on slight provocation. As the kidneys may be considered one of the chief means of purifying the blood, any septic condition is apt to throw a severe strain on their functions. Indeed, in such cases, micro-organisms and their products have been seen when looked for in the urine, and large quantities of micro-organisms have been found post mortevi in the kidneys. Hence the special importance of healthy kidneys in septic wounds, as well as in operations on the genito-urinary tract. When pressure within the ureter is increased, the excretion of solids is lessened before the current of fluid is affected—hence a lowered specific gravity may sometimes point to an obstructed ureter. B. Presence of Substances in Solution not found in Healthy Urine. (1) Albumen is to be detected by some of the methods to be afterwards described. Although traces are occasionally found in the urine of healthy persons, the presence of albumen is always to be looked on with suspicion, and demands an investigation into its cause. The harmless forms of albuminous urine have been classified as those due to diet, excessive exercise, or special paroxysms [Stewart). Other causes are various—(a.) Due to pus, blood, or serum, poured into the lu-inary tract from any cause. Even after blood-corpuscles have ceased to leave the vessels, the presence of albumen in the ui'ine may show that serum still escapes. It is often very difficult to calculate how far the albumen in any urine is due to the pus and blood mixed with it, and how far to diseased kidneys. [b.) To congestion of renal veins from mechanical obstruction (according to some authors). (c.) In the course of pneumonia, and other inflammatory conditions, attributed to renal congestion either from alterations in the blood, or from the presence of micro-organisms and their products. {d.) To leucorrhoeal discharges, or the menstrual flow, which may be followed by albumen in the urine for some days after every other recognisable trace of blood has disappeared. (e.) To disease of the kidney, acute or chronic. A scanty, high- coloured urine, with a considerable quantity of albumen—especially if there be also a deposit of blood-corpuscles and tube-casts, as well as general fever and pain in the loins—will point to acute inflammation of the kidney. This condition, however, is not likely to come under the surgeon's notice unless it be caused by an operation involving the urinary tract, or arise in the course of other surgical treatment. If the urine be pale, of low specific gravity, and normal or deficient in amount—especially, also, if there be a deposit of tube-casts— chronic renal disease must be suspected and reckoned upon. (2) Pile in the urine may be due to obstruction to some of the bile-ducts within, or outside of, the liver. It may be suspected m a greenish-brown coloured urine, with a tinted lasting froth.