A SURGICAL handbook: 46 (4) Pressure directly over the wounded vessel will stop the bleeding in any artery, although, owing to the simultaneous pressure upon companion-veins and on other structures, the method is inconvenient. Wounds of any of the palmar arteries are frequently treated by graduated pressure, although general pressure often succeeds as well. The arteries of the palm are difficult to reach, and lie close to large nerves; moreover large cicatrices are undesirable there, hence the need for pressure. Graduated pressure is produced by a series of successively larger pads of lint, beginning with one that just fits into the wound, until a conical plug is formed. This, when bandaged in place, presses upon the wounded part, arid generally stops the bleeding. At the same time the circulation in the hand should be lessened, by firmly bandaging the forearm, by placing pads over the radial and ulnar arteries at the wrist, by flexion of the forearm, and by raising the hand by fixing it at the opposite shoulder. The pads used in the wound should be soaked in antiseptic lotion. They should be removed in 24 or 36 hours, and equable pressure over the wound be substituted. Wlien possible a firm flat pad over the wound should be used from the beginning, as_ it permits of closure of the wound, and if successful, obviates the risk of an outbreak of the bleeding, such as may occur when the graduated pad is removed. All that has been said of the palm of the hand applies equally, with the necessary modifications, to the sole of the foot. U) Use of Heat and Cold.—As the result of recent experiments on the vessels and muscular tissue of the uterus of rabbits, Milne Murray has shown * that— " (I) Water, at temperatures of 120° F. and 10° lower, contracts blood- vessels, and arrests haemorrhage from small arteries " (2) Water, at temperatures of 100° and 30° or 40° under, dilates small vessels, and promotes haemorrhage. (•,) Water, at temperatures of 50° F. and 20° under, checks hsemorrhage by constricting blood-vessels, but this only temporarily. " (4) After water at the above temperatures has lost its styptic power, water at high temperatures is still effective." These experiments have been fully verified by clinical experience in postpartum haemorrhage. •, , , The more efficient and lasting effects produced by hot water, i.e., at temperatures between 110° and 120° P., as well as the dimmished risk of its inducing shock by abstracting heat, would lead surgeons to employ it in many cases where formerly cold was used. In bleeding from inaccessible cavities or deep wounds, for mstance, the injection of hot water, preferably medicated, has been found of great service. Hot water has also the advantages of being generally more readily available than very cold, and, after it has been boiled, of being at least a-septic. The observations hitherto have been made chiefly directly on wounded surfaces and upon bleeding mucous • Ed. Med. Journal, Sept., 1886.