A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 56 arch IS covered by strong fascia, and lies near large nerves. Free dissection is also prevented by the after-inconvenience of large cicatrices The deep arch is out of reach. If a limited dissection give_ small hope of success, apply firm pressure—possibly graduated —with _ antiseptic precautions. At the same time restrain the circulation in the hand by the methods already indicated (p. 46). tshould these measures fail, ligature of the brachial artery would be the next step. Haemophilia.-The above indications have been made on the assumption that the patient's tendency to spontaneous healing of vessels has been normal. There exists, however, a condition, fortunately rare, where patients bleed long and freely on the slightest provocation. The disease is known as "Hcemophilia," and the patients as " Hsemophilics" or "bleeders." The nature of the malady is obscure. The vessels seem normal, and out of the body the blood is said to coagulate well. Whether it does so equally well within the body has not yet been proved, but seems doubtful. Haemophilia is often hereditary, and is probably often present in degrees. In bad cases, a slight pinch of the skin will be followed by extensive ecchymosis, and smaller cuts by continuous oozing. In dealing with such patients, reliance must chiefly be placed upon pressure and styptics. Digital Compressioii of tlie Main Arteries. Suhclammi [third part).—Against the first rib by pressure down- wards and backwards, just behind the anterior curve of the clavicle. Axillary [third/ar^).—Against the humerus by pressure directly outwards, at junction of anterior and middle thirds of the axilla. Brachial.—Against the humerus. The pressure must be out- wards at the upper part, outwards and backwards about the middle, and backwards at the bend of the elbow, to suit the altering relations of the bone and artery. The artery continues the line of the axillary to the middle of the bend of the elbow. Radial afid Ubiar Arteries.—At the wrist, pressure backwards at either side. External Iliac.—By pressure directly backwards against the brim of the pelvis, midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine. Femoral.—Pressure must be made at first backwards against the head of the femur, then backwards and outwards in Scarpa's triangle—in Hunter's canal, outwards. When viewed from the inside, i.e., in abduction, the line of the vessel continues that of the external iliac towards the adductor tubercle on the inner condyle of the femur: looked at from the front, the line runs toward the inner edge of the patella. The first point mentioned for pressure is the best (see chapter on Extempore Appliances). Anterior Tibial,—Midway between the two malleoli, backwards against the tibia.