APPEN-DIX. soda with 8 per cent, pure concentrated hydrochloric acid (in 24 ozs. of water, 51 of the soda, and gij of the acid) until (in about a quarter of an hour) they have become white. (4) Again wash in water until scentless, and store in s per cent, carbolic acid. Sponges used in abdominal surgery should be stored apart, and used tor nothing else. (In ordinary cases, after operations, the second and third directions may be omitted.) When sponges are full of fibrin, Lister allows them to steep m water until the fibrin has decomposed, after which they are to be washed and steeped in carbolic as usual. During an operation sponges should be squeezed diy of blood, and \vrung out of 1-40 carbolic or 1-2000 corrosive sublimate lotion. In all cases where putrid discharges have to be soaked up, masses of absorbent wool should be used instead of sponges. How to Fill a Water-bed.—This should be done after it has been laid on the bed. The water must be warm, and should only about half fill the water-bed. D. Various Formulae (for Lotions, Caustics, &c.) Uretliral Injections.—[a.) Antiseptic.—Sulpho-carbolate of zinc, 2 grs. to I oz. ; corrosive sublimate, }4 gr. to i oz. (nearly 1-4000); chloride of zinc, }4 to i gr. to the i oz. ; boracic acid, saturated. {b.) Astringent.—Acetate of lead, i to 2 grs. to i oz. ; sulphate of zinc, 2 grs. to i oz. ; nitrate of silver, H gr. to i oz. ; alum, 5 grs. to I oz. Evaporating Lotion.—R. Ammonias chloridi, gi; spirit rect., §i; water, gx. To this gi of dilute acetic acid may be added. Caustics.—(i) Vienna Paste.—Caustic potash, 5 drms. ; slaked lime, 6 drras.; rectified spirit sufficient to make a mass. Spread on the part to be cauterised, and allow it to remain for 10 or 15 minutes. Sur- rounding skin protected by adhesive plaster (Squire). (For epithelial surfaces.) (2) Sulphuric Acid.—Made into a paste with charcoal ur sawdust applied to the desired place for 8 to 10 hours in a guttapercha tube softened and fitted close. (For sloughy and liEemorrhagic tumours.) (3) Bougard's Paste.—Mi.x in a glass or china mortar, wheat flour, 60 giTiis.; powdered starch, 60 grms.; powdered arsenic, i grm.; cinnabar, 5 grms.; sal. ammoniac, 5 grms.; corrosive sublimate, 0'50 grms.; add slowly solution of chloride of zinc at 52° (C), 245 grms., stirring well. In a covered jar this may be kept for months. (4) Chloride of Zinc, deliquesced and made into a paste, with equal parts of flour, may be applied directly, or in lint or gauze, and kept on from 3 to 24 hours. (s) Lunifs Styptic Discs.—Steep blotting-paper in alcoholic solution of tannic acid—45 grs. to absolute alcohol i drm.; dry, and cut into small pieces for application to bleeding points. (6) Lund's Application for Strumous Glands.—Potass, iod., 5iv; amm. bromid, Jij; glycerini, 51; aq. rosEe, gi. Mix and add sp. vin. rect. q.s., ad. giv. Paint on " many times during 24 hours." _ Antiseptic Ligatures.—Catgut is made from the intestine of the sneep by scraping away the mucous membrane, and the peritoneal and muscular coats, thus leaving only the delicate sttb-mucous connective tissue.