136 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. position. The normal limb is then the model. Fragments are now to be replaced, and a pad of wool laid in the bend of the elbow. The limb is then to be flexed, and bent at an acute angle, and secured with figure-of-eight turns and a sling as in Fig. 96. At the eud of a week, gentle passive motion is begun in those cases where the joint is implicated, the surgeon retaining the fragments while he moves the forearm. This is done every third day, the limb being rebound at a different angle of flexion. After the sixteenth day, daily motion should be employed. Any subsequent stiffness of the joint will disappear through time under the effects of massage and suitable exercise, such as weight-carrying, rowing, &c. Fig. 97.—Diagram of Section of Forearm, showing pre- , servation of interosseous space by means of suitable pads and board splints. Fig. 98.—Gooch-splint cut away to avoid pres- sure on the ball of the thumb. (/V./?.—The wood instead of the leather should be out- side). Many surgeons prefer to treat the fractures implicating the elbow joint with rectangular and boat-shaped or gutter splints and do not adopt early passive motion. (4) Fractures of the Bones of the Forearm should be reduced by extension made from the hand, while some one fixes the arm above the elbow. Here also the supine position may be adopted with advantage during reduction. Anterior and posterior Gooch- splints should be cut and shaped on the normal arm. They should be broader than the limb. The posterior reaches from the elbow to the finger-tips; the anterior from the bend of the elbow to the palmar flexure, with a space cut out for the ball of the thumb. They should be well padded on their convex, i.e., wooden surface, so that they will not mould to the limb and narrow the interosseous space (Fig. 97). The surgeon now lays them in position, the wooden face inwards, flexes the forearm to a right angle, and lays it midway between pronation and supination. He secures the splints with a couple of slip-knots, makes sure that there is no injurious pressure exercised at the bend of the elbow or ball of the thumb (Fig. 98), and bandages from below upwards. Due care is taken that the circulation is in no way impeded. Many surgeons prefer to fix the limb by means of a rectangular splint. Such treatment is suitable for all fractures of the bones of the forearm, with the exception of that of the olecranon and of those immediately above the wrist and below the bicipital insertion in the radius. In the last case, the supine extended position with an anterior splint, as in fracture of the olecranon, is recommended by some, while others prefer the flexed position. The latter, supination with flexion, may be maintained either by