TJ117SS£S AND ARTIFICIAL LIMBS. 234 After these come amputations in which the skin of the heel and that of the front of the knee, respectively, are folded over the sawn surface of the corresponding articular end of the adjacent bone. Thus, in most, but not in all, of Syme's amputations, the full weight can be borne on the face of the stump. In a Garden's or Gritti's a certain but variable amount of the weight only can be borne. Next in order of "bearing" power would come amputations through the same articular ends of the femur or tibia, but where the covering skin had, from the nature of the case, to be taken from the lateral or flexor aspects of the limb. When the shaft, instead of the (lower) articular end of the femur or tibia, is sawn through, little, if any, bearing can ever be taken on the resulting stump, however favourable in other respects the amputation may be. Fortunately, however, the instrument-maker has other points of bearing to depend on besides the face or end of the stump. Belotu the knee a considerable part, if not the whole, of the patient's weight can often be borne on the upper ends of the tibia and fibula. Above the knee a considerable proportion can be borne on the muscles of the thigh by means of a lacing shield, and there are few cases where, if need be, the whole weight cannot be borne on the tuber-ischii and trochanter, by the adjustment of a padded ring like that used for Thomas's knee-splint (p. 191). The lower in the limb the bearing can be taken, the greater the advantage to the patient in walking. The instrument-maker requires to adapt his points of bearing to the particular case, sometimes distributing the weight over several parts, sometimes confining it to one. (2) Sites for Amputation.—(a.) In the upper limb there is no question that above the fingers (see p. 92) the greater the length of the natural parts left—other things being equal—the better for the patient in every way. Artificial parts, more or less efficient, can always be adapted to the stumps. The surgeon's way is, therefore, clear—he must leave as much as he can. (b.) As regards the Imver limb there is much greater difference of opmion. Some instrument-makers go so far as to say that a jump IS to be made from the ball of the toes to the level of a Syme or Pirogoff", and that if 4 inches below the knee cannot be left to allow of a Strong control of the artificial limb by the stump, the surgeon should amputate 4 inches above the knee to give room for the mechanism of an artificial knee-joint. From these views we entirely dissent.* After a careful examination of the whole subject our conclusion is that the surgeon should take "the least sacrifice of parts as his guide, and amputate as low as the circumstances of the case permit. He should spare as much bone as he can ^hin^ "t^ f satisfied that artificial limbs can be made for the T ; J}^ '^"^ '^'^ left, the better the walkin- power (3) Artificial Limbs.-We cannot, of course, attempt more here than a discussion of general principles •— (a.) For Partial Amputations of the Foot (Key's or Chopart's), •See Ed. Medical Journal, Marcli, 1888, and i88q ^ 16