MINOR SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 92 for on account of bruising, or, in the case of the fingers, from sloughing following whitlow. , , , A. Amputation of the Fingers.—From the second phaianx onwards to the point, as much should be left as possible, and in most cases the surgeon's only duty will be to trim the parts, and snip oft bone that cannot be covered in by the soft tissues. In working-men, the first phalanx may sometmies be left with advantage (though this is contrary to the usual teaching), as it moves with the remaining fingers, and helps to strengthen the grasp. A stump of the index-finger, as giving a point of opposition to the thumb, is specially useful. The idea that the first phalanx has no independent power of flexion and extension was long since over- thrown by Duchenne. After amputation, it only remains stiff, as the result of sloughing and inflammation. Amputation at the First or Second interphalangeal Joint is thus performed:—After applying a tourniquet above the wrist, the surgeon completely flexing the two bones, cuts on the distal end of the more proximal one, and thus opens into the joint (Fig. 38). He then cuts a long palmar flap either by dis- section from without, or by carrying a narrow- bladed bistoury round the -Amputation of Fingeis. proximal end of the more distal phalanx, and cut- ting from within outwards. One or two small vessels generally require to be ligatured or twisted. In Amputation through the Second (or First) Phalanx, a similar long palmar and short dorsal flap is to be adopted, the bone being divided with bone forceps. Some prefer two equal lateral flaps, cut from without. At the Carpo-metacarpal Joint, the oval or V-shaped incision is most frequently adopted. A cicatrix on the palm is to be avoided. The parts are to be cleansed and purified as usual, a tourniquet applied, and an anaesthetic administered. An assistant steadies the hand, and, if the doomed finger be the middle or ring-finger, holds the adjacent fingers aside. The surgeon then, holding the finger with his left hand, enters his knife about half an inch above the knuckle (nearer the wrist), and then carrying his knife straight down as far as the joint, next directs it obliquely down the side of the first phalanx to where the web joins the finger, and thence, round the palmar aspect of the finger, on to the dorsum again by a similar route. Having seen that these cuts are down to the bone, he dissects back to the joint; and putting the ligaments on the stretch by bending the finger as required, he divides them, and removes the iinger. Professor Chiene, instead of carrying the oblique cut quite to the