80 EMERGENCY CASES. 5o cases. 30 .. 12 ,, 6 each. Acid, ment. Opium, Acute Alcoholic Poisoning,. Suspected Poisoning Coal Gas • Strychnia, Morphia, Phosphonas, Chloral Ammonia, Oxalic Acid, Paraffin, Belladonna, Chlorodyne, Iodine, Lead, Insolation, Irritant, Atropia, Spirit of Salt, Sulphuric Aconite, Corrosive Sublimate, Bow's Lui Prussian Blue, Carbolic Acid, Chloroform, A. B. C. Liniment, Croton and Opium, Cyanide of Potas- sium, Creosote and Opium, Salt 01 Sorrel, Prussic Acid, Arsenic 1 ,, .. Classification of Poisons.—(i) Irritants, such as arsenic and cantharides, irritate and inflame; symptoms are delayed. Corrosives have immediate action; they soften and destroy the mucous mem- branes—e.^. , caustic alkalies, strong acids, corrosive sublimate, also, to a less degree, oxalic acid. (2) Narcotics or cerebral poisons, producing stupor, delirium, convulsions, or coma—as opium, hydrocyanic acid, poisontjus gases. (3) Narcotic-irritants combine the effect of the above in greater or less degrees—e.g., strychnia, aconite, hemlock. Symptoms and Diagnosis.—When diagnosis has to be made from symptoms, the following tabular form, modified from that given by Murrell in his excellent work on "What to do in Cases of Poisoning," will be found useful:— Collapse.—Prominent in irritant and corrosive poisons, and in all others towards the end. Coma.—In opium and morphia, alcohol, chloroform, chloral, coal gas, prussic acid. Excitement.—In alcohol (early stage), belladonna, hyoscyamus, cannabis indica. State of Pupils.—Contracted in opium and morphia, and alcohol (sometimes). Dilated in belladonna and atropine, hyoscya- mus, tobacco, and alcohol generally. State of Skin.—Dry in belladonna and atropine. Moist in opium, aconite, and in collapse. Time .Syjnptoms take to appear.—Developed at once in corrosive poisons and in hydrocyanic acid. In others the time varies with strength and dose of poison, condition of stomach as to tood, and idiosyncrasy of patient. Effects of arsenic and phosphorus are often delayed. Smell of Breath.—Characteristic in laudanum, alcohol, carbolic acid, &c.; in phosphorus poisoning there is a smell as of garlic. State of Mouth.—Mwcovii membrane made wrhite and softened by caustic alkalies and mineral acids (nitric turns it afterwards brown); also by corrosive sublimate and strong carbolic acid. Dry from belladonna, atropine and opium. Vomiting, Colic, Purging.—Va. strong irritants, also in arsenic.