91 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. demonstrated how readily the trachea may tolerate the introduc- tion of a gum-elastic tube resembling a No. 12 catheter, and if" successful cases (Brit. Med. Joum., 1880.) Since then, O Dwyer of New York has invented a series of laryngeal tubes, introductors, and gags for intubation, and a number of authorities have reported gratifying results from the use of his apparatus. Intubation requires practice on the cadaver. The results compare favourably with those gained by tracheotomy, more especially for diphtheria, but the writers have hitherto had no experience of the procedure, and its claims over the major operations are not in this country recognised. Annandale has advocated the introduction of a laryngeal tube as an aid to certain operative procedures in place of tracheotomy. (B.) Minor Surgical Operations. (1) Removal of the Tonsils.—In adults, who have the sense to keep their mouth open, this operation is a simple one for the surc^eon as well as nearly painless for the patient, especially if a 20 per cent! solution of cocaine has been previously painted, as it ought to have been, well over the fauces ; but where a gag and an anesthetic are required, the operation is often very troublesome. For adults {a.) the use of the vulsellum, and curved probe-pointed bistoury is still maintained, but for children ((^.) the guillotine should be employed instead. (a.) With the Vulsellum.—The curve probe-pointed bistoury must be -wrapped with lint to within an inch of the point. The tongue being kept down with a depressor, and the mouth held well open, the surgeon seizes the prominent tonsil with the vulsellum, and gently draws it towards the middle line. He then cuts off a slice with the bistoury. For a right-handed operator the right tonsil is the most diflScult to remove. After grasping this tonsil, the operator may change the vulsellum into his left hand, and crossing his hands cut the tonsil with his right, working from below upwards. The left tonsil is seized with the vulsellum held in the surgeon's left hand, and is cut from above downwards wilh the knife held in the right hand. (b.) With the Guillotine. —When a guillotine is to be used, either Johnstock's or a Physick's instrument, as modified by Morell Mackenzie, may be selected. The latter, from its greater simplicity, is preferable. Mackenzie describes the method of using the guillotine as follows :—" The instrument being ready for use, the hilt is grasped in the right hand, and the aperture in the shank is placed over the tonsil. The surgeon, with the thumb or index finger of the left hand, placed under the patient's jaw, then presses the tonsil inwards, whilst at the same moment with the thumb of his right hand he drives home the blade of his tonsillotome " {Diseases of Throat and Nose, vol. i., p. 12). Usually, after tonsillotomy, the oozing very soon stops. Gargling the throat with cold water is generally enough. When the bleed- ing threatens to be troublesome, the raw surface may be painted with glycerine and tannic acid, or treated in some of the ways mentioned under the heading hemorrhage (p. 55). (2) Amputation of the Fingers or Toes. —This may be called