ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. 21 in readiness, and the patient " under," the surgeon proceeds to operate. If the steam spray be used, it is now turned on. It should be pro- vided with a couple of independent nozzles, as they are apt to become choked with dirt. To prevent this a small piece of sponge as a filter should be secured to the ends of the rubber tubes conveying the carbolic lotion {i to 15). Should the nozzles become blocked, they must be unscrewed, and a fine silver wire passed through from the fine point inwards, so as to remove the impacted particle. Let us imagine that the surgeon has to deal with a chronic abscess. After opening it, he inserts his purified finger, and explores it thoroughly with the view of removing any necrosis or other source of irritation, and scraping away the so-called " pyogenic mem- brane." If he thinks it better to get rid at once of the organisms (micrococci and tubercle bacilli) which exist in the abscess-wall, he irrigates and sharp spoons as far as he dare previous to draining; otherwise, he contents himself with draining, trusting that now the tissues will recover their vitality, and that efficient drainage will act as an antiseptic by removing material in which organisms may grow. Where the spray is not used, it is customary to irrigate; and under any circumstances the blood-clot and dSrts may be with advantage washed away. In incised wounds ligatures should only include the bleeding vessel, and should be cut short, so that as little devitalised tissue as possible may be left in the wound. In the case of compound fractures and joint-wounds, where the recesses have been manifestly exposed to septic influences, most thorough and prolonged irrigation must be used. The skin should also be shaved and purified. Where dirt and sand have been ground into cartilage and bone, the bone-pliers and knife may be used to remove the engrained tissues. Do not otherwise remove bone, even although loose. If sepsis be conquered, the weak part will live. Free incisions may be made to avoid tension, and drainage- tubes inserted. Where a sharp edge of bone projects, which has been exposed and cannot readily be replaced, it is well to remove It with the forceps or saw. Antiseptic Ligatures and Dressings.—Catgut ligatures, pre- pared according to the various formula; in the Appendix, are to be used. A difficulty arises in getting good catgut, and it is better that the surgeon should prepare his own. The longer it is stored, the better. That supplied by the instrument-makers is otten unreliable, and is a fertile source of wound-infection. Under these circumstances some have preferred to use purified silk, fine Chinese twist, or Turner's plaited surgeon's silk. As shown by 1-ister, this when a-septic, becomes also gradually absorbed in the tissues. The process is, however, much slower than with catgut, and the fragments of silk, remaining unabsorbed, have a tendency to irritate and act as foreign bodies, giving rise to small abscesses. The finer the silk, and the smaller the amount left in the wound, the less risk there will be of this. Should sepsis take place, the silk