JO INT-FIX A TION AND FIXED APPARA TUS. 208 D. Various Forms of Fixed Apparatus. In the sections on Joint-fixation, we have described Sayre's plaster jacket, F. Jordan's laminated plaster method applicable to the spme and elsewhere, and the methods of cutting and applying pasteboard or poroplastic splints to the elbow, knee, and ankle. There are, however, additional methods and forms of apparatus which may be here described with advantage. (i) Plaster of Paris may be used as for the spmal jackets for any part of the body. (fl.) General Application.—Minx a layer of absorbent cotton-wool or boracic lint, the part must be wrapped with the open gauze band- age charged with plaster, and soaked in water just before use ; eight or nine plies are needed for an adult, five or six for a child ; or successive layers of ordinary bandage and plaster-cream may be laid on thus :—After a layer of bandage, a layer of plaster is smeared on, and so on till a thickness of Yz to % in. is attained. Instead of the bandage, layers of jute or absorbent wool may be soaked in the freshly-made plaster, and apphed to the part, a method which is also useful in strengthening the weak places of any plaster splint. An objection to any of these methods, however, is the trouble involved in removing the splints. The bandage must either be sawn through, or the plaster must be softened by pouring a few drops of hydrochloric acid upon it, when it may be cut with a knife. To obviate this difficulty in removal, several methods have been advo- cated in which the part along the front of the limb is left free of plaster. Neudorfer's plan is one of the simplest. "Compresses of linen or of hnt (we may add of tow, jute, or wool) are dipped in plaster of Paris of the consistence of a common poultice {sic. cream). These are then placed longitudinally on the limb, first on the upper, then on the under part. A few turns of a bandage keep them /« situ till the plaster is set; to prevent contiguous edges adhering, they are slightly greased, or a slip of greased lint is placed between them." If the pieces were made lateral, with an interval on the front and back, the splint when set would thus be in two halves, and could be removed by merely cutting the binding cotton bandage along the front, the back part of the same acting as a hinge. Instead of mixing the plaster with water before it is incorporated with the lint or tow, dry plaster may be first worked into folds of lint, layers of gauze, absorbent wool, jute, or tow (see F. Jordan's laminated plaster splint, p. 19S), of the required size. These are then to be soaked in water, gently squeezed, and, having been laid on to the part, are to be bandaged into the shape of the limb. {b.) A very simple plaster bandage for the leg and foot may be made as follows :—Make two equal laminated plaster strips of nine layers of gauze each. Length, from dorsum of foot under the sole and up opposite side of leg to above or below knee as required ; breadth, half circumference at ankle, after allowing for padding. See that