148 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. (c.) Concussion and Compression.—"Whenever, as the result ot a blow or fall, the patient has become unconscious, a guarded prognosis should be given. Even if the patient have rapidly regained his senses, he requires exceeding care. The unconscious condition produced suddenly by an injui7 to the head is known as concussion Ihe patient m this state lies faint and listless, with a weak irregular pulse, and he can be often partially aroused. The breathing is shallow and weak. The pupils react to light and vary as to size. Recovery takes place gradually, and commencing reaction is fre- quently associated with nausea and vomiting. Tyeatment.—Keep the patient warm and quiet. He must always be carefully watched, and stimulants should be avoided. Concussion may, however, go on to compression, or there may be an interval "between the two. The patient now becomes gradually insensible, and cannot be roused at all. He sinks into a stupor and lies breathing heavily, with loud, stertorous, slow respirations. His pulse is slow and dragging; the sphincters are paralysed ; urine accumulates ; the eyes no longer react to light; the pupils are frequently dilated ; the condition deepens, and he dies comatose. Such a state of affairs calls for immediate action. An attempt must be made to remove the compressing agent—be it bone, blood, or inflammatory product. In cases where after a simple injury, •with, it may be, only slight concussion, symptoms of compression develop, any delay in treatment may be fatal. Such cases are often due to rupture of the meningeal artery, and are characterised by the rapid onset of compression, associated with dilated pupil on the side of the haemorrhage, and muscular paralysis on the other. Only im- mediate trephining can then save life. The condition of the pulse may mislead. In some instances it is rapid instead of slow and dragging. In all cases absolute quiet, cold to the head, and counter-irritation (by means of croton oil purgation) is to be recommended, as well as bleeding behind the ears. (d.) Fractures of the Base of the Skull are characterised by the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid from the ear, or by bleeding from the ears, mouth, and nose, conjunctival ecchymosis, and occasionally by facial paralysis. In addition to general treatment, an attempt should always be made to combat septic meningitis by gently syringing the ear with I'20 carbolic, dusting in iodoform, and plugging with antiseptic wool. (2) Fractures of the Facial Bones present the peculiarity that they are frequently compound from involvement of the mucous membrane of adjacent cavities. However, they are not more dangerous on that account, since here sepsis is not so obnoxious, because of the great vascularity and the free drainage that is afforded when the mucous surface as well as the skin is wounded. The amount of damage is often veiled by the great swelling, which generally comes on with much rapidity; hence the sooner the patient is seen and his injuries recognised and treated, the better. Diag- nosis is favoured by the examination which can be made from the nasal and oral cavities, as well as by external manipulation.