JOINT-FIXATION AND FIXED APPARATUS. 205 that, if the finger move the spine of the ilium, the head is moved at the same time; or if the head be turned, the trunk is turned with it. The jury-mast is a layered strip (eight to ten layers) about 45 or 50 inches long by 24 or 3 inches wide. The deformity, if any, of cervical caries should be alleviated by horizontal mild puIley-e.xtension, maintained by a chin and occiput sling for some weeks or months before the jury-mast is put on. It is appHed thus :—The patient reclines on a narrow table and a mattress, with no pillow, pulley-extension with webbing being kept up until the plaster sets. The prepared muhiple strip, rolled up at each end, after being dipped a few minutes in water, is unrolled, stretched, and smoothed; its centre is then applied <^ to the forehead, well away from the eye s ; the two ends are next carried to the back of the neck; when they cross, one end being carried under the neck first, then the other. They are drawn firmly enough to closely embrace the head and back of Fig- 175-—Poroplastic the neck ; the ends are then brought forward and f^^''^^^^ (^fur cross each other again in front of, or near, the Wahhant). sternal notch, where they are lastly fastened by a plaster jacket laid ready to be put on in the manner I have just described (p. 199). Before the laminated strip is applied, the hair is cut short, and a double strip of flannel, with cotton wool about the ears, is apphed by the same method as the plaster strip. Before the strip sets, its upper margin should be partially everted from the angle of the jaw to the sternum, giving thereby much ease to the neck, especially when the jaw is moved."—British Medical Jotirnal, July 15, 18S2. With regard to the disputed relative merits of plaster of Paris or poroplastic felt, the latter, if well fitted, is neat, hght and strong, and is also porous; but it must be fitted on by a skilled workman, and often requires a model, or cast of the part. The former is much cheaper, nearly as light, equally strong and porous, and perhaps more lasting. Every surgeon or house-surgeon can apply a plaster of Paris jacket for himself. Splint for Steadying the Neck in cases of enlarged cervical glands, wounds of the neck, &c. In the Lancet for 1886 (vol. I.), Treves drew attention to the importance of giving rest to the neck as a factor in the treatment of such cases. He figured and described a splint, which he had had made by an instrument maker, to limit the movements of the head and neck. The principle is an excellent one, and may be carried out in several ways without the aid of an instrument maker. I. By means of a splint of strong galvanised iron wire. This splint the surgeon can make for himself after the pattern recommended by Treves. The wire for adults should be " size 8," for children "size