.'212 THE URINE. it be undertaken. As a report of the urine is a necessary com- plement to most surgical "cases," a chapter devoted to the iiivestigation of the urine from an especially surgical point of view seems to be called for in the present work. A. General Conditions to be Noted. The general questions involved in the examination of the urine will be briefly discussed before the methods of investigation are given in detail. . (I) Quantity of Urine.—This is estimated by collecting and measuring the urine passed in twenty-four hours, and is irnportant (a.) because deviations from the normal are alone often indications of disease; [b.) because without a knowledge of the quantity, no reliable conclusions can be drawn from a knowledge of the specific gravity. The normal amount of urine for an adult varies from about 35 to about 65 ounces in twenty-four hours—on an average, about 50 ounces. The quantity will vary with that of the fluid drunk and with the extent of its excretion by the skin, lungs, and bowels. This latter factor, as well as the patient's usual quantity, must be taken into account before any conclusions as to abnormality can be arrived at, although, of course, an insatiable thirst and appetite are themselves symptoms of Diabetes Mellitus. Variations in the Normal Excretion.—An important matter is the varying rate at which urine is excreted during the twenty-four hours by the kidneys. Roberts has shown* that the solid and fluid constituents of urine are much increased after meals, and diminished during fasting and sleep. From this two deductions may be drawn, which might be of service in surgical cases—(i) That the urine, like the fasces, may be reduced by a sparing solid as well as liquid diet, in cases where it might be thought necessary; and (2) that where urine had to be repeatedly drawn off by the catheter, the meal-hours might be so planned to suit the surgeon's time, that- his visits an horn- or so later would relieve the bladder after the increased flow had occuiTed. Urine is diminished in feverish conditions, especially those associated vrith sweating ; in cirrhosis of the liver ; in heart-disease, when it results in backward venous congestion, or lowered arterial blood-pressure ; in acute Bright's disease, or in the acute interstitial nephritis reflexly caused by irritation to the urethra, or in the later stages of all forms of chronic Bright's disease ; in rapid removal of fluid from the blood, as in severe hcemorrhage, extensive serous effusions, or violent diarrhoea; in peritonitis, and in severe irritation of the splanchnic nerves, as in strangulation of the bowel, and in * On Urinary and Renal Diseases.