262 APPENDIX. contents of the jar until all are mixed and dissolved. Pour upon a plate and, when cold, cut into lozenges and preserve in a tin box. [Milk may be used instead of port wine, but the lozenges will not keep so well.] Orange Jelly. Required— 6 oranges. i lemon. I oz. gelatine or isinglass. 3 gills of water. 4 ozs. of sugar. Squeeze the juice from the oranges and lemon and add, with the water, to the gelatine and sugar in a clean china-lined saucepan. Stir over the fire until the gelatine is dissolved. Strain through a hair sieve or piece of muslin, and pour into a mould previously dipped in cold water. Let stand 12 hours to become quite cold. Turn on to a clean dish, and serve with, or without, whipped cream. Bread Jelly (inexpensive). Required— 2 penny rolls. i pint hot water. 2 ozs. sugar. i sticlc cinnamon. Cut the rolls into thin slices, and toast or diy them very thoroughly. Put them into a basin, with the sugar and cinnamon stick broken. Pour the hot water over them, cover tightly, and let the basin stand by the side of the fire for 30 minutes. Pass through a hair sieve or coarse muslin into a mould or small basin. Set aside to become cold, and serve with cream. Chicken Jelly. Required— Legs and wings of a young chicken. About I pint cold water. A blade of mace. }i teaspoonful of salt. 6 pepper corns. Remove the skin from the legs and wings of the chicken. Pour boiling water over them, and allow to stand for 10 minutes. Drain and put the meat and bones into a pan with the water; add the mace, salt, and pepper corns. Put the lid on the pan. [If liked, a small piece of flavouring vegetable (uncooked), such as carrot or turnip, may be added.] Bring to the boil, skim well, and let simmer slowly till the meat falls into shreds. Strain through a piece of muslin, and set aside to become cold. Omelets, &c. A Plain Omelet. Required— A piece of butter the size of a small egg. 3 eggs. Pepper and salt to taste. Beat the eggs briskly, add pepper and salt to taste. Melt the butter in a small omelet pan over the fire, skim the butter, and pour the beaten eggs into the pan. Hold the handle, and keep the pan revolving over the fire until the omelet mixture looks nearly the consistency of cream; let the pan then rest over the fire for i minute, swiftly slide a broad pliable knife under one half of the omelet, and fold it over the other half to form an oval shape, trim the edges neatly, and tilt the pan so that the lower side of the omelet may become of a golden brown colour,