96 MINOR SURGICAL OPERATIONS. are steeped in that lotion for ten or fifteen minutes. Take care also that the place of puncture, and operator's fingers, are thoroughly cleansed and purified. {b.) That the exhausting and not the filhng end of the syringe is attached to the bottle, when preparing it for use. (The exhausting nozzle is generally lateral). ■ (c) That the connection between the exhausted bottle and the canula in the abscess or other cavity is not opened until the needle or trochar is withdrawn, and its own stopcock closed. ((/.) That on withdrawing the canula, the point where it has entered the skin is closed by having bad previously laid upon it a piece of wool saturated in collodion. Note.—A stimulant should be at hand when the aspirator is used. (S) Air in Veins by the aspiration of the chest is a possible complication of operations on the neck and axilla, when the mouths of wounded veins remain open. The danger is due to the air getting churned up in the right auricle and ventricle, and obstruct- ing the pulmonary circulation, thus causing dyspnoea and, if in sufficient quantity, death. A minute quantity of air in the veins is harmless. The surgeon may be always warned of the accident' by the pecuhar sucldng sound produced. Treatment consists in instantly putting a wet sponge over the wound, squeezing the chest to expel air already entered, and on cautiously removing the sponge to secure the open mouth of the vein [Treves). (9) Circumcision, if for tight prepuce in children (or adults) is performed as follows:—WTien the child is ansesthetised, put a tight band round the penis and seize the exact orifice of the prepuce with catch forceps, and draw it away from the glans. Grasp the tissues in front of the glans wth a pair of dressing forceps, and with a knife or scissors cut off the ring of skin which lies in front of the forceps. The outer layer of skin will now retract—the inner layer (sometimes called mucous membrane) next the glans must now be carefully separated with a probe from the glans and turned back so as to expose it. This layer will probably require to be slit up at the upper side (opposite the frzenum) and may be trimmed with scissors. The surgeon having thus seen that the glans is thoroughly exposed as far as the corona, looks for and ties any cut vessels that he can see, then stitches with catgut the outer and the reflected portions of the prepuce, and appHes a dressing of collodion or Friar's balsam' and wool before allowing the blood to return. When this dressing IS removed at the end of a week, the part is generally healed. Cucumcision in adults may sometimes be required in consequence of venereal disease, where inflammatory phymosis may have ren- dered the cleansing and other treatment of sores under the prepuce impossible, men the prepuce is inflamed and where palliative treatment has failed or would take too long, the circumcision should be performed as follows:—Instead of grasping and drawing forward the prepuce, the surgeon must begin by inserting a director between the glans penis and the upper part of the prepuce; with'