APPENDIX. 254 stand for lo minutes to remove all fat. Pour away the water, and wash the chicken joints in cold water, then put them into a china-lined saucepan, with 2 pints of cold water, the salt, peppercorns, mace, and the bouquet garni. Let the mixture boil, skim thoroughly, and then simmer for about 3 hours till the meat is parting from the bones; strain and set aside to get cold. Take the meat from the bones, pound it in a mortar and pass through a hair-sieve, then mix with the yolks and the cream. Carefully remove every particle of fat from the liquid strained from the bones, and pour the liquid gradually over the pounded chicken mixture. Stir over the fire until quite hot, but do not allow to boil or it will curdle and the soup be spoiled. Serve with toast cut into neat pieces. Mutton Broth (inexpensive). Required— I lb. lean mutton. I pints cold water. % teaspoonful salt. 1 tablespoonful of rice or i tablespoonful of pearl barley. Thin dry toast. This broth should, if possible, be made the day before it is required. Cut the mutton into small pieces, take away all fat and skin, put the mutton into a china-lined saucepan, with i pint of water and the salt. Cover with a lid and bring slowly to the boil, and then skim carefully. Simmer for two hours, and skim occasionally. Add the rice (which must previously be well washed in cold water) and pint cold water, and allow the broth to simmer for one hour more. Strain and put aside for twelve hours to become cold. Remove the fat. Heat as required, keeping back the sediment. Serve very hot with a slice of thin dry toast. [The flavour may be varied by the addition of a small carrot, a piece of onion, or a few herbs. The rice or barley may be omitted, and the broth will be perfectly clear.] Fish Soup (inexpensive). Required— I haddock (medium sized). i gill milk. I pint cold water. i teaspoonful of corn flour. I small potato. K » «> salt. 1 oz. butter. Va, „ „ pepper. 2 leeks. Wash the fish thoroughly and remove the scales; cut it into pieces, and put it into a very clean china-lined saucepan, with the cold water and salt. Allow to come to the boil, with the lid off, and skim thoroughly. The perfecdon of the soup depends greatly upon this first skimming. Add the potato and white part of the leeks thinly sliced. Boil up once, skim well, and cover with a lid, and let the soup simmer slowly for I hour. Pass the fish, &x., through a sieve, keeping back the bones Return the soup to the pan. Mix the corn flour with the milk, and keep free from lumps; pour into the pan, stir until boihng, and serve the soup very hot. . 1 r At the end, H teaspoonful of lemon juice and 1 tablespoonful ot finely-chopped parsley may be added to vary the flavour.