A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 33 "When circumstances demand that a surgeon should dress erysi- pelas and other cases on the same day, the latter should be taken first, and m deahng with the former—besides attention to scrupulous cleansmg and purification—the surgeon should wear a clean linen over-all, by which he protects his clothes, and so reduces to a mmnnum the chance of his carrying organisms away with him. Ei-ysipelas connected with wounds requires that the wounds be treated on general principles, especially providing for free drainage and washing out with antiseptics. The reddened surface of skin before being wrapped in cotton wool should be painted with tincture of iodine, which generally relieves the burning pain complained of, Ichthyol ointment (20 per cent.) is also a very useful application. Watch must be kept for subcutaneous suppuration, and incisions made as soon as it appears. Generally milk diet is indicated. In bad cases, careful nursing and feeding at short intervals are of the utmost importance. Unduly high temperature may be reduced with the ice cap, or antipyrin. Sometimes sulpho-carbolate of soda is of service, i.e., I grain to every two years of the patient's age, given every two or three hours {Brakenridge). Quinine may be tried, but it often sickens. Free stimulation will be required in asthenic cases. Perchloride of iron in large doses has been vaunted. (11) Whitlow is the name given to a celluhtis which often attacks the fingers, and frequently spreads up the sheaths of the tendons to the fore-arm. When seen in the early stage, the pain and throbbing may be treated by very hot fomentation and by firm compression with cotton wool. When, in spite of this, inflammation proceeds, it should be treated by warm antiseptic applications, with early and free incisions as soon as suppuration seriously threatens. If the pus have burrowed into the fore-arm before the surgeon has been consulted, his duty will be to ensure free escape of pus and to put the fore-arm in a splint. In bad cases, irrigation or continuous immersion is indicated. (12) Blisters may be considered as the result of so rapid an effusion of fluid into the superficial parts of the skin, that the epidermis is raised up by it. Frequently they are caused by mechanical irritation, such as the friction of the feet in walking, or of the hands in rowing ; but they may also be formed by superficial burns, or from the application of blistering fluids, or as the result of severe bruises, or in fractures. They are frequent in erysipelas and are seldom absent in inflammatory gangrene. Their treatment will vary with their cause. Blistered feet may be prevented by avoiding the too sudden beginning of long walks; by hardening the skin by bathing it in solutions of alum or of chromic acid, 10 per cent.; by using well-fitting thick-soled boots ; wearing woollen socks, and by smearing their surface with thin layers of soap, shaved off with a pen-knife, and laid on the inside of the stocking before starting for a long walk. When blisters have formed, they should be pricked with a needle and the part protected from further irritation, if not by rest, by covering the part with protective soap plaster, or, if nothing else be available, a thin layer of soap.