'6 A SURGICAL HANDBOOIC. insensibility prior to interference with the eye or throat, or when using the laiyngoscope, or removing tonsils, &c. In painful dysphagia due to ulceration, its action is most beneficial. (^.) riie weaker solution is for hypodermic use. Five minims should be injected at the spot selected, the needle left in situ, and as sensation becomes dulled, the point may be radiated as required, and further doses gradually introduced. In this way about a giain to a gram and a half may be injected. Over 2 grains may give rise to inconvenience, and, indeed, it is to prevent an overdose that the weaker solution is preferred for hypodermic use. Anesthesia, as in the case of mucous membranes, is complete in about five minutes, and lasts for about ten minutes longer. We are thus enabled without pam to open abscesses and hydroceles, shell out cysts and fatty tumours, excise epithelioma of the lip, amputate fingers and toes, and perform circumcision. The great value of the drug in anal surgery is marked. The patient can strain and aid, while operations are being performed for piles, fissure, fistula in ano, or polypus. A solution (10 per cent.) injected into the urethra, or the intro- duction of a bougie of cocaine and cacao-butter, five minutes prior to instrumentation, often largely obviates pain. Caution.—It would appear that some people are highly susceptible even to moderate doses of cocaine. In such, it gives rise to dis- agreeable, if not dangerous symptoms. The patient becomes pale, and syncope threatens; or, again, he may turn dusky or livid. Giddiness, cardiac irregularity, retching, delirium, unconsciousness, and collapse, have been noted. Treatment consists in laying the patient at full length, giving stimulants and.heat; good has also been obtained by inhalation of nitrite of amyl. * (5) Local Insensibility by the Bloodless Method.—Local anesthesia may also be produced by rendering the part bloodless after Esmarch's method, and freezing with the ether-spray. The subsequent thawing is, however, very painful, and cocaine has now practically superseded this method. CHAPTER IV, ANTISEPTICS AND WOUND-TREATMENT. Contents.—Antiseptic Treatment and the Germ Theory—A. General Antiseptic Principles and Tractice—Antiseptic Materials- Isolation—Cautions necessary in the use of Antiseptics—Various Antiseptics and their Relative Advantages: Carbolic Acid, Corrosive Sublimate, Iodoform, Boracic Acid, Chloride of Zinc, c&c., &c.—Use of Antiseptics dm'ing Operation—Antiseptic Ligatures, Dressings, and Strapping. A. General Antiseptic Principles and Practice. The whole question of the treatment of wounds turns upon the differences which obtain between a compound and a simple fracture, an injury with skin broken and one in which it remains intact. All surgeons endeavour to bring wounds into a condition comparable » Methyl Chloride, see Appendix.