ARREST OF HAEMORRHAGE. 49 while not stopping the bleeding point, hides it from subsequent attempts. Vaxious Styptics.—Powdered alum, matico leaves, and also cobwebs are recommended as styptics, but are not often used. {a.) Turpentine, soalced in a cloth which plugs a deep oozing wound, acts well. This may be called a domestic remedy, and is an antiseptic as well as styptic. It is less irritating to the tissues than perchloride of iron. Some hold that the pkigs in which it is soaked should be removed at the end of a few hours; but it is doubtful if any further irritating effect is produced after this time. (b.) Tincture of Perchloride of Iron is one of the most efficient styptics in use, but it is, at the same time, one of the most irritating to the tissues, and its apphcation is generally followed by more or less sloughing. It makes a hard sticky mixture with blood-clot, of a dark colour, and unless applied, as above stated, directly to the raw surface, it does more harm than good. It should only be used when unavoidable. It may be painted on the wound surface, soaked in the texture of a plug, or, after dilution, injected into a cavity. (c) Hazeline, or the active principle of Witch Hazel (Ha/iiajnelis virginica), has during the last few years been advocated as an astringent and hasmostatic. Locally, it may be applied as an ointment, by injection, painting, or on a plug. {d.) Gallic and Tatittic Acids, applied as powder or in solution, have long been advocated as local and remote styptics, as well as astringents. Recently, Stockman,* after having carefully and thor- oughly investigated their action, has concluded that we may lay aside gallic acid, at least, since its only action is the slight local one of a weak acid. On the other hand, he shows that tannic acid, when applied locally, precipitates albumen and may thus be oi service for discharging surfaces, but that other agents are preferable for primary hffimorrhages. "As a remote astringent it is valueless." In addition to the above, most of the antiseptic agents in common use, such as solutions of carbolic acid, corrosive sublimate, chloride of zinc, tend to check capillary oozing in proportion to their strength, aided also by the temperature at which they are applied. (e.) Caustic Agents, especially strong acids, act also as styptics by coagulating the blood and attacking the mouths of the vessels. Of these, nitrate of silver may be selected to stop the bleeding from leech bites, and strong nitric acid is useful for the bleeding which comes from sloughing phagadena, as it checks the disease as well as the bleeding. Other j^/eaMj.—Besides local applications, other ways of inducing arrest of hcemorrhage are available. The general circulation can be kept quiet by the horizontal position, low diet, abstinence from stimulants, or hot fluids which excite the heart, and freedom from mental excitement ; functional rest can be aimed at for the affected part, and certain drugs can be administered, which experience has proved to be of service. Ergot, given by the mouth, or injected * British Medical yoitrnal, December, 1886.