ON FRACTURES. 127 Fig. 91.—Treatment of Fracture of the Humerus. involved at a later date in a mass ot callus, thus giving rise to wrist drop from e.\tensor paralysis. Treatment — General. — Reduce by means of exten- sion and local manipulation. Well-padded Gooch-splints should be applied, cut so as to avoid pressure on the pro- minent internal condyle (Fig. 90). Secure with slip knots. Bandage the forearm to pre- vent oedema, and let it be carried in a sling, with the elbow free, so that the full effect of extension may be obtained from the weight of the lower fragment (Fig. 91). Many surgeons advocate with reason the application of a rectangular splint, which com- mands the elbow, wrist, and fingers, thus ensuring com- plete rest and fixation. Should this not be employed, the patient must be cautioned against using the fingers or hand in any way. (a.) Fractures at the upper end of the Humerus are rather more difficult to diagnose than those which occur at a lower level. Fracture at the Surgical Neck is common. It is generally rather oblique. The lower fragment is pulled upwards and inwards to the axilla, while the upper remains unaltered. Defontiity and crepitus are marked features. Separation of the upper Epiphysis from the shaft, a diastasis above the level of the surgical neck, is seen in young people up to twenty years of age. Here also the upper fragment remains ht situ; the diaphysis is carried upwards and inwards, and its smooth rounded extremity lying in relation to the coracoid process gives rise to an appearance which exactly simulates sub-coracoid di^ocation. Dislocation of the shoulder is, however, not frequent in youth ; the glenoid IS felt to be occupied, there is no true crepitus; the outline of the shoulder is restored on manipulation only to become again .abnormal on removal of support, and so the nature of the lesion is rendered evident. The results of such epiphyseal injuries must be kept in mind, as regards their effect on the growth of the limb and relation to the joint in causing future stiffness. In adults and old people, complete separation at the level of the anatomical neck sometimes takes place. It is generally associated with severe falls on the hand or shoulder, and is characterised by swehing and tenderness or pressure above the tuberosities. The length of the limb undergoes no appreciable change. By fixing the