ON FRACTURES. 121 Prognosis.—The prognosis will depend largely on the nature and site of the break, and the habits, age, and circumstances of the patient. Fractures in the vicinity of joints, and in old and rheumatic people, are very apt to be followed by stiffness; while in young people an early ossification of the epiphyses may ensue, giving rise to stunted growth. Material for Splints.—Gooch's splint, consisting of strips of lath glued to a backing of wash-leather, canvas or strong paper, is supplied in rolls, and can readily be cut as desired. It is very serviceable in treating fractures of the long bones. Wire netting, perforated sheet zinc and tin, can also be fashioned without difficulty as required. Millboard and leather cut into shape and softened with water are extremely useful, and may be readily adapted ; this is also the case with the more expensive poroplastic, which consists of felt, impregnated with resin. Strips of tin, shavings, cardboard, corrugated paper, hanks of lint, and bandages, may also be incorporated with plaster of Paris, and other stiffening agents, as will afterwards be described in discussing fixed forms of apparatus. Splints require careful padding, and this padding should be soft, elastic, and somewhat resilient, so that it does not cake. Raw wool, washed as it comes from the fleece, oakum, and lint, are rather better than cotton-wadding. Careful adjustment, so that hollows are filled up, bony points guarded, and equal support and pressure exercised, should be attained. If possible, a dependant position of the fractured limb is to be avoided, since it favours oedema; where the limb must hang more or less, a well applied bandage will largely obviate the difficulty. Passive Motion to Obviate Sti£Eaess.—Fractures which im- plicate joints are often associated with synovitis, stiffness, and adhesions. In order to obviate this, many surgeons hold that it is good practice to begin early passive motion. In the case of the elbow and wrist, they remove the retentive apparatus about the seventh or tenth day, and gently move the joint, while with one hand they steady and secure the fragments in position. The splints are re-applied perhaps with the joint at a different angle, and passive motion continued with increasing frequency. Union is demonstrated when, after the lapse of time necessary for repair, there is no movement at the seat of fracture. The surgeon fixes one extremity of the broken bone, and gives the other lateral, antero-posterior, and rotatory movements, and thus judges of bony continuity. In doubtful cases it is well to have these move- ments executed by an assistant, while the surgeon handles the fractured region. Non-union.—Besides imperfect coaptation of the fragments, con- tmuous unrest and disturbance of the fracture—as, for example, when a patient sits up in bed with a fractured femur, or uses his fingers and wrist with a broken humerus-are very apt to cause non-union, iiesides these we must also bear in mind that various constitutional conditions (such as syphilis, scurvy, &c.) may also play a part. More stringent measures to secure absolute fixation are in such cases ren-