A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. iS the sutures. Naturally, the number of dressings will vary greatly with the case, and the surgeon. Much depends on applying a plenteous supply of an absorbent, elastic, porous, soft dressing, which admits of sufficient pressure by bandages to obliterate every cavity, and brings the divided surfaces into apposition. In many cases, no drain is required. In the case of the abdomen, the peritoneum carries off secretion. Where wounds are a-septic, the_ cut surface not too extensive, and where careful dressing has obliterated every cavity, no artificial drain is required. It some- times happens, however, that a little discharge does take place, and this by evaporation may cake on the dressing, dam up some further residue, and thus create tension. Hence, a drainage-tube should be used in all doubtful cases, for at least twenty-four hours. Isolation.—As at present carried out, the antiseptic treatment is of necessity bound up with questions of cleanliness and hygiene, since the presence and deposit of dust are highly obnoxious. More- over, as it is mainly preventive in its character, isolation or separation of septic and specific cases is to be observed, when convenient. In regard to erysipelas this isolation is imperative. Hence, walls, roofs, and floors should have smooth polished surfaces, which can readily be washed down. Cornices, inaccessible picture-frames, shelves, and ledges, are all condemned as harbourers of dust. The staff and dressers brought into immediate relation with the patient should have fresh clean clothing. They alone are allowed to assist, and they are ever on the alert to see that nothing employed comes in contact with other than antiseptic surfaces ; this care is specially directed to the instruments, ligatures, and sponges. The operating theatre or room should be well stocked with suitable lotions, thoroughly dissolved, and recently (but not hurriedly) pre- pared ; where the spray or irrigation is not employed, the attendance of visitors engaged in dissection or pathological research, is not to be encouraged. Cautions necessary in the use of Antiseptics.—Before pro- ceeding to describe the various antiseptics in use and their application, one word of caution. The more potent the antiseptic, the more likely is it to react injuriously on the tissues ; and hence poisonous effects often follow when Carbolic acid, Mercurial salts, or Iodoform become absorbed. Some patients are peculiarly liable to disastrous effects, even from small doses, and where such idiosyncrasies are displayed, the offending drug must be at once removed, its effects antagonised, and a milder and less irritating antiseptic substituted for it. Care should be taken that pure preparations of all the various drugs are alone used. Various Antiseptics: (a.) Carbolic Acid.—By far the most useful antiseptic, and certainly that of most general application, is carboHc acid. It is volatile, searching, and does not damage instruments like the preparations of mercury. It is used in the form of lotion by dissolving pure phenol in water. The strong solution (i to 20) is used for purifying the skin, sponges, towels, and mstru-