ON FRACTURES. an ordinary rectangular splint, or else by a piece of straight splint laid across the angle formed by the forearm splints and the upper arm. Either of these appliances when secured in position will prevent pronation. The latter method will fix the elbow in fracture ot the upper arm. (5) Fracture Oj. the Olecranon, when transverse in character, with separation of the fragments, is readily distinguished. When the fracture is comminuted, more care is required in diagnosis. Marked tenderness on pressure, with broadening of the bone, is always suspicious, and when complicated with an injury to the bones, or with bruising of the skin, demands circumspect treatment, lest the Fig. 99.—Bandaging the Foreann Fig. 100.—Fracture of the Ole- in Fracture of the Olecranon, 2, cranon treated with elastic prior to the application of the extension, anterior splint, i. fracture become compound. Where there is much displacement, the following method may be adopted :—Cut an oblong piece of plaster with horseshoe-shaped extremities, to which stitch two extension tapes. Fashion from Gooch material a splint to fit the anterior aspect of the limb, so that the angle of the upper and forearm may be well marked (Fig. 99, i). Bandage the forearm (Fig. 99, 2) ; lay the limb supine, and apply the plaster to the posterior aspect of the humerus, so that the upper fragment of the olecranon lies in the horseshoe, and carry the bandage up the arm, avoidmg all pressure over the seat of fracture. Place the splint well padded, especially at the elbow, on the front of the limb, and bandage from below upwards, taking care not to include the exten- sion tapes. Finally, an elastic band may be secured to the tapes and fastened to the end of the splint (Fig. 100). In this way, gentle traction 15 maintained, the fragments are brought into apposition, and good serviceable union secured. When the displacement is not marked, there is no necessity for the plaster and rubber extension; but a figure-of-eight bandage at the elbow will suffice. The patient is advised to have his hand as seldom as possible dependant; and