ARREST OF HAEMORRHAGE. ■42 much is to be expected from compression of the vessels of the face or scalp. Still, th^ facial arieries may be held against the lower jaw, just in front of the masseter ; the temporal arteries, against the sides of the frontal bone, or upon the zygoma, just in front of the ear ; and the occipital arteries, against the occipital bone between the external occipital protuberance and the mastoid process. The corollaries of the lip can be easily controlled by the grasp of an assistant's fingers, or by special forceps for the purpose. The lingual arteries may be compressed, as Mr. Christopher Heath advises, by passing the fore-finger behind the tongue, and hooking the soft parts forwards and inwards against the lower jaw. This may often be useful in an emergency. Even where feasible, it would be impossible to apply any of the above means of stopping bleeding for longer than an hour or two at the most, lest the tissues should be so starved by want of nourishment, that they would inflame or become gangrenous when the blood returned. Permanent Closure of Divided Vessels.—The means at our disposal of immediately closing divided vessels are many :— (i) Ligatiires.—The mouth of the artery or large vein, being grasped with forceps, is slightly drawn out from its sheath, and secured by a ligature. Formerly, a curved needle on a handle or tenaculum was passed into or near the vessel, so that it might be raised; afterwards, sharp-pointed forceps were adopted with a catch to keep them shut (Fig. 18), these being subsequently Fig. 18.—Artery Forceps (sharp pointed). improved, so as to make the thread sUp better over their end (Fig. 19 ) ; while, more recently, pressure forceps have been Fig. ig.—Fcr.eatraled Arter>' Forceps ; Torsion Forceps. introduced, of which there are many modifications. The best are, perhaps, the strong conical-ended for- ceps, known as " Wells' forceps," from their having been modified by Sir Spencer Wells; although many similar instru- ments, such as P@an's (Fig. 20), Tail's, or Kccberle's original, are nearly as Fig. 20.—Plan's Forceps. good.