145 ON fractures:. '. Before the splint is applied, the distance of the foot-piece to the knee-bend must be accommodated to the length of the patient s leg, and the necessaiy angle of the thigh-and knee-parts determined "^Folded linen sheets, cotton wool, or other padding, must be laid on the trough, and the hollow between the lower end of the leg- trough and the foot-piece filled up by transverse pieces of bandage. \Vhen the leg has been laid upon Ihe splint, the surgeon begins bv fixing the foot with turns of bandage, ensunng comfort by plentifiil''padding on the dorsum, below the heel and^under the sole of the foot. Then, with a roller-bandage, he fixes the limb to the lecT- and thigh-troughs. Some make the patient wear a sock, to theloe of which a tape is fastened ; this being brought oyer the concave end of the foot-piece is fixed to the button before noticed. _ General Remarks.—Fractures of the leg are usually united m from four to six weeks. Prior to this period they may be, however, put up in starch or plaster of Paris, and the patient may leave hospital on crutches. , , ^ r \i Before the days of extension, fractures of the femur were frequently treated in the flexed position. Such forms of apparatus as Earle's bed were made use of when there was marked displacement, as occurs after fracture below the lesser trochanter, or above the condyles. By means of chloroform and extension, we now get over the muscular spasm, nor is it necessary to divide the tendo Achilles, as has been sometimes recommended to meet the last-mentioned instance. When patients have to travel a distance, and a temporary dressing is made use of, lashing the flexed limbs together to a pillow- is often advantageous. CHAPTER XVI. ON FRACTURES—Co«/'z«7^«(/. Contents.—D. Fractures of the Spine, Ribs, and Pelvis.—(i) Spinal Injuries—Their Gravity—Immediate Treatment—Attendant Dan- gers—(2) Broken Ribs—(3) Fractures of the Pelvis—Possible Com- plications. E. Fractures of the Head and Facial Bones.—(i) Scalp Wounds—[a.) Compound Depressed and Punctured Fractures— " Concussion " and " Compression "—[b.) Fractures of the Base of the Skull—{2) Fractures of the Facial Bones—(a.) of the Nasal Bones—[b.) of the Upper Jaw—[c.) of the Lower Jaw—Use of Antiseptics. D. Fractures of the Spine, Ribs, and Pelvis. (i) Spinal injuries are extremely grave, as the associated con- cussion, haemorrhage, or sprain, may lead to most serious inflam- matory changes in the cord.