228 THE SYPHON AND ITS USES. (6) Mioo-Organisms in urine are iiequently found, and may be divided into three groups : (a.) Those which get access to the urine after it has left the bod)—z>., torulre sarcina, and various forms of bacteria, {h.) Those which have gained access to the urine after it has left the kidney, but while still within the body—i.e., the bacterium associated with amnioniacal decomposition. [c.) Those which are excreted as foreign matter by the kidney from the blood. In this group are numerous forms, frequently micrococci, associated with septic conditions and various zymotic diseases. (7) Parasites.—Of these the one most Hkely to prove of surgical interest is the ovimi of the bilharzia hjematobia, associated with hsematuria, of three kinds. (a.) A few drops of blood at the end of micturition. When the parasite lodges in the prostatic part of the urethra (most iiequent). {b.) Whole of urine bloody. Parasite in bladder (or higher in urinary tract). (f.) Blood always flowing. Parasite low down in urethra. (8) Foreign Particles which have gained access to the urine after it has been passed, such are particles of flax, cotton, hair, wool, wood, or feathers, the source of which it is easy to trace. CHAPTER XXV. THE SYPHON AND ITS USES. Contents.—Principle and Description of the Syphon and Water-head Apparatus in Surgical Treatment—Various Applications—Douches, Vaginal, Nasal, &c.—Syringing the Ear—Washing out the Stomach and Bladder—Thread-Syphons—Tying in a Catheter. The object of the syphon or other apparatus on the water-head principle in surgical treatment, is to obtain a continuous stream of fluid, and the ways in which they may be utilised are almost endless. Description of the Apparatus.—(i) A Syphon is an inverted U-shaped tube, with one arm longer than the other. Both being filled—if the short arm be placed in a jug of water, with the long end allowed to hang over the edge of the basin, the water will flow out of the end of the longer arm with a force proportionate to the distance between its lower end and the level of the water. An india-rubber tube, 5 or 6 feet in length, will serve all purposes. It should be weighted at one end to keep it under water, and may be provided with a curved metal tube to prevent it from "kinking" as it comes over the edge of the vessel. A thicker piece of rubber tube shpped over it at the bend (Fonlis), or a piece of sheet lead wound spirally round it there, will serve the same purpose. If need be, when ready, it may be lied to the handle of the vessel. To start the