196 A SURGICAL HAN'DBOOK. which the supposed dangers of suspension are obviated by applvinfr the sphnt while the patient is in the recumbent position. Of the latter we shall only describe Furneaux Jordan's and Davy's methods {a.) Anszuers to Objections tcrged against Plaster Jackets. ~Bt[oxs taking up any method, however, it may be well to consider some ob- jections which have been urged against the use of plaster jackets :— _ (1) Confinement of Perspiration.—%7Lyx^\\o\v(iv&:,\,BS. shown that plaster jackets are quite as porous as the material of any other efficient jacket. (2) Liability, in certain patients, for the accumulation of vermin. This may be obviated by the thorough cleansing of the patient's skin before the splint is applied, by steeping the semet in a saturated solution of boracic acid, and letting it dry before applying the plaster. Provision may also be made for changing the semet without disturbing the jacket, if two, lightly tacked together, instead of one, are put on at first. When a change is needed, the clean semet is fastened to the inner of the two, and on the latter being withdrawn the clean one is pulled into its place. The outer semet is held in position by the plaster. (3) Inte?fere?ice with Respiration.—In so far as there is lessened thoracic and increased abdominal respiration, this is an advantage for the spinal column. Respiration, as a whole, does not seem to be notably affected in well-applied jackets. (4) Tendency to produce tdceration by pressure on the prominences. This is due to insufficient padding. Where there are unopened ab- scesses the jacket should only be applied if infrequent aspiration is to be employed, as antiseptic dressings cannot be efficiently applied through the fenestra, which Sayre recommends for the purpose. Where a sinus already exists, however, unless the quantity of discharge is very great, a jacket with an opening may be applied with advantage. {b.) Material of the Plaster Jacket.—The material with which the plaster is to be incorporated, whether as bandage or in layers, is "some loosely-woven material, such as cross-barred muslin, mosquito-netting, or crinoline." (Some surgeons think that the stiffening should be first removed from the material, by soaking it in hot water.) For bandages, tear it into strips 3 yards long and from 2^ to 3 inches wide. To work in the plaster, take a quantity of freshly- baked plaster of Paris in a bowl; spread a newspaper over any flat table or board ; now lay one end of the bandage on the table, and having sprinkled plaster freely over it, rub it in with the hand ; roll up loosely with the fingers the part of the bandage thus treated, and proceed with a new part, which is to be in turn rolled up. Repeat this until the bandage is finished. Several may be done at the same time. Unless the roll is quite loose, the water will not enter freely into it when it comes to be soaked for immediate use. (c.) Sayre"s Method of Applying the Plaster Jacket—Preparation of the Patient.—Any markedly prominent spinous process is to be well padded round about with well stuffed glove-fingers {Sayre), or pads of lint or absorbent wool. In thin subjects, the iliac crests also may be protected by several folds of cloth put on until the plaster has set; when removed, they relieve from undue pressure. " If the patient be a female, and especially if she be developing at the