48 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. its application to bleeding. Milne Murray's experiments seem to indicate that the direct application of cold to bleeding parts induces a constriction at first, which rapidly passes off; but since prolonged cold to the extremities seems undoubtedly to maintain pallor, it is probable that some of the special effects of cold upon the skin depend upon its action through the nervous system. When a lowered temperature is desired, we rely on two methods of obtaining it—ice, for direct and indirect effects, and evaporation, for indirect effects only. The former may be applied in an ice-bag, one third filled with small pieces, or it may be used to cool water which is then circulated in Leiter's tubes, or dripped by irrigation over the part, or, if more convenient, a cloth may be wrung out of it and laid over the part. Should cold injections be required, the ice may be put in the water or lotion. The great physical fact, that evaporation requires heat, and that fluids will abstract the heat they want from surrounding parts, in order to evaporate, is often turned to account when a low temperature is wanted— e.g., a wet cloth laid over the sldn, and allowed to evaporate, will chill the part it lies on, hence the rislc of wet clothes. If fluids which evaporate more quiclcly than water be used, the cold will be so much the greater; hence tlie use of alcohol and solutions of cai^bonate of ammonia in evaporating lotions (see Appendix). One of the most volatile of available fluids is ether. When the evaporation of this is hastened by a blast of air, the freezing-point is easily reached. Cold, as a hemostatic, is chiefly recommended for hsemorrhage in internal organs at some distance below the surface —such as in suspected haemorrhage from the brain. The cold must be so applied as to effect the constriction of the vessels of the afl"ected part, or that of the main vessels leading to it. Its application must be continuous, but not sufficiently so as to lower vitality to any appreciable extent; hence the need of care in its use. Formerly, cold injections were used for bleeding mucous membranes and for deep oozing wounds ; but where a fluid at a temperature of about iio° can be brought to bear upon them, we should advocate its use instead. Application of Styptics.—Of the many styptic agents which have been employed, it is only necessary for us to explain the use^ of a few. No matter what the styptic is, it should always be applied directly to the mouths of the cut vessels, without any intervenmg blood or blood-clot. After clipping off large venereal warts from the penis, for instance, before the temporary elastic or other constriction is released from the body of the organ, the raw surface should be well painted with perchloride of iron, and when the blood is allowed to return, scarcely a drop will escape. Of course, we may wish to apply styptics while bleeding is still going on. Then we must do our best to first sponge the surface clean and remove all the clots which have collected in the wound. A styptic, when mixed with blood on the surface of a wound, only makes a cloggy mass, which,