A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 39 Jr^.^'^K^'uT' '"u"y ^"sels will become occluded by the blood- clot which has thus an opportunity to form. When the elastic bard geth'eT unTess" indeed'" '^^^'^must be removed S fetv^rand^tlghSkt^vm'^' Cousm's catch be used, which can be asThe •''h?nn'!f^''. " °f Operating.-A method, known now vears at^o hv operating was taught in Edinburgh many years ago by Sir Joseph Lister, and was afterwards indenendentlv eirihe ^-H^nTl-^T'^Y "^^^ °f this nXhod's t^ empty the limb of blood before the tourniquet is applied, so that the part to be operated upon may be bloodless. Sir Joseph Lister raises the limb vertically, while the patient is lying horizontally, t^his in itseff fgeneraTly sufficient to blanch the limb in a few minutes ; but the procesf may be hastened by compressing the main artery, and encouraging the venous return by a few passes of the hand towards the trunk. The tourniquet or elastic band, must be applied while the limb is still vertical. Professor iismarch produces a similar effect by bandaging the limb, from the extremity upwards, with an elastic bandage, thus forcibly driving all the fluids out of the limb. Before relaxing the bandage, he compresses the main vessels with an elastic tube, which effectually prevents the return of blood. During an operation, the " bloodless " method permits of the most perfect inspection of the part; but in proportion to the thorough- ness of the process, and to the length of time it has been maintained, is the intensity of the hypera;mia which follows the return of blood. On this account, the oozing which at first occurs from innumerable small vessels is apt to cause a greater loss of blood to the patient than when the ordinary method is carried out, so that the term " bloodless," from the patient's point of view, is far from applicable. To obviate this inconvenience, as many vessels as possible should be secured before the blood is allowed to return ; then a sponge should b; pressed into the wound, and the limb raised for a few minutes after the circulation is allowed to return. The congestion will soon pass off, and the remaining vessels can then be picked up and secured. Sir Joseph Lister's method is simpler, has no tendency to drive pus, blood-clot, organisms, or debris of a malignant growth into the general circulation, and being less complete, although sufficient for all purposes, is followed by a less intense congestion. N.B.—In applying any tourniquet, the maximum of compression should be attained as rapidly as possible, otherwise venous congestion is apt to occur during the tightening of the band. Special Modes of Control.—The application of an ordinary tourniquet to compress the vessels of a limb close to the trunk, or those of the trunk or head and neck themselves, is difficult or im- possible. Special means are, therefore, required in particular cases:— , (a.) Close to the hip-joint, the vessels may be secured by (l) Compression of the abdojiiinal aorta at its bi-furcation, either by an abdominal tourniquet, with its pad below and to the left of the umbilicus, directed backwards, and a little inwards (Fig. ll), or by a large pad on the same spot, held in position by several turns of an elastic bandage or tube (Fig. 12). In neither of these methods need the temporary compression of the intestines be feared. The real objection is rather the hindrance to respir- ation,vvhich in an enfeebled patient may seriously complicateanwsthesia.