26o APPENDIX. basin, pour in the mixture, cover with a piece of greased paper, and steam for 20 minutes. [For steaming, see beef-tea custard p. 261.I Turn the pudding from the basin on to a hot plate, and serve plain, or with a little jam. f Rice Pudding (inexpensive). Required— I tablespoonful of rice. i egg. K pint of milk. Water. I dessert-spoonful of sugar. Wash the rice in several waters, put it into a saucepan with just enough water to cover it, and, when the water boils, stir with a fork and add the milk. Continue to stir occasionally until the rice is tender. Butter a pie-dish, pour the rice into it. Beat the egg with the suo-ar and add to the rice. Mix well, and bake in a moderate oven for about 7 to 10 minutes. Arrowroot Pudding. Required— K pint milk. 2 teaspoonsful of arrowroot. Sugar to taste. i egg. Mix the an-owroot to a smooth paste with about 2 tablespoonsful of cold milk. Warm a cupful of milk, and pour on to the arrowroot, stirring all the time, return to the saucepan, and stir until the arrowroot has boiled 2 or 3 minutes. Sweeten to taste. Allow the arrow- root to become cold, mix in the yolk of egg. Beat the white to a stiff froth, and stir lightly into the arrowroot. Butter a pie-dish, pour in the mixture, and bake for about 5 minutes in a moderately hot oven. Semolina Pudding (inexpensive). Required— I tablespoonful of semolina. i oz. butter, 3 gills of milk. i egg. I dessert-spoonful of sugar. Put the semolina, milk, butter, and sugar, into a saucepan, and stir over the fire until boiling, and continue to stir for about 5 minutes longer while the semolina boils. Take the saucepan from the fire to cool a little, drop the yolk of egg into the mixture. Drop the white upon a plate, and beat to a stiff froth. Mix well with the semolina, place in a greased pie-dish, and bake for about 5 or 7 minutes. Tapioca Pudding (inexpensive). Required— 1 tablespoonful of tapioca. 3 gills of milk. 2 eggs. I dessert-spoonful of sugar. oz. butter. Well wash the tapioca, and cover it with the milk, and allow to stand for 2 hours, stirring occasionally. Then place in a saucepan by the side of the fire, and cook very gently for about 60 minutes, stirring oc- casionally. [Tapioca must be cooked slowly, or it will become tough and hard. Each particle should be soft and perfectly clear after it is cooked.] Draw the saucepan away from the fire to cool a little, add the sugar and butter. Mix the yolks well with the tapioca. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, stir lightly into the tapioca. Pour into a buttered pie-dish, and bake for about 7 minutes.