109 A SURGICAL handbook: The divergent spica may be used for the head with a single roller, if one have assistance. A couple of horizontal turns to fix the bandage are made. The roller then passes at right angles from occiput to glabella, and at each angle is fixed by the assistant's fingers, which must be firmly applied, and which will serve to confine the extremities of each turn of the divergent spica. Finally, a concluding couple of turns replace the fingers, secure the ends of the bandage of the vault, and safety- pins, transfixing all the folds, are inserted in front and behind. (ii) How to Bandage a Stump.—In a similar way, one may bandage a sttcmp. Here the thumb and fingers serve to grasp the ends of the divergent spica, which passes over the face of the stump. Final circular turns and pins hold all together. Hotv to Bandage the Fingers.— As a rule, the digits receive sufficient support with the ordinary bandage for the hand. Small dressings may be secured with a few turns of worsted. If thought necessary, a narrow bandage for the prevention of oedema is put on by taking a turn around the wrist, passing to the tip of the finger in question, gently spiraling to the web, and so back to the wrist. One may also go from finger to finger, taking a turn round the wrist between each. For the thumb, a figure-of-eight is desirable. CHAPTER XIII. BANDAGING— Continued. Contents.—Looped Bandages.—(i) For the Heel—(2) Looped and Reversed Bandage for Varicose Veins—(3) Bandage for use after Excision of the Breast—(4) For the Perinasum—" Lithotomy " Position—The " Clove Hitch : " How to make it—The T-Bandage —The Four-Tailed—The Many-Tailed Bandage—The Triangular Handkerchief—The Square Handkerchief — The Suspensory Bandage, &c. Looped Bandages. (I) Looped Bandage for the Heel {Right Foot).—YLnL^vag covered in the forepart of the foot, and ascended to the mstep (as formerly described), carry the roller over the tip of the heel back to the mstep, Fig- 57.—Bandaging the Eye.