A SURGICAL HANDBOOK, 71 bloodless, then anajsthelic, either by freezing with ether, or bv injecting cocaine. ' Next, incise the skin over the foreign body, and use the end of the dissecting forceps as a probe, first to detect, and then to remove It. bomelimes the intruder, though previously felt, eludes the first etiort made to find it; but it is easily recognised, and seized the lollowmg day, if the wound has been meanwhile plugged with boracic lint. Joseph Bell has olten demonstrated the value of this plan at his out-patient clinique in the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh (9) Foreign Body in the NostrU.—Children often push seed's, or small stones " up their nose," and cannot get them out again, because the aperture of the nostril is narrower than its cavity. When this accident has occurred, one of the best and simplest instruments lor extraction is a loop of soda-water bottle wire, bent on the flat. This may be gently slipped over the foreign body, and next made to pass behind it by raising the handle part of the loop. A pull outwards is then all that is required. Failing this method, dressing or dissecting forceps may be used to grasp and pull out the body, or to push it back into the pharynx. Great gentleness, it is perhaps needless to say, is always necessary. (id) Foreign Bodies in the Ear, like those in the nose, are difficult to extract, and for a similar reason—the aperture of the external meatus is narrower than the canal beyond. The membrana tympani closing the canal within is, moreover, a special feature in the case of the ear, necessitating greater care, lest efforts at removal should only drive foreign bodies further inwards, and so injure it. At the same time the closure of the canal within by the membrane ensures that a stream of water injected into the canal will be turned, and made to flow out again the same way, carrying any foreign body that may be present with it, or, at least, bringing it within range of a loop of wire (see section 9), or a pair of fine forceps. Besides the wire loop, syringing (see Chap, xxv.) is therefore of great service in dealing with foreign bodies lodged in the external meatus. In more difficult cases, an ear speculum, good light, and special forceps, may be required, and if there be an aural department of the Hospital, the patient should be sent there for treatment. Insects in the meatus are best removed by the insertion of a few drops of olive oil, poured in while the patient lies down. The insect is drowned, and floated up within reach. (11) Threatened Obstruction to Respiration.—Under this head may be included many urgent cases, differing very widely from one another, in their nature. The first point to be determined is :—How far does any existing dyspnoea depend upon obstruction in the air-passages, rather than upon some fault in the blood or its circulation ? This is judged of by observing the movements of the thorax, and noting the amount (if any) of the sucking in of the unsupported portions of the thorax, such as the intercostal spaces, inter- and supra-clavicular notches and upper part of the abdomen, and by determining its relative