A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. 211 glass alone or mixed with whiting should be smeared on with a brush or sponge, then another layer of bandage, and so on for three or tour layers. (Esmarch advises the use of a freshly-made con- centrated solution of neutral silicate of potash.) By moistening the water-glass, it may be softened previous to cutting it for removal. (t.) Gum and Chalk.—A mixture of mucilage and powdered cnalk o the consistence of paste may be used instead of starch or water-glass; but it has no advantage over these, and is dearer. (/&.) Paraffin Bandage.—Paraffin may be applied with a brush in the melted state in the same way as starch. Although not so rigid as water-glass, it has the advantage of being waterproof; and thovgh more expensive than most of the above, it may be boiled out of old bandages, and used over again. (/.) Fmishing the Surface of Fixed Bandages.—Plaster of Paris may be glazed with switched white of egg or with size. Its surface may be rendered waterproof by a layer of paraffin, or by several layers of boiled linseed oil, damar, or shellac varnish. In a similar way, a waterproof coat may be applied to any of the other fixed bandages, and is especially needed for children. In the neighbourhood of a window cut for dressing a wound, Esmarch advises a packing of wool saturated with collodion to prevent the soaking in of discharge. In the absence of collodion, some of the other waterproof materials above mentioned might be substituted. CHAPTER XXIV. THE URINE. Contents.—Importance of a knowledge of the state of the Urine in Surgical Cases—A. General Conditions to be Noted—Quantity of Urine, Pain associated with Micturition, Odour, Colour, Tran- sparency, Reactions, and Specific Gravity of Urine. B. Presence Of Abnormal Substances in Solution—Albumen ; Bile ; Sugar; Blood; Pus—Urinary Deposits. C. Examination of the Urine— Preliminary—For Abnormal Substances—For Deposits. Importance of a Knowledge of the State of the Urine in Surgical Cases.—Although the investigation of the Urine is more usually considered as forming a part of the duty, of the Physician, yet there can be no doubt whatever that a careful examination of this excretion, and a due appreciation of its various abnormalities, is of the utmost importance to the Surgeo?!. Apart from the necessity of studying the urine in "surgical" affections of the genito-urinary tract, there are many cases where the state of the kidneys as indicated by the urine may determine the advisability or not of an operation, and may very materially affect its prognosis, if