ANESTHETICS: GENERAL AND LOCAL. 13 eyelid with one finger, and touching the globe with the other. If the patient does not wink, the chloroform should be at once with- drawn the patient is "under," and the operator may begin. At short intervals more chloroform should be given, as signs of return- ing sensibility are recognised, such as conjunctival reflex. 1 he eyes should not be fingered too much, lest their sensibility become im- paired, and the delicacy of this test be lost. It sometimes happens (as for example, in children), that the conjunctiva is of little use as a euide, in which case the local sensibility and muscular relaxation vvm serve instead. When the patient is "under," the pupil is con- tracted; it dilates as he recovers, but we must bear in mmd that also during profound and dangerous ansesthesia it becomes widely dilated. . , , , , . Dangers and Cautions !—Certain troubles and dangers are apt to embarrass the chloroformist. These are, firstly, respiratory—Va.^ sudden, or gradual stoppage of breathing; secondly, cardiac— syncope, or complete cardiac failure. {a.) Eespiratory Arrest, when sudden, is frequently due to the presence of some foreign body in the mouth, lodging in the larynx. It is in order to avoid this that it is necessary to remove false teeth, and search the mouths of children for sweetmeats, prior to giving an anajsthetic ; similarly gags, sponges, and mouth instruments should be examined lest part may have become loose. The tongue itself may suddenly fall back and so obstruct respiration. If so, by pulling forward the chin, and turning the head on one side, the tongue is prevented from becoming an impediment; and if the condition does not at once yield to this simple manoeuvre, the mouth should be opened and the glottis explored with the finger. Note that the chest may heave although no air is entering the lungs ; hence the necessity for feelmg the breath with the hand over the mouth. Gradual stoppage of breathing is usually associated with over-dose. In poisoning of the respiratory centres, the breathing becomes shallow, irregular, and laboured—all of which signs are evident enough to the attentive administrator. Or, again, there may come on closure of the glottis, associated with crowing, " croup-like " breathing, which at once gives the alarm. The treatment is to seize the tongue firmly, and forcibly pull it forwards with common artery forceps. This causes the glottis to expand, and refiexly stimulates respiration. In every case where there is no response to this treatment, artificial respiration should be at once carried out. Sickness and vomiting are dangerous from the risk of ejected material gaining access to the air passages. This is very liable to occur during operation for intestinal obstruction. A preliminary washing out of tlie stomach gives the patient relief and may obviate this disaster. Inter- mittent administration and shaking and movement of the patient, favour sickness. If the stomach contain food or fluid, the patient should be turned bodily on his side and allowed to vomit, after which the chloro- form is again resumed. If there be no food, chloroform is pushed in order to abolish the reflex act. (li.) The Cardiac Complications arc, in the first place, those associated with, and secondary to, difficulty of breathing, when the