164 A SURGICAL HANDBOOK prevent a disapeable swing. It is better generally to carry the eet foremost ; but in going on a hill, the patient's head should be towards the top, unless the injury be a fracture of the thigh, in which case the mjured limb should be uppermost. Formation of Ambulance Classes. Practitioners in country districts are frequently asked to undertake a course of Ambulance Lectures, and from want of special training in ambulance work are often at a loss to know how to proceed If they can arrange the matter with their pupils, practitioners in 'such a position should form a local branch of one or other of the existing Ambulance Associations—e.^o-., of the St. John's Ambulance Association m England, or of the St. Andrew's Ambulance Association m Scotland. If they put themselves in communication with the secretary of either Association,* they will be furnished with full instructions " how to form a class," and will be able to get the loan of a Skeleton, a Stretcher, Diagrams, and the other necessary apparatus. Should no such formal work be desired, the practitioner cannot do better than lake as his basis the Syllabus laid down by one or other of these Associations, and make such modifications as the circumstances of his case may seem to indicate. The following is the Syllabus of Ambulance Lectures as laid down by the St. Andrew's Ambulance Association:— SYLLABUS OF AMBULANCE LECTURES. First Lecture.—A. Introductory remarks, explaining clearly the scope and object of lay help in ambulance work, special attention being drawn to the need for it, as well as the usefulness and simplicity of it. B. Short sketch of the general anatomy of the human body, including a brief description of the functions of digestion, absorption, circulation, respiration, excretion, secretion, and innervation. C, Uses of a bandage—Of the two kinds of bandage, the roller not needed for ambulance work—Description of Esmarch's triangular bandage, pointing out (i) its advantages, (2) method of folding it and fastening it, (3) its application in different ways —Hints as to the "first dressing" of wounds by ambulance pupils. Second Lecture.—A. Short account of the skeleton, with brief description of the structure and varieties of the joints. B. (i) Fractures—Their varieties, causes, symptoms, and dangers— Their temporary treatment and the apparatus necessary for it. (2) Dislocations—How they differ from fractures, and the first aid in such cases—No necessity for immediate reduction, and the dangers of attempted reduction by non-professional persons. * Address:—Secretary, St. John's Ambulance Association, St. John's Gate, Clerkenwell, London. Address:—Secretary, St. Andrew's Ambulance Association, 93 West Regent Street, Glasgow.