34 ARREST OF HAiMORRHAGE. Blistered toes may be wrapped with lint; but care must be taken to prevent such wrappings from working loose, and so causing more irritation than before. . m i i Blistered hands must be treated m a smiilar way. Should any blister have suppurated or be much inflamed, the epidermis over it must be clipped away, and a moist antiseptic dressing applied. Small blisters from burns or from blistering fluids should be snipped, and covered with boracic or zinc ointment, (see also Bums, p. 29). The blisters of bruises or of erysipelas should be snipped, if large; dusted with powdered boracic acid, and covered with absorbent cotton-wool. _ . In gangrene, the blisters are forgotten in the seriousness of their cause. CHAPTER VI. . AKREST OF HLffiMORRHAGE. Contents.—General Principles of the Arrest of Heemorrhage— "Natural" and "Artificial" Arrest—A. Primary Hsemorrbage —Temporary Closure of Bleeding Vessels by the Tourniquet, Elastic Bandage, or Elastic Band—" Bloodless " Method of Operating—Various Applications of the Tourniquet—Permanent Closure of Divided Vessels by (i) Ligatures; (2) Torsion; (3) Acupressure; (4) Pressure; (5) Use of Heat and Cold, Cautery, Styptics, &c —B. Secondary Hsemorrhage — 0. Reactionary Hasmorrliage. General Principles of the Arrest of Haemorrhage. Although it is not within the scope of the present work to discuss points of surgical pathology, still a reference to the phenomena that have been traced in the closure of divided blood-vessels will greatly help us to understand the very various means which surgeons have devised to stop bleeding in wounds, whether it occurs at the moment of injury, or during the after-process of healing. Stated in general terms, every method of arresting Haemorrhage ("natural" or "artificial") involves (i) an immediate blocking of the vessel's mouth, by some mechanical obstruction not involving minute tissue changes; (2) a sealing of the end or ends of the vessel by plastic lymph, becoming afterwards (by a larger prepon- derance of cells and the development of capillary blood-vessels) granulation-tissue; and (3) a process of cicatrisation, by which the ends of the vessel are firmly closed by permanent and fully formed tissue. Although, for convenience of description, these stages are separately described, it must be remembered that they pass insensibly into one another and, so to speak, over-lap. From the moment that the vessel