220f: THE URINE. must be noted. The materials of some of the deposits are formed in the urine before it cools, while those of others only appear after cooling. Those which appear before, are pus, and occasionally crystals of uric and oxalic acid, when in excess, entangled in mucus, also amorphous phosphates. In an alkaline urine, crystals of ammonio-magnesian phosphate may be seen. Where a deposit occurs before cooling, there will be greater risk of calculus formation within the body, although, as V. Carter has shown, it is probable that calculi are not the result of aggregation of the ordinary crystalline forms of the various substances, but of the com- bination of a modified crystalline form with mucus in a way not as yet cleai-ly understood. After cooling the commonest deposit is one of amorphous urates of soda, ammonia, lime, or magnesia. These may be seen under many conditions—such as e-xcessive mus- cular exercise, congestion of the liver, any feverish condition, en'ors of diet, and from dyspepsia. Wlien visible continuously for some time they indicate liver derangement, and being premonitory of gout and uric acid formation, require treatment (Murchison). If co-existent with piles they would call for an improvement in the hepatic circulation. Besides urates, crystals of uric acid or oxalate of lime may be deposited, one or both, generally with urates also. Their deposit will depend partly on the quantity of acid present, partly on the acidity of the urine. In an alkaline urine, phosphate of lime in an amor- phous or partly crystalline form may be seen, also crystals of triple phosphate; in ammoniacal decomposition the triple phosphate is always present. More or less mums is always associated with any of the above deposit, and holds them together. After urine has stood for a time, a scum often appears on its surface. This may consist of urates, phosphate of lime, triple phosphates, micro-organisms, or of oil- globules. The latter may be seen after severe fractures attended by crushing of the medulla, and, according to some authors, to a certain extent in most fractures. Oil-globules are present in the circulation, and are excreted by the kidneys. They occasionally give rise to the severe symptoms associated with fatty embolus, in the later stage of diabetes, and in the rare and obscm'e disease called chylous urine. (The observer must, of course, exclude the possibility of the oil having been introduced into the urine by the lubrication of instruments.) C. Examination of the Urine. Where possible, for reasons already given, the whole urine passed in the preceding twenty-four hom's should be collected and measmed; failing this, morning and evening uj-ine may be mixed when the specific gravity is wanted. Urine after fasting is most acid ; that after meals will have the highest specific gravity, and will reveal the smallest traces of albumen. Where pus is suspected, urine from a single micturition should be collected in separate vessels. Preliminary ExamiQation.—After the total quantity of urine for