88 TRACHEOTOMY. and feels the cricoid cartilage distinctly. It may be necessary to push aside some fat with the handle of the knife m order to do this. He divides now, with a small transverse cut, the fascia over the cricoid, and shps a blunt director underneath it, so that he strips this fascia and the isthmus of the thyroid together with a few venous radicles which run into it, from off the anterior aspect of the trachea. As the trachea in children is rather yielding, and the fascia and isthmus comparatively strong and adherent, it is a good plan to thrust one blade of a compression-forceps under the fascia and isthmus on each side, and divide the tissue between the forceps as far as necessary. In this way, the upper two or three rings of the trachea are bared, and can readily be felt by the finger-tip. The knife is then held short, and plunged into the windpipe for a quarter of an inch with its cutting edge directed upwards, and the incision slightly extended—if need be, even carried through the cricoid. The knife should be then withdrawn, and its handle introduced; this, being rotated transversely to the wound, permits of the ejection of mucus, and acts as a director along which the tube may be introduced. Should the violent upward movements of the trachea during forced respiration prove troublesome, they may be arrested by inserting the sharp hook to one side of the middle line, or fixation may also be obtained by laying hold of the compression-forceps, which grip the isthmus of the thyroid gland and its fascia. The trachea is then readily incised. In the 'Woto" operation, the operator must clearly bear in mind that the chief difficulties are met with as soon as the deep fascia of the neck is entered. The anterior aspect of the trachea below the isthmus is clothed with the inferior laryngeal veins, which may form a complex anastomosis, and here also an abnormal thyroidea ima artery may appear. It may be necessary to push up the thyroid isthmus, and in the case of infants to push aside the thymus gland. As soon as the operator has earned his incision between the depressors of the hyoid, secured the superficial veins, and opened the deep fascia, then his troubles begin. The deeper veins must be separated with the handle of the knife, or grasped with compression- forceps wherever they cross, and the rings of the trachea should be fairly exposed and cleared before they are divided. Should there be great h£emorrhage with urgent dyspnoea, it is justifiable to open the trachea during the bleeding, delaying first for a few seconds, since the venous bleeding will reheve the engorged right heart. The haemorrhage and dyspnoea will cease with the first respiratory efforts, and the inspired blood will be mostly expectorated. As far as possible, however, the opening of the trachea should not take place till hjemorrhage is checked. The inspiration of blood is a fruitful source of subsequent pneumonia. The surgeon must impress on his assistants the importance of keeping the head steady, and must ever bear in mind what misfortunes may attend any deviation of the incision from the middle line. In children, the trachea is soft and yielding, and is readily missed— more especially if the surgeon passes a little to one side or the other.