A SURGICAL HANDBOOK. A Milliampfere is the thousandth part of an ampere. Milli- amperes are the standards usually referred to, when currents for medical or surgical purposes are spoken of. A Galvanometer is an instrument used to measure the current which flows in any circuit. By its means, we are enabled to dis- tinguish between the theoretical power of a battery and the actual current which at any given moment it is able to send through a conductor in the face of resistance. Its construction depends upon the fact, that a finely-poised magnetic needle, if surrounded by a coil of wire, is deflected from its position, pointing north, when an electric current flows through the coil of wire. The stronger the current, the greater the deflection. By careful experiment, the degrees of deflection can be marked as equivalent to so many milliampferes. Except for the electrolysis of superficial tumours (as afterwards explained), this instrument should be interposed in the circuit whenever the continuous current is applied for any purpose to the human body, as by its use alone is any approximation possible to the dosage of lilectricity employed. A perfectly accurate measure- ment of the amount of Electricity which passes through the tissues does not seem attainable, owing to polarisation within the body and other sources of loss, which cannot be correctly estimated. With a galvanometer, however, we get the best possible approximation. Electrodes are the terminals, connected with each pole of the cell or battery, which are applied to the body. They may be in the form of tubes holding a piece of sponge, or of variously shaped and sized pieces of carbon, covered with wash-leather. The larger the electrode, the more diffused the current which it transmits, and vice versd. Since the epidermis, when dry, is an extremely bad con- ductor, electrodes applied to the skin must be thoroughly moistened with water, plain, acidulated, or with a small quantity of common salt dissolved in it. For ordinary electrolysis, the electrodes_ should be in the form of needles insulated with vulcanite to within half- an-inch of their points. Bheophores are the two connecting-wires between the poles of the battery and the electrodes. They are generally made of copper wire, and are insulated with guttapercha or with silk. Sometmies they are diff"erently coloured, so that a glance may tell to which pole they belong. . A Rheostat is an instrument employed to resist a current ot electricity in a given and known way. Rheostats are made so that a known number of ohms' resistance may be interposed in a current. They are used as a means of gradually altering a current, since it will become either stronger or weaker as less or more resistance is interposed. A steadier current also is obtained from a number of cells strongly resisted, than from a few cells with little or no resis- '^duced or Faradic Current—This depends upon certain physical laws by which (i) when a current of electricity frorn a cell or battery flowing along a coil of wire is suddenly interrupted, an instantaneous reverse current is at once " induced, and runs through