SPICES 3C6 CHAP. manures of an animal origin is very much more rapid, and produces an excess of ammonia. Horse-dung cannot be safely used for manuring plants in the tropics till it has been rotted for several years, and even then well mixed with the soil in small quantities. Both the long capsicum, C. frutescens, and the bird’s-eye chili, C. minimum, will grow well in light open soils as described above, but the bird’s-eye chili has an undoubted predilection for limestone rocks. In the Malay peninsula it has thoroughly established itself on the limestone cliffs and talus, wherever the natives have brought the fruits; it spreads all over these places often in great abundance, the seeds being dispersed by birds. In the Keiv Bulletin (1892, p. 88; 1898, p. 171), Sir John Kirk, writing on the agricultural resources of Zanzibar, says : “ The small red peppers or chilies are largely grown in the more dry and rocky part of the island, where the upheaved coral presents a honey- combed surface that favours the accumulation of rich soil in crevices.” It has also established itself on the coral rocks of Christmas Island. The plants are usually grown as annuals and re- planted each year, but they can be grown continuously for two or three years, as a Ceylon planter in Central Africa wrote to the Tropical Agriculturist:— I have 100 odd acres planted between the lines of coffee as a catch crop. They are now three years old, and lots are beginning to die off after continuous cropping for two years. After the first crop I cut them down and dug them in as manure to the coffee. They grew up again quickly, and I have now nearly finished a second crop. I intend to uproot them and dig them altogether in the course of a few months more, as the coffee has now closed in upon them, and they have served me well, having more than paid for the coffee clearing. I could not pick half the crop for want of labour, but I should say that each tree gave me more than 1 lb. of dry chilies, and the price I got was from 37s. 6d. to 56s. 6d. per cwt. The variety I planted was the common kind, the bird’s-eye chili used by the Ceylon coolie. This kind of good quality,