x CARDAMOMS 333 bering the young shoots and interfering with their growth. Mr. D. T. Evers writes an interesting article on the subject of cardamom cultivation in the number of the Indian Forester for 1908, which is quoted in the Agri- cultural Journal of India, vol. iv., 1909, p. 103. The plant is said to grow well in moist places in the Forest Ghauts of the Mansarabad and Belar Taluka of the Hessan district, but does not thrive on the Southern and Western exposures. It comes up spontaneously in the ghaut forests when light is admitted by the felling of some large trees. It is a general belief that the seed which induces such growth is disseminated by monkeys and rats. The cultivation by some planters is considerable ; nearly all coffee estates have fair-sized areas under this crop on partially cleared forest land. There are two methods of cultivation : (a) the Brook- Mockett and Middleton system, recommended by these two planters, and (b) the Coorg system. In the former the forest is thinned out to admit sufficient light, and nursery-raised seedlings used to plant out the cleared area. The crop begins to yield in the third or fourth years and is in full bearing in the fifth or sixth. Irrigation if avail- able is useful at some seasons and weeding is required. The Coorg system has been already mentioned, but I repeat Mr. Evers’ remarks, as there are some slight differences and additional ideas :—“ Small detached areas in which the plant has come up naturally are carefully selected. In February to March small trees 2 or 3 ft. in girth and brushwood are cleared away. The leafy canopy should not be too dense, and it may be necessary to fell one or two large trees across each plot. The seedlings make their appearance at the first burst of the monsoon, and by its close are 3 or 4 in. high. At the beginning of the following monsoon they are thinned out where overcrowded and vacant spaces are stocked. The plant yields in the fourth and fifth year according to the richness of the soil. They continue to produce good crops till the fourteenth year, when they begin to decline