336 SPICES CHAP. Owen said that the most successful planting he had was from shoots of growing plants with a few roots attached, which came on without a failure. It would be difficult to get a large quantity of these at the right stage, but the younger the bulbs the better. He suggests the following plan if time is no object and can be afforded. Plant the bulbs in a nursery uncovered, and water them when necessary. If left in long enough they will throw out shoots which can be broken off with a £ew roots attached and will succeed admirably. In India the plant is more commonly grown from seed, but an account in Rice’s Gazetteer (quoted in Watt’s Dictionary) says, referring to Mysore, that they are propagated entirely by cuttings. A cluster of from three to five stems with the roots attached is separated from a clump in the month following the autumnal equinox, and planted in the same row, one between every two areca-nut palms in the spot from which a banana plant has been moved. The ground around the plant is manured with leaves of the Phyllanthus emblica tree. The plants fruit in the third year in the autumnal equinox, and after fruit- ing the plants are dug up, separated, and planted in fresh places, all superfluous stems and roots having been previously removed. The stems all die and new ones spring again. The plant does not fruit the year following its transplantation, but the year after that, after which it is again taken up and transplanted as before. Raising from Seed.—The seeds of cardamom are contained in capsules, and it is necessary when raising a plant from seed to select only perfectly ripe fruits. When ripe the capsules are of a yellowish colour and readily split into three valves. By squeezing the ripe capsules the seed is discharged, but it adheres together by a glutinous substance, composed mainly of the arils. To free them from this mass and cause them to separate readily it is necessary to expose them to the sun or a current of air. The former is the most effectual and they soon become dry. The seeds are then readily separated,