13 INTRODUCTION I is convenient to use) is fitted to the taps of the “ dilution barrels” and of the 100-gallon vat. The process of making 100 gallons of Bordeaux mixture is as follows: eight gallons of the “ stock solution ” of “ milk-of-lime,” and the same amount of copper sulphate “ stock solution ” (or four gallons only if this has been made of the strength of 2 lb. of copper sulphate to the gallon of water) are carried up to the upper platform and poured separately into the two “dilution barrels,” which are then filled with water up to the 50-gallon mark. The 50 gallons of “ milk-of-lime ” thus obtained in one of the barrels is stirred vigorously for a couple of minutes. A strainer is now placed over the vat, in such a position as to allow the hose from the taps of the “ dilution barrels ” to project into it. The taps of the “dilution barrels” are turned on, and—the contents of the barrel containing the lime being stirred continuously—the two 50-gallon barrels empty themselves through the strainer into the vat, filling it with 100 gallons of Bordeaux mixture. The whole process can be easily controlled by one man standing on the higher platform, as with his stirring-pole he can reach the taps and so regulate the flow if necessary, and also stir and clear the strainer should this become clogged. The Bordeaux mixture is immediately ready for use, and can be run off from the tap of the vat into the spraying machine. Thus all the labour and waste of time in handling the mixture are saved; and, given some such “ plant ” as is shown in the illustration, and “stock solutions,” 100 gallons of Bordeaux mixture can be prepared in a few minutes at any time during the spraying season. It is of the greatest importance for a fruit-grower to have the means of obtaining the proper “ wash ” directly the right period of vegetation and suitable weather conditions arrive,—spraying at the right time is just as important as spraying with the right “ wash.” Good straining of Bordeaux mixture is essential for success in spraying, since, as pointed out below, it is absolutely necessary to use a nozzle with a very fine opening. It is best to strain the mixture twice, in the following manner: first, a strainer with meshes of medium fineness should be placed over the vat. Then a second straining must be given as the Bordeaux mixture flows into the spraying machine. Here the best type of strainer is one with copper gauze with very fine meshes—35 to 40 holes to the linear inch. Such a strainer, made with a wooden bottom and sides of copper gauze, is fitted to spraying machines. A simple and very useful type of strainer (suitable for “ barrel ” spraying machines and for general straining), as recommended by the United States Department of Agriculture, is made as