103 NUTMEGS AND MACE Ill commenced the introduction of spice plants, and nutmegs and cloves were extensively planted, but the disease of 1866 practically exterminated the cultivation on the island, and it was never renewed to any large extent. Indeed, Singapore seems less well suited for the nutmeg than Penang. In Penang, however, the cultivation revived, and is still a very important one, though the plantations have passed from European hands to those of Chinese and Malays. In the Dutch Islands the cultivation still continues, and there is a considerable export thence. The plant has been exported to all other tropical countries but, except in the West Indies, has hardly entered the stage of important cultivation. In Zanzibar, Mr. Lyne informs me it grows on selected soils, but is not extensively cultivated though it bears freely. It might be grown with success in most of the tropical islands, for it seems to require sea-air, but the price of nutmegs and mace, though still remunerative, is not at present sufficiently high to induce the ordinary planter to take it up extensively. SOIL AND ALTITUDE Soils.—The soils in which nutmegs have been culti- vated with success are remarkably varied. The Spice Islands of the Banda group, long famous for their nutmegs, are volcanic islands. Dr. Oxley describes them thus :— Neira is little else than volcanic ashes mixed with quantities of pumice-stone, which, broken into minute portions, form in many places a sort of brownish gravel on the surface. The colour of the soil is nearly black. It is a sandy, friable loam, enriched by the constant falling of a very dense foliage with a large proportion of vegetable matter. The soil of Great Banda is, generally speaking, of a brown colour, and has more tenacity than that of Neka. There is no granite rock to be found on either of the islands, and but very little iron-stone. The hills are composed of basalt, conglomerate, trachyte, and obsidian. In great contrast to this is the soil of Penang and