428 SPICES CHAP. December and stored under soil, being kept thus till April or May. During this time the plant remains dormant, and the rhizomes, though watered from time to time, do not send up shoots or suckers. At the time of planting, they are taken up and broken up into sets of suitable size. The ground used is generally forest ground newly cleared and burnt; the large logs and stumps are not removed, but left to lie as they are, and the rhizomes planted between them. When the South West monsoon rains commence, holes from 3 to 6 in. wide and deep are dug about 12 to 15 in. apart, and one or more sets are put into each, covered with earth, and pressed down by the foot of the planter. The crop is weeded once or twice, but no other cultivation is found requisite. In harvesting the crop the rhizomes are dug up, stored for seed or prepared for market, as the case may be. Those intended for sale are carried in baskets to the nearest stream and thoroughly washed. They are then boiled in spring water until they yield to pressure between the thumb and finger, when they are spread out on mats to dry in the sun, and then sorted into classes. In Bengal, Mukerji points out that both turmeric and ginger can be grown, not only with success, but with benefit to the trees, if planted in the fruit orchards. Orchard ground would otherwise be uncul- tivated, and harbour insect pests. Stiff clay soils, he says, are not suitable for any root crops, but the soil under trees is neither too heavy nor too light; any soil which is not too gritty, stony, or gravelly will do for turmeric. In opening up soil under trees for this plant, it is desirable to plough up the ground in October or November, or after the rainy season is over, and while the land is in a fit state for ploughing; one ploughing and cross ploughing followed by harrowing should be sufficient cold weather preparation for the crop. In April, after the first shower of rain in the hot weather, another similar ploughing and harrowing will render