118 SPICES CH A r. destruction, though it is true that the use of too strong manures, especially those that give off ammonia in considerable quantities, quickly must and certainly do exercise a bad influence on any plant. In the rich volcanic soils of Banda and the other islands of the Moluccas, manuring is not necessary and does not seem to be used. But in the poor clay soils of the Malay Peninsula it is different. The nutmeg is rather a greedy feeder, and requires manuring in the sterile soil of Penang and Province Wellesley, and in other similar places. Dr. Oxley recommends a system of trenching round the trees which apparently was in vogue in the early days of nutmeg cultivation in the Malay Peninsula. Trenches 2 ft. deep were dug round each young tree, and filled with a mixture of cow-dung, cut grass, and earth. This was repeated on two later occasions, the second trench being dug just outside the first, and the third outside that, so that each circular trench was a wider circle than the previous one, and the third of each tree met with the outer trench of the next tree. This plan cannot be recommended. It is expensive, and while the tree is developing it is impossible to avoid cutting through many of the roots. It is therefore in j urious to the tree. There is no need to dig the manure into the ground. If laid on the top of the soil, especially if a little earth is thrown over it, it will act quite as well on the roots as if put in direct apposition, and there is no risk of injuring the roots. Cow-dung, if procurable, is about as good a manure as is possible to use, but it should not be used fresh. It should be kept till it is well rotted before use. Oxley points out that the use of fresh cow-dung, in the trenches above described, caused the rootlets to turn black and die. In Malacca a cart-load of cow-dung is thrown at the foot of each tree once a year, and a little soil spread over it. Stable manure is always considered too “ hot ” for use in the Straits Settlements for any plant until it has been thoroughly rotted down. Oxley used some tons