SPICES 288 CHAf. before spreading out to dry, as it hastens the eventual drying. It is usual among the Chinese to put the spikes into a wire skillet and plunge it for a few minutes in boiling water. This renders the skin tougher and gives the pepper a better colour. As the pepper dries it becomes quite black, and is then rubbed by hand to separate the stalks, which are removed by winnowing. A planter writing in the Indische Mercuur, No. 40, 1903, states that if pepper is dried in ordinary drying- rooms there is a risk of getting the fruit spoiled by damp, or the seeds wrinkled and reddish. To avoid this he recommends a Huyser drier, beneath the per- forated plates of which fires are lit as is done in drying tobacco. The pepper is thus fumigated as well as dried, and the results are said to be astonishing. A simpler method is generally used in Java. A smoke-room is made square, with walls 5 or 6 ft. high, and about 1 ft. from the top is made a platform of split stems of the Nibong palm (Oncosperma JHamentosa). This palm has a stem 4 to 6 in. through, and is split into slats about 1-| or 2 in. wide. The slats are laid together in the form of a floor, close enough to prevent the pepper from falling through, but allowing the smoke to pass. At one end of the smoke-house is a fireplace, where damp wood is burnt in order to produce a heavy smoke, which is conducted by a pipe beneath the floor or shelf on which the pepper lies. An iron pan, known locally as a “ Kwali,” is so arranged beneath the shelf that the smoke striking against it rises and is spread over the smoke-room. Other modifications of the smoke-room can be used according to convenience, the object being to treat the pepper with hot, but not excessively hot, thick smoke. In dealing with pepper in large quantities, especially in wet weather, it is essential to dry it with fire heat. Pepper is very liable to injury from mould, and can never be turned out in first-class condition unless it is thoroughly and rapidly dried. The use of boiling water, as described, increases the rapidity of drying, for the