308 SPICES CHAP. trodden with the feet, to separate the fruit from the stalk. The grain is then winnowed, to clear it from the stalks and the lighter grains; and then the good heavy grains are spread on mats in the sun to dry for three days. It is calculated tliat 100 catties of green pepper, with the stalks, yield 35 catties of clean and dry pepper. The collection of one day from 40,000 plants of three years old was 500 catties of green or 175 of dry pepper. It is usual, as was before noticed, when the plantation is delivered over to the proprietors at the end of three years to let it to a Chinese farmer for five years more; as the proprietor is thereby less liable to imposition, the only precaution necessary being to see that the tenant is careful of the vines during the last year, and leaves them in good condition at the expiration of the lease. This is the only way in which an extensive planta- tion, or one whereon the proprietor cannot bestow his whole attention, can be managed to advantage. But, if the proprietor has time and is careful and acute, he may render it something more productive by keeping it in his own hands. The labour of cleaning the vines, throwing up earth about the roots, and collecting the produce of the plantation above mentioned of 46,000 plants was performed by sixteen Chinese workmen. In an Appendix to a letter from the Superintendent of Prince of Wales Island, dated 12th November 1796, is an estimate, whereby it would appear that a plantation of 100,000 vines should yield, at the end of twelve years, a clear profit to the proprietor of 153,000 Spanish dollars. But the value of the pepper is stated too high at 14 dollars per picul; and the interest of money, on both sides of the account, is neglected. Yet if we value the pepper only at 10 dollars, for which it is presumed it may always be sold on the field, and compute the interest, the result will give an advantage exceeding the Superintendent’s calculation by 31,000 dollars. See Appendix A. The whole quantity of pepper produced last year on the Island was estimated at something between 16,000 and 20,000 piculs. Taking the medium quantity at 12 dollars, which was the selling price, this article must have amounted to 216,000 dollars. The pepper is more esteemed than that which comes from the Malay continent and Sumatra, and it sells for about 1 dollar more per picul. The difference is occasioned by the haste of the Malays to gather fruit before it is sufficiently ripe.