12 SPICES CHAP. copper sulphate solution must he measured out in a wooden pail. If it be desired to economise space the “ stock solution ” of copper sulphate may be kept at the strength of 2 lb. of copper sulphate to each gallon of water, that is to say, 100 lb. of copper sulphate may be dissolved in 50 gallons of water. It is not well, however, to increase the strength of the “stock solution ” of lime, since the slaked lime in “ milk-of-lime ” made at the rate of 2 lb. of quicklime to one gallon of water settles so quickly that it cannot be measured out accurately. The barrels containing the “ stock solutions ” must be kept under cover, i.e. protected from sun and rain. If stood in a shed, and covered with fairly close-fitting lids made by nailing sacking round the edges of a wooden hd—such “ stock solutions ” keep perfectly satisfactorily throughout the spraying season. Two 50-gallon barrels hold sufficient for the making of 625 gallons of Bordeaux mixture; while if the “ stock solution ” of copper sulphate be increased in strength to 100 lb. in 50 gallons of water, and another 50-gallon barrel of “stock solution” of “ milk - of - lime ” is added, these three barrels will supply enough to make 1250 gallons of Bordeaux mixture. By storing such “ stock solutions ” made just before the summer spraying season commences, the grower has the means of obtaining in a few minutes at any time a large supply of Bordeaux mixture of the best quality. The making of Bordeaux mixture on a large scale from “ stock solutions ” is greatly facilitated if some simple “ plant " be erected. The erection consists of two elevated platforms. The higher platform is carried on four 9 ft. 6 in. posts, 5 in. by 4 in., sunk 2 ft. 6 in. in the ground and well rammed. Joists, 5 in. by 4 in., connect the heads of the posts, into which they are halved. An intermediate joist is halved into the middle of two opposite joists. The upper platform is 5 ft. square, and consists of 6 in. by 1 in. boarding in the rough, laid to the edges. The lower platform, which is 6 ft. 6 in. square, is similarly con- structed, and is carried on sleepers, 6 ft. long and 10 in. by 5 in., set vertically and sunk 2 ft. 6 in. in the ground and well rammed. The two structures are bolted together at the two back posts, and where the front post of the higher platform touches the joist of the lower platform. On the higher platform are two 50-gallon “ dilution barrels, marked inside at the 50-gallon level, and fitted with taps. If possible, water should be laid on to this higher platform. On the lower platform stands a vat (fitted with a tap) capable of containing 100 gallons. A short length of hose ( “ canvas hose