SPICES 128 CHAP. beetles having destroyed the subterranean portion, soon dies. The small perforations in the bark (where the adult beetles had escaped) should have shown the planters that small beetles of the Scolytid group were at work in the tree, and the only question then was, were the beetles destroying the living tree or only attacking dead portions. This point is settled by finding the beetles in the still-living bark, and especially in the twigs of the living branches. There was, unfortunately, no entomologist in the colony at that time, or the cause of the plague would soon have been detected and steps taken to remedy it. As it was, to quote Collingwood again :— The planters abandoned the plantations in disgust in many cases where there were still healthy trees, and the land reverted to Government. In other cases, where expensive bungalows had been built upon the estate, they were sold for a small pro- portion of the sums expended in building them, since they were, as a rule, too far from town to command any competition, and ceased to be conveniently situated. Many planters, both English and Chinese, whose whole estates were invested in nutmeg plantations, were thus reduced to ruin and absolutely penniless, and distress and disappointment everywhere pre- vailed. Many of the trees which were abandoned, and round which a thick jungle undergrowth had sprung up, re- covered, which Collingwood attributed to their being no longer manured, for it seems that at the time an idea arose in the minds of the planters that the disease was caused by over-manuring the plants, and they even went so far as to condemn any manuring of the plants at all as fatal to the tree. But this recovery was what might have been expected. The beetles apparently dislike shade, as may be seen from the fact that they were found in the sunniest side of the trees in greatest abundance, and furthermore, the isolation of the remain- ing trees by secondary scrub prevented the beetles from finding their way from one tree to another. There are still in old gardens in Singapore a few of the old nutmeg trees which seem to be the relics of the plantations of