IX 315 LONG PEPPER yield of each vine at 1 seer, valued at 8 annas. It is said to flower in August and September, and fruit is ripe in January. The plant seems to be cultivated exclusively by natives in India, and I can find no record of Europeans ever having attempted to grow it. The only other accounts of its cultivation are those of Dr. Roxburgh in the Flora Indica, and Major Bruce in the Agri- Horticultural Society of India Transactions, iii. 60, who say that the plant is propagated by suckers, and requires a rich, high, and dry soil. The suckers are transplanted soon after the setting in of the periodical rains, at a distance of 5 ft. apart. A little manure is applied to the soil, and during the hot weather the roots are shaded by covering the ground between the plants with straw. No water is applied. The natives usually plant radishes, brinjals, or barley between the plants as a catch crop. The spikes are gathered in the month of January, when it is still green and unripe, as it is most pungent before it is fully ripe. When quite ripe the spikes are red in colour. The spikes are merely dried in the sun, and take on a grey colour. The plant produces 250 to 500 lbs. of dry pepper to the acre in the first year, 1,000 lbs. in the second, and 1,500 lbs. in the third year. After this time it becomes less productive, and is then dug up, and the roots and thick parts of the stem are dried and sold as a drug, under the name of Pippul mula. The field is then replanted with a fresh stock of roots or shoots. Regions.—Bengal is still the chief source of the long pepper of India. The dried fruit fetches 9 rupees a maund of 41 lbs. The root, of which the most valued form is derived from Mirzapore and Malwar, fetches 50 rupees per maund from the latter locality, against 10 to 40 rupees from Bengal. A certain quantity is exported from Calcutta to Europe, but the chief long pepper of commerce is the Javanese species. Bengal long pepper is shorter and more slender than Javanese, and also darker in colour. It is less pungent.