120 SPICES CHAP. Penang, and was rather expensive, costing 3 dollars for 100 little baskets. These animal manures are not used in great quantity. Prawn-dust, which costs from 1 dollar and 80 cents a pikul (133 lb.), is dug into the ground once a year at a point just outside the spread of the branches, each tree receiving 10 or 12 lb. a year. It would be better, perhaps, either to put the manure on the ground and let it rot in, as the Malacca planters do with cow- dung, or to prick over the ground and after throwing in the manure, to cover it up with soil. The nutmeg roots high and produces such a network of roots round the tree that it would be impossible to dig in manure without injuring them. Mulching with cut grass and dead leaves is useful, and is used by the Chinese, who spread cut lalang-grass (Imperata cylindrical at the foot of the trees and between them. It has the advantage of keeping down weeds, keeping the ground cool, and supplying as it decays a certain amount of food for the plant. I observed too, that in Province Wellesley the trees so treated were less attacked by the nutmeg beetles. The Chinese also use grass dug into trenches round the young plants, as described by Dr. Oxley. This, however, should be avoided, unless done when the plants are quite young and the trenches made at some distance away, so that the roots cannot be interfered with. In the early days of the plantation the weeds can be utilised in this way, being dug into the trenches running between the rows of young plants. Pruning is really seldom necessary, but if the trees take to throwing up vertical shoots among the spreading branches, these should be removed as early as possible. As the tree bleeds rather freely on being cut it is recom- mended, when removing large branches, to seal the wounds with a mixture of two parts of pounded lime and one of tar, applied warm. All dead branches and twigs and all parasitic plants, such as the Lorantlii or mistletoes, shouldqbe removed as soon as seen. It is