280 SPICES CHAP. always propagated by cuttings, and has been so propagated in this region for at least five hundred years and probably much longer. Propagating from seed has, it is true, been occasionally done, and it is probable that a certain number of stray seeds dispersed by birds, or accidentally fallen on the ground, have come eventu- ally into cultivation, and perhaps strengthened the stock. There is every reason to believe that plants constantly reproduced by cuttings deteriorate seriously after a lapse of time. Some completely die out, others become feeble and readily succumb to the attacks of insects and pests. A few plants, like sugar-cane, pine- apples, and pepper, seem to remain healthy under this treatment longer than others. A time, however, will come in which they also break down, and it is probable that this has been the case in the Malabar pepper. Planters are always in a hurry to reap the results of their labours as soon as possible, and can hardly be expected to delay by raising pepper slowly from seed so as to eventually get a stronger stock which will last longer than plants raised from cuttings continuously, and this is especially the case in native cultivations, of which pepper is mainly one. Still, planters, while continuing their cultivations from cuttings, might at the same time raise seedlings from a good stock in order to replace at a later date Ike cuttings derived from a sexual reproduction carried on perhaps for many centuries. Root Fungus.—A very serious disease due to a root fungus is described in the Kew Bulletin, 1895, p. 178. The disease broke out in Mysore. It is due to a fungus allied to Dematophora necatrix, a fungus which does much damage to vines and orchards in Europe. The planter who describes the attack, Mr. T. S. Middleton, writes as follows :— It is not the pepper only that is attacked, hut even the saplings or undergrowth of the forest trees which spring up very rapidly suffer also. All over the plantations, at various points, this disease attacks these young saplings in patches of