114 SPICES CHAP. on hot days is excessive, and this must certainly injure the roots, the ground being kept scrupulously clean of weeds, and so receiving the full and continuous heat of the sun. In the Singapore Botanic Gardens a number of trees were grown in open ground. The soil (except just round the trees, where it was kept clear for con- venience in manuring) was covered with grass. No shading was used, but two or three trees were close to taller trees of the kind known as Tembusu (Fagraea fragrans). These two or three trees, shaded from the afternoon sun partly or altogether, are much larger, more bushy, and produce much more fruit. The leaves are of a richer green, and the whole plant much more healthy in appearance. In several old gardens in Singapore were formerly some old trees which seemed to have remained over as relics of the long abandoned cultivation here. These had been neglected in many cases, and were shaded by old fruit trees. They were of large size, with fine and abundant dark-green foliage, but I observed that most of them produced very little fruit. Probably in these cases the shading was too dense, and the plants too much crowded by the other trees. I am strongly inclined to think that, in most places at least, a good light shade would be very beneficial to the growth of the nutmeg. In Trinidad the well-known rain-tree (Pitliecolobium saman) is used for shading, and is, I think, as good a shade tree as could be found. It grows readily from seed, and is a fast grower. It is not too dense, allowing a good quantity of light to pass through its foliage. During rain and at night it closes its leaves so as to let rain and dew fall on the plants beneath it. The saga (Adenanthera pavonina) is another tree that might be used. It is a fast grower from seed, but spreads less than the rain-tree, and sheds all its leaves during the dry season, which might expose the nutmegs to the full heat at the hottest period. The rapid- growing Albizzia moluccana is often used as a shade tree for coffee and other plants. It gives a light lattice-