SPICES 188 CHAP. the good buds while stalking. It can he done at this time with little trouble, and with no extra cost, but the invariable custom is to let good and bad all go in together. Before finally sending to market we passed the cloves through a riddle, to remove the small immature buds. By these means, which is only the old story of attention to detail, we produced what, for Zanzibar, was a fairly good sample, though falling short in the size of the buds. This was a defect which we could not remedy; most of the cloves this year have been small. Practically no difference is made in the local market between good and ordinary, so I was induced to send a small trial lot of 140 fraslas to be sold separately in London, to test the value of our work. Early in the year I had sent home to Messrs. Gray, Daws, and Co. an experimental sample of cloves that had been dried last season, and Mr. Hugh Garden of that firm reported on them as follows:— “ As regards the cloves this is, of course, the finest sample of Zanzibar ever shown, and buyers who saw it valued it at 7d. to 8d. There is still a considerable difference between this and Penang, which somehow appear to retain their reddish brown colour. A very fine sample was bought in at auction at lid. or 114d., and was being held for Is. The market apparently makes the same difference between Penang and your sample—in value—as between your sample and ordinary fair Zanzibar, but this, too, you must understand, is only for very limited quantities.” These cloves were dried under glass after having been specially picked. More depends upon the picking than upon the drying. It is impossible for us here to pick the buds singly, because of the quantity to handle; they must be picked in bunches, as they grow, and the small and over-ripe buds sorted out afterwards. In order to test the efficacy of glass we erected a small house 30 ft. long and 14 ft. wide, with galvanised iron walls and a glass roof. The heat of the sun was in this way increased 25° beyond what it was in the open air. This increase of temperature did not hasten the drying process so much as we expected, unless the cloves were first raised upon shelves. The heated air was then able to act from below and above, and cloves could be dried in two days in cloudy weather with only short intervals of sunshine. All our cloves were finished off in the glass-house. I don’t think that the elevated temperature to which they were exposed contributed so much to the improvement in quality as the sorting and riddling. We shall try and arrange next year a system of shelves to increase the drying area of the clove house.