CARDAMOMS X 349 Mollison says a well-grown, healthy plant may yield up to L lb. of dry cardamoms, and at 300 or 400 plants per acre, as grown among betel palms in Kanara, this gives 150 to 200 lbs. dry cardamoms per acre. In Travancore the yield, according to the Madras Manual, only comes up to 20 or 25 lbs. per acre. This is, however, in a form of wild cultivation, where the owners of gardens in forests merely clear away the creepers and brushwood around the plants once a year. CURING The object to be aimed at in curing the cardamoms so as to be of the highest commercial quality, is to produce a light straw-coloured fruit with no black or brown spots on it and as little split as possible. « A certain proportion of split cardamoms, composed chiefly of over-ripe fruit, is unavoidable, but our endeavour should be to reduce this to a minimum. The curing of cardamoms is a very simple matter in dry weather, sun-drying being the most effective and cheapest method. Long exposure to the sun during hot weather, the attempt in fact to dry the fruit quickly, is a mistake, for the seed inside gets heated, swells, and bursts its covering. Three hours’ exposure in the morning and two hours in the afternoon is as much as it is safe to give. In showery or unsettled weather, of course, full advantage must be taken of whatever sunshine there is. The slower the drying process, the smaller is the proportion of split fruit, and hence too long protracted exposure to the sun or to artificial heat should be avoided. (Owen’s Notes on Cardamom Cultivation.) In Southern India as described by Ludlow, the cardamoms are dried by exposure to the sun on large bamboo or date mats. Those nearly dry are not allowed to get mixed with the green ones, and four days in the sun is sufficient if the sun is strong. A shed is required close to the drying-ground in case of rain, so that the capsules can be quickly taken there out of risk of wetting. Ferguson, in All about Cardamoms, says that he hung up a few racemes, with branches and capsules, in a room