298 SPICES CHAP. Ill a country such as Sumatra was then, where the diffi- culties the native had to contend with in getting a regular sale for his produce were great, having to depend on the irregular and scanty visits of ships to take it, the absence of roads to the interior naturally deterred them from extending the cultivation. It is perhaps due, too, to the system of enforced cultivation as practised in Java that the Javanese has developed into a higher class cultivator than the Malay, who, not compelled to cultivate anything, will never settle down to steady work. At the same time the system was obviously open to abuse. A native compelled to cultivate a crop and to supply the produce to a European at a price fixed by the latter, whether the planter lost by his garden or not, is in the position of a slave to the European. As long as the influence of the chiefs continued, the stipu- lated quantity of pepper was cultivated and delivered to the Company, but the price given for the pepper was less than the value of labour employed, and the cultivators held back their labour. The chiefs were unable to enforce their orders. The Company in 1801 reduced their establishment, and a system of contracts introduced, by which the residencies were farmed out to Europeans in return for a certain quantity of pepper, and the Resident received a commission of one dollar for every cwt. of pepper he delivered to the government. Money was also advanced to the Malays to cultivate pepper, and as most of the advance was never paid back, according to local law the children of those who had died or emigrated, or the whole village, became liable for the debt, and so became slave-debtors. Sir Stamford Raffles, however, in 1813, abolished this slavery and declared pepper cultivators free, and allowed the people to cultivate it or not, as they pleased. Bencoolen, which supplied much pepper as well as other spices, was given up to the Dutch, and it was stipulated in the treaty that the British inhabitants were to enjoy until the 8th of June 1820 the unfettered