SPICES 268 CHAP. vine. Fisli manure, that is the waste of the nets, small fish or broken bits and other refuse obtained in the fish-drying industry, is often used as a substitute. In Bombay the manure is made of leaves and twigs gathered during the wet season and used as litter in the cattle and buffalo byres. This is removed with the dung and urine of the cattle to pits every day or every second day, and after about a year’s decay is given to the vines in March or April. The pepper there is usually grown on betel-nut palms, and this manuring benefits both the palm and vine. A basket load is thrown in a circle around the plants, the baskets being 3 ft. round and 15 to 18 ft. deep. During the first year while the plant is growing, besides manuring, the cultivator occupies his time in weeding the ground, attending to the drains, and spray- ing to kill caterpillars and other pests. A good deal of judicious pruning is often required to prevent the plant from growing too bushy at the top, and to induce it to branch out below so as to cover the post. By the time it has reached the top of the post it will have been pruned at least three times. All suckers and useless shoots are removed during this time. The vine will reach the top of the post in from three and a half to four years, and may then be considered to be full grown. A planter who contributes an article on pepper planting to the Singapore Free Press, in 1888, advises that no crop should be taken till it has reached the top of the post, the flower spikes being removed as they appear. The Chinese commence gathering the crop in two or two and a half years, but allow it to bear gradually upwards from the base. At this age from 1 to 1^ catties of white pepper (4 to 6 catties of green pepper) are produced by the vine, and this is doubled when at three and a half years the vine has reached the top of its post and is full grown. Liquid cattle manure can be used if procurable, and gives very good results. A planter in the Singapore