261 PEPPERS VIII covered the leaves and branches, while plants farther apart were unhurt. I have seen a similar attack on coffee plants growing too near the forest edge and similarly shaded, so that after rain the sun could not reach them sufficiently strong, or for a sufficiently long time to dry them. The pepper wants full light and sun on it, and in case of very shaded localities it is advisable to plant wider apart. But, as a rule, 6 ft. apart allows space for sun and air, and gives enough room for the planter to move about among the vines. The ground is left for three weeks to dry when the drains are made. The ground round the sticks is well dug and broken up to the depth of 1 ft. The soil is well mixed with burnt earth and charcoal, and raised to a mound about 18 in. high, when the stake is inserted in its place. Planting out.—When the cuttings or seedlings in the nursery are ready for planting out, or when the ground and supports are ready, the plants may be put in place. This is usually done in Borneo and the Straits Settlements in January during the wet monsoon. In Bombay pepper is planted in August, but the date of planting in any given locality depends entirely on the period of the wet season. The cuttings when short are arranged in the soil at an angle of 45 degrees or there- about, so that the top presses against the support. In the case of a cutting which has two branches the fork is pressed against the support so as to clasp it. The Chinese put the cuttings facing the east. One to four cuttings are planted to each stake. After watering, the plants have to be shaded from the sun, by fern fronds or bunches of lalang grass, or boughs of trees. Within a week or so after planting each vine receives an application of burnt earth, a few handfuls at a time, and this application is continued every four months. Semmler (Tschirch, Heil- unci Nutz'pjlarizen) de- scribes a Sumatran method of pepper cultivation as follows. The plants are cultivated in rice fields, which