160 SPICES CHAP. 9 in. or 1 ft. above the level, to allow for sinking of the loose earth. Bu<ie describes and figures a planting machine in the form ol a split cylinder with two handles which is put round the little plant and pushed into the ground as deep as it will go, the cylinder being closed round the plant and its soil. The earth outside the cylinder is dug away with a trowel till the bottom of the cylinder is reached, and the trowel being pushed beneath the base of the cylinder the whole is lifted. The cylinders are carried to the place where the plants are to be set and pushed into the planting-hole, the wire which closes the hinge of the cylinder withdrawn so that it partly, opens, and it is then pulled out, leaving the plant in its place. The objection to this system of plant shifting lies in its rather unnecessary complication. It would be con- sidered too slow nowadays by the modern planter, who finds that by due care the small plants can be lifted from the bed, especially if not too closely planted, with a trowel only, with perfect success. Tile pots made of two half cylinders of baked clay, or joints of bamboo split in two lengthways, may be used if the nursery is too far from the plantation. In using these, the half cylinders of tile or bamboo are tied round at the top and bottom with a piece of split rattan and filled with soil, in which a seed is inserted. The pots are stood in rows till the seed has germinated and grown to the required height, when it is transferred to the planting-hole, into which the cylinder is inserted, the rattans cut and the half cylinders drawn out, leaving the plant with its soil in its place. Another method is to use sections of common tin piping cut in halves, lengthways, and fastened as before with split rattan. The plants grown in piping or tile pots are sunk in the ground, so as to keep them cool, or loose soil is banked up round them. Grown in this way they are very portable for planting out. Cylindric or cone shaped baskets of split rattan or