SPICES 402 CHAP. roots and earth, is divided into small lots in baskets and plunged in the water, where it stays ten or fifteen minutes. It is then spread out on a platform to dry. During the process the water is occasionally changed (Kew Bulletin). According to Kilmer, however, scalding the ginger is not practised to any extent in Jamaica. The effect of this treatment is to swell the starch and bassorine-like gums. He found that by treating the ginger with boiling water for an hour the rhizomes are considerably swollen, and the water was filled with the aroma of ginger. Under the treatment with boiling water the skin comes off easily, but if the action is continued the starch and fibre are acted on, and the rhizomes dry hard and become darker in colour. In Khanclesh, India, the rhizomes are at first partly boiled in a wide-mouthed vessel, then after drying a few days in the shade they are steeped in weak lime- water, sun dried, and steeped in stronger lime-water, and then buried for fermentation. When the fermenta- tion is over, the ginger, now called South, is ready for market. In some of the Indian bazaar ginger the rhizomes are roughly washed and then smeared with cow-dung and hung up in baskets, or placed on trays, among the rafters, where the smoke of the house cures it. This bazaar ginger is shrivelled, dirty, and most uninviting looking, and is very apt to be destroyed by the boring beetle. A writer in the Pharmaceutical Journal suggests that the ginger should be brushed first with a hard brush till every earthy particle is removed, and steeped for a night in a pretty strong solution of lime-water (1 ounce of unslacked lime to the gallon), then well rinsed in clean water and dried slowly in a brick oven at a temperature of 140° to 160°. Ginger prepared thus in one of the Sylhet plantations fetched nearly as high a price as the best Jamaica ginger. In the Punjab, Baden-Powell says that the rhizomes are dried by placing them in a basket suspended by a rope, and shaking it for two hours a day for three days.