SPICES 96 CHAP. about six, frequently commences to produce female flowers, and eventually becomes wholly female. The male trees usually appear to have more erect branches and smaller leaves than the females, but I am by no means sure that this is always the case. They are often conspicuously less leafy and shabbier looking on native plantations, but this is attributed to the natives not wasting manure on male trees. The flowers are produced on small cymes from the branches, each cyme a little above a leaf. They have a short, woody stalk about -Sr in. long, and several branches, each bearing a number of flowers. The flowers hang down on short green pedicels, and are bell-shaped, with three short triangular lobes, all light yellow and aromatic flavoured. They are more globose and smaller than the female flowers. The walls of the perianth are rather thick, and there is usually some honey inside at the bottom. The androecium, or mass of stamens in the centre, consists of a white cylinder terminated by a cone of about twelve narrow linear anthers closely joined together, and reaching to the mouth of the tube of the perianth. The female flowers are borne in similar positions to the males, but they are either solitary on simple curved pedicels, or there are three together, but seldom more. They are rather larger than the males and more oval in outline, dilated at the base and narrowed at the tip below the three spreading lobes, rather more fleshy than the males, light yellow and shining, in. long. Inside the tube, in place of the staminal column is the ovary, a green conic body ending in a pair of erect, parallel, triangular white stigmas, which nearly fill up the mouth of the tube. Like the males they contain a quantity of nectar at the base of the tube, and are fleshy and aromatic to the taste, having the same flavour as the nutmeg. I have occasionally met with fasciated flowers, two being joined together by their sides. The fruit when ripe is one of the most beautiful in