297 PEPPERS VIII a higher figure (15 dollars). The chiefs were paid about 1^ dollar on each bahar purchased by way of an allowance. The Company looked well after the culti- vation, making annual surveys of the plantations. Their servants resident in the different districts reported annually on the number of vines, their condition, and returns of crop, and gave rewards or punishments where necessary. The inhabitants of the districts were obliged to plant a certain number of vines, each family 1,000, and each young unmarried man 500, and as the gardens attained their prime, young gardens were prepared to keep up the cultivation continuously. The Directors seem not always to have been satisfied with the output of pepper, which was often less than they estimated. This was due to various reasons— accidents, such as the death of the owner, floods, raids of elephants, unfavourable seasons, and want of suffici- ently careful calculation by the Directors of the Company. To obtain the medium proportion of produce to acreage, a Mr. John Crisp prepared in 1777 a general comparative review of the Manna Residency, in which he showed that the proportion of bearing vines to the whole number in the Residency was 5T to 11, and that the produce of 1,000 vines in bearing was, on the average, 453 lbs. Further calculations, taken collectively through the country for twelve years, gave as a mean annual production of 1,000 vines in actual bearing, but of all ages, 404 lbs. The average annual produce of the Company’s _ settlements on the West coast of Sumatra were estimated at 1,200 tons, and this was what was actually received. The return given above for 1,000 vines seems to be rather small, but it must be remem- bered that a considerable number of the vines included were obviously only commencing to bear, and it does not appear that any manure was used. The system of compelling the natives to cultivate pepper for the Company to buy was the method commonly in use in Dutch colonies until comparatively recent times. It had certainly some great advantages.