SPICES 34 CHAP. tion. The important thing to remember is that the vanilla requires partial, but not too heavy shade, especially in its early stages of growth, and freedom from injury by strong breezes. Weeding.—Macfarlane is strongly opposed to a clean-weeded plantation. He prefers to have his planta- tion covered with weeds of different sorts. These, he says, act as a mulch for the surface-feeding roots, a very good thing in a dry spell. The deep-rooting varieties of weeds are constantly bringing up nourishment from the deeper layers of the soil, which the roots of the vanilla do not reach. The mulch consisting of decayed leaves and other parts of the weeds is eventually converted into plant food, in the form of humus, the constituents of which can be assimilated by the vanilla. There is, indeed, a great deal to be said in favour of leaving the ground covered with a carpet of herbaceous weeds, instead of spending time and money in eradicat- ing every blade of grass seen on the estate. All planters admit that weeding forms a large item in the expense of maintaining an estate, and where it is useless and perhaps injurious the principle of clean weeding should be abandoned. Of course, if there are climbers among the weeds which will strangle the young plants, or strong growing herbs or shrubs which shut out the light from the young plant, or harbour snails or injurious insects, it will be necessary to clear these away, but to spend money in scraping out every tuft of grass or little herbs like Portulaca seems unnecessary extravagance. Vanilla in the wild state does not grow on absolutely bare soil. It is a forest plant growing on land covered with thick scrub or low bushes, and to expose its roots to a blazing sun and to the rush of a tropical rain- storm is not treating it in a natural manner. Exposure of the ground in the tropical rain-forest region, near the ■equator, has also the objection that the violent rain- storms will wash away from bared ground all the humus ■and surface soil in a comparatively short time, leaving