VANILLA II 87 right grades of vanillas, I have no doubt that they would meet a ready sale, and at remunerative prices, and we might again see London the chief market for vanillas. In spite of the ever increasing demand for the synthetic vanillin crystals, the beans still hold their own. The inquiry in New York was made from Messrs. Gillespie Bros, and Co. Part of the letter of reply from this firm stands as follows :— We have interviewed the principal broker in vanillas, and also one of the largest users. Neither of them is inclined to attribute the present high price of vanillas entirely to the Pure Food Act, but rather to short crops and an increasing demand. The Pure Food Law has probably had some effect, but articles such as vanillin, which is a synthetic vanilla, is being used in as large quantities as ever, and its sale is not prohibited so long as the packages are clearly marked vanillin. The broker advises us that there is always a ready sale for vanilla of good quality, but was unwilling to name any price as being obtainable for an article or quality with which he was not entirely familiar. He laid great stress upon the fact that the value of vanillas depended almost entirely upon the curing and the packing, but, on the whole, was inclined to encourage planters to go in for the cultivation. The consumer, on the other hand, is not in favour of attempting to grow vanillas on a large scale in the West Indies. He says that he has himself several times tried to work up the trade in two or three of the islands, and that his experience is that there is not sufficient labour, or cheap enough labour, to enable the article to compete with the products of other countries. He admits that, on present prices, the vanilla could be grown with good profit in the West Indies, as prices are two or three times as high as were obtainable three years ago, but in his opinion there will be a large crop next year, and price will adjust themselves. He points out that it takes three years before the vines will bear, and that as the present high prices have now been in force for two or three years, the older planters in the other islands, who planted immediately, have now got large new plantations just about to commence bearing, and it is for this reason that he expects a decline in the market. This particular buyer obtains practically all of his supplies from France, and tells us that, whereas in former days he used to be able to buy in London to good advantage, the fact that the Bourbon (Reunion) Island vanilla has to go to France, has