SPICES 400 CHAP. seems to flower somewhat regularly, and in Jamaica it is common, but it is seldom that one sees the flowers in the Malay Peninsula. When ready for lifting it is dug up carefully with a fork, care being taken not to bruise or break it in so doing. When lifted, the hands or rhizomes are thrown into heaps, the roots broken off, and soil and any other matter adhering to them at once removed. This must be done quickly as, if the ginger dries with the roots and dirt upon it, it will not become white. The rhizomes are thrown immediately into a dish of water in Jamaica, and are then ready for peeling. Manures.—Ginger is a plant which requires a good deal of manuring, even in the best of soils, and even in India, where manure is comparatively seldom used for country crops, manure of some sort is invariably applied. In Malabar the manuring is done first, at the time of planting, the manure, cow-dung, being put into the holes when the sets are planted. Besides this, however, the beds are afterwards covered with a thick layer of green leaves, which protects the young plants from excessive dampness, which might be caused by the violent rainfall of the monsoon, while their decom- position gradually aids in supplying nutriment to the growing plants. The leaves for this purpose are care- fully selected, as those from certain trees are supposed to form breeding-grounds for obnoxious insects. In Bombay manure is first applied when the plants are about 1 ft. tall, and for this purpose oil-cake is used at the rate of 5 lbs. to each bed (the beds being 13^ ft. long and ^ ft. broad). This manuring is repeated twice more, in August and September. The first two layers of manure are not covered with soil, but the third one is covered in. In the Khandesh district the manure used is stated to be equal parts of horse, cow, and sheep-dung mixed. In Bengal at the time of ploughing 30 maunds (840 lbs.) of well-rotted dung is applied to 1 bigha (1,600 square yards), and later the ground is top-dressed with 10 maunds of oil-cake.