115 Ill NUTMEGS AND MACE like shade, but is objected to on account of the great size it attains in a short time, and the brittleness of its branches, which are apt to fall and damage the plants beneath. The canary-nut, which is the main plant used in Banda, is of rather slow growth. Erytlirina litho- sperma, and other species, might be used in suitable spots, but they are not usually very long lived, and appear to be very attractive to lightning stroke. It has been suggested that planting nutmegs along tracks cut through the forest would be found satisfactory, and would be well worth trying. This plan has proved very successful with gutta-percha trees, which grow much more easily in partial shade than in the open; but this plan is open to the objection that the trees and fruit would suffer much from the depredation of deer, pigs, monkeys, squirrels, and other animals which would be difficult to keep in check if the forest was extensive. Lumsdaine deprecates the use of shade trees alto- gether for nutmegs on the ground that they would exclude sun-rays and dew, and would rob the soil of its fertility. If the shade trees were too close and dense they might, of course, shade out the nutmegs, but this is easily obviated by lopping the excessive branches, and so letting light in. It is very improbable that they would interfere with the growth of the trees by destroying the fertility of the soil. It is certain that this is not the case in the Banda plantations. If necessary, the shade trees could be so arranged as only to cut off the hot rays of the sun during the middle of the day and the afternoon, and allow the nutmegs to have the full benefit of the morning sun. Besides preventing the injury to the trees by the excessive heat, the shade trees would aid in breaking- up the soil, in forming humus, and in preventing injury by high wind, to which nutmegs are very liable. In Penang, where no shade trees are used, the Chinese often find it necessary to erect screens to keep the wind from injuring the plants. Weeding.—In the Straits Settlements and Ceylon,