SPICES 76 CHAP. were growing almost in a wild state in a mango grove, and such as they were, they served all the more to show what little trouble there is attached to their cultivation.” In the gardens the vanilla was planted at the base of the trees in good leaf-mould, mixed with plenty of brick refuse as a drainage for the young plants. Once put down, they grew at their own sweet will, and soon attained vigorous growth. The plants showed their flower buds in March, and by the 10th of April were fertilised. The pods attained their full size in the beginning of November, and by December the nose of the pod turns yellow first, then brown. This is the time to gather the pods. The pods being few in number in this experiment were sun dried, wrapped in a woollen cloth, and developed a fine aroma, and soon assumed the dark chocolate colour which is recognised as very good. In the same Journal (p. 193) is quoted an Assam planter’s article published in Capital. The author says, “ where the vanilla plant will thrive well and set its pods there can be little doubt that it would pay, and pay handsomely, but it has always to be borne in mind that though the plant may grow and set its pods in many of our tea and coffee districts, it will not thrive in all such districts. It flourishes in a great many districts during the monsoon, where, if not killed out- right in the cold season, it is so weakened by the effects of the damp, foggy weather which obtains in many of our Assam tea districts that it takes all its time to recover itself during the following rains. It appears to thrive very well in South Sylhet, and flowers abundantly year after year in that district without showing any bad effects from the cold weather, but it ought to be pointed out that South Sylhet enjoys a much higher temperature during the cold season than the majority of the Upper Assam districts. The low temperature is not so antagonistic to this plant if not accompanied by a damp atmosphere. When the latter condition obtains the leaves get covered all over with black spots, the