206 SPICES CHAP. sorted into three compartments by a winnowing machine ; the heaviest is used for white pepper, the next heaviest is made into black pepper, and the third, after the best fruits are picked out, goes as refuse pepper. Two-thirds of the crop form white pepper, and the remaining third black. The white pepper goes to London, and the black to China. The freight from Chantabun to Bangkok is 13s. 9d. per ton, and there is an inland duty of £1: 7 : 6.1 Sumatra.—Pepper was cultivated in Sumatra in very early days, as early as 1509, chiefly by the Achinese, who are still among the best cultivators. Marco Polo does not mention it as being cultivated in Sumatra, and it was perhaps introduced later. It is recorded by Linschoten in 1598, as being a product of Sumatra, In 1783 Marsden writes that of the commercial articles of produce pepper is the most important and abundant. The trade in this spice was then the object of the East India Company’s trade with Sumatra, and the only product that they kept exclusively in their hands, their servants and the merchants under their protection being free to deal in any other commodity but this. Many of the local chiefs had invited the English to form settle- ments in their respective districts, and factories were established, and a permanency and regularity given to the trade, previously very uncertain, while it depended on the success of occasional voyages to the coast. Failure of adequate quantities for cargoes, and the caprices and cheating of the rajas, made the trade very uncertain. The Company’s agents, however, residing on the spot could inspect the plantation, secure the collection of the produce, and estimate the tonnage required. Contracts were made with the chiefs, who were obliged to compel their dependents to cultivate pepper, and to secure for the Company the exclusive right of purchase, in return for which they enjoyed English protection, and received an allowance on the produce. The price paid by the Company was 10 dollars (15s.) per bahar (5 cwt.). It was later raised to 1 Foreign Office Consular Report, 1893, Keic Bulletin, 22, 1893.