177 CLOVES IY buds begin to appear. They are green at first, then become yellowish with a pink tint, and finally dull blood- red, when they are fit to gather. As the buds are not all ripe at once, it is necessary to go over the trees twice or thrice during the harvest season. The buds are usually gathered by hand, hooked sticks being used to pull down the branches. In Amboyna they are partly gathered by hand and partly knocked off the branches with bamboos. As all parts of the trees are not accessible from the ground, step-ladders are used to enable the coolies to reach the buds. The branches are rather brittle and care has to be taken not to break them, as rough treatment may prevent their bearing well for some years. The buds are then spread out to dry on mats in the sun. In some places they are scalded with hot water before drying. This is not common, however, and is apt to spoil the appearance of the finished produce. In Amboyna they are first dried on a framework over a slow "wood fire, which gives them a brown colour, and then are finally dried off in the sun, which produces a black colour. Some of the finest cloves I have seen were dried on zinc plates over a fire. These were pre- pared for an Exhibition at Penang, and were remarkably plump and well-coloured. In Zanzibar, after the cloves are gathered the slaves pick the clove buds from the stalks and spread them out to dry on mats in direct sunlight, taking them in at night to avoid their becoming wet with dew. The drying is continued for six or seven days, during which they lose about 50 per cent of their weight, or sometimes as much as 60 per cent. The Zanzibar cloves are drier than those of Pemba when shipped, but lose 8 per cent more in weight by shrinkage in transport to Europe. Mr. Thomas Burt urges, in the Shamba, that the cloves should be separated from the stalks, and the leaves, stalks, and waste bits thrown away at once, and that the cloves should not be left in piles or baskets over night, as if this is allowed they heat, much to their N