NUTMEGS AND MACE Ill 129 1860, recovered from the attacks of the pest by being abandoned in a mixture of bushes and trees which have sprung up since. Remedy.—It must be remembered that certainly at the present day, and apparently, too, in the early days of the nutmeg plantations in Penang and Province Wellesley, the nutmeg trees are grown in open, well- weeded soil with no shade, and extremely hot, so that the trees themselves are less strong, and the beetles have everything in their favour, warmth and light, and every facility for flying from tree to tree. Shading, as is the custom in Banda and elsewhere, is therefore desirable. The Chinese cultivators in Penang, I observed, did not cut off and burn the dead or dying branches of the affected trees, as good cultivators would do, but left them on the ground in piles, or even used them to bank up the earth round the stems of other trees, thus absolutely bringing the pest into close proximity with young and healthy trees. As I found the beetle living 6 in. below the ground, burying the boughs as the Chinese do does not kill it, and it can easily dig its way out. The irregular way in which trees in a nutmeg plantation are attacked is very remarkable. I have seen three trees standing side by side on a terrace destroyed utterly, while all around them were trees in the finest condition, with no signs of beetles even in the branches. But the dead trees were standing on a very exposed slope well above the tops of those on the lower terraces, so that beetles flying, as beetles so often do, in a straight line across the valley would strike these trees first. Here again shade trees would be of value in checking an incursion of pests of this nature. As is almost invariably the case in attacks of this kind, the disease commences with the destruction of a few branches, and the planters take no notice of this. The beetles increase in numbers, a few trees die, still no notice is taken. Then almost suddenly the disease becomes virulent, every tree is attacked and quickly K