SPICES 394 CHAP. deposit several feet in depth. The plant grows luxuri- antly in such soil, but apparently will not grow in marshy soil, nor where there is present more than 10 to 20 per cent of clay or 30 per cent of sand.” It certainly seems to dislike more than a com- paratively small percentage of sand. The sandy soils are more apt to pack after a heavy rain, and to become too dense for the rhizomes of the plant. Wet swampy ground does not suit it at all, and ground apt to be Hooded is to be avoided. In cases in which the ground becomes too dry in the dry season, a system of irrigation will be needed, and swampy ground may be utilised by systematic and careful drainage. But the ideal ground for ginger is good garden soil, rich in humus, light and well worked, friable and fairly dry. A very large proportion of the ginger produced in Jamaica is cultivated by the natives as a garden-plant in small plots, in much the same way as potatoes are grown in England. The class of soil in which it is grown seems to have a considerable importance, not only in the amount of the crop, but in the size of the hands or rhizomes, and in their texture. Thus it is remarked that in rich cool soil, recently cleared of wood, “ it grows so luxuriantly that a large spreading root will weigh near a pound. It is, however, remarked that what is produced from a clayey, tenacious soil shrinks less in scalding, while such as is raised in richer, free black moulds loses considerably in that operation.” 1 In Jamaica for many years the extravagant and ruinous policy of destruction of virgin forest by felling and burning, followed by cultivation of ginger for a few years and then abandoning the land, now spoilt and worn out, and destroying more forest, was pursued, as has been done in the Straits Settlements and others of our colonies. The soil of the virgin forest is rich enough for the growth of ginger, and will last for a few years, when, with the washing out of the nutritive elements 1 Long’s “Jamaica,” quoted in Kew Bulletin, 1892, p. 79.