SPICES 30 CHAP. Selection of a Site.—In Mexico it is usual to select as a suitable place for the cultivation of vanilla a portion of forest, in which a clearing is made, a number of trees being left at a distance of from 15 to 20 ft. apart to act as supports to the vanilla plants. Delteil suggests a sloping hill-side covered with woods, which, of course, must be suitably thinned out so as to allow of sufficient light during the flowering and fruiting seasons, and such land, if procurable, would undoubtedly be convenient in many ways. Old orchards which have long been used for the cultivation of vanilla cannot be recommended, as the ground is liable to be infected with the vanilla disease, as will be explained later. In any case, it is preferable to open new ground for a fresh cultivation when possible, whatever the previous crop may have been. In new cleared ground which is not furnished with trees suitable for the support of the vines, it is necessary either to plant the support trees as soon as possible, in order that they may be ready to carry the vines when they commence to climb, or in default of trees the system of cultivation on trellises must be adopted. Mr. Macfarlane, in an article in the Trinidad Bulletin, vol. xxxii. p. 465, is strongly in favour of selecting as a site a valley with a moderate slope. He claims that the steep little valleys with which the Polynesian Islands abound are the ideal home for the vanilla, and states that in his own plantation in Tahiti, half a mile from the sea and a couple of hundred feet above it, the pods average in length over an inch more than those grown close to the beach or in an undrained soil. ^Vanilla, he says, revels in moisture, but it wants no stagnant water about its roots. Heavy dews, more or less moisture constantly descending from the hills above almost obviate the necessity of rain, while the natural drainage keeps the ground always sweet, no matter how heavy or how prolonged the rain is. The vine also delights to send its roots around and among rocks. Indeed, a rocky