319 IX LONG PEPPER The branches, however, are stiffer and longer, light brown with green streaks; the internodes, drum-stick shaped, are about 4 in. long, round and smooth. The leaves are ovate acute, the base rounded and cordate, the two lobes slightly unequal. They are light green, thinner than those of black pepper, 6 in. long by 4 in. wide, two pairs of nerves rising from the notch at the base; between them rises the midrib, which soon breaks into three slender nerves ; the leaf-stalk is 1 in. long, grooved above. The leaves are alternate, and from the nodes opposing the leaves are produced the flower spikes, hanging down on stout pedicels 1 in. long. The flower spikes are 6 in. long and ^ in. thick, cylindric and blunt. They are of a pale glaucous green, marked with the spirally arranged stigmas. The greyish colour of the spike is caused by a fine white down which covers the spike. Unlike black pepper, the flowers are so closely compacted that it is very difficult to separate them. The ovaries are sunk deeply in the fleshy rachis, and are narrowed to a slender point, which reaches to the surface and bears a starlike stigma, with 3 to 5 lobes ; with each ovary there is on the surface of the spike a round, green, shield-shaped bract, quite smooth. Bakek is cultivated in much the same way as pepper, that is to say, from cuttings put alongside a stake, up which they eventually climb, and are tied on by strips of bark or rattan. They commence bearing in about six months, and usually last for about four or five years. They are seldom manured except with a little burnt earth, as the price of the spice is low, and it does not seem to be considered worth while; but they are cultivated in damper and better soil than pepper, and under the shade of fruit trees. With a proper supply of manure they would doubtless last longer. The spikes when ripe are gathered and dried in the sun, and then turn black. They have a hot pungent taste, and are about as hot as long pepper, but with it there is also a bitter and rather unpleasant flavour. Bakek is chiefly used by natives as a medicine, and