PEPPERS VIII 289 younger, green fruits do not commence to wither for some time after they are gathered, being indeed still alive for a day or two. Plunging into boiling water kills them immediately, after which they quickly commence to blacken. During the process of drying, in whatever way, the pepper must be constantly turned over, and care taken that no mildew appears. White Pepper.—As this is merely the ripened seeds of the pepper deprived of skin and pulp, in order to obtain a good quality the gathering of the spikes is delayed till nearly all on the spikes are showing a red colour, if possible. The fruits, however, on the same spike ripen so irregularly that this cannot always be done. The ordinary method adopted by the Chinese for making white pepper is, first, to detach the fruits from the branches by pressing them underfoot. The berries are then put into large bags and allowed to soak for a week or ten days in water. Where possible, a running stream in full sun is used, but open water-holes are more commonly made for this work. The heat and moving water, however, accelerate the decomposition of the skin and pulp, and so streams are preferred. When the skins are sufficiently loose and soft the pepper is put into tubs, where it is stamped underfoot in a little water, and washed till all the skins, pulp, and stalks are detached. The peppercorns are then taken out of the tub and put to dry in the sun on mats. J. Bosscha (in Teysmannia, 1900, No. 2) suggests that it is better to make troughs of brickwork or hard wood, through which the stream can be allowed to run slowly, and to carry off the waste pulp, stalks, etc., which are lighter than the seeds. White pepper is also made from dried black pepper in England by milling it in a special machine made for the purpose. The machine consists of a rotating stone enclosed in a wire-covered circular box. The pepper is thrown against the wire netting by the stone, and re- bounds. By this method the skin is gradually rubbed u