SPICES 368 CHAK earth (the method of making this has already been given), and when this is done the bed is ready to receive the seeds. Drain ofl the water from the seeds and dry them well, and put in some burnt earth or soft earth and mix the mixture well, so that the seeds may be separated and not cling together in a mass. Then scatter the seeds and earth carefully over the prepared ground, being careful not to strew them over one corner only, as the seeds will become spindly and drawn up. The object of this is to separate the seeds as much as possible, not always an easy matter in the case of small seeds, which are apt to adhere together by their sticky pulp. During their growth, liquid manure, urine, etc., will do them much good if it is given once a week. After fifty days the chili seedlings can be trans- planted to the permanent beds. These beds are made 50 ft. long and 3 ft. in width, and 1 ft. apart, so that the planter can get between the rows without injuring the plants, and between each block runs a 5 ft. path. The soil of the beds is well worked over and raised or banked up a little. Two holes are made in each row on the outer sides, opposite to each other, about 1^ to 2 ft. apart. Thus you get 50 to 60 plants in each 50 ft. bed. After making the holes, put in first some cow-dung, and then the plants in the centre, covering up the bases with soil from the bed. The chilies are fertilised with liquid manure once every week or oftener. If urine is used, it should be mixed with water in the proportion of three parts of water to two parts of urine while the plants are young, and three parts of urine to two parts of water when they are about a month old. Pig-dung is also used, but water is not added to this. The Chinaman wastes nothing in the way of manure : all excreta of man or beast are valued and utilised. The pigs are kept in long sties with a flooring of sticks, beneath which is a cement tank which receives the excreta of the pigs, waste bits of food, water, etc., through the spaces between the sticks. This forms a valuable liquid