SPICES 112 CHAP. The commonest mistake in planting is to fill the hole in which a tree is to be planted with its new soil only to the level of the ground, or even lower. The result of this is that rain-water collects in the sunken ground and fills the bottom of the hole, causing death of the roots from water-logging. The little plant is now planted in the centre of the hole, and the soil firmly pressed down round it. Care is to be taken to see that the tap-root is straight. Plants that have been too long in pots or bamboo tubes are apt to have the tap-root bent, or in the act of planting it may be somewhat bent. A tree with a bent tap-root may grow for many years, but eventually remains stunted and is a complete failure. I have seen estates of coffee in which the tap- root of almost every bush was badly bent. The plants after a few years were worthless, and the mistake could never be remedied. In planting any tree it is a good plan while pressing down the soil on both sides with the feet to firmly but gently give the little plant a pull upwards. This will straighten the root if it has been accidentally bent in planting. It is worth while to take some trouble in planting neatly and properly, for, as a tree is planted, so will it grow, and a mistake made in planting may never again be remediable. In hot places the little plants require a certain amount of shading till they have settled in the ground, and commence to push out their roots. This is commonly done in the Straits Settlements by sticking fronds of the bracken ferns, Gleichenia or Pteris, into the ground so as to make a light shade over the plants. If these are not available small roofings of portions of palm leaves, or boughs of other trees may be used. Dr. Oxley recommends the use of what are known as atcips, a roofing of pandanus leaves bent over a stick and fastened with slips of rattan. This, however, would be too dark under ordinary circumstances. The object of the shade is to keep off the direct sun rays in the hot and dry time of the day, and very heavy rain, but at