339 CARDAMOMS X that cardamoms require a certain amount of shade. Plants grown in full sun seem to deteriorate soon, and even if some plants thus grown do develop rapidly the racemes do not grow to any size, only extending to a few inches in length, in fact only as far as the shade of the foliage extends. If the method of growing in clearings in forests is adopted, a certain number of trees are left standing to make a light shade, and it is advisable to have this light shade too dense at first to allow for death of trees or loss by wind. The loss ot trees after clearing brushwood and small timber away, and letting the light into the forest, is always greater than might appear likely, and a large proportion of the trees left standing will be certain to die after thinning out. It is easy to thin out the trees if the shade is too dense at a later period. In many parts of India, e.g. in Kanara and Mysore, the plant is grown between betel- nut palms or bananas, or in gardens of mixed cultivation where the other cultivated plants give it the requisite shade. In such a cultivation as this, it is undoubtedly best to select a piece of ground upon which there are a number of trees already. Secondary growth of small trees is suitable, if procurable. Failing this, it will be requisite to plant rapidly growing shade trees, such as the rain-tree, Inga Saman, Saga, Adenanthera pavonina, Albizzia moluccana, or the like. As trees to give shade are naturally slower in growth than the cardamoms, they should be planted as early as possible. In selecting the best trees for rapid growth, the planter will have to use his judgment to a considerable extent, for a tree which is of rapid growth in one country or at one altitude is not necessarily suited for another region or height. It may grow in one place more slowly or not at all, while in another it grows with great rapidity and is in every way suitable. Draining.—The extent and depth to which drains should be dug depends on the nature and slope of the soil. In flat wet land they will require to be 2 ft. deep