VANILLA II 29 although the rainfall was above the average, it was coincident with a calamitous drought which extended from the middle of February to the end of October, and caused a great agricultural disturbance. Similarly, in 1905, many parts of the islands were without any substantial rainfall between June and October, and everywhere the crops were damaged by the intense sun-heat and the absence of regular showers. Two droughts in two successive years had the effect of checking the flowering of the coco-nuts and the vanilla. In the latter case the almost entire failure of the flowering season reduced the crop of vanilla in 1906 to one-third of that of a normal year. These figures give an approximate idea of the requirements of the vanilla as regards climate. As in the case of many other crops, regularity of climate counts for more than the actual humidity and tempera- ture within certain limits. Soil.—The soil which the plant requires in order to thrive is one rich in humus, light and friable. Stiff clay soils, which dry rapidly, and wet water-logged ground is not at all suited to the growth of the plant. Vanilla is a forest-loving plant, and, like all such plants, requires a rich soil of decaying leaves and partial shade in order to thrive. Galbraith describes the soil of the Seychelles as follows: “There are three sorts of soil here, (l) Rich vegetable mould, in forest and valley bottoms ; for a quick growth this is excellent. (2) Greasy red clay in fair quantity; in this vanilla makes good growth. (3) Coarse quartz sand or gravel; this is best of all, as giving good drainage. In wet years plants are more likely to crop than in other soils.” It must be remembered that in most of the islands of the Seychelles a considerable amount of guano is mixed with the soil, which is therefore rich in lime, nitrogen, and phosphoric acid, so that probably the coarse quartz sand was richer in the salts required by the plant than a similar looking soil would be in other countries.