260 SPICES CHAP. in small heaps and burnt. (It would be better either to pile it in lines and allow it to rot down, or to use it in making burnt earth.) A space of about 1 acre should be cleared and dug deep, cleaned of roots, etc. In this pepper cuttings should be laid down about 1 in. apart, 12 in. buried beneath the soil, and 6 in. exposed. For the 12 acres about 15,000 cuttings would be required. In about a year these should have made roots and shoots, and can be planted out' near the trees left for supports. As a rule, the trees left in this manner being irregular in size and position, are not well suited for a good pepper garden. Preparation of the Ground.—If the ground selected for the plantation is covered with forest, this is completely felled and burnt. The stumps and roots are dug out after the burning, and collected into heaps for making burnt earth. Any hardwood timber may be stored for the stakes. In fields covered with lalang grass (Imperata cylindrical), as is often the case in the Malay region, the grass is fired or cut, and the ground dug over so as to expose the rhizomes of the grass to the sun. If possible a plough may be used with advantage. After three weeks most of the lalang will be dead, and the rhizomes that are not are again dug out. As burnt earth is a necessary manure for pepper in most countries, the planter will utilise as much as he can of the vegetation cut during clearing to have it ready for the planting. There is no need to waste it all by merely burning it on the ground. The failing supply of brushwood for the gambir and pepper planta- tions, and the scarcity of good stakes for the pepper, contributed much to the disappearance of these cultiva- tions in Singapore some years ago. The ground cleared, it is lined and sticks are put in to mark the positions of the pepper posts, 6 ft. apart. J. Bosscha, in Teysmannia (1900, xi. No. 2), mentions a case of overcrowding at this distance, where from want of proper air-space the vines in a wet year were attacked by a fungus, the mycelium of which