281 PEPPERS VIII from 5 to 10 or 15 yds. square, and I may say, killed them off outright. As regards the pepper vines, most are attacked at the root, though some are attacked a few feet from the ground, and very soon afterwards the vine dries up, having affected most of the other vines in the neighbourhood. I have tried coal tar mixed with water, and paraffin oil, also mixed with water, all to no purpose, but I have found great benefit from the application of fires lighted in large numbers throughout the affected parts, though a great number of vines get scorched and die afterwards. Of this Mr. Massee writes :— The material sent shows that the pepper fungus can reproduce itself by two different methods. 1. The most general form, and the only one when the disease spreads from a centre, is by mycelium or spawn, which travels in the soil, spreading from plant to plant and destroying the roots. When such centres of disease are found they should be at once isolated by digging a narrow trench, about 10 in. deep, round the diseased patch, thus preventing the outward spread of the mycelium, which cannot pass the trench. As there is no cure for the plants when the roots are attacked, it would be best to remove and burn all plants within the affected area, otherwise the diseased plants will form a centre of infection by another method. 2. If the stem of a plant that has been diseased at the root for some time is examined, very minute black lumps, just visible to the naked eye, will be seen scattered over the surface, and in addition small velvety black patches are also very frequently present. These are two distinct fruiting conditions belonging to the fungus, each of which produces myriads of conidia or very minute reproductive bodies which are dispersed by wind and inoculate other plants. By this method the plants become diseased above ground, while the roots remain healthy. Nothing short of prompt destruction by burning of all plants showing such black lumps or velvety patches can prevent the disease by diffusion of conidia. As conidia are dispersed mostly by very low currents of air, screens of branches might with advantage be erected between the plantation and the affected forest region. The benefit derived from the fires is explained by the fact that each fire forms a vortex, through which a certain volume of spore-laden air passes and is purified. Where the root form of the disease has shown itself, it