VIII PEPPERS 311 each slip having a hardwood stick about 2 or 3 ft. long near it to cling to. At the same time, they plant out in the field the supporting trees, called in Malay dedup, at intervals of 6 ft. each way, which are allowed to grow one year before transplant- ing the pepper plants from the nursery near them, which plants are, of course, then also one year old. In that time the dedup tree grows from 12 to 15 ft. high. Then holes are made 1 ft. square, and the same depth, prepared as Mr. Dobree describes, near each tree, in which they plant the cuttings taken from the nursery. Only one plant is put in each hole. They do not make a small mound round each vine, as Mr. Dobree says the Chinese do at Singapore. No manure at all is used. The vines of three years’ growth in the field yield their first small crop. Two years after, they are in full bearing, yielding an average of 3b catties per vine of dry black pepper. An acre contains one thousand two hundred (1,200) vines, yielding at this rate forty-two (42) pikuls. This greatly exceeds Mr. Dobree’s account of the returns at Singapore, although manure is used there and not at Arra Kudah. The pepper is gathered about the middle of the year, and is dried by being spread out on the ground exposed to the sun and wind, fire not being used. He did not know the difference of weight between green and dry pepper, but thinks it is not nearly so great as described by Mr. Dobree. To make white pepper, they bury thoroughly ripe black pepper in damp ground for five days, when they take it up. By that time the skin is rotted, which is washed off- and the corns then dried in the sun. I did not inquire the cost of cultivation, to compare with Mr. Dobree’s estimate, as nothing reliable could be learnt on this point, and would be most likely misleading rather than otherwise. No doubt it is much less costly to the Achinese here than to the Chinese in Singapore. The above is all the information I could obtain without visiting Arra Kudah, which I hope will be sufficient for your purpose.—Yours sincerely, H. De Moenay. (.Straits Settlements Government Gazette, 15th August 1884.) Literature Barber. “Varieties of Cultivated Pepper.” Dept. Agrie., Madras, iii. 56. Nair, C. P. K. Tropical Agriculturist, 1906, p. 562. Hewitt, J. C. Agricultural Bulletin Straits Settlements, vii. 189. Derry, R. “ Trang Pepper.” Agric. Bull. Straits Sett. viii. 240.