282 SPICES CHAP. is useless to plant on the same spot before the soil has been thoroughly sterilised. Lime, if available, will affect this. Finally, great care should be taken in the selection of perfectly healthy cuttings. No part of any diseased plant should be used, for though the plant may not at any one spot show the disease, the mycelium is present, and will, at a later stage, grow out and show the disease. In many parallel cases where root disease is the trouble, the disease is really fostered by the planting of diseased cuttings. The case of such a disease as this calls distinctly for treatment of the soil with Bordeaux mixture. My experience of treating this class of fungus with liberal doses of lime and copper sulphate leaves no doubt in my mind that this will purify the ground of the pest. The planter should lose no time on the first appearance of any underground root fungus on the pepper. Isolate the infected area at once by trenches, as described, and sprinkle them well with lime, cut down every vine within the infected area and burn on the spot, stake and all. Do not try to save a plant within the area that does not by then appear to be infected. It entails risk of greater loss. Dig the ground over thoroughly, throw- ing the soil into the centre of the plot, and not outside. Pour the Bordeaux mixture thoroughly over the whole plot, and do not replant on the same spot for a full year. DURATION OF THE LIFE OF A VINE This depends mainly on the way the plant is cared for, and the amount of manure which it receives. A Chinese planter, if pepper happens to be low in price, will give it no manure further than the first year or two’s burnt earth, and the plant becomes worn out in four or five years. If properly treated, however, it should last in good condition for from twelve to fourteen years. In Assam, where it is only considered as beginning to fruit in five years, or at earliest three, the vine continues to yield for at least twenty years. In Madras, where it is said by one writer to commence bearing in seven years, it lasts for twenty-five.