PEPPERS 251 VIII White pepper is mentioned first by Dioscorides, and, generally speaking, it was supposed in the early days that white pepper was produced by a different plant from that which produced the black pepper. Pliny states that in his time long pepper was worth 15 denarii a pound, white pepper 7 denarii, and black pepper 4. In the Periplus of the Erythroeccn Sea, dated a.d. 64, we find it stated that pepper was exported from Barake, a shipping port of Net Kunda, where it is said to grow in great abundance, and where alone it occurs. These places are identified with localities between Mangalore and Calicut in Madras. In about 540, Cosmas Indicopleustes visited the Malabar coast, and gives an account of the plant as a climber, sticking to high trees like a vine. This appears to be the first account of the plant producing the spice. Marco Polo mentions pepper as being produced in Java in 1280, and Nicolo Conti, a Venetian traveller, saw it in Sumatra in the fifteenth century, but there is no evidence of its being in the Malay region earlier, and the supplies were mainly, it seems, brought from the Malabar coast before this. Garcia da Orta says that in his time it grew on the Malacca coast, and in the islands near, Java and Sunda and Cuda (? Kedah). The pepper of these parts was inferior to that of Malabar, where it was widely spread from Cape Comorin to Cannanore. During the Middle Ages pepper was the most valued spice, and Venice, Genoa, and other European cities owe much of their wealth to the importation of the spice. Taxes and tributes were often paid in pepper. Thus in the siege of Rome by Alaric, king of the Goths, the ransom of the city was 5,000 lbs. of gold, 30,000 lbs. of silver, and 3,000 lbs. of pepper, and after the capture of Cesarea by the Genoese in 1101, each of the conquering army received 2 lbs. of pepper and 48 soldi as a share of the spoils. The first mention of pepper in England is in the Statutes of Ethelred (978 to 1016), where the Easterlings coming to trade with London were required to pay a tax