XI 375 CAPSICUMS and capsicums can be grown in Queensland is amply demonstrated in all the northern districts where chilies of various kinds have become a weed, and may be seen growing on the roadside for miles loaded with red chilies. The plant thrives admirably all about the south coast districts, and even grows in parts of the southern table-land where heavy frosts occur, but no commercial use is made of the chilies. An officer of the department of agriculture made inquiries of two Brisbane firms, relative to the market for chilies; one of the firms (pickle makers) are large buyers of fresh chilies, and give 3d. per lb. for good plump berries 1-|- in. long. The other firm import in connection with their business as pepper manu- facturers bird’s-eye chilies, and a few capsicums from the West Inches in a dried condition, and pay 6Jd. per lb. for them, or about £60 :13 :4 per ton. It strikes us as a most extraordinary tiling that we hear of people struggling to make both ends meet in some parts of the north who are, at the same time, in the midst of a crop which requires no cultivation, and only demands picking and packing to bring grist to the mill. Mean- while our local manufacturers have to import chilies from the West Indies. Twelve months ago we put up a quantity of chilies in a jar of salt and water to test their keeping qualities. They have retained their plump, fresh, red appearance, and all their pungent qualities, to the present day, thus proving that they can be exported to any distance in a fresh state. Truly it does seem a little absurd that Australia should import chilies when they can be grown with such ease. CROPPING The period which the plant takes to produce its fruit is variously stated. In Ceylon, Drieberg says it takes two months; in the Malay Peninsula, about three months before the first crop commences. Mukerji, for India, gives about five or six months, i.e. from July or August to December or February, and a writer in the Queensland Agricultural Journal, vi., 1900, states that there they take eight months before they begin to fruit. This is certainly exceptionally long, especi-