SPICES 172 CHAP. The worst attacked trees are those on bad, stiff, yellow clay soil, exposed to full sun. A tree grow- ing beneath a large Para rubber tree was but little damaged, though the parasite was present. This tree, however, appears to be over-shaded, as, though quite an old tree, it has, as far as I know, never flowered. The soil it grows in is, however, better and richer than that in which another tree about 50 yards away is growing, and which is in a bad state from the attacks of this alga. At the same time it must be mentioned that trees exposed to full sunlight, though growing in fairly good damp soil, are badly affected, and that manuring with cow-dung, though producing a good renewed growth of leaves and buds, does not seem to have any permanent effect in restraining the growth of the pest. I am inclined to think that the actual shading of the tree has more to do with the check of the pest, as young seedlings planted under shade in lines in a wood partly cleared for the clove plant seem quite free from the disease. The fungus is very destructive to seedlings, and I have lost a great many at times, though care was taken to disinfect them from time to time with copper sulphate. These seedlings were not only grown in beds or nurseries, but also in flower-pots, but when put out in exposed hot positions the buds were soon infected with the disease, and very soon the little plant died. Badly infested trees do not flower, and are therefore from a planter’s point of view valueless. I noted at one time that in the case of a tree badly infested with this pest, no flowers were produced on any part of the tree except on a branch that happened to have grown into the branches of a shade tree (Sterculia elata), whose large leaves protected the clove branch from the full heat and light of the sun. This branch for some years produced flowers regularly in February and March, but by some chance the protecting bough of the Sterculia was cut away, and since then no flowers have appeared.