132 SPICES CHAP. eggs one month later. It does not fly readily, but can be shaken off the tree or destroyed by hand picking. Spangle-scale Lecamium expansum, Freem., var. metallicum.—This is a rounded, oval, flat scale-insect, i in. across, of a pale green colour at first, with a fine ridge across the back and four tubes, two on either side. It is very firmly attached to the leaf on the upper side, so that it is difficult to detach it without breaking it. Beneath, when adult, are to be seen the larvae, very small red or black fleshy insects. It is met with on the leaves of the nutmeg, usually on the upper surface. I have found it in Singapore and Malacca, and usually on weakly trees. These scale-insects suck the juice of the leaf with their beaks, and are sometimes very injurious. This one is, however, not very common, and the Chinese planters who knew it said it was not in- jurious. It eventually becomes silvery in colour and prettily reticulated, hence its English name. A white Coccus is not rare on weakly trees, but appears usually to do but little harm. If numerous, the leaves should be washed with a solution of soft-soap and tobacco-water, or phenyl mixed with water, and sprayed with syringe. Where these blights are seen it may be assumed that the plant is wreak and requires manuring. Formica smaragdina. — This common red ant, known as the keringga in the Malay Peninsula, makes its nest by drawing together the leaves of a tree and attaching them with silk. It is troublesome not only on account of its bite, but also because it spoils the leaves by sewing them together, thus causing them to die. They are almost a certain sign that there is blight on the tree, as they live largely on the sugary excretion of the coccidae, and frequently bring the pests to the tree from elsewhere as a food supply, and thus are injurious. They also, however, kill caterpillars and other noxious insects, and are in this way useful. They are easily evicted by destroying the nests with a blow of a stick, or killed by any ordinary insecticide.