IV CLOVES 167 bamboo are often used in estates in which the nurseries are at some distance from the field. The plants can either be raised from seed in the basket or can be transferred to them and allowed to grow on, when they have attained the height of a few inches. The baskets are made by coolies at odd times, or during rain, when no work can be carried on in the field. When the clove tree is planted out it is not removed from the basket, but the whole thing is planted in the ground, where as the plant grows the basket decays away. These baskets are very portable, easy to make, and cheap. They do not interfere with the root growth, nor are they apt to retain the water and cause the plant to become water- logged if by chance it should be kept too long before it is planted out. The young plant is, of course, watered when planted and afterwards as long as may be considered necessary according to the dryness of the climate at the time, and till it has well settled into the ground and begun to push out fresh leaves. Manuring.—In most soils cloves require manuring during their growth, but in Zanzibar no manure is used other than the dead leaves lying about the estate, which are swept to the base of trees. In the Straits Settlements cow-dung is used if procurable, and the prawn-dust, as described under nutmegs, is commonly used. Mulching with cut grass is very beneficial to the young trees. Shading.—In Penang, the clove like the nutmeg is cultivated on the exposed hills without any shading at all. In Amboyna it is, according to Rumphius, grown with fruit trees or coco-nuts as partial shade. He con- sidered it a good plan to cultivate them under light shade when young, cutting out the shade trees as the clove trees grew. This method has much to recommend it, and is a way that works very well with many trees whose original habitat was the forest region. For most trees of this class, sudden exposure of the young plant to full sun does not favour its growth, and may kill it, or at least retard its development. Light shade,