51 II VANILLA one flower to the stigma of another. This is the natural method of fertilisation, but it takes a little longer time, and there is certainly a risk of dropping the pollen or having it accidentally brushed off during the transfer, but it would probably produce larger and finer fruits. The operation is by no means so difficult as from the above account it might appear to be. With a very little practice it is easily and satisfactorily performed, and I have found no difficulty in teaching natives to perform it successfully. The planter should, however, examine the flowers wdiile the workmen are operating so as to make sure that the pollen is being properly put into the stigma. After successful fertilisation the flower quickly com- mences to wither, and soon the petals and sepals fall off, but the column remains attached to the top of the ovary, which is below the petals, and so remains till the fruit is nearly ripe. If the operation has failed and the flower is not fertilised, the column falls off with the petals. Macfarlane says that though flowers fertilised after three o’clock (that is to say, when they have begun to wither) will take, the column is apt to fall off earlier than it should, and if so the fruit will be shorter and con- sequently of less value. In heavy rain the pollen masses become soft, and though the fruits may develop they are not so large or fine, and the column soon drops off. This is quite intelligible, for when the pollen enters the stigma it puts out the pollen tubes, which, following- down the centre of the column, enter the ovules in the ovary, and it is not till this has happened that the fruit is fertilised, so that if the flower has begun to fade or much of the pollen is spoilt by the rain, only a few of the ovules may be fertilised, and this imperfect fertilisa- tion would undoubtedly produce imperfectly developed fruits. The ideal fertilisation would be the natural one of fertilising one flower by another, as is always done in nature, and the injury caused by imperfect fertilisation, as above described, certainly suggests that cross- fertilisation would give a higher standard of fruit.