334 SPICES CHAP. and die. Then the soil has to be renovated by felling one or two large trees across each small plot.” Garden Cultivation is recommended in places where the forests have been so effectually destroyed that the method of cultivation described above as wild cultiva- tion cannot be adopted. Cardamoms can be grown as a crop in shaded gardens and orchards, and this system is in use in Kanara. Here it thrives under the same con- ditions of soil, etc., as do the betel palms and pepper grown in that region, but by preference in cool, very shady gardens with soil kept continually moist. The essential conditions are a soil of clayey-loamy con- sistence kept by favourable position moist, but not wet, at all seasons, and that the garden should by its natural position be shaded by trees and protected from strong winds.1 It appears that the plant is never culti- vated alone in the North Kanara hill gardens, but in mixed gardens of betel-nuts, pepper-vines, and bananas. In a fully stocked betel-nut garden there can be grown 300 to 400 plants per acre. Propagation.—Cardamoms are cultivated both by root cuttings and by seed. It is said that it is usual in Kanara to use cuttings in old gardens, seedlings in new ones. In India, on the whole, it seems more usual to raise the plants from seeds, in Ceylon from cuttings. Rhizome - Cuttings. — The rhizome-cuttings called “ bulbs ” in Ceylon are usually purchased, says Owen, from natives at prices varying from 10 to 25 rupees per thousand. The natives are very careless about taking them up, and many of the bulbs are mutilated and should be rejected. When taking them from an estate it pays well to exercise some amount of care in cutting or breaking the bulbs off. A stool is selected which is not fruiting, and a hole is dug a few inches from it about 1 ft. deep; the earth is then cleared away by hand from underneath as much of the plant as is required, and this part of the rhizome is bent over till it breaks off natur- ally. In many cases the use of a knife is not required, but 1 Mollison, Agric. Ledger, 1900, 31, 107.