X CARDAMOMS 351 perforated, and which are used by the natives for all kinds of spices, rice, etc., which they dry in such trays. Owen gives another system of curing when there is no house, or stove, or appliances for doing the thing well. A day’s gathering should be thrown into a large tub or box at 4 p.m., and thoroughly washed in cold water. After washing the fruit can be taken out of the water and put into a box or sack over night. Next morning wash the fruit again and spread them out on Hessian cloth or mats in the sun. About 9 a.m. they begin to get dry; they should be sprinkled with water from a watering-can, and given a shake-up so that all the fruit will get wet. Expose them to the sun again to get dry, and when they look dry, say about eleven o’clock, water them again as before. Water them three or four times a day for the first two days, after which you can begin to dry them gradually (without watering). This is done by exposing them daily in the sun, say from 6 to 11 a.m., and from 1 to 4 p.m. ; from 11 to 1 o’clock, if the sun is very hot, draw a thin cloth or mat over the fruit while on the barbecue (a cement floor for drying produce) in the sun. This process must be carried on daily for a fortnight, or perhaps more, until the fruit is thoroughly dried. During the night spread them out thinly over your store floor, away from any chance of their getting damp, as damp or mildew is bad for them. After clipping and sorting out husks and light fruit, and separating the split fruit from the good, the fruits are sorted by passing them into three sizes or grades. After the sorting is finished the fruit is sulphured in a box prepared for the purpose. The box is made to hold a number of trays or tats, say 1^ in. square frame. On this nail cane or bamboo tats, or open jute Hessian cloths. From the bottom of the box to the first tray there should be at least 1 ft. clear space for placing the sulphur, which is put in tin saucers. It is well to have the saucer resting on a stone while the sulphur is burning in the box.