242 SPICES CHAP. on each vine. In the cultivated forms usually the spikes are hermaphrodite, having stamens alongside of the pistil. The presence and abundance of stamens in the spikes is of the utmost importance to the planter, for if the supply of pollen is not sufficient the spikes will be partly sterile, and the crop of pepper small. The fruit of the pepper is a nearly globular drupe, about ^ in. through when ripe, at first of a dull green colour and crowned at the top with the starlike stigmas, but eventually becoming red. When ripe it has a thin red skin, beneath which is a thin pulpy layer which encloses the round white seed. The fruits do not all ripen at the same time on the spike, and one can see them in a single spike in all stages of development, some apparently healthy having made no growth, others half grown. In good spikes, however, nearly all are approxi- mately of the same size, when nearly ripe. Good spikes are 4 in. long, and when ripe about A in. through, and bearing about fifty peppercorns, but the size of the spike and number of fruits varies according to the variety cultivated. Exactly how the pollen is transferred to the stigmas is not certain. Barber points out that flushing takes place in India in the heavy driving rains of the monsoon, and suggests that rain and wind are necessary to dash the pollen from the male flowers to the female pistils. The flowers, however, are produced in the dryer parts of the year in the Straits Settlements, and it is more probable that the wind is the fertiliser. Ants, however, may often be seen running about all over the spikes, and may carry the pollen as well. The number of flowers in a spike is estimated by Barber as between 75 and 100. He estimates the number of pollen grains in a hermaphrodite spike as 30,000 to 40,000, and as one pollen grain is enough to fertilise each stigma, there is an ample reserve of pollen for the hundred stigmas. Still, it is very common to see blanks in the fruit spike where for some reason the pistil has failed to be fertilised.