SPICES 174 CHAP. be repeated or the alga will return, and in unsuitable localities inland the pest becomes hopeless. In some cases there is persistent death of the terminal buds, which turn black when hardly \ in. long and die. Usually, if the tree is strong, a side bud is produced, grows for a time, and dies; then another axillary bud is produced and the same thing happens, until the branch dies away altogether. In some cases the production of lateral buds is so extensive that the ends of the boughs form a kind of brush or small bush. In all the cases I have seen such trees are in- fected with Cephaleurus, but I am not quite certain that this is the cause of the destruction, as I have not been able to get good specimens of the pest fruiting on the buds. The treatment with copper sulphate advised for the one would, however, in any case, be suitable for the other. In looking over various trees and shrubs of other species for the Cephaleurus, I did not find it upon tea bushes in the neighbourhood of the cloves, nor on Calophyllum or other coriaceous leaved plants except on the cassia bark, Cinnamomum cassia, but it does not seem to be very injurious to this plant. Borer-Caterpillar.—This pest is not uncommon in Penang, where I saw it seriously damaging trees at Penara Bukit. The caterpillar was black, with yellow rings, and covered with rather sparse long hairs. It is about in. long when nearly adult. It bores into the branches, more rarely the main stem, tunnelling up the centre and eventually killing the branch. Two or three may occur in one branch. The entrance to the burrow is protected by a web en- closing the small pellets of excreta. These boring caterpillars are very difficult to rear, and I failed to get them to develop into the moth. The usual Chinese treatment for this pest is to cut into the branches and hack out the caterpillar, but this is very injurious to the tree. The simplest method of dealing with this insect would be to spear it in its burrow by passing a thin wire up. This is not difficult, as the tunnel is