SPICES 134 CHAP. mistletoe, as it will continue to grow again. The bough on which it is must be cut off below the parasite. The planter should regularly look over the trees to see if there is any mistletoe, so that it may be cut off while young. The presence of any quantity of this parasite implies great neglect of the plantation on the part of the manager. I have, however, seen valuable nutmeg trees owned by natives and Eurasians almost destroyed by this pest, and in some cases, where the trees were near the seashore, they had even been attacked by the climbing parasite Cassytha, which attacks seashore shrubs and had climbed upon the nutmeg trees. It is a leafless, yellow, cord-like plant, with white flowers. Hyjiocrella scutata.—On the leaves of sickly trees it is not uncommon to find some round bun-shaped bodies of a light orange colour, ^ in. across and about -§• in. thick. These are, I believe, the fruiting state of an ascomycete fungus, Hyp)Ocrella scutata. Under a lens they are seen to be elevated in the middle, and covered with sticky brown projections. These are the mouths of the asci, from which the spores are ejected. These bun- shaped fungi are easily detached and there is no sign of any injury to the leaf beneath them, except a small yellow spot in the centre where the chlorophyll is des- troyed. On the rest of the leaf, however, is a quantity of a black mycelium of Hypocrella. To the naked eye it has the appearance of a little soot rubbed on the leaf. The fruit and mycelium seem to be always on the upper side of the leaf, and do not inflict any apparently serious injury. Hypocrella is said to be saprophytic only, and not parasitic. It would be better to pluck off and destroy all leaves affected by this fungus, as the mycelium doubt- less is more or less injurious to the leaf. Its presence may be taken as a sign that the plant wants manuring. Soot-Moulcl.—The leaves of plants in a weak state of health are often covered with a black fungus, belong- ing to the group of Perispoviae commonly known as soot-