SPICES 38 CHAP. advisable to plant vanilla in hollowed ground or trenches G in. deep, so as to keep more easily the roots out of reach of the burning sun, or the soil must be porous enough to prevent it being water-logged. This is not done in Seychelles, where vanilla is grown on the surface of the ground and weeds or twigs accumulated in heaps to protect the roots. This kind of protection is insufficient, because as a rule planters protect the roots only once a year, when the time comes for pruning the vines and clipping the props (March to June). I wish to emphasise the sad consequences of this exposure of the roots, because it accounts to some extent for the irregularity of growth and flowering in any one plantation. These physical conditions of growth are of great importance for delicate plants like orchids, and even when the soil is not porous I think that an attempt should be made to plant in trenches filled first with a good layer of broken stones and then with 6 in. at least of fibrous soil. It was thought that improvement in the growth of the vine also could be obtained by manuring them. Up to now the results obtained are very promising, although the manuring was started after the rains in November last, or a few months ago. After several investigations I came to the conclusion that a careful examination of the roots while the plant was under treatment with manure would establish which kind of manure would be welcomed by the vine and which not. Regarding phosphates I have employed phosphatic guano from Flat Island, which contains 72 per cent of tribasic phosphate and only 0'40 nitrogen (7 kilos per basin). These rocks were broken in small pieces like macadam and placed at mid-distance between two rows of vines placed 4 ft. apart. The coral was used in just the same way (5 kilos per basin). Kainit was also employed in the solid state (1 kilo per basin), but as this salt is hygroscopic, small quantities were arranged in a layer of coco-nut husks placed also at mid-distance between the vines. The kainit would thus dissolve more slowly and be absorbed by the coco-nut husks. After three months it was found to be still incompletely dissolved under these conditions. Nitrogen is employed in the soluble state as nitrate of soda. The vines are watered once a week with weak solutions of 8 to 16 grams in 100 litres of water (50 litres per basin). As far as these experiments go, it is interesting to record the root development which immediately followed the applications of these measures. As already stated, the roots were, previous to the application, all found within 18 in. of the walls of the basins, but three weeks after the application numerous roots