182 SPICES CHAP. otherwise the tree in time will grow to wood, and only bear on the sides and the top. My own shamba I cleaned once before last clove season. Leaves and grass were dug in for manure, and the rain was able to soak into the ground, instead of running off the top. Nothing flourishes under cloves, as the small roots spread out like a net on the top of the soil; the trees would probably be the better for their being cut. The shamba next to mine I foolishly offered to pick; but the cloves were small, and many dropped off before becoming mature, which made difficult work for the pickers. We made R.100, but lost more by being com- pelled to neglect our own shamba. Clove trees seem to die in some parts of the shamba, from some cause I do not know. I have noticed that trees on the outside of a plantation suffer most. [May not this be due to the outside trees receiving the brunt of the sun’s rays, while the inside trees shade one another ? Ed., Tropical Agriculturist.] Many, too, have died in the valley from want of drainage. But most trees have recovered in a wonderful way. Arabs talk of the crop this year as half of that of last, but I hope to make two-thirds, as our shamba is doing well (“ Shamba,” Tropical Agriculturist, January 1, 1900, p. 450). REPORT OF THE AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT, ZANZIBAR Marseilles Shamba.—In addition to the Dunga plantation, which this year came under our management, we have had charge of two of H.H. the Sultan’s shambas at Machui— Marseilles and Kitumba. The former is situated on the second range of hills which runs longitudinally through the island. The soil is a brick-red mixture of sand and clay, which gets very hard in dry weather. It is, however, superior in quality to the corresponding outcrop on the Masingini range of hills to the westward. Kitumba is in the low alluvial district of that name, which spreads out to the eastward of the Machui range. The soil is generally a red loam, overlying clay. As these two shambas adjoin and were as far as possible worked together, they may be counted as one. Cost of Clove Picking.—Clove picking began in Zanzibar in the latter end of October. At Machui we departed from the usual method of picking, and instituted a system of payment whereby we could ascertain the total cost of clove-gathering. The shamba people who, according to the new sheria, should have given their labour four days in the week, were paid for each operation. Under these circumstances picking proceeded from the first more briskly with us than with our neighbours,