275 VIII PEPPERS Vines were met with in various places in which a bare patch occurred at some distance from the ground. The patch had no leaves and was rusty in colour. The parts above and below were normal. An examination of the branches from this place showed that all the leaves had dropped, and that the surface of the twigs was covered with an immense number of scale insects (.Mytilaspis). The scale was found in several places to be subject to attacks from fungi and parasitic insects. The weather previously had been dry and trying, and this may have weakened the vine, and assisted the Mytilaspis. Rain seems to check the development of these insects. Mr. Barber recommends the use of kerosene emulsion, sprayed on these insects. Soft soap and tobacco water is also a good remedy for scale. Another insect of this group, but a Coccid, appeared on peppercorns in Singapore as minute white lines almost covering the nearly ripe fruit. The insect itself was a minute, soft, dull red animal, which protected itself by an oblong, grooved, white coat of wax, rather longer than itself. It gave the fruit the appearance of being covered with mould. Aspicliotus destructor, Sign.—This white Coccid, which attacks all kinds of plants much in the same way as the previously mentioned species, is recorded as attacking pepper by Watt, in his Pests and Blights of the Tea-plant. Besides these scale insects and mealy bugs recorded as definitely attacking pepper, there are many other insects of the same group which attack almost any kind of plant, and no doubt many of them will be found to occur on the pepper. The treatment is the same for all. Strengthen the plant with manure, and disinfect it with soft soap and tobacco, or kerosene emulsion, or if the animal is too well guarded by its waxy coat, with weak solution of phenyl and water. Eel-worms (Heterodera radicicola).—The root eel- worm is a very small, transparent nematode worm which attacks the roots of many plants, often without doing any great amount of harm. Though more or less local