276 SPICES CHAP. in their distribution, they have the power in suitable surroundings to increase in enormous quantities. Mr. Barber in his report (published in Planting Opinion, 1903, p. 619) says : “ I have never seen such a remark- able series of tumours in plant tissues as those lately met with in the infected plants of the Wynaad.” When the tumour decays it is not easy to detect the remains of the eel-worms, but some at least of the cankers have been proved to be due to eel-worms. In one of the plain gardens near Calicut “ there had been twenty vines. Five died last year, five are moribund, while the remaining ten are attacked.” “ It would be wise, when an attack of this sort is met with, to carefully collect all the nodules formed on the roots and underground stems and to burn them. The hole should on no account be planted again for many years.” To get rid of the pest in such soil, Mr. Barber suggests the planting of the goat weed or white weed (Ageratum conyzoides). This universal weed, generally held in horror by planters, is very attractive to the eel-worm. Planted in the abandoned hole it will attract the eel-worms to its roots, and after a time it can be pulled up and burnt. By repeating this process the eel-worms might be cleared out. In 1903 Mr. Barber devoted a fortnight to investigat- ing the cause of disease in the pepper plantations of the South Wynaad. After some years of phenomenal success many of the vines were found to be dying out. A number of diseases were met with, but there was no one universally found. The plants were extremely liable to cankerous growths, and in some cases severe attacks of eel-worms were met with. In certain vines a hyphal infestation was found throughout the fibro- vascular bundles, but the presence of the fungus did not appear to have any relation to the relative sickness of the vines. In his report (Planting Opinion, 1903, p. 618) he goes more fully into the three diseases noted, viz. canker, eel-worm, and hyphae in the vessels.