362 SPICES CHAP. larger species C. frutescens, and indeed the most pungent of any, except the small round-fruited C. baccatum, L. 2. C. annuum, L., is a larger plant, with larger leaves, and flowers over \ in. across the corolla, lobes shorter and broader, and the pod conoid, oblong-inflated, narrowed to the point or blunt, very much larger, and about 3 in. long. The seeds also are larger. This is the plant to which the name capsicum or pod pepper is usually applied. There is a very considerable number of cultivated varieties of it, some of which have received scientific as well as popular names. C. longum, Dec., and C. frutescens, L. (in part, the C. frutescens, L., of the Species plantarum is said to be C. minimum) do not seem to be specifically distinct. Other cultivated forms are long red capsicum, with fruit of an elongate conical shape, 4 or 5 in. long, about 1 in. through at the base, bright red, and rather hot; Long cayenne, pods more slender, curved at the tip, more cylindric, about 3 in. long, red, pendent; Long yelloiv, pods conical, cylindric, very hot, yellow. Purple Capsicum. — Stems, leaves, and flowers tinted with purple, pods very variable, erect or pendent, 2 or 3 in. long, blackish violet, or nearly black. Doubt- less the Capsicum purpureum, Roxb., described by Roxburgh as received at Calcutta from the Moluccas. The fruit is very hot. Erect Chili, with slender erect pods 2 in. long, and hardly f in. through, bright scarlet, and very numerous. A dwarf plant much grown in Europe. 3. C. grossum. — The bull-nose capsicum or bell pepper. A short thick plant with large flowers, and large thick blunt pods, usually red, and hardly or not at all hot to the taste, with few seeds. Some forms are 3 in. through, and 6 in. long. They are variable in shape—sometimes almost globose, some forms oblong, blunt, and truncate. This is cultivated largely in Spain and southern France, and chiefly used as a vegetable. There are a number of garden forms, large bell, cherry