X CARDAMOMS 329 fruits at a higher elevation than the Malabar one. The general idea seems to be that cardamoms are typical hill plants, and that a certain altitude must be selected for their cultivation. That altitude, apart from the acci- dental circumstances of difference in temperature and possible rainfall, has a distinct influence on plant life in the tropics seems clear, but the cause 'of this is at present obscure. Wild Cultivation.—In the early days of cardamom cultivation, if cultivation it can be called, the system in Malabar, and also in Ceylon, was merely a system of helping the wild cardamoms of the forest to increase in numbers, and to produce large crops by clearing away the forest round them. This system seems to be still adopted in Coorg. It is described by White in the paper previously quoted thus :— The months of February and March are, on account of the prevailing dry weather (in Malabar), selected as the most proper for commencing their labours; the first part of which consists in cutting down the large and small trees, promiscuously leaving of the former, standing at nearly equal distances, certain tall and stately individuals, adapted to that degree of perpendicular- shade which experience teaches them to be the most favourable for the future crops. They affirm, and with some reason, that no little exactness is required in hitting this prolific medium, for as too much sun burns up, so does excessive shade alike disappoint the hope of harvest. The grass and weeds are then cleared away, and the ground disencumbered from the roots of brushwood; the large trees lie where they fall. The shrubs, roots, and grass are piled up in different small heaps, and their spontaneous and gradual decomposition fertilises the space they cover. He notes here that Pennant’s statement that the ground is manured by the ashes of the rubbish when burnt is an error. It is obvious, indeed, that if the cardamom seed and rhizomes were already in the ground there would be a great risk of destroying them if fire were used, unless with great care in definite spots. The decomposition of the weeds and shrubs in situ, though