SPICES 212 CHAP. twelve months they are ready for transplanting. The system of planting a quantity of seeds together seems to have been derived from the idea that some would fail and vacancies would have to be supplied, but this with care need not be, it being better to plant the seeds along the lines singly, about 9 in. to 12 in. apart, or even less. The shading should remain till the plants are 6 or 8 in. tall and sufficiently strong to stand the sun, or it may be gradually lightened so as to accustom the plants to the full light. The shading in all nurseries must not be too dark. Broken light and shade is always better and more natural for seedlings than excessive shading. Many transplant the seedlings earlier than twelve months, viz. at three or four months. This really depends on the strength and size of the seedling. Propagation from Cuttings.—The cinnamon can also be propagated by cuttings, which is a quicker way than raising from seed. The shoots selected for cuttings should be very young, not having more than three leaves, or they will not strike. They should be taken from old trees and stuck in nursery beds, shaded, and continually watered. Layering has also been recommended. The cinnamon bush lends itself to this method, for the side branches of the bush are easily pressed down upon the ground. Being pegged down they will put out roots and can be eventually cut off as young plants. Transplanting Old Stumps.—This is much approved of, as these old stumps when transplanted yield shoots of the usual size twelve months after they have been placed in the ground. The greatest care is required in removing them, as if any of the roots, even those of in. in diameter, are injured, the stump, it is said, will die. Before removing them all the branches should be cut down to within 6 in. of the ground, with one stroke of a sharp knife, to avoid splitting. Then the stump should be carefully dug round and lifted. After transplanting they should be well covered with earth,