PEPPERS VIII 307 The Morinda was formerly made to grow with one stem, bnt this was not found to afford sufficient spread for the vines. Therefore, when that tree is used, the practice now is to break off the principal stem, at a height of about 2 ft. from the ground. This obliges the trees to put out lateral branches at that height. When these have attained a length of about 1 ft. or 15 in., they are cut off. From their end arise erect shoots, each of which forms a stem, so that the vine has 4 or 5 stems to climb on instead of one. The vines, at three years of age, begin to produce, and they are reckoned to be in full bearing at five or six. They continue nearly in the same state for eight years more, or till they are fourteen years old. From that period they are reckoned on the decline; but the planters on Prince of Wales Island cannot yet judge from experience at what rate or in how long a time they decay. Some Chinese who have cultivated the plant on the Malay coast say the vines have not arrived at their point of greatest produce till they are fourteen years old; that from this, gradually declining, they continue bearing till nearly thirty. The first year of bearing, or at three years old, the vines do not yield more than half a catty each. But plants kept in good order, when in their prime, will produce three catties. A plantation of 3,000 vines at Soongey Clooan, now in its eleventh year, has been let for three years at 70 piculs yearly, or at the rate of catties each plant. It must, therefore, produce as much more as will pay the tenant for his labour and risk. They are generally let for the first five years of bearing, or from three to eight years old, at 160 piculs per lacsha (10,000), or at 160 catties for 100 vines. The vines yield two crops yearly. The first gathering commences in December, after the heavy rains are over; and at the same time the vines have to put out new flowers. This first collection may be finished in February. The flowers which spread in December have ripened their seeds in April or May. The second collection then begins, and ends in July. During this time blossoms have expanded which are to furnish the crops of next December. But with the most careful cultivators, who gather only the bunches which are fully ripe, these two harvests run so nearly into one another that the collection is, in a manner, continued without interruption from December till August; so that there is only an interval of four months in the year, which is the season of the heavy rains. The bunches are plucked off entire, taking care to pull only those that are ripe. They are thrown into baskets, and allowed to remain for a day. Then they are spread on mats, and