82 SPICES CHAP. Seychelles in 1906, “ is looked upon as the better market when the prices are good, but Paris sales are steadier when demand is dull; that conclusion is based on the fact that there are regular monthly sales in London, where parcels are sometimes put up for forced sales, whereas in Paris there is no open market, but the principal buyers having standing contracts with the wholesale consumers are ready to buy at a figure which is not subject to market fluctuations. As the price ruled uniformly low during 1905, the proportion sent to London was only 46 per cent of the total; in prosperous years the proportion sent to London has been as high as two-thirds.” (Colonial Report, Seychelles, 1905.) THE PROSPECTS OF VANILLA GROWING Inquiries have recently been received by the Imperial Department of Agriculture as to the prospects of vanilla grow- ing in the West Indies, and the advisability of the extension of its cultivation. An increased demand has arisen in some of the markets ; by some, the reason for this is stated to be the recent passing of a Pure Food Law in the United States. The chief competitor with vanilla is vanillin, which is artificially produced from eugenol, a constituent of oil of cloves. The Pure Food Law, to which reference has just been made, makes it imperative, in relation to vanilla, that all packages containing artificial vanillin shall have a declaration to that effect on the wrapper or label, and it is explained in some quarters that this has decreased the sale of this product in favour of that of vanilla. The Depart- ment has obtained definite opinions in regard to the prospects in the vanilla markets of London and New York ; before giving these, it will be convenient to review the general position. < Tlie following were the prices of vanilla on the London market (Messrs. Dalton and Young) in July, September, and November 1909, as given in the Journal cV agriculture tropicale :— Seychelles Description. July. September. November. Fine (long) Fair Fair to good lied and split 12s. to 15s. 10s. 6d. 8s. to 11s. 7s. to 8s. 10s. to 11s. 9s. 6d. to 12s. 11s. to 15s. 10s. 6d. to 11s. 6d.