CHAP. X CARDAMOMS 325 spathulate, clawed with waved margins, pure white with violet-purple streaks radiating from the centre. The fruit is globose, ovoid, or oblong, more or less three-sided and slightly ribbed, pale buff when ripe. It splits into three valves of a thin papery texture, each cell of the fruit containing 5 to 7 dark brown aromatic seeds. The seeds are about 2 lines long, irregularly angular, and transversely wrinkled. There is a good deal of variation in the size and form of the fruit, and they are sorted in commerce according to their forms. There are two distinct forms or varieties of the plant, viz. var. minus, the Malabar cardamom, a taller plant with narrower and less firm leaves and globose fruits from ^ to ^ in. long, greyish yellow or buff in colour. This is confined to Southern India. Var. majus with shorter stems, broader leaves and oblong fruit, from 1 to 2 in. long, and rather narrower than the Malabar fruit, distinctly three-sided, often arched and dark greyish brown when dry, the seeds larger and more numerous, and less aromatic. This is the Ceylon cardamom, and is peculiar to that country. (This variety of cardamom must not be confused with the Carclamomum majus of Arabia, a name applied by some old writers to Amomum Korarima, a native of Africa and a very different plant.) Mr. T. C. Owen, in his Notes on Cardamom Cultiva- tion in Ceylon, mentions three varieties which he calls the indigenous Ceylon, the Malabar, and the Mysore. He says that the easiest method of distinguishing the first two is by the colour of the stem, which in the Malabar plant is green or whitish at the base, while that of the Ceylon form is distinguished by a pink tinge deeply marked at the base, and more or less traceable up the leaf-stalk for the whole way (presum- ably he means the leafy stem). This character forms an excellent one for selecting seedlings. The Mysore form is known by its robust habit, larger and coarser leaves of a darker green, hard and smooth on the under surface, and not soft and velvetv. •r