Ill NUTMEGS AND MACE 133 Termites.—Dr. Oxley mentions white ants or termites as being troublesome to the nutmeg trees in the Straits Settlements in 1848, but says they only attack weak plants. “It is only upon the first symptoms of decay that they commence their depredations.” “ Every planter must lay his account to losing occasional trees by them, but he who has his ground clearest and most free of old roots and stumps of trees will lose fewest.” I cannot say I have ever seen nutmeg trees really attacked by any kind of termites. At present in the East Indies there is only one species out of a very large number which attacks living trees, and that is Termes gestroi, the well-known species which does occasional damage on rubber estates. This species might certainly attack nutmeg trees, if it happened to be in the ground near the trees. I gather from the description that Dr. Oxley does not refer to this insect, but rather to one of the common dead-wood eating species. These frequently may be seen attacking the outer bark, coating it with mud and nibbling the dry bark layers off, and occasion- ally tunnelling up the centre of any small trees. The occurrence of such an accident is a clear and certain sign that the plant is dying from some other cause, and the termites are merely devouring already dead portions. It is, indeed, usually in very bad soil that this attack of termites is seen, and it may be taken as evidence that the ground is unsuited for cultivation. Dr. Oxley recommends the use of pig’s dung in solution for driving them off; any putrefying animal matter will have this effect, and night-soil or urine will soon cause them to go away. Parasitic Plants.—The mistletoe, Loranthus, is sometimes very troublesome to the planter. The seeds are brought by birds which pass them on the boughs, where they germinate and push their roots into the host-plant. If neglected the whole bough on which the parasite is growing dies and falls off, and eventually the whole tree may be killed. It is of no use to merely pull off the branches of the