I 15 INTRODUCTION is that the nature of the spray is the essential factor for the success in spraying with Bordeaux mixture. The spray must be very fine and “ misty,” or smoke like; a hanging “ mist ” or “fog” must be produced which drifts over and through the tree and deposits on the surface of the leaves excessively minute drops, which, when dry, give the parts of the tree which have been sprayed the appearance of being almost uniformly covered with a very thin bluish film or dust. Such a deposit of Bordeaux mixture is so intimately attached to the surface of the leaf or fruit that it does not readily wash off. In order to obtain the right kind of spray, attention must be paid to two points : (1) a special type of nozzle must be used, and (2) sufficient pressure must be obtained at the nozzle. If these two requirements are not fulfilled, the full benefit from spraying with Bordeaux mixture cannot be obtained. As regards the nozzle, the fact must be emphasised that a special type is required, which may be called the “ Bordeaux nozzle.” There is at the present time a considerable amount of spraying with Bordeaux mixture being done with unsuitable nozzles. This results not only in a waste of labour and material, but even in actual harm. It follows that because the spray of Bordeaux mixture must be “ misty ” and not jet-like, it must be carried close to the part sprayed. In the case of tall trees this necessitates the use of long bamboo “ extension rods.” The fact that tall trees cannot be sprayed with Bordeaux mixture by means of a jet- like spray sent up from the ground cannot be too strongly insisted upon; to secure a fine “ misty ” spray which shall drift over and through the tree and deposit itself uniformly over the leaves, a “ Bordeaux nozzle ” at the end of a rod of sufficient length must be used. The mixture as used on root fungus of trees may be made stronger and merely poured on the ground. For leaf fungi it must be sprayed in as fine a mist as possible so as to reach both sides of the leaves, for it must not be forgotten that most leaf fungi attack the plant on the underside of the leaf. There are many spraying machines invented suitable for all sizes of trees or estates. For small lots like nursery beds we often use a simple bamboo squirt made of a joint of bamboo, with the septum at one end perforated, and a stick wrapped at the end in rag for a piston. This, though a very rough apparatus, can be