361 CHAP. XI CAPSICUMS from each bifurcation, thin, lanceolate, long-petioled, the lowest the biggest. Flowers, two or three together in the bifurcations, erect on slender stifi pedicels, \ in. or 1 in. long, the tip decurved, calyx cup-shaped, truncate, with five very small teeth, green. Corolla ^ in. across, rotate, with a short tube; the lobes, five, cut half-way down, acute, white. Stamens five, inserted on the tube, short, erect, anthers purplish blue, ovary conic, style slender. Fruit ovoid, oblong, cylindric, bluntly pointed, orange scarlet, glistening, smooth, in. to f in. long. Seeds flat, oval, or reniform, nearly smooth, bright yellow, ^ in. across. This plant is extensively cultivated in the East Indies, Zanzibar, Japan, and elsewhere, and according to Roxburgh, Sir John Kirk, and most other writers, is the source of most of the cayenne pepper of commerce. It forms an important article of diet among the Malays and Indians, who seem to require it to eat with the dried fish and rice which forms their everyday food, as they carry it about with them wherever they travel. It constantly occurs in a half-wild state about villages, and especially in limestone rock districts. The seeds are dispersed by birds, and plants in such localities are often to be seen in great abundance on the rocks at the base of the hills and on the precipitous rock faces. The form that occurs in this practically wild state is very small fruited, the fruits being only in. long. A fairly good figure of the plant is given by Trimen in the Medical Botany, iii. p. 189, but the fruits are larger than in the wild form. Duthie, in Field and Garden Crops, vol. iii., figures a very different looking plant, with much larger pods. He suggests, however, that this may be a hybrid between C. minimum and C. frutescens, which appears likely. The most distinctive points in C. minimum are the small size of the fruit, which is erect and not pendulous as in most of the other forms, and the correspondingly smaller flower with narrower and more acute lobes, and the smaller leaves. The fruit is also much more pungent than that of the