267 PEPPERS VIII After about six months, or even earlier, the flower spikes begin to appear and are removed at once. The pepper gardeners prevent sporadic fruiting, which may occur at any time during the life of the vine, in order to concentrate on the proper annual crop. It is recom- mended to cut or break off these flower spikes in the early morning or during the rainy season. When the vines are about a year old, those destined to supply cuttings for an extension of the plantation are pruned so as to have a single main shoot. This is allowed to grow for six months more and is then cut off, being used for propagating. Manuring. —The chief manure used is burnt earth, which is applied from time to time during the growth of the vine. The method of making burnt earth has already been described. It is dug in or thrown upon the mound on which the pepper vine is growing, but should not be allowed actually to touch the vine itself. The exact action of burnt earth on the plant does not seem very clear, but it is suggested that the half-burnt earth absorbs the product of distillation of the burnt wood, chiefly in the form of ammonia. Where, as in the Straits Settlements and Sumatra, the cultivation of gambir is carried on with that of the pepper, it is the custom of the Chinese to throw the used leaves of the gambir on the ground between the pepper posts and to spread them about. This shades the soil from the intense heat of the sun, and protects the roots of the pepper from getting burnt, also acting as manure. Where there is no gambir, cultivated lalang-grass is cut and thrown thickly on the ground between the posts. When procurable, the Chinese also use as manure “ prawn-dust.” This is the shells of the prawns used in the manufactory of the condiment known to the Malays as “ Belachan,” a kind of shrimp-paste eaten with curry. Of this \ catty (about ^ lb.) is applied to the base of the vines the first year in preparation for the first crop, and also later during the life of the