244 SPICES CHAI'. VIII but are of moderately large size, and give large sized seeds, that is to say, supply fine samples of white pepper. The finest form in this region is the Trang pepper, in which the seeds are much smaller than ordinary pepper, but fetch a higher price. Barber, in the paper above quoted, gives an account of the varieties of pepper cultivated or wild in Madras, from which I take the following notes. Balamcotta.—This may be regarded as all round the best pepper of the district. It is very widelv distributed and appears to be the main Tellicherrv variety. Its leaves are the largest of all peppers. They vary, however, a good deal according to age, those bearing spikes being very much smaller and narrower as well as lighter in colour than the older ones. The general colour of the vine is light green, being lightest at the time of flushing. The leaves when full grown are twice as long as broad, 10^ in. long and 5 in. wide being an ordinary size. They are oval to ovate, broadest at the middle, where there is a distinct bend, giving the leaf almost an angular appearance; one side is broader than the other. The flowering branches are drooping and the internodes long. The leaves are flat, the veins not strongly marked, tips straight. The spikes are long, sometimes as long as 6 in., the flowers distant, the spaces between them three times as long as the flower. It is usual for this variety to flush all over at about the same time, and the crop can be gathered at one time. A strong variety and heavy bearer. Pure males of this variety have been met with. The foliage in hermaphrodite plants is variable in form and size, and any uniformity in the Balamcotta variety may be looked on with suspicion, as in all probability a vine of this character is devoid of stamens. Two varieties of Balamcotta pepper are described, the leaves of which are more uniform than those of the typical form. These are known as the wavy-leaved Balamcotta and the small-leaved Balamcotta. The first has distinctly wavy edges to the leaves,