56 SPICES CHAP. four hours afterwards the smaller beans are taken out. and twelve hours later the larger ones. During this process the vanilla has sweated and acquired a fine chestnut colour. Now they have to be dried. The pods are spread on matting and exposed every day to the sun for nearly two months. When the drying is nearly complete, sun heat is no longer required, and the pods are spread out in a dry place till they are sufficiently dry. They are then tied in bundles for market. This process has been employed successfully at Reunion for some years, says Delteil. It requires some judgment and skill in the baking process, as vanilla from dry places should have a higher temperature in the oven than those from wet localities. The time that the pods must be left in the oven also depends on the number of bundles and the size of the pods. 4. The Boiling Water Process.—This has given good results in Reunion. Large iron cauldrons full of water are put on the fire, and as soon as the water is nearly boiling, at about 194" Fahr., the pods are lowered into it in cylindrical baskets of rattan. Sometimes they are dipped only once for fifteen to twenty seconds, at other times they are dipped and taken out again two or three times, remaining three or four seconds in the hot water each time. After this the baskets are emptied on tables covered with black cloth, or on mats to drain. When all the pods have been scalded they are piled together, covered up and put in an oven for a quarter of an hour. They are then spread on tables covered with blankets, and exposed to the sun until two or three o’clock, and afterwards rolled up in the blankets and transferred to a shut-up room, where they will keep warm till the next day, or they can be put in cases lined with wool, where they can retain their heat longer. This is continued for four, six, or eight days, according to the weather. During the process the pods are examined from time to time, and those that have reached the stage at which further heat would hurt them are taken out.