PEPPERS VIII 241 first purplish or dark green, eventually attains a thick- ness of in., with a greyish bark. It is fiexuous and swollen at the nodes, from which are produced numerous short roots by which it clings to a tree or other support. The leaves are alternate ovate or lanceolate, ending in a short point, rounded or slightly narrowed at the base, smooth, dark green, paler beneath, coriaceous, with four or five prominent nerves ascending towards the tip ; the leaf-stalk or petiole is short, usually ■I in. or less long, and at first sheathing with a narrow marginal sheath which soon becomes black and falls off. In size the leaves vary considerably, from 4 to 10^- in. long and 2^- to 5 in. wide when fully developed. The flowers, which are very minute, are borne in very slender, yellowish green, hanging spikes, or more correctly catkins, as the whole inflorescence when withering falls off together, and the separate flowers do not fall off as they do in a true spike. The catkins vary from 1 to 6 in. long in flower, lengthening as the fruit ripens. They are borne on the nodes opposite to the leaves, The minute flowers are of very simple structure. Below each is a small fleshy bract, ovate and usually acute, wdiich more or less enfolds an oval pistil bearing on its top a four or five-lobed stigma. This is white at first, but soon becomes brown or black. It is only functionally active while it is in the white stage; on either side are two or three stamens, with a short filament and a pair of minute oval pollen-sacs. In some forms the bracts of different spikes contain either pistils only or stamens only. In fact, the spikes are unisexual. In the hermaphrodite flowers the stamens do not appear till after the stigmas have become brown, i.e. are withered. Until then they are immature and hidden beneath the bract, so that a pistil cannot be fertilised by its own stamens. In wild forms Barber1 states that the plant is unisexual, having only male flowers or female flowers 1 “Varieties of Cultivated Pepper,” Report Madras Dept. Agriculture, vol. iii. 56, p. 125. R