GINGER 399 XIII the stock is left in the ground to throw up fresh stems, and produce fresh rhizomes, it is known as “ ratoon ginger.” Some planters leave the ratoons in the ground till they become practically exhausted, and then either fallow the ground or plant some other crop. Rotation of crops is seldom really practised in the tropics in the way that is considered essential in Europe. The usual way of the Chinaman in the Eastern tropics with such crops is to continue planting the same crop in the same ground till, gradually deteriorating, it ceases to be remunerative, or till the price goes down owing to over- production. He then throws it out and plants with some other crop which promises a higher remuneration. Ginger is considered an exhausting crop, and would certainly pay best if grown in a rotation system with other crops. Much of the ginger in Jamaica is cultivated as a garden plant, with bananas, chilies, etc. in small lots, and this lends itself better to rotation than cultivating it on a large area as a permanent crop. The ginger appears above - ground about ten to fifteen days after planting, under good circumstances, but may be as long as two months before it begins to show. Planted ginger is dug in December or January, or on till March in Jamaica, and about the same time in most parts of India. Ratoon ginger in Jamaica is lifted between March and December. During the period of growth little requires to be done beyond weeding. In the dry season of the Punjab, from October to January, the beds require irrigation. Manuring is not always continued after the plants are in the ground, but in Bengal the plants are top-dressed with 100 lbs. of oil-cake, consisting of equal proportions of mustard cake and two of castor cake. Ginger is known to be ready for lifting when the green leafy stems turn yellow and wither, and this usually happens when the flowers are over. The plant does not always produce flowers. Indeed, in some places flowers are very rarely seen. In Canton it