NUTMEGS AND MACE Ill 141 The total production of nutmegs in the West Indies is so small that it is not taken into consideration in the preparation of statistics here or abroad. Not until the quality of British West Indian nutmegs is improved by cultivation can they be sold under their real names. The cultivation in Grenada, however, cannot at all be considered as a failure. In the Kew Bulletin, 1891, we find that “about 10 acres of nutmegs at an altitude of 1100 ft. gave annual crops of nutmegs and mace valued at £1000 sterling. This, however, is very exceptional.” Mr. Gurney, in charge of Colonel Duncan’s estate, says the cultivation is a great help to the island. Most people have a few trees and most estates have some areas of more or less established trees. The small- holders find it a source of weekly income, as he sells his crops to local dealers. An acre of trees at twenty-five years of age gave £25 profit and more. It takes, however, twelve years before the trees pay, and there is not much in the business under fourteen. In India the cultivation has never been of much success. In Calcutta the climate was found too cold for it in the cold season. Better results were obtained in the neighbourhood of the Nilgherries, especially in Courtallum. On the damper side of the ghats, Goa, Canara, and Malabar, it was cultivated, on the northern dryer side it suffered from want of the sea-air. It gave good fruit farther south in Tinnevelly. However, the cultivation was neglected or abandoned, and no nut- megs are produced in India now. In 1870-1871, 355 kilograms, valued at 575 rupees, were exported from Bombay, and 2431 kilograms from Madras, valued at 3012 rupees. In Ceylon, very little has been done in cultivating nutmegs. About 1853, according to Ferguson (All about Sjnces), a Mr. Anstruther, then Colonial Secretary, made long-continued and extensive efforts to make the cultivation of nutmegs successful, and about 25 acres were also planted on Sir John Wilson’s estate in Nilambe,