SPICES 426 CHAP. with yams, maize, castor-oil, brinjals, onions, etc. (Watt’s Dictionary of Economic Products). It is often planted on old sugar-cane fields, and is considered an ameliorating crop. Most Bengal native gardens have a patch of turmeric to supply the native curry powder, for which it is much in demand. Turmeric will grow luxuriantly in shade if not too dense, but it produces larger and better rhizomes in the open ground, exposed to the sun. Low-lying wet ground does not suit it, and it will not stand being Hooded. In ground too dry, and in dry seasons of con- siderable duration, irrigation is necessary, and as this supplying of the plant with water makes a considerable difference to the cost of cultivation, damp soils are preferred when obtainable. Preparation of the Soil.—In most parts of India where the plough is commonly used, the ground is ploughed over as for ginger, and all weeds cleared away. In the Malay peninsula, the Chinese, the usual culti- vators, hoe the ground and make it loose and friable, in the same way as they prepare the ground for ginger. It is said that lands intended for turmeric do not require so much working over as those for ginger, but six or seven ploughings are sufficient for the crop. Planting.—Turmeric, like ginger, is propagated by small pieces of the rhizome. These are usually in India planted in the early part of the year; in Patna, about the 20th of May; in Bengal, from February to June; in Madras, in June or July. These various dates, given in Watt’s Dictionary, seem to suggest a difference in the time of rainfall, as it is essential that it should be planted when the soil is damp. In the Malay peninsula, no special time is selected for planting, as the rains are pretty constant throughout the year and it can be planted at almost any time. The principle of planting is much the same as for ginger. The ground is dug into ridges and furrows. In Bengal, the ridges are made 9 or 10 in. high and 18 or 20 in. wide, with trenches 9 or 10 in. wide between, or,