119 NUTMEGS AND MACE Ill of guano on his trees, and found it unsatisfactory. He considered it the least beneficial substance that could be given to trees. It caused the trees to assume a deeper tint of foliage and at first to throw out young shoots, but there seemed to come a very unpleasant reaction after- wards, and he was inclined to think that the quality of the produce deteriorated. Some of the Chinese in Province Wellesley used the urine from the coolie lines, and others the night-soil. It is said, however, that if these manures are once used on a tree it is necessary always to use it, or the tree fails. It is probable that the evil effects of these manures are due to their too rapid decomposition in a hot tropical climate, and the production of excess of ammonia caused by this decomposition. Guano was quite a new manure in Dr. Oxley’s time, and he probably used it in excess. If used in smaller quantities, and where possible allowed to rot till a portion of the ammonia has been dissipated, very different results might have been obtained. The Chinese in the Malay Peninsula keep their pigs in sties with a floor of planking above a large cemented tank, into which fall all the excrements of the animals. This pig-manure is highly approved of by the planters for nutmegs. They also use prawn-dust. This consists of the shells and waste bits of prawns used in making the well-known Malay condiment “ Blachan.” Fish refuse, either used in a liquid form or solid, is considered very valuable, and blood and oilcake imported from Java are also considered by the Malays as very suitable manures. Dr. Oxley got excellent results from the carcasses of animals buried near the trees, and I have seen poor nutmeg trees develop into good fruiting trees very shortly after a dead pariah dog or two were buried at their roots. In some parts of the peninsula planters used bat guano from the limestone caves, which is found there in immense quantities, and consists of bat-dung mixed with lime in the form of a powdery dust. Tt was imported in junks from the Lankawi Islands north of