299 VIII PEPPERS liberty of disposing of themselves and their property. As soon, however, as this period expired, the Dutch levied a tax of 36 per cent on the exportation of all spices unless sold to the Dutch Government, in which case they were exempted from duty altogether. Most of the spice plantations belonged to British planters, and by 1836 ten of the best plantations had gone to ruin and only two remained which paid any profit to the proprietors. With the failure of the spice plantations, Bencoolen soon ceased to be of any importance, and this district, which flourished so well under Sir Stamford Raffles, is now practically deserted. The cultivation of pepper, however, still continues in Sumatra, chiefly in the Achinese district. Though the Honourable East India Company must be credited with the first breaking down of the Dutch monopoly of spices, by introducing and extending the cultivation of pepper, nutmegs, and cloves, the Directors of the Company seem to have been remarkably ignorant of the nature of the spices they dealt in. It is recorded that on one occasion they sent out orders to cultivate only white pepper and not black pepper plants; on another occasion they ordered a ship at Bencoolen to be loaded with pepper only, refusing to allow some sugar to be taken as ballast, being apparently quite ignorant of the fact that the extreme lightness of the cargo would cause the ship to float so high in the water that her passage round the Cape of Good Hope would entail the greatest possible risk of being overturned. However, similar blunders have been made even in later days by directors of companies and merchants who had every opportunity of knowing better. Java and other Dutch Islands.—A considerable quantity of pepper is grown in the islands of the Rhio- Lingga group by the Chinese, together with gambir. Tschirch (Ileil- und Nutzpflanzen) says 100,000 piculs (16,633,333 lbs.), more or less, per year. Most of this comes into the Singapore port and is shipped thence. He gives the export from Batavia as :—