110 SPICES CHAP. that the female flowers are tinged with green at the base, but are usually entirely yellow coloured. Dr. Oxley recommends the destruction of the hermaphrodite trees, as giving an inferior product, and this, I think, is advisable. The male trees are usually exterminated by the native planter as soon as they have developed enough to show their flowers, and so become distinguishable. The tree takes about seven years to grow before the sex is discoverable by the flowers, and a planter may have the mortification to discover, after long years of patient cultivation, that too many of his plants are males. All kinds of ideas have therefore sprung up as to the possibility of distinguishing the future sex of the plant by the form of the seed or seedling. The Malays affirm that the male seeds are rounder in the back, and those that will become females are flatter. The Chinese say that seed with rounded backs produce female, and those with a ridge on the back male trees. Prestoe, who studied the plant in Trinidad, said that he could tell the sexes by the foliage, even in the seedlings. The male has leaves broader towards the point than in the middle, with a much longer point, with the veins much more roundly curved in towards the tip than in the female, which has more perfectly elliptical leaves with straighter nerves. I find in Singapore something similar, but, as the leaves vary very much on the same tree, and, as Prestoe remarks, one may find elliptical leaves on the male tree and obovate leaves on the female trees, it is not very easy to distinguish the sexes by the leaves with absolute certainty. Planters of experience may, however, dis- tinguish them more or less accurately by eye. °The adult flowering, or at least well-grown, male may be distinguished by its more straight branches and narrower or smaller leaves, but even that is not certain. In the Malacca plantations this was rather well marked, and male trees could be distinguished at some distance, but I found here the difference in general appearance