14 SPICES CHAP. follows: It is in the form of a wooden box about 1 ft. square, the bottom of which is formed of hard wood, with a hole bored through it, into which a piece of gaspipe, 1\ in. or 2 in. in diameter and from 6 in. to 9 in. long, is fitted. The box is, of course, open at the top. Fitting just inside this box is a second and lighter box, also open at the top, and having an overhanging strip nailed round the top which supports it. The bottom of this inner box should be made so as to slope at an angle of about 30°, and should be made of fine copper gauze. The slanting bottom makes it harder to clog, and the inner box, being removable, can be inverted and washed in a tub of water. Bordeaux mixture, if properly strained, will pass easily through nozzles which throw the finest “ misty ” spray, while if not properly strained, frequent clogging of the nozzle will result. If the lime used is freshly burnt (and it must never be for- gotten that air-slaked lime is useless for making Bordeaux mixture) and carefully weighed out, there is no need to test the mixture before using it. When using “ stock solutions,” it is a good plan to apply a test at the first mixing. A rough test consists in immersing a clean iron wire or French nail in the Bordeaux mixture for one minute; if safe to use, the mixture does not affect the nail; while if unsafe, a copper-plated appear- ance is given to it. A more delicate and quite simple test is as follows: procure from a chemist a 10 per cent solution of ferrocyanide of potassium (which is a poison) and pour a little of this into a white saucer; then drop a few drops of the Bordeaux mixture into the ferrocyanide of potassium. No change of colour occurs if the mixture is safe to use, while a cloudy reddish-brown discoloration (very easy to see) occurs immediately if the mixture is unsafe to use. An unsafe mixture can be made safe by adding more “ milk-of-lime ” until it passes the test. In spraying there is no need whatever to add anything to the Bordeaux mixture with the object of making it adhere better; soap is quite unnecessary and should never be used, and treacle is useless. The nature of the precipitate which constitutes Bordeaux mixture causes it, when applied in a «misty ” spray (see below), to adhere most intimately to the part sprayed. The Application of Bordeaux Mixture.—The best type of spraying machine for spraying with Bordeaux mixture depends to a large extent on such circumstances as the height of the trees, and whether they are grown in a plantation or in an orchard. But the chief point that requires to be emphasised