Ill 137 NUTMEGS AND MACE R. Little, in Logan’s Journal of the East Indian Archipelago, in 1849, vol. iii. p. 679, seems to me to refer to the same thing, though his account of it differs in some points, and I certainly never saw the disease so bad as he describes it, but what he took for the same disease attacking the fruit-stalk and branches was probably something else. It is clear from his account that the disease was not due to any insect attack. His account is as follows :— The canker of the nutmeg attacks the fruit, fruit-stalk, and branches. When the fruit is attacked it appears dark-brown over nearly the whole surface, with deep fissures, which pierce the skin to the depth of an £ in., and in those parts where the fissures are the colour inclines to a brownish black. The fissures run in all manner of ways, crossing one another like the wrinkles in the palm of the hand. Where these fissures are the skin of the fruit is dry when cut, and presents the brown appearance of the outside for some depth. These parts of the fruit which to the naked eye are merely discoloured, when examined by a powerful Stanhope lens, are proved to be rough and elevated above the natural skin, as if some insect had crawled over it, broken the cuticle, and caused an exudation of the juice of the fruit. On examining a part a little darker in colour, incipient fissures are seen, but which penetrate the cuticle to a very slight extent. These fissures are seen on the flower- stalk and the bark of the branches and stem, which are rough and wrinkled, showing that the whole cuticular structure of the tree is affected. The moment the flower drops and exposes the young fruit, on it can be seen a slight trace of the disease, which increases with its growth, the brown appearance extending and the fissures deepening until the fruit prematurely opens, display- ing the mace, white in most cases, and the nut fully formed, or before that stage arrives the fruit drops off, cut across by the deepening of the disease at the junction of the fruit with its stalk. A few of the fruit go on to full maturity, opening with red mace and well-formed nuts. The quality of the nuts does not seem to be affected by this disease, nor generally the healthy appearance of the leaves. Some trees are but slightly affected, the brown patch of the fruit to the naked eye having no fissures, but the cuticle is always rough and wrinkled. The number so affected may be 1 per cent; the number affected in the severest type with this disease is not more on this plantation