225 CINNAMON VI Cinnamomum Tamalcc, Mes., Tajpat.—A cinnamon tree growing in the Himalayas, East Bengal, Khasiya Hills, and Burma, which supplies one of the barks known as Cassia lignea or cassia cinnamon, and its leaves are also used as a spice by the natives of India under the name of Tajpat. The leaves were known as a drug under the name Tamal patra very early, and are described and figured by Garcia, Historia aromatum (1693). Cinnamomum obtusifolium,1 an allied plant, is also known by the same native name and used for the same purposes. Dr. Watts says that C. Tamala is most likely to yield the taj or tajpat of the North-West Provinces and Punjab, but in Bengal the leaves and bark of C. obtusifolium, Nees, bears this name. Mukerji describes (Handbook of Indian Agri- culture) its cultivation in Bengal. He says that though it is a native of the Himalayas, at 3,000 to 7,000 ft. altitude, it grows very well at Sibpur in shady localities, and the tree is worth growing in moist and well shaded localities, as the use of tajpat as a spice is almost universal in India. A couple of small trees supply all the tajpat needed for one family. The tree should be propagated from seed imported from Sylhet. Seedlings should be grown in seed beds, and in two or three years transplanted into fields 10 ft. apart. The leaves can be plucked after the fifth year, and the tree goes on yielding for fifty or a hundred years. But as the shed leaves are just as aromatic, if not more so, than the green leaves, stripping off green leaves, which weakens the tree, is not necessary. The leaves are used as a spice in India in curries, and those of C. Tamala are also employed in calico printing in combination with Myrobalans. The bark is also used in dyeing in Chutia Nagpur, as an auxiliary with Mallotus Philippinensis. About 33 tons of leaves and 1 Cinnamomum obtusifolium, Nees, is believed by some botanists to be the wild plant from which the Chinese cassia, Cinnamomum cassia, is derived by cultiva- tion (see under Cassia Bark). Q