GINGER XIII 419 chewing it, and in the same way for relaxed uvula and tonsils. It produces a flow of saliva when chewed. Powdered ginger taken in boiling milk has had a great reputation for gout. Externally it is used as a rubefacient for headache or toothache in the form of a ginger plaster, made by spreading the powdered ginger with warm water on a piece of cloth. Oil of Ginger.—This is often extracted from the rhizomes to serve as a basis for tinctures or essences of ginger. The alcoholic extract known as “ Gingerine ” does not contain all the aromatic principles, as most of the essential oil is carried over in the recovered alcohol. T. H. W. Idris (American Journal of Pharmacy, Jamaica Bulletin, 1898, p. 207) writes that acetone proved to be the most suitable solvent, boiling as it does at 56 C. and being miscible with water in all proportions. The apparatus used was a modification of a Soxhlet on a manufacturing scale. The acetone extracts the whole of the aromatic and pungent properties, and does not appear to lose any of its volatile oil in the process of recovery, as happens so markedly in the case of the use of alcohol. The acetone extract is a dark brown substance of a treacly consistence, intensely pungent and possessing a full ginger aroma, the quality of which depends on the variety of ginger used. It is readily soluble in alcohol, forming a deep brown liquid. The difference in the aromas of the various kinds of ginger, noticeable enough when examining the rhizomes, is more apparent when dealing with the oils themselves. The various tinctures and essences of ginger may be con- veniently and readily prepared from this extract without the usual loss of alcohol, and syrup may be flavoured with it without the use of any spirit. Kilmer describes some experiments in extracting the oil with ether and with alcohol (Land of Ginger), and records that the finer grades when carefully dried contained a higher percentage of volatile oil. Ginger dried without removing the peel gave somewhat higher results than the peeled ginger, and the loss of the oils