NUTMEGS AND MACE Ill 113 the same time to allow the plant sufficient light, and the advantages of light rain, and dew. The shade can be removed in ten days or a fortnight at latest, or before this if the plant has pushed up its shoots, so as to touch the covering. The time for planting should be by preference the beginning of the rainy season in countries where the seasons are distinct. Planting in the dry season is not giving the plant a fair chance, and can only be success- ful by a regular system of watering every evening. Watering is sometimes necessary for the young plants for the first few days after transplanting, but seldom unless the weather proves very dry. In planting under shade, unless the weather is ex- ceptionally hot, and by chance the plants are too much exposed, additional shading is of course not required, nor indeed is watering. But the planter, visiting the seedlings on the second or third day, will be able to judge by their appearance as to whether additional shade or water is required. Shading.—The nutmeg trees in Banda are cultivated in alleys beneath big canary-nut trees (Canarium edule), but the trees in the Penang and Province Wellesley plantations, and in fact all over the Malay Peninsula, were grown quite in the open, without any shading at all. Indeed, on the steep slopes of the Penang hills, it would be difficult to shade them in any way. The hills here are terraced, and the terraces supported with granite boulders, and there is little room for shading. It is to this want of shade that Wallace and others, who have seen the Banda trees, attribute the collapse of the industry in Singapore, and to a large extent in Penang, in 1860. This, I do not think was directly the cause, which is explained under the account of pests, but I think it is clear that trees do grow better for shading, to a certain extent. The nutmeg is not a tree of open country, but a jungle tree, and it is certainly unnatural for it to grow in bare ground with no shade. The heat on the Penang and Province Wellesley hills i