32 SPICES CHA-P. sized cuttings is preferable to one raised from seed, as it grows faster in the beginning. Such trees are Pterocarpus indicus, and Lager- stroemia Flos-Reginae or jioribunda or Erythrinas. Of these a branch 3 or 4 ft. long, and £ or f of an inch through, grows very readily. Delteil suggests as suitable trees cacao, the Jack tree, mangoes, loquat, Albizzia Lebbek, Bombax rnala- baricum, Ficus elastica, and F. indica, and Jatropha curcas, the physic nut. Some of these I would suggest are rather too slow in growth, and others are apt to grow too tall and do not branch sufficiently. The physic nut is recommended by many planters. Its advantages are that it is common, being often used for fences ; it can be propagated by cuttings, but also grows rapidly from seed; it does not grow tall and is well branched, and sufficiently strong to carry the vine. In Singapore I find it too slow and not sufficiently tall for the purpose, but in drier climates it appears to grow faster and stronger. Croton tiglium, the croton-oil plant, is recommended by some, and is said to be the only plant that will carry vanilla through a hurricane. It is not, however, a plant which will grow everywhere, and is not always a fast grower. Macfarlane suggests the shrubby Bauhinia purpurea and the arnotto, Bixa orellana. The latter, as he justly remarks, gives the deeper shade. Almost any of the erect Bauhinias would do, but B. vanegata and B. purpurea are both strong well-growing plants. The arnotto and the Bauhinias grow fast and easily from seed in good soil, and are able to support the vines in from eighteen months to two years. In the Singapore Botanic Gardens vanilla has been very successfully grown on the oil-palm, Elaeis guineen- sis, which, from the good light shading its foliage gives and the projecting leaf bases usually full of decayed vegetable matter, forms an ideal support, but un- fortunately it is of comparatively slow growth. Trellis Cultivation.—Instead of using living trees