PEPPERS VIII 271 not the same, was sent to me from Port Dickson in Negri Sambilan, Malay Peninsula.1 This insect ate the bases of the leaves and shoots, and though it did not actually kill the plants, prevented their bearing. The caterpillar was 1 in. long and very thick and slug-shaped. Its back, ail but the head, was bluish white, covered with radiating tufts of blue or white spines. Its head and abdomen are dirty yellow, and at its tail above was a yellowish patch with four black velvety spots in a transverse row. The spines on its back are poisonous, and the caterpillar like all of this set can sting rather badly with them. I failed to rear any of the moths from these caterpillars, as they were too much injured in travelling, but I have often seen them attacking soursop trees, and it is certainly- a common species. There are a number of these stinging caterpillars in the East, and they are popularly known as nettleworms. They are very troublesome to get rid of, as they are too well defended for hand picking. They can be removed or killed with small pieces of stick or splinters of bamboo. Wounds in caterpillars, even if slight, invariably prove fatal very shortly, and they can be destroyed by merely spearing them with a sharp splinter of bamboo. They do not usually occur in large numbers, but Mr. Green warns planters to look out for and destroy the pre- liminary broods of nettlegrubs in the tea estates where they do much harm, and suggests the use of arsenate of lead sprayed over the leaves at once to prevent a sudden increase of the pest. Planters must, however, remember that this substance is poisonous and pepper fruit sprayed with it might be dangerous to health. It would perhaps be better to use some form of nicotine or tuba root. Another caterpillar, or perhaps the same, is recorded as attacking pepper in Assam, and the “ Cinchona caterpillar ” is mentioned by a writer in the Singapore Free Press (1888) as being an enemy to pepper. The great caterpillar of the Atlas moth (Attacus Atlas) is 1 Bulletin, Straits Agricult, iii., 1904, p. 101.