SPICES 390 CHAP. that it was deficient in organic matter, lime, phosphoric acid, and sodium. Various market fertilisers produced no favourable results. Stable manure and bat guano, from the island caves, were also a failure. The use of a marl, when mixed with stable manure, was a partial success. The Society experimented on a limited area oi worn-out ground, upon which a check experiment gave no return, and obtained by a suitable compost a crop equivalent to 2,500 lbs. per acre, and of a product of extraordinary size and quality. The fertiliser which produced such results was a mixture of marl with a compost of about 10 per cent of soluble phosphates, ammonia, and potash salts. Preparation of the Soil.—The mode of preparing the soil depends to a considerable extent upon the actual conditions of the climate, and the planter must use his judgment as to the most suitable method. In any case the soil must be broken up fine, either with hoe or plough, and if possible harrowed afterwards. In Bengal, according to the Report of the Director of the Agricultural Department for 1886, the ground is ploughed in March or April, after every fall of rain, and altogether receives twelve or thirteen ploughings. It is then levelled, and water-channels are made in order to irrigate the ground. The water-channels are made from 60 to 80 ft. apart, and connected by smaller ones running at right angles to the main channels, about 8 ft. apart. Planting.—Ginger is always grown from cuttings of the rhizome. Seeds of the plant seem absolutely unknown. The joints of the rhizome each contain an “ eye,” that is to say a bud, and from these buds the plant grows. Often the portions of the rhizomes cut off in peeling the ginger are used as stock. Frequently, however, a proportion of the crop is retained for planting stock. The cuttings should be from 1 to 2 in. long. Planting in India and the West Indies generally takes place in March and April, but sometimes later, till June. This really depends on the time of occurrence