SPICES 170 CHAP. IV their ends a number of short arms, usually from 3 to 9 in number, all nearly equal in length. At the end of each arm, which is abruptly decurved, is a yellow rounded body, the zoosporangium. These zoosporanges open by a minute hole at the top and let out a number ol zoospores, which swim in drops of water by the aid of two minute hairs or cilia, and are thus carried from leaf to leaf by the rain, and probably also these, or another form of zoospore, are dispersed while in the resting stage by wind. The pest was identified for me by Mr. Massee as the alga Cephaleurus my coidea, Karsten (My coidea para- sitica, Cunningham), which is known as a destructive parasite on many kinds of thick-leaved trees, in the Straits Settlements, Malay Islands, and Ceylon. It attacks among other trees camellias, tea, - mangosteen, and similar trees. Full accounts of it are published in the Transactions of the Linnean Society, 1880, by Cunningham; by Karsten in Annales du Jardin Botanique de Buitenzorg, vol. x. p. 24; and by Marshall Ward (Trans. Linn. Soc., 1881, vol. ii p. 87). The plant forms a kind of crust, the thallus, on the leaf, and pushes down root-like processes into the tissue of the leaf, destroying it, apparently mainly by using up its water supply. The leaves turn yellow and fall sooner than they should, giving the tree a bare appearance. Many of the boughs are leafless nearly to the top, and the whole appearance of the tree is weak and shabby, with scanty foliage. Some trees in the Botanic Gardens at Singapore were badly affected by this alga, and the treatment of washing them with Bordeaux mixture was tried with marked success. The mixture was syringed on to the trees with a bamboo squirt till the foliage was conspicuously blue. At the next putting forth of leaves it was noticed that the young leaves which came out were not attacked by the parasite, while the trees that were not syringed were as bad as before, the leaves being all spotted with the fungus, and many buds blackened and dead.