SPICES 258 CHAP. experienced men prefer this mode of propagation, because the vine bears for fourteen years, while the cutting-vines bear only for seven years. These, how- ever, crop better, and give bigger berries. The following account of the method of planting pepper from seed is taken from the Indian Agriculturist of September 1878. Take ripe pepper and put into water for three days, at the end of which take off the skin, and after you have mixed good red earth with cow-dung and water, put the pepper into it, exposing the same to the sun for three days early in the morn- ing and evening: it is necessary that this mixture be neither too thick nor too thin. After this, plant the same in an earthen pot, every grain at a certain distance, taking care to water them every day with a watering-pot until the stalk has four leaves. Then dig a hole at the foot of a tree 2 ft. deep, and 9 in. long and broad, take cowdung and ashes of all sorts of firewood, put it into the hole and mix the same with the ground dug out of it, taking care to fill it in such a manner that there only remains 4 or 5 in. of elevation. Fifteen days later, plant four pepper plants in every hole, cover them with earth 2 in. deep. During the summer water them every day, morning and evening, and cover during the rains. Likewise take care that no water remains at their feet by covering them with earth. As soon as the rains are over, throw up a circular bank of earth round them to contain the water they are watered with. In this manner they must be nourished for three years. In the fourth year they will begin to give fruit. Cuttings.—Pepper is, however, nearly always grown from cuttings. These cuttings are made from the tops of a bearing vine, as those from running shoots will not, as a rule, produce flowers ; old and nearly worn out vines should not be used, nor should cuttings be made from hardened old stems, but they should be taken from well grown healthy vines of a good strain, and in localities where the vines are apt to run unisexual. Care must be taken not to cut from male vines only. The cuttings should show roots at the joints, but most will develop them quickly when planted if they do not at first show them. There are many different ideas as to the length of the cuttings. Many planters make them 1 ft. long,