II 41 VANILLA on the top of which are laid Hat stones, in order to keep the cutting thoroughly damp, but this is rarely necessary except perhaps in very hot and dry spots, where it might be advisable. Under good conditions the growth of the vanilla is rapid, and from a cutting of three or four joints it will have grown from 10 to 14 ft. long at the end of the second year, and should commence flowering in the third. When the shoots have grown to a sufficient length, they require to be twisted round the branches of the supporting tree, or over the lattice of the trellis, so that it can climb over and hang down. This must be done gently, so as not to tear or bruise the leaves, branches, or roots. It is on these long hanging branches that the flowers are produced. As long as the vine can climb upwards it will not flower, so that it is not advisabler to grow it on too high a support, for not only will it take longer to produce the hanging branches, but there is much more difficulty in getting at the flowers to fertilise them later. These long branches, when they reach the ground, often take root there and reascend the support. The long shoots turn downwards when the plant has grown to the top of its supjoort, and when grown on low trellises, or posts or bushes, turn down of themselves. On taller trees it is often necessary to turn them down to prevent them from growing out of reach. The vines should be examined every two months or so, and the stems over 10 or 12 ft. long should be turned down over the lower branches. “ Do not let the vine hang nearer than a foot from the ground,” says Macfarlane, but “ pinch off the end when it has reached that length.” In turning down it is often found that the plant has clung by its roots to a support and cannot be moved easily without breaking these roots. It is better to cut them through rather than to break them. They are no longer of any use to the plant, and attempts to uncoil them may end in breaking the vine, which is more brittle than the roots.