X CARDAMOMS 341 ously, keeping the ridges moist, not wet, during the drier season, but during the monsoon steps must be taken to run the drainage and irrigation water away from the fields. The plants are kept in this field for from fifteen to eighteen months, by which time they are 4 ft. high, and ready for planting in a permanent position. The planting usually takes place in two seasons in Kanara, viz. from March to June, and from September to October, but in places where there is no dry spell of weather they can be planted at almost any time. Where the plants are cultivated between betel-nut palms as in Kanara, they are usually planted between each pair of palms, at an equal distance from each, so as to alternate with them. The number of plants to the acre varies according to the closeness of the shade trees, whether betel-nuts or orchard trees. In Bombay, according to Watt’s Dictionary, the number of seedlings required for an acre differs much in different parts. “In Sirsi, about 1,000 seedlings go to an acre, while in Yellapur the number required is 650.” Mollison says “in a fully stocked betel-nut garden there can be 300 to 400 cardamom plants per acre.” Owen, in his estimates for planting in Ceylon, puts down 37,500 good double bulbs as requisite for 25 acres, i.e. 1,500 an acre, but this is allowing 50 per cent for supplies. He remarks on this that 50 per cent supplies may seem large, but it is very likely to be required where the bulbs have to be carried far. This in these circumstances works out 750 an acre, but in Ceylon the plants are to be grown under shade trees, and not interplanted with betel-nut palms in a close grove where much of the area is taken up by the palms. Watt gives their dis- tance apart as from 6 to 12 ft. according to the soil. In planting, the holes or pits for the reception of the plants should be 18 to 24 in. across each way and 12 to 18 in. deep. The soil mixed with leaf mould and finely broken up is returned to the hole, the seedlings planted, and the soil filled in round it almost to the top of the