210 SPICES CHAP. is suitable; such laud in a flat country is preferable to hilly spots. The soil that is rocky or stony under the surface is bad, as the trees would neither grow fast nor yield a remunerative return. E. Boddam, in the Mysore Gazette, condemns any but siliceous soils. He says that besides inferiority in smell, taste, and colour which invariably mark plants grown in any other soil, another disadvantage is this, that while the stumps of plants grown in siliceous soils shoot forth rapidly, and are fit to be peeled a second time within a period of four or five years, producing bark superior in quality to that peeled at first, those grown on a hilly or marshy soil require a time of not less than six years before they can undergo a second peeling and yield bark less in quantity and inferior in quality to that peeled off at first. All seem to agree that the best cinnamon is that grown on sandy, loose soil, at a low elevation. There is no doubt that the plant itself will grow luxuriantly in damper, more argillaceous soils, and in such soils it has established itself as a wild plant about Singapore and elsewhere. But the ease and luxuriance with which the plant grows does not at all prove that it will be successful as a giver of good bark. In damp shady spots the tree seems to be much less aromatic, and probably contains much less oil, passing towards the wild Cinnamomum iners, which is hardly at all aromatic and is so common in damp low-lying spots in the Malay Peninsula. The planter should be sure that his soil is suitable for the plant, and that the product obtained would be up to the standard of first-class quality, before embarking extensively in the cultivation. As far as climate is concerned, the rainfall should be adequate, 85 to 100 in. a year, and the temperature averaging 85° or little higher or lower. Prolonged, dry, rainless spells do not suit this plant at all. Raising from Seed.—The cinnamon tree is usually grown from seed. The seeds are gathered when ripe, and heaped up in a shady place, till the outside pulp rots and turns quite black, when the seeds can be freed