CLOVES 189 IV Our experiments have, however, shown that cloves must be exposed to the direct heat and light of the sun; if dried in the shade they turn black. The glass-house has been the means of saving labour, as the cloves, once spread out in it, could be left to dry. Much time is lost, at a time when every available man is required for picking, under the present system of taking the mats in and out morning and evening, and in showery weather. At Marseilles this became most serious, as we had between 400 and 500 mats to handle each time. The Clove Crop Generally.—The magnitude of the clove crop may be judged by the returns of November and December. In those months Pemba sent in more cloves than in any previous month of the years tabulated, while the total for the two islands for December, namely 121,858 fraslas, exceeds all previous returns. The Zanzibar crop was late, hence the total of 60,365 fraslas for the year is the lowest since 1890, though the report for December, namely 32,399 fraslas, is the highest on record for Zanzibar in one month. Still, a heavy loss has taken place upon the trees. The dry weather of December, the rainfall for which was the lowest on record, following upon an unusually dry year, caused the trees, especially in the districts where the crop was very late—Dunga, Kitumba, and the north end of the island—to shed starved and immature buds, and labour was diverted from picking to sweeping up the fallen cloves under the trees. A quantity has been gathered in this way, though a far greater quantity has been lost. Picking in these districts never really got into full swing. In the Machui district the crop was abundant and well forward, but the labour was totally inadequate to cope with it. The trees look as heavily laden now with ripening mother of cloves as they did in the beginning of the season with buds, and the proportion picked must be quite insignificant to that which was left. In the South Mwera country the crop was earlier and lighter, and was comparatively well gathered. Pemba seems to have suffered less from the effects of the drought than Zanzibar. The soil of Pemba, having more clay than ours, is more retentive of moisture, and therefore better able to resist the effects of drought. The Pemba trees, too, are older, and their roots will consequently have reached deeper levels for their food supply (Annual Report of the Agri- cultural Department of Zanzibar, 1899 ; Tropical Agriculturist, January 1, 1900, pp. 447, 517).