CINNAMON 215 VI velopment of the bush. Manure of any kind put at the foot of a tree causes the development of roots in a mass close to the trunk instead of a large spread of feeding roots, and retards the growth of the stems. Manuring.—Some planters have said that cinnamon does not require manuring, except that of mulching with weeds, fallen leaves, etc. I can find very little experimenting with manures on cinnamon recorded anywhere, but the experienced cinnamon planter quoted before urges that though, as a matter of practice, planters are not in the habit of giving any other manure than a mulch of weed refuse, cinnamon grows stronger and quicker where there is plenty of organic matter for its roots to feed on. He quotes a Mr. Gabriel Cross, who affirms that he has doubled the produce by the application of coco-nut poonac. Cow-dung, if not too heavily supplied, is always a safe manure for a bush of this description, and indeed any vegetable refuse might be well used on the ground. Growth.—In favourable situations the shoots attain a height of 5 or 6 ft. in about six or seven years, and a healthy bush will then give two or three shoots fit for peeling. In good soil from four to seven shoots may be cut every second year from one tree, and shoots of four years’ growth are also often fit for cutting. From seedlings no crop is obtained earlier than the second or third year, when the solitary stem is cut down to within 4 or 6 in. from the ground, and covered with fresh earth. The second crop will be three or four times as large as the first, the number of shoots increasing each year, till in the seventh or eighth year the bushes have grown so big that there should be hardly room for the peelers to get between them.1 Flowering and Fruiting.—Adult trees flower in May, or earlier, the fruit ripening in July or August. The birds are very fond of the fruit, and often devour nearly the whole crop before it is ripe, so that it is frequently necessary, in the Malay Peninsula at least, to 1 T. B. Dunedwelle.