TURMERIC XIV 429 the land fit for planting. The rhizomes should be set 9 in. apart, and the beds should be 25 or 30 ft. apart. About 2 maunds of turmeric roots are required for planting an acre. When the plants have come up, and before the approach of the rainy season, ridging or earthing should be done to exclude the water from the immediate surroundings of the plant. Water should be drained off if necessary. Manuring is hardly ever done in Bengal, but 1 maund of ashes and 3 maunds of oil-cake per acre would benefit the trees as well as the turmeric. It should be given soon after planting and before earthing up. Two hand-weedings or hoeings are necessary, one in July and one in September. The roots should be lifted up after the leaves have completely withered in December and January. Some small sections of the rhizome should be set apart for seed. These, before being planted in April or May, should be kept under a heap of dry straw to hasten sprouting (Handbook of Indian Agriculture). Manuring.—Turmeric, unless in especially good ground, however, requires manure of some sort. Farm- yard manure is perhaps the best if procurable, and is what is used by the Chinaman in the Malay Peninsula. In Coimbatore, municipal sweepings and ashes are a favourite manure. Burnt earth and wood-ashes I have found very effective, especially in soils weak in potash. Sir E. 0. Buck (Dyes and Tans of the Nortli-ivest Provinces) says: “In June the land is well manured, forty cart-loads being thrown into 1 acre of land. It is then watered twice and well ploughed.” He is speaking here of Cawnpore, where, from its dryness, irrigation is necessary. In an account of some field experiments with sewage made on the Bombay farms, J. W. Mollison, in the Agricultural Ledger, 1901, vol. ii. p. 52, shows the value of sewage in turmeric cultivation. A comparison was made of the crops produced after manuring with several different kinds of manure. These were watering with the effluent from septic tanks of night-soil, in Poona farm-yard manure, poudrette (i.e.