265 VIII PEPPERS cultivated only on the plains (of Malabar), but it has been proved to do well at 2,500 to 3,000 ft. elevation above the sea and even to 3,500.” He recommends Erythrina and Jack trees as standards and also Grevillea robusta. Almost any hardy tree with rough bark will do, as pepper is apt to keep slipping down off smooth bark. An ideal tree is a straight, slender stem with a rough bark and a small head. Trees like Jack trees with big heads must be lopped. For the first three years a certain amount of shade is best, but in the fourth year it must be lopped to admit plenty of light. Without sufficient light the crop will be small, but it is a mistake to remove all shade, as pepper is naturally a shade plant. Besides, excessive lopping may kill the standard. He recommends planting 25 ft. apart, that is a 100 to the acre. (This appears to me to be waste of space.) He suggests planting pepper in abandoned coffee plantations, the old shade trees being utilised as standards. Shade trees for coffee have been practically abandoned, in most places at least, but should such a spot be available and otherwise suitable, the planter might well follow out this idea. “ Producer ” gives the cost of planting at 5 to 6 rupees per acre when the standards are established, but when Erythrina has to be planted, 20 rupees the first year and 10 rupees for succeeding years. He says also that 1,000 cuttings are required for an acre’s planting, as only 33 per cent grow. (This seems a very small percentage, as pepper cuttings are not at all difficult to strike, and I have generally succeeded in getting nearly three times that amount develop into healthy plants.) Posts and Trellises.—In the Straits Settlements and Borneo the Chinese do not utilise living trees to support the vines, but grow them exclusively on stout wooden posts, about 12 to 14 ft. tall and 7 in. through. Care is taken to select hard and durable timber which will not be destroyed by termites or fungus-decay before the life of the pepper plant is finished. But