246 SPICES CHAP. VIII and more prominent veins. The leaves are less flat. It is deficient in stamens. The small-leaved Balmacotta has small, uniform leaves, and the whole plant is covered with an immense number of short flowering spikes. These are largely devoid of stamens. Kccllivalli Pepper.—This has a reputation for a heavier crop than that of Balamcotta, and is more valuable. It has the defect that it flushes irregularly. It is said that fresh spikes appear at intervals during the year, so that the crop is extended over a long period. The leaves are fairly uniform in length, varying in width according to age; the young leaves are oval, with equal sides, the mature ones practically circular with a sharp sudden point twisted to one side. The general colour of the foliage is dark green, contrasting with the Balamcotta vine in this respect. The leaves are more deeply impressed with nerves. The flowering branches are much stronger and stand out stiffly from the standard, and the joints are closer together. The spikes vary a good deal in length, but are not so long as in the Balamcotta varieties. They are often branched, few vines being without one or two branched spikes. Sometimes the spike is tassel-like in appearance, with a dozen or more branched spikes at the base of the main spike. The flowers are much closer together than in Balamcotta vines, their distance apart being equal or double the length of the flowers. The spike is therefore closely packed with berries which are said to be smaller and heavier than in Balamcotta. The spikes are abundantly supplied with stamens. The plant stands heat well and is easy to propagate. The main varieties of the Kallivalli type are the ivy-leaved forms distinguished by their wavy edges. Cherikadi is a well marked dwarf form under 15 ft. in height; the leaves are uniform, narrow pointed, 6 to 8 in. long, and 3 to 4 in. wide, dark green, and strongly veined, more so than in the two former varieties. The leaves are arranged uniformly overlapping, so as to hide