10 SPICES CHAP. Milestone ” or “ agricultural sulphate of copper ” must be avoided, as these are usually adulterated with iron sulphate. The strength of Bordeaux mixture at present most widely recommended in the United States is 4f lb. of copper sulphate, 4£ lb. of quicklime, 50 gallons (Imperial) of water. This strength is expressed in America by the formula 4:4: 50, since, as Mr. Pickering has lately pointed out, the relative value of the American and Imperial gallon is different, the former weighing 8-345 lb. and the latter 10 lb. As, however, excellent results have followed the use of Bordeaux mixture made of the strength 4:4:50 (Imperial), it would seem advisable, for the present, at any rate, to continue to use this as the “ standard ” mixture. Dissolve the 4 lb. of copper sulphate in a wooden tub or bucket—iron or tin vessels must not be used. The easiest way to do this is to suspend the material, wrapped in a piece of coarse sacking, in a few gallons of cold water, from a stick placed across the top of a tub, or wooden bucket. If this be done over night, the copper sulphate will be found to be dissolved in the water by the morning. (If hot water be used, the copper sulphate can be placed at the bottom of the tub or bucket, and be dissolved in a few minutes.) Then add the water to make 25 gallons. Now take the 4 lb. of quicklime, and put it in a tin pail. Add a few pints of water till all the lime is slaked, taking care to add only a little water at first; in this way a thick creamy paste is obtained. Add water to make 25 gallons. We have now 25 gallons of copper sulphate solution, and 25 gallons of “ milk -of -lime.” When the two substances are thus diluted with water, they can be mixed together by pouring one into the other, or a bucketful of each can be poured simultaneously or alternately into a third tub —a wooden bucket being used for the copper sulphate solution. The “ milk-of-lime ” must be well strained, and it is advisable also to strain the Bordeaux mixture before spraying. In this way we obtain 50 gallons of Bordeaux mixture of the best quality. Two points are of primary importance in making Bordeaux mixture. The first is that quicklime, in lumps, that is to say, as freshly burnt as possible, should be used. Powdered air- slakecl lime, such as is often found in builders’ yards, will not make Bordeaux mixture. The second point to observe is that the two constituents, viz. copper sulphate and lime, are diluted with water as much as possible (consistent with the formula) before being mixed together. If concentrated solution of copper sulphate and lime are mixed together, and water then added to