X 335 CARDAMOMS sometimes one or two cuts are necessary ; the separated portion is then broken up into bulbs by hand. The objection to this system is that the wounded side of the plant takes a long time to recover, and frequently such plants continue to bear on one side only. A better system is to select and mark out a portion of the clearing, and uproot the whole of it. The clumps are then broken up into sets, some of which can be used for replanting. In buying “ bulbs ” from natives, Owen cautions the planter to take care to see that inferior plants are not mixed with the true Malabar cardamoms, as this may cause much loss and disappointment. The velvety feeling on the under surface of the leaf and leaf sheath and the pure white or greenish colour (not tinted with pink) of the bulb distinguishes the right Malabar. “ Double bulbs” alone should be bought. These consist of two stems connected together, and should have a shoot or two springing from the leaves. Such bulbs consisting of a single stem and a bulbous base, even if offered cheap, are worthless and sure to fail. A single bulb, however, with a well-developed shoot springing from it, if not denuded of all its roots, will probably succeed. The bulbs should also be fresh, for although the rhizomes retain their vitality for a long time under adverse circumstances, yet the fresher they are the better. The dealers in bulbs buy them in small lots at one rupee a hundred, and in the case of large orders, have to get them from numerous localities at once, so that it frequently happens that a portion of the bulbs de- teriorate greatly before the full complement of the order is obtained. Rhizomes can be purchased through the Botanic Gardens at Peradeniya and through European dealers in plants in Ceylon and India, by which means the best bulbs fit for planting may be obtained. It does not pay in the cultivation of cardamoms or anything else to take inferior stock because it is cheap; it usually eventually turns out much dearer.