SPICES 404 CHAP. coffee drying. It is made by levelling a piece of ground, covering it with concrete or broken stone, and overlaying it with cement; of course a spot exposed to full sun is selected, and the ginger laid on it to dry. Others use a frame-work of sticks, with boards or palm or banana leaves laid upon it, or, more commonly, a few large banana or palm leaves are laid on the ground, and the ginger laid on them. In countries where palm or pandanus-leaf mats are commonly used, these would doubtless be more convenient for drying the spice. The rhizomes are put out at sunrise and turned over at mid-day, and taken indoors in the evening. In rainy or cloudy weather it is apt to get mouldy if care is not taken. It requires six or eight days to become thoroughly dry. During the drying the rhizomes lose nearly 70 per cent in weight. Ginger dried as for market contains from 7 to 12 per cent of moisture, as was shown when such ginger was dried at 100' C.; and some poorly dried specimens, some of which were damp and mouldy, when dried at 100 C. showed a loss of from 15 to 25 per cent. As it happens that the weather was not always suitable for drying ginger, and prolonged rains make it impossible to sun-dry it, whereby the planters lose their crop, attempts were made to dry by fire heat. An attempt was made to dry without removing the coat, which if successful would have saved a consider- able amount of labour. The result, however, of this was that the rhizomes became quite dark in colour, and the flavour was not as good as in sun-dried spice. Further experiments with an American fruit evaporator were also a failure, partly owing to the high tempera- ture required, and partly from ignorance of the operator. The rhizomes lost much of their aroma, were darker in colour, and had a smoky, burnt flavour. Still, it is possible that a method of fire-heat drying might be evolved, which would save much labour and risk of loss from wet weather. Attempts, too, were made by drying with calcium