149 NUTMEGS AND MACE When they are quite dry, the shell or testa must be cracked oft'. This is usually done by striking them on the end with a wooden truncheon. They must not be struck on the side or some of the oil cells will be ruptured by the bruise, and a black mark will be left, which mars their appearance. In Banda the seeds are spread on a hat kind of drum-head, where a man strikes them with a flat piece of board, so that several are cracked at a blow. Another man standing by sweeps them off as they are cracked, and supplies fresh ones. A man working in this way will crack more nuts without injury than half a dozen men with the truncheon. A machine for cracking nutmegs was invented by Mr. John Rudder, a native of Barbados, about 1902, and was much in favour in Grenada. It consisted of a long, high, narrow box, within which revolves a wooden wheel, the rim of which is as wide as the box and is formed of a series of wide, deep sockets. The nutmegs are fed to the machine by a funnel-shaped box, into which they are dropped at the top and fall into the sockets, where they are dashed against the end of the box. The force with which they strike cracks the shell and the kernel and shells fall to the bottom of the box. The whole machine was made of white pine-wood, and cost £12 :10s. It would crack a barrelful of nuts in two minutes. Most of the big exporters of nutmegs in Grenada used the invention, and one who exported 600 barrels a year said he could not do without it. Some, however, objected to it on the ground that it was apt to bruise the kernel. The inventor declared, however, that it only damaged nutmegs which were insufficiently cured or unhealthy. After the seed is taken from its shell it is liable to the attacks of beetles, especially if it is left for any length of time in the store or godown. To obviate this, formerly at least, the Dutch used to lime the nutmegs. This was done either by sprinkling them profusely or rubbing by hand with powdered lime, or by dipping them in a mixture of lime and water. In Banda,