NUTMEGS AND MACE 111 Ill was accentuated by the male trees not being manured, the Chinese thinking it was not worth while to manure them. But in trees in the Singapore Gardens, where both sexes were treated similarly, this drawn-up appear- ance was still conspicuous in most of the males. In Trinidad, according to Prestoe, males occur more frequently than females by from 10 to 15 per cent. In most cases where I have had the opportunity to observe in the Straits Settlements, I find the males in a considerable minority. In the plantation one male to from eight to ten female trees is sufficient for adequate fertilisation. The plants being unisexual, and it not being, so far as one can see, possible for the female flower to be fertilised by the aid of the wind, as happens in grasses and such plants, are no doubt fertilised by insects, but I have only seen a small flat beetle, and occasionally some small bees, visiting the flowers; indeed, it is rare to find any insect at the flowers. Nevertheless, female trees widely distant from any males seem to produce ripe fruit, often in abundance, a thing which occurs also in many of the wild species of nutmeg and other uni- sexual trees. Planting.—The young nutmeg trees are planted at a distance of 26 to 30 ft. apart, either in lines or in the quincunx arrangement. In rocky or broken ground it is frequently impossible to plant them with the regularity of line which the planter loves, but so long as they are not too close to each other this is immaterial. The holes for planting should be about 4 ft. wide and 3 ft. deep at least. Dr. Oxley recommends that they should be not less than 6 ft. across and 4 ft. deep. The depth and diameter of the hole depends on the richness or poverty of the soil. The poorer the soil the larger the hole. The hole is filled up with a mixture of leaf- mould, burnt earth, and old cow-dung, if procurable, well mixed together. Care must be taken not only to fill the hole, but to raise the mound above it for at least 1 ft., to allow for sinking and settling of the loose earth.