262 SPICES CHAI'. are first sown with rice. When this is done the pepper plants are planted close to strong cuttings of a rough - barked, quick-growing tree. In the first half-year the rice gives the necessary shade, and when it is cut the shade trees are more developed and effective and grow better every day. At the commencement of the second rainy season, after the first planting, the pepper plants are bent down and their tips put in the ground so that onlv the arch of the stem is visible. The buried tip emits roots, so that the feeding organs of the plant are doubled. From the arch three or four strong shoots spring, which grow so fast that as a rule the plants fruit in the next year. Supports.—These may be young trees, or stout stakes of timber. They must be ready by the time the cuttings are planted out, so that the plants may be able to climb at once. Of living trees a considerable variety have been recommended, among which are such plants as the Jack (.Artocarpus integrifolia) and Mango (Mangifera inclica). These are planted from seed or seedlings and are said to have proved satisfactory in some localities, but the slow growth of these trees is very much in their disfavour, and they are not to be recommended. The Erythrinas are very much more suitable, as they can be grown from large-sized cuttings, and there is no delay while the supports are growing. The best kinds are Erythrina lithosperma and E. stricta. The short bushy species, E. crista-galli, etc., should be avoided as they do not make straight regular stems. Straight boughs about 2 in. through and from 6 to 12 ft. tall are cut and planted in situ, about 6 ft. apart. They commence growing at once, throwing out shoots from the top. Side shoots, when they appear, are cut oft so that the stem to which the pepper is to cling is straight and regular, wdiile the foliage at the top gives a certain amount of light shade. These trees are generally used by the Acliinese, who are very good pepper-cultivators. Other trees which grow readily and straight from