164 SPICES CHAP. led mould peculiar to the locality, so as to reduce its tenacity. Soil. The selection of the soil and the position of the ground for the young plant is a matter of great importance. The most suitable soil is a dark loam with a substratum of dark yellow earth mixed with gravel; a clayey soil suits them well, and in Zanzibar a red clay soil is considered better than a lighter, more open soil. The finest trees were observed in Zanzibar to be growing on a red clay, or stiff dark red to a darker chocolate soil. In the Straits Settlements the black soil of the valleys, which overlies a stiffer clay, is suitable, but in Penang they are commonly grown on the same class of soil as the nutmegs. Some planters recommend a gravelly soil, but this must not be too hard or stony, and should have a good mixture of clay in it. Sandy soil is unsuitable, and still worse is wet, water-logged soil. Water at the roots is fatal to the plant. A number of trees were planted some thirty years ago in the Singapore Botanic Gardens in a locality of this nature. After growing slowly for many years, till they reached the height of about 12 or 14 ft., the greater number perished without flowering. Investigation showed that the roots of the trees had come to a water- bed, and, unable to grow further, had curled and bent in a remarkable way to avoid the water, but unable to get into dryer soil had decayed away, causing the death of the tree. In very stiff yellow clay, especially if exposed to the full sun, they rarely thrive, making but little growth and suffering from various pests. The clove, like the nutmeg, appears to be an insular plant. It does not thrive usually at any distance from the sea, and it is commonly said that it requires sea-air. It is very noticeable how the plant has practically only been successfully cultivated in islands of the sea, e.g. Amboyna, the Spice Islands, Penang, Dominica, and other West Indian islands, and the Mascarene Islands. In the matter of altitude, it requires and can grow