SPICES 338 CHA1-. tannic acid, and Mollison suggests that this may be poisonous or deterrent to insects. Several writers have recommended an artificial germination of the seed in a closed tin case, the lid of which is kept close to exclude light and air as much as possible. The seeds are placed on a piece of flannel or cloth, and kept moist by a layer of saturated soil below. The seeds, when they have germinated, should be shaken off the cloth on to the surface of the nursery bed, and covered with fine soil (Watt’s Dictionary). Seed if sown on a nursery bed take a month to germinate according to Moller, but the Director of Land Records for Bombay states that they take in Kanara three months. Owen, in dealing with them in Ceylon, says that the time depends on the temperature, that is the elevation, entirely. In the low country the seed will be above ground in three weeks, whereas at an elevation of 4,000 ft. it takes as many months or even longer. It is therefore, says he, advisable to make the nursery at as low an elevation as possible if for Malabar seed, indeed a successful nursery at high elevation is very improbable, the plant being very slow of growth and damping off in a very disheartening way. Mysore cardamoms are on the contrary comparatively easily grown from seed. The seeds are sown in Madura and Kanara from July to October, apparently usually in the latter month, which is the usual time for ripening. The seedlings are very delicate, and very liable to damp off when young, and as, furthermore, a large proportion of the seeds do not germinate, a considerable excess of seeds is required for the nursery beds. Owen gives the following calculations:—1 lb. of fresh fruit will be found to contain on an average 776 capsules, each containing on an average 16 to 17 seeds. Thus 1 lb. of fresh fruit contains 12,804 seeds. 10 lbs. of fresh fruit produces 2-J- lbs. of seed, and 1 lb. of seed contains about 50,000 seeds, of which, however, only a small proportion germinates. Shading.—There seems to be a consensus of opinion