SPICES 214 CHAP. they amount to a serious evil, tending greatly to the diminution of the output. The Korahedi is distin- guished by quick growth, but before the sticks are old enough for peeling the bark becomes rough and scaly, the cuticle thickens, becomes corky, and splits down to the inner bark or true cinnamon. It is very difficult to deal with if peelable at all, and the coolies will not cut a stick of it as long as there is anything else to cut. The Velli grows quicker than any other kind of cinnamon, being often at two years’ growth 4 or 5 in. in girth and 8 or 10 ft. tall, but it can very seldom be peeled and only makes a very coarse spice, or the least valuable kind of chips. As these two cinnamons are oftener left to go to seed on estates than the good kind, there is greater difficulty in getting the good kind, and these poor varieties often get accidentally planted. It is easy to eradicate them if the plants are planted singly, but if mixed in a bush they must be allowed to remain. Weeding.—During the growth of the bushes it is advisable to attend to the weeding of the ground, and to hoe out any weeds, and especially climbing plants, which may interfere with the growth of the plant by turning round the stems. The plantation will usually require weeding three or four times a year for the first two or three years, after which twice a year should be sufficient, as the plants should by then have formed bushes sufficiently large to check the growth of the weeds to a large extent. The weeds dug out should not be removed, but either burnt and the ashes restored to the ground, or buried in holes between the bushes. The leaves, twigs, and other waste should not be placed at the base of the bush in this or any other cultivation of the same kind, but in a middle row between the bushes. The growing part of the root is the one which wants feeding, and that is at the farthest point from the tree. The roots spread widely and soon reach the underground rubbish pit, absorbing nutriment from it. The farther the roots spread, the better the de-