VI CINNAMON 213 and watered. They should be planted from 8 to 12 in. apart, and require some amount of shade. The poorer the soil the closer they should be planted. Planting Out.—The plants are taken out of the beds with a ball of clay round the roots, for planting, but before this is done the ground must be clean of weeds, hoed and holed. Lining is important, as it saves time eventually both in getting about among the trees, and also in weeding, and it is also easier to block out portions of the estate so as to give the coolies task- work in cutting. The ground is then marked out with pegs 6 ft. apart. In native cultivation the plants are often put so close together that the whole is nearly a dense mass of cinnamon bushes, but it is better to allow sufficient space to move easily about between the bushes. The small plants are often planted singly, in holes 1 ft. wide and as deep, in which leaf-mould, dead leaves, etc., are mixed with the soil dug out. The plant is put in the centre and the soil firmly pressed down. Cultivation from seed in this manner and planting singly is slow, the first crop taking from two to three years before it can be harvested. Most planters, therefore, urge planting several seedlings together in one hole. A Ceylon planter, in the Ceylon Observer (April 1, 1881), condemns single planting very strongly. “ The plant,” he says, “ would be fit for cutting in three years. Each stock would then have put out a couple or so of suckers, which in their turn would be fit for cutting in a couple of years. The clumps or bushes would thus be gradually pruned and would take ten or twelve years before the cinnamon would pay for the cost of weeding.” An experienced planter, in the book All about Spices, however, demurs to planting a number of plants together on the ground that there are several useless varieties which, getting into the estate, could not be removed if intermixed with the good plants. There are two varie- ties especially common, called respectively the Korahedi and the Velli. They occur on all estates and on some