VIII PEPPERS 277 The Canker.—It was found that in the pepper vines the tissues were soft and easily injured. The slightest scratch produced a sore on the plant. This occurred in both wild and cultivated plants, whether healthy or not, but whereas in the wild plant the dead cells were cut off by cork formation, so that the wound was stopped, in cultivated plants masses of corky tissue were formed which again became diseased, so that, from a comparatively inconspicuous cause great cankerous growths were formed. The readiness to form cankers in all its parts appear to indicate a lack of vitality in the cells. As would be expected, cankers are most frequently and injuriously formed at the collar. In one case the whole plant was found to be bursting out with cankerous eruptions. Mites were found in the eruptions and might possibly be the cause. Hyphae in the Vessels.—This is another serious disease described by Mr. Barber. It consists of fungal hyphae in the fibro-vascular vessels. The hyphae are found in every part of the plant from the youngest root to the smallest shoot, and are confined to the fibro-vascular bundles while the tissue is alive, and probably obtain their food by haustoria or suckers from the neighbouring starch-filled parenchyma. After the death of the tissue they spread in all directions. Plants affected with this should not be used for cuttings. The hyphae can be seen in a shoot with a low power microscope. Pepperivilt (Nectria sp.).— In the Wynaad Mr. Butler found the pepper attacked by a species of fungus, which also did much damage to the pigeon-pea or dall (Cajanus indicus), a crop largely grown in India. This fungus occurred on every dying vine he examined, and there is little doubt that it was the cause of a large proportion of the pepper disease on the Malabar coast. It becomes more intense during breaks in the rains and immediately after the monsoon. Exposed vines die more rapidly than those that are shaded. The roots or part of them rot or become