VI CINNAMON 211 of the pulp by trampling on them, or otherwise removing it. They are then well washed in water and dried in the air without exposing them to the sun, which soon would destroy them. Seeds that float in the water are to be rejected. The seeds are either planted at stake or raised in a nursery, and then transferred to their future position in the estate when sufficiently well grown. Planting at Stake.—The ground in which the plants are to be grown is first prepared by being cleared of brushwood and small trees. Some large trees are left as shade, at distances of 50 or 60 ft. apart. The lines are drawn out, and the holes for the seed dug at from 6 to 12 ft. apart. A square foot of soil is dug up, stones and roots removed, and the ashes of the brushwood and felled trees, which have been previously burnt, are spread over the spots dug. Holes are made in each space with a a dibble, and from four or five to a dozen or more seeds put in each hole, and covered up with about 1 in. of soil; over this is laid a covering of branches to prevent the earth from being parched and to shelter the seedlings when they appear. The seeds germinate in ten or twelve days. In damp weather most of the seeds germinate and form quantities of cinnamon shoots. But if the weather is too dry they are apt to refuse to germinate, or the seedlings when they have made some growth may die off, and supplies must be available to replace the losses. Planting in Nurseries.—Nurseries for raising cinnamon seedlings are made by selecting a piece of good rich soil and digging it well over to break it up, removing stones, roots, etc. The beds are made 3 ft. long, with suitable drainage channels round, and these beds are lined 6 in. apart, and at every 6 in. along the line half a handful of seed is dropped and covered 1 in. deep; over the beds is put a platform of sticks to support the kadjang, or pandanus-leaf roof, or whatever roofing may be conveniently obtained. The beds are watered from time to time in the dry weather, until in