VI CINNAMON 207 cinnamon and cassia were valued in Biblical times, and are often mentioned in the Old and New Testaments. A spice-bark supposed to be cassia is mentioned as imported into Egypt with other Eastern products in the seventeenth century b.c., and cinnamon and cassia are recorded among offerings to Apollo at Miletus by Seleucus II. in 243 b.c. There is, however, no record of cinnamon being produced by Ceylon in the annals of China, though there was a constant commercial intercourse between Ceylon and China, nor in the ancient Singhalese writings till a.d. 1275, when it is mentioned by an Arab writer Kaswini, as a product of Ceylon, and in 1292 by a friar, John of Montecorvins, who writes that “ a great store of its bark is carried forth from the island near by Malabar.” Ibn Batuta, the Mohammedan traveller, in 1340, and Nicolo Conti, a century later, mention it as a Ceylon plant, and describe it. In 1505, the Portuguese circumnavigating the Cape of Good Hope discovered Ceylon, and occupied the island in 1536 for the sake of the cinnamon. The finer quality of the Ceylon cinnamon, as com- pared with that of Malabar, known as Canella trista, was pointed out by Barbosa, and Garcia da Orta says that while 100 lbs. of Ceylon cinnamon was worth 10 gold, 40 lbs. of the Malabar bark was only worth 1. The Ceylon cinnamon at this time was all derived from wild trees, the Portuguese compelling the Singhalese kings to bring it as a tribute. A peculiar caste of Indians, known as Chulias, became the collectors of cinnamon, and were cruelly oppressed by the Portuguese and later by the Dutch, who took Ceylon from them about 1656 and made a monopoly of the spice. In 1770 De Koke started the cultivation of the tree, and the Dutch, from the territory which they had annexed, obtained 400,000 lbs. of cinnamon yearly, completely ruling the trade, burning the cinnamon in Holland when the supply was too large and the price fell. The English in 1796 took Ceylon from the Dutch, and the