SPICES 116 CHAP. it is considered by the planters of the utmost import- ance to weed the ground completely free of all herbace- ous and other plants, and this is one of the heaviest expenses in cultivation. It may be doubted whether this method of cultivation can pay at all, and whether, on the other hand, it is not extremely injurious to the plants. In Banda no such weeding is done. Here is Dr. Oxley’s description of a nutmeg estate in Banda:— There being no obstruction, as I have already observed, from underwood, and the lowest branches of the nutmeg trees being far above the level of vision, you can walk about with perfect freedom and see distinctly for a considerable distance, according to the undulating nature of the ground. Under your feet is a carpet formed of short grass, mosses, ferns, or soft lycopodiums. Photographs in Warburg’s Muskatnuss show ex- actly the same thing. The ground is covered with cool, soft undergrowth, grass and ferns, and resembles an English wood in summer. What a contrast is this to the hot, dry, exposed soils of the Penang and Province Wellesley hills. Personally, I have little doubt that the habit of scraping every scrap of herbaceous plants from beneath the trees in an estate of any tropical tree goes far to account for many failures of crops. No trees grow thus in nature, and he would be considered insane who removed all the turf from his apple orchard, and left the bare exposed soil. But absurd as this would be in Europe, it is still worse in the tropics. The denudation of the soil by the violent tropical showers, washing off all the humus, and soaking out all the soluble food salts of the soil, followed by a blaze of heat which cracks the ground for some depth, tearing through all the small roots in the line of the cracks, and which dries up the water in and round the roots, cannot but be very injurious to any plant. The nutmeg roots grow very high, and quite near the surface, at least in the Malay Peninsula. Portions of the roots may even be seen projecting from the ground, and these are sometimes exposed to a tempera-