SPICES 332 CHAP. least a year later, so that it is about three and a half to four years before a full crop is obtained. The process of weeding is continued annually as long as the plants bear, or as long as they require weeding. As in the first instance, according to White, the weeds are piled up in heaps to rot and are not burnt. Owen in his notes on Cardamom cultivation says that Weeding of a cardamom clearing except the first clearing is a matter of small moment. When the plants are young, the ground should he gone over whether the ground is naturally weedy or not, every two or three months. In most cases, intervals of two months are not too long, a few weedy corners being cleaned oftener. In about two years’ time, when the plants cover the ground, no weeding at all is necessary or advisable, for the fewer coolies that are allowed among the fruiting plants the better for the proprietor. It is unadvisable to give the weeding of a carda- mom clearing out in contract at any time ; a few coolies sent when other works do not press are sufficient. The important part is the weeding of ravines; these should be drained and planted if possible, but in any case must be kept thoroughly clean. If planted with grass, or allowed to remain full of jungle stuff, they harbour vermin, which are most destructive to the crop. Mixed weedy herbage on the edge or in corners of an estate of any kind is most objectionable. Such places in the tropics are the breeding-grounds of grasshoppers, crickets, beetles, and slugs, which from such points attack the crops by day and night. It is better to plant waste spots where the cardamoms will not for some reason grow with fruit trees, bananas, betel-nut palms or some such plants. The amount of vermin that these neglected weed patches will harbour is often astonishing. When the plants begin to flower it is advisable to clear off all dead and dying stems. In this class of Zingiberaceous plants, the leafy stems soon attain their maximum growth, and after a period often of some months the leaves begin to turn yellow7', the stalks brown, and finally the whole stem dies and becomes dry, disjointing itself at last where it joins the rhizome. Its work is finished when the leaves become yellow and droop, and it may then be cut off to avoid encum-