286 SPICES CHAP. palms, allowing the plant to climb up 20 ft., naturally gives a larger return than the ordinary Chinese method of growing it on 10 or 12 ft. stakes. In the Straits Settlements, under Chinese cultivation, it used to be reckoned that in very good soil a vine would yield £ lb. of dry pepper in the end of the first year, \ lb. in the second year, 1 lb. in the third, 3 to 2>\ lbs. in the fourth, and from 8 to 10 lbs. in the fifth, after which it should give about 10 lbs. till the fifteenth or twentieth year. In Sumatra, a single vine is considered to give 1-^ lb. each year. In Borneo, under Chinese cultivation, the first crop at two and a quarter or two and a half years of age gives from 1 to 1^- catty (1-^ to about 2 lbs.) of white pepper, or from 5^- to 8 lbs. of green pepper. At three and a half years of age, when it is supposed to be full grown, it would give 3 catties, or about 4 lbs. of dry pepper. T. S. Dobree, in the Ceylon Observer, says that he saw 30 lbs. of green pepper (which is equivalent to about 6 lbs. of dry pepper) taken from a vine said to be thirty years old, in Singapore. Taking the number of vines to the acre as 889, this gives 26’670 lbs. of green pepper for the autumn crop of an acre, and the Chinese owner said the spring crop was as large; that is to say, the plantation gave 53’340 lbs. of green pepper or 10-668 lbs. dry pepper per year. This is probably very exceptional, and such a return could not be expected. In Bombay, where the vines are grown on betel-nut palms to a height of 15 or 20 ft., with two or three vines on each palm, it is reckoned that the vines on a single palm should give 1,000 spikes of fruit, equivalent to 7 seers (49 lbs.) of dry pepper. In Assam, the usual return is 7 lbs. of dry pepper from each vine, in a year, and the largest amount that can be got from a single vine is 21 lbs. In Madras, according to J. Murray (Dictionary of Economic Plants of India), three forms of vines are recognised which are distinguished according to their yield. Of these the form known as “ Kari Malisaric ’ gives the highest return, namely 3 lbs. of pepper a year,