PEPPERS 279 VIII In a healthy full-grown vine the trunk of the standard is entirely hidden by a mass of foliage, which arises from a number of climbing stems which closely embrace the standard and secure themselves to it by numerous tufts of aerial lateral roots. When such a vine becomes diseased, the first symptom noticed is an appearance which was described as a “staring” look of the vine. This is due to the loss of rigidity in the leaves and leaf-stalks resulting in their drooping. With the collapse of the leaves the dense covering of foliage becomes diminished, and the stalks of the vine and patches of the trunk of the standard come into view. The next noticeable thing is that a portion of the climbing stems fall away from the standards as a result of the death of the roots and consequent relaxation of their grip. Soon the leaves begin to turn yellow and numbers of them are shed. Later all the vine withers, and the standard remains lightly festooned with dead relaxed stalks bearing a few dried leaves. While the upper part of the vine makes no attempt at recovery, the lower part often retains enough vitality to form new leaves or even to throw out fresh shoots, but these in their turn succumb, and I have known no case of recovery when once the leaf-dropping has commenced. A similar disease appeared in Cochin-China and Java about the same time as in India. Professor Zimmermann and Dr. Van Breda de Haan wrote two articles on the disease, attributing it to eel-worms. Dr. De Haan considers that the eel-worms do not directly cause the death of the vines, but attributes that to bacteria, the entrance of which to the plant is caused by the attacks of the eel-worm. As Dr. De Haan and Mr. Barber point out, the pepper is less able to defend itself from injury by the eel-worm than many other plants, as it is largely a surface-feeder, and the roots tend to collect in the mound on which it is grown. Once the worm has established itself, it meets with ideal conditions for its multiplication. The worms have only a short way to travel to meet with fresh roots. The diseases which broke out in the Malabar pepper estates are very interesting. They seem to show that the plants were deficient in vitality or power to resist disease. It must be remembered that pepper is nearly