VANILLA 37 II Mr. Dupont of the Botanic Gardens there gives an interesting account of some experiments in manuring which are worth quoting. In five beds the plants were grown in ordinary soil, in the others (fifteen) the orchid was planted in fibrous roots of the common fern, Gleichenia dichotoma, a fern which to a large extent in most tropical countries takes the place of the bracken. Eighteen months had elapsed since the vanilla cuttings were planted. They are at present fully grown vines, and those which were planted in ordinary soil have developed much less than those which were grown from the beginning in fern roots. A few of the former possess a yellowish appearance, which is striking even in wet weather. In all the basins in which the vanilla is growing the roots have developed alongside the walls, none having extended as much as one foot from the plants towards the centre of the basins. The cuttings had sprouted in the proportion of 62'5 per cent in fern roots and of 27 per cent in ordinary soil, on the 16th December, or three months after planting. In March 1905 the shoots were 2 ft. long in the basins containing fern roots, and only 6 in. in the others. It was decided at that time to put a small quantity of fern roots on the surface of the basins containing ordinary soil, in order to accelerate the growth of vines growing in them. In August all the vines were well developed, but on examina- tion of the roots it was found that none went deeper than 6 in. in fern roots, and that in ordinary soil they were fewer in number, shorter, and many of them sun-burnt. The aerial roots on reaching the soil were found to make excellent growth and to produce many rootlets. For this reason it seems that much importance should be attached to strengthening and protecting the signs of life in the lower part of the cutting. In an ordinary plantation the vines are in great numbers found dead or sun-burnt at the base, together with all the roots which were produced on that part of the cutting. When this is the case the vines produce aerial roots which replace the subter- ranean ones, but much of the energy of the plant is lost in this new production of roots, and the flowering delayed. The action of the sun on the roots is so striking that, in a second series of basins to repeat the experiments which are found successful in the first, I noticed that the growth of the vine is checked when the layer of good loose or fibrous soil is less than 2 in. deep. Under these circumstances it seems