CARDAMOMS 331 X the jangle, and letting the sun and breezes into patches of forest where the plants previously appeared scanty and weak. In this way I have seen considerable areas in the Malay peninsula, which had been felled, covered soon after with a dense forest of wild bananas to the exclusion of almost everything else. The Coorgs, says Ludlow, have many signs by which they are more or less influenced when selecting sites for new gardens. Many know the good jungles by tradition from their ancestors. In a doubtful jungle they will fell a few trees here and there, and judge the following year of its capabilities as a cardamom jungle by the presence or absence of young cardamom plants near the felled trees. In Travancore, the author of the Madras Manual states that the cardamoms grow spontaneously in the deep shade of the forest, and the owners of the gardens come from the low country east of the Ghauts to cut the brushwood and burn the creepers and otherwise clear the soil for the growth of the plants, early in the season, so as to be ready by the advent of the rains. They return to gather the crop in October and November, and a writer in the Madras Mail says that the plants will only grow in certain places, and the presence of a few wild plants safely indicates that the soil will suit the cultivation. The ground is cleared of all under- growth and the seeds are sown before the monsoon. In October, when the young cardamoms spring up, it is necessary to thin them out where they are too crowded, and to sow the ground with seed where they are too sparse (Watt’s Dictionary). For the next two years, according to the writer in the Malay Mail, and for four years, according to White, nothing more is done except to put a fence around the clearing, though in some places the cultivator weeds over the ground in the following year. The plants commence flowering about two years after the ground is cleared, and ripen some fruit about five months later, but a full crop is not got till at