SPICES 230 CHAP. English acres) under cultivation, and that the area was increasing every year. The cultivation had been carried on for twenty-five years. In Toshing the low prices obtained had caused a decrease in production, but this was the only place found by Mr. Ford where there was any decrease, though it was said that the low price of the Javanese bark was cutting out the Chinese trade. It appears that the plant Cinnamornurn cassia, though cultivated from time immemorial, does not appear to be indigenous in China. In Cochin-China, how- ever, it appears to be wild, and was perhaps introduced thence into China. The tree is botanically very closely allied to Cinnamomum obtusifolium, Nees, of Khasiya and Cochin-China. Mr. Ford’s account of the cultivation is as follows:— When the trees are about six years old the first cut of bark is obtained. The season for barking commences in March and continues till the end of May, after which the natives say the bark loses its aroma. The branches, which are about 1 in. thick, being cut to within a few inches of the ground, are carried to houses and sheds in the vicinity of the plantations, all the small twigs and leaves being cleared off. A large-bladed knife, with the cutting edge something like the end of a budding- knife, is used to make two longitudinal slits and three or four incisions at 16 in. apart round the circumference through the bark. The bark is then loosened by passing underneath it a slightly curved horn-knife, with the two edges slightly sharpened. Pieces of bark, 16 in. long and half the circumference are thus obtained. The bark, after its removal and while it is still moist with sap, is then laid with the concave side downwards and a small plane passed over it and the epidermis removed. After this operation the bark is left to dry for about twenty-four hours, and then tied up in bundles about 18 in. in diameter, and sent into the merchants’ houses in the market towns. The leaves which are cleared from the branches that are barked are carefully preserved and dried, and are used for dis- tilling cassia oil. A large quantity of leaves are sent to Canton, where I was told that the operation of distilling is employed. The twigs are removed from the cut branches at the same time as the leaves, and are sold for native uses. Cassia-buds are the immature fruits. They are gathered when about one-