VIII PEPPERS 263 branch cuttings can be used, should they be met with in any locality where Erythrina is not to be found. In Bombay the betel-nut palm, Areca catechu, is used, the pepper vines being planted on the trees in a betel- nut grove, and the plantations of betel-nuts which have given up bearing, as they do after a comparatively few years, may very well be put under pepper. Among other trees which have been utilised or tried as pepper supports, are the Kapok or silk cotton tree, Erioclendron anfractuosum, and Munkudu (Mengkudu), Morinda tinctoria. The former of these two does not seem to be really suitable, because the bark is too smooth and the pepper cannot get a grip on it, and therefore is apt to slide down. The Mengkudu is used in Trang in Southern Siam by the Chinese, and, according to Mr. Derry (Bulletin of the Straits Settlements, vol. viii. p. 243), is the most ideal shade tree for pepper he has seen. The Chinese, indeed, who formerly used Erythrina, were replacing it at Trang by this tree. It is a smaller tree than the Erythrina and it gives a better shade, its root development being smaller, thus not interfering with the growth of the pepper roots. He thus describes the planting in Trang :— On the older allotments, dadap (.Erythrina umbrosa) had been planted for shade, but as a result of continuous pruning had become gnarled and stunted. Except that this tree grows quickly it is not a good shade tree, as a matter of fact it is much too large and the free development of roots is too ex- hausting on the soil for the successful growth of the vines. On all the younger allotments dadap had been superseded by mengkudu, a much smaller tree and affording better shade at a minimum root expansion. Between alternate rows of mengkudu a row of posts had been run, and in the rows, whether trees or posts, an additional post or posts had been added wherever a good offshoot could be obtained, so that while the shade was efficient the allotment was cropped as closely as feasible. The mengkudu trees were topped above the second whorl of branches, and as a consequence the branches spread in a moderate horizontal direction. At the time of my visit the shade trees were being pruned ; where necessary the spread- ing branches were shortened, and all superfluous growths