X 337 CARDAMOMS and after being steeped in water for a short time can be sown in the nursery beds. Some persons recommend mixing them with ashes before sowing, as they are so small, and this enables them to be more evenly distributed over the seed beds. Nursery Beds.—The beds for the seed require careful preparation. The soil must be well tilled until it is loose and friable, and should be well manured. The manure should be old and well decayed, so that it can be readily crumbled into a fine powder. Mollison recommends leaf manure as the best, and it is indeed the most natural manure for a plant whose habitat is the leaf-soil of the forest, but cow-dung, if finely mixed with the soil, is also a very suitable manure. The nursery beds are about 8 ft. long by 4 ft. wide, and about 2 tolas of seed are required for a bed of this size. The seed is sprinkled loosely over the bed and a small quantity of soil thrown over them. The beds then require protection from sun and rain. Fronds of ferns stuck in the ground may be used to shade them, and have been found to form an effective shade in Ceylon, but it is better to shelter them by a water-tight roof about 3 or 4 ft. high, composed of thatch or Kadjangs or attaps, a roofing made locally of the leaves of screw pines (Pandani) or palms. In Kanara a platform is made over the beds and covered with branches, or the branches are simply laid over the nursery beds, and this is the only protection given if the seed bed is otherwise well protected from rain and wind. This, however, I would not recommend, as it often occurs in cases where the branches are laid directly on the bed that they form hiding-places for snails and other vermin. It is better to raise them on the platform. In Kanara, Mollison says that the branches of the tree Phyllanthus emblica are considered the best for laying over the beds. The cultivators allege that the leaves and branches of this and certain other trees prevent insect attack. The trees preferred are all rich in z