72 SPICES CHAP. the heat and droughts at their worst, and in this case an evergreen is what is required as a shade tree. In the equatorial districts of the rain forest region all the trees are evergreens, or if they do shed their leaves are bare only for a day or two. The choice of suitable shade trees is therefore much larger. Leguminous trees, such as Inga saman, possess one great advantage in that they close their leaves in the evening and in dull, wet weather, thereby allowing the plants beneath them to get the full value of dew and rain, while during the hotter part of the day the leaves are expanded and shade the plants so as to prevent excessive loss of water by transpiration and actual burning by the sun rays. At the same time the shade they give is not too dense. Africa, Mainland.—The cultivation has been experi- mental, and though in many places it has been proved that the plant can be grown and can be depended upon to produce well, the culture has not been taken up or spread to any extent. Zanzibar. — The plant was introduced compara- tively few years ago, but seems to do well, and there is every probability of its proving successful if taken up. In 1901 there were 3000 vines in cultivation. In a recent Annual Report of the Director of Agriculture of Zanzibar, Mr. Lyne records that vines of four years of age gave 12 T 3 dowers to a plant, those of one year old T3 flowers. He fertilised 14,826 flowers and obtained 13'571 lb. of pods, which when dry sold at from 6s. to 12s. a pound. French Congo.—The plant was introduced by Audry Lecomte in 1852, but his plants all died. It was re- introduced by Father Klaine in 1873. He brought a single plant from Paris to Libreville and from it estab- lished a small plantation. In 1904, 47 kilos of pods valued at 27 francs the kilo were exported, and in 1906 this was increased to 263 kilos. There is, however, only the one plantation, the natives not having as yet taken up the cultivation. Congo Independent State.—Vanilla has been in