XI 367 CAPSICUMS bright and clean, always meets with a ready sale. I have tried other varieties, but there is a very small demand and uncertain market for any kind except bird’s-eye. In the Malay peninsula the Chinese vegetable gardeners usually cultivate capsicums for the market with their other vegetables. The soil on which they grow the plants is usually stiff clay well dug over. The seeds are first planted in a tub of soil, and planted out three weeks later when they are about 6 in. tall. The beds are made as low ridges, 3 ft. across. In these the little plants are put in a double row, each pair being 10 to 12 in. or more apart, sometimes as much as 2 ft apart, and during their growth they are mulched with a liquid manure, composed of one part of urine and three parts of rice water (water in which rice has been boiled). Burnt earth is also used, both before and during the cultivation. The plants take three months before they commence fruiting, and continue to bear for seven months. The crop suffers much from rain, when the fall is excessive or more than usual through the year. The rain is said to spoil the flowers and fruits; the fungus which attacks the leaves and fruits being more abundant and destructive in wet weather is probably the cause of this theory. The large-sized Capsicum annuum is the chief one cultivated by the Chinese, as it is best in demand. The bird’s-eye chili is more rarely cultivated on a large scale, as there are plants in all village gardens and compounds enough to supply the demand. The following directions for planting capsicums were given me by a Chinese planter some years ago, as the method in use in Singapore :—Get some fresh chilies, cut them open and take out the seeds. Put the seeds in a bowl of salt-fish water (i.e. water in which salt fish has been soaked), and allow them to soak for at least six or seven days. The ground selected is low-lying and always slightly damp. It must be turned over and well broken up, aud then sprinkled over with burnt