PEPPERS VIII 303 alkaloid, but the consumers seem usually to prefer the white pepper. This is perhaps due to the colour and also probably because white pepper is less liable to adulteration than black. Whole pepper seems practically never to be adulterated, whether black or white, though it is said that in India it is occasionally adulterated with the dried fruits of Embelia Ribes, a common climber in India and Malaya. Ground pepper, and what is known as pepper dust, refuse, and waste fragments of black pepper is, however, easily and often adulterated with all kinds of rubbish, such as ground-up olive stones. Pepper as a spice is not only extensively used in the kitchen, but largely also in the preserving business, sausage-making, etc. Medicine.—Its virtues as a drug are mentioned by many early writers. Linschoten says, “ Pepper is used in the kitchen and in apothecaries’ shops, although in both places not as a meate or food, but for physic ” ; and proceeds to mention it;for indigestion, for mistiness of the eyes, and other complaints. Sanskrit authors describe it as acrid, pungent, hot, dry, carminative, and useful in intermittent fever, haemorrhoids, and dyspepsia. Externally it is used as a rubefacient in alopecia and skin diseases in India. Dymock states that Mohammedan writers describe it as a deobstruent, resolvent, and an alexipharmic, as a nervine tonic and a digestive, and believes it to be diurptic, an emmenagogue and a stimulant in cases of snake-bite. Externally it is used by the Mohammedans of India in paralytic affections and in toothache as a mouth wash. It is also recommended by many natives as a remedy for cholera, as an aromatic stimulant, and many of the Indian doctors of the present day value it in epidemics of cholera in the form of a very strong infusion. During an outbreak of cholera some years ago in Singapore there was a great demand for “ pepper-oil,” a distillate of black pepper, which was prepared in a distillery in Singapore. Externally pepper is also used as an application to