86 SPICES CHAP. struggling for their existence, to compete successfully with the artificial scent. As a result of this step, it is intended to ask the French Parliament to sanction an increase in the import duty on vanillin to 15 francs per kilo (5s. 5d. per lb.), in addition to an excise duty of 60 francs per kilo (£1:1:8 per lb.). Six colonial Deputies, chiefly from Disunion, are agitating with great zeal for the adoption of the proposal, and it will be a matter of great interest to watch whether it will be carried into law, or whether the French industries which consume vanillin will successfully oppose a scheme under which, in future, they would be deprived of the advantage of being able to employ the most important odoriferous substance. The Report of Messrs. John Hadden and Co., Salisbury Square, E.C., for September 1909 (given in the Agi'icultural Bulletin of the Straits and Federated Malay States), mentions that the offerings of vanilla met a good demand; fine black sold par- ticularly well, and even foxy red and split had improved in value. A general consideration of the above figures and facts would appear to show that the only immediate danger of over-production of vanilla exists in the French colonies; this is probably because nearly all the vanilla produced by them is marketed in France. The demand in the other markets seems to be fair to good. As was stated above, inquiries were made in London and New York by the Department, with a view to ascertaining the positions in those markets. In reply- ing to the first, Mr. J. R. Jackson, F.L.S., sends a copy of a letter received by him from a Mincing Lane expert, to whom he applied for information, which runs as follows :— The quantities of vanillas now offered on the London market are considerably less than was the case some years ago, and there is a good demand, at increasing values, for all that can he brought forward, so that I am inclined to think that considerably increased supplies would find a ready market at full rates. Of course the quality should approach that of the Bourbon (Reunion) or Seychelles varieties, and not be of the coarser type, such as Tahitis. If your friends could supply the