XIV 443 TURMERIC Histo7'y.—If the calamus of the Bible is the sweet flag (Acoi'us Calamus), the mention of it in Exodus xxx. 23, Canticles iv. 14, and Ezekiel xxvii. 19 are the earliest records of its use, but there is some doubt as to what was intended in these passages. The plant “ Acoron,” a native of Colchis, Galatia, and Crete, mentioned by Dioscorides and Pliny, a.d. 23 to 79, seems certainly to refer to it. Celsus (25 B.c. to a.d. 50) mentions Calamus Alexandrinus, probably brought from India by way of the Red Sea. It is said to have been introduced into Western Europe in the thirteenth century. But it first is recorded as abundant in Germany in 1588. The Indian rhizomes, however, were imported extensively till long after it was common in Europe. At present most of the drug is brought from Southern Russia through Germany to the London market, though occasionally a little still comes from India. Names.—The plant and its rhizome has many names. In English it is known as Siveet Flag; French, A core odorant or vrai, or Roseau aromatique; German, Kalmus; in the druggist’s Latin, Calamus aromaticus or acorus, the rhizome, Radix Calami aromatici; in Malay, Jeringu; Tamil, Vasambu ; Hindu, Gorbach. Cultivation.—The plant is propagated very readily by portions of the rhizome being planted in damp muddy spots, and is of rapid growth. In the tropics it seldom flowers, and fruits sparingly everywhere. Common as it is in the Malay Peninsula, I have only seen flowers and never fruits. It is never cultivated on a large scale in tropical countries, but it is found in most village gardens. No trouble is taken with it. It is merely planted and left to itself, and the rhizome taken up when required and dried. Dr. Dymock (Watt’s Dictionary) says that it is imported into Bombay chiefly from the Persian Gulf and brings about 3 rupees a maund of 37^ seers. There is a very considerable trade in this article done in Calcutta. Use.—The rhizome of sweet flag is largely used in native Oriental medicines for dyspepsia and bronchitis,