187 IV CLOVES trees, while the drought itself will have killed off many thousands. It will always be to the interest of Zanzibar, if not to over-produce, at least to keep the markets well stocked, in order to keep out opposition and preserve the monopoly. As long as the monopoly is maintained the clove industry will never hopelessly degenerate, in the way, for instance, that sugar planting has. Maltreatment of the Trees.—The rough handling which the trees receive during picking is a very serious evil, and one difficult to check. The shamba people are as bad as, if not worse than, the outsiders, and seem to have been trained upon careless and destructive principles. To be too strict in the matter is to run the risk of your wa-geni pickers deserting to other shambas, where they will not be molested. It is the buds upon the tops and the lateral extremities of the boughs that are so difficult to reach, and at Machui we were compelled to leave those. At Dunga, where we had sufficient labour to keep half a dozen ladders going, we did not succeed in thoroughly clearing the trees. Three men working one ladder will bring in 6 pishi a day; it would therefore have been unprofitable to have diverted the labour, where it was scarce as at Machui, from the accessible buds to the ladders, where three men could only pick the equivalent of one. Another fruitful source of trouble is the ravages of the maji moto ants, which weave their nests in the branches and are sometimes so bad that pickers cannot climb the trees till they have first smoked them out by lighting a fire underneath. When this takes place the lower branohes of the trees are frequently singed, and the trees sometimes fired altogether. The ravages of maji moto ants can be kept under by weeding. Well-weeded shambas are seldom troubled much with ants. Experimental Drying of the Cloves at Dunga.—Both Mr. Robertson and myself have given a good deal of attention to clove drying. We studied the Arab methods, and found that they almost invariably heaped up their green cloves in the godown the first night after they are picked. If the weather is showery, preventing drying, the heaps remain for several days, growing larger with each day’s picking. Fermentation is in this way set up, the cloves emerging a rich brown colour. It occurred to us that as this colour approached the rich tan colour so desirable in the dried clove, that a properly controlled system of fermentation might be beneficial. But our experi- ments showed this idea to be erroneous; cloves should be spread out immediately upon being measured in; heated cloves turn black. We trained our people to separate the burst from