274 SPICES CHAP. A destructive Coccus has also been seen in Borneo, as well as in tlie Straits Settlements, attacking the fruit spikes as the fruit commences to set. The insects are soft-bodied stout creatures covered with the white fluff so characteristic of this group of blight. When they attack the spike it speedily becomes black and withers up, and is often completely destroyed. The Coccids also frequently attack the leaves on the underside, the stem and other parts of the plant. The presence of Coccids on a plant in any abundance always must be taken to suggest that the plant is weak and in poor health, though this is not always the case. It is advisable to manure the plants if much affected, but at the same time steps must be taken to get rid of the pest. As a rule the ordinary insecticides fail with these animals, as they are too well protected by the white fluff which is of a waxy nature, and protects the insect from the action of any ordinary liquid. I have had some success in dealing with this class of pests by using a solution of phenyl, mixed with water, so as to have the appearance of rather poor milk. The phenyl dissolves the wax, and then acting on the skin of the insect destroys it. All the carbolic disinfectants must be used in a well diluted state, as they are other- wise apt to injure the plant, but many of them, if weak enough, will prove very effective against the waxy Cocci. Mr. Hewitt observes in Borneo that the Cocci are commonly attended by a small ant (Crematogaster Rogenhoferi), which feeds on the sugary excretions of the blight, and probably conveys the coccus from plant to plant, as ants constantly do in other cases. The presence of ants in quantities running over a plant in cultivation is often a sign to the watchful planter that blight has appeared on the vine. Mytilas'pis. Scale Insects.—Attacks by these are reported by Mr. Barber as injuring the pepper vines in India. They are probably common elsewhere, as scale insects are extremely abundant in the tropics. He describes the attack as follows :—