SPICES 300 CHAP. distance should be greater, perhaps 9 ft., as the roots would be better nourished and the produce more abundant. When a plantation is to be commenced, the large timber is cut down by Malays at the rate of 5 dollars per Oorlong. The remaining labour is performed by Chinese, who dig out the roots, burn them and the trunks, pulverise and level the soil, plant the pepper vines and the trees which are to support them. It is usual to contract with them for making the plantation in this manner, and taking care of it for three years, at the end of which time it is in bearing at a rate of 225 dollars for 1,000 plants. The sum is liquidated by instalments, as the contractor requires it, to pay his workmen. Something more than one-third is paid in the first year, because the labour is the greater; but about one-fourth of the whole is generally reserved till the contract is completed and the plantation delivered over. This does not include the price of the plants, or cuttings, which are found by the proprietor of the plantation. The vine is first made to climb on a pole. At the end of ten or twelve months it is detached from the pole to undergo the process called laying down. A circular hole, about 18 in. in diameter, is dug at one side of a plant. At the bottom of this the plant is carried round in a circle, and the end of it is brought to the tree which is in future to form its support. The depth of the hole in which the vines are laid down varies according to the situation and nature of the soil; and much judgment, to be acquired by practice, is requisite to adapt it to these circumstances. In high and dry situations the depth must be considerably greater than in those which are low and moist. Too little depth in the former would expose the roots to be parched in dry seasons; and too much in the latter would occasion them to rot from excess of moisture. The trees used for supporting the pepper vines on Prince of Wales Island are the Morinda citrifolia (Munkoodu) and the Erythrina corallodendron (Dudup). The Chinese planters allege that the pepper supported by the Erythrina thrives better and lasts longer than that supported by the Morinda. One instance I heard quoted in proof of this assertion was a plantation which had long been neglected and overgrown with weeds. When it came to be examined the vines which had grown on the Morinda were all dead, while those on the Erythrina were still strong and productive. The reason assigned by the planters for the difference is that the roots of the Erythrina do not spread so much or penetrate so deep as those of the Morinda ; whence they interfere less with the pepper, and do not draw so much nourishment from the earth.