55 II VANILLA There are a number of methods in use for artificially curing vanilla, adapted for various climates and con- ditions of weather prevailing at the time of ripening. The best known of these are given in detail. 1. The Guiana Process.—The pods are put in ashes and left there till they begin to shrivel. They are then taken out and wiped, rubbed over with olive oil, and the lower end tied to prevent them from splitting, after which they are left to dry in the open air. 2. The Peruvian Process.—The pods are dipped in boiling water, tied at the end and hung in the open air. After drying for twenty days they are lightly smeared with castor oil, and a few days after are tied in bundles. 3. The Mexican Process.—As soon as the pods are gathered they are piled into heaps in a shed to protect them from sun and rain, and in a few days, when they begin to shrivel, are submitted to the sweating process. This is carried out in two different ways, according to the weather at the time. If it is warm and fine, the pods are spread out in the early morning on a woollen blanket, and exposed to the rays of the sun. About mid-day, or one o’clock in the afternoon, the blanket is folded over the pods, and the bundle left in the sun for the remainder of the day. In the evening all the vanilla is enclosed in air-tight boxes, so that it may sweat the whole night. The next day they are again exposed to the direct action of the sun. They then become dark coffee-coloured, the shade being deeper according to the success of the sweating operation. If the weather is cloudy the vanilla is made into bundles, and a number of these are packed together in a small bale, which is first wrapped in a woollen cloth, then in a coating of banana leaves, and finally the whole is enclosed in a thick matting and sprinkled with water. The bales containing the largest beans are now placed in an oven heated to 140° Falir. When the temperature has fallen to 113° Fahr. the smaller beans are introduced, and the oven closed tightly. Twenty-