Ill NUTMEGS AND MACE 127 wood-eating beetles attack the dead portions and hasten the decay of the trees. I observed that for some reason the beetles only attacked the tree on the side facing the greatest amount of light. As in Penang and Province Wellesley the trees are usually planted on terraced hill slopes, and no shade trees are used, the attack usually takes place on the side of the tree farthest from the hill slope, so that dying trees could be seen to have the bark destroyed in a line on this face, and all the boughs on that side dead. The beetles probably breed very fast, as thousands were to be seen in a single tree. That this insect was responsible for the catastrophe of 1860, when the cultivation of the nutmeg in Singa- pore was quite destroyed and that of Penang largely diminished, I think there can be little doubt, from Collingwood’s description. He writes as follows :— In the night a tree would be attacked and the morning light would show its topmost branches withered; the leaves fell off; the disease slowly spread downward, chiefly at one side of the tree (the lower portion often for a long time green and bushy); the tree became one unsightly mass of bare and whitened twigs. No situation was exempt from its ravages, hills and valleys alike suffered, nor could any principle be traced in its promiscuous attacks. Upon a close examination of diseased parts it is found that the formative layer inside the bark dries up and turns black, the leaves then wither and fall off, and soon the bark is found to be full of small perforations, but no insect of any kind has ever been discovered in connection with the change, nor has any fungus been charged with the destruction. I have italicised the passages which seem most strongly to point to the disease and destruction being caused by the Scolytid. The death of the tree from the top downwards is very characteristic of destruction caused by deficiency in nutrition due to injury to the roots, or what is equivalent, the ringing or partial ringing of the tree at the base. This is confirmed by the blackening of the cambium layer, which, cut off from the roots by the