395 GINGER XIII by the rams, the land becomes quite valueless, and Mr. Fawcett suggests that it would probably take 100 years to recuperate. “Fertilisation of the soil was rarely attempted, partly from the small profit made, and partly from local custom. The most that was done was to plough in the weeds and throw banana trash on the ground. There were no stables in Jamaica, so there was no such thing as the compost-heap. Sea-weeds and watering the ground with sea-water was tried experi- mentally, with good results, but the average planter would not take the trouble to cultivate the ground in a scientific manner ” (Kilmer, in The Land of Ginger). “ Dried-up streams, general barrenness, in fact a wilder- ness, marks the progress of ginger cultivation.” The accounts of the ruin of great tracts of country in Jamaica, as given thus by Kilmer and Fawcett, apply in equal force to many other of our colonies and to many other of the temporary crops. Such destruc- tion and waste are not at all necessary, and are due to incompetency of the local governments, and especially to that of the land officer, whose duty it is to see that the land is cultivated properly, and not permanently destroyed in order to add a temporary increase to the land-revenue. “ Ginger can be and is,” says Fawcett, “ grown in many places year after year on the same ground. An intelligent cultivator at Borbridge stated that he knew of ginger growing for forty years in the same patch,” and he mentions an old resident who cultivated ginger and arrowroot on the same ground since his youth. It is therefore quite unnecessary to destroy forests of great value in order to grow a few crops of ginger, in fact it is inexcusable. It was Sir Henry Blake who strongly urged the arrest of the wasteful system of forest destruction, and the rational scientific cultivation of the old ground by the use of manures. The Jamaica Agricultural Society in 1895 commenced experiments in manuring. An examination of the exhausted soil revealed the fact