VI 209 CINNAMON In one of the largest gardens in Ceylon, at Marandun near Colombo, “ The surface is a pure white sand, under which is a deep stratum of rich mould. In some parts of the island, where this earth is deficient, the trees are barren and not worth cutting. In marshy places they thrive no better, but become decrepit, and the bark acquires a bitterness which destroys its sweet and aromatic qualities.”1 An experienced Ceylon cinnamon planter writes in Ferguson’s All about Spices :— Cinnamon is not found growing wild to any great extent in the drier parts of the low country; whatever may have led the Dutch to choose sandy plains for its cultivation, such lands are certainly not its natural habitat. It is most commonly found as a forest tree at from 1,000 to 2,500 ft. above sea-level, and in those angles of the mountain zone that face the monsoons. It is said to have been found growing at a height of 5,000 ft. [Ferguson adds:—we have seen plants at 7,000 ft., the clove odour in the leaves pungent enough, but the bark having scarcely a tinge of true cinnamon]. As the plant has only been cultivated to any considerable extent in the sandy plains of the Western Province, sand has of course acquired the name of yielding the finest spice; the only other land on which it is cultivated being the common cabook (laterite) gravel of the low country, on which it grows most rapidly, but produces a coarser article than on the sand. Whether a fine spice can be produced in a wetter and colder climate by cultivation remains to be tested by experiment. Till this is done we must continue to believe that the best cinnamon is grown on the poorest sand, where there is an average temperature of about 85° and an average rainfall of 1 in. for every degree. This is about the climate of the 50 miles of the coast of the Western Province; farther south we do not find the sandy plains, and farther north we get into too dry a climate. With the rise of price, he says that the villagers planted much in low swampy ground, which produced an inferior quality with a great deal of waste wood. Another writer in the Journal of the Eastern Archipelago says, that besides sandy places, a mixture of sandy with red soil free from quartz, gravel, or rock 1 Gardiner’s Ceylon. P