270 SPICES CHAP. large, dirty, white, fat grubs, sparsely covered with brown hairs. In burrowing through the ground at the foot of the pepper vine they bite through the roots with their powerful jaws. The application of lime-water in the neighbourhood of the roots is considered effectual in driving them away. Bosscha mentions another insect of the Larnelli- cornia group which attacks the roots in much the same way, but is apparently a kind of cockchafer. It flies at night in great numbers together, and Mr. Hewitt suggests might be caught by light-traps. The larvae attack the roots underground in some numbers, and the leaves turn yellow and fall off. Traps for this class of insects are made by filling a large pan of metal or earthenware with wajer, to which a little kerosene has been added. A lamp is placed above this, and the insects flying to the light fall in the water and the kerosene which floats on the top kills them. An im- provement is to put a sheet of glass vertically below the lamp over the water, as the insects strike against this in their flight and readily fall into the trap. Grasshoppers, and the big yellow and green locusts with pink hind wings, Cyrtanthacris varia, also attack the shoots of the pepper and devour them or bite them through. The smaller grasshoppers are difficult to catch, but-the locusts can easily be destroyed by children chasing them and knocking them down wflth sticks or wooden bats. Spraying with tobacco water will kill the smaller grasshoppers. Insects of this group usually spend the earlier stages of their life in low herbage or grass, and the cutting down and burning of this in the vicinity of the plantation will cause a great diminution in the numbers of grasshoppers, locusts, and crickets. Leaf-eating Caterpillars.—Mr. Hewitt mentions the attacks of the caterpillar of a Limacodid moth, which, however, he only met once devouring the leaves. He describes it as an oval green caterpillar, disk-shaped, beset laterally with stinging hairs or processes, and indeed covered with these hairs. A similar insect, if