SPICES 154 CHAP. Ill Myristica argentea, the long nutmeg of New Guinea, is often imported into Singapore from the Eastern islands for making oil or soap, and occasionally gets mixed with the genuine nutmegs as an adulterant. It can be distinguished by its long and rather cylindric form. It is only faintly aromatic, and valueless as a spice. There are upwards of fifty kinds of wild nutmeg in the Malay Peninsula and adjacent islands, and of these hardly any have any aroma either in the seed or mace. The only one which is at all aromatic in the Malay Peninsula is the rather rare Myristica cinnamomea, and that is by no means strongly aromatic. Literature Warburg, in his classic work, Die Muskatnuss, gives eighteen pages dealing with the literature of the nut- meg. A good many of the works quoted in this list contain mere passing notices by travellers, and others refer to scientific descriptions of species, or are works unnecessary for the planter. The following list of books and papers of the more important class, from an agriculturist’s point of view, may be useful. Warburg, 0. Die Muskatnuss. “ tfber die nutzbaren Muskatniisse,” Pliarmaceutische Gesellschaft, 1892, p. 212. Oxley, Dr. “ Some Account of the Nutmeg.” Journal of the East Indian Archipelago, vol. iii. p. 642. “ The Banda Nutmeg Plantations,” l.c. »- vol. i. (new series) p. 127. Lumsdaine. “ Cultivation of Cloves and Nutmegs in Singapore,” l.c. vol. v. p. 78. Low, CoL James. “Notes on the Progress of Nutmeg Cultivation,” l.c. vol. v. p. 470. Dissei’t-ation on the Soil and Agriculture of Penang, 1836. Little, B. “Diseases of the Nutmeg Tree.” Journal of the East Indian Archipelago, voL iii. p. 678. Collingwood, Surgeon. “Nutmeg and other Cultivations in Singapore." Journal of the Linnean Society, Botany, 1869, p. 45. Janse, J. M. De Nootmuskaat Cultuur in de Minahassa en op de Banda Eilander. Hooper, D. “Fats of Indian Nutmegs.” Agricultural Ledger, 1907, No. 3. Holmes, E. M. “Nutmegs of Commerce.” Pharmaceutical Journal, March 27, 1909, p. 419.