VII 231 CASSIA BARK eighth grown. “ Buds ” and the seeds required for sowing are obtained from trees ten years old and upward, that are left standing about 50 or 100 ft. apart amongst the trees which are cut down every six years for their bark. These seed- bearing trees are not cut unless there is some demand for the very thick bark on their trunks, when some of the trees which can be conveniently spared are sacrificed. The cultivation, we gather from this account, much resembles that of the cinnamon already described as practised in Ceylon. The trees are cultivated in China on hill-sides, terraced for the purpose from altitudes of 300 to 1,000 ft. above sea-level; apparently it is not cultivated on the plains, because what level ground there is, is required for rice and vegetables. The soil selected is that bearing the thickest growth of trees and ferns. I cannot find that any Chinese cassia has been cultivated elsewhere except in China and Indo-China. Mr. Ford distributed seeds of the plant he found in China, and most tropical gardens received some. A row of trees planted in the Singapore Botanic Gardens about 1884 have now developed to a large size. They were planted about 12 ft. apart, and are about 50 ft. tall and 2 to 5 ft. in girth. They flower and fruit every year, but the seeds are constantly carried off by birds unless protected by muslin bags when ripening. Some of them are growing in stiff, yellow, clay soil, others in a lower, more swampy soil, rich in humus, and damper, but the ones in the wettest soil are inferior, and it is clear that they do not do as well where the soil is damp. I cut one down some years ago, intending to try how far it stooled well, and if it shot up strong peelable shoots; it did stool as strongly as cinnamon, and could obviously be grown and treated in the same way. The Singapore plants are very aromatic, and the leaf-stalks especially have a strong flavour. The shoots are stout and slightly pubescent, but I did not find them to peel very easily.