130 SPICES CHAP. it before the seed inside is ripe. This disease has been studied by Dr. J. M. Janse, who published an account of it in the Annales du Jardin Buitenzorg, ser. ii. vol. 1 (1899), and the Mededeeling uit Blands Plantation, xxviii. The splitting of the husk of the nutmeg is effected partly by the increased tension between the seed and the husk, the seed growing a little faster. This, however, ceases when the testa of the seed commences to harden. But the dehiscence is further continued by the growth radially of a special part of the husk in the form of a small plate just at the point where the nut is attached to the husk. The development of this causes the splitting of the husk. A third force consists in the developing tension of the husk itself. The fungus attacking the husk interferes with the nutrition and produces as a result premature dehiscence. The more the nutrition is interfered with the sooner the husk opens, so that if the disease is bad the fruit splits before the testa becomes black, and mace and testa are still white, and these failures are known as white nutmegs and are valueless. If the fruit is affected later and in only one spot, the development may progress so far that the mace is red and the testa black, only showing a little brown spot not very hard, like the rest of the testa, at the base. The disease is by no means uncommon, and appears as little brown spots on the husk. The white nutmegs are quite useless, but they should be destroyed, to prevent further spreading of the disease, by husk and all being burnt. The life history of the fungus does not appear to have been described, nor can I find that it has been identified. The spot of decay does not penetrate deeply into the husk and might be considered too insignificant to account for the destruction of the fruit, but it is un- doubtedly, I think, as Janse has shown, the cause of the premature dehiscence and production of white nutmegs. The account of “Nutmeg Canker” in Penang, by