314 SPICES CHAP. but possesses a perennial root stalk from which are pro- duced many creeping rounded stems, which, as in all pep- pers, are jointed with swollen joints. The young shoots are downy. The creeping stems bear large, broadly cor- date leaves, somewhat polished and showing the nerves, the tip acuminate, the base with a broad and deep in- dentation. The erect fruiting branches have rather smaller oblong cordate leaves, with fine nerves, the upper ones of which have no petioles, but are stem clasping. Miquel, who figures it under the name of Chavica Roxburghiana, shows the upper leaves quite like those of the lower part of the plant, and like those which I have in cultivation. The plant, however, climbs readily like the black pepper, and is cultivated in exactly the same way in Assam and Mysore. The male spikes are slender, and from 1 to 3 in. long; the female spikes shorter, sessile, or nearly so, opposite to the leaf, cylindrical, with a rounded base and blunt at the tips, f to 1^ in. long and erect, red when ripe. The flowers are very numerous and close packed as in the black pepper, but the bracts are orbicular, and the fruit is not a red fleshy drupe as in black pepper, but a minute drupe embedded in the fleshy spike. The whole spike of fruits forms a cylindric mass, broadest at the base, and when dry is of a grey colour and very pungent, but less so than Javanese long pepper. It is known as ypijpul in India, and cultivated from mature branches or suckers. N. Mukerji (Handbook of Indian Agriculture, p. 43) states that the branches, shoots, or suckers are layered, i.e. bent down into the ground, and when they take root they are severed from the parent vine and planted out in shade, and trailed on to trees. This is done at the beginning of the rainy season. The base of every vine is kept scrupulously clean and well manured by cow-dung cake, which acts also as a mulch. Three or four years after planting the vines begin to bear in the cold weather. The spikes of the long pepper are dried in the sun. Mr. Basu, Assistant Director of Agriculture, estimates the average