it VANILLA 71 A greater objection, to my mind, is its poverty of shade. Most of the Nossibe planters voted in favour of Albizzia lebbek as a shade for vanilla. Its advantage over the rain tree, Inga saman, so much used formerly as a shade for coffee, seems to be that it is smaller and more easily cut out, if this is for any reason necessary. I should, however, class it as a slower grower, and it has a much smaller spread of foliage. The use of the mango tree as a shade is condemned by the Nossibe planters, being injurious to the vanilla, as the shade is too thick and dense. Its slow growth, further, is against its use. The cultivation of the vanilla in Madagascar is carried on under somewhat different circumstances to those in many other parts of the world, in that there is a long period of drought, so that even the Jatropha curcas sheds its leaves. M. Touchais (“ Culture de la vanille a Mayotte,” Journal d’agriculture tropicale, 1902, p. 38) objects to this plant as a shade tree on these grounds. He points out that the cultivation of vanilla on living supports is open to the objection that during the droughts the moisture of the soil is used up by the supports, to the detriment of the vanillas. If, however, shade trees are used, and the vines grown on trellises, the irrigation, manure, dew, and drops of fine rain are utilised by the vines, and they do not have to share these with the supports. There is a good deal to be said for this point of view. It should be pointed out that the system of cultivation adopted by the planter must be adapted to the climate and meteorological conditions in vanilla culture as in everything else. A system that works well in one country will perhaps be unsuitable in another, and here the planter will require powers of observation and careful thought. In the rain forest region of the tropics excessive humidity must be guarded against; in the regions of periodic droughts insufficient humidity is the point that should be looked at. Trees that shed their leaves in the dry season will expose the vanilla to