SPICES 418 CHAI'. for two hours, at the end of which it is put into large jars and allowed to stand for seven days, when it is again boiled in sugar and water in the same proportions as before, after which it is packed in jars or tins, or occasionally packed in barrels.” Another method is described as follows:—“ For preserving ginger the rhizomes are taken up as soon as they are formed, while they are young and tender. The time for this varies according to the season in which the ginger is planted, but usually about two months after the young plants are put down, when the stalks are not more than 5 or 6 in. tall. The rhizomes are scalded, washed in cold water, and peeled clean. The water in which they are washed is frequently changed. A syrup is made of a pound of sugar to a pint of water, into which the beaten white of two eggs is gradually stirred. The syrup is boiled and skimmed, and when cold poured over the rhizomes. After two or three days the syrup is poured off, re-boiled, skimmed, and when cold poured over again, and the whole is left for three or four days.” The next process is to re-boil and re-clarify the syrup, and then pour it over the ginger hot. This is repeated till the syrup has thoroughly penetrated the rhizomes, evidenced by the taste and transparency of the rhizomes, and until the syrup has become thick and rich. The syrup is not applied hot in the first instance, as if this is done the ginger will shrink and shrivel (Bemay’s Cul- tural Industries for Queensland). Candied Ginger is made by drying preserved ginger made as above, a little dry powdered sugar being added to it in drying. Medicine.—Ginger is comparatively little used in European medicine, but it is valued everywhere as a stomachic and internal stimulant, especially in flatulency and colic. It is also used as an adjunct to purgatives to correct griping. Fresh rhizomes pounded and the juice drunk is a common native remedy for colic and dyspepsia. It is also used to relieve toothache by