VANILLA 69 II woods on vines fully exposed to the sun, were longer and more aromatically scented than those from the shady spots, and having remarked also that the Albizzia and the Jatropha shed all their leaves in the dry season, that is to say, just at the time when the vine most required shade, conceived the idea of planting in full sun. M. des Grottes saw a plantation of this type at Androdoat, where there was a fine vanillery in full sun, and affirms that the result was most successful; the vines were full of strength though yellow from the sun’s action, which is quite natural. But this single experience cannot be taken as a proof that the system can always be used with success. No absolute rules can be laid down in the cultivation of vanilla. All depends on the actual situation, and methods vary from one country to another and even on different estates. The cultivation of vanilla in full sun is subject to certain essential conditions. In the first place, the soil must be perfectly suited for this method of cultiva- tion, and then the cuttings selected by the planter must not be taken from vines growing in too dark shade, which would expose them to a certain check, and thirdly, the mulching of the ground with straw must be perfect. It is essential that the straw or grass used for shading the soil must be completely dry. M. Mersaime urges the attention to several little points of importance in this method of cultivation. He advises that the cuttings should not be planted at the foot of the supports, but at a distance of 30 to 40 cm., and should be led up to the support after the manner of a hammock; again, he warns against twisting the vines round the supports so that the backs of the leaves are exposed to the sun. Vanilla does not naturally expose the backs of its leaves to the sunlight, and if in twisting the climber round its supports the backs of the leaves are exposed to the sun, they gradually twist themselves round so as to regain their correct position. In regard to the question as to what shade trees are best for vanilla, M. Mersaime condemns the banana for