IV CLOVES 173 This destruction of the bud leaves and the growing point of the branch seem sufficient to account for the failure of this tree to produce flowers when badly attacked. The fine clove trees of Penang and Province Wellesley are not grown under shade, but fully exposed to the hot sun and its brilliant light, being cultivated in the same way and in the same positions as the nutmeg, but they are hardly at all attacked and are not, as a rule, injured by the parasite. I attribute this phenomenon to the action of the sea-air, as I have noticed that where the clove trees in Penang are away from the sea by the configuration of the ground, so that the sea can- not be seen from where they are growing, these trees are attacked and die; and again, trees planted in various parts of the Botanic Gardens, and in other districts of Singapore where no sea-air can possibly reach them, soon become badly affected and die. This was notably the case in an estate of nutmegs and cloves planted inland some years ago, where when the clove trees had reached the fruiting stage they died without flowering at all. Badly diseased trees may live for many years before they actually succumb. Trees over thirty years old in the Singapore Botanic Gardens are still alive, though most have never produced flowers. The appearance of a sick tree is quite striking. Instead of being densely covered with rich dark-green leaves it is thin ; many boughs bear only a few leaves at the end; the whole tree has a birch-broom-like appearance (see plate). The saying that the clove tree must see the sea is probably based on its requirements of sea-air, for without this the plant is almost always a failure. It cannot be said to have ever been a great success in the rather flat though undulating inland of Singapore, nor have I ever seen it well-grown elsewhere inland at any distance from the sea breezes. In such spots it seems always to succumb to the Cephaleurus, sooner or later. In mild cases spraying with Bordeaux mixture is decidedly beneficial, but this treatment needs to