„ VANILLA 35 formerly subterranean roots bare and also taking away their nutriment. Then when the weather is hot and dry, the ground cracks under the blazing sun, breaking across any young roots which may be in the line of the crack, and the surface soil loses its moisture and the roots beneath, even if not broken, are dried up. In spite of these obvious objections, there are many planters who insist on having a perfectly bare, dried-up, sun-cracked soil for whatever plant they are cultivating, in fact, what is known as a clean estate. Plants, how- ever, are not accustomed to this condition, and it is quite an unnatural state for any form of tropical cultivation. Draining.—Whether draining is necessary or not on the estate depends entirely upon the position and lie of the land. Where hill slopes are used there will, of course, be no necessity for any drainage system. In low-lying ground where the soil is at all water-logged, the ground must be drained, but such soil is not good for vanilla, however it is treated, and should be avoided. Much of the injury caused by the fungus disease in Mauritius was attributed to bad or insufficient drainage. Manuring.—Where the soil is rich in humus of sufficient depth it is unnecessary to add anything in the way of manure, but the ground should be dug over and broken up before planting. If the soil is poor in humus, leaf-mould or decaying leaves may be spread on the ground, and burnt earth may be liberally used. As burnt earth is widely used in the tropics for many different crops, and will be mentioned again, I will here describe the method of making it. Low scrub, bushes, boughs of trees and other such vegetation are cut, and partly dried by being left in the sun. A quantity is laid on the ground and covered with soil, adding alternately more branches and more soil, until a good-sized pile is made. This is then ignited and allowed to smoulder for some days or even weeks, until the vegetable matter is charred. After being allowed