VIII PEPPERS 249 spikes; males resembling the ivy-leavecl form, but the leaves not markedly wavy, the spikes brown, red, and hairy. Apparently a hill form which has crept down into the lower estates. Pouched pepper resembles the bigberry, but the bracts are developed into pouches or cushions, on which the male and female organs are situated. It is a dis- tinct species, and known as Piper trichostachyon. It is remarkable for the fragrance of the young spikes, which are thick and whitish yellow. In Borneo, Sarawak, Mr. Hewitt found two forms in the Chinese pepper gardens, a small-leaved and a large-leaved form. The latter has many of its leaves resembling those of the small-leaved variety, but some few are considerably larger. The small-leaved one is more prolific and is preferred. In most gardens there are one or two male plants. They are indistinguishable from the small-leaved form till they fruit, when they only produce a little fruit. Some of the Chinese gardeners look with favour on the male vine, and one man affirms that if there were no males in the garden, a plant of the Betel pepper (Piper hetle) was cultivated in the garden to act as a male. However this may be, it is usual to find one betel pepper or more in a Chinese pepper garden.1 Trang Pepper.—This is the name of a variety culti- vated in the most northern of the Siamese western states, known as Trang. An account of a visit to this region by Mr. R. Derry is published in the Bulletin of the Straits Settlements in 1909 (vol. viii. p. 240), the object of the expedition being to secure plants for culti- vation in the Malay Peninsula. The plant possesses a more decided fruiting season than the other peppers. In April not a spike of flowers or fruit was to be seen. The fruit is produced in the dry season only, and therefore does not run the risk of damage from rain. The peppercorns are the smallest of all varieties, the spikes being about 3 in. long, but the fruit possesses the 1 J. Hewitt, Agricultural Bulletin of Straits Settlements, vol. vii. p. 189.