186 SPICES CHAP. of what a clove plantation may be expected to yield. The un- picked surplus is, therefore, left out of account. Treated thus it will help to neutralise the effect of basing our calculation upon an abnormally large crop. Our cloves were not subjected to the usual 25 per cent export drying. This reduces the income per tree to 9£ annas; or E.54 (£3:12s.) per acre with 90 trees to the acre. Cost of working a Clove Plantation.—Beyond purchasing drying mats and paying the harvesting expenses, the Arab spends little or nothing upon his clove trees. He employs his available labour, for the most part, in growing manioc, sweet potatoes, and bananas for food and for sale. Thus the resident Arab in charge of Marseilles, when we took it over in May, was expected to make 34 rupees a month by the sale of fruit and annuals, and was in consequence compelled to keep his men cultivating the open spaces, and to leave the trees alone. This is a fair sample of Arab practice; it is a policy of looking after the pence and neglecting the pounds. The weeds on this shamba were half-way up the trees, in some cases climbing completely over them; many were dying, and 1,000 have been killed outright. It cost us R.5 per acre to clear the land, reckoning 90 trees to the acre. We let out contracts, giving 4 pice for each space between 4 trees. When the land has been once or twice thoroughly weeded over, the cost of cultiva- tion will be much reduced. In addition to cleaning the land we hope this year to dig round each tree, at a contract price of probably 1 or 2 pice per tree. At Dunga we are now doing this work with two mules and a plough. Drying mats cost 30 rupees per 100, and baskets 3 rupees per score; 800 of the former and 100 of the latter were purchased for use at Machui, but at least half of these will be available for use again next year. There are no other outgoings to note beyond the overseer’s wages, the purchase of a few dozen hoes, and items such as thatching and repair of houses and sheds, always incidental to the management of an estate. It seems to me, indeed, that clove planting as an industry has been somewhat unworthily discredited. Over-production and the labour crisis have brought about the stagnation of all enterprise, but I believe that clove planting in Zanzibar would respond to European management and proper cultivation. The production of cloves must decrease as years go on, as no young plantations are being made to supply the waste among the old trees. Such a year as this must exact a heavy toll; the enormous yield, coming as it has done in a year of drought, will exhaust the