SPICES 340 OHAJ*. at least. In some grounds, with a good and not too abrupt a slope, drainage is hardly necessary, except for a few surface drains to run off the rain as it falls, and to dry the roads through the estate. Planting Out.—Seedlings must not be transplanted too young, as they are very delicate and do not bear transplanting well. It is therefore advisable to sow the nursery beds thinly, so that the plants may be allowed to become of a good size, about 1 ft. tall, before shifting. If planted too close they interfere with each other’s growth, and it is difficult to move them without injury to the roots. Should the seedlings be found to be coming up too closely, it is advisable to prick them out into baskets ready for planting out when they are big enough. This is better than shifting them into other beds, and transplanting later. In all plants, especially those of a herbaceous character, the less you interfere with the roots by shifting the better, and this is most important in the case of young seedlings. In any case, even if crowded, they should not be moved at all till they are at least 4 in. tall, and have developed the second and third leaves. In Kanara, the system, according to Mollison, is to thin out the seedlings if they come up too close, leaving the remainder for four or five months in the seed-bed, which is kept moist. They are then transplanted to a second nursery. Rice-beds in the neighbourhood of the gardens are commonly used, where there is a plentiful supply of water. A series of narrow channels is cut in the rice-bed parallel to each other, and 2 to ft. apart. The soil from the furrows is put on the ridges between, so that a series of ridges and furrows is formed over the whole space. On the ridges the little cardamom plants are planted in two rows, and 9 to 12 in. apart. A shade of bamboo covered with palm leaves tied on gives enough shadow and protection from the wind and rain. The irrigation water is allowed to run through the channels continu-