70 SPICES CHAP. several reasons. In the first place, he says, it is in- securely attached to the ground, and is uprooted by the least puff of wind and in falling will crush the vines. In Bourbon as well as the Antilles, people talk of a banana-wind (coup de vent bcinane), a wind strong enough to upset the bananas, but not strong enough to uproot ordinary trees. The violence of wind and its action in different parts of the world is extremely variable, but the author has seldom, if ever, seen banana plants uprooted by wind in the Malay region, even where big trees have been blown down. A second objection raised is that thieves who are tempted by the bananas cut down the stems of the plants to get the fruits, thus crushing the vines; and thirdly, that the banana exhausts the soil of important elements of nutrition, such as potassium and lime, to the injury of the vanilla. I doubt if, provided the planter restores to the soil the remains of the leaves and dead stems of the bananas, this loss of plant food will affect the vanilla to any extent. Bananas are often used as shade for other plants, and do not seem to injure the ground at all, but on the contrary rather improve it by breaking up the soil, and at the same time the planter has the benefit of the fruit. However, M. des Grottes observes that bananas can be used as temporary shade until the other shade trees are grown up, and admits having seen very fine vines grown under the shade of bananas. Some recommend the Moringa pterygosperma (often known as the horse-radish tree) on account of its rapid growth from seed or cuttings, and its light, open, lattice- like foliage. This would be satisfactory in a country where the natives are not so fond of the foliage and bark as vegetables as they are all over the East, where the tree is very quickly despoiled. Papaya, again, sug- gested by some of the Nossibb planters, is objected to on the ground that it grows so luxuriantly in and about old walls and house rubbish, which suggests that it would deprive the soil too extensively ol its lime.