272 SPICES CHAK occasionally to be found attacking pepper plants, and I have seen vines in Singapore quite denuded by these animals, which are almost omnivorous. The caterpillar is easily distinguished by its great size and its pale sea-green body, powdered with white and armed with thorn-like processes, which, however, are not poisonous. It is a most voracious feeder, very soon eating up every leaf on its food plant, and stripping it quite bare. It pupates in March in a tough, egg-shaped cocoon which is attached to a leaf or twig. The moth is of great size, often over 9 in. across the wings, and of a variegated rufous brown and grey colour, with a small angled transparent “window” in each wing. The caterpillars are best destroyed by hand picking. The flowers and fruits of the pepper plant do not escape attack by various pests. On a plant cultivated in the Singapore Botanic Gardens I found a number of fair-sized bugs, sitting upon the pepper spikes, and apparently sucking them. The bug was \ in. long, with slender antennae about as long as the body, black, with the base of the last joint emerald green, head small, green, thorax four-angled, wedge-shaped, back margin broadest, with two short points at the angles, green, entirely punctate, upper wings greenish olive, strongly ribbed scutellum green, punctate, under wings dull red, visible when it flies, abdomen pale-green, legs long and green. There were a number of pepper fruits destroyed, black, dry, and shrivelled on the plants on which this bug was settled, but whether this was due to the attacks of the insect or a fungus, I could not be sure. The bug belonged to the group Coreidae and apparently to the genus Pendulina. Mr. Hewitt mentions a number of insect pests which attack the flowers and setting fruit in Borneo. The worst of them are the small plant bugs (Hemiptera). When the flower spikes appear there may be seen a number of small black insects, each armed with a long spine on the back and one on each shoulder. They settle on the flower spike and feed on the flowers.