168 SPICES CHAP. especially protection from the afternoon sun, suits the tree much better. Trees growing in the partial shade given by the tree Fagraea fragrans, in the Botanic Gardens, Singa- pore, were more bushy and well developed, as well as being more free from the red-spot disease, than fully exposed trees, and in one case even the boughs of one half of a clove tree accidentally shaded on one side by a near-by tree produced flowers and fruit when the rest of the tree was quite barren. Rumphius pointed out that the shade must not be dense; under such shade the tree grows tall, and looks well and leafy and, as I have said, is less subject to red-spot, but it will not produce flower buds, and, according to Rumphius, when it does they are less aromatic, and are considered by the natives as wild cloves of little or no value. Trees grown under the shade of and close to a large Para rubber tree, produced no cloves for many years, although remarkably healthy-looking. By selecting a piece of wooded ground and thinning out the trees so as to let in a good amount of light, and planting the cloves among the light wood, gradually thinning away the forest trees as the spice trees develop, an excellent plantation would be obtained. According to Rumphius, a walk in the clove wood when the trees are in bud or flower, is said to cause head- ache, but, as he points out, this season in Amboyna, viz. October and November, is a hot one, and this probably is the cause of the discomfort. It does not appear that the clove tree is regularly cultivated under trees any- where except in Amboyna, but it is said that in Zanzibar many are grown by the slaves among fruit trees and other similar plants. Pruning.—Pruning the trees does not seem to be common in any place where cloves are cultivated, but as the tree has a tendency to throw up its branches very close together, it is often advisable to cut out some of the inner ones. In the Straits Settlements the tree usually attains a height of 12 to 15 ft. only, and it is not