PEPPERS VIII 305 It was known as early as 1364, being imported from Liberia to France, but the King of Portugal prevented its importation into Europe, for fear of depreciating the value of Indian pepper (1485). It is used in West Africa locally as a spice, but though it could be had in abundance, should it prove as good as black pepper, it seems to find its way into European markets but seldom. It is not cultivated. Cubebs (Piper cubeba, L.), though used as a spice up to 1480, have long been used only as a drug. For this purpose they were very largely cultivated in Java till about 1890 when their use was much diminished, and the cultivation almost died out. As they are now only used as a drug, they are not described in this work. Appendix to Chapter The following accounts of early pepper cultivation in the Straits Settlements are of interest, especially as they are published in works not usually accessible. The first is taken from a manuscript account of the plants of Prince of Wales Island (Penang) by Sir William Hunter, written about 1803, and published in the journal of the Straits Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society, vol. 53, 1909. It is interest- ing as giving an account of the cultivation practised by the Chinese at that date, with an estimate of the cost of opening up a plantation and the profit. The second is a letter by Mr. He Mornay to Major M'Nair, detailing the system practised in Province Wellesley in 1883. It was published in the Government Gazette of the Straits Settlements in August 1884. I. Pepper cultivation in Penang, 1803, by Sir W. Hunter. 1. P. nigrum, black pepper. This plant has been so fully described that I have nothing to add on that head. But as it is the most important article of produce on Prince of Wales Island, the manner of cultivation pursued there merits a particular detail. It is propagated by cuttings or suckers. These are generally planted at a distance of about 7£ ft.; that is 1,000 plants in an Oorlong, which is a measure of 80 yards square, nearly equal to acre. But some experienced cultivators think that the X