CLOVES 165 IV at about the same elevation as the nutmeg, but it seems to be unable to grow well as high as that tree does. A few hundred feet above sea-level seems to be its limit. The climate, temperature, and rainfall necessary for it are the same as for the nutmeg, and as it demands propinquity to the sea the area of its successful cultiva- tion is practically limited to islands between the latitudes of 20° north and 20° south of the Equator. Planting.—The young trees are planted out at a distance of 30 ft. apart. In Zanzibar this is done when they are about 6 in. tall. In Bencoolen, in Sumatra, it used to be the custom to wait till the plant is 4 ft. tall. This long delay does not seem to have anything particular to recommend it, and till it is from 6 to 10 in. tall is quite long enough to keep it in the nursery. After lining the plantation out the holes should be dug 2 ft. wide and as deep, and filled with good humus, leaf-mould, cow-dung if procurable, with burnt earth, all well mixed together. In Zanzibar special care is taken to loosen the earth round the little plant with a specially made triangular- shaped spade. The plant is lifted with a good ball of earth round its roots, and put in the centre of two strips of banana sheath 3 to 4 in. wide and 1^ to 2 ft. long. The strips are placed across each other, with a plant in the middle, and the four ends of the strip are taken up and fastened round the ball of earth by tying a piece of fibre round the neck. Plants packed up in this way can be carried easily and safely to their destination without dropping the earth from their roots. The plant is then put into a hole made in the earth which fills up the large hole, and the soil heaped up round it, and pressed firmly. The banana sheath is cut through, so as to free the plant, and the strips removed. This method of packing plants for transport is commonly used by natives for all kinds of plants, and can be used for any small trees, but care must be taken to straighten the tap-root, if it has been bent during the packing. In filling the hole, care must be taken to raise the mound