Ill 121 NUTMEGS AND MACE to be remembered that in cutting off these parasites the branch on which one is growing should be cut off below the point of attachment of the parasite, as it thrusts its roots downwards in the branch, and merely breaking off the branches of the Loranthus is not sufficient to kill it. Nutmegs are less liable to the invasion of epiphytic plants, such as mosses and lichens, than cloves, but when these appear it is advisable to pull them off Grafting.—Grafting to improve the production of the fruits and to make certain of having many female trees has often been suggested and tried by planters for many years. It does not, however, seem to have ever repaid the planter for his expense and trouble in the operation. Dr. Oxley describes how he grafted several plants by approach, and writing three years later says, that though the plants are looking well and growing, they have thrown out their branches in a straggling, irregular manner, having no leaders, and consequently they cannot develop their branches in the regular verticils necessary for the perfect formation of the tree. Without these the trees must ever be small and stunted, and consequently incapable of producing any large quantity of fruit. Hart, who also tried grafting in order to produce a larger supply of female trees by grafting branches of female trees on male ones, found it a long and ex- pensive business, and states that though grafted plants fruit earlier they do not last as long. He says that while seedling nutmegs cost 6 cents in Trinidad, owing to the expense and labour entailed grafted plants cannot be sold under a dollar. Much the same statements are made by others who have tried grafting, that is to say, they find it is not worth the cost. In Grenada, in order to obviate the difficulty of having too many males and too few females, it is advised to grow the trees until the fifth year, when the sex can be determined, and then to remove the unnecessary males. As a rule, however, the greater proportion of