82 THORAX. minor inferior and the right intercostal arteries cross behind it. In its lower part, the gullet inclines forwards and to the left, so that it comes to rest directly upon the anterior surface of the thoracic aorta. These relations are seen in Figs. i8o and i8i. Upon the right side, during its course through the posterior mediastinum, the oesophagus is clothed by the mediastinal pleura, whilst on the left side it is related in the posterior mediastinum to the thoracic aorta, except where in its lower part it lies in front of that vessel (Figs. 180 and 181). In the superior mediastinum the thoracic duct is closely applied to the left side of the oesophagus, and the left pleura comes into partial relationship with it (Fig. 178). Below this, however, it is not directly related to the pleura of the left side. The pneumogastric nerves form the plexus guise on the walls of the gullet, as it traverses the posterior mediastinum, and accompany it in the form of two nerve trunks through the oesophageal opening—the right nerve being placed on its posterior aspect, whilst the left nerve is placed in front of it. The Descending Thoracic Aorta (aorta thoracica).—The descending thoracic aorta is the direct continuation of the aortic arch, and it traverses the posterior mediastinum. It begins at the lower border of the fourth dorsal vertebra, and ends opposite the last dorsal vertebra by entering the abdomen through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and becoming the abdominal aorta. At its commencement it lies somewhat to the left of the middle line, but as it pro- ceeds downwards it inclines inwards, so that at its termina- tion it is mesial in position. It lies upon the bodies of the vertebrae, and therefore it shows a curve corresponding to that of the vertebral column in the dorsal region. In front, it is crossed by the root of the left lung. Below this, it is covered by the pericardium and the posterior part of the diaphragm. Behifid, it rests upon the vertebral bodies and the intervening intervertebral discs, whilst crossing behind it, the dissector will observe the vena azygos minor inferior,