f REMOVAL OF THE BRAIN. 123 to raise the cerebellum slightly from the cerebrum by means of a small pad of wadding, and it is advantageous to tear across the arachnoid at the back of the corpus callosum. If spirit be employed, it should, in the first instance, be diluted with fully a third part of water. In three days the brain should be taken out of the vessel, and the membranes stripped from its surface. Before doing this, however, the dissector must study the manner in which the arachnoid and pia mater is disposed, and the distribution of the blood vessels. A description of these will be found in the chapter referring to the dissection of the brain. In removing the membranes from the base of the brain, the very greatest care must be taken not to injure the cranial nerves as they emerge from its substance. The brain should now be immersed in pure spirit to complete the hardening. Mullet's fluid has the following composition, and it can readily be prepared by the student:— Bichromate of potash, 25 grms. Sulphate of soda, ...... 10 grms. Water, . 1000 c.c. To hasten the solution of the potassic bichromate, the water may be slightly heated, but the fluid should not be applied to the brain until it is quite cold. Methylated spirit should be added in the proportion of one of spirit to three of Miillers's fluid. To prevent the separation of the chromic salts, all light must be excluded. A relatively large quan- tity of the fluid must be used, and it must be changed at least three times—viz., at the end of the first, fourth, and eighth days. For ordinary dissection, spirit alone is quite sufficient to give the brain a proper consistence ; but for a study of the sectional anatomy of the organ, it is best to use the Miiller's fluid and spirit solution. It is true that it imparts to the brain a dark colour, but this to some extent can be removed by steeping the organ, after its removal from the hardening fluid, in a large quantity of water (and frequently changing the water) for a period of twenty-four hours. .Six weeks are usually required to harden a brain in this solution ; and it is not necessary to remove the membranes until the dissector is prepared to study the organ, so great is the permeating power of the fluid. It is best to defer the study of the brain until the dissection of the head and neck is completed. Diira Mater at the Base of the Cranium.—The dissector has observed that the dura mater can, as a rule, be easily separated from the under surface of the cranial vault. He woukl find it impossible to raise it in like manner from the