72 THORAX. offset for the supply of filaments to the right auricle of the heart; and (3) a very considerable prolongation, which passes downwards in front of the right pulmonary artery to join the superficial cardiac plexus, and form the right coronary plexus (p. 48). From the left portion of the deep cardiac plexus proceed —(1) an offset to the left auricle; (2) an offset to the left anterior pulmonary plexus; whilst (3) the greater part of it is prolonged downwards in relation to the left pulmonary artery to form the left coronary plexus (p. 48). Removal of the Heart from the Body.—To do this it is only necessary to divide the pulmonary artery and the pulmonary veins. The other vessels have already been severed. The ascending aorta which is attached to the heart should next be slit open, care being taken to carry the knife accurately between two of the segments of the valve so as not to injure either. The Aortic Valve may now be studied and compared with the pulmonary valve which guards the mouth of the pulmonary artery. The membranous valve segments are three in number, and are of semilunar form. Attached around the opening by their convex margins, their free concave edges project into the lumen of the vessel. Three little pockets, open towards the interior of the artery, are in this manner produced. In the case of the pulmotiaty artery the segments are arranged so that two are in front and one at the back of the orifice. In the aorta, however, one lies at the front and two at the back of the opening, and on looking into the sinuses of Valsalva, which corre- spond to the segments, the orifices of the coronary arteries will be seen. Note that they are placed, as a rule, opposite the free edges of the corresponding valve segments, and further, that the right artery springs from the anterior sinus of Valsalva, and the left artery from the left posterior sinus of Valsalva. There are no such openings to be seen in the pulmonary artery. The aortic valve segments are constructed upon a stroiiger