505 THE CEREBRUM. hemisphere. The distribution of the blood to the grey cortex is in this way equahsed. Cerebral Lobes and Interlobar Fissures.—Certain of the fissures which traverse the surface of the cerebrum are arbitrarily chosen for the purpose of subdividing the surface into districts, termed lobes. These fissures, which receive the name of mte?-lobar, are the following—(i) the fissure of Sylvius; (2) the fissure of Rolando; (3) the parieto- occipital ; (4) the calloso-marginal; (5) the collateral; and (6) the limiting sulcus of Reil. The lobes which are mapped out by these fissures are— (i) the frontal; (2) the parietal; (3) the occipital; (4) the temporal; (5) the central or island of Reil; (6) the falci- form or limbic. To these may be added a seventh lobe, in no way related to the interlobar fissures, viz., the olfactory lobe. The Fissure of Sylvius is the most conspicuous fissure on the surface of the cerebrum. It is composed of a short main stem from the outer extremity, of which three branches radiate. The stem of the Sylvian fissure is placed on the inferior surface of the cerebrum (Fig. 283, S). It begins at the locus perforatus anticus in a deep depression called the vallecula Sylvii. From this it passes horizontally outwards, forming a deep cleft between the temporal pole and the orbital surface of the frontal lobe. Appearing on the outer surface of the cerebrum, the Sylvian fissure immediately divides into three radiating branches. These are—(i) the ramus horizontalis posterior; (2) the ramus horizontalis anterior ; and (3) the ramus ascendens anterior. The posterior horizontal limb (Fig. 283, S^) is the longest and the most conspicuous of the three. It extends backwards with a slight inclination upwards for a distance of two inches or more between the frontal and parietal lobes which lie above it, and the temporal lobe which is placed below it. Finally, it comes to an end by turning upwards into the parietal lobe in the form of an ascending terminal piece (Fig. 283 s. asc.)