HEAD AND NECK. 112 produce very different results, according to the position it occupies. If it is formed under the epicranial aponeurosis it spreads in all directions ; indeed, it is only limited in front by the superciliary ridges of the frontal bone, and behind by the superior curved line of the occipital bone. If it is formed in the superficial fascia, it is confined to the point at which it originates. REMOVAL OF THE BRAIN. On the second day after the subject has been placed on the table, the two dissectors of the head and neck should, in conjunction with each other, proceed to remove the brain. Dissection.—The head being supported upon a block, an incision is made along the middle line of the head, through the epicranium, the subjacent areolar tissue, and the pericranium, from the root of the nose in front, to the external occipital protuberance behind. This must be done boldly, so as to divide everything right down to the bone. With a series of sharp strokes with the handle of the scalpel, the pericranium on each side can easily be turned outwards, so as to leave the bone perfectly bare. Observe, however, that although the pericranium is loosely attached over the surface of the various bones of the vault, that it is firmly attached along the lines of the cranial sutures by processes that dip in between the bones, so as to separate their edges. On reach- ing the temporal ridges, push the knife through the attachment of the temporal fascia, so that the blade lies between the temporal muscle and the bone. Then run the knife backwards and forwards, so as to thoroughly divide the attachment of the fascia to the ridge. When this is done on either side, the fascia and muscle can be easily raised together from the temporal fossa, and thrown down over the ear with the remains of the scalp. The dissectors should next obtain a saw, a chisel, and a mallet, and proceed to remove the calvaria. The line along which the saw is to be used may be marked out on the skull by encircling it with a piece of string, and then marking the cranium with a pencil along the line of the string. In front the cut should be made fully three-quarters of an inch above the margins of the orbits, behind it should be carried round at the level of a point midway between the lambda^ and the external occipital protuberance. The saw should only ' The term " lambda " signifies the apex of the occipital bone, or the point at which the sagittal and lambdoidal sutures meet.