l82 HEAD AND NECK. are joined by a more or less broad band or commissure which intervenes between the two median fissures. An inspection of the surface of each lateral half of the cord brings into view a groove or furrow at some little dis- tance from the postero-median furrow. Along the bottom of this groove the fasciculi of the posterior nerve roots enter the cord in accurate linear order. It is called the postero-lateral sulcus. There is no corresponding furrow on the fore part of each lateral half of the cord in connection with the emergence of the fasciculi of the anterior nerve roots. As we have already observed, these fascicles emerge over a broad area, which corresponds in its width to the thickness of the subjacent extremity of the anterior horn of grey matter. By means of the postero-lateral sulcus and line of entrance of the fascicles of the posterior nerve roots on the one hand, and the emergence of the fascicles of the anterior nerve roots on the other hand, the surface of each lateral half of the cord is subdivided into three columns, which are respec- tively termed posterior, lateral, and anterior. The posterior column is placed between the postero-median fissure and the postero-lateral furrow; the lateral column lies between the postero-lateral furrow and the outermost of the fascicles of the anterior nerve roots as they emerge from the cord ; the anterior column includes that district which extends from the antero-median fissure to the emergence of the outermost of the anterior nerve-root fascicles. The spinal cord is composed of an inside core of grey matter which is surrounded on all sides by an external coating of white matter. Grey Matter of the Spinal Cord.—The grey matter in the interior of the spinal cord has the form of a fluted column. When seen in transverse section, it presents the shape of the letter H, In each lateral half of the spinal cord there is a crescentic mass shaped somewhat like a comma (,), the concavity of which is directed out-