SCALP. Ill backwards towards the occiput, where it communicates with the occipital artery. The posterior auricular vein is a comparatively large vessel. It joins the posterior division of the temporo- maxillary vein, near the angle of the lower jaw, to form the external jugular vein. The occipital artery, which will be found a short distance to the outer side of the occipital protuberance, sends large tortuous branches over the back of the head. These anastomose with the corresponding vessels of the opposite side, and with the posterior auricular and posterior temporal arteries. Temporal Fascia.—If the epicranial aponeurosis with the attached auricular muscles be now raised in the temporal region, a thin but distinct sheet of fascia will be observed proceeding from the upper temporal line of the parietal bone, in close relation to the deep surface of the attollens auriculam, to the pinna. When this is removed the strong temporal fascia which covers the tem- poral muscle is brought fully into view. Its connections will be studied at a later period. Surgical Anatomy of the Scalp.—The close connection between the three superficial layers of the scalp (viz., skin, superficial fascia, and epicranial aponeurosis), and the loose manner in which these are bound by areolar tissue to the pericranium, are points of great interest from a surgical point of view. When the scalp is wrenched from the head by machinery, or by any other means, the separation is eiifected in the plane of the areolar layer. The blood vessels, however, lie for the most part in the superficial fascia, and therefore large flaps of detached scalp can be replaced upon the denuded periosteum, and yet retain their vitality. It is a rare occurrence for a scalp flap to slough. The scalp is richly supplied with blood vessels. Incised wounds in this region, therefore, bleed very profusely ; but, in addition to this, they bleed with more than usual persistence. This is accounted for by the dense character of the superficial fascia, and by the fact that the fibrous septa of this stratum adhere to the coats of the vessels, and prevent them from retracting freely when divided. As will readily be understood, a collection of pus in the scalp will