461 THE LARYNX. ment is composed of yellow elastic fibres, and measures from its anterior attachment to the point of the processus vocalis from 14 to 16 m.m. in the male, and from 9 to 11 m.m. in the female (Krause). Its inner border is sharp and free, and is clothed by mucous membrane, which in this position is thin and firmly bound down to the ligament. Embedded in its anterior extremity there is a minute nodule of condensed elastic tissue. By removing the mucous membrane which lines the bottom of the laryngeal sinus the dissector will obtain a good view of the parts which bound the rima glottidis—viz., in fro7it, the angle of the thyroid cartilage ; behi7id, the arytenoideus transversus muscle; on each side, the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament, the processus vocalis, and the inner surface of the arytenoid cartilage (p. 468). These parts are clothed by the lining mucous membrane of the larynx. The Superior Thyro-arytenoid Ligament supports the false vocal cord. It is weak and indefinite, but somewhat longer than the preceding ligament. In front it is attached to the angular depression between the two alse of the thyroid cartilage, above the true vocal cords, and immediately below the attachment of the thyro-epiglottidean ligament, and extends backwards to be fixed to a tubercle on the antero- external surface of the arytenoid cartilage above the pro- cessus vocalis. It is composed of connective tissue and elastic fibres, which are continuous with the fibrous tissue in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold. Dissection.—Remove the remains of the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, the vocal cords, and the lateral part of the crico-thyroid membrane on the right side of the larynx, but be careful not to injure the arytenoid cartilage and the cartilage of Santorini. Should the cuneiform cartilage be present in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold it should be detached and preserved. By this dissection a closer view of the side wall of the laryngeal cavity can be obtained. The undissected vocal cords of the left side should again be examined, the laryngeal sinus and pouch explored, and their precise connections and extent determined. When