THE MESENCEPHALON. 557 quite indistinguishable from the portions of the crusta which lie on eithe^ side of it. The Tegmentum.—Unlike the crustse, the tegmenta are directly continuous with each other in the mesial plane, a faint line, termed the median raphe, alone indicating their bilateral character. Towards the dorsum of the mesen- cephalon they are also fused with the bases of the corpora quadrigemina. Their lateral surfaces therefore are alone free. The tegmentum is composed of an admixture of grey and white matter, constituting what is termed the forviatio 7-eticHlaris. The white matter is composed of fibres running both transversely and longitudinally. Certain of the longitudinal fibres are grouped together and form well marked tracts, which, in a section through the mesencephalon of a fresh brain, can be detected by the naked eye. These tracts are: (i) the posterior longitudinal bundles ; (2) the superior cerebellar peduncles or the brachia conjunctiva ; (3) the fillet. The posterior lotigihidinal btmdle (Fig. 302) is a small compact tract which is placed upon the outer aspect of the lower portion of the central grey matter of the aqueduct. The superior cerebellar peduncles are two large strands which are continued upwards from the cerebellum into the cerebrum. By pulling back the margin of the cerebellum where it overlaps the lower quad- rigeminal bodies, these peduncles will be seen on the surface as they converge in an upward direction. Stretching across the interval between them, and bringing them into continuity with each other, is a thin lamina called the valve of Vieussens. When the peduncles under consideration reach the bases of the inferior quadrigeminal bodies, they sink into the substance of the mesencephalon, and in a transverse section through the lower part of this portion of the brain they may be seen as two white strands, semilunar in outline, and placed one on either side of the grey matter of the aqueduct. As they ascend, they gradually assume a deeper (i.e., a more ventral) position in the tegmental part of the mesencephalon, and finally they decussate with each other across the mesial plane and proceed upwards to the cerebrum. The fillet is a very complicated tract, and very little can be learnt of its connections in the course of an ordinary dissection. One part of it, however, termed the lower or lateral fillet, can be readily detected on the outer free surface of the lower part of the tegmentum in the form of some curved and usually conspicuous fibres which extend upwards and backwards to reach the inferior quadrigeminal body and its brachium.