THORAX. 84 aorta, and form a chain of anastomoses on the wall of the oesophagus. Above, this chain communicates with branches of the inferior thyroid artery, whilst below, it communicates with the ascending oesophageal branches of the coronary artery of the stomach. The posterior mediastinal branches are very small, and are given to the areolar tissue and glands in the posterior mediastinal space. The i7itercostal branches will be observed arising in pairs from the posterior aspect of the aorta. Defer their examina- tion until the thoracic duct and the sympathetic cords have been dissected. The Thoracic Duct.—The thoracic duct, although a vessel of small calibre, is one of high importance. It receives all the lymphatic vessels of the body below the diaphragm (ex- cept those from part of the upper surface of the liver), the lymphatics of the left side of the chest (including the left lung and left side of the heart), and the lymphatics of the left superior extremity and left side of the head and neck. It will be found by dissecting in the loose areolar tissue which lies, between the aorta and the vena azygos major. Its diameter is not much greater than whip-cord, and it will be recognised from its position, and by the great elasticity which it exhibits when it is pulled by the forceps. Trace it downwards, and it will be found to enter the thorax upon the right side of the aorta, and through the same opening in the diaphragm. It commences within the abdomen upon the body of the second lumbar vertebra in a dilatation, called the recepta- culum chyli. As it is followed upwards it will be noticed to incline gradually to the left. At the level of the fourth dorsal vertebra it passes behind the aortic arch and oesophagus (Fig. 177). It now ascends to the neck between the oesophagus and left pleura, and ends by joining the internal jugular vein at its point of union with the subclavian vein. In the diagrams which are given of the posterior and superior mediastinal spaces, the relations of the thoracic duct