GENERAL STRUCTURE OF THE EYEBALL. 615 and making sections through them in two different planes. One speci- men may be divided at the equator into an anterior and a posterior portion, whilst the other may be divided in an antero-posterior direction into a mesial and a lateral half. These sections cannot be made with the knife. The eyeballs must first be frozen perfectly solid, and then the division can be made by a fine saw. The freezing of the specimens is a very simple matter. They should be placed in a small tin box, and the box surrounded by a mixture of ice and salt. Two, or at most three, hours is sufficient to complete the process. When the sections are made, they should be placed under water in a cork-lined tray, and preserved for reference as the study of the eyeball is proceeded with. General Structure of the Eyeball.—The eyeball consists of three concentrically arranged coats enclosing a cavity in which are placed three refracting media. The tunics are: (i) an external fibrous envelope com- posed of a posterior opaque part, called the sclerotic coat, and an anterior clear transparent portion called the cornea ; (2) an intermediate vascular envelope, in which we recognize three subdivisions, viz., a hinder part called the choroid coat, a front portion termed the iris, which lies behind the cornea, and an intermediate ciliary zone; (3) the nervous inner tunic or retina in which the fibres of the optic nerve spread out. The refracting media are : (i) behind the cornea a watery fluid, called the aqueous humour, contained in a space partially subdivided by the iris into the two chambers of the eye; (2) the crystalline lens behind this; and (3) the vitreous body, occupying the posterior part of the interior of the eyeball. Dissection.—The. superficial surface of the sclerotic coat and the cornea should now be examined, but to complete the study of the external tunic, a further dissection is required. Selecting an eyeball for this purpose, an incision should be made with a sharp knife through the sclerotic at the equator. This must be done carefully, and the moment that the subjacent black choroid coat appears the knife should be laid aside. The cut edge of the sclerotic should now be seized with the forceps, and the incision carried completely round the eyeball with the scissors along the line of the equator. The outer fibrous tunic is thus divided into an anterior and a posterior portion. These must now be raised from the subjacent parts. As the anterior portion is turned for-