592 THE BRAIN. of which the pyramidal bundles are prolonged, and a deeper set termed the trapezium. The superficial transverse fibres on each side pass into the corresponding middle peduncle of the cerebellum. The trapezial fibres lie behind the pyramidal bundles, and are only seen in the lower part of the pons. They are connected with the accessory auditory nucleus. The dorsal part of the potis is for the most part formed of a prolonga- tion upwards of the formatio reticularis of the medulla. Superiorly it is carried into the tegmental parts of the crura cerebri. It is divided into two lateral parts by a mesial raphe continuous below with the raphe of the medulla and above with the raphe of the tegmental part of the mesencephalon, whilst over its dorsal surface is spread a thick layer of grey matter which belongs to the upper part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. In transverse sections through the pons a dark spot in the outer part of this indicates the position of the substantia ferruginea. Three strands of longitudinal fibres are seen on each side in transverse sections through the dorsal part of the pons. These are (i) the fillet, (2) the posterior longitudinal bundle, and (3) the superior cerebellar peduncle. The fillet has now assumed a ribbon-shaped form. It is placed between the ventral part of the pons and the formatio reticularis of the dorsal part. The fibres which form its lateral portion as they pass up- wards will be seen in successive sections to curve outwards so as to gain the surface. The posterior longitudinal bundle is much more distinct than it is lower down in the medulla. It has separated itself more completely from the longitudinal fibres of the formatio reticularis, and it is now seen close to the mesial plane immediately subjacent to the grey matter of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The stiperior cerebellar peduncle in transverse sections presents a semi- lunar outline. It occupies a lateral position in the dorsal part of the pons, and gradually sinks deeply into its substance, although it does not become completely submerged until it reaches the mesencephalon. The supei'ior olive is a small isolated clump of grey matter which is embedded in the dorsal part of the pons immediately behind the lateral part of the corpus trapezoides. It possesses considerable morphological interest, but it is not likely that the dissector will be able to obtain a view of it in a dissecting-room specimen.