TEMPORAL AND PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGIONS. 303 The cartilage of the aperture is bent upon itself and folded round the orifice of the nostril in front and laterally,— posteriorly it is deficient. The outer part is of an oval form, and does not reach down to the margin of the nostril, nor backwards as far as the nasal notch of the superior maxilla The interval between it and the bone is filled in by fibrous tissue in which one or two small islands of cartilage (the cartilagines minores vel sesamoidese) appear. In front, the bent part of cartilage comes into contact with its neighbour and forms the point of the nose. Ititernally^ the inner part of the cartilage is in the form of a narrow strip which lies upon the lower part of the septal cartilage, and projects slightly below it so as to support the margin of the nostril upon this side. Its extremity is turned slightly outwards. THE TEMPORAL AND PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGIONS. Under this heading are grouped the parts which are dis- sected in the temporal and zygomatic fossae of the skull. Dissectio7i.—The structures which cover and lie superficial to the tem- poral fascia have already been examined in the dissection of the scalp {p. 105). They are the superficial fascia, the thin lateral part of the epicranial aponeurosis, the attrahens, and attollens auriculam, and in front the outer part of the orbicularis palpebrarum. Superficial to the fascia there are also numerous nerves and vessels. The nerves are the auriculo-temporal, the temporal branches of the facial, and the temporal branch of the temporo-malar. The vessels are the superficial temporal artery dividing into its two terminal branches and its accompanying vein. Behind the ear some terminal twigs of the posterior auricular artery will also be seen ascending upon the posterior part of the fascia. All these parts should be carefully gone over a second time, as most of them must now be removed. Throw the temporal part of the orbicularis palpebrarum forwards ; preserve the middle temporal artery, and the temporal branch of the temporo-malar nerve, both of which pierce the fascia ; turn downwards the other vessels and nerves, and remove what remains of the temporal