HEAD AND NECK. mastoid foramen to supply the diploe and the meninges of the brain. The muscular twigs go to the neighbouring muscles. The veins corresponding to the occipital artery are two, or perhaps three in number. They drain the blood from the occipital portion of the scalp, and open into the large vena profunda ceroids. The outermost of the occipital veins effects, as a general rule, a communication (emissarium mas- toideum) with the lateral sinus through the mastoid foramen. Dissection.—In cleaning the complexus muscle, and in defining its attachments, care must be taken of the internal branches of the posterior primary divisions of the second, third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves. The first of these—or, in other words, the great occipital—from its great size, runs little risk of injury, but the others are liable to be over- looked. They all emerge from the substance of the muscle close to the mesial plane. The Complexus Muscle, placed in the cervical and upper dorsal regions, inclines obliquely upwards and inwards to its insertion into the occiput. It arises by seven tendinous slips from the transverse processes of the last cervical and upper six dorsal vertebrae, and by three slips from the articular processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrse. A thick fleshy muscle is thus formed, and this is inserted into a large, somewhat oval impression between the superior and inferior curved lines of the occipital bone, close to its crest. The muscle narrows somewhat as it passes upwards, and is separated from its neighbour of the opposite side by the ligamentum nuchse. The inner portion of the muscle, which is to a certain extent distinct from the general mass, and is divided into two bellies by an intermediate tendon, is frequently desig- nated the biventer cervicis. Dissectioti.—The complexus must now be reflected by detaching it from the occiput and throwing it outwards. This dissection requires great care, not only on account of the nerves which have been seen to perforate it to reach the surface, but also on account of the structures which it covers. In its upper part it lies over the sub-occipital triangle and the muscles bounding it, whilst below it covers the semispinalis