THORAX. 24 the visceral and parietal portions of the pleura due to pleurisy are generally present. It is accurately adapted to the space in which it lies, and, in the natural state, it bears on its surface impressions and elevations which are an exact counterpart of the inequalities of the parts with which its surfaces are in contact. In its natural condition, before the chest is opened, each lung is conical in form, and presents for examination an apex, a base, an outer and an inner surface, and an anterior and a posterior border. The apex of the bmg is blunt and rounded, and rises above the level of the first costal arch, protruding upwards through the thoracic inlet into the root of the neck. The subclavian artery arches outwards upon the inner and front aspects of the apex of the lung, a short distance below its summit, and a groove corresponding to the vessel may be recognised upon it. The cervical pleura intervenes between them. The base of the lung presents a semilunar outline, and is adapted to the upper surface of the diaphragm. Consequently, it is deeply hollowed out; and as the right cupola of the diaphragm ascends higher than the left, the basal concavity of the right lung is deeper than that of the left lung. Laterally, and behind, the base of each lung is limited by a thin sharp margin, which passes downwards in the narrow pleural recess {sinus phrenico- costalis) between the diaphragm and chest wall. This margin extends much lower down behind and at the outer side than in front. But the bases of the lungs establish important relations with the viscera, which occupy the costal zone of the abdominal cavity—the diaphragm alone intervening. Thus the base of the right lung rests upon the right lobe of the liver; whilst the base of the left lung is in relation to the left lobe of the liver, the stomach, the spleen, and in some cases to the splenic flexure of the colon (Fig. 163, p. 33). The outer surface of the lung is very extensive and is full and convex. It is in relation to the parietal pleura, as it