459 THE LARYNX. the true vocal cord, and receives its prismatic form from this adaptation. It arises in front from the angular de- pression between the two alse of the thyroid cartilage, and is inserted behind into the outer aspect of the processus vocalis, and also into the adjoining part of the antero- external surface of the arytenoid cartilage. The thyro-arytenoideus internus is thicker behind than in front. This is due to the fact that whilst all the fibres which compose it are attached to the arytenoid cartilage, only a certain proportion obtain attachment to the thyroid cartilage. A large number of the deeper fibres are directly attached at different points to the outer side of the true vocal cord. These constitute the ary-vocalis inuscle (Ludwig). A muscle termed the thyro-aiytetioideus superior is frequently present. It is a slender band which arises from the inner aspect of the ala of the thyroid cartilage close to the notch, and passes backwards and down- wards to find insertion into the lateral border of the arytenoid cartilage immediately above the processus muscularis. The Th3nro-ary-epiglottidean Muscle is composed of fibres derived from the arytenoideus obliquus and the thyro- arytenoideus externus. The two parts of the muscle meet in the upper part of the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane, and are inserted into the margin of the epiglottis. Dissection.—The lateral crico-arytenoid muscle should now be care- fully removed, and at the same time the dissector should endeavour to disengage the fibres of the thyro-arytenoideus externus from the deeper thyro-arytenoideus internus, in order that its relation to the true vocal cord may be studied. Finally remove the entire thyro-arytenoid muscle. This will display the outer surface of the lateral part of the crico-thyroid membrane, the true vocal cord or inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament, and the wall of the laryngeal sinus. By carefully dissecting between the two layers of mucous meml)rane which clothe the false vocal cord, the weak superior thyro-arytenoid ligament which gives it support may be discovered, as well as a number of racemose glands which lie in relation to it. Lateral part of the Crico-thyroid Membrane. — The central part of the crico-thyroid membrane, as we have noted,