PREVERTEBRAL REGION. 381 between the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the basilar portion of the occipital bone. In front, this cut should reach the outer extremity of the incision already made through the basilar process; whilst behind, it should be carried backwards upon the inner side of the jugular foramen to reach the inner end of the saw-cut. When this h.is been done upon both sides of the basilar process, the fore part of the skull carrying the pharynx and the great blood vessels and nerves can be separated from the back part of the skull and cervical portion of the vertebral column. The only large nerve which will be divided is the hypoglossal, but, as it is cut close to the basis cranii, and below this it is firmly connected with the trunk ganglion of the vagus, it retains its position. The pharynx and anterior portion of the skull should now be covered with a piece of cloth soaked in the spirit and carbolic solution, and the whole enveloped in an oil-cloth wrapper. It can then be laid aside until the dissection of the prevertebral region and the ligaments of the cervical vertebree and the occiput have been studied. Returning to the posterior part of the skull and the cervical portion of the spine, the dissector should proceed to define the attachments of the muscles which lie in front of the transverse processes and the bodies of the vertebrae. These are three in number on each side, viz.:— 1. The longus colli. 2. The rectus capitis anticus major. 3. The rectus capitis anticus minor. The Longus Colli is the most powerful of the preverte- bral muscles, and it lies nearest to the mesial plane. Its connections are somewhat intricate, but when it has been thoroughly cleaned it will be seen to consist of three portions —viz., an upper and lower oblique part, and an intermediate vertical part. The lower oblique division of the longus colli (Fig. 247, b) a:rises from the lateral aspect of the bodies of the upper two or three dorsal vertebrae. It extends upwards and slightly outwards, and ends in two tendinous slips which are inserted into the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae. In the interval between this portion of the longus colli and the scalenus anticus, the vertebral artery will be observed. The upper oblique part of the longus colli (Fig. 247, c) arises by three tendinous slips from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the