THE BRAIN. 536 recognised. From without inwards, and, at the same time, to some extent from before backwards, these are—(i) the caudate nucleus; (2) a groove which extends obliquely from before backwards and outwards between the caudate nucleus and the optic thalamus, and in which are placed the vein of the corpus striatum and a white band called the taenia semicircularis; (3) a portion of the upper surface of the optic thalamus; (4) the choroid plexus; (5) the thin sharp lateral edge of the fornix. The caudate nucleus as it proceeds backwards on the outer part of the floor of the body of the lateral ventricle narrows very rapidly. The vein of the corpus striatutti is exposed in the groove between the caudate nucleus and the optic thalamus, if the ependyma which covers it be scraped away. It joins the vein of Galen at the foramen of Monro. In the same groove is placed the tcenia semicircularis—a narrow band of white matter, which when traced forwards will be found to pass for the most part into the anterior pillar of the fornix. The portion of the upper surface of the optic thalamus, which appears in the floor of the lateral ventricle, is in great part covered by the choroid plexus (plexus choroideus lateralis). The latter is a rich vascular fringe which appears from under cover of the sharp lateral edge of the fornix. In front, it is continuous, behind the foramina of Monro, with the corresponding choroid plexus of the opposite side, whilst behind it is carried into the descending horn of the ven- tricle. Although the choroid plexus has all the appearance of lying free within the ventricle, it must be borne in mind that it is invested by an epithelial layer which excludes it from the cavity, and which is connected on the one hand to the sharp margin of the fornix, and on the other to the upper surface of the optic thalamus. Posterior Horn of the Lateral Ventricle.—The posterior horn is a diverticulum carried backwards into the occipital lobe from the hinder end of the body of the ventricle. It