362 HEAD AND NECK. lying upon and entering the hinder part of this muscle the small troch- lear or fourth cranial nerve will be discovered. As a general rule the dissector fails to find this nerve, because he looks for it too far forwards. Lastly, the lachrymal nerve and artery will be found running along the outer wall of the orbit, above the level of the upper margin of the external rectus muscle. These structures must be thoroughly cleaned and isolated by the removal of the fat from around them. In tracing the superior oblique muscle forwards, it will be found to end in a slender tendon, which passes through a ring-like pulley, attached to the frontal bone at the inner angle of the orbit. This pulley must be defined, and the tendon of the muscle followed onwards to its insertion into the eyeball. It will be observed that the levator palpebrce superioris lies upon the upper surface of the superior rectus, and if it be raised, a nerve twig will be noticed emerging from the substance of the rectus superior for the supply of the levator palpebrte muscle. This is a branch of the superior division of the third nerve. The dissection of the above parts will be facilitated by grasping the front of the eyeball with the forceps, and drawing it forwards. It may be retained in this position by running a fine needle and thread through the ocular conjunctiva and stitching it to the nose. In doing this, how- ever, take care that the needle does not penetrate the cornea, because this might render the subsequent inflation of the eyeball impossible. Frontal Nerve.—The frontal nerve is the continuation of the stem of the ophthahnic division of the trigeminal or fifth nerve, after it has given off its lachrymal and nasal branches. It enters through the sphenoidal fissure above the muscles, and proceeds forwards upon the upper surface of the levator palpebrae superioris immediately subjacent to the periosteal lining of the orbital cavity. At a variable distance from the orbital opening, it ends by dividing into the supra-orbital and supra-trochlear nerves. The siipra-trochlea?- tierve is the inner and smaller of the two terminal branches of the frontal. It runs towards the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, above which it leaves the orbit, by turning round the orbital arch to reach the forehead. Its further course has already been described (pp. 106 and 285). In the orbit it gives off one small twig close to the pulley of the superior oblique muscle. This