4i8 HEAD AND NECK. The carotid plexus, which lies upon the outer aspect of the internal carotid artery, gives off the following branches—(I) one or two filaments to the abducent or sixth nerve as it turns round the internal carotid artery ; (2) one or two twigs which join the inner part of the Gasserian ganglion ; (3) the large deep petrosal nerve ; (4) the small carotico- tympanic nerve. The large deep petrosal nei-ve runs to the posterior aspect of the body of the sphenoid, and at the entrance to the Vidian canal it joins the great superficial petrosal nei-ve and forms the Vidian nerve (P- 359)- The carotico-tyinpanic branch of the carotid plexus joins the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal as it traverses the tympanum (p. 342, and Fig. 240). The carotid plexus also receives the small deep petrosal nerve from the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal. The cavernous plexus has already been sufficiently described on P- 358. Dissection to Expose the Superior Maxillary Nerve.—As the superior maxillary nerve proceeds forwards to reach the face, it traverses the upper part of the spheno-maxillary fossa and the infra-orbital canal. The dissector should therefore proceed to expose the nerve in these loca- lities. Remove the temporal muscle and the upper head of the external pterygoid muscle, and, placing the saw upon the cut margin of the skull at a point immediately above the external auditory meatus, carry it obliquely downwards and forwards through the squamous part of the temporal bone and the great wing of the sphenoid towards the inner end of the sphenoidal fissure. This saw-cut should enter the sphenoidal fissure immediately to the outer side of the foramen rotundum. A second saw-cut should then be made from the cut-margin of the cranial wall, immediately above the anterior margin of the great wing of the sphenoid bone downwards into the sphenoidal fissure to meet the first saw-cut. The piece of bone included between these cuts can now be removed. Additional space may be obtained and the spheno-maxillary fossa more fully opened up by removing what remains of the great wing of the sphenoid upon the outer side of the foramen rotundum, but the circumference of this aperture must be carefully preserved. Proceed, in the next place, to open up the infra-orbital canal. In its posterior part its upper wall is usually so thin that it can easily be removed by one of the blades of a pair of forceps, but in front it sinks deeply under the rim of the orbital opening, and here the chisel must be employed. The superior maxillary nerve can now be defined and its branches displayed. The infra-orbital artery and vein, which accompany the nerve, will be exposed at the same time.