SIDE OF THE NECK. 20S ing a ligature. Its relations, therefore, must be studied with especial care. In front of the vessel are the coverings of the space in which it lies—viz., superficial fascia, platysma, superficial descending supra-clavicular branches of the cervical plexus, and the deep cervical fascia. Towards its termination, however, as we have seen, it passes behind the clavicle and subclavius muscle, and here also it is crossed by the supra- scapular artery. But perhaps the most important anterior relation, and one which, in tying the vessel, may somewhat embarrass the surgeon, is that established by the external jugular vein and certain of its tributaries. This vein crosses in front of the artery close to the scalenus anticus, and whilst occupying this position, two, or it may be three, tributaries join it—viz., the transversalis colli, the supra-scapular, and the anterior jugular veins. Observe further that the small nerve to the subclavius is carried vertically downwards in front of the artery. Below, the third part of the subclavian artery rests upon the first rib; at a higher level, and also emerging from under cover of the scalenus anticus, are the brachial nerves. Behind, the vessel is in contact with the scalenus medius, although the lowest brachial nerve trunk may intervene between the muscle and the artery. The subclavian vein is placed at a lower level than the artery, and on a plane slightly anterior to it. Although, as a rule, no branch springs from this portion of the subclavian, it is not uncommon to find the posterior scapular artery taking direct origin from its upper surface. Surgical Anatomy.—The dissector should again examine tlie rela- tions of the suijclavian artery, with the view of determining those which would constitute the most trustworthy guides in cases where it is neces- sary to apply a ligature to its third part. He should note that the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid will give no information beyond that of the depth at which the operator has arrived. The true guide is the outer border of the scalenus anticus muscle. This, as a rule, lies imme- diately subjacent to the posterior margin of the sterno-mastoid. By