THORAX. 90 high as the third or even the first ganglion. The great splanchnic has more the appearance of a cerebro-spinal nerve than a sympathetic nerve, owing to the large number of spinal nerve fibres which it contains. It passes down- wards upon the bodies of the vertebrae, and leaves the thorax by piercing the crus of the diaphragm. Within the abdomen it ends by joining the semilunar ganglion. Upon the last dorsal vertebra, a ganglion called \\\^ gi-eat splancJmic ganglion will in all probability be found in connection with the great splanchnic nerve. This ganglion is usually of small size, involving only a very few of the anterior fibres of the nerve. Sometimes, however, it forms a distinct oval bulging on the nerve trunk. A few slender fila- ments are given by the ganglion to the coats of the aorta, and these in some cases may be made out to communicate across the middle line of the body with the corresponding branches of the ganglion of the opposite side. The small splanchnic nerve arises by two roots from the tenth and eleventh thoracic ganglia. It enters the abdomen by piercing the crus of the diaphragm, and it ends by join- ing the coeliac part of the solar plexus. The smallest spla?ichfiic tierve is a minute twig which takes origin from the twelfth thoracic ganglion. It pierces the diaphragm, and ends in the renal plexus. It is often absent, and then its place is taken by one or more fila- ments from the small splanchnic nerve. To obtain a proper view of this minute nerve, the diaphragm should be divided over its course, but this can only be done in cases where the dissector of the abdomen has completed his examination of the diaphragm. Thoracic Wall.—The thoracic wall should now be studied from within. Certain facts which have previously been stated regarding it can now be verified {vide p. 4). The internal intercostal muscle, in each space, will be seen to extend backwards as far as the angles of the ribs. At this point it stops abruptly, but the external intercostal muscle is not exposed to view. It is covered on its deep aspect