loi THORACIC JOINTS. vertebral bodies and to the intervertebral discs. The most superficial fibres are the longest, and extend from a given vertebra to the fourth or fifth below it. The deeper fibres have a shorter course, and pass between the borders of two, three, or four adjacent vertebrae. The dissector cannot fail to notice that the origin of the longus colli muscle is inseparably connected with this ligament. The posterior common ligament (ligamentum longitudinale posterius) is placed on the back of the vertebral bodies, and therefore within the spinal canal. It is firmly connected to the margins of the vertebral bodies, and to the intervertebral discs, but is separated from the central parts of the bodies by some loose connective tissue and by a plexus of veins. It is constricted where it covers this venous plexus, but widens out opposite the intervertebral discs. It therefore presents a scalloped or denticulated appearance. The intervertebral substance (fibro-cartilago intervertebralis) is disposed between the vertebrae in a series of flattened discs of white fibro-cartilage which correspond in outline to the vertebrae between which they are situated. The peripheral part of each disc is tough and fibrous (annulus fibrosus); the central portion soft and pulpy (nucleus pulposus). In a transverse section the peripheral portion appears concentrically laminated: in a vertical section the most peripheral laminae are seen to be bent with the con- vexity turned away from the centre of the disc, the most central laminae to be bent in the opposite direction, and the intermediate laminae to be nearly straight. It will be easily seen that this remarkable arrangement increases the elasticity of the spine, and tends to restore it to its natural curvature after it has been deflected by muscular action. The intervertebral discs constitute the main bond of union between the bodies of the vertebrae, but, except in old people, they are not directly attached to the bone. A thin layer of encrusting hyaline cartilage coats the opposing vertebral surfaces.