147 DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. transversalis abdominis muscle, of which it may be considered to be the posterior aponeurosis. By its superficial surface it gives origin to fibres of the internal oblique muscle of the abdominal wall. Dissection.—The serratus posticus superior must be divided close to its origin from the vertebral spines, and turned outwards in order that the splenius muscle may be displayed. Splenius Muscle.—The splenius has a continuous origin from rather more than the lower half of the ligamentum nuchae, and from the spines of the seventh cervical and upper six dorsal vertebrje. From this the fibres pass obliquely upwards and outwards in the form of a thick, flat muscle, which soon divides into a cervical and a cranial portion. These are termed respectively the splenius colli and the splenius capitis. The splenius colli (splenius cervicis) turns forwards and is inserted, behind the levator anguli scapulae, by tendinous slips, into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the upper two or three cervical vertebrje. The splenius capitis passes under cover of the upper part of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and gains insertion into the lower part of the mastoid process and into the outer portion of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. To obtain a view of this insertion, the sterno-mastoid muscle may be divided along the superior curved line of the occipital bone as far as the mastoid process. Upon no account, however, detach it from the mastoid process. Dissection.—The erector spins and complexus muscles must now be dissected. Begin by reflecting the splenius muscle. Detach it from its origin and throw it outwards and upwards towards its insertion. In doing this preserve the cutaneous branches of the cervical nerves which pierce it. When the splenius capitis is fully reflected, a small triangular space will be noticed close to the superior curved line of the occipital bone. In front, it is bounded by the trachelo-mastoid muscle ; behind, by the outer border of the complexus ; and above, by the superior curved line of the occipital Vjone. The floor of this little space is formed by the