231 SIDE OF THE NECK. These ligaments limit the backward and forward move- ments of the inner end of the clavicle, upon the sternal facet. The Interclavicular Ligament (ligamentum interclavi- culare) is a strong band which connects the inner ends of the two clavicles. It is firmly fixed to the upper edge of each bone, and as it passes across the middle line it dips into the notch on the upper margin of the sternum, and is attached to it also. The Ehomboid Ligament (ligamentum costoclaviculare) is composed of short oblique fibres. It is placed behind the subclavius muscle, the remains of which must therefore be removed to expose its anterior surface ; at the same time the clavicle must be tilted upwards as high as possible. The rhomboid ligament is attached by its lower border to the cartilage of the first rib. From this it is carried obliquely upwards, backwards, and outwards, and is fixed by its upper border to a rough depression upon the under surface of the inner end of the clavicle. The rhomboid ligament plays an important part in the mechanism of the joint, and adds greatly to its security. It checks excessive elevation of the shoulder, and restrains, within certain limits, both forward and backward movement of the clavicle. Dissection.—The interarticular fibro-cartilage is the most important of all the agents concerned in maintaining the apposition of the inner end of the clavicle with the sternum. To obtain a view of this structure, the joint must be opened into ; indeed, it is well to remove as far as possible all the ligaments. Begin by dividing the rhomboid ligament. To effect this the clavicle must be raised and the knife carried inwards between its inner end and the first costal cartilage. Next remove the interclavicular and anterior and posterior sterno-clavicular ligaments. It is difficult to get at the posterior sterno-clavicular ligament in the present condition of parts, but with a little care the sterno-hyoid muscle may be detached from its surface, and its fibres divided. The clavicle should now be forcibly pulled outwards, when the interarticular fibro- cartilage will become apparent.