6oS THE AUDITORY APPARATUS. Numerous minute canals traverse the modiolus, and one more con- spicuous than the others, the central canal of the modiolus, extends along its centre. The spiral lamina is also tunnelled by small canals in com- munication with those in the modiolus, whilst one, the spiral canal of the modiolus, winds spirally around the central pillar in the attached margin of the spiral lamina. All these channels convey filaments from the cochlear division of the auditory nerve to the membranous cochlea. The nmnbranous cochlear tube is placed between the free margin of the spiral lamina and the opposite side of the wall of the cochlear tube. The two compartments of the bony cochlea are thus separated from each other, and they are respectively termed the scala tympani and the scala vestibuli. The scala tympani is the larger of the two. It begins at the foramen rotundum, where the secondary membrane of the tympanum shuts it off from the tympanic cavity. At the apex of the cochlea it communicates by means of an aperture, termed the helicotrefiia, with the scala vestibuli. At the base of the cochlea the scala vestibuli communicates with the lower and fore part of the vestibule. The perilymph there- fore, in the semicircular canals and vestibule, is directly continuous with that in the scala vestibuli and scala tympani. It can now be easily understood how vibrations of the membrana tympani are communicated to the perilymph within the osseous laby- rinth. The chain of auditory ossicles through the footpiece of the stapes affects the perilymph in the vestibule. The vibrations of the perilymph passing along the scala vestibuli into the scala tympani in turn affect the secondary membrane of the tympanum which is stretched across the foramen rotundum. With every inward movement of the membrana tympani and of the footpiece of the stapes, there is an outward move- ment of the membrane of the foramen rotundum and vice versa. The vibrations of the perilymph affect the endolymph, and thus excite the terminations of the auditory nerve. Membranous Labyrinth.—In the vestibule there are two mem- branous sacs termed the utricle and the saccule. The utricle occupies the fovea hemi-elliptica on the wall of the vestibule, and lies above and behind the saccule. Into it open the membranous semicircular canals. The saccule is slightly smaller, and occupies the fovea hemispherica on the fore part of the inner wall of the vestibule. It communicates by