HEAD AND NECK. 120 Falx Cerebri—Figs. 190, 191, and 192.—This is a sickle- shaped reduplication of the supporting layer of the dura mater, which descends in the mesial plane between the two cerebral hemispheres. In order to expose it, the cerebral veins, as they open into the superior longitudinal sinus, must be divided, and the hemisphere gently pulled out- wards. In front, the falx cerebri is narrow, and attached to the crista galli of the ethmoid bone. As it is followed back- wards, it increases in breadth, and behind, it is attached in the middle line to the upper surface of the tentorium cerebelli, its two lamellae separating along the line of junc- tion so as to form with the tentorium a blood sinus, termed the straight sinus (sinus rectus)—Fig. 192 (6), p. 125. Along its superior convex border its two layers separate and form, with the endocranial layer of the dura mater, the superior longitudinal sinus—Fig. 192 (5), p. 125. Its inferior concave margin is free, and overhangs the corpus callosum, with which, however, it is not in contact, except, perhaps, very slightly behind. Running backwards in this margin is the inferior longitudinal sinus (sinus sagittalis inferior). Removal of the Brain.—The dissectors should now proceed to remove the brain. Having divided the attach- ment of the falx cerebri to the crista galli, pull it backwards. Next, removing the block upon which the head rests, and supporting the occiput and posterior lobes of the brain with the left hand, let the head drop well backwards. In all probability, the frontal lobes will fall away by their own weight from the anterior fossa of the base of the cranium, and perhaps carry with them the olfactory bulbs. Should they remain in position, however, gently raise them with the fingers, and separate, at the same time, with the handle of the knife the olfactory bulbs from the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. In raising the olfactory bulbs, the minute olfac- tory nerves which spring from them and perforate the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone are torn across. The large round and white optic fierves (second pair of cranial