193 SIDE OF THE NECK. of the clavicle it will be observed to dip through the deep cervical fascia. It terminates by turning abruptly outwards under cover of both heads of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and opening into the external jugular or into the subclavian vein. After it has pierced the fascia, a short transverse branch which crosses the mesial plane connects it with its fellow of the opposite side. Superficial Branches of the Cervical Plexus.—These all take origin from the second, third, and fourth cervical nerves, and emerging from under cover of the posterior margin of the sterno-mastoid about its middle, pierce the deep fascia, and arrange themselves into ascending, transverse, and descetid- ing branches. The ascending branches are two in number, and both have already been examined in the superficial dissection of the back of the neck (p. 109). They are {a) the small occipital — Fig. 208 (8),—springing from the second cervical nerve, and {b) the great atiriciilar—Fig. 208 (9),—which takes origin from the second and third cervical nerves. The transverse branches proceed from a single nerve called the superficial cervical nerve—Fig. 208 (n)- This arises from the second and third cervical nerves, and winding round the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid about its middle, proceeds transversely forwards upon the deep fascia to reach the area over the anterior triangle of the neck. Here it divides into two branches, of which one inclines upwards and the other downwards. The upper braftch communicates freely with the infra-mandibular division of the facial nerve and forms one or more wide loops with it in the region between the hyoid bone and the mandible (Fig. 208). Its branches pierce the platysma and supply the skin as high as the base of the lower jaw. The loiver branch can be traced as low as the sternum. Its branches also reach the skin by piercing the platysma. The descending branches take origin by a single large trunk from the third and fourth cervical nerves. This VOL. II.—1.3