THE BRAIN. the base of the pineal body, and receives the name of the posterior commissure of the cerebrum. Anterior Commissure of the Cerebrum.—In the anterior part of the cleft between the two optic thalami, and immediately in front of the anterior pillars of the fornix, a round bundle of white fibres will be seen crossing the mesial plane. This is the anterior commissure. It is very much larger than the posterior commissure, and will be afterwards followed towards the temporal lobe in which the greater part of it ends. Third Ventricle.—This name is given to the deep narrow cleft between the two optic thalami. Broadly speaking, it may be said to extend from the posterior commissure behind to the anterior commissure in front. Its floor is formed by the parts already studied within the inter- peduncular space on the base of the brain, viz., the tuber cinereum, the corpora mammillaria, and the grey matter of the locus perforatus posticus, and also to some extent behind these by the tegmenta of the crura cerebri. In front it is bounded by the lamina cinerea and the anterior com- missure ; whilst its lateral walls are formed by the mesial surfaces of the two optic thalami. A little in front of the middle of the ventricle the cavity is crossed by the middle or soft commissure, which connects the thalami with each other, and in front of this the anterior pillar of the fornix is seen descending in the lateral wall. At first this is distinct and prominent, but it gradually becomes more and more sunk in the grey matter on the side of the ventricle as it approaches the corresponding corpus mammillare. The roof of the third ventricle is formed by a thin epithelial layer, continuous with the epithelial lining of the cavity, which stretches across the mesial plane from the one taenia fornicis to the other. It is applied to the under surface of the velum interpositum which overlies the ventricle, and is invaginated into the cavity by the choroid plexuses which hang down from the under surface of this