SIDE OF THE NECK. 247 a communication is effected with the spinal accessory nerve, which pierces, and at the same time supplies filaments to the muscle. The levator anguli scapula always receives two or three branches from the third and fourth nerves, whilst the scalenus medius obtains its nerve supply from the same nerve-trunks before these have entered the plexus. The branches to the trapezius come off in common with the trunk which divides into the descending superficial nerves, and are therefore derived from the third and fourth nerves. Upon the under surface of the trapezius, these branches unite with the spinal accessory, and form the sub-trapezialplexus. The ramus cervicalis descendens is formed by the union of two long slender roots (rami communicantes hypoglossi) which spring from the second and third nerves respectively. It proceeds downwards and inwards under cover of the sterno- mastoid, and either behind or in front of the internal jugular vein, to join the ramus descendens hypoglossi and form the ansa hypoglossi. In some cases the two roots of the descendens cervicalis remain separate throughout all their course. The phrenic nerve is the most important branch given off by the cervical plexus. It springs from the fourth cervical nerve, and as a rule obtains also a root from the fifth or the third cervical nerve, or perhaps from both. If the root from the fifth nerve fails, the phrenic will in all probability be found to receive lower down a twig from the nerve to the subclavius. The course which the phrenic pursues in the neck is so definite, that there should never be any difficulty in recognising this nerve. It descends, inclining at the same time inwards, in front of the scalenus anticus, and leaves the neck to enter the thorax by passing under cover of the subclavian vein, and crossing the internal mammary artery from without inwards. As it proceeds downwards on the scalenus anticus, it passes behind the omo-hyoid, the transversalis colli artery, the suprascapular artery, and on the left side the thoracic duct.