DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 265 side. At the same time it must be clearly understood that a good dissector should be able to make a complete dissection upon both sides. It will facilitate the dissection if the student introduce under the eyelids, cheeks, and lips a small quantity of cotton-wadding or tow soaked in spirit. The margins of the lips and eyelids may then be stitched to- gether. In doing this it is necessary to employ a fine needle. Only one incision is required for the reflection of the skin—viz., a vertical cut carried upwards immediately in front of the ear until it meets the coronal incision which was made in reflecting the integument from the scalp. The skin may then be thrown forwards as far as the middle line of the face and removed entirely. In raising the skin the dissector must proceed with caution. Carefully preserve the fibres of the platysma as they pass upwards upon the lower jaw to blend with the fascia, to find insertion into the bone and mix with the fibres of certain of the facial muscles (p. 190). The little risorius muscle as it passes forwards from the masseteric region to the angle of the mouth is apt to be injured, and must therefore be remem- bered. In the case of the eyelids the skin is thin and is separated from the subjacent muscular fibres by a small amount of areolar tissue devoid of fat. Some care therefore is required on the part of the dissector to remove it successfully. Over the ala of the nose and the chin, the integument is difficult to raise on account of its density and also from its close connection with subjacent structures. When the skin is completely reflected, and the attachments of the platysma satisfactorily demonstrated, the latter may be turned up so as to expose the facial artery passing upwards upon the jaw. The Facial Branch of the Great Auricular Nerve must next be traced. Several small filaments from this will be seen to penetrate the parotid gland, for the purpose of joining the facial nerve. Others pro- ceed forwards, and supply the skin over the parotid, masseteric, and buccal regions. The parotid gland should now be defined. In doing this the greatest care must be taken not to injure the branches of the facial nerve and the transverse facial artery, as they emerge from its substance, along its upper and anterior borders. The duct also, which appears at its anterior border, must be followed forwards upon the masscter muscle. When the superficial relations of the parotid have been examined, the gland-sub- stance must be removed piece-meal, so as to bring into view the various structures with which its deep surface is in contact, and at the same time expose the blood vessels and nerves which traverse it. This can best be effected by tracing into it the branches of the facial nerve, and the trunk of the transverse facial artery. Care must be taken not to injure