SIDE OF THE NECK. 20I in the supra-clavicular region. Embedded within this will be found the transversalis colli and the supra-scapular vessels, with the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle and some lymphatic glands. The supra- scapular artery emerges from under cover of the sterno-mastoid, and passes outwards immediately subjacent to the clavicle ; the transversalis colli artery also comes out from under cover of the sterno-mastoid, but it lies at a higher level. The posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle is a narrow muscular band which appears at the angle which is formed by the anterior border of the trapezius muscle and the clavicle, and proceeds forwards and upwards on the side of the neck to disappear under cover of the sterno-mastoid. It should be noted that the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle is enveloped in a sheath of fascia which is loosely disposed around it, and is then prolonged downwards to obtain an attachment to the clavicle. As the muscle disappears under cover of the sterno-mastoid it gives place to a rounded tendon. Upon the under surface of this, closely applied to it, and between the two layers of fascia which invest it will be found a minute nervous twig which comes from the ansa hypoglossi, and ends in this portion of the omo- hyoid. The lymphatic glands in this region belong to the group which receive the name of inferior deep cervical glands. When the fatty areolar tissue is removed from these structures, a strong layer of fascia spread over the subclavian vessels and the brachial nerves will be brought into view. Deep Layer of Fascia in the Supra-clavicular Region.— This a strong sheet of fascia which is spread over the brachial nerves and the subclavian vessels. When traced inwards under cover of the sterno-mastoid it will be observed to cover the scalenus anticus muscle and to become con- tinuous with the prevertebral fascia and the posterior part of the carotid sheath. In a downward direction it may be followed into the axilla as the sheath of the a.xillary vessels and nerves, and here it establishes a connection with the costo-coracoid membrane. A distinct space or interval exists between this deep layer of fascia and the investing fascia of the neck. This interval is filled with fatty areolar tissue, and also contains the transversalis colli and supra- scapular vessels, the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and some of the inferior deep cervical glands. Seeing that the investing cervical fascia is attached to the clavicle, and