224 HEAD AND NECK. the first place, examine the structures which are in immediate contact with it. These are (i) the isthmus of the thyroid body ; (2) the inferior thyroid veins; (3) at the root of the neck, the innominate artery and the left innominate vein ; (4) the thymus body in young children; and (5) the occa- sional thyroidea ima artery. The isth7nus of the thyroid is a thin band of thyroid substance which crosses the mesial plane upon the anterior aspect of the trachea. As a general rule it covers the second, third, and fourth tracheal rings, so that only one ring is left exposed between its upper margin and the cricoid cartilage. Almost invariably a branch of the superior thyroid artery runs along the upper margin of the isthmus, whilst upon its anterior surface is placed a plexiform arrangement of small veins. The inferior thyroid veins are two in number, and of large size. They are formed by several tributaries which issue from the lateral lobes, and proceed downwards upon the front of the trachea, one upon either side of the mesial plane. They are separated from each other by a narrow interval, and immediately below the isthmus they are connected by a plexus of small veins which lies in front of the trachea. An additional tnedian vein, taking origin from the isthmus, may also exist. Close to the sternum the innominate artery will be observed lying upon the trachea, and slightly below the level of the upper border of the bone the left intionmiate vein crosses it. The thymus body in children of two years or under is always prolonged upwards for some distance into the neck in front of the trachea. The thyroidea ima is an occasional branch of the innominate artery. When present it passes vertically upwards in front of the trachea to the isthmus of the thyroid gland. The parts which separate the trachea, with the structures in immediate relation to its anterior aspect, from the surface should now be studied. The two anterior jugular veins as they run downwards in the superficial fascia, one upon either side of the mesial plane, have been already