159 DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. The Semispinalis Muscle is described in two parts—the semispinalis dorsi and semispinalis colli. The semispinalis dorsi is composed of a series of muscular slips, with long tendons at either end, which arise from the transverse processes of five of the lower dorsal vertebrae (viz., from the sixth to the tenth). It is inserted into the spines of the upper four dorsal and lower two cervical vertebras. The semispinalis colli lies under cover of the complexus. Its springs from the transverse processes of the upper five dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the spines of four cervical vertebrae (viz., from the second to the fifth). The slips composing the semispinalis muscle stretch over five or more vertebrae. Dissection.—The multifidus spinas is of great extent. Beginning in the sacral region, it passes upwards as far as the axis vertebra. It is weakly developed in the dorsal region, but is strongly marked in the loin and in the neck—more especially in the former. To bring it thoroughly into view, the semispinalis muscle must be detached from the spines and thrown, outwards : the erector spinse muscle must also be separated from the lumbar and sacral spines and drawn aside—if, indeed, this has not been already done in following out the nerves. Miiltifidus Spinse (multifidus).—In the lumbar and sacral regions, the multifidus will be seen to constitute a thick fleshy mass, which clings closely to the vertebral spines. In this situation it has a very extensive origin—viz., (i) from the deep surface of the aponeurotic origin of the erector spinae; (2) from the posterior surface of the sacrum as low as the fourth aperture ; (3) from the posterior sacro- iliac ligament; (4) from the posterior superior spine of the ilium ; and (5) from the mammillary processes of the lumbar vertebrae. In the dorsal region it takes origin from the transverse processes of the vertebra, and in the cervical region from the articular processes of at least four of the lower cervical vertebrae. The bundles which compose the multifidus pass over two, three, or four vertebrae, and are inserted into the whole length of the various spinous pro- cesses of the movable vertebrae as high up as the axis.