TEMPORAL AND PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGIONS. 305 from the whole length of the inner aspect of the zygomatic arch, and,also from the posterior third of its lower border. Its fibres proceed downwards and forwards. The only portion of the deep part which appears on the surface is a small piece at the upper and back part of the muscle. The masseter is inserted into the outer surface of the ascending ramus of the mandible, over an area which extends down- wards to the angle, and upwards so as to include the outer aspect of the coronoid process. Dissection.—A dissection must now be undertaken to display the temporal muscle, and at the same time expose the nerve and artery of supply to the masseter. Begin by dividing the temporal fascia along the upper border of the zygomatic arch. It may then be thrown upwards and completely removed. The middle temporal artery, and the temporal branch of the temporo-malar nerve which pierce it must be disengaged from it and preserved. The zygomatic arch with the attached masseter must next be thrown down by dividing the bony arch in front and behind the origin of the muscle. First make use of the saw, and then complete the division by means of the bone-pliers. The posterior cut should be made immediately in front of the glenoid fossa, and the head of the lower jaw ; the anterior cut must extend obliquely through the malar bone, from the extreme anterior end of the upper margin of the arch, downwards and forwards to the point where the lower margin meets the malar process of the superior maxillary bone. In this way the whole of the masseteric origin is included between the incisions, and the arch with the attached muscle may be readily thrown downwards towards the angle of the lower jaw. The fleshy origin of the deep portion of the masseter from the inner surface of the zygomatic arch can now be seen, and frequently the dissection is complicated by a number of fibres from the temporal muscle joining this part of the masseter. In turning the masseter down, great care must be taken not to injure its nerve and artery of supply. These pass outwards through the sigmoid notch, between the neck of the lower jaw and the posterior margin of the temporal muscle. When they arc exposed and cleaned, they must be divided in order that the muscle may be fully reflected. On no account detach the masseter from the angle of the jaw. The temporal muscle may now be cleaned. The Temporal Muscle (musculus temporalis) is fan-shaped. It arises from the entire extent of the temporal fossa by an origin reaching upwards as high as the lower of the two lines VOL. II.—20