TEMPORAL AND PTERYGO-MAXJLLARY REGIONS. 313 relationship with the joint. Above, it lies under cover of the external pterygoid muscle; lower down, the internal maxillary artery intervenes between it and the neck of the mandible; whilst, still lower, the inferior dental vessels and nerve are interposed between it and the ramus of the mandible. The stylo-maxillary ligament has already been noticed. It is an aponeurotic band, derived from the deep cervical fascia, which is attached on the one hand to the styloid process, and on the other to the angle and posterior border of the ramus of the jaw between the internal pterygoid and masseter muscles. An examination of these ligaments will show that very little is added to the strength of the joint by their presence. The security of the joint depends not so much upon its ligaments as upon the strong muscles of mastication, which keep the head of the mandible in its place. The interarticular fibro-cartilage is an oval plate, with its long axis directed transversely. It is interposed between the condyle of the mandible and the glenoid cavity, and divides the joint cavity into an upper and lower portion, each of which is provided with a separate synovial mem- brane. To expose the cartilage, the external lateral ligament must be removed. It will then be seen to be adapted to the two bony surfaces between which it lies. Above, it is concavo-convex in correspondence with the eminentia arti- cularis and the glenoid fossa of the temporal bone ; whilst, below, it is concave, and fits upon the upper aspect of the condyle of the mandible. In the centre it is thin, and in some cases may be seen to be perforated. Its circumference, more especially posteriorly, is thick. It should also be noted that it is but loosely attached by its periphery to the external lateral ligament, and that anteriorly the external pterygoid muscle is partly inserted into it. The syfiovial juembrane which lines the upper cavity of the joint, is of greater extent and looser than that which