SIDE OF THE NECK. extends upwards towards the hyoid bone. To this it may be connected by fibrous tissue, or perhaps by a narrow sHp composed of muscular fibres, which receives the name of levator glandulcE. thyroidece. In some cases this little muscle has an attachment to the thyroid body independently of the pyramidal process. The thyroid body is firmly connected to the parts upon which it lies, and therefore follows the larynx in all its movements. The dissector will not fail to be struck with the great vascularity of the thyroid body. Four large arteries, and occasionally a fifth smaller vessel, convey blood to its substance. The two superior thyroid branches of the external carotid arteries divide at the apex of each lateral lobe into three branches for its supply ; the two inferior thyroid branches of the subclavian arteries distribute their terminal branches to the basal portion and deep surface of each lateral lobe. The occasional artery is the thyroidea ima, a branch of the innominate (more rarely of the common carotid or the aortic arch), which ascends upon the anterior aspect of the trachea to reach the isthmus of the thyroid body. These thyroid arteries anastomose with each other. The veins which drain the blood away from the thyroid body are still more numerous. They arise in part by tributaries which spring from a venous network on the anterior face of the structure, but chiefly by branches which emerge from its substance. They are three in number on each side—viz., the superior thyroid, the middle thyroid, and the inferior thyroid. The stiperior and middle thyroid veins cross the common carotid artery and join the internal jugular ; the inferior thyroid descends in front of the trachea. At the root of the neck it usually joins its fellow of the opposite side to form a common stem which opens into the left innominate. The Trachea and the (Esophagus in the cervical portion of their course may now be studied. Both begin at the level of the cricoid cartilage, in front of the sixth cervical vertebra. From this point they extend downwards in front of the vertebral column to the thoracic cavity. The trachea, or witidpipe, is a wide tube which is kept constantly patent by the cartilaginous rings embedded in its walls. These rings do not form complete circles; posteriorly they are deficient, and in consequence the trachea is flattened behind. Above it is continuous with