SIDE OF THE NECK. 233 5. The thoracic duct on the left side, and the right lymphatic duct on the right side. 6. The lower part of the internal jugular vein, 7. The vagus nerve. 8. The lower part of the common carotid artery. 9. The lower part of the cervical sympathetic. As the dissection is proceeded with, a large number of important structures will be observed grouped in relation to the scalenus anticus muscle. Thus it is crossed in front and from below upwards by—(i) the subclavian vein, which lies upon its insertion into the first rib ; (2) the suprascapular artery ; (3) the transversalis colli artery ; and (4) the omo-hyoid muscle, with the nerve to its posterior belly. Under cover of these, the phrenic nerve is carried downwards upon the anterior aspect of the muscle, whilst the thoracic duct on the left side, and the right lymphatic duct on the right side, lie for a short distance in front of it, near its inner margin. Both of these ducts open into the venous system at the angle of union between the internal jugular and sub- clavian veins. Behind the scalenus anticus, the cervical pleura bulges upwards for a short distance into the neck, and at a higher level the subclavian artery and the brachial nerves are also in relation to its posterior surface. Close to its inner margin, are the thyroid axis, the vertebral artery and vein, and somewhat overlapping it, the large in- ternal jugular vein ; whilst ascending in the interval between the scalenus anticus and the rectus capitis anticus major, is the small ascending cervical artery. Between the scalenus anticus and the trachea will be found the internal jugular vein, the vagus nerve, common carotid artery, the first part of the subclavian artery with its branches, and the sympathetic cord. This is a tedious dissection, on account of the numerous twigs which are given off by the sympathetic. Certain of these descend in relation to the first part of the subclavian artery, and must be carefully preserved. The middle cervical ganglion, as a general rule, rests upon the inferior thyroid artery, whilst the lowest ganglion in the neck is placed in the depression between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib. Scalene Muscles.—These muscles constitute the fleshy mass which is seen extending from the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae to the upper two costal arches. They are three in num&er, and are named, from their relative positions, aniiais, ?)iedhis, and posticus.