THE BRAIN. S64 Connections of the Internal Capsule.—The internal capsule is directly continuous below with the crusta of the cerebral peduncle (Fig. 306). The dissector can easily satisfy himself in the specimens before him of this con- tinuity, but it is more especially apparent in the more pos- terior of the coronal sections which he has made through the left portion of the cerebrum. It has already been mentioned that the fibres which occupy the middle third of the crusta of the cerebral peduncle belong to the motor pyramidal tract. In the inter- nal capsule these occupy the anterior half of the posterior limb, being thus placed imme- diately behind the genu. The fibres which constitute the inner third of the crusta are carried upwards into the an- terior limb of the internal cap- sule ; whilst the fibres which form the outer third of the crusta enter the posterior half of the posterior limb. When the fibres of the in- ternal capsule are traced up- wards, they are found to spread out in a radiating or fan-like manner so as to reach the various convolutions of the cerebral hemispheres. This arrangement is termed the corofia radiata. Now, it has been observed that the internal capsule may be, broadly speaking, divided into thirds, each of which corresponds with a portion of the crusta. The fibres of the anterior third, or, in other words, of the anterior limb of the internal capsule, pass upwards into the prefrontal region of the cerebral hemisphere ; those of the middle third (the pyramidal fibres) go to the convolutions of the Rolandic or motor area of the hemisphere ; whilst those of the posterior third proceed into the occipital and temporal lobes. Nuclei of the Optic Thalamus.—When a horizontal section is made through the optic thalamus in a fresh brain, or in one which has been preserved by means of a chromic salt, the grey matter composing it is seen to be broken up LENTICULAR NUCLEUS Fig. 307.—Diagrammatic representa- tion of the radiation of the fibres of the internal capsule. (After Testut, modified.)