THE CEREBRUM. confluent postcentral sulci it presents a figure like the letter —I placed on its side. ramus occipitalis 283 and 286, is a curved sulcus which bounds externally the arcus parieto-occipitalis, or in other words, the arching convolution which surrounds the external parieto-occipital fissure. Sometimes the ramus occipitalis is linked on to the ramus horizontalis—more frequently it is separate. Its posterior end runs into the occipital lobe, and behind the arcus parieto-occipitalis it bifurcates into two widely spread-out branches. These form a short transverse fissure in the occipital lobe, termed the sulcus occipitalis transversus (Ecker) (Figs. 283 and 286, s.t.). The upturned ends of the posterior horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius (Fig. 283, s. asc), of the parallel or first temporal fissure (Fig. 283, f^. asc.) and of the second temporal sulcus (Fig. 283, t^. asc) extend for a short distance, one behind the other, into the inferior parietal lobule. Gyri on the External Surface of the Parietal Lobe.— The intraparietal sulcus maps out three districts or areas on the outer surface of the parietal lobe. These are the ascending parietal convolution and the superior and inferior parietal lobules. The ascending parietal convolution or gyrus centralis posterior (Fig. 283, CP.) is a long gyrus which extends obliquely across the hemisphere from the supero-mesial border above to the posterior limb of the Sylvian fissure below. In front it is bounded by the fissure of Rolando, and behind by the superior and inferior postcentral furrows. The superior parietal lobtile is the area of cerebral cortex which lies between the ramus horizontalis below and the supero-mesial border of the hemisphere above. In front it is bounded by the superior postcentral sulcus, whilst behind it is connected with the occipital lobe by the arcus parieto- occipitalis. It is continuous around the supero-mesial border of the hemi.spher-e with the preecuneus. The inferior parietal lobule lies below the ramus horizon-