222 HEAD AND NECK. on either side of the symphysis. From this they descend towards the hyoid bone, and diverge slightly from each other so as to leave a narrow triangular space between them (Fig. 214). The floor of this space is formed by the anterior portions of the two mylo-hyoid muscles, whilst bisecting the triangle in the mesial plane is the fibrous raphe, into which these muscles are inserted. Not unfrequently the inner margins of the digastric muscles send decussating fibres across the interval between them. The infra-hyoid part of the middle line of the neck extends from the hyoid bone to the upper margin of the manubrium sterni. Below the hyoid bone is the thyro-hyoid membrane succeeded by the thyroid cartilage with its prominent pomicm Adami. Then comes the tense crico-thyroid membrane and the cricoid cartilage. Except along a narrow interval on either side of the mesial plane, these structures are covered by two muscular strata, viz., a superficial layer formed by the sterno-hyoid and omo-hyoid which lie on the same plane, and a deeper layer formed by the sterno-thyroid and its continuation upwards, the thyro- hyoid. In addition to these an elongated process of the thyroid gland not unfrequently stretches upwards (usually upon the left side), under cover of the sterno-hyoid. If this be present, it will in all probability be observed to be attached to the hyoid bone by a narrow muscular band termed the levator glatidulcB thyroidecc. The divergent inner margins of the two small crico-thyroid muscles, as they extend upwards and outwards upon the cricoid car- tilage towards the lower margin of the thyroid cartilage, will also be seen. Upon the crico-thyl-oid membrane, as it appears between these muscles, the small crico-thyroid artery runs transversely inwards. Below the cricoid cartilage the dissector comes upon the trachea, which extends downwards through the remaining portion of the middle of the neck. As the tube descends it gradually recedes from the surface, so that at the upper