THE THIRD, FOURTH, AND SIXTH NERVES. 357 branches. As it traverses the sinus it is accompanied by the oculomotor and trochlear nerves, both of which occupy a higher level. Like the other two divisions of the trigeminal nerve, the ophthalmic nerve gives off a recurrent branch to the dura mater. The recurrent branch springs from the ophthalmic nerve close to its origin, and runs backwards for a short distance in the sheath of the fourth nerve. After leaving this nerve it breaks up into fine terminal filaments, which are distributed between the two layers of the dura mater in the neighbourhood of the superior petrosal sinus. The terminal branches of the ophthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve are the nasal, the lachrymal, and the frontal. The nasal, as a rule, takes origin first; soon after, the lachrymal is given off, and then the stem of the nerve is continued onwards as the frofttal. These three nerves enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure. The Third or Oculomotor, Fourth or Trochlear, and Sixth or Abducent Nerves.—The oculomotor and trochlear nerves, as the dissector has previously noted, pierce the dura mater within the small triangular area, which is formed by the divergence of the attached and free margins of the tentorium. They now proceed forwards in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus. The third or oculomotor nerve occupies the highest level, then comes the fourth or trochlear nerve, and immediately below this is the ophthalmic division of the fifth or trigeminal nerve. They therefore present a numerical order from above downwards. The sixth or abducent nerve, which pierces the dura mater at the lower and outer part of the dorsum sellas, will be observed to wind round the outer side of the internal carotid artery, and then to proceed forwards more directly within the cavernous sinus than the others and at a lower level. The oculomotor, trochlear, and abducent nerves give off no branches during their course in relation to the cavernous sinus. They all enter the orbit by passing through the sphenoidal fissure. Before doing so, the oculomotor nerve