THORACIC CAVITY. S3 into the pulmonary artery. Both these openings are situated at the base of the ventricle. The large oval auriculo- ventricular orifice lies to the right, close to the right margin of the heart, whilst the pulmonary aperture is placed to the left, in front of the other, and at the summit of the conus arteriosus. Both of these openings are guarded by valves, which act so as to give the blood its proper direction through the heart. The valve which guards the mouth of the pulmonary artery is composed of three semilunar segments, and is called the setnilunar or the sigftioid valve. By looking upwards into the lumen of the artery, a view of these segments may be obtained, but it is better to defer their examination until the vessel itself has been studied. The Right Auriculo-Ventricular or Tricuspid Valve (valvula tricuspidalis), is composed of three triangular, pointed, membranous segments, termed cusps, which hang down into the cavity. These are united by their bases so as to form an annular membrane, and, through the interme- diation of this, they are fixed around the auriculo-ventricular opening. In the intervals between these larger segments three smaller cusps may frequently be detected. Each cusp is composed of two layers of endocardium, between which there is a certain amount of fibrous tissue. This fibrous tissue is, for the most part, confined to the central portion of the cusp, the margins of which are there- fore thin and translucent. When the valve is in action, it prevents regurgitation of blood into the auricle during the contraction of the ventricular wall. Attached to the ventricular surface and margin of each segment, as well as into the circumference of the auriculo-ventricular opening, are several of the chordae tendinese which have been seen to take origin from the apices of the papillary muscles. In consequence of this, the ventricular surface of the valve is rough, whilst the auricular surface—that surface over which the blood flows—is smooth.