HEAD AND NECK. 388 very little dissection will be required to make out the con- nections of both of these ligaments. The anterior common ligamettt is a strong band placed in front of the vertebral bodies. It is more firmly fixed to the intervening inter- vertebral discs than to the bones. The posterior cotnmon liga^nejtt which lies on the posterior aspect of the vertebral bodies constitutes the anterior boundary of the spinal canal. In the cervical region it completely covers the bodies of the vertebrae, and does not present the denticulated appearance which is so characteristic of it lower down. It is chiefly attached to the cartilaginous discs and the adjacent margins of the bones. The neutral arches of the lower five cervical vertebrae are bound together by {a) the articulations between the articular processes; {b) ligamenta subflava; (c) by interspinous liga- ments ; and {d) intertransverse ligaments. The joints between the opposing articular processes are of the diarthrodial variety. The surfaces of bone are coated with encrusting cartilage; there is a joint cavity lined by synovial membrane, and surrounded by a distinct capsular ligament. This ligament is more laxly arranged in the neck than in the lower regions of the spine. The ligaftienta subflava may be examined on the laminae which were removed for the display of the spinal cord, and which the dissector was directed to retain. In this specimen they may be studied in the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar regions of the spine. They fill up the gaps between the laminae of the vertebrae, and can be best seen when the fore aspect of the specimen is viewed. They are composed of yellow elastic tissue, and each ligament is attached superiorly to the anterior surface and inferior margin of the lamina of the vertebra above, whilst inferiorly it is fixed to the posterior surface and superior margin of the lamina of the vertebra next below. In this way they form with the laminae a smooth, even posterior wall for the spinal canal. Each ligament extends from the posterior part of the articular