HEAD AND NECK. lumbar fascia. But this muscular column does not end in the dorsal region; it is carried up into the neck, and even reaches as high as the mastoid process of the skull by two muscular continuations termed respectively—(i) the trans- versalis cervicis, and (2) the trachelo-mastoid. Transversalis Cervicis (longissimus cervicis).—This muscle takes origin in the upper dorsal region, by four or five slips from the transverse processes of a corresponding number of the upper dorsal vertebrae, and it gains insertion into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of all the cervical vertebrae, with the exception of the first and the last. The Trachelo-mastoid (longissimus capitis) is prolonged upwards in the neck under cover of the splenius. Its origin from the transverse processes of three or four of the upper dorsal vertebrae is intimately associated with that of the transversalis cervicis. In addition to its dorsal origin, however, it also draws three or four slips from the articular processes of a like number of the lower cervical vertebrae. The narrow fleshy band which results is inserted into the back part of the mastoid process, under cover of the splenius capitis and sterno-mastoid muscles. Spinalis Dorsi.—This, the innermost, shortest, and weak- est of the three columns, is in some respects the most difficult to define. Below, it is intimately blended with the longissimus dorsi, but it may be regarded as taking origin by four tendons from the spines of the two upper lumbar and two lower dorsal vertebra. These, by their union, form a small muscle, which is inserted by a series of slips into a very variable number of the upper dorsal spines. It is closely connected with the subjacent semispinalis dorsi. Dissection.—The occipital artery has already been observed crossing the apex of the posterior triangle (p. 141), and its terminal branches have been dissected as they ramify in the scalp (p. 111). The second part of the vessel, which extends from under shelter of the mastoid process, along the superior curved line of the occipital bone, to the