HEAD AND NECK. 394 ligamentous sheet which is attached below to the posterior aspect of the body of the axis vertebra, where it is con- tinuous with the posterior common ligament of the spine. It extends upwards, covering completely the odontoid pro- cess and the anterior margin of the foramen magnum, and is attached above to the posterior grooved surface of the basilar process of the occipital bone. Dissection.—Detach this ligament from the axis and throw it upwards upon the basilar process. By this proceeding the accessory ligaments of the atlanto-axial joints and the cruciform ligament are brought into view, and very little further dissection is required to define them. The Accessory Atlanto-axial Ligaments (Fig. 251, 12) (ligamenta lateralia inferiora) are two strong bands which take origin from the posterior aspect of the body of the axis vertebra close to the base of the odontoid process. Each band passes upwards and outwards, and is attached to the inner and hinder part of the lateral mass of the atlas. To a certain extent they assist the odontoid check ligaments in limiting the rotatory movements of the atlas upon the axis. The Cruciform Ligament (ligamentum cruciatum) (Fig. 251) is composed of a transverse and a vertical part. The transverse ligament (ligamentum transversum atlantis) is by far the most important constituent of this apparatus (Fig. 250, 10; Fig. 251, 11; and Fig. 252, 4). It is a strong band which stretches from the tubercle on the inner aspect of the lateral mass of the atlas to the corresponding tubercle on the opposite side. With the anterior arch of the atlas it forms a ring which encloses the odontoid pro- cess—the pivot around which the atlas bearing the head turns. It is separated from the posterior aspect of the odontoid process by a loose synovial membrane which extends forward on each side until it almost reaches the synovial membrane in connection with the mesial joint between the odontoid process and the anterior arch of the atlas (Fig. 252, 2 and 3). Indeed in some cases a com- munication exists between the two synovial cavities.