177 DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. nerves, the fifth sacral nerve, and the coccygeal nerve, how- ever, follow a different course. The sub-occipital emerges by passing over the neural arch of the atlas, and the second cervical nerve by passing over the neural arch of the axis. The fifth sacral and the coccygeal nerve leave the sacral canal through its lower aperture (Fig. 203). Dissection.—The nerve roots of one or two spinal nerves in each region should be followed into the corresponding intervertebral foramina. This can be easily done by snipping away the articular processes with the bone-pliers. The position of the ganglion on the posterior root, the connections of the sheath of dura mater, the union of the two roots to form the spinal nerve-trunk, and the division of the latter into the anterior and posterior primary divisions, can thus be studied. An attempt should also be made at the same time to discover the minute simi-vertebral ne)~ue of Luschka. This is a fine twig which is formed by the union of a small filament from the spinal nerve trunk with a minute branch from the sympathetic cord. It takes a recurrent course through the intervertebral foramen to end in the bones and periosteum of the vertebral canal. The Spinal Root-Ganglia.—These ganglia are oval swel- lings developed upon the posterior nerve roots, just before they unite with the anterior roots to form the spinal nerve trunks. They are usually found upon the posterior roots of all the nerves, although occasionally the ganglion may be absent in the case of the sub-occipital nerve. Except in the case of the two upper cervical nerves, and the sacral and coccygeal nerves, the spinal ganglia are formed upon the posterior nerve roots as they lie in the intervertebral foramina. The ganglia of the first two cervical nerves lie upon the neural arches of the first and second cervical vertebrae respectively ; the ganglia of the sacral and coccygeal nerves are placed within the sacral canal, but out- side the tube of dura mater. Sometimes the ganglion on the posterior root of the coccygeal nerve will be found inside the tube of dura mater. Spinal Nerve Trunks.—These are formed by the union of the anterior and posterior nerve roots immediately VOL. 11.—12