469 THE LARYNX. cartilage a small nodule of yellow elastic cartilage is fre- quently placed upon the external border, and is held in this position by the investing perichondrium. It is termed the sesamoid cartilage. The anterior border of the arytenoid cartilage is prolonged into the projecting anterior angle of the base. This is called the processus vocalis. It is sharp and pointed, is directed horizontally forwards, and gives attachment to the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament or true vocal cord. The base of the arytenoid cartilage presents an elongated concave facet on its under aspect for articula- tion with the upper border of the posterior lamina of the cricoid cartilage. The Crico-arytenoid Articulation is of the diarthrodial variety. There is a distinct joint cavity surrounded by a capsular ligament which is lined by a synovial membrane. The cricoid articular surface is convex, that of the arytenoid concave; both are elongated in form, but they are placed in relation to each other, so that the long axis of the one intersects or crosses that of the other, and in no position of the joint do the two surfaces accurately coincide; a portion of the cricoid surface is always left uncovered. The movements allowed at this joint, as the dissector can readily determine, are of a two-fold kind—(i) gliding, by which the arytenoid is carried inwards or outwards, or, in other words, a movement by which the arytenoid advances towards or retreats from its fellow; (2) rotatory, by which the arytenoid cartilage revolves round a vertical axis. By this movement the vocal process is swung outwards or inwards, so as to open or close the rima glottidis. The dissector should note that the capsule of this joint is strengthened behind by a strong band which plays a most important part in the mechanism of the articulation. It acts in such a manner that it arrests forward movement of the arytenoid cartilage. The Cuneiform Cartilages are two little conical nodules of yellow elastic cartilage, which are placed one in each