THE CHORDA TYMPANI NERVE. 603 Ligaments of the Auditory Ossicles.—In addition to the delicate capsular ligaments which surround the joints between the auditory ossicles, there are certain bands which connect the bones to the walls of the tympanum and serve to restrain their movements. In connection with the malleus there are (i) an anterior ligatnent which passes from its fore part at the root of the processus gracilis to the anterior wall of the tympanum in the neighbourhood of the Glaserian fissure ; (2) an external ligament which extends from its short process to the margin of the notch of Rivinus ; and (3) a superior ligament which connects the head with the roof of the tympanum. The ligament of the incus binds the extremity of its short process to the posterior wall of the tympanum, whilst the annular ligament of the stapes connects the margin of its foot-piece to the circumference of the foramen ovale. Tympanic Muscles.—These are two in number, viz., the stapedius inserted into the neck of the stapes, and the tensor tympani inserted into the malleus. The stapedius occupies the interior of the pyramid and the canal which curves downwards from it. The delicate tendon of the stapedius enters the tympanum through the aperture on the summit of the pyramid, and is inserted into the posterior aspect of the neck of the stapes. The tensor tympani arises from the upper part of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube and from the contiguous part of the great wing of the sphenoid. From this it passes backwards and outwards upon the processus cochleariformis and above the osseous part of the Eustachian tube. In the tympanic cavity the tendon turns sharply round the extremity of the processus cochleariformis and proceeds directly out- wards, from the inner towards the outer wall of the tympanum, to its insertion into the upper part of the manubrium of the malleus on its internal aspect. The Chorda Tympani Nerve which traverses the tympanic cavity in close relation to the upper part of the membrana tympani is described on p. 320.