THE TYMPANIC CAVITY OR MIDDLE EAR. 595 an exceedingly delicate layer over the outer surface of the membrana tympani. If the subject is slightly decomposed the cuticular lining of the meatus may be drawn out entire, like the finger of a glove, and the epidermal covering of the membrana tympani is thus demonstrated. Dissection.—The tympanic cavity can be most conveniently opened for inspection by the removal of its roof. The roof is formed by a thin scale of bone (tegmen tympani) which extends beyond the limits of the tympanum and covers in the canal for the tensor tympani in front and the mastoidal antrum behind. An opening should be made through the tegmen tympani, immediately external to the elevation formed by the superior semicircular canal, and about three-eighths of an inch in front of the superior border of the petrous bone. This will open into the mastoidal antrum. The opening can then be cautiously enlarged with chisel and bone forceps until the whole of the tegmen tympani is picked away piecemeal. The roof of the internal auditory meatus should also be carefully removed with mallet and chisel. The mastoidal antrum, the tympanum with its contents, the osseous portion of the Eustachian tube, the tensor tympani muscle, and the auditory and facial nerves are now displayed. The Mastoidal Antrum is a large recess or air-chamber placed behind the tympanum, and communicating by a relatively large opening with that cavity. It is lined with mucous membrane, which is continuous with the lining membrane of the tympanum. The mastoid process is also occupied by the mastoid cells. The greater number of these communicate with the mastoidal antrum, are lined with mucous membrane, and contain air. Still it is well to bear in mind that, as a general rule, a certain propor- tion of the cells situated in the lower and back part of the process are filled with marrow. The term pneumatic mastoid process is applied when all the cells contain air; and the term diploetic mastoid process when the cells contain marrow. The Tympanic Cavity or Middle Ear is a small chamber filled with air, which is placed between the bottom of the meatus externus and the internal ear or labyrinth. Behind it communicates by a relatively large orifice with the mas-