MOUTH AND PHARYNX. preaches the free border of the soft palate. A portion of the deep fibres of the palato pharyngeus, some of the fibres of the levator palati, and the tendon of the tensor palati obtain attachment to it. Vessel aaid Nerves of the Soft Palate.—The inferior or ascending palatine branch of the facial is, as a rule, the prin- cipal artery of supply to the soft palate. It has already been traced to the outer wall of the pharynx (pp. 257 and 336). Here it is seen in the sinus of Morgagni, in relation to the levator palati muscle which it accompanies into the soft palate. The palatine branch of the ascending pharyngeal artery may also be traced into the soft palate. In cases where the preceding artery is small, this twig will be found enlarged so as to take its place (p. 336). The descetiding palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery likewise sends small twigs to the soft palate and tonsil. Two nerves enter the soft palate from Meckel's ganglion—viz., the external and the posterior palatine nerves. It would appear, however, that they do not supply the muscles, but are distributed to the mucous membrane. The levator palati, the azygos uvulre, the palato-glossus, and the palato-pharyngeus are supplied by twigs from the pharyngeal branches of the vagus, which convey to them fibres which are originally derived from the accessory part of the spinal accessoiy (v. p. 346) (W. Aldren Turner). The tensor palati is probably supplied by the branch which it receives from the otic ganglion, and which leads to it fibres which originally come from the motor part of the trigeminal nerve. The Tonsils are two prominent rounded bodies, placed one on each side of the fauces immediately above the base of the tongue and between the two pillars of the soft palate. The buccal or internal surface of the tonsil is perforated by a number of orifices which lead into crypts or recesses in its substance : its external surface rests upon the superior con- strictor muscle. The tonsils have a rich blood supply. They derive arterial twigs from the tonsillar and inferior palatine branches of the facial, the descending palatine branch of