HEAD AND NECK. 300 The Lachrymal Canals have in a measure been already examined. The dissector has noted the puncta lachrymalia, or the mouths of these minute canals, upon the margins of the eyelids at the inner canthus, and he has endeavoured to determine the course pursued by each, by the introduc- tion of a bristle. The upper canal at first ascends for a short distance, whilst the lower one descends, and then changing their direction suddenly, they both run inwards in relation to the upper and lower margins of the internal tarsal ligament. They open close together into the outer and anterior aspect of the lachrymal sac at a point slightly above its centre. The upper canal is the smaller and longer of the two, and it inclines downwards as well as inwards to reach the lachrymal sac; the lower canal is nearly hori- zontal in direction. The Lachrymal Sac is the blind upper and somewhat expanded part of the passage which conducts the tears to the nasal cavity. It is lodged in the deep lachrymal groove in the fore part of the inner wall of the orbit, and it is crossed in front, a short distance above its middle, by the internal tarsal ligament, from the deep surface of which it receives a fibrous expansion. The lachrymal canals open into it under cover of this ligament. The nasal duct is the term which is applied to the lower part of the same passage. It descends in the bony nasal canal, and opens into the fore-part of the inferior meatus of the nose. In length it measures about half-an-inch. Dissection.—In cases where the dissector is dealing with undissected eyelids, the tensor tarsi muscle can be well exposed from the deep aspect of the lids by dividing them vertically through the middle, and turning the inner portions upwards and downwards. The removal of the conjunctiva at the inner canthus will bring it into view. The Tensor Tarsi Muscle is a little muscular slip which can now be seen arising from the crest of the lachrymal bone behind the lachrymal sac. Passing outwards and