VESSELS AND NER VES OF THE SEPTUM NASI. 427 it runs horizontally inwards upon the under surface of the body of the sphenoid. Having gained the nasal septum, it changes its direction and proceeds downwards and forwards in a shallow groove on the surface of the vomer under cover of the mucous lining. Finally it enters the foramen of Scarpa, and where the two foramina of Scarpa open into the common anterior palatine canal, the nerves of opposite sides unite in a plexus from which branches are given to the mucous membrane covering the fore part of the hard palate. The naso-palatine nerve is accompanied by the corresponding artery, and as it Hes on the surface of the vomer, it supplies some small twigs to the mucous mem- brane of the septum nasi. A few nasal branches from Meckel's ganglion, and also from the Vidian nerve, reach the mucous membrane over the upper and back part of the septum. They are very minute, and it is very questionable if the dissector will be able to discover any trace of them. The septal branch of the fiasal nerve proper will be found descending over the fore part of the nasal septum. It runs between the mucous membrane and the septal cartilage, and its terminal twigs may be traced as far as the vestibule. The arteries which convey blood to the septum nasi are : (i) the naso-palatine, which accompanies the nerve of the same name; (2) a branch of the anterior ethmoidal accom- panying the septal branch of the nasal nerve; (3) some minute twigs to the upper part of the septum from the posterior ethmoidal artery; (4) the septal branch of the superior coronary artery, which is distributed upon the columna nasi. Dissection.—The mucous membrane of the septum may now be divided by the scissors along the roof of the nasal cavity. Before doing this, disengage from its surface the naso-palatine nerve and the septal branch of the nasal nerve proper, in order that they may be afterwards traced to their origins. When the layer of mucous membrane thus detached from the roof of the nose is thrown inwards the nasal fossa is exposed.