HEAD AND NECK. 432 middle meatus of the nose. It is slightly hollowed out and concave, and on its upper part, near the nasal bone, a feeble elevation may sometimes be noticed, which begins close to the fore part of the attached margin of the middle turbinated bone, and proceeds obliquely downwards and forwards (Fig. 261, 9). This has been termed by Schwalbe, the "rudiment of the anterior turbinal," and he considers that it is the representative of the naso-turbinal which is present in some mammals. Turbinated Bones.—Behind the vestibule and the atrium are the turbinated bones with the intervening meatuses. The superior turbinated bone (Fig. 261, 12), which projects from the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone, is very short, and is placed on the upper and back part of the outer wall of the fossa. Its free border begins a short distance below the centre of the cribriform plate, and proceeds obliquely down- wards and backwards to a point immediately below the body of the sphenoid, where it ends. The middle turbinated bone (Fig. 261, 13) is also a part of the ethmoid. Its free border begins a short distance below the fore part of the cribriform plate, and at first takes a vertical course downwards {a to b); then, bending suddenly, it proceeds backwards, and ends midway between the body of the sphenoid and the posterior border of the hard palate {c). The inferior turbinated bone (Fig. 261, 15) is an independent bone, and stretches back- wards upon the outer wall of the nasal fossa, midway between the middle turbinated bone and the floor of the nose. Its lower free margin is somewhat convex from before back- wards. Meatuses of the Nose.—The superior meatus (Fig. 261, 13) is a short narrow fissure between the superior and middle turbinated bones. The posterior ethmoidal cells open into its upper and fore part by one, or, in some cases, by several apertures. To bring these orifices into view, the superior spongy bone should be turned aside by introducing the blade of a pair of forceps under its entire