THE BRAIN. 482 rounded margins of adjacent convolutions, distinct angular spaces exist between the arachnoidea and the pia mater. In these the subarachnoid tissue can be studied, and it will be seen that by these intervals on the surface of the cerebrum, numerous communicating channels are formed which serve for the free passage of the subarachnoid fluid from one part of the brain to another. The larger branches of the arteries and veins of the brain traverse the sub- arachnoid space; their walls are directly connected with the subarachnoid trabeculas, and are bathed by the subarachnoid fluid. Oisternse Subarachnoidales. — In certain situations the arachnoidea is separated from the pia mater by intervals of considerable depth and extent. These expansions of the subarachnoid space are termed cisternEe subarachnoidales. In these the subarachnoid tissue is reduced to a minimum. There is no longer a close meshwork; the trabeculae con- necting the two bounding membranes take the form of long filamentous intersecting threads, which traverse the spaces. A beautiful demonstration of these may be obtained by dividing in the mesial plane, with the scissors, the sheet of arachnoidea which is spread over the medulla and pons, and turning the two pieces gently outwards. Certain of the cisternte require special mention. The largest and most conspicuous is called the cisteriia magna. It is a direct continua- tion of the posterior part of the subarachnoid space of the spinal cord upwards into the hinder part of the cranium. It is formed by the arachnoid membrane bridging over the wide interval between the back part of the under surface of the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata. The cisteriiapontis is the name given to another of these recesses. It is the continuation upwards on the floor of the cranium of the anterior part of the subarachnoid space of the cord. In the region of the medulla it is continuous on either side with the cisterna magna, so that this subdivision of the brain is completely suiTOunded by a wide sub- arachnoid space. In front of the pons Varolii the arachnoid membrane bridges across between the projecting temporal lobes, and covers in the deep hollow in in this region of the base of the brain. This space is called the cistei-im