331 SUBMAXILLARY REGION. from the tip backwards throughout the whole length of the organ; below the tongue, a few fibres reach the side of the pharynx, whilst the remainder are inserted into the body of the hyoid bone. As we have already noted, the genio-hyo- glossus is supplied by twigs from the hypoglossal nerve. Lingual Artery (arteria lingualis).—As the lingual artery is now fully exposed it can be conveniently studied at this stage. It springs from the fore part of the external carotid, and it is customary to describe it in three parts—viz. (i) a part extending from its origin to the posterior border of the hyo-glossus muscle; (2) a part lying in relation to the upper border of the hyoid bone ; (3) a portion ascending under cover of the anterior border of the hyo-glossus muscle to the under surface of the tongue, where it ends in a terminal branch called the ranine artery (Fig. 237). The first part has been fully examined in a previous dis- section. It lies in the carotid triangle of the neck, and is therefore comparatively superficial. It is crossed by the hypo- glossal nerve, the tendon of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid muscle. The second part proceeds forwards along the upper border of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and is covered by the hyo-glossus muscle which intervenes between it and the hypoglossal nerve. The nerve, however, is placed at a slightly higher level. The deep or internal relations of the artery in this stage of its course are the middle constrictor of the pharynx and the genio-hyo-glossus. The third part ascends almost vertically upon the genio-hyo-glossus. It is overlapped by the anterior border of the hyo-glossus, and ends when it reaches the under surface of the tongue by turning forwards into its terminal or ranine branch. The branches of the lingual artery are :— 1. Hyoid from the first part (p. 256). 2. Dorsalis lingute from the second pari. 3. .Sublingual from the third part. 4. The ranine or terminal branch. The dorsalis linguce is generally represented by two or