CONSTRUCTION OF THE NASAL SEPTUM. 425 By this proceeding the intimate connection which exists between the mucous membrane and the subjacent peri- osteum and perichondrium will become apparent, and the parts forming the septum will be rendered visible. The bulk of the partition is composed of the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid and the vomer posteriorly, and of the septal cartilage in front. Small portions of other bones take a minor part in its construction. Thus, above and behind there are the crest and rostrum of the sphenoid; above and in front is the nasal spine of the frontal bone; whilst below there is the crest of bone formed by the apposition of the palatal processes of the palate and superior maxillary bones of opposite sides. The septal cartilage fills up the wide angular gap which intervenes between the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid and the vomer, and it projects forwards towards the point of the nose. It is a broad irregularly quadrilateral carti- laginous plate. Its upper and posterior border is in apposi- tion with the fore border of the mes-ethmoid ; its loiver and posterior border, much thickened, is received into the groove in the fore border of the vomer and the incisor crest of the maxillary bones. The angle between these two borders is prolonged backwards for a varying distance in the form of a tongue-shaped cartilaginous process, which occupies the interval between the two plates of the vomer. The upper and anterior border of the septal cartilage is in contact above with the suture between the two nasal bones; below this it is related to the two lateral cartilages of the nose, whilst still lower down it is seen in the interval between the two cartilages of the nasal aperture. Its connection with the lateral cartilage of each side is a very intimate one, indeed, below the nasal bones the three cartilages may be considered to be directly continuous, but lower down they are separated by a fissure which runs upwards for some distance on each side. The lower and anterior border is very short; it is free, and extends backwards to the anterior