HEAD AND NECK. 272 The palpebralportioti is the part which lies upon the eyelids. It is thin and pale, and its fibres arise from the margins of the internal tarsal ligament. From these they sweep outwards upon the two lids, describing a series of gentle curves, and at the outer canthus, they obtain attachment to the external tarsal ligament. They form a continuous layer of uniform thickness in both eyelids, except at their free margins. Here, close to the bases of the eyelashes, there is a more pronounced fasciculus, which is termed the ciliary muscle. The orbital portion is placed upon the margin of the orbital opening ; but it is not confined to this. It extends for some distance beyond it, upwards on the forehead, downwards on the cheek, and outwards so as to encroach upon the temporal region. The fasciculi which compose this part of the muscle are of a darker and coarser type. They all arise internally and sweep outwards around the orbital margin in the form of a series of concentric loops. The origin is a triple one—viz., (i) from the inner part of the internal tarsal ligament, (2) from the internal angular process of the frontal bone, and (3) from the ascending process of the superior maxillary bone. Above and to the inner side, the fasciculi of the orbicularis muscle are closely connected, and to a certain extent inter- laced with the fasciculi of the frontal part of the occipito- frontalis, the corrugator supercilii and the pyramidalis nasi, whilst from its lower margin a few delicate fleshy bands are carried downwards through the soft fat to gain insertion into the skin of the cheek. Corrugator Supercilii.—^This is a minute but very distinct band of dark coloured muscular fibres which can be ex- posed by raising the upper and inner part of the orbicularis with the frontalis muscle which is connected with it, from the superciliary ridge. The corrugator supercilii will then be seen arising from the inner extremity of this ridge. Its fibres pass upwards and outwards, and the greater propor-