533 THE CEREBRUM. a sufficient amount of this to give a complete view of the interior of this part of the cavity. Greater difficulty will be experienced in opening up the descending horn. Place the point of the knife in the upper part of the horn where it joins the body of the ventricle, and carry the blade in a downward and forward direction through the outer part of the tem- Upral lobe towards the temporal pole, following the course of the cavity. This corresponds very nearly with the course of the parallel fissure. The outer wall of the descending horn is thus incised, and a sufficient amount of the outer part of the temporal lobe must be removed to give a view of the cavity. In doing this, the temporal operculum will be taken away, but the surface of the insula should be preserved from injury. Lateral Ventricle.—The dissector will now perceive that each cerebral hemisphere is hollow. The cavity in the interior is called the lateral ventricle, and is lined by a thin layer of dark coloured material, which is termed the ependyma. In health the walls of the cavity are in most localities more or less closely applied to each other, and within the space there is only a small amount of cerebro- spinal fluid. The lateral ventricle communicates with the third ventricle of the brain by means of a small foramen, just large enough to admit a crow-quill, which is termed the forainen of Mo?iro. This aperture is placed in front of the fore end of the optic thalamus, and behind the anterior pillar of the fornix. The shape of the lateral ventricle is very irregular, and can be best understood by the study of a plaster cast of its interior (Fig. 293). It is divided into a body and three horns, viz., an anterior, a posterior, and a descending horn. The descrip- tion of an anterior horn is highly artificial. The anterior horn is that part of the cavity which lies in front of the foramen of Monro. The body is the portion of the ventricle which extends from the foramen of Monro to the splenium of the corpus callosum. At this point the posterior and descending horns diverge from the hinder end of the body. The posterior horn curves backwards and inwards into the occipital lobe. It is very variable in its length and capacity.