THORAX. 8 anterior intercostal arteries are two in number for each space. At their origin they lie under cover of the internal intercostal muscles, and they run outwards in relation to the upper and lower margins of the ribs bounding each space. After a short course they pierce the internal intercostal muscles, and end by anastomosing with the aortic and superior intercostal arteries. Dissection.—The dissector should next proceed to remove the inter- costal muscles. This dissection must be carried out with more than usual care, because immediately subjacent to the internal intercostal muscles, over the greater extent of the chest wall, is the delicate pleural membrane lining the inner surface of the costal arches. Upon no account detach this membrane from the deep surface of the ribs, and take the greatest care to preserve it intact during the dissection. On the front of the chest, the inter7ial mammary artery and the ti'iangularis sterni muscle will be seen to intervene between the pleura and the costal cartilages. The internal mammary artery, with its two companion veins, will be seen descending in a vertical direction, about half-an-inch from the outer margin of the sternum. Clean these vessels carefully in the intervals between the costal cartilages, and note some small lymphatic glands which lie along the course of the vessels. As a rule, the artery ends by dividing into two terminal branches in the interval between the sixth and seventh rib cartilages. Most likely this space will be so narrow that a view of the bifurcation cannot be obtained. If this be the case pare away the edges of the cartilages over the arteiy, or if necessary remove the inner part of the sixth cartilage completely. The perforating branches of the internal mammary artery which accompany the anterior cutaneous nerves should be preserved. The muscle upon which the internal mammary artery lies is the triangularis sterni. Endeavour to define its slips in the intervals between the costal cartilages. Towards the lower margin of the thorax the pleural sac is not pro- longed downwards to the lowest limit of the recess between the diaphragm and the costal arches. Indeed, in the axillary line, it will be found to fall considerably short of this. Consequently, when the internal intercostal muscles are removed from this portion of the chest wall, the dissector will come down directly upon the diaphragm ; and, as the fibres of the diaphragm correspond somewhat in their direction with those of the internal intercostal muscles, it is no uncommon occurrence for the student to remove them, and thus expose the peritoneum, under the impression that he has simply laid bare the pleura. When the dissection