143 DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. of the upper limb to trace the further course of these branches of the transversalis colli artery. Dissection.—The posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and the supra-scapular artery and nerve can now be displayed by dissecting towards the upper margin of the scapula. This dissection must be effected in conjunction with the dissector of the upper limb, and it is well not to expose these structures at the 'present stage for more than an inch from the upper border of the scapula. The Posterior Belly of the Omo-hyoid Muscle is a slender muscular band which arises from the upper border of the scapula, immediately behind the supra-scapular notch. It also derives fibres from the ligament which bridges across this notch. The further connections of the omo-hyoid will be studied in the dissection of the triangles of the neck after the body has been turned. The Supra-scapular Artery and Nerve.—The supra- scapular artery will be noticed to enter the supra-spinous fossa of the scapula, by passing over the supra-scapular ligament. The supra-scaptilar nerve, on the other hand, is carried into the fossa under cover of the ligament. The second day's work is now completed, and on the same day the dissector of the upper limb must finish his share of the dissection of the back, so as to allow the dissector of the head and neck to begin the examination of the deeper structures on the dorsal aspect of the trunk. Two days are allowed for this dissection, and these may be disposed of in the following manner :—On the first day, all the muscles, fasciee, nerves, and blood vessels of the back, with the exception of those in connection with the sub-occipital triangle, should be studied ; on the second day, the sub-occipital space must be examined, and the spinal cord displayed. Should the dissector find that the work is greater than he can undertake in the allotted time, the sub-occipital space may be left over until the head and neck is removed from the trunk. Serrati Muscles.—These are two thin sheets of fleshy fibres, which are placed upon the posterior aspect of the thoracic wall. The serratus posticus superior (serratus posterior superior) is much the smaller of the two; it arises by a thin aponeurotic tendon —(i) from the lower part of the ligamentum nuch£e ; (2) from the spinous process of the