HEAD AND NECK. anterior margin of the trapezius muscle ; below, are the upper margin of the manubrium sterni and the prominent clavicle; above, the base of the lower jaw, the mastoid process and the occiput. Surface Anatomy.—Certain important landmarks must be recognised before the skin is reflected from the side of the neck. The sterno-mastoid muscle, pursuing a diagonal course through the space from its antero-inferior to its postero-superior angle, is, perhaps, the most essential of these. By drawing the head well over to the opposite side, it will be rendered evident. The region in front of the sterno-mastoid corresponds to the anterior triangle of the neck; that behind it constitutes the posterior triangle. Above the notch of the manubrium sterni, and between the tendons of the two sterno-mastoid muscles, the deep supra- sternal fossa will be noted. Subjacent to this fossa lies the trachea, but it is only in emaciated individuals that the rings of this tube can be felt from the surface. In its upper part the trachea is always obscured by the isthmus of the thyroid body which crosses it. The dissector should now run his finger upwards in the middle line of the neck. Beyond the trachea the ring-like cricoid cartilage will be felt. This is a highly important landmark. With it as his guide, the surgeon is able to mark out the points at which the trachea or larynx may be opened, and also the level at which the common carotid artery is most favourably placed for the application of a ligature. Above the cricoid cartilage the finger enters the narrow interval between the cricoid and thyroid cartilages—a gap which is occupied by the tense crico-thyroid membrane. In this interval the operation of laryngotomy may be performed. Next comes the thyroid cartilage with its prominent pomu7n Adami. Beyond the thyroid cartilage is an interval occu- pied by the thyro-hyoid membrane, and bounded above by the hyoid bone. The body and cornua of the hyoid can be plainly felt from the surface. In the usual attitude of the