149 DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. outwards with the handle of the knife, and clean its slips of insertion. The nerves must at the same time, be care- fully preserved. The ilio-costalis will now be observed to end in six or seven tendinous slips, which are inserted into the angles of the six or seven lower ribs. But wherever the ilio-costalis drops one of these slips, another tendinous slip takes origin from the upper border of the same rib. In this way a second muscle is formed, which continues the outer column of the erector spin'ae upwards. This muscle is called the musculus accessorius. The Musculus Accessorius (ilio-costalis dorsi), therefore, arises close to the inner side of the ilio-costalis by six tendin- ous slips from the upper borders of the six lower ribs. It terminates in tendons which are inserted into the angles of the upper six ribs, and also into the transverse process of the lowest cervical vertebra. Cervicalis Ascendens (ilio-costalis cervicis).—This muscle may be looked upon as the continuation of the outer column upwards into the neck. It arises close to the inner side of the accessorius by four slips from the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs, and is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. Longissimus Dorsi.—The longissimus dorsi is the largest of the three divisions into which the erector spinfe splits, and it extends upwards as high as the first dorsal vertebra. It is inserted by two distinct rows of tendinous and fleshy slips. The inner row consists of a series of tendons attached in the dorsal region to the tips of the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrae, and in the loin to the accessory processes of the lumbar vertebrae ; the otiter row is composed of fleshy slips, which are inserted in the dorsal region into the lower ten ribs, midway between their tubercles and angles, and in the loin to the transverse pro- cesses of the lumbar vertebrae and to the middle layer of the