9 THE TRIGEMINAL OR FIFTH CRANIAL NERVE. 355 under the anterior extremity of the tentorium. Now that the dura mater has been raised from the lateral part of the middle cranial fossa, the further relations of these nerve- roots within the cranium may be studied. It will be noticed that the loosely connected and parallel funiculi of the large sensory root at once begin to divide and join with each other so as to form a dense plexiform arrangement, whilst, at the same time, the nerve-root increases somewhat in breadth. The interlacement thus brought about occupies the smooth depression which marks the anterior aspect of the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and it sinks into the Gasserian ganglion. The Gasserian ganglion is somewhat crescentic in form, and lies upon the sutural junction between the apex of the petrous bone and the great wing of the sphenoid bone. Here it is enclosed within a recess or space formed by a separation of the two layers of the dura mater, and called the cavum Meckelii. The concavity of the ganglion is directed inwards, and it is upon this aspect that it receives the interlacing fibres of the sensory root of the trigeminal nerve; the convexity of the ganglion is directed outwards, and from it emerge the three main divisions of the trigeminal nerve. These are, from before backwards—(i) the first, or ophthalmic division ; (2) the second, or superior maxillary division; and (3) the third, or inferior maxillary division. The outer surface of the Gasserian ganglion has already been observed to be closely attached to the deep surface of the supporting or inner layer of the dura mater. By its inner part it is connected with the sympathetic by some fine filaments which come from the carotid plexus. The motor root of the fifth nerve should now be followed. Before the nerve pierces the dura mater the motor root lies along the inner side of the large sensory root, but it soon changes its position and comes to lie upon the under surface of the sensory part. To display this relationship, draw the cut ends of the two roots through the aperture