138 I/£An AND NECK. head must be held well over to the opposite side. Here, unless the dissector keep close to the skin, there is a danger of the knife slipping in under the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Superficial Nerves.—-The nerves to be looked for in the superficial fascia, which is now exposed, are derived partly from the posterior primary divisions, and partly from the anterior primary divisions of the cervical nerves. They are :— From anterior C i. Small occipital, primary divisions. I 2. Great auricular. Dissection.—The main trunk of the great occipital nerve may be found piercing the trapezius about an inch below the occipital protuberance, and about half-an-inch external to the mesial plane. The fascia at this spot is usually very dense, and the readiest method to adopt in exposing the nerve is to carefully shave it off in slices until the plane of the muscle is reached. T\iQ great occipital—Fig. 197 (8)—is the internal branch of the posterior primary division of the second cervical nerve, and its branches of distribution have already been noticed, spreading out on the back of the scalp (p. 109). As it becomes superficial, it joins the occipital artery, and both are directed upwards to supply the scalp. The terminal twigs of the interjial branches of the posterior divisions of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves enter the superficial fascia close to the mesial plane, and then turn transversely outwards to supply the skin of the neck. The third cervical bratich sends in addition a large twig upwards to the integument over the occiput.' This nerve runs along the inner side of the great occipital, and, as a rule, communicates with it. From its distribution, it is frequently termed the third occipital nerve. Dissection.—The small occipital nerve will be founds by- dividing the fascia along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. 1. Great occipital. 2. Terminal twigs of the internal branches of the third, fourth, and fifth nerves.