38 THORAX. the upper part of the right auricle of the heart at the level of the upper border of the third costal cartilage of the right side. It is three inches long, and shows very different relations in its upper and lower parts. In the icpper half of its course it lies in the superior mediastinum (Fig. 176, p. 65). On the right side it is clothed by the mediastinal pleura, and has the phrenic nerve in contact with it; on the left side it is in relation to the innominate artery. In the lower half oi its course it is enclosed within the fibrous pericardium, and is placed in the middle mediastinum. The serous pericar- dium covers it in front and laterally, whilst immediately to its left side is the ascending aorta. This portion of the superior vena cava lies in front of the pulmonary artery and the upper pulmonary vein of the right side (Fig. 177, p. 67). The vetta azygos major is the only large tributary which joins the superior vena cava. It comes forwards above the right bronchus, and enters the vena cava immediately above the point where it pierces the pericardium. Minute peri- cardiac and mediastinal veins also pour their blood into it. The Inferior Vena Cava is a larger vessel than the superior vein of the same name. It enters the thorax by piercing the central tendon of the diaphragm. It can hardly be said to have any course within the thorax, seeing that it immediately passes through the base of the pericardium, and opens into the lower and back part of the right auricle of the heart. The Heart and its Vessels.—The heart is a hollow organ with muscular walls, somewhat conical in shape, and about the size of the clenched fist. It is placed obliquely within the middle mediastinum, so that its basal portion (basis cordis) is directed upwards, backwards, and to the right, whilst its pointed apex looks downwards, forwards, and to the left. But it is also placed unsymmetrically within the chest cavity. In other words, it projects more to the left than to the right, and in cases where the frozen body is divided accurately in the mesial plane, it is found that about