THORACIC CAVITY. 17 At the level of the pulmonary root, the pleura is carried outwards, so as not only to envelope this, but also the entire lung. The smooth glistening surface of the organ is due to the pleural investment which it thus acquires. This, then, is the visceral pleura, and it should be noticed that it is very much finer and thinner than the parietal pleura. Further, it is inseparably attached to the pulmonary substance. Behind the root of the lung the pleura is pro- longed backwards upon the pericardium, and on the left side over the descending thoracic aorta to the bodies of the vertebrae. On the right side it passes directly from the pericardium to the bodies of the vertebrae. This can be seen by tilting forwards the thick posterior border of the lung. From the vertebrte, the pleura passes outwards upon the deep surfaces of the ribs. Below the level of the root of the lung, the pleura can be traced backwards upon the pericardium to the spine, from which it is conducted outwards upon the ribs. But it does not pass backwards uninterruptedly. The same two layers which envelop the pulmonary root are prolonged outwards from the pericardium in apposition with each other. Meeting the inner surface of the lung, they separate to enclose the lower portion of this organ. The fold of pleura which is thus formed is called the ligainentu7n latum piibiionis, and it can be brought into view by enlarging the opening in the pleural sac, and drawing the basal portion of the lung outwards and backwards. It will then be seen in the form of a triangular fold of pleural membrane, which extends from the lower border of the pulmonary root along the inner surface of the lung to the diaphragm. The dis.sector has now traced the continuity of the pleural sac in the transverse direction. He has observed that it lines the deep surface of the costal arches, and is reflected backwards in the form of an intra-thoracic partition from the back of the sternum to the spine. This partition is called the mediastinal pleura, and it is uninterrupted, except where VOL. II.—2