367 NASAL NERVE. will lead the dissector to the lenticular or ophthalmic ganglion. This is a minute body which is situated upon the outer side of the optic nerve far back in the orbit. With a little patience and care the roots which the nasal nerve and inferior division of the oculomotor or third nerve give to this ganglion can be isolated, and perhaps even the s)anpathetic root from the cavernous plexus may be found. Optic Nerve.—The optic nerve enters the orbit through the optic foramen. It carries with it a strong loose sheath of dura mater, and also a more delicate investment from the arachnoid. The ophthalmic artery which accompanies it lies in relation to its outer and lower aspect. Within the orbit the nerve inclines forwards and outwards, and at the same time somewhat downwards, and, gaining the back of the eyeball, it pierces the sclerotic coat a short distance to the inner side of its centre. As the dissector has already observed, its upper surface is crossed by the ophthalmic artery and vein and the nasal nerve, and it is closely accom- panied by the delicate ciliary nerves and vessels. The distance which the optic nerve has to run from the optic foramen to the globe of the eye is about one inch. Within the eyeball, it spreads out in the retina. Nasal Nerve (nervus naso-ciliaris).—The nasal nerve arises in the fore part of the cavernous sinus from the ophthalmic division of the trigeminal. It passes through the sphenoidal fissure and enters the orbital cavity between the two heads of the external rectus muscle, and between the two divisions of the third nerve. It now inclines forwards and inwards, and, crossing the optic nerve obliquely, it runs between the internal rectus and superior oblique muscles. Here it reaches the inner wall of the orbit, and ends by dividing into two terminal branches—viz., the infra-trochlear and the nasal proper. In addition to these it gives off in the orbit the following branches :— 1. Long root to the lenticular ganglion. 2. Long ciliary nerves. The long ganglionic root is a very slender filament which springs from the nasal as it enters the orbit between the