514 THE BRAIN. mesial border which receives the name of gyrus rectus (Fig. 285). The orbital sulcus (tri-radiate sulcus of Turner) is a com- pound furrow which assumes many different forms. Most frequently it takes the shape of the letter |-|, and we then recognise three component parts—viz., an external limb, an internal limb, and a transverse limb. The external limb (sulcus orbitalis externus) curves round the orbital part of the inferior frontal gyrus, so as to limit it internally (Fig. 285, e). The internal limb (sulcus orbitalis internus) marks off a convolution between itself and the olfactory sulcus which receives the name of gyrus orbitalis ititermis (Fig. 285, I). The transverse limb or sulcus orbitalis transversus (Fig. 285, tr) takes a curved course with the concavity directed backwards. It divides the district between the external and internal limbs into an anterior part, ox gyrus orbitalis anterior 285, M), and a posterior part, or gyrus orbitalis posterior (Fig. 285, P). The latter corresponds with the greater part of the orbital operculum. Boundaries of the Parietal Lobe.—The parietal lobe forms a considerable part of the external face of the cerebral hemisphere, and it also appears on the mesial face in the form of the prsecuneus or quadrate lobule. In front, it is bounded by the fissure of Rolando, which separates it from the frontal lobe. Below, it is bounded in its fore part by the posterior horizontal limb of the Sylvian fissure. Behind the upturned end of this fissure it is quite continuous inferiorly with the temporal lobe, and an arbitrary Hne drawn backwards on the surface of the brain in continuation of the horizontal part of the posterior limb of the fissure of Sylvius is taken as its inferior limit (Fig. 283). Posteriorly, it is separated from the occipital lobe at the supero-mesial border of the hemisphere by the external parieto-occipital fissure. Below this it is more or less directly continuous with the occipital lobe, and an arbitrary line drawn across the outer surface of the hemisphere from the extremity of