279 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. lip. The fibres which come from these sources form the superficial peripheral part of the orbicularis. In addition to the fibres derived from these three muscles, the orbicularis oris receives certain slips which present special attachments. Two are provided for each side of the upper lip, viz., (i) the naso-labial band (;//. tiaso-labialis), and (2) the superior incisive band {vi. incisivus superior); and one, the inferior incisive band {ni. incisivics hiferior), is given to each side of the lower lip. The naso-labial band is a rounded bundle which arises from the lower border of the nasal septum, and turns outwards into the orbicularis oris. The superior i?icisive bundle takes origin from the incisor fossa of the superior maxilla, and turns outwards in the orbi- cularis ; whilst the inferior incisive bimdle arises from the corresponding fossa of the mandible, and presents similar connections in the lower lip. The incisive slips can be easily exposed by everting the lips, and removing the mucous membrane from the neighbourhood of these fosste. By this dissection two other small muscles will be displayed : (i) the depressor alte nasi to the inner side of the superior incisive slip ; and (2) the levator menti to the inner side of the inferior incisive slip. The concentric arrangement of the fibres of the orbicularis oris is well seen when the mucous membrane is removed from the deep surface of the lips. Numerous labial glands which lie between the muscle and the mucous membrane are displayed by the same proceeding. Levator Menti.—To expose this small muscle the lower lip must be everted, and the mucous membrane removed at the side of the frsenum of the lower lip. It is a short, well- marked fleshy band, which springs from the incisor fossa of the lower jaw, and proceeds downwards and slightly forward, to be inserted into the skin of the chin between the two depressor muscles of the lower lip (Fig. 224). Nasal Group of Muscles.—Under this head are com- prised :— 1. Compressor naris. 3. Pyramidalis nasi. 2. Levator labii superioris 4. Depressor aire nasi. alxque nasi (already 5. Dilatator naris posterior, examined). 6. Dilatator iiavis anterior.