THE BRAIN. 588 body. Their connections are somewhat obscure, but the majority of the fibres are believed to pass on to the flocculus. The stri^ acusticce divide each lateral half of the ventricular floor into an upper and a lower portion, which very nearly correspond to the subdivisions of this area formed by the medulla and the pons. On the lower medullary district a small triangular depression, placed immediately below the strise acusticae, catches the eye. This is termed the fovea inferior. It is shaped somewhat like an arrow-head. The apex or point looks towards the striae, whilst the lateral angles of the base are prolonged downwards in the form of diverging grooves. Of these, the inner groove runs towards the opening of the central canal at the calamus scriptorius, whilst the outer groove runs towards the lateral boundary of the floor. In this manner the portion of the floor which lies below the strife acusticse is mapped out into three triangular areas. The mesial subdivision is slightly elevated, and is termed the trigofiu/n hypoglossi, because subjacent to this area is the nucleus of origin of the hypoglossal nerve. The intermediate area between the diverging grooves which proceed from the base of the fovea inferior is the trigonitm vagi, so called because the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nuclei lie subjacent to it. The external area is the trigonum acustici. The base of this area is directed upwards and runs con- tinuously into an eminence, the acoustic tubercle, over which the striae acusticse pass. Subjacent to this region of the floor of the ventricle the principal part of the auditory nerve takes origin. On the part of the floor of the ventricle which lies above the strise acusticse, and which corresponds to the dorsal surface of the pons, there is also a slight depression. This is termed the fovea superior. Between it and the median groove there is a marked prominence, termed the etnincntia teres. Inferiorly, this elevation passes downwards and be- comes continuous with the trigonum hypoglossi, whilst above it is carried upwards towards the opening of the