412 HEAD AND NECK. Soft Palate.—The soft palate is a movable curtain, which intervenes between the buccal cavity and the pharynx. During deglutition, however, it is raised so as to shut off the upper nasal part of the pharynx from the portion below, and at the same time open up the isthmus faucium. In front it is attached to the posterior margin of the hard palate; laterally, it is connected with the sides of the pharynx ; whilst posteriorly it presents a free border. From the centre of this free margin the conical elevation termed the uvula projects. The upper surface of the soft palate is convex and continuous with the floor of the nasal fossae ; the inferior surface is concave and continuous with the vaulted roof of the mouth. Upon the latter surface may be seen a slightly marked mesial ridge or raphe. The soft palate is composed of a fold of mucous mem- brane, between the two layers of which are interposed muscular, aponeurotic, and glandular structures, together with blood vessels and nerves. rThe two levatores palati. I The two tensores palati. Palatal muscles, . - The two palato-glossi. The two palato-pharyngei. '^The azygos uvute. Palatal aponeurosis. Palatal glands. -Ascending palatine from facial. ^ ^ . j Palatine branch from ascending pharyngeal. ' '1 Twigs from the descending palatine branch of the I internal maxillary. Nerves /Small or posterior palatine, f from the spheno-pala- erve , . External palatine, . .\ line ganglion. Dissection.—The dissection of the soft palate is difficult, and it is only in a fresh part that the precise relations of the different muscular layers can be made out. Begin by rendering it tense by means of a hook, and then remove carefully the mucous membrane from its upper and lower surfaces, and also from the anterior and posterior pillars of the fauces. The latter proceeding will expose the palato-glossus and the palato- pharyngeus muscles on each side. The palaline glands will be cliiefly found on the upper surface of the soft palate, and around the uvula.