MUCOUS MEMBRANE OF OUTER WALL OF NOSE. 435 Other times the mucous membrane is prolonged inwards beyond the bony opening, so as to reduce the size of the aperture and even give it a slit-like character. In some cases indeed the orifice may be so minute that it is a difficult matter to find it. Its continuity with the lachrymal sac should in all cases be established by passing a probe from above downwards through the nasal duct. A fourth meatus is generally present on the outer wall of the nose. It is not at all uncommon to find the superior turbinated bone partially subdivided into an upper and lower part by a short fissure, which proceeds forwards from the anterior aspect of the body of the sphenoid. This additional meatus is termed the recessus spheno-ethmoidalis (Meyer), and into its back part opens the aperture of the sphenoidal air sinus (Fig. 261, 11). This orifice may be circular or slit-like, according to the manner in which the mucous membrane is disposed around it.^ The upper portion of the superior turbinated bone which is placed above this additional meatus is called the concha suprema (Fig. 261, 10). Mucous Membrane of the outer Wall of the Nose.—The vestibule, as we have noted, is lined by integument. The remainder of the outer wall, as well as the roof and floor of the nasal fossa, is lined by mucous membrane, which is continuous through the nasal duct with the ocular con- junctiva, through the various apertures with the delicate lining membrane of the air-cells which open into the nose, and through the posterior nares with the pharyngeal mucous membrane. On the outer wall, as on the septum, the mucous membrane is mapped out into an upper olfactory and a lower respiratory portion. This subdivision cannot be appreciated by the naked eye, as the one district passes ' without any sharp line of demarcation into the other. The ' When the recessus spheno-ethmoidalis is absent, the sphenoidal air sinus opens into the interval between the roof of the nasal fossa and the superior turbinated bone.