PALATINE NERVES. 441 The great or anterior palatine nerve as it emerges from the posterior palatine foramen turns forwards, and divides into branches, which lie in grooves on the under aspect of the hard palate. It supplies the gum, the mucous membrane, and glands of the vault of the mouth, and in the neighbourhood of the anterior palatine foramen it effects a communication with the naso-palatine nerve. During its passage through the posterior palatine canal this nerve has already been observed to supply two inferior nasal branches (p. 437). In tracing the great palatine nerve forwards in the palate, the dissector should note the numerous glands which are placed under the mucous membrane of the vault of the mouth, and the manner in which these indent the bone.^ Dissection.—Very considerable difficulty will be experienced in ex- posing the pharyngeal and Vidian nei-ves. They proceed backwards from the posterior part of the ganglion in canals which are very inaccessible. To open up the pterygo-palatine canal the sphenoidal process of the palate bone must be cautiously removed by the bone-forceps, and then the dissector should proceed to open up the Vidian canal, which traverses the root of the pterygoid process. As the bone is very hard and brittle at this point, the dissection must be effected very carefully. The pharyngeal nerve occupies the pterygo-palatine canal, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the upper part of the pharynx. The Vidian nerve has previously been seen to be formed by a junction between the great stiperficialpetrosal hra7ich of the facial and the great deep petrosal branch of the carotid plexus (p. 359). It traverses the Vidian canal, and joins the posterior aspect of the ganglion, of which it may be considered to represent both the motor and sympathetic root. In the canal it is invested by a strong fibrous envelope, and ' An equally good method of tracing the posterior palatine nerve forwards is to remove the palatal processes of the palate and superior maxillary bones with the bone-plicrs, and then to display the nerve and artery on the upper surface of the mucous membrane and glands.