CHAMBERS OF THE EYEBALL. 629 glassy, elastic capsule, to which the different parts of the suspensory ligament are firmly cemented, and it presents for study an anterior surface, a posterior surface, and a circum- ference or equator. The anterior surface is not so highly curved as the posterior surface. Its central part which corresponds with the pupillary aperture of the iris looks forward into the anterior chamber of the eye. Around this part the margin of the pupillary orifice of the iris is in contact with the lens, whilst nearer the equator the anterior surface of the lens is separated from the iris by the fluid in the posterior chamber of the eyeball. The posterior surface of the lens presents a higher degree of curvature than the anterior surface, and is received into the fossa patellaris of the vitreous body. The equator or circumference is rounded. It forms one of the boundaries of the canal of Petit, and the manner in which the suspensory ligament is attached to the capsule in this vicinity has already been described. Faint radiating lines may be seen on both surfaces of the lens. These give a clue to the structure of the lens. They indicate the planes along which the extremities of the lens- fibres come into apposition with each other. The capsule of the lens is a resistant glassy membrane, which is considerably thicker in front than behind. The anterior wall of the capsule may now be divided with a sharp knife. A little pressure will cause the body of the lens to escape through the opening. The stained capsule, whilst floating in water, can be very advantageously studied. If the lens body be compressed between the finger and thumb, it will be observed that the outer portion or cortical part is soft, whilst the central part or micletis is distinctly firmer. When the lens is hardened in alcohol it can easily be proved that it is composed of numerous concentrically arranged lamince. Chambers of the Eyeball.—The anterior chamber of the eyeball is the space between the cornea in front, and the iris and central part of the lens behind. At the irido- corneal angle, it is bounded by the ligamentum pectinatum,