DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. should hang over the end of the table, and be pressed as far forwards as possible whilst the saw is worked from below upwards ; (4) in the case of the lumbar region, where, indeed, most difficulty will be met, a high block must be placed under the abdomen of the subject, whilst the blocks supporting the chest and pelvis are removed. It will probably be necessary at this point to have recourse to the hammer and chisel. The lamina; and spinous processes which are thus removed are con- nected with each other by the ligamenta subflava and the supraspinous and interspinous ligaments. They should, therefore, be laid aside for the present. A description of these ligaments will be found farther on. When the specimen is fresh, however, the dissector should note the high elasticity of the ligamenta subflava. This can be tested by stretch- ing the specimen. Between the dura mater and the walls of the spinal canal, the dis- sector will notice a quantity of loose areolar tissue and soft fat. The Jatter is especially plentiful in the sacral region, where it resembles Somewhat the marrow which occupies the medullary cavity of a long bone. In the midst of this areolo-fatty material, great numbers of large veins and minute-arteries are found ramifying upon the walls of the canal. Spinal Arteries.—A minute spinal artery in a well- injected subject will be seen entering the spinal canal through each intervertebral foramen. These arteries are derived from different sources in the different regions of the spine. In the cervical region they come from the vertebral artery; in the dorsal region from the dorsal branches of the intercostal arteries ; in the lumbar region from the dorsal branches of the lumbar arteries. They supply with blood the spinal cord and its meninges, the bones, the periosteum, and the ligaments ; and their arrangement is very much the same in the three regions. Each spinal artery may be looked upon as giving off three main hvigs: of these one, a very small branch, ramifies upon the deep surface of the neural arches and ligamenta subflava ; another can be followed to the dura mater, which it pierces immediately above the point of exit of the corre- sponding spinal nerve ; whilst the third is carried inwards in front of the dura mater towards the posterior surface of the vertebral bodies. Each of the last-mentioned branches divides