TEMPORAL AND PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGIONS. 309 The superficial and smaller head of the internal pterygoid springs from the lower and back part of the tuberosity of the superior maxilla and also from the outer surface of the tuberosity of the palate bone; the deep head., hidden by the external pterygoid, arises in the pterygoid fossa from the inner surface of the external pterygoid plate, and from the surface of the tuberosity of the palate bone, which appears between the two pterygoid plates. The two heads of the muscle unite at the lower margin of the fore part of the external pterygoid, and its fibres proceed downwards with an inclination backwards and outwards. They gain insertion into the angle of the lower jaw, and into the lower and back part of the inner aspect of the ascending ramus as high as the mandibular foramen. The Internal Maxillary Artery (arteria maxillaris interna) is the larger of the two terminal branches of the external carotid artery, and takes origin within the substance of the parotid gland, immediately behind the neck of the mandible. From this it proceeds forwards to the fore part of the zygo- matic fossa, where it disappears from view, by dipping between the two heads of origin of the external pterygoid muscle, and entering the spheno-maxillary fossa. It is customary to divide it into three parts for convenience in description. The first part runs horizontally forwards under cover of the neck of the mandible, and upon the internal lateral ligament. It lies along the lower border of the posterior part of the external pterygoid muscle, and usually crosses the inferior dental nerve. The second part extends obliquely upwards and forwards upon the surface of the external pterygoid muscle, and under cover of the insertion of the temporal muscle into the coronoid process of the mandible. The third part dips between the two heads of the external pterygoid, and is contained in the spheno-maxillary fossa. Whilst this is the most frequent arrangement, it is by no means uncommon to find the second part of the artery lying in a deeper plane, viz., between the internal and ex-