HEAD AND NECK. 144 seventh cervical vertebra ; and (3) from the spinous processes of the upper two or three dorsal vertebra. From this origin it proceeds obliquely downwards and outwards, and is in- serted by distinct digitations into the outer surfaces of four ribs—viz., the second, third, fourth, and fifth—a short distance in front of their angles. The serratus posticus inferior (serratus posterior inferior) will be brought into view by raising and throwing inwards that portion of the latissimus dorsi which the dissector of the upper limb has left attached to the lumbar fascia. The serratus posticus inferior will then be observed to take origin from the spinous processes of the last two dorsal and upper two lumbar vertebrae, as well as from the supra-spinous ligaments which stretch between these bony prominences. The dissector will note, however, that this is not an independent and distinct attachment, but that it is effected through the medium of the vertebral aponeurosis and posterior lamella of the lumbar fascia, with both of which the aponeurotic tendon of the muscle blends. The precise extent of the origin is thus rendered somewhat obscure. The serratus posticus inferior is directed upwards and outwards, and is inserted by four digitations into the lower borders of the four lower ribs. Vertebral Aponeurosis.—The connections of the ver- tebral aponeurosis can be easily made out. It is the strong, but thin and transparent fascia, which bridges across the hollow between the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrae and the portions of the ribs which lie in- ternal to their angles. It confines in this hollow the proper muscles of the spine and head. Make a transverse incision through it about the middle of the dorsal region, and intro- duce under it the handle of a knife. By carrying this first in an inward and then in an outward direction, the attach- ment of the aponeurosis to the spines of the dorsal vertebrae and to the angles of the ribs will be rendered manifest. In the next place, note that when it is followed in an upward