ROOF OF THE FOURTH VENTRICLE. 589 aqueduct of Sylvius. In both directions it becomes gradu- ally less prominent, but still it forms a distinct elongated elevation which stretches along the whole length of the median groove. It is termed the fasciculus teres. Pro- ceeding upwards from the fovea superior to the opening of the Sylvian aqueduct there is a shallow depression, termed the locus ccerulens. When the ependyma is scraped away from the surface of this part of the floor, some dark pig- mented substance, termed the substatitia ferruginea., will be exposed. Roof of the Fourth Ventricle.—In its upper part the roof of the fourth ventricle is formed by the superior medullary velum as it stretches across between the two superior cerebellar peduncles, and also to some extent by the approximation of these peduncles themselves as they approach the mesencephalon. In its lower part the roof of the ventricle is exceedingly thin, and is not all formed of nervous matter. The inferior medullary velum enters into its formation, and where this fails the epithelial lining of the cavity, supported by pia mater is carried downwards towards the lower lateral boun- daries of the ventricle. At the lowest part of the calamus scriptorius, and also along each lateral boundary, a thin lamina of white matter is carried for a short distance over the epithelial roof. The small lamina at the calamus scrip- torius overhangs the opening of the central canal, and is termed the obex. The lamina in relation to the lateral boundary of the ventricle is more extensive, and is called the ligula. It begins on the clava, and passes upwards along the cuneate tubercle to the restiform body. On the surface of this it turns outwards so as to bound the lateral recess below, and in some cases it may be seen to become continuous round the extremity of the lateral recess with the inferior medullary velum. A short distance above the calamus scriptorius there is an aperture in the epithelial roof of the fourth ventricle, by