21 THORACIC CAVITY. Proceeding downwards behind the fourth intercostal space, the fifth costal cartilage, the fifth intercostal space, and the sixth costal cartilage, close to the margin of the sternum, the line of left pleural reflection will then be seen to incline obliquely outwards and downwards behind the seventh costal cartilage, and across the eighth, ninth, and tenth ribs, until it reaches a point midway between the spine and the sternum. The line of the diaphragmatic reflection of the left pleura is placed at a slightly lower level than the corresponding line on the right side. The left pleura is therefore deeper than the right pleura, and, m the axillary line, it reaches the lower margin of the tenth rib.^ From this point, as on the opposite side, the lower limit of the left pleura extends backwards along the eleventh rib to the spine, which it reaches at the level of the vertebral extremity of the twelfth rib. On neither side does the pleura reach to the lowest limit of the recess between the diaphragm and the chest- wall. This has already been noted in the dissection of the intercostal spaces, and a strong fascia has been observed to pass from the uncovered part of the surface of the diaphragm, and from the costal cartilages to the surface of the costal pleura, so as to hold it firmly in place. It may be compared with Sibson's fascia, which covers the cervical pleura, but is more strongly marked and more tendinous in character. It may be termed thephrenico-pleuralfascia. Mediastinum.—The ffiediastinum or mediastinal space is the name which is given to the interval which is left between the two pleural sacs. It is within this space that by far the greater part of the dissection of the thorax has to be con- * According to Luschka the right pleura in the axillary line only reaches downwards as far as the lower Ijorder of the ninth rib ; whilst the left pleura in the same line reaches the lower border of the tenth rib. The deepest part of the pleural sac is not in the axillary line, as stated by some authors, but behind, where it is reflected on to the diaphragm along the eleventh and twelfth ribs.