THE CEREBRUM. 549 The anterior extremity of the thalamus, called the anterior tubercle (tuberculum anterius), is rounded and prominent. It projects into the lateral ventricle, lies behind and to the outej side of the free portion of the anterior pillar of the fornix, and bounds the foramen of Monro behind. The posterior extremity of the thalamus is very prominent, and projects backwards so as to overhang a portion of the mesencephalon (viz., the brachia of the quadrigeminal bodies) (Fig. 298). This projecting part is called the pulvinar. But the hinder end of the thalamus shows another promin- ence. This is situated below and behind the pulvinar. It is oval in form, and receives the name of the corpus geni- culatum externum. The mesial surfaces of the two thalami are covered with the lining ependyma of the third ventricle, and are placed very close together. Indeed, at one spot they are actually joined by a band of grey matter which forms the grey or soft commissure of the brain (commissura mollis). Trigonum Habenulae.—This term is applied to a small, depressed, triangular area which occupies the interval between the pulvinar and the peduncle of the pineal body. The Pineal Body (conarium or epiphysis cerebri) is a little structure of a darkish colour, and about the size of a cherry stone, which is placed between the hinder extremities of the two thalami on the dorsal aspect of the mesencephalon (Fig. 298). It occupies the groove between the two superior quadrigeminal bodies, and is shaped like a fir-cone. Its base, which is directed upwards, is attached by means of a hollow stalk or peduncle. This stalk is separated into a dorsal and a ventral part by a continuation backwards into it of a pointed recess of the cavity of the third ventricle. The dorsal part of the stalk is carried forwards on each optic thalamus as the taenia fornicis ; the ventral part is folded round a narrow but conspicuous cord-like band of white fibres, which crosses the mesial plane immediately above