624 THE EYEBALL. Dissection.—The vitreous body and retina in the hinder part of the eyeball, which was cut into two for the purpose of exposing the ciliary processes from behind, should now be dislodged. By raising the choroid coat from the deep surface of the sclerotic, under a flow of water from the tap, the vense vorticosse entering the deep surface of the sclerotic will be brought into view. When these are divided, and the separation of the two coats is carried back towards the optic entrance, the posterior short ciliary arteries as they emerge from the sclerotic and enter the back part of the choroid will be seen. In the eyeball from which the sclerotic and cornea have been removed, the iris, ciliary processes, and the choroid, should be carefully stripped off piecemeal under water. This will expose the retina. The Retina is composed of two strata—viz., a thin pigmentary layer, which adheres to the deep surface of the choroid coat, and has been removed with it, and a delicate nervous layer, which is moulded on the surface of the vitreous body, but presents no attachment to it except at the optic entrance. The latter extends forwards beyond the equator of the eyeball, and a short distance from the ciliary zone it appears to end in a well-defined wavy or festooned border termed the ora serrata. This appearance, however, is some- what deceptive. The nervous elements, it is true, come to an end along this line, but a lamina in continuity with the retina is in reality prolonged forwards as far as the margin of the pupil. The part in relation to the ciliary processes is exceedingly thin, and cannot be detected by the naked eye. It is termed the pars ciliaris reitniz. The portion on the deep surface of the iris forms its posterior uveal pigmejitary layer (pars iridica retinje). During life the retina proper is transparent, but after death it soon assumes a dull greyish tint and becomes opaque. Posteriorly it is tied down at the optic entrance. When viewed from the front this appears as a conspicuous circular disc termed the porus optims or optic disc. From this spot the optic nerve fibres radiate out so as to form the deep layer of the retina. The optic disc, in correspondence with the entrance of the optic nerve, lies to the inner or nasal side of the antero-posterior axis of the eyeball. Exactly in