THE CEREBRUM. 537 tapers to a point and describes a gentle curve, the convexity of which is directed outwards. The roof and outer wall of this portion of the ventricular cavity is formed by the tapetum of the corpus callosum. JJpon the inner wall two elongated curved elevations may be observed. The uppermost of these is termed the Imlb of the cornu (bulbus cornu posterioris) and is produced by the fibres of the forceps major as they curve abruptly backwards from the lower part of the splenium of the corpus callosum into the occipital lobe. Below this is the elevation known as the hippocampics 7tiinor or the calcar avis. It varies greatly in size in different brains, and is caused by an infolding of the ventricular wall in correspondence with the anterior calcarine fissure on the exterior of the hemisphere. On the floor of the posterior horn, close to the hippo- campus minor, a third elongated elevation may be visible. This is produced by a bundle of longitudinal fibres, termed the fasciculus longitudinalis inferior, which passes from the occipital into the temporal lobe. Dissection.—The dissector should now gently insinuate his fingers underneath the fronto-parietal operculum of the insula and tear this portion of the cortex away in an upward direction. The frontal operculum (pars triangularis) and the orbital operculum should be dealt with in the same manner. The greater part of the temporal operculum has already been removed in opening up the descending horn of the ventricle. The insula or island of Rail is therefore fully exposed to view, and its relation to the parts in the interior of the ventricle can be seen. Descending Horn of the Lateral Ventricle.—The descending horn must be regarded as the direct continuation of the main ventricular cavity, into the temporal lobe. The posterior horn is merely a diverticulum carried backwards from the main cavity. At first directed backwards and out- wards, the posterior horn suddenly sinks downwards behind the optic thalamus into the temporal lobe, in which it takes a curved course forwards and inwards to a point about an inch behind the extremity of the temporal pole.