228 HEAD AND NECK. It springs from the posterior aspect of the manubrium sterni and from the cartilage of the first rib. Diverging slightly from its neighbour as it ascends, it is inserted into the oblique line on the outer face of the ala of the thyroid cartilage. An incomplete tendinous intersection may some- times be noticed interrupting its muscular fibres. The thyro-hyoid (thyreohyoideus) lies on the same plane as the sterno-thyroid; indeed, it may be regarded as its continuation upwards. It takes origin from the oblique line on the thyroid ala, and is inserted into the lower border of the body and a part of the great cornu of the hyoid bone under cover of the sterno-hyoid and omo-hyoid muscles. Digastric Muscle (digastricus).—This muscle limits the submaxillary triangle inferiorly, and intervenes between it and the carotid triangle. The anterior belly of the digastric springs from an im- pression upon the deep aspect of the base of the mandible, close to the symphysis, whilst the posterior belly takes origin from the digastric fossa of the temporal bone under cover of the mastoid process. Both bellies converge as they pro- ceed towards the upper border of hyoid bone, where they are joined by a strong round intermediate tendon. The posterior belly is the longer of the two, and is fusiform in shape ; the anterior belly is shorter and flatter, and descends in a more vertical direction. The intermediate tendon is bound down to the great cornu and the body of the hyoid bone by a strong aponeurotic band. Stylo-Hyoid Muscle (stylohyoideus).—The stylo-hyoid muscle lies along the upper border of the posterior belly of the digastric. It is a small muscular band which arises from the posterior aspect of the styloid process of the tem- poral bone not far from its base. It is generally inserted by two slips into the hyoid bone at the point where the great cornu joins the body. The intermediate tendon of the digastric passes forwards between the two slips of insertion of the stylo-hyoid.