HEAD AND NECK. 374 fibrous arch, the extremities of which are termed its two heads of origin. The lower head arises in common with the rectus inferior from the body of the sphenoid, where this bounds the inner end of the sphenoidal fissure; the upper head is attached above the sphenoidal fissure upon the outer side of the optic foramen where its origin becomes continuous with that of the superior rectus. Through the archway which intervenes between the two heads of the external rectus pass the two divisions of the oculomotor nerve, the nasal nerve, the abducent nerve, and the ophthalmic veins (Fig. 245). When the ocular surfaces {i.e., the surfaces turned towards the optic foramen) of these muscles are examined, they will be seen to arise in a great measure from two common tendons which, from their position and connections, may be termed the superior and inferior common tendons of the recti muscles. The superior common tendon (Lockwood) springs from the upper and outer margin of the optic foramen, and gives origin to the superior rectus, the internal rectus, and the upper head of the external rectus. The inferior com/non tendon, more usually known as the "Ligament of Zinn," arises from a distinct depression upon the lower and outer aspect of the margin of the optic foramen, and divides into three slips, which go to the internal rectus, the inferior rectus, and the lower head of the external rectus. The slips, from the two common tendons which go to the external rectus become continuous with each other, forming in this way the tendinous arch referred to. A better view of these attachments may be obtained by dividing the optic nerve close to the optic foramen and turning forwards the eyeball. The manner in which the recti muscles are inserted into the eyeball should next be studied. Each ends in a delicate membranous tendon, which is inserted into the sclerotic coat, about a quarter of an inch behind the sclero-corneal junction. The Oculomotor or Third Nerve.—The two divisions of this nerve enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, between the two heads of the external rectus. The superior division has been traced to the rectus superior and the levator palpebras superioris. The inferior divisio7t is much the larger of the two, and almost immediately divides into three branches for the supply of the rectus internus, the