VEN^ VORTICOSE. 623 They will be seen in the specimen in which the sclerotic has been turned backwards in separate flaps in the form of delicate white filaments (Fig. 333). In the posterior part of the eyeball they occupy grooves on the deep surface of the sclerotic, and can only be separated from it with diffi- culty. Reaching the ciliary zone the ciliary nerves break into branches, which join in a plexiform manner and send twigs to the ciliary muscle, the iris, and the cornea. Ciliary Arteries.—Of these we recognise three groups, viz.:—(i) the short posterior ciliary arteries; (2) the long posterior ciliary arteries; and (3) the anterior ciliary arteries. The short posterior ciliary arteries, branches of the oph- thalmic, pierce the sclerotic around the optic entrance, and are distributed in the choroid coat between the vasa vorti- cosae and the membrana chorio-capillaris. The long posterior ciliary arteries, also branches of the ophthalmic, are only two in number. They perforate the sclerotic on either side of the optic nerve (Figs. 332 and 333), a short distance beyond the short ciliary arteries, and are then carried forwards between the sclerotic coat and the choroid. When they gain the ciliary zone each artery divides into an ascending and a descending branch, and these, with the anterior ciliary arteries, form an arterial ring termed the circulus iridis major. From this branches are given to the ciliary muscle, the ciliary processes, and the iris. The circulus iridis nmtor is the name applied to a second arterial ring in the iris at the outer border of the sphincter pupillas. The anterior ciliary arteries are very small twigs, which arise from the branches of supply to the recti muscles. They pierce the sclerotic close to the margin of the cornea, take part in the formation of the circulus iridis major, and send twigs to the ciliary processes. Venae Vorticosse.—From each venous vortex in the choroid a large vein arises, which makes its exit from the eyeball by piercing the sclerotic obliquely a short distance behind the equator. They are four or five in number.