HEAD AND NECK. 242 therefore, at the outer border of the first rib, and arches inwards in front of the scalenus anticus muscle close to its insertion. At the inner margin of this muscle it joins the internal jugular to form the innominate vein. In connection with the subclavian vein, note: (i) that the arch which it forms is not so pronounced as in the case of the corresponding artery; (2) that throughout its whole course it lies at a lower level, and upon a plane anterior to the artery, and (3) that it is separated from the artery by the scalenus anticus and the phrenic nerve. The tributaries of the subclavian vein are (i) the external jugular vein, and (2) in some cases the anterior jugular vein. These join it at the outer margin of the scalenus anticus muscle (Fig. 217). Thoracic and Right Lymphatic Ducts. — The thoracic duct is the vessel by means of which the lymph and chyle, derived from by far the greater part of the body, is poured into the venous system on the left side. Its terminal or cervical portion is displayed in the present dissection. It is a small delicate vessel, frequently mistaken for a vein, which enters the root of the neck upon the left side of the oesophagus. It is here, therefore, that it should be sought. When it reaches the level of the seventh, or perhaps the sixth cervical vertebra, it changes its course and arches outwards and forwards, and then downwards upon the apex of the pleura, to gain the outer margin of the internal jugular vein at its angle of union with the subclavian, and into this it opens. As the thoracic duct courses outwards, it is placed at a higher level than the subclavian artery, and passes behind the internal jugular vein. Further, as it approaches the point at which it ends it crosses the first part of the subclavian artery. A valve composed of two segments guards its orifice into the jugular vein. This allows its contents to flow freely into the vein, but acts as a barrier to the passage of venous blood into the duct.