SIDE OF THE NECK. 225 noticed; also, the two layers of the deep cervical fascia close to the upper margin of the sternum, and in the interval between these the cross-branch connecting the two anterior jugular veins. Behind the fascial envelope of the neck come the two muscular strata formed by the sterno-hyoid and the sterno-thyroid muscles. The inner margins of the sterno-hyoid muscles are almost contiguous above, and held together by the fascial sheaths which enclose them ; below, however, they diverge slightly from each other, so as to ex- pose, close to the sternum, the inner margins of the sterno- thyroid muscles. The sterno-thyroid muscles, in contact with each other below, gradually separate from each other as they ascend. A narrow, lozenge shaped space is thus left between the inner borders of these muscles. Over this area, the trachea is not covered by any muscular structure. Surgical Anatomy.—The principal operations which are performed in the middle line of the neck are those of laryngotomy and tracheotomy. In laryngotomy, an opening is made into the larynx. This can most readily be done in the interval between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. A vertical mesial incision through the integument is made over this interval. The crico-thyroid membrane is thus exposed, and is divided transversely close to the upper margin of the cricoid cartilage. It. is a very simple proceeding, and one which is attended with little or no danger if ordinary care be taken. The crico-thyroid membrane is divided transversely, and in its lower part, for two reasons—viz. (i) to avoid injury to the crico-thyroid artery, which, although, as a general rule, of small size and of no surgical importance, is sometimes large enough to give rise to awkward results if wounded ; and (2) to place the opening as low down as possible. Tracheotomy is a more serious operation. The opening into the trachea may be made above or below the isthmus of the thyroid body. The high operation is very properly preferred by the surgeon. Its advantages are very apparent: here the trachea lies near the surface, and no veins of any importance are met with. The only drawback consists in the small portion of trachea which intervenes between the isthmus and the cricoid cartilage. Still, this can be increased by push- ing down the isthmus, which, within certain limits, can be easily dis- lodged in a downward direction. Many surgeons, indeed, consider that the wounding of the isthmus is a matter of comparatively slight VOL. II.—-1.5