DEEP DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 347 mater in two separate parts, which unite into one stem at the entrance of the bony foramen. As it issues from the anterior condyloid foramen it h'es deeply under cover of the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery, but it almost immediately inclines outwards, and, taking a half spiral turn around the trunk-ganglion of the vagus, it appears between the two vessels, and is continued downwards and forwards. Its close connection with the ganglion of the trunk of the vagus has already been noted. The two nerves at this point are almost inseparably united by dense con- nective tissue, and in the midst of this an interchange of nerve fibres takes place. Gaining the lower border of the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, the hypoglossal nerve hooks round the occipital artery, and enters the anterior triangle of the neck. From this point to the under surface of the tongue it has already been traced. Branches of conimunication.—Near the base of the skull the hypoglossal is brought into connection with (i) the superior cervical ganglion; (2) the vagus; and (3) the first cervical nerve. Further, as it turns round the occipital artery it receives the ramus Imgualis vagi from the pharyn- geal plexus. The importance of the connection between the hypo- glossal and the first cervical nerve has already been alluded to (p. 245 V. Fig. 218). Branches of distribution.—With the exception of the minute recurrent and vascular twigs, which come off within the condyloid foramen, the branches of distribution which proceed from the hypoglossal nerve have been described (pp. 230 and 330). The recurrent branch arises in the upper part of the anterior condyloid foramen, and, regaining the interior of the cranium, it is distributed to the dura mater around the foramen magnum. The vascular twigs are some fine filaments, which are said to be sup- plied to the deep aspect of the internal jugular vein. Dissection.—In the dissection of the neck the greater jiart of the cervical sympathetic, with the branches which proceed from it, has been