32s SUBMAXILLARY REGION. vein, crosses it close to the hyoid bone, whilst the deep part of the submaxillary gland and Wharton^ s duct occupy an inter- mediate place. Although the submaxillary gafigliofi is very minute, its relations are so precise that it is very easily found. By seizing hold of the lingual nerve and dissecting carefully with the point of the knife in the interval between it and the deep part of the submaxillary gland, the ganglion will be exposed and its roots and branches of distribution made out. Upon the genio-hyo-glossus, in front of the hyo-glossus the dissector will note the sublingual gland with its artery of supply. Certain structures will also be seen passing under cover of the posterior margin of the hyo-glossus muscle ; these are :—(i) the glosso-pharyngeal nerve immediately below the stylo-glossus muscle; (2) the stylo-hyoid liga- ment, a little lower down; and (3) the lingual artery, close to the hyoid bone. The Hyo-glossus is a quadrate flat muscle which arises from the whole length of the greater cornu, and also from the body of the hyoid bone. Its fibres pass upwards to the posterior part of the side of the tongue where they ascend under cover of the stylo-glossus. The hyo-glossus is supplied by the hypoglossal nerve. The Stylo-glossus is an elongated fleshy slip which takes origin from the anterior aspect of the styloid process near its tip. Passing downwards and forwards its fibres may be traced upon the side of the tongue as far as the tip. They decussate with the fasciculi of the preceding muscle. The nerve of supply to the stylo-glossus comes from the hypoglossal. The Genio-hyoid (musculus geniohyoideus) is placed close to the mesial plane, in contact with its fellow of the opposite side. It is a short muscle which arises from the lower of the two genial tubercles upon the posterior surface of the symphysis of the mandible, and extends downwards and backwards to gain insertion into the fore aspect of the body of the hyoid bone. The hypoglossal gives the nerve of supply to the genio-hyoid.