356 HEAD AND NECK. in the dura mater which leads into the cavum Meckehi, and, gently dislodging the Gasserian ganglion from its place, turn it forwards and outwards so as to expose its deep sur- face. The small firm motor root can readily be recognised lying in a groove upon the deep surface of the ganglion, and if it be raised from this, it will be seen to have no connection with the ganglion, but to be continued onwards towards the foramen ovale. It ultimately joins the inferior maxillary division of the trigeminal nerve. This junction may take place within the cranium, in the foramen ovale, or imme- diately after it gains the exterior of the skull. The three principal divisions of the trigeminal nerve may next be examined. Begin with the hiferior maxillary division^ which is the largest. This proceeds directly down- wards, and almost immediately leaves the cranial cavity through the foramen ovale. In isolating this large nerve trunk and defining the bony aperture through which it makes its exit, look carefully for the small meningeal artery which enters the cranium through the same foramen. If the injection has been forced into this vessel it can easily be detected. Through the foramen ovale the minute emissary veins which connect the cavernous sinus with the pterygoid venous plexus also pass The superior maxillary divisioji, which is composed en- tirely of sensory fibres, is prolonged forwards, and, after a short course within the cranium, makes its exit through the foramen rotundum. Near its origin it gives off a fine recurrent branch to the dura mater. The rectirrent branch of the supra-maxillaris takes origin by several fine roots, and runs outwards to the anterior branch of the middle meningeal artery. It communicates with the fine filaments of the re- current branch of the infra-maxillary division of the fifth nerve (p. 317). The ophihalmic division is the smallest of the three parts of the trigeminal nerve, and, like the supra-maxillary, it is entirely composed of sensory fibres. It proceeds forwards in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, and ends close to the sphenoidal fissure by dividing into three terminal