CAVERNOUS SINUS. 353 Dissection.—To expose these structures, the dura mater must he stripped from the inner part of the lateral portion of the middle cranial fossa. Enter the knife at the anterior clinoid process, and carry it backwards to the apex of the petrous bone. This incision must go no deeper than is necessary to divide the dura mater, and must be made immediately to the outer side of the openings in the membrane through which the oculomotor, the trochlear, and trigeminal nerves pass. It is very important to preserve these apertures intact, so that the proximal ends of these nerves may be held in position during the dissection. The incision through the dura mater may now be carried along the upper border of the petrous bone in the line of the superior petrosal sinus, and also outwards along the posterior margin of the lesser wing of the sphenoid. The dura mater may now be raised, and the greatest care must be taken in doing so, because it is intimately connected with the nerves which lie subjacent to it. Thus, where it forms the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, it is closely applied to the oculo- motor and trochlear nerves, and firmly attached to the ophthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve, whilst over the petrous bone it is united to the sur- face of the Gasserian ganglion. The edge of the knife, therefore, must be kept close to the membrane, and a small portion of it may be left upon the nerves. This can afterwards be removed as the nerves are defined. Cavernous Sinus—(Fig. 194 {Sc)., p. 131).—-The cavernous sinus has been opened by the above dissection. It is a short, wide venous channel, which extends upon the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, from the lower and inner end of the sphenoidal fissure backwards to the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. In front, blood is conducted into it by the ophthalmic veins and the spheno- parietal venous sinus, whilst behind, the blood is drained away by the superior and inferior petrosal venous sinuses. But it has still other connections ; thus, it receives some of the inferior cerebral veins, and internally it is brought into communication with the corresponding sinus of the opposite side by means of the anterior and posterior intercavernous sinuses (p. 132). Lastly, one or more emissary veins leave its under aspect, and, passing out of the cranium by the fora- men ovale,^ connect it with the pterygoid venous plexus. ' Or it may be through the foramen Vesalii when such exists in the sphenoid bone. VOL. II.—23