HEAD AND NECK. ii6 surface of the dura mater, as it clothes the upper sur- face of the cerebral hemispheres, the student is in a position to understand that this membrane does not belong entirely to the brain. It performs a double function ; (i) it acts as an internal periosteum to the bones forming the cranial cavity; and (2) it gives support to the different parts of the brain. Consequently, it consists of two strata, which, in most localities, are firmly adherent, but which nevertheless can usually be easily demonstrated in the dissecting room. These strata may very appropriately be termed the endocranial and the supporting layers. Along certain lines these two layers separate from each other, and for two distinct purposes. In some cases they separate for the purpose of forming channels, termed blood sinuses, for the conveyance of venous blood ; in other cases they separate in order that the inner supporting layer may form strong folds or partitions, which run in between the various parts of the brain. By these latter the cranial cavity is divided into compartments com- municating freely with each other, and each holding a cor- responding subdivision of the brain (Fig. 191). Dissection.—These points must now be verified. Begin by tilting the head forwards. Support it in this position, and make two incisions through the dura mater in an antero-posterior direction—one on each side of the superior longitudinal sinus, and along its whole length. From the mid-point of each of these incisions another cut must be made through each lateral portion of the dura mater downwards to the cut margin of the skull immediately above the ear (Fig. 189). The dura mater covering the upper aspect of the brain is thus divided into a central strip containing the superior longitudinal sinus and four triangular flaps. The flaps should now be turned downwards over the cut margin of the skull, and in this position they preserve the brain during its removal from laceration by the sharp bony edge. The Subdural Space is now opened into. This is the term which is applied to the interval between the dura mater and the arachnoid mater—Fig. 187 {sd), p. 113. It contains a very small quantity of serous fluid which moistens the opposed surfaces of these membranes. A striking