69 THORACIC CAVITY. nerve. Further, it is supported on the left side by the left pleura and lung. It gives off no branches within the thoracic cavity. The Left Subclavian Artery, which springs from the aortic arch, near its termination, lies very deeply in the superior mediastinum. It takes a vertical course upwards towards the thoracic inlet, through which it passes by arching outwards over the cervical pleura and apex of the left lung to gain the upper surface of the first rib. In front is the left common carotid artery, the left vena innominata, and the left pneumogastric nerve. To its right side are the trachea and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, and higher up, the oesophagus and thoracic duct. Behind and to its left side are the left mediastinal pleura and the left lung. In other words, the artery lies in a groove on the inner aspect of the apex of the left lung, and, before the dissection of the mediastinum, if the apex of the lung be pulled outwards, the injected artery will be seen to bulge into the pleural cavity (Fig. 178). Dissection.—The deep cardiac plexus should now he dissected. Divide the aortic arch at its commencement and termination. Two ligatures should be placed around the vessel at each of these points and the section made between them. This is done to prevent the escape of the injection with which the artery is filled. The superior vena cava may also be severed immediately below the point where it is joined by the vena azygos major. By cutting the fibrous ductus arteriosus the aortic arch can be drawn aside so as to expose the trachea and the cardiac nerves in relation to it. Cardiac Plexus.—-There are three large nerve plexuses, formed in front of the vertebral column, in connection with the sympathetic system. One of these, the cardiac plexus., is situated within the thorax; the other two, the solar and the hypogastric with its pelvic prolongations, are placed within the abdomen. The cardiac plexus is subdivided into a superficial and a deep portion, but these are in direct connection with each other, and are to be regarded merely as different parts of