HEAD AND NECK. 178 beyond the spinal ganglia, and from what has been said it must be evident that this union takes place in the case of the coccygeal and sacral nerves in the sacral canal; in the lumbar, dorsal, and lower six cervical nerves in the intervertebral foramina ; and in the case of first two cervical nerves on the neural arches of the atlas and axis. The nerve trunk is exceedingly short; indeed, it is almost no sooner formed than it divides into its anterior and posterior primary divisions. In the case of the sacral and coccygeal nerves, this subdivision takes place in the sacral canal, and the spinal nerve trunks of these nerves are dis- tinctly longer than in the case of the nerves which occupy a higher level. The distribution of the posterior primary divisions has already been examined (p. 154). Dissection.—At this stage the dissector may adopt one of two methods in the further treatment of the cord and the nerves which spring from it. If the cord is fresh and in such a condition that it may be success- fully hardened, it is best to transfer it at once to the preservative fluid. If, on the other hand, it is soft and not fit for proper preservation (and it must be admitted that this is generally the condition in which the spinal cord is found in the dissecting room), it should be removed with all its membranes and nerve roots, and placed in a cork-lined tray filled with water. There is no method by which the arachnoid, the pia mater, the ligamenta denticulata, and the nerve-roots can be so well studied as this. In removing the spinal cord, the spinal nerves should be divided as they lie in the intervertebral foramina, and in such a manner that as long a piece as possible of each nerve remains attached to the dura mater and the cord. Wherever it is possible the ganglia should be taken with the nerves. The same rule also applies to the sacral nerves. The cord and its membranes should then be cut across at the highest limit of the vertebral dissection. By pulling upon the dura mater the whole specimen may now be lifted from the vertebral canal and trans- ferred to the water-bath. The dura mater should then be slit down the mesial plane over the front of the cord, and the edges of each lateral piece drawn outwards. By fixing the dura mater to the cork at the bottom of the tray with pins the further dissection can be conducted with great advantage.