OUTER WALL OF TLLE NASAL FOSSA. 429 turbinated bone is only separated from the septum by an interval of 2 m.m., whilst lower down we find a space of 4 or 5 m.m. intervening between the inferior turbinated bone and the septum. Each nasal fossa presents an inner wall formed by the septum, an outer wall, a roof, a floor, and an anterior and a posterior aperture. The anterior apertures of the nasal fossae or nostrils are two oval orifices which open upon the face and look down- wards. The posterior apertures or choance open into the upper part of the pharynx and look directly backwards. The narrow roof of the nasal fossa consists of an inter- mediate horizontal portion formed by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and of an anterior and a posterior sloping part. The anterior part inclines downwards and forwards, and is formed by the narrow grooved nasal surface of the spine of the frontal bone, the nasal bone, and the angle between the lateral cartilage and the septal cartilage. The posterior part of the roof, which slopes downwards and backwards, is composed of the fore and under surfaces of the body of the sphenoid, as well as the spread-out ala of the vomer and the sphenoidal process of the palate bone, both of which are applied to the under surface of the sphenoidal body. The floor of the nasal fossa is wider than the roof. It is formed by the palatal processes of the superior maxillary and palate bones, and is concave from side to side. Fur- ther, it presents a gentle slope from before backwards, so that it is slightly higher in front than behind. On the anterior part of the floor, and close to the septum nasi, the dissector may observe a minute funnel-shaped depression of the mucous membrane into the incisor foramen. This is of interest from a developmental point of view ; it is a vestige of the extensive communication which existed in the embryo between the cavities of the nose and the mouth. Outer Wall of the Nasal Fossa.—The outer wall of the nasal cavity is rendered uneven and complicated by the pro-