DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 137 and the omo-hyoid are to be regarded as common property. The dissectors of the upper limbs are allowed two days to complete this work. During the first two days allowed for the dissection of the back, the dissector of the head and neck has merely to examine the superficial parts on the back of the neck, and take part along with the dissector of the upper limb in the dissection of those structures which are common to both. The first day should be devoted to the reflection of the skin, and the dissection of the superficial nerves and that portion of the posterior triangle of the neck which can be examined in the present position of the subject. On the second day the trapezius may be reflected, and the following structures examined—viz., the levator anguli scapulae and its nerves, the posterior scapular artery, the superficial cervical artery, the supra-scapular artery and nerve, the transversalis colli artery, and the origin of the omo-hyoid. Surface Anatomy.—First make out the position of the external occipital protuberance, and having traced the superior curved line of the occipital bone as it passes out- wards towards the mastoid process, press deeply into the neck immediately below the occiput, and in the middle line; here the bifid extremity of the massive spinous process of the axis vertebra can be felt. Carrying the finger downwards, the posterior edge of the ligamentum nuchae can be distinguished, but the short spines of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae can hardly be detected. The spines of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebrae, however, are usually very prominent. Reflection of Skin (Fig. 196).—Three incisions are required—(i) Along the middle line, from the external occipital protuberance to the prominent spine of the seventh cervical vertebra. (2) From the lower end of this mesial incision transversely outwards to the inner border of the acromion process of the scapula. (3) From the upper end of the primary incision transversely outwards over the occiput to the ear. The quadrilateral flap of skin thus marked out must be raised from the subjacent superficial fascia. On reaching the side of the neck, the