HEAD AND NECK. i8o roots of the spinal nerves from the lateral spinal arteries. It may be regarded, as a rule, that where a lateral spinal artery gives a branch to one of the postero-lateral arterial trunks, it does not furnish another to the antero-median arterial trunk. In this way different lateral spinal arteries are in connection with the longitudinal trunks on the anterior and posterior aspects of the cord. The postero-lateral vessels end at the lower extremity of the cord. From the five main arterial channels which thus extend along the cord numerous anastomosing twigs ramify in the pia mater. Veins of the Spinal Cord.—These veins are small and numerous, and their disposition cannot be said to correspond with that of the arteries. They are very tortuous, and form a plexus with elongated meshes. Four more or less perfect longitudinal venous trunks may be noticed on the surface]'of the cord in connection with this plexus. Two of these are mesial, and are placed respectively on the anterior and pos- terior aspects of the cord. The anterior trunk runs upwards under cover of the antero-median spinal artery. The other two are lateral, and are situated one on either side of the cord in relation to the anterior nerve roots. Upon either side, the veins of the spinal cord effect com- munications with the veins in the spinal canal by means of small twigs which run outwards on the nerve roots. How to distmgtiish the atiterior frotn the posterior surface of the spinal cord. Anterior Surface. 1. Linea splendens. 2. Single anterior spinal artery in mesial plane. 3. Anterior nerve - roots smaller than posterior, and springing by fasciculi which emerge from the cord, not in a con- tinuous straight line, but irre- gularly over an area of some' width. Posterior Surface. 1. The postero-lateral arteries in relation to the posterior nerve- roots. 2. Fasciculi of origin of posterior nerve-roots entering the cord along a straight and continu- ous line, and at the bottom of a distinct sulcus. 3. Posterior nerve-roots larger than the anterior, and provided with ganglia.