LACHRYMAL GLAND. 363 passes downwards to join the infra-trochlear branch of the nasal nerve. The supra-orbital nerve is continued forward in the line of the parent stem, and, passing through the supra-orbital notch or foramen, it turns upwards on the forehead (pp. 106 and 285). In the dissection of the scalp this nerve has been seen to divide into an outer and inner division. Sometimes this division takes place within the orbit, and in that case the outer larger part occupies the supra-orbital notch. The Lachrymal Nerve is the smallest of the terminal branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth. It enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure above the level of the muscles, and proceeds forwards along the outer wall of the cavity, and above the upper margin of the external rectus muscle. At the fore part of the orbit it continues its course under cover of the lachrymal gland until it reaches the outer part of the upper eyelid, in which it ends (p. 286). Within the orbital cavity it gives numerous twigs to the deep surface of the lachrymal gland, and sends downwards a filament which connects it with the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve. Trochlear, or Fourth Cranial Nerve.—^This small nerve is destined entirely for the supply of the superior oblique muscle. Entering the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure above the muscles, it is continued forwards and inwards under the periosteum. It finally sinks into the upper or orbital surface of the superior oblique muscle not far from its origin. Lachrymal Gland.—The lachrymal gland is a small flat- tened Ijody of an oval form, and distinctly lobular structure, which is placed obliquely in the fore and outer part of the orbital cavity. It consists of two parts or groups of lobules— an orbital and a palpebral—imperfectly separated from each other. The orbital part (portio superior s. orbitalis) con- stitutes the main mass of the gland. Its outer surface is convex, and is lodged in a hollow upon the inner aspect of