THE BRAIN. S58 Within the tegmentum there is a collection of nuclear matter which is termed the red tegmental nucleus from its ruddy appearance when seen in section. It is rod-like in form, and extends upwards into the tegmental region below the optic thalamus. In transverse section it presents a circular outline, and it is closely associated with the upward prolongation of the fibres of the superior cerebellar peduncle. BASAL GANGLIA OF THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES. The basal ganglia of the cerebrum still require to be examined. These are the caudate and lenticular nuclei, which together form the corpus striatum, the claustrum, and the amygdaloid nucleus. With these it is necessary also to study the composition of the optic thalamus and the external and internal capsules. Dissection.—The right and left portions of what remains of the cere- brum should be separated from each other by a mesial incision. On the left portion the sulci, and convolutions on the under or tentorial surface of the hemisphere, may be examined if this has not been done already on another specimen. A series of sections should, in the next place, be made through both the right and left portions of the cerebrum, with the view of displaying the basal ganglia. On the right side remove a succession of thin slices by carrying a long knife in a horizontal direction through the parts which form and lie below the floor of the body of the lateral ventricle. It is not advisable to proceed further than the level of the anterior commissure. On the left side of the brain a series of vertical-transverse or coronal sections should be made through the remaining portion of the cerebrum. Begin by cutting off the portion in front of the head of the caudate nucleus, and then proceed steadily backwards until the hinder part of the optic thalamus is reached. One of the sections should be planned to pass through the anterior commissure. The Caudate Nucleus has already been partly examined in connection with the lateral ventricle, into the cavity of which it bulges. It is a pyriform highly arched mass of grey matter, which presents a thick swollen head or anterior