211 SIDE OF THE NECK. higher level than the brachial nerves, to the supra-scapular notch of the scapula, through which it enters the supra- spinous fossa. As it approaches the scapula, it passes under cover of the trapezius and posterior belly of the omo-hyoid, and comes into relation with the artery of the same name. The external respiratory nerve of Bell, also called the posterior thoracic, is formed by the union of three roots. The roots from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves pass back- wards through the fibres of the scalenus medius, and unite into one stem which gives branches to the upper part of the serratus magnus. The third root from the seventh cervical nerve does not pierce the scalenus medius. It is carried downwards on the surface of that muscle, and ultimately joins the stem formed by the union of the upper two roots. The posterior thoracic nerve enters the axilla behind the axillary vessels, and is entirely devoted to the supply of the serratus magnus muscle. Dissection.—At this stage, the dissector of the upper Hmb removes the arm from the trunk. The dissector of the head and neck must see that the vessels and nerves are not cut too short. The outer border of the first rib is the level at which they should be divided. The dissector should now proceed with the dissection of the anterior triangle. In this dissection the visceral compartment of the neck is opened up, and its contents displayed. Let the head hang well over the end of the table, and, raising the lower jaw as much as possible, fix it in this position by means of hooks. Begin the dissection by throwing the superficial cervical and infra-mandibular nerves backwards, and then carefully raise the cervical fascia from the area in front of the sterno-mastoid. The anterior triangle is subdivided into three smaller triangles by three muscles which traverse it in different directions. These muscles are:—(i) the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid ; (2) the digastric; and (3) the stylo-hyoid. It is well, therefore, at this stage to define these muscles, and accurately determine the precise position and extent of each subdivision of the space. The anterior belly of the omo-hyoid appears by emerging from under cover of the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, a short distance above its sternal origin. It crosses the space very obliquely, running upwards and forwards to the body of the hyoid bone. The digastric, as its name implies, is a two-bellied muscle. The posterior belly comes out from under cover of the