TEMPORAL AND PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGIONS. 311 The branches from the second part are given off for the supply of the neighbouring muscles. The masseteric (arteria masseterica) passes outwards behind the temporal muscle with the nerve of the same name, and has been seen entering the masseter muscle. The pterygoid bratiches (rami ptery- goidei) are a few irregular twigs, which are given to the pterygoid muscles. The deep temporal arteries (arterije temporales profundte) are two in number — anterior and posterior—and pass upwards in the fore and hinder part of the temporal fossa, between the bony wall of the cranium and the temporal muscle. They end in twigs for the supply of the temporal muscle, and anastomose with the middle temporal artery. The buccal artery (arteria buccinatoria) accompanies the long buccal nerve, and is distributed to the buccinator muscle and the mucous membrane of the cheek. It anastomoses with the facial artery. The posterior dental branch (arteria alveolaris superior pos- terior), from the third part of the internal maxillary artery, descends upon the posterior aspect of the superior maxilla, and sends branches through the posterior dental foramina for the supply of the upper molar and bicuspid teeth (Fig. 234). Some small twigs also go to the gum, whilst others find their way to the lining membrane of the antrum of Highmore. Pterygoid and Internal Maxillary Veins.—The veins in this region are very numerous, but they cannot be studied satisfactorily in an ordinary dissection. They are well seen, however, when injected, in horizontal sections of the frozen head made at the level of the external pterygoid muscle. They constitute a dense plexus, termed the pterygoid plexus, around the external pterygoid muscle. Tributaries corre- sponding to the branches of the internal maxillary artery open into this network, whilst the blood is led away from its back part by a short wide trunk, called the internal nuixil- lary vein. This vessel accompanies the first part of the internal maxillary artery into the parotid gland, and joins