348 HEAD AND NECK. displayed. The inferior ganglion, which lies deeply in the hollow between the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, is still to a certain extent concealed, and must now be displayed. Dislodge the subclavian artery from its place on the first rib behind the scalenus anticus muscle, and turn it well inwards. To do this efficiently, it will be necessary to cut the superior intercostal artery at its origin; this vessel runs downwards upon the outer side of the sympathetic. Great care must be taken to preserve uninjured the fine nerves which proceed downwards in front of the first part of the subclavian artery. If more space for the dissection is required, the fore part of the first rib may be removed by the bone-pliers, but, as a general rule, this will not be found to be necessary. Sympathetic Cord in the Neck.—The number of ganglia which are developed upon the sympathetic cord in the neck is reduced to three; but inasmuch as the superior cervical ganglion is brought into connection with the four upper cervical nerves, there is good reason to suppose that it is formed by the coalescence of four ganglia. Upon similar grounds, we may argue that the middle and inferior cervical ganglia are each formed by the amalgamation of two primi- tive ganglia. The sympathetic cord takes a vertical course through the neck in front of the roots of the transverse processes of the vertebrte. It lies upon the rectus capitis anticus major and the longus colli muscles, and is embedded in the posterior wall of the carotid sheath. Above, it is prolonged upwards in the form of a stout, ascending nerve-trunk, which accom- panies the internal carotid artery into the carotid canal; below, it becomes continuous over the neck of the first rib and behind the subclavian artery with the thoracic portion of the sympathetic. The branches take origin from the ganglia ; occasionally, however, one or more may be ob- served to arise from the connecting cords. The Superior Cervical Ganglion is the largest of the three ganglia. It is an elongated fusiform body which varies somewhat in size. It is placed upon the upper part of the rectus capitis anticus major, opposite the second and third vertebrae, and behind the internal carotid artery.