4o6 HEAD AND NECK. The superior constrictor (Fig. 255, d) has a weak but con- tinuous line of origin from the following parts—viz. {a) the lower third of the posterior border of the internal pterygoid plate, and the hamular process ; (p) the pterygo-maxillary ligament which is common to it, and the buccinator muscle ; (c) the posterior end of the mylo-hyoid ridge on the inner aspect of the mandible ; {d) the mucous membrane of the mouth, and side of the tongue. From this somewhat exten- sive origin, the fibres curve backwards to reach the mesial raphe, whilst, as a rule, some of the highest gain a distinct insertion into the pharyngeal tubercle, on the under surface of the basi-occipital bone. The lower part of the superior constrictor is overlapped by the middle constrictor, and in the interval between the two muscles will be seen the stylo-pharyngeus as it passes downwards under cover of the middle constrictor (Fig. 255, n). In the same interval will be seen the glosso- pharyngeal nerve. The upper border of the muscle is free and crescentic, and it falls short of the basis cranii. The Pterygo-maxillary Ligament (Fig. 255,17) can now be studied. It is a strong, narrow, tendinous band, which ex- tends from the hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate, to the posterior part of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the mandible. It acts as a tendinous bond of union between the buccinator and superior constrictor muscles, and its connections can be best appreciated by introducing the finger into the mouth and pressing outwards along its course. Sinus of Morgagni.—This is the name which is applied to the semilunar space which intervenes between the upper crescentic margin of the superior constrictor and the basis cranii. The deficiency in the muscular wall of the pharynx at this point is compensated for by the increased strength of the pharyngeal aponeurosis. In contact with the outer surface of the aponeurosis, a little dissection will display two muscles belonging to the soft palate—viz., the levator