MOUTH AND PHARYNX. 407 palati, and the tensorpalati (Fig. 255, cand h). The levator is rounded and fleshy, and lies behind the tensor, which is flatter and more tendinous. The latter can readily be recog- nised, from its position in relation to the deep surface of the internal pterygoid muscle, and from its tendon winding in- wards under the hamular process. In the upper part of the space, close to the basis cranii, and in intimate relationship to the origin of the two muscles, will be seen the Eustachian tube. Pharyngeal Aponeurosis.—The pharyngeal aponeurosis is strongly marked in its upper part, and maintains the integrity of the wall of the pharynx where the muscular fibres are absent. As it is traced downwards it gradually becomes weaker, until it is ultimately lost as a distinct layer. It lies between the muscles and mucous membrane, and only comes to the surface where the muscles are absent. It is the principal means by which the pharynx is attached to the base of the skull. Thus it is fixed to the basilar process of the occipital bone, to the apex of the petrous bone, and also to the cartilage which intervenes between these bones. Dissection.—The pharynx should now be opened by a vertical and mesial incision through the entire length of the posterior wall. At the upper extremity of this cut, the knife should be carried transversely outwards, close to the basis cranii, so as to divide the attachment of the posterior wall to the basi-occipital bone. The stuffing should be removed, and the mucous surface of the pharynx cleansed. Interior of the Pharynx.—The roof oi the pharynx will be seen to be formed by the basilar process of the occipital bone, covered by a dense periosteum, and a thick coating of mucous membrane. It is important to note that the posterior wall and the roof of the pharynx can be explored by the finger introduced through the mouth. The mucous membrane, or innermost stratum which enters into the construction of the pharyngeal wall, is now exposed, and the dissector will note that it is continuous through the