io8 HEAD AND NECK. nerve now ascends under cover of the orbicularis palpe- brarum and the frontal belly of the occipito-frontalis, and divides into an inner and an outer division. There is a slight difference in the manner in which these reach the surface. The inner divisioti becomes superficial by piercing the anterior belly of the occipito-frontalis, whilst the 07ite7' division comes to the surface a little further back by piercing the epicranial aponeurosis. Both ramify in the superficial fascia over the parietal bone, and give numerous twigs to the skin. The outer division can be traced as far back as the lambdoidal suture. In the temporal region, nerves from three sources are to be found,—{a) from the facial nerve; {b) from the orbital branch of the superior maxillary division of the trigeminal nerve ; (c) from the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary division of the trigeminal nerve. The temporal branches of the facial nerve will be noticed running upwards over the zygoma. They furnish twigs of supply to the attrahens auriculam, frontal belly of the occipito-frontalis, orbicularis palpebrarum, and corrugator supercilii. The temporal branch of the orbital nerve is a minute twig, which is somewhat difficult to find. If the finger be carried downwards from the external angular process of the frontal bone along the posterior margin of the malar bone, a tubercle on the latter will be felt. This is the guide to the temporal branch of the orbital nerve; it pierces the temporal fascia immediately behind it. It therefore makes its appearance about one inch above the anterior part of the zygoma, and the dissector is frequently led to it by a communicating twig from one of the facial branches. It is distributed to a limited area of skin in this region. The aiiriciilo-temporal iierve will be found immediately in front of the ear, in close contact with the superficial temporal artery. It soon divides into two branches, which diverge from each other as they ascend, and a careful dissector may