THORACIC CAVITY. 93 nerve, although it is disposed after the manner of an inter- costal nerve, does not furnish, as a rule, a lateral cutaneous branch. The secojid dorsal or intercostal nerve very fre- quently sends a branch upwards over the neck of the second rib, to join that portion of the first dorsal nerve which enters the brachial plexus. As a general rule, this communicating twig is exceedingly minute and insignificant, but sometimes it is a large nerve; and, in these cases, the intercosto-humeral nerve, or lateral cutaneous branch of the second intercostal nerve, is very small or altogether absent. Veins of the Thoracic Wall.—When the dissector has traced the intercostal veins to their various destinations, he will find that they differ in their arrangement upon the two sides of the body. On the right side they terminate in three different ways :— 1. The intercostal vein of the first or highest space joins the right innofnhiate vein (sometimes the vertebral vein). 2. The intercostal veins of the second and third spaces (and some- times of the fourth space) unite into a common trunk, which joins the upper part of the vena azygos major. The common trunk is termed the superior intercostal vein. 3. The intercostal veins of the eight lower spaces join the veiia azygos t/iajor. On the left side of the body four modes of termination may be recognised :— 1. The intercostal vein of the first or highest space has the same termination as the corresponding vein of the right side. It joins the left innominate vein (sometimes the vertebral vein of its own side). 2. The intercostal veins of the second and third spaces (and some- times of the fourth space) converge, and by their union form a single trunk, termed the superior intercostal vein., which crosses the arch of the aorta and joins the left innominate vein inde- pendently of the first intercostal vein (p. 37). 3. The intercostal veins of the fourth, fifth, sixtli, seventh, and eighth spaces terminate in the vena azygos minor superior. 4. Tlie intercostal veins of the ninth, tenth, and ole\cnlh spaces join the vena azygos minor inferior.