THE BRAIN. S86 middle peduncle. They then proceed upwards towards the inferior pair of quadrigeminal bodies. At first they form the lateral boundaries of the upper part of the fourth ventricle, but they converge as they ascend on the dorsal aspect of the pons Varolii, so that ultimately they come to overhang that cavity and enter into the formation of its roof. They disappear under cover of the quadrigeminal bodies, and their course in the mesencephalon has already been described. Medullary Vela.—The medullary vela are closely associ- ated with the peduncles. They consist of two thin laminee of white matter which are projected out from the white central core of the cerebellum. The superior medullary velujH, or valve of Vieussens, stretches across the interval between the two superior cerebellar peduncles, with the inner margins of which it is directly continuous. It is triangular in form, and when traced downwards it is seen to be carried with the superior peduncles into the white matter of the cerebellum. Spread out on its dorsal surface is the tongue-shaped prolongation of grey matter from the cortex of the cerebellum, which is termed the lingula, and issuing from its substance close to the inferior quadrigeminal bodies are the two trochlear nerves. The ififerior medullary velum is somewhat more compli- cated in its connections. It presents the same relation to the nodule that the superior velum presents to the lingula. It is a wide thin lamina of white matter—so thin that it is translucent—which is prolonged out from the white centre of the cerebellum above the nodule. From the nodule it stretches outwards to the flocculus, thereby bringing these two small portions of the cerebellum into association with each other. Where it issues from the white matter of the cerebellum, it might almost be said to be in contact with the superior medullary velum, but as the two lam inns are traced forwards they diverge from each other : the superior velum is carried upwards between the superior peduncles