HEAD AND NECK. 212 sterno-mastoid, close to the mastoid process, and behind the lower part of the parotid gland. It proceeds downwards and forwards to the hyoid bone, and there the intermediate tendon is developed. The anterior belly is directed upwards and forwards to the s)miphysis of the lower jaw. The intermediate tendon of the digastric muscle is bound down to the hyoid bone by a process of deep fascia, and in cleaning the muscle, care must be taken not to detach this. The stylo- hyoid muscle lies on a deeper plane than the posterior belly of the digastric, and in relation to the upper border. It is pierced by the digastric tendon at the hyoid bone. In the first instance, merely clean the superficial surface of these muscles. In the case of the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, be careful not to injure the twigs from the descendens hypoglossi nerve, which enter its upper border, and, whilst dealing with the digastric muscle, bear in mind that the facial vein, and the anterior division of the temporo-maxillary vein, usually descend superficial to its posterior belly, and must be secured before the muscle is touched. The filaments from the mylo-hyoid nerve, which enter the upper border of its anterior belly, are not liable to injury if ordinary caution be exercised. Anterior Triangle of the Neck.—The anterior triangle differs from the posterior triangle in having its base above and its apex below. It is bounded behind by the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid, and m front by the middle line of the neck. Its base is formed by the inferior margin of the lower jaw, and a line drawn from the angle of the mandible to the sterno-mastoid muscle, whilst its dependent apex is constituted by the meeting of its anterior and posterior limits at the upper border of the sternum. Spread over the anterior triangle there are the skin, the superficial fascia with the platysma, and the deep cervical fascia. In the interval between the platysma and the deep fascia are placed the branches of the superficial cervical nerve, the infra-mandibular nerve, and also the anterior jugular vein. Subdivisions of the Anterior Triangle. — Distinctive terms are applied to the three subsidiary triangles which are mapped out within the area of the anterior triangular space by the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle and the two bellies of the digastric muscle. The lowest sub-