HEAD AND NECK. 140 plexus, and takes origin from the second and third cervical nerves. Turning round the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid muscle, it proceeds upwards and forwards on the surface of that muscle towards the lobule of the ear. Near this point it will be found to end by dividing into three sets of branches—viz., facial, auricular, and mastoid. The facial branches will be traced afterwards in the dis- section of the face. The others may be followed, however, at the present stage. The auricular brattches supply the integument upon the cranial aspect of the auricle, and if they be carefully dissected, several of them will be noticed to pierce the cartilage to reach the integument on its outer surface. Communications may also be made out between these twigs and the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve. The mastoid branch extends upwards upon the mastoid process, where it is connected with the posterior auricular and small occipital nerves. Dissection.—Whilst the subject is lying upon its face we can only obtain a very meagre idea of the posterior triangle of the neck. It is only its upper and least important part which can at present be exposed. To bring the boundaries, floor and contents, of this portion into view, the dissector should begin by cleaning the cervical part of the trapezius. Occupying the interval between the trapezius and sterno- mastoid, two contiguous muscles, taking a somewhat oblique course, will be observed. The higher of these is the- splenius capitis, and the lower is the levator anguli scapulae. These, together with the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, must be cleaned. In carrying out this dissection the dissector must proceed with some degree of caution ; and above all, he must be careful not to raise the sterno-mastoid nor disturb the cervical nerves which lie under cover of it, because these can be studied at much greater advantage when the subject is turned. In cleaning the levator anguli scapulae the dissector must secure two small nerves which issue from the cervical plexus for the supply of that muscle. They are closely applied to its surface, and are apt to be removed with the fascia covering the muscle, unless they are specially looked for. Further, the spinal accessory nerve, and two or three cervical nerves crossing from the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid to the trapezius, should be dissected out.