HEAD AND NECK. 198 It gives off processes which ensheath the thyroid body and the trachea, and is prolonged downwards into the thorax in front of the great vessels at the root of the neck, to gain an attachment to the fibrous layer of the pericardium. The great vessels of the neck lie under cover of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and are contained within the outer- most part of the visceral compartment on either side of the neck. They are enclosed within a special investment of fascia which receives the name of the carotid sheath. Both the prevertebral and the pretracheal septa take part in the formation of this sheath, and in addition to the carotid artery and the internal jugular vein there are included within it the vagus and the descendens hypoglossi nerves. Further, the gangliated cord of the sympathetic may be considered to be embedded in its posterior wall. The stylo-maxillary ligame?it is a strong process of the cervical fascia in the upper part of the neck, which passes from the angle and posterior margin of the lower jaw to the styloid process. It is firmly attached to these bones, and is so placed that it constitutes a firm fibrous partition between the submaxillary and parotid glands. It can readily be exposed at the present stage. Dissection.—The sterno-mastoid muscle, as we have obsen^ed, divides the side of the neck into two triangular spaces—an anterior triangle placed in front of it, and a posterior triangle behind it. This muscle, therefore, should be studied before proceeding further. Carefully clean its superficial surface, and define its attachments. It may also be raised in its lower two thirds from the subjacent layer of deep cervical fascia. In doing this care must be taken not to injure the sterno-mastoid branch of the superior thyroid artery which will be seen entering its deep surface. In its upper third it should be left undisturbed in the meantime. Stemo-Mastoid (sternocleidomastoideus).—The sterno- mastoid muscle takes its origin below by two heads—a sternal and a clavicular. The sternal head is rounded, and chiefly tendinous, and springs from the upper part of the anterior face of the manubrium sterni. The clavicular head is broad