345 DEEP DISSECTION OF THE NECK. ceding nerve by passing under cover of tlie internal carotid artery. In this situation it ends by dividing into the internal laryngeal and external laryngeal nerves ; both of these have been previously seen in the dissection of the anterior triangle (pp. 215 and 219). Before it divides, the superior laryngeal effects communications by means of fine twigs with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and it also receives one or two filaments from the pharyngeal plexus. The internal laryngeal nerve runs forwards to the interval between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage, and, dis- appearing under cover of the posterior border of the thyro- hyoid muscle, it pierces the membrane of the same name, and enters the larynx. The external laryngeal 7ierve is a very slender branch, which inclines downwards and forwards to reach the crico- thyroid muscle in which it ends. It supplies a few filaments to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx and a fine twig to the cardiac plexus, whilst it receives a communicating branch from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The Recurrent Laryngeal Nerve arises differently on the two sides. On the right side, it springs from the vagus as it crosses the first part of the subclavian artery, and it adopts its recurrent course by hooking round this vessel. On the left side, it arises in the thorax, and hooks round the aortic arch (or, more correctly speaking, around the termination of the obliterated ductus arteriosus). In the neck each nerve ascends in the groove between the trachea and oesophagus, and passing behind or in front of the inferior thyroid artery, or it may be between the two terminal branches of this artery, it disappears under cover of the lower border of the inferior constrictor muscle, to enter the larynx. Before the recurrent laryngeal nerve reaches the larynx it gives off several branches—viz. (i) cardiac branches; (2) twigs to the trachea and oesophagus ; and (3) a few filaments to the inferior constrictor as it passes under cover of its lower margin.