THE BRAIN. 502 The most projecting part of the anterior end of the cerebral hemisphere is usually called the frontal pole, whilst the most projecting part of the hinder end is termed the occipital pole. Again, on the under surface of the hemi- sphere, the prominent point of cerebral substance, which extends forwards below the Sylvian fissure, receives the name of the temporal pole. In a well hardened brain a broad groove is usually present on the inner aspect of the occipital pole of the right hemisphere. This corresponds to the commencement of the right lateral venous sinus. Great Longitudinal Fissure (incisura pallii). This great mesial cleft is occupied by the fold of dura mater termed the falx cerebri. In front and behind it completely separates the cerebral hemispheres from each other, but in its middle part it is floored by the corpus callosum—the commissural band which passes between the hemispheres and connects them together. The upper surface of the corpus callosum can be displayed by gently drawing asunder the two sides of the incisura longitudinalis. Dissection.—If two brains are available the dissector is advised at this stage to separate in one of these the cerebrum from the cerebellum, pons and medulla, by cutting transversely through the inid-brain or isthmus encephali. The cerebrum may then be split in the mesial plane by placing a long knife in the longitudinal fissure, and dividing with one sweep the various parts which connect the two sides to each other. By this proceeding, the three surfaces of each cerebral hemisphere are exposed, and the gyri and sulci can be fully and satisfactorily studied. If only one brain is at the disposal of the student he should not make this dissection, but endeavour to follow out the g)'ri and sulci with the various parts of the brain in position. No doubt he studies the hemi- spheres in this way at a disadvantage, but as the dissection goes on opportunities will occur which will enable him to examine those dis- tricts of the surface which he can only see very imperfectly at present. Cerebral Gyri and Sulci.—The surface of the cerebral hemispheres is rendered highly irregular by the presence of convolutions or gyri, separated from each other by interven- ing furrows, termed sulci or fissures. The surface pattern, which is presented by these gyri and sulci, is in its general