NASAL SEPTUM. 423 The otic ganglion is usually described as receiving motor, sensory, and sympathetic roots. The motor and sefisory roots are, in all pro- bability, both supplied by the nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle ; the sympathetic root comes from the plexus around the middle meningeal artery. In addition to these, the small superficial petrosal nerve enters the posterior border of the ganglion, and conveys to it sensory fibres from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and probably also motor fibres from the facial nerve (p. 342, Fig. 240). The following are the branches which proceed from the otic ganglion :— rA twig which passes downwards and forwards to the Branches of ) tensor palati. distribution. 1 A twig which proceeds upwards and backwards to ^ supply the tensor tympani. /-One or more fine filaments to one or both of the roots Connecting | of the auriculo-temporal nerve, branches. 1 A minute communicating filament to the chorda V tympani. Nasal Septum.—The nasal septum divides the cavity of the nose into two narrow chambers—the right and left nasal fossse. It is not placed accurately in the mesial plane, but almost invariably shows a bulging or deviation to one or other side, so as to reduce the width of one fossa, and increase the capacity of the other. Immediately above the anterior aperture of the nasal fossa the septum shows a slight depression, which corresponds to the vestibule of the nose, and forms the inner wall of this subdivision of the chamber. The vestibular part of the partition is clothed by skin, continuous with the external integument; from this a number of stiff hairs, termed vibriss(B, project. Over the rest of its extent the septum nasi is covered with mucous membrane, which is divided into two districts, viz., a lower or respiratory area, and an upper or olfactory area, in which the branches of the olfactory nerve spread out. The respiratory mucous membrane is very thick, and spongy. It is highly vascular, and contains numerous racemose glands. The minute orifices of the gland ducts can be detected by the naked eye. Over the olfactory district of the septum, the mucous membrane is softer and