HEAD AND NECK. 256 the upper border of the isthmus towards its fellow of the opposite side. The anastomosis between the thyroid arteries of the two sides is by no means free. The superior thyroid vein emerges from the upper part of the thyroid body. It receives tributaries, which, in a great measure, correspond with the branches of the artery, and crosses the upper part of the common carotid to join the internal jugular vein. Lingual Artery (arterialingualis).—Only a small portion of this artery is seen in the present dissection. It springs from the external carotid, a short distance above the superior thyroid. In the first instance, it takes an upward course, but very soon it changes its direction, and bends suddenly down- wards to reach the upper border of the hyoid bone. Here it disappears from view by passing forwards under cover of the hyoglossus muscle, and it will subsequently be traced to its ultimate distribution in the dissection of the submaxillary region. Note in the meantime, however, that the part under observation lies in the carotid triangle, that the loop which it forms is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve. One small branch, termed the hyoid artery, springs from this part of the vessel. The hyoid branch (ramus hyoideus) arises from the lingual, close to the posterior margin of the hyoglossus muscle, and runs inwards along the upper margin of the hyoid bone to anastomose with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side, and also with the hyoid branch of the superior thyroid. The Facial Artery (arteria maxillaris externa) can be studied, at the present stage of the dissection, from its origin up to the point where it mounts upon the base of the mandible to reach the face. This is termed the cervical part of the facial artery. It springs from the fore part of the external carotid, immediately above the lingual, and then proceeds upwards and forwards. Finally, it enters the region of the face at the anterior border of the masseter muscle by passing over the base of