HEAD AND NECK. 382 third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae, and tapers somewhat as it proceeds upwards and inwards, to obtain a pointed and tendinous insertion into the anterior tubercle of the atlas. The vertical part of the muscle (Fig. 247, a) is much the largest of the three divisions, and it lies along the inner side of the oblique portions, with both of which it is more or less intimately connected. Thus below, it arises in common with the inferior oblique part by two or three slips from the sides of the bodies of the upper two or three dorsal vertebrae; above this it derives additional slips of origin from the bodies of the lower two cervical vertebrae; lastly, its outer border is reinforced by slips from the transverse processes of the lower three or four cervical vertebrae. It stretches vertically upwards and is inserted upon the inner side of the upper oblique part of the muscle, by three tendinous processes, which obtain attachment to the bodies of the second, third, and fourth cervical vertebrae. The Rectus Capitis Anticus Major (Fig. 247, i) is an elongated muscle which arises by four tendinous slips from the anterior tubercles Of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrje, and is inserted in front of the foramen magnum, upon the under aspect of the basilar process of the occipital bone. To reach this insertion the muscle inclines slightly inwards as it ascends upon the front of the vertebral column. It is supplied by twigs from the first loop of the cervical plexus. The Rectus Capitis Anticus Minor (Fig. 247, 2, and 248, 2) is a very minute muscle. It is in great part concealed by the upper part of the preceding muscle, which should be detached from its insertion, and turned downwards so as to bring it fully into view. It arises from the anterior aspect of the root of the transverse process of the atlas, and pro- ceeding upwards and inwards is inserted into the under surface of the basilar process of the occipital bone behind the rectus capitis anticus major. It is supplied by a fila- ment from the first loop of the cervical plexus.