THE CORNEA. 617 lamina fusca, passes between the two coats and traverses what is in reality an extensive lymph space. The point at which the optic nerve pierces the back part of the sclerotic does not correspond with the posterior pole of the eyeball. The optic entrance, as it is termed, is situated about 3 m.m. to the inner or nasal side of the posterior pole and very slightly below it. Here the outer fibrous sheath of the optic nerve, which is derived from the dura mater, blends with the sclerotic coat, whilst the bundles of nerve- fibres are carried forwards through a series of small aper- tures. This perforated portion of the sclerotic is called the lamina cribrosa. The sclerotic coat is also pierced by numerous blood vessels and nerves. Thus the long and short posterior ciliary arteries with the ciliary nerves perforate the sclerotic around the optic entrance ; four or five venEe vorticosse issue from the interior of the eyeball by piercing the sclerotic a little way behind the equator at wide intervals from each other ; whilst the anterior ciliary arteries pierce the same coat near the corneal margin. In front the sclerotic coat is not only contiguous with, but is directly and structurally continuous with, the cornea. This is termed the corneo scleral junction, and the faint groove on the surface which corresponds with it receives the name of the scleral sulcus. At this junction the sclerotic tissue slightly overlaps the corneal tissue so that the line of union when seen in section is oblique. Close to this a minute canal, termed the canal of Schlemm, encircles the margin of the cornea. The Cornea forms the anterior sixth of the outer fibrous tunic of the globe of the eye. It is transparent and glass- like, and it forms the window through which the rays of light gain admittance into the eyeball. The curvature of the cornea is more accentuated than that of the sclerotic, and thus it constitutes the segment of a smaller sphere. When viewed from behind it appears circular, but when looked at from the front it is seen to be slightly wider in the