MIDDLE AND SMALL MENINGEAL ARTERIES. 359 plexus is placed in the cavernous sinus and is chiefly massed upon the lower and inner aspect of the internal carotid artery, at the point where it makes its final bend upwards. It supplies filaments to the pituitary body, to the third and fourth nerves, and to the ophthalmic division of the fifth or trigeminal nerve, and likewise the sympathetic root to the lenticular or ophthalmic ganglion. Great Superficial Petrosal Nerve.—This minute nerve, along with a small arterial twig from the middle meningeal artery, can readily be exposed in the groove on the anterior face of the petrous bone which leads outwards to the hiatus Fallopii. It is placed under cover of the Gasserian ganglion, which must therefore be turned forwards and outwards. Entering the hiatus Fallopii, the great superficial petrosal nerve is conducted to the aqueduct of Fallopius, where it joins the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve. If traced in the opposite direction, it will be found at the posterior a.spect of the body of the sphenoid bone to join the large deep petrosal nerve from the carotid plexus. The trunk formed by the union of these two filaments is the Vidian nerve. The Small Superficial Petrosal Nerve appears upon the anterior face of the petrous bone through an aperture which is placed imme- diately external to the hiatus Fallopii. It leaves the cranial cavity by passing downwards between the great wing of the sphenoid, and the petrous part of the temporal bone to reach the otic ganglion. This minute nerve, as has already been mentioned (p. 342), is formed by the union of the tympanic branch of the glossopharyngeal with a branch from the geniculate ganglion of the facial. External Superficial Petrosal Nerve.—It is convenient at this stage to take note of a third petrosal nerve—tlie external superjicial petrosal. It takes origin from the sympathetic plexus, which accom- panies the middle meningeal artery, and entering the petrous bone, is conducted to the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve. Middle and Small Meningeal Arteries.—The entrance of the middle meningeal artery through the foramen spinosum should now be examined. It gives minute twigs to the