FLOOR OF THE FOURTH VENTRICLE. 587 of the cerebellum, whilst the inferior medullary velum turns downwards round the nodule, and ends in a slightly thickened free crescentic edge. The cavity of the fourth ventricle is carried backwards between the two vela, which form a tent-like roof for it. Fourth Ventricle.—This cavity is somewhat rhomboidal in form. Below, it tapers to a point and becomes con- tinuous with the central canal of the cord; above, it narrows in a similar manner and is continued into the aqueduct of Sylvius. The posterior wall is called the roof. The anterior wall is termed the floor., and is formed by the dorsal surface of the medulla and pons. On either side a narrow pointed prolongation of the ventricular cavity is carried outwards from its widest part round the upper part of the corre- sponding restiform body. This is termed the lateral recess (Fig. 293, p. 534). Looking into the cavity between the two portions of the mesially divided cerebellum the lateral recess is very apparent. Floor of the Fourth Ventricle.—In its lower part the floor of the fourth ventricle is formed by the dorsal surface of the open part of the medulla, whilst in its upper part it is formed by the dorsal surface of the pons Varolii. The area thus constituted is distinctly lozenge-shaped, its widest part being opposite the middle peduncles of the cerebellum. Further, it is circumscribed by definite lateral boundaries. Thus below, it is bounded on either side by the clava, the cuneate tubercle, and the restiform body; whilst above, the lateral limit is formed by the superior cerebellar peduncle. The floor of the fourth ventricle is divided into two symmetrical and lateral portions by a median groove. At the lower narrow end, between the two clavte, it receives the name of the calamus scriptorii/s, from its fancied resemblance to the point of a pen. Crossing each half of the floor at its widest part are several transverse bundles of fibres termed the s/rice aci/sticce. They appear to emerge from the mesial groove, and they are carried outwards over the restiform