HEAD AND NECK. carnosus in the lower animals. In the male, the adipose tissue which distinguishes the superficial fascia is generally very sparse in this locality, so that the fleshy fibres of the muscle are observed shining through it. In females and children the fat is more abundant, giving a fuller and more rounded appearance to the neck. In all cases the fatty tissue is most plentiful between the chin and hyoid bone, forming in stout individuals the so-called "double-chin." Dissection.—The fibres of the platysma myoides muscle, which run upwards and forwards, must now be cleaned and its borders defined. In clearing the fatty tissue from its surface, minute nervous filaments will be observed piercing it to reach the skin. These are chiefly branches of the superficial cervical nerve. As the muscle extends downwards on to the front of the chest and upper part of the shoulder, it cannot be fully studied until the dissector of the arm has reflected the skin from these regions. The Platysma Myoides is an exceedingly thin quadrilateral sheet of muscular fibres, which clothes the side and front of the neck, and lies superficial to the deep fascia. Below, it takes origin by scattered and sparse fibres from the skin and subcutaneous fascia covering the upper portions of the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles. From this it proceeds upwards and forwards over the clavicle and acromion, but obtains little or no attachment to these bones. On the side of the neck it decreases somewhat in width, and its fibres being thus more closely aggregated, it becomes thicker and more distinct. Finally, it reaches the lower jaw into the outer surface of which the majority of the fibres are inserted. The anterior fibres decussate below the chin with the corresponding fibres of the opposite muscle, whilst the posterior fibres proceed upwards into the face, and curve forwards towards the angle of the mouth where they blend with the facial muscles in this locality. Reflection of the Platysma. —This must be done very carefully, so as not to injure the structures which lie between it and the deep fascia. These are (i) the external and anterior jugular veins ; (2) the descending superficial branches of the cervical plexus, which are especially liable