l62 HEAD AND NECK. Minute twigs from the lateral sacral artery accompany the sacral nerves and anastomose with twigs from the gluteal and sciatic arteries. The Posterior Division of the Coccygeal Nerve is a slender twig which emerges from the inferior opening of the sacral canal, and, after being joined by a filament from the last sacral nerve, is distributed on the back of the coccyx. Dorsal Spinal Venous Plexus.—A plexus of veins is situated upon the superficial aspect of the neural arches of the vertebrae, subjacent to the multifidus muscle. This plexus collects blood from the integument and muscles of the back, and in the dorsal and lumbar regions pours it into the posterior tributaries of the intercostal and lumbar veins. In the neck it is especially well marked, and its blood is emptied into the vertebral veins. It is hardly to be expected, however, that the dissector, in an ordinary dissection, will make out much of these venous channels. Directions.—The last day upon which the body is allowed to remain in its present position must be devoted to the dissection of the sub- occipital triangle, and to the display of the spinal cord, its membranes, nerve-roots, and blood vessels. In the event of the dissector being pushed for time, it is better that he should proceed at once to expose the spinal cord, and defer the dissection of the sub-occipital region until the head and neck has been removed from the body. The Sub-Occipital Space is a small triangular area, exposed by the reflection of the complexus muscle. It is bounded by three muscles—viz. (i) the rectus capitis posticus major, which forms its upper and inner boundary ; (2) the obliquus inferior, which limits it below; and (3) the obliquus superior, which bounds it above and to the outer side. When dissected, its floor will be found to consist of two structures—viz., the posterior arch of the atlas and the thin posterior occipito-atlantal ligament. It contains within its area a portion of the vertebral artery and the