MEMBRANES AND BLOOD VESSELS. 489 which arise on the outer surface of the crus cerebri, and go to the corpora quadrigemina and the optic thalamus. The posterior choroidal artery, somewhat larger, goes to the velum interpositum and the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle (Figs. 278 and 279). The temporal branches, two or three in number, turn outwards over the hippocampal gyrus, and ramify on the under surface of the temporal lobe of the cerebrum (Fig. 27S). The calcariiie branch (arteria occipitalis) follows the calcarine fissure to the occipital pole of the cerebral hemisphere, round which it turns to reach the outer surface of the occipital lobe. It is the chief artery of supply to the cuneus and the lingual convolution, and is therefore specially concerned in the nutrition of the visual centres in the cerebral cortex (Fig. 279). The parieto-occipital artery is the smaller of the two terminal branches of the posterior cerebral. It runs upwards in the parieto-occipital fissure, and reaching the upper margin of the cerebrum, it turns round this to reach the outer surface of the occipital lobe. It supplies branches to the cuneus and prcecuneus (Fig. 279). Internal Carotid Artery.—The terminal part of this great vessel lies on the outer side of the optic chiasma, in the angle between the optic nerve and the optic tract. At the anterior perforated spot, close to the commencement of the Sylvian fissure, it ends by dividing into the anterior and middle cerebral arteries (Fig. 278). The middle cerebral artery is the larger of the two terminal branches, and, as it enters the Sylvian fissure, it appears to be the continua- tion of the parent-trunk. The anterior cerebral artery, on the other hand, proceeds inwards from the internal carotid at almost a right angle. This explains how it is that emboli pass more frequently into the middle cerebral than into the anterior cerebral artery. From the internal carotid artery, after it has emerged from the cavernous sinus (p. 358), the following branches arise :— 1. Ophthalmic (already studied, 3. Anterior choroidal. p. 370). 4. Middle cerebral. 2. Posterior communicating. 5. Anterior cerebral. The posterior coinniunicating artery (arteria communicans posterior) is as a rule a slender branch which proceeds