THORAX. 74 therefore, to obtain a fresh sheep's heart. After filling it with a thick mixture of flour and water, it should be boiled for a quarter of an hour. The boiling has the effect of expanding the paste, while at the same time it dissolves the connective tissue, and hardens the muscular fasciculi. When the boiling is completed, the heart should be placed in cold water, and the dissection carried out. The epicardium and the muscular fibres should be torn off without using the cutting edge of the scalpel. The fibres of the auricles are difficult to dissect; but in the ventricular portion of the heart, the student should be able to make out—(i) that the different layers of muscular fasciculi cross each other obliquely, and are for the most part attached to the fibrous rings which encircle the auriculo-ventricular openings ; (2) that the superficial fasciculi are common to both ventricles ; {3) that the majority of the fasciculi of the left ventricle bend inwards at the ventricular septum; and (4) that a remarkable spiral or whorled arrangement of fibres (vortex cordis) occurs at the apex of the heart. Construction of the Ventricular Orifices.—The heart which is obtained in the dissecting room, however, must not be cast aside, because several very essential and important points may be made out by its further dissection. In the first place, it is easy to determine the relation of the auricles and ventricles. By separating the epicardium from the base of the ventricles and the adjacent part of the auricles, and removing the fat and vessels from the auriculo-ventricular furrow, it will be seen that the muscular tissue which enters into the formation of the ventricular walls is quite distinct from that of the auricular walls. The bond of union be- tween the auricles and ventricles consists of two fibrous rings which surround the auriculo-ventricular openings. By removing the auricles with a pair of scissors these can be more fully displayed. It is to these rings that the triangular auriculo-ventricular valve cusps are attached, and it is from them that they derive the fibrous tissue which intervenes between the two layers of endocardium which form them. Two fibrous rings are also placed around the arterial open- ings, and supply the strengthening fibrous tissue to the semilunar valve segments.