THORAX. 76 mediastinal space, and ends by dividing into the two bronchi opposite the intervertebral disc between the fourth and fifth dorsal vertebrae. Except at its lower end, which is very slightly inclined to the right, it adheres rigorously to the mesial plane. The relations of the thoracic part of the trachea are as follows: — In front—(i) the manubrium sterni, to the posterior aspect of which the sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles are attached; (2) the remains of the thymus body; (3) the left innominate vein; (4) the aortic arch and the origins of the innominate and left common carotid arteries ; (5) the deep cardiac plexus. Behind, it rests upon the oesophagus, which lies somewhat to the left side of the mesial plane. On its right side are the pleura and the right pneumogastric nerve, and at a higher level the innominate artery; and on its left side are the aortic arch, the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, and the left subclavian artery (Figs. 178 and 176, pp. 68 and 65). The two bronchi differ considerably from each other. The right bronchus is shorter and wider than the left, and appears to be more directly in a line with the trachea. The vena azygos major passes forwards in contact with its upper surface. The superior vena cava and the right pulmonary artery lie in front of it (Fig. 177). The left bronchus is longer and narrower than the right. As it passes outwards and downwards it crosses in front of the oesophagus and the descending aorta, and behind the left pulmonary artery (Fig. 177). From its postero-inferior aspect a slender muscular slip may, in some cases, be observed to take origin. This fasciculus connects it with the oesophagus, and is therefore called the broncho-cesophageal muscle. The relations of the bronchi in the roots of the lungs have already been studied (^ide p. 30). Posterior Mediastinum.—This term is applied to that part of the interpleural space which lies behind the peri- cardium. It may be regarded as a continuation downwards