433 MEATUSES OF THE NOSE. length, and forcing it upwards. Care should be taken not to injure the mucous membrane more than is absolutely necessary. The middle meatus is a much more roomy passage which lies between the middle and inferior turbinated bones, and is continued directly forwards into the atrium. The middle spongy bone should be forcibly tilted upwards and back- wards. Upon the lateral wall of the middle meatus a deep curved groove or gutter, which runs from above downwards and backwards, will be observed. In this groove, which is termed the infundibiilum (Fig. 262), are the openings of the frontal sinus, the anterior ethmoidal cells, and the antrum of High- more. The aperture of the frontal sinus is a small circular opening placed at the upper and fore extremity of the infundibulum. The anterior ethmoidal cells, as a general rule, open a short distance lower down ; in some cases, how- ever, the aperture may be placed above the groove (Fig. 262). The slit-like opening of the antrum of Highmore will be noticed in the hinder part of the infundibulum. The dissector should now proceed to open up the antrum of Highmore by removing its outer wall. This may be done by sawing upwards through the root of the zygomatic process of the superior maxillary bone. The orifice by means of which this great air sinus com- municates with the middle meatus will be noticed to be placed on the inner wall of the cavity much nearer the roof than the floor—a position highly unfavourable for the escape of fluids which may collect within it. Sometimes, however, a second orifice, circular in outline, will be found. This is situated lower down, and opens into the middle meatus immediately above the middle point of the attached margin of the inferior turbinated bone. The inferior meatus is the horizontal passage which ex- tends backwards between the inferior turbinated bone and the floor of the nasal fossa. It is placed behind the vesti- bule, and the free border of the projection, which corre- voL. II.—28