DEEP DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 341 which comes off higher up and joins the pharyngeal branch of the vagus to form the pharyngeal plexus. It frequently divides into two or more branches. The tonsillitic branches proceed from the glosso-pharyn- geal near the base of the tongue. They form a plexus over the tonsil, termed the cirailus tottst'llaris, and give twigs to the mucous membrane of the isthmus faucium and the soft palate. The terminal or lingual branches will be followed in the dissection of the tongue. There are still other points in connection with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve which require mention. At the lower part of the jugular foramen two minute ganglia are formed upon its trunk, and from the lower of these certain minute branches are given off. The upper ganglion is called the jugular ganglioti; the lower one is termed the petrous ganglion. The jugular ganglion is a minute ganglionic swelling, which only involves a portion of the fibres of the nerve-trunk, and is placed in the upper part of the bony groove in which the nerve lies as it proceeds through the jugular foramen. The petrous ganglion is a larger swelling, which involves the entire nerve-trunk, and lies at the opening of the jugular foramen between the inferior petrosal sinus (which intervenes between it and the anterior border of the foramen) and the vagus nerve invested by its fibrous sheath derived from the dura mater. Its length is not more than two or three lines. Three branches of communication enter or proceed from it. These connect it with—(i) the superior cervical sympathetic ganglion ; (2) the auricular branch of the vagus ; and (3) the root-ganglion of the vagus. In addition to these twigs the tympanic nerve or the nerve of Jacobson takes origin from the petrous ganglion. Tympanic Nerve.—The ultimate destination of this nerve may be regarded as being the otic ganglion, but it takes a very circuitous route to gain this structure. It enters a minute foramen on the ridge which separates the jugular fossa from the carotid foramen on the under surface of the petrous bone, and it is conducted by a narrow canal to the tympanic cavity. It traverses the inner wall of this chamber, grooving the promontory. Having gained the anterior part of the tympanum, it enters the bone a second time, and runs in a minute canal, which tunnels the petrous bone below the upper end of the channel in which is lodged the tensor tympani muscle. In this part of its course the tympanic