191 SIDE OF THE NE-£K. to injury as they cross the clavicle and acromion process ; (3) the superficial cervicalnerve andinfra-mandibular division of the facial nerve; and (4) the superficial lymphatic glands. The muscle should be raised from below upwards, and left attached by its facial connections. The External Jugular Vein (vena jugularis externa)— Fig. 208 (10)—is usually a vein of some size. It will be seen emerging from the substance of the parotid gland immediately behind the angle of the lower jaw, where it is formed by the junction of the posterior auricular vein, and posterior division of the temporo-maxillary vein. From this it descends in a nearly vertical direction upon the deep cervical fascia, taking a course which may be mapped out on the surface with tolerable accuracy, by drawing a line from a point behind the angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle. It crosses the sterno-mastoid obliquely, and, reaching the posterior margin of this muscle, disappears from view by dipping through the deep cervical fascia immediately above the clavicle. It will subsequently be traced to its termination in the subclavian vein. Shortly after its origin, it effects, as a general rule, a communication with the internal jugular vein, and lower down one or more superficial twigs may connect it with the anterior jugular. Half-way down the neck it is joined by a tributary of some size, which comes from the occipital region and the back of the upper part of the neck ; this vein is termed the posterior extertial Jugular. Superficial Cervical Glands.—These form a group of small lymphatic glands which lie along the course of the external jugular vein. They vary from four to six in number. The Anterior Jugular Vein (vena jugularis anterior)— Fig. 208 (23)—is small in comparison with the preceding. Sometimes, however, it exceeds it in calibre—the size of the one very much depending upon that of the other. It begins by the confluence of some small veins in the sub- maxillary region, and descends vertically at a short distance from the mesial plane. Immediately above the inner end