HEAD AND NECK. 338 whilst the right vein is separated from its companion artery by a narrow interval which presents a triangular figure. The base of this triangle is formed by the first part of the subclavian artery and it is bisected by the vagus nerve. The tributaries which join the internal jugular vein have for the most part been previously studied. They are :— 1. Inferior petrosal sinus (p. 132). 6. Middle thyroid vein (p. 261). 2. Pharyngeal veins. 7. Thoracic duct on the left side 3. Lingual veins (p. 332). and the right lymphatic duct 4. Common facial vein (p. 258). on the right side (p. 242). 5. Superior thyroid vein (p. 256). The inferior petrosal sinus leaves the cranial cavity by the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen, and joins the fore part of the internal jugular vein close to the base of the skull. By passing a probe from the interior of the skull through the sinus its connection with the vein can readily be made out. The pharynigeal tributaries join the internal jugular about the level of the hyoid bone. They come from a venous plexus which lies upon the side of the pharynx, and presents free communications above with the pterygoid plexus. Dissectio7i.—The internal jugular vein should now be slit open. A short distance above its termination a single or a double flapped valve will be discovered. The vein should then be divided about two inches below its commencement and its upper part thrown upwards. This is done to enable the dissector to obtain a better view of the hypoglossal nerve as it issues from the anterior condyloid foramen. The Glosso-pharyngeal, the Vagus or Pneumogastric, and the Spinal Accessory Nerves.—These nerves have, on a previous occasion, been seen leaving the cranial cavity through the middle compartment of the jugular fossa, in the interval between the commencement of the internal jugular vein behind and the inferior petrosal sinus in front (p. 127 and Fig. 194, p. 131). It is well that the dissector should again examine the interior of the cranial cavity and refresh his memory as to the manner in which they enter the