THE CEREBRUM. 529 The two figures which precede this paragraph show the relation of the infero-lateral and the supraciliary borders of the cerebral hemisphere to the surface of the cranium. In A. a profile view of the skull is given; in B. the skull is turned so that it is viewed from the front as well as from the side. The outline of the cerebrum was obtained by perforating th^ cranium from the inside along the border of the hemisphere with a fine drill. The manner in which the infero-lateral border of the fore part of the temporal lobe is depicted in both figures is perhaps somewhat misleading. It is very difficult to say at this point what is the infero- lateral border of the hemisphere : the outer surface passes insensibly into the inferior or basal surface. It must be clearly understood, there- fore, that the line immediately above the zygomatic arch does not indicate the deepest part of this portion of the temporal lobe. The ex- tremity of the lobe curves downwards and inwards, and attains a depth considerably below the level of the upper border of the zygomatic arch. The Cingulum.—If the deep surface of the callosal con- volution which has been torn away be examined, a large bundle of longitudinally directed fibres will be noticed embedded in its substance. This is the cingulum. It can be easily dislodged, and a very slight degree of traction is all that is required to lift it out of its bed. In front it begins at the locus perforatus anticus, whilst behind it turns round the hinder end of the callosum, and enters the hippocampal convolution. It belongs, therefore, to the limbic lobe. Dissection.—The gyri and sulci on the mesial surface of the left hemisphere may now be studied, and then the dissection, which has been carried out with the view of exposing the corpus callosum. may be repeated on the left side. In doing this, however, take care not to injure the mesial surface of the left hemisphere further back than the parieto-occipital fissure. Indeed, an effort should be made to preserve that fissure intact, so that it and the cuneus may be afterwards studied on this side in connection with the gyri and sulci on the under surface of the hemisphere. The upper surface of the corpus callosum is now exposed, and it will be seen that, stretching between the two hemispheres, it unites into one mass the two medullary centres of the two hemispheres. The continu- ous white field, consisting of the corpus callosum and the medullary centre of each hemisphere, receives the name of centrum ovale inajtis. Corpus Callosum.—This is the great transverse commis- sure of the cerebrum. It is placed nearer the anterior than VOL. II.—34 \