THE CHOROID COAT. 619 conspicuous white, ring-like band, which encircles the fore part of the eyeball immediately behind the corneo scleral junction. The ciliary processes are directly continuous behind, under the ciliary muscle, with the choroid coat, and also in front with the iris. The iris is a circular curtain with a central aperture which lies behind the cornea. The Choroid Coat is pierced behind by the optic nerve, and is somewhat thicker behind than it is in front. Its superficial surface is connected with the deep surface of the sclerotic by some lax connective tissue (lamina fusca) and also by blood vessels and nerves which pass from the one into the other. The deep surface of the choroid is moulded upon the retina and connected with a layer of deeply-pig- mented cells, which usually adheres to the choroid when this tunic is removed, although in reality it must be re- garded as a portion of the retina. In the eyes of many mammals, but not in man, the posterior part of the choroid when viewed from the front presents an extensive brightly coloured area, which exhibits a metallic lustre. This appearance is due to the presence of an additional layer in the choroid termed the tapetitm. In the horse, elephant, ox, the tapetum is composed of fibres (tapetum fibrosum); in carnivora, it is formed of cells (tapetum cellu- losum). In the ox, it is a brilliant green colour with a golden lustre ; in the dog, it is white with a bluish border ; in the horse, it is blue with a silvery lustre. The chief bulk of the choroid coat is composed of blood vessels. These are arranged in two well-marked layers, viz., a deep, closely-meshed capillary layer called the ttinica chorio-capillaris or the tu7iica Ruyschiana, and a more superficial venous layer composed of the vasa vorticosa. The short posterior ciliary arteries proceed forwards between these vascular layers. The eyeball in which the outer surface of the choroid is exposed should be immersed in water and the pigment washed out of it by means of a camel-hair brush. The vasa vorticosa will then appear as white curved lines converging towards four or five points, from which the larger venie vorticosa; take origin (Fig. 333).