HEAD AND NECK. 454 thyro-hyoid membrane is thin and loose. It is attached below to the upper margin of the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and above to the posterior aspect of the great cornu of the hyoid bone. It is pierced by the internal laryngeal nerve and superior laryngeal vessels. The posterior border of the membrane on each side is thickened, rounded, and cord-like {ligamoitum thyro-hyoideum late?-ale), and is chiefly com- posed of elastic fibres. It extends from the tip of the great cornu of the hyoid bone to the extremity of superior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. In this ligament there is usually developed a small oval cartilaginous or bony nodule, which is termed the cartilago triticea. The Crico-thyroid Muscle is placed on the side of the cricoid cartilage, and bridges over the lateral portion of the crico-thyroid interval. Taking origin from the lower border and outer surface of the anterior arch of the cricoid cartilage, its fibres spread out in an upward and backward direction, and are inserted into the inner aspect of the lower margin of the thyroid cartilage, and also into the anterior border of its inferior cornu. As a general rule, it is divided into two parts. The a?iterior or oblique part is composed of those fibres which are attached to the ala of the thyroid cartilage; the posterior or horizontal part is formed of those fibres which are inserted into the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. It is closely associated with the inferior constrictor muscle. The crico-thyroid muscle is supplied by the external laryngeal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve. The Middle portion of the Crico-thyroid Membrane can be studied in the interval between the two crico-thyroid muscles. It is a tense elastic and strong membrane, which is attached below to the median part of the upper border of the anterior arch of the cricoid cartilage, and above to the lower margin of the middle portion of the thyroid cartilage. It is pierced by minute apertures, and is crossed superficially by the crico-thyroid branch of the superior thyroid artery. On each side, under cover of the crico-thyroid muscle, the