THE MESENCEPHALON. 555 below the thalamus'; and a ventral cnisia or pes which is carried upwards into the internal capsule on the outer side of the thalamus. When the base of the brain is examined, it is the crusta which is seen, and it is observed to be white in colour and streaked in the longitudinal direction. On the exterior of the mesencephalon, the separation between the two parts of the crus cerebri {i.e., the tegmentum and the crusta) is indicated by an inner and an outer groove or sulcus. The inner or mesial sulcus is the deepest and most distinct. It looks into the interpeduncular space, and from it emerge the fascicles of the oculomotor nerve. It con- sequently receives the name of the sulcus oculotnotorius. The outer sulcus is termed the sulcus lateralis. Dissection.—The mesencephalon should now be divided transversely by one sweep of the knife at the level of the lower borders of the superior pair of corpora quadrigemina. By this proceeding, the cere- brum is separated from the parts below. A number of very important points can be made out on the cut surface of the mesencephalon. Cut Surface of the Mesencephalon (Fig. 302).—Much nearer the dorsal than the ventral surface of the mesen- cephalon the transversely divided aqueduct of Sylvius may be seen. As already stated, this narrow passage leads from the fourth ventricle below, upwards through the mesencephalon to the third ventricle above. It is surrounded by a thick layer of grey matter, called the Sylvian grey matter, or the central grey matter of the aqueduct. In a fresh brain this is always very conspicuous, and in its midst are situated the nuclei of the oculomotor and trochlear nerves, and the upper nucleus of the trigeminal nerve, although of course these cannot be detected by the naked eye. Below, this grey matter of the aqueduct is continuous with the grey matter spread out on the floor of the fourth ventricle, whilst above, it is continuous with the grey matter on the floor and sides of the third ventricle. The division between the tegmentum and the crusta is rendered very evident by a conspicuous mass of dark