34 THORAX. in relation to the base of the pericardium. It is placed, for the greater part of its extent, over the upper surface of the liver, the diaphragm alone intervening; but in front, a small part corresponding to the apex of the heart projects beyond the area of the liver and comes to lie over the stomach (Fig. 163). The upper narrow part of the peri- cardium will be noticed to close upon certain of the great vessels that issue from the base of the heart. Upon each side the pericardium is adapted to the concave inner surface of the lung. It is clothed by the mediastinal pleura, and has in relation to it the phrenic nerve and the arteria comes nervi phrenici. In fro?it, very important relations have to be studied. It lies behind the sternum and costal cartilages, and is for the most part separated from these by the two pleural sacs, and by the anterior thin margins of the lungs. Below the level of the sternal end of the fourth costal cartilage, however, owing to the left pleura retreating some- what to the left, a small area of the anterior surface of the pericardium, as a general rule, comes into direct relation with the chest wall. The extent^ of this area, as we have already seen, is variable. Behifid, the pericardium forms the anterior wall of the posterior mediastinum, and is in relation to the contents of this space. Its relation to the oesophagus is especially intimate. When the pericardium is denuded of the loose areolar tissue which surrounds it and binds it to adjacent structures, the strong dense character of the fibrous membrane which forms its outer layer will be seen. This fibrous layer is pierced by the various vessels which pass to and from the heart, and is prolonged upon the walls of these vessels in the form of tubular investments which gradually become lost upon their coats. The only vessel which fails to receive such a prolongation is the inferior vena cava, and this is 1 The importance of recognising this bare area of the pericardium will be understood when it is remembered that it is here that the surgeon taps the cavity of the sac when distended with fluid.