THORAX. 86 They are also prolonged into the roots of the lungs. The lymphatic vessels of the lungs pour their contents into them. In the adult, they are generally dark in colour, and sometimes as black as ink. The lymphatics of the right side of the chest, the right lung, and the right half of the heart join the right lymphatic duct, a minute and short vessel situated in the root of the neck. It opens into the angle of union between the right internal jugular and right subclavian veins. Removal of the Lungs.—The lungs may now be removed by dividing the trachea about an inch and a-half above its bifurcation. The bronchi and vessels should be traced into the lobes of the lungs, and their manner of subdivision and distribution throughout its substance studied. Ramification of the Bronchi and Vessels within the Lungs.—The student has previously observed that the two lungs are not symmetrical. The right lung is subdivided into three lobes, whilst the left lung is cleft into two lobes. The bronchi exhibit a corresponding want of symmetry. Each tube, as it approaches the pulmonary hilum, divides into branches for the different lobes. The right bro7ichus gives off two such branches for the upper and middle lobes of the right lung respectively, whilst the main stem of the tube sinks into the inferior lobe. The left brotichus sends off a large branch to the upper lobe of the left lung, and then enters the lower lobe. The first branch of the right bronchus leaves the main stem about one inch from the trachea. The first branch of the left bronchus, on the other hand, takes origin about twice that distance from the trachea. But the relation of the pulmonary artery to the bronchial subdivisions is different on the two sides. In both cases it lies in front of the undivided portion of the tube, but on the right side it turns backwards, so as to reach the posterior aspect of the bronchus below the first and above the second division. It is due to this arrangement that the right bronchus occupies the highest level in the right pulmonary root. On the left side, the pulmonary artery turns back- wards above the level of the first bronchial branch, and