440 HEAD AND NECK. From the internal maxillary artery twigs are given off which accompany these nerves. The superior nasal and the naso-palatitie Jierves have been already described (pp. 426 and 437). They arise from the inner aspect of the ganglion, but in some cases the naso- palatine may be seen to take origin from the commencement of the common palatine trunk, or even from one of the spheno- palatine branches of the superior maxillary nerve (Henle). The palatine nerves are three in number, and are distin- guished as great or anterior^ si?iall or posterior, and external. As a rule these spring by a common trunk from the lower aspect of the ganglion. This descends in the posterior palatine canal, which has already been opened up, but to expose the nerves a dense fibrous investment must be re- moved. The nerve trunk will then be observed to break up into its three constituents. Disseclioti. —Trace, in the first instance, the two smaller nerves—viz., the posterior and the external palatine branches. These leave the main canal, and enter smaller tunnels, which conduct them through the tuberosity of the palate bone. Before opening these up, it is well to secure the nerves as they emerge from the lower openings of the canals. This can very readily be done by dissecting behind the hamular pro- cess, and gently separating the soft parts from the under aspect of the tuberosity of the palate borie. As the dissection is being made from the inside, the small, or posterior palatine nerve, will be first encountered, and it will be seen to pass backwards into the soft palate, under cover of the tendinous expansion of the tensor palati.^ This must be divided, in order that the posterior palatine nerve may be followed to its distribution. The external palatine nerve will be found issuing from its canal a short distance to the outer side of the preceding nerve. It is distributed to the soft palate in the neighbourhood of the tonsil. It is smaller than the posterior palatine nerve, and is sometimes absent. The great or anterior palatine nerve should now be followed onwards to the hard palate. To do this the lower part of the posterior palatine canal must be opened up by removing a small portion of the posterior and outer part of the horizontal plate of the palate bone. 1 The present is a good opportunity to observe the corrugated or wrinkled appearance of the tendon of the tensor palati, as it passes under the hamular process.