THORACIC CAVITY. 8i gastric before it enters the pulmonary plexus to that portion of the oesophagus which lies in the superior mediastinum ; (2) numerous filaments are supplied by the plexus guise to that part of the oesophagus which is placed in the posterior mediastinum. (Esophagus.—The thoracic portion of the oesophagus should next be studied. It lies partly in the superior mediastinum and partly in the posterior mediastinum. It is the narrowest, but at the same time the most muscular, part of the alimentary canal. It descends in front of the spine, following its antero-posterior curvature, and leaves the thoracic cavity opposite the tenth dorsal vertebra by passing through the oesophageal opening of the diaphragm. The oesophagus does not pursue a straight course through the thorax : it enters somewhat to the left of the middle line ; but on tracing it downwards, it will be noticed to incline inwards, so as to assume a mesial position opposite the fifth dorsal vertebra. From this it again deviates to the left so as to gain the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm. In the superior mediastinum the oesophagus lies imme- diately behind the trachea (Figs. 178 and 176); below this it is crossed by the left bronchus, with which it is sometimes connected by the broncho-oesophageal muscle (Fig. 177). From this point onwards through the posterior mediastinum it is covered in front by the pericardium, which is applied closely to it (Fig. 180). Just before entering the abdomen it lies behind the posterior part of the diaphragm (Fig. 181). From above downwards, therefore, the immediate anterior relations of the oesophagus are: (i)trachea; (2) left bronchus ; (3) pericardium ; (4) diaphragm. Behind, the gullet lies, except at its lower end, in front of the vertebral column, but there are many structures which intervene between them. Thus, in the superior mediastinum the longus colli muscle separates the gullet from the spine, while in the posterior mediastinum it is placed in front of the vena azygos major and the thoracic duct, and the vena azygos VOL. 11.—6