532 THE BRAIN. The fine terminal edge of the rostrum has already been seen to be connected with the lamina cinerea. Both the lateral and the mesial longitudinal strige, when traced backwards, are seen to turn round the splenium, and run into the corresponding gyrus dentatus. In front, the mesial striae are carried round the genu, and then backwards on the under surface of the rostrum. Finally, diverging from each other, they receive the name of the peduncles of the corpus callosicin. Each of these proceeds backwards and outwards along the posterior limit of the anterior per- forated spot to the anterior extremity of the temporal lobe. To some extent the direction which is taken by the fibres of the corpus callosum, as they radiate outwards into each cerebral hemisphere to reach the convokitions, is seen in the present dissection. Two sets of fibres are more conspicuous than the others. One of these, the forceps minor, proceeding from the genu, curves forwards into the fore part of the frontal lobe; the other, called the forceps major, issues from the under part of the splenium, and takes a bold sweep backwards into the occipital lobe. The term tapetum is given to a layer of fibres which comes from the body of the corpus callosum, and curves outwards and downwards so as to roof over and form the outer walls of the descending and posterior cornua of the lateral ventricle Dissection.—^The lateral ventricle in the interior of the cerebral hemi- sphere should now be opened up on each side. The corpus callosum, which forms the roof the body and anterior horn of this ca\'ity, must therefore be partially removed. Make a longitudinal incision through this structure about half-an-inch or less from the mesial plane on each side. The central portion of the corpus callosum which lies between these incisions is to be kept in position. The lateral portions must be turned outwards and detached completely. As this is being done, it will become evident that the lower part of the splenium which is pro- longed into the forceps major is in reality a portion folded forwards in close apposition with the under surface of the hinder end of the corpus callosum. Be careful to leave the forceps major in its place. The body and the anterior horn of the ventricle are now exposed; but the cavity of the ventricle is carried backwards into the occipital lobe in the form of a posterior horn, and downwards and forwards into the temporal lobe in the form of the descending horn. The posterior horn can only at present be opened on the right side. Carry the knife back- wards through the medullary substance which forms its roof, and remove