574 THE BRAIN. destination, viz., the restiform body—a considerable part of which they form. Dissection.—The anterior pyramid of one side should now be carefully raised. When dislodged from its bed it should be gently pulled upwards towards the pons Varolii. In this way its entrance into the pons is brought very clearly into view, and further, numerous arcuate fibres will be seen running forwards across the mesial surface of the opposite pyramid to reach the surface. Very little of the structure of the medulla can be learnt from specimens obtained in the dissecting room. Further, it is not advisable to cut into the medulla at present, because the student has still to study that portion of its dorsal surface which forms the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, and this cannot advantageously be done until the cerebellum has been examined. Still, it is convenient to say what little has to be said on the structure of the medulla at this stage. Structure of the Medulla.—When transverse sections are made through the medulla at different levels, a faint line called the median raphe, and occupying the mesial plane, is seen to divide it into two exactly similar lateral portions. The raphe is formed by the close intersection of fibres running in different directions. Each half of the medulla is composed of (a) strands of white matter ; [li] grey matter, which is present both in the form of direct continuations into the medulla of portions of the grey matter of the cord, and also in the form of isolated clumps, which are not represented in the cord ; and (f) the formatio reticularis, a substance which is composed of grey matter coarsely broken up by fibres which traverse it in different directions. The white matter, as in the cord, is for the most part disposed on the surface and the grey matter in the interior, but in the open part of the medulla the grey matter comes to the surface on its dorsal aspect, and is spread out over that area which forms the medullary portion of the floor of the fourth ventricle. When the grey matter of the cord is traced up into the medulla, many striking changes in its arrangement become apparent. Owing to the increase in size of the large wedge-shaped gracile and cuneate funiculi, the posterior horns of grey matter become folded outwards, so that they soon assume a position at right angles to the mesial plane, and lie very nearly in the same transverse line. At the same time, the cuneate and gracile nuclear columns of grey matter which grow out from the basal portion of this horn and underlie the strands of the same name, begin to make their appearance. From the deep aspect of these nuclei, fibres, which take origin within them, stream forwards and inwards through the cervical portion of the posterior horn, so as to reach the raphe.