541 THE CEREBRUM. very varying dimensions. It corresponds to the middle part of the collateral fissure on the inferior surface of the hemisphere. Dissection.—The remains of the right temporal lobe and of the right occ^ita*! lobe should now be detached from the cerebrum by cutting through the fimbria where it passes into the posterior pillar of the fornix and the forceps major of the splenium of the corpus callosum. The knife should then be carried forwards from the anterior extremity of the descending horn above the level of the uncus through the temporal pole. The temporal lobe, with the hippocampal convolution along its inner side, can then be separated from the remainder of the brain, along the line of the inferior fissure of the cerebrum. In the detached part of the cerebrum (Fig. 295) a good view is obtained of the floor of the descending horn and of the parts in relation to it. Further, by replacing it in position, the inferior cerebral fissure can be better understood, and by turning the brain upside down a view of the roof of the descending horn and the structures in relation to it is gained. In this way the tail of the caudate nucleus and the ttenia semicircularis can be traced into the amygdaloid nucleus. The cut edge of the central part of the corpus callosum, which is still in position, should now be still further pared away, so as to bring more fully into view the subjacent septum lucidum and the fornix. Septum Lucidum (septum pellucidum).—This is a thin vertical partition which intervenes between the anterior cornua and the fore parts of the bodies of the two lateral ventricles (Fig. 291). It is triangular in shape, and pos- teriorly it is prolonged backwards in the narrow interval between the body of the corpus callosum and the fornix, to both of which it is attached by its upper and lower edges. In front it occupies the gap behind the genu of the corpus callosum; whilst below, in the narrow interval be- tween the rostrum of the corpus callosum and the fornix, it is prolonged downwards to the base of the brain as the peduncle of the septuDi lucidum. The septum lucidum is composed of two thin laminae in apposition with each other in the mesial plane. The mesial cleft between the layers is termed the fifth ventricle (Fig. 294). Dissection.—The narrow middle strip of the corpus callosum, behind the bend of the genu, should now be removed. Cut it transversely