293 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. which passes upwards so as to separate the lower part of the cartilage of the helix, termed the ptvcessus helicis caudatiis, from the cartilage of the anti-tragus ; the second is a sharp spur of cartilage which projects forward from the helix at the level of the upper margin of the zygoma. This is termed the spitta helicis. The ligaments of the atiricle are two in number. The anteHor auricular ligament stretches from the spine of the helix to the root of the zygomatic process. The postei-ior auricular ligament will be found under cover of the retrahens auriculam. It is stronger than the pre- ceding, and extends from a slight depression on the cranial aspect of the concha to the mastoid process. The intrinsic muscles of the pinna must be sought for with great care. The helicis minor is not unfrequently absent. The two muscles of the helix, the tragicus and the anti-tragicus, are placed upon the outer face of the cartilage. The transversus and the obliquus lie upon the cranial surface of the pinna. The musculus anti-tragicus is the best marked member of the outer group. It lies upon the outer surface of the anti-tragus, and its fibres pass obliquely upwards and backwards. Some fasciculi can be traced to the processus helicis caudatus. The musculus tragicus is a minute bundle of short vertical fibres situated upon the outer surface of the tragus. When well developed a slender fasciculus may sometimes be observed to pass upwards from it to the fore part of the helix, where it gains insertion into the spine of the helix. The tnusculus helicis major is a well marked band, which springs from the spina helicis, and extends upwards upon the fore part of the helix, to be inserted into the skin which covers it. The vmsculus helicis minor is a minute bundle of fleshy fibres which is placed upon the crus helicis as it crosses the bottom of the concha. The musctilus transversus auricula is found upon the cranial aspect of the pinna. It is generally the most strongly developed muscle of the series, and it consists of fibres bridging across the hollow which, on this aspect of the auricle, corresponds to the antihelix. The musctilus obliquus auriculic is composed of some vertical fasciculi bridging across the depression which corresponds to the eminence of the lower limb of the antihelix. Eyelids.—-The stitches which hold the margins of the eyelids may be removed, but the tow which has been introduced beneath them may be allowed to remain in its place, in order to keep the parts tense during the dissection.