THE BRAIN. S70 the surface at the lower border of the olivary eminence, by dipping into the substance of the medulla under cover of that projection. A narrow band, however, may be noticed to be carried upwards to the pons in the interval which exists between the posterior border of the olive and the roots of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. The olivary emuietice is a smooth oval projection, which occupies the upper part of the lateral area of the medulla. Its long axis, which is vertical, is about half an inch long, and its upper end is separated from the lower border of the pons by a narrow interval or groove. The Posterior Area of the Medulla.—In its lower half this district is bounded behind by the postero-median fissure, and in its upper half by the lateral margin of the medullary portion of the floor of the fourth ventricle. In front it is separated from the lateral area by the row of root- fascicles belonging to the spinal accessory, vagus, and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. As in the lateral area we re- cognise a lower portion and an upper portion or restiform body, which are quite distinct from each other. The lower part of the posterior area corresponds more or less closely with the posterior columns of the cord. It will be remembered that in the cervical part of the cord the posterior columns are divided by a distinct septum of pia mater into an inner postero-median strand (column of Goll), and an outer postero-external strand (column of Burdach). These are prolonged upwards into the medulla, and in the lower part of the posterior area they stand out distinctly, and are separated from each other by a continuation upwards from the cord of the paramedian groove. In the medulla these strands receive different names. The inner one is called the fufitculus gracilis, whilst the outer one is designated the funiculus cuneatus. Each of these strands, when it reaches the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, ends in a slightly expanded prominence. The swollen extremity of the funiculus gracilis is called the