HEAD AND NECK. 194 emerges from under the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid, and soon breaks up into several twigs, which pierce the deep fascia and spread out widely from each other as they descend over the lower part of the posterior triangle, under cover of the platysma. The ultimate distribution of these twigs is to the integument over the upper part of the front of the chest and over the shoulder. To gain this destination they are carried downwards over the clavicle and acromion process, and are classified into three groups according to their position—viz. (i) siipTa-acroinial; (2) supra-clavicular ; {■^supra-sternal—Fig. 208 (17, 16, 24). Infra - Mandibular Division of Facial Nerve.—After emerging from the parotid gland this nerve pierces the deep fascia. It will be found immediately below the angle of the lower jaw. Its branches spread forwards and form a series of loops which extend as low down as the hyoid bone. It is the nerve of supply to the platysma muscle, and effects a free communication with the upper branch of the superficial cervical nerve (Fig. 208 (22)). Deep Cervical Fascia (Fig. 209).—The cervical fascia should now be cleaned, and its connections studied. It constitutes a continuous and strong aponeurotic envelope for the neck, very much in the same manner that the brachial aponeurosis invests the upper arm or the fascia lata the thigh. As in the case of these fascicC also, processes are given off from its deep surface which penetrate into the neck to form sheaths for the various structures enclosed within the general investment. Certain of these processes stretch across the mesial plane in the form of partitions or septa, which subdivide the neck into fascial compartments. Let us first examine the general envelope as it is at present displayed, and then we shall be in a position to study the more important septa and processes. The envelope formed by the deep cervical fascia is not equally developed in all subjects. In many cases, and more especially in females, it is thin and inconspicuous.