THE BRAIN. 546 parts. The former passes forwards between the splenium of the corpus callosum and the body of the fornix above, and the roof of the third ventricle and the optic thalami below. It is limited by the epithelial covering of the choroid plexuses, which shuts out these structures from the cavity of the lateral ventricles. The lateral part of the transverse fissure is termed the inferior cerebral fissure or the choroidal fissure. It is continuous with the intermediate part, and has already been studied in connection with the descending horn of the lateral ventricle (p. 539). Dissection.—The vein of the corpus striatum should now be divided on each side as it passes into the vein of Galen. The apex of the velum interpositum should then be seized with the forceps, and the whole structure pulled backwards. The entire upper surface of the optic thalamus on each side is thus exposed, and between these bodies is seen the mesially placed third ventricle. The roof of this ventricle which is epithelial and invaginated into the cavity by the choroid plexuses on the under surface of the velum interpositum is torn away with that structure. The basal part of the velum interpositum is intimately con- nected with the pineal body which lies on the mesencephalon behind the third ventricle. Care therefore must be taken to extricate this body from the pia mater, otherwise it is sure to be pulled away. Optic Thalamus.—The optic thalami are two large oval masses of grey matter, placed close together on either side of a deep mesial cleft which receives the name of the third ventricle of the brain. Each of these bodies presents an anterior and a posterior extremity, and an upper, lower, inner, and outer surface. The inferior and external surfaces are in apposition, and indeed, directly connected with ad- jacent parts, and on this account it is only possible to study them by means of sections through the brain. The superior and internal surfaces are free, and may be examined in the present dissection. The external or lateral surface of the optic thalamus is applied to a mass of white matter, termed the internal capsule, which is largely composed of fibres derived from the crusta