472 HEAD AND NECK. On the under surface of the tongue the mucous mem- brane is smooth and comparatively thin. In the mesial plane it forms the frcenum lingucz, which has been studied at an earlier stage. On either side of the median line the lingual vein may be noticed in the living subject stretching forwards towards the tip. To the outer side of this, and, therefore, somewhat nearer the border of the tongue, is a delicate and feebly marked fold of mucous membrane, from the free border of which a row of fringe-like processes or fimbriae project. It is termed the plica fimbriata, and as it extends forwards towards the tip of the tongue, it inclines towards the mesial plane and its neighbour of the opposite side (Fig. 238, p. 327). On the side of the tongue, im- mediately in front of the lingual attachment of the anterior pillar of the fauces, five short vertical fissures in the mucous membrane separated by intervening folds may be noticed. This arrangement is termed the papilla foliata. It is the representative of a leaf-like condition of the mucous mem- brane, which is much more highly developed in certain of the lower animals (hare and rabbit), and which is specially concerned in receiving the impressions of taste. The Lingual Papillae are of three kinds, and differ in size, shape, and in the position they occupy on the surface of the tongue. They are termed the circumvallate, the fungiform, and the conical. The circtwwallate papillcB are the largest, and are placed on the posterior part of the dorsum in two rows, which diverge from each other in an outward and forward direc- tion, like the two limbs of the letter V- The foramen caecum forms the apex of the V> the papillae vary in number from seven to twelve. In form a circumvallate papilla is broad and somewhat cylindrical, slightly narrower at its attached than at its free extremity, and sunk in a pit. It is surrounded by a deep trench, the walls of which are slightly raised beyond the general surface of the mucous membrane. The free extremity of each papilla is therefore