202 HEAD AND NECK. the deep layer of fascia is more or less intimately connected with the costo-coracoid membrane, the intra-aponeurotic space between them extends downwards for a short distance behind the clavicle. An incision should now be made through the deep layer of fascia as it lies over the great brachial nerves. If the handle of the knife be introduced into this and passed downwards along the course of the nerves behind the fascia, it will be found to proceed with the greatest freedom into the axilla. Dissection.—The dissector should now proceed with the dissection of the posterior triangle. The deep layer of fascia which is spread over the great vessels and nerves must be removed. The brachial nerves will then be seen emerging from between the scalenus anticus and the scalenus medius muscles. At this stage in the dissection the minute nerve of supply to the subclavius is apt to be injured. It passes verti- cally downwards upon the superficial aspect of the brachial nerves, and must be secured before they are touched. The brachial nerves are closely matted together by dense connective tissue, which must be removed, but care must be taken at the same time not to injure the branches which spring from them. When the lowest trunk of the brachial plexus is reached the subclavian artery will come into view. This vessel must be thoroughly displayed, and the groove on the first rib on which it lies may be rendered evident by scraping it with the handle of the knife. By tracing the external jugular vein downwards, the subclavian vein will be found lying very deeply behind the clavicle. The scalenus anticus muscle, with the phrenic nerve passing downwards upon its anterior surface, will also be observed. Both lie under cover of the sterno- mastoid muscle. Posterior Triangle.—This is a long, narrow, triangular space placed between the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid and the anterior border of the trapezius. It is covered by the superficial and deep fasciae of the neck, and also in its lower part by the platysma myoides muscle. Certain cutaneous nerves and the external jugular vein have also been noticed in the superficial fascia which is spread over this area. Near the occiput is the small occipital nerve; near the clavicle are the supra-clavicular descending branches of the cervical plexus, and a very short portion of the external jugular vein.