4 THORAX. the obliquus externus and latissimus dorsi upon its lateral aspect. The rounded tendon of the subclavius may also be observed taking origin from the first costal arch, and posteriorly to this the scalenus posticus extends downwards to its insertion into the second rib. With the single exception of the scalenus posticus, these muscles should be removed so as to lay bare the costal arches and the intercostal muscles. In detach- ing the serratus magnus be careful not to injure the lateral cutaneous nerves which make their appearance in the intervals between its digita- tions. The anterior cutaneous nerves and perfo)-ating branches of the internal mammary artery must also be preserved ; they pierce the origin of the pectoralis major in the intervals between the costal cartilages, and close to the margin of the sternum. Intercostal Muscles.—These muscles occupy the eleven intercostal spaces on each side of the thoracic wall. In each space there are two strata of muscular fibres — a superficial and a deep. The superficial layer of muscular fibres is called the external i?itercostal muscle, and the deep layer the internal intercostal muscle. The external intercostal muscles (intercostales externi) are already exposed, and very little cleaning is necessary to bring out their connections. Observe that entering into their con- stitution there is a large admixture of tendinous fibres, and that th^e, as well as the muscular fibres, are directed from above, obliquely downwards and forwards from the lower border of the rib above to the upper border of the rib below. They do not extend further forwards in the various spaces than a point corresponding to the union of the bony with the cartilaginous parts of the costal arches. In many cases, especially in the upper spaces, they do not reach so far. Here the muscular fibres stop short, but the tendinous fibres are prolonged onwards to the sternum in the form of a membrane, which may be called the anterior intercostal membratie. The external intercostal muscles of the two lower spaces are exceptions to this rule. They extend forwards to the extremities of the spaces. Pos- teriorly the muscles pass backwards as far as the tubercles of the ribs, but this is a point which can only be satisfac- torily demonstrated after the thorax has been opened.