DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 155 and the coccygeal nerves), each posterior division will be found to divide into an external and an internal branch. Examine these nerves successively in the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar regions. It is well, however, to defer the dissection of the sacral and coccygeal nerves until the multifidus spinre muscle has been studied. Cervical Region.—Here the posterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves are eight in number. The posterior division of the first or sub-occipital nerve., which, as we have seen, fails to divide into an external and an internal branch, lies deeply in the sub-occipital triangle, and will be examined when this space is dissected. The posterior primary division of the second cervical nerve is very large, and appears between the neural arches of the atlas and axis vertebrae. The posterior primary divisions of the succeeding six cervical nerves arise from the correspond- ing spinal nerve-trunks in the intervertebral foramina a short distance further out, and, turning backwards under cover of the posterior intertransverse muscles, appear in the intervals between the transverse processes. The external branches are of small size, and are entirely devoted to the supply of muscles. They give twigs to the splenius colli and to the cervical and cranial prolongations of the erector spinse. The internal branches are not all distributed alike, nor indeed do they present the same relations. The second, third, fotirth, and fifth ?ierves run inwards towards the spinous processes, superficial to the semispinalis colli muscle, and under cover of the complexus. When close to the mesial plane they turn backwards, pierce the complexus, splenius, and trapezius muscles and become superficial. In their course to the surface they give numerous twigs to the neigh- bouring muscles. The internal branch of the second nerve is remarkable for its large size. It receives the special name of great occipital. It will be noticed turning round the lower border of the inferior oblique muscle, to which it supplies some twigs.