HEAD AND NECK. 45S from the crico-thyroid membrane. From this attachment its fibres run backwards and upwards, and converge to be inserted into the anterior surface and lower border of the processus muscularis or outer projecting angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The superficial or outer surface of this muscle is covered by the ala of the thyroid cartilage and the upper part of the crico-thyroid muscle; its deep surface is applied to the lateral part of the crico-thyroid membrane. Thyro - arytenoid Muscle. — This is a muscular sheet which is placed above the crico-arytenoideus lateralis. The contiguous margins of these muscles are sometimes found so intimately blended that it is impossible to effect a natural separation. The thyro-arytenoid muscle is usually described as con- sisting of a superficial and a deep portion, termed respectively the thyro-arytenoideus externus and internus. Whilst we adopt this subdivision for convenience in description, it is necessary to state that it is not a natural one, seeing that the two parts are as a general rule inseparably united, and can only be isolated from each other by artificial means. The thyro-arytenoideus externus is a broad muscular layer which lies immediately subjacent to the ala of the thyroid cartilage. Its lower border is in contact with the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle, whilst its upper border is placed at a higher level than the true vocal cord. Its upper part, therefore, is in relation to the wall of the laryngeal sinus. The thyro-arytenoideus externus arises in front from the lower half of the inner surface of the ala of the thyroid cartilage, close to the angle, and also from the crico-thyroid membrane. Its fibres pass backwards and are inserted into the outer border and muscular process of the arytenoid cartilage. A certain proportion of its uppermost fibres curve upwards and backwards to reach the epiglottis. These constitute the thyro-epiglottideafi muscle. The thyro-aryienoideus itiiernus is a slender three-sided muscular band which is closely applied to the outer side of