LATERAL AREA OF THE MEDULLA. 569 take up a position in the opposite lateral column of the cord, close to the posterior horn of grey matter. It is the inter- crossing of the corresponding bundles of the crossed pyramidal tracts of opposite sides which produces this characteristic decussation. But if only the direct pyramidal tract in the anterior column of the cord is prolonged upwards into the corresponding district in the medulla, it may be asked : What becomes of the larger lateral part of the anterior column of the spinal cord in the medulla ? It is thrust aside by the decussating bundles of the crossed pyramidal tract, and thus comes to occupy a deep position in the medulla. Lateral Area of the Medulla.—This is the district on the surface of the medulla which is included between the two rows of nerve roots, viz., the hypoglossal roots in front, and the root fascicles of the spinal accessory, vagus and glosso- pharyngeal behind. It presents a very different appearance in its upper and lower parts. In its lower portion it appears to the eye as a continuation upwards of the lateral area of the cord; in its upper part is seen the striking oval prominence, which receives the name of the olivary eminence. The lower part of this district, however, is very far from being an exact counterpart of the lateral column of the cord. As we have already observed, the large crossed pyramidal tract, which in the cord lies in the lateral column, is no longer present in this district of the medulla; it has been transferred at the decussation of the pyramids to the pyramidal tract of the opposite side. Another small strand of fibres, the direct cerebellar tract, prolonged upwards in the lateral column of the cord, gradually leaves this portion of the medulla. This tract of fibres lies on the surface, and it is often visible to the naked eye as a white streak inclining obliquely backwards into the posterior district of the medulla to join its upper part, i.e., the restiform body. The great majority of the remainder of the fibres which are prolonged upwards from the lateral column of the cord disappear from