THE CEREBRUM. forms the upper lip of the posterior horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius. The frontal operaihun (Fig. 283, B) is the small triangular piece of cerebral cortex between the ascending and anterior horizontal limbs of the Sylvian fissure. It is sometimes termed the pars triatigtilaris. 'Y\i& orbital operculum (Fig. 283, C) is for the most part on the under surface of the hemisphere. It lies below and to the inner side of the anterior horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, and proceeds backwards from the orbital aspect of the frontal lobe over the fore part of the insula. Fissure of Rolando (sulcus centralis).—The fissure of Rolando takes an oblique course across the outer convex surface of the cerebral hemisphere (Fig. 283, R). Its upper end cuts the supero-mesial border of the hemisphere a short distance behind the mid-point between the frontal and occi- pital poles, whilst its lower end terminates above the middle of the posterior horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius. Its superior extremity, as a rule, turns round the supero-mesial border of the hemisphere, and is then continued backwards for a short distance on its mesial surface (Fig. 284, R). Although in its general direction the fissure of Rolando is oblique, it is far from being straight. It takes a sinuous course across the hemisphere, and makes two bends, which are termed its genua. The superior genu is placed between its upper and middle thirds, and its concavity looks forwards. The inferior genu is situated in advance of the superior bend and a short distance lower down. Its convexity is directed forwards. The short portion of the fissure between the two genua is frequently very nearly horizontal in direction. Parieto-occipital Fissure.—A very small part of this fissure appears on the outer face of the cerebral hemisphere (Fig. 283, O.P.). It is situated, for the most part, on the internal surface (Fig. 284, P.O.). It is customary, therefore, to describe an external parieto-occipital and an internal parieto- occipital fissure. At the same time, it must be clearly