330 HEAD AND NECK. hyoid bone, and below the level of the deep part of the submaxillary gland. At the anterior border of the hyo- glossus it gains the surface of the genio-hyo-glossus muscle, into the substance of which it sinks. Its further course is along the lower surface of the tongue, close to its fellow of the opposite side. Whilst the lingual nerve, therefore, clings to the side of the tongue, the hypoglossal is placed upon its under aspect, close to the mesial plane. Upon the hyo- glossus muscle it is accompanied by one of the lingual veins, frequently termed the ranine vein. The brafiches which spring from the hypoglossal nerve in this region are very numerous, and are entirely distributed to muscles. It supplies—(i) the stylo-glossus; (2) the hyo-glossus; (3) the genio-hyo-glossus; (4) the genio- hyoid ; and (5) the intrinsic muscles of the tongue. In addition, it communicates freely with the lingual nerve. The more apparent of these connections take place in the form of one or more loops in relation to the anterior border of the hyo-glossus. Other communications with the same nerve are affected in the substance of the tongue. Reflection of the Hyo-glossus.—The hyo-glossus should now be carefully detached from the hyoid bone, and thrown upwards towards the tongue. In doing this there is no need to divide the structures which lie upon its surface. By the reflection of this muscle the following structures will be fully displayed—(i) the second and third stage of the lingual artery, with its dorsalis lingute branch and the veins which accompany it; (2) the posterior part of the genio-hyo-glossus ; (3) the origin of the middle constrictor of the pharynx ; and (4) the attachment of the stylo-hyoid ligament. The Genio-hyo-glossus is a flat triangular muscle, the inner surface of which is in contact in the mesial plane with its fellow of the opposite side. It arises by a short pointed tendon from the upper of the two genial tubercles which project from the posterior aspect of the symphysis of the mandible, and from this its fleshy fasciculi spread out in a fan-shaped manner. By far the greater part of the muscle is inserted into the tongue by an insertion which extends