THORACIC CAVITY. 59 inner surface of the wall of the left auricle is smooth. On the posterior wall the four openings of the pulmonary veins will be seen. In some cases the two pulmonary veins of one or both sides unite before opening into the left auricle. The number of venous orifices is thus reduced. They are not provided with valves. In the lower and fore part of the auricle is the oval aiiriciilo-ventricular opetmig. It only admits the passage of two fingers into the ventricle, and is, therefore, smaller than the corresponding orifice of the right side. The position of the foetal foramefi ovale can also be distinguished upon this side of the septum atriorum, but it is not so well marked as it is in the right auricle. It presents the appearance of a faint depression bounded below by a slightly marked crescentic border. Dissection.—To open the left ventricle, the dissector should stand upon the right side of the body and grasp the heart with the left hand, so that the forefinger rests upon the upper part of the posterior inter- ventricular furrow, and the thumb upon the upper part of the anterior interventricular furrow. The wall of the ventricle should then be trans- fixed by a long knife (Fig. 175). Enter the knife below the thumb, about half-an-inch to the left of the anterior furrow, and push it through the ventricular wall towards the forefinger, so that the point emerges below this, and half-an-inch to the left of the posterior furrow. Now carry the knife downwards towards the apex, but do not allow it to come nearer to the furrows than it was when first entered. If necessary, the cut on each side may be extended upwards towards the base of the ventricle with a small knife. Left Ventricle.—The cavity of the left ventricle is longer and narrower than that of the right ventricle. It reaches down to the apex of the heart, and is somewhat conical in shape—tapering towards its lower end. In cross section it presents a circular or broadly oval outline (Fig. 171, p. 53). The walls of the left ventricle are very much thicker than those of the right ventricle. When the injection and blood have been washed away from the interior of the left ventricle with hot water, the columna carnece will be observed to form dense reticulations on the inner surface of its walls. This network is especially