HEAD AND NECK. io6 and then fixed in this position by means of a hook. The muscular fibres are thus rendered tense and stand out in relief. When cleaned it will be seen to be a fan-shaped muscle, placed immediately above the ear. Above, it is broad, and arises from the epicranial aponeurosis where it covers the temporal fascia; below, the fibres converge as they approach the auricle and gain an insertion into the upper part of the cranial surface of the pinna. The attrahens auriculam, which is smaller than the pre- ceding, is placed in front of the ear, and the auricle must therefore be pulled backwards in order that its fibres may be rendered tense. It arises from the epicranial aponeurosis, and it is inserted into the anterior aspect of the helix of the pinna. The retrahens atiriatlam—Fig. i86 (3)—consists of two or three short bundles of muscular fibres which spring from the mastoid process of the temporal bone, and are inserted into the posterior part of the concha. It is readily exposed by drawing the ear forwards. The attrahens auriculam is supplied by a twig from the temporal branches of the facial nerve; the retrahens and attoUens by the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve. Nerves of the Scalp.—Two nerves are given to the frontal and parietal portions of the scalp by the frontal branch of the ophthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve. These are (a) the supra-trochlear, (p) the supra-orbital. The supra-trochlear nerve leaves the orbit close to its inner angle and then turns upwards under cover of the orbicularis palpebrarum. Immediately beyond this muscle it becomes superficial by piercing the frontal portion of the occipito-frontalis, and, after a short course in the superficial fascia, it ends in the integument of the forehead. The supra-orbital nerve is much larger than the preceding, and quits the orbit by turning upwards in the supra-orbital notch. The position of this notch in the superior margin of the orbit can generally be detected by the finger. The