THE EYEBALL. 626 The retinal vessels, the optic disc, and the macula can all be examined in the living eye by means of the ophthalmoscope. The red reflex obtained from the fundus of the eyeball is produced by the blood in the membrana chorio-capillaris. Dissection.—-For the study of the vitreous body and the crj'stal- line lens, which together may be termed the "eye-kernel," it is better to take an eyeball which is not perfectly fresh (Anderson Stuart). The eyeball selected for this purpose should be allowed to stand untouched from one to three days according to the season. The coats of the eye should then be divided round the equator, and on gently separating the cut edges, and turning the coats forwards and backwards, the " eye- kernel " will slip out. It should be allowed to drop into a vessel filled with clean water. The examination of the parts forming the eye- kernel will be greatly facilitated by placing it en masse in strong picro- carmine solution for a few minutes. When removed from the staining fluid, it should be well washed in water. In this way the hyaloid membrane enclosing the vitreous body, the capsule of the lens, and the zonule of Zinn, are stained red, and their connections become \e.ry apparent (Anderson Stuart). The Vitreous Body is a soft, yielding, perfectly transparent jelly-like body, which occupies the posterior four-fifths of the interior of the eyeball. The retina is spread over its surface as far forwards as the ora serrata, but is in no way attached to it, except at the optic disc. In front of the ora serrata, the ciliary processes are applied to the vitreous body and indent its surface. Anteriorly, the vitreous body is hollowed out, and presents a deep concavity, the fossa patellaris, for the reception of the posterior convex surface of the crystalline lens. The substance of the vitreous body is enclosed within a delicate transparent membrane, which completely envelops it, and receives the name of the hyaloid membrane. Extend- ing forwards through the midst of the vitreous mass from the region of the optic disc to the back of the crystalline lens is a minute canal, lined by a tube-like prolongation of the hyaloid membrane, and containing a watery fluid. This is termed the hyaloid catial, or the ca?tal of Stilliftg, and it represents the path which was taken by a branch of the