\ REMOVAL OF THE BRAIN. 121 nerves) now come into view as they leave the cranium through the optic foramina. When these are divided, the internal carotid arteries will be exposed, and between them, in the mesial plane, the infundibuhmi, a hollow conical process which connects the pituitary body with the tuber cinereum—a lamina of grey matter on the base of the brain. It will be noticed that the infundibulum lies slightly behind the internal carotid arteries.^ Sever in turn each of these structures. We then come upon the oculo-motor fierves (third pair of cranial nerves), which must be dealt with in like manner. Observe first, however, that they lie behind, and external to the carotid trunks. The dissector should now see upon either side the anterior extremity of the inner free margin of the tentorium cerebelli as it passes forward to be attached to the anterior clinoid process. Pressing this outwards with the point of the knife, the minute trochlear nerve (fourth cranial nerve) will be brought into view. It lies under shelter of the free border of the tentorium, and should be divided at this stage. The head must in the next place be turned forcibly round, so that the face is directed over the left shoulder. On raising the posterior part of the right cerebral hemisphere with the fingers, it will be observed to rest upon the tentorium cerebelli—a broad horizontal pro- cess of dura mater, which intervenes between it and the cere- bellum. Divide the tentorium along its attached border, and take care in doing this not to injure the subjacent cerebellum. When the division is effected, push the tentorium backwards out of the way with the point of the knife. Now turn the head so as to bring its left side uppermost, and treat the tentorium on this side in the same manner. The two parts of the trigeminal 7ierve (fifth cranial nerve) perforating the dura mater near the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; the abducent nerve (sixth cranial nerve) pierc- 1 In dividing the cranial nerves, it is well to cut them close to the point where they pierce the dura mater on one side of the body, and close to the brain on the other side.