HEAD AND NECK. 4i6 the internal maxillary, the ascending pharyngeal, and the dorsalis lingufe. Eustachian Tube.—This is the canal which conveys air from the pharynx to the tympanic cavity. It is divided into two portions, according to the parts which enter into the construction of its walls. Thus, in the otiter part of its course as it nears the tympanum, its walls are bony, and it runs in the interval between the squamous and petrous por- tions of the temporal bone. The inner part is placed on the base of the skull, and is lodged in the gutter or groove between the apex of the petrous part of the temporal bone and the great wing of the sphenoid. This is the subdivision of the tube which comes under the notice of the dissector at the present stage, and he should first note its direction and then study its relations and the construction of its walls. The direction of the canal can be readily ascertained by passing a probe into it through its pharyngeal orifice. It will be seen to run backwards and outwards with a slight inclination upwards. At the same time it will be noticed to pass between the origin of the levator palati, which lies upon its inner side, and the origin of the tensor palati, which is placed upon its outer side. This relationship is best seen in coronal sections through the frozen head. The dissector should now proceed to remove the mucous membrane from around the pharyngeal orifice of the tube. This wall reveal the fact that its wall is strengthened by a triangular plate of cartilage, which is folded upon itself so as to protect the tube on its upper and inner aspects. The cartilage is deficient below and externally, its place being taken by dense fibrous tissue, which connects the margins of the cartilage and com- pletes the wall of the canal. This explains the characteristic form which its pharyngeal orifice presents (p. 409). A mus- cular slip, which descends from the outer margin of the cartilage in relation to the outer unprotected side of the tube, has been termed the dilatator tuba; (Rudinger). It joins the tensor palati. The interior of the tube is lined by mucous