28 THORAX. pulmonary artery; (3) the bronchus. But, in addition to these, there are one or two small bronchial arteries and veins, the pubnonary nerves, and the puhnonary lymphatic vessels. These are bound together by some loose areolar tissue, and the whole is invested by pleura. The pulmonary nerves are derived from the anterior and posterior pulmonary plexuses. The anterior pubnonary plexus is composed of two or three delicate filaments, which come from the pneumogastric nerve before it reaches the posterior aspect of the pulmonary root. These join with the sympathetic twigs on the wall of the pulmonary artery. The deep cardiac plexus gives twigs to the anterior pul- monary plexus on both sides of the body. But the plexus of the left side is larger than that of the right side, because it likewise receives a few filaments from the superficial cardiac plexus. It is only under the most favourable circumstances that a good dissection of these nerves can be made. Dissection.—The posterior pulmonary plexus is easily dissected. To get at it, the king must be thrown well forwards over the pericardium, and the pleura stripped from the posterior surface of the pulmonary root. The pneumogastric nerve should then be secured and followed downwards. On the left side it will be found crossing the aortic arch ; on the right side it lies by the side of the trachea. The posterior pulmonary plexus is formed by the entire trunk of the pneumogastric nerve breaking up into a flattened network immediately under cover of the pleura upon the posterior aspect of the root of the lung. Several minute twigs from the upper thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic enter this plexus. The posterior pulmonary plexuses of opposite sides are connected by some strong branches, which cross the mesial plane in front of and behind the oesophagus (Fig. 182, p. 79). From both the anterior and posterior pulmonary plexuses fine twigs are prolonged into the lung along the divisions of the bronchi. The posterior branches, however, are much larger than the anterior. The brotichial arteries, one or two in number on each