439 THE SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION. piercing the vertical plate of the palate bone. The dissector cannot fail to notice the course taken by the trunk from which these filaments arise. The lamina of bone which forms the inner wall of the posterior palatine canal is so thin that the nerve can be distinctly seen through it. By carefully opening up this canal with a chisel, and following the great palatine nerve upwards, the dissector will be led to the ganglion in the spheno-maxillary fossa. The naso-palatine nerve should at the same time be traced to its origin. The ganglion is so hemmed in by the bony walls of the fossa that it is very difficult to display it thoroughly, but by removing the orbital process of the palate bone, and a portion of the body of the sphenoid with the bone-forceps, it may be more or less satisfactorily exposed. In the same restricted space will be found the terminal portion of the internal maxillary artery, from which numerous branches are given off. The Spheno-palatine Ganglion is a small triangular flattened body, which is lodged in the spheno-maxillary fossa. It is embedded in soft fat, and surrounded by the terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery. The two stout spheno-palatine branches which descend from the superior maxillary nerve join it from above, but only a certain proportion of their fibres are involved in the ganglion; the remainder are continued directly into the nasal and palatine nerves which proceed from the ganglion. The spheno-palatine nerves may be regarded as constituting the sensory roots of the ganglion. From the spheno-palatine ganglion branches are given off, which radiate in four directions—viz., inwards to the nose, downwards to the palate, backwards to establish connections with the facial nerve and carotid plexus, as well as to supply the mucous membrane of the pharynx, and upwards to the orbit. Internal branches. S r Great or anterior palatine. Descending branches, -| Posterior palatine. I External palatine. Ascending branches, . Orbital.