DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 179 Arteries of the Spinal Cord.—It is only in cases where a paint injection has been used that the spinal arteries can be made out satisfactorily. A large number of small arteries are supplied to the spinal cord. These are the anterior and posterior spinal arteries which spring from the vertebral, and a series of lateral spinal arteries which reach the side of the spinal cord and are derived from different sources in each region. In the neck they come from the spinal branches of the vertebral, ascending cervical, and deep cervical arteries; and in the dorsal and lumbar regions from the spinal twigs of the dorsal branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries. By the anastomoses of these arterial twigs, five longitudinal trunks are formed upon the surface of the spinal cord. One of these''occupies the mesial plane in front, and may be termed the antero-fuedian artery. The other four are placed in relation to the sulci along which the posterior nerve-roots enter the cord. One runs downwards in front of the line of entrance of these roots, and the other behind it on each side of the cord. These slender arterial trunks may therefore be termed the postero-lateral longitudinal vessels. The antero-inediait vessel is formed in its upper part by the union of the two anterior spinal branches of the vertebral arteries. One of these is larger than the other, and takes a much greater share in the formation of the median trunk. Below the level of the fifth pair of cervical nerves the continuity of the median vessel depends upon the reinforcements which it obtains from the lateral spinal vessels. The number of lateral spinal arteries which join the median vessel is very variable. The majority of these arteries end on the nerve roots ; five to ten only reach the median vessel. The antero-mediaii artery runs downwards, under cover of the linea splendcns of the pia mater. Its calibre is uniform throughout, and where the cord ends it proceeds onwards for some distance upon the filum terminale. The postero-lateral arteries on each side of the cord are formed in the upper part of the cervical region by the bifurcation of the corre- sponding posterior spinal branch of the vertebral artery. Lower down their continuity is maintained by twigs which reach them on the posterior