NERVES AND VESSELS OF THE NASAL FOSSA. 437 The olfactory nerves are from twelve to twenty in number. They are fine filaments which spring from the under surface and the extremity of the olfactory bulb, and passing through the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid into the nose, they separate into an outer and an inner group. To each nerve an investment from the cerebral membranes is given. The inner or septal nerves have been already de- scribed (p. 426). The outer 7ierves descend between the mucous membrane and the periosteum on the outer wall of the nose. At first lodged in shallow grooves or minute bony canals, they soon divide into bunches of branches which spread out over the upper and middle turbinated bones. The dissection of these nerves is exceedingly difficult even in the fresh subject, but in a well-preserved part they can generally be partially displayed. The stiperior nasal branches which come from the spheno- palatine ganglion and from the Vidian nerve are very minute filaments, but the dissector should not be deterred on this account from endeavouring to trace them to their distribu- tion upon the outer wall. They enter the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen, which is situated at the back part of the superior meatus. The best plan to adopt for their display is to trace the naso-palatine nerve, which has already been exposed on the nasal septum, outwards across the roof of the nose. This will lead to the foramen, and by carefully dissecting the mucous membrane in its neighbourhood, the superior nasal nerves may be detected entering the nasal fossa. They are distributed to the mucous membrane over the upper and middle turbinated bones; and some filaments are prolonged to the septum. The inferior nasal nerves are two in number, and they both arise from the great or anterior palatine nerve. Carefully raise the mucous membrane from the posterior ])art of the outer wall of the nasal fossa. JMake a vertical incision, through the membrane over the internal pterygoid process, and turn it cautiously over from behind forwards.