HEAD AND NECK. 402 passage which conducts air to and from the larynx, as well as the food from the mouth to the oesophagus. To obtain a proper idea of the connections of the pharynx, the dis- sector should moderately distend its walls by stuffing it with tow. This may be introduced either from above, through the mouth, or from below, through the oesophagus. The pharynx will now present a somewhat ovoid form. It is widest opposite the hyoid bone; from this upwards it narrows slightly as it ascends to the basis cranii. When traced in an opposite direction its width diminishes rapidly and uniformly, until it gives place to the cesophagus. Pos- teriorly its wall is complete, and when in position rests upon the upper five cervical vertebrae, the prevertebral muscles, and the prevertebral fascia. To these it is bound by some lax connective tissue which offers no barrier to the move- ments of the canal during the process of deglutition. Later- ally, the pharynx is related to the great vessels and nerves of the neck as well as to the styloid process and the muscles which take origin from it. Upon this aspect of the pharynx also is placed the pharyngeal plexus of nerves, which supplies its walls with motor and sensory twigs. front the pharyn- geal wall is interrupted by the openings of the nasal cham- bers, mouth, and larynx, and it is to the structures which lie in proximity to these apertures that it derives its principal attachment. Thus from above downwards it is fixed—{a) to the internal pterygoid plate; {b) to the pterygo-maxillary ligament; {c) to the side of the tongue; (d) to the inner aspect of the mandible; {e) to the hyoid bone; (/) to the thyroid cartilage; {g) to the cricoid cartilage. Above it is attached to the basis cranii. These various attachments will be studied more fully when we dissect the constituents which enter into the construction of its wall. It should be noted that a false idea of the natural form of the pharynx is obtained when it is examined in its present stuffed condition and apart from the vertebral column against which it rests. When seen in transverse sections of