379 THE TEMPORO-MALAR NERVE. less direct provision by means of which the action of the superior and inferior recti muscles is limited. The action of the former muscle is checked through its intimate connection with the levator palpebrse superioris in the fore part of the orbit; the action of the inferior rectus is checked through its connection with the suspensory ligament. 1 Dissection.—In order that the teniporo-malar, or orbital branch of the superior maxillary division of the trigeminal nerve, may be displayed in its course through the orbit, the orbital contents must be removed. It will then be found in the midst of a little soft fat in the angle between the floor and outer wall of the orbit. The Temporo-Malar Nerve arises in the spheno-maxillary fossa, from the superior maxillary division of the trigeminal nerve, and it enters the orbit by passing through the spheno- maxillary fissure. It alrnost immediately divides into two terminal branches—viz., the temporal and the malar.- The temporal branch runs forwards and upwards upon the outer wall of the orbit, under cover of the perio- steum, and, after receiving a communicating twig from the lachrymal nerve, it enters the temporal canal of the malar bone. This conducts it to the fore part of the tem- poral region, where it has already been examined (pp. io8 and 287). The ?nalar branch (subcutaneus malse) continues forward in the angle between the floor and outer wall of the orbit, and is finally conducted to the face by a minute canal which perforates the malar bone. Here it has been dis- played in the dissection of the face (p. 287). ' For further information regarding the capsule of Tenon the student is referred to the admirable account which is given of its connections by Mr. Lockwood in Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. xx., 1885. lie points out how important it is for the surgeon in the operation for the removal of the upper jaw to carefully preserve the attachments of the suspensory ligament. If these be destroyed, there is a danger of the eyeball sinking downwards to such an extent that it may afterwards be necessary to remove it.