BASE OF BRAIN. 497 No fewer than eight of the cranial nerves will be noticed to spring from the medulla oblongata and the pons Varolii. Hypoglossal Nerve.—Upon the lateral aspect of the medulla, in its upper half, a very conspicuous oval pro- minence called the olivary eminence may be distinguished. A distinct sulcus or groove, which passes downwards in front of this body, separates it from an elongated strand, termed the anterior pyramid of the medulla. From the bottom of this sulcus a continuous series of nerve fascicles will be seen to issue along the whole length of the medulla. These nerve fascicles belong to two different nerves. Those which issue from the lower part of the groove, below the level of the olivary eminence, belong to the anterior root of the first cervical nerve ; those which emerge from the upper part of the groove, in the interval between the olivary body and the pyramid, form the hypoglossal tierve. Glosso pharyngeal, Vagus and Spinal Accessory Nerves. —Behind the olivary eminence, between it and a prominence called the restiform body, there is another continuous row of nerve fascicles connected with the medulla. These extend downwards beyond the level of the olivary eminence, and are attached to the whole length of the medulla in linear order. They belong to three nerves, but it is impossible at present (seeing that the nerve-trunks that they build up are divided) to determine precisely the number of roots which belong to each. From below upwards the nerves which they form are the spinal accessory, the vagus, and the glosso-phary7igeal. The vagus and the glosso-pharyngeal, which issue from the interval be- tween the olivary eminence and the restiform body, have their fascicles of origin much more closely crowded together than the spinal accessory. The medullary roots of the spinal accessory constitute only one part of the nerve. The spinal part springs from the spinal cord, as low down as the sixth cervical nerve, by a series of roots which issue from the lateral vol.. 11.—32