HEAD AND NECK. 2l8 which this sheath presents with the prevertebral layer of fascia can now be made out. The common carotid usually bifurcates opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. Observe that the internal carotid artery at first lies behitid, and to the outer side of the external carotid. Upon the coats of these vessels numerous sympathetic twigs ramify (Fig. 213), and, at the point of bifurcation of the common carotid, a small oval body, termed the intercarotic body, will be found closely applied to the deep surface of the vessel. Fig. 213 (25). The branches of the external carotid which take origin in the area of this triangle run for only a very short part of their course within it. Three branches will be noticed springing from the anterior aspect of the external carotid. Named from below upwards these are : (i) the superior thyroid, which, after having given off its hyoid, superior laryngeal, and sterno-mastoid branches, disappears under cover of the omo-hyoid muscle, and enters the mus- cular triangle ; (2) the lingual, which leaves the space by passing under cover of the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles ; and (3) the facial, which ascends under the same muscles to gain the digastric triangle. The occipital artery com- monly springs from the posterior aspect of the external carotid close to the lower border of the digastric, and soon quits the space by running upwards and backwards under cover of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Its sterno-mastoid branch comes off as it leaves the triangle, and accompanies the spinal accessory nerve. The ascending pharyngeal artery will be found by separating the external and internal carotid arteries from each other, and dissecting between them. It springs from the posterior aspect of the former about half- an-inch above its origin, and then takes a vertical course upwards on the prevertebral muscles. The internal jugular veifi lies close to the outer side of the common carotid artery, and is included within the same fascial sheath. Several tributaries join it as it passes through this space. The most conspicuous of these is