mm WM& mmm.The University Library Leeds The John F. Preston Collection of Cookery Books nnl — ** LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark:Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21529929*THE <§astnmomtc I&etjenerator: A SIMPLIFIED AND ENTIRELY NEW SYSTEM OF COOKERY, WITH NEARLY TWO THOUSAND PRACTICAL RECEIPTS SUITED TO THE INCOME OF AEL CLASSES. ILLUSTRATED WITH NUMEROUS ENGRAVINGS AND CORRECT AND MINUTE PLANS HOW KITCHENS OF EVERY SIZE, FROM THE KITCHEN OF A ROYAL PALACE TO THAT OF THE HUMBLE COTTAGE, ARE TO BE CONSTRUCTED AND FURNISHED. BY \ MONSIEUR A. SOYER, OF THE KEFORM CLUB. EIGHTH EDITION. LONDON: SIMPKIN, MARSHALL, & CO., STATIONERS’ HALL COURT: AND SOLD BY JOHN OLLIVIER, PALL-MALL. 1852.i :r •' rtiK. . • LI. -Xi IEEDS y£ i ro C. AKD J. ADIU.RD, PRINTERS, DABTHOLOHEIC CLOSB. Z' >1TO HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE DUKE OF CAMBRIDGE. Your Royal Highness, 'Hie gracious condescension which permits of the dedi- cation of this Work to your Royal Highness, adds another to the many claims upon my devotedness and my gratitude. 1 have the high honour to be Your Royal Highness’ Most obedient and humble Servant, ALEXIS SOYER.THE FOLLOWING DISTINGUISHED PERSONS HAVE HONOURED THE AUTHOR WITH THEIR APPROBATION, AND THIS VOLUME, WITH THE KITCHEN PLAN OF THE REFORM CLUB, WERE COMMENCED UNDER THEIR PATRONAGE. H. R. H. the Duke of Cambridge. Ernest reigning Duke of Saxe-Cobourg. H. R. H. the Duke of Sussex. H. R. H. the Hereditary Prince of Saxe- Cobourg and Gotha. H. R. H. the Prince of Prussia. Archduke Frederic of Austria. Prince Biron de Courlande. Princess Clementine of France. The Duke of Leinster. The Duke of Bedford. The Duchess of Sutherland. La Duchesse d’Escars. La Duchesse de Lorges. La Duchesse de Valmy. The Countess of Essex. The Countess of Carlisle. The Dowager Marchioness of Downs hire. The Countess of Clare. The Countess of Craven. The Baroness de Ludwigsdorff (Sweden.) Lady Eliza Phillips, Lady Flower. Lady Throgmorton. Lady Elibank. The Marquis of Ailsa. The Marquis of Normanby. The Marquis of Lansdowne. The Marquis of Clanricarde. The Marquis of Titchfield. The Marquis of Headfort. The Marquis of Salisbury. Marquieza das Minas. Marquieza das Fuijel. The Earl Fortescue. The Earl of Pembroke. Ihe Earl of Chesterfield. Die Earl of Devon. ni!lc Yarborough. Die Earl of Charlemont. Die Count Hatzfeldt (Prussia). Count Woronzow. Countess Woronzow. The Earl Grosvenor. The Earl of Clarendon. The Earl of Sefton. Le Baron de Molartie (great Echanson to the King of Hanover). Le Baron Adolphe de Rothschild. La Baronne de Rothschild. La Baronne de Weiber (Baden). Le Comte de Rancher (France). Le Comte de Pradel (France). Lord Ebrington. . Lord Dinorben. Lord Maidstone. Lord Marcus Hill, M.P. Le Vicomte de Noailles (France). Viscount Duncannon. Lord James Stuart. Lord Mostyn Lord Jermyn. Lord Say and Sele. Lord Dudley Coutts Stuart. Lord Panmure. Lord F. Gordon. Lord Hastings. Lord Scarborough. Lord Nugent. Lord Lovat. Lord Templetown. Lord Clement. Lord Augustus Fitzelarence. Lord Vivian. Sir George Chetwynd. Sir Benjamin Hall, M.P. Sir Henry Webb. Sir Andrew Leith Hay, M.P. Sir D. Le Marchaut. Sir John Guest, M.P. Sir Hesketh Fleetwood, M.P. Sir James Duke, M.P. Sir John Easthope, M.P. Sir. R. Musgrave. Le Chcvalio A. Mongaldi (Venice). Sir John M’Ncil.VI LIST OF PATRONS. Sir Henry Pottinger. The Hi"ht Honorable Pox Maule, M.I The Honorable H. R. Westenra. The Honorable J. 0. Murray. Lieutenant-Colonel Westenra. Lieutenant-Colonel Gordon. Major- General Evans. Admiral Dundas, M.P. General Sir Alexander Duff, Hart. Le^ener^ Baron de Parincourt (Erance.) Colonel Sir William Robert Clayton. Colonel White.. Colonel Beckwith. C^aptai^Noble Cffisar de Ladacio (Naples). Lieut. Gen. Baron de Warlmgton (Ba- Capitaine dcVaisseaux P. Gautier (Prance). Admiral Codrington. El Gen. Martin Joie de Tnarte (Spam). Captain Robert Scherger (Cobonrg). The Honorable General Mead. The Honorable Captain Vivian, M.P Daniel O’Connell Esq., M_P. Maurice O’Connell, Esq., M.I • John O’Connell, Esq., M.P. George Duncan, Esq., M.P. Edward Ellice, Esq., M.P. Robert Archbold, Esq., M-P. The Rev. Charles Tumor, D.O. Captain Wemyss. Alston, Rowland, Esq. Basevi,- George, Esq. . Bryanc, W. C. Esq. (America). Bavin Christopher, Esq. Boyd, W. Esq. Buckland, James, Esq. Hawes, B. Esq. . M. Dusillion, Architect, Pans. Barry, Charles, Esq. Bouverie, Edward X leydell. Esq. Collins, William, M.D. Clumy, Thomas, Esq. Clayton, John, Lloyd, Esq. Diwett, Thomas, Esq. Dardel, Monsieur de. Dana, Henry, Esq. Paraday, Professor. Gully, John, Esq. Gunston, John, Esq. Gordon, Robert, Esq. Hoare, Charles, Esq. Harmer, James, Esq. Hope, —, Esq. Hovenden, J. E. Esq. Humphrey, John, Alderman, M.P. Melik, A. Esq., (Turkey). Montefiore, N. Esq. Murphy, Mr. Sergeant. Oliviera, Benjamin, Esq. O’Brien, Stafford, Esq. Perkins, Prederic, Esq. Philips, Mark, Esq., M.P. Prescott, H. Esq. Rushton, E. A. Esq. Strutt, Edward, Esq., M.P. Sampayo, 0. H. Esq. E. A. Sarg, Esq. Wolfe, J. L. Esq.PREFACE. At the request of several persons of distinction, who have visited the Reform Club,—particularly the ladies, to whom I have always made it a rule never to refuse anything in my power, for indeed it must have been the fair sex who have baa the majority in this domestic argument to gain this gastronomical election,-^—Why do you not write and publish a Cookery-book? was a question continually put to me. For a considerable time this scientific word caused a thrill of horror to pervade my frame, and brought back to my mind that one day, being in a most superb library in the midst of a splendid baronial hall, by chance I met with one of Milton’s allegorical works, the profound ideas of Locke,^ and several chefs-d’oeuvre of one of the noblest champions of literature, Shakspeare; when all at once my attention was attracted by the nineteenth edition of a voluminous work: such an immense success of publication caused me to say, “ Oh! you celebrated man, posterity counts every horn of fame upon your regretted ashes!” Opening this work with intense curiosity, to my great isappomtment what did I see,—a receipt for Ox-tail Soup ! ° tcrnfymg effect produced upon me by this succulent vo ume made me determine that my few ideas, whether culinary or domestic, should never encumber a sanctuaryVlll PREFACE. which should be entirely devoted to works worthy of a place in the Temple of the Muses. But you must acknowledge, respected readers, how changeable and uncertain are our feeble ideas through life; to keep the promise above mentioned, I have been drawn into a thousand gastronomic reflections, which have involved me in the necessity of deviating entirely from my former opinion, and have induced me to bring before the public the present volume, under the title of ‘ The Gastronomic Regenerator,’ throughout which I have closely followed the plain rules of simplicity, so that every receipt can not only clearly be understood, but easily executed. I now sincerely hope, Ladies, that I have not only kept my promise, but to your satisfaction paid tribute to your wishes. You have not forgotten, dear reader, the effect that mon- strous volume, the said nineteenth edition, produced upon me, therefore I now sincerely beg of you to put my book in a place suited to its little merit, and not with Milton’s sublime Paradise, for there it certainly would be doubly lost.PREFACE TO THE FOURTH EDITION. The sale of three editions of the Gastronomic Regenera- tor in less than nine months, is so gratifying to my feelings, that I should be wanting in courtesy, were I not publicly to express, at this present moment, how grateful I am for the very flattering testimonials I have been honoured with by the press, through whom I have received such great encou- ragement from the public, who so handsomely repaid the laborious work which I have devoted to the gastronomic art. In this the Fourth Edition, I have increased and improved the receipts, and corrected those errors which unavoidably occur in so voluminous a work. The first improvement is a most essential one, being an abbreviated table of contents, referring from number to num- ber or article to article, and giving in a few pages the trans- lation of every comestible, which will much facilitate the making of bills of fare. The second and still more important improvement is my new Tendon Separator, demonstrated by a scientific wood- cut, with full explanations of its valuable use in preparing poultry and game for the table. I have added several new receipts, communicated by amateurs, which are not deficient in good taste. There will likewise be found a correct engraving of myX PREFACE TO THE FOURTH EDITION. Bouquet de Gibier, which met with so much success in London and Paris last Christmas, and offers to noblemen and gentlemen a new and pleasing mode of making pre- sents of game. The one I presented to His Majesty Louis Philippe, with a copy of this work, met with the highest approbation from the court of Prance, and was most handsomely ac- knowledged by his Majesty. I now most humbly return thanks to the public for their kind encouragement, and trust that the success I have hitherto had may still be continued. ALEXIS SOYER, DUBLIN ; St. Patrick's Bay, 1847.I M P O R T A N T. DESCRIPTION OF TIIE COMPOSITION OF THIS WORK. To sustain and deserve the title of “Gastronomic Regenerator” nothing but an entire change from the system of any other publication on the art of Cookery would be admissible, it is now in the hands of mv readers to judge for themselves, and to stamp its character according to its merits either as an original or a copy; to avoid the last, howeve? I have closely studied to introduce the greatest novelty in every depwt- ment, and have entirely omitted all unnecessary confusion, which in many previous works, have rendered them unintelligible to the un- initiated and almost impracticable to the initiated; however, many old nhfipT I*1 rec,eipts’ t0° S°od t0 be omitted, will be found mucl/sim- plified to reduce them to a practical point. I have also minutely studied the disposing and arranging of the buildmg of all sized kitchens, from the one of the Reform Club and the Ku chen of the Wealthy to the humble one of the cottage, which cannot s sc oT^e'y ex™s usefid departments have not only previously Lenmuch “eglected ^ut m many instances at a very great evnpnsp 11 neglected, but of practical knowledge, anlAnsideKngthaf heZ tlf are an every-day enjoyment which reflects good id eJonV^‘‘el my readers I am sme will agree with ™p A JYi n,. classes> such an important department deserves some littlePuPT- dlSp°sm8 of uncomfortably prepared is almost always unsightly unwhT’ f°r ^ consequently indigestible, not being cleanly pfep^d f Ci"S,°,f “ they might have proved useful in 10lP pubheatmn ; although seldom feferred toP oiSt£te dinner by the difliculty of procuring pert t“e idenfT0"11™, n “ required m the receipts which the bills of f!™ p 'Cal comestibles would venture to sav thnt in ■ * <uc rePer to; and more I been correctly followed - the onl/i Lrl'''-lmvc tllose 01 JaI‘e arrange my one to other the LucuUucian dinner, and thfdinncr of be found 3 thcTldxii DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK. will give a general idea of tlie manner in which I usually compose my bills of fare, which of course may be increased or decreased to any size. To avoid the old-fashioned method of giving ten or twelve for every season in the year, I have made the whole contents of my book one regular bill of fare, which will enable the most inexperienced cook, or young lady just commencing housekeeping, to compose a recherche or economical bill of fare at will, being so distributed, that after a short series of sauces the bill of fare commences, being first the soups, then the fish, then the hors-d’oeuvres, or flying dishes, to be handed round the table during the time the removes and entrees are placing upon it; this is the usual manner I serve a dinner, which cannot fail to be very hot; and to prevent confusion, which too often occurs, I place a number on a piece of paper between the cover and the dish, with a correspond- ing number to the name of the dish upon the bill of fare, which is then forwarded to the steward, who by this means not only understands the better placing it upon the table, but is able to answer to any questions respecting the dinner, thus saving time and confusion; and, above all, the dinner will be very hot and inviting, which would not be the case in the regular system of laying out the whole of the first course first upon the kitchen table, having to uncover every dish unnecessarily, then upon another table in a room adjoining the dining-room, and third and last, upon the dining-table, adding to which the chance of confusion and innumerable delays, in which your dinner is getting quite cold. In a plate service of sixteen entrees, which I was directed by the committee of the Reform Club to order, I introduced silver sand concealed in the heaters; thus by placing them two hours in a hot closet previous to serving, they will retain their heat nearly a couple of hours longer upon the table, but for further details, see Pagodatique Dish at the end of the book. But to return to the arrangement of my book : after the hors-d’oeuvres come the removes, flancs, entrees, in succession in the first course, and for the second the roasts, savoury dishes, vegetables, entremets, and removes second course; thus my readers will have but to turn from one series to another in succession to arrange their bills of fare. For any description of plain joints frequently required in the first course, they will be found at the commencement of the series entitled My Kitchen at Home. For a public breakfast, luncheon, or suppers, where everything is partly cold, the series of savoury dishes in the second course will be found to facilitate and very much abbreviate the composition of the bill of fare for either of the above purposes. In the department entitled My Kitchen at Home will be found the same arrangements, and the repetition of many dishes from the Kitchen of the Wealthy, but so much simplified that the industrious classes of society may partake freely of them at a very moderate expense. I shall also remark that my motive in not making a translation to my index, but merely naming at the commencement of each series the different comestibles, is to avoid the following ridiculous occurrence,X1H DESCRIPTION OF THE WORK. that is, the making of bills of fare in English from such curious trans- lation,’not one of which have I seen deserving publication, being com- posed of comic French trivialite. As it is not the name that makes the dish, I have only explained the names of the different articles by way of distinction; I have also mixed several headings in French and English, to instruct by degrees the un- initiated in the art of making a correct bill of fare; I have also, in every place where the heading is in French, endeavoured to place the name of the comestible in the first line of the receipt. The reference by numbers will be found unavoidably repeated in many instances, especially those referring to stocks, sauces, pastes, or any of those articles which are the foundations of any others, which will be easily remembered after a few weeks’ practice without having recourse to the index. My readers will probably also feel interested in knowing that, although for some time it has been my intention to write a work upon Gastronomy, the laborious and difficult duties which I had to fulfil at the Reform Club, added to the terrific effect which has produced upon me the 19th edition of that monstrous volume mentioned in the preface, have often been the cause of my giving up such an idea, and having destroyed my old manuscripts, it is only within the last ten months that I in reality commenced afresh this work, in which lapse of time I had to furnish 25,000 dinners for the gentlemen of the Reform Club, and 38 dinner parties of importance, comprising above 70,000 dishes, and to provide daily for 60 servants of the establishment, independent of about 15,000 visitors who have seen the kitchen department in that lapse of time. Although I am entirely satisfied with the composition, distribution, and arrangement of my book, should some few little mistakes be dis- covered they will be the more excusable under those circumstances, as in many instances I was unable to devote that tedious time required for correction ; and, although I have taken all possible care to prescribe, by weight and measure, the exact quantity of ingredients used in the following receipts for the seasoning and preparing of all kinds of comes- tibles, I must observe that the ingredients are not all either of the same size or quality; for instance, some eggs are much larger than others, some pepper stronger, salt salter, and even some sugar sweeter. In vegetables, again, there is a considerable difference in point of size and quality; fruit is subject to the same variation, and, in fact, all descrip- tion of food is subject to a similar fluctuation. I am far, however, from taking these disproportions for excuses, but feel satisfied if the medium of the specified ingredients be used, and the receipts in other respects closely followed, nothing can hinder success.SOYER’S NEW MODE OE CARVING. &c. &C. &C. You are oil aware, ootaaT^ Sen all eyes in this useful art, which requires YJ Un 0f the knife, which skill Others become very nervous , y l _ else they say, this ta not the least objection tobe found fadi«'^n8equeBtly’not of the capon, pheasant, or poularde 1 °‘ J t ;t certainly often hap- best quality. Yon may “ "®t carver, and complains sadly r“8ftotTerionl°p”“ess, saying to himself, “lam last to served; my"dinner will be cold.” - .. - ser e , j . , i ( rate tins jusu ... up those important rcmu- r • - having one day served a peiu relate a curious and tastonc anecdote^ ^ ^ was a poularde, a diner, trie recherche, f”,* th^r ,0luminous dish of mine, rfter the l’amhassadnce, a new and rath that tlie gentlemen had found first course a message was sen two poulardes lnsteai that dish so good they regretted I had not^ & sbort time of one ; at first I took this message for a^e ^ & ^ ,f ^p0?ed ifter three parts of the poularde < si^n, without hanug £ a laundry door would “'"ftog doni herethe sight of recourse to those popular words, Jt a few of my little culinary dish so greatly disfigured made m dine more or less once ide I Nature,’says I to myself, comp j u to d t0 meet *, a day; each of those days you are, honorable casant, or other volatile ttlei-tete with a fowl, poularde, d ■ P i4 4 ,hc decs ot thoBe put an end to the faMl relate a most Mta- nougat other trjbulatmna o * be forced to cam,.t ■i? "ssrsag neighbours in fear ^-^'ihi^ure^oidy * an acknowledgment of awk- make no excuses, tor tneyXV NEW MODE OF CARVING. wardness. We remember to have seen a man off high fashion deposit a turkey in this way in the lap of a lady, but with admirable compo- sure, and without offering the slightest apology, he finished a story which he was telling at the same time, and then, quietly turning to her, merely said, ‘Madam, I’ll thank you for that turkey.’” My conscience will not allow me to swear to the authenticity of the fact, but in the course of twelve months past I have witnessed a very simi- lar instance, only the party not possessing the assurance of the fashion- able above mentioned, did not continue the conversation, but in his nervous anxiety, endeavouring to replace it on the dish with vivacity, sent it rolling across the table to his right-hand neighbour, who quickly perceiving the imminent danger in which he was placed, for- tunately arrested its further progress with his fork. One hearty laugh of the remaining party terminated this scene of confusion. After a short consideration I found, by a most simple rule, and with the greatest facility, that a bird that would take ten minutes to carve very badly may be done well in two or three by the most inexperienced person. From this process a number of advantages may be derived: first, you may eat your dinner much hotter; secondly, you can make eight or ten pieces of a fowl, or any other bird, where, previously, great difficulty was experienced in making five or six ; and each person will thereby be enabled to choose a favorite piece; a large bird, such as turkey, poularde, capon, &c., will be fit to reappear on your table in a very inviting state. I must also observe that the birds are not in the least disfigured, but, on the contrary, their appearance is much improved. DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. By the simple process which I have effected for the jointing of game or small poultry, with a long pointed pair of scissors, separating the sinews which join the wings to the breast, making the incision as small as possible, and also jointing the legs, by passing your finger between the skin and the flesh, pressing the legs over the breast with the left hand, the separation of the joints may be easily effected and having thus detached the four principal parts,'the carving, when roasted, will be very simple. But for the jointing of large birds, as turkeys, geese, capons, &c., procure an instrument I invented for that purpose from Bramah’s, Piccadilly, with which a very intelligible printed direction will be given for its use ; after having jointed the bird, truss it with a packing-needle and string, as usual, but not pressing them so tightly, or they would become deformed, whilst, on the contrary, if merely brought to their usual shape, they will look as plump as possible, and the process they have previously undergone will be totally imperceptible. In many instances where I have sent poultry to table thus previously jointed, the parties carving have been quite surprised at their unex- pected progress in that difficult art. Formerly nothing was more dif- ficult to carve than wild fowl, the continual motion (when alive) of the g8 and leS8 making the sinews almost as tough as wires, puzzling VNEW MODE OF CARVING. XVI the oest of carvers to separate them; my new method has quite abo- lished such a domestic tribulation. A long and dry description for the carving of each bird separately would be entirely useless, as every one of my readers will have perceived that almost the whole difficulty is defeated by this simple process ; I shall therefore leave the subject making but the following observation, which is, that in everything dislike a straight line, and still more so in carving any kind of bmd by doing which you not only spoil their appearance, but cut against the grain, causing them to eat dry and, imperceptibly, obliging you to assist some of the guests to very thick pieces, unlessi the^breast is very full and plump. I have here given a simple woodcut of a small turkey, by which you will easily perceive, that by trussing and. carving in my rlw way L represented, you will be enabled to carve for more people, assisting each to better slices with a middling-sized fowl, or any other bird, than with a larger one trussed and carved in the usual met o . Keep, if possible, the legs in the position indicated in the design , any small birds, such as woodcocks, plovers, snipes, or teal, are genera y cut into two or four, being easily carved, but for anything above their size the foregoing plan had better be acted upon. Respecting the carving of any description of joints, it may be more simply explained. For a saddle of mutton or lamb, proceed precisely as directed for the saddje-back (page 644) and for a round or aitch- bone of beef, proceed as scientifically explained (pages 641-3) by the cfirvcr of tins misrlity dish* - For the ribs or sirloin of beef, pass the knife between the clime- bone and the flesh to about an inch in depth, but only to about the length you think sufficient to cut as many slices from as you may re- ouire • then having a sharp knife, cut off the outside slice very thinly (which, if roasted according to my new plan, will be very good, espe- cially where parties have an objection to their meat the least under- done7) ; hold your knife a little in a slanting direction, and continue cutting thin slices from the chine to the end, especially with the rib., wS are more lean, but it is preferable to leave aU the ends of the sirloin in the dish as you carve, if not wanted, or after having carved two or three plates you are forced to dig the lean out, which is not only often, but generally done in a club-house where a scientific canerNEW MODE OF CARVING. XVII is not employed ; if a slice from a fillet of a sirloin is required, the servant must take the joint to the sideboard, and turn it over with a couple of forks ; when again placed upon the table, the carver must carefully part some of the fat which covers it, if too much, then cut short slices in a slanting direction, as if from the breast of a fowl, in- stead of crosswise, for then if clumsily carved and overdone it has a strong resemblance to an old strap. Foi a rump of beef, either roasted or stewed, always commence at the fattest end, carving in a slanting direction, by which means you will obtain a correct quantity of that delicate article, if even you should be carving for twenty people, whilst by cutting straight across, some would have the greater proportion fat and the remainder nothing but Jean. Any other piece of beef rolled and stewed, and fillets of beef as served for a remove all require to be carved in a slanting direction.’ °i ‘pir Vea1, Proceed in the same manner as directed for a round or beer. °/ ICa1' ^ CUnt ftraight at the commencement, is entirely spoiled but when carved slantingly (if well done from the best end) ,snfl1pen ltS °T SmVy’ n0thinS could be nicer, the remaining then also very good cold, even the kidney ought to be served the of*carvingd ^ r°aSted °r Stewed> re(lllire the same style For legs of mutton or lamb I also proceed in a new way • the frill ment th? aC6f ?P,°v ^ - not only intended toornt ment the leg but likewise to enable you to hold the bone with your left hand, and carving with the right, which would wonderfully feci beneath the X^deTaehi^ttem fronf d™ hT^' k"'‘? person quickly and mth ray hoTrnea? bone’thus he}P“« meat will keep it moistened in ,3* general manner you have nothin? but rlr * wl“lst m tlie purpose for cold the melt 1° , ! m.e,at’ or lf “uderdone on is my way of Sf V * ““1 aPPe”““- This with the fingers, mafi, use S clLIS‘““torn ^ *lle,fri11 any gravv to be nni irtfn +1 v i i ioik , at liome I never allow if thf nilt is of go d quXttnU “ a boat> dance of good |ravy l ' f0r ^pply ^ wen roasted) an abun- earving the leg nearerto the centrp6 g"f ^ °P the weal%, commence For shoulders ^mutton or kmh ?o a ^ingdirection, and lean must be weU nfixedTn sTil tn ^ ?? d*cate’ the fat must be carved in a still more slantin/di accoraPllsl1 which the joint ginning rather near to the knuckle. S d tl0n tban tIlc legs, also be- with a c^oppCT d0r°vou°win U?l° ?• “ever seParate the hones of cither all the gravy^in roasting,and frequentivh11^ ^^6 thus losing but separate the ioints with ^ ,, ^ lave groat difficulty in carving, “ O'® direction /oTr^Se to cart. ^ “ P<“«=. ««4 bnew mode of carving. xvm Tor ribs of lamb, which should be prope^ly P^ broken> with the fore being roasted, having the cent follow the bones, chine-bone detached ; to carve, ^^kVvTon to a cutlet from the which run rather slanting y, <■ 1 cut too thick ; by following tins neck, with a slice of the bres •» of the breast, which, without con- plan, each person will have; p ‘ ut wbich is m0st frequently left tradiction, is the most delicate pai t retnain, being evenly to be eaten when dry ^d coW^and it day. carved, will be very piesen s:mnar to the manner directed for the To carve a ham proceed from the knuckle, carving of a leg of mu , slanting more and more a3 you cutting0 very thin and STffat the extremity, proceed, or you will < t> into the root, and cut a thin To carve an ox-tongu , J upon it, which draw along to the slice off, placing the heel o P leaving it upon the dish, point, thus taking the slice offm one cut, butlvery thin and and serving the. inner slices cut m t of jt easily without appearance, and*5 the rematad'tjodd^eat ““ piece of either - ** “ “ ^ S“e- 51OW TO CARVE A HAUNCH OF VENISON. The above engraving represents a \^e7oin being first No. 540, and ready as marked by letters and partly taken out to facilitate knife mnat be sharp ; put the lines in the drain letter A to B, and draw it m a slanting noint of it an inch deep fiom letter B but g0 a little deeper Lectio,i from letter * .“k^°ot your llnch. and 'avoid making a through any part of it, as a Tyou ar'e persons from the haunch, then carvenkw mode of carving. XIX the Join at the same time as the thickest part, from C C to D jj nnd give to each guest a slice from each part, by which you will ouicWv perceive that you have fairly cut the meat, and that each person will have had his proper quantity of fat, and from first to la tPeach shoe J U be very inviting; serve on very hot plates of silver if possiUe mmmmm My new system kd ft. to be cS7nt0°!jie X^fo^H 0f 14 r “ “ stete- a few spoonfuls of gravy "with tbP r th dmner> by merely putting fire for three minutes* SaUt6pan’ 0Ver a sb4 teaspoonful of currant iellv T in season widl httle salt, a until the My is Stefan ^ tW° or tllree times oyer to let the slices boil in the rm °U a/ei-v1 bot dlsbx but be careful not If any remain, make a hash Si No 7st or ™7 t0“gh' ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL WAY. -Sy v;^Ie,ds te sroVLir”for eigte“ » 'ride, Jg then bepn Z cut in a“ nbM inches represents, from the bemnnino of 'riicm.,n, as the drawing the knuckle, without reU^ lutrZ^ r ?e le« “s f" ** it to be better, as every slice you cut throu^Kl^f “ fact,1 have found gravy boding hot, which uin nitll , 8 he ]eS Produces its own other wa, of earring. Do not»„• Lgf Cold m ™)1 formed the as your hash or pie would be insipid ““ ht for the next day, , SZtffZSZ1si W nbs about four inches bdow part of the slanting direction, not interfering with ti t len cut slices in a explained. For shoulders, tS^SL^^ SADDLEBACK of venison. t„ngp™dte” a^eaddlebaclc of10VC' °f CI“*« C™ of cutting a splendid joint that ever could bo Y TF’, aud Gained a most cannot be generally adopted, eLept bTlt *? an ^icure! but i, 1 , except in the country, where gentlemenx CARVING OF POULTRY. keep their owe perk of .leer, as we which look like legs of mutton, anjl deprived them o 1 arc the fat, which cannot be dispensed with. m otner t excellent for pies. . j6 like a coffee-pot, heated by I have also introduced & sau , veai or beef gravy, to be a spirit-lamp underneath, tilled wi g poured over taken round to each guestthe great heatfrora the the shoes of venison '-dh ‘h gravy a^ ^ d Seldi^t'reahy^oT^ the cmi J icily always served ought °°^zz™X°p tt ;eht“;r.fUe and green, well dried, and very liflower or young brocoli with it; could not be obtained, sen P vegetables are very unpalat- however I must here obseive, th S ■ Uy than French beans able, as nothing disagrees more with curra 3 7 escribed No. 1099, and brocoli. I have approved It;"- im%Pem.°when loJ dish up, add a little butter over each, and send very hot. CARVING OF POULTRY. the fancy of as many guests. . - k which vou stick in the In the first placeyoutakeacar ? ^ ^ atthe fillet, beginning breast, between figs. 5 and 6, then y B of the knife cut through at 1 down to 2, where you make the^ ^ ^ ^ easily comc the joint of the wing, win y S 3 to 4; and without asunder. The same operation i> done tve ^ ^ &nd the same SJSSTbS :teSArebc! K^hV^rh^"^ «ded at the ioiut commouiy called drumstick, it completes the ten parte. should be A Duck. The best part of a duck is ti e oreas , as ^ cut in fillets obliquely, then the wings and the legs, parts are the breast and legs, which arc CTp—Tta "wiugs and the body arc the best parts. to obtain the fillets, d shoulders are seldom iu a hash or stewed.THE TENDON SEPARATOR. XX* SOYER’S TENDON SEPARATOR. inJ!umInt°8dCUtItfnf' ™Pre*enta oue of the most serviceable of i ' ^ts °bject is to relieve carvers, more or less nrofieienf in dSsSiJdTabl,'to lhe 0f "" co°ks “d boiling 6 ' 'pec'“ I1':c,l0lls l" trussing, roisting, or ”* * h““'ly table or public banquet, it man is at his ellmw ^ fXC?- llPon or a fidgety foot- aecordino' to tlip fmn ' e ^ quietly distributes the Several dainties fort. But to a nprs ^ ° ? guests, and everything goes on in com- ° a person “experienced, the notion of being placed at eitherTHE TENDON SEPARATOR. xxn end of the table, to stay the ravenous appetite of some of the guests, causes such a nervous excitement, that it is not an uncommon thing to see the splashing of sauce and gravy on those around—perchance the sudden appearance of an unfortunate limb flying with terrific velocity on a lady’s dress, the whole of the company being thus thrown into confusion—the poor carver’s apologies received with black looks, and the harmony of the party placed in jeopardy. . . . It is with a view to extricate society from such an awkward position that the inventor offers to the public tlio Tendon Separator, as a medium by which any gentleman may boldly take the carving-knife in hand, and be delighted to comply with the invitation of the Amphytnon: instead of inspiring fear, he will be admired for his abdity in gracefully dividing a favorite piece of game or poultry. The simplicity of the operation will easily convince any one tnat the Tendon Separator possesses all that is required to remove awkwardness in carving; the only necessity being to divide the ten- dons in the joints, the toughness of which is the difficulty to be over- come, and often abandoned to make a desperate cut at the bones ; hence arise the accidents above mentioned. The following instructions will enable all cooks and poulterers to prepare game and poultry for the table, perfectly free from opposition to anv carver’s knife. THE TENDON SEPARATOR Is represented shut when done with, by merely slipping the brass ring to keep the spring in its place, and open when m the act ot being used; the straight part of the handle, with the ring, resting in the palm of the hand between the thumb and the fore-finger. When about separating the tendons and otherwise dividing other parts of your fowl or bird, you begin by turning the skin over the wings and cutting the tendons (No. 1, p. xxiv) in each of the joints ; and then by taking hold of that part commonly called the drumstick with your right hand and the skin being already turned, you can easily get at the joint (i o. -J by making it come out, to cut the tendons of each leg; on turning the Separator with the points upwards, you give a cut at the breast-bone (No. 4) ; and, by holding the instrument with both hands, lmmedia e j after turning the points downwards, you also give a cut at the back-bone CNo 5) and then, the four tendons being cut, the limbs are broug l back to their former position. Then you introduce the instrument into the body at the other end of the bird, and with your left hand you take hold of the thigh-bone, which you also divide at No. 3, and again turning the points downwards, you give another cut at the back- bone No. 5 ; with little practice the cuts at the breast and back- bone, are made without interfering in the least with the skin; tnen you truss the bird in the common way, but a packing-needle and thread are to be preferred, as explained at page xv. ’W hen rowite■ , the appearance of the poultry is vastly improved by this simple operation, it looks more plump on account ot the sinews havm o.t their power of contraction whilst roasting; therefore, when the bin.THE TENDON SEPARATOR. XXlliTHE TENDON SEPARATOR. XXIV comes to table, tlie carver has merely to pass the knife in the usual manner to take up the wings and legs, and finds no resistance; the same at the breast and the back, where it may easily be seen whilst carving that it has already been prepared. Three minutes is about the time taken by this new process to cut into ten parts an ordinary fowl. For a Turkey or a Goose, the sinews are divided as above, and in the act of carving, instead of cutting the fillets in a straight line with the breast-bone, you separate them obliquely, and all other parts as usual. Pheasants, Ducks, and all Wild Fowl especially, must be prepared in a similar manner. A Hare or Rabbit may also have the sinews and back-bone divided; to effect this you lay the hare upon its back, and give six cuts nearly through the back-bone, holding the Separator with both hands, through the belly part; then you truss it for roasting. If it should happen to be a very large hare, the fillets only are carved, and they ought to be cut in thin slices in an oblique direction, instead of straight along the back. The half Of a Fo wl viith the flesh on. The half of a Fowl dissected.LAUDING. IXV DIRECTIONS FOR LARDING. My motive for introducing tlie directions for larding at the com- mencement of this work, is to give it the importance which it deserves, it having in all former works been generally omitted, or lost amongst a multitude of receipts, which has made me desirous of placing it in a conspicuous place, in the hope that many families in the middle classes of society may be able to partake of that very inexpensive luxury. Nothing but experience and practice would enable a person to lard o A X vuuwjiv w pv_ l OVJ11 LV_/ 1(11 well, I have, therefore, given the few following directions, so that person might improve himself after once commencing. I have been induced to do so from the fact of having had many female cooks with me for improvement, many of whom could send up very good dinners, but few of them have scarcely known, or had any idea of larding, being in the habit of having it done by their poulterer whilst in London, and in the country avoiding it entirely: I shall, therefore, endeavour to explain, first, the choice of the bacon ; secondly, the manner of cutting it; and lastly, the best mode of larding. Choose the firmest bacon you can obtain, quite fat, and not at all red, or it would break and cause a deal of trouble. To cut it, take olf the piece of lean at the bottom, lay it upon a board with ’the rind upwards, and beat gently with a cutlet-bat, trim the sides, and cut it into bands the breadth that you may require your lardons in length ; if for a fillet of beef, two inches; for fricandeau, turkey, poularde’ fowl, pheasant, or sweetbread, an inch and a half; and for lamb’s sweatbreads much smaller. Take one of the bands, place it before you with the rind downwards, and with a sharp knife cut it in slices (but not separating it from the rind), of the thickness you require for the article you are about to lard, then place your hand at the top press lightly, and draw your knife straight along as if cutting the bacon in slices, so as to form the lardons square at each end *com- mencmg cuttnig from the heel of the knife, and finishing at the’point. Io lard, the French method is so familiar to me that I cannot but recommend it, especially to inexperienced hands. If a fricandeau lay it lengthwise upon a clean napkin across your hand, forming a kind of ndge with your thumb at the part you are about to commence at aTift'T 7 the, sI™ from ae veal with » £j£ lines ™ ‘| !,fPOmf f J0Ur 1”‘lll>e-MeclIe make three distiuci apart, run your needle into the third line (at the further side of the fricandeau), and bring it out at the first placing one of the lardons in it, draw the needle&through, LavL oiR toThe end of ^be °f ^ ^ °t'the bafon at eadl Iine : proceed&tlms o the end of the row; then make another line half an inch distant league thelndsTtJ tllem 0Ut at the second n aving the ends of the bacon out all of the same length; make the the lardonTo^thefi16^1116 dlStanC®? bri.nginS the ends out between S the wboll f r°W’ Procecdlfg ™ manner until you have with ter^th W r^aC?i11, chXered rows : Proceed in a similar way lardons and hfthn arV16 dlfference bemS only ^ the size of the By following i T)C ° , P°Ul 7 °f game’ Previoosly scald the breasts, if not STESlt rl h„G ab0"e S!mPle Sections any cook may be able, if not to lirrl woii J ‘ r x\ie directions any cook may be i which would give’pmetiL1 um/n aid ^ en°?Sh f°r every"day use» require compcte“cc-to ,arj articl“ (TXV) REMARKS. MEAT AND POULTRY. A FEW THINGS I OBJECT TO, THAT IS, NOT TO USE IN COOKERY COMES- TIBLES WHEN OUT OF, OR BEFORE, THEIR PROPER SEASON. For Butcher’s Meat, see page 637, Kitchen at Home. In Poultry. I never use turkeys before Michaelmas, and not after the latter end of March. Ditto turkey poults before the end of June, and not after September. Capons, poulardes, pullets, and fowls, I use all the year round. I begin about March with the spring chickens, till the beginning of July. Geese are in season almost all the year round. Goslings, or green geese, commence early in the spring, and are called so till the end of September, thus there is hardly any difference between them and the Michaelmas geese. Ducks and ducklings the same. Rabbits and pigeons may be used all the year round ; but it is only in the early part of the spring that I use tame rabbits. Guinea-fowls are used when pheasants go out, which is about the latter end of January, and are used till the end of May. Their eggs are very good, more delicate than the common ones. I never use grouse before the 14th Aug., nor after the 22d December. Black cocks and gray hens about the same time as grouse, but they are more uncertain. Ptarmigans are sent from Norway about the middle of January, and continue till March, but that depends upon the weather. Though the shooting season for partridges is the first of September, and lasts till the end of January, I never cook one before the 3d, ex- cept being desired to do so, but 1 often keep some for three weeks after the shooting season is over. The same with pheasants, which begins from the 1st of October till the end of January. By hanging them by the necks and putting a piece of garlic in the beak and a little cayenne, I one cold winter kept one six wreeks after the shooting time had expired, winch I after- wards presented to a party of real gourmets, who said it was the best they had partaken of during the season. I always use wild ducks, widgeons, teal, pintails, larks, golden plovers, snipes, woodcocks from the commencement of November till the end of March, after which the flesh becomes rank and unfit for table. Young pea-fowls are very good, and make a noble roast, see p. 401, and are in season from January till June, but they are very uncertain. Plovers’ eggs, my favorite, an unparalleled delicacy, come about the middle of March, and are not considered good after the latter end of May; but when I can get them fresh in June, I do not discontinue their use, because they are, in my estimation, worthy of the patronage of the greatest gourmet. 1 have paid for them, at the beginning of the season, three shillings and sixpence each ; they are the black plover or peweet’s eggs.REMARKS. XXVII F I S II. For the last few years there has been quite an alteration in the seasons for these golden and silvery inhabitants of the deep. Except the Cod-fish, which come in September, and by strictness of rule must disappear in March, the season for all other sea-fish becomes a puzzle ; but the method I follow during the season is as follows: Crimped Gloucester is plentiful in June and part of July, but it may be procured almost all the year round. Common Salmon from March to July. Salmon Peale from June to July. Spey Trout from May to July. Sturgeon, though not thought much of, is very good in June. Turbot are in season all the year round. John Dories depend entirely upon chance, but may be procured all She year round for the epicure. May excepted. The original season of' Yarmouth Mackerel is from the 12th of May till the end of July ; now we have Christmas mackerel; then the west ol England mackerel, which are good at the beginning of Am'il Haddock and Whiting all the year round. Skate all the winter. Smelts from the Medway are the best, and are winter fish the Yarmouth and Carlisle are good, but rather large; the Dutch are’ also very large, which often lose in the estimation of the epicure. nriLt is like turbot as to season. Slips are similar to soles, good all the year round Gurnets are rather a spring fish. R1r*(,mdDiam0“d Plre- are ni f“U from June to July ed Mullets vary very muclr now, but the beginning of the eeieou was formerly the 12th of May; we had none thi yel exeent at aTerv extravagant pnee. I always use them when they Ire to be obtained ? ££ from Norember ,o ' SbTs«ib«>pMirnd part of the s,,mmer' pra™ «*>• September. end of February. & h °f SePtember, and last till the Barrelled Cod, Lent fish, are best in winter or about i Sprats come in about the 8tli of November ^ and also of a fbulof °f PrMoe- Ol an agreement between himself and M SaT 16S1<;ts t lat m fulfilment giving the receipt of Crawfish a la Sum™ amPayo he is restricted from Bill of Fare, No. 609. The reason of tb°5 Which h&8 aPP(;ared in his jiish is that two large bottles of truffes d Mp.e“om.OU8 expense of this f0Ur ■» «ewed with them U&i^c.do "0t COst FRUIT. epicure ; but* though either^eailbe'obl ^ n° p‘'inciP,1 guide for tin expense, they do lot repayxxvm REMARKS. HOW EVERYTHING SHOULD BE IN COOKING. All clear soup must not be too strong of meat, and must be of a light brown, sherry, or straw colour. All white or brown thick soups must be rather thinmsh, lightly adhering to the back of the spoon. All purees must adhere little more to the back of the spoon. Any Italian paste must be very clear, rather strong, and the colour of slicrry* All kinds of fish sauce should be thicker for boiled fish than for broiled or fried. , , . , Brown sauce should be a little thinmsh and the colour of a horse- chesnut. White sauce should be of the colour of ivory, and thicker than brown sauce. Cream, or Dutch sauce, must be rather thick, and cannot be too white. , Demi-glace requires to be rather thin, but yet sufficiently reduced to envelope any pieces of meat, game, poultry, &c., with which it is served. Every description of fish should he well done, but not over-boiled, broiled, stewed, or fried. . . Beef and mutton must be underdone even for joints, removes, and entrees. Lamb requires to be more done. Veal and pork must be well done. Venison must be underdone, red in the middle, and full of gravy, but not raw. Poultry, either broiled, stewed, boiled, or roasted, must be done thoroughly, not cutting in the least red, but must be still full of gravy. Pheasants and partridges must be well done through, yet full ot gravy. . ... . Grouse, black cocks, gray hens, and ptarmigans, must cut reddish, with plenty of gravy, but not too much underdone. All kinds of water-fowl must be very much underdone, so that the blood and gravy follow the knife in carving. Plovers must be rather underdone, but done through. Rabbits and pigeons must be well done. Second-course savoury dishes must he rather highly seasoned, but with a little moderation. Pastry should, when baked, be clear, light, and transparent, and of a beautiful straw colour; the body of a croustade the same. Large pies, timbales, and casseroles of rice must be of a yellowish brown colour. Jellies require to be rather white and transparent for fruits, and not too firm, but better so than too delicate. Orange jellies should be of a deep orange colour, and all fruit jellies as near as possible to the colour of the fruit.REMARKS. xxix Creams should be very light and delicate, but fruit creams must be kept of the colour of the fruits they are made of. For all the demi-glace removes the ice must be firm, but not the least hard. All kinds of souffle or fondu must be well done through, or they would be very indigestible, clog the delicate palate, and prevent the degustation of the generous claret which flows so freely after dinner on the table of the real epicure. I recommend sugar in almost all savoury dishes, as it greatly facili- tates digestion and invigorates the palate, but always increase or dimi- nish the quantity according to the taste of your employer. I often introduce onions, eschalots, or even a little garlic in some of my most delicate dishes, but so well blended with other flavours that I never have a single objection even by those who have a great dislike to it. Horseradish and herbs of every description may always be used with discretion to great advantage. Contrary to the expressed opinion of every other previous publication, I say that too much seasoning is preferable to too little, as your employer can correct you by saying there is too much of this or that, and you can soon get it to his taste; but while you fear over-seasoning you produce no flavour at all; by allowing each guest to season for himself, your sauce attains a diversity of flavours. The cook must season for the guest, not the guest for the cook. I have always found great advantage in dressing the greatest part of my entrees on a thin roll of mashed potatoes ;* this has never been found objectionable, as it is so thin that it is imperceptible when covered with the sauces, and serves to prevent any entrees dressed in crown from being upset, before going on table, by the carelessness of the servant; for large removes, as turkey a la Nelson (No. 510), &c., after forming the ship (see engraving), egg, bread-crumb, and set in a moderate oven to brown, fix in your croustade, and dish up ; the potatoes may be eaten, but not the croustade, which is merely an embel- lishment. Borders may also be made of forcemeat, as for ris de veau (No. 673), but gives much more trouble without being better ; also of rice, by preparing it as for casserole au riz (p. 260) ; it maybe used as mashed potatoes. Make but few preserves, only those that are indis- pensable ; you will have a continual enjoyment of earlier stock, as Nature closely watches our wants and liberally supplies our wishes. The real gourmet, though anxious to produce novelty, never attempts to over-force the produce of the various seasons. The mashed potatoes which are to be used for dishing up as described throughout this work, arc simply prepared as follows Plain boil or steam six or eight large mealy potatoes; when well done, peel and put them into a stew- l tW?i °UnCCS ?f b!\tter’ “ h‘tlc Sal,t,; then with the Pronfl of a fork whisk them tillqrnte mpuree; then add two tablespoonfuls of milk, work up with a ckhh r’Fnt'i 8fi00n- tlU t?rmmg a,Pa£Lte; thcu laJ a small quantity on a clean muml ™ > \ aecircumference of a fourpenny or sixpenny piece, and form a t nn lr1'1 JuUr •Jsh uooordmg to the size of the entree; alter the propor- tion according to the size of the flanc or remove.AMATEUR RECEIPTS. XXX BRAISED ROAST TURKEY, CAPON, OR FOWL. Peel and wash two onions, one carrot, one turnip, cut them in thin slices, also a little celery, a bunch of parsley, two bay-leaves, lay three sheets of paper on the table, spread your vegetables, and pour over them two or three tablespoonfuls of oil; have your turkey, or pou- larde, trussed the same as for boiling ; cover the breast with thin slices of bacon, and lay the back of the bird on the vegetables; cut a few slices of lemon, which you lay on the breast to keep it white, tie the paper round with sti’ing, then pass the spit and set it before the lire; pour plenty of fat over to moisten the paper and prevent from burning, roast three hours at a pretty good distance from the fh-e: capons will take two hours, poulardes one hour and a half, fowls one hour, and chickens half an hour. AMATEUR RECEIPTS. Ris de Ve.au aux Pistaches d la Dr. Roots. Take three fine sweetbreads, clean them well with milk and water, in order to make them as white as possible; do them gradually in a stewpan with good white gravy, some onion, carrot, and celery, with a little mace; then stuff them well with pistachio nuts nicely bruised; put them “ en papillote” (that is, to oil or butter a piece of paper, which you fasten round by twisting it along the edge) and give them a nice wholesome colour ; they will require from twenty to twenty-five minutes to bring them to a proper state of excellence, with the good, fine, wholesome colour they may be served up, with white endive, or celery sauce aux pistaches, after the above manner. Potage froid, ou Salade a la Dr. Roots. Make some very good and highly-flavoured calf’s-head soup, with a good abundance of egg and forcemeat balls, and some sausage-meat introduced therein; the pieces of calf’s-head should not be cut larger than an inch square. When this soup is properly prepared and ripe, pour it into several milkpans, to the depth of about two inches; let it stand in this way to cool and stiffen, for the next day’s use. Dress a nice light salad of mustard and cress, with endive and a slight sprinkle of well-cut celery ; take this salad from the bowl (in which it has been dressed), lightly with a fork, and form in a pyramid in the centre of a dish, around which place tastefully-ornamented slices of the cold and substantial soup, cut into slices about the size and thick- ness of calf’s liver that is usually served up with bacon. Garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs and lemon. This, if properly managed, forms not only a pretty-looking spring dish, but a most excellent one.AMATEUR RECEIPTS. XXX Roast Swan a la Norwich. Take three pounds of beef, beat fine in a mortar, Put it into the Swan—that is, when you’ve caught her; Some pepper, salt, mace, some nutmeg, an onion, Will heighten the flavour in Gourmand’s opinion ; Then tie it up tight with a small piece of tape, That the gravy and other things may not escape. A meal-paste (rather stiff) should be laid on the breast. And some whited-brown paper should cover the rest. Fifteen minutes at least ere the Swan you take down. Pull the paste off the bird, that the breast mav get brown, THE GRAVY. To a gravy of beef (good and strong) I opine You 11 be right if you add half a pint of port wine : Pour this through the Swan—yes, quite through the belly : Then serve the whole up with some hot currant jelly. N. B.—The Swan must not be skinned. ANOTHER RECEIPT. Take two pounds of rump steak, chop it fine, season well with spice, a piece of onion, or eschalot, and butter. Rub the breast both inside and outside with beaten cloves, then stuff with the above, taking care to sew the bird up carefully, and to tie it very tightly on the spit] so that the gravy may not escape. Inclose the breast of the swan in a meal-paste, after which cover the whole bird with paper well greased with beef dripping. About a quarter of an hour before the bird is taken up remove the paper and the paste, baste well with butter and flour till nown and frothy. A swan of fifteen pounds weight requires about two hours roasting with a fire not too fierce. THE GRAVY. Take the giblets and a piece of beef, with a pint of port wine, and make a good gravy. Pour some of this through the body of the swan when dished Some red currant jelly and port wine should be made hot and served up likewise. N. B.—The swan is not to be skinned. Code a Ledcie a la JVcniyss. To some good stock made the previous night from an old fowl, or of veal, add three pounds of the white part of the leeks, and let the whole poll slowly for three hours, then add a skinned fowl (old or youmr) cut toletWf piece8’and ^Tee dozen of good prunes. Let'all simmer snf; °!', ?,le hour1 longer- Season with salt and white pepper, and you will have good cock a leekie. 1 1 ^ frost the leeks require less boiling.BOUaUET DE GIBIER. xxxu BOUQUET DE GIBIER, OR SPORTING NOSEGAY. CADEAU FOB CHEISTMAS. This very seasonable novelty originated -with M. Soyer, “the Gas- tronomic Regenerator,” of the Reform Club ; and, hke everything ■which emanates from his inventive brain, is distinguished by its taste and utility. This is, indeed, a picturesque mode of keeping game, so as to make them ornamental until they become useful—at table. The lovers of “still life” pictures cannot but admire this “Bouquetand it is not unworthy of our painters’ attention. The several articles of game, &c., are secured between branches of laurel and other ever- greens, set off with dried and coloured flowers, “ everlastings,” &c. The handsome specimen we have engraved bears the following, arranged in the order here denoted: TWO GOLDEN PLOVERS. LEVERET. WILD DUCK. GROUSE. FRENCH PARTRIDGE. WOODCOCK. WILD RABBIT. TWO SNIPES. TWO LARKS. PHEASANT. WIDGEON. ENGLISH PARTRIDGE. TEAL. The brilliancy of the plovers and of the pheasant, and the bright- ness of the wild-duck, backed by the sombre green, and the whole variegated and relieved by multicoloured flowers, is really very effective. Not many days since, M. Soyer presented one of his “ Bouquets de Gibier” to Viscount Melbourne, at Brocket Hall; when his lordship admired the novelty exceedingly, as did also the noble party on a visit at Brocket. Another “ Bouquet” has been presented by M. Soyer to a lady of high fashion and beauty, if we may judge from the triplet which accompa- nied the offering: Madam, Flora having forsaken her flowers, I quickly embraced the sport of swift Diana, To dedicate and present this bouquet to Venus. Count d’Orsay, the arbiter cleg antiarum of our day, on the “Bouquet” being submitted to him, admired the artistical design, and suggested that Landseer would appreciate its novelty, adding, “What a beautiful trophy it would make for a sideboard or a dining-room !” The “Bouquet,” we augur, will be popular in the approaching Christ- mas season ; and though there is a musty old proverb about “looking at a gift-horse,” the above novelty will surely throw the old-fashioned baskets iuto the shade, by presenting much that is agreeable to the eye, with the proximate association of another sense of enjoyment.Bovquet de Gibteb.xxxiii BOUQUET DE GIBIER. OLIVE-BRANCH BETWEEN PRANCE AND ENGLAND. A present extraordinary to the King and Queen of the French was forwarded from London to Paris on the 21st of December by the well- known Gastronomic Regenerator, M. Soyer, of the Reform Club, and was presented to their Majesties on the 24th, in the morning, at the Palace of the Tuileries. Their Majesties were so delighted with the novelty and elegance of the composition, that after a long examination the King ordered it to be carried to the apartments of her Majesty the Queen of the Belgians, who was exceedingly pleased with it, and after- wards the whole of the royal family was summoned to see this bouquet; the sight was so new and unexpected that it met with their unanimous approbation. His Majesty then observed that such a welcome and graceful present from a foreign country had never before penetrated through France to the palace of its kings. Immediately after, by the orders of his Majesty, the sporting nosegay was carried by two °-en- tlemen porters to the council of ministers then sitting at the Tuileries and was admired by every one. It is reported that his Majesty intends o have a similar bouquet carved in wood for ornamenting the grand sideboard of the magnificent banqueting hall of the palace. To give an idea of the composition of this splendid innovation, the following description perhaps will be interesting to the public. The length of it was about ten feet, and wide in proportion. The frame was richlv covered with Christmas holly, laurels, mistletoe, and evergreen, with a gieat variety of winter flowers. There were twenty-two heads of game consisting of larks, snipes, woodcocks, black peweets, teal, French and English partridges grouse, widgeons, wild ducks, black cocks fihtlTfillpd eVfiret’ i, h?re’ fd &olden Plo^rs; the interstices were pnlmly f t*1 T1 7heatyancl oats= the whole ornamented with tri- , °Uxed n!iands and small flags at the top—and to give a still more p easing effect, fancy birds of beautiful plumage, so abundant in DTban<f IT"1’6 SpTad U\,eVery part °f this magnificent nosegay, lhe following letter from his Majesty the King of the French ac- companied with a beautiful pin forming a bouquet of diamonds and pearls, was sent by his Majesty’s orders to the French Ambassador and forwarded to Monsieur Soyer at the Reform Club. Monsieur, Cahmet du Roi, Chdteau des Tuileries; 1847. men8 de ieM™e.SpSr «m„,g„age de satisfaction, le hij„„ quc je ^ tions. RCCeVeZ je V0U8 Prle’ Monsieur’ mes plus parfaites saluta- Le Secretaire du Cabinet, Monsieur Alexis Soyer. CAMILLE FAIIN.NUMBER OF STEWPANS AND OTHER KITCHEN UTENSILS REQUIRED IN THE KITCHENS OF WHICH I HAVE GIVEN PLANS, COMMENCING WITH THE COMPLETE BATTERIE DE CUISINE OF THE REFORM CLUB. Utensils. | Reform Club 1 Kitchen. Kitchen of the Wealthy. Kitchen at Home. Kitchen of the Bachelor. Cottage Kitchen. Stewpans, the sizes fluctuating from six gallons 80 30 12 5, 1 hold- 4 to half a pint ne a call. Stock-pots, varying from twelve gallons to two 8 4 1 6 black Turbot kettles, one full size, and another two saucepans sizes smaller .... 2 2 1 small Long Fish-kettles, two large and two middling- 1 rather 1 rather sized ones .... 4 2 larger wide. i Braising-pans, two large and two middling-sized 4 2 1 Preserving-pans (copper), one large round hot- tomed and one large flat bottomed 2 2 1 1 flat Egg bowls, one large and one middling-sized . 2 2 1 1 bottomed Baba and sponge-cake moulds . 2 2 1 Large round copper pie-dishes for servants 4 2 Thick flat braising-pans with hermetic covers 6 G 2 1 Sautdpans, twenty deep, with thick bottoms, and ten others .... 30 12 6 2 2 Bain-marie-pans, varying from two gallons to a pint ..... 36 18 8 2 Pie-moulds for raised pies G 4 2 1 Jelly and charlotte moulds 24 12 4 1 Small bordure for aspic jellies G 4 1 2 Freezing-pots, with accessories 4 2 1 1 Baking-sheets of various sizes 12 12 2 2 Gridirons ..... 6 2 1 1 Salamanders 2 1 1 small 1 do. 1 Spoon drainers .... 4 a 1 1 Spits of various sizes, including two with cradles ..... 12 6 2 2 Dripping-pans .... 2 1 1 1 Steam copper cases for puddings and potatoes 4 2 Round copper fruit bowls with handles 4 1 1 Sugar-pans ..... 6 2 1 1 Soup ladles (small and cheap utensils) 18 12 4 2 1 Copper kitchen spoons, six of which are co- lander spoons .... 36 18 8 6 2 Wire baskets for frying G 2 2 1 1 Wire sieves ..... G 2 1 1 Hair sieves ..... 8 2 1 1 1 Omelette-pans .... 6 2 1 1 1 Small jelly and driole moulds 3G 18 12 12 Tartelette-pans .... 3G 12 12 8 Tammies . 6 4 2 2 Jelly bags ..... 4 2 1 1 Wooden spoons ... 24 12 8 G 4 Paste brushes .... 10 4 2 2 1 Scissors . . . . . 2 prs. 1 1 1 1 Kitchen knives . . . . 12 G 2 2 1 Boxes of cutters for vegetables and pastry 4 4 2 2 Trivets, four common, and two for gas stoves G 2 2 2 Meat saws, four large and two small . C 3 2, 1 smal 2 2 Cutlet bats . . . . . 4 2 1 1 1 Meat choppers, large 2 1 1 1 Steak-tongs, two large and two small pairs 4 prs. 2 1 large 1 1 Meat-hooks . . . . . 24 12 G 6 4 Rolling-pins . . . . 2 1 1 1 1 Kitchen basins . . . . 36 24 12 8 6 Small pie-dishes for fruit and meat . 24 12 G 4 6 Kitchen table-cloths . » . . 24 12 8 4 2 Rubbers . . . . . 8 8 4 4 2 Fish napkins .... 24 12 6 2 2 Pudding-cloths . . . . 18 12 4 2 2 Round towels • • • 12 5 * 2 !TABLE OF CONTENTS, OR ABBREVIATED SUMMARY, REFERRING (FROM PAGE TO PAGE) TO THE VARIOUS SERIES OF DISHES, ETC. (For General Contents see the end of the Volume.) SAUCES. Foundation sauces Thin sauces .... Sauces .... Sauces, with Gaenitures of Vegetables, or garnishing ’ PAGE 1 — 9 9—14 14—33 34—48 Appendix to the Sauces. Composed of forcemeat of veal, rabbits, fowl, game, whitings, cod-liver, panada, veal-stuffing, boiled rice, branched macaroni, cro- quettes of potatoes, glaze Potages, or soups 48—52 53—88 FISH—POISSON. Method of cleaning salt-water fish 90 Method of cleaning fresh-water fish . 93—94 Turbot Brill ; John Dory . Salmon, or saumon Cod-fish, or cabillaud . Bed mullets Whitings, or merlans . ii ^herel, or maquereaux. Haddocks, or merluches Fish Dressed. 95—101 101—104 104—107 107—111 119—122 122—124 125— 126 126— 128 128—130 Gurnets Herrings, or harengs ! Skate, or raie Smelts, or eperlaus Flounders, or carrelets Plaice, or plie White-bait . Sturgeons, or esturgeons Shell-fish . 130—132 . 131 . 133 . 134 . 135 . 135 . 136 . 136 137—139 Bike, or brochets Carp . Tench, or tanche . Perch Fresh-Water Fish. • 139—143 . 143—144 . 144—145 •. . 146 Trout, or truito . Eels, or anguilles Lampreys . Crawfish, or ecrevisses. 147— 148 148— 149 . 149 . 149xxx vi CONTENTS. HORS-D’(EUVRES, on. Dishes to be handed bound the Table. Composed of— Petits vol-au-vents and petites boucliees,made of beef-mar- row, mackerel, skate, liver, oysters, lobsters, fowls, and game . Petits pates of oysters, lob- sters, and shrimps . PAGE 151—155 156 Rissoles of oysters, lobsters, shrimps, mackerel, game, and fowls Croustades of butter . Aiguillettes of sweetbread . Escalops of oysters, lobsters, fillets of soles, and fowls . REMOVES. Eirst Course. Beef, or bceuf Ox tongue, or langue de bceuf Veal, or vean Calf’s head, or tete de veau . Mutton, or mouton Lamb, or agneau . Pork Turkey, or dinde 164—176 177 177—184 184—188 1S9—196 196—201 202—204 205—206 Capon, or poularde Eowls, or poulets Goose, or oie Ducklings, or cannetons Venison, or venaison . Grouse Black cocks Hare, or lievre ELANCS. Composed of— Edicts of beef, tongue, and Wesphalia hams . . 230—233 Loin, knuckle, neck of veal, and calf’s head . . 234—237 Neck and lom of mutton . 238—240 Saddle, shoulder, and neck of lamb .... 240—243 Chicken and duckling . Pheasant, grouse, and partridg< Leverets and rabbits . Pate cliaud, or hot pie . Vol-au-veuts and casserole of rice, do. rabbits, lamb’s and calf’s tail, lamb’s and sheep’s trotters .... ENTREES, or Made Dishes. Beef, or Doeuf Veal, or veau Mutton, or mouton 266—278 279—294 294—307 Lamb, or agneau . Pork, or porc-frais Venison, or venaison . ENTREES OF POULTRY. Turkey, or dinde . . . 329—331 Eowls, or volaille. Poulet, or poularde . . 332—340 Spring chickens, or poulets . QUENELLES, or Forcemeat. Composed of— Quenelles of fowls . . 352—354 1 Fillets of ducklings Boudins, croquettes, and ris- solettcs . 355—357 PAGE 156—159 . 160 . 161 161—163 203—220 215—220 220—221 . 221 221—226 . 228 . 229 . 229 244—24S 249-253 254—256 256-260 260—264 308—321 322—325 325—329 340—347 348—351 35S—359CONTENTS. xxxvii ENTREES OE GAME. Hare, or lRvre . Rabbits, or lapins Pheasant, or faisan Grouse Partridges, or perdreaux PAGE 360—362 363—366 367—370 371—373 371—377 Wild ducks,or canards sauvages 378—379 Teal, or cercelles . Woodcocks, or bdcasses Plovers, or pluviers Quails, or cailles . Pigeons Larks, or mauviettes . PAGE 380—381 382—385 380—387 388— 389 389— 390 391—392 ROASTS foe Second Coub.se. Turkey, or dinde . . 393—397 Capon, pullet, and chicken . 398—399 Goose, or oie . . . , 400 Duckling, or canneton . . . 400 Woodcocks, or becasses . . 401 Guinea-fowl, or poule d’Inde . 401 Pea-fowl, or paon . . 4,01 Pigeons .....' 402 Uuails, or cailles .... 402 I Pheasants, or faisan3 . . 403 ! Grouse . .... 403 Ptarmigan 494 Black cocks and gray hens . .405 Partridge, or perdrix . . . 405 Dim bird 405 Wild duck, or canard sauvage 405—406 Teal, or cercelles . . . 406—407 Plovers, or pluviers . . . 407 Woodcock, or becasse . . , 408 Larks, or mauviettes . . . 408 Snipes, or becassines . . . 409 Hares, or lievres .... 409 Leverets, or levrauts . . . 409 Rabbits, or lapins . . . 409 SAYOURY DISHES foe Second Coubse. Composed of Boar’s head, ribs and fillets of beef, ox tongue, cold ham. EiHet and loin of veal, galan- tine, and pates of veal and ham, cotelettcs of veal, and sweetbread . . ; Cotelettes, turban, and car- bonade of mutton Balottins and cotelettes of lamb Galantine and pate of turkey, capon (or poularde) . Chaud-froid of poularde (or capon), fillets of do, duck- ling en aspic, salad of fowl, aspic mould 410—419 420—424 425 426—427 428—433 434—438 Galantine, pates, fillet, and chaud-froid of pheasant Galantine and salad of grouse Galantine and pates of par- tridges Woodcocks and pates froid of larks (cold) Lobster salad, mayonnaises of lobster, lobster en aspic au gratm Crabs, oysters en coquilles, salad of fillet of soles, trout and salmon pickled, galan- tme of eels 439—440 441 442—443 444 445—446 447—449 VEGETABLES foe Second Coubse. Asparagus, sea kale, ce salsify, cucumbers, ant getable marrow Jerusalem artichokes, c llowers, brocoli Artichokes, peas, French b .Brussels sprouts opmgeh, endive, sorrel, lc Windsor beans, white hari 450-454 455-456 457—462 463—465 166—467 Tomatas and mushrooms Carrots, turnips, onions, spring vegetables . Potatoes, lentils, truffles .' Omelettes fines herbes, ham, tiuffles, mushrooms, olives, jardiniere, oysters, fillets of soles, muscles, lohsters, sugar, preserves, and rum . 468 . 469 470—474 474—477xxxvm CONTENTS. ENTREMETS, on. Sweets. Observations on pastry, dif- ferent sorts of paste, puff paste, do. with beef suet, do. half puff, confectioner’s paste, almond paste, and gum paste Vol-au-vents of peaches, apri- cots, greengages, cherries, pears, apples, oranges, and gateau molle-feuille , Turban a la creme, wells of fruit, Pthiviers cakes. Tourtes, tarteletteSj and fan- chonettes a la vanille Eauphines, tartelettes, mirli- tons, and petits vol-au-vents Gateaux, fourres with preserves Turban de Gondii, and apricot cakes . . Retites bouchees, eventail with cherries, petits gateauxroyals A flan of puff paste, do. of apples, do. of pears, do. creme pralinee . Pate a choux, petits choux with cream, almond, petits pains cremiere . Madeline with port wine, ge- noise, darioles . PAGE 478—483 484—486 487—488 489—493 494—495 497 499 . 500 . 501 502—503 504--505 506—507 Biscatelles, cakes a l’lndienne gauffres aux pistaches, Alle- mande, vanilla, red nougat Small cups of nougat, nougat with apricots, crisp ches- nuts, amandes croquantes, meringues Turban of meringues . Meringue iced, do. aux pis- taches, mushrooms en surprise Biscuits manques with al- monds, do. with rum Calf’s foot jelly, and various other jellies Creams, various . Bavaroises, various Charlottes, chartreuses, sue- doises, bread and croquettes of apples Apples, pears, and apricots with rice .... PAGE 508—510 510-512 . 513 514 . 515 516—524 524-52S 529—531 532—536 537—538 Pommes meringues, miroton, fritters of apples, peaches and apricots Croquettes of rice, cream of rice, macaroni, vermicelli, and cream fried Beignets souffles, frangiparte Omelette Celestine, panne- quets with preserve . 539—542 . 543 . 544 . 545 REMOVES, Second Course 548—574 SOUTELES, for Removes . 575—5S3 Appendix, the Second. Aspic . • • • • Mayonnaise a la gelee, do. fines herbes, do. ravigote verte, do. ordinaire, do. Provenpale Montpellier butter, forcemeat for raised pie, and of fiver for do. sponsje cake, savoy cake in mould, biscuits, to clarify isinglass • _ • Iceing, and chocolate icemg, sugar in grain, and to colour it . . 585 | 586—589 591—592 . 593 Vanilla and lemon sugar, to clarify and boil sugar, sugar thread . . • Iced cream of vanilla, coffee, chocolate, pine apple, lemon, orange, apricot, and straw- berry . . • Marmalade of apples, apricot, quince, cherries, strawber- ries, and raspberries. Jelly of apples, quince, cur- rant and raspberries, and t o preserve tomatas 594-596 527—599 600—602 002—604CONTENTS. XXXIX MY TABLE AT HOME. Plain joints. Soups. Eisli . Fresh-water fish . Simple hors-d’oeuvres .Removes simplified Sauces Economical made dishes PAGE 637- 649 652—656 656—660 660—662 . 663 664—672 673—675 676—687 Economical made dishes from poultry .... Game .... Meat pies and puddings Second Course . Jellies pf liqueiu-s or spirits . Bohemian jelly cream . PAGE 688—691 692—695 696 698—701 . 702 703—710 MISCELLANEOUS. Dedication to H. R. H. the Duke of Cambridge List of distinguished Personages who have patronized the work Preface Preface to the Fourth Edition Description of the composition of this work Soyer’s new mode of carving Directions for carving. How*? carve a haunch of venison Saddleback of venison Carving of poultry Soyer’s Tendon Separator Directions for larding Meat and poultrv Fish ... ; Vegetables and fruit .’ How everything should be in cookin°- Braised roast turkey, capon, or fowl Ajviateue Receipts—Ris deVeau auxPistaches a la Dr. Roots . Potage froid, ou Salade a la Dr Roots Roast Swan a la Norwich Cock a Leekie a la Wemyss Bouquet de Gibier, or Sporting ni v vii ix xi xiv xv xviii xix xx xxi xxv xx vi xxvii ib. xxviii xxx ib. ib. xxxi ib. xxxii Olive Branch between France and England . xxxiii Number of stewpans and other utensils required . . . YYY1y Service pagodatique ^-1-- 606 601 61 lable ol the wealthy and bill of pare for ten persons ei'r^Ucl^us*aiL a Sampayo Bdl of fare for the same . Dialogue culinaire Description of the kitchen of the Reform Club, and plan . . 0J Refeience to the plan . . () ] Kitchen °f the Reform Club 615—61 My kitchen at home . 030 ()'■ The bachelor’s kitchen and cot- tage kitchen . Dinner party at home . 03 cS ; • • '637-u Monster bill of fare.' ' ' 7! Pagodatique entrde dish . [ 71 Celestial and terrestrial cream of Croat Bntain 71 General table of contents ] ’ Madame Soyer’s biography lat the cud c Criticisms of the press J *he book.CONTENTS. ENGRAVINGS. Portrait of the Author Emblematical woodcut • • A Turkey, prepared according to M. Soyer s new plan Carving a haunch of venison Carving of poultry • The Tendon Separator • • , • ,% powl_one half with the flesh on, and the other half dissected Mutton, pork, and lamb cutlets Table of the wealthy • Kitchen of the Reform Club . • • l^representiug the fittiag-up of the kitchen of the wealth, 610 to 629 Ground plan of my kitchen at home The bachelor’s and. the cottage kitchen . My table at home Saddle-back of mutton ..•••• A new mutton cutlet • DildomTo Poularde eu diademe, Galantine a T<®“; de grouse a la Soyer, Mayonnaise dehomrd. from adeso bread PAGE 1 iv xvi xviii xxi xxiii xxiv 294 607 612 614 629 632 634 635 644 677 714 ^veT&tade for filet de bmuf, C—tades for poularde en diademe, Croustades for turkey a la Nelson Gateau Bntan- nique, Creme Cerito sultane sylphe a la Me de 1 orage, Six jelly moul , illljUCj vlOUlu yciiiv; j r „ and the Atelettes for Elancs, Removes, Ac Portrait of Madame Soyer, Biography at the end of the book. 7201 THE GASTRONOMIC REGENERATOR. SAUCES. The first eight sauces are what we term Foundation sauces; but to facilitate and simplify the making of all kinds of made dishes, I have throughout this work princi- pally referred to the Brown Sauce (No. 1), and the White Sauce (No. 7), which are the two sauces I daily and prin- cipally use. The others are of course very good, and some- times necessary; but being more complicated, I would re- commend that they be left to culinary artists, who can easily surmount this difficulty. The two above-mentioned sauces require nothing but a little care and attention; if well made, you will have little trouble with the smaller sauces; for the foundation sauces being well made, the smaller ones require little more than the ingredients directed for them, to give them then- proper flavour; but if badly made, it would injure the whole dinner. The above-named sauces will keep four or five days in smnmer, and a week in winter by adding a quart of light broth, and boiling them up every day in smnmer, and every other day in winter. The following proportions in the foundation sauces are sufficient for a huge dinner; but of course where so much he madeeqUUed’ & qU8rter’ °r even 8 smaller TUillltiV cau2 SAUCES. The colour of the brown sauce ought to be as near as possible to that of the horse-chesnut, whilst the white sauce should be of the colour of rich cream. If possible, nothing but the best flour should ever be used for a roux, which is the Trench culinary term for thickening; for inferior or new flour loses its strength by boding, and your sauce would become thin and watery: but if such be the case, you should make more roux, to obviate this difficulty, which must be well mixed with a little cold stock, poured into the sauce, and all boded together till you have obtained the consistency directed. No. 1. Brown Sauce. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a large thick-bot- tomed stewpan, rub it ad over the bottom, then peel and cut ten large onions in halves, with winch cover the bottom; then take two pounds of lean ham cut into slices, which lay over the onions; having ready cut in large slices twenty pounds of leg of beef and veal, put it over the ham, and place the stewpan over a sharp fire; let it remain a quarter of an hour, then with a large wooden spoon move the whole mass round, but keeping the onions still at the bottom. Keeping it over the fire, and stirring it occasionally, untd the bottom is covered with a fight brown glaze, then prick the meat with a fork, take off the stewpan, and put some ashes upon the fire, to deaden its heat; place the stewpan again over it, and let it stand half an hour longer, stirring it twice during that time; the bottom will then be covered with a thick but clear brown glaze; fid it up with fourteen quarts of watci or sixteen of light stock (No. 133), then add three turnips, two carrots, four blades of mace, and a bunch of ten sprigs of parsley, six sprigs of thyme, and four bay-leaves; leave it over the fire until it boils, then place it on the comer, add a quarter of a pound of salt; skim off ad the fat, and3 SAUCES. let it simmer for two hours, adding two quarts of cold water by degrees, to clarify it and keep it to its original quantity; then skim it again, and pass the stock through a fine cloth into a basin, (by filling up the stewpan again with water you will have then an excellent second stock—for filling up stocks for soups or sauces, this remark also applies to every description of stocks;) if by any misfortune the stock should become thick, clarify it as directed (No. 134). Then proceed as follows : put one pound of butter into a deep stewpan, (which is the best for this purpose,) place it over the fire, stirring it until it pielts; then stir in a pound and a half of best flour, mix it well, and keep stirring it over the fire until it assumes a brownish tinge; then take it from the fire, and keep stfiring the roux until partly cold, then pom- in the stock quickly, still stirring it; place it over a sharp fire, stirring it until it boils, then place it at the corner of the stove, and let it simmer an hour and a half; by keeping it skimmed, you will take off all the butter, and the sauce will become clear and transparent; place it again over a sharp fire, and keep it stirred until it adheres to the back of the spoon, when pass it through a tarnmie into a basin, stirring it round occasionally until cold, and use it where required. Should the colour of the sauce be too pale, add a few spoonfuls of brown gravy (No. 135). No. 2. "Espagnole Sauce. Put half a pound of butter into a large thick-bottomed stewpan, and cover the bottom with good shoes of ham about a quarter of an inch in thickness; then cut up two legs of veal into as laige shoes as possible, (having twenty pounds of meat,) but reserving the nut, or noix, for flanks or entrees, (see No. 565 ;) put the meat without any of the bone into the stewpan, which set upon a moderate fire for twenty minutes, then shake it round, to prevent the ham4 SAUCES. sticking to the bottom; cover it over quite close, then put a few ashes upon the fire; put the stewpan again over it, shaking it round occasionally, and once or twice turning the whole mass round together with a wooden spoon until the bottom is covered with a light glaze; prick the meat with a fork to let out the gravy, and with it remove the bottom pieces to the top; replace it upon the fire, shaking it round occasionally until each piece of meat be covered with a clear brown glaze; then fill up the stewpan with sixteen quarts of light stock (No. 133); add six onions (in one of which you have stuck six cloves), twelve peppercorns, two blades of mace, two carrots, a good bunch of parsley, six sprigs of thyme, and four bay-leaves; when it boils place it on the comer of the stove, skim it, and add two ounces of salt; let it boil rather quickly, adding two quarts of water by degrees, which will facilitate the abstraction of all the fat in skimming; boil it two horns, then pass the stock through a fine cloth into a basin. Make a roux, and ter- minate your sauce as described in the last. No. 3. Broivn Sauce from all sorts of meat. Knowing by experience the difficulty of getting meat for stock in the country, especially veal, I will, for the conveni- ence of families, give a receipt for brown sauce, to be made from rabbits, poultry, trimmings of mutton, beef, pork, or even venison; (but to every ten pounds of meat required, use twelve, as it is not so succulent as beef or veal.) In Scotland I was compelled to use venison even for beef-tea; this may appear rather strange, but it is no less true; for although the wealth of my employer would have enabled me to have anything required for my use, money could not purchase it at the time required. The mock beef-tea had of course a wild flavour, but it was still very palatable. Butter the bottom of a thick stewpan, upon which lay ten largeSAUCES. 5 onions peeled and cut in halves, then put in what trimmings of meat or poultry you may have, proceed exactly with it as directed for brown sauce (No. 1), but using stock or water in proportion to the quantity of meat; the same precaution must be used likewise with the quantity of roux used for thickening. No. 4. For thickening Brown Sauce without making a roux. Make your stock as directed in either of the three last receipts, (according to circumstances;) if sixteen quarts, bake two pounds of the best flour in a moderate oven, without letting it brown; sift it, and when quite cold mix it into a thin paste with two quarts of cold stock; mix it by degrees, getting it as smooth as possible; have the stock for your sauce boding in a stewpan upon the fire, into which pour in the paste, keeping it stirred until it bods; then set it at the corner of the stove - let it simmer an hour and a half; skim it well, then place it upon a brisk fire, and add a few chopped mushrooms, bod it very quickly, keeping it stirred untd it adheres to the back of the spoon; then pass it through a tammie as before, and use it where required. No. 5. Veloute. This sauce has stood for a century as a foundation sauce m the highest class of cookery, and may be admired for its utility, and the delicacy of its flavour; but I have avoided referring to it in almost every receipt on account of tfie expense attached to it and its tedious fabrication. Ac- cording to the old system, it requires two days to com- plete it; one for the simmering of the stock, and the other for the sauce. I have here, however, succeeded in simpli- ymg it, by which the aroma of its component parts are better preserved than when subject to so long boiling. lut six tablespoonfuls of oil in a large thick-bottomedSAUCES. 6 stewpan, rub it over the bottom, then lay in twenty pounds of veal in large shoes, (from knuckles or the under part of legs,) an old fowl, two carrots, six onions, (in one of which you have stuck six cloves,) two blades of mace, four pounds of good ham, and a bunch of parsley, six sprigs of thyme, and four bay-leaves; pour in a pint of water, and place the stewpan upon a sharp fire; when it begins to form large bubbles, stir the whole round with a large wooden spoon; place some ashes upon the fire, and some live charcoal upon the hd of the stewpan; take off the lid occasionally, and stir the meat round, prick it, and when each piece is covered with a light white glaze fill up the stewpan with sixteen quarts of fight stock (No. 133), or water, add a quarter of a pound of salt, if water, but only three ounces, if stock; when upon the point of boding, stand it on the corner of the stove and let it simmei lor two horns and a half, keeping it well skimmed, and adding a little cold water every now and then, to clarify it and keep its quantity; pass it through a fine cloth into a basin • then in another stewpan have a pound of fresh butter, which melt upon a slow fire, stirring in one pound and a half of flour, stir it over the fire ten minutes (but do not let it change colour), add the trimmings of half a pottle of mushrooms; stir it round another minute, then take it off the fire and keep stirring it until about half cold; then pour in the stock all at once, keeping it stirred quickly ; place it over a sharp fire, and stir it until it boils, then place it at the corner of the fire and let it simmer for two horns, keeping it well skimmed; pass it through a tammie into a basin, and stir it occasionally until cold; when wanted, take the quantity you require, reduce it over a sharp fire, keeping it stirred until it adheres to the back of the spoon; finish with half a pint of cream or boiled milk. This sauce, when well made, should be as white as ivory ;SAUCES. 7 it is used for removes or entrees of poultry, and may be substituted for white sauce in any of these receipts. No. 6. Veloute, a plainer way. Well oil the bottom of a thick stewpan; cut twelve pounds of veal in dice, (lamb trimmings or rabbits may be used with it,) and two pounds of lean ham also cut in dice; put the whole into the stewpan with three onions, a carrot, four cloves, a blade of mace, half a grated nutmeg, and a bunch of parsley, four sprigs of thyme, and two bay-leaves; pom in a pint of water, and set it over a sharp fire, stining it round occasionally, (the fire should be sharp at first, but very slow at the finish,) until the meat and the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a white glaze; then add a pound of flour, mix it well with the meat, then fill up the stewpan with ten quarts of stock (No. 133), or water; add three oimces of salt, if with water, but two if with stock, and keep moving it round mitil upon the point of boding, when place it on the corner of the stove and let it simmer two horns, keeping it well skimmed; then pass it through a hair sieve into a basin, and again through a tammie into another stewpan ; add a few chopped rnush- looms, sth it over the fire until it is reduced to a proper consistency, (this sauce is quickly done, and full of flavour;) finish with a pint of cream or boding mdk, and use it as directed in the last. No. 7. V?.al Stock, White Sauce, or Bechamel. Cut twelve pounds of knuckles of veal into large dice with two pounds of lean ham; wed butter the bottom of a large stewpan, into which put the meat, (some of the bones of the knuckles may be included in the weight of the meat, but not much,) with three large onions, one carrot, a blade 0 mace, four cloves, and a bunch of parsley, two sprigs of8 SAUCES. thyme, and two bay-leaves; pour in half a pint of water, and place the stewpan over a sharp fire, stirring it occasionally, until the bottom is covered with a clear white glaze, then fill it up with ten quarts of stock (No. 133), or nine of water; add three ounces of salt, and when upon the point of boiling, place it on the corner of the fire • let it simmer two horns and a half, keeping it skimmed, and adding cold water occasionally, to keep the quantity, then pass it through a fine cloth into a basin ;* then in another stewpan have one pound of fresh butter, melt it over a slow fire and stir in one pound and a half of flour, stir it over the fire ten minutes, but do not let it change colour; then take it from the fire, stirring it until half cold, then poiu- in the stock, stirring it quickly all the time; place it over a sharp fire, keep stirring, and boil it for half an horn; add two table- spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, and a quart of boding mdk; boil it ten minutes longer, then pass it through a tammie into a basin; stir it occasionady untd cold, and use it where required. This sauce is easdy made, full of flavour, and has a very good appearance. No. 8. Sauce Allemande, (or German Sauce blanche.) Is made from either of the three foregoing sauces. Put three quarts in a stewpan, which place over a sharp fire; reduce it to one thud, keeping it stirred the whole time, it will then be very thick; have the yolks of six eggs in a convenient sized basin; mix the sauce with them by de- grees, and turn it again into the stewpan; stir it again over the fire until the yolks are quite done, which will take about five minutes; have three pints of stock reserved from the original sauce, with which mix it by degrees; also * The veal stock mentioned in the several receipts is made precisely as the stock for white sauce.0 SAUCES. acid a pint of boiling milk, but do not make it too thin • boil it again ten minutes, then pass it through a tammie into a basin, and stir it occasionally until cold. Use it for entrees or removes of poultry, either hot or cold; but for cold removes of poultry it is best adapted. This sauce never looks greasy; it will keep four or five days. No. 9. Demi-Glace. Put two quarts of brown sauce (No. 1) into a stewpan until one quart of consomme (No. 134), one ounce of glaze, four tablespoonfuls of tomate sauce (No. 37), place it over the fire, and when boiling place it at the corner, let it simmer very fast, skim it well, and reduce it to a clear light glaze, with sufficient consistence to adhere lightly to the back of the spoon ; then put it by in a basin, and use it where directed. All thin sauces are or will become very much in vogue; they invigorate the appetite without overloading the stomach; and are, consequently, more wholesome; all brown sauces are preferable for meat or game entrees, and in some instances, which you will see, for poultry; but of course the arrangement of your tables would prevent you serving all white or all brown entrees. Por families who have their entrees placed upon the table at the same time as the soup and fish, a thin sauce is much preferable; for if even the sauce should retain the same de- gree of heat it was served at, it will become much thicker by standing, but a sauce served thick if allowed to remain becomes almost uneatable. No. 10. Sauce au jus (TDstragon. Put two spoonfuls of common vinegar into a stewpan, place it over the Are, and when boiling add eighteen spoon- tuls of dcmi-glace (No. !)), and six of consomme (No. 134),10 SAUCES. add a quarter of a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, place it over the fire and let it reduce very fast until it adheres lightly to the hack of the spoon, then add thirty fresh leaves of tarragon, let it just boil up and it is ready for use. Do not make it too long before you require to use it, or the tarragon would spoil the appearance of the sauce. No. 11. Jus JEstragon clair. Put two tablespoonfuls of common vinegar into a stew- pan with a piece of glaze the size of a walnut; place it over the fire, let it boil, then add a quart of consomme (No. 134), and two spoonfuls of brown gravy (No. 135), reduce it to half, season with a httle sugar and pepper, finish with leaves of tarragon, as in the last. No. 12. Sauce au jus de Tomates. Put an onion in slices into a stewpan with two sprigs of thyme, one bay-leaf, half a blade of mace, one clove, four sprigs of parsley, two ounces of lean ham, and one ounce of butter; stir them round over a slow fire until becoming rather brown, then add a spoonful of Chili vinegar, ten of clemi-glace (No. 9), and ten of consomme (No. 134), boil altogether about ten minutes, skim it, then add ten spoon- fuls of very bright preserved tomates, half a teaspoonful of sugar, and a ve*ry httle scraped garlic; season with a httle cayenne pepper and salt; boil altogether five minutes, rub it through a tammie, put it again into a stewpan, set it upon the fire, boil and skim it. Use it where directed. No. 13. Sauce au jus de Champignons. Put eighteen spoonfuls of demi-glace, (No. 9), into a stewpan with six of consomme (No. 134), and a httle sugar; place it upon the fire and reduce it to a clear light deini- glaze; skim it well, then have chopped six good fresh mush-11 SAUCES. rooms, throw them into the sauce, boil them ten minutes, then rub them through a tammie ; put it again into a stew- pan, warm it, but do not let it boil; after you have passed ; j it, if made in the morning, warm it in your lain marie ' when required. No. 14. Sauce demi-provenqale. Put eighteen spoonfuls of demi-glace (No. 9) into stewpan with sixteen of consomme (No. 134), place it over a sharp fire, reduce it to two thirds, skim it, scrape half a clove of garlic with a knife, and put it into the sauce with, a little sugar, boil it again two minutes, and it is ready for use. No. 15. Sauce au jus piquant. Put two spoonfuls of chopped eschalots into a stewpan with three of vinegar; reduce it to half over the fire, then add eighteen spoonfuls of demi-glace (No. 9), and six of consomme (No. 134), boil it about a quarter of an hour, skim it well, add half a teaspoonful of sugar, and when again forming a fight glaze, add two tablespoonfuls of chopped gherkins, and a little cayenne pepper; it must not boil afterwards. No. 16. Sauce au jus tV JEclialote. Put three tablespoonfuls of chopped eschalots in a stewpan with two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, place it over a sharp fire a couple of minutes, then add eighteen spoonfuls of demi-glace (No. 9), and six of consomme (No. 134), boil, skim, and reduce it until it adheres to the back of the spoon! add a little sugar and cayenne pepper. Serve where directed! No. 17. Sauce au jus d’ Orange. Take the rind from an orange as thinly as possible, take o all the pith, and cut it into thin strips, fhree quarters of12 SAUCES. an inch in length; boil them five minutes in water, and drain them upon the back of a hair sieve; then put a pint of demi-glace (No. 9) into a stewpan with six spoonfuls of consomme (No. 134), reduce it over the fire to the consist- ency of demi-glace, then add the rind of the orange and a little sugar, boil it another five minutes, and when ready to serve add a little of the juice of the orange. No. 18. Sauce au jus de Bigarades. Proceed as directed in tl)e last, but substituting a Seville orange for the sweet one, and boding the rind ten minutes instead of five. No. 19. Jus lie demi Currie. Peel and cut in slices a large onion, some carrot, turnip, two apples, and two ounces of lean ham; put them into a stewpan with two cloves, a blade of mace, a bay-leaf, sprig of thyme, parsley, and one ounce of butter; put the stewpan over a slow fire, stir them round occasionally untd they become slightly browned, then add a good table- spoonful of the best curry powder, mix it well, then add ten of consomme (No. 134) and eighteen of demi-glace (No. 9), bod altogether, then rub it through a tammie; put it in another stewpan, place it again upon the fire, skim it well, and reduce it untd it adheres to the back of the spoon, when add a little sugar and cayenne if requd’ed, but that must depend entirely upon taste. No. 20. Jus lie aux Concombres. Prepare three middling-sized cucumbers, as directed (No. 103), then put two oimces of butter with a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, and half one of chopped onions, into a stewpan, place it over the fire, and when the butter is melted add the cucumbers, which pass over the fire until tenderSAUCES. 13 and slightly tinged; then put them out upon a cloth, put eighteen spoonfuls of demi-glace (No. 9) into another stewpan with six of consomme (No. 134), reduce it until rather thickish; then add the cucumbers, boil them two minutes, season with a saltspoonful of salt, and the half of one of pepper, skim it, and it is ready to serve. No. 21. Jus lie aux Truffles. Put eighteen spoonfuls of demi-glace (No. 9) into a stewpan with ten of consomme (No. 134), reduce it until it becomes again a demi-glace, then acid six middling-sized French preserved truffles, cut in thin slices, with a quarter of a teaspoonful of sugar, simmer gently ten minutes, it is then ready to serve. No. 22. Jus lie aux Anchois. Put six tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1) into a stewpan with three of consomme (No. 134), and one of brown gravy (No. 135), place it upon the fire, and when boiling stir in two oimces of anchovy butter (No. 78), stir it in quickly, but do not let it boil afterwards. This sauce must be made only at the time of serving. No. 23. Jus lie aux fines Jlerbes. Put two tablespoonfuls of finely-chopped onions into a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a walnut; stir them over the fire until lightly browned; then add eighteen spoonfuls of demi-glace (No. 9), and eight of consomme (No. 134), reduce it to two thirds, skim it well, then add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and one of chopped mush- rooms, with a httle cayenne pepper, and a quarter of a tea- spoonful of powdered sugar; boil altogether five minutes, and finish with the juice of half a lemon; it is then ready tor use.14 SAUCES. No. 24. Jus lie aux petits Navets. Scoop four large turnips with a scoop about double the size of a pea; when done, wash and well dry them upon a cloth, then put a little powdered sugar into a convenient sized stewpan; place it upon the fire, when it melts and becomes shghtly tinged, throw in an ounce of butter and the turnips, place them over a slow fire, tossing them over occasionally until shghtly browned; then in another stewpan put ten spoonfuls of demi-glace (No. 9,) and six of consomme, then add your turnips; let it simmer upon the corner of the fire, keeping it skimmed until the turnips are done; add a little more seasoning, if required, and it is ready for use. No. 25. Jus lie aux Olives. Put half a tablespoonful of chopped onions into a stew* pan with the same of salad oil; pass them five minutes over a slow fire, then add a teaspoonful of port wine, eighteen of demi-glace (No. 9), and six of consomme (No. 134), reduce it to two thuds, skimming it well, then have twenty fine olives, turn them, taking out then stones, so that they resume then original shape, put them into the stewpan with a little sugar, boil them two minutes, and the sauce is ready. Should the olives be too salt, soak them a short time in warm water. No. 26. Sauce aux fines Uerbes. Put three tablespoonfuls of chopped onions into a stew- pan with one ounce of butter, stir them over a moderate fire until getting rather brownish, then add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), half a pint of consomme (No. 134), and two spoon- fuls of brown gravy (No. 135), let it simmer ten minutes, skim it well, then stir it over a sharp fire, reducing it until it adheres to the back of the spoon, then add a spoonful of15 SAUCES. chopped mushrooms, one of chopped parsley, and one of preserved tomates; season with a little sugar, cayenne, and salt, if required. When ready to serve add the juice of half a lemon. No. 27. Saucepiquante. Put two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions into a stewpan with four of common vinegar, and a small piece of glaze; let them boil together a few minutes, then add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), with half a pint of consomme (No. 134), stu it quickly over a sharp fire until it adheres to the back of the spoon; then aad a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms, and a tablespoonful of chopped gherkins; it is then ready for use. This sauce requires to be seasoned rather high with cayenne pepper, sugar, and salt. No. 28. Sauce Robert. Peel and cut up four middling-sized onions into very small dice, put them into a stewpan with two ounces of but- ter, stir them over a moderate fire until rather brown • then add two tablespoonfuls of common vinegar, let it boil • then add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), with half a pint of con- somme (No. 134), let it simmer at the corner of the stove ten minutes; skim it well, then stir it over a sharp fire reducing it until rather thick; finish it with two tablespoon- uls of French mustard, a little sugar, and salt, if required. No. 29. Sauce Robert demi-provengale. Pu the same quantity of onions into a stewpan as in the ; but usmg1 two. kblespoonfals of salad oil instead of butter; proceed as in the last, and finish with a piece of scraped garlic the size of a pea. Use this sauce for any pur- pose you would the preceding one. *SAUCES. 16 No. 30. Sauce a Vltalienne. Put two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions and one of chopped eschalots in a stewpan with three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, stir them ten minutes over a sharp fire; then add a wine-glassful of sherry, a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), and half a pint of consomme (No. 134), set it over a sharp fire until it boils, then place it at the corner, let it simmer ten minutes, skim off all the oil which it will throw up, then place it over the fire, stir with a spoon, reducing it until it adheres to the back of it, then add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, a little sugar, salt if required, and finish with the juice of half a lemon. No. 31. Sauce a Vltalienne (white) Italian sauce for any description of fish, white meat, or poultry, must be made white, which is done by following the directions of the preceding receipts, only substituting white sauce (No. 7) for the brown, and finishing with three spoonfuls of cream. No. 32. Sauce Poivrade. Put two onions, half a carrot, and a turnip, in slices, into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, a little celery, leek, a sprig of parsley, one of thyme, one bay-leaf, two ounces of lean ham, and eight peppercorns; pass tlifem over a sharp fire until rather brow, add six tablespoonfuls of Tarragon vinegar, just boil it, then add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), and half a pint of consomme (No. 134); simmer a short time, skim it, then reduce quickly until it adheres to the back of the spoon, then pass it through a tammie and use where directed. This sauce requires to be highly seasoned.17 SAUCES. No. 33. Saucepoivrade demi-provenqale. Pioceed as in the last, but adding two eschalots to the vegetables, which pass* in a tablespoonful of oil instead of butter, and finish with a little scraped garlic. No. 34. Sauce a la Bateliere. Put a tablespoonful of chopped eschalots, one of chopped tarragon, one of chopped parsley, and four of chopped mush- rooms into a stewpan with one blade of mace, three cloves a wineglassful of vinegar, and one of sherry; set it upon the fire until nearly dry, then add a quart of brown sauce 1 i a pmt of consomm(3, (No. 134), reduce it mi il it adheres to the back of the spoon, then add a spoon- ful of chopped gherkins, and one of chopped capers ; when zzr "d“” i“ ™> No. 35. Sauce a la Befovui. Cutup two middling-sized onions into thin shoes and iTh”?"1”'—“‘’“w*1' raislcJ’tw0 o,,bi . •' 'rr “ *»v over the fire until boiling then nnt it wi1 pIace 11 simmer ten minutes sK>\’ i h 1 att le corner> let it the fire keeZr h 5 T”’ piace « »S™> over ' pmg 14 StUTCd- “d until it adheres to * A- culinary term.18 SAUCES. the back of the spoon ; then add a good tablespoonful of red currant jelly, and half do. of chopped mushrooms; season a little more if required with pepper and salt; stir it until the jelly is melted, then pass it through a tammie into an- other stewpan. When ready to serve, make it hot, and add the white of a hard-boiled egg cut into strips half an inch long, and thick in proportion, four white blanched mush- rooms, one gherkin, two green Indian pickles, and half an ounce of cooked ham, or tongue, all cut in strips like the white of egg; do not let it boil afterwards. This sauce must be poured over whatever it is served with. No. 36. Sauce au jus de Groseilles. Put a couple of onions in shoes into a stewpan, with half an ounce of butter, a sprig of thyme, and one bay-leaf; pass them over a sharp fire until lightly browned; add two teaspoonfuls of common vinegar, let it boil, and then add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), and half a pint of consomme (No. 134); let it simmer ten minutes at the corner of the fire, skim it well, then place it over the fire, stir and reduce it well, until it adheres lightly to the back of the spoon; then add two tablespoonfuls of red currant jelly; pass it through a tammie, and it is ready to serve with roast hares, fillet, &c., where directed. No. 37. Sauce aux Tomates. Procure two dozen ripe tomates, take out the stalk, squeeze out the juice and the seeds, then put them into a stewpan with a little salt, stew until tender, and drain them upon a sieve; then, in another stewpan, put two onions, part of a carrot, and a turnip, all cut in very thin slices, with a bunch of parsley, two sprigs of thyme, two bay-leaves, two cloves, a blade of mace, a clove of garlic, two ounces of lean uncooked ham, and a quarter of aSAUCES. 19 pound of blitter; place the stewpan over a moderate fire, stir the mierepoix round occasionally, until the vegetables are tender, then add the tomates, stir them over the fire another minute, then stir in six ounces of flour, and add two quarts of consomme (No. 134); bod altogether twenty- five minutes, keeping it stirred, season it with a little salt, sugar, and cayenne pepper, then rub it through a tarnmie • put it into another stewpan, set it over the fire, when boil- ing place it at the corner, let simmer ten minutes, skim well, then pom- it in a basin, and use where directed. no tomates, use two bottles of preserved tomatas. If too t lick, dilute it with a little more consomme. No. 38. Sauce a la Tartare. Rub the yolk of a cold hard-boiled egg through a hair- sieve into a basin, to which add the yolks of two raw eggs with a little salt and pepper; mix altogether with a woodtn spoon; have a pint of good salad oil in a bottle, hold it with the left hand over the basin, dropping it in very gra- ua y, and with the right continue stirring it round mitil omes lather thick, then moisten it with a little Tar- ragon vinegar, still keeping it stirred, then more oil, and so Hve user fthe qU- keepins i4 rather «*k; ro dl “ eSp°0nfu of fi"ely-cliopped gherkins, half a he sit of cl T8’ f 3 d0' °f Ch°pPed «■*** the same of chopped parsley, two of French mustard a little £nnr t- and more sait if ^ seasoned ^ be Kg% No. 39. Papillate Sauce. panS°S 1° T” °ff fat bac™' -hich put into a stew- of chonned 1' ' Sp00n S °f ch°PPe<1 eschalots, and four opped mushrooms; stir them over a moderate fire tenSA.TJCES. 20 minutes, then add half a tablespoonful of flour (mix it well) and a quart of demi-glace (No. 9); let it simmer ten minutes, skim it; then add a spoonful of chopped parsley, a little pepper and salt, half a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, and a little grated nutmeg; mix the whole well together, then place it upon the fire; keep it stirred, and reduce until rather thick, then pom it into a basin, and use where di- rected. This sauce requires to be thick, but not pasty; it is folded in paper with cotelettes, joints of poultry, game, &c., with which it is also broiled and served, without taking them out of the papers. No. 40. Sauce a la Diable. Chop six large eschalots, wash and press them in a clean cloth, then put them into a stewpan with two wine-glasses full of Chili vinegar, a piece of garlic, two bay-leaves, and an ounce of glaze; boil all together ten minutes, then add four tablespoonfuls of tomate sauce (No. 37), a little sugar, and ten of good gravy; boil it ten minutes longer, then add a pat of butter; stir it well in, and it is ready for use; serve it with devilled kidneys, poultry, or anything broiled. No. 41. Sauce Corinihien. Put four chopped gherkins into a stewpan with a table- spoonful of capers, two of red currant jelly, half a tea- spoonful of salt, a little cayenne pepper, a little grated nutmeg, a tablespoonful of chopped chalots, one of chopped parsley, a wine-glassful of vinegar, and half a tablespoonlul of sugar; boil all together five minutes, then add six table- spoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), and twelve of tomate sauce (No. 37), with six of white broth; boil and skim it well; this peculiar sauce is good for all kinds of broiled meat, game, or poultry, or may be eaten cold, with cold meat.21 SAUCKS. No. 42. Sauce Provenqale chaude. Put two yolks of egg in a stewpan, with half a table- spoonful of flour, half a clove of garlic well scraped, a small quantity of cayenne pepper, two ounces of butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, and the juice of half a lemon; place it over a moderate fire, and stir it until it becomes rather thick; then take it off the fire, stir in two tablespoonfuls of oil by degrees, then eight of melted butter; if you should require to warm it again, stir it in a bain marie of hot water. Use where required. No. 43. Sauce a la Maitre d'Hotel. Put eight spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan With four of white stock or milk; boil it five minutes, the! stir in three ounces of maitre d’hbtel butter (No. 79). stir it quickly over the fire until the butter is melted, but do not let the sauce boil after the butter is in; this sauce should only be made at the time of serving. No. 44. Sauce a la Pavigote. buttlTmUmiSe\aS!Vh,e last’ onl^ “*"8 R™gote there dieted ^ ^ °f ^r, as The Simplicity of the last two sauces is perhaps not gicatei than their utility or delicacy; they may not only be :Z m”£:tT; dTPti°nS °f feh directed/but li fillets of beef, mutton and lamb cutlets, calf’s head clies tads, and many other articles where directed in this No. 45. Sauce a VIndienne. stef™»WXfi tabl77fuls of clWd eschalots into a luZ pi it ! , t Ute Vi,’egar fr0m a mild pickles, bod them a couple of minutes, then add a22 SAUCES. pint of white sauce (No. 7), and three tablespoonfuls of white broth; reduce it over a sharp fire (keeping it stirred) until rather thickish, then add two tablespoonfuls of cream, and pass it through a tammie into another stewpan; when ready to serve make it hot, and add six of the pickles, cut in strips, which serve in it. No. 46. Curry Sauce. Peel four large onions and two apples, slice, and put them into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, a blade of mace, six peppercorns, a sprig of thyme, parsley, and two bay-leaves; stir them over a moderate fire until the onions become brown and tender, then add two tablespoonfuls of the best curry-powder, and two of flour; mix it well in, then add half a pint of white sauce (No. 7), and a quart of white stock; season with a little salt, and half a teaspoonful of sugar; boil it a quaitei of an horn’, keeping it stirred, then rub through a tammie; put it into another stewpan, boil it up, skim and use it where required. Mangoes or curry paste may be used, but then you only require one spoonful of curry powder. No. 47. Sauce Soubise. Peel six large onions, which cut in very thin slices, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, and place them over a slow fire, stirring occasionally until tender, but keeping them quite white; then add an ounce of flour, mix it well in, then half a pint of white sauce (No. 7), and half a pint of milk; boil altogethei twenty minutes ; season with half a quarter of a teaspoonful of white pepper, half ditto ot salt, and three quarters ditto of sugar, a little cream may also be added; rub through a tam- mie, put it in another stewpan, make it hot, and serve where required. This sauce must be rather thick, but not pasty.23 SAUCES. No. 48. Sauce Soubise (brown). Peel and slice six onions, as in the last, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, pass them over a moderate fire until tender and of a light brown colour, then mix in one tablespoonful of flour, add a pint of demi- glace (No. 9), and ten tablespoonfuls of brown gravy (No. 135), boil altogether until the onions are quite done, sea- son with a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, rub it through a tammie, put it into another stewpan, make it hot, and serve where directed. No. 49. Sauce a la Milanaise. Cut thirty pieces of blanched maccaroni half an inch in ength, as many pieces of lean cooked ham of the same size and an equal quantity of white blanched mushrooms also tie same, then put twelve tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No /), m a stewpan with four of white broth, season with a httle cayenne pepper, salt, and sugar; bod it ten minutes, ion add the above ingredients with two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, stir all gently over the fir. ten minutes msh with a tablespoonful of cream, and use where required’ No. 50. Sauce ou Ragout a la Financier. Put a wineglassful of sherry into a stewpan with a piece Of glaze the size of a walnut, and a bay-leaf, place it upon Worth'd? * b0US add 3 qUart °f demi-gL (No 9) let it boil ten minutes, keeping it stirred • then add twelve fresh blanched mushrooms, twelve prepared cocks- combs, a throat sweetbread cut into thin slices, two French "1^o ri;'‘1SOi;n s^ces* an<^ twelve small quenelles vith 1 mi alt°ge her ten skim it well, thin it thick »■>!(( 6 “ lf tut it must be rather Mick, and seasoned very palatably.24 SAUCES The above may also be made white by using bechamel, or white sauce (No. 7) instead of brown, and following the above directions and finishing with half a gill of cream; serve in a vol-au-vent or wherever directed. No. 51. Sauce aux Truffles. Put a pint of demi-glace (No. 9) into a stewpan, place it over the fire, keeping it stirred until it has reduced one third; have four middling-sized preserved Trench truffles cut into slices, which throw into the sauce, add a little sugar, and take it from the fire, not allowing it to boil after the truffles are in; it is then ready to serve where directed: by this simple method you retain the full flavour of the truffles, and keep them tender. Sauce aux truffles may also be made white by .using white sauce (No. 7), instead of demi- glace, and finishing with half a gill of cream, but it requires to be rather thicker than the brown. When brown, neither this sauce nor the following must be too thick. No. 52. Sauce aux Champignons. Put a pint of demi-glace (No. 9) into a stewpan, reduce it to one thud, keeping it stirred, then add twenty blanched mushrooms (No. 107), a little catsup, and half a teaspoon- ful of sugar; boil altogether a few minutes, skim it, and it is ready to serve. To make it white put a pint of white sauce (No. 7) into a stewpan with half a teaspoonful of sugar, when it boils add twenty mushrooms, boil altogether ten minutes, then stir in a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with two tablespoonfuls of cream, but do not let it boil afterwards. No. 53. Sauce a la puree de Truffles. Well pomid eight middling-sized Trench preserved truf- fles, which afterwards rub through a hair sieve until a wooden spoon, then put half an onion, a small piece ofSAUCES. 25 carrot and turnip, cut into very thin slices, into a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, half a bay-leaf, a sprig of parsley, and an ounce of lean uncooked ham; stir them over the fire imtil quite tender; then add half a glass of wine and the pounded truffles, with which mix half a teaspoonful of flour; then add eight good tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), boil it ten minutes; then rub it through a tammie, put it into another stewpan, add a little consomme (No. 134), boil it up, season with a little sugar, and salt, if required, and use where directed. No. 54. Sauce a la puree de Champignons. Well pound a pottle of very fresh white mushrooms, then put half an onion, a small piece of carrot, and a small piece of turnip, cut into very thin slices, into a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, half a bay-leaf, a sprig of pars- ley, and an ounce of lean imcooked ham; stir them over the fire until quite tender, then add the mushrooms, and eight tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7); season with a little salt, and sugar, boil it ten minutes, add four tablespoonfuls of cream, and rub it through a tammie, put it into a stew- pan, boil it one minute, and it is ready for use. No. 55. Sauce Perigeux. Put four middling-sized truffles, chopped very fine, into a stewpan with a glass of sherry, boil it one minute, then add a pint of demi-glace (No. 9), season with a little sugar, and salt, if required, boil a minute and it is ready to serve. * No. 53. Sauce Bechamel a la Creme. Put a pint of bechamel sauce (No. 7), and half a pint of white stock (No. 133), in a stewpan, reduce it over a sharp fire (keeping it stirred), to one half, then add half a pint of good cream, a little sugar, and salt if required, boil it ano- ther minute, and serve where required.SAUCES. 26 No. 57. Sauce au Supreme. Take the bones of a fowl you have filetted, or the trimmings of any other fowl, either roast or braised, (which is preferable if any,) but if using the bones of a raw fowl lay it in warm water two hours to disgorge, break the bones small and put them into a stewpan with half an ounce of butter, a glass of sherry, one onion with a clove stuck in it, and one ounce of ham; place it over a good fire, keep Stirling occasion- ally until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a light glaze, then add a quart of light broth (No. 133), let it boil at the comer of the stove, skim and reduce it to one third, pass it through a cloth, (but first carefully take off every particle of fat), into a large stewpan, add a pint of veloute (No. 5), or bechamel (No. 7), reduce it over a sharp fire, keeping it stirred until it adheres to the back of the spoon; then add a little sugar and four tablespoonfuls of cream, boil two minutes longer, pass it through a tammie, and use where required. No. 58. Veloute de Gibier. Must be made either from pheasant or partridge; (wild rabbit may be introduced); chop up the bones, which put into a stewpan with an onion, the quarter of a carrot, and the quarter of a turnip (cut up small), a little parsley, thyme, and one bay-leaf; add a glass of white wine; pass them a few minutes over the fire, then add a quart of sauce veloute (No. 5), or sauce bechamel (No. 7), and a pint of veal stock; place it again over the fire, and keep stirring until it becomes rather thickish; then add a gill of cream, and a little sugar, boil again until it adheres to the back of the spoon, then pass it through a sieve, and afterwards through a tammie, and use where directed. The bones of two par- tridges or one pheasant would be sufficient.SAUCES. 27 No. 59. Sauce a la puree de Gibier. Roast a grouse, and separate all the flesh from the bones, make a sauce with the bones as directed in the next; pound the flesh well in a mortar, put it into a stewpan; then add the sauce, boil altogether five minutes, then rub it through a tarnmie, and serve where directed. Any description of game, or the remains of some from a previous dinner, may be used for the above purpose; the puree requires to be as thick as bechamel sauce (No. 7). No. 60. Sauce au fumee de Gibier. Roast two grouse, let them get partly cold if time per- mits, then cut them into joints, which use for a salmi (see No. 876); chop the trimmings up small, with the back bones, and put them into a stewpan with a glass of sherry, an onion, a piece of carrot, and a piece of turnip, all in slices, a little celery, a sprig of thyme, and parsley, a bay- leaf, one clove, and half a blade of mace, stir them over the file five minutes, then add a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), * and a pint of consomme (No. 134); boil quickly upon the corner of the stove twenty minutes, then skim it well, pass it through a sieve, and afterwards through a tarnmie into a basin, and use where required. The trimmings of any description of game, or some left from a previous dinner, may be used for making the above sauce, but if you have the choice, the trimmings of grouse No. 61. Demi-glace de Gibier. Make a sauce as above, when passed put it into a stew- pan w, h a pint of consomme (No. 134), and a table- spoonful of tomate sauce (No. 37); simmer it at the corner the stove ten minutes, add a little sugar, skim it well.SA.IJCES 28 then reduce it quickly until a thinish glaze is formed and adheres to the back of the spoon. No. 62. Sauce Matelotte Peel about twenty button onions, then put a teaspoonful of powdered sugar in a stewpan, place it over a sharp fire, and when melted and getting brown, add a piece of butter the size of two walnuts, and your onions, pass them over the fire until rather brown; then add a glass of sherry, let it boil, then add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), and ten spoonfuls of consomme (No. 134), simmer at the comer of the fire until the onions are quite tender, skim it well; then add twenty small quenelles (No. 120), ten heads of mush- rooms, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, one of catsup, one of Harvey sauce, and a little cayenne pepper. Serve where directed. No. 63. Sauce Genevoise. Put one tablespoonful of chopped onions and one of chop- ped eschalots into a stewpan with half an ounce of butter, pass them over the fire until lightly browned, then add four glasses of port wine, two cloves, and half a blade of mace, with two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, and one of parsley, boil them a few minutes; then add a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), and ten tablespoonfuls of consomme (No. 134), reduce it until rather thick; then add one tablespoonful of chopped mush- rooms, boil it another minute, then pass it through a tam- mie into a clean stewpan ; when just ready to serve, boil it up, season it with a little salt, cayenne pepper, and half a teaspoonful of sugar, then stir in one ounce of anchovy butter (No. 78), but do not let it boil after. Seme with any description as directed. No. 64. Sauce a la Beyrout. Put a tablespoon fid of chopped onions into a stewpanSAUCES. 29 with one of Chili vinegar and one of common vinegar, eighteen spoonfuls of melted butter, four of brown gravy, two of mushroom catsup, and two of Harvey sauce; then place it over the fire, keep stirring until boiling, then place it at the corner of the stove, let it simmer five minutes, skim it well, then place it again over the fire and stir until it ad- heies to the back of the spoon, when add two tablespoon- fuls of essence of anchovies, and half a teaspoonful of sugar; it is then ready to serve. The above is a fish sauce, but may be used for meat or poultry by substituting white sauce (No. 7) for melted butter (No. 71). N°. 65. Sauce a l essence de Poissons. Have the bones of two whitings or soles, (having used the fillets), break them into pieces and put them into a stewpan with an onion m shoes, a good bunch of parsley, a little thyme bay-leaf, two cloves, one glass of sheny, and ten of white broth; place it over the fire and let it reduce until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a fight glaze; then add eighteen tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) and ten o white broth,. let it boil twenty minutes, then pass it ough a tammie into another stewpan, boil it again, and Ifrequirf a glU °f Crea“ a"d a Uttle PePPer salt No. 66. Sauce a la Hollandaise. thence If S' 1 CggS ” tte b°tt0m of a stewP“ with the jmCe of half a lemon, a quarter of a teaspoonfiU of salt a h tie white pepper, and a quarter of a pound of fresh J 61 ’ ? aCe the stewpan over a moderate fire and com ZTJZl ltTithawooden -P™. (taking iToffTo ^ Settmg 100 hot)- mtil butter be- C !c113 “ith the eggs, (great care mustSAUCES. 80 be exercised, for if it should become too hot the eggs would curdle and render the sauce useless); then add a pint of melted butter, stir it together over the fire, but do not let it boil; pass it through a tammie into another stewpan. When wanted stir it over the fire until quite hot. No. 67. Caper Sauce. Put twelve tablespoonfuls of melted butter into a stew- pan, place it upon the fire, and when upon the point of boding, add two ounces of fresh butter and three table- spoonfuls of capers; shake the stewpan round over the fire until the butter is melted, add a little pepper aDd salt, and serve where directed. 68. Lobster Sauce. Put twelve tablespoonfuls of melted butter into a stew- pan, cut a middling sized hen lobster into dice, make a quarter of a pound of lobster butter noth the spawn, as directed (No. 77); when the melted butter is upon the point of boding, add the lobster butter, stir the sauce round over the fire, untd the butter is melted; season with a fit tie essence of anchovy, the juice of half a lemon and a quarter of a saltspoonful of cayenne, pass it through a tammie into another stewpan, then add the flesh of the lobster. When hot, it is ready to serve where directed. This sauce must be quite red, if no red in the lobster use live spawn. No. 69. Oyster Sauce. Mix three ounces of butter in a stewpan with two ounces of flour; then blanch and beard three dozen oysters, as directed (No. 342); put the oysters into another stewpan, and the beards and liquor to the other ingredients, with a pint and a half of milk, a teaspoonful of salt, half a salt- spoonful of cayenne pepper, two cloves, half a blade ofSAUCES. 31 mace, and six peppercorns; place it over the fire, keep stirring, and boil it ten minutes; then add a tablespoonful of essence of anchovies, and one of Harvey sauce; then pass it through a tammie over the oysters; make the whole very hot, without boiling, when ready to serve. Another method. Put a pmt and a half of white sauce (No. 7,) into a stew- pan, with the juice and beards of three dozen oysters, as above, six peppercorns, two cloves, half a blade of mace • bod it ten minutes, then add a spoonful of essence of an- chovies, a little cayenne pepper, and salt if required; pass it through a tammie over the oysters, as before. A plainer method. Blanch three dozen oysters, take away their beards, and put them, with their liquor, into a stewpan, with half a “T TCe- tw.° TV' and six Peppercorns; place them ove the fire, and du-ectly they boil add half an ounce of butter, with which you have mixed half a tablespoonful om , shake the stewpan round over the fire two or three innutes, then add a little essence of anchovies • take out hUTVt TV ‘m iS M °f flavo”' “d very Simple. If too thick add a little milk. J No. 70. Muscle Sauce. Proceed exactly the same as for oyster sauce, only using the hquor of muscle (see No. 341) but not tit . }i , ° instead of oysters, and serving muscle in tho ° dozen would be about the number re^hVd. ^ f°"r No. 71. Melted Butter.SAUCES. 32 fire; then add a pint and a half of cold water, place it upon the fire, keep stirring until upon the point of boding, but do not let it bod; season with a tablespoonful of vinegar, and a teaspoonful of salt, and the eighth of one of pepper • pass it through a tammie into a basin, then add two ounces more of fresh butter; keep stirring till the butter is melted; it is then ready for use where required. No. 72. Anchovy Sauce. Make the same quantity of melted butter as directed in the last, but finish it with four good tablespoonfuls of es- sence of anchovies; there should be little or no salt m the melted butter. No. 73. Shrimp Sauce. Make the melted butter as for the last, but finish with three tablespoonfuls of the essence of shrimps, and serve hah a pint of picked shrimps in the boat with it. It no essence of shrimps, the anchovy sauce may be served with shrimps in it as a substitute. No. 74. Demi Maitre d’Hotel Sauce. Put half the above quantity of melted butter m a stew- pan, and when upon the point of boding stir in a quarter of a pound of maitre d’hotel butter (No. 79); directly it mel s serve, but do not let it boil. No. 75. Fennel Sauce. This is a sauce principally used for boded mackerel; make the same quantity of melted butter as m the last, to which add a good tablespoonful of chopped fennel; serve i in a boat ^ 70 ^ Sauce. Generally served with salt fish or a Dublin-bay haddock: boil six eggs ten minutes, let them get cold, then cut themSAUCES. 33 in pieces about the size of dice; have eight tablespoonfuls of melted butter and three of good cream in a stewpan, season with a little pepper and salt, boil it five minutes, then add the eggs; shake the stewpan round over the fire until the eggs are quite hot, then add two pats of butter; shake it lound until the butter is melted, then poiu* it into a boat, and serve very hot. / No. 77. Lobster Butter. Procure a full-sized hen lobster, and quite full of spawn, which take out and pound well in a mortar; then add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, mix them well together, then rub it through a hair-sieve, and put it on a plate upon the ice or in a cold place until wanted. No. 78. Anchovy Butter. Take the bones from ten anchovies, wash the fillets • dry them upon a cloth, and pound them well in a mortar • then add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter • mix well together and proceed as in the last. No. 79. Matire £ Hotel Butter. Put a quarter of a pound of fresh butter upon a plate ™th two good tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, the juiei InTtv oH8; 4 teaSP°°rful °f Salt- “d half that quantity of white pepper; mix all well together, and put in a cool place til] required. P 80. Baviyote Butter parsley, and adding half a spoonful of Chili vinegar. 334 SAUCES AND GARNITURES OE VEGETABLES. No. 81. Puree de Clioux de Bruxelles. Trim and boil about thirty beads of Brussel sprouts, very green, in two quarts of water, with which you have put a quarter of a handful of salt; when done, drain them and chop them very fine; then put an onion in a stewpan, in slices, with two ounces of butter, three sprigs of parsley, and an ounce of raw ham; stir them ten minutes over the fire, then add the chopped Brussel sprouts, and half a tablespoonful of flour; mix all well together, then add half a pint of white veal stock (No. 7), and half a pint of milk; stir it until it boils, then add a teaspoonful of powdered sugar; rub it through a tarnmie, and serve where directed. Season with a little pepper and salt, if required. It must not be too thick. No. 82. Sauce aux Choux de Bruxelles. Trim about thirty small Brussel sprouts; have ready in a stewpan three quarts of boding water, into which you have put a tablespoonful of salt; put in the sprouts, let them bod twenty minutes, then press them with your finger; if they are soft they are done, but be careful not to break them; lay them upon a sieve to drain, then put ten spoonfuh of Bechamel sauce (No. 7), into a stewpan, with six of boded milk; let it reduce a few minutes, then add the sprouts, two ounces of fresh butter, a salt-spoonfid of salt, half a one of white pepper, half a teaspoonfid of sugar, one of chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon; keep them moving over the fire untd the butter is quite melted, and serve where directed.35 SAUCES. No. 83. JucX Haricots verts. Cut about fifty middling sized French beans into dia- monds, and boil them very green,in salt and water; when cone dram them upon a sieve; then put ten tablespoonfuls o white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with two of white r u(^133)’ °De 0UnCe °f fres]l butter> a salt-spoonful o salt, half a one of white pepper, one of chopped parsley ana the juice of half a lemon; then add the French beans • nnx ah weH together without breaking the beans; when qrnte hot, stir in two tablespoonfuls of liaison (No 1191 and serve. '» m No. 84. Petit Pois a V Anglaise. narflniwf °f/°™g peas' boiled TC17 green, into a stew- pan with three tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No 71 a quarter of an ounce of sugar, a little salt, and two button onions, with parsley, tied together; boil them ten minutes ■ and of ^«n (No. 119), stir it in quickly,’ No. 85. Petit Pois au Lard. Put a pmt of web-boiled peas into a stewpan, with five do t:ZZn(N°-1}’ tW° °f br°™ ^a‘inL 0°f Ugai, two button onions, and a bunch of parslev • let it h i about ten mmutes ; have ready braised aCl ^ Jound n aeon, cut it in dice about a quarter of an inrlt add it to the peas, take out the onions andn“w^; wdh an ounce of butter, and half a teZooZ Z ^ mix weU together, stew twenty minutes, and sem. ^* No. 86. Puree de Pois vert. onions, a bmchrf mt° * SteWpan' with six bl,tton ’ m’Ch °f “ ounce of lean ham, and one do36 SAUCES. of butter; cover the peas with cold water, mix well together with your bands, throw all the water away, put them over a quick fire; when quite tender, add a half tablespoonful of flour; mix well, pound it in the mortar, put it back in the stewpan; add twelve tablespoonfuls of broth (No. 133), season with a salt-spoon of salt, do. of sugar, rub it through a tammie, warm again, add a little cream or milk to give it a proper thickness, and serve. No. 87. Ala Palestine. Peel ten Jerusalem artichokes, scoop them with a cutter the size of a small marble, put them into a stewpan until two ounces of butter, and a quarter of a spoonful of sugai; set them over a moderate fire, toss them over until they are covered with a glaze, then add eighteen tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No. 7), and eight do. of white broth (No. 133); boil gently, and skim well; season with a small quantity of salt; when the artichokes are quite tender, but not broken, add two tablespoonfuls of liaison (No. 119), stir quickly, and serve. No. 88. Palestine a la Bourgeoise. Prepare and cut the artichokes as above; put an ounce of butter, and a quarter do. of sugar into a stewpan with the artichokes, and pass them over a moderate fire, until they are covered with a white glaze; then add half a table- spoonful of flour (mix it well,) and twelve do. of white broth ; let it simmer gently until they are quite tender, season with a little salt and two tablespoonfuls of liaison (No. 119), stir it in quickly, and serve. No. 89. Palestine au Maigre. Cut the artichokes ns above (No. 87), pass them in a stewpan with an oimce of butter, and half ditto of sugar, over37 SAUCES. a moderate foe until they are covered with a white glaze • then add a tablespoonful of flour, and sixteen ditto of boiled milk • let it simmer gently until the artichokes are quite ten- der, season with a little salt and white pepper; to finish add an ounce of fresh butter, and two tablespoonfuls of liason, stir it quickly and serve. If you have not a round scooper any shape will do; but round is preferable, as it is a very tender vegetable, and they are not so liable to -break. \ No. 90. Puree d’Artichaut. Peel, wash, and dry, on a cloth, ten artichokes, which cut in veiy thin slices, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, a small bunch of parsley, one bay- leaf, a teaspoonful of salt, a little white pepper, three quarters of a teaspoonful of sugar, and two ditto of broth; cut an ounce of lean ham in dice, set the whole over a slow fire, let it simmer gently for half an hour, when very tender add sixteen tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No. 7) ■ boij it twenty minutes, pass it through a tammie, into a clean stewpan, and before serving add three tablespoonfuls of liason (No. 119). This sauce requires to be rather thick. No. 91. Puree a la Palestine maigre. Prepare and stew the artichokes precisely as before; when quite tender add one tablespoonful of flour, and eighteen of ditto of boiling milk; let it boil twenty minutes, rub it through a tammie into a clean stewpan, add a little cream before serving. No. 92. Navets Vierges. Peel six large turnips, scoop them the size of a marble, put no ounce of butter into a stewpan with a quarter of an ounce sugar, and the turnips, pass them over a moderate fire38 SAUCES. about twenty minutes, toss them over, when covered with a white glaze add ten tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce, and four ditto of broth (No. 133), seasonwith a salt-spoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, finish with two tablespoonfuls of cream. This sauce must not be too thin. No. 93. Ragout de Navets a brun. Scoop the same quantity of turnips as above (No. 92), put a quarter of an ounce of sugar into a stewpan, set it on the fire until it becomes rather brown, then add an ounce of butter, and the turnips, pass them until they are a yellow brown; then add twelve tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), four ditto of broth (No. 133), or brown gravy (No. 135), and a bunch of parsley, with one bay-leaf; add a little salt and pepper, skim well and serve. No. 94. Puree de Navets a blanc. Peel and cut six small turnips in thin slices, put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, a quarter of a spoonful of white sugar, one onion minced, and a bunch of parsley; stir them over a moderate fire until nearlytender, add eighteen tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No. 7), let it boil twenty minutes, pass it through a tammie, put it into a clean stewpan, finish with four tablespoonfuls of cream, and half an ounce of fresh butter. No. 95. Puree de Navets a brun. Put half an ounce of sugar into a stewpan; let it get rather brown, add two ounces of butter, have ready peelet and cut in thin slices six turnips, add them to the butter and sugar, and stir them about until quite tender; then add eighteen tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1); bod it about twenty minutes, rub it through a tammie, put it into39 SAUCES. a clean stewpan, season with a tcaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, and about an ounce of butter. Observe.—Never let a puree of any kind remain long at the side of the fire, as it gives it a strong and unpleasant flavour; if not wanted immediately set it in a bain marie. No. 96. Sauce aux Chou-Jleurs. Take two boiled cauliflowers, cut the tops off*, so that the flowers will fall to pieces in sprigs, take them up carefully, put eighteen tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No. 7), into a stewpan with four ditto of white broth (No. 133), a little salt and white pepper; boil it about ten minutes, then add the cauliflower and half a teaspoonful of sugar, toss them about until well mixed, and add two tablespoonfuls of liaison (No. 119), and serve. No. 97. Puree de Chou-Jleurs. Cut off the flower of two heads of cauliflower well boiled put a teaspoonful of chopped onions into a stewpan with a small piece of butter, pass them over a moderate fire about ve minutes, then put the cauliflower in and mash them ith a wooden spoon, add one tablespoonful of flour and ten ditto of white broth (No. 133), let it boil about fifteen sTrl TZ I' VeaSP°0nfUl °f ^ “ <^tto of ait, rub it through a tanmne into a clean stewpan add a httle mflk Crea“ “d SerV6’ “ t0° ‘hick> ““^n’with a No. 98. Macedoine de Legumes. Peel four very red carrots, wash them rn+ n m small scooper the sise of a large pea, the Outside o.ZT St ZtZlt ’thWhenready- ** “to a sTeiHf40 SAUCES. size six turnips, and twenty button onions, put a teaspoon- ful of sugar into a stewpan with an ounce ot butter, and the turnips and onions, pass them over a moderate fire about five minutes, then add the carrots, set them again over the fire until they are covered with a white glaze, add ten table- spoonfuls of white broth (No. 133), let them boil about ten minutes, take off all the butter and scum, then add ten tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No. 7), let it reduce until rather thick, season with a little salt if required; and five minutes before serving add three tablespoonfuls of liaison (No. 119), a few French beans, peas, asparagus, Brussels sprouts, or any green vegetable in season. No. 99. Macedoine de Legumes, brown. Prepare the vegetables and season exactly like the above, using brown sauce instead of white, and omitting the liaison. The two last sauces require to be reduced until the sauce adheres to the vegetables, but not too thick. No. 100. Jardiniere. Peel four carrots, cut them lengthwise in slices a quarter of an inch thick, have ready a small long round cutter, cut as many pieces as possible out of each slice, boil them in water a quarter of an horn ; peel and cut some tiunips exactly the same; peel twenty button onions, put^ a tea- spoonful of sugar into a stewpan with an ounce of butter and the turnips and onions; drain the carrots on asie\e and add them; toss the whole over a moderate fire about ten minutes, then put ten tablespoonfuls of consomme (No. 134), to the vegetables, let them simmer until quite tender, reduce and skim them well, then put twelve tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), into another stewpan with six ditto of consomme, reduce until rather thick, then add the vegetables, two spoonfuls of green peas, one ditto of French beans, a few41 SAUCES. small pieces of cauliflower, and a few heads of asparagus; let the whole simmer twelve or thirteen minutes; season with a little salt and sugar if required; just before serving put in an ounce of butter, toss it about until melted; a bunch of parsley, with a bay-leaf, is a great addition to the flavour if stewed with them. No. 101. Pointes P A-sperges en petits-pois. Get some fresh sprue grass, cut it about a quarter of an inch long, the green part only where it will break off, have ready a stewpan of boiling water with salt in, throw in the sprue and let it boil very fast until tender, which will be a quarter of an hour, or according to the size; then put them on a sieve to drain, put eight tablespoonfuls of the sprue into a stewpan with ten ditto of bechamel sauce (No. 7), a little consomme, half a teaspoonful of sugar, a little salt, and a small quantity of chopped parsley; let it simmer five minutes; to finish add a pat of butter and two tablespoonfuls of liaison (No. 119). No. 102. Puree d'Asperges. Put twelve spoonfuls of sprue (boiled as No. 101), into a stewpan with two omices of butter; stir it over a mo- derate fire until it is mashed, then add half a tablespoonful of flour, mix it well, add eleven spoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No 7), and ten ditto of broth (No. 135), half a teaspoon- t .!Ugm\a qU“rter ditt0 0f salt’ Iet b“l A™ minutes, rub it through a tammie, put it into a clean stewpan; before serving add a pat of butter. When wanted warm it quickly or it will turn yellow; if too thick moisten with a little milk. No. 103. Coneomires a blanc. Get three best quality fresh cucumbers, cut them in pieces t hr* inches long, peel each separately, then cut the42 SAUCES. outside in three slices (or four, if large), leaving the seeds in one piece in the middle, trim off all the edges neatly; put half a tablespoonful of sugar into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, a little chopped eschalots, and the cucumber, pass them over a moderate fire ten minutes without breaking, and keep them quite white, then add a little white broth (No. 133), just enough to cover them, let them simmer until tender, then lay them, with a colander spoon, on a sieve to drain; put twelve tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No. 7) into the stewpan with six of white broth, skim off all the butter, let it reduce until rather thick; season it with a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, and half a gill of cream; when ready to serve add the cucumbers. No. 104. Concombres a brun. Prepare and stew the cucumbers exactly the same, only brown them slightly, reducing the same quantity of demi- glace (No. 9) instead of the white sauce. No. 105. Puree de Concombres. Cut the cucumbers in pieces and stew them as above (No. 103), put all the trimmings, and some of the worst- shaped pieces into a stewpan with an ounce of butter and half a spoonful of chopped onions, pass them over a moderate fire twelve minutes, add three tablespoonfuls of veal stock (No. 7), and let them simmer until quite tender; then put a tablespoonful of flour, mix it well, add four more of stock, and six ditto of bechamel sauce (No. 7), season with half a teaspoonful of sugar, a quarter ditto of salt, and a little pepper, rub it through a tammie. When wanted, warm it very quickly, and add half a gill of cream; put the pieces into the puree and serve ; it must not be too thick.SAUCES. 4:3 No. 106. Bernard au Jus. Pick all the stalks off and wash the spinach very clean in several waters, have ready a large stewpan of boiling water, in which you have put a handful of salt, put in the spinach, and let it boil as quickly as possible about twenty minutes; when quite tender put it into a colander and press the water out until there is none remaining, then chop it very fine; put one pound of spinach into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, stir it with a wooden spoon over a mo- derate fire until the butter is melted; then add a little flour, eight tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), half a tea- spoonful of salt, half ditto of sugar, a little white pepper, and very small quantity of grated nutmeg; a little glaze may be added; finish with two ounces of fresh butter. No. 107. Blanched Mushrooms. Get a pottle of fresh mushrooms, cut off the dirt and like- wise the heads (reserving the stalk for chopping), wash the heads in a basin of clean water, take them out and drain in * a sieve; put into a stewpan two wine-glasses of cold water, one ounce of butter, the juice of half a good lemon, and a little salt; turn or peel each head neatly, and put them into the stewpan immediately, or they will turn black; set your stewpan on a brisk fire, let them boil quickly five minutes, put them into a basin ready for use; chop the stalks and peel very fine, put them into a stewpan with three table- spoonfuls of the liquor the mushrooms have been boiled in; let them simmer three minutes, put them into a jar, and use where indicated. Observe. Turning or peeling mushrooms is an art that practice alone can attain; if they are veiy fresh and white wash them quickly, and wipe them on a cloth, throw them into the liquid above mentioned.44 SAUCES. No. 108. Puree P 0settle. Put into a stewpan four good handfuls of sorrel (after being well washed,) with a small piece of butter, put on the cover and set it over a moderate fire without water, until melted; then put it on a sieve, and rub it all through; put half a tablespoonful of very fine chopped onions, and two ounces of butter into a stewpan, pass them over a quick fire two or three minutes, add a tablespoonful of flour, mix well together, add the sorrel and ten tablespoonfuls of broth (No. 133), half a teaspoonful of sugar, a little salt and white pepper; let it boil fifteen minutes, stir in two yolks of eggs quickly, and it is ready to serve. Demi-glace (No. 9) is very good instead of broth. No. 109. Ragout aux jeunes Racines. Peel very thin four carrots and four turnips, cut them flat the thickness of an inch, take a long cutter about three fines diameter, cut as many as possible, blanch the carrots in boiling water five minutes, then put them on a sieve to drain; put a tablespoonful of sugar in a stewpan, set it on the fire until it gets rather brown, then put in an ounce of butter, and the turnips, toss them over the fire until covered with a brown glaze, add the carrots, and eighteen table- spoonfuls of demi-glace (No. 9); let it boil at the comer of the stove until the vegetables are quite tender, then take them out of the sauce with a spoon, and lay them on a clean sieve; reduce the sauce until rather thick, season with a little pepper, pass it through a tammie into a clean stewpan, add the vegetables carefully, and serve very hot. No. 110. Ragout de petits Oignons. Peel carefully fifty young onions, without breaking them, put half an ounce of sugar into a stewpan, set it on the fire untilSAUCES. 45 it gets rather brown, add two ounces of butter and the onions, toss them over the fire until forming a glaze; then add fifteen tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), and eight of consomme (No. 134); let them simmer until tender, skim well, season with a small quantity of salt and pepper, and use where indicated; a little piece of glaze may be added. No. 111. Ragouts depetits Oignons a blanc. Peel the same quantity of onions as above, put half an ounce of sugar with two ounces of butter into a stewpan, and the onions, toss them over the fire twenty minutes, then add sixteen tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), and eight of white broth, let them simmer until quite tender; put in a bunch of parsley, season with a little salt and pepper, and finish with two tablespoonfuls of liaison (No. 119). No. 112. Garniture de fond d' Artichauts. Boil six artichokes in water and salt until quite tender, take the leaves off and trim the bottom until all the hard part is off and the artichoke has a round appearance; cut ' each in four pieces, put them in a good demi-glace (No. 9), lather thick, for ten minutes; add a little sugar, two pats of butter, and serve. No. 113. Garniture de Haricot blanc nouveau. Put half a pmt of white haricot into a stewpan with a pint of cold water, half a teaspoonful of salt, and an ounce of butter; let it simmer gently about one hour, or until quite tender, then put them on a sieve to drain; have ready a clean stewpan, put in the haricot with three tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No. 7), a little chopped parsley, and salt, hree pats of butter, and the juice of half a lemon, mix well together and serve where indicated.SAUCES. 46 No. 114. Gros Oignons farcis. Peel twelve large onions, cut a piece off at the top and bottom to give them a flat appearance, blanch them in four quarts of boiling water twenty minutes, then lay them on a cloth to dry; take the middle out of each onion, and fill them with forcemeat (No. 120), (with a little chopped eschalot, parsley, and mushroom, mixed in it), and put them in a saute pan well buttered, cover them with white broth (No. 133), let them simmer over a slow fire until covered with a glaze, and tender; turn them over and serve where required. No. 115. Stewed Cabbage Lettuce. Get twelve cabbage lettuces, as hard and full as possible; take off the outside leaves and wash them well; put them into a stewpan with four quarts of boiling water, and let them boil about twelve minutes,—this process is to take the bitterness off,—lay them on a cloth to dry, cut each lettuce open and season with salt and pepper, close them again, ",nd tie them separately with a string, put a few cloves in an onion, put it in a stewpan with a few vegetables of all kinds, a bunch of parsley, and a few slices of fat bacon on the top, lay the lettuce in and cover with some very good veal stock (No. 7); put them over a slow fire about an horn*, take them carefully out and cut the string, lay the heart upwards, dress them on a dish to form a star, or if they are small do not cut them open. Use for garniture where directed. No. 116. Chou braise and Choii-croute. Cut two large savoy cabbages in quarters, which trim and wash well, then blanch them twenty minutes in boding water, then lay them upon a cloth, season them well, and stew them as directed in the last, use where indicated. Chou-croute. Take three cr four pounds, not too sour,47 SAUCE8. and put it into a stewpan, with some slices of fat bacon, six onions cut in halves, three cloves, a blade of mace, half a carrot, half a turnip, four bay-leaves, and a few sprigs of thyme and parsley (laying the vegetables at the bottom and the chou-crout over them, which cover with fat bacon,-) add a pint and a half of good stock, and stew it gently for two horns; when ready to serve press them at the rim of the stewpan with a colander spoon, and pour off as much of the grease as possible, it is then ready for use where directed, bhou-croute is generally sufficiently seasoned in the barrel, but it may perhaps require a little more pepper and salt. No. 117. Stewed Celery for Garniture and Celery Sauce. Procure twelve veiy fine heads of red celery, take off the oose Ranches and cut the celery into heads five inches gth> blanch them twenty minutes in a stewpan of boil- ing water, then put them upon a sieve to drain, stew them piecisely as directed for the lettuce (No. 115) • but before stewing if the heads are too large split them m hdv s “ Where dn-ected. To make celery sauce, or pur&Tcderv blanch twelve heads of fine white celeiy in boiling water Z ZflZ drrthem uponasi-- <**> Z£ of i::zZ7; m Xlth Tand “ a piut With a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ITa whole one of powdered sugar,- then nass it tl ? i d -ie, put it into another “ *7" ready to serve. 1 ’ d mace hot when No. 118. Chousc-Jleun for Garnitures. lake four heads of cauliflower, cut each in f ■ trimming the stalks to give them a net Pleces" b ve mem a neat appearance; put half48 APPENDIX TO THE SAUCES. a gallon of water into a stewpan, with two ounces ol butter, and a tablespoonful of salt, when boiling, put in the cauli- flowers to simmer about twenty minutes; when done, let them remain in their stock until wanted. No. 119. Chicoree, or Endive Sauce. Well wash six heads of very white endive, blanch them in boiling water until tender, then drain them upon a sieve, after which chop them very fine, then put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan, with a tablespoonful of floui, mix well together, then add the endive, ten spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), a piece of white glaze the size of a walnut, a little nutmeg, salt, and sugar j place it upon the fire, and when quite hot finish with half a gill of cream, and use where directed. [Liaison. Break the yolks of three eggs in a basin, with which mix eight tablespoonfuls of cream or six of milk, pass it through a tammie and use where directed.] APPENDIX TO THE SAUCES. No. 120. Forcemeat of Veal. Take a pound and a half of lean veal, scrape, pound, and pass it through a fine wire sieve, when passed there should be one pound of meat; then take one pound of beef suet which shred and chop very fine, put it into a mortar an pound it well, then add six ounces of panade (No. 12o , with the suet, pound them well together; then add the veal, season with a little pepper, salt, and a very little grated nut- meg, mix the whole well together j then add three eggs y degrees, then the yolks of three more eggs when well mixed, whisk the whites of the three eggs to a very stiff froth, add49 APPENDIX TO THE SAUCES. to the forcemeat, mix them well in, and it is ready to use where directed. To form this or the following forcemeats into large quenelles, have two silver tablespoons, fill one of them with the forcemeat, dip your knife in hot water with 'uliich smooth it over, then dip the other spoon into boiling water, and with it remove the forcemeat from the first spoon and slip it from that into a buttered saute pan, proceeding thus until you have as many as you require; then cover them with some second stock, and boil them about ten minutes, or until firm, and they are ready for use. Small quenelles are made in the same manner, only using teaspoons mstead of tablespoons. No. 121. Forcemeat of Babbits. Take the flesh of one or two young rabbits, according to the size, well pound and pass it through a wire sieve; then ,leady 11boiled and cold a good veal udder, skin and pound it well to a pound of the udder add six ounces of panada (No. 125), and one pound of the flesh of the Tab- led Til h<i Same “ laSt’adtUllg an esctalot finely chop- ped, to the seasoning, using three whole and three yolks of eSSs> but omitting the whisked whites. No. 122. Forcemeat of Fowl. fo^^ufshonM™”11S “ade 6ntirely fr0m the b«^ts of S, but should you have no use for the other parts the Wh°le ma7 be used. Take the flesh from your fowl nf™ 1 as you require, pound it well and pass it throuo-h u 1 sieve, form the flesh into a ball (No. 125), half the size of the ball of meat of Panada bacon, one ounce, in proportion to the“2 two ounces of fresh butter, put theJniL , ™d whole eggs, mixing 4APPENDIX TO THE SAUCES. 50 the forcemeat into a little boiling stock, to poach; if too tender, add the yolks of one or even two more eggs; but if, on the contrary, it should be too firm, a little white sauce (No. 7), added cold will rectify it; it is then ready for use. In giving the last three receipts I have introduced a dif- ferent method for each description of meat, although the same meat might be made into forcemeat by either process; for myself I give the preference to the former as directed for veal. No. 123. Forcemeat of Game. Proceed as in the last, only substituting the flesh of one or two birds for the fowl there dwected. No. 124. Forcemeat of Whitings. Take the fillets of three whitings, take off all the skin and pound them well, then take them from the mortar, and form them into a ball, have a piece of panada (No. 125) one third the size of the ball, put the panada into the mortar, pound it well, then add two ounces of fresh butter, which mix well with the panada, then add the fish, season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg; mix all well together, then add by de- grees three whole eggs and the yolks of two, try it m a little boiling water as directed for the forcemeat of fowl (No. 122), but if too firm use a little melted butter, as these are served ge- nerally as a meagre dish with a fish sauce, in Catholic families. No. 125. Panada for forcemeats. Put two thirds of half a pint of water into a stewpan holding a quart with nearly an ounce of butter, when boil- ing, stir in a quarter of a pound of flour; keep it moving over the fire until it forms a smooth and toughish paste, take it out of the stewpan and when cold use it where directed. No. 126. Forcemeat of Cod’s Liver. Chop half a pound of cod’s liver, with which mix a fewAPPENDIX TO THE SAUCES. 5 j bread crumbs and the yolks of three eggs, season with a little pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, form it into que- nelles as No. 120, which use where directed. No. 127. Veal Stuffing. Chop three quarters of a pound of beef suet very fine which put into a basin with six ounces of bread crumbs a’ e c lopped parsley, thyme, and marjoram, with a bay-leaf mixed, when chopped, being sufficient to fill three lame tablespoons j amalgamate the whole with the yolks of three an ree whole eggs; this is likewise used to stuff baked fish or turkeys as well as veal. No. 128. To prepare Cockscombs. If you should have them in the rough as taken from the Ns, put them m lukewarm water for three horns then have some water boding in a stewpan, into which ’tffiw them for one minute, then take them out th rubber with a handful of salt, and rub them weU^nTdln the skin comes off, then put them into a basin of JT . for two or three horns until thev • ' vvater cutting off the tips of each they vrill disronTm ^ then (if about a pound of them) put thmintfaT^ ’ a quarter of a pound of WoN • to a stewpan with pepper and salt, place them over a &e°onTr 1” I™!: & little the juice of a lemon ; stew them gently .'i"" ^ put them by in a basin and nse where directed^' No. 129. To boil Rice s ~r *r- - into which throw ‘ Uhihig in a — •--■iTA-ii-jtAPPENDIX TO THE SAUCES. 52 perfectly tender; serve it separate with currie or any other dish where directed. Prepared thus, every grain will be se- parate and quite white. No. 130. To blanch Maccaroni. Have half a gallon of water in a stewpan in which put two ounces of butter and an ounce of salt; when boiling throw in a pound of maccaroni, which boil until tender, being care- ful that it is not too much done, the time of boiling depends principally upon the quality, the Genoa maccaroni taking the longest time, and the Neapolitan the shortest, which last if too much done will fall in puree. No. 131. Croquettes de Tomme de Terre. "Roast twelve fine potatoes ; when done, take out the in- terior which form into a ball; when cold put them into a mortar with a piece of butter hah the size of the ball; pound them well together, season with a little salt, pepper, chopped eschalots, chopped parsley, and grated nutmeg, mix them with the yolks of six and two whole eggs j then form them mto croquettes about the size and shape of a large quenelle egg, and bread-crumb them twice over, and fry them to a light brown colour in a stewpan of hot lard, and serve as garni- ture where required. No. 132. Glaze. Make a good stock of veal or beef as directed for con- somme (No. 134), put the first and second stocks together in a large stewpan, the clearer the stock the better ; reduce it by boding it fast, and when becoming rather thick pour it into a smaller stewpan, stir it over a sharp fire until it has reduced to a proper consistency; use it where required. 1 mav be put by in a bladder and kept a long time. Veal a all times makes the best glaze, but any kind of meat, game, or poultry, will produce more or less.53 POTAGES OR SOUPS. No. 133. Clear light Broth, or first Stock. Cut up sixteen pounds of the trimmings of veal, beef lamb, or mutton, any kind of meat will do for this stock, as d is entirely used for filling up other stocks, but it is only necessary to be made when you have a dinner party • cut up over^the Tn ^ mb “ °f a polmd of butt“’ meit Iritll ? °f a 8186 SteWpa“’ “t0 wbich IJut ‘he at With Six large onions, two carrots, two turnips and wo heads of celery add a quart of water, then placi “e stewpan over a sharp fire, cover it, and let it remain until l e bottom of the stewpan is covered with a light white fill it n.Tmth “ °CCaSIOnally t0 PrCT“t its burring, then 1 i tfi! nS °f °°ld I boils place it at the comer, then add a good bunch of parsley thyme and bay-leaves; let it simmer three hours keeping qlLed “ hi ’ r * ^ aad - it S reqmred. I have here omitted salt, for this stock is Xns If IZn^’WhiCh C°mCt,y deSCHbe ** No. 134. Consomme, or dear Soup finaX7eaIh“teteIi! ^ ^ b"‘ “ «¥* and a leg of beef with the bones, Ihe of veal sixteen pounds; mb a quarter of a pound of I ab°Ut bottom of a large stewpan, into wLh J^ T' one pound of lean ham, four onions f„ P “ ’ dhng-sized carrots, six cloves n i! turmP8* two mid' of water; set it over" ^ “d a?™‘ ’ • 11 nng it round occasion-54 rOTAGES. ally until the bottom is covered with a clear light glaze, then fill it up with four gallons of light broth (No. 133), or water; when boiling place it at the corner of the stove, skim it well, add a good bunch of parsley, three sprigs of thyme, and two bay-leaves, a quarter of a pound of salt, two leeks, and two heads of celery; let it simmer three horns, skim off all the fat, then pass it through a cloth into a basin, give it the colour of light brown sherry with some brown gravy (No. 135), if sufficiently clear, which it will be if properly attended to. ’ Some soups require to be lighter and some browner than others, which is easily regulated by adding more or less of the gravy. But by placing the stew- pan over a slow fire when the stock is drawn down to a glaze, and allowing it to remain a short time, the glaze will become brownish, (but be careful not to let it burn,) when fill it up and your consomme will be sufficiently coloured. But should it require clarifying, put it into a stewpan and when boiling have the whites of eight eggs with then shells in another stewpan, wdiisk them half a minute, then add a quart of cold stock, whisk all well together, then whisk the boiling consomme and pour in the whites of eggs; still con- tinue whisking it over a clear fire until it simmers and the eggs separate from the consomme, which will be then quite clear; then pass it through a thin but very fine cloth into a basin and it is ready for use. This is anew mode of claii- fving and cannot fail. Tor the proportions for smaller quantities of consomme, to four pounds of veal put a quarter of a pound of ham, one ounce of butter, two onions, half a carrot, a turnip, half a leek, half a head of celery, a sprig of parsley, one of thyme, a bay-leaf, three cloves, six peppercorns, an ounce and a half of salt and four quarts of water; it will require an hour and three quarters boiling. Or if you have to prepare it from beef, veal, and the trimmings of other meats, and require aP STAGES. 55 larger quantity, take ten pounds of meat, to which add three onions, half a pound of ham, a carrot, two turnips, a leek, head of celery, two sprigs of parsley, thyme, and two bay-leaves, six cloves, six peppercorns, two ounces and a half of salt, a blade of mace, and ten quarts of water; it will require two horns aud a half boding; trimmings of rabbit, poultry, or even game, may be added, but not too much game, especially if at all high. You will here perceive that by increasing the quantity of stock there is a diminution in the quantity of seasonings and vegetables, for the larger quantity requiring a longer ebullition, extracts more flavour fiom the spices and vegetables; a stock for consomme by gently simmering will lose a pint and a half to every four quarts; I must here also observe that by again filling up a stock with cold water and boding it the same time over again, you wdl have an excedent second stock, a little of which may be added to the first, if it should have suffered from over reduction, for vegetable soups are not so palatable when made too strong; the second stock is also very useful to fill up a first stock, whereby some of the meat otherwise required can be saved, and if not required for that it maybe converted into glaze by mixing it with other stock and pro- ceeding as directed (No. 132). No. 135. Brown Gravy. Butter the bottom of a thick stewpan, peel six large onions, cut them in three shoes, lay them flat on the bottom ot the stewpan which you have well buttered; take ten pounds of leg of beef, cut the flesh from the bone in large shoes, lay it over the onions with the bones, which must be well Chopped; add six cloves, two blades of mace two carrots, two turnips, two leeks, one head of celery and a tablespoonful of salt; put it over a brisk lire ab^ ten minutes, shake the stewpan now and then, and when form-POTAGES. 56 ing a brown glaze at the bottom, cover the stove with ashes; set it on again, and let it remain half an hour, until it gets very brown (but not burning); pour the fat off, which must be very clear; if not, it is not ready to fill up; fill up with ten quarts of cold water; when boiling, let it simmer at the corner of the stove two hours; skim it well, pass it through a cloth, and use it when re- quired. Should any of the brown sauces, large 01 small, be too pale, use some of this gravy instead of consomme, as directed. No. 136. Pot age a la Victoria. Cut eight pounds of veal, four pounds of scrag of lamb, and one pound of lean- ham in dice; butter the bottom of a stewpan, put in the meat, with three onions, two turnips, one carrot, one head of celery, three bay-leaves, a bunch of parsley, and half a pint of broth (No. 7); place it over a slow fire, stirring it occasionally until the bottom is coveied with a white glaze; then add eight quarts of fight broth or water, and two ounces of salt; when it boils, place it at the corner of the stove for an hour; have ready peeled and washed four apples, eight artichokes, and two anchovies; put them in, and let them boil about an hour; afterwards pass it through a napkin; then put hah a pint of pearl barley into a stewpan with the stock; when the barley has boiled quite tender mix three tablespoonfuls of arrow-root with a little cold broth, add it to the barley, pass the whole through a tammie, put it into a clean stewpan, and let it boil ten minutes; if it is too thick, add boiled milk to thin it. Season with half a tablespoonful of sugar, skim it well, have ready thirty cockscombs dressed as No. 128, and halt a handful of picked parsley in small sprigs, and blanched; put the cockscombs, parsley, and a gill of good cream into the tureen, pom the soup in, mix well, and serve; thePOTAGES. 0/ barley must be done sufficiently to give the soup a light consistency. No. 137. Potage a la Louis Philippe. Make a stock exactly as for the potage a la Victoria, and instead of mixing barley, put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, with three ounces of flour; stir it over a moderate fire about ten minutes, then let it cool; add the whole of the stock, stirring it all the time, until it boils; then put six tablespoonfuls of semolina into it, let it simmer at the corner of the stove until it is quite tender, rub it through a tammie, boil it again; have ready scooped with a small cutter about eighty pieces of turnips, put them into a stew- pan with one ounce of butter and a teaspoonful of pounded sugar, pass them over a moderate fire until half done, then throw them into the soup, and let them simmer until quite tender; season with a little salt, and when you serve it, put a gill of cieam into the stewpan, mix well, and serve im- mediately ; strew a little chopped chervil, and about sixty heads of sprue grass in the tureen, or, if in season, add thirty small Brussels sprouts, boiled very green. No. 138. Potage a la Prince of Wales. Cut up twelve pounds of veal with the bones, two pounds of ham, two calves’ feet, with a few pieces of trimmings of game or poultry (if any, if not add two pounds more veal), butter the bottom of a stewpan, put in the meat with six - erusalem artichokes, two turnips, two onions, four leeks one head of celery, and a bouquet garni; put about a pint of broth (No. 133) into the stewpan, place it over a brisk re stirring -it every five minutes until the bottom is covered with white glaze then add about ten quarts of fight broth (No. 133) fet it boil an horn, add five middle-sized apples, l ced and coicd, with four anchovies, well washed; letP0TAGES. 5y it simmer an hour and a half longer, skim it well, pass it through a napkin, and clarify as No. 134; cut eight small long fillets off the breast of a braised fowl, cover them all over with forcemeat (No. 122), have ready a paste-brush dipped in whites of eggs, smooth them over with it, lay them in a saute-pan, cover them with white broth as No. 133; they must simmer gently about ten minutes. Make a custard thus : get a set of fresh lamb’s brains, wash them well, put an ounce of butter into a saute-pan, cut the brains in thin slices, and lay them in, seasoned with a little pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and lemon-juice; place them over a moderate fire until they become rather firm; put them by until quite cold, then break six eggs into a basin; beat them well, mix four spoonfuls of good broth, and a little pepper and salt with the eggs; pass it through a tammie into another basin, then mix a teaspoonful of chopped parsley with it; put some into a flat-bottomed mould about half an inch thick; steam it about two minutes; take it out, put a layer of brains upon the custard, and pour the remainder of the custard over; let it steam very quickly about half an hour, take it out, let it get rather cool, then cut your pieces of fowl and custard into middling sized pieces, diamond-shaped, about half an inch thick; have asparagus points cut and boiled in salt and water; put the asparagus, fowl, and custard into the tureen, and pour the stock very gently over, previously adding a tea- spoonful of sugar. This potage, though complicated, is very easily made with a little practice; it is entirely new, very stomachic and wholesome. It must be of the colour of light sherry. No. 139. Potage a la Comte de Paris. Cut in large dice six pounds of veal, six do. of leg of beef, two pounds of lean ham, highly flavoured, two calves’ feet,POTAGES. 59 two heads of white celery, four onions, one carrot, two tm-nips, three cloves, two blades of mace, and a handful of fresh parsley; put three tablespoonfuls of good salad oil into a stewpan, add the whole of the ingredients, place it o\ti a quick fire, stir it ten nunutes with a wooden spoon; then add half a pint of broth (No. 133); when the bottom is nearly dry, add ten quarts of broth, as before; when it boils, place it at the corner of the stove; skim as usual, add a tablespoonful of salt; have ready peeled and washed twelve Jerusalem artichokes, and six middle-sized apples cut in quarters, and the core taken out, which may be added when it has boiled an hour and a half; let it remain half an horn- longer, then pass the stock through a napkin iuto a clean stewpan, replace it on the stove and clarify as No. 134. The acidity of the apples will assist the clarification of the stock and give it the brightness of sherry Take a spring chicken braised as No. 523, cut it in ten pieces cover each piece all over lightly with forcemeat (No. 120)’ utter a saute-pan, lay them in it, have ready a paste brush dipped m whites of eggs, smooth each piece over with it cover them with white broth (No. 133), and let them re- main simmering gently about a quarter of an hour, take them 0ut of the broth and lay them on a cloth, have ready a little riband maccarom blanched in salt and water drain it upon a sieve, put it into the soup and let it boil a few minutes, put the pieces of fowl into the tureen, pour the soup over, (with the maccaroni in it), and serve. This soup leqiures to be of the colour of pale sherry. * ✓ No. 140. Potage a la Princesse Roy ale. Take all the meat off a roast fowl, pound it well in the mortar, put the bones to boil half an hour in three quarts of she ”® when ^ t S°°d cucumbers> out them in Shoes, when th.s is prepared, put into a stewpan a quarterGO rOTAGES. of a pound of butter, two onions sliced, half a pound of lean ham, two bay-leaves, one branch of basil, and the cucumbers; place the whole over a brisk fire, pass them five minutes, add one pint of broth, let it simmer half an hour, then add the pounded fowl, two ounces of flour, and four spoonfuls of sago, mix the whole well with a wooden spoon, and pom the broth over it; let it boil about twenty minutes, then rub it through a tammie, put it into a clean stewpan and stir it over the fire until it boils; be care- ful it is not too thick, put into it a quart of boiling milk, and skim directly, add a good spoonful of sugar and as much salt as required; put twenty pieces of cucumber, as No. 103, into the tureen, half a pint of green peas nicely boiled, and half a gill of good cream, pour the soup over, mix well, and serve. This soup must not be too thick; in fact it is much better for all thick soups to be too thin than too thick, but to be correct dip a wooden spoon into it when quite hot and it should very lightly adhere to it. No. 141. Tot age a la Saxe Cobourg. Put half a pound of fresh butter into a stewpan, half a pound of lean ham, and a large onion sliced very thin, pass it ten minutes over a slow fire; have ready, previously boiled, one hundred small Brussels sprouts, press the watei fiom them, chop them fine, add them to the onions and butter, pass them five minutes over a brisk fire, add two table- spoonfuls of flour, mix well, add four quarts of good stock (No. 134), and a pint of boiled milk; boil it quickly ten minutes, stirring it all the time, season with a teaspoon- ful of sugar, a little pepper and salt, and pass it through a tammie a quarter of an horn before serving; boil and skim well, it must not be thicker than green pea-soup; put some croutons in the tureen, with twenty very small quenelles de volatile (No. 120), and serve.61 POTAGES. No. 142. Pot age a la Comtesse. Cut half a pound of lean ham, with one onion, in small dice, have a bouquet garni, and six ounces of butter; put the whole into a stewpan over a moderate fire, stirring it about ten minutes; then cut five or six throat sweetbreads in slices (which have been previously blanched in water), put them into the stewpan and add a pint of white broth• let it simmer nearly half an hour, add four tablespoonfuls of flour, mix well, pound it in a mortar, put it into the stewpan again, with about four quarts of veal stock (No. 7), set it over a brisk fire until it boils, season with a teaspoonful of salt, two ditto of sugar, and a little white pepper; rub it through a tammie; when you serve it add a gill of cream, and croutons, cut like sixpences, and fried in half butter and half oil. If too thick moisten it with more stock to make it of the consistency of a puree. No. 143. Potage a la Gresham. Cut two knuckles of veal and two pounds of ham in dice, butter the bottom of a stewpan, put in the meat, with three onions, one carrot, two turnips, two heads of celery, one leek, a bunch of parsley, thyme, bay-leaves, bash, marjoram and a pint of white broth (No. 133); let it simmer over i moderate fire about twenty minutes, then add twelve quarts more broth; when it boils have ready half a calf s head which has been scalded; put it into the stewpan and let it simmer two hours and a half, when done put it on a dish to cool • pass the stock through a cloth into a clean stewpan and place it over the fire ; then mix half a pound of arrow-root, with three glasses of Madeira, and half a pint of cold broth • time” ft* f m 8 alT0"'-™>t. stirring it all the time (sknn it well), about twenty minutes, pass it through tammie; before serving cut about twenty pieces of thePOTAGES. 62 calf’s head, (free from any fat), in large dice about an inch and a half square; put them in the tureen and pour the soup over. Add a little salt and sugar if required; this soup is very delicate, but better made too thin than too thick. No. 144. Potage a la Colbert. Peel and wash about a dozen Jerusalem artichokes, cut them in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, lay them flat upon the table and cut them through with a cutter about the size of a large pea, wash two heads of celery well, cut them round like sixpences, peel fifty small button onions, and pass the whole in a stewpan with two ounces of butter and a teaspoonful of sugar until no liquor remains with the vege- tables and they are covered with a glaze, keeping them quite white; if any liquor remains in your vegetables it will spoil the appearance of the soup ; put them into a clean stewpan with four quarts of consomme (No. 134), and half a pint of gravy (No. 135), let it simmer at the corner of the stove about ten minutes, taking care to skim it well, cut about forty pieces of cos lettuce the size of half-a-ci own, which boil till done, cut twenty pieces of thin crust of French bread about the size of a shilling, which must be put into the tureen and the soup poured over. No. 145. Potage a la Clermont. Peel and cut thirty button onions into rings, fry them yellow in butter, cut also about sixty pieces of carrots, the size of a sixpenny piece, boil them in stock until nearly done, then put them on a sieve to drain, put four quarts of con- somme (No. 134), and a gill of brown gravy (No. 135), into a stewpan with two ounces of semolina, when boiling add the carrots and onions ; let it simmer twenty minutes, add a little pickled chervil, cut a small spring chicken in pieces, which has been previously braised (No. 523), put it into thePOTAGES. 63 soup a few minutes previous to serving, and a tablespoonful of sugar, add a little more seasoning if required. No. 146. Pot age Macedoine de legumes. Cut an equal quantity of carrots, turnips, celery, and Jeru- salem artichokes with a scoop cutter, as large again as a pea, pass them in sugar and butter, with about a dozen button onions; have ready four quarts of consomme (No. 134), put the vegetables into it, let it boil at the corner of the stove about twenty minutes, add half a cabbage lettuce cut small, ten leaves of sorrel, a few leaves of tarragon and chervil (skim it well), add a little salt if required; serve a few green peas, or asparagus boiled very green, in the tureen with the soup; give it a beautiful colour with a little brown nravv (No. 135) if required. ^ No. 147. Potage a la Jardiniere. , Have ready the consomme clarified as previously, cut car- rots turnips, and celery, in shoes about a quarter of an inch ck, cut them through with a long cutter, add ten button onions, pass them in sugar and butter as usual, put them m ° four ^uarts of clarified consomme, let it simmer at the corner of the stove about twenty minutes, or until the vege- tables are done, skim it well, add a small quantity of picked nagon, chervd, and a few white leaves of a cos lettuce • season with a httle salt if required; when done and ready serve put into the tureen a few French beans peas7 cauliflower, or Brussels sprouts according to the season “ ’ No. 148. Potage a la Julienne. Prepare and clean three carrots, three turnips, two onions o leeks, and one head of celery, wash them ah well cut the ZXZT m,hread? "^es, cut them agai™ small thin strips, if the carrots are old the red part onlyPOTAGES. 64 must be used and peeled oil like ribands, as fine and regular as possible ; all the vegetables must be cut in the same way; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan, when it is melted, put in the onions and fry them about three mi- nutes, then add the remainder of the vegetables, and pass them*quickly with a tablespoonful of sugar, toss them over every minute, when there is no water remaining at the bot- tom add to them four quarts of clarified consomme, let it boil gently at the corner of the stove about twenty minutes, skim well, add six sorrel leaves, one cabbage lettuce, and a little picked chervil, the lettuce and sorrel must be cut in dice, serve very hot. If not sufficiently coloured add half a pint ^of gravy (No. 135). No. 149. Pot age auxpetite Navets a brun. Peel ten fresh turnips, scoop as many as possible out of them with a small cutter, the size of a marble; put a tea- spoonful of sugar into a stewpan, when it gets rather brown over the fire, put in about two ounces of butter with the turnips, toss them over the fire until they get a nice yellow colour; have ready nearly boiling four quarts of consomme (No. 134), and half a pint of brown gravy (No. 13o), put diem into it, let it simmer about twenty minutes, or until the turnips are tender, taking care to skim it well, season with a little salt and sugar if required; the consomme must be a little browner than usual. No. 150. Potage a la Printaniere. Cut a bunch of spring carrots, ditto of turnips, ditto of green spring onions, in thick pieces, splitting the carrots in four, and about half an inch in length, wash them well, dry on a cloth, put them into a stewpan with two ounces ot butter and a teaspoonful of sugar, pass them ten minutes over a sharp fire, have ready four quarts of consomme65 POTAGES. (No. 134), nearly boiling, put in the vegetables and let it boil at the corner of the stove fifteen minutes, skim it well, add a very little chervil and half a pint of young peas raw, when the peas are tender it is done; put a few French beans, cut m diamonds, into the tureen, and serve. No. 151. Pot age a la Jerusalem. JT,ready. ,two do2en ^chokes peeled and washed scoop them with a eutter, the size of a marble, pass them h butter and sugar over a moderate fire until they are (No61341 f0Ur qUarts of clarified consomme (No. 134) and let them simmer until tender, skim it well ™ 135? saIt;nd,rrif« ^ ^ ^ gravy (j\o. 135), may be added. No. 152. Potage a la Marcus Hill. Butter the bottom of a stewpan, take three or four pounds f the knuckle of veal, and halfapound of lean ham indice Tn y,T have ”° veal- beef or mutton may be used in' stead;) add two onions, three carrots, two turnips and half a pmt of broth (No. 133), let it simmer on a bilk &e t corner of the stove nT1 i,. , . , . 5 t must Slmmer on the til reduced to three quart?’whi^T bf eS”- V?1 ™' or twelve persons. 6 su®clent for ten Make a Chiffonade as follows —Cut f n tuces, one cos ditto, a handful of sorrel *me °?bT let' tan-agon, with two cucumbers finely fen T t™1’ and well washed and drained on a colander ■ mt I g butter in a stewpan and the cblffl! T ’ P ° ounces of a brisk fire until very little liouid ” ° °Vei' P*ace !t over tablespoonfuls of i S add it two 566 POT AGES. young fresh peas, skim it well; half an hour’s ebullition will suffice for this delicious soup, and the flavour of the vege- tables will be fully preserved; season with a teaspoonful of salt and two of sugar. No. 153. Pot age aux pointes d\ A-sperges et (Erufs poches. Poach ten new laid eggs in salt water and vinegar, rather hard, trim them, put them into the tureen, with half a pint of sprue grass, put three quarts of clarified consomme (No. 134) to boil; put into it for three minutes a fowl just roasted; when you take it out add twelve leaves of tarragon, skim it well, season with a little salt and sugar, pom it gently over the eggs, and be careful not to break them; your potage will have a most beautiful flavour of fowl, and the fowl will be as good as before for many made dishes. This soup must be of the colour of pale sherry. No. 154. Potage d la Brunoise. Cut two middle-sized carrots, two turnips, and four Jerusalem artichokes into thin shoes, lay them separately upon a table and cut each piece through with a small dia- mond cutter ; add one head of celery cut in small diamond- shaped pieces, and about a dozen very small onions peeled; put altogether into a stewpan with three ounces of butter and a teaspoonful of sugar; pass them over a brisk fire until the water from the vegetables is quite dried up, and the butter and sugar form a glaze over them; put them into a clean stewpan with four quarts of clarified consomme (No. 134); toast a piece of French bread very brown, but no burnt, put it into the soup five minutes without breaking; when the vegetables are tender it is ready to serve; ad about three tablespoonfuls of brown gravy (No. 135), and put a few pieces of very white cauliflower into the tureen.POTAGFS 67 No. 155. Pot age a la Nivcrnaise. „ Cut an equal quantity of all kinds of vegetable in thin r P fem ° , *he taWe and cut them through with a ittei the shape of a heart, pass them in butter and sugar qi" —^ (No. 134), blanch one t"t^ ”p m saltand water- ?ut itint0 »uP en minutes before serving; skim well, add a little sugar and putfour large quenelles (No. 120) cut in shoes, into the tween No. 156. Pot age a la Palestine. Cut two onions, half a pound of lean ham nw + • head of celery, two bay-leaves and a sprig * thyn^'tT when forming a white gWrim bottom8 take hoffT’ quantity will be^ the stewpan with half a pit of whL broth (No' simmer until tender • add + m W ^ 133)> let the whole well together add b eSP°°nfuJs of flour, mix a pint of boiled milk • stir it until TV* °f g°°d St°ck- 1111,1 spoonful of salt, two’ditto of s„ b°dmgkseas™ with atea- - boh it again and *7# 3 tam' m butter; when ready to serve add n il l ^ (°Ut smaU) yolks of eggs made in a liaison in thrf °f Crea“ a"d thre6 ,°Ver: Of too thick add a little morestoZ)^ tbe 50UP tons and serve. v ’ Pto to the crou- Cut h if° 157 “ h^e & tWt, -• '.ctl £ ‘7"POTAGES. ♦>8 moderate fire about ten minutes, then add half a pint of white broth (No. 133), with three pounds of turnips, peeled, washed and cut in thin shoes; place them over a slow fire until they are quite tender; then add three tablespoonfuls of flour mix well together, add three quarts of broth, stir it until boiling, season with a little white pepper, and a tea- spoonful of salt, and two of sugar; skim it well, pass it through a tammie, boil it again, add a pint of bofled milk skim it well ten minutes ; when you serve add a liaison ol two yolks of eggs mixed with a gill of cream pom the soup in the tureen with small dice of fried bread. It mus be rather thin. No. 158. Totage a la puree d’Jsperges. Cut two fresh bundles of sprue grass, boil very quickly in salt and water until tender j put four ounces of fresh but- ter into a stewpan with half a spoonfrd of when it is melted mix the sprue with it then add three spoonfuls of flour, and four quarts of veal stock with one pint of boiled milk, let it boil five minutes stimng it . Le time; season with a teaspoonful of salt, two itto of sugar, and a little white pepper; pass it tlnough a tammie boil it again in a clean stewpan ten nnnutes, and well i serve half a pint of sprue grass nicely boiled in it. No. 159. Totage a la Crecg. Scrape, wash, and cut in thin shoes, some carrots; take three pounds and a half of the red part only, sieve to drain, put into a stewpan half a pound ot can . two onions, and one head of celeiy sliced, add half a p und of butter three cloves, one blade of mace, pass it over > moderate’fire twenty minutes, then add the carrots wi pint of white broth (No. 133), when quite tender add tablespoonfuls of flour, mix well, put four quarts of whitePOTAGES. 69 veal stock; let it simmer nearly an hour, skim it well, mb it through a tammie, boh it again, if too thick add a little more broth, put fried bread into the tureen, season with a tablespoonful of sugar, and a little salt and pepper if required. 1 No. 160. Pot age a la puree de Choujleur. Boil three large white cauliflowers in salt and water until quite tender, chop them very fine, put a quarter of a pound Of butter into a stewpan, one leek, one head of celery (in shoes) aqnarter °f apound of ham, and two bay-leaves/pass them ten minutes over a quick fire; add the cauliflower and wkTeTv1’0™/'* Ofjfl0Ur’ mk We“' add three 1UMts of white stock, and one ditto of boiled milk, stir it until boil- 0, rub it through a tammie, boil and skim well; season liaison ofT / 7“’ “ ditt° °f SaJt; ^ a son of two yolks of eggs mixed with a gill of cream- pour the soup mto the tureen, have a cauliflower boiled and cut into twenty small sprigs, put them into the soup but be sure not to break them. P’ No. 161. Potage a la puree de Concombres. Put half a pound of butter into a stewpan, slice two escha- lots, six Jerusalem artichokes, (if earlv in nir, they may be omitted,) half a’pound of 1 SP™g’ bUt cucumbers peeled very “ef2“ t J"" tam> ”d * give a bad flavour sfirTo^r a sW fir T ‘'T” .WmM then add the meat of half a braised fowl (No" pounded, and three spoonfuls of flour mix w!fl um quarts of veal stock, and a quart of bailed mflk u-> keeping it stirred, rub it through a tammie \ , b°‘ ’ clean stewpan, skim it well; se J0n with o / mt° “ salt, two ditto of sugar, have rcadv abo 1! teasP00nM of cumber, stewed as (No. 103) pJfh Ut.t^en^Pieces ofcu- W a pint of good cream to’tCup 1“ ° ““ ‘T ““ not be too thick. p’ serve Xt must70 POTAGES. No. 162. Pot age ala puree de Pois verts. Cut a quarter of a pound of lean bacon m dice ; put it into a stewpan with a good bunch of green onions, ditto of parsley, a small piece of mint, a quarter of a pound o butter, and three quarts of very fresh peas, pour some cold water over, wash the peas well—in mixing the butter with them pom off all the water; place them over a brisk fire until they are quite tender, then pound them m a mortar, put back into the stewpan, add three tablespoonfuls of flour; (mix it well), and about four quarts of good broth; stir it until boiling, skim well; season with a teaspoonful of salt, three ditto of sugar, and a little white pepper, pass it through a tammie and boil again; when you serve it have ready some croutons (small dice of filed bread), put them m the tureen. Do not serve it too thick. No. 163. Clear Giblet Soup. Cut six pounds of knuckle of veal, with the bones, and one pound of lean ham in large dice, have three onions, two turnips, one carrot, two heads of celery, a bouquet garni, and a tablespoonful of salt; butter a stewpan lightly put in the whole of the ingredients, add slx cloves, two blades of mace and half a pint of water; pass it over a brisk fire about twenty minutes, stirring every two or three minutes; w icn there is a white glaze upon the spoon add eight quarts of broth (No. 133), or water; directly it boils place it at e corner of the stove, scald the giblets in boiling water ve minutes, take them out, and cut them m joints, the giz- zard in four pieces; put them into the stock arid let hem simmer gently until they ore quite tender, which will be about two horns and a half; take them out, pass the stock through a cloth, and clarify as (No. 134); have rea y tome carrots and turnips scooped with a small cutter, woPOTAGES. 71 heads of celery cut in small dice, and passed in butter and sugar, put them into the soup, and let them boil gently until quite tender; skim well, season with a little salt and sugar; put the giblets, with some French beans or peas, into the tureen and pour the soup over. No. 164. Potage aux Queues de Bceuf (clair.) Cut six pounds of leg of beef in large dice, without bones, cut two ox tails in joints, put them into astewpan with half a pound of ham, one carrot, one head of celeiy, four onions, two ounces of butter, half a pint of white broth (No. 133)' six cloves, one blade of mace, and a tablespoonful of salt • pass it over a moderate fire half an hour, stirring it every five minutes- when getting a yellow glaze at the bottom put some ashes on the stove to slacken the fire, let it remain twenty minutes longer, until the bottom is covered with a brown glaze, then add two gallons of cold water, start it on a quick fire, skim it, and let it simmer on the corner of the stove for two horns, or until the ox tail is quite tender; then take afi the pieces of ox tail out and put them by untd wanted • pass the stock through a napkin into a clean stewpan have ready some vegetables cut like for jardiniere (No. 147) pass t emm sugar and butter, put them into the stock, boil untd qrnte tender; season with a little more salt if required a tea spoonful of sugar and a We cayenne, ten nj^e^s' to serving add a bunch of parsley with a little thyme and bay-W, and the ox tads; take out the parsley Z serve No. 165. Potage aux Queues d'Agncau. Cut six pounds of trimmings of lamb or veal, half a pound ^oTam Ze^ot^LT- “nd ** the ingre- ‘"ents, and half a pmt of white broth, cut six lamb’s tail: mPOTAGES. 72 joints an inch long, put them into the stewpan with one calf's foot cut in pieces, pass it ten minutes over a brisk fire, then add six quarts of broth (No. 1B3), or water, and two ounces of salt, when boiling, skim well, and let it simmer on the comer of the stove about an hour; take out the pieces of tads and pass the stock through a napkin into a stewpan, mix two ounces of arrowroot with a gill of cold broth, and a glass of Madeira, throw it into the boding stock, stir wed ad the time, skim; season with two teaspoonfuls of sugar, pass through a tammie into a clean stewpan; put in the pieces of tad ten minutes before serving; be careful to take off any fat which may rise from them, add jmce of a lemon and serve. No. 166. Totage aux Queues deveau (clair). Proceed exactly as in the last, but instead of lamb use veal, for stock, cut four calves’ tads in pieces half an inch long, adow more time to stew, being larger, but finish the same way. N 7 , No. 167. Potage a la Duchesse. Cut eight pounds of veal, one pound of ham, and one calf’s foot in dice, butter the bottom of a stewpan, put in the meat with two onions, the peel of half a lemon, an a pint of broth (No. 133); pass the whole over a brisk fire, untd forming a white glaze, then add eight quarts of brot , or water, and half a pint of brown gravy (No. 135), when boiling, let it simmer at the corner of the stoie about tuo hours, boil a fowl in it, skim it wed, pass through a tarn mie; put two ounces of arrowroot into a basin, mix v> d half a pint of cold broth, add it to the boiling stock, skim wed, boil twenty minutes, have ready a small spring chic en braised, when cold cut it in nice pieces, have ready also about forty small quenelles de voladle (No. 120), put them into the soup and serve. The fowl that you boil in t le stock may be used instead ot the chicken.73 rOTAGES. No. 168. Clear Grouse Soup. Cut six pounds of leg of beef in large dice, with two wild rabbits, and one pound of lean ham, butter the bottom of a stewpan, put in the meat, with two calf’s feet, two onions, four leeks, one carrot, two turnips, a bunch of thyme, mar- joram, bay-leaves, and parsley, a blade of mace, and six cloves all inclosed in the bunch; set the stewpan over a brisk fire, add one pint of broth (No. 133), stir it until forming a white glaze, then add eight quarts of water, and nearly a pint of brown gravy (No. 135); when boiling about an hour add the trimmings of three grouse which have been previously roasted underdone, (cut the fillets and legs in pieces and reserve for the tureen;) let it simmer one hour longer, pass through a napkin into a clean stewpan when near boiling, add an ounce of arrowroot mixed with two glasses of port wine and a little cold broth; season with a tablespoonful of salt and half ditto of sugar; boil twenty minutes, pour into your tureen over the grouse, and serve very hot. The above quantity would be sufficient for two tureens. No. 169. Clear Partridge Soup. Proceed exactly the same as in the last, being very parti- cular that the birds are young and not over done. No. 170. Clear Pheasant Soup. Prepare the soup as before, two young pheasants will be enough, but they must hang until full flavoured, or it would not taste of game. Where pheasants are plentiful some may be used instead of the rabbits. No 171. Clear Woodcock Soup. Roast two oi thiee woodcocks, well wrapped in paper,74 POTAGES. underdone, let tliem cool, cut them in pieces like the grouse, ' put the trimmings into the soup, which must be the same as the grouse soup (No. 168); put the inside of the wood- cocks in the mortar, pound well, mix four ounces of force- meat (No. 122) with it, add one yolk of egg, take a knife, surround every part of the pieces with it, poach them gently in a saute-pan with a little stock, put them into the tureen and pom the consomme over. No. 172. Clear Hare Soup. Cut a young hare in small pieces, the legs in two pieces, ditto the shoulders, and the back in six pieces, put them in a stewpan with half a pound of lean ham cut in dice, half a pound of butter, eight cloves, two blades of mace, twenty peppercorns, fry the whole twenty minutes over a moderate fire; when the hare is getting firm throw over it an ounce of arrowroot, mix well, add six quarts of consomme (No. 134) and one of water, let it boil nearly two horns, or until the hare is done, which you may easily ascertain with a fork, if quite tender put into a small stewpan until wanted, pass the stock through a fine sieve; have ready four heads of good white celery washed, cut all the best part in dia- monds, pass them in butter and sugar, then add about a pint of the stock and simmer until tender, keeping it well skimmed ; before serving add the celery, pieces of hare, one glass of port wine, quarter of a tablespoonful of salt, and one ditto of sugar; serve very hot, pouring it over some of the best pieces of hare which you have reserved lor your tureen, nicely trimmed. No. 173. Pot age clair a la Poissoniere. Prepare a good stock of eight pounds of veal, half a pound of ham, one carrot, one turnip, four onions, four cloves, two blades of mace, two heads of celery, and half a pint of broth ;l’O'l AGES. 75 pass it over a brisk fire twenty minutes, when there is a white glaze at the bottom add two gallons of broth (No. 133) or water, and a tablespoonful of salt, then add a small cod’s head, let it simmer two horns, skim well, pass it through a cloth into a clean stewpan, put it again on the stove to reduce one third, have ready scalded and bearded four dozen of fresh oysters and a pint of muscles, fillet one sole, cut it in diamonds; quarter of an hour before serving dinner put into the soup the oysters, muscles, and fillets of soles, with half a handful of picked parsley; let it simmer ten minutes, skim it well, add a little salt if required, and a teaspoonful of sugar with a little cayenne and serve very hot. No. 174. Grouse Soup. Roast two or three grouse, take off all the flesh, reserving- some of the fillets, which cut in thin slices and serve with the soup m the tureen; put the bones in a stewpan with two quarts of first stock (No. 133)—boil them half an hour place the flesh into a mortar, pound it well, then put two onions, half a carrot, and a turnip, in slices into a stewpan with half a pound of butter, a few sprigs of parsley, tZie’ two bay.leaves, six peppercorns, and half a blade of m^Te’ stm them five minutes over the fire, then add a pint of stock’ ■ stew them until tender, when add the flesh of the birds .nd four ounces of flour; mix them well together then add (No 13°J fT th<3 b°neS’ a piUt 0f brown (No. 13o and some consomme (No. 134), making altogether five quarts boil twenty minutes, keeping it stirred ■ season wflh a little salt and a tablespoonfid of sugar pas71 through a tammie, then put it into another stewJn boil again, skim well, pour it into a tureen in which vou very'hoi S°me Cr°Ut0nS and ‘he Pieces of sokePOTAGKS. 76 No. 175. Pheasant Soup. Prepare this soup exactly as the last, but finishing with milk or cream, and omitting the brown gravy, as this soup must be kept white. No. 176. Partridge Soup. Roast four partridges, and proceed as in the last. No. 177. Hare Soup. Cut eight pounds of beef and veal, with about a pound of bacon, in large dice, have three onions, two turnips, two carrots, four bay-leaves, a bunch of parsley, foui spiigs of thyme, basil, and three heads of celery; butter the bottom of a stewpan, put in the meat and vegetables with a pint of broth, place it over a moderate fire, cut the haie in pieces (rather small), put it into the stewpan, stii it every six minutes until it is covered with a brown glaze, then add three quarters of a pound of flour over the meat, mix well with eight quarts of broth (No. 133), and a pint of brown gravy (No. 135); let it simmer until the hare is quite tender, take it out of the stewpan, then trim about ten or twelve of the best pieces for the tureen, pull all the meat from the remainder, pound it well in the mortar and add it to the puree ; pass it through a tammie, put it into a clean stew pan, place it on the stove to boil again; mix the follow ing ingic- dients in a basin, two tablespoonfuls of flour, eight ditto of port wine, half ditto of salt, a good pinch of cayenne pepper, one ditto of sugar, mix well with half a pint of cold broth (No. 133), add it to the soup when upon the point of boiling; stir it well, serve very hot; two heads of celery may be added cut small, passed in butter, and boiled until tender.POTAGES. 77 No. 178. Puree of all hinds of Game, mixed or separate. If you have any game from a previous dinner, whether pheasant, partridge, grouse, hare, wild rabbits, or any kind of game, take all the meat from the bones, put the bones in a stewpan to simmer with four quarts of consomme (No. 134) half an hour, pound the meat in the mortar very fine, put it into a clean stewpan with quarter of a pound of butter, half ditto of ham, two heads of celery cut thin, two eschalots, one carrot, one turnip, four cloves, and four peppercorns ; pass it over a slow fire twenty minutes, add half a pint of broth, with the meat, (which for that quantity of soup should be about two pounds), and three tablespoonfuls of flour, mix well, pour the stock from the bones over, with half a pint of brown gravy (No. 135), boil twenty minutes, pass it through a tammie into a clean stewpan, if too thick add more broth season with a little salt and a spoonful of sugar,- put some croutons m a tureen cut veiy thin of the size of a sixpenny piece, and crisp, if not ready to serve it must be kept hot m he bam mane; do not let it boil after it is passed, or it will curdle and have a bad appearance. No. 179. Giblet Soup. Prepare the stock exactly like the clear giblet (No 163} J h^f8 * PU* “ " P°md of butte “to « stewpan with three quarters of a pound of flour make a hght-coloured roux, mix the stock with it, boil it about forty mmutes, keeping it stirred, add a large bouquet garni pass through a tammie into a clean stewpan, have mi v th °U ti, '' SmaU button ™ions, passed in butter and sugar hrow them into the soup and let them simmer until tender • -1 Hh ..i a.78 POTAGES. No. 180. Potageala Heine. Put a pint of rice into a basin, wash well in three waters, put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan, two minced onions, one turnip, one carrot, four Jerusalem arti- chokes, half a pound of lean bacon, two cloves, half a blade of mace, and a small bunch of parsley; pass the whole over a slow fire about fifteen minutes, taking care it is not the least brown; add three quarts of white stock (No.7) and the rice, let it simmer very gently until the rice is quite tender, have ready a fowl roasted, take all the meat off the bones and pound well in the mortar, put the bones in a stewpan with two quarts more stock, boil a quarter of an hour, add the meat to the rice and vegetables, and pound all well together, put it back into the same stewpan, add the broth from the bones, rub through a tammie, boil a quarter of an hour longer, season with a tablespoonful of sugar, skim well, put two yolks of eggs in a small basin, mix well with half a pint of cream and pass through a tam- mie ; two minutes previous to serving throw it in the soup, stir it in quickly, put some croutons in the tureen, add more stock if too thick and serve very hot. No. 181. Potage a la Pegente. Prepare your soup just as the above; have ready braised a spring chicken, cut in ten nice pieces; put it into the soup ten minutes to warm; put into the tureen four spoon- fuls of very green sprue grass, if in season, or green peas, or small Brussels sprouts, and pour the soup gently over. No. 182. Soup Mulligatawny. Cut four onions, four apples, one carrot, two turnips, one head of celery, and half a pound of lean ham in slices; put them into a stewpan with half a pound of butter, pass79 POTAGES. it twenty minutes over a brisk fire, with four cloves, one Made of mace, a bunch of parsley, thyme, bay-leaves, and a pm . o broth (No. 133); let it simmer about twenty mi- nutes then add three tablespoonfuls of curry powder, one do. of curry paste, and four do. of flour-; mix the whole well together, with eight quarts of broth; when boiling, skim it season with a teaspoonful of sugar, and salt if required • pass it through a tammie, serve with pieces of roast chicken m it, and boiled nee in a separate dish (No. 129.) It must not be too thick, and of a good yellow colour. No. 183. Potage Queues de Vecm a blanc. Make the stock and stew the calves’ tails precisely as 0^166, instead of clarifying it; put a quarter of a pound of butter mto a stewpan with six ounces of flour; stir it over the fire about five minutes; let it cool, then mix the stock wi h it, storing it well with a wooden spoon until it boils; then place it at the corner of the stove abou twenty minutes; skim, add a bouquet garni, and a glass of madeira or sheny, pass it through a talmie- season wit a spoonM 0f sugar, a little cayenne, and salt iTI^ put it into an other stewDcin + l ^ i , 9 before serving add hah a It of ' “d minutes to warm. P Cream and the <=^es’ tails No. 184. Potage Queues de Veau d I’lndienne s^HTpint StfataWny- TP (N0' 182) “‘0 a vegetables as for julienne (No °i4gt ( °'134) i cut « of salad oil into a sautlpi!; when C fr” r^001*118 in it, until rather brown • lay ^ 16 ve&e^aUes Sdd them to the soT whl “ ” t T? ‘° ^the" Put about fifteen nice pieces of ealv t^4!011/ shm web, wth some dry boiled rice in a separate disl" “dPOT AGES. 80 No. 185. Totage Tete de Veau a VIndienne. Proceed exactly as above, except, put pieces of cooked calf’s head cut in square pieces, instead of calves’ tail. No. 186. Totage Queues de Bceuf a VIndienne. Prepare the same stock as No. 184; put about twelve pieces of ox-tail, well stewed, as No. 164, into the soup ten minutes before serving. No. 187. Totage Queues de Bceuf a VAnglaise. Butter the bottom of a middling-sized stewpan, into which put six pounds of leg of beef, two ox-tails cut in joints, four onions, two heads of celery, two turnips, one carrot, ten peppercorns, a blade of mace, six cloves, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves; then add half a pint of water, place it over the fire, stirring it round occasionally, until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a brownish glaze; then fill up the stewpan noth eight quarts of first stock (No. 133), and two ounces of salt; when boiling, place it at the corner of the fne, skim it, and let it simmer until the pieces of ox-tails are perfectly tender, when take them out, and put them into a basin; then pass the stock through a cloth, in another stewpan, make a roux. with half a poimd of butter, and three quarters of a pound of flour; then add the stock, which should not exceed seven quarts; stir it over the fire until it boils, then add a salt-spoonful of cayenne, two glasses of port wine, and four heads of celery (cut fine and passed ten minutes, in butter, over a sharp fire,) let the soup simmer an hour at the corner; skim it well, and put by until wanted; this quantity is sufficient for two tureens, so when ready to serve, put half of it in a stewpan, withPOTAGES 8] ten pieces of the tails, and when quite hot, pom- it into your tureen. If too thick, add a little consomme. ' No. 188. Pot age aux Huitres. Blanch four dozen oysters until rather firm (they must not nearly hod) drain them on a sieve - save the , which they are blanched p t ’ save ihc liquor in of milk, and two quarts of good veal stock (No 7^ & “ Mows: a teaspoonful of salt hS n }SeaSOn cayenne pepper fiVp r>P ’ 1 c a saltspoonful of a tablespo^ “ifkl^ °f anchovy; strain it through a tammie • I 1 •* eSSe.UCe of minutes, skim well • beard fhp n ’ X)1 xt a&am fen T‘ ■«" s»;" r„“r." and pour it over the oysters. P served, N°' 189’ Potage aux filets de Soles. at a quarter of a pound of butter with • flour mto a stewpan ■ mil-e „ , i ' th SK 01m<® of well With two „Z: 7 6 ‘ WNe roux1 cold, mix of milk; set it on The ! Ck (N°' 7)’ and one quart fifleted two very fesh srsiT^fefiteS; 'T bones and trimmings bito tL - , ’ and P*t the Wades of mace, two° bay-leaves 7’’ f°® cWs■ two of anchovy, one do. of Hatl V Sp°°nfuIs of essence a saltspoonful of cayenn 7ZL7Z T d°' °f S^. half wed, pass through a Z0 a c 7 ‘f ■' skim put in ten small pieces of salmon cutVlT^"’ ^ again; a quarter do. wide; cut the fillets f u * med long, and Put them into the boi]in70f 777 ^ same size, parsley; boil ten mi„ufes . ’ h Wlth two yolks of eggs OO C)82 POTAGES. and half a pint of cream mixed together; throw them into the sonp. The pieces of soles are to he added five minutes before serving; the salmon may be omitted. No. 190. Potage a la Poissonniere. Blanch two dozen oysters, four dozen very fresh muscles, blanched and bearded; put a quarter of a pound of but- ter into a stewpan, with six ounces of flour, make a white roux; when cool, add the liquor of the oysters, muscles, and bone of the sole, with two quarts of broth, and three pints of milk; season with a spoonful of salt, one do. of sugar, a sprig of thyme, parsley, two bay-leaves, four cloves, and two blades of mace; pass through a tammie into a clean stewpan, boil and sldm well; cut about ten pieces of salmon into thin slices, half an inch long, a quarter do. wide; cut the fillet of the sole the same size; put all into the boiling soup, with half a handful of picked parsley, an a gill of good cream; put the oysters and muscles m the tureen and serve. No. 191. Pot age d'Anguille. Bone two large eels from head to tail, cut the meat off in slanting dice the size of a teaspoon; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan, with a spoonful of chopped eschalots, to which add a quarter of a pound of flour; stir it over a moderate fire five minutes, let it cool, then add three quarts of good consomme (No. 134); when it boils throw in the bones of the eels, a small bunch of turt e herbs ; let it boil a few minutes; skim it well, pass through a tammie into a clean stewpan; put the raw eel into it, wit two spoonfuls of Harvey sauce, one do. essence of anchovy, a quarter of a handful of picked parsley, two glasses of port wine, a little salt and sugar; place it again over the fire, bod five minutes, skim, and servel’OTAGES. 83 No. 192. Potage de Howard. Take all meat from a lien lobster, break up the shell and small claws m a mortar, and put them into a stewpan, with five pints of consomme, place it at the corner of the fire o simmer half an hour; then mix the red spawn with a quarter of a pound of butter, as directed (No. 77): then put two onions, a piece of carrot, and half a turnip, in’slices no a stewpan, with a few sprigs of parsley and thyme’ two bay-leaves a blade of mace, four cloves, Ld a quLei of a pound of butter; stir them ten minutes over a mode late fire, then add the flesh of the lobster, previously will pounded, reserving a few shoes for the tmeen and L7f pmt of second stock; boil it a minute l of 8 Of a pound of flour ■ mix it we ’ then. add a 1uarter stock from the sheli which sfrlTn oT^ ^ ^ a tittle cayenne pepper and el^e air:;: Th bofltngha r*and irat * ^ fce, skim Tweli, Id °f ^ m the quarter of a pound n/u l ? f SeTOUg’ stu' boh afterwards; pou^ it L0 the'tb ^ d° mt H h lobster, and serve very hot. ^ ““ fflets °f a red colour. ^ re(luires to be quite No. 193. Potage i la Chaminaise. and skol^r/iC"• 1 ‘ P°Und °f butte (No. 134) and ^ X ° ^ C°“ well; add three tablespoonfuls of es’seiTJof ^1“®’ ^ do. of Harvey sauce, a bunch of ti * ancIlov^ two half a spoonful of salt do f 1'^U<3j Pars%, bayleaf, Pepper; pass th^gha UnlT’^ * Bttfe tlaee mackarel, cut in smnrT^ ^ ^ the »f square pieces, and passed in butter.POTAGES. 84 as directed (No. 882); throw them in the soup ; have ready likewise twenty small quenelles of fish (No. 124); finish with two ounces of maitre d’hotel butter (No. 79) in which you have introduced a little chopped tarragon; put the whole into the soup five minutes previous to serving; add the juice of a lemon. No. 194. Pot age Pate (T Italie. Put four tablespoonfuls of various shaped small Italian paste in a quart of boiling water, with a little salt in it, boil it a few minutes; put it on a sieve to drain; have about three quarts of clarified consomme (No. 184), quite boding; put the paste into it, and boil a quarter of an hour; it must be of a pale sherry colour; consomme of fowl is the best for this kind of potage; season with a little salt and sugar. A piece of good glaze may likewise be introduced. No. 195. Potage au Vermicelle. Put three quarts of consomme to boil, throw m a good handful of vermicelli; let it simmer gently about fifteen minutes; season with salt and a little sugar. No. 196. Potage a la Semoule. Put about six tablespoonfuls of semoulina into three quarts of consomme (No. 134); when it boils, set it at the corner of the stove to simmer about twenty minutes; season wit i a little salt and sugar; serve very hot. No. 197. Potage au Biz. Steep half a pint of rice (previously well washed) in boil- ing water five minutes, drain it on a sieve, put it into t nee quarts of boiling consomme (No. 134), let it simmer half an hour; when the rice is quite done, but not m puree, i is quite ready to serve, with the addition of a piece o gP0TAGES. 85 and a little sugar if required. The consomme must be verv strong for this soup. J No. 198. Pot age au Macaroni. Boil twenty sticks of macaroni in two quarts of water where you have put salt, and a piece of butter; when tender cut each stick m three pieces; have ready three quarts of consomme (No. 134) put the macaroni in, simmer twenty mmutes; and serve with grated Parmesan cheese separate!^ No. 199. Polat/e au Macaroni at rubands. Prepare and serve as above, but using the tape macca “at! tte °tller' blaDChing * foe No. 200. Turtle Soup. fit "^S-S0U^ cNic corporations, the friend of it nracticahlp Mol p / ’ simPwy« so as to render one hundred and fo^hunC^’^ &T hang it up bv the binrl n,o i GigJity pounds, ..d «» . knI. jT J‘V~ but keeping the knife nearly close to theupSn at whidi n0r' W“ thr°W lat which is upon it, then remove the fin, iff parts leaving nothing but the two large slieU saw tl t% shed into four and thn lwf ° eus’ saw the top *i. a a.«SS?,ri“T‘ ?- -* kettle, and cover them with cold „ 1 t * ^ turbot enough blanch it in twice) place if" f "° kettle larS° ™icc), place it. upon a sharp fire and letPO'L’AGES. 86 boil five minutes, to sufficiently scald it, then put the pieces into a tub of cold water, and with a pointed knife take off all the scales, which throw away, then take out carefully the whole of the green fat, which reserve, place the remainder back in the turbot kettle, where let it simmer until the meat comes easily from the shells and the fins are tender, then take them out and detach all the glutinous meat from the shells, which cut into square pieces and reserve until re- quired. Fricandeau and a few other entrees were sometimes made from the fleshy parts, but the stringy substance of that mock meat is not worth eating, and few stomachs can digest it. * . . , The Stock.—For a turtle of the above size (which is con- sidered the best, for in comparison with them the smaller ones possess but little green fat,) cut up sixty pounds ot knuckles of veal, and twenty pounds of beef, with six pounds of lean ham ; well butter the bottom of three large stewpans, and put an equal proportion of meat in each, with four onions, one carrot, twenty peppercorns, ten cloves, two blades of mace, an ounce of salt, and a pint of water; place them upon sharp fires, stirring them round occasionally until the bottom of each is covered with a brownish glaze, when fill them up with the water in which you blanched the turtle, taking more water if not sufficient; when boding place them at the corners of the fires, let them simmer two horns, keep- ing them always well skimmed; then pass the stock through a fine cloth into basins to cool. The stock after being drawn down in the three separate stewpans, may be turned into a large stock pot, but my reason for doing itm smaller quantities is, that it requires less ebullition, and conse- quently the aroma of the different ingredients is better pre- served ; after having passed the stock, fill them up again with water, let them simmer four hours, when pass it an convert it into glaze as directed (No 132).87 POTAGES. The Soap.—Put three pounds of butter into a large stew- pan with ten sprigs of winter savory, ten of thyme, ten of basil, ten of marjoram, and ten bay-leaves; place it a few minutes over a moderate fire, but do not let it change colour, then mix in four pounds and a half of flow to form a roux, which keep stirring over the fire until it becomes ghtly tinged, when take it off' the fire and stir it occasion- ally until partly cold, then add the stock which should amount to ten gallons, place it again over the fire and stir it until boding, then place it at the corner, let it simmer two liours, keeping it well skimmed, then pass it through a tarn, nne mto a clean stewpan, add the pieces of turtle, place it at the corner of the fire and let it simmer imtil the meat is nearly tender, when add the green fat, and let it remain upon the file until the meat is quite tender, add a little more salt if required, and put it by in basins untd ready for use; when ready to serve warm the quantity required and to each tureenful add half a saltspoonful of cayenne, and a quarter of a pint of Madeira wine; serve a lemon separate To make soup of a smaller sized turtle you must of course reduce the other ingredients in proportion. The remains of the soup put m jars will keep a considerable time. No. 201. Clear Turtle Soup. Is now perhaps held in the highest estimation amono- real thPeCmmeao? 7^" prepared is “deed worthy the name of a luxury; it is easier digested and does not e og the palate so much as when made thick, indeed a pint f this soup may be taken before a good dinner fwiMih, assistance of milk punch not too much iced or ton « where half a pint of the other mi»ht spoil the • T'T your dinner. I shall here de“rib ht h e ^7^ °f ner which will render it easy fo „ , ** S1“pIe m“- derstand but to do it well ^en-ire tW 7 °niy ‘° ii opaie the turtle precisely as88 POT AGES. in the last, as also the stocks, merely filling them up when the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a white glaze instead of brown, thus keeping the stock white and very clear; when done, pass them through a cloth into a clean stewpan, place it over the fire and reduce it one third, hav- ing previously thrown in a bunch containing ten sprigs of winter savory, ten of marjoram, ten of thyme, ten of basil, and ten bay-leaves, then mix three quarters of a pound of the best arrow root with a quart of cold stock and a pint of wine, (sherry), pom it into the boiling soup, keeping it stir- red five minutes, then pass it through a cloth into another stewpan, add the pieces of meat from the turtle and proceed as for the thick turtle, but omitting the cayenne; this soup ought to be quite clear and of a greenish hue. No. 202. Mock Turtle Soup. Put a quarter of a pound of butter at the bottom of a large stewpan, then cut up twenty pounds of knuckles ot veal in large dice, with two pounds of uncooked ham; put them into a stewpan with six onions, two carrots, two heads of celery, twenty peppercorns, two blades of mace, two ounces of salt, and a pint of water; set it over a sharp fire, stirring it round occasionally until the bottom of the steu - pan is covered with a light brown glaze, then lay in the half of a scalded calf’s head, the cheek downwards, and fill up the stewpan with fourteen quarts of water ; when boiling, place it at the corner of the fire, where let it simmer tw o horns and a half, keeping it well skimmed, but taking out the half head as soon as it becomes flexible to the touch, (which will take about the time the stock requires to simmer), remove all the bone and press the head flat be- tween two dishes until cold, then pass the stock through a cloth into a basin, put a pound of butter into another stew- pan, with four sprigs of winter savory, four of thyme, fourPOTAGES. 89 of marjoram, four of basil, and four bay-leaves, fry them a lew minutes in the butter, but do not let it change colour, then mix in a pound and a half of flour, stir it a few mi- nutes over the fire until becoming slightly tinged, take it fiom the fire, stirring it round occasionally until partly cold, when porn- in the stock, place it again upon the fire, keep- ing it stirred until it boils, then place it at the comer and let it simmer for half an hour, keeping it well skimmed, season with a little, cayenne pepper, and more salt if re- quired, and pass it through a tammie into a basin until wanted. When the calf’s head is cold take off all the meat and fat, leaving nothing but the glutinous part, which cut mto pieces an inch square ; when ready to serve the soup put about three quarts (to each tureen), into a stewpan with twenty of the pieces of head and a glass of sheriy, boil alto- gether fifteen minutes, when skim and serve very hot. This soup may likewise be thickened without a roux, as directed oi rown sauce (No. 4). Forcemeat and egg-balls were foimerly served m this soup, the latter in imitation of tur- tles eggs, but better imitations of bullets, and almost as in- itf fi rri0n °f them ^ 1 am certain> P^ve wifi noTb f<aV AthGT ^ St°madl be StronS or ^hcate ^ 11 not bear loading with ammunition of that description The above soup requires to be a light brown colour and for thickness it must adhere lightly to the back of the ’spoon90 METHOD OE CLEANING SALT-WATER EISIL Turbot. Take the gills out carefully, and make an incision close to the head (on the back of the fish) from which take out the inside, and wash it well with salt and water. Observe that the middle-sized fish are the best; if too large, they sometimes eat tough and thready; this fish is better kept a day or two after it is caught, particularly in winter. Brill. Take the scales off the belly, and proceed the same as for turbot, but cut off the fins. John Dory. Cut off the fins, take out the gills, and open the fish at the breast, from whence take out the inside; wash it but as little as possible. The liver of this fish is very delicate; but cannot be obtained except by parties living near Avhere they are caught, as it dissolves in a very short time if kept. Cod-fish. Cut and pull out the gills, then open the belly and take out the inside; wash it in spring water; if this fish is re- quired crimped, you must clean it before it is quite dead (that is to say, whilst life remains in the muscles of the fish);POISSONS. 91 cut it up in slices three inches in thickness, and lay them in spring water for a quarter of an hour; or if the fish is wanted to be served whole, merely cut incisions upon each side to the bone, about two inches apart, and lay it in spring water three quarters of an hour. Whitings. Cut out the gills, and open the belly; wash them and cut off the fins; if for frying, cut off the flaps under the neck of the fish, then pass your knife lightly from the head to the tail, down the back, merely cutting through the skin; then detach the skin at the head, and pull it all off one side together, and then the other; then put the tail into the mouth, and run a peg through the nose and tail, to keep it in that position. Haddocks Are cleaned in the same manner as whitings, but not skinned or trussed, as they are seldom fried. Salmon. Cut out the gills, open the belly, aud take out the inside which wash lightly; scrape off the scales, and cut it in slices, or serve whole; if it is to be crimped, you must let ue scales remain; crimp it in the same manner as cod-fish. Clean salmon-trout in the same way as salmon. boles. f dt ^ fd “ake 3 SmaU °Pening in the belly of the fish; take out the interior, leaving the roe; then dei ach the skm of the back at the head; pul] it all off the fish together, and cut off the fins.POISSONS. 92 Mackerel. Cut the gills, and pull them out carefully, so that the inside of the fish comes with them; wipe it well, cut off the fins, and trim the tail. Tied Mullets. Scale them very lightly, or you will destroy all the bloom; pull out the gills, and part of the inside will come with them. Gurnets. Scrape off all the scales, cut the fins off close, pull out the gills, open the bellies, and take out the inside; wash it well, and scrape the parts where the blood rests, or when cooked it will look like a bruise. Herrings. Scrape them, pull out the gills, and the inside with them, leaving the roe unbroken; wipe them well. Smelts. This fish is so very delicate, that it requires every atten- tion in cleaning them : pull out the gills, and the inside will come with them; wipe very lightly. METHOD OF CLEANING FRESH-WATER FISH. Carp. Have a sharp-pointed kitchen knife, put the point care- fidly under the scales (between the scales and the skin); atPOISSONS. 93 the tail of the fish pass the knife gently np the back to the head, dividing the scales from the skin carefully; you may then take off the whole of the scales in one piece from each side, and your fish will look very white; (most cooks are acquainted with this mode, but should it be too difficult foi some, they can scrape it in the common way; it will not look so white, but will eat equally good;) then make a small incision in the belly, close to the bladder; pull out the gills with a cloth, and the inside with them; but if any remains, take it out of the incision, but be careful not to disturb the roe or break the gall; lay it in spring water half an hour to disgorge; dry it with a cloth. n/ce. Take off the scales as you would a carp ■ make two in- cisions m the belly, a small one close to the bladder, and a larger one above ; puff one of the gills at the time with a s l ong c oth, and if the inside does not come with them take them out of the incisions, and wash it well; the cutting of the fins is a matter of taste, but it is usually done. Trout Are sometimes served with the scales on bnf fh usually taken off; clean like salmon. ’ Me Touch it t stii i,i7‘i* scales running that way, take outthe ffil ^ th<3 ‘ake out the mside, and wltitlfn § ' °P“ ““POISSONS. 94 Perch Are very difficult to scrape; they must be done almost alive: form the fish like an S, and scrape it with an oyster- knife; open the belly and take out the inside; pull out the gills, and wash well; when large, they are often boiled with the scales on, and they are taken off afterwards, which is much easier; but it depends upon how they are to be cooked. Pels. Kill them by knocking their heads upon a block or any- thing hard; then take the head in your hand with a cloth, aud just cut through the skin round the neck, and turn it down about an inch; then pull the head with one hand and the skin with the other, it will come off with facility; open the belly and take out the inside; cut off the fins and those bristles that run up the back; if the eel is large and oily, hold it over a charcoal fire, moving it quickly all the while; but the small ones will not require it. Nothing is harder to kill than eels; and it is only by killing, or rather stunning them in the manner above described that they suffer the least. Lampreys Are cleaned in the same manner as eels, but do not re- quire skinning.95 POISSONS. No. 203. Turbot, to boil. A turbot must be well rubbed over with salt and lemon before it is put in the water; have ready a large turbot- kettle half full of cold water, and to every six quarts of water, put one poimd of salt, lay the fish in and place it over a moderate fire; a turbot of eight pounds may be allowed to simmer twenty minutes or rather more, thus it will be about three quarters of an hour altogether in the water; when it begins to crack very slightly, lift it up with the drainer and cover a clean white napkin over it; if .you in- tend serving the sauce over your fish, dish it up without a napkin; if not, dish it upon a napkin and have ready some good sprigs of double parsley to garnish it with, and serve very hot. No. 204. Turbot a la Creme. Cook the turbot as above and dish it without a napkin ( ut be careful that it is well drained before you place it on the dish, and absorb what water runs from the fish with a napkin for that liquor would spoil your sauce, and cause it to lose that creamy substance which it ought to retain • this remark applies to ah kinds of fish that is served up with the sauce overlt); then put one pint of cream on the fire in a half n rV^’rd Wllen ‘‘ is nearly simmering add hatf a pound of fresh butter, and stir it as quickly as possible undthebutter is melted,but the cream mist not bod- hen add a ha,son of three yolks of eggs, season with a’little « of dish the fish on a napkin, g^t^y and serve the sauce in a boat Tln'o on , ^ , made until tim x ilus sauce must not be made until the moment it is w anted.POISSONS. 96 No. 205. Turbot Sauce homard. Cook the turbot as before, then take an ounce of lobster spawn and pound it in a mortar with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, rub it through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon upon a plate, have ready a pint of good melted butter nearly boiling, into which put the red butter, and season with a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, a little Harvey sauce, cayenne pepper, and salt, then cut up the flesh of the lobster in dice and put in the sauce; serve it in a boat very hot. No. 206. Turbot a la ITollandaise. Cook the turbot as before, and dish without a napkin; then put the yolks of four eggs in a stewpan with half a pound of fresh butter, the juice of a lemon, half a teaspoon- ful of salt and a quarter of one of white pepper; set it over a slow fire stirring it the whole time quickly; when the butter is half melted take it off the fire for a few seconds, (still keeping it stirred), till the butter is quite melted, then place it again on the fire till it thickens, then add a quait of melted butter, stir it again on the fire, (but do not let it boil, or it would curdle and be useless), then pass it through a tammie into another stewpan, make it hot in the bain marie, stirring all the time pom it over the fish oi serve in a boat. The sauce must be rather sharp, add more seasoning if required. No. 207. Turbot d la Mazarine. Cook the fish as above, then have all the spawn from two fine hen lobsters; if not sufficient get some live spawn from the fishmonger’s, making altogether about two ounces, pound it well in the mortar and mix it with half a pound of fresh butter, rub it through a hair sieve, place it uponPOISSONS. % ^ # ice until firm, then put it in a stcwpan with the yolks of om eggs, a little pepper, half a tcaspoonfu] of salt, and our tablespoonfuls of lemon juice, place it over the fire and proceed as for the sauce HoUandaise, adding the same quantity of melted butter, and two teaspoonfuls of essence of anchovy pass it through a tammie into a clean stew- pan to make it hot, dish the fish without a napkin, soak- ing up the water in the dish with a clean cloth, and pour Mill curdle 0V6r ^ the Sai,ce does M or it This dish is one of the most elegant, and is the best wav of dressing a turbot, for I have always remarked that not No. 208. Turbot en matelote Normande wodThTtabrte ?pomds cision in the back bn h ' fins and make an in- the turbot in ‘quite flit) aid’ Hi’ (l!“'ge en°Ugh to hy chopped eschalots’tl , PUt three “Spoonfuls of Pint of white brofh into “r t7 t PepPT’ a“d about ** a it over with white sauce (No 7) sTaiTil to^’q0* C°Ve“' fire, then put it into „ , h twt 1 to bo11 over a slow whether itl done rthlTke rT ab°Ut “ hom'> ‘>7 it easily it is done, if not bite it a littM^ ^ thr0Ugb ‘t a light brown tinge wiih the sail u th® gire upon a dish to keen it hot the , nander, p]ace yle fis]l in the saute-pan and boil it lift PUt “ PUlt °f white sauce time, then pass “thrml a t? Stb*g all the and add a little cayenne pepper 'LH ^ stewPan>POISSONS. 98 dozen of small mushrooms, two dozen quenelles (No. 120), six spoonfuls of milk, and a teaspoonful of sugar, reduce it till about the thickness of bechamel sauce, then add eight tablespoonfuls of cream and the juice of a lemon, pour over the turbot; have ready twenty croutons of bread cut trian- gularly from the crust of a French roll, and fried in butter; place them round the dish and pass the salamander over it and serve. No. 209. Turbot en Matelote vierge. Boil a turbot as before, dish it up without a napkin, and have ready the following sauce; chop two onions very fine and put them in a stewpan with four glasses of sherry, a sole cut in four pieces, two cloves, one blade of mace, a little grated nutmeg, some parsley, and one bay-leaf; boil altogether five minutes, then add a quart of white sauce (No. 7), boil twenty minutes stirring all the time, then put a tammie over a clean stewpan, and colander over the tam- mie, pass the sauce, take the meat off the sole and rub it through the tammie with two spoons into the sauce, add half a pint of broth, boil it again until it is rather thick, season with a teaspoonful of salt, one of sugar, the juice of a lemon, and finish with half a pint of cream whipped, mix it quickly and pour over the fish; garnish with white- bait and fried oysters (that have been egged and bread- crumbed,) or, if there is no wliite-bait, smelts will do. No. 210. Turbot cila Religieuse. Dress the turbot as before, and cover with Hollandaise sauce (No. 66); chop some Tarragon chervil, and one French truffle, which sprinkle over it; garnish with hard-boiled egg9 cut in four lengthwise and laid round.POISSONS. 90 No. 211. Turbot ala Creme (gratine). Put a quarter of a pound of flour in a stewpan, mix it gently until a quart of milk, be careful that it is not lumpy ion a c two eschalots, a bunch of parsley, one bay-leaf and aspng of thyme tied together, for if put in loose U white lT he'° T f^ S!*UCe' (wh‘ch Sh0ldd be <iuite s ilt and a5daAWe/rated 1Ultmeg’ a teasP°“rf«l of salt and a quarter ditto of pepper, place it over a sharp fire and stir it the whole time, boil it till it forms rather a thick- idi paste then take it off the fire and add half a pound of fresh butter and the yolks of two eggs, mix them lei “to the sauce and pass it through a tammie, then having the remains of a turbot left from a previous dinner von 1 TtaLwlT t" the,b°tt0m °f 8 di8h’ then Verrf it a light brown rolnnv n t 1 au ll0m> give «« difh it iZed I “h tte Sd“ a»d serve it m No. 212. Turbot a la Toissoniere. rteke ? Up wh»one forty button onions peeled alTcm”1*"1-™ “ bak“s sheet butter, two glasses of port wine, the pelllf 5S°7“ °f turbot and co elh '? ”’1T'^ -tit in a slow oven fo!’™ C fC'T T™ * it carefully on a dish, place the fisl ‘ ° °Ut ”"d place to keep hot, then take the lemon peel ouUf V" ““ °Ve'?100 roissoNS. then add twenty muscles, (blanched), twenty heads of mush- rooms, and about thirty fine prawns ; when ready to serve add one ounce of anchovy butter, a tablespoonful of sugar, and a little cayenne pepper, stir it in quickly but do not let it boil; pour the sauce over the fish and serve very hot. No. 213. Turbot cl la Creme (TAnchors. Boil the tm-bot and dish it without a napkin, then pour the following sauce over it and serve immediately: put a quart of melted butter into a stewpan, place it on the fire and when nearly boiling add six ounces of anchovy butter (No. 78), and four spoonfuls of whipped cream, mix it quickly but do not let it boil; when poured over the fish sprinkle some chopped capers and gherkins over it. No. 214. Small Turbot a la Meuniere. Crimp the turbot by making incisions with a sharp knife, about an inch apart, in the belly part of the fish, then mb two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions and four of salt into the incisions, pom' a little salad oil over it and dip it in flour, then put it on a gridiron a good distance from the fire—the belly downwards—let it remain twenty minutes, then turn it by placing another gridiron over it, and turn- ing the fish over on to it, place it over the fire for about twenty-five minutes, or longer if required; when done place it upon a dish and have ready the following sauce : put six ounces of butter in a stewpan, with ten spoonfuls ot melted butter, place it over the fire, moving the stewpan round when very hot, but not quite in oil, add a liaison (No. 119) of two yolks of eggs, a little pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon, mix it quickly and pour over the fish; serve di- rectly and very hot. The fish must be kept as white as possible. For the above purpose the turbot should not ex- ceed eight pounds in weight.POISSONS. 101 No. 215. Turbot augratin a la Provenqale. This dish is made from fish left from a previous dinner; put two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions, and two of chop- ped mushrooms into a stewpan with two tablespoonfuls of salad oil; place it over a moderate fire five minutes, stirring it with a wooden spoon; then add three pints of brown sauce (No. 1), and reduce it one third, then add a clove of scraped garlic, a teaspoonful of Harvey sauce, one of essence of anchovy, a little sugar, a little cayenne, and two yolks of eggs, pour a little sauce on the dish you serve it on, then a layer of fish lightly seasoned with pepper and salt, then more sauce and fish again, finishing with sauce, sprinkle bread crumbs over it and place it in a moderate oven half an hour, or till it is very hot through, brown it lightly with the salamander and serve very hot. The gar- lic may be omitted if objected to, but it would lose the flavour from which it is named. No. 216. Brill au naturel. This fish though not so much thought of as turbot is uS and„beins °heaper may be more freely .ed or fillets, &c, and may be recommended cooked in he following ways:—Boil a brill as yon would a turbo? it nlto i’ ofshwS: to five po™,ds piit No. 217. Brill a la puree de Capres n freSl‘ fish- “d ™ hour before cooking rub a102 l’OISSONS. good handful of salt on it. then boil it as before, dish it without a napkin, and have ready the following sauce:— put a pint and a half of melted butter into a stewpan, then have ready prepared three tablespoonfuls of capers, and two of gherkins, with a little boiled spinach pounded in a mor- tar with four ounces of fresh butter, and passed through a hair sieve, and when the melted butter is nearly boiling stir it quickly into it; finish it with a little essence of anchovy, a little cayenne pepper, and a little sugar, and pour over the fish when ready to serve. The butter requires to lay upon ice until quite hard. No. 218. Brill a la Hollandaise. Boil the fish as above and proceed as for turbot a la Hol- landaise ; see that article. No. 219. Brill aux Cdpres. Boil the fish and put twelve tablespoonfuls of melted butter into a stewpan, place it on the fire and when nearly boding mix two ounces of fresh butter and three tablespoon- fuls of capers with a little pepper and salt, dish on a napkin and pour the sauce over or serve in a boat. No. 220. Brill a la Meuniere. Proceed as for Turbot a la meuniere, (No. 214,) allowing sufficient time according to the size of the fish. No. 221. Brill sauce Howard. Proceed as for turbot sauce liomard, (No. 205.) No. 222. Brill d la Billingsgate. Broil the fish as for brill a la meuniere and dish it with- out a napkin ; then have ready the following sauce-blanch a pint of muscles, beard them and take out the black spots,103 POISSONS. then put two chopped eschalots in a stewpan with one ounce of butter, pass it over the fire five minutes, then add half a tablespoonful of flour, mix with it the liquor from the muscles, half a pint of milk, and half a gill of cream, a saltspoonful of salt, a little white pepper, and some grated nutmeg, boil it until rather thick, pass it through a tammie, then add two pats of butter, a few chops of essence of an- chovy and the muscles; pour over the fish and serve very hot. No. 223. Brill au gratin. See turbot a la creme gratine (No. 211,) and proceed in the same manner. No. 224. Brill a la creme d’Anchois. Proceed as for turbot a la creme danchois (No. 213.) No. 225. Filets de Brill ala Juive. Met a brill by passing a good knife from the head to the tail of the fish close to the middle bone, hold your knife in a slanting direction keeping it close to the bone (without cutting the bone) until you reach the fins, proceed in like manner until you have got off all the meat from the bones, then cut each fillet in halves, or in four pieces if they are large, egg and bread-crumb each piece then dip them in clarified butter and again bread- ci uiub them; when ready fry them of a yellowish brown in salad oil, dish them upon a napkin, and have a good lot of roundT ^ ‘tv Pla°e “ thC mk,dle’ fiUete on. d t, serve with a sauce Hollandaise (see Turbot a la “b’ f f')” which y™ introduce a tablespoon- ful of the best salad oil. To fry fish in oil you merely re C* rr th° b°tt0m °f saute-pan and let f g t veiy hot before you put the fish in it.104 1'OISSONS. No. 226. Filets de Brill en matelote. Fillet and fry the fish as above, dish it on a border of mashed potatoes, and place the following sauce in the centre:—peel about forty button onions, and pass them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter and a little sugar; when of a light brown colour add two tablespoonfuls of wine, set it on the fire five minutes, then add a quart of brown sauce and eight tablespoonfuls of stock, set it on the corner of the fire to boil forty minutes, skim it, then add twenty quenelles (No. 120), twenty heads of mushrooms, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, one of Harvey sauce, and one of mushroom catsup, with a little cayenne pepper. No. 227. John Force. Of all fish this one is perhaps the most delicious, although but recently in vogue; their appearance has been a great objection to them; considering this I have studied to dis- cover several ways of dressing them to improve then’ ap- pearance and flavour; to dress them plain you boil them in the same way as brills, allowing about the same time for the same weight, and ascertain when done by the same means; serve on a napkin; garnish the parts that are broken with double parsley, and serve anchovy sauce in a boat. No. 228. John Force a V Orleannaise. Procure a very fresh dory about five pounds in weight, then have ready half a pound of forcemeat of fish (No. 124), in a basin, with which mix a little chopped thyme and parsley, season rather high, stuff your dory with it, lay it in a fish kettle with three onions, a carrot, turnip, head of celery, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, one tablespoonful of salt, four cloves, two glosses of port wine, two of vinegar, and four quarts of water, set it over105 POISSONS. a slow fire for an horn- to stew, drain it well and dish it without a napkin, have ready the following sauce:—put four yolks of eggs in a stewpan with half a pound of butter, a saitspoonful of salt, a little white pepper, and three tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar; stir it over the fire (with a wooden spoon,) till the butter is melted and thickens, then add an ounce of lobster spawn (that has been pounded with an ounce of butter and passed through a hah’ sieve), mix it well together, then add eighteen spoonfuls of bech- amel sauce (No. 7), stir it over the fire till it becomes red and thickish, then add a few drops of essence of anchovy, and a little cayenne pepper, with a pinch of sugar, pass it through a tammie, then add six gherkins cut in large fillets, and thirty fillets of boiled beet-root the same size as the fillets of gherkin; pom it over the fish, and garnish with craw fish, and sprigs of parsley laid between. No. 229. John Doree en matelote Mariniere. Flour the fish and boil or stew it as above, dish it with- out a napkin, then have ready a matelotte sauce (see fillets of brill en matelotte, No. 226,) to which add three dozen of oysters that have been blanched and bearded; pom the sauce over the fish and serve very hot. No. 230. John Doree a la Cremiere. Boil the fish, put a pint of milk with the water you boil m, cUn it on a napkin, garnish with some large sprigs of in e pars ey, have ready the following sauce: put half a Piu of double cream in a stewpan, and when iUs “ly boiling, add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter • ,]„i *iY :tewpan round with youAand till the h_l^d ^ ?mcG 0t a leuion> a saitspoonful of salt and f dltt0 of wlllte PePPer i serve in a boat very hot, ’ ‘POISSONS. 100 No. 231. John Boron en Ravigote. Boil the fish as above, and dish it up without a napkin; have ready the following sauce: put three yolks of eggs in a stewpan, with six ounces of fresh butter, three tablespoonfuls of Tarragon vinegar, a saltspoonful of salt, and a little white pepper; stir it over the fire for a few minutes until the butter melts, and it becomes thickish; then add eighteen spoonfuls of melted butter, stir it over the fire, but do not let it boil; pass it through a tammie, then add a table- spoonful of chopped tarragon and chervil mixed; place it again over the fire, keeping it stirred, and when very hot pom it over the fish, and garnish with a few sprigs of chervil. This sauce requires to be rather thick, to mask the fish. No. 232. John Boree a la puree de Crevettes. Boil the fish as usual, and dish without a napkin; have ready the following sauce: pick and wash a pint of fresh prawns, pound them in a mortar with half a pound of fresh butter, and rub them through a sieve; then put twelve spoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with twelve of melted butter ; place it over the fire, and when it boils, stir the butter and prawns into it; pom the sauce over the fish, and strew chopped lobster over. No. 233. John Boree ct la Bateliere. Boil the fish as usual, and dish it up without a napkin; have ready the following sauce: peel fifty button onions, pass them in a stewpan with a little sifted sugar and butter, but keep them quite white; then add a glass of sherry, twenty spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, and a bunch of parsley; set it on the comer of the stove to simmer till the onions are quite done (if the sauce is too thick, add a few spoonfulsPOISSONS. 107 of white stock); then throw in twenty heads of mushrooms, a dozen of blanched oysters, and a tablespoonful of essence of anchovies; take out the bunch of parsley, finish with a little cream, pour the sauce over the fish, and salamander of a light colour. No. 234. John Doree a la Creme ((/ratine.) Proceed as for Turbot a la creme gratine (No. 211). No. 235. John Doree a la Hollandaise. Proceed as for Turbot a la Hollandaise (No. 206). No. 236. Saumon. The Thames salmon used to be reckoned the most re- cherche ; but since so many steam-boats have been intro- duced upon the surface of that noble river, and the tunnel has been built, introducing their greatest enemies, human beings, both above and below them liquid habitation, they ha\?e fled to the ocean for protection, and are now no longer discernible from them once commoner, brethren. But the Severn salmon is now esteemed the best; the crimped is in the highest favoim with the gourmets. It would be useless to make any observations about this fish, as it is well known to range as one of the highest order. No. 237. Saumon au naturel. Pat your fish in cold water (using a pound of salt to ovray six quarts of water), let it be well covered with water and set it over a moderate fire; when it begins to simmer’ set it on the side of the fire. If the fish weighs four pZd ’ et ,t simmer half an horn-; if eight pounds, three quarters and se Z H S° “I*" Pr°pOrti0U: dish »n a napkin, ami serve lobster or shmnp sauce in a boat. (See hose sauces, Nos. 68 and 73.) ^POISSONS. 10S No. 238. Crimped Salmon au natural. Have two quarts of water boiling in a stcwpan, with half a pound of salt, in which place two shoes of crimped salmon (if more than two required, put more water in proportion;, boil them quickly for a quarter of an hour or twenty mi- nutes ; try the bone in the centre, and if it leaves easily, the fish is done; avoid leaving the fish in water after it is done, as it destroys its aroma; but if not ready, cover it over with a wet napkin, and stand it in the hot closet; dish on a napkin, and serve either lobster or shrimp sauce with it. (See Nos. 68 and 73.) No. 239. Saumon en matelote Mariniere. Rub two or three large slices of salmon with oil, and dip them in flour; then put them on a gridiron over a moderate fire; when one side is done turn them carefully, and when the bone will leave easily, they are done; dish them without a napkin, and pour a matelote sauce \JNo. 62) over them. 240. Saumon a la Mazarine. Boil the salmon in slices, as previously; dish it without a napkin, and pour a Mazarine sauce over them i^see .Turbot a la Mazarine, No. 207.) No. 241. Saumon a la Hollandaise. Boil the salmon as before; if in slices, dish them without a napkin, and pour the sauce over them; if a whole salmon serve it in a boat. (See Turbot a la Hollandaise, No. 206.) No. 242. Saumon d la Cardinal. Stuff the belly of the salmon with forcemeat of fish (No. 124) and braise as directed for John Doree a l’Orleannaise (No. 228); when done dish it without a napkin, and cover109 POISSONS. it with a mazarine sauce (No. 207), sprinkle truffles and gherkins cut in diamonds over it. No. 243. Saumon a VAmiral. Truss a small salmon in the form of the letter S, and boil it as previously; dish it without a napkin, and have ready the following sauce: peel four large onions, cut them in shoes, and put them into a stewpan with six tablespoonfuls of salad oil; fiy them a light brown colour, then pour off the oil, and add two glasses of port wine, three cloves, one blade of mace, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, one teaspoonfid of salt, two of sugar, twenty spoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), and six of brown gravy (No. 136); reduce it over a sharp fire a quarter of an hour, rub it through a tammie and place it again in a stewpan; boil it again a short time' and finish with one ounce of anchovy butter (No. 78) and two spoonfuls of Harvey sauce; then place a border of mashed potatoes round the fish, upon which dish a border of quenelles of whiting (No. 124); and upon every other quenelle stick a prawn, pom- the sauce over the fish and a mazarine sauce over the quenelles • serve very hot. No. 244. Saumon en matelote Saxone. Boil a small salmon as in the last article, and dish with out a napkin ; have ready some small legs of lobster bend them at the joints and stick the ends into the back of th sa on, from head to tail, make the sauce as for turbot ah poissomere (No. 212), and pom- over the fish ti, ready some fillets of sole (cut in strins ! n ^ have bait.) nicely bread-crumbed and fried'h, Irflith "ft garnish your fish. aia, with which No. 245. Saumon ala Bey rout B.oil two shoes of salmon in oiled paper over a mode-no POISSONS. rate fire j when they arc done peel the skin from the edge and lay them on a dish without a napkin; have ready the following sauce: put one tablespoonful of chopped onions in a stewpan with one ditto of Chili vinegar, one of common vinegar, two ditto of Harvey sauce, two ditto' mushroom catsup, and twenty tablespoonfols of melted butter; let it reduce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, then add two tablespoonfuls of essence of anchovy and a small quan- tity of sugar, pour it over the fish and se.rve very hot. No. 246. Saumon a la Pechevse. Take a shoe of thick salmon and make an incision upon each side, cutting it to the bone, put plenty of salt and chopped onions upon it and rub it well in, then oil a sheet of white paper, lay the salmon on it, fold the paper over and crimp it at the edges to keep the steam from escaping, put it on a gridiron over a slow fire, and when done serve it in the paper with pats of butter separate ; the person that serves this dish at table should open the paper and place two pats of butter on each slice ; it requires to be eaten very hot. No. 247. Saumon a VEcilliere. Boil three large slices of salmon, place them upon a dish, then have ready the following sauce : put a teaspoonful of chopped onions into a stewpan, with a very small quantity of salad oil, pass it over a moderate fire three or fom* mi- nutes, but keep them quite white, then cut in small dice the tender part of four dozen of oysters, put them in the stewpan with the onions, stir them over the fire till the oysters are warmed through, then add half a tablespoonful of flour, (mix all well together,) two tablespoonfuls of oyster sauce (No. 69), half a teaspoonful of salt, and two ditto of sugar, witli a little cayenne pepper and essence of anchovies, place it again over the fire, keeping it stirred, and when itIll POISSONS. lias boiled two minutes stir in the yolks of four eggs very quickly, keep it over the fire another half minute till it begins to set, then pour it on a dish and when cold spread it upon the slices of salmon, then egg and bread-crumb over, and put in a warm oven twenty minutes, salamander of a good colour, dish them without a napkin, and pom a lobster sauce (No. 68) with oysters in it round them. No. 248. Saumon a la Creme d’Anchois. Boil two slices of salmon, dish without a napkin, and pom the sauce over them (see Turbot a la creme danchois No. 213). No. 249. Saumon au gratin a la Sr oversale. Should you have any salmon left from a previous dinner it is very good served in this manner (for description, see iurbot au gratin a la proven gale, No. 215.) No. 250. Saumon d la Creme (gr aline). Proceed as for Turbot (No. 211). Many of my readers will probaoly make some remarks and think it singular that so many different fishes are served with the same sauces but I must here observe that each fish brings with it its own flavour; and again, it is not to be supposed that any cook would send two different fishes the same day with the same sauce, when there is such a variety to choose from. No. 251. Sole en matelote Norman.de. dnCUVht fi!’S f “ &e fresh soIe make an incision me™ of Lit tlle|,b0ne’m which Put s°me force- lots and pit Z ^ ~d with chopped escha- put a teaspoonful of chon, ed c ^ and glasses of hite wine mto ft 'rith , lay the sole mto it and season with112 POISSONS. a little pepper and salt, then cover it with some bechamel sauce (No. 7), and put it into a moderate oven for about twenty minutes or half an hour, (but try whether it is done with a skewer,) brown it lightly with the salamander, then take up the sole, dish it without a napkin, and make the sauce as follows: put six spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in the saute-pan with six ditto of milk, let it boil four mi- nutes, keeping it stirred, then add one dozen oysters blanch- ed, one dozen quenelles of whiting (No. 124), one dozen mushrooms, half a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and four tablespoonfuls of cream, with a little cayenne pepper and sugar; pour the sauce over and round the fish, pass the salamander again over it and garnish round with fried bread cut in small triangles. The sauce may be passed though a tammie before the garniture is added if required. Fried smelts are frequently served as garniture around it. No. 252. Sole au gratin * Cut the fins off a fine fresh sole, make an incision in the back, then butter a saute-pan and put two teaspoonfuls of chopped onions in it with half a glass of white wine, then lay in the sole, cover it with a brown sauce (No. 1), and sprinkle some brown bread-crumbs over it, with a few small pieces of butter; then place it in a moderate oven twenty minutes or half an hour (try when done as before), take it out of the saute-pan and dish without a napkin; then put four spoonfuls of stock and two of brown sauce in the saute-pan, boil it five minutes, keeping it stirred, then add the juice of half a lemon, a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms, one of chopped parsley, one of essence of ancho- vies, and a little sugar and cayenne pepper; pour the sauce round the fish, place it again in the oven for a quarter of an hour, pass the salamander over it and serve very hot. * Iu France wc have silver dishes on purpose for au gratins, in which thev are dressed and served to table, the gratin adhering to the bottom of the dishPOISSONS. 113 No. 253. Sole a la Poltaise. Trim a fine sole and make an incision down the back clearing the meat from the bone, then melt two ounces of butter, and mix with it a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots, one of chopped mushrooms, one of chopped parsley, and a glass of sherry; put the sole in a dish and pour the butter, etc., over it, sprinkle a few bread crumbs on it and put it in the oven twenty minutes or half an hour; when done porn- a little anchovy sauce (No. 72) over it, and brown it lightly with the salamander. No. 254. Sole a la Hollandaise. Plain boil a sole in salt and water and pour the sauce over it (see Turbot a la Hollandaise, No. 206). No. 255. Sole aux fines herbes. Boil a sole as before (if the sole is very fresh it may be pu m boiling water, but it is best to let it only simmer) in salt and water, and dish it without a napkin; have ready the Mowing sauce: put m a stewpan six teaspoonfuls of chopped onions and a piece of butter, fry the onions a light brown en add eight tablespoonftds of brown sauce (No. 1) and let it boil at the corner of the stove ten minutes then add a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms, half ditto of chopped parsley, one ditto of essence of anchovies, and the iuW a quarter of a lemon; pour it over the fish and serve This sauce must be rather thick but not too much so. No. 256. Sole ala Maltre d’Hotel. Boil the sole as above and dish it whin mu o i- butt- " -nit bona -(t:iia:r«Xo^ 8114 POISSONS. of chopped parsley, tlie juice of a lemon, and a little pepper and salt j pom* the sauce over the fish and serve. No. 257. Sole a Vltalienne. Boil a sole as usual, then have ready the following sauce: put two teaspoonfuls of chopped eschalots in a stewpan with a very little salad oil, fry them a few minutes, but keep them quite white, drain off the oil, and add two tablespoon- fids of white wine, ten ditto of white sauce (No. 7), four ditto of boiled milk, and let it simmer ten minutes at the corner of the fire, skim it well, then add a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms, a little chopped parsley, the juice of half a lemon, and two tablespoonfids of cream; mix the whole well together, season it a little more if required and pom it over the fish. No. 258. Soles plain fried. Lard and oil together is much better to fry in than but- ter, for the milk that remains in the butter is sure to burn ; the only way to use butter is to clarify it, but that is "^eiy expensive, lard by itself being as good as anything, but be careful that it is clean and not burnt; cut off the fins of the sole and dip it in flour, then egg and bread-crumb it, but do not put it in the lard unless it is quite hot, which you may easdy ascertain by throwing a drop of water in it; if it is hot enough it will make a hissing noise; allow the sole ten minutes to fry, or less, according to the size, dish it upon a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve shrimp sauce (No. 73) in a boat. Observe the above receipt, to fry all kinds of fish, as eels, smelts, whitings, flounders, perch, gudgeons, &c. Four pounds of lard would De sufficient, and would do for se^ eral occasions.115 POISSONS. No. 259. Sole a la Colbert. Make an incision in tlie back of a sole from the head nearly to the tail, then break the bone in three pieces, bread- ciumb it and fry as before; when done, take out the pieces of bone and fill with the following: lay two ounces of but- ter on a plate with half a teaspoonful of chopped parslev, hall ditto of chopped tarragon and chervil, two ditto of emon juice, and a little pepper and salt • put about three parts of it into the sole and mix the remainder with two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, porn round the fish, which is dished without a napkin; put it in the oven a few minutes and serve very hot. No. 260. Sole a la Meuniere. Cut the fins off a sole and crimp it on each side by mak- ing incisions across it; then rub half a tablespoonful of salt and chopped onions well into it, dip it in flour and broil it over a slow fire; then have ready four pats of butter mixed with the ince of a lemon and a little cayenne pepper ■ rub naZ t:t’18 Pre™^ dl" “P ZouTa No. 261. Sole a la Creme d'Anchois. Boil a sole as usual, and dish it without a mnVin . l ready the following sauce: put six spoonfuls of white same (IN o. 7) m a stewpan, with four of white brotfi w > j few minutes; then add an ounce Zch ^ r‘ spoonfuls of whipped cream; mix it well, and pom TJZ No. 262. Filets de Soles en matelote. W1 “la juive'N°- fitZiltr fiZZ116 POISSONS. egg, and bread-crumb them; fry them of a nice colour in salad oil; when done, dish them on a border of mashed potatoes, and fill the centre with a matelote sauce (see Fillets of brill en matelote, No. 226), and serve very hot. No. 263. Filets de Soles au gratin. Fillet two soles; egg and bread-crumb, and fry as above; dish them on a thin border of mashed potatoes, pour the following sauce over them, and cover with bread-crumbs: put twelve tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1) in a stew- pan, and when it boils add a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, one do. of Harvey sauce, and one do. of essence of anchovies; let it boil five minutes, season with a little sugar; add two yolks of eggs, put it in the oven ten minutes, pass the salamander over it, and serve very hot. No. 264. Filets de Soles a la Maitre d'Hotel. Fillet a pair of soles as before (but neither cut them oi bread-crumb them), rub an ounce of butter into a saute- pan, then lay in the fillets, the skin side downwards, and sprinkle chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon over them; then place them over a slow nre; turn them when about half done (they must bo kepi quite white); when done, lay the fillets on a cloth, cut tnern m halves slantingly, and dish them round without a napkin , then place them in a hot closet; then put ten tablespoon- fuls of melted butter, and two do. of white sauce (No. /) into the same saute-pan, with a little more lemon-juice and chopped parsley; boil it two minutes; then add two pats of butter, a little sugar and salt, and four tablespoontuls of milk; pom over the fillets, and serve directly. No. 265. Filets de Soles d la Hollandaise. Fillet two soles and lay them in a saute-pan, well but-roissoNs. tered, sprinkle a little pepper, salt, and the iuice of half a emon over them; place them on the fire, and cook them quite White; when done, lay them on a cloth, cut them in a ves slantingly, and dish them round: when ready to seive, pour some sauce Hollandaise over them (No. 66). No. 266. Filets de Soles a Vltalieme. up hfthe™ SOleS’ and C°°,k tI,em 1,5 in the Iastl dish them up m the same manner; place them in the hot closet • then pnt a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in the saut6 nan No. 207. Filets de Soles en raviyote tCtTen tCS * St ‘ rM~ * Of white broth in the saute-° , * (N°' 7)’ aud sk of chopped parsley half do" f i*™ ™X a teaspoonful do. of chopped£, ,° ch°PPed *eml, and half a little pepper and salt,’ mdtmt™1*** °f fresl1 bl,tter. vinegar; boil the sauce in the e“P00nfuIs of tarragon keeping it stirred, then add the butteT “““ miEutfs- it; stir it over the lire mwi . • ^ 1 tlus PreP^ed with serve, pour it over the fillets^' &nd when read7 to Fillet t N°i' 268 FlldS Ck S0k ® la 0rlie- .fillet two soles and nit +i,„, • , , lay them in a basin with 1 0 “ Wves lellSUiwise; then parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, two win i °Ut “ shces- a little little pepper and salt • ’ let it ,,, 6 ? “f* of villeSar> and a ’ 6t “ lemaln thus two hours, thenPOISSONS. 118 dry them in a cloth; flour, egg, and bread-crumb them, and fry in oil; dish them round without a napkin j then put four tablespoonfuls of tomata sauce (No. 37) m a stew- pan, with one of Harvey sauce, and two of good stock; boil three minutes; finish with a little sugar, and pour it in the dish, but not over the fish. This sauce requires to be rather thin. No. 269. Filets de Soles d la Reform. Fillet two soles, beat each fillet flat; have ready a dozen oysters, blanched and chopped, which mix with four table- spoonfuls of forcemeat of whitings (No. 124), and a httle chopped eschalots; spread some on one fillet, then cover another over it, and so on till they are all done; put a little oil in a saute-pan, with a httle chopped eschalots, and a glass of white wine; lay your fillets in, season with a little pepper and salt, and put them in a moderate oven until ten- der; turn them over, and cut each into large diamonds, dress them round (points upwards) upon a dish, and put them m the hot closet; put ten tablespoonfuls of melted butter, an six do. of milk into the saute-pan; place it over the fire, and when it boils pass it through a tarnmie ; place it again on the fire, boil it a few minutes, add two pats oi buttei, and stir it till quite smooth; pom the sauce over the fillets sprinkle some gherkins and ham (cut m strips half an me long) over, and serve very hot. No. 270. Filets de Soles aiux Huitres. Fillet and dress two soles as for Filets de sole a la Hol- landaise (No. 265), dish them round, then put a dozen an a half of oysters lightly blanched in the saute-pan, a ten tablespoonfuls of oyster sauce (No. 69), and loin of milk; boil five minutes, season with a httle ca} pepper and salt, if required, and pour over the fillets.POISSONS. 119 No. 271. Cod-fish au naturel. Crimped cod, like crimped salmon, is preferable to the plain, and is better cut in slices and cooked, than to cook the whole fish; to boil it well you should have the water boiling (with one pound of salt to eveiy six quarts of water); when you put in the fish, then draw it to the corner o the stove, and let it simmer twenty minutes or half an horn; when it is done, the bone in the centre will leave , ,facihty; be careM you do not boil it too much for it would cause the fish to eat tough and stringy, and observe oJ'ug ood that is not cnmped, to put more salt in the ivater, it will make the fish eat firmer. No- 272. Cabillaud aux Huitres. Boil your fish as above, dress it on a napkin, and garnish .With some nice sprigs of double parsley, and serve the oyster sauce (No. 69) in a boat. N°- 273. Cabillaud a la Bechamel. Boil two shoes of cod as before, dish them without a napkin, and have ready the following sauce: put nearW a quart of Bechamel sauce (No l'\ ;r, „ + ^ ^ a gill Of whipped cre™Tn?pmrov“fteTk ^ ** * No. 274. Cabillaud a la Coltigienne. a napkii,i120 POISSONS. cayenne pepper; let it boil fifteen minutes, keeping it stirred, and pass it through a tammic into a clean stewpan; then add a pint of muscles (that have been blanched and bearded), two hard boiled eggs cut in dice, and three teaspoonfuls of lemon-juice; season rather high, and when ready to serve pour over the fish. No. 275. Cabillaud a la Noble Dame. Boil two slices of cod as before, dish them without a napkin, and pour a good Hollandaise sauce (No. 66) over them; then have ready two soles filleted, each fillet cut in halves which egg and bread-crumb, and fry (of a fight brown colour) in oil; dress them round the cod-fish to garnish it, and sprinkle a few sprigs of chervil over it; this dish is very good, and looks exceedingly well if nicely done. No. 276. Stewed Cod a VEcos-saise. Put into a large stewpan four tablespoonfuls of chopped onions, twenty do. of melted butter, two of Harvey sauce, two of essence of anchovies, and one of Chili vinegar, put in two slices of cod, start them over a sharp fire, and. when boding, place them to simmer for half an hour; then turn them, and let them simmer another quarter of an hour; dress them on a dish, without a napkin; then put a little sugar in the stewpan, and reduce the sauce till rather thick; pour it over the fish, and serve. No. 277. Cabillaud entier a la Bourgeoise. Procure a crimped cod-fish about ten pounds in weight, cover it over with salt on a dish, and let it remain six hours; then put it in a fish-kettle, and porn’ two gallons of boiling water over it; let it simmer an hour very gently; take it up, drain it well, and dish it without a napkin, garnish with twenty very white young potatoes; thenPOISSONS. 121 put half a pound of fresh butter in a stewpan; place it over the fire, and when it is melted add a saltspoonful of salt, a little white pepper, the juice of a lemon, and pom- it over the fish. No. 278. Cabillaud a la Rachel. Salt a crimped cod as above, then put it into a large baking dish, with four tablespoonfuls of chopped onions, and three glasses of Madeira wine (but previously fill the incisions of the fish with a forcemeat of cod’s liver, No. 126); put it in a moderate oven, and when half done, take it out,- egg it over and bread-crumb, then put it in the oven again • it will require an hour and a quarter to bake; when done,' dish it without a napkin, and pour a Beyrout sauce (see Saumon a la Beyrout, No. 245) over it without garniture. No. 279. Slices of Cod a la Montefiore. Bod two shoes of cod, and let it get cold; then cover them with forcemeat of cod’s fiver (No. 126), egg and bread- crumb them, put them in the oven half an horn, and brown them lightly with the salamander; dish them without a napkin, and pom anchovy sauce (No. 72) round them. No. 280. Cabillaud a la Creme f ratine.) See Turbot, (No. 211.) No. 281. Cabillaud a la Provenqale. See Turbot au gratin a la Proven gale (No. 215). No. 282. Cabillaud a la Juive. Put four tablespoonfuls of chopped onions, and two do of salad od in a stewpan; pass them over a fire five minutes ? on add twenty tablespoonfuls of melted butter, two do of Harvey sauee, two do. of essence of anchovies, and tt of122 POISSONS. Chili vinegar; lay in two slices of cod, and proceed as for stewed cod a 1 Bcossaise; reduce the sauce, and pour over them; garnish with quenelles of cod’s liver (No. 126), and onions sliced and boiled. No. 288. Cabillaud a la Ilollandaise. Boil the fish, dress it without a napkin, pour a sauce Hollandaise (No. 66) over, and sprinkle some chopped parsley upon it. No. 284. Salt Fish. Choose the fish with a black skin, and be particular in soaking it well; to boil, put it in a fish-kettle with plenty of cold water, place it over the fire, and the moment it boils take it off, put the cover on the kettle and let it simmer a few minutes, but if it boils the fish would be hard and thready, when done dish it on a napkin, garnish with plain boiled parsnips and parsley, and serve egg sauce (No. / 6) in a boat. No. 285. Salt Cod a la Maitre d’Hotel. Boil a nice square piece of fish as above directed, dish it without a napkin, and have ready the following sauce : put twenty tablespoonfuls of melted butter in a stewpan, and when it boils add a quarter of a pound of maitre d hotel butter (No. 79), stir it till it becomes smooth, and pour the sauce over. No. 286. Salt Fish a la Bourgmestre. Boil a square piece of fish as above, dish it without a napkin, then melt a quarter of a pound of fresh butter in a stewpan over the fire, and when half melted add a little pepper, a little scraped garlic, the juice of half a lemon, and when very hot four hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, pour over the fish.].23 POISSONS. No. 287. Red Mullets a Vltalienne. Of all fish this is one of the most recherche when in good order, it is of a nice red colour, and the eyes look very bright. Make a paper box the length of the fish, then oil the box and lay in the fish, season it with a little pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and lemon juice, and pour two tablespoon- fuls of white sauce (No. 7) over each, then put it or them, (if more than one) in a moderate oven and bake twenty minutes or half an horn, according to the size, and when done, slightly brown them with the salamander; serve them in the paper boxes with an Italian sauce (No. 31) poured over them. No. 288. Red Mullets a la Venitienne. Put into a deep saute-pan a tablespoonful of chopped eschalots, one ditto of chopped parsley, one ditto of chopped tarragon, one of chopped mushrooms, two of salad oil, and four of sherry; then lay in four nice mullets, (well cleaned), season with a little pepper and salt, cover them with a sheet of white paper, and place them in a slow oven for an horn, turn them over and dress them in a dish without a napkin • then put twelve tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), with one of essence of anchovy, and a little sugar, bod it about ten minutes and pom’ over the fish. No. 289. Red Mullets a la Ravigote. Put the mullets in boxes and dress as for Italienne but make the sauce thus: place a quarter of a pound of fresh butter on a plate with a tablespoonful of chopped tan-agon one (htto of chopped chervil, one ditto of lemon juice, and a little pepper, salt, and sugar, mix all well together - have ten tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) boiling in aPOISSONS. 124 stewpan, and tlirow the other ingredients into it, stir it over the fire till quite smooth, and pour over your mullets in the paper boxes. If too thick add a little milk. No. 290. Fillets of Mullets a la Montesquieu. Take four fish and fillet them by passing the knife from the back of the head to the tail, keeping close to the bone, then cut each fillet in halves, then rub a quarter of a pound of butter on the bottom of a deep saute-pan and lay in the fillets; season with a little pepper, salt, chopped parsley, the juice of a lemon, and a glass of sherry ; place them over a brisk fire five minutes, then turn them gently and piace them again on the fire for five minutes, dress them round on a border of mashed potatoes, but be careful not to break them, as they are very delicate; put ten spoonfuls of melted butter in the saute-pan, with four of milk, and a little sugar and salt; set it over the fire, boil it three minutes, keeping it stirred, and then pour over the fillets. No. 291. Fillets of Mullets a Vltalienne. Take four fish, fillet and dress as above, serve an Italian sauce (No. 31) over them. No. 292. Fillets of Mullets a la Venitienne. Fillet and dress the fillets as above, and sauce as for mullet a la Venitienne (No. 288.) No. 293. Fillets of Mullets sauce Favigote. Fillet and dress the fish as before, with the exception of the sherry and sauce, as for mullets a la Ravigote. No. 294. Fillets of Mullets « la Mazarine. Fillet and dress the fish as in the last, and pour a sauce Mazarine, (see turbot a la Mazarine, No. 207) over them.125 POTSSONS. No. 295. JFhitings, to fry them. Every person knows the delicacy of this fish, and its lightness as food, especially invalids • it is generally well received at all tables : to fry them well, dry them in a cloth, then throw them in flour, egg and bread-crumb, fry them m hot lard, observing the directions for frying soles • serve them on a napkin with shrimp sauce in a boat, and garnish with parsley. No. 296. Whiting au gratin. Have the whitings skinned, with their tails turned into their mouths ; butter a saute-pan and put in the whitings with a tablespoonful of chopped onions and four tablespoon- s ot brown sauce (No. 1) over each; sprinkle bread crumbs over them, and a little clarified butter, and put them m a moderate oven half an hour; take them out and dress iem on a dish without a napkin; then put twelve table- spoonfuls more brown sauce into the saute-pan, with a tea- spoonful of chopped mushrooms, one ditto chopped parsley one chtto essence of anchovy, a little pepper, salt, and sugi boil ten minutes, pom round the fish, and pass the sala- mander over them. (See note to No. 252.) No. 297. Whitings broiled. Have the fish skinned and crnled round, flour it and lav it on the gridiron over a moderate fire ; it will take ab ul twenty minutes; dish it on a napkin earnish Jl , and .serve plain melted butter in a boat. Season wh^ No. 298. Whitings broiled a la Maitre d‘Hotel. Lroil the fish as above, dish them . have six tablespoonfuls of melted 1, n ■ 1 “ it to boil then add butterin a stewpan, put add two ounces of maitre d’hdtel butterPOISSONS. 126 (No. 79), stir it till it is melted, but do not let it boil, and pour over tlie fish. No. 299. Fillets of Whitings fried. Take tlie fillets of six small whitings which have not been skinned, dip them in flour, egg, and bread-crumb them, and fry in very hot lard; garnish with fried parsley, and serve with sauce Hollandaise (No. 66) in a boat. No. 300. Fillets of Whitings a la Hollandaise. Fillet six whitings as above, cut them in halves, then butter a saute-pan, and lay in the fillets skin side down- wards ; season with a little pepper, salt, and lemon juice, place them over a slow fire five minutes, turn them and place them again on the fire; when done, dish them round on a dish, and pour some sauce Hollandaise (No. 66) over them. No. 301. Fillets of Whitings a VItalienne. Fillet and dress the fish as in the last, adding chopped parsley to the seasoning, and make the sauce as for Filets de soles a ITtalienne (No. 266). No. 302. Whiting a VHvile. Fry the whiting in very hot salad oil, instead of lard, of a very fight brown colour; dish it on a napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve shrimp sauce in a boat. No. 303. MacJcercl. The mackerel is a useful fish, and makes its appearance upon the tables of all classes; for whilst its delicious flavour makes it a favourite of the rich, its cheapness frequently renders it economical food for the poor. To plain boil them put them in boiling salt and water, let them simmer twenty minutes or half an hour, according to the size; dish127 POISSONS. on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve fennel sauce (No. 75) in a boat. No. 304. Mackerel a la Maitre d'Hotel. Cut a mackerel up the back close to the bone, season it with pepper and salt, (a little cayenne if approved,) butter the skin well, and lay it on the gridiron; it will take about twenty minutes over a moderate fire to broil; when it is done have ready a quarter of a pound of maitre d’hotel butter (No. 79), place the mackerel on a dish without a napkin, put half the butter in the incision at the back, and spread the rest over it; place it in the oven a few mhutes and serve very hot. No. 305. Fillets of Mackerel a la Dumas. Fillet your mackerel as you would whitings by passing the knife down the back bone, lay your fillets in a buttered saute-pan, (the skin side upwards), with two tablespoonfuls of oil, two of port wine, and season with a little pepper and salt; place them over a sharp fire ten minutes, then turn them and place them over again five minutes longer, or till they are done, take them out, cut each fillet in halves and tabLpoTnM mdf T a ^ With°Ut a napki“ ; then P* twelve b espoonfols of brown sauce (No. 1) into the saute-pan let it boil five minutes, then add a teaspoonful of chorned mushrooms, half ditto of chopped parsley, a little lemon juice and a small quantity of sugar; chop the roe of the m ck erel and put in the sauce, let it simmer five minutes ^ it over the fillets, cover them lightly with bre 1 ’ brown lightly with the salamander^ it y " h“e sauce must not be too thick. ™ not< l ie No. 306. Mackerel an beurre noir. Open your mackerel at the bark cone •„ » ack> season with pepper andPOISSONS. 128 salt, butter all over, and lay quite flat on the gridiron, broil it about a quarter of an hour over a moderate fire, and place it in a dish without a napkin, then put half a pound of butter in a stewpan, place it over a sharp fire till it becomes black, (but not burnt,) throw in half a handful of picked parsley, fry it crisp, and pour it over the fish, then put four tablespoonfuls of common vinegar into the stewpan, boil it half a minute, season with pepper and salt, and pom likewise over the fish, put it in the oven five minutes and serve very hot. No. 307. Fillets of Mackerel a la Venitienne. Fillet your mackerel and cut each fillet in halves, butter a saute-pan and lay them in skin-side downwards ; season with a little pepper, salt, and chopped eschalots; place them on a slow fire five minutes, then turn them, and place them again on the fire ten minutes longer, but keep them quite white; dress them on a dish without a napkin in the form of a star; put ten tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1) in the saute-pan, with half a teaspoonful of chopped tarragon and chervil, half ditto of chopped truffles, and a tablespoon- ful of port wine; let it bod a few minutes, pom over the fillets and serve. No. 308. Dublin Day Haddock a la bonne Femme. This fish used to be very difficult to procure fresh in London, but the rapidity of steam conveyance by sea and land, brings it almost alive into the London markets. I must highly recommend this both for its firmness and its lightness ; it is usually cooked in one of the two following ways, but it may be plain boiled and served with shrimp, maitre d’hotel, Iiollandaise, or any other sauces: cut four or five incisions on each side of a Dublin Bay haddock, about an inch deep, put it in a deep dish and cover it well tPOISSONS. 129 with salt, let it remain so about twelve hours, then put it in boiling water and let it simmer thirty or forty minutes, (if the fish weighs six or seven pounds,) dish it on a nap- kin, garnish with parsnips plain boiled, and parsley and serve egg sauce (No. 76) in a boat. No. 309. Dublin Bay Haddock, baked. KU the belly of the fish with stuffing (No. 127), sew it up with packthread, and truss it with its tail in its mouth • n*b a quarter of a pound of butter over it, set it on a amig sheet, put it m a warmish oven and bake it three quarters of an horn; when done, dress it on a dish without ‘ P vm; and Pour a Beyrout sauce round it—(for sauce see No. 64). ^ sauce, No. 310. Common Haddock, plain. . ™S is “ se™«=able, %ht, wholesome fish, and may to ?b "ed M“soIes or Whitings, at any time of the yea/ /d/T/6™ P a“ PUt the“ ” boUing water well sdted’ r ad let them simmer about twenty minutes for ■ j- ’ No. 311. Haddock a la Malice d’Hotel. Cut the fish open at the back on each side of the l season * with pepper and salt, dip it in flour aLl t itT a gridn’on over a moderate fire turning it ’ k it will take about twenty minutes to cook! dLsYt on a’d/ ™thou a napkin; then have ready a quarter of l back of the fish, and pul the M Ttl * “ ““ remainder of the butter in Dip .f oven> Put the fuls of rather thin melted butter^whe/1 ’ T ““P00"' round the fish and serve. ’ qUlte hot Pour {t 9POISSONS. 130 No. 312. Haddock a la Walter Scott. Put two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions, one ditto of Harvey sauce, one ditto of catsup, one ditto of sherry, and twenty ditto of melted butter into a middling-sized stew- pan, place it over the fire and let it boil fifteen minutes, keeping it stirred, then have ready a good sized haddock, cut it in four pieces, put it into the stewpan with the sauce, place it over a slow fire for twenty minutes, or longer if necessary, when done, dress it on a dish without a napkin; reduce the sauce a little more if required, then add a little sugar and essence of anchovy, pom it over the fish and serve. No. 313. Fillets of Haddock a la St. Paid. Pillet your fish the same as a whiting, dip the fillets in flour, egg, and bread-crumb, and fry in hot lard, or oil, in a saute-pan, dress them on a napkin, garnish with fried watei- cress, and serve with two ounces of anchovy butter melted, but not boiled, in a boat. No. 314. Fillets of Haddock d la Hollandaise. Pillet your fish as above, and proceed as for fillets of whiting a la Hollandaise (see No. 300). No. 315. Gurnet and Pijpers. Though this fish is not much appreciated, I must say it is deserving of more repute than it possesses hi the opinion ' of epicures, for when fresh and well dressed it deserves to rank as one of the first of the second-class fishes ; to diess it plain it is put in boiling water, and simmered twenty or thirty minutes or more, according to the size; dress it on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve anchovy sauce in a boat.POISSONS. 131 No. 316. Roast Gurnet. Fill the belly of the fish with stuffing (No. ] 27) sew it up with packthread, and truss the fish with its tail in its outh, butter a saute'-pan, and put two tablespoonfuls of chopped eschalots and a glass of sheny into it, ego- the fish w h a paste brush, bread-crumb, and lay a fewffieces of the o" nTif1*' 7" P°t “ “ ^ Saut^“- a»cl place it in it 1 <1 th an honr'01 more if required; when done dish “ WItW » napkin, first drawing out the mekfhre^ tf put twelve tablespoonfuls of brewn steT^ i?t t and a half cfitto T* dltt° °f,brot]l’ a fierier ditto of sugar pom-it round the fish, pass the salamander over 7Z^ No. 317. Fillets of Gurnets en matelote. Skin and fillet four-small gurnets (m tl-m a as you would whitings), cut each fin j • ^ f mDner bread-crumb, and fry them in oil in a sautlrn ^ on a border of mashprl n+ + / "Pan > dress them lote (No. 262) in the centre* °eS’ “ ^ “ Sa“Ce mate‘ No. 318. Fillets of Gurnets & la Maitre d’Hotel. ®d layte fflet“ asSeab°Ve" 7“ * s»t^pan choppi parsed L"‘'1 * * ye five minutes, turn them and ’out 7 hem °U a slow fire till done, dress them round on a dish k^ °n tIle and finish the sauce as for filletsTf & napkin, (No. 264), and pour over the fiilets.S° ** ^ maitre . No- 31 Fillets of Gurnets n rn r Skin, fillet, cook, and dress the fi I ff**' (see fillets of soles a la Italienne, No*286.)bef°re f°r Saucc-132 POISSONS. No. 320. Herrings broiled, sauce Bigon- Tliese fish are fresh when the eyes look bright, the gills red and the scales glossy ; the delicacy of these fish prevent them being dressed in any other way than broiled or boiled, they may certainly be bread-crumbed and fried, but very few persons like them; they are best in the following way: wipe them well and cut three incisions on each side, dip them in flour, and broil them over a moderate fire; when done, sprinkle a little salt over them, dish them on a nap- kin garnish with parsley, and serve the following sauce m a boat: put eight tablespoonfuls of melted butter m a stew- pan, with two ditto of Trench mustard, two pats of butter, and a little pepper and salt, when boding and the pats are melted, pour the sauce into the boat and serve. No. 321. Herrings plain boiled. Put two quarts of water to boil (in a stewpan). with half a pound of salt; when boiling put in six or eight herrings, stand them on the corner of the fixe to simmer for a quarter of an hour, take them up, dish them on a napkin, and serve shrimp, anchovy, or sauce Hollandaise in a boat; these hs require to be served the moment they axe dxessed, or they become heavy and indigestible. No. 322. Boiled Herrings a la Creme. Boil the herrings as above, and dish them without a nap- kin ; have ready the following sauce: put six tablespoonlids of the best cream in a stewpan, with a little pepper ant s , and when nearly boding add. two ounces of flesh buttei an the juice of half a lemon; stir it quick and pour over the fish. + No. 323. Skate plain boiled. Tins fish with some persons is a great favourite; it isPOISSONS. 133 usually crimped, cut in slices, and rolled round, but very s Mom dressed whole; to boil it put in salt and water as usua when the water boils, and let it simmer twenty mi- es, then take it up, dish it on a napkin, garnish with paisley, and serve with anchovy sauce in a boat. No. 324. Skate au Beurre noir. Boil the skate as above, drain it well, and dish it with °U a napkin; put half a pound of butter in 44 and se it on the fire till it gets quite black then frv lalf a handful of parsley (that has been well washed and No. 325. Skate a la Matire d’Hotel. then put twelve tablespZS 4wMtTs^rceTlNr& y?’™’ 25,2 butter 4bt ;ddta rer of a« melted and po„,4er tfisL ‘ ^ «"*• is No. 326. Smelts, to fry them 4“::: ^ «-*• two in Winter; their appearance when fa^TT “ he eyes are veiy bright, and they smell K m”*7* cucumbers, but if the belly looks at all hi , „ °'ets or fresh, and eonsequently ,i J whoteom t 7 *" not method of dressing- them is to frv 11 ’ i^ m°St conimon cloth, and dip them iff well in a Gutter melted in a stewpan into «'l • TT 0Unce of134 POISSONS. brush dip them in bread-crumbs, fry in very hot lard, dress them on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve with shrimp sauce in a boat. No. 327. Smelts a la Juive. Egg and bread-crumb the fish as before, fry in salad oil (very hot), dress, them on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve without sauce. No. 328. Smelts a la Boulangere. Dry the fish in a napkin, dip them in very thick cream, and immediately afterwards in flour, so that it forms a paste round them ; fry them in very white hot lard, dress them on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve without sauce. No. 329. Atelettes Bperlans a la Mena fere. Put ten smelts upon a silver skewer, dry them m flour, then oil your gridiron and lay the fish upon it, broil them ten minutes over a clear fire, dress them on a dish without a napkin, and pour some butter clarified, with a little pep- per, salt, and lemon-juice, over them. In Prance these fishes are served for second course in the following way : have four small silver skewers, (atelettes,) and run them through the eyes of the fish, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in very hot lard five minutes; serve them on a napkin without any sauce ; they take the place of a loast. No. 330. Buisson d'Eperlans. Truss the fishes by putting their tails into their mouths, season them with pepper and salt, egg and bread-crum and fry them in very hot lard, dress them on a nap 1 pyramidically, garnish with fried parsley, and serve p am melted butter iu a boat.135 POISSONS. No. 331. Flounders, Water Souchet. Put a pint of water into a deep saute-pan, with half a tablespoonful of salt, and a little pepper, and forty small sprigs of parsley; when nearly boiling have ready six small ounceis, (cut in halves in a slanting direction), and put em into the saute-pan, let them simmer about twelve minutes, take them up and dress them on a dish without a napkin; then add a little sugar to the liquor they were boiled in reduce it five minutes, and pom over the fish • a pint* h “ay b<3 "'ith half “ piut of water instead of No. 332. Flounders a la Greemoich. m a cloth-. thf cliP fto white part of them n yolhs of eggs, then m flora- and bread-crumbs mixed » % them in hot lard, dress them on a naXn boat ■ sbt small if]m‘dfe; Serve anchovy sauce in a ’ 31 x smaI1 fish are enough for this dish. No. 333. Flounders plain fried. Dry them, dip in flora-, egg, and bread-crumb and fry parsley11 and scr ^ ^ °" * napkilb g™** whh P ey, and seive shrimp sauce (No. 73) in a boat. No. 334. Flounders broiled. ove?jm“£ r °n a ***» and serve shr-irap sauce in a boat ” °" * Dapkin- INo. 335. Plaice. . dressed like soles, (an g-ratin ) l + IS to boil or fry, and serve on a nanl n' ,u ,e,U9UaI W<V “ a boat- It is a watery fish a J P‘ , h “nc,10vI' sauce kitchens of the wealthy. ^ eldom admitted in the136 POISSONS. No. 336. Whitebait. This very delicate little fish is cooked in the most simple manner; dry them m a couple ol cloths, shake the cloths at the corner, but do not touch the fish with your hands; then have ready an equal quantity of bread-crumbs and flour on a dish, throw the fish into it, toss them lightly over with the hands, take them out immediately, put them in a wire basket, and fry them in very hot lard; one minute will cook them; turn them out on to a cloth, sprinkle a little salt over them, dish them on a napkin and serve very hot. These Liliputian fishes never can be had at home in the perfection you get them at Greenwich or Blackwall, where they are obtained as soon as caught, and dressed by persons in constant practice. No. 337. Sturgeon. The flesh of this fish is or ought to be absolutely white; if red, nothing can be done with it; though this fish is much in vogue in Trance, in England it is thought no- thing of, for which reason I shall only give two receipts how to dress it; no fish requires so much cooking ; to dress it plain it is merely boiled in salt and water, a pound of the fish requiring half an hour, dish on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve anchovy sauce in a boat. It is cut m slices an inch in thickness to boil. No. 338. Sturgeon a la Chanceliere. Procure two pieces of middling-sized fish about fi\e inches in thickness, then prepare the following marinade. put two onions, one carrot, one turnip, six eschalots, four bay-leaves (cut up very small,) six cloves, two blades of mace, and two tablespoonfuls of oil, in a stewpan, pass it over the fire ten minutes, keeping it stirred, then add fourPoissons. 137 wineglassfuls of vinegar, four of sherry, and three pints of broth; boil altogether twenty minutes, then lay in the fish, cover the stewpan, and put it in a slow oven for four hours; let it remain in the stock till ready to serve, dish it without a napkin, and have ready the following sauce: put twenty tablespoonfuls of thick white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan with twenty of the stock the fish was cooked in, let it reduce to two thirds, then pass it through a tarnmie mto another stewpan, and add twenty blanched muscles, twenty olives, twenty mushrooms, two spoonfuls of essence ol anchovies, half a one of sugar, and a little cayenne; when hot pour over the fish. The fish dressed this way may be served with matelote, maitre d’hotel, or Mazarine sauce. OF SHELL FISH. No. 339. Lobsters. Tlie middling-sized ones are preferable to the very Iar»e water allT4 ^ m°re deHCate; Plab b0iHllS “ and t. , S,f *hey re?mre’ or sea water if it can be obtained • though the dressing of this fish is so very simple you very seldom meet with them boiled to perfection; often ftey are over done, then they have lost their succulence and eat tough and thready; but if, on the contrary, they .ire undei done they are very unwholesome and unnahteiblp t avoid this mistake I will here mvP flm . ] ; to them; put a lobster weighing one poundTmTl r* t0 ^ and let it boil a quarter of ^ two pounds it will require half an hour138 POISSON S. portion; tliis is one of the most useful shell fish employed in cooking, ns may be seen by the different receipts for fish. No. 340. Crabs. This is also a very delicate fish; it is boiled in the same manner as a lobster, only allowing five minutes longer to each pound, but small ones are useless; they are usually eaten cold with oil and vinegar; to send them to table, dress the meat in the back shell by mixing the soft part with a few bread-crumbs, seasoning it with a little pepper and salt, and putting it in the centre of the shell; then pick the flesh from the large claw with a fork, and filling up the two ends, separating it from the other with some red spawn, place it upon a dish, surround it with the small claws in a circle, and garnish with parsley. No. 341. Muscles. Though very little in use, the flavour of this fish is very delicious in many sauces; many people are afraid to eat them, but with care there is not the slightest danger if prepared in the following manner: wash them well in several waters, and be particular in taking off all the threads that hang to the joints of the shell, put them in a stewpan with two onions (sliced), four cloves, two bay-leaves, and a handful of parsley; set them on a brisk fire and cover them over, toss them over now and then, and when they open of themselves they are done; turn them out of the stew pan, lift off the top shells and take out the fish, beard them and be particular that no small crabs remain in them (as they are supposed to be the unwholesome part), put them in a basin, strain their own liquor over them, and put them by for use. In July and August these fish may be omittecLPOISSONS. 189 No. 342. Oysters. Tlie English green oysters are the best that are known ; the latter end of August is about the time an epicure would begin to eat them; the small ones are the best for table, and the large ones for culinary purposes; to blanch them open them with care, and put them in a stewpan with then- own liquor; let them set, but they must not boil; beard them, strain their own hquor over them in a basin, put them by and use where described. No. 343. Pike roasted. This fish in France is found daily upon the tables of the first epicures, but the quality of this fish there appears much more delicate than here. But perhaps the reason of its being more in vogue there is, that other fish are more scarce • not being so much in use here, (that is, in London,) but m the country, where gentlemen have sport in catching them, they are much more thought of, and to them, peia haps, the following receipts may be the most valuable’ To dress it plain it is usually baked, as follows: having well c eaned the fish stuff it with the stuffing for fish (No 127' and sew the belly up with packthread ; butter a saute-pan’ put the fish into it and place it in the oven for an hour or more according to the size of it; when done dish it without a napkin and pom- anchovy sauce round it; this fish ure vious to its being baked, must be trussed with its tail in its outh, four incisions cut on each side, and well buttered over. No. 344. Pike a la Cliambord. m'2et5httf r °ZmZ dlSh (W“ * and lard if In - b Ha™ tlle fist well cleaned, M-kettle tllTPT °ne Side ** bac™- p«‘ it in " kettle, the larded side upwards, and prepare the follow-140 POISSONS. ing marinade: slice four onions, one carrot, and one turnip, and put them in a stewpan with six bay-leaves, six cloves, two blades of mace, a little thyme, basil, a bunch of parsley, half a pound of lean ham, and half a pound of butter; pass it over a slow fire twenty minutes, keeping it stirred; then add half a bottle of Madeira wine, a wineglassful of vinegar, and six quarts of broth ; boil altogether an hour, then pass it through a sieve and pom* the liquor into the kettle over the fish; set the fish on the fire to stew for an hour or more, according to the size, but take care the marinade does not cover the fish, moisten the larded part now and then with the stock, and put some burning charcoal on the lid of the kettle; when done glaze it lightly, dish it without a napkin, and have ready the following sauce: put a pint of the stock your fish was stewed in (having previously taken off all the fat) into a stewpan, with two glasses of Madeira wine, reduce it to half, then add two quarts of brown sauce (No. 1), keep it stirred over the fire till the sauce adheres to the back of the wooden spoon, then add the roes of four carp or mackarel (cut in large pieces, but be careful not to break them), twenty heads of very white mushrooms, twenty cockscombs, twelve large quenelles of whiting (No. 124), and finish with a tablespoonful of essence of anchovies and half a one of sugar, pour the sauce round the fish, arrang- ing the garniture with taste, add twelve crawfish to the garniture, having previously taken off all the small claws; serve very hot. This dish I dare say will be but seldom made in tills country, on account of its complication, but I thought pro- per to give it on account of the high estimation in which it is held in France; I must however observe that I have omitted some of the garniture which would make it still more ex- pensive, and if there should be any difficulty in getting what remains, the sauce is very good without.141 POISSONS. No. 345. Pike en matelote. Stuff and bake the fish as before; when done, dress it without a napkin, and pour a sauce matelote (see Saumon en matelote mariniere, No. 239) in the middle and round the fish, and serve very hot. Or the fish may be stewed as in the last. No. 346. Pike a la Hollandaise. Boil the fish in salt and water, in the same manner as cod-fish; drain it well, dish it without a napkin, pour a sauce Hollandaise over it. (For sauce, see Turbot a la Hollandaise, No. 206.) No. 347. Small Pike a la Meuniere. Crimp a small pike, it must not weigh more than two pounds, but smaller if you can get it, and proceed exactly as for Sole a la meuniere (No. 260), but allow it more time. No. 348. Pike with caper sauce. Boil the fish as before, and have ready caper sauce made as follows: put fifteen tablespoonfuls of melted butter in a stewpan, and when it bods add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; when it melts, add two tablespoonfuls of liaison (No. 119); let it remain on the fire to thicken, but do not let it boil; moisten with a little milk if required then add two tablespoonfuls of capers, and pom over the No. 349. Pike a la Maitre d'Hotel. Boil the fish as usual, and dish it without a mukin . then put twelve tablespoonfuls of melted butter in istewi of "a pound of !"tTv °f boiling- addaq™rter ot a pound of maitre d’hfitel butter, and when it melt, pour over and round the fish, serve vmy hot142 POISSONE. No. 350. Pike a VEgyptienne. Cut two onions, two turnips, one carrot, one head of celery, and one leek into slices; put them into a large stewpan with some parsley, thyme, bay-leaves, and a pint of port wine; then have your fish ready trussed, with its tail in its mouth; put it into the stewpan, with the vegetables; add three pints of broth, and set it on a slow fire to stew, with some live charcoal upon the lid ; try, when done, by running the knife close in to the back bone; if the meat detaches easily, it is done; take it out, and place on a baking sheet; dry it with a cloth, then egg and bread- crumb it; put it in the oven, and salamander it a fight brown; then put twenty tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with eight of milk, and reduce it five minutes; then add four gherkins, the whites of four hard- boiled eggs, and two truffles, cut in very small dice; finish with two tablespoonfuls of essence of anchovies, the juice of half a lemon, and four pats of butter; dress the fish without a napkin, and sauce over. No. 351. Fillets of Pike a la Maitre d Hotel. billet three small pike and dress them in the manner described in Fillets of mackerel a la Venitienne (No. 30/); dress them round on a dish without a napkin, and sauce over with the same sauce as Pike a la maitre d hotel. No. 352. Fillets of Pike en matelote. If for a dinner for twelve, fillet four small pike; egg and bread-crumb, and fry in oil; dish them round on a border of mashed potatoes (previously cutting each fillet in halves) and serve sauce matelote (No. G2) in the centre.POISSONS. 14-3 No. 353. Fillets of Pilce a la Meuniere. Fillet four pike as above, cut each fillet in halves, rub some chopped eschalot into them, dip them in flour, broil them; when done, sauce as for Sole a la meuniere (No. 260). Observe, if you happen to live in the country where pike is plentiful, you may dish the fillets in as many ways as soles or any other fish; but I have omitted giving them here, thinking it useless to fill a useful book with so many repe- titions ; we have several ways of dressing pike to be eaten cold in France, which I have also omitted, as they would be quite useless in this country. No. 354. Carp en matelote. Have your fish ready cleaned, and make four or five in- cisions on each side; then put two sliced onions, three sprigs of thyme and parsley, and half a pint of port wine in a stewpan, or small fish-kettle; season the fish with pepper and salt, lay it in the stewpan, add four pints of broth, and place it on a slow fire to stew for an hour (which will be sufficient for a fish of five poimds weight), or more in pro- portion to the size; when done, dress it on a dish, without a napkin; drain it well, and serve a matelote sauce (No. 62) over it, only use some of the stock from the fish (having previously taken off all the fat) instead of plain broth as directed in that article. No. 355. Carp a la Genoise. Prepare your fish as above, and lay it in your- fish-kettle with two ounces of salt, half a bottle of port wine, two omons, two turnips, one leek, one carrot (cut in slices), three bay-leaves, six cloves, two blades of mace, and a spk of parsley, cover the fish with white broth; stew it as before 3 naPk“’ ” 3 a— ^144 roissoNs. No. 356. Stewed Carp a la Marquise. Cook the fish as above, and when done, dress it on a dish without a napkin, and have ready the following sauce: put twenty tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, reduce it over a fire until rather thick, then add a gill of whipt cream, two tablespoonfuls of capers, and two of chopped gherkins; pour over the fish, then sprinkle two tablespoon- fids of chopped beet-root over it, and serve. No. 357. Carp with caper sauce. Cook the fish as above, and dress it without a napkin; then put twenty-five tablespoonfuls of melted butter into a stewpan, and when nearly boiling add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; stir it till the butter melts, then add four tablespoonfuls of capers, and pour over. This sauce must be rather thick. No. 358. Carp fried. Open the fish down the back with a sharp knife from the head to the tail, cutting off half the head, so that the fish is quite fiat; break the backbone in three places, but allow the roe to remain; then dip the fish in flour, and fry it in hot lard; dress it on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve plain melted butter, well seasoned, in a boat. No. 359. Tench en matelote. This fish, though not much thought of by our first-rate epicures, is, according to my opinion, superior to carp; in a matelote it is excellent. Have your fish prepared for cooking, and put them into a small fish-kettle (with a drainer); and if two middle-sized fish, put two onions, half a carrot, one turnip, three bay- leaves, a bunch of parsley, four cloves, a blade of mace, ten145 POISSONS. allspice, half a pint of port wine, and half a pint of broth in the kettle with them; place them over a moderate fire, stew them half an hour, or more if required; when done chain them well; dress without a napkin, and pour a mate- lote sauce (No. 62) over them. No. 360. Tench a la Teyrout. Stew the fish exactly as above, dress them without a napkin, and pour a sauce Beyrout (No. 64) over them. No. 361. Tench a la Poulette. Stew the fish as before, only use bucellas instead of port wine; then peel thirty button onions, pass them in a stew- pan (over a fire) with a little powdered sugar and butter till they are covered with a white glaze; then add two glasses of bucehas wine, boil it three minutes; then put twenty tablespoonfuls of white sauee, and ten of the stock from the s m with it, and let it simmer on the corner of the fire tiU the onions are quite done, keeping it well slcimmed • then season with a little pepper, salt, and sugar, and add twenty muscles (blanched), a little chopped parsley and a tablespoonful of lemon-juice; take it off the fire, stfrin four tablespoonfuls of haison, and pour over the fish; serve very the fish SaUCe reqmi'eS ‘° be en°D«h t0 weU »ver No. 362. Tench sauce aux Moules. Stew the fish as before, dish it up without n mni ■ 1 v“sauce (No-70) pour * z No. 363. Tench fried or broiled. Zl very good served with anchovy or shrimp sauce in a 10146 POISSONS. No 304. Perch a la Ilollandaise. Have three middling-sized fishes ready prepared for cook- ie ; then put two ounces of butter, two onions (in slices), one* carrot (cut small), some parsley, two bay-leaves, six cloves, and two blades of mace in a stewpan; pass it five minutes over a brisk fire, then add a quart of water, two glasses of vinegar, one ounce of salt, and a little pepper; boil altogether a quarter of an hour, and pass it through a sieve into a small fish-kettle; then lay the fishes into it, and let them stew twenty or thirty minutes over a moderate fire; dress them on a dish without a napkin, and pour a sauce Hollandaise (No. 66) over them. No. 365. Perch a la Maitre d'Hotel. Prepare and cook your fish as above; then put twenty tablespoonfuls of melted butter in a stewpan, and wdien it is upon the point of boding, add a quarter of a pound of Maitre d’Hotel butter (No. 79) and pour the sauce over the fish, which dress on a dish without a napkin. No. 366. Small Perches en water souchet. Cut four small fishes in halves, having previously taken off all the scales, and proceed precisely as for Flounders en water souchet (No. 331). No. 367. Small Perches frits au beurre. Scale and well dry six perches, and make incisions heie and there on each side of them; then put a quarter of a pound of butter into a saute-pan, season your fishes with pepper and salt, put them in the saute-pan and fry them, gently, tinning them carefully; when done, dress them on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve without sauce. In my opinion, they are much better cooked this way147 POISSONS. tlkan boiled or stewed; large fish may also be done this way, but they require more butter, and must cook veiy slowly. No. 368. Trout plain boiled. Trout that is caught in a river or running stream is pre- ferable to that caught in a lake or pond; although I have had very fine ones from ponds, they have invariably tasted muddy; in fact a running stream is better for all fish in this respect; but still water most affects the flavour of the trout. Prepare the fish for cooking, and boil it in salt and water; if it weighs two pounds, allow it half an hour, and more in proportion; dress it on a napkin, garnish ’with parsley, and serve shrimp-sauce in a boat. No. 369. Trout a la Maitre d’Hotel. Stew the fish like perch, allowing more time in proportion to the size; dress them on a dish without a napkin and sauce the same as Perche a la Maitre d’Hotel (No. 365). No. 370. Trout a la Genoise. Stew the fish as above, dress it on a dish without a nan- ™> and Pm*1, a sauce Genoise (No. 63) over it. ^ No. 371. Talced Trout. Proceed exactly the same as for baked pike (No. 343.) No. 372. Trout a la Bey rout. Dry your fish with a cloth, flour it, and lay it on the peeCoff all*the £■““£ T ‘ m°derate ^en done, peel ort all the skin; dish it without a napkin and nour r sauce Beyrout (No. 64) over it. ’ d PPOISSONS. 148 No. 373.- Fillets of Trout a la Mazarine. Fillet a fish, and cut each fillet in halves; fry it in butter, like perch, dress it round on a dish, and pour a sauce Maza- rine over them. For sauce, see Turbot a la Mazarine, No. 207, or they may be served with a matelote sauce in change. No. 374. Eels fried. Cut the eels in pieces about three inches long, dip them in flour, egg and bread-crumb, and fry them in very hot lard, dress them on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve shrimp-sauce in a boat. No. 375. Eels a la Tartare. Cut the eels and fry as above, have ready some Tartare sauce (No. 38) upon a cold dish, lay the eels upon it and serve immediately; should the eels be large they must be three parts stewed before they are fried; dry them upon a cloth previous to bread-crumbing them. No. 376. SjoitchcocJced Eels. Take the bones out of the eels by opening them from head to tail, and cut them in pieces about four inches long, throw them into some flour, then have ready upon a dish about a couple of handfuls of bread-crumbs, a tablespoon- ful of chopped parsley, a little dried thyme, and a little cayenne pepper, then egg each piece of eel and bread-crumb them with it, fry them in very hot lard, dish them on a napkin, and serve shrimp-sauce in a boat. No. 377. Steioed Eels. Cut the eels in pieces as before, and tie each piece round with packthread, then put them into a stewpan with an149 POISSONS. onion, a tablespoonful of white wine; three cloves, three whole allspice a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, and n little white broth, sufficient to cover them; place them over a moderate fire, and let them stew gently for half an hour or more, if required, (according to the size of the eel,) take iem out, dram them on a napkin, dish them without a napkin and have ready the following sauce : put a tea- spoonfid of chopped onions into a stewpan with four table- rTn0^ and ditto of brown sauce ( • ), let it boil gently for a quarter of an hour, keeping L,8 aUTS 11Gn add a teasVOonM of essence of anchovies ancl a little sugar, and pour over your eels. No. 378. Eels en matelote. Stew the eels as above, dress them without a napldu and pour a sauce matelote (No. 62) over them. They may also be served with a sauce a la Beyrout (No. 64). 1 No. 379. Lampreys rr“r ‘ s r, t, s Xr ir-7 ■ a », s double the time stewino- that an e 1 f7 “ lamprey recluires require), and serve with the samelnc^*" sauce especially; if yoU fiy 0r broil them tT& 6 three parts boiled beforehand • to try wbe &7 be trussing needle into them, if it goes » Ly No. 380. Crawfish. . rJ’hese are ver7 favourite little shell-fish 1 m Irance, but seldom served as o a- 7 d mUch used (they are not good when in Srawnl C0Untr^ dozen of them and wash in several waffi" ^ ^ tW° several waters (clioose them asPOISSONS. 150 near as possible of equal sizes), then put them in a stewpan, with two onions, one carrot, one turnip, one head of celery, six bay-leaves, a bunch of parsley, six cloves, twelve pepper- corns, half an ounce of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, a quarter ditto of cayenne, two glasses of vinegar, four of sherry, and half a pint of broth; place them over a very brisk fire for twenty-five minutes, stirring them occasionally, take them off the fire and let them cool in then- stock, put them in a basin, cover them with the stock, but strain the vege- tables away from them, and use for garnishing where di- rected ; to make a dish dress them on butter in the form of a bush, mingling very green double parsley with them. There are some few other sorts of fresh-water fish not very frequently used, which may be fried, boiled, or stewed, in some of the ways as described in the foregoing list.151 HOftS-D’CEUVltES, OR DISHES TO BE HANDED ROUND THE TABLE, No. 381. Petits Vol-au-Vents a la Motile de Boeuf. Moke a pound of puff paste (No. 1132), roll it half an moh in thickness, then cut out your vol-au-vents with a fluted cut er rather larger than a five-shilling piece • have water rand1^/1^’ (°“ wMch ** ^ «P<£ued some watei,) and put your vol-au-vents on it, egg them over with a paste brush, and cut a top with a small nl ' cutter, which is done by dipping the cutter into hit wato and just marking a rmg upon the top of each vol-au’ ovln b /° “0t °Ut 14 ^ then put ttem “ a warm oven and pay particular attention to the baking of them ch will occupy about twenty minutes, keep the oven’ door shut as much as possible, take them outWhen dm and with the point of a knife take off the hd without break mg it, and take out the soft paste remaining inside leaviW them quite empty, they are then ready for 3 use; prepare the marrow as follows - take nil fl “ * from a beef marrow-bone in »!T ' ^ the marrow have ready on the fire a’ stewpal rf S w which throw the marrow, and let it boil ten minutes’ fl”40 take it out carefully and put it in cold water puttpi, t W it tfll it becomes rather thicMhfn^uliWm ^ a"dreduce about a quarter of an inch square ami t ■ °W 111 dice serving throw it into the sauce with t ^ f1U1UteS before (No. 120) also cut in dice whilst hoT ° ^8® clueneUes ihem UP°n a Cl0thi * fl-okly, set152 hors-d’ceuvres. and sugar if required, fill the vol-au-vents, and dress them on a napkin pyramidically; serve very hot. No. 382. Petits Vol-au-Vents au laitance de Magucreau. Make the vol-au-vents as in the previous article, put two ounces of butter into a saute-pan, rub it over the bottom, have ready four soft roes of mackerel, then put into the saute-pan with a little pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice; set them over a moderate fire five minutes, turn them, and when done cut them in small dice, but let them remain in the saute-pan, then add eight tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), and two of fight broth, a little sugar, and two or three tablespoonfuls of cream; stir it over the fire and mix it well without breaking the roes, fill your vol-au-vents, and serve very hot on a nap- kin ; carp roes may be served in the same manner. No. 383. Petits Vol-au-Vents aufoie de Baie. Make the vol-au-vents as above; boil the fiver of a skate in salt and water an hour, let it get cold, put six table- spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with four of fight stock, and reduce it till rather thick, then add a little chopped parsley, three tablespoonfuls of cream, a little white pepper, sugar, and salt, if required; cut the fix er in small dice, with four quenelles (No. 120), put it in the stewpan, make it hot, but do not stir it much or you will break it, add a little lemon-juice, fill the vol-au-vents, and serve as before. These patties, although seldom served, are very excellent if well done and nicely seasoned. No. 384. Petits Vol-au-Vents aux Hintres. Prepare the vol-au-vents as before, put eight tablespoon- fuls of white sauce in a stewpan, with a little cayenne pep- per, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, two peppercorns,hors-d’oeuvres. 153 half a blade of mace, and six tablespoonfuls of liquor from the oysters, reduce it till very thick, have ready, blanched and bearded, two dozen oysters (No. 342), cut each oyster in four pieces, put them in the sauce, (previously taking out the pep- percorns and mace,) with a little salt, sugar, and lemon- juice, make it hot over the fire, add a little cream, but do not let it boil, or the oysters would become tough and the sauce very thin: fill the vol-au-vents and serve on a napkin as before. No. 385. Petits Vol-au-Vents de Hovtard. Prepare the vol-au-vents as usual, put eight tablespoon- fuls ot white sauce (No. 7), and four of light stock, in a stewpan, with a little cayenne pepper, salt, and a teaspoon- ful of essence of anchovies, boil it ten minutes, then cut a small hen lobster up in large dice, pound the red spawn from it with one ounce of butter, pass it through a hair sieve and mix with the sauce; put in the lobster, make it hot, fill your vol-au-vent, and serve as before. N. B. The last four dishes may be made maigre bv substituting melted butter or oyster sauce for white sauce. No. 386. Petites Bouchees a la Moelle de Bamf. Are made m the same manner as the petits vol-au-vents but the paste must not be more than a quarter of an inch m thickness, and the bouchees must be cut with a fluted cutter not larger than half-a-crown piece, bake them in a warmer oven than the vol-au-vents, prepare the beef mar- row, fill and serve the same as No. 381. No. 387. Petites Bouchks au laitance de Maquereau. Make the bouchees as before, and prepare the mackerel roes the same as for petits vol-au-vents (No. 382). No. 38S. Petites Bouchees cmfoie de Rate. Prepare them as usual, and proceed as for No. 383.154 iiors-d’ceuvres. No. 389. Petites Bouchees aux Huit/res. Prepare them as before, and proceed as for vol-au-vents (No. 384). No. 390. Petites Bouchees de Homard. Prepare them as before, and proceed as for vol-au-vents (No. 385). No. 331. Petites Boucliees a la Peine. Prepare them as usual, pick the meat of the half of a braised chicken, and cut it in very small dice (not larger than peas), cut about the same size one ounce of cooked tongue, six blanched mushrooms, and two middling-sized Prench truffles; mix altogether, then put twenty table- spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with eight of milk, reduce it to one half, then add the minced fowl, tongue, &c., season with a little lemon-juice, pepper, salt, sugar, and two spoonfuls of cream; serve them very hot on a napkin. No. 392. Petites Bouchees a la puree de Volatile. Prepare them as before, take about half a pound of the flesh of chicken, turkey, or any description of poultry; pound it well in a mortar, with half an ounce of lean boiled ham, then put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in a stew- pan, with half an ounce of butter, pass them over the fire, stirring them with a wooden spoon, then add a little flour, mix it well with the butter and eschalots, then add the pounded meat, four spoonfuls of white sauce, and half a pint of good stock that the bones of the poultry have been previously boiled in, boil altogether a quarter of an hour, season with a little white pepper, salt, and sugar, pass it through a tammie by rubbing it with two wooden spoons, put it into another stewpan, boil it, finish with a table-iiors-d’ceuvres. 155 spoonful of liaison, fill the bouchees, and serve on a napkin very hot. No. 393. Petites Bouchees de Gibier. Prepare the bouchees as before, put twenty tablespoon- fuls of game sauce (No. 00) in a stewpan, then cut up into small dice the flesh of a grouse, partridge, half a pheasant, or the remains of any game you might happen to have by you, put it in the stewpan with the sauce, make it hot but c o not let it boil, season with a little sugar and salt, fill and serve as before. No. 394. Petites Bouchees a la puree de Gibier. Prepare them as before, and proceed as for the petites bouchees ala puree de volaille, (No. 392) only using the flesh of game, and game sauce, instead of the flesh of poultry and white sauce. J No. 39o. Petits Pates a la Patissiere. Make one pound of puff paste (No. 1132), roll it into a sheet a quarter of an inch in thickness, then cut twenty peces of the size of a five-shilling piece with a plain round cutter; mix the remains of the paste together, and roll them out to the thickness of the eighth of an inch, and cut twenty more pieces from it with the same cutter, sprinkle a lakmg sheet with water and lay them on it a little distance apart, wash them over with a little water with a paste brush, then have ready prepared in a basin half a pound of orcemeat of veal, fowl, or game (Nos. 120, 122 123) with winch mix half an ounce of beef marrow chopped vciy fine, one eschalot, a little parsley also chopped fine and the yolk of an egg; mix well together with” wooden' of a wataut on * T* °f ^ f°rCemeat half the ™ of a walnut on each p.ece of paste on the baking sheet,156 hors-d'oeuvres. cover them over with the twenty pieces of paste you first cut, and close them well at the edges by pressing them down with the top part of a smaller cutter, egg the tops over, but be careful that the egg does not run down the sides, or it would prevent the patties from rising straight, put them in rather a hot oven and bake them about twenty minutes j dish them in pyramid on a napkin and serve; to be good they should be served directly they are taken from the oven; care should be taken not to put too much forcemeat in them, or it will upset them in baking. No. 396. Petits Pates aux Huitres a la Patissiere. Proceed as above, but instead of using forcemeat use some of the salpicon of oysters as prepared for the rissoles aux huitres (No. 899). No. 397. Petits Pates de Homard a la Patissiere. Proceed as above, using some of the salpicon as prepared for the rissoles de homard (No. 400). No. 398. Petits Pates of Shrimps or Prawns a la Patissiere. As before, using the salpicon of shrimps as prepared for rissoles of shrimps or prawns (No. 401). No. 399. Pissoles aux Iduitres. Put half a tablespoonful of chopped onions into a stew- pan, with hah’ an ounce of butter, place it over the fire, fry the onions, but they must be kept white; then add half a teaspoonful of flour, and twelve of oyster liquor, (mix well) and eight tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), boil alto- gether ten minutes (or more till it becomes rather thickish), keeping it stirred the whole time, season with a little cayenne pepper, and salt, (it requires to be seasoned rather high,) then have ready blanched three dozen of oysters, cuthors-d’ceuvre. 157 each into four pieces, dry them on a cloth, and put them into the sauce, let them boil two minutes, add a few drops ot essence of anchovies, and three yolks of eggs, stir again over the foe a minute to set the eggs, then put it out on a dish and set it to get cold; make half a pound of puff paste (No. 1132), roll it ten tunes, (or the trimmings of paste previously made will do,) roll it out as thin as a shilling, then cut it out with a roimd cutter the size of the top of a small teacup, lay a teaspoonful of the preparation of oyster on each piece, wet it round with the paste brush, turn one edge over on to the other and close it well, then egg and bread-crumb them, fry in very hot lard (enough for them to swim in), when done dish them on a napkin, gar- nish with fried parsley and serve very hot; it will take about five minutes to fry them. No. 400. Rissoles de Homard. Put a teaspoonful of chopped onions into a stewpan with half an ounce of fresh butter, fry them white, then add ten or fifteen tablespoonfuls of white sauce (according to the size of the lobster), stir over the fire and let it boil five minutes, or more, until rather thick, have a fresh lobster cut up into small dice, put it into the sauce, season with cayenne pepper, salt, a little chopped parsley, juice of a lemon, and a few drops of essence of anchovies, let it boil a minute, then add two yolks of eggs, stir it over the fire another minute, to set the eggs, and pour it out on a dish to get cold; make and serve the rissoles as in the last article No. 401. Rissoles of Shrimps. thfwT1 eXa°tly the Same as the lobster in the last article, but be careful that the shrimps are not too salt prawns are better for this purpose than shrimps ■ theyhors-d’ceuvee. 158 No. 402. Rissoles de laitances de Maquereau. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a saute-pan, rub it over the bottom, lay in the soft roes of four mackerel, sea- son them with a little white pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and a very little chopped parsley; place them over a moderate fire five minutes, turn them, but do not let them get the least brown; when quite done cut them into small dice 'without breaking, then put half a tea- spoonful of chopped eschalots into a stewpan, with a few drops of salad oil j fry them quite white, then mix half a teaspoonful of flour with them, and ten tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), stir it over the fire, and boil till it becomes very thick (as the roes of mackerel are so very delicate), season with a little cayenne pepper, salt, and a little sugar if required; then put in two yolks of eggs, mix well, and add the mackerel roes, stir it very gently over the fire till the eggs become set, then put it on a dish to get cold ; make, dress, and serve the rissoles as before. This delicate hors-d’oeuvre requires great attention and proper seasoning. No. 403. Rissoles de Gibier. Roast a grouse or any other bird rather underdone, or the remains of some game left from a previous dinner will do, pick the meat off the bones and cut it into very small dice; then put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in a stew- pan, with a quarter of an ounce of butter, fry them rather brown, add ten tablespoonfuls of game sauce (if none, make some with the bones as directed, No. 60), and four of brown ditto (No. 1), reduce over the fire till it becomes rather thick, season with a little cayenne pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms, and a teaspoonful ol wine; let it boil, then add the game, with a little sugar and159 hors-d’ceuvre. two yolks of eggs, stir it gently over the fire just to set the eggs, pour it on a dish to cool; make, dress, and serve the rissoles as before. No. 404. Rissoles de Volatile. Cut half a roast (or boiled) fowl up into very small dice, then put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with half an ounce of butter, fry them quite white, then add sixteen tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), put it over the fire to reduce till it is rather thick, put the fowl mto the sauce, season with a little salt, white pepper, sugar, a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms, and a little chopped parsley; let it boil a few minutes, then stir in the yolks of two eggs, let them set, and pour it on a dish to cool (a little ham or tongue may be mixed with the above if required;) make, fry, and serve the rissoles as before Rissoles may also be made of turkey, pigeons, veal, lamb, sweetbread, &c., by following the above receipt, and usino- either one or the other of those articles instead of fowl. No. 405. Croustade de Reurre. Have ready a lump of fresh butter veiy hard and cut it into slices one inch and a half in thickness, lay them upon a table or slab m a cool place; then take a round cutter'the size of half-a-crown, and with it cut twelve pieces of the butte1- out of the slices, beat up three or fom- eggs on a plate, put the pieces of butter into them the,, tT 7 out and throw them into a dish of bread-crumbs tab-6 n" "' out, throw them again into the eggs anlTen the , T crumbs, repeating the process three times lav them l upon the table, and mark a ring a Me 1 T‘S ‘ shilling on the top of each with a “ m a wire basket and fry in very lint In, 1 e ’ tandt,lem brown colour, and very crisn t d ,1 d’ °f “ mce KSht- very crisp, take them out, take off theiioiis-d’ceuvre. 160 lids, empty them with care, and you will save nearly all the butter from them, turn them topsy-turvey in a dry place until wanted; when ready to serve put them in the oven a short time to get hot, and fill with any of the preparations for petites bouchees. You may form the croustades in dia- monds, or any shape your fancy dictates; they make very beautiful hors-d’oeuvres, and very cheap, as with care you may save the butter, which when cold may be applied to any other purpose. No. 406. Croustade de Beurre a la Duke of York. Prepare the croustades as above, and make a good puree of fowl (as for petites bouchees a la puree de volaille. No. 392), then peel a good sized cucumber, cut it in pieces two inches long, and divide each piece into three lengthwise, take out the seeds, and stew the pieces of cucumber till very tender, with a little sugar, onion, and broth, keeping them very white \ when cold cut them in small dice, mix with the puree of fowl, fill the croustades, and sei\e 'veiy hot with a plover’s egg upon the top of each. No. 407. Croquettes de Homard. Prepare a salpicon of lobster the same as for rissoles de homard; when quite cold cut it out in pieces two inches long and three quarters of an inch wide, beat up three or four eggs on a plate, and throw each piece into them and then into a dish of bread-crumbs, take them out, roll them lightly with the hand, beat them gently with a knife to make the crumbs stick, then throw them again into the eggs and bread-crumb, smooth them again with a knife, fry in hot lard, and dress them on a napkin garnished with fried parsley ; they may be made in the form of pears or any way that fancy dictates, giving them the shape pre- vious to bread-crumbing them. Croquettes may be madehors-d'oeuvre. 161 of any of the preparations for rissoles by following the above direction. No. 408. Aiguillettes de Mis de Veau. For these kind of hors-d’oeuvres it is necessary to have twe ve small silver skewers, about four inches long and the thickness of a packing-needle, with a ring or fancy design r _ ,, 6 theF aie no^ vei7 expensive but are very novel oi us c escnption of dishes; the persons eating what is served upon them taking the head of the skewer with the fingers of then- left hand and picking it off with their fork -Boil three throat sweetbreads in water ten minutes, pom- off the water and add one onion, one cmrot, one tin* two bay-leaves, and a pint of white broth, let them simm£ about wenty minutes till firm, then take them out of the brotil lay them on „ dean dotk cu|. them ,n nth a long round cutter, about the size of a shilling and season with pepper and salt,- then chop two eschalots !t off the &e> but do not let it boil after the " s 01 e™s are ™. then dip each piece of sweetbread into he sauce with a fork, and lay them on a dish till co d then ran the skewers through the centre of each piece until” two pieces on each skewer, have ready fom e’Js web beaten on a plate, dip each skewer into the „ f, ■nto the bread-crumbs twice over, fry in h0°t serve them vejy hot on a napkin. ? d' and No. 409. Aiguillettes (escalopes) am Hmtres 11hors-d’oeuvre. 102 volks of eggs, stir thorn well id, and take it off the fire; choose rather small oysters, have them ready blanched and bearded, dip them one by one into the sauce with a fork, and lay them on a dish to cool; when quite cold run the skewers through (placing five on each skewer), dip them in eo-o-s and bread-crumbs twice over as before, fry them in &o hot lard, and serve very hot on a napkin. No. 410. Aiguillettes [escalopes) de Howard. Cut forty pieces of lobster the size round of a shilling, and one inch in thickness, then put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with a very small piece of butter, fry them quite white, then add eight tablespoonfuls of oyster sauce (No. 69), reduce till rather thick, season with a little sugar, cayenne, and the juice of half a lemon, finish with the yolks of two eggs, dip the pieces of lobbtei into it and proceed as before; fry, dish, and serve in the same manner; the onions may be avoided if objectionable. No. 411. Aiguillettes de filets de Sole. Fillet a sole, butter a saute-pan, lay in the fillets, season with pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon, place them o\ er a slow fire and when done lay them flat on a dish, pla< e another dish on them, upon which put a four pounds weight, when cold cut them in pieces with a cutter the size of a shilling, prepare oyster sauce as above, dip each piece in the sauce and proceed exactly as before. No. 412. Aiguillettes aux Iluitres. Make a preparation of oysters the same as for rissoles aux huitres, adding one more yolk of egg; when cold make thin croquettes two inches long, egg and bread-crum them once, pass a silver skewer through each, then egg anbread-crumb parsley. hors-d’ceuvre. 163 again, fry and serve on a napkin with fried o* Aiguillettes de Howard\ 4nJfake !hG preParatlon as for croquettes de homard (No. 407), and proceed exactly as in the last. No. 414. Aiguillettes de Sole. w’rrrf™as for cr°quettes de bomard, oniy before ,nStead °f l0bster’ and Proceed as No- 415. Aiguilettes de 'Volatile a lajoliefik. Mate a preparation as for rissoles de volaille (No 4041 but adding tonffue truffle , . ^1N0- 4U4v, when cold n,I ’41 uffles>and Pistachios cut in small fillets; loco- 1 , k , he“ mt° cr<xluettes about two inches threnl thenT a™”1’ tbemi P^ a silver skewer bold each aWbyt^ he”/ '**" ** ^ ^'***). croquette with 7^^ -* as,t% must be ^ Aignii^T^rrriohd rveryhot exactly as above, only using game in fte6 ^ stead of fowl. g the Preparation in- anc^“reX“ V- °f which is unrequired at this '-,1 ’l™801^15 tl,e appetite, the dinner. ed at <*■ dmost the commencement ofJf>4 REMOVES. No. 416. Croustades of Bread for removes. Although it is against my principle to have any unneces sary ornamental work in a dinner, I am rather partial to these croustades, they being simple and very elegant. It would be quite useless my attempting to explain by receipts the manner in which they are made, as so much depends upon the taste and skill of the artist. Having invented several new removes requiring croustades of different de- signs, I have had them engraved, and think I may say that the whole of the designs there represented are quite original. These croustades are cut out of one or two loaves of bread; when cut in separate pieces they are joined by running a silver skewer (or attelet) through them; the body of the croustades is fried in lard, of a nice straw-colour, and the small ornaments attached are cut with cutters and fried in oil, some must be kept quite white and others allowed to get very black; they are fixed to the body of the croustade with a stiffish paste made of whites of eggs and flour; my reason for departing from the old-fashioned custom of placing them in the centre of a dish and putting them at the head, is that it facilitates the carving, and you are not so subject to get pieces of it in your plate with the sauce, besides which I think it has a more novel appear- ance, and makes the dish more elegant. No. 417. To obtain, lard, and dress a filet of Beef A fillet of beef can only be procured in this country by purchasing a rump and sirloin together, (in France it is sold as a separate joint,) but the rump and sirloin can beREMOVES. 165 «sed for other dishes, or for the servants’ meals and in quenciT tT ^ f ** °'™ 4 ia * ~ upon the hbIeCl'f ^ 'ay the mmp ™d sirIoin along dose o the T\TT* ^ y°" kntfe the bone until !„ ? b°ne> k“pinS the knife <*» to t.ng v^zgCn^r-Tmt- exrp-nt o lif+1 , rt willcl1 trim from the fillet the l from ^ "feththhh rf 8 SharP ** a” it uicely lengthwise with small Ldons ^ one head of celery one I 1 ? caiTots> two turnips, sprigs of thyme and siv 1 * iandfoI °f parsle7< a few M of salad od! lay Z 7““ ^ a teacnp- With the vegetables7 let it ^ i & arg6 dlsh and cover mn a lark ^ ^ ^ to COok * vegetables upon fom sheets of8 * ^ ^ ^ kj ^ the sufficient paper it will burst wdO?’ °’’ f“,7’ ^ not ^PPing-pan,) lay the fillet unon the Vegetab es faU m the surrounded with the veo-etnhl 1 ^ C°V<3r and tle d UP ** put it to the i ^ tLaSte * ?U wben yoi roast an hour and a half or a little 1 burnin& frre; when done, take it fV +1 on^er before a good larded part, brora lightly with the VTStabl“’ 8laze ‘he ready to be sauced and serv n and it is 'rith°*zjLzfz ^rted No. 418. Fillet of Beef a la Joan d,Jn lepare and cook the filW •> croustade in the form of fi‘ t fSOnbed> then eut a the head of the dish upon 2 T (See plate)’ & 11 ln ‘he middle of a dish mVe f e’„tben % 7°® fillet ^ round, uponREMOVES. 160 nelle (No. 120) and a small fillet of tongue, to match; proceed in like manner all the way round, then have ready nicely boiled twenty heads of fine asparagus, cut half of them five inches in length, and the remainder three inches, dress them inside of the croustade on the top to represent arrows, pour a jus d’eschalotte sauce (No. 16) over the fillet, glaze the quenelles and tongue, and serve very hot. No. 419. Fillet of Beef ala Beyrout Prepare and dress the fillet as before, then cut a cious- tade of bread representing the wall of a citadel, loim the cannons with stewed carrots, and the balls with truffles, place it on mashed potatoes at the head of the dish, lay the fillet in the centre, make a border of mashed potatoes round, rather high, close to the croustade on each side, but di- minishing as you go from it; have ready twenty crawfish, place them on the potatoes, tails upwards, pour a sauce Beyrout (No. 64) round the fillet; glaze and serve. I must here observe that as crawfish are frequently served to garnish calf’s head, I see no impropriety in using them to garnish beef. No. 420. Fillet of Beef aujus d’ Orange. Prepare and dress the fillet as described (No. 41 /), dish it up plain and serve with jus d orange sauce (No. 1 / ) o\ei it. No. 421. Fillet of Beef au jus de Tomate. Prepare and dress the fillet as described aboxc, dish it up plain, pour the sauce au jus de tomato (No. 1~) 101111 it; glaze and serve very hot. No 422. Fillet of Beef Napolitainc. Prepare and dress the fillet as described (No. 417), P^ice it in the centre of the dish, have ready two croustades, t167 REMOVES. hape and size of scallop shells, fix one at each end of the diet on mashed potatoes, and fill them with fresh scraped .Zoifo/t haVC Mowing sauce = make a 1 two onions, two turnips, one carrot, one apple a quarter of a pound of lean ham (cut i„ thin slices), lilf’a oil pLs° the win alld tbTee Mlespoonfuls of salad oh, pass the whole twenty minutes over a slow fire (m a stenpan), then add four tablespoonfuls of Tarragon ne“ bo. it five minutes, add a pint and a half of brown sauce (Ao. 1), and a pint of consomme HYn l Q/n i S',- - - *«- “2 soaked in water for nnp 1 \ 7 "111 a laisins (well which glaze very nicely and serve. “ ’ P°m tlle beef' No. 423. Fillet of Beef 'a la Strmbourgienne. glassefof shenyto'Tl/v^etebts yon^oattll hf** ^ (on mashed potatoes) at Panh i 7 1 ng a croustade boiled two pounds of StrasburgtaL (whiTt 1TOVi°l’Sly nature requires soaking two days and h. ■ ’ fJom lts *7 cut it in slices two inches Ion» and have01 ™S °T llom's)> "f diced of fried potatoes to ma7 “ ^ Dumber mashed potatoes round the beef i 7* “ border of bacon and fried potatoes alferrmf i * ' ^fess ^le slices of pared the following sauce • nut a t IT°n bave rea% pre- esohalots in a stewpan, with three”S°f'* ^ rCdUCC l° haif’ ad“ ■ Pint and a hTofT.™REMOVES. 168 sauce, two spoonfuls of tomate sauce (No. 37), a pint of consomme (No. 134), and half a tablespoonful of sugar, let it boil quickly twenty minutes, skim well, and reduce until it adheres to the back of the spoon, then have ready a lemon, peeled, sliced, blanched in boiling water, and drained on a hah’ sieve, which throw in the sauce, pour it round the beef, fill one of the croustades with stoned French olives, and the other with Indian pickle made hot in a little demi-glace (No. 9); serve immediately. No. 424. Fillet of Beef a la Napolilaine. Prepare and dress the fillet as directed (No. 417), dress it plain on a dish and have ready prepared the following sauce : cut in thin slices two onions, half a carrot, one turnip, half a head of celery, two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, a bunch of parsley, three cloves, one blade of mace, and a quarter of a pound of lean ham; put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, stir it over a brisk fire till getting rather brown at the bottom, then add four tablespoonfuls of tarra- gon vinegar, let it reduce to half, then add a quaitof bi own sauce (No. 1) and a pint of consomme (No. 134), stir it until boiling, then place it at the corner of the stove to simmer a quarter of an hour, skim it, then add a table- spoonful of chopped mushrooms, a little grated horseradish, and three tablespoonfuls of currant jelly; boil it quickly five minutes, and pass it through a tammie into a clean stewpan, add a quarter of a pound of Smyrna raisins well washed and soaked, pour the sauce over the beef, garnish with scraped horseradish and hard-boiled eggs cut in quar- ters lengthwise and laid near the rim of the dish. No. 425. Fillet of Beef ala Milanaise. Prepare and lard the fillet as before, then make a stiffish paste of flour and water, roll it about half an inch in thick- ness and fold the fillet in it, fold it again in three sheets ofREMOVES. 169 paper, tie it up at both ends, run a lark spit through it, and just as you are going to put it down to roast open the paste, poiu- in three glasses of Madeira wine, close the paste well, tie it up securely, roast it two hours, take it up and remove irom the paste, glaze it, brown lightly with the salamander dish it plain, and have ready the following sauce; cut half a pound of blanched maccaroni into pieced an inch long, likewise two ounces of very red cooked tongue, six large blanched mushrooms, and four middlino-.sized drench truffles, put twenty spoonfuls of white sauce (No 71 ui a steupan, stir it over the fire five minutes, season with . a teaspoonful °f salt, a small quantity of cayenne, and sugar, add all the other ingredients, with half a ieThotl^T ^rT' S&tbewhole over the fire to ° *■ but do not break the Pieces ; moisten with a little “Xu!' “ tUe * the "Pon it. No. 428. Fillet of Beef a la BoUmieme. Trim and lard a fillet as directed, cut in thin slices six onions two carrots, three turnips, three heads of celery, fillet tT' ’ r"f t lCm mt0 a dlsh IarSe enough to hold the fflntofieni,P auquart 0f ™e*ar ioto a stewpan witha pint of broth; when it boils put in a few peppercorns c oves, two blades of mace, four bay-leaves a ! %me and sweet marjoram, a small bunch of ’parsley^, m a pound of brown sugar, and a little salt let it boil t\ ^ minutes and pour it over the vegetable, ' „ 1 • ° 7 lay in the fillet of beef, covering0* over vritl, The ^ let it remain in this pickle six days turn J* VeSetabIes. When ready to cook roast it i„ Lte way day j article, brown it with the salaman l t ,e Previ°us of the dish, make a low borZ of m Tn “ “ the “iddk ft' ^ W cScrPeREMOVES. 170 of cotclettes) dish them upon the border of mashed po- tatoes round the beef, have ready the following sauce: put a quart of poivrade sauce (No. 32) in a stewpan, when it boils add twenty French olives (stoned), twenty small pickled onions, and twenty pickled mushrooms; pour the sauce round the beef but not over the potatoes; an ounce of anchovy butter may be added to the sauce if approved of. You can also braise the fillet in a baking dish in the oven with the marinade it is pickled in. No. 427. Fillet of Beef a la Bomaine. Trim your fillet and lard it through the thick part with large pieces of cooked tongue and fat bacon, twelve pieces of each, tie it up with a piece of string, put half a pound of butter in a large stewpan, and lay in the beef with a pound of bacon cut in slices, two onions, two bay- leaves, two cloves, and ten peppercorns; place it on a sharp fire, when getting a little brown and forming a glaze, put in six glasses of sherry and a pint of consomme, (No. 134), set it over a very slow fire for two hours, moving it round with a wooden spoon occasionally; have ready blanched one pound of the best small maccaroni (No. 136); put it in a stewpan, after it is well drained from the water take up the beef, skim the fat off the gravy it is cooked with, and pass it through a sieve upon the maccaroni, add six tablespoonfuls of tomata sauce, and place it over the fire; when it simmers add half a pound of grated Parmesan and half a pound of grated Gruyer cheese, move it round quickly, (it must not be too liquid, so if too much gravy from the beef reserve some of it;) season with a little cayenne pepper, salt, and sugar, put a layer of maccaroni upon your dish, then a layer of grated cheese, then the remainder of the maccaroni, egg and bread-crumb the top, sprinkle more grated cheese over, brown it with the salamander, lay theREMOVES. 171 fillet on the top, glaze, and serve very hot. Should any gravy remain pom* it round. No. 428. Stewed rump of JBeef a la Flamande. Choose a rump of beef from twenty-five to thirty pounds, in weight, the meat dark and well covered with fat, bone and lard it slantwise through and through with very large lardons of fat bacon six inches long, chop up the bone, which put into a large stewpan, with five or six pounds of the trimmings of any other meat, one pound of lean ham, three onions, two turnips, one carrot, one head of celery’ one leek, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves, eight peppercorns, and a blade of mace: put a pint of water in the stewpan, cover and stand it over a brisk fire, stirring it occasionally till the bottom is covered with glaze, then lay m the beef, fill the stewpan with water, skim when boilmg, and let it simmer on the corner of the fire for l i-ru^ sau ir required , - reduce a quarter of an172 REMOVES. tour, or till it becomes rather thick, pour the sauce over the vegetables, glaze the top of the beef, brown it lightly in the oven, or with the salamander, and serve. To carve, cut it in thin slices slantingly through the thickest end, where there is most fat; if underdone it is uneatable. No. 429. Stewed liirnp of Beef aux Oignons glaces. Stew the beef as directed in the last, likewise thirty-six onions, stewed in the same way as there directed; make a border of mashed potatoes round the dish, place the beef in the centre, and dress the onions round upon the potato; place a fine Brussels sprout on the top of each onion (or a little sprue grass or green peas if in season), then put a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), in a stewpan, with four spoonfuls of tomata sauce and the glaze the onions were cooked in; boil well five minutes, keeping it stirred and well skimmed, pour over the onions, glaze the beef, brown it with the salamander, and serve. You may put a very white cauliflower at each end of the dish, if you have any. In making the border of mashed potatoes on your dish, be sure and leave sufficient room for the beef, as you can (and it is the best way) dress the onions and garniture on it first, and not place the beef on till ready to serve; for the fat running from the beef it would spoil the appearance of the sauce if it remained long on the dish before serving. No. 430. Stewed Bump of Beef a la Voltaire. Dress the beef as before, then blanch two white winter cabbages (savoys) in salt and water ten minutes; take them out, and lay them on a sieve to drain; then make a mier- poix of two onions, half a carrot, one turnip, one head oi celery, one leek, a little parsley, thyme, one bay-leaf, and half a pound of lean ham, all cut up very small; put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, fry five173 REMOVES. minutes, keeping them stirred; then squeeze the cabbage quite dry, lay it in the stewpan with the vegetables and a quart of veal stock, place it over a slow fire to stew for one horn, or till quite tender, take out the cabbage (save the stock), lay it on a cloth, turn the end of the cloth over it, squeeze it rather dry, and make a long roll of it (about the size round of half-a-crown piece), cut it in pieces about an inch m length, and dress them on the dish round the beef; a small onion dressed as before may be placed on the top of each piece with a nice Brussels sprout between; and sur- round the whole with small fried sausages; for sauce, skim off t le fat from the broth the cabbage was stewed in; put half a pmt °f it in a stewpan, with a quart of brown sauce (i o. 1), place it on the fire, and reduce it to one-half; add a quarter of a teaspoonful of sugar, and pour the sauce over the cabbage, glaze and salamander the beef, and serve; this remove is very good, and a similar dish is reputed to have been a great favourite of the celebrated man from whom I have named it. No. 431. Stewed Bump of Beef a la Portugaise. Stew the beef as before, peel eight Portugal onions, boil them m a gaUon of water till nearly tender, take them out dram them; butter a convenient sized stewpan, put in the onions with two ounces of sugar, just cover them with good veal stock, and stew them until the stock is reduced is tis \ throw in forty French olives ready ZL717 * “ b0li' over the vegetable, glaze the beef, sal d^REMOVES. 174 No. 432. Slewed Ramp of Beef d la Joan d'Arc. Stew the beef as before, and proceed the same as fo. Fillet of beef a la Joan d’Arc (No. 418). 433. Stewed Rump of Reef a la Reyrout. Stew the beef as before, and proceed as for Filet dc bceuf a la Beyrout (No. 419). No. 434. Steioed Rump of Reef a la Macedoine de legumes. Stew the rump as before, then peel forty young carrots, the same number of young turnips; tie up ten small bunches of green spring onions, butter a saute-pan, place them in it with a tablespoonful of sugar (leave the stalks of the onions about an inch and a half in length), hah cover them with some good stock, and let them simmer until quite tender; cook the turnips and carrots in the same manner, but sepa- rate, make a low border of mashed potatoes round the dish, leaving room for the beef in the centre; dress the carrots, onions, and turnips on the potatoes tastefully, and variegate them with peas, cauliflowers, asparagus, French beans, and stewed cucumbers (No. 1064); glaze and salamander the beef on a separate dish, place it in the middle of the vege- tables, and have ready the following sauce : put a quart ot brown sauce in a stewpan, with the stocks the vegetables were cooked in, reduce until it becomes thickish, pour over the vegetables, and serve. No. 435. Slewed Rump of Reef saucepiquante. Prepare and stew the rump of beef as before, and prepare the following sauce: put two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions in a stewpan, with six do. of common vinegar, and half an ounce of glaze; let it reduce to half, then add a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), and half a pint of consommee (No. 134); let it simmer half an hour, skim, and seasonREMOVES. 173 with a little cayenne pepper, salt, sugar, a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, one do. of chopped gherkins, and one do. of sliced gherkins; glaze and salamander the beef, pour the sauce round, and serve. No. 436. Stewed Bump of Beef sauce tomato. Prepare and stew the beef as before, glaze arid salaman- der, pour some tomata sauce (No. 37) round, and serve. If you should have part of a ramp of beef left from a pre- vious dinner you can cut it in slices a quarter of an inch thick, and warm them m a little consommee in a saute-pan ■ serve with any of the foregoing sauces, but especially the - O last; the best way to warm them is to glaze them well anc put them m a moderate oven about twenty minutes; do 2ot let them boil, or they would eat very hard. No. 437. Slewed Sirloin of Beef The sirloin, after having been deprived of its fillet is of no use for roasting, but is equally as good as the 'rump f le" Ste"ed ; bone 11 carefully and lard the thick part with - t bacon hke the ramp; roll it up, and tie it well with si mg, to keep its shape; stew it in the same manner as ;• h™”1’’ t™*'lt at each cud, wipe off the greasy fat 1 ghtly from the top with a clean cloth, glaze it l,,,],, l," n »“ a a s».... „« a h. f £ ‘‘S'1’; “d No. 438. Stewed Sirloin of Beef'a la Brintaniere. Prepare and stew a sirloin as describe n-i mander it, place a low border of mashed ndt-Tt “nd Sala' dish, and at each end nut n ™ + i P tatoes r°und the shape of flat vases • then h , °Ustadc of 1)read cut in the inches, in length, fifty fine hTads^f J °Ut three y eads of asParagus; dish themREMOVES. 17G in, crown upon the potatoes; then have a quart of very young peas, nicely boiled; put them into a stewpan with a teaspoonful of sugar, a little pepper and salt, and four pats of butter; toss them over the fire till the butter is melted; put them in the croustade at each end of the dish, place the beef in the centre, pour a sauce aux concombres (No. 103) round the beef and serve. (For the sauce aux concombres, see No. 103). No. 439. Bibs of Beef a la Jean Bart. Take four ribs of beef, and saw the rib bones asunder in the middle; pass your knife under, and detach them from the flap; then take the chine bones from the fleshy part, sawing them off the ribs so as to leave but about four inches of the flat rib bones underneath; then lard the thick part through and through with fat bacon like the sirloin, fold the flap over so as to form a nice square piece, tie it with string to keep its shape, and roast three hours in vegetables, in the same manner as described for fillet of beef; when done, take off the string, glaze and salamander, place it on your dish, with a square croustade of bread, with a cannon and anchor also cut from bread upon it, at the head of the dish, and have ready the following sauce: chop very fine ten eschalots, ten fresh mushrooms, and half a pound of lean ham, put them into a stewpan with four glasses of sherry and two of Chili vinegar, add a bunch of parsley, two bay-leaves, the rind of half a lemon, and four cloves; put them into the stewpan, let all simmer ten minutes, then add fifteen spoonfuls of tomata sauce (No. 37), twenty of white sauce (No. 7), and ten do. of consommee; reduce the sauce until rather thick, but it must be transparent, season with a little cayenne pepper, a teaspoonful of sugar, and a little salt, if required; pass it through a tammie into another stewpan, boil it up, and pour round the beef.REMOVES. 177 No. 440. Ox Tongues May be served plain boiled; if a good-sized tongue, allow it from three to four hours to boil; put it in cold water, take off the skin, trim off a great part of the root, put it m hot water again a short time, dress it on a dish garnished noth vegetables as for stewed rump of beef a la Flamande (No. 428), or served with spinach or a Milanaise sauce (see Fillet of Beef a la Milanaise) • but when used as a lemove, they are mostly served as part of the garniture of another dish. No. 441. Loin of Veal a la Cambaceres. Procure a nice white loin of veal, saw off the chump, cut off the thick skin from the thick part, then cut some lardon ol fat bacon and lean raw ham, a quarter of an inch square and three inches long, with which lard the thickest end on the top; skewer the flap underneath, butter the bottom of a large fla stewpan, cover with thin slices of fat bacon, and lay the veal on the top of them, the larded side uppermost ■ add two onions with four cloves stuck in them, one carrot’ one trump, a bunch of parsley, thyme and bay-leaves (tied ge er), half a pint of bucellas wine, and a quart of stock • place it over a sharp fire a quarter of an horn- to boil sHm to the sTzef hist' ““t"* °Ve” *W° h°m'S («*S size), basting it every quarter of an hour with the stock; when done glaze and salamander the larded DaT+ but put the cover of the stewpan over the other narf h l • 1’ salamandermg it) as it must be kept quite white low border of mashed potatoes on the dish Z 7 4 giving it on, and have ready the following tlZl have previously boiled a Russian ox-tongue'“U ITT skins, and cut it in escalopes the size of fil i m 'f the then cut up six very large French truffle "S Pleces '• truffles, and stew two 12178 REMOVES. cucumbers; cut in escalopes of the same size as the tongue, make them hot in separate stewpans, in a little stock, and dress them alternately on the border of mashed potatoes all round the dish; place the veal in the centre, and have ready the following sauce: put two tablespoonfuls of chopped mushrooms in a stewpan with a glass of Madeira wine, two quarts of white sauce (No. 7), and a pint of boiling milk; reduce it over the fire till it becomes rather thick; pass it through a tammie into another stewpan, season with a little sugar, salt, and the juice of half a lemon; pour a little over each piece of truffle and cucumber, and the rest in the dish; glaze the pieces of tongue carefully, and serve. No. 442. Loin of Veal a la Macedoine dc legumes. Prepare and braise the veal as before, garnish and sauce as for stewed rump of beef a la Macedoine de legumes (No. 434). No. 443. Loin of Veal a la Puree de Celeri. Prepare and braise the veal as before, without larding it; make a border of mashed potatoes on the dish, then have twenty good heads of celery, cut off the tops 'within two inches of the bottom, make a puree of celery (No. 117) with the tops, and stew the bottoms in a quart of white stock, with a quarter of an ounce of sugar, until tender; dress them upright upon the border of potatoes, place the veal in the centre, and pour the puree of celery round; serve very hot; the sauce must be rather thinner than usual. No. 444. Loin of Veal a la Strasbourgienne. Roast a loin of veal in vegetables in the manner as de- scribed for Pillets of Beef (No. 417), allowing it longer time according to the size; dress it on the dish with a border of mashed potatoes round, then have ready thirty pieces of179 REMOVES. Strasburg bacon, cut in the shape and size of cutlets; dress them on the potatoes round the veal, pour a sauce poivrade (No. 32) into the dish, but not over the bacon; glaze the bacon, and serve. The Strasburg bacon being very dry, requires soaking at least twenty-four hours; it must be allowed to simmer until very tender; place it be- tween two dishes, with a weight upon it, and when cold cut it into the shapes required, and make them hot in good white stock. Good streaky bacon may be used instead of the Strasburg, if it is difficult to obtain. No. 445. Fillet of Veal a la Frinciere. Procure a good leg of veal, cut off the knuckle just above the joint, then cut out the bone from the middle of the fillet; have ready two pounds of forcemeat (No. 120), cut half a pound of cooked ham and twenty mushrooms into very small dice, mix them with the forcemeat; season rather high with cayenne pepper, salt, and nutmeg, put the force- meat m the place the bone was taken from, pull the udder of the fillet round, and skewer it up, but not too tight; tie it up with string, put it on a spit, and roast it four hours in vegetables, m the same manner as described for fillets of heef; when done take it from the paper and vegetables, cut off the string, and run three or four silver skewers throuoffi it m the place of those you have taken out • fl,n mw i —r aerve. lmmec^tely; the first sli Cut off the veal previous to its uoimr to miu. slice must be going to table.REMOVES. 180 No. 446. Fillet of Veal a la Versaillienne. Cut your fillet as before, have ready boiled an ox-tongue, trim it, cut off the root and about two inches of the tip, put it in the middle of the fillet from where you have taken the bone, and fill up the cavities round the tongue with some forcemeat (No. 120), skewer up the fillet and roast it as before; when done lay it on the dish with a border of mashed potatoes round it, upon which dress alternately a quenelle of veal and a slice of stewed cucumber (No. 1064), then put two quarts of white sauce in a stewpan, with a pint of broth, reduce it, and add nearly half a pint of cream, pour the sauce over the garniture, and sprinkle a little chopped tarragon and chervil over it; serve as soon as possible after you have poured the sauce over, which requires to be seasoned rather high. No. 447. Fillet of Veal a la Palestine. Prepare and dress the fillet exactly as before, then peel fifty Jerusalem artichokes, and turn them in the shape of small pears; boil them nicely in salt and water, lay your fillet on a dish with a border of mashed potatoes round it, upon which dress the artichokes, the round part upper- most, between each artichoke place a fine Brussels sprout; sauce the same as the last and serve. No. 448. Fillet of Veal a la Jardiniere. Prepare the fillet as before, but place a piece of boiled bacon in the centre instead of the tongue,, roast it in vege- tables as before, pour a sauce jardiniere (No. 100) upon a dish, sprinkle a pint of young green peas plain boiled upon it, dress a cauliflower at each end and another on each side, place the fillet in the middle upon the sauce and serve.REMOVES. 181 No. 449. Fillet of Veal & la Potafere. Prepare the fillet as before, then lard it through and through with pieces of fat bacon a quarter of an inch square and six inches long, skewer it up tight, put it on a spit and roast it as before, but twenty minutes before it is , °fne ke “ “llt of the vegetables but not off the spit and it iemam before the fire to brown; have ready prepared t ned I Td T18’ ”d 85 P-es^cCs tinned m the form of pears, stew them as directed in s ewed rump of beef a la Flamande (No. 428), place the fillet in the dish, make a border of mashed potatoes round It, upon which dress the onions and carrots, ^ a flower at each end; have ready the following sauce • D„t wo quarts of brown sauce in a stewpan, with half a pint of consomme and half the stock the carrots and onions Jem cooked m boil it till it becomes like a thin glaze, pom-over the vegetables, sprinkle about a pint of vouno- pp„ • J boiled over them if in season, and serve. ° ’ mcdy No. 450. met of Veal am petite mie. Prepare and roast the. fillet exactly as the preceding then put a pint of white sauce (No. 7) in a ste^an tt| boil; have ready a quart of young peas nicely boiled n, them into the stewpan, with the white sauce a little’ > and half an ounce of pounded sugar let it boil un j "'0 ounces of fresh butter, toss’ them togetZ T &e, pour them out into the dish lay the filW ^ serve as soon as possible. ’ 7 fiUet over’ an(* No- 451. Neck of Veal a la puree de celeri. ake the best end of a neck of veal with 1 * bones ™ it, cut off the chine bones tn • u b°Ut Seven appearance, and roast it in veo-ehbl ° mCe Square vegetables as the fillets, but of182 REMOVES. course it will not require so long; when done, dress it on a disli with a piece of boiled bacon about three inches broad at each end, make a border of mashed potatoes round, upon which dress the bottoms of fifteen heads of stewed celery (No. 117), and sauce with a puree of celery made from the tops, as there directed; serve very hot, but glaze the veal and bacon the last thing before going to table. No. 452. NecJc of Veal a la Rouennaise. Prepare a neck of veal, leaving it as long as possible, take off the skin and the chine bones, lard and braise it as for loin of veal a la Cambaceres (No. 441); when done, put three tablespoonfuls of oil into a stewpan, with two of chopped eschalots, two of chopped raw mushrooms, and two of chopped parsley, pass them ten minutes over the fire, then pour off the greater part of the oil, add half a teaspoon- ful of flour, mix it well, and put in eighteen tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), stir it over the fire till it becomes rather thick, then add a little salt, half a teaspoonful of sugar, and the yolks of two eggs, mix all well together, and spread it over the larded part of the veal, egg and bread- crumb it, brown it lightly with the salamander, and serve a jus d’eclralotte sauce (No. 16) with mushrooms in it, pour ;t in the dish round the veal. No. 453. NecJc of Veal a la Milanaise. Braise the veal precisely as (No. 441), prepare a Mila- nese sauce (see fillet of beef a la Milanaise, No. 425) which pour into the dish and dress the veal upon it. No. 454. NecJc of Veal a la Bnuellaise. Dress the veal the same as for neck of veal a la puree de celeri (No. 451), then have about one hundred Brussels sprouts, nicely boiled, put them into a stewpan, with two183 REMOVES. ounces of butter, a little pepper, salt, sugar, and the juice of lalt a good lemon, stir them gently over the foe but do not break the sprouts, pour them upon your dish, dress the veal upon them with a piece of bacon at each end, glaze t lem, pour half a pint of thin white sauce (No. 7) round ovei the Brussels sprouts and serve. No. 455. Breast of Veal. I do not consider that a breast of veal is good without the tendron (winch is usually cut out and braised for en- tiees) yet it would be impossible to roast it with the breast foi it would, not be a quarter done by the time the other cToJtW T Te™mmend the following new method: cut out the tench-on, braise it as described (No. 685) let it get cold take the other bones out of the breast, lay some forcemeat of veal (No. 120) down the centre, upon which p ace le tendron, roll it up, sew it with string and your trussing-needle, oil some paper, tie the veal up in it mid roast it two hours, place a sauce Soubise (No. 47) - oi jar dimere (No. 100) on the dish; take the veal from the paper ay 1 upon the sauce, or if preferred you may serve rvith a plain veal sauce made thus: put ten spoon" uls of brown sauce, and the same quantity of melted butter “to a stewpan, place it on the lire, let it boil ten minutes ki n it stve 66 Harvey sauce, and it is’ready to No. 456. Breast of Veal auxpoisfns a l'Jnslaise a h7 -dy boded a eight spoonfuls "of T 7^“’ powdered sugar, a quarter of a pound of ft °f a small bunch of parsley, boil them te * butteI'’ and with a little salt if required non M l • nilnutes> season the veal and serve it ^ glaaeREMOVES. 384 9 No. 457. Breast of Veal a la puree de celeri. Dress the veal as before, and serve with a puree of celery (No. 117) under it. No. 458. Breast of Veal sauce tomate. Dress the veal as before and serve with a sauce tomate (No. 37) under it. Breasts of veal may be stewed like the necks, or roasted with vegetables, but they are best roasted as before described. No. 459. Coifs Head. Procure a nice white calf’s head that has been well scalded, saw it in halves, taking out the tongue (whole) and the brains, make a white stock as follows •. put two carrots, two turnips, two heads of celery, (cut up small), a quarter of a pound of butter, six cloves, four blades of mace, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves, pass it over the fire twenty minutes in a long brasier large enough to lay the head in, then add a pint of water with which when boiled mix a quarter of a pound of flour, add a gallon of water, two lemons in slices, and a quarter of a pound of salt; let it boil up, then lay the head in, take care that it is well covered or the part exposed would become quite black, when boiling set it on the corner of the stove to simmer for two hours, or until it is done, which you can ascertain by pressing the cheek on the thickest part with your finger, if it gives easily it is done; let it remain in the broth until ready to serve, take it up, drain it on a clean cloth, break off the jaw-bone, lay it on your dish, surround it with six nice boiled potatoes cut in halves, and pour sauce Hollaud- aise (No. G6) over it, or sauce piquante (No. 27), or sauce tomate (No. 37), if preferred. To serve calf’s head for a remove for a large dinner,185 REMOVES. when the Read is clone cut off the ears, take out all the bone, and set it on a large dish, place another dish upon it and press it lightly with a seven pounds weight till it gets cold, then lay it out on the table and cut it into oval pieces two inches wide and three long, make a border of mashed potatoes, warm the pieces in the stock it was boded m, dram them on a cloth, then dish them alternately with quarters of boded potatoes round the dish, trim the gristly part of the ears, then cut incisions in them longways with- out separating the edges, turn them over and they wdl form a frill, place a little of the brains inside of each, and the re- mainder with flie tongue cut in halves in the centre, upon ukich p ace the ears at each end, sauce with Hodandaise as before, but if required with other sauce the quarters of potatoes must be omitted. No. 4C0. Calf s Head an nature!. Although calf's head is seldom if ever dressed this way m England it is about the best method; the glutinous sub- stance of the head being so relishing with this sauce, all lrench epicures patronise it. Take a small calf’s head lay It upon its skull on the table, open the under part without fold tlf T ,°n°Ue’ take out the under jaw-bones carefully, old the cheeks under, tie it round with string, boil it three hours (as described in the last), when done°iay it upon a loth to dram, untie the string, take out the tongue, peel it Twill16 P°lnt °f “ kmfc in the middle of the skull bone,’ that °1,eil( i"'11 faci%> taIse off the two pieces of bone hat cover the brains, and leave them exposed, place the head upon a dish with one half of the tongue on each sideREMOVES. 18G ditto of salt, a little pepper, six tablespoonfuls of salad oil, and three ditto of common vinegar; mix all well together and serve; each person should stir the sauce previous to helping themselves to it, for by standing the oil will come to the top ; the head requires to be very hot, but the sauce quite cold. No. 461. Half a Calf's Head a la Luxembourg. Procure half a calf’s head, pass your knife under the skin upon the top of the skull and saw off about two inches of the skull bone, boil it as described in the last, when done drain it on a cloth, lay it in a saute-pan, and spread the following forcemeat over it: having previously well washed the brains, cut them in slices, put two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, let it melt, then lay in the brains, sprinkle a little chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon; put them over a slow fire, turn them, and when done chop them fine and put them in a basin, with four tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, one of chopped mush- rooms, a little more pepper and salt, a little grated nutmeg, and chopped lemon peel; mix altogether, with the yolks of two eggs; after it is spread wash it over with eggs, with a paste-brush, sprinkle some bread-crumbs over it, place it in the oven half an hour, salamander a fight brown, place it on a dish*, and have ready the following sauce: put into a stewpan four tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, one blade of mace, two cloves, one spoonful of scraped horseradish, and a glass of brandy; let it boil five minutes, add three pints of brown sauce (No. 1), and one ditto of consomme (No. 134); when it boils set it at the corner of the stove, skim it well and reduce it to two-thuds, pass it through a tammie into a clean stewpan, and add two dozen of pickled mushrooms, and two dozen very small gherkins; warm altogether, finish with an ounce of anchovy butter, and187 REMOVES. hall a teaspoonful of sugar, pour the sauce round the head and serve; you may dress the whole head, cutting it up as described (No. 459), cover each piece with the force- meat, dress them on a border of mashed potatoes, and serve the sauce in the centre. No. 462. Tete de Veau en Tortue. Diess the head, and when cold cut it in oval pieces, as desciibed (No. 459), make a small elevated casserole of rice in the shape of an oval vase (see No. 626), which place in the centre of the dish, make the pieces hot and dish them on a border of mashed potatoes round it, placing an ear at each end; have ready the following garniture and sauce: make a mierepoix of two onions, one turnip, half a carrot, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, all cut up in slices; put them into a stewpan, with two cloves, half a blade of mace, a sprig of thyme, marjoram, winter savory, basil, a little paisley, a bay-leaf, and two ounces of butter; pass it over a fire till it becomes a little brown, then add four glasses of Madeira, two quarts of brown sauce (No. 1), half a pint of tomata sauce (No. 37), and half a pint of broth, reduce it on a quick fire twenty minutes, skim it well, pass it through a tammie into a clean stewpan, boil it again till it adheres to the back of the spoon, season with half a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, and a little sugar, add twenty prepared cockscombs (No. 128), six French truffles sliced, twenty blanched mushrooms, and twenty small quenelles (No. 120) • when very hot lay the garniture in the rice casserole and pour the sauce over the pieces of calf’s head; an attelet with a crawfish, truffle, and large quenelle upon it, may be Stock at each end of the casserole of rice in a slanting Lee!ItEMOVES. 188 No. 403. Calf s Head a la Pottinger. Dress and cut a head in pieces as before, make two croustades of bread, one in the shape of a cushion, and the other like a scallop-shell, make the pieces of head hot, and dress them in your dish on a border of rice (prepared as No. 626), put the croustade in the form of a cushion at one end of the dish, and the other elevated upon a piece of fried bread at the other end, in which put the brains, at each side of the dish dress an ear cut to form a frill, with a plover’s egg in each; have ready the following sauce : put two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions into a stewpan, with six of the vinegar from Indian pickles, let it boil a few minutes, then add three pints of white sauce (No. 7), and a pint of white stock, let it boil until it adheres to the back of the spoon, pass it through a tammie into another stewpan add twenty mild Indian pickles, the same number of small gherkins, and thirty cockscombs (No. 128), when hot pour the sauce over the head, stick three attelets prepared as in the last in the croustade resembling a cushion very taste- fully, and serve. No. 464. Calf's Head in currie. Prepare and dish the head as in the last, boil a pound of lice (see No. 129), and dish it in a pyramid in the middle, leaving a place at the top to lay in the brains ; have ready prepared the following sauce: put four onions, two apples (cut in slices), a sprig of thyme, a little parsley, a blade of mace, and six cloves into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, fry them of a light brown, add one tablespoonlul of curry powder, mix it well, then add three pints of white sauce (No. 7), and a pint of broth; boil altogether twenty minutes, pass it through a tammie, put it again into a stewpan, let it boil, season with a little salt and sugar,REMOVES. N. 189 porn- over the head and serve very hot. If the currie is preferred browner, use a little brown gravy (No. 135); more currie powder may be added if required very hot. No. 465. Saclale of Mutton a la J3rSionne. Roast a saddle of mutton quite plain (see kitchen at ome), for the sauce wash and soak well a pint of young <hy French haricots, put them into a large stewpan with >ee quarts of water (cold), an ounce of salt, and an ounce o butter; set them over a brisk fire till they boil, then set them at the corner and let them simmer for five hours, or f tend!r- dram them 0“ a sieve, cut four- onions in thin s ces put them rn a stewpan, with three ounces of butter, the Tf iT Le, &C tiU tI,ey are a %ht br0TO colour, ■ “ “ C “ a tablespoonful of flour (mix it well), and a pint of good gravy; when it boils put in the haricots, mix them well, and season wrth a saltspoonfirl of pepper and our ditto of salt, add the gravy from the mutton, with half an ounce of glaze, pom- them on the dish, dr-ess the saddle on the top and serve. Care must be taken not to have this sauce either too thick or too thin. ^0. 466. Saddle of Mutton au Laver. Roast the saddle quite plain, put two pounds of fresh ver m a stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of catsnn f ounces of butter, a teaspoonfrd of salt a little P’ r tablespoonfuls of brown sauce, and ^0?^, r7»d t;? h0t' P0OT in tIle ** saddle ^ No. 467. Saddle of Mutton a la Polonaise. \ cold, then cut off^flTe^Ueari nTaV*11 H * get ™cut, stand it on a strong dish that Vll u™6 a”d fepSREMOVES. 190 build a wall round the bone and flaps, to shape it, again like the saddle, mince the meat you have cut out veiy fine, put two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions in a middling-sized stewpan, with half an ounce of butter, fry them a very light brown, then add half a tablespoonful of flour (mix well), a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), and half a pint of stock, let it boil ten minutes, then add the mutton (mix well), season with pepper, salt, and two tablespoonfuls of catsup, make it quite hot, then add three yolks of eggs, stir well over the fire for three minutes to set the eggs, put it into the saddle, egg all over with a paste-brush, cover the top with bread-crumbs, melt a little butter, which sprinkle over the bread-crumbs, put it in a moderate oven half an hour, salamander a light brown, serve in the same dish, and pour the following sauce round; put a pint of brown sauce in a stewpan, with half a pint of broth, a spoonful of catsup, half a teaspoonful of sugar’, and the smallest piece of garhck imaginable scraped on the tip of a knife, boil altogether five minutes, it is then ready. This dish may be made of the remains of a saddle of mut- ton left from a previous dinner, by procuring sufficient mut- ton for mincing, and is equally as good. No. 468. Saddle of Mutton a la Marseillaise. Prepare the saddle of mutton exactly as for Polonaise, only when you put in the mince, which you have made rather stiffer, have ready prepared the following puree : cut six onions in small dice, put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, let them simmer gently until quite tender, then add half a tablespoonful of flour (mix well), four ditto of white sauce (No. 7), and ten of milk, let it boil twenty minutes, season with a little pepper, salt, and sugar, stir in the yolks of three eggs, stir over the fire a minute to set the eggs, let it cool a little, and spread it over the mince, egg over and bread-crumb the top, put it in a mode-REMOVES. rate oven half an hour, salamander a light brown, and serve with a sauce Soubise (No. 47) rather thinnish round it. t No- 469' Saddle °f Mutton roti, braise, a la Mirabeau. Trm a nice saddle of mutton (South Down are the best loin four to five years old), take off the skin and skewer ZaTh roast ;t in vegetables as directed for sufficient Iff )’ rb°Ut tW° h0m,S and 8 baIf be sffifieient take it from the vegetables, glaze and salamander y, place it on your dish and serve with the following and when hT* °f ,P,0i™de sauce (N°- 32) in a stewpan and when boding add a teaspoonful of sugar, four of opped gherkins, and two ounces of boiled beetroot cut in dice; sauce over and serve V No. 470. Saddle of Mutton, roti, braisi aux legumes glace. Roast the saddle in vegetables as in the last, glaze and sdamander, chess on your dish with a border of mashfd potatoes round, upon wliicli dress your veo-ptahlp= , i as for stewed rump of beef a la ififtK! iug the same sauce over them. ’ No. 471. Haunch of Mutton ^taSTsS Sl-r1 Yut u r order to preserve the flavour of this detente “ No. 472 Samck of Mutton aujusde Groseilles. Koast the haunch quite nlain + of brown sauce (No. n in a ’+ wcnty tablespoonfuls somrne (No. 134) one of t ' t ewI)an’ Wlt}l ten of con- °ne °f t0mata sai,ce (No. 37), and an192 REMOVES. ounce of glaze, boil it gently half an hour, then add four tablespoonfuls of red currant jelly, boil up, pour it on the dish, and the moment you serve lay the haunch upon it; should you dish the haunch too soon the fat would run from it and spoil the sauce; it should be carved in the same way as a haunch of venison, then you keep the gravy from running into the sauce, and can serve it separately. No. 473. Haunch of Mutton ala Bretonne. Plain roast the haunch, and proceed as for saddle of mutton a la Bretonne (No. 465). No. 474. Haunch of Mutton a la Polonaise. Boast a haunch, and when cold cuJ: out all the meat from the middle, leaving the edges (oi the mashed potatoes would not stand), mince the meat shape the haunch with mashed potatoes, and proceed as fur the saddle (No. 467). You can use a haunch left from a previous dinner, if not too much cut. No. 475. Haunch of Mutton a la Bohemienne. Procure a small haunch of mutton of about twelve pounds in weight, beat it well with a rolling-pin, lay it in an earthen pan, and cover with a marinade as prepared for fillet of beef (No. 426), let it remain a week, roast it in paste in the same manner as for the haunch of venison (see No. 540); roast it three hours, take it out of the paste, glaze and salamander of a nice brown colour, put a frill of paper to the knuckle, and dress upon your dish with the following sauce round it: pass half a pint of the marinade it was pickled in through a sieve into a stewpan, add a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), let it boil till it becomes rather thick, skim well, add one tablespoonful of red currant jelly, pass through a tammie into a clean stew- pan, then add twenty blanched mushrooms, twenty small103 REMOVES. pickled onions, and twenty French olives (stoned); let them warm m the sauce, which slightly flavour with a little scraped garlick sauce over. No. 476. Haunch of Mutton aux legumes glaces. Proceed as directed for the saddle (No. 470). No. 477. Leg of Mutton a la Bolemienne. Proceed as directed for the haunch (No. 475) bat of so much time to roast (for w“ No. 478. Leg of Mutton a la Pretonne. See saddle of mutton (No. 465). No. 479. Leg of Mutton ciu Laver. See saddle of mutton (No. 466). No. 480. Leg of Mutton a la Provenc/Je. Procure a nice delicate leg of mutton, beat it well with a o mg-pni, make an incision at the knuckle in which push four cloves of garlick as deep into the fleshy part of the lei -you can roast it quite plain, and servLTin sauce 1 , B,f0nne y°' 46f>) it, into which you have nut a small piece of scraped garlick. P a l No' 48L GVot ‘k Mwton de sept hemes. What! seven hours to cook a leg of mutton I i ■ John Bull; Shade of the third Georoe OTOte‘ ' fT8 nonsense; to which I must answer you are rfghT’ 7 * m rob it of its flavour - but still it „ ■ ! g t) lt Would is far from being bad Id ™ °T T** Wh‘d> there will be less nourishment Till h™ aWl0USh digeSti°n' ^^.methTfitTC^ 13REMOVES. 194 are determined upon publishing that destructive receipt (which absurdity I am sure no one upon this soil will ever follow, or disgrace their tables with), write it in French and offend no one; but for heaven’s sake never invite me to dine with you on the day you find room for such a dish upon your table, so taking the hint I give it in my native tongue :—Desosse un assez gros gigot de mouton jusqu a la moitie du manche; vous assaisonnerez des lardons de sel, de gros poivre, de thyme et de laurier piles, et vous piquerez le dedans de votre gigot; ne faites pas sortir vos lardons par- dessous. Quand il est bien pique, vous lui ferez prendre sa forme premiere; vous le ficellerez de maniere qu on ne s’aperQoive pas qu’on l’ait desosse; vous mettrez ensuite des bardes de lard au fond de votre braisiere, quelqucs tranches de jambon, les os concasses, quelques tranches de mouton, quatre carottes, six oignons, trois feuihes de laurier, un peu de thyme, trois clous de girofle, un bouquet de persil et de ciboule, deux cuillerees a pot de bouillon: vous mettrez a cuire votre gigot pendant sept heures, et le ferez aher a tres petit feu; vous en mettrez aussi sur le cou- vercle de la braisiere. Au moment de servir vous l’egoutterez, vous le deficellerez, le glacerez, et le servirez avec le mouille- ment rcduit dans lequel il aura cuit; ayant soin de, bien ecumer toute la graisse que votre fond est susceptible d oil. No. 482. Necks of Mutton a la Legumiere. Cut off the scrags and take the chine bones from two necks of mutton, lard the lean parts with laidons of bacon about three inches long, roast them in vegeta es as for fillet of beef (No. 417); when done, dress them on a dish, placing fillet to fillet, so as to form a saddle, fi UP the crevice between them with mashed potatoes, uponu nc i dress small pieces of cauliflower and small bunches Oi aspa ragus, orBrussels sprouts; m ke a border of mashed potatoesREMOVES. 105 round the mutton, upon which dress some onions, with pieces of carrots and turnips stewed (see stewed rump of beef a la Flamande, No. 428), place four onions at each end of the dish, and stick a fine head of asparagus in each; glaze the mutton, and pom- a demi-glace (No. 9) over the vegetables. No. 483. Necks of Mutton a la Bretonne. Trim the necks as above, roast them quite plain (see Kitchen at Home), and sauce as for saddle of mutton a la Bretonne, (No. 465.) No. 484. Neck of Mutton a la Bohemienne. Proceed as for haunch of mutton (No. 475), only three days m the marinade will be sufficient. No. 485. Neck of Mutton a la Brovengale. Trim a neck of mutton, lard it, and put it into a conve- nient sized stewpan, with two onions, one carrot, one turnip (cut m slices) six cloves, a Made of mace, and a bunch of £‘ty® r bTIeT;-c6ver Witt white broth-and it on the fire; when boilmg, set it on the corner to simmer for two hours, take it out, and lay it on a saute pan, spread a puree of onions as for cotelettes de mouton 4 £ r7oi) °ver the top-egg md b-d^b **br°™- -A ctr.er a No. 486. Neck of Mutton a la Charie. Trim two necks of mutton as before lard „„ i i • m the last article, then peel some vo„n! i d bmi9e aS about a pint of scoops from them the size of Si ^ °Ut an iron scoop), put a teaspoonful of powdered,les.(with stewpan, place it over a sharp fire, aL^7^196 REMOVES. brown, add two ounces of butter, and the scooped turnips; pass them ten minutes over the fire, then add a pint and a half of brown sauce (No. 1), and half a pint of consommee; let it simmer till the turnips are quite done; take them out, and put them into another stewpan, skim and reduce the sauce until it becomes rather thickish, season a little more if required and pass it through a tammie upon the turnips, dress the necks upon a dish fillet to fillet to form a saddle; glaze, pom the sauce and turnips round, have twelve pieces of turnips cut in the form of pears and stewed as (No. 1105), dress six of them, one upon the other, in pyramids at eH1 end of the dish, and serve very hot. No. 487. Breast of Mutton panee, grillee, saucepiquanL. Procure two breasts of mutton cut as large as possible, which put in a stewpan, and braise three horns in the same manner as described for neck of mutton Provenyale (No. 485), previous to placing them in the stewpan tie them well up with string; when done take up, lay them on a dish, take all the string and bones from them, which will leave with facility, place another dish upon them, and press till quite cold with a fourteen pounds weight; about half an hour before serving trim, egg and bread-crumb, beat gently with a knife, melt a little butter in a stewpan, and with a paste-brush butter the mutton all over, throw them again into bread-crumbs, beat gently again with your knife, and put them on the gridiron over a moderate fire; when lightly browned on one side, turn them by placing another gridiron over and turning both gridirons together; when done, take them from the gridiron with a fish-slice, lay on your disk, and serve sauce piquante (No. 27) round, or you may sene them with dressed spinach (No. 1087), sauce Soubise (No. 47) or fines lierbes (No. 26).197 REMOVES. / No. 488. Saddle of Lamb aux petilspois. Roast a snddie of lamb in vegetables, as described for let of beef (No. 417); when done glaze and salamander a light brown colour; put a quart of young peas boiled very green mto a stewpan, quite hot, with two ounces of butte," sofonfidtfhT , ^ a little Salt’ and six tabIe- . poonfids of bechamel sauce (No. 7); shake them round over **--**£ roasting. ““ ^ qmre about two llours No. 489. Saddle of Lamb a la SmSnd. Roast the saddle with vegetables as before, make a puree aboTuw'8 ’ 1° 102i">’ CUt tW° large cuc™bers in pieces Z il lC n Vfin length; Cllt each Pie“ 4th- Z bowl r 0Ut the COres' cut them in the shape of i ,° a sP00n> and stew them as described (No 10H) have ready some quenelles de voladle (No 2oV oil f° °f “ P°tatoes at ^h end of fte f h “ bottom dress In If o /m’T.r.1 • ,! n msli, at the sjiri-21“-=. in to the ends" place a 1 fT T diamond between each r! V S °TCt cucumkcr cut like a of sprue grass in the cent^V’ T ^f8 S°me ni°e heads the saddle in the middle and - 'Ti ^ ^ ^; PIace (quite hot) on each side. ’ U 1(3 pUrde d’asperges No. 490. Saddle of Lamb a I'lndienne Roast the saddle in vouch hl^ , „ quart of sauce a I’lndienne )n'o 45)L °?' theD put “ 1 *°> mt° a stewpan; when198 REMOVES. boiling and ready to serve, add thirty very mild green Indian pickles. When hot, sauce round and serve. No. 491. Saddle of Lamb demi Protenqale. Roast the saddle with vegetables as before; cut six large onions in small dice, which put into a stewpan with three tablespoonfuls of oil; stir over a slow fire till they are quite tender, then add half a tablespoonful of flour (mix well) and twelve do. of white sauce (No. 7); boil ten minutes, season with half a teaspoonful of salt, one do. of sugar, and a quarter do. of pepper; add the yolks of three eggs, stir it over the fire half a minute, lay it out on a dish, and when nearly cold spread it over the saddle a quarter of an inch in thickness; egg and bread-crumb over, put it in a sharp oven ten minutes, salamander of a light brown, and serve with sauce demi-glace (No. 9) round it. No. 492. Saddle of Lamb a la Menagere. Plain roast a saddle5*5, and allow it to get cold, cut out all the meat, leaving the flaps untouched, shape round the saddle a wall of stiff mashed potatoes, cut the meat up iu square thin slices, then put a quart of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan; let it boil up, put in your meat, season with lemon-juice, pepper, and salt; moisten with a little white broth, and when it is qdite hot add the yolks of two eggs, mixed with four spoonfuls of cream; place it within the saddle, egg all over, sprinkle bread-crumbs on the top, and put it in a sharp oven upon the dish you intend serving it on a quarter of an hour; have ready poached eight eggs, lay them on the top, garnish round with peas, Brussels sprouts, or asparagus, nicely boiled, and pom* a white denn- glace (No. 7) round; serve immediately; ham or tongue, with mushrooms cut in slices, may be added with the lamb. * See Ivitelicn at Home.199 REMOVES. No. 493. Haunch of Lamb. Like the haunch of mutton, this joint is usually plain roasted, but for a change it may be roasted with vege- tables, and served with any of the sauces, as used for the saddle m the foregoing receipts. It will require nearly two hours roasting. Ihe fore-quarter may likewise be dressed the same ways. No. 494. Fore-quarter of lamb a l'Hdteliere. Roast a fore-quarter well covered with oiled paper, and a good distance from the fire, when done it must be a light go cl co our, then put a quarter of a pound of rnaitre d’hfitel , f1,1 °‘. ! ln a stewpan, and when beginning to melt “ f “ f a pmt of g°od crea“ J shake the stewpan round till a ,K,f' ueal p°tpng, and the moment you serve pour it upon the dish, and dress the fore-quarter upon it. No. 495. Fore-quarter of House Lamb aux pointes Fasperyes Roast the lamb exactly as in the last, have ready a sauce aux pom es d asperges (No. 101), pour it hot on your dish upon *and serve-14 ^take » No. 495. Mbs of lamb a la Chanceliere. Roast a fore-quarter of lamb with vegetables (see No n 71 and when done mt fi in8 ^seei\o. 417), xi , . cut out tlle shoulder very round cut off oil the meat from it, and mince it very fine wiTbl.r of cooked ham twenfv 7 ’ ™ a pound sized French trufflesft"on imislrooms, and sixmiddling- eschalot in a stewpan’ with ,7 “ teaSP00nfuJ of chopped of a hghtUri: :r:11 of,saw °u^ spoonful Of Horn (mix well), half a pint S,°ld “dREMOVES. 200 of white sauce; let it boil, keeping it stirred, add your meat and the other ingredients, season with pepper and salt, and when boiling add the yolks of two eggs; stir them in quickly, and pom’ the whole into the place you cut the shoulder from; egg it over with a paste-brush, sprinkle bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese over, brown it lightly with the salamander, dress upon your dish, pour a sauce bechamel a la creme (No. 56), rather thin, round and serve. No. 496. Leg of Lamb a la St. John. Roast the leg in vegetables as described (see No. 417); an hour and a half would be sufficient; when done, place a paper frill on the knuckle, and lay it in your dish; have ready prepared the following sauce: put the yolks of three eggs in a stewpan, with half a pound of fresh butter, the juice of half a lemon, a little pepper, salt, and two table- spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar; place it over a moderate fire, keeping it stirred with a wooden spoon, and when the butter has melted and begins to thicken (great care must be taken that the eggs do not curdle, which they will do if you allow it to get too hot before the butter is melted, or allow it to boil in the least), add a pint of white sauce (No. 7), and a little sugar; mix all well together, pass through a tannnie into a clean stewpan, place again over the fire to get hot (but not to boil), keeping it stirred; add half a gill of cream, and if too thick a little milk, pom* it over the lamb, have ready a few pistachios each cut in eight lengthwise, sprinkle over, and serve very hot. No. 497. Leg of Lamb aux pois. Roast a leg of lamb quite plain, have ready boiled, very green, two quarts of young peas, put them hot into a stew- pan, with three pats of butter, a tablespoon fid of sugar, a little pepper, salt, and six spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7),REMOVES. 201 mix all well together over the fire, without breaking the peas; pour them in a dish, dress the leg over and serve. No. 498. Boiled Leg of Lamb and Spinach. Boil a leg of Jamb quite plain, which will take from an horn- and a quarter to an hour and a half (add a little milk to the water you boil it in), have ready dressed sufficient spinach to cover the bottom of the dish an inch and a half in thickness, dress the lamb upon it, and serve; to dress spmach, see No. 106. No. 499. Boiled Leg of Lamb a la Palestine. Boil a leg of lamb, dress it on your dish, and pom- a sauce Palestine (No. 87) over it. No. 500. Boast Leg of Lamb a la Jardiniere. Plam roast the lamb, have ready a sauce jardiniere (No 1001 pour it on the dish, and dress the leg upon it. The shoulder may be dressed exactly as the leg. No. 501. Shoulder of Lamb a la Bruxellaise. Roast a shoulder of lamb with vegetables, and serve with sauce as for neck of veal a la Bruxellaise (No. 454). No. 502. moulder of Lamb a la Polonaise z rder,and a of mashed potatoes about two inches hiT ro!““f-? proceed as for saddle of mutton (No. 467)° ’ a"dREMOVES. 202 PORK. Pork is a great favourite with some persons but scarcel ever used for removes, except plain roasted stuffed with sage and onions, that I shall describe in my Kitchen at Home, but I shall here give six new ways of dressing pork for removes; it must be of the best quality, small, and, above all, in season. No. 503. Leg of Fork sauce Robert. Score the skin of the leg with a sharp knife, oil some paper, wrap the leg up in it, and roast about two hours and a half of a nice yellow colour; have ready the following sauce : put four tablespoonfuls of chopped onions into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, stir over a moderate fire till the onions are nicely browned, then add three table- spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar (let it boil), a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), half a pint of consomme, and a little brown gravy; let it boil at the corner of the stove about twenty minutes, skim it well, reduce it till it adheres to the spoon, season with a little cayenne pepper, salt, and two table- spoonfuls of French mustard; when ready to serve add twenty small gherkins, twenty pickled mushrooms, twenty small quenelles (No. 120), pour the sauce in the dish, dress the leg upon it, put a paper frill on the knuckle and serve. No. 504. Leg of Fork a la Fiedmontaise. Roast the leg as before, and prepare the sauce thus: put two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions into a stewpan, with four of Indian pickle vinegar, let boil a few minutes, then add twenty tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), and ten ditto of consomme, let boil twenty minutes, skim well, J203 REMOVES. season with a little cayenne pepper, sugar, and salt, pass it through a tammie into a clean stewpan, stone forty French oliv es, put them into the sauce, glaze the pork and pour the sauce round. No. 505. Loin of Porlc a la Bourguignote. Trim a small loin of pork, cut off ah the rind, wrap it in oiled paper, and roast of a nice yellow colour; have ready the following preparation: cut six large onions in small dice and put them in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter • et them stew over a slow fire till quite tender and rather irown, then add half a tablespoonful of flour (mix well), and fifteen of brown sauce (No. 1); boil twenty minutes, season with a teaspoonful of chopped sage, half ditto of sugar, and half of salt, finish with the yolks of three eggs, stir over the fire half a minute to set the eggs, and spread it over the pork half an inch m thickness, egg and bread-crumb over !’ p aCe P m the oven ten minutes, salamander a light brown, and serve the following sauce round it: put fifteen spoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1) and six of consomme in a stewpan, with two of Harvey sauce, one of catsup, and half a one of Chili vinegar, boil altogether ten minutes aud finish with a httle sugar, salt, and pepper, if required No. 506. Neck of Pork a la Bemoulade, I'lndieme. Tim the neck, but do not take off the rind wran it in Oiled paper and roast as previously ■ make ’ ? No. 507. Neele of Pork i la Venitienne “er- ,]? ratber brown, then add half a204 REMOVES. tablcspoonful of flour (mix well), and twelve ditto of brown sauce, reduce it until thick, add half a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one ditto of chopped mushrooms, and season with half a teaspoonful of sugar, a little salt, and cayenne pepper; let it cool, open part of the neck length- wise between the skin and the flesh, put in the above pre- paration, tie up the neck in oiled paper and roast it, then prepare the following sauce : put two chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with a spoonful of salad oil, two tablespoonfuls of common vinegar, and a small piece of glaze; boil five minutes, then add six tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), six of consomme, and six ditto of tomata sauce (No. 37); boil altogether ten minutes, pour the sauce on your dish and serve the pork upon it. No. 508. Boast Sucking Pig. Procure a sucking pig of from eight to nine pounds, wash the inside and wipe it well with a dry cloth, prepare the stuffing thus : boil four large onions until quite tender, chop them very fine, with six leaves of sage, a little thyme and parsley, season with a little cayenne pepper and salt, add three tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, and mix it with three eggs, stuff the pig quite full, sew up the belly, put it on the spit, place it at a distance from a moderate fire (folded in buttered paper) for half an hour, then put it closer, allowing it two hours to roast, but ten minutes before it is done take off all the paper to allow it to become brown and crisp; serve plain gravy in the dish, and bread sauce with currants in it in a boat; before sending it to table take off the head and cut the pig in halves down the back. No. 509. Sucking Pig a la Savoyarde. Take a very delicate sucking pig and prepare theREMOVES. 205 following stuffing: put two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions in a stenpan, with a teaspoonful of oil, pass them over a moderate fire five minutes, add half a pound of rice pieuous y well boiled in stock, half a pound of sausage- nna ;, om pats of butter, a little chopped parsley, pepper, sa and three eggs; mix all well together, stuff the pig and roa-t1 ni orled paper, as in the last; prepare the sauce thusput two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions in a stew- pan, with one of salad oil and fry them quite white add a wmeglassful of sherry or Madeira a i 7 tNn 7i maaeira, a pint of white sauce 7 y and S1X tablespoonfuls of milk, let it boil a Quarter of an hour, skim well, add a good tablespoonful of chopped Srz™ n°of c>ped ^* ‘«P°Srif sugar, ditto of salt, and a little white pepper- dress pour the 88006 roimd’and ^ No. 510. Turkey a la Nelson. Make a croustade resembling the hear! nf n n • Rented in the design; procure a verythi l^Z tur ey, truss ,t as for boiling, leaving as much of thfTffl truffles Cffl in shoes\ 1?w ads of niuslu-ooms, six French together over fire Lso !?**™**i tnix all well dered sugar, half ditto of salt 'and a ^ °°“fuI of P°w- fimsh with the yolks of two eg*s ",1“'WP®! minute to set the eo-gS ailr] Sf’ tu over the fire a cold, then detach th!’skin onVe I™* d‘Sh ‘° get without breaking, and foree somo 0°f ^ ** 1 the stuffing under the200 REMOVES. skin ; put tlie remainder in the interior of the breast, roast it in vegetables as described for fillet of beef (No. 417), but just before it is done take away the paper and vege- tables, and let it remain before the fire till of a fine gold colour. Fix the croustade at the head of the dish with a paste made of white of egg and flour, make a border of mashed potatoes round the dish, place the turkey in the centre, and have ready the following garniture: fillet three fowls, lard and braise the fillets as No. 792, form the legs into little ducklings as described (No. 1024), prepare six slices of tongue of the size and shape of the fillets, and dress them round the turkey upon the mashed potatoes to form a ship. For the sauce put two glasses of Madeira vvine in a stewpan, with a tablespoonful of Chili vinegar, two minced apples, a small bunch of parsley, a spoonful of chopped mushrooms, and half an ounce of glaze; let it boil a few minutes, add ten tablespoonfids of tomata sauce (No. 37), a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), and a pint of consomme, let it boil quickly until it adheres to the spoon, stirring it the whole time, finish with a tablespoonful of red currant jelly, pass it through a tammie into another stewpan, season with a little salt and pepper, boil it another minute, glaze the turkey, ‘pour the sauce in the dish, glaze the pieces of tongue and serve. No. 511. Turkey a la Godard. Procure a good-sized turkey, very white and well covered with fat, truss it as for boding, hold the breast over a charcoal fire till the flesh is set, then lard it with fat bacon very neatly, lay the turkey in a braising-pan breast up- wards, and pour in as much good veal stock as will nearly reach the larded part, start it to boil, skim, then place it over a slow fire to simmer for three hours, keeping some live char- coal upon the cover of the braising-pan, and now and thenREMOVES. 207 moistening the breast with a little of the stock; when done take it up, give a nice yellow colour to the bacon on the breast, put it on your dish, and have ready the following garniture: prepare six large quenelles de volaille (No. 122), truss and roast four pigeons (No. 959), lard and cook foiu fine veal sweetbreads (No. 671), arrange them with taste round the turkey, and have ready the following sauce: strain half the stock the turkey was dressed in through a cloth into a stewpan, let it boil, put it on the corner of the stove skim till you get off every particle of grease, reduce it to half, add a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), and half a pint of tomata sauce (No. 37), let boil, keeping it stirred M becoming a thickish demi-glace, add two dozen cocks. combs and a teaspoonful of sugar, with a little cayenne and salt if required, pom’ it in the dish but not over the garniture, and serve. Attelets of cockscombs and truffles are sometimes stuck in the breast, but it is an impediment to the carving, and it looks as well without. No. 512. Turkey a la Chipolata. Although this dish has been degusted by our great great grandfathers, and has been for upwards of a century one of the strongest pillars of the art, I shah here describe it as an old proverb justly reminds me that a good thiim can never get old. Truss the turkey as for filing and t mocknnze it, ard neatly the right breast, roast tLy Id chesnuts which mix in a basin with one pound of meathighly seasoned, stuff the breast of the turkey with and bra.se as in the last article, when done nhoe h your dish, and hare ready the followingT tT" pounds of lean bacon in long souare 7 f tW° xr-;«« 5"REMOVES. 208 spoonful of flour, mix well, add by degrees three pints of good white stock, with a quart of white sauce, stir over the fire till boiling, then put in forty button onions, twenty fine heads of mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, one bay-leaf, and two cloves; boil altogether, and when the onions are done take them with the mushrooms and bacon out of the sauce with a colander spoon, put them into a clean stew- pan, with thirty chestnuts roasted white, and eight sau- sages broiled, each one cut in three, reduce the sauce, keep- ing it stirred till it becomes the thickness of brown sauce, previously having simmered, and skimmed off all the grease, pass the sauce through a tammie upon the other ingredients, make all hot together, finish with a liaison of two yolks of eggs, and pom’ over and round the turkey (except over the breast), which serve very hot. The old style used to be brown, in that case substitute brown sauce for white and omit the liaison. No. 513. Small Turkey a la BucJiesse. Procure a small nice turkey, truss it as for boiling, and roast it in vegetables as usual, keeping it quite white, place it upon your dish with a border of mashed potatoes round, upon which dress twenty-five quenelles (No. 120), and twelve slices of tongue (cut in the same shape as the quenelles), have ready boiled very green some French beans cut in diamond shapes, which sprinkle over the breast of the turkey, and sauce over with a puree de con- combres (No. 105). No. 514. Poularde a VAmbassadrice. Procure a nice white poularde, cut it open down the back, and bone it without breaking the skin, make two pounds of forcemeat (No. 120), with which mix six large French truffles cut in slices, spread the forcemeat half anREMOVES. 209 luch in Sickness upon the inside of the poularde, then have leady boiled and nicely trimmed a small ox tongue, cover it with the forcemeat, fold a slice of fat bacon round, and put it in the middle of the poularde, which roll up and sew Irom end to end, fold the poularde in slices of fat bacon and tie it up in a cloth, have ready prepared some vege- tables of all kinds cut in slices, put them in a convenient- sised stewpan, lay the poularde upon them, the breast downwards, but first moisten the vegetables with a little salad oil, add half a pint of Madeira wine, and sufficient white broth to cover the poularde, set on a sharp fire to O , s m, and let it simmer for three hours, prepare the |'"S f“'mture; braise two sp™g chickens (trussed as for boding) three quarters of an hour in the braise with the poidarde, have ready prepared a oroustade as represented the design, upon which place a larded sweetbread nicely cooked and glazed, place a fine cockscomb and a largi tiuffle upon a silver attelet, and run it through the sweet- lead, sticking it upright in the croustade, then take the poularde out of the cloth, take off the bacon, pull out the string ,t was sewed up with, dry it with a cloth and place around” *"‘bW* —j s.“* pan, with one ounce of butter and the juice of half a leinon 1t itj-t °r “•i! spoonfuls of white broth if t ^ addinS a few spoonful of suo-ar and a h'tti°° 1/° ’ Season a tea- truffles in slices^nd choD a 1 f’ CUt 3 a plate in the hot closet ten minutes^put"6’ P‘aCe them°U on the fire, and when boffingaddtgin^r^ 14210 REMOVES. pour the sauce over the poularde and chickens, lay the slices of truffles here and there upon them, and sprinkle the chopped truffles lightly over, the blackness of the truffles contrasting with the whiteness of the sauce has a pleasing effect; serve directly you have poured the sauce and sprinkled the truffles over. The bones being taken out of the poularde they must be carved crosswise, thus carving through tongue and all. No. 515. Poulardes en Diademe. Make a croustade representing a diadem, stick three silver attelets upon it, on which you have stuck a crawfish, a large truffle, and a large quenelle, roast two poulardes quite white in vegetables, and have an ox tonge nicely boiled and trimmed, place them on the dish with their tails to the croustade and the tongue between; upon the root of the tongue and at the end of each poularde place a nice larded sweetbread well cooked and glazed (or a fine head of cauliflower nicely boiled), make a border of mashed potatoes round, upon which dress alternately truffles and fine cockscombs, previously dressed (No. 12S); have ready the following sauce: peel four middling-sized cucumbers, mince and put them into a stewpan with an ounce of but- ter, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, two chopped escha- lots, and a little powdered sugar, pass the whole o\ ei a slow fire, and stew them gently half an hour, or till quite tender, then mix in half an ounce of flour, add two quads of white sauce (No. 7), which moisten with a pint of ukite broth, let boil till it adheres to the spoon, stirring the whole time, rub through a tarnmie and put it into a clean stewpan, place over the fire, and when boiling add a gill of cream and two pats of butter ; season with the juice of a lemon, a little salt and sugar if required; pom the sauce over the poulardes and cockscombs, glaze the tongue,REMOVES. 211. uo not truffles, and sweetbreads and serve immediately; pour the sauce over until quite ready to serve. No. 516. Poulardes a la Vicomtesse. Make a croustade as represented in the plate (fig 5) roast two poulardes in vegetables as in the last; place'the “rr;reoftiiefsi,-and up°» oi it stick an Me et, upon which you have placed two plo- vers eggs warned in stock; place the poulardes on the dish breast to breast, and at flip r 1 1 “e lai-ded lambs’ sweetbreads (No 671) nmket PP™ -hed potatoes round, upon bam warmed m stock, and cut in the shape of fowls; have ready prepared the following sauce • cut Lo bin shoes a little carrot, turnip, onion.8 and celery Zt them mto a stewpan, with an ounce of bnffpr +i "i pUt half a blade of mice, a baydeaf” sort ofl gloves, ley. pass them oyer a brisk fire until hot tl “C pars' tablespoonfuls of tarpon ““ common ymegar, let boil, add two quarts of 1 ■' ‘ ""0 °f (No. 1), and one of consomme, boll it tn-K,u‘""'“ Sa“Ce keeping it stirred, pass it through a tammie k 1'"1"'tcs- stewpan, add half a pint of tomato sauce Z ST *1t” tablespoonfuls of red currant jelly . boil'ah Z ’ ° adheres to the spoon, season with ^ tJi “ reqmred, sauce over the poulardes *],„ if d Pepper ^ and serve immediately. ^' le pieces of ham No. 517. Poulardes a la Jeanne d'Arc - “»»■« — **“ "< W * I. fan. d'ta“ d”iW *REMOVES, 212 No. 5IS. Poulardes d la Jeune Princesse. Bone two nice poulardes as for poularde a l’ambassadrice (No. 514), lay them on a cloth, have ready prepared four pounds of forcemeat (No. 120), spread some half an inch in thickness over the inside of the poulardes; have ready boiled a Russian tongue, which cut in halves lengthwise, trim each half, lay one upon the middle of each poularde, cut twelve pieces of fat bacon four inches in length and the thickness of your finger, lay three pieces upon each side of the tongue at equal distances apart, and between each piece lay rows of small very green gherkins, season with a little salt and pepper, cover with a little more of the forcemeat, roll and sew up the poulardes, tie them in cloths and braise two hours, as directed for poulardes a 1 ainbassadiice, when done take them out of the cloths, pull out the packthread you sewed them up with, dress them on your dish m a slanting direction, make a border of mashed potatoes round, have ready twenty small croustades de beurre a la puree de volaille (No. 405), which (Ness upon the mashed potatoes at equal distances apart, and upon the top of each place a plover’s egg (from which you have peeled oft all the shell) warmed in broth, between each croustade lay small bunches of asparagus (previously boiled), cut an inch and a half in length, and six or eight in a bunch; have ready the follow- ing sauce: put three quarts of white sauce (iNo. i ), and one of white stock in a stewpan, the sauce strongly flavouie with mushrooms, place it over the fire, keep stilling, ieduce to two-thirds, add a gill of whipped cream, season w it i a little salt and sugar if required; pour the sauce ov ei t ie poulardes, and upon the breast of each sprinkle a tew liea & of sprue grass nicely boiled and cut very small; in can mg they must be cut across, it will resemble marble.213 REMOVES. No. 519. Poulardes a la Financiere. Roast two poulardes in vegetables as usual; have ready boiled two ox tongues, trim them, nicely cutting off part of the tip; when the poulardes are done dress them up on your dish tail to tail, dress the two tongues crosswise, that is, the tips of the tongues touching the tails of the poulardes, have a very fine larded sweetbread nicely cooked and glazed which place in the centre (this way of dishing them is very simple but very elegant) • have ready the following ragout put twenty dressed cockscombs, twenty heads of mush- rooms, four truffles cut in slices, twelve pieces of sweetbread the size of half-crowns (well blanched), and twenty small quenelles (No 120), m a stewpan, in another stewpan put two glasses of sherry, half an ounce of glaze, a little cayenne pepper, and a bay-leaf; reduce to half over a good fire en add three quarts of espagnole or brown sauce (No 1)’ and twenty spoonfuls of consomme (No. 134) boil and shm, reduce keeping it stirred till it becomes agood de “ glace and arhreres to the back of the spoon, pass it through rrr;he stewpan containin«the add» httle powdered sugar-, make ah hot together, pom- over and round the poulardes, glaze the tongues and serve. No. 520,. Poulardes a la Warsovienne. Roast two large poulardes in vegetables and w +i get cold, then take all the meat from ft ' bTeC W ? careful to leavp a rim mm • , . u-icast, out be flesh in srCh dr^Tut J’ “T “ «P the fub of white sanC(No “Two S”^ Sp°°n- twelve pieces of stewed eucibT (No TT “ ^ “d Me sugar, salt, and a very little mated ! 1 SeaS°n * very gently over the fire (beinv ™ m U’tmegi stu' 1,11 (De,ng “"fnl not to break the•214 REMOVES. pieces of cucumber), when it boils add the yolks of two ggrrs mixed with two spoonfuls of cream, stir them in quickly ; have ready warmed in stock the carcasses of the poulardes, place the mince in the breasts, egg over, and bread-crumb round the rims, place them in the oven twenty minutes to set, then dress them breast to breast on your dish; poach twelve plovers’ eggs very nicely, lay six upon each poularde, that is, three upon each side of the breast to form a diamond, then place a small larded lamb s sweet- bread upon the top between the two poulardes and in the centre of the eggs, place a fine cauliflower on each side, and sauce over with a sauce bechamel, or maitre d hotel (No. 43); glaze the sweetbread and serve. No. 521. Poulardes aux legumesprintaniers. Roast two poulardes in vegetables as before, then with a sharp knife turn forty young carrots and forty young tur- nips, keeping them in their shape as much as possible, wash and place them in separate stewpans, with a pint of veal stock and half a teaspoonful of sugar, boil until the stock is reduced to glaze, by which time they will be w ell done, place them in a bain marie to keep hot, peel also forty young onions the same size as your turnips, buttei a saute-pan, put in half an ounce of sugar (sifted), over which place the onions, cover with veal stock and let them stew until the stock forms a thickish glaze, place them in the hot closet until wanted, then take up the poulardes, chess tail to tail on your dish, make a border of mashed potatoes round, and at each end place a fine head of cauliflower nicely boiled, then place alternately an onion and a turnip with a carrot upon the top between, making a pyramid m the middle of the border on each side; tor sauce put the glaze from the vegetables and onions into a stewpan to gether, boil and skim off all the butter, add two quarts oREMOVES. 215 brown sauce, reduce quickly, keeping it stirred all the time, until it adheres to the back of the spoon, add a little salt if ieqlined; pour the sauce over the whole and serve. No. 522. Poulardes aux legumes verts. Roast the poulardes in vegetables as usual, then take ten large turnips, cut each in halves exactly in the centre, peel them thin without leaving the marks of the knife, and scoop out the centres to form them into cups, with a round cutter the size of half-a-crown-piece, cut twenty pieces of turnip one inch m thickness to form stands, stew them nicely m stock as m the last, but not too much done and place them in the bam marie till ready to serve, then ’place a border of mashed potatoes round the interior of the dish leaving sufficient room for your poulardes, and at each end stick a croustade of bread cut in cups but larger than those of turnips, place the turnip cups upon their stands at equal distances apart upon the mashed potatoes, place a nice head ol cauliflower upon each croustade, have ready boiled some very young peas and heads of asparagus, fill the cups alter react7! fTh’ PlaCe ^ POUkrdeS “the centre> and have No 7 Ld f TV PU‘ tW° «""*» of white *«ee llLnZT A St°Ck “ aste"'Pan, with the S aZ,‘ ,!U'T’ “ t0 tW°4hWs> ski”, season a little salt and sugar, finish with a gill 0f cream No. 523. Petits Poukts a la Wannzorf bomr^nhe7intgs Tr rsed - bare also read, boded and°„iee,yREMOVES. 216 place one at each end of the dish making the tips meet in the centre, place a chicken at each corner, its tail in the centre, and between each lay a bunch of fine boiled aspa- ragus ; you have made a round fluted croustade of bread about four inches high, and the same in diameter, ornament it on the top with rings the size of a shilling, fried very white, and scoop out the middle of the croustade to form a cup; place it in the centre of your dish, with some fine heads of asparagus cut about four inches in length standing upright in it, glaze the tongues nicely, have two quarts of sauce puree d’asperges (No. 102) ready, which pour over the chickens and serve very hot. No. 524. Petits Poulets a la Perigord a blanc. Scrape four ounces of fat bacon, which put into a stew- pan, with two bay-leaves, three cloves, and a blade of mace,, set over the fire to melt, and when quite hot take out the spice and bay-leaves, add ten large truffles cut in slices, and four chopped very fine, with a quart of white sauce (No. /), place it over the fire to reduce, keeping it stirred until becoming very thick, finish with two yolks of eggs and place it on a dish to cool; procure four nice spring chickens, detach the skin from the breasts without breaking, force the above preparation under the skins, sew the skin dovn (but not too tight, or it would burst in roasting), roast them in vegetables as usual; have ready a croustade in the form of a vase, which place in the centre of your dish filled with fine truffles warmed in strong stock, dress the chickens w ith taste around it, first draining them upon a cloth, glaze lightly, and have ready the following sauce: put two quarts of white sauce (No. 7) into a stewpan, with a pint of good veal broth, place it on the fire and when boding add six large French truffles cut in thin slices, and half a teaspoon- fid of sugar, reduce, keeping it stirred untfl becoming11EM0VES. 217 thickish, add half a gill of whipped cream ; pour the sauce round the chickens and serve very hot. No. 525. Petits Poidets a la Macedoine de legumes. Procure four spring chickens, roast them in vegetables, but just before they are done take off all the paper and vegetables and let them get a nice gold colour; prepare and poach a piece of forcemeat (No. 120) four inches square, and another two inches square, place the smaller one upon the larger in the centre of the dish, dress the chickens by placing the tails upon the forcemeat and the breasts towards the edges of the dish; you have previously peeled and turned twelve Jerusalem artichokes in the shape of pears, and stewed in white stock, place three at the breast of each chicken, and a piece of boiled cauliflower between each at the tail, build some Brussels sprouts pyramidicafly at the top, and sauce with macedoine de legumes a brun (No. 99) Fowls may be dressed in the same manner as the chickens and are used when chickens cannot be obtained. No. 526. Petits Poulets a VIndienne. Put one pound of rice nicely boiled (No. 129) in a basin with a quarter of a pound of suet, a little pepper salt cayenne, grated nutmeg, chopped parsley, two spoonfuls of b! ead-crumbs one of currie powder, and three or four eggs tassel'ffl t °ge N, “r lmVe ^Pring chickens un- trussed, fill them with the above, and truss them as for »i mg, stew them one hour gently in a braise as No. 514 make a round croustade of the form of a run high, fill With some beautiful white rke *7^ ^ seven or eight mild Indian pickles interspersed d ’ N chickens round the croimHdp -fi • ersed, dress the three inches long and two broad! "i °f boi,etl bncon two quarts of ^ very hot. -45) over, and serveREMOVES. 218 No. 527. Petits Poulets au jus d’estragon. Roast three spring chickens in vegetables, the same as for petits poulets a la macedoine de legumes, dress them on your dish, and porn- a sauce au jus d’estragon (No. 10) round. No.. 528. Petits Poulets d la Marie Stuart. Procure four spring chickens trussed as for boiling, detach carefully part of the skin from the breasts, and lay slices of French truffles under the skin, shaping a heart upon the breasts of each, prepare half a pound of maitre d’hotel butter (No. 79), divide it in four parts, and place one on the top of the truffles under the skin of each breast, covering with the skin, then put half a pound of butter, two onions, two bay-leaves, and two wine-glasses of pale brandy, with a little stock into a flat stewpan, lay in the chickens, place a sheet of buttered paper over, put on the cover, place it ten minutes over a sharp fire, then set in a moderate oven for an horn1, when done take out the string, lay them on a clean cloth to drain; have ready a cioustade in the form of a pyramid, which place in the centre of yoiu dish entirely enveloped with mashed potatoes half an inch in thickness ; have ready some fine heads of asparagus boiled very green, and cut about an inch in length, stick them upon the pyramid with a small nice white head of cauli- flower at the top, dish your chickens round and sauce with a thin puree of truffles (No. 53) round tnem. No. 529. Petits Poussins a la Chanoinaise. Have ready three parts roasted in vegetables six \ ery \ onng spring chickens trussed as for boiling, cover them all o\er with forcemeat (No. 120), throw some chopped truffles an ham lightly over, and put them into a flat stewpan just co-219 REMOVES. verecl with some good veal stock, set them in a moderate oven twenty minutes, with the cover over, and when done dress them at the corners of the dish upon a little mashed pota- toes, place a small croustade in the centre, upon which place a nicely-cooked larded sweetbread, glaze well, and have ready the following sauce: put two quarts of clemi- glace (No. 9) into a stewpan, with a little sugar, and when boiling have ready a tongue (ready boiled) cut in slices the size of half-a-crown-piece, and six large truffles also sliced, Put them into the sauce, and when very hot pom' into your dish, but not over the chickens; serve very hot. No. 530. Petits Poulets a la Printaniere. Roast four spring chickens in vegetables, have ready some young carrots, turnips, and onions, stewed as directed (No. 428); make a small border of mashed potatoes round the dish, dress the vegetables with taste upon it, variegating them with peas or asparagus heads boiled very green, dress the chickens in the centre and have ready the following sauce : put two quarts of clemi-glace (No. 9) into a stewpan, reduce well over the fire, keeping it stirred, add half a tea- spoonful of sugar and the glaze from the vegetables, reduce again till it adheres to the back of the spoon, pom over the chickens and vegetables, and serve very hot. No. 531. Petits Poussins a la Tartare. Procm-e four very young spring chickens, not trussed, cut 0 he feet below the joints, break the bone in each lev then ™ If thi8h °f chicken and turn £ legs fcnht « °Pe" d°"'n the back-b«e, and beat them flat fry five minutes in blitter in a saute-pan season ril ofer t7Per “ml CgS “d »^-eLb thl all ovei lay them on a gridiron over a moderate fire and bred a nice hght-brown colour; for sauce put (on Me220 REMOVES. spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) and six of consomme in a stewpan, and when it has boiled ten minutes add ten spoon- fids of sauce tartare (No. 38), stir altogether till quite hot, but do not let it boil, pour it on your dish, garnish the edges of the dish with slices of Indian pickle, dress the chickens upon the sauce and serve directly; the sauce tar- tare may also be served cold with the chickens glazed and served hot upon it. No. 532. Petits Poussins a la Mareclial. Truss and broil four chickens precisely as in the last, and have ready the following sauce : put three tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar into a stewpan, with a small piece of glaze, half a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), and twenty tablespoon- fuls of consomme (No. 134), reduce ten minutes untd form- ing a demi-glace, pom’ the sauce in the dish, glaze the chickens, dish them upon the sauce and serve. No. 533. Goose a la Chijjolata. Truss your goose nicely, and lard the breast (with lardons of fat bacon three inches long) here and there slantwise, then proceed exactly as for turkey a la chipolata (No. 512) No. 534. Goose stuffed with chesnuts. Procure a fine goose, truss it, chop the liver very fine, cut an onion in small dice, put them in a stewpan, with the liver, and a quarter of a pound of scraped fat bacon, pass them over a slow fire for ten minutes or a little longer, have ready roasted and peeled thirty fine chesnuts, put them in the stewpan, with two bay-leaves, let them stew slowly over the fire half an hour, season with pepper, salt, and sugar, and when nearly cold stuff the inside of the goose, which sew up at both ends; roast an hour and a half in vegetables, and just before it is done take away the paperREMOVES. 221 and vegetables and let it get a nice light-brown colour. diess on a dish and serve a sauce au jus de tomates (No. ■; ln winch you have introduced two tablespoonfuls of apple jelly; a little sage may be added to the above prepa- ration if approved of. 1 1 No. 535. Goose a la Portugaise. themTtlrw]?00se’ ‘hen Peel fo® Portugal onions, cut . „thln sllces and Put them into a stewpan with a quarter Of a pound of butter; let them simmer over a slow to cool, stuff the goose with it, which roast as in the last diess upon your dish with ten stewed Portugal onions and sauce as directed for stewed rump of beef a up, 4 (No. 431). 1 01 a la P°Nugaise No. 536. Ducklings aux olives. Roast four small ducklings in vegetables; have readv a Cl ustade cut in the shape of a vase, set it on a few masted potatoes m the centre of the dish dress the dnnir 7 their tails towards it, and have 4ri!fl,gS mth put two quarts of demi-glace (N 9Hn a stew ® ' boils have ready turned sixtytench' * mto It, season with half a tablespoonful of suiar wb hot put the olives on f S ’ when verv saucePover and ^ C“e' P™ No. 537. Ducklings an jus d’orange * bne Seville orange with a silver attele’t CgS^222 REMOVES. ducklings round, and serve with a jus d’orange sauce (No. 17). No. 538. Ducklings aux legumesprintaniers. Roast them as above, and serve as directed for the pou- lardes (No. 521). No. 539. Ducklings a la Cliartre. Roast your ducklings as before, have ready fifty young turnips tinned in the shape of pears, put half an ounce of sifted sugar into a convenient-sized stewpan, set over the fire, and when it melts and assumes a brownish tinge add half a pound of butter and the turnips, toss them over every now and then, and when about three parts done and a light-brown colour turn them out on a cloth to drain the butter from them, likewise drain all the butter from the stewpan, put your turnips again into it, with a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), half a pint of white stock, and a bunch of parsley, boil altogether ten minutes, or till the sauce adheres to the spoon, dress a croustade in the form of a vase in the centre of the dish, dress the ducklings round, take the parsley from the sauce, dress some of the turnips with taste upon the croustade and the remainder between each duckling; pour the sauce round and serve. No. 540. Haunch of Venison. May be decidedly called the second great pedestal; turtle soup and haunch of venison certainly being the tvo great pedestals, or Gog and Magog of English cookery. It is appreciated from the independent citizen to the throne; for where is there a citizen of taste, a man of wealth, or a gourmet, who does not pay due homage to this delicious and recherche joint, which ever has and ever null be in vogue ; but even after all that nature has done in point ofREMOVES. 223 flavour, should it fall into the hands of some inexperienced person to dress, and he too much done, its appearance and flavour would be entirely spoilt, its delicious and delicate fat melted, and the gravy lost; of the two it would be pre- fened undei done, but that is very bad and hardly excus- able, when it requires nothing but attention to serve this glorious dish in perfection. A good haunch of venison weighing from about twenty to twenty-five pounds will take from three to four horns roasting before a good solid fire; trim the haunch by cutting off part of tlie knuckle and sawing off the chine bone, fold the flap over, then envelope it in a flour and water paste rather stiff, and an inch thick, tie it up in strong paper four sheets m thickness, place it in your cradle spit so that it will turn quite even, place it at first very close to the fire until the paste is well crusted, pouring a few ladlefuls of hot dripping over occasionally to prevent the paper catching fire, then put it rather further from the fire, which must be quite clear, solid, and have sufficient frontage to throw the same heat on every part of the venison ; when it has roasted the above time take it up, remove it from the paste and paper, run a thin skewer into the thickest part to ascertain tied!6’ i rTn the SkeW6r “ is 110t done’ “d must be tied up and put down again, but if the fire is good that uffid IfiA b % C°°k r’ g'aZe Ule t0p Wdl' -'amantr until a little brown, put a frill upon the knuckle and serve IWthe ™de Ty °f P,t b°iled FrenCl1 beans separate, mode of carvmg a haunch of venison, see preface. No. 54.1. Haunch of Doc Venison a la Corinthieme. nm your haunch and lard the fillet of the loin fl leg as you would a fricandeau w it e . , the nade (No. 426) turnine- it ’ 01 a Week 111 a mark on a spit, tied upffioled T "*"? ^ « •Pm oiled paper, and roast it two hours,REMOVES. 224 but just before taking up, take off all the paper, to give a nice colour; dress it on your dish with a frill at the knuckle, and have ready the following sauce: well wash and pick half a pound of fine currants, soak them in water two hours, dry them well on a sieve, put half a pint of the marinade through a sieve into a stewpan, with two glasses of port wine, and two chopped eschalots, reduce to half, add a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), reduce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, add a tablespoonful of cun-ant jelly, pass it through a tammie into another stewpan, add your cur- rants, season with a little cayenne pepper, and salt if re- quired, porn- the sauce round the haunch, and serve. No. 542. Neeles of Noe Venison a la Corinthienne. Trim two necks of venison by cutting out the shoulders, not too deep, cut the breast off rather narrow, slip your knife between the rib bones and the flesh to half way up, saw off the bones, skewer the flap over, detach the chine bones from the flesh, saw them off, and lard the fillets; put them in marinade (No. 426) one day (they must be well covered), tie them up in oiled paper, and roast for one hour; when done glaze and salamander the tops, dress them fillet to fillet on your dish, and sauce the same as for haunch a la Corinthienne. No. 543. Necks of Venison a la Bohemienne. Proceed as above, and sauce as for fillet of beef a la Bohemienne (No. 426.) No. 544. Faisans a la Corsaire. Procure three young pheasants, truss them as for boiling, chop the livers very fine, and put them into a basin with a quarter of a pound of chopped suet, one pound of bread- crumbs, a little pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, chopped parsley,REMOVES. 225 and thyme; mix the whole well together with four eggs, put in a mortar, pound it well, stuff the buds with it, and roast them in vegetables; make a croustade shaped like the bows of a ship, dress it at' the head of the dish, make a large quenelle (No. 120), which ornament with truffles to fancy; run a silver attelet through it lengthwise, and stick it at the top of the croustade, dress the pheasants on the dish, the tails of two of them touching the croustade and the other between, with its breast towards the end of the dish; have ready the following sauce: put two quarts of the sauce a l’essence de gibier (No. 60) in a stewpan with half a pmt of white broth; reduce till it adheres to the spoon, then add twenty dressed cockscombs and twenty heads of mushrooms; sauce over the pheasants and No. 545. Fciisans a la Garde Cliasse. Procure four very young hen pheasants, truss them for their claws resting on their thighs, and their knuckles loasting, merely cut off the tips of the claws, make a small incision m the leg at the knuckles, and truss them with then- tails; stuff them with the over locf i - it ■, „ us in me ast, but adding a glass of brandy and half a ail] nf dnnM<, uiuuutaui, surround the budswith it, and tie them m same preparation as in theREMOVES. 226 butter, stir it in witli a wooden spoon; wh.cn quite melted pom- the sauce over the birds, and serve. No. 546. Faisans trujfes a la Piemontaise. Procure four young pheasants as above, but they must be quite fresh, stuff the breasts of them with half a pound of truffles prepared as for poularde a la Perigord (No. 524), only using half oil and half bacon, and adding hall a clove of garlic scraped ; show as much truffles as possible under the skin; they must be kept in that way a week or more (according to the weather), before they are fit for dressing; roast nearly an hour in oiled paper of a light gold colour, dress upon your dish in the form of a cross, have ready the following sauce: put two quarts of clear aspic (No. 1360) in a stewpan, reduce twenty minutes, cut six raw oi pre- served truffles in slices, put them into the aspic with a glass of champagne, hock, or madeira, and a little sugar; stew them twenty minutes, sauce over your buds, and serve very hot. No. 547. Faisans a VFxtravagante. This is a very elegant remove, and can be made where woodcocks are plentiful, but to the economiser it would ap- pear a most extravagant extravaganza; procure two large pheasants and six woodcocks, fillet the woodcocks and cut each fillet in halves lengthwise, put two ounces of scraped bacon in a sautepan with a tablespoonful of chopped es- chalots and half a pottle of chopped mushrooms; lay the fillets over them, season with pepper and salt, set them over the fire five minutes, turn the fillets, set them again on the fire five minutes longer, add twenty tablespoon & of bechamel sauce (No. 7), half a pound of cockscombs pre- viously cooked, a little grated nutmeg, and half a spoonful of sugar; it must be rather highly seasoned; add tiree yolks of eggs, stir a minute over the fire till the eggREMOVES. 227 then put it on a dish to cool; when firm divide it in two aT the br tP ieaSa'ltS VTit'* * haVing PK™usly unacted aU the breast bone, sew the skin of the neck over on the back but do not draw it too tight, or it would burst on the breast; surround with fat bacon, and tie them!oiled takToff tT th™ °“rh0m’ klt J'ust before ‘bey are done take ofl the paper and bacon; shake flour over and they will become brown and crisp; have ready prepared the fof 0Wmg SmCG : Put the remainder of the woodcocks in a stewpan, with two glasses of sherry a oint nf l •+ two eschalots (cut in slices), a little p^ ti^tv’ leaf, two cloves, and half a blade of niece \ t■ quarter of an horn, add a quart of brotn’ LlTfe whole boil together twenty minutes at thP ! , “e sugar and" rulfit ^ & teasP00n^l of rate oven; make a border of forcemeat (No ““de: in pieces an inch broad and half an inch th f ’ f°ad,ed »i four dish, upon which chess them pte fte T % “ be centre' Pour the sauce round ^ h cockscombs, and serve. ’ 8 t le bu'ds and The way to carve pheasants dressed fin'd be breast being free from boneltTt7 h“fe, and out the breast in slices in , 1 r 6gS W“h a euces in a slanting dn-ection;REMOVES. 228 the scraped bacon will escape in roasting, keeping the birds moist; they will not cut greasy, but will have a marbled appearance like gallantine. No. 548. Grouse a la Bob Boy. Grouse are the most favourite buds in this country, and certainly the most welcome; they make their first appear- ance on the 12tli of August, a time when most delicate palates are fatigued with domestic volatile productions, at that period they are very properly used for roasts only; but when more plentiful they are very excellent dressed in the manners I have here described, though seldom or ever used for removes; I have, for the sake of variety which is said to be charming, given a few new methods. Pick, draw, and truss four grouse, make a stuffing like for the pheasants (No. 544), using the liver of the grouse, stuff and place them on the spit, surrounded with fat bacon and sprigs of heather, moistened with a glass of whiskey, tie them up in paper and roast three quarters of an hoiu, dress on a dish in the form of a cross, and have ready the following sauce: put a quart of good melted butter in a stewpan on the fire, and just as it begins to boil, add a quarter of a pound of butter • stir the sauce till the butter is melted, season rather high, and pour over your birds; (the sauce must be rather thick, but not too thick;) under each bird place a piece of toasted bread well glazed; serve very hot. No. 549. Grouse a la Corsaire. See Paisan (No. 544). No. 550. Grouse a la JPiemontaise. See Faisan (No. 546). No. 551. Grouse a la Garde Chasse. See Faisans (No. 545).REMOVES. 229 Of Black Cocks and Grey Hens. These birds are a similar flavour to the grouse onlv ZZtl72 rd 7y, be ^ jU8t “ the same only two cocks mil be sufficient for a remove of ten oi elve persons if well garnished with quenelles cockscombs mushrooms, truffles, &c. 1 * cockscombs, No. 552. Hare a la Macgregor. Skin a fine young hare, and truss it as for roasthnr and while roasting sprinkle a little flom’o'v™ nZlZaln’ them alternately on yoL lhT "" ™ 7 fflets-' *» potatoes dress Hie 1,L **f P°“ 3 border of mashed bread, and p ‘ n T “ ^ ^ «laze the ^ts and winch you have introduced a snoonfi, J l( 33)- m maladeinstead of the currant jelly, over ■No. 553. Levraut a la Coursiere. fte bloodin fblsfo tesTie JUf * °aUSht by the doSs’save roast half an horn- before a 7. r°astm& lard the fillets, sauce (No. 32) in a stewpan • when hvr* * °f poivrade a wooden spoon, and pom in the blood”8 n’ 7°^ Witt cayenne pepper, a tablesDoonful f 5 a ^ttle salt, of butter, and the juice of a lemon ■ 7™"* Jel]y’ f°llr pats and serve immediately. ' auce 0Ver ^lc leverets230 FLANCS. Plan os are required in eveiy dinner where there are more than four entrees; they are served upon oval dishes of from eighteen inches in length to nine in width, and require a little depth; for flancs being made dishes, like removes, the dish must contain the sauce. My readers will perceive by the Index that many of them are like the removes; but these I shall merely give references to, my object in placing them with the flancs being to show that by being reduced in size they will do for flancs in large dinners, and also be an assistance in the making of bills of fare. Planes are to be made of one or two sohd pieces of poultry, game, butcher’s meat, or pastry, and keep every- thino- which is divided into many pieces, as cotelettes, fillets, escalopes, fricassees, salmis, &c., for entrees as much as much as possible, by doing which you will add more im- portance to your dinner, and cause more harmony m the arrangement. No. 554. Fillet of Beef pique aux legumes pnntaniers. Procure a piece of fillet of beef fifteen inches in length, lard, trim, and dress it as directed (No. 417), vhen rea y to serve dress a border of mashed potatoes on your dish; have ready twenty young carrots, twenty young with twenty small onions, dressed as directed foi pou ar (No. 521); dish them upon the mashed potatoes wi a small cauliflower nicely boiled at each end of the s place your fillet in the centre, glaze it, and sauce with a demi-glace, made also as directed for the poulardes, but half the quantity will be sufficient.231 FLANCS. No. 555. Filet de Bceuf cm jus de gro settles. - ^10(^ur® ancJ hud a piece of fillet of beef the same size as W fNo ’4P2fi^e 01 fiVe ^ “ di,'ected for fflet de rlrvt N j }; Whe" Wanted take if from ‘lie marinade, tF t T H “ Paper’ but ten ““utes before it is done take off the paper to allow it to colour' a little • place haffaCtf 1 Bnd f°U0Win« Smce: ™> “an^ oSSSfi" f 8 SteWp“- add a nritn-f i P the f ’ reduce * to half, add a quart of brown sauce, and again reduce it till it be ZZlTa' rglT SkiT “ Wben r^d- add half the rmd of a lemon, the peehngs of a few mushrooms a httle scraped garlrc, the size of a pea, and a spoonM of very bright currant jelly; stir it two minutes over the fire season it rather high mss it tPrnn^ + • me’ the fillet, and serve. ’ °h amme- S3l,ce 0¥er No. 556. Fillet of Beef a la Beyrout. Procure but a piece of fillet the same size as in the last and pioceed as directed (No. 419). * For Filet de Boeuf a la Milanaise, Do. au jus d’orange, and Do. • au jus de tomates, see Kemoves, Nos 425 490 /tvi ™ i Piece of thp fin i i ’ 421’ mereIF substituting a P i the fillet when serving them as flancs. No. 557. Langue de Bceuf d la Marquise. V 6ki“ off JeUold°!o take thG any design upon it your fancy may li (Tte huTF T sending them plain, merely trimming it y 1 prefer viously filleted and dressed three Sen , ^ pra- supreme de volaille, (see No 80si « ’ as‘described for 1 «0. 80S), then make a border of232 ’LANCS. masliecl potatoes round your dish, and dress half the fillets of chicken on each side, one upon the other in a slanting direction; have ready dressed form nice larded sweetbreads, place two at each end, and the tongue in the centre, have ready the following sauce : put a pint and a half of white sauce (No. 7) in the saute-pan in which you cooked your fillets of chickens, with twelve spoonfuls of good veal stock, stir it over the fire till it becomes rather thick, then add a gill of cream and a little powdered sugar, mix all well to- gether, pass it through a tammie into a stewpan when hot, sauce over the fillets, glaze the sweetbreads and tongue, and serve very hot. No. 558. Langue de Bosuf a la Prinia Donna. Boil the tongue as in the last, then have ready twenty- four quenelles of veal (No. 120), dress a low bordei ol mashed potatoes round the dish, upon which dress the quenelles, making them go quite round, then have ready tke following sauce: put twenty spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), and ten of veal stock in a stewpan; let it boil ten minutes, then add a quarter of a pound of maitre d hotel butter (No. 79), mix it very quick over the fire, and when melted sauce over the quenelles ; put a nicely boiled Brussels sprout between each quenelle, glaze the tongue, and sei\c. No. 559. Langue de Bceuf d la St. Aulaire. Cook the tongue as before, and when done fix it on the dish upon mashed potatoes; have ready the following ra- gout : cut four middling-sized cucumbers into pieces about an inch and a half in length, split each piece in three, take out the seeds from each piece, peel them and trim them at the corners, put them in a stewpan with an ounce of buttei, ha a spoonful of powdered sugar, and two chopped eschalots, stew the cucumbers very gently till quite tender, but not to233 FLANCS. bieak them, then cut the breast of a cooked fowl into slices the size of the pieces of cucumber and add with them; then add a quart of hot bechamel sauce (No. 7) and a little white stock, shake the stewpan over the fire, but do not stir it with a spoon, or you would break the contents; finish with a liaison made from the yolk of one egg, pour it round the tongue, and serve. No. 560. Langue de Bcevf a la Jardiniere. Cook the tongue as before, fix it in your dish upon mashed potatoes, and serve with a jardiniere sauce (No 100) round it. J No. 561. langue de Bceuf a la Milanaise. mC°°L “ hf°re’ and SCTVe ^ a sauce » la Milanaise (i o 49) under it, to which has been added some fillets of fowl cut the same size as the pieces of macaroni. rN X97?gUeS fls° be Served ^ sauce Piquante ( o. 27) or sauce a 1 Italienne (No. 30), and they are fre- quently served as a flanc, quite plain, especially when the opposite flanc is composed of veal or poultry. No. 562. Westphalia Ilam, small. These hams require to be well soaked in water and scraped previous to dressing; boil from three to four horn’s 1 mi 17“ rT take °ff the skin’ Ieaving a little on th<5 m n ' f „y°U CUt aS fancy may fect i it nicely put a paper fell upon the knuckle-bone, and serve it plain’ ,T‘ “ybu served with any of the followinglanes powrade (No. 32), jardiniere (No. 100), Mila„„ise°(No 49)' plain. PoumJ> it is as well servedFLANCS. 234 No. 563. Loin of Veal a la Cambarfres. For this see Removes (No. 441), only in this instance sub- stitute the thin end of the loin only, and that not too large. No. 564. Loin of Veal a la Cremiere. Procure part of a loin about the size your dish will con- veniently hold, place it on a spit and have ready some vege- tables of all kinds cut small; lay them on two or three sheets of thickish paper, moisten them with half a pint of cream, tie the veal up in them and roast it two horns, make a border of mashed potatoes round your dish, upon which dress twelve nice poached eggs; take up the veal, clear it from the vegetables, and dress it in the centre; have ready the following sauce : put a quart of bechamel sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with a little grated nutmeg, salt, and sugar; stir it over a quick fire, boil it ten minutes, then add a gill of cream, the juice of a lemon, and an ounce of fresh butter, pom1 it over the eggs and veal, and serve; the sauce requires to be rather thick, but if too much so, thin it with a little milk; if sprue grass is in season, a few of the heads boiled, and lard between the eggs, would have a pleasing effect. For Loins a la puree de celeri, Do. macedoine de legumes, and Do. a la Strasbourgienne See Removes, Nos. 443, 442, and 444. No. 565. Noice de veau pique an jus. Procure a very white leg of veal from a cow calf, saw off the knuckle, lay the fillet ©n the table and cut it open without cutting through the meat, that is cut from the bone in the centre under the udder until you cut through the skin, take out the bone, and lay it out, there will be tlnue separate lumps of meat, the largest of which is theFLANCS. 235 noix (oi nut); to cut it out press your hand upon it and with a sliaip knite cut down close to the skin, separating it from the skin till it comes to the udder, then bring the knife up, lay the piece upon the table the best side down- wards and beat it well, trim it of a nice shape, and lard it with pieces of fat bacon two inches long and slender in proportion, cut off the udder and sew it to the side, put a few shoes of bacon m a flat stewpan, with two or three onions cut m shoes, half a bunch of parsley, two bay-leaves, and a sprig of thyme, lay in the noix, add a pint of white broth, then put the hd on the stewpan, and place it in a moderate oven for three hours, occasionally looking at it taknig care that the gravy does not become dry or burnt’ it becomes dry add a little water to moisten it, but not enough to cover the veal, which moisten now and then mth the gray; when done, glaze it nicely, slightly colour i mth the salamander if required, and lay it on a dish, keep 1 h0t>then Pass the through a tammie into a smaller s ewpan, set it on the corner of the fire, skim off all the fat pour it m your dish, and lay the noix in the last moment Of serving, or the fat would run, and give the gravy a bad appearance. & J No. 566. Noix de Veau a la Potagere. ' in/ZTdd™'1 vT 8 de V6aU 03 “ the last> ««pt- >ne the udder, which is not required, and you need not be War about its bethg the leg of a eow cah/when ooked make a border of mashed potatoes round your dish pon which dress several pieces of nice cauliflowers (about the size of eggs,) which you have previouslv boil I , the noix in the centre the last thimTl r b°Jed’ PIace have ready the following saucl p^f ip? ^ ^ white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan with fe f of The °f ft°m ^ n°iX' (fee boil ten minutes,Then "addFLANCS. 236 half a gill of cream and a little sugar, pour the sauce over the cauliflowers, glaze the noix and serve immediately, throwing a few green peas, well boiled, round. No. 567. Noix de Veau a la Palestine. Prepare and dress the noix as in the last, then wash and peel two dozen middling-sized Jerusalem artichokes, give them the shape of pears, boil them in salt and water in which you have put a piece of butter, boil them till tender, make a small border of mashed potatoes upon your dish, on which dress the artichokes, the thick part uppermost, scoop a piece out of the top of each, and stick in a nicely- boiled Brussels sprout, place the noix in the centre, glaze it and porn* a thin sauce a la puree d’artichaut (No. 90) over the artichokes and serve. No. 568. Noix de Veau aux legumes nouveaux. Prepare and dress the noix as in the last, then have pre- pared twenty young carrots, twenty young turnips, and twenty young onions, prepared as described in the article stewed rump of beef a la Flamande (No. 42S), dress them tastefully upon your dish upon a thin border of mashed potatoes, place the noix in the centre and have ready the following sauce: mix the glaze from the vegetables with a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), and half a pint of the gravy from the noix, (but quite free from fat,) in a stewpan, place it over the fire and reduce till it becomes a tliickish demi-glace, keeping it well skimmed, sauce over the vegetables, glaze the noix and serve. No. 569. Noix de Veau a la puree de champignons. Prepare and dress the noix as before, and have ready a sauce a la puree de champignons (No. 54), pour it on your dish, lay the noix over, glaze and serve immediately.237 FLANCS. No. 670. Noix tie veau a la Prince Albert. Prepale and chess the noix as before, have likewise ten lambs sweetbreads larded and dressed (see No. 746), also ten plovers eggs which peel and warm in white stock, make a tlnn border of mashed potatoes round your dish, it- the sweetbreads and plovers’ eggs alternately anon J 1 T > plaCe a ™g «f truffles upon each plover s egg and have ready the following sauce : pass the gravy from the noix and sweetbreads though a fTan’ S6t * °n *he &e’ skim °ff aP ‘he fat, add a quart of brown sauce (No. 1) and a pint of con somme (No. 134), reduce it quickly over the L, keep” t stored with a wooden spoon, and when reduced to a himnsh glaze take it off the fire, add a little sugar and two pats of butter; glaze the sweetbreads and none sauce round and serve immediately. ’ Sauce No. 571. Neck of Veal a la St. Clair. Trim the best end of a very nice neck of veal see Re loves No. 461), roast it in vegetables, and give it a nice *sh upon w?a'r t b°rder °f maShed P°tatoes ro™d your ond ditto a la cremiere, (see Nos. 451, 422 and 6640™^ N°- 572. Calf’s Head a la Constantine. ionelyil^ and whe“ Place a fourteen pounds weight, whe/col^FLANCS. 238 oval pieces out of it, egg each piece over with a paste-brush, and throw it into bread-crumbs mixed with chopped lean ham; set them in the oven and when quite hot and of a nice gold colour dress them in a crown round your dish upon a border of mashed potatoes, place the brains at each end of the dish, and have ready the following sauce : make a quart of sauce au jus d’echalotte (No. 16), well seasoned, add to it twenty pickled mushrooms and forty very small white pickled onions, warm them five minutes in the sauce, then pour the sauce in the centre, glaze the pieces of calf’s head and serve very hot. For calf’s head en tortue, ditto a la Iiollandaise, and ditto a l’amiral, see Nos. 462, 459 and 463. No. 573. Neck of Mutton demi Provenqale. Prepare and braise a neck of mutton as described for the Removes, see that it is not too fat; you have prepared a puree of onions like for the cotelettes (see No. 701), spread some over the neck about a quarter of an inch thick, egg and bread-crumb it lightly, then put it in a hot oven twenty minutes, if not sufficiently coloured pass the sala- mander over it, then have ready the following sauce: put a pint of brown sauce in a stewpan, with half the quantity of good stock, reduce it over the fire till it comes to a nice demi-glace, add a little scraped garlic the size of a couple of peas, dress the neck in a dish and pom* the sauce over; serve very hot; a little seasoning may be added to the sauce if required. No. 574. Neck of Mutton a la Soubise. Prepare, lard, and braise a neck of mutton as described in the Removes (No. 482), when done glaze it well, pass the salamander over, place it in your dish, and serve until a sauce Soubise (No. 47) poured round it.FLANCS. 239 No. 575. Neck of Mutton a VAlgevienne. Procure a large neck of mutton, trim it as before, and lard the lean part with fine cut bacon, like for the noix de veau, make two quarts of marinade (see fillet of beef a la Bohemienne, No. 426), and lay the neck in it for three days then run a skewer through it and fix it on your spit roast it about an horn, giving it a very good colour; have leady the following sauce: strain half a pint of the mari- nade mto a stewpan, add a pint of brown sauce and a small piece of glaze, reduce it till forming a thickish demi- g ace; you have previously soaked twenty very nice French plums m boiling water twenty minutes, drain them on a sieve and when dry throw them into the sauce, season with a httle salt and cayenne pepper, pom the sauce in your dish, dress the neck upon it and serve. J No. 576. Neck of Mutton a la Portugaise. Prepare, lard, and braise a neck of mutton as before "I midtrZed P0rtUgal “and them twenty minutes in boiling water, then lay them on a cloth i “if:1;; rter*fa pound of but‘er “a ** ? a mo ts ky m the omons’ add °ne ounce of suo-ar stock fe th ’ ™d iU?t C0Ver them with a litt,e white Stock, let them simmer gently for one horn- or more until them f al’ lay on a cloth, cut em in halves, dress in a border round the dish and 1™ the neck ,n the centre, then take the butter from ’the stock the onions were stewed in, put half a pint of it in „ , k pan with a quart of white sauce (No 7) and half D stock, reduce it till it becomes aiain thicTisI 7 Pmt °f over the onions round the mutton whicl^ f’ “d 1°” very hot. 5 101 S^aze aud serve240 FLANCS. For neck of mutton a la legumiere, ditto a la Bretonne, and ditto a la Chartre, see Removes, Nos. 482, 483, and 48G. No. 577. Loin of Mutton en Carbonade. Bone a loin of mutton carefully, leaving the small fillet attached, lard it well with pieces of lean ham and fat bacon, season with chopped eschalots, chopped parsley, pepper and salt, roll it up as tight as possible, previously putting in some forcemeat (No. 120), tie it up with string, put in a stewpan, with some white stock and vegetables, let it stew gently two hours and a half, then take it up, cut off the string, trim it at each end, glaze the top, pass the salaman- der over to give it a nice colour, and serve with dressed spinach (No. 1088), sauce Soubise (No. 47), or sauce piquante (No. 27). No. 578. Carbonade de Mouton a la Bourginotte. Prepare a loin of mutton as in the last, then peel one hundred button onions, put half an ounce of pounded sugar in a stewpan, set it over the fire and as soon as it is melted add half an ounce of butter and the onions, place them over a slow fire, tossing them every now and then, when getting tender add a pint and a half of white sauce (No. 7), and a pint of white stock, with a small bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, set it on the fire till the onions are quite done, take them out with a colander spoon and put them in a clean stewpan, reduce the sauce till it becomes rather thickish, pass it through a tammie upon the onions, Avarm altogether, pour the sauce in your dish, place the carbonade in the centre, which glaze and serve very hot. Por breast of mutton a la Soubise, sauce piquante, toinate, &c., see Removes No. 487.FLANCS. 241 No. 570. Saddle of Lamb a la Bonne Fermiere. Procure a very small saddle of very white lamb, trim it according to the size of your dish, roast it in vegetables as described in the Removes (No. 417), then boil two lambs’ frys m water five minutes, drain it on a sieve, egg and bread-crumb it, and fry in very hot lard, set the saddle in the centre of your dish, dr-ess the fry around it, and gar- nish with parsley fried nice and crisp, put a quart of con- somme m a stewpan, let it reduce to more than half, add a little sugar and chopped mint, and pour it in the dish but not over the fry. For saddle of Iamb am petits pois, ditto a la Sevigne ditto a la menagere, and ditto demi Provencals, see Re’ moves Nos. 488, 489, 492, and 491. No. 580. Shoulder of Lamb farci am: (ruffles. Take the blade bone carefully out of a shoulder of lamb without bursting the skin, lard the under part with pieces an tlT tt-T “ th “d 8 half IocS “ q™** of inch m thickness, lay it upon a cloth, season it and piead some iorcemeat about an inch in thickness domi the me m a line with the knuckle, cut some long strips of cooked ham or tongue and lay upon it, with some traffics t in as long strips as possible, then roll the flaps over and 1 “P; ?m"8 a mo® oval appearance, tie it up in a cloth pu l m a stewpan, with two large onions, two carrots two turnips, a bunch of parsley, thyme and bav W trimmings of veal, beef, or mutton! cover theTvtv -me white stock (or water, but th™ you m,^ ! meat), let it simmer for three hours ^ ' 11101 e a pint of bucellas wine take un^ 1 ’ ad<i hdf all the string, drain up™ a cloth, layTonyo™ * ,PUU)°nt ' paper frill upon the knuckle bonjkeep 16FLANCS. 242 the following sauce: take one quart of the stock it was cooked in, which pass through a tammie into a stewpan, take off all the grease, add a pint of demi-glace (No. 9), reduce it to a demi glaze, season with a little sugar and salt if required, pour it round the lamb and serve very hot; to carve it cut it in slices crosswise, it will have a marbled appearance. No. 581. Shoulder of Lamb farci a la Financiere. Proceed exactly as in the last, but serve with a ragout financiere (No. 50) instead of the sauce. No. 582. Shoulder of Lamb farci a la puree de pois vert. Proceed as before, but omit the truffles, and serve with a puree of green peas (No. 86). No. 583. Shoulder of Lamb a la Maitre d'Hotel. Plain roast a small shoulder of lamb, then put a gill of good cream in a stewpan, place it over the fire, and when boding add a quarter of a poimd of maitre d’hotel butter (No. 79), stir it till melted and pom it over the lamb. No. 584. Neck of Lamb aux legumesprintaniers. Trim a nice white neck of lamb in the manner described for mutton (No. 482), keep it nice and square, ran a skewer through and roast it with vegetables, make a border of young vegetables on your dish prepared as for fillet of beef (No. 554), dish the lamb in the centre, sauce over the vegetables, and serve sauce the same as for the fdet de boeuf. No. 585. Neck of Lamb auxpetitspois. Proceed as in the last, when roasted prepare a quart of peas as directed (No. 84), pom’ them on your dish and dress the lamb upon it.FLANCS. 243 No. 586. Neck of Lamb a la Pruxellaise. 'll ini and braise a neck of lamb as before, keeping it as white as possible, make a very nice green puree of Brussels sprouts (as directed No. 81), pour the puree in your dish and dress the lamb upon it. No. 587. Neck of Lamb a la Douairiere. Trim and braise a neck of Iamb as above, bave twelve ambs sweetbreads, six hearts, and six throats, blanch them, aid the six heart-breads, and dress them as (No. 674) cut the six throat-breads in slices and put them in a stewpan with half an ounce of butter, three chopped eschalots, a kttle pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon; let them sim- mer ten minutes, then add a quart of white sauce (No 7) twenty tablespoonfuls of white stock, and a small bunch of parsley simmer twenty minutes, take out the parsley, add twelve fine cockscombs ready dressed, (see No. 128) ’ and hmsk with a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with’a gill Of cream; do not let it boil after the liaison is in, pour the sauce on your dish, lay the neck upon it, glaze the larded sweetbreads, dress them round the neck and serve; keep the neck as white as possible. No. 588. Neck of Lamb a la Maitre d’Hotel. shodtr (Mr °f kmb and Pr0“ed " *eCted fOT No. 589. Petits Poussins a la Moskovite. Truss two chickens as for boilino- din i , . boding water one minute, and lard them very nScehTbra™ ‘bom thus: p„t some shoes of fat bacon at the K0 fo bat stewpan, layin the chickens breast u^ds ° ‘ “ 1 ‘ -ns, one carrot, one turnip, fourFLANCS. 244 bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, add as much white stock as will come up to the larded part of the chicken, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, put the cover on the stewpan and place it over a slow fire, let them simmer very gently about half an hour, a short time before they are done lay some red hot charcoal upon the cover of the stew- pan to colour the larded part of the chickens; have ready the following sauce : you have previously boiled a very nice Russian tongue, with a sharp knife trim it and cut it into long thin slices, cut also ten large gherkins in thin slices lengthwise, put two tablespoonfuls of finely chopped onions in a stewpan, with four of the vinegar from the gherkins, reduce it to half, then add three pints of white sauce (No. 7), and a pint of white stock, boil it a quarter of an hour, or till it becomes rather thicldsh, pass it through a tammie into a clean stewpan, warm it, season with a little cayenne and a teaspoonful of pounded sugar, add the slices of tongue and gherkins, and when quite hot add a gill of cream; pom- the sauce on the dish upon which lay the chickens, slantwise, the breasts pointing contrarywise. No. 590. Petits Poussins a VEcarlate. Roast two spring chickens in vegetables as directed in the Removes; you have previously boiled an ox tongue, which cut in halves lengthwise, trim each piece to imitate two small tongues, fix them on mashed potatoes on your dish, the points in the centre and the thick parts at the ends, then dress the chickens tail to tail to form with the tongues a cross; have ready boiled five small heads of cauliflower, place one of them in the centre upon the tails of the chickens, and one between the chickens and tongue in each space; have ready the following sauce: put three pints of white sauce in a stewpan, with a pint of white stock, boil till rather thick, season with a little sugar and245 FLANCS. salt, finish with a liaison of two yolks of eggs, mixed with a gill of ciearn, sauce over the chickens and cauliflowers, glaze the tongue and serve. No. o91. Petits Poussins a la Palestine. Roast two spring chickens in vegetables as before, pre- * I P816 . Jerusalem artichokes and dress in a border round the dlsIl> as directed for noix de veau a la Palestine (No. 567), dress the chickens in the centre, and sauce the same as m the last article. No. 592. Petits Poussins a la Venitienne. Truss, lard, and braise two chickens as before, dress them on a dish, and have ready the Mowing sauce: put two tablespoonfuls of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with one of salad oil, pass them a few minutes over the fire, then add two glasses of sherry, reduce to half, add a pint and a half of white sauce (No. 7), and half a pint of white stock reduce it till it comes to a proper consistency, add one tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, one of chopped truffles, and one of chopped parsley; season with a little sugar and salt, throw in twelve fine cockscombs ready diessed squeeze a little lemon-juice in, and finish with half a gill ol cream, sauce over and serve. No. 593. Petits Poussins a la Prince Albert. Truss and braise two chickens as above, then have eight lambs sweetbreads and eight plovers’ eggs, as directed for as H T o la,Prmce Albert (No- 570), make a border heie described, and dress the chickens in the centre • ave ready the following sauce; put a quart of good veal246 FLANCS. (No. 37), half a pint of white sauce, and half a teaspoonful of sugar; boil altogether ten minutes, finish with two pats of butter, and when melted pour it over the chickens; glaze the sweetbreads and serve. No. 594. Petits Poussins an jus Pestragon. Braise two chickens as directed for a la Moscovite (No 589), but they will not require larding, and completely cover them with stock ; when done pass the stock through a tammie into another stewpan, place it on the fire, skim off all the fat, and clarify it as directed (No. 134), place it again on the fire and reduce it to a very thin glaze, add two tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and half a one of sugar, throw in twenty leaves of tarragon, boil altogether two minutes, dress the chickens on a dish, sauce over and serve. Bor petits poussins a la marechale, and ditto a la tartare, see Removes, Nos. 532, 531. No. 595. Petits Poussins ct la Chevaliere. Truss, lard, and braise the chickens as directed for a la Moscovite (No. 589), only let them stew rather longer, dress on your dish, and have ready the following sauce: peel about forty button onions, put a quarter of an ounce of powdered sugar in a stewpan, place it on tne fire, and when the sugar melts add an ounce of butter and the onions, pass them over a slow fire till they become tender, but they must be kept quite white, add a quart of white sauce (No. 7), half a pint of veal stock, and a good bunch of parsley; let it simmer until the onions are quite done, take them out with a colander spoon and put them in an- other stewpan, reduce the sauce until it becomes sufficiently thick, then pass it through a tammie over the onions, add twenty heads of mushrooms, boil up, and finish with pats of butter, a little sugar, and a liaison of two yolks of247 FLANCS. eggs; porn’ the sauce on your dish, dress the chickens over and serve; you can lard and dress the fillets of two chickens as directed (No. 792), and garnish your chickens with them. No. 596. Petits Poussins a la Marengo. lake two spring chickens and truss them as directed for poulet a la marechale (No. 532), put four tablespoonfuls of oil m a flat stewpan, lay in the chickens, previously seasoned with pepper and salt, place them over a moderate fire, put the cover on the stewpan, let them go ten minutes till they become blown, then turn them and let remain till the other side is browned, pour off the oil, then add a pint of brown sauce, one bay-leaf, and a pint of good consomme, place it over the fire for a quarter of an hour, take out the chickens lay them on your dish and keep hot, throw about forty heads of mushrooms into the stewpan, with a little sugar and a clove of scraped garlick, reduce the sauce till it be- comes rather thickish; pour it over the chickens and serve. Poulet a la Marie Stuart (No. 528), Do. a la Perigord (No. 524), Do. a la macedoine de legumes (No. 525), Do. a l’lndienne (No. 526), which are given in the Removes, may also be served for flancs, reducing the quantity to the size of the dish. No. 597. Puc/dings auxpetitspois au lard. Truss two ducklings with their legs turned inside, roast them m vegetables, but just before they are done take away the vegetables and let them obtain a little colour • lave ready boiled three pints of young peas, which put in a stewpan, mth half a teaspoonful of salt, three of sugar a bunch of ten spring green onions tied up with a W spngs of parsley, one bay-leaf, a sprig 0f Th^ne, toFLANCS. 248 spoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), and two of consomme; you have boiled half a pound of lean bacon, which cut into neat square pieces the size of small walnuts, put them in the stewpan with the peas and simmer altogether ten minutes, take out the bunch of herbs, place your ducklings in a flat stewpan, pour the peas over and place them in your bain marie for half an horn- before serving, then dress your ducklings on a dish, pour the peas over and serve. No. 598. Buddings au jus (Torange. Truss and roast two ducklings as above, and serve on a dish with a sauce au jus d’orange (No. 17) round them. Ducklings aux olives and ducklings a la Chartre are dressed the same as above, but they are given in full in the Re- moves, No. 539. No. 599. Faisans a la Fontainbleau. « Procure two young pheasants, pluck, draw, and truss them with their legs turned inside, lard the best part of the breast in a square, lay some thin slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a flat stewpan, put your pheasants upon it breasts upwards; have ready blanched twelve fine cabbage lettuces, take off the outside leaves and place them in the stewpan with the pheasants, put in also two large onions with three cloves stuck in each, and a bunch of parsley with two bay- leaves, pour in sufficient white stock to come up to the larded part of the birds, lay eight pork sausages on the top of the lettuces, cover the whole with a sheet of buttered paper, cover the stewpan and stew gently for an hour, glaze and salamander the breasts of the birds, take the lettuces and sausages carefully out and lay them on a clean cloth to extract the grease, then lay two pieces of lettuce iu the centre of your dish, just large enough to dress the birds upon, place one upon each piece, and with the remainderFLANCS. 2*19 make a flat border near the edge of the dish, cut the sausages into three pieces and dress them upon the border of lettuce, pass the stock from the stewpan through a sieve into another stewpan, set it to boil, skim off all the fat, add a pint and a half of brown sauce (No. 1), reduce it to a nice demi-glace, add half a teaspoonful of sugar, sauce over the birds and serve. The cabbage lettuces must be rather highly seasoned when put in the pan to stew. No. 600. Faisans a la puree de Gibier. Truss, lard, and braise two pheasants in the same man- ner as m the last, omitting the lettuces and sausages; when done, have ready prepared two thick pieces of toast which cover with a stuffing made from the livers of the birds, as directed for faisans a l’amiral (see Removes, No. 544) • put them in a saute-pan in the oven twenty minutes, shape them tastefully, place them in your dish, and dress the birds upon them; have ready prepared the Mowing sauce : roast a grouse, partridge, or any bird you have, or the remains of some game left from another dinner, pick off all the flesh which pound well in a mortar, put two teaspoonfuls of chopped eschalots m a stewpan, with a small piece of butter pass them a minute or two over the foe, then add the landed game with a quart of the demi-glace de gibier ub t gi"0f St0Ck' M alt°SethCT to miLes, seaso^« rS| H,a P,Ut “ int° another ste"W ,r Tf a !i , pePPer-,Salt’ and “ a teaspoonful of W V , ' 1 a httIe broth- wa™ it. but do not nd‘Lrve ^ ^ ‘he l»ded part, No. 601. Faisans truffSs a la PUnwnUiise ph“0:soX ifRemoves> using ^—FLANCS. 250 No. 602. Faisans a VAmiral. Proceed as directed for the remove, but one large phea- sant will be quite sufficient, diminish the quantity of garni- ture and sauce in proportion. No. 603. Grouse. Two small grouse will be quite sufficient for a flanc; they are dressed in any of the ways as described for phea- sants, but though dressed in the same manner, they might be served in a large dinner, where pheasants were dressed the same, as the flavour of the two would be very different, the grouse being so much wilder would give a different flavour to the garniture and sauces. For grouse a la Rob Roy (see Removes, No 548). No. 604. Chartreuse de Ferdreaux. Truss two nice partridges with the legs turned inside, stick about ten small pieces of fat bacon two inches in length and the size of a quill through the breasts length- wise, then cut two nice savoy cabbages in quarters, and boil five minutes, throw them into plenty of cold water; when cold lay them on a sieve, squeeze quite dry with a cloth, season well with pepper and salt, cut out the stalk, and put them into a stewpan, with two onions, three cloves, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves, one carrot, and three quarters of a pound of streaky bacon; cover with a quart of white stock, and let stew an hour or more, till the stock has reduced to a thin glaze; take it off the fire, roast your partridges, take out the skewers and string, bury them in the stewed cabbage whilst hot, and let them remain till wanted; then butter a large plain oval mould, paper it, and again butter the paper; have. ready peeled sixty smallI'LANCS. 251 button onions, which stew in a little white stock and sugar till tender, cut about a hundred pieces of carrots, half an inch in length, and the thickness of a large C|uill; stew them in the same manner as the onions, have also cut of the same size the same quantity of turnips (do not stew them too much or they would be useless), place a row of onions lound the bottom of the mould, then above them a row of carrots, slantwise, but one touching the other, then * a row of the turnips, then carrots, proceeding in like man- ner till you reach the top; drain the cabbage, and squeeze it tin it is somewhat firm, put some of it at the bottom of the mould an inch in thickness, and line the sides not quite so thick, put the partridges in the centre with shoes of the bacon, finish filling up with the cabbage, place in a stew- pan of water over the fire to get hot, but do not let the water get into it; when ready to serve turn out on your dish, and take tfie paper carefully from it; have ready the following sauce: put the stock from the vegetables and a little of the stock from the cabbage into a stewpan, add a quart of brown sauce (No. 1), boil to the consistence of demi-glaee, add a little sugar, sauce carefully all over, and serve. No. 605. Chartreuse de Perdreaux d VImperial. Prepare the chartreuse just as above, and when turned out have thirty small quenelles de volaille (No. 120), made in a dessert-spoon • make very carefully a border of mashed potatoes on the top of it about half an inch from the rim upon which dress the quenelles in the form of a crown’ place a fine larded sweetbread dressed (No. 674) in the centre through which run an atelette of vegetables, sauce in the last article, and serve; the cabbage, if possible reqiures to be drier than in the last. 1 ’252 I'LANCS. No. GOG. Chartreuse de Perdreaux a la Moderne. Prepare a chartreuse as before, then have twenty young carrots turned in the shape of pears, but not too small, put them in a stewpan with a little sugar and white stock, and boil till tender; turn out the chartreuse on your dish, make a thin border of mashed potatoes on the top about half an inch from the rim, cut oil' a piece from the thick part of each carrot, and stand them upright upon the potatoes, fill the centre with a pint of fresh boiled green peas dressed in pyramid, upon the top place a small white cauliflower, nicely boiled, sauce as before, and serve; this makes a very pretty dish. In case you could not procure a mould as required, you could turn your vegetables, and dress as the carrots above; lay the cabbage, bacon, and partridges in the centre of your dish, dress the vegetables on mashed potatoes tastefully around, finish on the top in either of the two last ways, sauce the same, and serve; although not so handsome it takes less time, and the exercise of a little taste on the part of the cook will render it a very pretty dish. No. 607. Perdreaux a la Mecklenbourg. Take three large young partridges, draw, and leave the skin upon the neck as long as possible, put half a pound of the forcemeat of game (No 123) in a.basin, add two finely- chopped fresh Trench plums, two ounces of chopped tongue or ham (cooked) some chopped parsley, two yolks of eggs, a little cream, and a little grated nutmeg, mix all together, and stuff the breasts of your birds with it, tie them up in thin slices of bacon, and in two or three sheets of oileu paper, put them into a stewpan with half a pint of bucellas wine, a pint of good stock, two large onions, an apple, and a good bunch of parsley; place the stewpan on the fire, and253 FLANCS. when it begins to boil place it in a moderate oven for three quaiteis ol an hour, take the birds out of the papers, take off the bacon and place them on your dish, keep hot, and prepare the following sauce : pass the stock from the stew- pan through a fine cloth into another stewpan, skim off all the fat and reduce it to half, mix a dessertspoonful of arrow- root with a glass of cold stock, put it into the stewpan, with two spoonfuls of tomata sauce (No. 37); boil tiff forming a demi-glace, put a piece of toast beneath each bird, sauce over and serve; but the last thing before serving add half a spoonful of red currant jelly to the sauce, which season a little high. No. 608. Perdreaux a la puree de gibier. Proceed exactly as for the faisan a la puree de gibier (No. 600), the only difference being that the partridges will not require so long to braise as the pheasants. No. 609. Perdreaux truffes a la Perigord. Diaw three partridges carefully, then prepare a stuffing ol truffle as directed for poulardes truffes a la Perigord (^o. 524), stuff the inside and breasts well, and leave them a week to take the flavour of the truffles; when ready to roast pass a thin flat iron skewer through them, passing it through the pinions and thighs, tie them in oiled paper fix the skewer to the spit and roast them before a good fire’ for half an hour, lettmg them get a little colour through the paper; ni tekmg them 0ff the skewer be careful not to k the breast, or they would look unsightly; dress them on a dish and sauce as for the poulaxdes; se/e v^y hob No. CIO. Leoeraut sauce pomade. A young leveret may be occasionally served for s fl SS “ 33 fOT fillets very fine.ro^UFLANCS. 254 nicely, keeping it rather underdone, dress it on your dish, and serve with a sauce poivrade (No. 32) round it. No. 611. Levraut au jus de groseilles. Truss and lard a young leveret as above, then prepare a marinade as for filet de bceuf a la Bohemienne ( No. 426), put in the leveret for three days; when ready dry it in a cloth and roast before a sharp fire, keep it moist, serve with a demi-glace (No. 9), in which you have put two spoonfuls of currant jelly, a little cayenne pepper, and two dozen of stoned olives. No. 612. lapereaux d la Taverniere. Tame and even wild rabbits are extremely useful in cook- ing, though very little used for flancs; they may be served with propriety in the ways I have here described, particu- larly in the country, where they are so plentiful, and your resources frequently so limited. Skin and truss two young rabbits as for roasting, then put two ounces of butter in a flat stewpan, (large enough to contain the rabbits,) cut half a pound of mild lean ham into large dice, put them into the stewpan, with the butter, and fry them gently ten minutes, then put in the rabbits, put the cover over the stewpan and place it over a slow fire, turn them round now and then until they take a light- brown colour, add fifty button onions, which also coloui, take out the rabbits, add two ounces of flour to the ingie- dients in the stewpan (mix well) and a quart of white stock; place the stewpan over the fire, keep it stirred until boiling, put back the rabbits, with a good bunch of parsley, tin me, bay-leaf, and four cloves; let it simmer, skim off the fat, which will rise to the top, take out the rabbits, you have previously taken out the onions with a spoon and deposited them in a clean stewpan, with the pieces of ham; reduce255 FLANCS. the sauce to the thickness required, pass it through a tam- mie into the stewpan containing the onions and ham, add twenty heads of mushrooms, dress your rabbits on a dish slantingly, the heads pointing different ways, sauce over and serve. Finish |he sauce with a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with half a gill of cream. No. G13. Lapereaux a la Jardiniere. Procure two young rabbits and proceed as in the last, but at the time you add the onions also add the same quantity of pieces of carrot and turnip cut with a scoop of the same size as the onions, skim well, and when done take t em out, put them as before in a clean stewpan, take up the rabbits, pass the sauce through a tammie upon them, add half a teaspoonful of sugar and a few heads of aspara- gus or peas, make it quite hot; sauce over the rabbits and No. 614. Lapereaux auxpetitspois. Dress the rabbits as directed for lapereaux a la taverniere u putting only half the quantity of onions • when you take out the rabbits add a quart of fresh boiled young green pea8, (you do not take out the onions as previously,) season with a little sugar and salt, dress the rabbits on a dish and sauce over; the sauce requires to be rather thick, but vet no to0 thiek; t00 thin it wodd have a fead and if too thick it would be unpleasant eating. 1 No. 615. Lapeieaux a la Villageoise. Skin and truss two young rabbits, make a stuffing of the I'eis as dn-ected m faisan 1 la corsaire (No. 5441- stuff tl, rabbits and roast them, baste them well whilst roastiim by throwing flour over them and moistening with bn(tei-° \ when roasted have ready the following saC put'^ £2 50 FI-A.NCS. spoonfuls of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with a small piece of butter, pass them for five minutes over a slow fire, then acid half a pint of melted butter (No. 71), kcqj it stirred over the fire, and when beginning to boil add two ounces of fresh butter, a little salt, pepner, and the juice of a lemon, shake the stewpan over the nre till the butter is melted; dress your rabbits upon a dish, sauce over and serve. No. 616. Lapereaux a la Bourgmestre. Truss and stuff two very fine young rabbits as above, lard the fillets and roast a nice colour ; you have previously filleted three young rabbits, take off the skin of the fillets and lard them with very fine bacon, then put some thin shoes of bacon and onions cut in slices in a saute-pan, put your fillets upon them, cover with white stock, lay a sheet of buttered paper over and put them in the oven for half an hour, give your fillets a good colour, dress your rabbits in the centre, the fillets around upon a border of mashed potatoes, and serve with a sauce Soubise (No. 47) poured round. No 617. Lapereaux a VAnglaise. Truss two young rabbits as usual, and put them in a stewpan, with a quart of water and a pint of milk, stew them half an horn or till tender, place them on a dish and serve them up covered with onion sauce (No. 4/). No. 618. Bate chaud d'lgneau. Procure an oval raised-pie mould, about four inches in height, five in breadth, and nine in length; then make the following paste: put two pounds of flour on your pastry slab, make a hole in the middle, put a quarter of a pound of chopped suet and a quarter of a pound of butter in a257 FLANCS. stewpan, with half a pint of water, let it boil one minute, pom’ it into the flour, mix with a spoon until cool enough to work with the hands, work it smooth, and when nearly cold loll out a sheet three quarters of an inch in thickness, until which line the mould, pressing the paste equally at all parts; you have cut twelve or more lambs’ cutlets, leave them thick and take away the bones, lay the cutlets in the pie al- ternately with slices of potatoes about a quarter of an inch in thickness until it is quite full, season highly as you proceed with pepper, salt, chopped onions, and chopped parsley make a cover with the trimmings of the paste, ornament it to fancy, work up the edges with the fingers, and crimp it nicely with the paste-nippers, let it stand two hours to get ), egg the top and bake it three hours in a moderate oven; when done cut out the lid, take as much fat from the top as possible, put half a pint of good stock in a stewpan with a pmt of white sauce (No. 7), and a small piece of glaze, reduce till rather thick, add a little sugar, pour in the sauce take out of the mould, put on the cover and serve veiy hot; if care be taken in baking the crust will be a blight yellow colour. No. 619. Pdte chaud de Mouton d VIrlandaise. Line a mould with paste as in the last, fill it as there described, using mutton cutlets instead of lamb and more omens nr the seasoning, give it half an hour longer to bX d use brown instead of white sauce to fill it up • serve in the same manner as the last. P ’ 1U No. 620. Pate chaud d’ Escalopes de filet de Pceufi Line a mould with the paste as before + more pieces of fillet of bJ_ m sliJ? Zrt ° * T rn thickness, season them on a dish with pepper salt 1/258 FLANCS. over them, have also ready twenty thin slices of lean ham, but the same size as the pieces of beef, and twenty slices of potatoes one inch in thickness, put a layer of beef at the bottom of the pie, then a layer of the ham, then potatoes, proceeding in like manner till it is full, cover and bake as before; when ready to serve pour in a brown sauce as in the last. No. 621. Pate cliaud d’Escalopes deVeau et de ris deVeau. Line a mould with paste as before, take a piece of veal from the leg, from which cut twenty-four escalopes the thickness of three five-shilling-pieces, but rather larger, have also two large throat sweetbreads, boil them in water a quarter of an hour, and cut them into escalopes the same size as the veal, cut also thirty very thin escalopes of streaky bacon the same size, season the whole very highly with pepper, salt, nutmeg, chopped parsley, ancl chopped es- chalots, proceed to fill the pie, first lay in a piece of veal, then bacon, then sweetbread, bacon and veal again, pro- ceeding in like manner till full, cover and bake three horns, when done sauce as for the pate d’agneau and serve, lou may place a couple of bay-leaves upon the top of each pie previous to covering, it is an improvement to all, especially lamb or veal. No. 622. Pate chaud de Volaille. Line a mould with paste as before, then cut up two chickens into neat pieces, taking off the wings with good fillets, leaving sufficient on the breast, which divide in two pieces, bone the legs, and divide the backs into two, put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan, when it melts add your pieces of chicken, season with a little pepper, salt, and chopped eschalots, add two bay-leaves and place the stewpan twenty minutes over a very slow fire, then pour off259 FLANCS. the butter and add a pint of white sauce (No. 7), stew ten minutes and pour them on a dish till cold, fill up the pie, placing the pieces of the back at the bottom, then the legs, then breast, finishing at the tops with the wings, have also twenty pieces of cooked ham about the size of five-shilling- pieces, which intersperse with the chicken, put a cover on and bake one hour and a half in a very warm oven, when done cut off the cover and take off as much of the*fat as possible, put a pint of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with four spoonfuls of white stock, when it boils add about forty heads of mushrooms and half a teaspoonful of sugar, boil ten minutes, finish with a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with a gill of cream, pom* the sauce into the pie, put on the cover and serve. No. 623. tP cite chaud de Pigeonneciux. Line a mould with paste as before, then take six young pigeons trussed with their legs inside, cut each pigeon in halves lengthwise, pass them in butter the same as the chickens, proceeding in the same manner, but using brown instead of white sauce, put them on a dish to cool, have tie yolks of eight hard-boded eggs (which cut in halves) and twelve slices of boded streaky bacon, lay a slice of aeon and half a pigeon alternately in the pie, interspersing the hard-boded yolks here and there, when filled cover and bake two hours m a moderate oven, when done take off the cover and as much fat as possible, then put a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) m a stewpan, with half a pint of good stock and an ounce of glaze, reduce to two thirds, pour into the pie which cover and serve as before. Pate'S chauds may be made of all kinds of birds as phea- sants, grouse, partridges, woodcocks, snipes, or larks bv following either of the two last recipes but tliev * m sernd as entries, where I intend placing ™260 FLANCS. No. 624. Rate chaud de Lapereau. Line a mould with paste as before, then procure two or three young rabbits, according to the size, which cut into neat pieces, and place in a stewpan of boiling water for one minute, take them out, pass in butter, and proceed pre- cisely as for pate chaud de volaille (No. 622). No. 625. Vol-au-vent. Vol-au-vents are usually served for entrees, bnt by cut- ting one larger and of an oval shape they may be served for flancs with any of the garnitures as directed in the entrees. No. 626. Casserole de Riz. Wash in several waters two pounds of the best Carolina rice; when very clean put it into a stewpan, with two quarts of water, half a pound of butter, two large onions, and half an ounce of salt, set on a fire, an4 when boiling place it to simmer very gently on a slow fire for one hour; when done it must appear quite dry and tender to the finger, take out the onions and mix the rice well with a wooden spoon; if sufficiently done it will clog together, then put it in a mortar and pound it well till it forms but one mass, butter a baking-sheet, lay the rice upon it and you will be able to form it into any shape you please, but for flancs form it of an oval shape in imitation of a raised pie, (should the rice stick to your fingers dip them in cold water,) when of a proper shape and well elevated cut a piece of carrot or tur- nip in the form of a wedge, with which make impressions all round according to fancy, melt some butter, and with a paste-brush rub it all over the rice, put it in a very hot oven and bake it a light yellow colour; if well made it will retain its shape, and any design you may have impressed upon it; when well done make an incision with your knife201 FLANCS. half an inch from the edge all round, and empty it to with- in half an inch from the bottom; it is then ready to serve with any of the ingredients as directed in the following. No. 627. Casserole de Biz aux queues d' Agneau. Procure six house lambs’ tails, blanch them ten minutes in boiling water, then cut them in pieces an inch long; put a quarter of a pound of chopped suet in a stewpan, with two onions, a carrot cut up small, one turnip, three bay-leaves, six cloves, and a little thyme; pass the whole upon a slow fire ten minutes, add two tablespoonfuls of flour (mix well), two quarts of white stock, and a little salt; then add the tails, let simmer gently forty minutes or more till tender, take them out and drain upon a clean cloth, put mto another stewpan a quart of white sauce and half a’pint of white stock, reduce till rather thick, then add the tails with twenty heads of mushrooms, a little chopped parsley’ pepper, and salt, add the liaison from two yolks of eggs and a gill of cream; shake it over the fire, but do not lei it od, finish with a little lemon-juice, pom* it in the casserole and. serve. No. 628. Casserole de Biz ait queues de Veau. Scald and cut four calves’ tails into pieces an inch loim artW 7 riSdy aS the kmbs’ taiIs in fte previous’ article, only allowing them longer to stew, terminate and serve as m the last. No. 629. Casserole de Biz auxpieds d'Agneau. Procure twelve lambs’feet, throw them into boiling water or two minutes, extract the long bone by holding the feet » a cloth and moving the bone gently tiU it ,fa^ 7 cket; when they are all done proceed as for the lamW262 J'LANCS. tails (No. 627), boiling them rather longer, sauce and servo precisely the same. No. 630. Casserole de Biz aapieds de mouton. Procure ten small sheeps’ feet, dress them precisely as the lambs’ feet, but of course they will take more time; when tender divide each foot in two lengthwise, sauce and serve as directed for queues d’agneau (No. 627). Sheeps’ feet, commonly called sheeps’ trotters, are seldom used in this country to any real advantage, although in Paris they have made the fortunes of more than one restaurateur; one house was so famed for them, that its proprietor named it Restaurant du Pied de Mouton. About sixteen years ago epicures were seen from all parts of Paris trotting after a dinner of trotters, until the proprietor saved an immense fortune; but they are even now much thought of in Paris, both for their lightness and delicacy, and are always to be had in any of the first houses. Por my part I really think they deserve a better fate than that of being trotted about from bar to bar in palaces cer- tainly containing the choicest spirits, and to be exposed on a cloth (semi-blanche) m a basket, and from thence to the honest, but not very delicate fingers of a London coalheav er or dustman ; I must, however, observe that it is not my desire to deprive them of their luxury, but a mere wish to find a resting-place for the unfortunate trotters upon the tables of the affluent in this country, where they would be eaten and admired for their delicacy. No. 631. Casserole de Biz a la Neapolitaine. Have ready a casserole of rice as directed, then boil half a pound of riband macaroni in water ten minutes, strain it and put it in a stewpan, cut up a braised fowl, (or theFLANCS. 263 remains of some poultry from a previous dinner,) in as large pieces as possible, which put in the stewpan, with the ma- caroni and a quarter of a pound of lean ham, cover with a pint of \ ery strong beef gravy; let all boil together a few minutes, then add a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan cheese, a tablespoonful of tomata sauce (No. 37), and a little cayenne pepper, pour it in the casserole, egg and bread-crumb the top, put it in the oven twenty minutes and serve. No. 632. Casserole de Biz Polonaise d la ICorosM. Prepare a casserole of rice as before, then mince the flesh of a fowl (or the remains of several) with two ounces of lean cooked ham and a few mushrooms, or truffles • put two spoonfuls of chopped onions in a stewpan, with two pats of butter; stir them over the fire two minutes, add half a spoonful of flour, (mix well) and a quart of white sauce (m. 7); boil altogether a short time, then add the mince season with a little pepper and salt, finish with three table- spoonfuls of cream, and pom- it in your casserole; you have previously boiled eight eggs in water five minutes, then put them m cold water, peel off the shells, warm them again in r°th’ and &GSS them on the mince at equal distances the ends pointing to the centre; have also eight pieces of cook- ec tongue cut m the shape of cockscombs, warm them and place a piece upright between each egg; have ready a nice larded sweetbread, nicely cooked, which place in the centre g aze ie sweetbread and tongue, and pom a little white sauce over the eggs; serve very hot. No. 633. Casserole de Biz d la Boy ale. Prepare a casserole of rice, mince a fowl with ham truffles, and proceed as in tlie last; when 'done^^yourFLANCS. 264 casserole; have ready twelve plovers’ eggs, peel off the shells, warm them in broth, and place them round on the mince points upwards at equal distances, apart; have previously boiled some nice asparagus, cut off the heads about an inch and a half in length, and stand a bunch of five or six heads between each plover’s egg, making them stand a little above the eggs; have also twelve very fine cockscombs ready cooked (see No. 128), which dress in the middle, put fifteen tablespoonfuls of white sauce in a stewpan, and when boil- ing add two pats of butter and a little lemon-juice, finish with a liaison of one yolk of egg, pour over the cockscombs and serve. No. 634. Casserole de Riz a la Chevaliere. Prepare a casserole as before, prepare two chickens as directed in the entree a la chevaliere (No. 818); fill your casserole, by placing the pieces of back at the bottom, then the legs and pinions, pom the sauce and garniture over, dress the four larded fillets to meet in a point, and finish by placing a small white head of cauliflower, nicely boiled, on the top, in the centre of the fillets, and serve. When you serve a dinner where four entrees and two flancs are required, it is the object of the host to see his table well garnished; and no liors-d’ceuvres being served, you may make flancs of them, although, I must repeat, flancs ought to be composed of one solid piece, or, at any rate, not more than two or three pieces, but circumstances may require a deviation from this rule; I have therefore given a list of those hors-d’oeuvres which may be used for flancs, by adding to the number required for a dish, and making them rather larger; the croustades de beurre and timbales must be dressed in a circle on a border of mashed potatoes, and the petits vol-au-vents in pyramid on a napkin.flancs. 205 I will here give but the list; for directions you must refer to the chapter devoted to Hors-d’oeuvres, Croustade de beurre aux huitres. I)o. aux laitances de maquereaux. Do. puree de volaille. Do. puree de gibier. 1 etits timbales aux oeufs de pluviers. Do. de volaille aux truffes. Do. puree de riz de veau. Do. quenelles de gibier. Petits vol-au-vents aux huitres. Do. aux filets de soles,, Do. de homard. Do. of crab.266 ENTREES. Entrees require to be small and elegant, as well as tasty; those which can be dressed in a crown like cotelettes, que- nelles, or fillets of any description, are preferable, and more graceful, the garniture being placed in the centre; they are also more likely to be partaken of on account of the facility of serving, they being already carved, and much better than large pieces, such as whole fowls, vol-au-vents, or pates chauds; where you require flancs, by all means reserve them for that purpose; but in a dinner of four entrees only, you require to send two entrees light, and two (what I term) solid, for the sake of variety, for if you had four light entrees upon the table without flancs, there would not appear sufficient dinner for the assembled guests, but the solid entrees may be made to look exceedingly light if carried to a height corresponding to their breadth; in dishing your entrees always allow an inch between the entree and the rim of the dish, or if the dishes are lanre leave more space; the round entree dishes are the most preferable, and should not be more than an inch and a half, or less than an inch in depth. No. 6 3 5. Of Beef for Entrees. Of all kinds of butchers’ meat, beef, though so useful in cooking, presents the least variation for entrees, the fillet being the only part that can be used to any advantage. No. 636. Escalopes de Filet de Bceuf a la Reform. Take out the fillet from beneath a rump of beef, take off all the fat, and cut it into slices (lengthwise) half an inchENTREES, 267 in thickness, beat them well with the cutlet-bat, which previously dip in water, then cut them into ten or twelve escalopes, the size and shape of fillets of chickens, lay each piece upon the table, season with pepper, salt, and a little chopped eschalots, cut two very thin slices of fat bacon to each escalope of beef, trim the bacon to the same size and shape, egg over the escalopes of beef, and stick a piece of the bacon upon each side of them, then egg all over and throw them into a dish of bread-crumbs mixed with chopped lean cooked ham • take them out, beat lightly with your knife, put a little oil in a saute-pan, place it over a mo- derate fire, when quite hot put in your escalopes, fry a nice colour, and dress in crown upon a thin border of mashed potatoes, glaze nicely; sauce over with a sauce reforme (No. 35), and serve. No. 637. Escalopes de Filet de Bceirf a la Gotha. Cut twelve escalopes of beef as described in the last scrape a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, melt it in a stew- pan, and pass it through a sieve into a well-tinned saute- pan, then lay in your escalopes, season them with a table- spoonful of chopped eschalots, and a little pepper and salt pass them over the fire five minutes, and leave them to get cold in the saute-pan; you have procured half a pound oi pork sausage-meat, which place in a mortar, add to it three tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), a little chopped parsley, also a little thyme, and one bay-leaf, chopped very hue, pound all well together and mix it with one you have also procured a pig’s caul, cut it in twelve square pieces, each the size of a small hand, lay a little of the sausage-meat m the centre a quarter of an inch in thickness upon which lay one of the escalopes, with the bacon and seasoning which is attached, cover with a little more of the sausage-meat and wrap them up in the caul, keeping tieENTREES. 268 same shape as the pieces of beef and as flat as you can, proceed in like manner till they are all finished; put them in a cool place ten minutes, before serving put them over a good fire upon a gridiron, broil them a nice colour, dress them in a crown, fill the centre with some very white stewed choucroute (No. 116), and serve very hot. No. 638. Escalopes de Filet de Bceuf a la Portugaise. Prepare twelve escalopes of beef as before, and cook them precisely as in the last; have ready prepared two Portugal onions, which peel and blanch ten minutes in boil- ing water, then put them into a stewpan just large enough to contain them, cover with some white veal stock, add a bunch of parsley, and stew for an hour or more till quite tender, the smallest one will of course be the first done, take it off and keep it hot till the second one is done, then place the largest upon a piece of mashed potatoes in the centre of your dish, dress the escalopes around upon a small border of mashed potatoes, the points inclining inwards; dress the smaller onion upon the larger, and run a silver attelet through them both ; pass the stock the onions were stewed in through a tammie into another stewpan, reduce it to a demi-glace, slum it well, add four tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), boil altogether a minute, sauce over and serve. No. 639. Escalopes de Filets de Bceuf a la Nemours. Cut twenty-four escalopes of beef as before, but not half so thick, put four tablespoonfuls of forcemeat (No. 120) in a basin with two spoonfuls of chopped lean ham and the yolk of an egg, mix well together, then lay twelve of the escalopes of beef upon the table, put a little of the force- meat on each, spread it all over with a knife, lay a very thin slice of cooked ham, fat and lean, upon each, spread a littleENTREES. 269 more of the forcemeat over, then lay one of the other twelve escalopes upon each, season with a little pepper and salt; egg over with a paste-brash, and throw them into bread- crumbs and chopped parsley mixed, take them out, beat tightly with yoiu knife, and fry carefully in a saute-pan with lard, dress them in a crown, glaze and have ready the fol- lowing sauce: put an ounce of glaze in a saute-pan, with two spoonfuls of broth and two of white sauce; when boil- ing, add half an ounce of very fresh butter, half a teaspoon- ful of sugar, and a little lemon-juice (do not let it boil after you have put in the butter), sauce over and serve. No. 640. Escalopes de Filet de Bceuf a V Ostende. Cut twenty escalopes as in the last article, then blanch and beard two or three dozen of Ostencl or small oysters, and cut them up in small dice, then put half a teaspoonful of chopped onions in a stewpan with a small piece of butter, pass them over the fire three minutes, add half a table- spoonful of flour (mix well), four tablespoonfuls of the juice of the oysters, and four of white sauce, boil altogether five minutes, keeping it stirred, then add the oysters with a little essence of anchovies and cayenne pepper; place it again on the fire, and just as it begins to boil add the yolk of an egg, stir it well in and set it on a dish to cool, then lay ten of the escalopes upon the table, and spread a little of the above upon each, cover the ten other escalopes over hem, season with a little pepper and salt, egg, bread- crumb, and fry as m the last; glaze, dress them in crown and have ready the following sauce: put half an ounce of glaze m a stewpan with six tablespoonfuls of good stock and four of brown sauce, place it on the fire, and when it ilsi add half an ounce of anchovy butter, pour the sauce in tlie dish and serve.270 ENTREES. No. 641. Escalopes de Filet de Bceuf pique a la Chasseur. Cut ten escalopes as described for a la reform, but ratlier thicker, lard each piece with bacon one inch long and nar- row in proportion, but do not let the bacon show far out of the beef, then prepare two quarts of marinade (see filet de boeuf a la Bohemienne, No. 426); lay your escalopes in a dish, and strain the marinade over, let them remain about twenty-four horns, take them out and lay them on a cloth, cover the bottom of the saute-pan with thin slices of fat bacon, lay the escalopes over, add a little of the liquor, but not sufficient to cover them; place a sheet of buttered paper over the saute-pan and put them in a slow oven for half an hour or more, moisten them now and then with their stock, and when nearly done glaze and give them a little colour with the salamander, take them out, drain on a cloth, and dress in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes; have ready the following sauce : pass the stock they were cooked in through a tammie into a stewpan, boil it at the corner of the stove, skim off all the grease, add half a pint of brown sauce, and reduce it till it forms a good demi-glaze, then add a spoonful of currant jelly and a pat of butter, mix it quickly and sauce over, season a little more if required. No. 642. Other Entrees of Fillets of Beef. Take the best part of a fillet of beef, that is, about the middle, cut eighteen slices three quarters of inch in thick- ness, and beat them with your small chopper to the thick- ness of half an inch; cut each slice into an oval piece, cut also six oval pieces of suet from the kidney, about half the size, and not so thick as the fillet, dip the pieces of fillet in flour, previously seasoning them with pepper and salt; fry in clarified butter in a saute-pan over a sharp fire, egg andENTREES. 271 bread-crumb the pieces of fat, fry them after the pieces of fillet, dress them alternately with the fillets in a crown and serve with any of the following sauces: Sauce piquante (No. 27), Do. a l’ltalienne (No. 30), Do. tomate (No. 37), Do. poivrade (No. 32), Do. a la Hollandaise (No. 66), or any of the sauces described for fillets of beef in the Re- moves, but of course preparing a smaller quantity; you can also convert the remains of a fillet of beef left from a re move into an entree, by cutting it into shoes and trimming it into oval pieces, not cutting the larded part; lay the pieces m a saute-pan and just cover them with a good strong gravy, place a sheet of paper over, and put them in a mo^ derate oven till they are quite hot through, take them, out and serve with any of the sauces mentioned for fillets of beel m the Removes. No. 643. Aiguillette de Langue de Bceuf en Papillate. . Boilfa salt ox'tongue three hours, and when cold cut ten pieces rom the best part, of the shape of a fillet of fowl and half an inch in thickness, then put two tablespoonfuls ol chopped onions in a saute-pan with one of oh, place the Con°TeY SYP &e’ ^pmg it stirred with a wooden spoon; when the onions become tender (but not to chano-e colour) pour off all the oil, add a spoonful of choppel mushrooms one of chopped parsley, and a pint of whffe it ffll ith ’ “01sten1with a ‘ittle White stock- “d reduce t till ,t becomes very thick, then add the pieces of tongue toss over in the sauce, and leave them to get cold: have cm en pieces ol white paper in the shape of hearts and 1 enough to fold a piece of the tongue m each of the cold sauce upon the paper, then a slice of the ton mm ° *ENTREES. 272 which cover with moro of the sauce, twist up the papeis and broil them, gradually ten minutes, serve them in the papers dressed in a crown, with a sauce Italienne (No. 30) under them; the tongues of any other animals, whether pickled or not, may be served in this manner, but of course the sauce must be more highly seasoned for the fresh tongue than for the pickled one. No. 644. Turban de Langue de Bceuf a VEcarlate. Boil two tongues separately, one pickled very red, and the other not pickled; cut six pieces from the thick part of each, about the size and shape of fillets of fowl, place the twelve pieces in a saute-pan with an ounce of glaze and four tablespoonfuls of consomme (No. 134), place over the foe, and let it remain till the pieces are quite hot, but do not let it boil; dress them alternately on a border of mashed potatoes in crown, and prepare a sauce thus: place the saute-pan again on the fire, and add ten tablespoonfuls of tomata sauce (No. 37), with four of consomme and a little sugar, boil a few minutes, pom over the tongue, glaze the red pieces, and serve. No. 645. Turban de Langue de Bceuf a la Jardiniere. Proceed with the tongues precisely as- in the last, and prepare the following sauce : cut about fifty scoops of carrots and fifty of turnips (with an iron scoop) a little larger than a pea, peel also forty very small onions, put them altogether in a stewpan with an ounce of butter and a quarter of an ounce of powdered sugar, pass them for teu minutes over a sharp fire, tossing them over now and then; add half a pint of good white stock, let them stew till tender and the broth is reduced to glaze, then turn them into the saute-pan with the stock you warmed the tongue in, stir all round together, dress the vegetables in the centre,273 ENTREES. pour the glaze over the tongue, and serve; if the carrots are old they require to be stewed separately, as they take so much longer than the turnip or onion. No. 646. Turban de Langue de Bceuf, sauce piquanie. Prepare twelve pieces of tongue as before, either pickled 01 fiesh, dress them round upon your dish, put a pint of sauce piquante (No. 27) in the saute-pan with a little sugar, bod altogether a minute, sauce over, and serve immediately • you can also serve dressed spinach or endive (Nos. 106 and 119) with it; if you serve an entree of pickled tongue, it should be placed near an entree of fowl or veal, or near to a remove of the same description, with which 'they eat much better, and for entrees of fresh tongue, season the sauces rather high. No. 647. Queues de Bceuf aux navets au brun. A few very nice entrees may be made of ox-tails; they certainly do not make handsome ones, but their delicate flavour supplies their deficiency in appearance. . Forone enWe take two fine tails, cut them at the joints Into pieces, or saw them into pieces an inch thick which tost way m my opinion is best, the pieces not being so clumsy; when cut put them into a stewpan, with three torge onions one carrot, one turnip, six cloves, a blade of spoonM^f h CS’ f°T SprigS °f %me- aud a tabla- P salt, cover them with second stock or water place the Stewpan over the fire, and let it boil at the corner done 1 AA me ‘““A and leave tbe bone easilj; when done lay them on a cloth to drain out a 1 iff Ip „ i„ , tatoes upon the bottom of you! dish btfilfn f P°‘ Radically, and have ready the following sauce I>Ie°eS fifty pieces of turnips the size of small „ T P “ " SteWpai* With “ “ tablespoonful of po^f “““ 18 sugar274 ENTREES. and half an ounce of butter, pass them ten minutes over a sharp fire, add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) and a few tablespoonfuls of broth or brown gravy (No. 135), with a bunch of parsley and a bay-leaf, let them simmer at the corner of the stove until the turnips are tender, take them out with a colander spoon and put them into a clean stew- pan, reduce and skim the sauce well, and when of a proper thickness, pass it through a tammie over the turnips, make all hot together, sauce over the tails, and serve. No. 648. Queues de Bceuf a la Jardiniere. Cook and dress the tails as before, then cut some carrots and turnips with button onions, as directed for the tongue a la jardiniere (No. 645), pass them in a stewpan, with a little butter and powdered sugar, ten minutes over a sharp fire, add a pint of brown sauce, with a quarter of a pint of stock, boil on the corner of the stove (skim well) until the vegetables are tender, and the sauce attains a good consist- ency ; season with a little salt and sugar if required, sauce over, and serve. No. 649. Queues de Bceuf sauce aux cornichons. Cook and dress the tails as before, have ready a quart of sauce au jus d’echalotte (No. 16), but not quite so acid as there directed, reduce till rather thick; have ready a good tablespoonful of chopped gherkins, and when the sauce is boiling throw them in, season with a little sugar and salt, sauce over, and serve. The sauce requires to be thick enough to adhere to the pieces of tails. No. 650. Queues de Boeuf en currie. Cook the tails as before, have ready about a quart of currie sauce (No. 46), moisten it with twenty spooutuls of stock, stir in a stewpan over the fire, and reduce it till itENTREES. 275 adheres to the back of the spoon; then put in your ox-tails, and stand the stewpan in a bain marie till wanted, dress them in pyramid upon your dish, add twenty mushrooms to the sauce, which boil and skim, pour over, and serve with some boiled rice very dry (No. 129) upon a separate dish, to be placed on the side table. No. 651. Queues de Bceuf a la Sicilienne. Cook the tails as before, select ten of the best pieces, which drain well upon a cloth, have ready prepared about half a pint of sauce Durcelle (No. 704), let it get cold, then spread some over each piece of tail to entirely cover it, egg and biead-crumb, and place them in a warm oven twenty minutes, salamander a nice brown colour, dress in pyramid on your dish, and serve with some sauce aux fines herbes (No. 26) round. No. 652. Queues de Boeuf a la Marseillaise. Cook and select ten of the best pieces as above, but in- stead of surrounding them with a sauce Durcelle spread a puree of onions, as for cotelettes a la Proven?ale (No. 701), a quarter of an inch in thickness over them, egg and bread- crumb twice each, and just before serving fry in very hot ard; then put a pint of brown sauce in a stewpan, with a quarter of a pint of consomme (No. 134), and a little piece of scraped garlic the size of a pea; reduce and skim till be- coming a nice demi-glace, dress in pyramid, and pour the No. 653. To prepare and dress Palates of Beef. Palates of beef, if properly dressed, are very delicate eat- ing, being of a gelatinous substance, they are much tn l recommended; the reason, I believe tIZ T u used, the difficulty of gmng them a graceful appearanceENTREES. 27G m the dish; to obviate which, I have introduced one or two new receipts; I never expect it will be a fashionable dish, yet I think they are likely to bring them more in vogue. For one entree take four palates, put them in a large stewpan with lukewarm water for four or five hours to dis- gorge, then pour off the water, cover again with fresh water and put them on the fire till the palates begin to get hard, take one out and put it in cold water, scrape it with a knife, and if the skin comes off easily, take out the rest, but if not leave them a little longer, scrape them until you have got off all the skin, and nothing but the white, half-trans- parent substance remains, when done, prepare a white stock (No. 133), in which boil them three or four hours till very tender; try them with a knife, take them up and lay them flat upon a dish, put a little of the stock in the dish with them, then place another dish of the same size over them, and let them remain till quite cold, they are then ready for use. No. 654. Palates tie Bceuf a la Bavigote. Having prepared four palates as in the last, cut each in three, of an oval shape, each piece to be about the size of a fillet of fowl, then put a teaspoonful of chopped escha- lots in a stewpan with a very small piece of butter, stir a few minutes over a slow fire, add a quart of white sauce (No. 7), and reduce it till becoming thick, keeping it stirred, then take it off the fire, add the yolk of two eggs, stir very quickly, and season with a little pepper, salt, and chopped parsley; then take each piece of palate singly on a fork aud dip in the sauce, when well covered lay it on a dish to get cold ; when all done, and half an hour before dinner-time, di them into three eggs well beaten together, then into bread crumbs, then into the eggs and bread-crumbs again, bea lightly with a knife, and fry them a nice colour in veryENTREES. 277 hot lard; serve with a sauce ravigote (No. 44) under, and dress them in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes. No. 655. Attelets de Palates de Boenf. . fave fom' Palates Prepared, which cut into thirty pieces with a round cutter, the size of a shilling, dip each piece into sauce, but a little thinner than above, and lay them on a dish to cool; cut twenty pieces of dressed tongue of the same size, and twenty slices of large truffles, with twenty of mushrooms, then have eight small silver skewers (or attelets), upon which place the pieces of palates, placing either a shoe of tongue, truffle, or mushroom between each ■ v en you have stuck them all on the skewers, have a little of the sauce you dipped the palates in, spread a little over the crevices between to make them look like one, dip each attelet m eggs and bread-crumbs twice over, and fry a nice colour m hot lard; dress them three at the bottom, then three above, the reverse of the others to form a square, and the other two across, garnish with plenty of fried parslev and serve very hot. 1 y’ No. 656. Palates de Been/a la Vwandiere. Proceed, fry, and dress them as directed for a la ravi- g°e; serve with the following sauce: chop two W put “rm a stewp™ ^ «> ol butter, place them over the fire, keeping stirred til] they become rather yellow, then pom off as rnrnh butter VyZ • , add a glass of port wane and a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, let simmer five minutes, add twelve tablespoon fu s of brown sauce and six of consomme (No 1341 j i W1 * adh-es to the back of the spoon, leTon^ cayenne pepper and sugar, pom the sauce in the centre V 1 round your palates, have a good handful of Z T TENTREES. 278 No. 657. Turban de Palate de Bceuf au c/ratin. Prepare four palates of beef as before, which cut into twelve oval pieces, fiave ready some forcemeat (No. 120), place a little on the bottom of a saute-pan in a circle (the size you require your entree), then cover each piece of palate with the remainder, and dress them in a crown upon the forcemeat in the saute-pan; egg and bread-crumb, place them in a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour, if getting too much colour cover some paper over; when done, detach it from the saute-pan with a thin long knife, and with a fish-slice remove it into your dish, sauce over with a sauce Italienne (No. 30), and serve. Should you have a silver dish for au gratins, it would be preferable to dress it upon that, as it would not require moving. No. 658. Vol-au-vent de Palates de Bceuf. Make a vol-au-vent as described (No. 1140), have ready prepared four palates, which cut into pieces with a round cutter the size of half-a-crown, put them into a stewpan with ten mushrooms, a quart of white sauce (No. /), and six spoonfuls of white stock ; when boiling, add a bunch of parsley, let simmer on the corner of the stove half an hour, skim, take out the parsley if too thick, add a little moie stock, throw in a pat of butter, a little chopped parslev, pepper, salt, sugar, and a little lemon-juice, finish with a liaison of two yolks of eggs, let it set over the fire, but not boil, fill the vol-au-vent and serve. It may be served also in a casserole of rice (No. 6~6), or flat, as a blanquette, in an entree-disli garnished with croutons of bread. No. 659. Palates de Bceuf en Papillote. Have prepared four palates, which cut iiko twelve ovalENTREES. 279 pieces, put two tablespoonfuls of salad-oil in a deep saute- pan, with four of chopped onions, stir with a wooden spoon five minutes over a sharp fire, then pour off as much of the oil as possible, add a quart of white sauce (No. 7), a table- spoonful of chopped parsley, and one of chopped mush- rooms, with six of white stock, boil altogether five minutes, keeping it stirred; add a little grated nutmeg, then put in your pieces of palates, boil a few minutes longer, and turn the whole on a dish to get cold • finish dressing, and serve as directed for aiguillettes de langue de boeuf (No. 643). No. 660. Turban de Tete de Veau en Tortue. Cook and prepare a calf’s head as directed in the Re- moves (No. 462); only for entrees you must cut much smaller pieces, and of course you require a much smaller quantity of sauce. I have merely repeated it here to show that it may be served as an entree; but great care must be taken in boiling the head, for if not done enough it is not eatable, and if done too much it would be impossible to dress them on your dish. Care must also be taken in dish- ing up to make it look graceful, and it cannot be served too hot. No. 661. Turban de Tete de Veau a la Maitre d’Hotel. . PiePare your calf’s head as in the last, and dress the pieces in crown upon mashed potatoes, have ready the fol- lowing sauce : put a pint of white sauce (No. 7) in a stew. pan, with eight spoonfuls of good white stock, boil ten mi- nutes, keeping it stirred, add two ounces of maitre d’hotel butter (No. 79), very highly seasoned, let it melt, but do not let the sauce boil after the butter is in, sauce over and serve immediately.280 ENTREES. No. 662. Turban de Tete de Veau a la Hollandaise. Prepare and dish the calf’s head as before, serve with a sauce Hollandaise (No. 66) over it. No. 663. Turban de Tete de Veau d la Poulette. Prepare and dish as before, have ready the following sauce: put half a pint of white sauce (No. 7) with a pint of white stock, thirty small button-onions, a bunch of parsley, a sprig x>f thyme, and one bay-leaf, tied together, into a stewpan, simmer at the corner of the stove nearly an hour, skim and take out the bunch of herbs, then with a colander-spoon take out the onions, which put in a clean stewpan, reduce the sauce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, pass through a tammie over the onions, add twelve nice white blanched mushrooms, set again on the fire, and when nearly boiling, add a liaison of one yolk of egg (mixed with two tablespoonfuls of cream), stir in quickly, place over the fire another minute, keeping it stirred, but do not let it boil, add a little lemon-juice and chopped parsley, sauce over and serve immediately. No. 664. Turban de Tete de Veau a VIndienne. Prepare and dress the head as usual, and serve with a sauce a l’lndienne (No. 45). Great care should be taken in choosing Indian pickles, no sort are of any service in cooking but the green prickly sort, when good they are milder eating, a good flavour, and firm to the touch, but if very hot and soft they are fit lor nothing whatever. Calf’s head mav be served for entrees dressed as directed with sauce curric (No. 46), and rice, separate, or sauce poivrade, piquante, or tomates (Nos. 32, 27 and 37).*281 ENTREES. No. 665. Oreilles de Veau farci. It requires four ears to make an entree, trim rather small and set them in warm water to disgorge for several hours, then prepare a white stock like for calf’s head (No. 459), put them in and stew for an hour or more till tender, leave them to get cold in their stock, then take half a pound of forcemeat (No. 120), to which add a teaspoonful of chopped musluooms; mix altogether with the yolk of an egg, take out the ears, which dry on a cloth, fill the inside with the foicemeat but not too full, have some eggs well beaten in a basin, dip the ears in, then throw them into bread-crumbs, fry in lard but not too hot as the forcemeat takes some time to cook, dress upon mashed potatoes on your dish and serve a sauce aux fines herbes (No. 26) under them. No. 666. Oreilles de Veau en marinade. Cook the ears as above, but do not stuff them, cut each ear in five or six pieces the long way, and put them in a basin with pepper, salt, two onions in slices, a little parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, eight cloves, three spoonfuls of vinegar, and two of oil; let them remain six hours or more, then take out the pieces of ear, -wipe each piece with a cloth, have ready some batter (No. 1285), dip the pieces in sepa- rately, let them be covered in every part, and drop them into hot lard, they will take five minutes to fry, dress them on a dish with a sauce au jus de tomates (No. 12) under them; garnish with fried parsley and serve. Two ears will be sufficient for the above. No. 6o7. langues de Veau aux champignons. Procure four tongues, which put in warm water to dis- gorge, then put them in a stcwpan, with two onions, one carrot, one turnip, two bay-leaves, one blade of mace * andENTREES. 282 six cloves; cover with white broth or water, if water add a scrag of veal, half a pound of lean ham, and a little salt; place on the fire, and when it commences boiling skim it and place it at the corner of the stove till the tongues are done, which you can ascertain by pricking them with a packing-needle; if it goes in easy they are done; take them up and peel off the skin, cut each tongue into three slices of the shape of cotelettes, dress them in a crown upon mashed potatoes, glaze well, and serve with a sauce aux champig- nons (No. 52). If the tongues are boiled the day previous, warm them as directed langue de boeuf (No. 644). Calves’ tongues dressed this way may also be served with sauce a la jardiniere (No. 100), sauce piquante, or sauce poivrade (Nos. 27 and 32). No. 668. Calves Brains. Procure two sets of brains, leave them four hours in water to disgorge, take off the skin which covers them, and put them in a stewpan, with a pint of water, one wine- glass of vinegar, some salt, two onions sliced, a carrot, a few cloves, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; let boil gently from twenty minutes to half an hour, take them up, lay on a cloth, and cut each one in halves, place them in the dish and serve with a sauce Hollandaise (No. 66), matelote (No. 62), maitre d’hotel (No. 43), or piquante (No. 27), or beurre noir (No. 306). No. 669. Queues de Veau a la Ravigote. Pour calves’ tails are quite sufficient for an entree, pro- cure them as large and as white as possible; cut them in pieces an inch and a quarter in length, and put them into a stewpan, with a quart of good white stock, two onions, half a carrot, head of celery, three cloves, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; set on the fire to boil, skim, and place283 ENTREES. it at the corner to simmer for two hours, or until the tails are done, which you can tell by pressing them with your finger, drain them on a cloth, lay a little mashed potatoes on the bottom of your entree dish, stand the larger pieces pei pendicularly upon it, then again other pieces upon them, till they foim a pyramid; have ready a good ravigote sauce (IN 0.44), rather highly seasoned, which pour over and serve; the sauce should be thick enough to adhere to the pieces. No. 670. Queues de Veau a la Paulette. Cook and dress the tails as before, and sauce as directed for turban de tete de veau a la poulette (No. 663). No. 671. Of Sweetbreads. Ihe middle-sized heart-breads are to be preferred to the over large or small, the throat-bread is rarely used to dress and serve whole, but may be served in blanquettes, vol-au- vents, or ragouts. Sweetbreads cannot be too white, if red v hen brought in leave them four or five hours in warm water to disgorge, put them in a stewpan well covered with water to blanch, (if you put them in cold water they will be blanched enough as soon as the water begins to boil), throw them a minute in cold water, then lay them on a dish face ownwards, place the bottom of another dish upon them on which place a four pounds weight, they are then ready tor use where directed ; three sweetbreads are sufficient for an entree if rather large, and four if small. No. 672. Ihs de Veau a la Santa Cruz. Take three good sweetbreads, blanch as directed then ard them (with very thin strips of fat bacon an inch and a half m length) from top to bottom an inch and a half in ’ °sam from one side t0 ‘he other to form a cross • have thirty six pieces of truffles cut in the shape of cloves' hut much thicker and rather longer, (twelve for each sweet-284 ENTREES. bread), make a hole with a larding-needle in the centre of the cross in which place a piece of the truffle, proceeding in like manner in the centre of the bacon at equal distances apart, cover the bottom of a flat stewpan with fat bacon, lay the sweetbreads upon it, cover the bottom of the stewpan about the depth of two inches with stock, place it over the fire till the stock boils, put it in the oven about half an hour will be sufficient to cook them, (but that depends upon their size and the heat of the oven,) try them with a larding-needle, if quite tender through they are done ; but if soft in the middle and toughish leave them a little longer, glaze them lightly and salamander a nice gold colour, drain them on a cloth and have ready the following sauce : blanch one ounce of riband macaroni in water till tender, dry, and put it in a stewpan, with ten spoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), and two of tomata sauce (No. 37), with a piece of glaze, reduce till rather thick, then add twenty heads of mushrooms and two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese; season with a little sugar and cayenne, pour the sauce in your dish, dress the sweetbreads over and serve very hot. No. 673. Bis de Vecm pique a la Turque. Blanch four small heart-sweetbreads as directed, and lard them nicely from end to end lengthwise, with fat bacon an inch and a half in length, and breadth in proportion, braise as directed in the last; have ready a ring of forcemeat (No. 120) made in a round plain mould * well buttered, with a round piece of bread in the centre; lay the forcemeat round the bread an inch and a half in thickness, place the mould in a stewpan of boding water, (but do not let the * It would be advisable to have a mould purposely for borders of this descrip- tion two inches in height, half an inch in depth, and eight inches in diameter, with a cylinder live inches in diameter; these borders are by some always used instead of a border of mashed potatoes, but I prefer the last-mentioned, being quicker made, the entrees resting more steadily upon it, and, being laid thinly upon the dishes, never interfering with any description of sauces.ENTREES. 2S5 water get into the mould), place the stewpan over the fire till the forcemeat is set, then take it out, detach the bread horn the centre and turn out the forcemeat, which will be a complete ling, place it on the dish, cut each of the sweet- breads in halves and dress them upon it, the cut part to- wards the middle • then have ready blanched half a pound of good rice as directed (No. 129), put it in a stewpan, with sLx pats of butter, two spoonfuls of cream, a little saffron powder, pepper, salt, and sugar; mix all together and dress in pyramid in the centre, place a fine (dressed) cockscomb between each half sweetbread, sauce over the rice with sauce au supreme (No. 57), glaze the sweetbreads and serve. No. 674. Iks de Veaupique a la Financiere. Blanch, lard, and braise three sweetbreads as before • have ready a ragout a la financier (No. 50), which pom- in the dish, dress your sweetbreads over, glaze lightly and serve No. 675. Bis de Veau pique a la puree d'asperges. Blanch, lard, and braise three sweetbreads as before, but keep them a more delicate colour and drain them well upon a cloth; when you take them from the stewpan have ready a puree of asparagus (No. 102), which pom into the dish dress the sweetbreads over and serve. Larded sweetbreads may be also served with a truffle sauce (i\o. 51), Palestine, jardiniere, aux concombres, dressed spinach, or endive (see Nos. 87, 100, 103, 106, and 119 ) No. 676. Bis de Veau roti. Heart-sweetbreads are also preferable for roasting al- hongh the throat-breads maybe used; blanch as before end let them cool, place them in a stewpan, with two omons, two cloves, a blade of mace, a canjt, quarter of" pound of lean ham, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bav-leaf » *280 ENTR KKS. just cover with a good stock, and place them on the fire to boil twenty minutes, take them out, dry on a cloth, egg and bread-crumb them twice over, then run a long flat skewer through them lengthwise, which tie up on a spit, roast before a fierce fire till they become a nice light brown, keeping them basted with butter; pass the stock they were boiled in through a sieve into another stewpan, boil and skim well, place the sweetbreads in a dish, pour some of the stock round and serve; it may also be served with sauce piquante, poivrade, or tomata (Nos. 27, 32, 37). No. 677. Caisse de ris de Veau a la Ninon de VEnclos. Roast four sweetbreads as directed in the last, and let them remain till cold, then open and empty them, thus making a case, leaving it a quarter of an inch in thickness; cut up what you have taken from them in slices, have also twenty small pieces of cucumber, prepared as directed for sauce (No. 103), put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with a very small piece of butter, pass over the fire a few minutes, but keep them quite white, then add three parts of a pint of white sauce (No. 7) and a little milk, reduce till thickish, keeping it stirred, add the sweet- bread and cucumber, season with a little sugar and salt, and when it boils add a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with half a gill of cream; do not let it boil afterwards, fill the cases and cover the opening with a little very thick fritter butter (No. 1285), place them in a sharp oven, and as soon as the batter is baked sufficient, dress them on your dish, three at the bottom and one on the top; serve with a thin bechamel sauce (No. 7) under. No. 678. Escalopes de Eis de Veau au supreme. Blanch three sweetbreads twenty minutes, and when cold cut each bread into four slices lengthwise, and trim mENTREES. 287 the shape of fillets of fowl, well butter the bottom of a saute-pan, lay in the escalopes, keeping them.in their shapes, season over with a little white pepper, salt, and the juice of hall a lemon, place over a slow fire, ten minutes will be sufficient to cook them; when done on one side turn, keep them quite white, lay them on a cloth to drain, and dress m crown on a border of mashed potatoes; serve with a sauce au supreme (No. 57) poured over. No. 679, Escalopes de Bis de Veau auxpointes d’asperges. Dress three sweetbreads as in the last, and serve a sauce aux pomtes d’asperges (No. 101) in the centre. No. 680. Escalopes de Eis de Veau d VIndienne. Dress three sweetbreads as in the two last, but keep them rather underdone; when cold egg and bread-crumb them twice over, put six spoonfuls of oil in a saute-pan place it over the fire, and when hot lay in the escalopes’ nv Inch fry a nice light brown colour, dress in a crown on a border of mashed potatoes, and serve with a nice white ndian sauce (No. 45) in the centre, previously glazhm the escalopes lightly. J 8 ° me No. 6S1. Escalopes de Eis de Veau en caisses. Blanch four throat-sweetbreads, and cut them in slices one size larger and three times the thickness of a shilling spoonfu “ f T f SaUt"'pan Mld Put “ ‘wo table- spoonfuls of chopped eschalots, lay the pieces of sweetbread over, season with a little salt and pepper, and place th™, over a slow &e; when done ad/a'P ’onfu, mushrooms, one of chopped parsley, half a nint of I d ten minutes, moving them round by sh^ThT sau^tp^288 ENTREES. have six or eight small paper boxes, or cases, fill each of them three parts full with the above, egg the top with a paste-brush, sprinkle bread-crumbs over and place them in a warm oven twenty minutes, pass the salamander over, dress them in pyramid on your dish, and serve with plenty of fried parsley. No. 682. Atelettes de Bis de Veau. Prepare the sweetbreads precisely as in the last, but add a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with four tablespoon- . fuls of cream, and leave them to get cold in the sauce, have six silver skewers (atelettes), and run six or eight pieces of sweetbread upon each, with as much sauce as possible adhering to them, smooth round with a knife, dip them in eggs well beaten in a basin, then into bread-crumbs, beat lightly with a knife, dip them again into the bread-crumbs, fry in hot lard, dress them as described for atelettes de palates de bceuf (No. 655), and serve a sauce Italienne (No. 30) under. No. 683. Blanquette de Bis de Veau aux truffes. Blanch three throat-sweetbreads twenty minutes, cut them in slices the size and double the thickness of half- crown-pieces, cut also into thin slices six good-sized truffles, then put a tablespoonful of chopped eschalots in a conve- nient-sized stewpan, with a small piece of butter, pass them a few minutes over a sharp fire, keeping them quite white, add a pint of white sauce (No. 7), reduce three minutes, then add the sweetbread and truffles, season with a little salt and sugar, simmer gently five minutes, finish with a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with half a gill of cream, pour it out in your dish and garnish with eight large tri- angular croutons of bread (in the form of a star) fried in butter, which glaze and serve.ENTREES. 289 No. 684. Vol-au-vent de Ms de Veau. Make a vol-au-vent as directed (No. 1140), cook two sweetbreads with truffles as in the last, and when ready to serve fill your vol-au-vent, which glaze lightly and serve very hot. Sweetbreads may also be served either in blanqnettes or vol-au-vents, with cucumbers, stewed mushrooms, shoes of tongue or ham, instead of truffles. No. 685. Of Tendrons de Veau. For one entree you will require the tendrons from two bi easts of veal, which are cut out without injuring the breasts, and afterwards stewed (see breast of veal in the Removes); tie the two tendrons together and put them in a deep stewpan, with two carrots, four onions, six cloves a good bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf,- cover with a second stock, place them on the fire, and wdien boiling draw it on the comer, slum, and let stew gently for six or seven horns; when done (which you may ascertain by run- ning the point of your knife through them, if tender tliev tat C °ne’ ^DOtstew th™ tiU theyare,) % them on a dish take away he stag, pull out the small bones which » remain, and place another dish of the same size upon them on which place a seven pounds weight; when quite cold nd set cut twelve pieces out of them either of an oval or tto°iarge’egs and bread-c™>i> the icies but not the edges twice over, and fry them aenihr a light-brown colour in a saute-pan. Serve with anv of / sauces directed for the sweetbreads. 7 f * No. 686. Tendrons de Veau a la Noble Lame. Prepare two tendrons as before out twelve pieces of ,nv =1 d h * quite cold pieces of any shape you please, but one third 19ENTREES. 290 less than in the previous article, put a quart of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with six spoonfuls of white stock and two of chopped mushrooms; reduce till thick enough to cover the back of the spoon, take it off the fire and stir in the yolks of two eggs very quickly, take your pieces of tendrons one at a time with a fork, dip them in the sauce so that they are covered on every part, and lay them on a dish to get cold; have ready some fritter batter (No. 1285), dip each piece of tendron with as much sauce as adheres to it, and fry in very hot lard, dress them in crown on a bor- der of mashed potatoes, fill the centre with fried watercresses, for sauce put a gill of cream in a stewpan, and when boil- ing add two pats of butter and a little salt; when the butter is quite melted sauce round and serve. No. 687. Tendrons de Veau a la Dauphine. Proceed precisely as in the last, but instead of dipping them in the batter, egg and bread-crumb twice over and fry in very hot lard of a fine yellow colour; serve with a sauce tomate (No. 37) poured round. No. 688. Cotelettes de Veau pique aux petits pois. Yeal cotelettes require to be cut from the neck in the same shape as mutton cutlets, four are sufficient for an entree, they must be very nicely larded on one side, like a sweet- bread, braise in the same kind of manner until very tender, glaze lightly, and salamander of a light-brown colour; have ready boiled a pint of young peas, which put in a stew - pan, with two pats of butter, a little salt, and a teaspoonful of powdered sugar; when boiling finish with a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with a tablespoonful of cream, pour into the dish and dress the cotelettes over in a square, glaze lightly and serve; dressed in the above manner they may also be served with sauce a la jardiniere, aux navets auburn,ENTREES. 291 rcePrmated'aSPergeS> *“ P*"* or No. 689. Cotelettes de Vecm enpapillate. X*’ d°not Iard the"’ p»** lettes f when done pom off Tfc l ^ ^ spoonfuls of chopped onions one of eh ^ ° 1 PUt I™'tab!e' chopped mushrooms, and twenty of hr^ pa,S ey’ one of seasoned rather high moisted h no SaUCe (Na 1} altogether twenty minutes t 11 6 St°cb an(* simmer the fanee to gTeoT^T "* ““ °D a ** “ of the’ saucfas pi' C0 “TZ " T* ^ “S ^ it at the edges, broil them twenty nrimUe ‘ °”e ^ and dress them in n 1 ^ ^imutes over a slow fire, the papers. nc e on your dish without removing No. 690. Cotelettes de Veau a la Sans Fa9on. tut four large cotelettes, which season well din thm • JTdSSS we!\ brten> then tw the” finely chopped eschalots and plsley CatT S°m6 hrnfe, dip them into warm clarified butter vT ^ the bread-crumbs hpot Q • •„ *’ anc agam into ■*«*Xr, £r. «* - ^ eight well boiled mealy notatoes L , Stewpan sut or and a little pepper and Lr f°m pats of hotter adding a gill of cream by d<%r7™ WeU.fth a &*. be very light, dress them in a pyramid m ^l ^ wiU the cotelettes, which stand upright anainst th°m' ^ glaze serve; this is an excellent dish for luncheon 6 P°tat°eS’ and292 ENTREES. No. 691. Noix de Veau for Entrees. Are prepared exactly in the same manner as described for the flancs (No. 565), only they are not required so large, half the noix being quite sufficient, that is, cut into two slices, trim it of a nice shape, lard, dress, and serve, with the sauces as described for the flancs. No. 692. Grenadins de Veau pique aux racines nouvelles. Cut twelve fillets from a noix de veau the size and shape of fillets of fowl, lard them nicely with very finely cut bacon, cover the bottom of a convenient-sized saute-pan with thin slices of fat bacon, upon which lay the grenadins, add a little veal stock but not enough to cover them, place a sheet of buttered paper over and stand them in a mode- rate oven for an hour or till tender, moistening occasionally with a little of the stock; when done glaze them lightly and salamander of a light colour, then have prepared twenty young carrots and twenty young turnips, which cook as directed (No. 109), dish the grenadins in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, place a pyramid of the potatoes in the centre of the dish, upon which dress the canots and turnips in rotation; have ready the following sauce: put the glaze from your vegetables in a stewpan, with half a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), and a little good stock, place it on the fire, skim, and reduce until rather thick; sauce over your vegetables and serve. Grenadins may be served with any of the sauces as de- scribed for noix de veau or sweetbreads. No. 693. Of Veal Kidneys. The kidney being part of the loin is usually served with it, and a loin of veal roasted without it would be considered worthless, but still the loins may be dressed, as directed inENTREES. SJ93 . Removes, without the kidneys; to stew them proceed as follows: cut three kidneys into thin slices, put an ounce of butter into a convenient-sized stewpan, place over the fire, and just as it begins to get brown thfow in the kidneys’ stii them over the fire with a wooden spoon, and when they become firm add half a tablespoonful of flour, stir it in, then add a glass of sherry eight spoonfuls of broth, and twenty mushrooms, let all boil together five minutes, season with a little pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon, if too thick add more broth, pom them on a dish and serve,’ or they would look better served in a croustade of bread (No. 416) fried a nice yellow colour. No. 694. Veal Kidneys en Caisses. Proceed exactly as described for ris de veau en caisses (No. 681). No. 695. Boudin de Veau a la Legumiere. Make two pounds of veal forcemeat as directed (No. 120) cover the sides of a plain round mould with vegetables, pre- cisely as directed for a Chartreuse (No. 604), then cut a piece of bread quite round, the depth of the mould, cover the bread with white buttered paper, and stand it in the centie of the mould,* leaving the space of an inch and a half a round, which fillup with the forcemeat, being careful not to disarrange the vegetables; when well filled, put the mould in a stewpan, cover with a piece of stiff paper, put water nough m the stewpan to come three parts of the way up the mould, place the stewpan over the fire and let it Lf mer gently (keeping it covered) nearly an horn-, tan it Zi on your dish, take the bread and paper from the f sauce over with a good demi-glace (No. 9), and serve eve.ENTREES. 294 No. 696. Boudin de Veau a la Richelieu. Blitter a plain round mould rather thickly, have five or six good-sized truffles chopped very fine, throw them in the mould, which roll round until the sides are quite covered with them; then prepare a piece of bread as in the last, fill the space up with the same forcemeat, blanch it in a stew- pan as before, turn out on your dish, take away the bread, and serve with a sauce Perigueux (No. 55) over it. No. 697. Of Mutton for Entrees. Por entrees the small South Down mutton is much to be preferred, the principal entrees made from mutton are cote- lettes, which never will be out of vogue; I shall therefore give a numerous list of receipts for the dressing of them, but the manner of cutting them requires particular atten- tion ; the most simple method is to take the chine-bone off from the neck neatly with a saw, but not quite detaching all the meat from the bone, then cut it into chops, leaving a bone to each; with a knife cut off the skinny part from each side of the bone and a piece of the meat at the end of the bone, so as to leave a piece of bone about half an inch in length, then with a cotelette-bat beat them nearly to the same thickness as the bone, take the rough parts of the bone off' with your chopper, and trim the cotelettes of a good shape, taking off a greater part of the fat and rounding the lean part nicely; but in cutting cotelettes to look well, much depends upon the taste of the person, they require to be cut some time previous to cooking, or they would shrink and loose their shape. - No. 698. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Reform. Chop a quarter of a pound of lean cooked ham very fine,ENTREES. 295 and mix it with the same quantity of bread-crumbs, then lave ten veiy nice cotelettes, lay them flat on your table, season ghtly with pepper and salt, egg over with a paste- rns 1, an tlnow them into the ham and bread-crumbs, icn beat them lightly with a knife, put ten spoonfuls of oil m a saute-pan, place it over the fire, and when quite hot lay m the cotelettes, fry nearly ten minutes (over a moderate fire) of a light brown colour; to ascertain when done, press your knife upon the thick part, if quite done it will feel lathei firm; possibly they may not all be done at one time Cl°tl n,°*n thr that are ready &st and % aem on a cloth tifi the others are done; as they require to be cooked nth the gravy in them, dress upon a thin border of mashed ov r X :• ?T; ^the b°neS POint“S °utTOrds- with a pint of the sauce reform (No. 35), and serve If li rgX"er r 7y P°SSi% be obHSed t0 c°°k the cotelettes half an hour before, in which case they must be veiy underdone, and laid in a clean saute-pan, with two or three spoonfuls of thin glaze; keep them in the hot closet bXnntil d 0CtCaS10nalIy with ^ glaze (with a paste! brash) until ready to serve; the same remark applies to every description of cotelettes. 11 1 No. 699. Cotelettes de Mouton d la Vicomtesse fb2"“theSa°f 7] (N°- 120) q“te C°ld- “e^them h very finely choppe^XXTf * a little grated nutmeg, with a tablespoonful of cold ! !’>' sauce (No. 7) and the yolk of an e<wm;T u ,, d whlte and put a piece of the size of a watiut, “ "7 t0gether- spread it even, then have ten thin small * ™ Place a slice upon each cotelette WM °° 5 U1 agam cover with296 ENTREES. the forcemeat, forming a flattish dome, but not too thick ; egg over with a paste-brush, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, put again into the saute-pan, and place them in a moderate oven ten minutes, salamander a light colour, dress in crown on a thin border of mashed potatoes, and have ready the following sauce : put two yolks of eggs in a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, a little pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of vinegar from India pickles, and a little lemon-juice, stir it quickly over the fire with a wooden spoon until beginning to thicken, then add ten tablespoonfuls of bechamel sauce (No. 7) with four of milk, stir over the fire, but do not let it boil, then pass it through a tammie into a clean stewpan, stir it another mi- nute over the fire, sauce over, have two firm green India pickles and half an ounce of lean cooked ham chopped very fine, which sprinkle over and serve very hot. No. 700. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Westphalienne. Prepare ten cotelettes as in the last, mixing chopped Westphalia ham with the bread-crumbs instead of the com- mon ham, likewise sprinkling ham over the forcemeat in- stead of bread-crumbs, place them in the oven as before, and salamander a nice colour, dress in crown as in the last, and have ready the following sauce: pound a quarter of a pound of lean Westphalia cooked ham very fine, add two ounces of butter, and pass it through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon, then put a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) in a stewpan with six spoonfuls of consomme (No. 134) and a piece of glaze the size of a walnut; reduce and skim till becoming a good demi-glace, add two tablespoonfuls of tomata sauce, a little sugar, and the butter with the ham, stir over the fire until the butter is melted, sauce over and serve.297 ENTREES. No. 701. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Provencrile. Have ready ten cotelettes, season with a little pepper and salt, egg with a paste-brush, and dip them into bread- crumbs, beat lightly with a knife and fry in oil, but very much underdone, lay them on a cloth, and have ready the following: chop six midclling-sized onions very fine and put them in a stewpan with two tablespoonfuls of oil, pass them over a moderate fire ten minutes, keeping stirred with a wooden spoon, then add half a tablespoonful of flour (mix well), half a pint of white sauce (No. 7), and four table- spoonfuls of good stock, boil altogether a quarter of an horn or till the onions are quite tender, season with a little pepper, salt, and nearly a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, draw the stewpan off the fire and stir in the yolks of two eggs, place over the fire another minute, pom it out on a dish to get cold, place a piece the size of a large walnut upon each cotelette, spread it over with a knife, leaving it thickest m the middle; egg them with a paste-brush, sprinkle bread- crumbs over, drop a little oil on each, put them in the same saute-pan, place in the oven ten minutes, salamander a ight brown, and dress them on your dish as before; have ready the Mowing sauce : put nearly a pint of brown’sauce (INo. 1) m a stewpan with a piece of glaze the size of a vamut, and eight spoonfuls of consomme (No. 134)- re- duce and slam well till it adheres to the back of the spoon add a little scraped garlic the size of a couple of peas sauce over and serve; more garlic may be added if approved of. No. 702. Cotelettes de Mouton d la Bohemienne. Have twelve good cotelettes well-trimmed, lay them in a basm and pom a quart of good marinade hot over them (see filet de bocuf a la Bohemienne, No. 426), let them re. mam four- or five days, turning them occasionally; whenENTREES. 29S wanted take them out, dry on a cloth, dip in flour and broil them quickly over a sharp fire, dress in crown like the cote- lettes reform, and have ready the following sauce: a gill of the marinade in a stewpan, with two spoonfuls of tomata sauce (No. 37), six of brown sauce, and a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, reduce till it becomes half glaze again, then add a spoonful of red-cun-ant jelly, three anchovies well washed, and cut into small diamond-shaped pieces, also twenty pieces of gherkins cut in the same shape, let warm in the sauce, which pour over and serve. The cote- lettes may be bread-crumbed if required. No. 703. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Soubise. Prepare twelve cotelettes, season with a little pepper and salt, egg over with a paste-brush, and throw them into bread-crumbs, beat lightly with a knife, and fry them in clarified butter in a saute-pan, dress on your dish as before, and serve with a sauce Soubise (No. 47) under, glaze lightly when dressing them on your dish. No. 704. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Durcelle. Egg, bread-crumb, and fry twelve cotelettes in oil, when done take out and lay them on a cloth, put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots and two of chopped onions in the saute- pan, fry them a light brown colour, pour off as much oil as possible, add half a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) and a little consomme, let boil quickly ten minutes, then add a httle sugar, cayenne pepper, half a teaspoonful of chopped mush- rooms, the same of chopped parsley, and one teaspoonful of Harvey sauce, put the cotelettes into the sauce to get hot, have ready four paper cases six inches long, lay three cotelettes in each, pom- the sauce over, place them in a moderate oven ten minutes, dress on your dish in the cases and serve immediately.299 ENTREES. No. 705. Cotelettes de Mouton auxpetites racines. Prepare and fry twelve cotelettes as directed for cotelettes a la Soubise, dress in crown and proceed as for the gre- nadins de veau (No. 692), glaze them lightly and serve. No. 706. Cotelettes de Mouton saucepicpuante. Diess the cotelettes as above, glaze lightly and serve with sauce piquante (No. 27) over them. No. 707. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Javdinieve. Diess twelve cotelettes as before described, dish as usual, have ready a sauce jardiniere (No. 100), place the vege- tables, and sauce in the centre, glaze the cotelettes lightly, and serve. No. 708. Cotelettes de Mouton aux champignons. Dress and dish twelve cotelettes as in the last, and have ready the following sauce : put a pint of demi-glace (No. 9) in a stewpan, with a little consomme, reduce it a little, and skim; then add thirty mushrooms, season with a little pepper and sugar, add a small piece of glaze half the size of a walnut, and boil altogether ten minutes; pom the sauce m the middle of the cotelettes, which glaze and serve. No. 709. Cotelettes de Mouton aux navets du brun. Dress and dish twelve cotelettes as in the last, have pre- pared forty scoops of turnips, each the size of a marble put them in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, and a tea’ spoonful of sugar, pass over a fire ten minutes, keeping iem tossed, to prevent their burning, then add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) and half a do. of consomme, stand on the corner of the stove, skim well, and let it remain till the turnips are tender, and the sauce becomes rather300 ENTREES. thick; then pour it in the centre of the cotelettes, which glaze and serve; should the turnips be done before the sauce is thick, take them ou* with a colander spoon until it has sufficiently reduced. No. 710. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Palestine. Dress and dish twelve cotelettes as before, have ready the following sauce: scoop forty scoops of Jerusalem arti- chokes the size of the turnips in the last, and proceed ex- actly the same, using white sauce (No. 7), and white stock' instead of brown, and finishing with a good tablespoonful of liaison; serve as before; they must not be boiled too quickly, or they will break to pieces. No. 711. Cotelettes de Mouton aux pointes d’asperges. Prepare and dress the cotelettes as before, have ready boiled, very green, half a bundle of sprue grass cut into pieces a quarter of an inch in length, put eight tablespoon- fuls of white sauce (No. 7), with four of white stock in a stewpan, and when a little reduced add the sprue, with half a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, and a little salt; let boil a minute, and finish with a liaison of half a yolk of egg mixed with two tablespoonfuls of cream, sauce in the centre of the cotelettes, which glaze lightly, and serve. When sprue grass is cheap, dress it thus for cotelettes: you ha^ e cut and boiled a bunch very green; drain it upon a siev e, and whilst hot put them into a stewpan, with six pats of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, and the half of one of sugar; place over the fire, stirring round gently until the butter is melted, then dress them in a pyramid in the centre of the cotelettes, pour a thin bechamel sauce round, glaze the cotelettes, and serve. By this simple method you retain the full flavour of the grass.ENTREES. 301 No. 712. Cotelettes de Mouton aux haricots verts. Proceed exactly as before, using some French beans cut in diamonds and nicely boiled, instead of the sprue grass, dress tbe beans in either of the above methods. No. 713. Cotelettes de Mouton aux petitspois. Dress and dish your cotelettes as usual, have ready, nicely boiled, a pint of young peas (No. 1075) which put in a stewpan with an ounce of fresh butter, two spoonfuls of white sauce, a bunch of green onions, half a teaspoonful of sugar, and a little salt; keep them moving over the fire by shaking the stewpan till they are quite hot; take out the onions, finish with a liaison of a yolk of egg and two table- spoonfuls of cream, dress the peas in the centre, glaze the cotelettes, and serve. The peas may also be dressed in either of the methods directed in the two last. No. 714. Cotelettes de Mouton aux chouxjleurs. Diess the cotelettes as before, have nicely boiled two small cauliflowers, put ten tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with half a teaspoonful of sugar and a little salt; divide each cauliflower into eight pieces, and when the sauce boils add them to it, finish with a liaison of half the yolk of an egg, mixed with three tablespoonfuls of cream, and serve as before. The cauliflower'must not be too much done, or it would break to pieces. No. 715. Cotelettes de Mouton aux truffes. Proceed with the cotelettes as before, put a pint of derui- g ace (No. 9) m a stewpan, with a little consomme and rednce till it adheres to the back of the spoon; haie six middling-sized preserved truffles cut in thin slices which throw into the sauce whilst boiling, season whh ’a ttt302 ENTREES. sugar, boil all together a few minutes, glaze the cotelettes, sauce over, and serve. No. 716. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Maintenon. Have twelve cotelettes nicely cut, lay them on the table and season lightly, put two tablespoonfuls of oil in a saute- pan, lay in your cotelettes, and fry over a moderate fire till three parts done, take them out, and put two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions in the saute-pan; fry till of a light brown colour, pour off as much of the oil as possible, add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), and two tablespoonfuls of tomata sauce (No. 37), with a little consomme, a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms, one of chopped parsley, a little sugar, grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt; reduce till rather thick, then throw in the cotelettes for a few minutes, turn out on a dish, and leave them to get cold in the sauce; have twelve pieces of white paper, each cut in the shape of a heart and large enough to fold a cotelette in, rub a little oil over, and place a cotelette in each with as much of the sauce as pos- sible ; fold them up, and broil ten minutes over a moderate fire, dress them in a crown on your dish, without taking them out of the papers, which must well cover the cotelettes, or they would be very dry. No. 717. Cotelettes de Mouton sauce remoulade. Dress twelve cotelettes as for sauce Soubise (No. 703), then put six tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with three of veal stock or consomme, place it over the fire, and when boiling add an equal quantity of sauce tartare (No. 38) stir over the fire till hot, but do not let it boil, sauce under, and serve. No. 718. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Financiere Proceed with the cotelettes as before, and serve the303 ENTREES. ragout a la financiere (No. 50) in the centre, only observe that the garniture must be very small, or it would look clumsy with such an entree as cotelettes. For cotelettes de mouton a Fltalienne, ditto, sauce poi- vrades, ditto, aux fines herbes, and ditto, aux jus d echalotte, chess the cotelettes as usual, and sauce over with either of the above-named sauces (see Nos. 30, 32, 26 and 27). No. 719. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Maitre d'Hotel. Proceed with the cotelettes as before described, then put eight tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan with two of cream and two of broth • when boiling add one ounce; of maitre d’hotel butter (No. 79), shake the stewpan round tiU the butter melts, then pom the sauce under the cotelettes; have ready some fried potatoes very crisp, cut thm, and of the size of six penny-pieces, which build in pyramid m the centre, glaze the cotelettes and serve. No. 720. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Hollandaise. Proceed precisely as for the last, only using some sauce Hollandaise (No. 66) instead of the sauce maitre d’hotel ined potatoes the same. For the two last entrees the sauce must not be too thick. No. 721. Cotelettes de Mouton panee, grillee. Prepare twelve nice cotelettes, which season nicely eo-e and bread-crumb them, beat lightly with a knife, have som! hot clarified butter m a stewpan, dip each cotelette in then row them into bread-crumbs, beat again with your knife nd place them on the gridiron over a moderate fe t"™ g them now and then, ten minutes wfil be sufficient dress » crown with a little plain gravy, or with anTof“he t going sauces. ^ me loie“ENTREES. 304 No. 722. Of CoteleLtes braised. Braised cotelettes are nmcli more in vogue in France than in England, for in the former they prefer meat stewed, whilst in the latter the meat is more succulent and tender, and even for Soubise or Provengale the cotelette saute is preferred, although properly they ought to be braised; I shall, therefore, describe the manner of braising them and leave the choice to my readers. Prepare a neck of mutton by cutting off the chine-bone, and cut the cotelettes as before, but let them remain nearly of the same thickness you cut them from the neck, which will be nearly an inch, then stick five or six pieces of fat bacon about the size of a quill through the lean of each cotelette, cutting off the ends, then cover the bottom of a stewpan with thin slices of fat bacon and lay twelve cote- lettes over, all laying on the same side, just cover them with stock, to which add an onion, three cloves, and a bunch of parsley, place a sheet of buttered paper over them, and place them over a slow fire to simmer between two and three hours, try them and if very tender place them upon an oval dish, with a little of their stock, place another dish over them upon which put a seven pounds weight; when quite cold trim nicely of equal sizes and put them in a saute-pan with their stock to warm, dress them in crown on a border of mashed potatoes, and serve with a sauce Soubise (No. 47), or any other sauce as directed for the cotelettes sautes. Although these cotelettes are required to be tender they must not be too much done or the bones would fall from them. No. 723. Cotelettes de Mouton braise d la Marseillaise. Cook your cotelettes as directed in the last, but cut them rather small; when cold cover all over with the preparationENTREES. 305 of onion as for cotelettes a la Proven^ale, egg and bread- crumb all over and place them in the oven for a quarter of an hour, dress in crown, previously giving them a nice colorn with a salamander, and serve with a sauce Soubise (jNo. 4/) much thinned, with cream under them. No. 724. Carbonade of Mutton. , Prepare a loin of mutton as a carbonade (see flancs No. 577), and when cold cut it in slices rather more than half an inch in thickness, reduce the stock the carbonade was boiled in to a thin glaze, put the shoes in a saute-pan and pour it over them, place them over a slow fire till quite hot, dress them in crown on a border of mashed potatoes, and serve with any of the sauces named for cotelettes. <rNo. 725. Poitrine de Mouton saucepiquante. Biaise and press a breast of mutton as directed (No. 487) and when cold cut ten pieces out of it in the shape of cote- lettes, one third fat and two thirds lean, but not too large, egg, bread-crumb, and broil as for cotelettes panees grillees (iNo. 721), dress in crown on a border of mashed potatoes, glaze and serve with sauce piquante (No. 27) in the centre’ they may also be served with sauce Soubise (No. 47) poi- vrade (No. 32), jus d’echalotte (No. 16), or fines herbes No. 726. Bognons de Mouton a la brochette. Mutton kidneys dressed in this manner are usually served lor breakfast or luncheon, but they may be served as an en ree for inner. Procure nine fresh kidneys, cut them open and run silver or wooden skewers through to keen hem open, season well, egg over with a paste-brush and tl %2T a diS'\°f “rUmbS’ M“ mokrate | hie, about ten minutes w.U be sufficient; when done dress 20ENTREES. 30P them on your dish in pyramid, place a piece of maitre d’hotel butter (No. 79) in each, half the size of a walnut, place them in the oven two minutes, glaze lightly and serve very hot. No. 727. Rognons a la Tartare. Broil nine kidneys as above, and serve with a good sauce a la tartare (No. 38) under them. No. 728. Rognons cle Mouton a la Venitienne. Cut ten fresh kidneys in halves the long way, take off the skins and cut out the roots, or they would shrink in cooking; put two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, with a spoonful of chopped eschalots, place the pan on the fire and as soon as the butter melts place in the kidneys, fry about five minutes, and when half done turn them, dress them in a crown on a border of mashed potatoes, and put them somewhere to keep hot; pour as much of the butter as possible from the saute-pan, and put in a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) and six spoonfuls of consomme; boil alto- gether ten minutes, then add half an ounce of anchovy butter (No. 78) and the juice of half a lemon, mix it well in, sauce over the kidneys and serve. No. 729. Rognons de Mouton saute au vin de champagne. Skin eight kidneys and cut them into thin slices, put an ounce of butter in a stewpan, place it over the fire, and when the butter begins to brown throw in the kidneys, stir round with a wooden spoon and when they become fiun add a small tablespoonful of flour, mix well, add two n ine- glasses of champagne with two of white broth and twenty blanched mushrooms ; let all boil very gently a few minutes, season with the juice of half a lemon, a little pepper, salt, and chopped parsley; pour them out on your dish and307 ENTREES. serve. The sauce requires to be rather thick, sherry or hock may be used instead of champagne. No. 730. Pieds de Mouton a la Poulette. Proceed as directed for the flanc (No. 630) and serve them in a small casserole of rice, according to the size of your entree dish. No. 731. Pieds de JSIouton a lapuvee d'oignons. I Cook the feet as directed (No. 630), and have ready pre- pared the following puree: peel and cut in dice four large onions, which put in a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter over the fire, keeping them stirred with a wooden spoon till tender, then add a tablespoonful of flour, mix well, a pint of milk and a little broth, season with pepper, salt, and sugar, keep boiling till the onions are quite done, then put in the feet, which let simmer a few minutes, finish with a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with half a gill of cream, stir well, and place it over the fire a minute, keeping it stirred to thicken, serve either on a dish or in a casserole of nee (No. 626). They require to be seasoned rather ENTREES OF LAMB. No. 732. Pieds d’ Agneau. Lambs’ feet are cooked in the same manner as the sheeps but do not require quite so long to stew, having pieviously cooked ten feet put a pint of white sauce (No 7) m a stewpan, with half a pint of white stock and four but XTfe4rrcet:,half’( then p-through :^e' the feet into another stewpan, season with a little pep-308 ENTREES. per, salt, and sugar, add twenty heads of mushrooms and a little chopped parsley; simmer altogether two or three mi- nutes, add a little lemon-juice, and finish with a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with half a gill of cream, mix quickly and serve in a pate chaud (No. 618), or casserole of rice (No. 626), made according to the size of your dish. No. 733. Pieds d’Agneau farcis. Have eight feet ready cooked and cold, then have pre- pared a quarter of a pound of veal forcemeat (No. 120), with which add a little chopped parsley, chopped eschalots, and the yolk of an egg, fill the part of the feet with it from which you took the large bone, put them again into the stock they were cooked in and simmer twenty minutes, take them out, drain on a cloth, and dress them in pyramid by placing a little mashed potato upon the bottom of the dish, laying four at the bottom and finishing with one at the top, sauce over with a sauce Hollandaise (No. 66), and serve with chopped gherkins sprinkled over them. No. 734. Pieds d' Agneau en marinade. Having cooked eight feet, cut each one in halves length- wise and put in a basin with two onions sliced, two bay- leaves, a sprig of thyme, a bunch of parsley, a glass of vinegar, two spoonfuls of oil, and a little salt and pepper, let them remain four hours, drain upon a cloth, and dip them into fritter batter (No. 1285), fry a nice light brown colour, dress on a napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with some tomata sauce (No. 37) in a boat. No. 735. Pieds d'Agneau en cartouche. Have cooked eight feet, which dry upon a cloth, make a sauce like for the cotelettes durcelle (No. 704), stew the feet in it twenty minutes, then leave them to get cold309 ENTREES. in the sauce, have eight pieces of cartridge paper, (each piece large enough to fold a foot in,) oil them and lay in a foot with as much of the sauce as you think sufficient, roll them round and fold the paper at each end to imitate a caitiidge, bioil them over a slow fire, dress in pyramid and serve with a little gravy in a boat. No. 736. Orcilles d Agneau a Icl JBcllc Fermere. Procure eight or ten lambs’ ears and put them into luke- warm water to disgorge for two or three horns, then make a blanc (No. 459), in which put the ears to stew; let them be well covered or they will turn black, boil gently about an hom, if done the thick part of the ears will feel tender, if not ready to serve let them remain in the stock until wanted, make a border of forcemeat as described for the ris de veau a la Turque (No. 673), place it on your dish, take out the ears, make five or six incisions in the thin part of each ear and turn them back to imitate a frill, dress upon the force- meat to mutate a vase, by turning the curl of the ears out- wards, put some mashed potatoes in the centre of the dish, upon which place a fine green bunch of asparagus well- oiled, and not more than four inches in length, standing upright; sauce over with a thin sauce a la puree disperses (No. 102), and serve. & No. 737. Oreilles d’ Agneau a la Marquise. Cook and dress eight or ten lambs’ ears, as above, on a : order of forcemeat, only turning the ears half reverse wav ' 1Cf Wl11 tllen form a ^0^; place a plover’s egg peeled CdvThTni mSt°Ck ” the hoUow of each ear, and have - ready the following sauce: put a pint of white sauce (No 71 m a stewpan with eight tablespoonfids of white stool- nr K “*“» TtHrd’ then “ * stewpan hasten ockscombs nicely dressed and ten button mushrooms, passENTREES. 810 the sauce through a tammie upon them, place over the fire, add a gill of cream and the juice of half a lemon, season with a little pepper, salt, and sugar ; when hot put the gar- niture in the centre of the dish, sauce over and serve. No. 738. Or exiles $ Agneau a la Ravigote. Cook and dress ten ears precisely as in the last, omitting the eggs, put half a pint of white sauce (No. 7) in a stew- pan with half the quantity of white stock, and let it reduce one third; then have ready two ounces of butter, with which you have mixed a teaspoonful of chopped tarragon, one of chopped chervil, one of chopped parsley, and two of tarragon vinegar; season with a little pepper and salt, mix it with the sauce, stir over the fire till hot, but do not let it boil, sauce over and serve. No. 739. Oreilles d'Agneau a la Maitre d’Hotel. Proceed exactly as above, only using two ounces of maitre d’hotel butter (No. 79) instead of the butter there described. No. 740. Oreilles d’Agneau en marinade. When cooked cut each ear in halves, lengthwise, and proceed exactly as for the pieds cl’agneau (No. 734). No. 741. Oreilles d’Agneau farcis. Ilave eight ears cooked as before, dry them well with a cloth, then put half a pound of veal forcemeat (No. 120) in a basin, with a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots and one of chopped mushrooms, mixed with the yolk of one egg, put a spoonfed of the forcemeat in the hollow of each ear, egg and bread-crumb them all over and fry twenty minutes in lard, not too hot, or they would be too brown before they were sufficiently done; dress them on a border oENTREES. mashed potatoes and serve with a sauce Italienne (No. 30) under. No. 742. Queues d’Agneau a la Cremiere. Lambs’ tails are extremely delicate, cut four into pieces ™ ™d ® hnlf ln ^ngth. and cook them as directed (No. 627 ; when tender take them out, put sixteen spoon- fuls of white sauce in a stewpan, with four of veal stock bod flve minutes, season with a little salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and sugar; when boiling put in the tails, and two minutes before serving add half an ounce of butter and the juice of half a lemon, move the stewpan round over the fire till the butter is melted, add two spoonfuls of whipped cream, and when quite hot pour into your dish and serve or they may be served in a vol-au-vent, casserole of rice or croustade. Lambs tails may be dressed in any of the methods directed for lambs’ feet, and require to be lather highly seasoned.. No. 743. Langue d' Agneau a la Per sane. Procure eight lambs’ tongues, let them disgorge twelve orn s m lukewarm water, cover the bottom of a stewnan thet W'tl ST, °f fn baCOn’ % the t0ngues 0ver and ««er em with stock, add two onions, one carrot, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; when boiling draw them to the comer of the stove to simmer, skim well, try when unr;trTs-rev^t% feei tender ***■*«* P, take off the skin, trim a little on each side, cut them in ves engthwise m the shape of cotelettes, and dress them on a border of mashed potatoes; have readv the foil • sauce : put a tablespoonful of chopped onions in , °Wlng a pint of white sauce (No. 7) and six spools' while312 ENTREES. stock, reduce till rather thick, add a teaspoonful of chopped mushrooms and one of chopped parsley, season rather high, draw it off the fire, put in the yolks of two eggs, mix quickly, stir over the fire another minute to thicken, then put it on a dish until cold; with a knife spread it over the tongues half an inch in thickness, so as to form one mass, egg and bread-crumb over and place it in the oven half an hour, salamander a light brown colour and serve very hot, with the following sauce round: put four spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with four of white broth, let it boil a few minutes, then add two spoonfuls of cream; boil all together, season and serve. Calf’s tongue may also be dressed as in the last, but instead of being covered in the manner there described, serve it with a sauce matelote (No. 62) in the centre and glaze the tongue lightly. No. 744. Lambs Brains a VInnocent. Procure eight or ten lambs brains and put them in luke- warm water to disgorge, take off the skins, put the brains in a stewpan with two minced onions, a bunch of parsley, and a little carrot, cover with water, add a glass of vinegar, and a little salt, and boil them ten minutes, then lay them on a cloth and divide each piece in two thin slices, have eight paper cases in which lay the slices of brains, season ing separately, place a piece of butter on the top of each, with a little chopped parsley, lemon-juice, and a spoonful of white sauce (No. 7) ; egg and bread-crumb the top, and place them in a hot oven to brown, dress upon the dish i in the cases pyramidically and serve. No. 745. Lambs Fry. Procure two sets of lambs’ fry, which blanch ten minutes in boiling water, drain them on a sieve, and when quit*ENTREES. 313 dry egg over with a paste-brush, throw them into bread- crumbs, with which you have mixed some chopped parsley, fry them in very hot lard of a nice light-brown colour, dress pvramidically upon a napkin, garnish with fried parsley and serve. No. 746. His cVAgneau aux petits pois. Procure ten lambs’ heart-sweetbreads, if not very white lay them in lukewarm water to disgorge, put them in a stewpan of boiling water to blanch, two minutes will be sufficient; throw them into a basin of cold water, and when cold, lard very neatly with very thin strips of bacon, when larded cover the bottom of the stewpan with thin slices of fat bacon, two onions sliced, and a little parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves, lay the sweetbreads over, and put in suf- ficient broth to come up to their sides, set them in a sharp oven for about twenty minutes, glaze and salamander very lightly; then have ready prepared a border of forcemeat as directed for ris de veau a la Turque (No. 673), which place in the centre of your dish, dress the sweetbreads upon it, then have a pint of young peas nicely boiled, put them in a stewpan with three pats of butter and a teaspoonful of sugar, pass over the fire five minutes, and finish with a liaison of half the yolk of an egg mixed with a tablespoon- ful of cream, place them in the centre, glaze the sweet- breads lightly and serve. No. 747. His d’Agneau a la Cambaqeres. Lard, cook, and dress eight nice sweetbreads as above, then have nicely cooked nine very fine cockscombs (No. 128), and place one between each sweetbread; have also the following garniture and sauce: prepare thirty very small quenelles of fowl (No. 122), poach them in stock, drain on a cloth, and put them in a stewpan, with six trufflesENTREES. 314 turned to the size of small marbles, and twelve fine olives (stoned) in another stewpan, put half a glass of sherry, a bay-leaf, half a teaspoonful of chopped onions, and a piece of glaze the size of a nut, boil two minutes, then add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) and eight spoonfuls of con- somme, reduce to a good thickness, and add the trimmings of some fresh mushrooms, then pass it through a tammie over the garniture, boil all together one minute, add a quarter of a teaspoonful of sugar, and pour the sauce in the middle of the dish, building the garniture in a dome, and placing the remaining cockscombs on the top, glaze the sweetbreads lightly and serve. No. 748. Bis d’Agneau aux concombres. Lard, cook, and dress ten sweetbreads as before, and serve a sauce aux concombres (No. 103) in the centre; they may also be served with a sauce a la jardiniere (No. 100), pointes d’asperges (No. 101), sauce tomate (No. 37), &c. No. 749. Bis d’Agneau a la Madone. Blanch ten nice sweetbreads, trim them well, cut a deep incision in the centre of each, in which stick a very fine cockscomb (No. 128); surround each sweetbread with a slice of fat bacon, place them in a stewpan and braise as before, but they must be kept quite white, braise half an hour, take off the bacon and dress them upon a border of forcemeat as the last, the cockscombs will be quite firm, then have ready the following sauce: peel and mince the half of a very small cucumber and put it in a stewpan with a chopped eschalot and a pat of butter, let them go gently over the fire, stirring occasionally, until it has become quite a puree, add a quarter of a pound of the flesh of a cooked fowl well pounded in a mortar, season with a little salt and315 ENTREES. pepper, boil all together five minutes, mb it through a tarn- mie, put into a clean stewpan, and when boiling finish with a tablespoonful of whipped cream, sauce over and serve. The sauce must not be too thick. For atelettes de ris d’agneau, see atelettes de ris de veau (No. 682), and proceed in the same manner. • No. 750, Epigramme d’dgneau aux haricots verts. Procure the ribs of a lamb, saw off the breast as large as possible, leaving the bones of the neck long enough to cut cotelettes, braise and press as directed for breast of mutton (No. 487); the day before you want to use it, cut seven nice cotelettes from the neck, then cut seven pieces from the breast, rather small, and the shape of hearts, egg and bread-crumb the cotelettes, which also fry in the same saute-pan, the whole of them to be of a nice light-brown colour, make a border of mashed potatoes upon your dish, on which dress the cotelettes upon one side and the pieces of breast on the other, have one hundred French beans cut in diamonds and boiled very green, drain them quite dry on a sieve, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a little pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of sugar, and the juice of a lemon; set over the fire till very hot, dress them in the centre, glaze the cotelettes and breast lightly, pour nearly half a pint of thin white sauce round and serve very hot. . No. 751. Epigramme d’Agneau aux petits pois. Proceed with the breast and cotelettes exactly as in the last, using peas instead of French beans, and omitting the lemon-juice j or they may be served with the petits pois a la Frangaise (No. 84), or petits pois au lard (No. 85); ex- perience has taught me that the above is not only the most simple method, but the peas eat much nicer than in eitherENTREES. 810 of the other ways; the peas must be young and perfectly fresh, if the reverse stew them by all means. No. 752. Epigramme d’ Agneau aux concombres. Proceed exactly as before, using a sauce aux concombres (No. 103) instead of the other vegetables. No. 753. Epigramme $Agneau a VAncienne. Prepare your cotelettes and breast as before, but dress . them alternately on the dish ; you have previously roasted a shoulder of lamb, when cold cut half a pound of the best part out, which cut into slices the size of half-a-crown, cut also ten fine heads of blanched mushrooms in two slices and put them into a stewpan with the lamb; in another stewpan put a pint of white sauce (No. 7), six spoonfuls of white stock, with four of boiled milk and a bunch of parsley, reduce to a proper thickness, pass it through a tamniie over the lamb and mushrooms, place over the fire to boil, season lightly with a little pepper, salt, sugar, and the juice of half a lemon; let simmer a few minutes, add a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with half a gill of cream, move the stew- pan gently over the fire till the sauce thickens, pour the sauce in the centre, glaze the cotelettes and serve. Although this way of serving an epigramme is good, yet I give the preference to the other, for the lamb coming in season with the vegetables they look so much more inviting; the epigramme a k ancienne I consider fitter for a winter dish. No. 754. Cotelettes dAgneau aux petite pots. Lamb cotelettes require great attention, both in cutting, bread-crumbing, and frying. Cut twelve cotelettes of the same size and shape as represented in the engraving, lay them upon a dish, season lightly with white pepper and salt, put three yolks of eggs upon another plate, which mix3 J 7 ENTREES. with a ,ablespoonful of cream, rub each cotelette in it and afterwards into very fine bread-crumbs, beat them lightly ■Ruth your knife, keeping them in their shapes, have a quar- tei of a pound of butter in a small stewpan, let it boil at the corner of the stove, skimming it until perfectly clarified, then pour it into a thick flat-bottomed saute-pan over a biisk fire, lay in the cotelettes (turning them two or three times, which will cause them to be a light brown colour); fry very crisp, not doing them too much ; if properly done they wifi be very full of gravy; to ascertain when done press them lightly with the point of your knife; if beginning to feel a little firm they are done; take them out, glaze veiy lightly, dress them in your dish upon a border of mashed potatoes the reverse way, the bones pointing outwards, and serve the peas dressed as for epigramme (No. 750) in the centre. My object in using mashed potatoes is to keep the cotelettes in their places in being carried to table. Why I recommend a thick-bottomed saute-pan is that the thin ones by the action of the fire frequently rise in the centre, which would cause the cotelettes to burn and completely spoil this delicate entree. No. 755. Cotelettes d' Agneau auxpointes d’asperges. Prepare and dress twelve lamb cotelettes as above, and serve with the garniture aux pointes d’asperges. No. 756. Cotelettes d’ Agneau aux haricots verts. Prepare and dress the cotelettes as before, and serve with the garniture aux haricots vert. No. 757. Cotelettes d'Agneau aux ratinesglacees. Prepare youi cotelettes as above, dress them on a small border of mashed potatoes, then have ready the young vegetables and sauce as directed for grenadine de veau ar«318 ENTREES. ratines nouvelles (No. 692), dress the vegetables in pyramid in the centre, sauce round, glaze lightly and serve. In a large dinner where you are obliged to cook your cotelettes some time before serving, put them into a saute- pan, half cover them with thin glaze, and keep hot till wanted. This remark applies to every description of cote- lettes. No. 758. Cotelettes d' Agneau aux jeunes oignons. Prepare and dress twelve lamb cotelettes as before; have ready the following sauce: peel fifty spring onions nearly as large as marbles, put half a teaspoonful of sugar into a stewpan, place it over the fire and when melted add two pats of butter and your onions, pass over a slow fire twenty minutes or till tender, tossing them occasionally, then add fifteen spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), with eight of white stock and a small bunch of parsley, simmer at the corner of the fire a few minutes, skim well, take out the parsley, make a liaison of one yolk of an egg mixed with two tablespoon- fuls of cream, stir in quickly, stir another minute over the fire to thicken, sauce in the middle of the cotelettes, which glaze and serve ; should the onions be too much done take them out with a colander spoon, place them in a clean stewpan, reduce the sauce and pass it through a tammis over them. No. 759. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Palestine. Proceed exactly as for cotelettes de mouton (No. 710), but scooping the artichokes a size smaller. No. 760. Cotelettes d'Agneau a la Vicomtesse. Proceed as for cotelettes de mouton a la vicomtesse (No. 699).319 ENTREB6. No. 761, Cotelettes dh Agneau a la puree de truffes. 1 repare twelve lamb cotelettes as usual, and have ready the following puree: put six large French truffles in a mor- tar and pound them very fine, then put a pint of demi- glace (No. 9) in a stewpan, with four spoonfuls of con- somme, reduce a few minutes, keeping it stirred, add the pounded truffles and a httle sugar, simmer a couple of minutes, rub it through a tammie with a couple of wooden spoons, put it again into a stewpan to make hot, sauce under the cotelettes, which glaze and serve. The French raw truffles are the best, but if you cannot obtain them use the preserved, or raw English truffles if most handy, but choose the blackest you can get. No. 762. Cotelettes d’Agneau d la puree de champignons. Prepare twelve cotelettes as usual, which glaze and serve with a sauce a la puree de champignons (No. 54) under them. No. 763. Cotelettes d'Agneau a la puree d'artichauts. Prepare the cotelettes as usual, and have ready the fol- lowing puree: peel and slice eight large Jerusalem arti- chokes, and one small onion, put the onion into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, two ounces of raw ham, a sprig of thyme, ditto parsley, and one bay-leaf; stir over the fire five minutes, then add the artichokes, with a very little white stock, cover the stewpan and place it over a slow toe storing round occasionally; let them remain till quite tender, then add a tablespoonful of flour, mix well and nearly a pint of white stock; boil altogether, keeping it stirred rub it through a tammie, place it in another stevv- pan add a httle sugar, pepper, and salt, boil and skim well, finish with two tablespoonfuls of good cream, sauce320 ENTREES. under the cotelettes, which glaze and serve; these purees require to be rather thick, yet not so thick as to eat pasty and disagreeable. Lamb cotelettes may also be served with a puree of cauli- flowers (No. 97), cucumbers, (No. 105), or asparagus (No. 102). No. 764. Cotelettes d'Agneau farcis aux trujfes. Cut, lard, and braise twelve lamb cotelettes as described for mutton (No. 722), but they will not require so long stewing, press them between two dishes until cold, trim them nicely, then make a puree of truffles as directed (No. 53), but thicker, take it off the fire whilst boiling, and stir in the yolks of two eggs very quickly, place it a moment on the fire to set, and pour on a dish to get cold, then take the cotelettes by the bones and surround them with the puree, spreading it over with a knife, egg and bread-crumb twice over, and put them in a wire basket; have four pounds of lard in a stewpan over the fire and very hot, put in the wire basket and cotelettes, fry of a nice light-brown colour, dress them in crown on a border of mashed potatoes, and serve with a little clear demi-glace (No. 9) in the dish. No. 765. Cotelettes d\ Agneau farcis aux champignons. Prepare your cotelettes as above, make a puree of mush- rooms as directed (No. 54), but thicker, and adding the two yolks of eggs as in the last, spread it over the cotelettes, bread-crumb, fry, and serve exactly as in the last. Lamb cotelettes farcis may also be made with puree of asparagus (No. 102), cauliflower (No.97), artichokes (No.90), or cucumbers (No. 105), by following the above articles. For cotelettes d’agneau a la reform, Provenyale, maitre d’hotel, Hoflandaise, poivrade, piquante, or tomates, see cotelettes dc mouton, with the same sauces, and proceed as there directed.ENTREES. 321 No. 766. Blanquette d’Agneau. Roast a shoulder of lamb, and when cold cut the best pait of it into thin slices about the size of half-crown-pieces, cut also about half the quantity of cooked ham or tongue into pieces of the same size as the lamb, put them together m a stewpan; you have previously boiled in another stew- pan a pint of good white sauce (No. 7), and half a pint of stock with a bunch of fresh parsley in it, which pass through a tammie over the meat, season with pepper salt and the juice of half a lemon, simmer gently, pom on 1 dish and serve- truffles or mushrooms may likewise be added rice mT?9* servef m a croustade of bread’casserok (No. 626). or vol-au-vent (No. 1140); if you have the remains of any joint of lamb it may be used for the above purpose. 1 No. 767. Croquettes d'Agneau. Roast a shoulder of lamb and when cold cut it up in very small dice with one fourth the quantity of cooked ham 01 tongue; put a tablespoonful of chopped onions into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, pass it over a fire till the onion becomes yellowish, then add a little Horn-, mix well put m your mince, with about a pint of white sauce (No 7) -son with a little pepper, salt, and sugar; boil all tocher ye minutes, keeping it stored, if too thick add a° little more sauce, then add two yolks of eggs stir the ' yickly over the fire for one'minute, etnon, and pour it out on a dish to cool; when unite coM i take twelve pieces of it rather larger than walnuts % th d about two inches in leno-th emr and v T ' . them over and fry in very hot lard! dress' thenTonymu ■ 01-own upon a small border of mashed nof,i 7 f with some of the blanquette d’agneau above,' in enta 21322 ENTREES. ENTREES OF PORK. Very few entrees are made of pork, the cotelettes being the principal; they require a sharp high-seasoned sauce; the small pork only can be used. No. 768. Cotelettes de Fore d VIndienne. Cut twelve cotelettes from a neck of pork, similar to the manner directed for mutton cotelettes, only you will be able to cut four cotelettes without bones, by cutting a cote- lette from between the rib-bones, as they require little or no beating, you cut them from the neck of the same thick- ness you require your cotelettes, egg and bread-crumb and fry them a nice colour in clarified butter; they require to be well done, for underdone pork is very unwholesome; dress in a crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, and serve with a sauce a l’lndienne (No. 45) mider them; if for a dinner of any importance omit the cotelettes without bones, using two necks to obtain the quantity. No. 769. Cotelettes de Pore sauce remoulade. Prepare and dress the cotelettes as above, and proceed as for the mutton cotelettes, sauce remoulade (No. 717). Pork cotelettes are also served with then' original sauce Robert (No. 28), sauce piquante (No. 27), au jus d’echa- lotte (No. 16), or poivrade (No. 33) over, and with a sauce tomate (No. 37) beneath them; the cotelettes require glaz- ing, especially where the sauce is served under them. No. 770. Cotelettes de Pore a la Siamoise. Prepare twelve cotelettes as before, dress them on your dish, and have ready the following sauce: peel forty button323 ENTREES. onions, then put half a teaspoonful of sugar in a stewpan, and place it over the fire; when melted and beginning to brown, add two ounces of butter and the onions; keep tossing them over the fire until they get rather brown, add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), and half the quantity of consomme; let boil on the corner of the stove till the onions are done, keeping it well skimmed, the onions must be tender but not broke, take them out carefully with a colander spoon and place them in a clean stewpan; reduce he sauce tifi it adheres to the back of the spoon, add a tablespoonful of French mustard, and pass it through a tamnue over the onions; have also twenty little balls the size of marbles, cut from some gherkins, which put in the sauce warm altogether, but do not boil, dress the onions and gherkins m the centre, sauce over and serve. No. 771. CoteleUes de Pore a la Polognaise. Prepare twelve cotelettes as before, but mixing some grated Parmesan cheese with the bread-crumbs, and fryino- ffioNsm ' pi6CeS °f bianched ( o 130), about three quarters of an inch long, with wenty pieces of cooked ham or tongue, and twenty mush- ms le same size as the macaroni; put them into a Stewpan, with two spoonfuls of tomata sauce (No 37) anj a Piece of glaze the size rf awahmt; p,J ^ “d nd when quite hot add two ounces of grated Parmesan nd two of grated Gruyere cheese, mix well together bv iakmg the stewpan round, season with a little salt, peppe, and cayenne, if approved of, and pour in the centre n/P cotelettes, which glaze and serve with nearlv half • demi-glace (No. 9) poured round an d 0 ^^ °f No. 773. Cotelettes de Pore i la Jeme Prance Prepare twelve cotelettes as before, but cook them rather324 ENTREES. underdone, have ready the preparation of onions as for cote- lettes a la Provengale (No. 701), with a spoonful of French mustard added, cover the cotelettes all over with it about a quarter of an inch in thickness, egg, bread-crumb, and fold each one in a piece of pig’s caul to keep its shape, put a iittle oil in the saute-pan, lay in the cotelettes, put it over the fire for two or three minutes, then in the oven to give them a good colour, if not sufficient colour pass the sala- mander over, take them out, lay upon a clean cloth to drain, dress in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, and serve with a demi-glace (No. 9) round. No. 773. Filets de Pore a VHanoverienne. Procure four small fillets of pork from under the loins, take off all the skin and beat them flat, lard neatly with fine bacon as for a sweetbread, cover the bottom of stewpan with thin slices of bacon, two onions in shoes and a little parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, lay the fillets over, add about a pint of stock, stand it over the fire five minutes, then put it in the oven ; when done they will be quite tender, glaze and salamander a nice colour, place them on a clean cloth to drain, and cut each fillet in halves, dress upon a border of mashed potatoes in crown, have ready some very white stewed choucroute (No. 116), which dress in pyramid in the centre, put twelve spoonfuls of brown sauce in a stew- pan with four of consomme, a smah piece of glaze, and a little powdered sugar, reduce till rather thick, sauce round and serve. Your choucroute must be very white. Fillets of pork may also be served with dressed spinach (No. 106), ditto endive (No. 119), sauce tomata (No. 37), Robert (No. 28), or Indienne (No. 45). No. 774. Escalopes de Pore a la Lyonnaise. Procure four fillets from the loin as in the last, but do325 ENTREES. not lard them, cut them into pieces the size and shape of a fillet of fowl, egg, bread-crumb, and fry in clarified butter, dress in crown on your dish, sauce over with a brown Sou- bise (No. 48), sprinkle bread-crumbs over, salamander and serve. Escalopes may also be served with any of the sauces as served with the cotelettes. No. 775. Langue de Pore demi sale. Have three fillets of pork larded, and braise as (No. 773), and cut each fillet in halves to make six pieces, boil also three small pigs’ tongues, split each one in half, skin and trim nicely, make a border of mashed potatoes on your dish, upon which dress the fillets and tongues alternately in crown, glaze lightly and serve with a sauce tomate (No. 37). Pigs tongues may be dressed in the same manner as calves or sheep, but they are not such delicate eating. DOE VENISON, OR CHEVREUIL. The flesh of the doe or roebuck is a kind of black meat, and possesses a wild gamey taste ; it is seldom used without being pickled in a marinade, and is sent to the table with a sharp and savoury sauce. No. 776. Cotelettes de Chevreuil d la Boliemienne. Cut twelve cotelettes from the necks, the same as you would mutton, but they will be rather larger, make two quarts of the marinade as for filet de bceuf a la Bohe- mienne (No. 426), and lay in the cotelettes, let them re- main four days; when ready for use take them out, dryENTREES. 326 upon a clotli, season with a little pepper and salt, dip in flour, egg and bread-crumb afterwards, dip them in cla- rified butter, and again in the bread-crumbs, beat them lightly with a knife, place them on a gridiron, broil nicely, dress them in crown, and have ready the following sauce: put six tablespoonfuls of the marinade in a stewpan, with a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, reduce it a little, then add twelve spoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1) and six of con- somme, reduce again until it adheres to the back of the spoon, season a little high, add half a tablespoonful of cur- rant jelly, sauce round and serve. Garniture as for cote- lettes de mutton may be introduced. No. 777. Cotelettes de Chevreuil saute sauce poivrade. Having cut twelve cotelettes, season with pepper and salt, put a quarter of a pound of butter in a saute-pan, melt it and lay in the cotelettes, put them over a sharp fire and when partly done turn, keeping them underdone; take all the butter away without disturbing the cotelettes, then pom a pint of thin poivrade sauce (No. 32) and half a pint of consomme over, let them simmer about ten minutes till the meat has taken the flavour of the sauce, dress the cote- lettes as before, reduce the sauce till it adheres to the spoon, add twenty pickled mushrooms, sauce over and serve. No. 778. Minced Chevreuil. With the remains of a haunch or any other part from a previous dinner, take the meat and cut it up in very thin slice*, have ready boiling on the fire about a pint of sauce piquaute (No. 27), throw in the meat, but do not let it boil; after the meat is in, season rather high, and finish with a spoon- ful of currant jelly, it requires to be rather thick, turn it out on your dish and garnish round with triangular scippets of bread fried in butter, serve immediately.327 ENTREES. No. 779. Of the Wild Boar. The principal and most recherche part of this ferocious animal is the head, which is eaten cold, stuffed the German fashion; it is, however, a second course dish, and will be given in that series. The cotelettes are dressed exactly as the chevreuil, it may also be minced, but as it is seldom or ever eaten in this country, I shall content myself with these few remarks (see Boar’s Head, No. 984). No. 780. Of Venison for Entrees. The haunches and necks are usually roasted, its high price would prevent its being cut up for entrees, as that would only be spoiling a noble dish to make a small one, and then would not be so delicious as the joint nicely roasted, but in large families in the country, where venison is veiy plentiful, the receipts for a few entrees may be veiy accept- able. No. 781. Cotelettes de Venaison en demi-glace. A neck of venison requires to be hung a fortnight or three weeks before it is ready; cut the cotelettes as de- scribed for mutton, but of course they will be larger, and you must leave as much of the fat as possible, and be care- ful in beating it flat not to detach the fat from the lean, as the fat is so delicate ; put two ounces of butter in a saute-pan to melt, lay the cotelettes over and place them on a brisk fire, when half done turn them, fry them a good colour, (they are done when they feel firm to the touch,) lay upon a cloth, dress in crown on a small border of mashed po- tatoes, and place them in the oven to keep hot, pom’ off the fat from the saute-pan, and put in a glass of port wine let reduce a little, then add a pint of demi-glace (No. 9) and four spoonfuls of consomme, reduce till it adheres to theENTREES. 323 spoon, add a little sugar and a pat of butter, mix well, and sauce over the cotelettes, which serve as hot as possible. No. 782. Cotelettes de Venaison aux olives. Proceed exactly as above, but just before pouring the sauce over add about twenty stoned olives, dress them in the centre, sauce over and serve; truffles or mushrooms may likewise be introduced. No. 783. Cotelettes de Venaison aujus de groseilles. Saute and dress your cotelettes as above, then put a pint of thin sauce poivrade (No. 32) in the saute-pan with a little consomme, reduce till thickish, skim a little, add a spoonful of currant jelly, sauce over and serve. No. 784. Hashed Venison. The remains of a haunch of venison when cold is much thought of as hash, under which humble name it makes its appearance amongst the most sumptuous dishes, and is a great favourite with epicures, but if no fat remains do not attempt to dress it; but a good haunch well-carved will supply sufficient fat to hash the remainder. Put a quart of good brown sauce (No. 1) in a stewpan with a pint of consomme (No. 134), a piece of glaze, and a good bunch of parsley, let reduce to a good demi-glace, skim, then have as much venison as you require cut in thin slices, the fat thicker than the lean, put it into the sauce, season with pepper and salt, put it over a sharp fire to get hot as quick as possible, but do not let it boil or it u ould get hard and become very greasy, serve as hot as possible, with red currant jelly separate, make only sufficient for one entree.ENTREES. 829 No. 785. Venison Pie. May also be made from the remains of a haunch in a common pie-dish or silver soufflee-dish; put some thin shoes of venison at the bottom of the dish, season with pepper, salt, and little chopped eschalot, then a layer of fat, pro- ceeding alternately till the dish is full, building it up to form a dome and give the pie a good appearance, put in a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, a few spoonfuls of gravy, and four of brown sauce, cover with puff-paste (No. 1132), make a hole in the top, egg over, and bake in a hot oven; when done porn- about six spoonfuls of demi-glace (No. 9) into it with a funnel, shake it about a little and serve very hot. Should you require to make a pie with raw venison pass it a few minutes in butter in a saute-pan upon the stove. ENTREES OF POULTRY. No. 786. Estomacs de Dinde a la Turenne. Many entrees may be made of turkey, but it is usually served as a remove, being too large, and consequently too expensive to cut up ; but several entrees may be made from the remains of one previously served, for the following choose very young small turkeys: Have a young turkey well plucked and drawn, with a sharp knife cut off the whole of the breast, leaving nothing but the legs and backbone, then carefully skin and bone the breast without separating the fillets, it wdl then be in the form of a heart• lard one of the fillets as you would a sweetbread and cover the other with a slice of fat bacon, put three onions’ one carrot, and one turnip, in slices, into a convenient-sizedENTREES. 330 stewpan, with a little parsley, thyme, and two hay-leaves, cover them with half a pint of stock, lay the breast over and start it to boil over the fire, then place it in a moderate oven till tender, glaze and salamander the larded fillet a light yellow colour, but keep the other white, drain upon a clean cloth, and serve with a sauce a la puree de truffes (No. 53) under them. No. 787. Estomac de Binde a la Jeune Comtesse. Prepare the breast as above, only larding and glazing both fillets; you have previously roasted the legs tied up in vegetables, take off all the flesh, which pound well in a ifLortar and pass through a wire sieve, then put a spoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan with two pats of butter, place it over the fire a few minutes till the eschalots become a little yellow, then add a quarter of a tablespoonful of flour (mix well,) and the puree of turkey, which cover with half a pint of white sauce (No. 7) and six spoonfuls of white broth, stir over the fire until boiling, season with a little sugar, pepper, and salt, and pass it through a tammie with a couple of wooden spoons, put it in a clean stewpan, boil a few minutes, then add two tablespoonfuls of cream and a pat of butter, which stir in quickly, pom it in your dish, dress the breast over and serve. The above puree requires to be rather thick, but at the same time delicate, if there is more than you require, reserve some of it, as too much sauce would spoil the look of the entree. No. 788. Escalopes de Binde en blanquette. Take out the two fillets of a turkey, and take off all the skin, then beat them to the thickness of a five-shilling-piece, and from each fillet cut five escalopes in a slanting direc- tion, put two ounces of fresh butter in a saute-pan, place it over the fire, and when melted lay in the escalopes, season331 ENTREES. lightly with a little white pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon, place them on a slow fire, turn them, pour off all the butter from the saute-pan, and cover with fifteen spoon- fuls of white sauce (No. 7) and four of milk, place over the fire, let it simmer a few minutes, take it off and stir in quickly a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with three spoonfuls of cream, stir over the fire another half minute, but do not let it boil, dress them garnished with croutons on your dish and serve; a few mushrooms and slices of cooked tongue might also be introduced. No. 789. Escalopes de Einde a la Belle Fervtiere. Fillet a turkey as before, and cut each escalope into an oval shape, season with a little salt and pepper, egg and bread-crumb, fry a light brown colour in clarified butter, dress them on a border of mashed potatoes in crown, with a large dressed cockscomb (No. 128) between each, sauce in the middle and round as for estomac de dinde (No. 787), and serve very hot. No. 790. Emincee de Einde a Vltalienne Is made with the remains of a turkey from a previous dinner, cut large slices from the breast-part, as much as you may require, and put them into a stewpan with six gherkins cut in long slices, have ready a pint of good sauce Italienne (No. 31), and when boiling pour it over • warm them gently, but do not let them boil, and serve in a dish with very small croquettes de pommes de terre (No. 131) round. No. 791. Blanquette de Einde au Jambon. Cut up the remains of a turkey as above, and put it in a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of lean ham (cooked) also in slices, in another stewpan, have a pint of whiteENTREES. 332 sauce (No. 7) and half a pint of white stock, which boil with a few trimmings of mushrooms, then pass it through a tammie over the slices of turkey, place it on the fire, let simmer a few minutes, season with a little sugar and salt, add the juice of half a lemon, and finish with a liaison of two yolks of eggs, mixed with three tablespoonfuls of cream, serve plain in your dish, or in a vol-au-vent or casserole of rice (No. 626). Croquettes, rissolettes, and boudins are made with the remains of turkey, in the same manner as described for fowls (No. 840). No. 792. Filets de Poulardes d VAmbassadrice. Poulardes being smaller than capons, are better adapted for entrees, but both are dressed in the same manner. Have previously roasted in vegetables and quite white two small poulardes ; when cold, with a sharp knife cut out the fillets, which again cut into two equal slices, beat them slightly with the blade of a strong knife, then have ready half a pound of delicate forcemeat of fowl (No. 122), with which put a couple of finely chopped truffles, cover each piece of fillet the eighth of an inch thick, and all over, then have chopped finely two more truffles, the same quantity of lean ham, mix the same quantity of bread-crumbs with each, egg the fillets over, then dip them into the chopped ham and truffles, four into each, and saute them in clarified butter very gently, turn them when half done, and when done dress them in crown upon your dish; have ready a thin sauce a la puree de concombres (No. 105), to which when boiling add twelve fine cockscombs (No. 128) and a little cream, sauce in the middle, and serve. No. 793. Filets de Poularde a la Marie Stuart. Fillet a poularde by splitting the skin up the breast, and333 ENTREES. passing your knife down the bone, keeping close to the ribs until you have scooped them out, then lay them flat on a board, and with a thin knife take off the inner skin, leaving the upper one untouched; then cut off the legs, with as much ‘skin as possible attached, bone them, and pi epai e the following stuffing: scrape half an ounce of fat bacon, and put it in a stewpan, with four cloves, a blade of mace, six peppercorns and a bay-leaf, pass them over the file five minutes, stirring with a wooden spoon, take out the spice and bay-leaf, add six large truffles cut in thin slices, pass them three minutes over the fire, then add twelve spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), boil altogether ten minutes, keeping it stirred, season with a little salt, pepper, sugar,' and a little nutmeg; take it off the fire, and stir in the' yolk of an egg very quickly; when cold stuff the legs, braise, and give them the form of little ducks; then stuff the fillets with the best slices of truffles under the skin, and put them in a saute-pan, with half a pound of butter, season with a little pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, saute them very white over a slow fire, then make a little pyramid of mashed potatoes in the middle of your dish, lay the two fillets almost upright against it, opposite to each other, and the two legs on the other sides, surmount them with a very nice, white, dressed calf’s ear (No. 665) cut as a frill, with a plover’s egg (shelled) placed in the centre, make a good stock with the bones of the poularde (see No. 6), skim off all the fat, and reduce it very nearly to a glaze, then add six spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) and half a mil 0f cream; boil altogether a minute, sauce over, and serve* The entree will stand best upon a pyramid of mashed potatoes, but a pyramid of forcemeat blanched in stock may be used. No. 794. Filets de Ponlardcs a la Talma. Fillet two poulardes as described in the last, then tak ke334 ENTREES. off the filet mignon, or small fillet, from the under part of each, lard the large fillet neatly as you would a sweetbread, and braise them as described for the estomac de dinde (No. 786), then have twelve French beans boiled nice and green, cut pieces from them in half circles, beat the small fillets gently, make incisions in them, in which stick the pieces of French beans, saute them in a saute-pan, keeping them quite white, then have ready some spinach dressed (No. 106) rather stiff, make a pyramid of it in the centre of the dish, dress the fillets almost perpendicular against it, with the smaller fillets between, the points uppermost, and on the top place a quenelle de volaille (No. 122), in which you have stuck a fine cockscomb, pass the braise in which you dressed the fillets through a sieve, skim off all the fat, and place it in a stewpan, with ten spoonfuls of brown sauce, and reduce it till it adheres to the back of the spoon, add a little sugar, sauce over, glaze your fillets and serve. No. 795. Filets de Poidarde a la Russe. Prepare a little rice as for a casserole de riz (No. 626), with which form a small pyramid to stand in the centre of your dish, egg over and stand it in the oven to set, then cut a piece off the top, and empty a space large enough to hold a quarter of a pint; at the top of the pyramid there requires a space the size of half-a-crown, after you have emptied it put the top on again, and keep it hot; then fillet two poulardes as above, take off the small fillets, which form into rings by bringing the two ends together, butter a saute-pan, in which lay the fillets, with the rings, season with a little white pepper, salt, and lemon-juice; place ihem over the fire, when half done turn them, but keep them quite white, have also previously boiled a Russian tongue, from the thick part cut four pieces the size and shape of the fillets of fowl, but not quite so thick, place the rice inENTREES. 335 the centre of your dish, and dress the fillet of poulardes and pieces of tongue, (which you have made hot in a little white stock,) alternately round it, put twenty stewed mush- rooms in the rice croustade, and have ready the following sauce : put a pint of white sauce (No. 7) in the saute-pan, with the bioth you warmed the tongue in and six spoonfuls of veal stock; boil altogether ten minutes, pass it through a tammie into a stewpan, boil again till it becomes rather thick, then add a little sugar and a gill of cream, sauce over the mushrooms till the croustade is full, then over the fillets, glaze the tongue, place the rings on the top of the pyramid, pom the remainder of the sauce round and serve; the person that carves should be acquainted that the crous- tade of rice contains mushrooms, that he might carve the croustade and serve with the entree. No. 796. Filet de Poularde a la Pierre le Grand. Fillet two pordardes as in the last, and when about three parts cooked lay them on a cloth, and with a thin sharp knife divide each fillet into two; have previously boiled a Russian tongue as in the last, cut also four pieces from the thick part, and pound the remaining tender part very fine ; rub it through a wire sieve, then put a tablespoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with a small piece of butter, stu over the fire a few minutes, add a teaspoonful of flour,5 mix well, and a pint of white sauce (No. 7), reduce it a .e, men add the pounded tongue and two yolks of eo-aS stir them m quickly, and season a little more if required5 stir over the fire a short time longer, till the eggs begin to set, then with a fork dip in each fillet, let them be well covered, and lay them on a dish to get cold, when egg and lead-crumb them twice over, and fry a good colour in four pounds of very tot lard, warm the four pieces of tongue m stock’ make a bord« of masted potatoes on yourENTREES. 33G dish, dress the fillets in crown with the pieces of tongue interspersed; you have previously made a stock with the bones of the poulardes (No. 6), which reduce to a thin glaze, add a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and sauce round; fry two bunches of watercresses very crisp, sprinkle a little salt over, dress them in the middle and serve very hot. No. 797. Filets de Foulcirde d la Dumas. Fillet two poulardes and divide the fillets as in the last; when three parts cooked have ready the following puree: peel and cut in thin slices a very fresh cucumber, which put in a stewpan, with a spoonful of chopped eschalots and three pats of butter, pass gently over a slow fire twenty minutes, keeping them stirred, then add half a tablespoonful of flour and a pint of white sauce (No. 7); season with a little sugar and salt, rub it through a tammie, previously boiling five minutes, put it into another stewpan, with two yolks of eggs, stir quickly over the fire till the yolk sets, then dip in the fillets and proceed as in the last, dress the same and serve with a puree of cucumbers (No. 105), in which you have put three spoonfuls of cream. These entrees should be served immediately or they become soft. Poulardes and capons may also be served in escalopes or blanquettes, as directed for the turkey (Nos. 788 and 789), especially any fillets that may be left neither larded or fried. No. 798. Blanc de Poularde aux concombres. Roast a large poularde in vegetables (see No. 417), and when cold cut the breast out carefully, and afterwards into thin slices, make a stock with the bones as directed (No. 6), then peel two cucumbers, which cut into pieces two inches in length, split each piece into four and take out the seeds if any, trim them at the corners and put them into a stew- pan, with a spoonful of chopped eschalots and two pats of337 ENTREES. butter, place them over a slow fire tossing them occasion- ally ; when a little tender pom' off the butter and place in the pieces of poularde, then put the stock from the bones in a stewpan, not more than a pint, and reduce it to half, add a pint of white sauce (No. 7) and a little sugar, reduce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, then take it off the fire, and stir in a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with half a gill of cream, pass it through a tammie over the pieces of poularde and cucumbers, and stand in the bain marie to get hot, serve plain in a deep entree dish. this dish is much thought of by great epicures, the eyes are certainly not treated, but the palate is delighted. The same description of entree may be made the next day from the legs. No. 799. Cmsses de Poulardes a la Talleyrandcle Perigord. Bone the legs of two poulardes, leaving as much skin as possible on them, then stuff and braise them as directed for poularde a la Marie Stuart (No. 528), only place slices of truffles between the flesh and the skin, then poach a square piece of forcemeat (No. 120) three inches high, and smaller at the top than the bottom; when cold place it on a cloth and cut it in the shape of a pyramid according to the size 0 your dish, make it hot in some stock, take it out care- , a"d fix 14 m the centre of your dish upon a piece of as et potato, then take up the legs, draw out the thread and place them on a cloth to drain; have four- very small liver skewers, or atelettes, place a nice truffle warmed m stock on each, dress a leg upon each side of the pyramid upon a piece of mashed potato, perpendicular, and run an th V;. lr°ugli each at the top, fixing it to the forcemeat they being nearly upright, then have ready the mi ’ sauce: chop four small truffles and put them i S «th half a glass of Madeira wine, reduce a minffleTen 22338 ENTREES. add the stock the legs were braised in (having previously passed it through a cloth and taken off the whole of the fat), and twelve spoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1); reduce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, add a little sugar, sauce over and serve. To simplify the above they may be cooked as described, and dressed plain on the dish with the sauce over. No. 800. Cuisses de Poulardes au Soldi. Bone the legs of two poulardes, leaving as much skin on as possible, season them with a little pepper and salt inside, then have ready a quarter of a pound of forcemeat (No. 120), chop two ounces of lean cooked ham, mix it with the force- meat, stuff the legs with it, sew them up with a piece of packthread, then hold them a quarter of a minute over a charcoal fire to make the skin firm, have some bacon cut very fine, and with it lard a circle very neatly (forming rays), upon the top of each, braise them as directed (No. 793), have also ready a pyramid of forcemeat as in the last, when the legs are done prick a hole in the centre of the larded circle, in which place a piece of truffle to resemble a clove but six times the size of one, prepare four little silver atelettes or skewers with a dressed cockscomb upon each, dish the legs precisely as in the last, and serve with a puree of mush- rooms (No. 54) round. This may also be simplified by serving the legs plain in the dish with the puree imdei. No. 801. Cuisses de Poulardes d VEcaillere. Bone and season four legs as above, have ready a quarter of a pound of forcemeat (No. 120), with which mix ten well blanched oysters cut in quarters, and the yolk of au egg, stuff the legs, sew them with packthread, and braise them as before; prepare also a pyramid of forcemeat as be- fore, have four little atelettes and place a craw-fish (No. 380)339 ENTREES. upon each, dress the legs with the atelettes as before, and have ready the following sauce : put a pint of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with six spoonfuls of oyster liquor; reduce it to a proper thickness, add half a gill of ci earn, mix well, and pass it through a tammie into another stewpan, into which put two dozen blanched oysters, season with a httle cayenne pepper; warm altogether, sauce over and serve. No. 802. Classes de Poulardes farcis auxpetits legumes. Bone and season form legs as before, stuff them with a quarter of a pound of forcemeat (No. 120), and braise them as before make a pyramid of mashed potatoes in the centre o your dish and dress a leg on each side; you have pre- viously turned twenty young carrots and twenty young ramps m the shape of small pears, and stewed with sufff ZL t0 C0V6r ^ Whidl y°U Put M a tea- .poonful of sugar; when tender dry them on a cloth, and s icv them alternately m the potatoes above and around the egs very tastefully; then put a pint of brown sauce (No l) n f h the stock; y°u stewed your vegetables in, add a bunch paisley and half a bay-leaf, with six spoonfuls of con- omme; reduce till it adheres to the back of the spoon take ZZ V:ZJ and bayJeaf’ add a * of -uce No. 803. Cumes de Poulardes enfiieassee 'a VUteli'ere. Bone, stuff, and braise as before four leo-s of nn„l i make a pyramid of mashed potatoes in the3 centre of**' ^ ish. draw out the packthread, drain tie Ws on a cM ' dress them round, place a fine craw-fish on the e hare ready the following sauce: peel fifty f,? omons and put them in a stewpan, with a ntt f f n" -e and half a pint of white slock, add a sS CK340 ENTREES. parsley and half a bay-leaf; let simmer till the onions are tender, keeping it skimmed, then take out the parsley and bay-leaf, and with a colander spoon take out all the onions, which deposit in another stewpan, reduce the sauce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, season with a little salt, sugar, and lemon-juice, and finish with a liaison of one volk of egg mixed with two tablespoonfuls of cream, pass it through a tammie over the onions, warm altogether without letting it boil, sauce over and serve. No. 804. Cuisses de Poulardes a la Bayonnaise. Procure four legs of poulardes and take out the thigh- bone, leaving the one in the leg, but cut off above the knuckle; then put four spoonfuls of salad oil in a stewpan, season the legs with a little pepper and salt, and lay them in, place the stewpan over a slow fire, cover it, and let them remain till they get a yellowish colour, turn, and when three parts done add thirty button onions cut in rings, set it over a sharp fire to give a tinge to the onions, pour off as much oil as possible, add a pint of white* sauce (No. 7), and half the quantity of white stock, let simmer until it becomes rather thick, then take out the legs, which dress flat on your dish; season the sauce a little more if required, add the yolks of two eggs, stir them in quickly, sauce over, sprinkle bread-crumbs upon them, place a small piece of butter on each leg, place them in the oven a quarter of an hour, salamander a light brown and serve. No. 805. Entrees of Spring Chickens, Bullets, Fowls, etc. The number of entrees which may be made of this kind of poultry is immense, but to abbreviate and avoid repetition I have classified the three sorts together, so that the follow- ing entrees may be made from either of the three sorts, but for many entrees the spring chickens are preferable; the341 ENTREES. pullets are generally most used, especially for fillets, for if the fillets are very small the least neglect would make them very dry and uneatable, two large fillets are again awkward, however tender, there being too much for one and not enough for two; but I have made this observation mctely to state that the same entrees may be made from .other where you happen to have them in the house. No■ 808■ Mle‘s * Volatile a la Skigne. Take two nice plump pullets, fillet them as directed for the poularde {No. 792)> detach t]le m fflet from each, lay the fillets on a board, dip yom eotf lette-bat in water, beat one of the smaU fillets flat then another and lay on the top of it, thus making two large “in fio , tl T then Witk a tMn knile detach the 16 ai&e oneSj me^ two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, lay in the fillets, which season light “th white pepper, salt, and juice of a lemon- stand’it 1 tot 2 a? fr *ke Tt for0emeat wMl th'e le8s as toted :: *■>■» - f- .s-t'rKS”;* lets over the fire, turning them when half done 1 + 1% (the tT° S,UaU fillets ^ they are done'as soots tyt/firmt tT° touch; then make a smaU border of mashed J7 “ Xt'otT^t648 “ ^ vonnd Irt;: sauce over wittTtomJ “f ^ ? Ugh as P°®V ■cady a handful of green peas nicely boiled the. i? over and serve. 3 ’ ;vlllcl1 sprinkle No. 807. Filets de Volatile a la Neva ^ ^ - ** aa aWe, likewise make the342 ENTREES. forcemeat and six quenelles with the legs, when the que- nelles are partly cold dip them in a basin containing two eggs well beaten, take them out with a fork, and sprinkle some chopped boiled Russian tongue over, place them in an entree-dish, cover and put them in a hot closet for an horn, cook the fillets as before ; make a small border of mashed potatoes on your dish, dress the fillets and quenelles alter- nately to form a crown, and have ready prepared the follow- ing sauce : break up all the bones of the fowls and put into a stewpan with a glass of Madeira wine, an onion in slices, one bay-leaf, two cloves, a little carrot and celery, place it over the foe two minutes, then cover the bones with two quarts of white stock, and let them simmer gently one hour, skim well and pass it through a cloth into anothei stewpan, add six spoonfuls of good brown sauce (No. 1) and reduce it to a clear demi-glace, then add ten heads of white mush- rooms and ten pieces of boiled Russian tongue cut the size of half-crown-pieces, place the garniture in the centre, sauce over and serve; if you cannot obtain the Russian tongue for any of the above purposes, the English pickled tongue may be used instead. No. 808. Filets de Volatile saute au Supreme. Eillet three fowls as before, making nine fillets from the three, saute the same, dress them in crown on a border of mashed potatoes, sauce over with a sauce supreme (No. 57) and serve; should you require a larger entree use four fowls instead of three. No. 809. Filets de Volatile aux truffes. Eillet three fowls as before, saute the same, then lia\ e a pint of the sauce supreme (No. 57) in a stewpan, boil the sauce, and when boiling throw in four preserved truffles in slice., add a tablespoonful of thick cream, sauce over and sene.ENTREES. .‘343 No. SIO. Filets de Volatile aux truffcs a la Bechamel. Proceed with the fillets as before, put fifteen spoonfuls of sauce bechamel (No. 7) in a stewpan, with eight of white stock, reduce till rather thick, then add form truffles in slices with a little salt and sugar, when again boding add two tablespoonfuls of good thick cream, sauce over and serve No. 811. Filets de Volatile aux champignons. Prepare the fillets of three fowls as before, saute and dress them as usual; wash and turn half a pottle of mush- rooms, pass the heads m a stewpan with a little butter salt emon-juice, and two tablespoonfuls of water, bod three mi- nutes, then m another stewpan have a pint of the sauce supreme (No 57), add the mushrooms with their stock knn wed, bod altogether ten minutes, add two tablespoon: ul of good thick cream and a little sugar, sauce over and No. 812. Filets de Volatile aux champignons a la Bechamel. Proceed as before with the fdlets, and likewise prepare ia a pottle of white mushrooms as in the last, buf savino- v e n“mm8,S> Whlch Put iu another stewpan with half the qu°r fr°m the mushrooms and a pint bdchamelLua f0- 7)' ,reduce tlU rather thick, then pass it through ! . mnne into another stewpan, add a little sugar and your mushrooms, previously drained on a cloth, bod alto Jh two—, add ha, a giU of boding milk, No. 813. Filets de Ponlet a TAubassadriee. Roast three fowls in vegetables as directed in tl r, moves, cut out the fillets and proceed ovwl r Re‘ poi dairies a l’ambassadrice (No. 7<)2) ' 7aS 01344 ENTREES. No. 814. Filets de Foulet a la Slrasbourgienne. Roast two large fowls in vegetables, and when cold take out the fillets, and with a thin knife divide each fillet in halves, to form two out of one, then pound two ounces of foie gras de Strasbourg (a small tureen of which can be purchased at any respectable Italian warehouse in London) in a mortar, and rub it through a hair sieve, put a spoonful of chopped onions in a stewpan with half a pat of butter, stir them a few minutes over the fire, then add half a pint of white sauce (No. 7), reduce till rather thick, add the foie gras, and when ready to boil take it off the fire and stir in the yolks of two eggs very quickly, leave it to get cold, then spread it over the fillets the eighth of an inch in thick- ness, have three eggs in a basin well-beaten, take each fillet on a fork, dip them into the eggs, throw them in a dish of bread-crumbs, take them out, pat them gently with a knife and repeat the operation, have four pounds of hot lard in a stewpan, in which fry them a light brown colour, dress in crown on a small border of mashed potatoes, and serve with fried water-cresses in the centre quite dry, with a little gravy separate. No. 815. Filets de Volatile d la Duchesse. Fillet three fowls, with the filets mignons making nine fillets, lard four of the fillets neatly and braise them as you would a sweetbread, then saute the remainder of the fillets as usual; dress them alternately on a border of mashed po- tatoes, two larded, and the other plain, and have ready the following sauce : put a pint of white sauce (No. 7) in a stew- pan with six spoonfuls of white stock, a small bunch of parsley, and the trimmings of some fresh mushrooms, boil till it becomes thick, keeping it stirred, add halt a pint of cream and pass it through a tammie into another stewpan345 ENTREES. in which you have placed a dozen of dressed cockscombs (No. 128), boil it up, then sauce over the plain fillets, put the cockscombs in the centre, glaze the larded fillets lightly and serve. If too thick, add a little stock to the sauce. No. 816. Fpigramme de Filets de Volatile a la Josephine. Prepare and cook the fillets of three fowls as above, cut also four pieces from a cooked tongue the size and shape of your fillets, warm them in stock, make a small border of mashed potatoes on your dish, dress the larded fillets first, then the plain, then the tongue to form a crown, sauce with a thin puree of green peas (No. 86) in the centre, glaze the tongue and larded fillets, and serve. No. 817. Filets de Volatile aux concombres. Fillet three fowls as usual, place them in a saute-pan with butter, season and put by until ready; have two fine cucumbers cut in pieces three inches in length, split each piece in halves, take out the seeds and peel so as not to leave a mark of green upon it, trim each piece as near the size and shape of the fillets as possible, blanch them three minutes in boiling water with salt, drain them on a sieve, put them in a saute-pan with a little sugar and some good white stock, set them on the fire till the cucumber is tender and the stock has reduced to demi-glace, then saute your fillets, and dress upon a small border of mashed potatoes alternately with a piece of the cucumber, add the remainder of the cucumber and the demi-glace to a demi-puree of cu- cumbers (No. 105) (but keep it quite white), with which sauce over and serve. The cucumbers must be the best for this purpose and fresh, or you will not be able to succeed. No. 818. Fricassee de Foulet a la Chevaliere. Fillet two fowls but leave the pinions of the wings at-ENTREES. 34 G tached to them, lard and braise as directed for filets de poulardes a la Marie Stuart (No. 793), cut off the legs nicely, and take out the thigh-bone, leaving the leg-bone, but cutting it off above the knuckle; cut each back also into two pieces and trim neatly, put the legs and pieces of back into a stewpan, just cover them with one pint of water and two of stock, add a little pepper, salt, and a small bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, with an onion in slices, and two cloves, set them over the fire, let simmer twenty minutes, and skim well; then take out the pieces and put them on a cloth to dry, trim neatly and place them into another stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, pass them five minutes over the five, then add one tablespoon- ful of flour, mix well; you have previously passed the stock you boiled the fowl in through a cloth, pour it over the fricassee, which keep stirred till boding, then stand it at the corner to simmer, skim well, it requires to be rather thin, let simmer nearly an hour, then take out the pieces very carefully and place them in another stewpan, put a spoonful of chopped mushrooms in the sauce, reduce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, pass it through a tammie over the pieces of fowl, place it again on the fire, add twelve cockscombs, twelve mushrooms, and twelve slices of truffles, let simmer a minute, finish with a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with three tablespoonfuls of milk, take it off the fire immediately, put a little mashed potatoes hi the bottom of your dish, take out the four pieces of back, place two in the centre of the dish and two others over to form a square, stand the four legs upright around, drain the four fillets on a cloth, (let them be a nice colour,) and dress them over; place the garniture from the sauce on the top to form a pyramid, sauce over the legs and round, glaze the fillets lightly and serve.ENTREES. 347 No. 819. Fricassee cle Poulet a VAncienne. Cut two fowls into eight pieces each, that is, two legs, two wings, with a piece of the fillet, two pieces of back, and two pieces of breast, put them into a stewpan with two quarts of warm water, let them remain ten minutes to dis- gorge, pom off all the water, then just cover them with cold water, add a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper, and one of salt, parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, with an onion in slices, and two cloves, simmer gently twenty minutes, skim well, take out the pieces, lay them on a cloth, and trim them into neat pieces, then place them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, pass over the fire five minutes keeping them moved; add two tablespoonfuls of flour, mix well, pass the stock the pieces were boiled in through a cloth over, stir all together, then have peeled forty button onions, throw them in and boil altogether nearly an lioiu’ very gently (keeping it skimmed), till the sauce is sufficiently thick, then finish with a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with half a gill of milk, stir it in quick and do not let it boil afterwards, put a little mashed potatoes on the bottom of the dish, dress the pieces in pyramid, commencing with the backs, and finishing with the breasts upon the top, sauce all over and serve. No. 820. Petits Poulets Printaniers saute aux truffes. Procure two spring chickens, cut each one in halves, then again divide the wings from the legs, thus making eight pieces of the two; cut off the legs just above the knuckle, break the back-bones with a knife, put half a pound of butter in a flat stewpan, let it melt, lay in the pieces of chicken, let them remain over a slow fire until they become rather brown, then turn them, let them remain until the other side is browned, then pom off as much of the butterENTREES. 343 as possible, and add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) with ten spoonfuls of consomme, place it again over the fire, and when boiling throw in four large truffles cut in thin slices and a little sugar, keep moving them round gently till the sauce adheres to the pieces; then take them out, dress as elevated as possible, sauce over and serve. Poulet printanier saute aux champignons, and ditto aux olives, are done precisely the same, only substituting twenty stoned olives, or thirty heads of mushrooms, for the truffles. No. 821. Poulet Printanier braise a la Financiere. Roast a spring chicken very white in vegetables, as di- rected in the Removes, when done draw out the string, place it iu the centre of an entree-dish, and serve with a sauce financiere (No. 50) over, they may also be served with a sauce a la bechamel (No. 7) or any of the sauces di- rected for the flaucs. No. 82.2. PetitsPouletsPrintaniers sauce remoulade (chaude). Take out the back-bone of a good-sized chicken, cut the legs off at the knuckles, break the leg-bone, then make an incision in the thigh and draw the legs through to the in- side ; break the joints of the wings, and beat the chicken rather flat, then put a piece of butter in a saute-pan, when melted lay in your chicken, pass it over a slow fire ten mi- nutes, turn it and place it again over till it becomes slightly coloured, then lay it on a dish, season well with pepper and salt; egg all over, throw it into bread-crumbs, cover all over, place it on a gridiron over a slow fire and broil it a nice yellow colour; have ready the following sauce : put six tablespoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan with four of white stock, place it over the fire, and when boiling add six spoonfuls of well-seasoned sauce remoulade (No. 38), stir it quickly over the fire until hot, but do not let349 ENTREES. it boil, pom- it in yonr dish, garnish the edge with fillets of gherkins, lay the chicken over, which glaze lightly and serve. No. 823. Poulet Printanier grille aux champignons confiL Prepare and broil a chicken exactly as in the last, put the juice from a small bottle of picklecl mushrooms, not too salt, in a stewpan with a spoonful of chopped eschalots; re- duce to half, then add twelve spoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), season with a little cayenne pepper and sugar, boil till rather thick, add the mushrooms from the bottle, when hot pour the sauce in the dish, dress the fowl over, which glaze and serve. Spring chickens broiled may also be served with sauce piquante (No. 27), poivrade (No. 33), tomate (No. 37), fresh mushrooms (No. 52), or a la mare- chal (No. 532). After having used the fillets of fowls or chickens, the legs may be dressed in any of the methods given for legs of poulardes or capons, of course their not being so large, they will not require so long to cook, but there being sl\ instead of four legs, they will require the same quantity of sauce; they may also be served in any of the following ways. No. 824. Cuisses cle Volaille truffes a la Perigord. Cut off the six legs with as much of the skin as possible attached, giving them a round shape, take out the thigh- bone, and cut off the leg above the knuckle, then stuff the round part with a preparation of truffles, as for poularde a la Mane Stuart (No. 528), showing the truffles under the skm, sew them up, and braise as directed for that article • when done put a thin oval border of mashed potatoes on your dish, and dress the legs upon it, three on each side • place a small paper foil upon each bone, and serve with a350 ENTREES. puree of truffles (No. 53) in the centre and round; the puree must be rather thin. No. 825. Cuisses de Volatile d la T)ino. * Prepare, stuff, and braise six legs as in the last, also have a fine larded sweetbread (No. 671) which braise with the legs, glaze and salamander of a nice gold colour, then have poached an oval piece of forcemeat (No. 120), an inch and a half high, three inches long, and two inches broad, place the sweetbread on the top, and dress the legs round, three upon each side, place a fine cockscomb between each leg to hide the forcemeat, fix them there by running little pegs made of stiff paste through them, sauce over the legs with a sauce a ITtalienne (No. 31), glaze the sweetbread, and serve very hot. No. 826. Cuisses de Volatile braise aux concombres. Prepare and bone six legs as above, season them with a little pepper, salt, and very finely-chopped eschalots, then have ready half a pound of forcemeat of fowl, with which stuff them, sew them round and braise as before; when done dress them on your dish as described for cuisses de volaille truffes a la Perigord (No. 824), sauce in the middle and round with a garniture and sauce aux concombres (No. 103), and serve. No. 827. Cuisses de Volaille braise aux pois. Prepare, bone, stuff, and braise as the last, dress the same, and serve with stewed peas rouud and in the centre. Por stewed peas (see No. 1077.) The legs braised as above may also be served with a sauce Palestine (No. 87) or a la jardiniere (No. 100.)351 ENTREES. No. 828. Cuisses de Volatile en fricassee a VAncienno See (No. SI9) and proceed exactly the same; dress them on the dish, and serve as above. No. 829. Cuisses de Volaille a la Marengo. Cut oft the legs neatly as before, taking out the thigh- bone, and proceed as directed for petits poussins a la Ma- rengo (see Planes, No. 596), dress them pyramidicallv, sauce over, and serve. The whole of a fowl may be dressed in this manner by cutting it up as directed for poulet prin- tamei (No. 820), and proceeding as described where above directed. I\o. 830. Poulet a la Provengale. Cut up a large fowl or a small poularde into eight pieces, that is, the two legs, the two wings, with a piece of the fillet attached, two pieces of breast and two pieces of back, put them into a saute-pan with eight spoonfuls of oil and six onions, peeled and cut in thin slices, season with a little pepper and salt, place it over a slow fire, move and turn them occasionally; when done, lay them on a cloth, to drain oft all the oil, put a little mashed potatoes on the bottom of your dish, dress the inferior pieces at the bottom, and the better one at the top, dressing them as tastefully as pos- sible, put the stewpan again on the fire, pour off as much oil as possible, and mix a quarter of a tablespoonful of flour with the onions, then twelve spoonfuls of white sauce (!No. 7), and eight of white stock, add a little scraped garlic e size of a pea, and a little more sugar, take it off* the e, stir m the yolks of two eggs, sauce over, egg and wead-crumb all over, set it in a very hot oven ten minutes, salamander, and serve.352 ENTREES. No. 831. Turban de Quenelles de Volatile a la Busse. Take the flesh of a nice delicate large fowl, and with it make some forcemeat as directed (No. 122); when done make eight large quenelles with two silver tablespoons, by filling one of them with forcemeat, dip your knife in hot water, and smooth it over in a slight dome, then dip the other spoon in hot water, and scoop the quenelle from the first spoon with it, taking it into the hot spoon, from which it will easily slip, place them in a buttered saute-pan, and cover with good second broth, place them over a quick fire, boil twenty minutes, and lay them out on a cloth; cut also eight pieces from a boiled Russian tongue, the size of the quenelles and the thickness of two five-shilling pieces which warm in a little consomme; make a border of mashed po- tatoes, cut a little piece off the bottom of each quenelle, and dress them alternately with a piece of the tongue in crown; break the bones of the fowl up very small, and put them in a stewpan with a glass of sherry, one minced onion, one bay-leaf, a little thyme,, and one clove; boil it two minutes, then add a quart of white stock, reduce it to half, sldm off all the fat, and pass it through a tammie into another stew- pan, add a pint of white sauce (No. 7), and reduce it till it adheres to the back of the spoon; finish with two table- spoonfuls of good thick cream, and a little sugar, sauce over the quenelles, glaze the tongue, and serve with the remainder of the sauce round and in the centre. No. 832. Quenelles de Volatile a VEcarlate. Proceed precisely as above, using plain ox-tongue instead of the Russian. No. 833. Quenelles de Volatile aux concombrcs. Make eight quenelles as before, then procure a fine hot-ENTREES. 353 house cucumber, from which cut and trim eight pieces the size ot your quenelles, put them in a stewpan with a pat of butter and a little sugar, pass them over a slow fire ten minutes, then add six spoonfuls of white broth, and let them simmer very gently till quite done, but not too much so, or it would be impossible to dress them; then poach the quenelles and lay them on a cloth to drain with the cucumbei, have ready a border of mashed potatoes on youi dish, cut a little piece off the bottom of each quenelle, ancl dress them alternately with the cucumber in crown; have ready the following sauce: add half a pint of white sauce (JNo. 7) to the stock the cucumber was dressed in, reduce it till it adheres to the spoon, add a tablespoonful of cream, sauce over, and serve. No. 834. Quenelles de Volaille e?i demi deuil. Make twelve quenelles as before, poach them and lay them on a cloth, have ready chopped two or three vary black truffles, dip six of the quenelles in some egg well. beaten, roll them in the chopped truffles, place them in a dish, cover them up and stand them in the hot closet an hour • place the other six in some fresh stock in a stewpan and keep hot m the bain-marie, have ready a border of mashed potatoes on your dish, cut a piece off the bottom of each of the quenelles, dress the six black ones on one side and the white ones on the other to form a crown, put ten spoonfuls of milk in a stewpan, boil it, and add a pint of white sauce (No 7); reduce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, then add two pats of butter and the juice of a lemon sauce over the white quenelles; you will probably have a ew Chopped truffles left, which sprinkle over, and serve the remainder of the sauce in the centre. 23354 ENTREES. No. 835. Quenelles de Volatile a la Yorlc Minster. Make and poach twelve quenelles as before, dip them in egg, and then roll them in some finely chopped cooked lean York ham, place them on a dish, cover and put them in the hot closet to dry; make a border of mashed potatoes on your dish, and dress one red and one white quenelle alter- nately, put twelve good spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with ten of boiled milk and a httle sugar, let reduce till it adheres to the spoon, add about forty strips of the cooked ham cut the size of julienne-roots, sauce over and serve; finish the sauce with a little cream. No. 836. Quenelles de Volatile a la Pair de France. Make eight quenelles as before, and when laying in the saute-pan make a long incision in each, in which put a very white middle-sized dressed cockscomb, cover them with white stock, and poach very gently for a quarter of an hour; have also poached a solid piece of forcemeat four inches in diameter and two and a half in height, with along round cutter cut four holes near the centre, large enough to stand in four plovers’ eggs, which peel and warm in a little stock, and between the four on the top place a fifth ; cut a small piece off the bottom of each quenelle, and stand them upright upon a little mashed potatoes against the i centre piece, the cockscombs facing outwards, sauce o\er with a very white thin puree of artichokes (No. 90), andl serve with a little chopped chervil sprinkled over them. No. 837. Quenelles de Volatile a la Stiene. Pass a tablespoonful of chopped onions in butter in a. stewpan over a sharp fire, and when they begin to colour add a teaspoonful of flour, mix well in, then add half a pint of brown sauce, a piece of glaze t lie size ot a walnut,ENTREES. 355 two teaspoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, and one of chopped parsley, reduce five minutes, take it off the fire and stir in the yolks of two eggs very quickly; you have previously poached ten quenelles as before, and when cold dip them into the above sauce, covering them all over, (previously cutting a small piece off the bottom,) then dip them into some egg well-beaten, and then into bread-crumbs, pat them a little with your knife and repeat the operation; fry them a nice colour in a stewpan containing form pounds of very hot lard, dress them in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, and have ready the following sauce : put a pint of consomme free from salt in a stewpan, with some bones of a raw or cooked fowl and a bunch of parsley, boil it till reduced to half, squeeze in the juice of twelve grapes, pass i t rough a tammie into another stewpan, reduce to a thin glaze, add half a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar and a httle sugar, pour it in tho centre of your dish and serve very hot. No. 838. Boudins de Volatile a la Richelieu. Make sufficient of the above forcemeat, for twelve que- nelles, lay a httle flour on your dresser, upon which place twelve pieces of the forcemeat, each of the size of a quenelle roll each a little with the hand, then with a knife form them mto pieces two inches long and nearly an inch wide, place em m a buttered saute-pan as you do them, and poach xactly as for the quenelles, dress them in crown on a border o mashed potatoes, sauce over with a sauce Perigueux U>o. 55) and serve. ° No. 839. Boudins de Volaille a la Sully. Make the same quantity of forcemeat as for the last lav ■XyC r“d <livide ;t mt° fi'e ^ fitt U y°Ur kmfe’ ha™S suffi™nt flour on the board to pro-350 ENTRIES. vent them sticking ; have a salpicon as for croquettes (see next), place a little of it upon the centre of each piece of forcemeat, roll them up, place them in a buttered saute-pan, cover with stock and poach them twenty minutes, drain on a cloth, cut off the ends, and lay them on your dish, tlu-ee at the bottom and two across, sauce the same as the last and serve. No. 840. Croquettes de Volatile aux truffes. Cut up a small braised fowl (or the remains of two or three left from a previous dinner) into very small dice (or mince), cut also two large truffles of the same size, put half a tablespoonful of chopped eschalots into a stewpan with half an ounce of butter, pass them three minutes over the fire, add a quarter of a tablespoonful of flour, mix well, then put in the fowl and truffles and half a pint of white sauce (No. 7)—or more if not sufficiently moist, boil all together ten minutes, season with a little white peppei, salt, and sugar, then stir in the yolks of two eggs very quickly, stir another minute over the fire, turn it out on a dish to cool; when cold take twelve pieces, each the size of a very large walnut, roll them about an inch and a half in length, egg and bread-crumb twice over and fry a good colour in hot lard, dress them in crown on a border of mashed potatoes, and serve with a sauce aux truffes (Ao. 51) in the centre. The remainder of a previous dinner of any kind of poultry may be used for croquettes. No. 841. Croquettes de Volatile au Jambon Are made in the same manner as in the last, only nsinD cooked lean ham instead of truffles, and selling a Utf e blauquette de volaille au jambon (see blanquette de din e, No. 88) in the centre ; croquettes de volaille a lecarlate are made the same, merely substituting some cooked tongue357 ENTREES. and adding tongue to the blanquette; when made larger tney are called boudins, but the croquettes are preferable, being more crisp. INo. 843. Rissolettes de Volatile a la Pompadour. Make half a pound of forcemeat (No. 123), then have l early tv o buttered saute-pans, place half of the forcemeat in the centre of each, then spread it over the bottom to the thickness of half-a-crown piece with a spoon, occasionally dipping the spoon in white of egg; then cover them over with stock and place them on a moderate foe, let thefo simmer for five minutes, take off as much of the stock as possible, and leave them in the saute-pans to get half cold, take them out with a fish-slice, place one of them on a dish, then have prepared a salpicon as for the cro- quettes aux truffes (No. 840), cover the sheet of forcemeat v ith it a quarter of an inch in thickness, then cover the other sheet over it, press them lightly together; when cold cut it out m diamond shapes (with a knife) about two inches long and one wide ; then have ready the following sauce : put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan with a quar- ter of a pat of butter, pass them over the foe two minutes add a pint of white sauce (No. 7) and half a gill of milk’ boil altogether five minutes, keeping it stirred; then take it off the foe and stir m the yolks of two eggs very quickly St]r xt over Are another half a minute, then take each piece upon a fork and dip it into the sauce, cover it all over and place it upon a plate ; proceed in like manner till thev are ahl done put them by till quite cold, have ready some g oc itter-batter (No. 1285) made with milk, dip each ris St**-«"<» ■ not laid, iiy five minutes, dress them on a mrfoin a ££ 'rith pknty 0f fried th. moment the) ”e358 ENTREES. They may also be served with sauce (omitting the napkin) as follows: put eight spoonfuls of white sauce into a stew- pan, with six of cream, place it over the fire a few minutes, add a little sugar and salt, sauce round and serve. No. 843. Filets de Canetons auxpetits pois. Roast four ducklings in vegetables as directed in the Re- moves, take away the vegetables just before they are done, to give the breasts a slight colour; then cut out the fillets very neatly, dress them on a small border of mashed po- tatoes with a thin crouton of fried bread between each, put a pint and a half of young green peas (previously boiled) in a stewpan, with the gravy that has run from the ducklings, two ounces of fresh butter, a teaspoonful of sugar, and a little salt, keep tossing them over the fire till quite hot, then add a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with two table- spoonfuls of cream, stir it in quickly, place them in the centre of the dish in pyramid and serve. No. 844. Filets de Canetons a la chicoree. Proceed with the ducklings precisely as above, fillet and dress the same, serve with some endive prepared as directed (No. 119) in the centre, but not too much nor too thick. No. 845. Filets de Canetons a la macedoine de legumes. Roast and fillet four ducklings as before, then prepare a stand of vegetables as directed for Chartreuse (No. 604), but not more than two inches in height, fill it with stewed cab- bage well pressed and almost dry, and turn it out on your dish; when perfectly hot and the vegetables sufficiently cooked, dress the fillets in crown on the top, have ready a Macedoine de legume (No. 98), which dress in pyramid in ■ the centre and serve.*N f ARES. 359 No. 846. Filets de Canetons cm jus cVorange. Roast and fillet four ducklings as before, dress them in crown on a border of mashed potatoes, and have ready the following sauce : put twenty spoonfuls of brown sauce in a stewpan with ten of white stock, place it over the fire to boil, with some bones from the breast of the ducklings, boil to a demi-glace, keeping it skimmed, take out the bones and pass the sauce through a tammie, then add the rind of an orange free from pith, which you have previously cut in fillets and blanched five minutes in boiling water, boil the sauce a few minutes, keeping it stirred, and finish with the juice of half the orange, sauce over and serve. This sauce requires to be qiute transparent, but to have con- sistence enough to adhere to the fillets; filets de cane- tons a la bigarade are the same as above, merely subst/ tuting a Seville or real bigarade for a sweet orange. No. 847. Filets de Canetons farcis. Bone a duckling by placing it on your board and open- ing it at the back-bone, which is first to be taken out, then lay it out flat; take out the other bones singly, and cover the interior with forcemeat of fowl (No. 122), fillinfl- ap every cavity and making it perfectly level on the top° put some thin slices of bacon at the bottom of a deep saute- pan with a bunch of parsley and a few onions in slices, lay the duckling over and cover with white stock, lay a sheet of buttered paper over and put it in a slow oven for one hour or more till tender, take it up, lay it on a dish free from the bacon or onions, place another dish over and press it till cold, then cut it into pieces the size and shape of the other fillets above, warm them in a saute-pan in a little good stock, dress them in crown and serve in any of the preceding ways. J360 ENTREES OF GAME. No. 848, Filets de Lievre sauce reforme. Procure three good-sized but young hares, when skinned lay them on a table and pass a knife down the back-bone, from the shoulder to the leg, keeping it close to the ribs till you have extracted the fillet, when done lay the fillets on a board the skin side downwards, and with a thin knife cut off the whole of the skin, by pressing your hand upon the fillet and drawing the knife along from the thin end to the thick ; cut each fillet in halves, beat them lightly, trim them of a nice shape, and lard them neatly, then cover the bot- tom of a stewpan with thin slices of fat bacon, lay the fillets over, add three onions in slices with a bunch of parsley, a blade of mace, and a couple of cloves, put in a little broth, but not to cover them, place the lid on the stewpan and place them in a moderate oven till tender, glaze and sala- mander a nice colour, take them out, drain them a minute on a cloth, trim nicely, and dress them in crown on a bor- der of mashed potatoes, and serve with a sauce reforme (No. 35) over, previously placing a thin piece of toasted bread the same size as the fillets between each. No. 849. Filets de Lievre pique sauce poivrade. Proceed exactly as in the last, dress them in crown with- out the pieces of toast, and serve with a sauce poivrade (No. 32) over, dressed in the same manner, they may be served with a sauce tomate (No. 37). No. 850. Filets de Lievre pique a la Bourguignote. Proceed and dress your fillets exactly as before, and ha\e ready the following sauce: peel forty button onions, thenENTREES. 361 put a little pounded sugar in a stewpan, which place over the fire, when it melts and turns yellowish put in a pat of butter and your onions, keep moving them over a slow fire till they become rather brown, then add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) and six tablespoonfuls of consomme, place it at the corner of the stove, and skim well, let simmer till the onions are done; then take them out with a colander spoon and place them in another stewpan, reduce the sauce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, pass it through a tarnmie over the onions, have twenty pieces of cooked streaky bacon in diamonds the size of the onions, put them in the sauce, which make hot, but not to boil, sauce over and serve. No. 851. Filets de Lievrepique, marine en demi-glace. Prepare and lard twelve pieces of fillets as usual, have ready a quart of marinade, see filet de bceuf a la Boliemi- enne (No. 426), and put them into it for three days; when wanted dry them on a cloth, butter a saute-pan, lay in the fillets, cover them with a sheet of buttered paper, and stand them twenty minutes in a moderate oven, glaze and sala- mander a light brown, and dress in crown on a border of mashed potatoes, then pom as much of the butter off from the saute-pan as possible, and put eight spoonfuls of the marinade and a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) into it, reduce over the fire, keeping it stirred till it adheres to the back of the spoon, add a small piece of glaze and a teaspoonful of currant jelly ; sauce over and serve. No. 852. Escalopes de Lievre a la Chasseur. Fillet three hares as before and cut each fillet into four escalopes in a slanting direction; beat them into an oval shape, put an ounce of butter in a deep saute-pan, with a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots - when the butter is meltedENTREES. 362 lay in the escalopes, season them with a little pepper and salt, and place them on a sharp fire; when half done turn them over, be careful not to do them too much; when done dress in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, pour off the butter, then put a glass of port wine in the saute-pan, with fifteen spoonfuls of demi-glace (No. 9), a little salt, and sugar, reduce it three minutes, keeping it stirred, sauce over and serve. No. 853. Cotelettes de Lievre a la Bauphine. Fillet two hares as before, and out of each fillet cut three cotelettes by cutting each fillet in halves, making one of the thin end and cutting the thick into two equal shoes, thus making twelve pieces of the four fillets; beat them of an equal thickness, boil the rib-bones of one of the hares till all the flesh comes off, and stick a bone in each piece to imitate the bone of a cotelette, egg, bread-crumb, and fry them in oil a nice colour, but not too much done, dress in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, and sauce over with a sauce piquante (No. 27) in which you have introduced a few chopped olives. No. 854 Turban de Lievre a la Peronne. Fillet one large hare and make six cotelettes out of the two fillets as in the last, egg and bread-crumb them with a little chopped ham mixed with the bread-crumbs, and fry in oil as before; you have previously made forcemeat of the legs as described (No. 12-5), until which make six large quenelles, poach, and dish them on a border of mashed potatoes alternately with the cotelettes; have ready the following sauce: put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with two of tarragon vinegar and a piece of glaze half the size of a walnut, place over the lire two minutes, add a pint of white sauce and eight spoonfuls363 ENTREES. of white stock, reduce till rather thick, then add a little sugar and twenty small pickled onions; sauce over the quenelles, glaze the cotelettes and serve. For boudins de lievre, or quenelles, proceed the same as for boudins or quenelles de volaille, only using forcemeat made from the legs of the hare instead of the forcemeat of fowl; and for jugged hare and civet de lievre, see Kitchen at Home. They may be made from the legs after you have taken the fillets for other purposes. No. 855. Filets de Lapereau a la Valencienne. For entrees the tame rabbits are the best, and most pre- ferable ; but the wild are very good and may be dressed in any of the following ways. Take three or four young rabbits, skin and fillet them the same as the hares; if the fillets are sufficiently large cut each one in halves forming each piece in the shape of a small cotelette, beat them lightly and of equal thickness, place them in a buttered saute-pan, season with a little white pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon, place them over a moderate fire and when half done turn them; they are done as soon as they feel firm to the touch, and must be kept quite white, dress in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, put eighteen spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7) in the saute-pan, with ten of white stock, stir over the fire till it adheres to the back of the spoon, add a little pepper and salt if required, finish with two tablespoonfuls of cream and the juice of half a lemon; sauce over and serve. No. 856. Filets de Lapereau a TFcarlate. Fillet three rabbits and so cut the fillets as to have nine pieces, which cook as in the last, then cut nine slices of cooked ham of the same size and shape as the fillets, and364 ENTREES. make them hot 111 a little stock, dress them alternately with the fillets in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, then put a pint of white sauce (No. 7) and half a pint of white stock in the saute-pan, stir over the fire until nearly thick enough, then add twenty heads of blanched mush- rooms and a little sugar, boil another minute, and finish with two tablespoonfuls of cream; sauce over the fillets, glaze the tongue and serve. No. 857. Turban de Lapereau a la Bouariere. Fillet, three good-sized rabbits and cut each fillet in halves, making twelve pieces, six of which lard neatly; dress the six plain as before, but the six larded ones must be braised like sweetbreads, and glazed, and salamander a good colour, make a border of mashed potatoes on your dish, upon which dress the fillets alternately, (one larded and one plain,) in crown, put a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) in the saute-pan, with half a pint of consomme, boil and skim, add half a glass of sherry, and a little salt, pepper, and sugar, with two spoonfuls of tomata sauce (No. 37) and twenty small quenelles from forcemeat made with the legs of the rabbits, as described (No. 121); when hot, sauce over the plain fillets, glaze the larded ones, put all the que- nelles in the centre and serve. No. 858. Epigramme de Filets de Lapereau. Proceed precisely as in the last, only dressing the six plain fillets on one side and the larded ones on the other instead of alternately, and add twelve dressed cockscombs and twelve blanched mushrooms to the garniture in the sauce; or they may be served with a blanquette made from the legs ol the rabbits, previously braised, proceeding as described for blanquette de dinde (No. 791).ENTREES. 3G5 No. 859. Filets de Lapereau d la Mmulmane. Lard twelve pieces of fillets from tliree or four rabbits, braise them as you would sweetbreads; when done glaze and salamander of a light colour, and dress in crown as high as possible ; you have boiled half a pound of good rice (No. 1.29), season it with a little salt, and mix four pats of butter and a pinch of saffron with it, dress it in pyramid in the centre of your dish, serve with a thin currie sauce (No. 46) round the fillets, and some separate in a boat; serve very hot. INo. 860. Cotelettes de Lapereau auxpetites racines. Fillet three rabbits, cut each fillet in halves and shape them in the form of cotelettes, sticking a piece of the rib- bone of the rabbit in at the thin end, egg, bread-crumb, and fry them in oil of a light brown colour, dress in crown, glaze them lightly, and sauce as directed for grenadins de veau (No. 692). The legs and shoulders may be used for pies, curries, or fricassees, which I give in my Kitchen at Home. No. 861. Lapereau saute aux truffes. _ Procure two nice young rabbits, which cut into twelve pieces, being two legs, two shoulders, and two nice pieces from the back of each • put four ounces of butter in a thick- bottomed saute-pan; when melted lay in the pieces and proceed as directed for petits poulets saute aux truffes (No. 1 820). Lapereau saute aux champignons is done the same using mushrooms instead of truffles, and lapereau saute aux fines herbes, by using a sauce fines herbes (No 26) instead of the brown sauce, and omitting both the truffles' and mushrooms.ENTREES. 366 No. 862. Lapereau a la Marengo. Cut up two rabbits precisely as above, and proceed as directed for poulet printanier a la Marengo (No. 829), dress them as high as possible on the dish, pyramidically, sauce over and serve. No. 863. Babbit Currie. Cut up two rabbits as before, and cook them as for saute aux truffes (No. 861); when done and nicely brown- ed pour off as much butter as possible and pom a quart of currie sauce (No. 46) over, add twenty button onions, pre- viously stewed in a little broth, and twenty pieces of cook- ed streaky bacon cut in small diamonds, stand them over a slow fire twenty minutes, keeping it stirred occasionally; then build the pieces up in your dish, sauce over and serve with rice (No. 129) in a separate dish; should the sauce be too thick moisten it with a drop of broth, but it requires to be thick enough to adhere to the rabbit. No. 864. Fricassee de Lap ere an. Cut up two young rabbits as before, and put them two horns in warm water to disgorge, then put them in a stew- pan just covered with clear water, add two onions, one carrot, a bunch of parsley, two cloves, and a little salt, boil half an hour at the corner of the stove, and skim well, take out the pieces and pass the stock through a cloth, trim each piece of rabbit nicely, and put it in another stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, pass them over the fire three minutes, then mix one ounce of flour with them, pom* the stock over and add fifty peeled button onions, stir round gently until boiling, then draw it to the corner of the fire and. let simmer till the rabbit is very tender, then take them out, with the onions, and put them in another stewpan, reduceENTREES. 367 the sauce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, pass it through a tamniie over the rabbit and onions, add a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with half a gill of cream, stir it in gently, place it over the fire but do not let it boil, dress the rabbit in your dish and sauce over; mushrooms may be added, and the onions ought to be kept as whole as possible. No. 865. Faisans an veloute de Gibier. Roast two small young pheasants in vegetables as direct- ed for the Removes, let them get cold, then cut off neatly the two wings, two legs, and two pieces from the breasts of each, which will make twelve very nice pieces, take off the skin and place them in a stewpan, cover them with a little stock and six spoonfuls of veloute (No. 6), put them in the bain marie to warm gently, then put a quart of white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with half a pint of white stock and the backs and trimmings of the pheasants cut up very small, reduce till it adheres lightly to the back of the spoon, pom off the stock from the pieces of pheasants, place a tammie over the stewpan, over which hold a colander, pour the sauce through the colander, and then squeeze it through the tammie, add a little sugar and a little cream, place the stewpan over the fire but do not let its contents boil, dress the pieces of pheasants in pyramid, placing a little mashed potatoes on the bottom of the dish to keep them m their place; sauce over and serve. No. 866. Faisans a la puree de Gibier. Cut up two small pheasants as above, dress them in pyramid on your dish and serve with a sauce a la puree de gibier (No. 59) over, have about fifty very small crou- tons of bread, diamond shape, and fried in oil, which sprinkle over the last thing before serving.ENTREES. 308 No. 867. Filets de Faisans a la Comte de Brabant. Fillet two full-grown young pheasants as you vrould a fowl, lard and braise them exactly the same, have half boiled in water sixty very fine Brussels sprouts, drain them in a colander and put them in a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of streaky bacon, season with a little pepper and salt, add a pint of good stock and stew them over a mode- rate fire till the stock is reduced to glaze, take out the sprouts, squeeze them together between two dishes, and dress them as a perfect pyramid in the centre of your dish, glaze and salamander the fillets nicely, and dress a fillet on each side with a thin slice of the bacon at each corner, place a quenelle at the top, and sauce round with the sauce fiunee de gibier (No. 60); serve immediately. No. 868. Filets de Faisans pique aux legumes. Lard and braise six fillets from three pheasants as above, have a fine fresh cucumber, cut six pieces from it of the same size as the fillets, which stew in a little stock in which you have put half a teaspoonful of sugar; when tender but not too much done drain them on a cloth; make a border of mashed potatoes on your dish, upon which dress the fillets and pieces of cucumber alternately in crown; have ready a small jardiniere sauce (No. 100) to which you have added a few blanched mushrooms, put the vegetables in the centre with a piece of boiled (or a small) cauliflower on the top, sauce round, glaze the fillets and serve. No. 869. Turban de Faisans en salmi. Roast two pheasants in vegetables as directed in the Removes, cut them into quarters, that is, the four breasts with the wings and the legs with a piece of the back-bone, beat and trim them lightly, cut off the pinion from theENTREES. 369 wings, and make the breasts and legs nearly of the same shape, place them in a stewpan, cover them with a little stock, put the lid on the stewpan and set in the bain marie to get, hot, make a border of forcemeat (see ris de veau a la Turque No. 673); when done place it in the centre of your dish and dress the pieces in crown upon it, sauce over with a sauce fumee de gibier (No. 60) in which you have put four large truffles in slices, or twenty button mushrooms; serve very hot. No. 870. Filets de Faiscins d la Marquise. Fillet four young pheasants, lard and braise four of the ets, (as for the filets aux legumes), egg the other four over with a paste-brush and throw them into a plate in which you have chopped ham and bread-crumbs mixed cover them well, beat gently with a knife, and fry a light biown m a little clarified butter, make a small border of mashed potatoes upon your dish and dress the fillets alter- nate y upon it; you have previously prepared a sauce veloute de gibier (No. 58), rather more than a pint add wenty very white dressed cockscombs, when hot ’sauce ound and garmture in the centre- glaze your fillets and eive; a spoonful of whipped cream would also be a great improvement added to the sauce when finished. & No. 871. Filets de Faisans d la Mamtenon. Prepare eight small or four large fillets divided into two eparate shoes, put them in a saute-pan with two tab! poonfuls of oil, place them over a sharp fire saute them very underdone, and lay them on a cloth urn ? . m spoonfuls of chopped onions in the saute-pan, fry Them8 ,'p turning yellow, then add a pint of white Li ,T two spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms two' of f 7j P y' a PePPei, 5 Id^ 24ENTREES. 370 reduce till rather thick, keeping it stirred, lay in the fillets to warm, and leave them to get cold in the sauce, have eight pieces of paper each cut in the shape of a heart, and large enough to fold a fillet in, place a fillet in each with the sauce equally divided amongst them, fold the papers over, twisting them up at the edges, and place them on the gridiron to broil over a slow fire j when done dress in crown on your dish leaving them in the papers, and serve with a little plain gravy. After having used the fillets of pheasants one day the legs may be used the next, by roasting in vegetables and trimming them nicely ; serve either a la Brabant (No. 867), or en salmi (No. 869); but the legs of large pheasants being so stringy will not make a very delicate entree, and it is much better to convert them into a sauce a la puree de gibier (No. 59), soup, (No. 175), or forcemeat (No. 123). No. 872. Turban de Quenelles de Faisans. Proceed exactly as for the quenelles de volatile, only using a forcemeat made from the flesh of pheasants instead of fowl, dress them in crown, and serve with a sauce veloute de gibier (No. 58), puree de gibier (No. 59), or sauce fumee de gibier, either of which may be garnished with cockscombs, truffles, or mushrooms, as directed for the entrees of pheasants. Boudins de faisans are served the same way only shaping them as directed for boudins de volaille a la Richelieu (No. 838), with which sauce they may also be served. No. 873. Grouse a la Commodore. Prepare two young but full-grown grouse, roast one of them underdone, and make forcemeat (No. 123) of the I other; when the roasted one is cold cut it into eight pieces, that is, two wings, two legs, two pieces of the back, andENTREES. 371 two pieces of the breast; cover each piece all over with the forcemeat the sixth of an inch in thickness, egg each piece over and place them in a buttered saute-pan, just cover them with a little white stock and boil gently ten minutes, lay them on a cloth to drain, put a little mashed potatoes on the bottom of your dish, build the pieces in pyramid, and have ready the following sauce: chop the bone of the grouse very small and put them into a stewpan, with three pints of consomme free from salt, an onion, and a little celery, with a bunch of parsley and two cloves, boil gently half an hoiu, pass the stock through a cloth into a stewpan, reduce to a very thin glaze, then mix a tablespoonful of the best arrow-root with half a glassful of wine and a little cold broth; pom it into the gravy, keeping it stirred, season a little more if required, and when boiling sauce over and serve. No. 874. Filets de Grouse a la Paoli. Roast four young grouse in vegetables as described for the Removes, take out the breasts or fillets carefully, have ready a pound of forcemeat (No. 123), with which’cover each fillet nearly a quarter of an inch in thickness all over, put them in a buttered saute-pan, just covered with a little white stock, boil gently ten minutes and lay them on a cloth; have ready eight croutons or pieces of bread, the shape of the fillets and the thickness of a crown-piece, fried in oil a fight brown and very crisp, dress the fillets and croutons alternately in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, glaze the croutons, sauce over with a demi-o-lace de gibier (No. 61), sprinkle a few chopped olives overhand serve very hot. No. 875. Filets de Grouse a la Clanceliere. Fillet four young grouse, trim the fillets as directed for872 ENTREES. filet de poularde (No. 792), butter a saute-pan with two ounces of butter, lay in your fillets, season with a little pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, add a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, place them on the fire, saute underdone, pour off as much butter as possible, add a pint of demi-glace (No. 9) and twenty small quenelles (No. 120); shake the saute-pan round over the fire two minutes, take out the fillets, which dress in crown on a border of mashed pota- toes ; sauce over, put the fillets and quenelles in the centre and serve. No. 876. Salmi de Grouse aux truffes. Plain roast two grouse and cut each one up into eight neat pieces (whilst hot, as for a la commodore), place them in a stewpan, cover them with a thin brown sauce (No. 1), put the cover on the stewpan and place it in the bain marie till the pieces are hot, in another stewpan have a pint and a half of the sauce fumee de gibier, reduce it a third, then add six middling-sized truffles cut in thin slices, and a little sugar ; have also six croutons or scippets of fried bread (as for a la Paoli), dress the pieces of grouse in pyramid on your dish, with the croutons well glazed resting upon them round the dish; sauce over and serve. No. 877. Grouse a la Ailsa. Roast two grouse, cut them into quarters, that is, the wings with the breasts, and the legs with the back-bone, pound the back and trimmings well in a mortar and put them in a stewpan, with a pint of the sauce fumee de gibier (No. 60), boil five minutes, then pass it through a hair sieve into another stewpan, season with a little salt I and sugar if required, and add the yolks of two eggs, stir over the fire till it becomes thickish but do not let it boil, then put in the pieces of grouse; when half cold dress them373 ENTREES. upon a border of mashed potatoes, sauce and sprinkle bread-crumbs over and place them in a moderate oven half an hour; serve with a demi-glace de gibier (No. 61) round. No. 878. Turban de Quenelles de Grouse a la Moderne. Make and poach twelve quenelles from a forcemeat of giouse (see No. 123), poach them as tor quenelles de volaille (No. 831), dress in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, sauce over with a sauce fiunee de gibier (No. 60), have leady the yolk of a hard-boiled egg chopped very fine, which sprinkle over and serve. Black cocks and gray hens being larger birds are gene- rally used for roasting, but the gray hen if well kept may be dressed in any of the preceding ways; the ptarmigan also which makes its appearance in February, (a Swedish bhd as well as Scotch,) may be used for the same purposes as grouse, the flavour is similar but not quite so good. No. 879. Terdreaux a la Silene. Procure three young partridges, pluck and draw them and cut each bird in halves, cut off each leg below the knuckle, break the part of the leg above the knuckle, make an incision m the thigh and turn the leg inside, break the back-bone (in three) the thigh-bone and the joint of the wing in each, place the six halves in a saute-pan, in which you have put eight tablespoonfuls of oil, fry gently till three parts done, then egg, bread-crumb, and place them on a gridiron over a slow fire, broil them a good colour, and dress m crown upon your dish, then pour off the oil ! om the saute-pan, add two glasses of port wine, a spoon- v of chopped eschalots and one of chopped mushrooms pass them over the fire two minutes, add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1,) ten spoonfuls of consomme, and a little pepper, salt, and sugar, reduce till rather thick, finish withENTREES. 374 the juice of half a lemon, sauce round and serve, slightly glazing the partridges. No. 880. Perdreaux grilles a la puree de Gibier. Prepare and broil three partridges as in the last; you have previously roasted an old one and made a puree of it as directed (No. 59), dress the partridges in crown, glaze and serve with the puree round and in the centre. No. 881. Perdreaux aux clioux. Procure two partridges trussed as for boiling, and lard them with fat bacon lengthwise up the breast; have ready two white-heart savoy cabbages, cut them in quarters and blanch them ten minutes in boiling water; drain them quite dry on a cloth, season well with white pepper and salt, cut off all the stalk and place them in a stewpan with half a pound of streaky bacon; cover with a good white stock and place them over a slow fire to stew until the stock has reduced to a thin glaze and the cabbage is quite tender; you have roasted the two partridges, thrust them \ quite hot into the cabbage, and place the stewpan contain- ing them in a bain marie to keep hot for one hour, or till ready for use, then drain and press the cabbage in a colan- der, saving the stock that comes from it; dress in a dome on your dish, take the skewers and strings from the birds and dress them upon the top with shoes of the bacon round, broil three sausages, which cut in halves lengthwise and lay round at the bottom, put a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) in a stewpan, with twelve spoonfuls of stock from the cabbage, skim off ah the fat, reduce to a demi-glace, sauce over and serve. No. 882. Chartreuses de Perdreaux. Proceed as directed in the Planes (Nos. (304, 605, and375 ENTREES. COG), but using a round mould not too large for the dish instead ol oval moulds as there directed. No. SS3. Filets de Ferdreaux auxpetits legumes. Roast six young partridges underdone and when nearly cold cut out the breasts or fillets as neatly as possible, place them in a saute-pan, with a piece of glaze the size of a walnut and a little white stock, warm them and reduce the stock to glaze, dress them in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, have prepared some carrots, turnips, and button onions as for sauce a la jardiniere (No. 100)/ pass them over the fire in a little butter and sugar, cover them with a pint of the sauce fumee de gibier (No. 60), six spoonfuls of consomme, and the glaze from the saute-pan • simmer at the corner of the stove till the vegetables are qmte done, skim it well, dress the vegetables in the centre, glaze the fillets and serve. No. 884. Filets de Ferdreaux a la Florentine. Roast six partridges and fillet them as in the last, warm and dress them precisely the same, then have a pint of demi-glace de gibier (No. 61) in a stewpan, reduce it a third, then add twelve blanched mushrooms] twelve dressed cockscombs, and twelve very small French preserved truffles; add a little sugar, place the garniture in the centre, sauce over and serve. No. 885. Cotelettcs de Ferdreaux a la Bacchante. Procure six young partridges, fillet them, take a rib-bone and stick in the small end of each fillet, beat them lightly with a t m knife, take off the skin, season with a little pepper in ?) ef ’ bf ad;crumb- ™d % of a light brown colour m salad oil but not too much done, dress them in crown on a small border of mashed potatoes, have ready a pint ofENTltliES. the sauce veloute de gibier (No. 58), which you have made ' from the legs and bones of the birds, which put in a stew- pan, with a pint of white stock (No. 133), reduce, and when it adheres to the back of the spoon add fifty Smyrna raisins previously soaked in hot water two hours, and the juice of ten large Portugal grapes, sauce in the centre, glaze the cotelettes and serve. I have served this curious entree with English grapes whole in it, and very good it is, being refreshing to the palate, but a person requires to be used to them before they can appreciate. No. 886. Cotelettes de Perdreaux a la Douariere. Prepare twelve cotelettes as above, fry them in oil and dress them the same on your dish; have a pint of demi-glace de gibier (No. 61) in a stewpan, reduce it one third, have forty small quenelles made from forcemeat from the legs, (see No. 123), the quenelles must be made with very small egg-spoons, as directed for the quenelles (No. 120); when poached lay them on a cloth to drain, put them into the sauce; when hot dress the quenelles in the centre; sauce over and serve. No. 887. Cotelettes de Perdreaux a la Due de Chartres. Prepare and dress twelve cotelettes or fillets as before, dress them on a dish and have ready the following sauce: have fifty scoops of turnips the size of small marbles, put them in a stewpan, with an ounce of butter and half a teaspoonful of sugar, pass over the fire five minutes, keep- ing them moved, then add a pint of demi-glace de gibier (No. 61), place it on the corner of the stove, let simmer, keeping it skimmed till the turnips are done, finish with a little orange-juice, sauce in the centre, glaze the cotelettes and serve.377 ENTREES. No. 888. Fpigramme de Perdreaux a Vessence de Gibier. Fillet six young partridges, lard six of the fillets, and braise them as for filets de faisans a la Brabant (No. 867), place the other six in a saute-pan well buttered, season with a little pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, saute them gently over a moderate fire, make a thin border of mashed potatoes on your dish, dress the six larded fillets first, then the six plain ones to form a crown ; glaze nicely, sauce over with a demi- glace de gibier and serve (see Sauce, No. 61). No. 889. Fpigramme de Perdreaux aux champignons. Proceed exactly as in the last, merely adding thirty heads of blanched mushrooms to the sauce and a little sugar. No. 890. Turban des Filets de Perdreaux a la Perigord. Fillet three young patridges, make likewise half a pound of forcemeat from the legs as directed (No. 123), from which make six quenelles with two tablespoons (No. 831); saute jorn fillets as in the last, plain, then poach your quenelles, make a border of mashed potatoes on your dish, and dress the fillets in crown, alternately with the que- nelles, put three parts of a pint of demi-glace de gibier (No. 61) in a stewpan, reduce it a third, add four large french truffles chopped very fine, with a little sugar, sauce over and serve. h«o. 891. Tut ban de Quenelles de Perdreaux a la Perri. Make a pound of forcemeat from the flesh of one or two partridges as directed (No. 123), and with two tablespoons make twelve large quenelles, poach them in white stool- see queneUes de volatile. No. 831) and lay them on a cleali loth to dram a moment, make a border of mashed no tatoes on your dish, upon which dress the quenelles in'378 ENT BEES. crown, then put a pint of the sauce veloute de gibier (No. 58) in a stewpan, with half the quantity of white stock, reduce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, then add a tablespoonful of whipped cream, sauce over, sprinkle a few pistachios chopped very fine upon the top of each quenelle and serve. No. 892. Filets de Canetons Sauvage d Vessence. Wild ducks are best after frosty weather, the middling- sized ones are the best for entrees. Roast four young ones underdone well wrapped up in vegetables, when done cut the fillets out neatly, and dress them in crown on a border of mashed potatoes, have pre- pared the following sauce: put a spoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan with a glass of port wine, the back- bones of two of the ducks and a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, boil two minutes, then add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) and ten spoonfuls of consomme, simmer a few mi- nutes, take out the bones, skim, reduce it fast till it ad- heres to the back of the spoon, pass it through a tammie into another stewpan, add a little cayenne pepper and lemon-juice, when hot sauce over and serve. No. 893. Filets de Canetons Sauvage a la Sgrienne. Prepare six fillets from three wild ducks as in the last, have six croutons of fried bread (or scippets), chop the livers of the ducks up very fine, mix with a little chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a small pat of butter, spread some upon each of the croutons, thicker in the middle than at the sides; set them ten minutes in a warm oven and sala- mander, dress them alternately with the fillets upon a bor- der of mashed potatoes in crown, sauce the same as in the last, with the addition of twenty mild stoned olives just be- fore serving.ENTREES. 379 No. 894. Filets de Canetons Sauvage au jus d’orange. Cook and fillet four wild ducks as in the last, dress upon your dish and put them into the hot closet to keep hot with a cover over them; chop up the legs and back very fine and put them in a stewpan with a glass of sherry and a bunch of parsley, boil five minutes, then add a pint of consommee, boil ten minutes, skim and pass through a cloth into another stewpan, reduce to half glaze, then add ten tablespoonfuls of brown sauce (No. 1), a little sugar, and half the yellow rind of a large orange, cut in fine strips and blanch five minutes, boil altogether a few mi- nutes, finish with a teaspoonful of juice from the orange, sauce over and serve. No. 895. Filets de Canetons Sauvage au fumee de Gibier. Cook and fillet four wild ducks as before, dress them in crown on your dish and serve with a sauce fumee de gibier over, made from the legs and bones of the ducks as described (No. 60). No. 896. Salmi de Canetons Sauvage aucc truffes. Proceed exactly as for salmi de grouse (No. 876), only cutting up two wild ducks in neat pieces instead of the grouse, but the wild ducks require to be more underdone. No. 897. Filets de Canetons Sauvage a la puree de Grouse. Roast and fillet four wild ducks as before, dress them in crown, and serve with a sauce a la puree de grouse (No. 59) over. J Widgeons are rather smaller than the wild ducks, but are dressed exactly the same; care should be taken in roast- ing any kind of water-fowl that it should be rather under- done, and if there is a necessity for warming them in sauce380 ENTREES. when cut up for entrees, care should be taken that they do not boil in it, for it would give the sauce a greasy ap- pearance, and cause the fillets to eat tough and altogether very unpalatable. No. 898. Turban de Filets de Sarcelles a la Moderne. Teal are much smaller than either of the two last, but of the same species, though more delicate and excellent for entrees. Roast eight teal twenty minutes in vegetables, cut out the fillets, which must be underdone with the gravy in them, have ready half a pound of game forcemeat (No 123), when cold cover each of the fillets very thinly with it, dress them in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, set them in a very hot oven for ten minutes till the forcemeat is cooked, sauce over with a sauce fumee de gibier (No. 60) and serve. No. 899. Turban de Sarcelles a la Toulouse. Roast and fillet eight teal as in the last, dress them on a border of mashed potatoes, then put eight spoonfuls of game sauce (No. 60), eight of consomme, and eight of to- mata sauce (No. 37) in a stewpan, boil them together a few minutes, add twenty pickled mushrooms, sauce over and serve. No. 900. Sarcelles au jus d' orange. Roast six teal as before, cut them in halves, chop ofl the pinions of the wings, beat them a little and dress in crown, sauce over with au jus d’orange (No. 17) and serve. Teal may be dressed in any way as directed for the wild ducks.ENTREES. 381 No. 901. iSarcclles a la Bateliere. Bone four teal by cutting the skin through down the back, separating the skin on each side of it until you have cleared it, lay the bird open, take out the back-bone, and with a knife you will find no difficulty in taking out all the rest - half fill them with forcemeat (No. 120) and sew them up with packthread, then put them into a stewpan with three glasses of sherry, a pint of white stock, half a pound of lean uncooked ham, two onions, one head of celery, a bunch of parsley, a little carrot, turnip, two cloves, and a blade of mace; put the cover on the stewpan and place it in a moderate oven for an horn1, try with a larding-needle, and if tender they are done; lay them on a cloth to drain, make three croutons of bread each in the shape of a cocks- comb, but a great deal thicker and larger, put three of the teal at the bottom of the dish, and stand a crouton (nicely fried) between each to form six points, place the remaining teal upon the top, and have ready the following sauce : stiain the stock the teal was cooked in through a cloth into another stewpan, skim off all the fat, add half a pint of white sauce (No. 7), reduce it till it adheres to the back of the spoon, add a little cream sauce over and serve. No. 902. Sarcelles a la macedoine de legumes. Roast four teal in vegetables, cut them in halves, dress in crown on a border of mashed potatoes, and serve with a white sauce macedoine de legumes (No. 98) in the centre. No. 903. Sarcelles a la puree de champignons. Proceed as in the last, but serve with a puree of mush- rooms (No. 54) in the centre.382 ENTREES. No. 904. Filets de Becasses a la Lucullus. Roast six woodcocks underdone, take the fillets out care- fully, have ready half a pound of very white forcemeat of chicken (No. 122), cover each fillet all over about the eighth ol an inch in thickness, egg them over when done and place them in a buttered saute-pan, cover them with white stock, and simmer ten minutes, drain them on a cloth and dress in crown upon a small border of toasted bread; you have previously pounded all the flesh from the legs with the trail in a mortar, pass through a sieve, and put it in a stew- pan with ten spoonfuls of game sauce (No. 60) made from the bones, boil until thick, keeping it stirred, then take it off the fire and stir in the yolks of two eggs very quickly, stir another minute over the fire to thicken, and dress in the middle of the dish as high as possible, sauce over with a demi-glace de gibier (No. 61) and serve. No. 905. Filets de Becasses a la Talleyrand. Roast four woodcocks, fillet them, cover each fillet with foicemeat as in the last, poach them the same, have eight crou- tons of bread the same size as the fillets, and the thickness of a five-shilling-piece, pound the trails from the woodcocks in a mortar, season them lightly, and mix them with the yolk of one egg, spread it upon the croutons (which you have previously fried), give them the shape of a dome, put them ten minutes in the oven, salamander a fight colour, make a thin border of mashed potatoes on your dish, dress the fillets half way round, then the croutons, put a pint of game sauce (No. 60) in a stewpan with six spoonfuls of consomme, reduce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, then add six middling-sized truffles chopped very fine with a little sugar, sauce over and serve.383 ENTREES. No. 906. Filets de Becasses a VImperial. Roast five woodcocks, fillet as usual, sm’round each fillet with the forcemeat, and poach as before, dress them on a small border of mashed potatoes, and place a fine dressed cockscomb warmed in a little stock between each, sauce over with a sauce veloute de gibier (No. 58) and serve. No. 907. Turban de Becasses aux champignons. Roast five woodcocks, cut them in halves, and dress them in crown, breasts upwards, upon a border of mashed potatoes j put a pint of demi-glace de gibier (No. 61) in a stewpan, reduce it, then add forty very fine blanched mush- rooms, with two spoonfuls of thin liquor, boil two minutes, then add a little salt, sugar, the juice of half a lemon, and two pats of butter, take it off the fire, shake it round till the butter is melted, sauce over and serve. No. 908. Salmi de Becasses. Roast three woodcocks underdone, and when cold cut them into neat pieces, that is, two wings, two legs, and the breasts; chop the trails from the interior very fine and spread them upon six croutons of fried bread in the shape of fillets, place them in the oven three minutes, and sala- mander lightly; make a game sauce with the bones as di- rected (No. 60), when you have reduced it to a good con- sistency, put in the pieces of woodcocks, cover the stewpan, stand it in the bain marie till they are quite hot, then build them up as high as possible on your dish, dress the croutons round, sauce over and serve; truffles or mushrooms may be added to the sauce. No. 909. Salmi de Becasses a la Joinville. Roast two woodcocks underdone, cut them up and pro-ENTREES. 384 ceed exactly as in the last, make ten quenelles de gibier (No. 123), poach them, lay them on a cloth to drain, egg over with a paste-brush, and roll them in chopped ham and truffles, place them in a dish, which put in the hot closet with the cover over for half an hour, then put a border of mashed potatoes upon your dish, dress the quenelles in crown with the woodcocks in the centre and over, as ele- vated as possible, sauce over with a demi-glace de gibier, dress the croutons round and serve. No. 910. Entree de Becasses a la Comtesse. Roast your woodcocks in vegetables, separate the breasts from the legs, take off the flesh from the legs and pound it in a mortar with the trails, make a puree as for the filets a la.Lucullus, then have ready a croustade of bread two inches high, rather oval, and fluted round, not too large for the dish, make an incision round the top a quarter of an inch from the edge, fry a nice colour, scoop out the top, place it on your dish, pour in the puree; you have kept the breasts hot in a stewpan in the bain marie, dress them over the puree with the points to meet in the centre, place two fine dressed cockscombs warmed in the sauce between each breast, and a quenelle upon the top, sauce over with a demi- glace de gibier (No. 61) and serve. No. 911. Becasses a la Berigord. Roast three woodcocks nicely before a sharp fire, put a piece of toasted bread under them whilst roasting to catch the trails, when done cut the toast into three pieces, dia- mond shapes, place them in your dish and place the woodcocks upon them, then tails to meet in the centre of the dish, sauce over as for filets a la Talleyrand (No. 905) and serve.385 ENTREES. No. 912. Becasses a Vessence. Roast three woodcocks as in the last, dish them the same, and seive with a sauce a 1 essence made from some bones or remains of woodcock, as directed (No. 60). No. 913. Becasses a la Financiere. Proceed precisely as in the last, but adding ten blanched mushrooms, ten fine dressed cockscombs, ten small quenelles : (No. 123) of game, and as many slices of truffles to the sauce. No. 914. Becasses a la puree. Roast three woodcocks as before, having previously roast- ed one, with which make a puree as directed (No. 59), sauce round and serve. 915. Snipes or Becassines. Snipes may be dressed in any way as directed for the woodcocks, but being much smaller you cut them in halves instead of filleting them, dress round to form a crown only you require more of them. ’ J No. 916. Plovers. Plovers, hke other game, require to be kept a short time e oie they are cooked; they are dressed similar to wood- cocks, although not quite so recherche; when well dressed tney are very delicious. No. 917. Filets de Pitmen & la Marie Antoinette. baotT r?ht,{,WS WraPPed UP “ slices of cold it 7l‘ed UP Paper; Whe“ done leave them t0 the bacon, then cut out the fillets as for woodcocks, 25386 ENTREES. I and stick the pilon of the leg at the point of each fillet; let a piece of the bacon remain over each fillet, egg and bread- crumb twice over, and fry them a nice colour in salad oil; chop up the legs, bones, and trimmings of the buds, and put them in a stewpan with a glass of sherry, an onion in slices, and a little raw ham minced; place it on the fire a couple of minutes, then add a pint and a half of good white stock; place it again on the fire, and let it simmer half an hour, skim, and pass it through a cloth into another stewpan, reduce to a thin glaze, then mix a little arrow-root with three spoonfuls of white stock and the juice of half a lemon, pom it into the sauce, keeping it stirred till boiling, dress the fillets in crown on a circle of mashed potatoes, sauce round, and serve very hot and crisp. No. 918. Filets de Fluviers aux truffes. Proceed with the fillets exactly as in the last, make ten croutons of bread, upon which put the trail, see woodcocks (No. 905), dress the fillets round alternately with the crou- tons, put a pint and a half of demi-glace de gibier (No. 61), and a gill of consomme in a stewpan, reduce to half, then add six middling-sized truffles in slices, and a little sugar, sauce over and serve. No. 919. Filets de Fluviers aux champignons. Proceed exactly as in the last, only using mushrooms instead of truffles. No. 920. Fillets de Fluviers a la Begence. Roast three plovers in bacon as before, and when doue have three larded lambs’ sweetbreads nicely cooked, die^ them alternately on a border of mashed potatoes in a ring, put half a pint of demi-glace de gibier (No. 61) in a steu- pan, boil it a minute, then add twelve stoned French olives,ENTREES. 387 season with a little sugar, sauce in the centre, glaze the sweetbreads, and serve. No. 921. Pate chaud clcs Pluviers. Make a paste as directed for pate chaud, see Fiancs (No. 61b), build up a crust with the hand or in a small roimd mould to match your dish, then fillet twelve plovers, season them with a little pepper, salt, and chopped eschalots,’ cut some thin slices of fat bacon, with which line the inte- rior of your crust, which has stood a good hour after budd- ing to get firm, lay the fillets round, placing a thin slice of fat bacon between each • the pate must not be more than three inches in height when filled} add four spoonfuls of game sauce, and a few raw mushrooms, cover with a thin sheet of the paste, and ornament the exterior to your fancy, forming a lid with a round piece of puff paste (No. 1132); bake it an hour and a half in a moderate oven, take off the lid and as much fat as possible from the top, add half a pmt of game sauce (No. 60) quite hot, and serve either with or without the lid. No. 922. Quails. The climate of this country is far from being advantageous or these delicate birds, which migrate even from France at the end of the autumn; the quads in this country must be ted m confinement to fatten, before they are fit to be eaten which destroys much of that beautiful flavour they possess’ m irance> where they feed in them native vineyards. No. 923. Cailles en macedoine de legumes auxfeuilles de vignes. Truss eight quails, fold each one up in a vine-leaf and then in a thin slice of bacon, run a skewer throulh ih™ .deways, which tie upon the spit; then have some ve2 tables of all kinds, cut up in thin shoes, which moisten wdhENTREES. 388 a little oil, have then some sheets of paper, upon which lay the vegetables, lay the quails on the spit over them, breasts downwards, cover well with the vegetables, fold the paper round, and tie them up; roast from twenty-five to thirty minutes before a sharp fire; you have prepared a border of vegetables as for Chartreuse (No. 604), but not to stand more than two inches in height; fill it with stewed cabbage and boiled French beans, turn it out on your dish, and dress the quails upon it, then’ tails towards the centre and their breasts outside; make a pyramid of boiled green peas on the top, and serve a white jardiniere sauce (No. 98) round. No. 924. Caittes aux petits pois. Proceed exactly as above with the quails, but make the stand entirely of green peas nicely boiled; have ready a pint of stewed peas (No. 1077) with which you have put the quails a few minutes, fill the centre with them, dress the quails round as above, and pom the remainder of the peas in the dish. No. 925. Turban des Cailles a la Financiere. Roast eight quails in vegetables, but without the vine- leaf and bacon, make a border of forcemeat as for ris de veau a la Turque (No. 673), stand it in your dish, then make a ragout financiere (No. 50), but using game sauce instead of brown sauce; put your quails five minutes in the sauce, then dress them round on the border of forcemeat; garniture in the centre, sauce over, and serve. No. 926. Turban des Cailles aux concombres. Roast seven quails as before, cut each one in halves lengthwise, have also fourteen pieces of cucumbers the same size, stewed as No. 103, dress them alternately with the halves of quails upon a border of mashed potatoes, and389 ENTREES. serve with a sauce a la puree cle concombres (No. 105) in the centre. No. 927. Turban de Cailles a la puree de truffes. Pioceed as above, using ten quails instead of seven, and serving with apiuee de truffes (No. 53), omit the cucumbers. No. 928. Quails for Vol-au-vents, or Tate chaud. Roast and cut them in halves if for vol-au-vents, put them in a white financiere sauce (No. 50), but if for pates chauds, in a brown financiere twenty minutes before serving. No. 929. Cotelettes des Tigeonneaux a la Tarisienne. Procure six large pigeons, fillet and form them into cote- lettes (see cotelettes de perdreaux, No. 885), stuff with a little forcemeat of fowl, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry a fight yellow colour in oil; fry also twelve croutons of bread the size and shape of the cotelettes, and dress them alternately upon a border of mashed potatoes, to form a ciown; sauce with a puree de concombres (No. 105) made brown instead of white, and serve, glazing the cotelettes lightly. No. 930. Cotelettes des Tigeonneaux a la Financiere. Proceed as m the last, only serving with a ragout a la financiere (No. 50) instead of the puree. iNo. 931. Cotelettes des Tigeonneaux auxpois verts. Proceed as before, and serve with a pint of green peas prepared as for cotelettes de mouton aux pois (No 713)’ T, ,7 also be served with a sauce aux truffes (No 51 ’ fc“(N0- 80)> (N°- 10°>' * sauce piquaute300 ENTREES. No. 932. Coteletles des Pigeonneaux a la Pullman. Prepare the cotelettes as usual, season them well with chopped parsley, do. eschalots, and a little pepper and salt; procure a pig’s caul, cut into twelve pieces, in each of which fold a cotelette, place them in a saute-pan, and fry them in oil a nice colour, but rather underdone; dress on a border of plain boiled rice, which you have made hot and seasoned with a little salt and pepper, and moistened with a piece of butter; serve very hot with a sauce a l’lndienne (No. 45) in the centre. No. 933. Turban of Larks a la Parisienne. Larks when in good order and fat are excellent for entrees. Bone eighteen fine ones with a penknife, lay a little forcemeat of game (No. 123), in the interior of each, with a few fillets of truffles, sew them with packthread, giving them their first shape as near as possible; cover the bottom of a stewpan with thin slices of fat bacon, then lay in the larks, which again cover with sheets of fat bacon; add a few vegetables of each sort in slices, with a bunch of parsley, two glasses of Madeira wine, and half a pint of consomme; cover the stewpan, and place it in a moderate oven; when the buds feel tender they are done; take them out, and lay them on a dish; lay another dish over, and press them lightly till cold; pass the stock they were cooked in through a cloth into a stewpan, and skim off all the fat; use it with the bones of the larks to make a sauce (No. 60). when the sauce is of a proper consistence, add twenty small cpienelles (No. 120), put it in the bain-marie to keep hot, pull all the packthread from the larks, and put them in a stewpan with a little consomme, warm them gently, have ready a border of forcemeat as for turban de caillcs391 ENTREES. (No. 925), dress the larks in crown upon it, garniture in the centre, sauce over, and serve. No. 934. Turban of Larks aux fines herbes. Proceed wTith the larks as in the last, dress them on a boidei ot forcemeat, and make the sauce the same; put a tablespoonful of chopped onions in a stewpan, with half a one of oil, fry a light yellow colour, keeping them stirred; add one of parsley and two of chopped mushrooms, with which mix a quarter of one of flour, and twelve of the sauce; stir it over the fire twenty minutes, season with a httle pepper, salt, and nutmeg, take it off the fire, and stir in the yolk of an egg veiy quickly; pour all over the larks, let them get cold, egg and bread-crumb over, and place them twenty minutes in a moderate oven, salamander a nice colour and sauce as in the last, omitting the quenelles, and pouring round instead of over; serve very hot. No. 935. Turban of Larks aux quenelles. Prepare eight larks as for a la Parisienne; have also pre- pared eight quenelles de gibier (No. 123) of the same size as the larks, dress them alternately upon a border of mashed potatoes, and serve with a sauce au fumee de gibier (No 601 over. ' ) No. 936. Tate Chaud de Mauviettes. Prepare a crust as for the pate chaud de pluviers, bone twenty-four larks, stuff them with forcemeat, but do not sew them, fold a slice of fat bacon round each, fill your pate, and proceed exactly as in No. 623. No. 937. Tate Chaud de Mauviettes (/ratine. -Proceed as above, but when you have filled the pate have lialf a pound of forcemeat (No. 1-20), with which mix some392 • ENTREES. chopped eschalots, do. parsley, and do. mushrooms; cover all over the larks, and again cover that with slices of fat bacon; bake an hour and a half; when done take off the lid, and the fat bacon, salamander the forcemeat a nice brown, and serve with some clear strong consomme (in which you have boiled the bones of the larks reduced to a demi-glaze), poured over. No. 933. Vol-au-vent de Mauviettes. Bone twelve or eighteen larks according to the size of your vol-au-vent, which you have previously made (see No. 1137), stuff them lightly, place a leg-bone in the breast of each, and form them in the shape of a pear; place them in a stewpan covered with slices of fat bacon, add a glass of sherry, with a little stock and a few vegetables, stew them gently one hour, then in another stewpan have a pint of sauce veloute de gibier made as directed (No. 58) from the bones of the larks; take the larks out of the braise, dram them on a cloth, then put them into the sauce, with ten blanched mushrooms; when hot fill the vol-au-vent, and serve directly.OF THE ROASTS FOR SECOND COURSE. In London the poultry and game are sent in so nicely prepared for cooking that any remark upon the method of killing, plucking, and drawing them would appear almost unnecessary, but remembering the manner that I have seen poultry and game mutilated in some parts of the country, I have been induced to give the following simple directions. The best way of killing poultry is to take the bird by the neck, placing the thumb of the right hand just at the back of the head, closing the head in your hand, your left hand holding the bird, then press your thumb down hard and pull the head and neck contrariwise, the neck will break instantaneously, and the bird will be quite dead in a few seconds, when hang it a short time by the legs for the blood to flow into the head, which renders the • flesh much whiter. In Trance we usually kill them by cutting the throat close to the head; both methods are good with regard to the whiteness of the flesh, but I prefer the Eng- lish method, not being so barbarous. To pluck either game or poultry have the bird upon a board with its head towards you, and pull the feathers away from you, which is the direction they lay in ; many persons pull out the feathers in a contrary direction, by which means they are likely to tear the skin to pieces, which would very much disfigure the bird for the table. _ To draw poultry after it is well plucked, cut a long inci- sion at the back of the neck, cut the neck bone off close to the body of the bird, but leave the skin a good length over,394 UOASTS. then take out the thin skin from under the outer with the crop, cut an incision under the tail just large enough for the gizzard to pass through, no larger, then put your finger into the bird at the breast and detach all the intestines, squeeze the body ol the bird and force out the whole from the incision at the tail; it is then ready for trussing, the method of doing which will be given in the various receipts throughout this series. The above method of drawing poultry is equally applicable to game. To make a gravy for roasts well butter the bottom of a convenient-sized stewpan, upon which, lay three onions in thick slices, over which lay a few slices of lean bacon and three pounds of lean beef; place it over a good fire and add two cloves and six peppercorns, with a few sprigs of pars- ley ; when the onions begin to brown stir the meat round with a wooden spoon, keeping the onions still at the bottom, stir occasionally until the onions are well browned but not burnt, then fill up with two quarts of water and half an ounce of salt; when boiling place it at the corner of the fire, skim and let it simmer an horn, skim again, pass it through a cloth into a basin and use when required. The simplicity of roasting is so generally known by all classes of cooks that but very little attention is often paid to it; the simplicity of the arrangement for roasting being such as with many to leave it to attend to itself; but I shall here in a very few words show my readers the facility of roasting well and with little trouble, which I consider of the greatest importance, especially in a dinner-parly where, after the entrees have been well degusted, nothing refreshes the palate or disposes it better for the second course than a fillet or cut from the fillet of a well-roasted capon, chicken, or some description of game, but if badly roasted it would lose its effect. In roasting much depends upon the fire which requiresROASTS. 395 to be solid and to throw out a great heat, as it is always easy to keep anything a good distance from it, but a bad fire would be the destruction of anything placed before it, for if you had a couple of good fowls or a brace of birds, and were to put one down before a slow fire and the other before a brisk, you would be so astonished at the difference in flavour that did you not know different you would declare that one was of an inferior quality; I am also very much against the improper manner of basting, which would give any birds or poultry the appearance of having been first roasted and afterwards stewed; I have never during the last six years suffered any bird to be basted in my kitchen with the exception of rubbing a piece of butter over the breast of poultry or game as soon as the skin becomes set; any kind of game or poultry is done when you perceive a great smoke arising from it, and if not taken up imme- diately you lose the flavour and the bud its appearance, for instead of going to table nice and plump it will present a mean and shrivelled object, loudly bespeaking the cook’s inattention, unless it has been kept in a screen or hot closet, by the party having kept the dinner waiting. By following the above simple method great benefit will be derived in this simple branch of the art, but the most universally useful, for I think we may say without hesita- tion that near two thuds of our animal and volatile food is daily roasted, which has made me so desirous of impressing the necessity of attention, which is all that is required to roast well. No. 939. Roast Turkey au Cresson. For second coiuse a turkey should be very small and well trussed, the breast thrown out, the sinews of the legs cut_ and the feet chopped off, run a skewer through the pinion of the right wing, passing it beneath the thigh-bones and through the pinion of the left wing, run your spit396 ROASTS. through the body, passing it between the skewer and the back-bone, and tie the legs upon a rest (made by folding a thick piece of carrot about two inches long and one broad in buttered paper) upon the spit to keep the legs upon a level with the thighs; have a good clear fire, put down the turkey at a short distance from it, five minutes after it is down rub it over the breast a minute with a piece of butter which being hard and cold you have pressed into a large wooden spoon, (made with a very long handle, by which means you can rub it over the bird whilst turning without approaching too near the fire,) about a quarter of a pomid would be sufficient for six or eight; then place it a little further back, (according to the heat and size of your fire,) the butter will form a froth over it; if the skin should blister you must put it still further from the fire, keep it of a nice gold colour, and when done serve with gravy in the dish and garnish with nice fresh water-cresses. A turkey weighing five pounds will require about three quarters of an horn to roast, and so on in proportion, but one of that size is quite large enough for a roast second course ■ but if before a small fire an hour and a quarter, or if a larger turkey an hour and twenty minutes. No. 940. Turkey Bcircled. Trass a turkey as described in the last, have a square piece of fat bacon the eighth of an inch in thickness and large enough to cover the breast, upon which tie it with pack- thread ; roast and serve as in the last, taking away the pack- thread but leaving the bacon; it will require a little longer to roast as the bacon prevents the fillets from being done so soon. No. 941. Turkey Larded. Lard the breast of a young turkey as you would a noLx de veau (No. 566), (only cut the bacon finer), to facilitate397 ROASTS. the larding, dip the breast in a stewpan of boiling water, or pass it a minute over the flame of a charcoal fire to set the skin to the flesh, place it down to roast but do not butter it over the larded part; serve with gravy and water-cresses in a dish as before. No. 942. Dindonneau truffe a la Perigord. This dish is sometimes served as a roast in the second coiuse, but very seldom in this country. Proceed exactly as for the remove (No. 524), but choose a very small tur- key, for what would look noble in the first course would appear vulgar in the second. No. 943. Dindonneaufarci. Have a young turkey, but do not let its weight exceed six pounds, have ready one pound of veal forcemeat with which mix six truffles in small dice and half a pound of fat livers previously blanched, season well, then stuff the breast and interior of the turkey, fasten the skin over to the back- bone, (but not too tight,) with a packing-needle and string, and roast in vegetables as for the removes; about a quarter of an hour before it is finished take the vegetables from it, and place it closer to the fire to take a nice gold colour; serve with a little gravy in the dish. It will require one hour to roast. No. 944. Roast Turkey a VAnglaise. Have a young turkey, stuff the breast with some veal stuffing (No. 127), roast it plain as directed, and serve with a little gravy and water-cresses; a few small country sau- sages broiled very crisp should be handed round the table. No. 945. Turkey Poults. Turkey poults, so called from being used when about the size of a large poulet, are trussed with the legs turnedROASTS. 398 at the knuckle and the feet pressing upon the thighs, the neck is skinned and the head fixed under the wing; roast them the same as directed for turkeys, about twenty-five minutes or half an hour, according to their size, and in the same modes, but they are usually served, one larded and the other barded, with gravy and water-cresses in the dish. No. 946. Chapon roti au cresson. Roast and serve a capon in any of the ways directed for turkeys, roast of a nice gold colour and serve with water- cresses round; a capon weighing five pounds requires about three quarters of an horn to roast. Poularde au cresson exactly as above. No. 947. Poularde d la Demidoff. Put a pint and a half of sauce bechamel (No. 7) in a stewpan, place it over the fire and reduce until becoming thick, keeping it stirred, then add twenty dressed cocks- combs and twelve small French truffles, season with a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, take it off the fire and stir in two yolks of eggs very quickly, stir it another minute over the fire to set, and put it away to get cold, then have a nice poularde trussed with the legs turned inside, cutting off the feet, which stick into the apertures where you turned in the legs, fix them in with string and a pack- ing-needle, as also the legs and wings, using no skewers, and giving the poularde a handsome appearance, take out the breast-bone, stuff the poularde with the above preparation, roast it in vegetables as for the removes; when nearly done take away the vegetables and give it a nice colour; have ready the following sauce : put a pint and a half of white veal stock in a stewpan, with six spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, and reduce it to a white demi-glace, then add a little sugar and four spoonfuls of good cream; sauce round and serve.399 ROASTS. No. 948. Poularde roti a la Stael. Roast a nice poularde in vegetables as above, when nearly done take away the vegetables, let it turn a few minutes before the fire, then rub it all over with butter, have some bread-crumbs and flour mixed together in a flour- box, which shake over the poularde by degrees whilst roast- ing, it will form a white crust over, take it up and serve with a demi-glace de volaifle (No. 6) under. For a dinner of four entrees you would require two fowls, but not too large, truss and roast them as directed for a turkey, judging the time required according to their size, serve with gravy and watercresses • they may be larded, bai’ded, or served in any way mentioned in the foregoing re- ceipts ; a fowl weighing two pounds and a half would require half an hour roasting, or three quarters of an horn if larger. Are served like fowls, generally plain roasted, but they may be larded or dressed a la Stael (No. 948) as the pou- larde. Be particular in tying the legs upon paper to the spit, as directed for the turkey, as it so improves their appearance when roasted. About twenty-five minutes would be sufficient to roast them. No. 951. Spring Chickens a la Forrester. Truss them as directed for poularde (No. 94,7^ W ww No. 949. Foulet roti. No. 950. Spring Chickens i ^cuuie, ana a coat of bread sauce.400 ROASTS. No. 952. Geese. A green goose roasted plain and served with a little gravy is generally sent up for second courses; but if the larger ones are used they must be stuffed with sage and onions, but very few would choose such a thing for a roast second course, whilst green geese in their season are great favourites, truss them by cutting off the leg at the knuckle, and the wing at the first pinion, fixing them at the side with skewers to throw the breast up; a full-grown goose will take one hour to roast, but a green one not more than half an hour. No. 953. Ducklings. Make a very favourite roast in the London season, they must have good fillets, white and plmnp, and require to be a little more underdone than any other description of poultry; if too much done the fat catches and gives a rank flavour to the flesh, besides causing the fillets to eat dry, they are usually served plain roasted for a second course, but I have served them differently upon some occasions for the sake of variety, but it must be with a veiy thin sauce and one that invigorates the palate, although they never can be better than when served plain roasted, I shall here give one or two deviations ; truss them by twisting the legs at the knuckles and resting the feet upon the thighs, cut the wing off at the first pinion, and run a skewer through the bird, fixing the pinion and legs with it, place them upon a spit and roast twenty minutes. No. 954. Canetons au vin de Madere. Roast them plain, but just before they are done shake a little potato-flour over them mixed with a little common flour, dress them on your dish, and have ready the followingROASTS. 401 sauce: put tkree spoonfuls of chopped olives and one of chopped eschalots in a stewpan with two glasses of Madeira wine, reduce it a minute, then add half a pint of demi-giace (No. 9) with a little cayenne, sugar, and six spoonfuls of con- somme, reduce it till it adheres lightly to the back of the spoon, then add the juice of half a lemon, sauce under and serve. No. 955. Canetons au jus d’orange. Roast two ducklings plain, and serve with a sauce au jus d’orange (No. 17) over. No. 956. Canetons au jus d’eschalotte. Roast as in the last and serve with a sauce au jus d’es- chalotte (No. 16) under. No. 957. Guinea Fowls. These buds must be very young, for being naturally very diy, they are not eatable if more than twelvemonths old; they are generally larded or barded, and served plain roasted! rather well-done, they are trussed like the common fowls, and require nearly tluee quarters of an hour to roast. No. 958. Pea Fowls. These magnificent birds make a noble roast, and when young are very excellent, they are larded, plain roasted, and served with the tail stuck into them, which you have pre- served, the head with its feathers being left folded up in paper and tucked under the wing; roast about an hour and a half, take the paper from the head and neck, dress it upon your dish with water-cresses and a border of tulips or roses round, and the gravy separate in a boat. In large famJ.es where these volatile demi-gods are plen- tdul, I would recommend them to have one of the finest peacock s tails mounted in silver, and made to easily fiv 26402 ItOASTS. upon the dish, by means of a slide, in which the fowl is served, it would look splendid upon table, and remind us of the ancient Roman banquets, where Lucullus, Tiberius, and Horace used to feast and sing their love. No. 959. Pigeons Are trussed as a fowl to roast, and served plain roasted, with a little gravy in the dish, or roasted with a vine-leaf upon the breast, over which you have tied a square piece of bacon, they will take a quarter of an hour to roast, but serve them with the bacon and leaf over; my new way of cooking them is to cut up a head or two of celery into very thin layers, lay some on the breast of each, and tie pieces of fat bacon over, roast and serve with a little gravy as usual; this method has been much approved of. No. 960. Quails. Eight quails are sufficient for a dish, they should be killed if possible forty-eight hours before dressing, draw and truss them by cutting off the wings at the first pinion, leaving the feet, and fixing the pinion of the wing and legs with a very small skewer; cover the breasts with vine- leaves, over which tie a thin square slice of fat bacon, then pass a long skewer through the pinions and thighs of each, tie them on a spit and roast them nearly twelve minutes at a convenient distance from a sharp fire of a nice gold colour, serve with a little gravy in the dish. No. 961. Cailles a VUloise. Prepare eight quails with the bacon and vine-leaves as before, then have a pig’s caul, cut it into eight square dieces and fold a quail in each, roast them a minute longer than in the last, and serve with a very thin sauce bechamel (No. 7) which you have finished with a spoonful of whipped cream under.ROASTS. 403 No. 962. Pheasants Foi second course are usually served plain, you require two ol them for a dish in a four entree dinner, truss them the same as a fowl, leaving the head and neck on, which skin, and fix round at the side with the skewer you have fixed the wing and legs with; a middling-sized one will take about half an hour before a brisk fire, they are also good larded, or one larded and the other barded. No. 963. Faisans a la Galitzine. Roast a couple of pheasants, and when done cut the breasts in shoes without detaching them • put six spoonfuls of consomme of game in a stewpan, with a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, boil two minutes, then add two pats of butter, a little cayenne pepper, and the juice of half a lemon, pour over and serve. Are generally served plain roasted upon a piece of toast, with gravy separate in a boat; they may also be served a la ttob Roy, as directed for the Remove (No. 548), but two 964. Grouse a fowl to roast. buds will be sufficient for a roast, truss them as you would No. 965. Grouse a la Bonny Lassie. you may add a few course much depend404 ROASTS. upon the first course, or, at least, of what the first course consists, although, as I have before stated, they are better plain roasted; yet in some parts of the country where they arc plentiful a change may be desired. Ptarmigans Are Swedish birds, but many are found in Scotland, much of the same species as grouse, and are very plentiful about the month of February; they are dressed precisely in the same way as the grouse. A curious anecdote of the cele- brated Charles the Twelfth, relating to what he used to call a fete, or repas champetre, gave me the idea of inventing the following roast, and calling it Ptarmigan a la Charles the Twelfth. Kill them by accident, pluck them immediately, draw them, and save the feathers and interior, put three guns in bivouac, and hang the ptarmigans on one side with string or green twigs, light a wood fire beneath, upon which put the feathers and interior, let remain, turning them the whole time, till done, and serve them au naturel, with a good hit of salt sprinkled over them; many people would object to this method, but the flavour is excellent to a scientific palate, and more so to a hungry stomach. The anecdote is as follows: crossing a mountain in Sweden with a small part of his army, the King was unex- pectedly attacked by a numerous body of Russians, and a skirmish took place, but the King was as usual victorious., having lost several of his braves, a search was made tor them in the heather, where they found one hundred and fifty-one killed and thirty wounded, being fifteen of the enemy, two Swedish officers, one lieutenant, seven privates, one hundred and thirty ptarmigans, and twenty-five black cocks, all killed by accident, the birds were, by commandROASTS. 405 of his Majesty, plucked and roasted, to the no small satis- faction ol his troops, who were short of provisions at the time; so great was the treat that they hoped his Majesty would often repeat the fete champetre. No. 966. Slack Cocks and Grey Hens. lliese biids, like pheasants, must be well kept; they are excellent eating, and are usually served plain roasted, trussed like grouse, but may be served a la Stockholm as follows: lard one side of the breast, and cover the other side with vine-leaves and fat bacon, which tie on, roast from half to three quarters of an hour according to the size, and serve with toast under, and gravy in the dish. No. 967. Partridges Make a very nice roast, truss them in the same manner as directed for grouse, obtain them young if possible, the old ones although not the best for stewing eat much better dressed that way; four will be sufficient for a roast, put them upon the spit, and when the first course goes to table place them before a sharp fire fifteen minutes, or according to the size, and serve with a gill of clear gravy upon the dish and bread sauce in a boat; you may also lard or bard them with fat bacon, or lard two and bard two, allowing them a little longer to roast, it will give them a very nice, appearance. No. 968. Sun Birds Are very seldom sent to table, but plain roasted is the usual way, and a little or no improvement can be made • serve them in a dish with gravy and a lemon separate not too much underdone. No. 969. Wild Sucks and Pintails. Must not be too old, they require keeping two or three406 ROASTS. days or longer before they are dressed; they are trussed by twisting each leg at the knuckle, and resting the claws on each side of the breast, fixing them with a skewer run through the thighs and pinion of the wings (No. 953), rub the liver over the breasts, and roast them from fifteen to twenty minutes rather brown, serve three for a ruast, as the breast is the only part eatable, a little gravy on the dish and lemons separate. No. 970. Wild Ducks a la Chasseur. Truss them as before, rub the liver over, and roast un- derdone, cut the breast in shoes without detaching them, catch the gravy that escapes in a saute-pan, add a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, place it on the fire, and when hot add four pats of butter, half a glass of port wine, a little mignonette, pepper, and the juice of half a lemon, shake altogether over the fire, and when the butter is melted sauce over and serve. Although I have directed that they should be roasted underdone they must have no appearance of rawness. No. 971. Wide]eons Require but very little keeping before they are dressed, if well roasted they are nearly equal to the wild duck, and are served the same; it requires rather more than a quarter of an hour to roast them to perfection. No. 972. Teal Make a beautiful roast as well as entree, and when in good order are very delicious, after a frost they arc generally very fat; truss them with care, leaving the breast the same as ducklings, six will be sufficient for a dish, keep them a very light brown colour and rather crisp, serve with a little gravy and water-cresses, if approved of, serve lemon separate; these birds being tender arc easily cut in halves by the407 IlOASTS. carver, to one half of which he can assist each guest; they will require about eight minutes roasting. No. 973. Teal au jus d'orange. Roast as above, and serve with a sauce aii jus d orange (No. 17) over them, or they may be served with a sauce au jus de bigarade (No. 18), or a demi-glace de gibier (No. 61). No. 974. Plovers Aie good when well kept, and excellent as a roast, truss, but do not draw them, and put six on a skewer, set some toast underneath to catch the trail which may escape from them whilst roasting, about ten minutes is sufficient; cut the toast in diamond shapes, place them in your dish with the plovers over, and gravy separate in a boat, they may also be served barded with the vine-leaf as for pigeons or quails, but the bacon must be very thin, and when roasted quite crisp, black plovers are dressed in the same way, but the golden ones are the most delicate. No. 975. Of the Woodcock. These buds are one of the greatest luxuries, they must not be too fresh or too stale when dressed; they are fit for cooking when they look black between the legs and the feathers become rather loose; pluck and truss them with the legs twisted at the knuckles and the feet pressing upon the tlnghs; bring the pinion of the wing to the thigh you ave previously skinned the head and neck, bring the beak round under the wing, which pass through the pinions of e wmgs and thighs, place about foiu upon a skewer tie them upon a spit and roast them from ten to fifteen’mi- nutes before a sharp fire with a piece of tmot i i , beneath to catch the trail that falls from them • wher P408 IIOASTS. stand a bird upon, dress them slantwise on your dish with gravy sufficient to lightly moisten the toast, and some sepa- rate in a boat; they may also be bardcd with a piece of bacon tied over the breast not too thick, but they will require rather longer to roast. The beak may be made to form the skewer. No. 976. Woodcocks a la Stdel. Truss as before, put them down to roast, when down two minutes rub butter over, and shake flour gently but continually over them till done, it will give them quite a new appearance, and are by many preferred to plain roasted ; serve them on a toast as before. No. 977. Woodcocks a la fumee de Gibier. Roast as before and serve with a sauce fumee de gibier (No. 60), which you have finished uitli a pat of butter. Although I recommend that this delicate bird should be served plain roasted, yet it may be served with advantage as above directed. No. 978. Woodcocks a la JPiedmontcdse. Roast as before then cut four large truffles in slices, fry them a few minutes in oil, then pom- off the oil, add ten tablespoonfuls of sauce fumee de gibier and a httle sugar, boil altogether two minutes, dress the birds on toast, sauce over and serve-. No. 979. Larks Are very delicious little birds, about twelve or fifteen are sufficient for a dish; they are usually roasted plain, or u ith a thin slice of fat bacon tied over them, and served with a little gravy in the dish and crumbs of iried bread round, they require about eight minutes to roast them well.409 ROASTS. No. 980. Snipes Are somewhat similar to woodcocks, and dressed exactly the same, but you require eight or ten for a dish; they do not require more than ten minutes roasting. No. 981. Hares. One is sufficient for a roast, skin and truss it nicely, stuff the belly with a good veal stuffing, sew it up, then put it on the spit, mb butter over the back and shake flour over it, roast it about forty minutes before a sharp fire, but that depends upon the size of course; serve them with plain gravy in the dish and currant jelly separate. They are also served with a sauce poivrade (No. 32), or sauce au jus d’groseilles (No. 36), they may also be larded. No. 982. Leverets Are plain roasted and do not require stuffing, nor so long roasting being smaller; they are usually served with plain gravy, but may be served with either of the sauces mentioned in the last; you require two for a roast. They will take from twenty-five to thirty minutes roasting. No. 983. Rabbits. You require two for a roast; they may be stuffed with a good veal stuffing or forcemeat of veal, plain roasted, and served with a little gravy on the dish. Wild rabbits are dressed precisely the same; they may be stuffed with a forcemeat of game instead of veal, both require butter and flour rubbed over them, and will take from twenty to twenty-five minutes roasting.4)0 SAVOURY DISHES EOR SECOND COURSE. These dishes are divided into three classes, and in Eng- land all belong to the second course, but in France they are very frequently served in the first with a dinner of four or six entrees, that is, one or two of them, and are very com- mendable in the summer months; for breakfasts, luncheons, or suppers, they are invaluable. The large pieces, such as pates of game, galantine of turkey, poulardes, boars’ heads, &c., are in smaller dinners placed at the bottom of the table to face the roasts, but in a dinner of six or ten entrees they are served as flancs. All others, such as small galantine of game a la voliere, pates, chaud froids, salads, mayonnaise, &c., by making them smaller may be served as savoury entremets, in a corner dish. THE boar’s HEAD Has in all times ornamented the tables and even the walls of ancient epicures ;—a princely dish is a boar’s head, its ferocious appearance giving it such noble dignity when brought to table that it has not only been recognized as one of the first and most recherche dishes of antiquity, hut has been immortalized by some of the oldest masters; never has an antique banquet been represented without the intro- duction of cither a black or white servant in the act of bringing or placing a boar’s head upon the table of a wealthy amphytnon. Sneiders, Weenix, and Rubens, haveSAVOURY DISHES. 411 often traced it upon their immortal canvasses, which were eagerly bought by the greatest epicureans to embellish their banqueting halls, and to show their children, from gene- ration to generation, how their great forefathers used to live. No. 984. Of the Boars Head a VAntique. Procure a head with as much of the neck attached to it as possible, singe it well, holding it over a charcoal fire, and keeping it moved, then wipe it with a cloth, scrape well with a knife without scratching the skin, and place it on a cloth upon its skull, open it with your knife from one end to the other, and bone it very carefully without piercing the skin, leaving no flesh whatever upon the bones, bone the two necks of the boar, which cut into long fillets two inches square, place the head in a salting-tub, over which put ten pounds of salt, one of brown sugar, ten bay-leaves, half an ounce of peppercorns, a quarter ditto of cloves, six blades of mace, eight minced onions, twenty sprigs of thyme, ten ditto of winter savoury, and two sliced carrots; mix all well together and leave it eight or ten days, (rubbing the head every other day,) until well salted, then take it out, dry it well upon a cloth, lay the head straight before you, skin side downwards, have ready ten pounds of forcemeat (No. 120,) (but using the flesh of the wild boar instead of veal,*) with which cover the interior of the head an inch in thickness at the thinnest parts, roll the fillets cut from the neck in pieces of the rind, (both salted with the head and dried upon a cloth,) place a layer of them lengthwise in the head, with The flesh of the wild boar being rather difficult to obtain in this country the Dead being the only part considered worth presenting, the flesh of the common P>g may be used for the forcemeat and interior, as well as the rind, which must be sclccted m Pieccs 88 larSe 115 possible; a bottle of common port wine is an improvement in the pickling. 1 kSAVOURY DISHES. 412 a long piece of fat bacon half an inch square between each, sprinkle a little chopped eschalots, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg over, and place here and there about a pound of the best preserved truffles, with one of very green pista- chios blanched and skinned, and continue filling with force- meat and the other ingredients until you have used the whole, finishing by covering forcemeat over; join the two cheeks together with the above in the interior, sew it up with packthread giving it the shape of the head as much as possible and fold it in one or two large thin cloths leav- ing the ears out and upright; braise as follows: put half a pound of butter in a large braising-pan or stock-pot, over which put fifteen pounds of trimmings of pork or knuckles of veal, eight onions, two carrots, four turnips, eight bay- leaves, a tablespoonful of peppercorns, twelve cloves, ten sprigs of thyme, ten of marjoram, four blades of mace, a bottle of bucellas wine, and four calves’ feet, place it upon a sharp fire stirring it occasionally until the bottom is covered with a clearish glaze, then add six gallons of water and a pound of salt, when boiling draw it to the corner of the stove, skim, and put in the head the ears uppermost and let simmer seven or eight horns, perhaps more, according to the size and age of the boar, but the better plan would be to try it with a trussing-needle; if tender it is done; skim the stock, in which leave the head until half cold, when take it out, partly undo the cloths, and tie it again tighter if possible, and press it in a cover or upon a baking sheet with three flat pieces of wood, one at each side with a weight against them, and one upon the top between the ears, on which place a fourteen pounds weight, let it remain all night until quite cold, when take it out of the cloths, detach the thread it was sewn up with, cut a piece an inch in thickness from behind the ears, (from which part it must be carved in as thin slices asSAVOURY DISHES. 418 possible,) it will have a marbled appearance, trim the head a little, setting the ears in a proper position, glaze it with a brownish glaze, form the eyes with a little lard and round pieces of truffles, and the tusks with pate d’office (No. 1137) baking them, have some very fresh tulips and roses, which stick tastefully in the ears and some around, but leaving space to carve, garnish boldly with croutons aspic made from the stock clarified as directed (No. 1360). A black hog’s head may be dressed exactly the same with the greatest success ; pig’s heads' also, but more sim- plified, proceeding as for galantine (No. 998), but having the meat pickled. A plain pickled boar’s head is also very much thought of, and is a noble dish : singe the head as before, but leaving a few bristles round the eyes and ears, tie it up in a cloth, and braise as before until quite tender. It must not be boned. The head of the young boar or marcassin is very delicate dressed in either method, so likewise are the legs, necks, shoulders and saddles, pickled and roasted, or braised and served with a poivrade or any other highly-seasoned sauce, cotelettes may also be cut from the necks. The following is the German method of making a sauce to be eaten with boar’s head : cut the rind (free from pith) of two Seville oranges into veiy thin strips half an inch in length, which blanch in boiling water, drain them upon a sieve and put them into a basin, with a spoonful of mixed English mustard, four of currant jelly, a little pepper, salt, (mix well together,) and half a pint of good port wine. No. 985. Alibs of Beef a la George the Fourth. Beef, as for entrees, offers but very little variation for second course dishes, the ribs, fillets, and tongue being the414 SAVOUllY DISHES. only parts to be recommended; and even these are more fit ' for luncheons or suppers. Take a piece of ribs of beef with five bones, well covered but not too fat nor too large, bone it and lard the thick part with long pieces of fat bacon and lean ham or tongue, well seasoned with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, then lay the beef on a dish, with a little pepper, salt, fifty pep- percorns, six blades of mace, ten eschalots in shoes, half a pint of Madeira, and a little thyme and bay-leaves, let remain thus five days in winter, and but three in summer, turn and rub it every day; when ready to dress clear away the ingredients, roll and tie it up, then put two pounds of lean ham cut in dice in a large stewpan, with two ounces of butter and six large Portugal onions, pass gently over a slow fire, keeping stirred, put in the beef, let it braise gently until becoming a good colour, add water sufficient to reach half way up the beef, with half a pint of Madeira, two calves’ feet, a good bunch of parsley, and twenty pieces of carrots, tinned the size and shapfe of young carrots, let it remain over a slow fire and place some live charcoal upon the lid, let stew gently four or five hours, or until tender, which try with a trussing-needle, but take out the carrots and onions as soon as done; when done take out the feet and skim off all the fat, leave it in the stock till three parts cold, then take it up, place it in a deep dish-cover, take off the string, and strain the stock through a sieve over it, then lay another dish upon the beef, upon which place a twenty-eight pounds weight, and leave it till quite cold, warm the stock and pass it through a napkin, season a httle more if required, and place it in a mould upon ice, dress the beef on a dish, glaze it nicely, dress the onions at each end and the carrots in pyramid at each side, cut the stock when firm in crou- tons, with which garnish the beef tastefully and serve;SAVOURV DISHES. 415 should the stock be thick clarify it as directed for con- somme (No. 134); it is not, however, required to be very clear. To carve it must be cut in shoes crosswise. No. 986. Ribs of Beef a la Bolingbrolce. Proceed with the beef just as in the last, but put a roll of veal stuffing (No. 127) in the centre, the carrots and onions only being required for flavour are cut in small slices; press your beef as in the last, but thicken the stock with a little roux to form a thin brown sauce, with which make a good sauce piquante (No. 27), which flavour slightly with a little scraped garlic, place the beef in your dish, and the sauce upon ice, when nearly cold and ready to set pour it over, sprinkling the top with grated crust of bread, with which you have mixed some chopped gherkins, it is then ready to serve. No. 987. Filet de Boevffroid a la Bohemienne. Prepare and lard a fillet of beef as directed for the Re- moves (No. 417), then put it in a basin in which you have put the following marinade : four onions in slices, one carrot, a head of celery, ten sprigs of thyme, eight bay-leaves, two cloves of garlic, and a little parsley, which pass in half a pound of butter in a stewpan over a sharp fire five minutes, then add one quart of vinegar, one of water, two oimces of salt, and half a pound of brown sugar, with twenty pepper- corns, ten cloves, and two blades of mace, boil half an hour, but do not put in the fillet till the marinade is cold, let re- main a we-ek, and when wanted put it in a braising-pan with one quart of the marinade and two of veal stock or consomme (No. 134), place it over a slow fire, and stew gently for two or three horns, depending upon the size take it out and place it in a dish to cool, with a little stock over it, slum the remainder and pass it through a napkinSAVOURY DISHES. 410 into n stewpan, place it upon the fire, reduce it to half, skim it well, add a little clarified isinglass (No. 1372) sufficient to set it as a delicate aspic, six spoonfuls of tomata sauce, and a little red currant jelly; having trimmed and dished the fillet, sauce over, when quite cold garnish with a border of plovers’ eggs, and decorate three silver atelettes, by placing a fine dressed cockscomb at the top, a fine truffle beneath, and a plover’s egg, ornamented with truffles at the bottom, stick them in the fillet, one slanting at each end, and the other upright in the centre, it is then ready to serve. No. 988. Filets de Boevf farcis a la Dr. Johnson. Trim a nice small fillet about fifteen inches long, and cut off the thickest part of the thin end, then with a long knife cut a deep incision down the thin side, lengthwise, which fill with a pound of veal forcemeat (No. 120), with which you have mixed some ox-tongue, truffles, and hard-boiled whites of eggs, cut into good-sized fillets, season with a little chopped eschalots, then cover the fillet with leaves of celery as large as you can get them, over which also lay slices of cooked ham, and envelope the whole in thin slices of fat bacon, tie it up with string, then place it in a braising- pan with two calves’ feet, and half cover it with good stock, place it on a slow fire and stew it twro horns and a half, or until tender, which try with a trussing-needle, take it up and leave it on a dish to get cold; then pass the stock through a sieve into a stewpan, and place it upon the ice to set, when firm take off all the fat, wrash the top with hot water to take off all the grease, then clarify it as directed for aspic (No. 1360), and pass it through a napkin, trim the fillet at each end lightly, leaving the top untouched, when quite cold have ready a long mould and pour a little of the clarified stock into it half an inch in depth, place it on theSAVOURY DISHES. 417 ice, and when set ornament it with fillets of truffles, tongue, and whites of hard-boiled eggs, which cover carefully with more of the clarified stock half an inch thick; when quite set lay in the fillet of beef, the top downwards, and fill the mould with the remainder of the jelly; when set tmn it out of the mould upon a dish by dipping the mould in warm water, garnish round with stoned olives and the lemainder of the clarified stock; you may also stick atelettes on the top, ornamented tastefully. If you cannot piociue a mould place the fillet upon a dish, and garnish it tastefully with croutons of aspic. No. 989. Cold Ox Tongues. Diess them as described for flancs in first course, but as soon as they are cooked skin them and cut off nearly all the root, truss it of a good shape by placing the root end against some fixture, and running a fork through the middle of the thin part into the board; when cold trim it. Although I disapprove of ornamented hot tongues for first course, I must confess that a bold design carved upon a fine tongue is pleasing to the eyes on a luncheon or supper-table, and even for dinners in a second course, although seldom’used t ere; the design must be left entirely to the taste of the artist, but one of the most simple and yet tasty designs, is t e imitation of a long escalope shell, commencing at the thin end and terminating at the thick; glaze well with light g aze, a sheet of aspic a quarter of an inch in thickness may e aid over it, which will produce a pleasing effect, dress i upon your dish with croutons of aspic round. Ton o-ues or second course, as for the first, are seldom served by nemselves, but are usually intended to be eaten with veal or poultry upon the table. 27SAVOURY DISHES. 418 No. 990. Tongue a la Lancret. Boil, truss, and trim tlie tongue as above, dress it on your dish, and have ready the following garniture : boil gently four very fine cauliflowers, not too much done, when cold cut three of them into small bunches, have ready a good sauce mayonnaise a la gelee (No. 1361) in which you have introduced a little whipped cream, dip each piece of cauli- flower in the sauce and lay them on a dish, which set upon the ice, dip also the whole cauliflower in; when the sauce has set firm place the cauliflower upon the root of the tongue with an atelette, dress the bunches round the tongue, variegating them with a few stoned olives ; the tongue may also be_ carved in any design your fancy may dictate and nicely glazed. No. 991. Tongue a la Printaniere. Trim and carve the tongue when cold in the shape of a palm-branch; have some aspic (No. 1360) flavoured rather strongly with tarragon, have also twenty young carrots and twenty middle-sized onions, dressed as directed in No. 42 S, let them get cold in their glaze, place the tongue in the centre of the dish, glaze lightly, dress the vegetables alter- nately round upon a thin border of fresh butter, and just as the aspic is on the point of setting pour it over‘the vege- tables, which will look quite transparent, set the dish on ice till ready to serve, a few green peas if in season may be thrown over the onions. No. 992. Tongue a la Comedien?ie. Truss and trim the tongue as usual, carving a comic mask upon it, glaze lightly, and place it upon your dish, have ready prepared the following garniture : put two table-SAVOURY DISHES. 410 gently for eight hours, but I spoonfuls of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with one of Chili and one of common vinegar, a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, a pint of white sauce (No. 7), half ditto of to- mata sauce (No. 37), with double the quantity of aspic gelee, reduce over a sharp tire, keeping it stirred till be- coming rather thick, then add a spoonful of capers and the same of chopped gherkins, oil a saute-pan lightly, pom in the sauce, set it on the ice just before serving, turn out on a cloth, cut it in croutons and garnish tastefully. No. 993. Cold Ham. Procure a veiy nice Westmoreland ham of about nine pounds in weight, soak it ten hours in cold water, and simmer three horns* in plenty of water; when done take it out and let remain until cold, when cut olf the skin as thinly as possible (but without leaving the marks of it), leaving a piece about two inches and a half broad upon the knuckle, which either festoon or Vandyke, carve the fat into the form of a shell, branch, or any other design your fancy may direct, glaze lightly, and serve garnished with aspic (No. 1360), chopped and in croutons, or with any of the garni- tures directed for the tongues. No. 994. Fillet of Veal a la Pontoise. Procure a small leg of veal from a cow calf, cut off the knuckle so as to leave the fillet about eight inches in height, take the bone from the centre, have ready some good veal stuffing (No. 127) in which you have introduced some lean chopped ham and chopped eschalots, season rather high and put it in the place the bone came from, envelope the fillet with large thin slices of fat bacon, tie it up well with string wap it m three or four sheets of oiled paper, place it out * Some amateurs would prefer them stewed consider they then lose half their flavour.SAVOURY DISIIES. 420 spit and roast three hours before a moderate fire, take up, tie it tight in a napkin, place it on a dish to cool, put an- other dish upon the top, upon which place a fourteen pounds weight, let remain till cold, then take off the paper and bacon, the fillet will be quite white, cut a slice off the top, glaze the sides, and serve with a thin sauce tartare (No. 38) round it. # No. 995. Fillet of Veal a la Cardinale. Cut a fillet as in the last, have also ready boiled a nice ox-tongue very red; you have also prepared about two pounds of good veal forcemeat (No. 120), run about twenty pieces of fat bacon right through the thickest part of the fillet, surround the tongue (trimmed accordingly) with the forcemeat, and place in the centre of the fillet, but not to pro- trude out of it, surround it with slices of fat bacon and roast it in vegetables (see Removes, No. 417); when done place it on a dish till cold, without taking away the paper and vege- tables, when cold take it out; trim and glaze as in the last, dress on your dish, and garnish with croutons of aspic (No. 1360), cut according to taste, surmount it with six small atelettes, upon each of which you have placed a crawfish (No. 380), truffle, and quenelle de veau (No. 120), it is then ready to serve; the atelettes must be fixed upon the rim of the fillet, leaning outwards to give it a graceful ap- pearance, some of them, however, must be taken out to carve. No. 996. Loin of Veal au Jarnbon. Roast a nice loin in vegetables, in which let it remain till cold, have also a good ham nicely boiled, from which cut twenty-four croutons, the size and shape of small fillets of fowls, dress the veal in the centre and the ham round; fill a large saute-pan with aspic (No. 1360), which set upon421 SAVOURY DISIIES. the ice, when firm dip the bottom of the pan in warm water and turn the jelly in one piece over the loin, have also some chopped, with which garnish the ham. No. 997. Loin of Veal a la Lame Blanche. Roast a nice loin of veal as in the last, and when cold have ready the following sauce: put six tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar in a stewpan with a blade of mace, six cloves, six peppercorns, one bay-leaf, and two ounces of raw ham \ boil altogether three minutes, then add two quarts of sauce bechamel (No. 7) and a pint of aspic (No. 1360), reduce till rather thick over a sharp fire, keeping it stmed, pass it through a tammie into a stewpan, which place upon the ice, keep it stirred, and just as it is begin- ning to set stir in half a pint of whipped cream, pour over the loin, which stand upon the ice till the sauce is firm, cut six mild Indian pickles into pieces of equal sizes, which strew carelessly over the top. • No. 998. Galantine de Veau au Jambon. Bone a breast of veal about fifteen inches in length, cut off the end where the shoulder was taken out, and cut out some of the meat m large pieces from the other, so as to leave the skin about half an inch in thickness • then cut the meat in strips the thickness of your finger, and as long as possible with a corresponding number of strips of fat bacon and cooked ham; have also ready three pounds of forcemeat (No. 120), ay the skin of the breast downwards, open on the dresser' spread some of the forcemeat down the centre half an inch in thickness, leaving good room at the ends and sides then put a layer of the strips alternately, season with peppe'r and sa t rather high, cover again with forcemeat, then again a ayer ol the strips, cover the whole with forcemeat, theifcover he flaps over and sew it up tight, fold it in a sheet of422 SAVOURY DISHES. paper and tie it up in a doth, place it in a stewpan, cover with good stock (or put it into a stewpan in which you are preparing a stock), place the stewpan over the fire, and when boiling draw it to the corner, where let simmer three hours and a half, then take it up, untie the cloth, and turn the galantine over, from which take off the paper, fold again in the cloth, but be careful to keep the sewn side upper- most, place it in a deep dish surrounded with the stock, place a flat dish upon it, upon which stand a fourteen pounds weight; let remain till quite cold, take it up, trim, draw out the string it was sewn with, cut off the ends, dress it in the centre of your dish, garnish with chopped aspic (No. 1360) in a roll, round outside of which place crou- tons of the same, and upon the top of the galantine dress smaller croutons of aspic, brown and white alternately. Gherkins quartered lengthwise may be used for the interior of the galantine. The aspic may be made from the stock the galantine is cooked in, by making an addition of two calf’s feet, and clarifying it as directed. No. 999. Pate de Veau au Jamb on. Have ready buttered a large raised pie mould,* make also a paste with five pounds of flour mixed with a pint and a half of hot water in which you have dissolved a pound of fresh butter, work the paste very smooth with the hand; when cold line your mould with it three quarters of an inch in thickness, and bringing it more than an inch above the top, reserving the trimmings for a cover, line the inside of the pie with forcemeat (No. 120) half an inch in thickness; then have ready larded with fat bacon four pounds of lean veal, which you have cut in pieces the length of the interior of your pie, and two inches square, * If no mould, put half a pound less butter in the paste and raise the pic with our hands, making a bold ornament round and upon the top.423 SAVOURY DISHES. which place in a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, well seasoned with pepper, salt, and four bay-leaves, and pass them twenty minutes over the fire until well covered with their own glaze; use them when cold, pouring the gravy from them into the pie; have also two pounds of cooked ham, fat and lean, which cut as near as possible of the same size as the veal, lay two pieces of the veal at the bottom of the pie with a piece of ham between, cover with the forcemeat, and proceed in like manner till you have filled the crust, finishing as a dome above the edges of the pie, which raise gracefully with your fingers, and crimp with a pair of paste pincers, after having placed on a cover of paste a quarter of an inch in thickness, making a hole at the top; then lay an oval piece upon the top to form a lid, which ornament with leaves or as fancy directs, bake five horns in a slow oven, then cut off the lid, lay an oval piece of tin (made for that purpose) upon the meat, upon which place a four pounds weight, let remain till the pie is cold, then take out of the mould, glaze the top and garnish with chopped aspic and croutons of the same; serve either with or without the cover. By filling the pie with strong gravy upon taking it from the oven, shaking it well, you will have no occasion to open or press it to carve it, then it must be cut in thin shoes through crust and all. No. 1000. Cotelettes de Veau a la St. Gar at. Cut six nice cotelettes from a neck of veal, of a nice shape, lard them through and through the fillets with thickish pieces of fat bacon and cooked tongue, place them in a saute-pan, and cover with a good veal stock, stew gently over a slow fire till tender, lay them flat in a dish, pom their stock- over, then lay another dish upon them and press lightly till cold, have six moulds the shape and large enough to contain a cotelette, have also some aspic jelly (No. 1360)424 SAVOURY DISHES. pour a little in each mould about a quarter of an inch deep, ' place them on a dish of ice, and when partly set form a rosette or star upon each, with fillets of hard-boiled white of egg and truffles, cover them with a little more aspic to keep them in their places, and when set firm lay a cote- lette upon each, fill the moulds up with aspic and place them on the ice till 'firm, then dip them in hot water and turn them out on your dish, one to follow the other in a circle, if no moulds place them in a saute-pan, cover them with aspic, and when set turn them out upon a cloth by dipping the bottom of the pan in warm water, and with the point of a knife cut them out of equal sizes. No. 1001. Cotelettes de Veau a la Princesse. Cut, braise, and press six cotelettes as above, make a good sauce mayonnaise a la gelee (No. 1361), and when getting stiff dip each cotelette in so that it is well covered, and place them in a dish upon the ice, dress salad in pyramid in the centre of a flanc dish, against which lay the cotelettes with a small paper frill upon the bone of each, garnish round with croutons of aspic (No. 1360). No. 1002. Riz de Veau a la 'Chinoise. Lard six small sweetbreads as directed for the entree (No. 671), which braise, keeping them a very light colour, when cold have some very white aspic (No. 1360), and six small plain round moulds; cover the bottoms of the moulds a quarter of an inch deep with aspic, when partly set gar- nish round with rows of stoned olives and pickled mush- rooms, or pieces of beetroot, boiled carrots, turnips, &c., according to fancy, and make a star or rosette of whites or hard-boiled eggs in the centre, cover with a little more of the aspic and when set firm place in the sweetbreads (topsy- turvy) and fill up with aspic, have some rice well boiled425 SAVOURY DISHES. and dry, (see No. 129), put it in a stewpan, with six pats of butter and some pepper and salt, when the butter is melted mix well together and place it to get cold on the ice, dress it in pyramid in the centre of a flanc dish, dip the moulds in warm water, and turn them out in an oval circle round the rice, placing a fine cabbage lettuce upon the top. to No. 1003. Cotelettes de Mouton braise aux navets. Cut, lard, and braise twelve mutton cotelettes as directed (No: 722), press them in their stock lightly like the veal cotelettes, when cold trim them of a nice shape, you have prepared a good poivrade sauce (No. 32), to which you have added half a pint of aspic (No. 1360), and when nearly cold dip in the cotelettes, holding them by the bones, until they are quite enveloped, dress them (when quite cold) upon a thin border of fresh butter, garnish with croutons of aspic, and serve a ragout of turnips (No. 93) cold in the centre. No. 1004. Turban de Cotelette de Mouton a la Fermiere. Braise, press, and trim the cotelettes as in the last, but instead of a poivrade reduce a good mafire d’hotel sauce (No. 43), to which add half a pint of cream; when nearly cold dip the cotelettes in the sauce, place them on the ice till somewhat firm, dress them in crown as in the last, then piepare a salad with half a beetroot, one cucumber, one lettuce, season with a little oil, vinegar, pepper, salt, chopped tarragon and chervil; mix all well together, dress m pyramid in the centre of your cotelettes, which garnish with slices of cucumber and serve. No. 1005. Carbonade de Mouton. Proceed as directed (No. 577), and when the carbonade is cold cut it. in slices, which trim and dress as directed in either of the two foregoing receipts.42(3 SAVOURY DISHES. No. 1006. Ballot tins d’ Acjneau a la de Bazan. Take two very white small shoulders of lamb, bone them completely, cut off some of the meat at the thickest part, so as to give only a quarter of an inch in thickness, season the inside with a little mixed spice, pepper, salt, and ^chopped eschalots, have ready some forcemeat as directed (No. 120), cover the shoulders half an inch in thickness with it, then lay alternately small fillets of cooked tongue, fat bacon, and lamb cut from a loin, season with pepper and salt, cover with the forcemeat, then another layer of the fillets, then forcemeat, fold it over and sew it up, giving it the form of an egg; when both done tie them in napkins and braise in good stock, try when done with a larding, pin, if tender take them out, press all ways alike to keep the shape of eggs, when cold take them out of the napkins, draw out the string and dress the two on one dish in a slanting direction, stick an atelette at each end, have ready some aspic (No. 1360), or it may be made from the stock by adding two calf’s feet to it, cover the bottom of a saute- pan with some of it, let set on the ice, then arrange fifty pickled mushrooms and fifty stoned olives over, fill up the saute-pan and place it on the ice, when set cut it in crou- tons, with which garnish the ballotins. No. 1007. Ballottins d la Catalanaise. Prepare them exactly as in the last; when cold put a quart of sauce bechamel (No. 7) in a stewpan, with a glass of white wine, half a glass of vinegar, and half a pint of consomme, reduce till rather thick, add a little isinglass dissolved in water and pass it through a tainmie into a clean stewpan, place the stewpan upon the fire, and when boiling add a quarter of a pound of mait.re d’hotel butter (No. 79), in which you have introduced a tablespoonful ofSAVOURY DISHES. 427 chopped tarragon and chervil; when the butter is melted finish with a little cream, place it by to cool, and when upon the point of setting pour it over the ballottins, place them upon the ice till the sauce is quite firm, then garnish tastefully with croutons of aspic (No. 1360) and place an atelette at each end. No. 1008. Cotelettes d’Agneaw a la Gelee. Take the chine bones from two necks of lamb and saw the ribs rather short, the length you would require your co- telettes, lard the fillets and roast them in vegetables, do not take them out until quite cold, cut your cotelettes from them of a nice shape, reduce a good demi Proven <?ale sauce (No. 34), with which envelope each cotelette, when cold and the sauce is set dress them in crown upon your dish with chopped aspic (No. 1360) in the centre and croutons of the same round. No. 1009. Cotelettes d’Agneau froid a la Princesse. Prepare two necks of lamb as above, from which cut the cotelettes, glaze, dress them in crown the reverse way, sauce over with a very white mayonnaise sauce (No. 1364), sprinkle chopped gherkins and chopped ham over. No. 1010. Galantine de Pinde. Pluck and draw a turkey, bone it as directed for the pou- lardes (No. 514), spread it open upon the dresser, have ready some forcemeat as directed (No. 120), spread some down the centre of the turkey, (you have previously turned the legs inside,) half an inch in thickness, have ready some long strips of lean veal the thickness of your finger and the length of the turkey, have also strips of lean cooked ham and fat bacon, lay them alternately upon the forcemeat, season with pepper and salt, then cover with a layer ofy!'to SAVOURY DISHES. forcemeat, and so on till you have as much as the bird will contain, finishing with forcemeat, pull the flaps over and sew it up with packthread, tie it up in a napkin and roll it to press it of the same proportions, put it in a stewpan with a few vegetables of each sort, and cover with good stock, (or stew it m a veal stock you may be preparing lor a white sauce or soup,) stew two hours and a half or tin tender, which try with a larding-pin, take it up, untie the string, open the cloth, see that the part where it is sewn up is at the top, wrap it again in the napkin but tie it only at each end, set it in a deep dish surrounded with some of the stock, set another dish upon it and press it till cold with a fourteen pounds weight, make an aspic, using some of the stock it was cooked in as directed (No. 1360)° dress the galantine upon a dish, surround it with the aspic chopped and in croutons, and form a star of aspic upon the top, or garnish in any other design your fancy may direct. No. 1011, Galantine de Dinde aux foies gras. Proceed exactly as above, using fillets of rabbits instead of veal, and interspersing eight fat fivers of poulardes in the interior. No. 1012. Galantine de Dinde a la Voliere. Bone a very young turkey, and proceed exactly as in the last, using two ounces of pistachios, blanched and skinned, and half a pound of truffles cut into thick fillets, instead of the fivers, when stuffed and sewn up roll it very tight in a cloth, which also tie very tight, especially at the tail, which requires to be made so much narrower; stew as be- fore, when done take it out of the napkin, see that the part where it is sewn shall be at the bottom, tie it again in the napkin, but only at the ends, lay it in a deep dish sur- rounded with the stock it was stewed in, place a dish slant-SAVOURY DISHES. 429 wise upon it (to press the tail thinner), upon which place a ten pounds weight; when cold take it from the napkin, draw out the string and place it upon a dish; you have saved one of the legs of the turkey, cut the foot off an inch and a half below the knuckle, with which form the head and neck of the bird; should the leg of the bird not be of sufficient length make it higher by fixing it upon a wooden skewer, place it at the thickest end of the galantine, covering it with some of the forcemeat (which you have blanched and mixed with a little hot glaze), make of the size and as nearly as possible in imitation of the real head and neck, stick the two claws of a convenient-sized lobster in the sides for wings, and with the tail of the lobster form the tail of the bird; surround it with chopped aspic (No. 1360) in rolls, over which lay thin slices of it to imitate waves, and surround with croutons of the same; it is then ready to serve. No. 1013. Pate de Binds au blanc de Volaille. Bone a small turkey and line the interior with forcemeat (No. 120), you have prepared a mould as for pate de veau (No. 999), but using pate a fine, or pate a dresser (Nos. 1135,1136), instead of the pate there directed, the interior of which also line with forcemeat, trim a nice red ox-tongue (cooked), cut it about the length of the turkey, cover with thickish slices of fat bacon, roll it up in the turkey, which place in the pie, cover with a slice of fat bacon, and again with forcemeat in a dome, finish the pie and bake as di- rected (No. 999); make a stock with the bones of the turkey, with which make a sauce as directed (No. 57), do not press the meat in the pie, but when three parts cold pom’ in the sauce, put it in the larder till quite cold, and serve either with or without aspic (No. 1360) on the top. Galantines may also be made of geese (when young) or430 SAVOURY DISHES. pates, by following the receipts for the galantines or pates of turkey, and adding a little sage and onion to the forcemeat. Poulardes, capons, and fowls are also used for galantines in either of the ways directed for turkey. No. 1014. Galantine de Poularde a la Persane. Make a galantine as directed (No. 998), have ready some grated crust of bread, with which mix an ounce of chopped pistachios • when the galantine is cold glaze it well, and throw the crumbs and pistachios all over, have ready some aspic (No. 1360), put a little in a plain oval mould, about half an inch in depth, when set form a rosette of hard-boiled whites of eggs and truffles, by cutting them with cutters; cover with a little more jelly, so as to make it an inch and a quarter in thickness, the mould must not be quite so large an oval as the galantine; when the aspic is set turn it out of the mould upon the top of the galan- tine, and precisely in the centre, dress also croutons of aspic around, and stick an atelette at each end, upon each of which you have placed a crawfish and a small hard-boiled egg, shelled and ornamented with wreaths of truffle, But galantines may be ornamented in several elegant ways, entirely depending upon the taste of the indivi- dual ; for instance, the aspic may not only be cut in dif- ferent shaped croutons, but you may have them variegated, (see aspics;) besides the number of tasty designs which may be worked with egg, truffle, pistachios, anchovies, and vari- ous things of that description with which aspics may be ornamented; but in all cases let neatness be your object, and avoid confusion or multiplicity of colours. With the remains of a galantine of any description you may make an excellent and elegant disk, by cutting twenty pieces the size and shape of fillets of fowl; put some aspic a quarter of an inch in depth into a large saute-pan, standSAVOURY DISHES. 431 it on the ice to set, then form twenty stars, or rosettes, with truffles, lay a piece of the galantine over each, which again cover with aspic ; when firm clip the pan in warm water, and turn out its contents upon a clean cloth, cut out each fillet with a cutter dipped in hot water, dress them in crown round your dish upon a thin border of anchovy butter, have ready a salad prepared thus : half a dressed beetroot cut in slices, a sliced cucumber, the white of two nice lettuces, and six fillets of anchovies, season with a little oil, vinegar, pepper, salt, and chopped tarragon and chervil, mix well together, dress it in pyramid in the centre of the dish, dress a border of hard-boiled eggs around upon the top of the galantine, and finish the top with chopped aspic, the galantine may also be cut as above, and dressed plain with the salad in the centre, and garnished round with croutons of aspic. No. 1015. Pate de Volaille aux truffes. Line a raised pie-mould with pate fine (No. 1136) as di- rected, but you will not require so large a mould; line the pie with forcemeat (No. 120), you have previously boned a small fowl, which stuff as for galantine a la voliere (No. 1032), seasoning it rather highly, but it will not require sewing up ; having filled it, place it in your pie, cover with forcemeat, forming a dome, finish the pie as directed for pate de veau, bake two hours and a half in a slow oven, take it out, cut off the lid, lay a sheet of tin upon the meat (made for that purpose), upon which place a seven pounds weight, let remain until cold, then take your pie out of the mould and serve with croutons and chopped aspic (No. 1360) upon the top. No. 1016. Poulardes a la Mazagran. Procure two nice poulardes, which roast in vegetables, (with which you have mingled two glasses of sherry,) as432 SAVOUltY DISHES. for the removes in first course, when done take them up and keep them in the vegetables till quite cold, which will keep them white; you have previously boiled, trussed, and carved a branch of laurel or palm upon a tongue (No. 991), fix an elegant Greek croustade of bread at the head of the dish; you have previously made two quarts of sauce becha- mel a la creme (No. 56), very savoury and well reduced; Avhen three parts cold dip the poulardes into it with a fork, take them out quite enveloped with the sauce and put them in the larder till cold, then dress them on your dish their tails to the croustade, their breasts protruding outwards, place the tongue between, the root facing the other end of the dish; you have prepared three atelettes with a crawfish, cockscomb, and truffle upon each, stick one upright in the croustade, and the other two in the root of the tongue, glaze the tongue nicely, and garnish round with bold crou- tons of aspic (No. 1360) of a very light colour. No. 1017. Poulardes a la Banquiere. Prepare two poulardes and tongue as in the last; you have reduced a quart of good demi-glace (No. 9), with a pint of sauce tomate (No. 37) and a pint of aspic (No. 1360), keeping it stirred; when about three parts cold dip in the poulardes, place them on your dish and pour the remainder of the sauce over, let get cold, then place on the tongue and croustade with the atelettes garnished similar to the last; you have previously procured thirty fine cockscombs, thirty button mushrooms, as many small truffles, as many small quenelles (No. 120), and two throat-breads cut in as many slices; when quite cooked have ready a quart of bechamel sauce (No. 7) well reduced with half a pint of aspic, add a gill of whipped cream, and when three parts cold dip the above garniture into it, one piece at a time, and lay them on a dish in the ice, when set rather firm garnish433 SAVOURY DISHES. the poulardes very tastefully with them, placing here and there the heart of a young cos lettuce. No. 1018. Poulets Printanier a la Santa Cruz. Procure four spring chickens nicely trussed as for boiling, lard the breast of each with cooked tongue and truffles to form a cross, tie them in oiled paper and roast, leave them in the paper till cold; you have also boiled two Russian ox tongues, split each one in halves lengthwise and trim them neatly to give them the shape of small tongues, pre- pare also a croustade of bread in the form of a pyramid, eight inches in height and three in width at the bottom, place it in the centre of your dish with an atelette upon the top, place a chicken resting upon the breast, tail uppermost, at each side upon a little cold mashed potatoes, and the tongue at the four corners, pour a red sauce mayonnaise (No. 1363) over the chickens but not to cover the cross, glaze the tongues lightly, and garnish round the edges with rolls of chopped aspic. No. 1019. Poulets Printanier a la Princesse Poyale. Prepare your chickens and tongues as in the last, but do not lard them, dish them the same, make a border of plo- vers eggs lound, placing little heads of cos lettuce between, sauce over the chickens with a very white mayonnaise sauce and lightly glaze the tongues. No. 1020. Poularde a la Guillaume Tell. Procure a fine poularde, bone it carefully, season the interior with chopped eschalots, pepper, and salt, cover with a little forcemeat (No. 120); you have previously boded a tongue, when cold cut off the root, trim and cut it m large dice, which mix with forcemeat and stuff the poularde with it, cover over the flaps and sew the poularde 28484 SAVOURY DISHES. in its original shape, tie it up in a napkin and braise it in good stock, to which you have added two calf’s feet, stew two hours and a half, take it up and press it lightly! when cold draw out the packthread, reduce the stock to a demi-glace but keep it as clear as possible, procure a mould large enough to contain the poularde, and an inch higher, place it on the ice, pour in a little of the stock a quarter of an inch in thickness, when it sets throw in some truffles and hard-boiled whites of eggs cut in dice, then lay in the poularde, which cover with the remainder of the stock, when set firm dip the mould in warm water and turn it out on your dish, garnish round with chopped aspic and croutons, and stick three atelettes ornamented upon the top, two slantingly at the ends, and one upright in the centre. No. 1021. Chaudfroid de Poularde. Cut a nice capon or poularde into two fillets, two good wings, two legs, and two pieces of back, lay them in luke- warm water one hour to disgorge, wash well, then put them in a stewpan, cover with two quarts of good veal stock, add two middling-sized onions, with a clove stuck in each, a bunch of parsley, and a blade of mace, set on the fire till boiling, then set it on the corner, skim, and let simmer very gently nearly an hour; take them out, and drain them upon a cloth, then in another stewpan make a white roux (No. 7), as for white sauce, with two ounces of butter, and when partly cold add the stock to it; boil well, keeping it stirred all the time; if too thick, add a little more good stock; but it requires to be rather thickish; add a little sugar, four pats of butter, and a gill of cream; put the pieces of poularde in a deep dish, with thirty button onions, which you have previously peeled and stewed in a little white stock, pass the sauce through a tammie over, and letSAVOURY DISHES. 435 them remain till quite cold, dress a little salad upon a flanc dish, upon which dress the pieces pyramidically, forming small pyramids here and there with the onions, and placing a small sprig of parsley upon each, garnish with croutons of aspic (No. 1360) cut rather bold. No. 1022. Chaud froid de Poularde a la Pembroke. Pioceed as above, adding twenty button mushrooms with the onions you have chopped, a good-sized truffle, and a piece of very red tongue, which sprinkle over each piece as you dish them up. No. 1023. Cliaudfroid de Poularde en mayonnaise. Prepare as above, dress in a bordure upon the salad, sauce over with a mayonnaise a la gelee (No. 1361), and place a large truffle, with a cockscomb upon it, at the top. This dish may also be made with the remains of poulardes from a previous, dinner, by cutting them in neat pieces and dipping them into a good bechamel sauce (No. 7), well reduced and half cold; when the sauce is set, proceed as before. No. 1024. Filets de Poulardes a la Nesselrode. Take the four fillets from two poulardes, as directed (No..792), lay them in a saute-pan with plenty of butter season with a little pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, and sautd them gently over a slow fire; when done place them on a dish, with another dish upon them, till quite cold, then with a thin knife split each fillet into two; have ready a quart of good bechamel sauce (No. 7), add a pint of white stock in which you have stewed the bones from the poulardes, reduce again to a quart, then stir in a liaison of one yolk of eo-o- mixed with two tablespoonfuls of cream; stir over the ffle half a minute, then pass it through a tammie • dip eachSAVOURY DISHES. 436 fillet in the sauce, and lay them, when perfectly enveloped, upon a dish till cold; you have previously soaked and boiled two Russian pickled tongues; when cold cut eight pieces from them the size of the fillets, which glaze lightly; dress a border of eggs (hard boiled) upon a flanc dish, which tastefully ornament with small fillets of anchovies upon the top of each piece of egg, and rings of beetroot around, surround it with croutons of aspic, fill the centre with some salad nicely seasoned, dress the fillets and tongue alternately upon the top in crown, and sauce mayonnaise (No. 1361) in the centre. No. 1025. Filets de Poulardes a la Ravigote. Fillet three poulardes and dress them as in the last, but add two ounces of ravigote butter (No. 80) with the sauce you dip them in, dish them the same but omit the tongue, and sauce with a green mayonnaise (No. 1363). No. 1026. Petits Canetons en aspic. After having used the fillets for either of the preceding dishes, take off the legs with as much of the skin as possible, bone and spread them out before you, have ready some forcemeat (No. 120), to which add two chopped truffles, put a good tablespoonful upon each leg, then sew them round with packthread ; when done place them in a stew- pan, with two onions sliced, a little lean ham, a sprig of thyme, parsle}', and bay-leaf, add rather more than a pint of stock, and stew them very gently one horn over a slow fire; when done place them in a dish with their stock, place another dish upon them and press very lightly; you have saved and half stewed the bones from the legs, with which you may easily form the heads and neck, stick them into the thicker end of the birds, form the wings and tails with the claws and tails of crawfish, in imitation ol little437 SAVOURY DISHES. duck ings, dress them to form a cross upon a round dish, and garnish with aspic chopped and in croutons; four will be sufficient for an entremet, and eight for a flanc; they likewise make handsome garniture for larger dishes. No. 1027. Salade de Volatile. Roast a poularde or large fowl in vegetables; when done and quite cold cut it into ten fine pieces, place it in a basin, with a large onion sliced, a little oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt, toss them over occasionally, allowing them to remain an hour; you have dressed a border of hard-boiled eggs upon a thin border of butter, garnish round with half shoes of cucumber, gherkins, and beetroot, and place a fillet of anchovy upon each piece of egg, fill the interior with salad cut rather fine, upon which build the pieces of fowl in pyramid, (dipping each piece into the sauce,) the best pieces at the top, and just as you send it to table sauce over with a sauce mayonnaise (No. 1363). No. 1028. Salade de Filets de Poularde a la Prunow. Cut the flesh from a poularde into shoes as near as pos- sible the size of half-crown pieces, cut also some slices of cucumber, which stew in white stock with a little sugar till quite tender; when done drain upon a sieve, and add them to the slices of fowl, also a few peas well boiled, if in season; put a pint of bechamel sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with a pint of aspic (No. 1360) and a little sugar, boil altogether until rather thick, keeping it stirred, then add the blan- quette of fowl with the vegetables, shake the stewpan round and pour the whole into a saute-pan, which place upon the ice; when quite set dip it in warm water and turn it out on a clean cloth, cut it in middling-sized pieces of a diamond shape and dress upon a salad prepared as in the last; dress them in crown and sauce tartare (No. 38)438 SAVOURY DISHES. in the centre, making the sauce white by using English mustard instead of French, and adding a spoonful of whipped cream. No. 1029. Poulets Printaniers a la Masaniello. Bone two spring chickens without opening them at the back, have some good veal forcemeat (No. 120) and an ox- tongue well boiled, which cut into two pieces, trim them and place one piece in each chicken, fill the remaining space up with forcemeat, tie them in a thin cloth and stew them an hour or rather more in good veal stock (No. 7), lay them on a dish breasts downwards and press them lightly, place a little aspic (No. 1360) at the bottom of a plain oval mould large enough to contain one of the chickens; when it sets lay in the chicken and cover with more aspic, dip the other chicken into a sauce bechamel a la creme (No. 56); when the sauce is about half cold and quite set place a croustade of bread (representing a fishing- boat) in the centre, with a chicken on each side; having turned out the one in the aspic, stick three atelettes in the croustade ornamented with a large quenelle de volaille, a truffle, and a cockscomb ; sauce round with a very white mayonnaise sauce. The mast in the croustade must be made of pate d’office (see plate containing the designs for croustades). No. 1030. Moule d Aspic a la Boy ale. Cut the flesh from the breast of a poularde or large fowl into slices the size of half-crown pieces as near as possible, cut also a large truffle in slices, have about twenty very ; white button mushrooms, and ten dressed cockscombs, boil a quart of sauce bechamel (No. 7) with a pint of aspic, keeping it stirred until rather thick, add a little sugar and the above ragout, shake the stewpan round and pour the439 SAVOURY DISHES. whole into a saute-pan, which place upon the ice till firm, dip the pan in warm water and turn it out upon a clean cloth,—it should be about a quarter of an inch in thick- ness,—with an oval cutter an inch and a half long and one broad, cut it into as many pieces as possible; have ready a flat round mould with a cylinder, put a little aspic at the bottom, which decorate with whites of eggs (hard- boiled) and truffles, place it on the ice and when set dress in the fillets in crown, fill the mould with the aspic, keep it on the ice till ready, when dip the mould in warm water and turn it out upon your dish. No. 1031. Galantine de Faisan aux truffes. Bone two pheasants if for a flanc, one if for a cold entree, lay it out before you and proceed exactly as for a galantine of turkey, only using the forcemeat for game (No. 123) as directed, and fillets of hare or rabbit instead of veal, braise and press the same, allowing for the difference in size, serve garnished with aspic (No. 1360) chopped and in croutons. No. 1032. Galantine de Faisans a la Voliere. Proceed as in the last, but press and garnish them as directed for galantine de dinde (No. 1010), but the claws must be from a very small lobster. No. 1033. Fate de Faisans aux truffes. Bone a couple of pheasants and fill each one as for a galantine, but not too tight, they will not require sewiim up; you have lined a raised pie-mould with pate fine (No. 1136), as directed (No. 997), line the pie with force- meat (No 120), place one of the pheasants at the bottom, cover it with forcemeat, then put in the other which also cover with forcemeat, finishing in a dome • finish the pie as before directed, bake it four horns in a slow oven press it440 SAVOURY DISHES. till cold and serve with aspic (No. 1360) chopped and in croutons upon the top ; by filling the pie up with good strong stock when taken from the oven there would be no neces- sity for pressing it. No. 1034. Filets de Faisans a la Prince George. Roast three pheasants in vegetables quite white, take out the fillets, cut each one in halves to form two, making twelve, pound well the meat from the legs, and put it into a stewpan, with a quart of white sauce (No. 7) and half a pint of good white stock, boil till rather thick, then nib it through a tammie, pour into a stewpan, place over the fire, and stir until boiling, then add a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with half a gill of whipped cream, stir in quickly but do not let it boil afterwards, place it by in a basin, and when half cold dip each fillet in with a fork, let it be quite enveloped and place them by till quite cold; you have prepared a border of forcemeat as directed for ris de veau a la turque (No. 673), place it on your dish and dress the fillets in crown upon it, have ready turned and blanched a pottle of good white button mushrooms, mix them with the remainder of the sauce, whip half a pint of aspic (No. 1360) upon the ice till becoming very light and white, mix it with the sauce, which dress in the centre of your fillets and garnish roimd with a light border of the hearts of lettuces. Fillets of pheasants may also be served with a sauce macedoine de legumes as directed (No. 98) but cold. No. 1035. Cliaudfroid de Filets de Faisans. Proceed with the pheasants precisely as in the last, only using a sauce gibier (No. 60) instead of the sauce becha- mel, dress them in turban in the centre of your dish, pour8AV0TJRY DISHES. 441 a little more of the sauce over, and garnish with a border of hard-boiled eggs, placing a sprig of parsley between. No. 1036. Grouse Like pheasants make excellent galantines and pies by following the same receipts. They may also be dressed in either of the methods directed for pheasants, but requir- ing rather less time to cook. No. 1037. Galantine de Grouse a la Montagnard. Form two small grouse into galantines as directed for a la voliere (No. 1032) into the shape of birds; have ready three parts cold a good sauce a la puree de grouse (No. 59), with which envelope them, leaving it upon them rather rough, sprinkle brown bread-crumbs and chopped pistachios all over, dress croutons of aspic (No. 1360) round, and garnish with a little of the heather from the mountains. No. 1038. Salade de Grouse a la Soger. Make a very thin border of fresh butter upon a con- venient-sized dish, upon which stand a very elevated bor- der of hard-boiled eggs, (by cutting a piece off the bottoms when quite cold and cutting each one into four lengthwise,) fill the centre with some nice fresh salad, and ornament the eggs with fillets of anchovies, beetroot, gherkins, &c., ac- cording to taste; you have previously roasted three grouse rather underdone; when quite cold cut them into neat pieces, that is, into legs, wings, part of the backs, and each breast into six slices, then have ready the following sauce: put two tablespoonfuls of finely chopped eschalots in a basin, with two tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, the yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of chopped tarragon and chervil, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and two of salt, with which mix by degrees twelve tablespoonfuls of salad oil and three ofSAVOURY DISHES. 442 Chili vinegar; mix well together and place it upon the ice; when ready to serve whip half a pint of cream rather stiff which add to the sauce, pour a little over the salad, upou which lay some of the worst pieces of grouse, over which put more sauce, proceeding in like manner to the top, dressing them pyramidically. When it is for the flanc of a large dinner I only use the fillets, roasting four or five grouse instead of three, and when you have dressed three parts of the pieces of grouse upon the salad, build a second row of eggs upon it, having formed a level with the pieces for that purpose, and terminate exactly as the design repre- sents. I must observe that the salad is better adapted for gentlemen than ladies, though if less eschalot were used it might also meet their approbation.* No. 1039. Perdreaux a la Downshire. Partridges being smaller birds are mostly used for cold entrees, but four will make an excellent flanc; draw them and extract the breast-bone, have ready one pound of force- meat of game (No. 123), with which mix six truffles cut in fillets, and thirty pieces of fat bacon the size and shape of dice; stuff the buds, sew them up, and place them in a stewpan with three onions in slices, a head of celery, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves, nearly cover them with stock, simmer over a slow fire nearly an hour, leave them to get cold in the stock, drain them on a cloth, and dress on your dish in the form of a cross, with the heart of * The first time I served a salad of the above description after inventing it ■was in a dinner which I dressed for some noblemen and gentlemen who had made a wager as to which could send the best dinner, myself or the artiste at a celebrated establishment in Paris, where they had previously dined; my first course being full of novelty, gained the approbation of the whole party, but the salad created such an unexpected effect that I was sent for, and had the honour of sitting at the table for an hour with them and over several rosades of exqui- site Lallitte; the salad was christened a la Soyer by General Sir Alexander Duff, who presided over the noble party.443 SAVOURY DISHES. a nice cos lettuice in the centre; pass and clarify the stock they were cooked in, adding a little isinglass, reduce to demi-glace, and when nearly cold pour it over, but do not serve till quite cold, garnish round with some nice fresh water-cresses. • No. 1040. Galantine de PerJreaux a la Voliere. Proceed as directed for the pheasants (No. 1032), only using the claws and tails of large crawfish instead of lobsters as there directed, dress them with the four tails in the centre, and aspic (No. 1360) round; one hour and a half would be sufficient to stew them. Fillets of partridges are dressed in the same manner as the fillets of pheasant (Nos. 1034 and 1035). No. 1041. Pate de Perdreaux. Have a round mould about five inches in height and four in diameter, which line with pate fine (No. 1136), which again line with forcemeat (No. 123), you have previously boned two partridges, which fill as for galantine a la voliere, fold each one in a slice of bacon, lay one at the bottom, which cover with forcemeat, then the other, which also cover, finishing in a dome, cover with the paste, work up the edges, and crimp as for the pate de veau; bake it two horns in a moderate oven, take off the cover and pour in a pint of stock in which you have stewed the bones of the partridges, and boil half an ounce of isinglass, previously passing it through a napkin; serve neatly garnished upon the top with aspic (No. 1360) chopped and in croutons. It must be quite cold previous to garnishing. No. 1042. Pecasses a la d’ Orleans. Roast four woodcocks underdone, catching their trails upon toasted bread, with two others make a puree as di-SAVOURY DISHES. 444 rected (No. 59), into which dip the four roasted ones, and let them remain till nearly cold, then take them out and sprinkle all over with chopped ham and whites of hard- boiled eggs ; you have prepared a croustade in the form of a vase, which stand in the centre of your dish, cut the toast in four pieces, each the form of a diamond, dress the wood- cocks round the croustade upon each piece, dress hard- boiled eggs in a border upon the croustade, and garnish with aspic jelly, whipped (No. 1360), chopped, and quite white, in the interior, and in croutons round. Pates of woodcocks are excellent, they are made the same as for partridges, keeping their trails for the interior of the birds after they are boned. Plovers and snipes may be dressed precisely as directed for the woodcocks. No. 1043. Pate froid de Mauviettes Is also a very favourite dish for second course, and when well prepared stands high in the estimation of a gourmet; the following receipt is exactly as they are prepared at Pi- thiviers : pluck and bone six dozen of larks, take out the in- terior, extract the gizzard, and pound the intestines with two pounds of forcemeat (No. 123), place a little in each bird, roll them up, and envelope them in very thin slices of fat bacon ; you have lined a raised pie-mould with paste as for pate de veau (No. 999), which again line with the force- meat, place a layer of the larks at the bottom, then a layer of forcemeat, then larks again, till quite full, and finish with a quarter of a pound of maitre d’hotel butter (No. 79), a thin slice of fat bacon, and three bay-leaves, cover with paste and bake in a moderate oven two hours and a half, place it by, and when half cold add a pint of good game sauce (No. 60), shake it well in; when quite cold take off the lid, and garnish with some fresh sprigs of parsley. At445 SAVOURY DISITES. Pitliiviers the pies are made square, and crimped from top to bottom, but the shape has nothing to do with the quality, and I consider those made in moulds look the handsomest. Pates as above may be made of all small birds that are eatable. No. 1044. Salade de Ilomard a VIndienne. Prepare a border of hard-boiled eggs as directed for sa- lade de grouse (No. 103b), dress some nice fresh salad in the centre, then take the flesh from a very fine lobster, or two middling-sized ones, cut it in as large slices as possible, put it in a basin, and season with a little tarragon, and chervil, pepper, and salt; dress them in pyramid upon the salad, interspersing slx mild Indian pickles in slices, and serving with a good white sauce mayonnaise (No. 1364) over. No. 1045. Mayonnaise de Ilomard a la gelee. Prepare a border of half hard-boiled eggs and half crou- tons of strong aspic (No. 1360), cut the same height as the eggs, and triangular, dress some salad in the centre as in the last, and the lobster well seasoned upon the top, and sauce over with a sauce mayonnaise a la gelee (No. 1361). No. 1046. Miroton de Ilomard a la Cardinale. Cut the flesh of a large lobster into slices as large as pos- sible, and nearly an equal size; reduce a pint of white sauce (No. 7) (with which you have mixed two tablespoonfuls of tan-agon vinegar) to two thirds ; then dip half the pieces of lobster into it with a fork, and place them on a dish to cool, add two ounces of red lobster butter (No. 77) to the remainder of the sauce, stir it well in, and dip in the re- mainder of the pieces; when cold and set, dress them in crown upon salad, with a white mayonnaise in the centre.SAVOURY DISIIES. 448 No. 1047. Iiomard en Aspic. Cut twenty slices of lobster as above, of equal sizes, dip them into the white sauce as there directed, and put them by until cold; then put a little clear aspic jelly (No. 1360) in the bottom of a flat cylinder mould, ornament it with the whites of hard-boiled eggs cut in diamonds, squares, leaves, and crescents, arranged in the form of wreaths, branches, &c.; just cover with a little more jelly, and when set lay in the shoes of lobster slanting, one resting upon the other, and fill up the mould with aspic, place it on the ice, and when firm dip the mould in warm water, and turn the aspic out upon your dish; fill the centre with some finely cut salad, upon which build some more lobster, which sauce over with a sauce mayonnaise a la gelee (No. 1361), but not to run over the aspic. No. 1048. Iiomard au Gratin. Procure three small lobsters, cut them down the centre, save all the shells, and cut the flesh into small slices, put a spoonful of chopped onions into a stewpan, with a small piece of butter, pass them over a sharp fire a few minutes, keeping them stirred; then add a pint of white sauce, re- duce one-third, keeping it stirred, add the flesh of the lob- ster, season with a little pepper, salt, cayenne, and essence of anchovies; stir gently over a sharp fire, and when boil- ing take it off, stir in the yolks of two eggs, put it into the shells, egg and bread-crumb over, place them in a warm oven ten minutes, salamander of a good colour, and serve very hot, dressed upon a napkin, garnished with a few sprigs of fresh parsley. Lobsters au gratin may also be served in silver, escalope shells if handy are preferred.SAVOURY DISHES. 447 No. 1049. Crabs May be dressed in salad, like lobster, cutting the hard part into as large slices as possible, and passing the soft through a hah- sieve, and mixing it with the sauce. No. 1050. Coquilles aux Ihntres. Procure the deep shells of twelve oysters, which well clean, butter the interior slightly, and as many bread-crumbs as will adhere to the butter; you have previously blanched and bearded four dozen of oysters, lay them on a cloth to I drain, then put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalot into a stewpan with a small piece of butter, pass them a few mi- nutes over the fire, stir in a quarter of a tablespoonful of flour, add a pint of oyster sauce (No. 69), reduce one third, then add your oysters, season with a little pepper, salt, cay- enne, chopped parsley, and essence of anchovies, stir gently over the fire, and when quite hot stir in the yolks of two eggs, stir over the fire a short time till it thickens, but do not let it boil, then fill the shells, egg and bread-crumb over, place in a hot oven ten minutes, salamander a nice colour, dress in pyramid, and garnish with fried parsley. No. 1051. Salade de Filets de Soles. Pillet two or three soles, then well butter a saute-pan, lay in your fillets, which season with a little white pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and the juice of a lemon, place them over a slow fire, and when half done turn them over (they must be kept quite white), when done lay them flat upon a dish with another dish upon them till cold; cut each fillet in halves, trim them of nice shapes, and put them in a basin with a little chopped tarragon and chervil, chopped Jeschalots, pepper and salt; then dress a salad as di- rected (No. 1038), dress the fillets in crown upon theSAVOURY DISHES. 448 salad, and sauce over with a good mayonnaise sauce (No. 1364). No. 1052. Filets de Soles aux Concombres. Fillet two soles and dress them as above, eut. each fillet in halves, then have sixteen pieces of cucumber the same size as the fillets, but thinner, dress them in turban alternately with the fillets upon a thin border of fresh butter, sauce over the fillets only with a sauce mayonnaise (No. 1364) in which you have added a little whipped cream, and dress a good salad cut rather fine in the centre. The remains of turbot or John Doree, may be cut into fillets and served in either of the above methods. Fillets of soles may also be served in aspic, or miroton a la cardinale, as directed for lobster (Nos. 1047 and 1046) No. 1053. Truites marinees en mayonnaise. Put three onions sliced in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, one turnip, one carrot (in slices), a head of celery (cut small), a good handful of parsley, and two bay-leaves; pass the whole ten minutes over a sharp fire, add a pint of vinegar, a blade of mace, and half a dozen peppercorns; let simmer, then add three pints of water; you have cleaned three fine freshwater trout, which put in the above marinade and let them simmer half an hour; let them get cold in the marinade, take them out, drain upon a cloth, and dress them on your dish, the head of the centre one pointing with ffie tails of the others; sauce over with a very white mayonnaise sauce (No. 1364) into which you have put extra chopped tarragon and chervil and a little whipped cream. No. 1054. Fame de Saumon marinee. Cut two good slices from the middle of a fine salmon, four inches in thickness, and dress them in a marinade, asSAVOURY DISHES. 449 for the trout, first tying them up • stew one hour, and leave them in the marinade to cool; when quite cold drain them on a cloth; dress on your dish, fill the centre with Mont- peliere butter (No. 1306), garnish with a border of eggs, and sauce round with a very white Tartare sauce (No. 38), and sprinkle a little chopped gherkins over. No. 1055. Galantine d'Anguille. Piocure two fine eels, skin and bone them, have ready prepared some forcemeat of whiting (No. 124), lay the eel open before you and spread some of the forcemeat down the centre, upon which lay small fillets of truffle, pistachios, cooked tongue, and whiting, cover with more of the force- meat, and sew the eel up in its original shape, cut it into two equal parts and envelope each in thin slices of fat bacon, tie in a napkin and place them in a stewpan in wliich you have prepared a marinade as for the trout, but using half a pint of Madeira wine instead of vinegar, stew gently half an hour or until tender, and leave it to get cold in the stock, take out and remove them from the nap- kin, glaze and place them on your dish side by side upon a stand of Montpellier butter (No. 1366), and a little between them to hold them together; garnish round with craw-fish and croutons of aspic (No. 1360). Six rolls of them, each three mches high, may be dressed into what we term a bastion, that is standing them up on end in a circle, join- ing them together with Montpellier butter, and placing the alf of a hard-boiled egg cut across (to form a cap) upon ; efh> decorated with fillets of anchovies and very green gherkins. J 6 29450 VEGETABLES EOR SECOND COURSE. Where a dish of vegetables are required for second course, if there should be two flancs contrive to let the vegetables make one of them; but if there should only be four dishes in the second course they may be dressed upon one of them, as also in larger dinners, and especially when there are a great many vegetables in season. No. 1056. Asparagus Is one of the most favourite vegetables we have, and is generally served plain; the large grass is preferred, although the smaller is, in my opinion, the fullest flavour for a dish; you require a hundred large ones or a hundred and a half of small, scrape and cut them of equal lengths, (about eight inches,) and tie them in bundles of fifteen; about twenty minutes before ready to serve have a gallon of water, in which you have put two ounces of salt, boiling in a stewpan, put in your grass, let boil quickly, and when tender take it up, dress in pyramid as high as possible upon a piece of toasted bread, and serve melted butter (No. 71) or sauce Hollandaise in a boat. No. 1057. Asperges en petits Pois. Procure a bunch of small green asparagus, or sprue, break off the green tops carefully, avoiding the white parts, cut the tops into pieces the size of large peas, boil them in half a gallon of water into which you have put an ounce of salt; when tender strain them off, but be careful theyVEGETABLES. 451 fire not too much clone, or they would go in puree and taste watery; drain them dry upon a sieve and put them into a stewpan, with eight spoonfuls of white sauce (No. 7), a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, with a teaspoon- ful of powdered sugar; place the stewpan upon the fire, move them round gently, add four pats of butter, and when melted finish with a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with a quarter of a gill of cream j move it round over the fire, and when it thickens pom- them upon your dish and dress croutons of fried bread round; or they may be served in a croustade of bread. No. 1058. Sea-Kale. The short thick kale is the best, trim it nicely, about sixteen heads will be sufficient for a dish, boil till tendei in a gallon of water, with two ounces of salt, take them out, place them on a clean cloth to drain, and dress them pyramidically upon a piece of toasted bread; serve plain melted butter separate in a boat. No. 1059. Celeri a la Moelle de Been/. . P°cl,re ten fine heads of celery, cut them to about seven inches in length, (the red celery is the best,) if too thick take off some of the outside sticks, wash and trim them nicely, blanch ten minutes in boiling water, drain them on a cloth, put them into a convenient-sized stewpan just covered with a good white stock, in which let them stew gently till tender, drain them, dress upon toast, place four iarge pieces of marrow round, (which you have boiled in water ) and sauce over with a pint of good brown sauce No 1) ithich you have reduced with half a pint of the ktock the celery was stewed in, and seasoned with aflittleVEGETABLES. 452 No. 10C0. Celeri a la Chetwynd. Trim and blancli ten fine heads of red celery, as in the last, blanch also twelve middling-sized onions twenty mi- nutes, place them in a stewpan with the celery, cover with veal stock (No. 7), and stew gently till tender, dress the celery upon toast with the onions round and sauce over with a good white bechamel sauce (No. 7) which you have reduced with half a pint of the stock the vegetables were cooked in till becoming thickish, then add half a gill of very thick cream, a httle sugar, and sauce over. No. 10G1. Salsifis ci la Poulette. Salsifis although a very favourite vegetable on the conti nent and very plentiful in England, is seldom used, but I hope the following recipes will tend to bring it more in vogue. Choose fifteen or twenty young ones, scrape the black skin, cut them into pieces three inches long, rub each piece with lemon and throw them into water, then put two onions, a carrot, one turnip, and a head of celery, all cut small into a stewpan, with a handful of parsley, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, a little thyme, two bay-leaves, and a quarter of a pound of beef suet chopped fine, stir it over a sharp fire ten minutes, then add two ounces of flour, (stir well in,) fill up with two quarts of water, with the juice of a lemon, stir it till it boils, then put in your salsifis which stew gently till tender, take them out and lay them upon a cloth to drain, then put a pint of white sau (No. 7) into another stewpan, with half a pint of white I stock, stir over a sharp fire till boiling, then add tven y button mushrooms and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley , season with a httle pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, aud pon - dered sugar, put in the salsifis, let simmer gently for haVEGETABLES. 453 an hour, (the sauce must be rather thick,) take out and dress it in two rows upon a border of mashed potatoes, finish the sauce with a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with a gill of cream, stir over the fire till it thickens but do not let it boil; sauce over and serve. No. 1062. Salsifis a la Moelle de Bceuf. Piepaie the salsifis as above; when very tender dress it upon your dish, have four, large pieces of beef marrow (well boiled in water), sauce over with a good demi-glace (No. 9). garnish with croutons of fried bread in the shape of hearts, and serve with a piece of marrow upon each. No. 1063. Ffied Salsifis. Cook the salsifis as before, let them get cold in the stock, then take them out, drain upon a cloth, and trim them ah of equal sizes, then put them in a basin, with a spoonful of vinegar, four of salad oil, and a little pepper and salt, let them marinade six hours, turning over occasionally a quar- ter of an hour before serving, dip each piece separately in a frittei batter (No. 1285) and fry them in a stewpan of hot lard, when done lay them on a cloth and dress in pyramid upon a napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Salsifis well cooked and tender, when cold, is very good in salad or to ornament a mayonnaise. No. 1064. Concombres farcis en demi-glace. Procure four very fine cucumbers, which cut into pieces three inches in length, peel them and take out the seeds with a long round cutter, then have ready some very nice forcemeat of veal (No. 120), into winch you have put a ittle chopped basil, thyme, and laurel leaf, put a piece of bacon at each end, which tie on, place them in a stewpan, a little stock, and stew gently three quarters of an horn454 VEGETABLES. or till tender, then drain them upon a cloth, trim each end, and dress in pyramid upon a border of mashed potatoes, but be careful not to break them; sauce over with a good demi-glace (No. 9) and serve; the forcemeat must not be too delicate. No. 1065. Concombres farcis a la creme. Proceed with the cucumbers as in the last, but sauce over with a celery sauce a la Chetwynd (No. 1060). No. 1066. Croustade aux Concombres. Prepare a plain croustade according to the size of your dish, and three inches in height, then have four cucumbers, which cut into pieces two inches and a half long, peel them, split each piece into three, take out the seeds and trim them neatly, put them in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of sugar, and cover with white stock, let them stew till tender, drain them upon the back of a sieve; in another stewpan have a pint of good bechamel sauce (No. 7), which reduce till rather thick, then add the cucumber and a little powdered sugar, place on the fire, and when boiling finish with a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with two tablespoonfuls of cream: place the croustade upon your dish, pour the ragout into it, and serve. No. 1067. Vegetable Marrows Are excellent when young and about the size of turkeys eggs ; peel fifteen and boil them in half a gallon of water, into which you have put two ounces of butter and two ounces of salt, boil twenty minutes, or till quite tender, drain them upon a cloth, and dress upon a border of mashed potatoes, in the form of an oval dome; sauce over with a pint cf good melted butter (No. 71), with which you kmo455 VEGETABLES. introduced a liaison of two yelks of eggs mixed with half a gill of cream. All sauces for vegetables require to be rather thick, as it is impossible to drain the vegetables quite dry to serve them hot. Vegetable marrows dressed as above may also be served with a white sauce a l’ltalienne (No. 31). No. 1068. Jerusalem Artichokes Are very useful vegetables when judiciously employed, as my readers will perceive by many of the foregoing re- cipes j they are good five months in the year, from October till March, and some seasons much longer; when they become too rough they have lost them succulence, and are only fit to flavour stocks: take about thirty of the best shaped ones and as near as possible of the same size; turn them into the shape of pears, boil in salt and water, with which you have put a quarter of a pound of butter; when tender take them out, drain them upon a cloth, and dress in the form of a dome; sauce over with melted butter (No. 71), sauce Iiollandaise (No. 66), sauce bechamel (No. 7), sauce ravigote (No. 44), or sauce tomate (No. 37). No. 1069. Cauliflowers and JBrocoli. Both vegetables are very excellent and universally em- ployed; they require great particularity in cleaning; the best way is to throw plenty of salt over them and put them in cold water till ready to cook, boil them in salt and water till tender, but not too much done or they will not hold together; the heads should not be too large, and the best are close and firm; when done dress some nice green Brussels sprouts upon a border of mashed potatoes with the cauli- flowers in the centre, mix nearly half a pint of good white sauce (No. 7), with the same quantity of melted butter (No. 71), and when hot add a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with two spoonfuls of cream; sauce over and serve •456 VEGETABLES. they may also bo served with a sauce a la maitre d’hote] (No. 43). No. 1070. Chouxjleurs au Parmesan. Boil three cauliflowers as before, and when done drain them upon a cloth, then put a pint of good white sauce (No. 7) in a stewpan, with half a pint of milk, season with a little pepper, salt, and cayenne, reduce it over a sharp fire till getting thick, add half a pound of grated Parme- san cheese and a quarter of a pound of grated Grayer, mix well and stir in two yolks of eggs, then put a little at the bottom of your dish, dress some of the cauliflower in pieces upon it, which again cover with sauce, proceeding thus till you have formed a dome, finishing with the sauce all over, egg and bread-crumb lightly, put it in a warm oven a quar- tei of an horn’, salamander of a fight brown colour, and serve. No. 1071. Artichokes Are very great favourites with most epicures, and then’ flavour renders them worthy of so high an appreciation. Have six not over large but of a very good size, trim the bottoms rather close till it shows the white streak, cut also an inch from the top with a pair of scissors, and a little off the point of each leaf, have a gallon of water (into which you have put half a pound of salt,) boiling, put in the artichokes and boil one hour, or till you can pull out a leaf with facility, take them up, lay them upon a cloth to drain, upside down, dress them upon a napkin, and serve with melted butter separate in a boat; they may be boiled previously and kept in cold water till wanted, and are ready by merely dipping them in boiling water.457 VEGETABLES. No. 1072. Artichokes a la Barigoule. Irim your artichokes as above and blanch twenty mi- nutes, place them in cold water, then scoop out the interior with the handle of a spoon and your fingers, taking out every particle from the interior, have some fat in a stewpan very hot, into which dip the tops of the artichokes till of a yellow colour, then put them back upon the cloth; you ha\e sci aped a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, which put into a stewpan, with four tablespoonfuls of oil, four of chopped onions and eschalots, two of chopped mushrooms, and oue of chopped parsley, a little thyme, two bay-leaves, and a little pepper, salt, and sugar ■ pass the whole ten minutes over a moderate fire, then add a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), boil twenty minutes, stir in two spoonfuls of bread-crumbs and set it in a cold place; when cold mix it agarn and put an equal proportion in each artichoke; tie a square piece of fat bacon a quarter of an inch in thickness upon each, tie them across with string and put them into a flat stewpan, with three pints of good stock, set them in a moderate oven to braise for about three quarters of an hour, or till you can take a leaf out with facility, then take them out, drain them on a cloth, take off the string and bacon and dress them upon your dish form at the bottom and twti at the top, with two spoonfuls of demi-glace (No. 9) in each.. For the amateur who does not object to the flavour of onions, dressed in the above manner they are most an predated. 11 No. 1073. Artichauts a la Bordelaise. Proceed exactly as above, but filling them with the fol owing sauce (instead of the sauce there mentioned) • peel Unrty Luge button onions and cut them in rings, put them .« a stewpan with a little oil, and fry of a light yellowVEGETABLES. 458 colour, add half a pint of white sauce (No. 7), and two tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, mix well, then add eighteen stoned olives, and the fillets of four anchovies well washed, stew till all is well cooked, then season with a little pepper, sugar, and a piece of scraped garlic the size of a pea, fill the artichokes, and when done serve with a little white sauce in each. No. 1074. Artichauts a Vltalienne. Take four good artichokes, cut them in quarters and trim them well, cutting all the green from the bottoms and taking out all the fur from the interior, put them in a stew- pan of boiling water (to blanch) a quarter of an hour; then take them out, drain them upon a cloth, put a tablespoon- ful of chopped onions in a saute-pan with a tablespoonful of oil, and one of wine, pass them one minute over the fire, then put in the artichokes, which cover with brown sauce and a little stock, stew them gently over a moderate fire till you can pull out a leaf with facility, take them out and dress in turban upon a border of mashed potatoes, put a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms into the saute-pan, re- duce the sauce to a proper consistency, season with a little sugar and salt if required, sauce over and serve. No. 1075. Artichauts au Veloute. Prepare the artichokes as above, and blanch them, put an ounce of butter in a saute-pan, lay in the artichokes, which cover with a good white sauce (No. 7); place a lid upon the saute-pan, and put them in a moderate oven till done, then take out the artichokes, which dress in turban as above ; put a little milk in the saute-pan, reduce the sauce till rather thickish, add a little sugar, and finish with a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with a gill of cream, pass through, a tammie and sauce over.VEGETABLES. 459 No. 1074. Artichaux a la Pruxellaise. Dress a border of artichokes as in the last, upon a border of mashed potatoes, and have ready a quart of very nice Brussel sprouts dressed a la maitre d’hotel (No. 1083), which dress in pyramid in the centre. This dish can only be seived in the autumn season of the year, as it is only then both vegetables can be obtained. No. 1075. Peas. The best of all green vegetables, and the delight of mil- lions, whilst then’ profusion renders them attainable by all; Hke the asparagus, they belong to that season of flavour] the spring of the year, but remain in season till a much later period; when young the English method of cooking them is good, because the more succulence there is in a vegetable the less zest they require to make them palatable. To describe the different sorts would be almost an endless, and to a certain extent a useless task, but the Prussian blues are, in my opinion, the very best; to plain bod them have two quarts of fresh-shelled peas, with a sprig of young mint, about ten leaves (the greatest fault with most people is putting too much), have a gallon of water boding upon the hre, m which you have put two ounces of salt, when bod- mg put m your peas, let them boil as fast as possible from ten to fifteen minutes, try whether they are tender if so strain them through a cullender, dress them upon vour dish with two pats of butter upon the top and serve- or when drained put them into a slewpan with a ouartef of a pound of fresh butter, half a teaspoonful of saltVd a good teaspoonful of powdered sugar, place over a foe' and keep tossing them until the butter is melted, dress them either plain upon your dish or in „ bread croustadeVEGETABLES. 460 No. 1076. Poia au sucre Anrjlo-Franc(ais. When you have boiled and drained two quarts of young peas, put them in a stewpan with six young green onions in a bunch, six spoonfuls of white sauce, a little pepper and salt, and two teaspoonfuls of powdered sugar, let simmer ten minutes, then stir in a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with half a gill of cream, do not let them boil, but when the sauce becomes thickish and hangs to the peas turn them out upon your dish and serve, previously taking out the onions. No. 1077. Pois au sucre a la Franqaise. The manner of dressing peas directed in the last keeps them very green, which the French style does not, unless very young, but to balance, their flavour is superior; and although the eye must be pleased to a certain extent, my principal business is with the palate. Put two quarts of young peas in a good-sized stewpan with six young onions, a bunch of parsley, and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; just cover the peas noth cold water and rub them well together with the hands, pom off all the water, add a good bunch of parsley, a tablespoonful of sugar, and a teaspoonful of salt; set the stewpan upon a sharp fire, moving them round very often, if young twenty minutes is quite sufficient, but when tender they are done (if they should become too dry add a very little water), when done take out the onions and the bunch of parsley ; you have previously mixed a tablespoonful of flour with two ounces of fresh butter, mix well with the peas, stir them over the fire till they become thickish, then add a liaison of two yolks of eggs (mixed with half a pint of milk or cream), season a little more if required, stir the liaison in quickly, do not let it boil, and when it thickens they are ready to serve, they must not, however, be too thick or too thin.461 VEGETABLES. No. 1078. French Beans. Cut enough young beans into strips to make a good flanc dish; have a stewpan with a gallon of water in which you have put a quarter of a pound of salt, when boiling put in the beans, which boil very fast till tender; when done strain them off, lay a bed of them upon your dish, upon which lay two pats of butter, sprinkle them over with pepper and salt, then more beans, proceeding thus till you have formed a pyramid, serve very hot. No. 1079. Haricots verts saute au buerre. When boiled as above, put them in a stewpan with six ounces of fresh butter, season with a little chopped parsley, sugar, pepper, and salt; toss them over a sharp fire, and when quite hot dress them in pyramid. No. 1080. Haricots verts auosfines herbes. Boil the beans as before, when boiled put two spoonfuls of chopped onions in a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, pass them a few minutes over the fire, keeping them quite white, add a spoonful of flour (stir well in) and a pint of good white stock, boil until it adheres to the back of a spoon; then add your beans, toss them well together, add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, the juice of a lemon, a little pepper, salt, and sugar, finish with six pats of butter, and four spoonfuls of liaison (No. 119), dress them as high as possible upon the dish, or in a croustade of bread. No. 1081. Haricots verts a la Boulette. Boil the beans as before, when done drain them quite dry, put them into a stewpan with three parts of a pint of bechamel sauce (No. 7), six spoonfuls of stock, pepper, salt,462 VEGETABLES. sugar, a bunch of green onions, and parsley * stew gently ten minutes, take out the bunch, add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and finish with a liaison of two yolks of c88s mixed with a gdl ol cream, stir in quickly, and when it begins to thicken serve as in the last. No. 1082. Brussels Sprouts saute au buerre. ihe small firm ones are the best; boil a sufficient quan- tity in salt and water about twenty minutes, or till tender, as directed for the beans; when done put them in a stew- pan, with a little pepper, salt, and sugar, a quarter of a pomid of butter, and the juice of a lemon, when quite hot dress them as high as possible upon your dish. No. 1083. Brussels Sprouts a la Maitre d'Hotel. Boil a sufficient quantity of sprouts as before, and dress them upon your dish in pyramid; then put a pint of melted butter in a stewpan, let boil, and whilst boiling add a quarter of a pound of maitre d’hotel butter (No. 79), stir it in quickly and sauce over, or sauce them in layers as you dress them up. No. 1084. Choux de Bruxelles a la Creme en turban de Concombres. Make a turban of cucumbers, cut and dressed as directed (No. 103), form the turban upon a border of mashed po- tatoes ; boil sufficient Brussel sprouts, which dress in pyra- mid, sauce over the cucumbers with a good sauce Hollan- daise (No. 66), and over the sprouts with a good sauce be- chamel (No. 7), but not too thick, so that the Brussel sprouts may show through it; they may likewise be dressed in a border of Jerusalem artichokes, which gives a great variety to those favourite vegetables; peas and French beans may also be dressed in a turban of the above de- scription.463 VEGETABLES. No. 1087. Spinach Is a very wholesome and digestible vegetable, excellent for invalids, but still more so for those in good health, be- cause an invalid can only have it plain-dressed, whilst a person in health can enjoy it in any of the tasty ways in which it is dressed. Pick and wash it very clean in three or four waters, for as nothing is worse than spinach when gritty, so likewise there is nothing more troublesome to get quite clean, from its growing so near the earth; boil in plenty of salt and water about a quarter of an hour, then drain it through a sieve, and squeeze quite dry with a cloth, chop very fine (which I consider is better than passing through a wire sieve), put it in a stewpan with half a pound of fresh butter, pepper, salt, half a teaspoonful of sugar, and a little grated nutmeg, stir five minutes over a sharp fire, pom it out upon your dish, and serve with croutons of fried bread round; the above proportion is for half a sieve. No. 1088. Fjoinards au jus. Proceed exactly as above, adding half a tablespoonful of from, and when well mixed half a pint of good demi-glace (No. 9), glaze the croutons which you garnish with and serve. No. 1089. Ejoinards a la Franchise. When your spinach is well chopped put it into a stew- pan with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, stir over the fire till quite hot, then add a tablespoonful of flour; season with a little pepper, salt, sugar, and grated nutmeg, mix v eil, then add half a pint of good stock, stir ten minutes over the fire, add a quarter of a pound more butter, after taking it from the fire; when melted pour it out upon your “ and serve as before. The old system was to make a404 VEGETABLES. ronx, which frequently got rather overdone, and gave the spinach more the flavour of sauce, thus destroying the aroma; hut the flour, if added proportionally, gives no flavour, and slightly thickens. No. 1090. Epinards au sucre. Prepare the spinach as before and put it into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter and a little pepper and salt; when quite hot add a tablespoonful of flour, mix well, moisten with half a pint of milk, boil a few minutes, and when ready to serve stir in a quarter of a pound of butter and a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, serve as before. No. 1091. Endive au jus. In Prance this vegetable (which is mostly used in Eng- land for salads) is as popular for entrees and entremets as spinach, its bitterness rendering it very wholesome. Pro- cure twelve heads, pick off all the green leaves, wash each head in two or three waters, and boil them in salt and water till tender, then put them in a basin of cold water, press every one; cut off the roots and chop the re- mainder fine, but not quite so fine as spinach, put it in a stewpan, place over the fire, and stir until becoming rather dry; then add half a pint of good brown sauce, and a piece of veal glaze the size of a walnut, season with a little pepper, salt, sugar, and grated nutmeg, and dress in a croustade of bread, or within a border of croutons of fried bread, which you have stuck upright upon your dish with a stiffish paste made from whites of eggs and flour; put the dish in the oven till the paste is set, and if desired, serve poached eggs upon the top. No. 1092. Sorrel Is more used as a sauce for entrees than as an entreinchVEGETABLES. 465 the spring of the year is the only time it can be used for second coiu’se; pick and well wash a sufficient quantity of sorrel, drain and put it into a stewpan without any water, stir over the fire till it is melted, then lay it upon the back of a hair sieve, and with a wooden spoon rub it through into a dish; then put it into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter and a spoonful of flour, mix well, season with a little pepper and salt, and half a pint of good stock, let boil; then take it from the fire and stir in four new-laid eggs separately, stirring a minute over the fire after each, then add three pats of butter, and serve as in the last, or in a deep silver dish,, with eight poached eggs upon the top, or use for entrees if required. No. 1091. Lattice braisee a la Pensionnaire. Pi ocure twenty fine young cabbage-lettuces, pick off some of the outside leaves, wash the lettuces well, and blanch them in plenty of water till tender, then throw them into cold water, press in a cloth, tie up, put them in a stew- pan with a little good stock, and braise in a moderate oven or over a moderate fire half an hour, then take them out and dram them upon a cloth, turn half the point of the green leaf over to give an oval shape, arrange them m a saute-pan, cover with a good demi-glace (No. 9), and put them into the oven; poach twelve eggs, then mike a * . border of mashed potatoes upon your dish, upon which dress the eggs and lettuces alternately, showing a little of N„ Jf’ fUCe 0Ver With a g00d sance herbes (i\o. Zb) and serve. No. 1094. Lattices farcis. Prepare twenty fine lettuces, blanclr them ten minutes in bofimg water throw them in cold water, press them in a cloth, then take out some of the interior, and fill with some 30VEGETABLES. 4G6 forcemeat (No. 120) with which you have mixed some chopped parsley and mushrooms ; tie them up and braise as above three quarters of an hour, take them up, drain! and serve with a sauce demi-glace (No. 9) over them. No. 1095. Feves de Marais When young are very delicate, take two quarts directly they are shelled and boil them nearly ten minutes in salt and water, try if done, drain them upon a sieve, then put them in a stewpan, pour half a pint of good sauce maitre d hotel (No. 43) over, and add a little chopped tarragon and powdered sugar, and serve. They are also very good plain boiled, with a few pats of butter laid over them. No. 1096. While Haricots Feans. There is perhaps no white vegetable more in vogue in France than this, but although so well appreciated there and eaten by many English gourmets, they never think of having them dressed at home; it is true that the haricot in France is what the potato is in England, when in them prime and just taken from their shells, there are a great many epicures who would not dine without them. The reason I so strongly recommend them is because I have seen thousands of them in noblemen’s gardens, many of which are quite spoiled, and some dried for the winter season, when they might be dressed and eaten in their prime; I think, however, that when my readers know the simplicity of dressing them, and then- moderate expense, they will at least give them a trial. They are very numer- ous about the month of September, but when old and dry I do not recommend them, they behig very hard of diges- tion, and only fit to be used dry as directed in other parts of this work. Have one quart of them fresh shelled, have also twoVEGETABLES. 467 quarts of water boiling, in which you have put two ounces of blitter and a little salt, put in your beans and boil them about half an hour, or till tender, drain quite dry upon a sieve, then put them in another stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, a little pepper and salt, toss them a few minutes over the fire, and when very hot turn them out upon your dish and serve. No. 1097. Haricots blancs a la Bretonne. Boil the beans as in the last, then put two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions in a stewpan with an ounce of butter, stir over the fire till they become rather yellowish, then add half a pint of brown sauce (No. 1) and a piece of glaze the size ol a walnut; boil a few minutes, then add the beans, drain quite dry, season rather high, and when quite hot pour them upon your dish and serve. No. 1098. Haricots blancs a la Maitre cTHotel. Boil the beans as before, and when done drain quite dry and put them into a stewpan with six ounces of maitre d hotel butter (No. 79); toss them over, add a little more seasoning if required, and serve when quite hot. They may also be served plain boiled with a little butter upon them. No. 1099. Tomates au gratin. Take ten fine tomatas not too ripe, cut a little from the top of each, press out the pips and juice, but do not break the skins or press away any of the flesh; fill the interior with a sauce as directed for artichauts a la barigoule (No. 1072), stand them in a saute-pan, egg and bread-crumb all over, stand them in a hot oven a quarter of an hour, sala- mander of a good colour, and dress them pyramidically upon your dish.468 VEGETABLES. No. 1100. Tomates a la Piemontaise. Proceed as above, but using a little garlic (scraped) in the sauce, likewise put a little salad-oil in the saute-pan which serve under them. No. 1101. Mushrooms plain broiled. Choose them rather large and black underneath, peel the skin from the top, and broil over a sharp fire, seasoning with pepper and salt; when done, place a small piece of butter upon each and serve; ten minutes is sufficient time to broil good-sized ones. No. 1102. Mushrooms far cis. Procure twelve middling-sized mushrooms, scoop out part of the interior, make a good sauce aux fines herbes (No. 26) very thick, to which add the interior of the mush- rooms, and a few bread-crumbs; fill your mushrooms, egg and bread-crumb over, place them in a saute-pan in the oven twenty minutes, salamander a light colour and serve on a napkin. No. 1103. Croute aux champignons. Procure a very fresh pottle of white mushrooms, which peel and trim, pass a few chopped onions in a stewpan with a small piece of butter (do not let them get brown), add a pint of sauce bechamel (No. 7); when boiling put in the mushrooms (raw), let simmer half an liom, season with a little salt, pepper, and sugar, and finish with a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with half a gill of cream, move round over the fire till it thickens, dress them upon your dish in the crust of a French roll, scooped out and fried for that purpose, and sauce over.469 VEGETABLES. No. 1104. Young Carrots in their glaze. Scrape forty young carrots, which put into a stewpan with a teaspoonful of sugar, four young onions, a bunch of parsley, and a bay-leaf; just cover with a good white stock and stew till the carrots are tender, then take them out and dress in the form of a dome by sticking them into mashed potatoes; strain the stock they were stewed in through a napkin into a stewpan, add to it half a pint of brown sauce (No. 1), and reduce till it adheres to the back of the spoon, then add two pats of butter, sauce all over and serve. No. 1105. Young Turnips in their glaze. Proceed exactly as for the carrots, only using white sauce instead of brown, and finishing with a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with a spoonful of cream. No. 1106. Oignons Trintaniers au Sir op doree. Peel about forty spring onions, each about the size of a walnut, put them into a stewpan, with one ounce of butter and one of powdered sugar, toss them occasionally over the fire, (but be careful not to break the outer skin,) until covered with a light glaze; cover with a white stock and stew very gently till quite done, drain them upon a cloth, dress neatly upon a border of mashed potatoes, reduce and skim the stock till nearly a glaze, add two pats of butter, sauce over and serve. ' No. 1107. Macedoine de legumes Printanieres. . Stew ten onions> ten carrots, and ten turnips, as directed m the preceding articles, dress them upon a border of mashed potatoes in three separate rows, have ready a white macedoine de legumes (No. 98), in which you have intro- duced some peas and asparagus heads nicely blanched,470 VEGETABLES. which dress in the centre as high as possible, and sauce ' over the vegetables with their stock reduced to a thin glaze. No. 1108. Pommes de Terre a la Maitre d’Hotel. For dressing in sauce there is no potato to equal the French red kidney potato, which will keep as it is cut, whilst a round mealy potato would crumble to pieces, but being rather difficult to procure obtain some waxy kidney potatoes, which boil and stand by to get cold, then peel and cut them in slices, which put in a stewpan, with a little pepper, salt, and about half a pint of stock, set them upon the fire, let them boil two or three minutes, then add (if a sufficient quantity for a flanc dish) three quarters of a pound of fresh butter, keep shaking the stewpan round over the fire till the butter is melted, it will thus form its own sauce, finish with a tablespoonful of chopped parsley and the juice of a lemon, turn out upon your dish and serve. The potatoes require to be cut in slices the size of a halfpenny, but double the thickness; if not able to ob- tain the proper potatoes use melted butter instead of stock to boil them in, or having no consistence they would form a puree. No. 1109. Pommes de Terre sautees au beurre. Cut your potatoes after boiling them as above, put half a pound of butter in a saute-pan, let it melt, then put in the potatoes, fry a light yellow colour, season with a little pepper, salt, and lemon-juice ; dress them upon a napkin and serve. No. 1110. Pommes de Terre a la Lyonnaise. Cut your potatoes as above, then put three quarters of a pound of butter in a saute-pan, until thirty button onions cut in rings, place them upon the fire and when becoming.VEGETABLES. 471 yellowish put in your potatoes, season with chopped parsley, salt, lemon-juice, and a good pinch of black pepper; viien rather yellow and quite hot, serve. No. 1111. Lentilles Are only used in the winter, they are dried; put one quart of them in warm water, and let them soak two hours, then put them in a stewpan, with three quarts of water, a quarter of a pound of butter, and a little salt, let them simmer two hours, but they may require either more or less time, as that depends entirely upon the quality, there being two sorts, the smaller ones being the best. This perhaps is the only dish of vegetables that we have inhe- rited from the ancients. Century after century have they been in vogue; they are mentioned in Scripture, and several of our great masters have immortalized that ancient dish in some of their most celebrated pictures; although not much in vogue in England, in France and upon the continent they are much used, especially in Lent. When boiled ten- der drain them upon a sieve, put them into a stewpan, with a little pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and a quarter of a pound of butter, with which you have mixed a teaspoonful of from; keep tossing them over upon a sharp fire, and when quite hot dress in a croustade or within a border of mashed potatoes, as they would not look well dressed flat. No. 1112. Lentilles a la Comte an riz. Cook your lentils as above, then put four pats of butter m a stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of chopped onions pass them a few minutes over the fire, then add half a tablespoonful of flour, mix well and moisten with a little of the liquor from the lentils, boil two minutes keeping it Stirred, then add your lentils and a little chopped parsley,VEGETABLES. -172 boil altogether and finish with a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with half a gill of cream, stir in quickly and when it thickens serve as in the last. No. 1113. Truffles. Perigord is the only place renowned throughout the world as the favourite soil for this recherche vegetable, and our celebrated diplomatist, Talleyrand de Perigord, was indeed a worthy owner, for he was not only a great diplo- matist but likewise a great gourmet. Having an interview with any distinguished personage upon any question of political importance, after patiently hearing, his usual reply was, I will consider of it after dinner; perhaps your excel- lency will favour me with a call to-morrow morning;— and ringing the bell often call for his bill of fare and order some of his most favourite dishes. But in eulogizing Talleyrand and the produce of his estate I must not forget to mention that the truffles of Piedmont though partly white are very excellent, likewise in Burgundy, and many very good ones are now found in the southern counties of England, especially in Hampshire, but none are equal to those from Perigord. The white are dressed the same as the black. No. 1114. Truffles au vin de Champagne. Soak twelve large truffles in lukewarm water two hours, then with a rather hard scrubbing-brush clean them well in two or three waters, picking the dirt from the eyes with a small pointed knife, when thoroughly clean cover the bottom of a stewpan with slices of fat bacon, one carrot, one turnip, two onions, (cut in slices,) a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, six cloves, and one blade of mace, put in the truffles, which half cover with some good white stock, let simmer half an hour, then add half a pintvegetables. 47 champagne, simmer another half hour, but be sure the cover of the stewpan fits tight, take off the stewpan and surround it with ice with a weight upon the cover; when quite cold drain and serve upon a napkin. None but the black truffles ought to be dressed in the above manner. I gene- rally serve then- liquor, which is excellent, in a sauce-boat with them. Season a little more if required. No. 1115. Croute aux Truffes. Wash them as in the last and peel lightly with a knife, cut them into thin slices, put two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, then your truffles, which season rather highly with pepper, salt, and two glasses of sherry, set them over a slow fire, turning them over occasionally; when tender and becoming glazy add a pint of demi-glace (No. 9), shake all round together over the fire a few mi- nutes, add a little sugar, and serve them over four crusts, thus : cut two French rolls in halves lengthwise, scoop out the crumb, butter the crusts and broil them, glaze, lay them upon your dish and pour the truffles over. No. 1116. Truffes en croustade a Vltalienne. Cut and fry a very pretty croustade of bread, dress it upon your dish, saute your truffles as in the last, pour them into the croustade and sauce over with a white Italienne sauce (No. 31). No. 1117. Truffes demi Piemontaise. Procure some truffles as large as possible, wash and peel as before, cut them in slices and put them into a saute-pan, with six tablespoonfuls of salad oil, fry very gently, add two pieces of bruised garlic, a glass of sherry, and six spoonfuls of tomata sauce (No. 37), mix altogether well, boil gently, add a little sugar and juice of lemon, and serve them in your dish upon a piece of toasted bread.474 VEGETABLES, ETC. No. 1118. Truffes a la Dino. If you should have some of the truffes au vin de cham- pagne left from a previous dinner, scoop out the interior so as to leave them quite shells, chop what you have taken from them rather coarse, with a few mu simooms, mix them with a quarter of a pound of forcemeat of fowl (No. 122;, season well, and fill each truffle with it, egg them all over and cover with some chopped truffles, braise them sloivly in some good stock for one hour, and serve with a sauce a la puree de truffes (No. 53) under them. No. 1119. Omelette auxfines herbes. Break eight eggs in a stewpan, to which add a teaspoon- ful of very finely chopped eschalots, one of chopped parsley, half ditto of salt, a pinch of pepper, and three good table- spoonfuls of cream, beat them well together, then put two ounces of butter in an omelette pan, stand it over a sharp fire, and as soon as the butter is hot pom in the eggs, stir them round quickly with a spoon until delicately set, then shake the pan round, leave it a moment to colour the omelette, hold the pan in a slanting position, just tap it upon the stove to bring the omelette to a proper shape, and roll the flap over until a spoon, turn it upon your dish, glaze lightly, and serve with a quarter of a pint of good demi-glace (No. 9) round; omelettes must not be too much done, and must be served as soon as done. No. 1120. Omelette au Jambon. Break eight eggs, season, beat and fry as above, but adding two ounces of lean cooked ham, minced and chopped with the eggs, and using but half the quantity of salt, glaze and sauce round precisely as above.VEGETABLES, ETC. 475 No. 1121. Omelette aux Truffles. Make an omelette as for fines herbes, with the addition of two preserved truffles chopped very fine, have also three middling-sized truffles cut in slices, reduce half a pint of sauce demi-glace (No. 9) one third, add a little sugar and the truffles, boil three minutes, have the omelette fried in the pan, and when just ready to turn out upon the dish, put the truffles in the centre, with some of the sauce, turn the flap over with a spoon, turn on to your dish, glaze, and pom the remainder of the sauce round. No. 1122. Omelette aux Champignons. Proceed exactly as for the last, merely substituting mushrooms for the truffles. No. 1123. Omelette aux Olives. Boil half a pint of sauce demi-glace (No. 9) in a stewpan, reduce it one third, then add twelve stoned olives, and a little sugar; make an omelette as for fines herbes, put the olives in the interior, glaze, and sauce round. No. 1124. Omelette a la Jardiniere. Prepare rather more than half a pint of sauce a la jardi- niere (No. 100), have it hot in a stewpan, then make an omelette as before, and when ready to turn upon your dish put some of the sauce in the centre; glaze the omelette, pour the remainder of the sauce round, and serve. No. 1125. Omelette aux Uuitres. Put half a pint of good oyster sauce (No. 69) in a stewpan, let it be well seasoned, reduce it one thud, add twelve or sixteen blanched oysters, let boil up, then stir in a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with a tablcspoonful of476 VEGETABLES, ETC. cream; do not let it boil; when it thickens have an omelette as in the last; pour the sauce over, glaze, and serve. No. 1126. Omelette aux filets de Soles. Put half a pint of good thick oyster sauce in a stewpan upon the fire; you have previously filleted a middling-sized sole, cut each fillet into six or eight small pieces, and when the sauce boils throw them in, boil three minutes, finish the sauce with a liaison, and proceed as in the last. No. 1127. Omelettes aux Monies. Pioceed exactly as for omelette aux huitres, but using muscles and sauce (see No. 70) instead of oysters. No. 1128. Omelette de Homard. Make about half a pint of nice red lobster sauce (No. 68), into which put the flesh of a small lobster cut in dice; when hot have ready an omelette as before, put some of the sauce in the interior, turn out upon your dish, glaze, and pour the remainder of the sauce round. No. 1129. Omelette au Sucre. Break eight eggs into a stewpan, into which put a tea- spoonful of sugar and four tablespoonfuls of cream; put two ounces of butter in an omelette-pan when quite hot, but not discoloured, pom1 in the eggs, and proceed as for the omelette aux fines herbes (No. 1119), turn out upon your dish, shake some powdered sugar over, salamander a nice colour, and serve. No. 1130. Omelette au Confiture. Make an omelette precisely as in the last, and just before turning it upon your dish put two or three spoonfuls of jam or marmalade in the centre, sugar over, salamander, and serve.VEGETABLES, ETC. 477 No. 1131. Omelette au Rhum. The same as the last, but the moment of going to table pom* three glasses of nun round and set it on fire. Sweet omelettes may also be served with apricots passed in sugar or rhubarb, as directed in Nos. 1142, 1184; for the remainder of entremets of eggs, see Kitchen at Home478 ENTREMETS. Observations upon Pastry. Although the art of making pastry is very nearly as old as the world, having been the delight of the ancients, and of the sensual inhabitants of Asia, it is only within the last twenty years that it has attained any degree of perfection, which is partly due to the talent and intelligence of my il- lustrious compatriot and confrere, Careme, who has left little or no room for innovation in that vast field of culi- nary delight; but I shall endeavour as much as possible to simplify the present excellent system, and introduce as much novelty as I can into that department, which is considered the greatest ornament of the second course ■ I must here likewise observe that as ages change so also do the fashions. Fifteen years ago large ornamental pieces, (or pieces montees,) were very much in vogue, but at the present time I know many epicures that would object to sit down before those once fa- vorite monuments, or colossal sugar ornaments, the modem table embellishments having veiy properly fallen into the hands of the silversmith. Simplicity, the mother of elegance, being now the order of the day. Of different sorts of Paste. The variety of pastes is to the pastry what first stocks are to soups and sauces, and must be very properly first described, particularly as it is here to which I must refer my readers for paste even used for the hors-d’oeuvres and entrees; to succeed you must be particular in your propor- tions, and very careful in the mixing, for although there isENTREMETS. 479 nothing more simple if pains be taken, so will the least neglect produce a failure, nor is it only with the making of the paste that pains must be taken, but likewise with the baking, for as paste badly made would not improve in baking, neither will paste, however well made, be good if badly baked; should the oven be too hot the paste would become set and burn before it was done; and, again, if too cold it would give the paste a dull heavy appearance, but an oven properly heated (which can be readily known by a little attention on the part of those in the habit of using it) will give it a clear brilliant appearance. ^ For every description of pastry made from puff paste, tiy if the oven is hot by placing your hand about half way in, and hold it there aboutm quarter of a minute, if you can hold it theie that time without inconvenience it would not be hot enough, but if you cannot judge of the heat, the safest method would be, try a piece of the paste previous to baking the whole ; I apply these few observations to all my readers, but particularly to the uninstructed, as a person of continual practice cannot fail to be aware of the truth of them. No. 1132. Puff Paste. Put one pound of flour upon your pastry slab, make a hole m the centre in which put the yolk of one egg and the juice of a lemon, with a pinch of salt, mix it with cold water (iced in summer, if convenient) into a softish flexible paste, with the right hand dry it off a, little with flour until you have well cleared the paste from the slab, but do not work it more than you can possibly help, let remain two minutes upon the slab; then have a pound of fresh butter from which you have squeezed all the buttermilk in a cloth bringing it to the same consistency as the paste, upoii which place it; press it out with the hand, then fold the480 ENTREMETS. paste in three so as to hide the butter, and roll it with the rolling-pin to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, thus making it about two feet in length, fold over one third, over which again pass the rolling-pin; then fold over the other third, thus forming a square, place it with the ends top and bottom before you, shaking a little flour both under and over, and repeat the rolls and turns twice again as before; flour a baking-sheet, upon which lay it, upon ice or in some cool place (but in summer it would be almost im- possible to make this paste well without ice) for half an hour, then roll twice more, turning it as before, place again upon the ice a quarter of an horn’, give it two more rolls, making seven in all, and it is ready for use when re- quired, rolling it whatever thickness (according to what you intend making) directed in the following receipts. When I state that upwards of a hundred different kinds of cakes may be made from this paste, I am sure it will be quite sufficient to urge upon every cook the necessity of paying every attention to its fabrication, as it will repay for the study and trouble. No. 1133. Puff Paste ivitli Beef Suet. Where you cannot obtain good butter for making paste, the following is an excellent substitute: skin and chop one pound of kidney beef suet very fine, put it into a mortar and pound it well, moistening with a little oil, until be- coming as it were one piece, and about the consistency of butter, proceed exactly as in the last using it instead of butter. No. 1134. Half Puff Paste. Put one pound of flour upon your pastry slab with two ounces of butter, rub well together with the hands, make a hole in the centre, in which put a pinch of salt and the yolkENTREMETS. 481 of an egg with the juice of a lemon; mix with water as be- fore, then roll it out thin and lay half a pound of butter (prepared as for puff paste) rolled into thin sheets over, fold it in three, roll and fold again twice over, lay it in a cold place a quarter ot an hom1, give another roll and it is ready for use where required; this paste is mostly used for fruit tarts, for which it is well adapted. No. 1135.'" Pate a dresser. Put three pounds of the best flour upon your pastry slab, make a hole in the centre, in which put a pound of butter, half an ounce of salt, and the yolks of six eggs; the butter must not be too firm, add half a pint of water, squeeze all well together with your hand, mixing the flour in by de- grees, tearing well to pieces with the right hand, holding it with the left until it forms a smooth but stiffish paste', but if so stiff that you cannot work it without cracking, press out flat with your hand, sprinkle water upon it, fold over, press out again, proceeding in like manner until you have obtained the consistency required; you must also be careful not to make it too soft, as in either case you would not be able to use it. This paste must not be too much worked after it is mixed or it would become greasy; more care must be exercised in summer than in winter in this respect, it is used for raised pies either hot or cold. No. 1136. Pate fine or Pate a foncer. Put three pounds of best flour upon your pastry slab, make a hole in the centre, in which put an ounce of salt, two pounds of fresh butter, six eggs, and sufficient water to orm it into a rather stiffish paste (it will require about half a pint), mix well together, drawing in the flour by degrees; (No MS?16 deSCripti°n ,0 mke water paste for raised pies, see pat4 elmd 31ENTREMETS. 482 Avhen well mixed, roll out four times as for puff paste, let remain half an hour and it is ready for use where directed. No. 1137. Fate d’ Office or Confectioner s Paste. Weigh one pound and a half of flour, which put upon your slab, make a hole in the centre, in which put one pound of sifted sugar, mix it well with twelve'eggs into a stiffish paste, having first well dissolved the sugar with the eggs, work it well, it is then ready for use. This paste was very much used when pieces montees were so much in vogue, but in the several receipts in which it is referred to, it is used upon quite a new principle, and very much simplified; this paste, with the above proportions, ought to be very stiff, but still pliable enough to be worked without breaking; should it be too stiff add more eggs, or too soft more flour, the half or quarter of the above quantity may of course be made. No. 1138. Fate d’Amande. Blanch a pound of almonds, put one fourth of them into a mortar, pound well, moistening with a little water to prevent them oiling; when pounded to a paste take it out, add another fourth, and proceed in like manner till they are all done, then rub them through a hair sieve and put them into a preserving pan with one pound and a half of sifted sugar, set over a slow but equal fire, keep stirring for about five-and-twenty minsffes, clearing it from the sides of the pan, press with your finger and if it feels tough take it out and put in the mortar with the eighth of an ounce of gum tragacanth, soaked and squeezed through a napkin; add the juice of a lemon, and pound well together till quite cold, it is then ready for use, but if not used directly roll it up in a ball and place it upon a plate under a basin to keep moist, it will keep for weeks if483 ENTREMETS. moist. Of this paste you can form stands, or convert it into any ornament your fancy may direct. Low stands are the best for entremets, being much better than the old-fashioned ones, that were made eight or ten inches in height, and when a jelly or cream served upon in was cut even by the most experienced person as soon as the first spoonful was taken the remainder was often seen dancing upon the table, to the lion01 of all persons of good taste. Lor myself X never use anything of the description, except for cold luncheon 01 suppei, and even then of the most simple construction. No. 1139. Pastillage or Gum Paste. Put two ounces of gum tragacanth into a small basin, pour a quart of filtered water over it, and cover the basin with a sheet of paper to keep it free from dust; let soak twenty-four hours, then pom off the water and place the gum in a strong cloth, through which squeeze it on to a plate, not leaving a particle in the cloth; then place it upon your pastry slab, work it round with your hand until as white as cream, have an equal quantity of starch-powder, and powdered sugar, which you have passed through a silk sieve, work it in by degrees, keeping it well worked with the hand until it becomes a stiffish paste, firm enough to roll and cut into any shape required. It may be used in- stead of pate d’amande. No. 1140. Vol-au-Vents . 0f aU tllinSs in pastry require the most care and preci- sion; they that can make a good vol-au-vent may be stamped as good pastrycooks, although many variations in working puff paste, all others are of a secondary importance Make a pound of puff paste (No. 1132) giving it only six rolls and a half instead of seven, leave it an inch in thick- ness, make a mark upon the top either round or oval and according to the size of your dish, then with a sharp-484 ENTREMETS. pointed knife cut it out from the paste, holding the knife with the point slanting outwards; turn it over, mark the edges with the back of your knife, and place it upon a baking sheet, which you have sprinkled with water; egg over the top, then dip the point of the knife into hot water, and cut a ring upon the top a quarter of an inch deep, and half an inch from the edge of the vol-au-vent, set in a rather hot oven, if getting too much colour cover over with a sheet of paper, do not take it out before done, or it would fall, but when quite set cut off the lid and empty it with a knife ; if for first course it is ready, but if for second, sift sugar all over, which glaze with the salamander. Re- gulate the thickness of the paste from which you cut the vol- au-vent, according to the size you require it, the smaller ones of course requiring thinner paste. A vol-au-vent for entrees will take about half an hour to bake, and as the common iron ovens often throw out more heat upon one side than the other, it will require turning two or three times to cause it to rise equal; it ought to be when baked of a light gold colour. No. 1141. Vol-au-vent de Peches. Put three quarters of a pound of sugar in a sugar-pan, with the juice of a lemon and about half a pint of water, place it upon the fire and boil till becoming a tkickish syrup; then have twelve peaches not quite ripe, which cut in halves, break their stones and blanch the kernels, throw six halves with the kernels into 'the syrup, boil three mi- nutes, take them out with a skimmer, lay them upon a dish and take off their skins, stew the rest in syrup in like man- ner, six at a time; when all done pour what liquor runs from them again into the syrup, which reduce to a good thickness, pass it through a tammie into a basin, when cold pour a little over the peaches and leave until ready to sen e, dress the peaches in your vol-au-vent with the syrup over.485 ENTREMETS. served as a compote with small pastry around it; in stew- ing the fruit, be careful that it does not catch in the least, a round-bottomed pan or regular sugar-pan is the best to use foi this purpose, but if not convenient a common stewpan may be used. No. 1142. Vol-au-vent d’Abricots. Cut twelve apricots, not quite ripe, in halves, break their stones and blanch then' kernels, which with the apricots put into a sugar-pan with three quarters of a pound of lump sugar broken into small pieces, the juice of a lemon, and a glass of sherry • stew them ten minutes over a quick fire, moving them round occasionally, then pom’ them into a i basin, which stand upon the ice, when quite cold fill your vol-au-vent and serve; should the apricots be quite ripe, pro- ceed as directed for the peaches, but leaving their skins on. No. 1143. Vol-au-vent of Greengages. Pioceed exactly as in the last, only using twenty or twenty-four greengages instead of the apricots. No. 1144. Vol-au-vent de Cerises. Pick and stone four pounds of cherries, which put into a pan with three quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, stew them about twenty minutes over a sharp fire, moving them occasionally, place them upon the ice till cold, when fill your vol-au-vent and serve. Should the syrup be too thick, ieduce it until thick enough to envelop the fruit. No. 1145. Vol-au-vent de Poires. Take twelve middling-sized ripe pears, which cut in 'alves, peel them neatly, and take out the cores; throw , lnt0 * Pan'In whlch you have put the juice of two omons, and the tlnn rmd of one cut in thin strips and tlirceENTREMETS. 486 quarters of a pound of sugar broken small; pass them over a sharp fire, moving them occasionally till tender, put them upon the ice to get cold; when ready, fill your vol-au-vent, and serve. No. 1146. Vol-au-vent de Pommes. Procure twenty small golden pippins, peel them neatly, and take out the cores with a long round vegetable cutter; rub them over with lemon, and stew till tender in syrup made from three quarters of a pound of sugar as for the peaches (No. 1141); when cold dress them as high as pos- sible in a vol-au-vent, and when ready to serve, pour the syrup over. No. 1147. Vol-au-vent Oranges. Take ten fine oranges, cut them in halves, peel them, but not to lose their shapes, have a rather thicker syrup than usual, simmer the oranges five minutes, ten at a time, lay them upon a dish, reduce the syrup, and when cold dress in pyramid in a vol-au-vent, and pom the syrup over. No. 1148. Gateau de Millefeuille a la Moderne. Make a pound of puff paste, give it nine rolls, roll out to the thickness of two penny-pieces, from which cut ten round pieces, each about five inches in diameter, sprinkle water over two baking-sheets, upon which lay them, wet lightly with water, and sprinkle a little rough sugar over them, but not too coarse; bake very crisp in a mode- rate oven, keeping them as white as possible; when baked lay one upon your dish, which cover with apricot marmalade; then another, which cover with orange mar- melade; then another, which cover with currant jelly, proceeding thus to the top; when finished mask the wholeENTREMETS. 467 over with apricot marmalade, sprinkling plenty of very finely chopped pistachios round, and decorate the top with what dessert fruits you have in season, cherries, strawberries, or raisins, dressed in pyramid. No. 1149. Turban a la Creme aux Macarons amers. Give half a pound of puff paste (No. 1132) ten rolls, and from it cut eight round pieces of the same size as in the last; then with the same cutter cut three pieces out of each in the form of middling-sized leaves, wet lightly upon the top, and dip them into some coarse sugar (pounded and i sifted through a coarse wire sieve), place them upon a wet baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven as white as possible; then have ready a round board a quarter of an inch thick, and, according to the size of your dish, made of pate d’office (No. 1137) and baked in a moderate oven; boil also half a pound of sugar au casse (No. 1379), dip the ends of the pieces of pastry singly into it, and build them in crown upon the rim of your board, one row sur- mounted by another, dressed the reverse way; make a meringue mixture with two whites of eggs (see No. 1218), which lay in fillets, with a paper cornet upon the top; sprinkle over with some very green chopped pistachios, and set in a warm place to dry, but not any longer than ne- cessary ; whip a pint of good double cream very stiff, with which mix a little sugar, a quarter of a pound of crushed ratafias, and a glass of good noyeau; put the cream in the turban when ready to serve. No. 1150. Puit de Fruit aux Blanches Couronnes. Make half a pound of puff paste (No. 1132) give it nine rolls, from it cut eight round pieces half an inch in thickness, then with a cutter, four sizes smaller, cut a piece from the centre of each, so as to form rings; place them upon a488 ENTREMETS. baking-sheet, wet the tops lightly, and sprinkle a little coarse sugar over; bake them in a moderate oven as white as possible, dress one upon the bottom of your dish, cover it with a sweetmeat of some description, and proceed in like manner to the top; fill with any of the fruits as de- scribed for the vol-au-vents, have a little cream whipped very stiff lay it in piping with a paper comet, between each ling, and garnish the top tastefully with fillets of red currant jelly or green angelica. No. 1151. Gateau de Pithimers. Blanch and pound well half a pound of almonds, moist- ening them with a little white of egg to keep them from oiling; put a quarter of a pound of butter in a basin, with a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, beat well together till it becomes smooth and creamy, then add the yolks of four eggs; beat two minutes longer, add the pounded al- monds, with two ounces of crushed ratafias, and half a gill of whipped cream; you have previously made half a pound of puff paste (No. 1132), divide it nearly in halves, having one piece larger than the other, mould them gently into two balls, roll out the smallest to the thickness of a penny, keeping it quite round, lay it upon a baking-sheet, put the above mixture in the centre, and spread it over, leaving the space of half an inch from the edge all round, roll out the other piece of paste rather larger and thicker than the former, wet the first sheet round the edges with a paste- brush, and cover the other over, closing it carefully, trim and notch round, egg over the top, and with the back of your knife sketch some design upon it; bake three quarters of an hour in a warm oven, but when the paste is sufficiently coloured, cover with a sheet of paper; when done sift a little sugar over, and glaze with the salamander. The original cake is baked quite white by using waterENTREMETS. 489 instead of eggs, and throwing sugar over; my objection to which is, that many people in this country, from its ap- pearance, fancy it is not sufficiently baked, and must be indigestible; it may, however, be baked either way, accord- ing to fancy. No. 1152. Tourte cTEntremet a la Creme. Make a piece of paste thus: place six ounces of flour upon your slab, with three ounces of butter, rub well toge- thei, make a hole in the centre, in which put one egg, a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, and a very little water, mix well together, then mix the whole into a stiffish paste; roll it out of the size and shape you want your tourte, and place it upon a baking-sheet, then have ready a pound of puff paste, roll it to about three quarters of an inch in thickness, cut out a piece exactly of the same size and shape as the other, cut out the centre, so as to leave a band of about an inch m breadth, wet the piece of paste upon the baking- sheet, and place the band upon it at the rim, pressing down lightly; egg it upon the top, but do not let it touch the side; mark round with the back of your knife every quarter of an inch, and fill the interior with frangipane (No. 1295), bake about half an hour in a warm oven and serve when cold. Should you require the tourte for a flanc instead of an entremet, you must roll the paste oval instead of round and make a long band of puff paste, which lay round the nm, carefully joining it at each end, by cutting one end slantwise under, and the other over, making it of the same thickness; egg the band upon the top, but do not let it run over the edges previous to baking. No. 1153. Tourte d’.Entremet a la Marmalade de Pannes. Prepare a sheet of paste upon a baking-sheet as be-EN TREMETS. 490 fore, in the centre of which put some apple marmalade (No. 1389) spread it within an inch and a half of the edges all round, roll out a piece of the trimmings of puff paste very thin, from which cut about forty narrow bands, wet the edges of the paste, and string the bands tastefully over the marmalade, forming diamond shapes; have ready a band of puff paste as in the last, which place round the apples, pressing it closely to the bottom sheet, egg the top, and bake as in the last; when done shake sugar over the top, and glaze lightly with the salamander. No. 1154. Tourte (TEntremet cm Co7ifiture. Prepare a sheet of paste upon your baking-sheet as be- fore, in the centre of which put some apricot, greengage, or strawberry jam; roll out a very thin sheet of puff paste, wet the edges of the sheet, and cover over the jam, closing it down at the edges; trim it level, have ready a band of paste, as in the last, wet round, place the band round, press it close, then with a sharp-pointed knife make incisions upon the thin paste over the marmalade, cutting quite through, forming some fancy design, wet slightly, throw sugar over, egg the band upon the top, and bake as before. No. 1155. Tartelettes joralinees aux Abricots. Have ready buttered twelve or as many small tartelette pans as you may require, line each one with a piece of puff paste cut with a cutter of the same size as the pans, force up the edges with your thumb and finger, put a small baP (made of stiff flour and water paste) in each, and bake them nicely in a very hot oven; when done take out the little balls, turn the tartelettes upside down, shake powdered sugar over the bottom of each, and glaze with a salamander, turn them over, shake sugar in the interior, which also glaze with the salamander; you have previously chopped491 ENTREMETS. two ounces of almonds veiy fine, which put into a basin, with two ounces of sugar, and mix well with the white of an eoS> spread a little upon the bottom of each tartelette, shake a little sugar over and place them in a slow oven to diy; when ready to serve put an apricot in each, stewed as foi the vol-au-vent dabricots (No. 1142). They may be seived salamandered very crisp upon both sides, omitting the almonds. hvo. 1156. Tartelettes de Pec/ies. Make yoiu tartelettes as in the last and fill with peaches dressed as for vol-au-vent (No. 1141). No. 1157. Tartelettes aux Cerises. Pioceed as before, filling them when baked with cherries dressed as for the vol-au-vent (No. 1144). INo. 1158. Tartelettes aux Groseillcs vertes. Make the tartelettes as before, have ready three pints of young green gooseberries, which put into a sugar-pan with tluee quarters of a pound of lump sugar and half a wine- glassful of water, place them over a sharp fire, moving them round occasionally till done, which you may ascertain by their shrivelled appearance, if too much done they will become quite brown, put them in a basin and leave them till quite cold, when fill the tartelettes and serve. INo. 1159. Tartelettes of Greengages. Prepare your tartelettes as before and fill with greenmmes piepared as directed for the vol-au-vent (No. 1143) ° & No. 1160. Tartelettes aux Fraises. Prepare the tartelettes as before, pick a fine pottle of strawberries, which put into a basin, with two ounces o[492 ENTREMETS. powdered sugar and a little powdered cinnamon, shake them well together, fill the tartelettes and serve. No. 1161. Tartelettes de Pommcs. Prepare the tartelettes as usual, and have ready prepared ten apples (golden pippins) cut each one in halves, take out the cores and peel them neatly, put the juice of a lemon in your sugar-pan into which throw them as you peel them; when they are all done add half a pound of lump sugar and a little thin lemon-peel cut in strips, stew them gently till tender and leave them to get cold in their syrup, then fill the tartelettes, half an apple in each, mix a little apricot marmalade with the syrup, pour a little over each and serve. No. 1162. Tartelettes de Torres. Prepare the tartelettes as before, then have eight or ten small ripe pears, cut them in halves and proceed precisely as with the apples in the last, serve the same. No. 1163. Tartelettes of Cranberries. Prepare the tartelettes as directed, then have ready three pints of cranberries which you have drained and stewed over a sharp fire, with one pound of lump sugar and two ounces of green angelica cut in fillets, until the sjuup be- comes very thick, place them upon the ice till cold, when fill the tartelettes and serve. The cranberries sold in London I believe are from America; they are tolerably good, but nothing to compare to those I have used in Shropshire and Wales; they grow in that part of the country in meadows close to the water; upon my first going there I was quite unacquainted with the merit of this beautiful fruit, but soon perceived that very beautiful entremets might be made from them, besidesENTREMETS. 493 plain tarts, for which they were daily used; their bitterness and peculiar wild flavour rendering them very palatable and wholesome. I have thought proper to make this remark, knowing that so few people are aware of their merit and that so many are actually spoilt for want of gathering. No. 1164. Tartelettes (T Oranges. Prepare the tartelettes as described, have eight oranges, peel and cut off the white pith and divide each orange into twelve pieces, make a syrup with half a pound of sugar and half a pint of water, reduce till rather thick, then throw in half the oranges, let them boil one minute, take them out, lay them upon a dish, and put in the remainder, stew one minute as before, reduce the syrup again, and when nearly cold pour it over the oranges; when ready fill your tarte- lettes and serve. No. 1165. Fauchonettes a la Vanille. Line eighteen tartelette pans with puff paste as for tarte- lettes, but do not work up the edges so high, have also a creme made in the following manner: put a pint of milk into a stewpan and when it boils put in a stick of vanille, and reduce the milk to half, in another stewpan have the yolks of three eggs, with an ounce and a half of powdered sugar and one of sifted flour, with a grain of salt, pom in the milk, taking out the vanille, place over a slow fire, keep stilling till it thickens; when cold fill the tarte- lettes and bake them nicely in a moderate oven, when baked and cold have ready a meringue mixtme of four eggs, (see No. 1218,) a teaspoonful of which lay upon each, spreading it quite flat with a knife, make a ring of seven small button meringues round each upon the top with a larger one in the centre, sift sugar over and place them in a slow oven till of a light brown colour and the meringue494 ENTREMETS. quite crisp ; to serve, dress them pyramidically upon your dish. No. 1166. DaupMnes. Line eighteen tartelette-pans with puff paste, and place a small piece of apricot or other marmalade in the centre, which cover with a custard made as directed in the last, hake them in a moderate oven ; when cold prepare a me- ringue mixture (No. 1218) of five eggs, with which form a very high pyramid upon the top of each tartelette, sift sugar over and place them in a slow oven to dry, keeping them very white; serve cold, dressed round upon a napkin. No. 1167. Tartelettes a la Pompadour. Line eighteen tartelette-pans with puff paste, have also eighteen pieces of brioche paste (No. 1321), each the size of a walnut, roll them out to the thickness of a penny-piece, keeping them round, place a piece of apricot or other mar- malade in the centre, wet the paste, fold it over the mar- malade to form a ball, and turn them over into your tarte- lettes, wet the tops, turn them over on some rough pounded sugar, place them upon a baking-sheet, bake in a moderate oven, dress pyramidically upon a napkin and serve quite hot. No. 1168. Mirlitons aux Fleurs d’ Orange. Line about eighteen or twenty tartelette-pans with puff paste, then put an ounce of powdered candied orange- flowers in a basin, with a quarter of a pound of crushed maccaroons, a quarter of a pound of sugar, two yolks and two whole eggs, with a grain of salt, stir altogether, then add two ounces of fresh butter warmed and the whites of two eggs beat up very stiff, fill the tartelettes, sift sugar rather thickly over and bake them in a moderate oven.495 ENTREMETS. No. 1169. Mirlitons aux Amandes. Proceed exactly as in the last, using one ounce of bitter and one ounce of sweet almonds, blanched, dried, and pounded, and two ounces of maccaroons instead of a quar- ter of a poimd, omitting the candied orange-flowers. No. 1170. Mirlitons au Citron. Proceed as for mirlitons aux fleurs d’orange, only rubbing the rind of a lemon upon the sugar previous to pounding it, and omitting the orange-flowers. No. 1171. Petits Vol-au-vents d la Chantilly. Make a pound of puff paste (No. 1132), when done roll it to about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and with a fluted cutter cut out twenty pieces rather larger than a penny-piece and with a plain round cutter the size of a halfpenny, cut a piece from the centre of each, leaving the rings, roll up the trimmings of the paste to the same thickness as before, from which cut twenty more pieces with the fluted cutter, sprinkle a baking-sheet with water, upon which lay them, wet lightly upon the top, and place the rings over very even, pressing them down gently, egg the tops and bake in a good oven; when done sift sugar over and glaze with the salamander, whip half a pint of double cream, to which add a little sugar pounded, with a few candied, orange-flowers; when the vol-au-vents are cold put a little marmalade in the bottom with the cream over and serve. No. 1172. Petits Vol-au-vents aux Abricots. Make the vol-au-vents as in the last, but when baked have a quarter of a pound of sugar boiled au casse (No. 1379), dip the top of each of the vol-au-vents lightlyENTREMETS. 496 into it, and immediately dip them in white sugar, in grains (that is, the sugar pounded and all the fine sifted from it, which again sift through a coarse wire sieve), when all done fill the centre with some good apricot marmalade, or small pieces of apricots, peaches, &c., as prepared for the large vol-au-vents. No. 1173. Petits Vol-au-vents a la Gelee mousseuse. Make the vol-au-vents as described in the last, but dip- ping them into red sugar in grains, (see No. 1375,) instead of white; when done put a pint of very good marasquino jelly into a bowl, melt it, place it upon the ice and keep whisking till set, it will be quite white and frothy, fill the vol-au-vents, and serve with a few drops of marasquino sprinkled over and a very fresh strawberry upon the top of each, or, if not in season, a brandied cherry. No. 1174. Petits Puits aux Pistachios Are made the same as the vol-au-vents; when baked dip the tops lightly into sugar as before, and dip them into chopped pistachios (very green) and sugar in grains, fill them with some whipped cream flavoured with vanilla sugar (No. 1377) and place a dried cherry upon the top. No. 1175. Gateau fourre a la Creme. Make half a pound of puff paste (No. 1132), when done divide it into two parts, one a fourth larger than the other, roll them up into two balls gently, and roll the first into a sheet the thickness of a penny-piece, sprinkle a baking- sheet with a little water, upon which lay it, put some fran- gipane (No. 1295) in the centre, which spread to within half an inch of the edge all round, and three quarters of an inch in thickness, wet the edge lightly, then lay the other sheet of paste (which you have rolled into a sheet, thicker497 ENTREMETS. and larger than the first) over, close it well at the edges, egg it well over, trim round with your knife, sketch some design upon the top with the point of a knife, bake about three quarters of an hour in a moderate oven; when done sift sugar over and glaze with the salamander; when cold cut it into pieces two inches and a half in length and one in breadth; dress in crown upon a napkin or upon a border of apple marmalade. No. 1176. Gateau fourre au Confiture. Make half a pound of puff paste and proceed as in the last, spreading apricot, strawberry, or greengage jam about a quarter of an inch in thickness in the centre instead of the frangipane, finish as the last, but it will not take so long to bake, serve the same. • No. 1177. Gateau fourre, ou d’ Artois, aux Pommes. Peel and cut ten apples into slices, put them into a preserving-pan with two ounces of butter, six ounces of powdered sugar, some thin lemon-peel cut in strips, and a a little powdered cinamon, pass them over a sharp fire till tender, then take them off, mix four tablespoonfuls of apri- cot marmalade with them, and put by till cold; make half a pound of puff paste and proceed as before, using the above preparation instead of the sweatmeats before‘men- tioned. No. 1178. Gateau fourre Anglo-Frangais. Put three ounces of ground rice in a stewpan with which nnx gradually a pint of milk, stir over the fire till it thickens and the rice is done; you have pounded a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds and one ounce of bitter with six ounces of sugar, put them in the stewpan with half an ounce of candied citron cut small and soaked in a glass of 32 bENTREMETS. 408 marasquino, which also put in, add five eggs, beat alto- getlier, and stir over the fire till it again thickens, when cold proceed exactly as for the gateau fourre a la creme substituting the above preparation for the frangipane. No. 1179. Petits Gateaux fourres au Confiture. Prepare half a pound of puff paste (No. 1132), which roll into a long band three inches wide and nearly a quarter of an inch thick, have it upon your slab before you, then place rolls of jam an inch and a half in length, as thick as your little finger and two inches apart, in the centre; wet the edges all along and fold the paste over, press down with your finger round each piece of marmalade, cut them out with a knife, sprinkle a baking-sheet with water, upon which lay them; egg over, and with the point of a knife sketch a leaf upon each, cutting nearly through the paste, bake them nicely in a moderate oven, and when done sift sugar over and glaze with the salamander, dress them round upon a border of apple marmalade when cold, or dress in pyramid. Any kind of sweetmeat may be used for these kinds of gateaux, but observe it requires to be very firm, for if soft it would run from the paste, and give them a bad appearance. No. 1180. Petits Gateaux fourres found). Make three quarters of a pound of puff paste, from which cut twelve pieces with a round cutter three inches and a. half in diameter and the thickness of a penny-piece, then roll out the trimming's, from which cut twelve more pieces with a plain round cutter three inches in diameter, lay a small piece of the preparation of apple as for d’Artois (No. 1177) in the middle of the smaller sheets with a preserved cherry upon the top, wet round the edges lightly, then place the larger sheet over, press it well down upon the edges with499 ENTUEMETS. the rim of the smaller cutter, with which also cut them round; wet lightly over and place a small ring upon the top, sprinkle white sugar in rather coarse grains over, and bake rather white in a moderate oven, when cold place a fine preserved cherry within each ring upon the top, and dress them in pyramid; they may likewise be made square or any other shape, by following the above directions, they may be made smaller if required. No. 11S1. Petits Gateaux fourres aux Amandes. Make the cakes exactly as above, blanch two ounces of sweet almonds, split each one in halves (wet the top of the cakes), and with them form a rosette, pressing them into the paste; place a ring of paste upon the top as before, sprinkle white sugar in grains over, bake them nearly white, when done fill the ring with red currant jelly, and when cold serve as before. No. 1182. Petits Gateaux fourres Meringue. Make the cakes as before, but omitting the almonds, when baked and cold prepare a meringue mixture of three whites of eggs (see No. 1218), which put into a paper comet, and with it pipe a rosette tastefully upon each ga- teau ; throw pounded sugar over, shaking off all that does not adhere to them, place them in the screen to dry, when dry fill each cavity with currant, apple, or quince jelly, which will have a very pleasing effect. You may also form’a rope round with meringues, which sprinkle with green and red sugar in grains (see No. 1375), filling the interior with jellies as before, they may be made oval also. No. 1183. Patisserie d\Amandes a la Conde. Make half a pound of puff paste, give it nine rolls, rolling it the last time to the thickness of a penny-piece, have ready500 ENTREMETS. blanched and chopped half a pound of sweet almonds which put in a basin with half a pound of powdered sugar and the whites of two eggs, or little more if required, spread it over the paste the thickness of a shilling, and with a knife cut the paste into pieces two inches and a half in length and nearly one in breadth, place them upon a baking-sheet, and bake nicely a very light brown colour in a moderate oven, dress them in pyramid. No. 1184. Turban de Conde a la Rhubarbe. * Dress some of the pastry as directed in the last, in a crown upon a border of apple marmalade, have ready a bundle of red forced rhubarb (very young), which put into a preserving-pan with one pound of powdered sugar and a wine-glassful of water, stew quickly over a sharp fire keep- ing it very red, the syrup must be very thick 5 when quite cold fill the centre of the turban and serve. Apricots, apples, pears, peaches, greengages, or any other fruits, dressed as for vol-au-vents, can be served in this manner. No. 1185. Retits Gateaux d’Jbricots. Make three quarters of a pound of puff paste (No. 1132), roll it to the thickness of a penny-piece, and cut it into pieces three inches square, in the centre of which put a roll of apricot marmalade about two inches long and the thick- ness of your finger; wet the paste round lightly, and fold it over in the form of a book, egg over and bake them in a warm! oven, when done sift sugar over and glaze with the sala- mander, or they may be made in the shape of diamonds by cutting the paste into pieces of that form, and covering one over the other. No. 1186. Retits Gateaux renverses. Make half a pound of puff paste, roll it to the thicknessENTREMETS. 501 of a halfpenny-piece, and with a round cutter cut out twenty-four pieces rather larger than a five-shilling piece, wet lightly and fold them over forming half circles, wet the top, dip into some coarse sugar in grains and bake on a baking-sheet in a moderate oven of a light colour, cut fillets of currant jelly, with which garnish by piping them in the separation with a paper cornet, and serve dressed in pyramid. No. 1187. Petites Bouchees a la Patissiere. Make half a pound of puff paste, from which cut fifteen pieces the thickness of a penny-piece, with an oval fluted cutter two inches and a half in length and one and a half in breadth, wet them upon the top; then roll out the trim- mings, from which cut twenty an inch in diameter, taking out the centre with a smaller cutter, thus forming them nto lings, place them upon the top exactly in the centre, wet the rings lightly, dip the tops into some white sugar in ! grains, place them upon a baking-sheet, and bake them a fight colour; when done fill the ring with a httle currant or apple jelly, a dried cherry, or any description of preserve. No. 1188. Eventail aux Cerises. Make hah a pound of puff paste (No. 1132), which roll to the thickness of half an inch, cut it in strips a quarter of an inch wide and three inches long, lay them upon their sides upon the baking-sheet, leaving them room to spread, bake in a moderate oven, when done sift sugar over and glaze with the salamander, dress them in a crown upon a border of apple marmalade, with cherries in the centre dressed as for vol-au-vent (No. 1144). No. 1189. Petits Gateaux a la Boy ale. Make half a oound of puff paste (No. 1132), which rollENTREMETS. 502 to the thickness of a penny-piece, beat three quarters of a pound of finely sifted sugar in a basin with the whites of two eggs and a little lemon-juice; if too stiff add a little more white of egg, beat well, spread over the sheet of paste, and cut it into pieces three inches long and one broad, lay them upon your baking-sheet and bake in a slow oven. There are likewise a great many small cakes which may be made from puff paste in all variety of forms, with dif- ferent shaped cutters, and ornamented with different pre- serves, or meringued in any pattern or design you may fancy, but these must be left entirely to the taste. No. 1190. A Flan of Puff Fade. Make half a pound of puff paste, roll twelve times till nearly worn out, letting it remain some time on the slab before using ; then have a plain round or oval flan mould,* butter the interior and fine it with the paste about one third of an inch in thickness, place a sheet of white paper at the bottom and a band round the sides in the interior, which fill with bread-crumbs, bake in a warm oven rather crisp, take out, empty it of the bread-crumbs, and paper and turn it from your mould, sift sugar all over and glaze with the salamander, serve filled with any of the fruits dressed as directed for vol-au-vents. Should you have any trimmings of paste left from a previous day it may be used instead of making fresh. No. 1191. Flan de Pommes ci la Portugaise. Make half a pound of flour into a fine paste (pate fine, No. 1136), roll it into a sheet about eleven inches in dia- meter, work up the sides "with your hands two inches in height, which crimp and ornament neatly with pate d’office (No. 1137), or some of the same paste cut into small leaves, * Flan moulds arc generally fluted, and about an inch and a half in neight.503 ENTREMETS. i with which form a wreath or some other design, by wetting the flan round and sticking them upon it; then peel two dozen small apples (golden pippins), take the cores from fifteen of them with a long round cutter, make a syrup with half a pint of water, the juice of a lemon, and three quarters of a pound of sugar, reduce over a sharp fire till becoming tliickish, put in the whole apples which stew gently till tender, then take them out, cut up the remainder, put them into the syrup and boil to a tliickish marma- lade ; lay half the marmalade at the bottom of the flan, then the whole apples, and fill up with the marmalade not hiding the whole apples, put a band of buttered paper round and bake three quarters of an hour, when done take off the buttered paper and mask all over with apricot marmalade, serve either hot or cold. No. 1192. Flan de Poires. Make a crust the same as above, peel and cut in halves about two dozen very nice pears, put them into a preserv- ing-pan with three quarters of a pound of sugar, the juice of two lemons, and the rind of one, free from pith, cut into small strips; stew till tender, when cold place them in your flan with the syrup over, bake three quarters of an hom1 with a band of paper round, finish and serve as in the last. Cherries, greengages, and apricots may also be used for the above purposes by following the same methods, dress- ing the fruit as for vol-au-vents. No. 1193. Flanc a la Creme pralinee. Prepare a crust as before, which fill with some frangipane (No. 1295), in which you have put six ounces of sweet and one ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and chopped, put a band of paper round, bake three quarters of an hour, then take off the paper, wet the crust, sift sugar all over, and glaze with the salamander.504 ENTREMETS. No. 1194. Pate a Choux. Put half a pint of water in a stewpan, with six ounces of butter, two ounces of sugar (pounded), with half a stick of vamlle and a pinch of salt; when it begins to boil stir in iree good spoonfuls of flour, keep stirring over the fire keeping it cleared from the bottom of the stewpan till becoming a toughish paste; take it off the fire, and stir in six or seven eggs one after the other, and work them well m; it is then ready; butter a baking-sheet and lay your paste upon it in round pieces nearly the size of a walnut * egg over, and sprinkle white sugar in grains upon them bake m a moderate oven, and when done and cold open a lid at the top, fill them with a jam or marmalade of some description, replace the lid, and serve dressed in pyramid upon a napkin. Half the quantity of this and following receipts may of course be made. No. 1195. Petits Choux a la Creme. Piepaie your paste as in the last, place it in round balls upon your baking-sheet, egg over, sprinkle with sugar in giains, and bake them as in the last, then put two yolks of eggs in a stewpan, with a tablespoonful of sugar, a little chopped lemon-peel, and a few candied orange-flowers well pounded; mix well together, add a gill of boiling milk, stii ovei the fire till it thickens, place in a basin upon the ice, when cold, add a gill of whipped cream, mix well, fill your petits choux, and serve as in the last. No. 1196. Petits Choux aux Amandes. Proceed as above, but when they are baked cover lightly ' ^ie oub way to shape them properly is by taking a piece the size of a walnut, and moulding it with your finger at the rim of the stewpan; drop t em upon a baking-sheet, and make them still more round with the paste-brush in egging them over.ENTREMETS. 505 with a mixture of almonds and sugar, as directed for patisserie d’amandes (No. 1183); put them again in the oven till it has set and become crisp; when cold fill and serve a' before. No. 1197. Petits Clioux a la Comtesse. Prepare the paste as before, but lay it out upon your baking-sheet, in long pieces the size of your finger, egg and sugar over, bake as before, and when cold open them beneath and fill with the cream as above. i No. 1198. Petits Clioux en Gimblettes. Make the paste as before, lay it in larger round balls upon a buttered baking-sheet, dip the handle of your paste- biush into some egg, with which make a hole as large as a shilling in the centre of each, thus forming them into rings, each rather larger than a five-shilling piece; egg over, and sprinkle with sugar in grains and chopped pistachios mixed togethei; bake them as before, but in a slow oven; they do not require to be filled. No. 1199. Petits Pains a la Cremiere. Put half a pint of thin cream in a stewpan, with a quar ter of a pound of butter, two ounces of sugar, and a little salt; when boiling add three spoonfuls of flour; stir well over the fire, clearing it from the bottom till becoming toughish, then add six eggs, one at a time, which work in well; the paste requires to be rather firm; when cold put a little flour upon your pastry slab, upon which turn the paste; roll it out in pieces an inch and a half in length make an incision down the centre with your knife, and lay them upon a baking-sheet, egg over, bake them in a warm oven • when done sift sugar over, and glaze with the salamander • seive diessed in pyramid, and very hot.ENTREMETS. 506 No, 1200. Madeline au vin de Ports. Put half a pound of flour in a stewpan, with six ounces of sugar, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter melted, and a little orange-flour water; mix the whole well together with five eggs, butter a cylinder mould, put the paste into it, and bake of a nice gold colour in a moderate oven; put four glasses of port wine in a stewpan, with a little sugar, four cloves, and a little cinnamon ; mix a teaspoonful of arrowroot with a glass of port wine cold, which stir in "with the other in your stewpan, turn the madeline out upon your dish, pour the wine over, straining it through a sieve; when cold fill the centre with half a pint of whipped cream, flavoured with orange-flower-water, and serve. They may also be made in smaller moulds, dressed in pyramid, with the sauce over. No. 1201. Genoises. Well pound two ounces of sweet almonds with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and pass them through a wire sieve; put them into a basin, with six ounces of flour and six eggs; beat well together, add a little salt, half a gill of whipped cream, and a piece of butter the size of an egg (melted but not hot); butter a saute-pan, pour the mixture into it, bake in a moderate oven half an hour, or till rather crisp, turn it out upon your board, and when cold cut it into a variety of shapes with your knife or different shaped cutters (but do not make them too large, or they would not look well), which decorate with a white or pink iceing (No. 1388) or meringue with a paper cornet, and different sorts of preserves. No. 1202. Genoises fourees. Prepare a mixture as above, but only put half of it in507 ENTREMETS. the saute-pan; when half done spread a little apricot mar- malade over, and pour over the remainder of the mixture; when done turn out upon a board, cut and ornament it as directed above. This style of genoise is new, and when well made very excellent. No. 1203. Genoises a V Orange. Proceed as before, but rub the sugar with the rind of an orange previous to pounding it, and add a small glass of brandy; bake, cut, and ornament it as before. No. 1204. Genoises ciux Pistaches. Make a genoise as before, bake it, and when cold cut it into round pieces the size of a penny-piece; cut also as many rings the size of a shilling, mask the tops of the round pieces ■with white iceings (No. 1381) and place a ring in the centre of each, which also mask; have two ounces of pistachios blanched and split in halves, which lay upon them, their points to the rings, thus forming rosettes; fill the rings with marmalade when ready to serve. No. 1205. Darioles. Line (very thinly) a dozen small dariole moulds with paste (pate a foncer, No. 1136), then put one ounce of flour in a basin with an egg, beat it quite smooth, then add six yolks of eggs and four ounces of sugar (pounded) with a quarter of an ounce of candied orange-flowers, six large macaroons crushed, one whole egg, and half a pint of good cream ; mix all well together, put a small piece of butter in Ieach of the moulds, fill them with the above preparation, and bake in a quick oven, when done take them out of the mould, sift sugar over, and serve very hot, they will be as fight as souffles and eat as delicate.508 ENTREMETS. No. 1206. Biscatettcs. Put one pound of sugar into a basin with five eggs, work it well, and add by degrees four more eggs, then stir in the yolks of five other eggs with a pound of flour, add three quarters of a pound of butter just melted, and the whites of five eggs, beat very stiff, bake it in a saute-pan, and when cold cut it into a variety of shapes, which ornament with meringue, iceing and preserves as your fancy may diiect; half the above quantity would be sufficient for a dish. No. 1207. Gateaux a VIndienne. Make a sponge-cake mixture (No. 1369) of six eggs, which bake in twelve small dariole moulds, when cold cut them in slices, spread a little currant jelly upon each, with a little maresquino, and build them of their original shape ; have ready a meringue mixture (No. 1218) of five eggs, with which mask them, finish the top in a point, sprinkle over with rough sugar and dry in a very slow oven, keeping them quite white; when cold, dress in pyramid as elevated as possible. No. 1208. Gauffres aux JPistaclies. Weigh the weight of six eggs of sugar and three of flour, which put into a basin with half a pound of sweet almonds chopped very fine, mix them with six whole eggs and a tea- spoonful of orange-flower water; rub two or three baking- sheets very lightly with very white wax, upon which drop the mixture with a spoon into cakes the size of a penny piece; let it spread, then lay some pistachios blanched and filleted upon them, place in a warmish oven, and be very particular in baking, for if done too much you will not be able to do anything with them, and if not done enough they will not be crisp eating; directly they are done509 ENTREMETS. take them from the oven, and with a thin knife take them off the baking-sheet, curl them over the handle of a wooden spoon as quickly as possible, and place in a screen for a short time to dry; in case your gauffres run out of shape cut them out with an oval cutter or with the point of a knife before putting them upon the spoon. No. 1209. Gauffres a VAllemande Are made the same as the above, but omitting the al- monds and pistachios, serve them filled with whipped cream, to which you have added a little powdered sugar and orange- flower water, if in season a fine strawberry may be placed at each end, dress them in pyramid upon a napkin. No. 1210. Gauffres a la Vanille Are made the same as the gauffres aux pistaches, but adding half a stick of vanilla well pounded and sifted with the sugar, and half a glass of brandy instead of the orange- flower-water. A variety of beautiful entremets may be made with gauffres, according to taste. No. 1211. Gauffres a la Flamande. Put half a pound of flour in a basin, with which mix six eggs by degrees, working it at first upon one side of the basin, until you have mixed the whole into a smooth paste, then dissolve a piece of dried German yeast, half the size of a walnut, in a wineglassful of warm water; when dissolved pour it into the basin with a gill of warm milk and a little salt, mix all well together, stir in six ounces of butter, pre- viously melted, also two spoonfuls of orange-flower-water, set in a warm place for nearly two hours, when the mix- ture would have risen about two or three inches turn it round five or six times with a wooden spoon to bring it down; let remain half an hour longer and it is ready for use.510 ENTREMETS. Put the gaufire irons upon a slow fire, turning them oc- casionally, to get hot by degrees, wipe them well with a cloth, and rub lightly over the interior with fat bacon, then put m two or three spoonfuls of the paste, close the irons, put them over the fire (turning occasionally) for a few mi- nutes ; open the irons half way to see if coloured suffi- cently (they shouTd be of a light gold colour) and veiy crisp, if done turn it out, proceeding in like manner with the remainder; when finished have half a pound of lump sugar, well pounded, with a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon and passed through a fine sieve, dip the gaufires into it on both sides and serve very hot dressed in pyramid upon a napkin. No. 1212. Gaaffres a la Casalesry. Put half a pound of fresh butter into a middling-sized basin (having previously pressed it in a cloth to extract the buttermilk), work it round with your hand until forming a whitish cream, then add half a pound of sifted flour and a piece of yeast of the size of a walnut; work well together, set it in a warm closet half an hour, or until well risen, take it out, add half a pint of whipped cream (taking care that the mixture is not too hot, or it would turn sour) and a little salt, put the gauffre irons upon the fire, and proceed as in the last; when done roll them in powdered cinnamon and sugar mixed together, and send very hot to table; either of the two last may be served either as an entremet or a remove. No. 1213. Bed Nougat. Blanch and skin three quarters of a pound of almonds, which cut into small fillets, and place them in the oven until lightly browned; put six ounces of powdered sugar in a copper pan with a little essence of cochineal, stir round511 ENTREMETS. over the fire till melted, and when it commences boiling stir in the almonds and turn it out upon a buttered baking- sheet, spread out thin, and before getting too crisp cut it into pieces (noth a knife) two inches in length and three quarters of an inch in breadth; dress them in crown upon your dish and fill the interior with a pint of whipped cream, in which you have put a tablespoonful of sugar and one of orange-flower-water; strawberries may be added if in season. Nougat aux pistaches is made by omitting the cochineal, and when spread out upon the baking-sheet sprinkling chopped pistachios over whilst very hot, and proceeding as in the last. No. 1214. Small Cups of Nougat. Prepare the nougat as before, then have a number of dariole or tartelette moulds, oil the interior slightly, and when the mixture is half cold put a piece the size of a walnut in (each, which press to the shape of the mould, with your finger and thumb ■ when cold take them out and serve filled with cream as before. Vases and large cups may also be made with it, by having moulds and proceeding as for the smaller ones; but for the larger moulds or shapes, winch require more time to fill, to prevent the mixture getting cold, keep the pan upon a trivet at the mouth of the oven, taking it by pieces as you require. No. 1215. Nougat dyAbricot. Make half a pound of puff paste (No. 1132), roll twelve times, leaving it about the thickness of half-a-crown piece, place it upon a baking-sheet, and spread apricot marma- lade over a quarter an inch in thickness, then have ready, 1 fine]y chopped and well dried, three quarters of a pound of blanched sweet almonds, which put into a basin with . three quarters of a pound of powdered sugar, and mix with512 ENTREMETS. the whites of four eggs, spread it all over the marmalade and bake in a hot oven a nice colour; when cold cut it into pieces of any shape you please, and dress in crown upon a napkin to serve. Brioche paste (No. 1321) would be better than puff paste for the above, but they are very excellent either way. 3 No. 1216. Chataignes Croquantes. Boast sixty chesnuts, take them from the husks, and when cold pound them well, adding a little white of egg to pi event their oiling ; then add half a pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, and the yolks of two or three eggs, mix all well together; lay the paste upon a marble slab, roll it out into small pieces two inches long, place them on a baking-sheet, mark with a knife upon the top, and bake in a sharp oven, when done dip them into sugar boiled to au casSe (No. 1379), when cold they are readv to serve. No. 1217. Amandes Croquantes. Blanch one pound of sweet almonds, which put in a slow oven to diy, when cold put them into a mortal’ with one pound of lump sugar, pound very fine and pass them through a wire sieve upon a marble slab, nib in three quaiteis of a pound of butter, a little chopped rind of lemon, and the yolks of three eggs, form the paste thus made, into small pieces of any shape you please, which bake and dip in sugar as in the last. , No. 1218. Meringues a la Cuilliere. Pound and sift one pound of hunp sugar, whisk the whites of ten eggs very stiff, throw the sugar lightly over, and with a wooden spoon stir gently, perfectly mixing the sugar, then with a table or dessert-spoon lay them outENTREMETS. 513 upon white paper in the shape of eggs, sift powdered sugar thickly over, let them remain ten minutes, then shake oft the superfluous sugar, place upon boards which you have wetted, and put them into a slow oven, just hot enough to cause them to be light and slightly tinge ; when the outside becomes quite crisp, take off the papers, by turning them topsy-turvy and lifting the papers from them, dip your spoon into hot water, and with it clear out the best pait ot the interior, dust them with powdered sugar, lay them upon a baking-sheet, and put into the screen to dry; they may be made a day or two before they are required, if put away in a dry place • to serve, fill them with whipped cream flavoured either with vanilla or orange- flower (but do not make it too sweet), stick two together, dress in pyramid upon a napkin and serve. Should they happen to stick to the papers, moisten the papers with a paste-brush and water. <* No. 1219. Turban de Meringues. Make a meringue mixture as above of five eggs and half a pound of sugar, which lay out on white paper, but with a teaspoon, of the size and shape of pheasants’ eggs • sift sugar over, which shake off directly, place them upon boards and bake in a slacker oven than directed for the last, keeping them quite white, and drying them quite through; when cold wet the paper underneath, take off the meringues, dry them a little more, have ready, and baked a round board of pate d’office (No. 1137), seven inches in diameter, have also ready a little white iceing (No 1383) mixed rather stiff, form a ring of it round the rim of the board, upon which dress the meringues, placing a piece of the iceing the size of a pea at the bottom of each to fix them one to the other, place it to dry, have a little iceing thinner han the last, dip one end of the remaining meringues into 33ENTREMETS. 514 it, and then into chopped pistachios (very green), with them form another row upon the first, keeping the green end uppermost, dry it till set, and when ready to serve fill the interior with a whipped cream as in the last, and sprinkle chopped pistachios over, or fill them with any of the cremes bavaroises; the meringues may likewise be laid out with a paper cornet. No. 1220. Turban de Meringues glace. Make a turban as directed in the last, then soak two ounces of citron (candied), two ounces of currants, and two ounces of Smyrna raisins, in one glass of maresquino, mix , the whole in a freezing-pot with a pint and a half of vanilla ice (No. 1381), fill the turban, at the moment of serving, with it. No. 1221. Petits Meringues aux Pistaches. Make a meringue mixture of five whites of eggs and half a pound of sugar as before, lay out upon papers with -a teaspoon; have ready two ounces of chopped pistachios, which sprinkle over, then sift a little sugar over, whicli shake off immediately, place them upon boards, bake and empty as directed for meringues a la cuilleree (No. 1218), fill them with whipped cream in which you have intro- duced a few chopped pistachios, stick two together and serve; these are intended more for garniture than to be served as a dish by themselves. No. 1222. Champignons en surprise. Make a meringue mixture of ten eggs as before, put one half of the mixture into a paper horn, (or cornet,) cut a piece of the bottom with a knife to leave a hole as large as the tip of your little finger, press the mixture through it upon sheets of white paper, into pieces as large round as515 ENTREMETS. a five-shilling piece, sprinkle them over with grated choco- late and powdered sugar mixed, put the remainder of the mixture into another paper horn, cut a hole at the bottom smaller than in the last, and press the mixture through it upon paper, into pieces an inch and a half in length, and thicker at one end than the other, commencing at the small end to form the stalk of a mushroom, sift a little sugar o\ei, place them upon a board, with those you first laid out, put in a slow oven, when the smaller ones are per- fectly dried take them off the papers, stick two together, dip the thick end in white of egg and then into grated chocolate, take out the larger ones, remove them from the papei by wetting it at the back, then stick the smaller ones into them, thus forming mushrooms, dry in the screen and use them for garniture where directed. No. 1223. Biscuit manque aux Amandes. Put half a pound of powdered sugar into a basin, with the yolks of six eggs, beat them well together with a wooden spoon, melt two ounces of fresh butter, which add to the mixture, with six ounces of flour and the whites of the six eggs beat very stiff, stir it till well mixed, but not more than is required, butter a saute-pan lightly, put some finely powdered sugar mto it, shake all over the pan and tin'll out that which does not adhere to the butter, pom in the mixture, have a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds cut into thm fillets, lay them upon the top and sift sugar over, bake m a moderate oven of a light brown colour • when done take it out of the saute-pan, and when cold cut it in pieces of a diamond shape three inches in length and two m breadth and serve dressed in pyramid. No. ] 224. Biscuit manque au BJium. Put half a pound of powdered sugar in a basin, with51G ENTREMETS. three quarters of a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, (melted,) two glasses of old Jamaica rum, a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds well pounded, (with the sugar,) and a little salt; mix the whole together, with the yolks of six and two whole eggs, then add the whites of the six eggs whipped very stiff, stirring them in very lightly, have ready a large square paper box, butter the interior well and pour in the mixture; bake in a moderate oven; when nearly done egg over the top with a paste-brush and cover with a preparation of almonds made thus: blanch and skin half a pound of sweet almonds, which cut into thin fillets, dry them in a hot closet, put them into a basin, with three ounces of sugar and mix with the whites of two eggs, place the manque again in the oven until done and the almonds become slightly browned, then take it from the oven and when cold cut in diamonds or any other shapes your fancy may direct. They do not require to be more than an inch in thickness, and rum may be exchanged for any other flavour if desired. No. 1225. Calf s Foot Jelly, flavoured as required. Jellies may be considered as the first, most wholesome, and refreshing dishes of the second course, especially when made from calves’ feet, which meritorious discovery belongs especially to the English kitchen, where I believe they have been used for year’s; the inventor certainly deserves a place in the archives of cookery. For the making of jellies in France nothing but isingla s is used, which is so adulterated in its preparation that it requires a peison to be a good judge to select it, whilst calves feet mai be selected by any one, only requiring to be well scalded and fresh. But here I must observe that the discovery hasENTREMETS. 517 never been advantageously developed to the public at large, for the introduction of cloves, mace, cinnamon, and other spices, give it a very common flavour, which does not at all harmonize with the delicacy of the jelly; a real gourmet would not only send it from his table, but discharge the maker with the impression that a cook without taste was no cook at all; the only flavour required in jelly being some light liqueur, wine, or the freshness of some delicious fruits. I Orange jelly, and jelly from the juice of any other fruits, may likewise be made with the calf’s foot jelly, by omitting the gieater part of juice of lemon and using it instead, but heie isinglass has an advantage, it will keep for any time and may be used in the country where, perhaps, at the time required calves’ feet cannot be obtained. Take four calf s feet, cut them up and put them into a stewpan, with six quarts of water, place upon the fire; when boding remove to the corner, where let bod slowly five hours, !to reduce to about two quarts, keeping wed skimmed, pass through a hail sieve into a basin, in which let remain in a cold place till set quite firm, take off as much of the oil from the top as possible with a spoon, and wash off the re- mainder with a little hot water as quickly as possible, wipe diy with a cloth, and put it into a stewpan, with a pound of lump sugar broken in srnaU pieces, the juice of ten lemons, the rind of four (free from pith), the whites of eio-ht eggs, with the shells, half a pint of water, and half a pint of sherry, place the stewpan over the fire and keep whisk- ing its contents until boding, then pass it through your jedy bag, pouring that which first runs through back again until it runs quite clear; it is then ready for use as directed in the following receipts. io be quite certain of the strength of your jelly take a little from the stewpan previous to its boiling, which put into the bottom of a small mould and place upon the ice518 ENTREMETS. if too strong add a little more water, but if by mistake too weak reduce it in clarifying. I have invented some few new jelly moulds, the designs of which are shown in the accompanying plates, also some new fruit atelettes (which will be found at the end of this work), one of which, placed at the top of a jelly when turned out, is a very handsome addition. No. 1226. Gelee de Dantzic aux Fraises. Take a quart of jelly clarified as above, with which mix four glasses of eau de vie de Dantzic, reserving the gold leaves by letting them set at the bottom of the glass, mix four tablespoonfuls of the jelly with it, have a cylinder mould and place it in ice, put the jelly with the leaves first in, so that the gold will show at the top of the jelly when turned out, place a fine strawberry in each knob of the mould, then add a little more jelly, when nearly set add more strawberries, sticking them to the sides of the mould and arranging them as tastefully as possible, fill up by degrees or you would have all the strawberries swimming at the top; when finished and quite set it is ready to turn out, which is done by dipping the mould in warm water $ wipe quickly with a cloth, shake the mould gently, turn over carefully upon your dish, and draw the mould oft quite straight. Two glasses of pale brandy may advantageously be added to the jelly. No. 1227. Gelee de Maresquin aux Peekes. Take a quart of jelly clarified as before, to which add four glasses of the best Italian maresquino, have four nice ripe peaches, but perfectly sound, which cut into quarters, bury a cylinder mould in ice, place a little jelly at the bottom, then arrange some of the pieces of peaches, which cover with jelly; when nearly set arrange the remainder,ENTREMETS. 51!) and iill up the mould, proceeding as in the last. The fruit will impart its own peculiar flavour to the jelly. No. 1228. Gelee de Noyeau aux Abricots. Flavour a quart of jelly clarified as before with four glasses of the best noyeau, (here I must remark that if the liquors used are not of the best quality it would render the jelly cloudy and very unsightly,) have six nice ripe deep- coloured apricots, which cut in quarters and arrange taste- fully in your mould, proceeding as in the two preceding articles. Observe in arranging the fruit in your mould that each piece is separate, so as to leave some parts of the jelly transparent, otherwise it would appear very heavy and ungraceful. No. 1229. Gelee Macedoine aux Fruits de belle saison. Piepare a quart of jelly as directed (No. 1225) putting the gold leaves in the mould, which you have previously surrounded with ice, have ready twelve very fresh straw- berries, twelve black grapes, twelve very white cherries, and one peach or apricot cut in six, put six strawberries at the bottom, with a piece of peach between each, cover with jelly, when set place in another row of fruit, proceeding thus until full, but not putting the fruit too close together and varie- gating it as much as possible, or if in winter and the above fruit cannot be obtained prepare three small apples, (golden pippins,) which cut into quarters and put into a stewpan, with the-juice of a lemon and one ounce of powdered sugar' set them over a slow fire to stew till tender, then put them out on a plate to cool, peel and take all the pith from two small oranges, which cut in quarters, have also a few brandied cherries and some fine black and green grapes • arrange the whole tastefully in your mould, filling with jelly as before directed.520 ENTREMETS. No. 1230. Bordure de Boires en gelee. Cut twelve middling-sized ripe pears in halves, take out the cores peel neatly, and throw them into a preserving- pan, with the juice of two lemons and half a pound of lump sugar, let stew rather quickly till tender, but not to break, put them upon a dish till cold, have a cylinder mould (but not too deep) upon the ice, have a quart of jelly flavoured with four glasses of any liquor, put a little at the bottom of the mould half an inch in depth when set, dress your pears round in a border, (but the reverse way, so that they become right when the mould is turned over,) fill the mould up with the jelly when quite cold and upon the point of setting, and when wanted turn it out as before, and fill up the centre with red whipped jelly. Apricots or peaches cut in halves may be dressed the same, or apples. No. 1231. Gelee au Blmm. Have a quart of jelly clarified as before, to which add four wineglasses of old Jamaica rum, colour a little with some essence of cochineal, pom it into your mould without any fruit. This is better appreciated by a party of gentlemen, and should not be introduced where there are ladies; by keeping the jelly a little stiller you may introduce more nun. No. 1232. Gelee Mousseuse a VEau de Vie. Put a pint and a half of jelly in a stewpan upon the ice, add four glasses of cognac brandy, whip it until very light* and upon the point of setting, when pour in your mould, it will be quite white ; when ready to serve turn it out as before directed. If wanted clear', proceed as lor gelee au rhum.ENTREMETS. 621 No. 1233. Gelee demie chaude froide marbree. Flavour a quart of jelly with three glasses of maresquino, have ready also a pint of the preparation (creme au mares- quin, No. 1251), nearly set in a basin, dip in three apricots cut in quarters, which put in a plate upon the ice till set, have also some quarters of peaches, which also dip into the cream, when set commence filling your mould with the jelly, placing a few fine strawberries at the bottom, then some of the fruit enveloped, filling with the jelly as before directed, and variegating it as much as possible with black grapes, strawberries, and the enveloped fruit. This is quite a new idea, it not only looks well but likewise cuts and eats beautiful. No. 1234. Gelee fouettee aux Fruits. Put a pint and a half of jefiy upon the ice in a stewpan, to which add three glasses of maresquino, whip the jelly !to a white froth, and when upon the point of setting stir in very carefully about thirty strawberries, not too ripe, with a few cherries, apricots in quarters, or peaches; fill your mould and when set turn out as usual. A jelly for whipping requires to be rather stiffer than when clear, if not stiff enough add a little clarified isinglass. No. 1235. Gelee a VAnanas. Procure a middling-sized pineapple, peel it carefully, cut in halves lengthwise, then into slices, (rather thin,) have a quart of jelly in which you have infused the rind of the pineapple, previously well washed, place a little at the bottom of the mould, and when nearly set lay a border of the pineapple over one upon another, forming a ring, cover with more jelly, let it nearly set, then add another border of the pineapples, proceeding thus until the mould is filled. -ENTREMETS. 522 No. 1230. Orange Jelly. Have ten fine Malta oranges and three or four lemons, peel off the rind of eight very finely, which put into a basin, clarify a pound of sugar (No. 1379), pass through a napkin into the basin (over the rind) whilst hot, and cover with a sheet of foolscap paper, twisting it tightly over the edge, and pricking a small hole in the centre with a pin to give a little vent; cut the oranges and lemons in halves, squeeze out all the juice through a hair sieve into another basin, and proceed to clarify it as follows: wash well two sheets of white blotting-paper in a basin of water, let well drain upon a sieve, bruise it in a mortar until forming quite a puree, take from the mortar and put it into the basin with the juice, which mix well with it; let remain a quarter of an hour to settle, then pom- it into your jelly bag, pour- ing what runs through back again into the bag until be- coming as clear as spring water, strain the syrup again through a napkin, add the clarified juice, two ounces of clarified isinglass (No. 1372), and a few drops of liquid cochineal, to give an orange tint; mix all well together, and pour into a mould surrounded with ice, when set and ready to serve, turn out as before directed. Lemon Jelly is made precisely as directed for the orange jelly, using all lemon-juice instead of orange, rather more syrup, and omitting the cochineal. Some persons mix a handful of white sand well washed with the juice which will assist the clarification, but the idea would be objection- able to many. No. 1237. Orange Jelly, in the skins of the Oranges. Procure twelve of the best-formed oranges, and with a round vegetable cutter cut a hole of the size of a shilling523 ENTREMETS. at the stalk of each, then with the handle of a teaspoon empty all the pulp from them and clear away as much of j the pith as possible, throw them into cold water to harden and retake their original shapes, make a jelly with the pulps as in the last, drain the skins of the oranges, stand them upon ice and fill with the jelly, dress in pyramid when set, or cut them in quarters for garnishing. Should !you make a hole in clearing out the skins, place a small piece of butter over previous to placing them upon ice, which take off at the time of serving. I No. 1238. Gelee de Fraises. Pick two pounds of fresh strawberries, which put in a basin, with the juice of two lemons, (over them) and a quart of clarified boiling syrup; cover with paper, let remain twelve horns, colour a little deeper with the essence of cochineal, pour into your jelly bag; and when it has all run through add two ounces of clarified isinglass cold, but not set; mix well and pom it into your mould. No. 1239. Gelee d’Abricots. Take the stones from eighteen ripe fleshy apricots, cut into thin shoes and put them into a basin with the juice of three lemons; have ready boding a pint and a half of clarified syrup, pour it over the apricots, cover the basin with paper, and let them remain until quite cold, then drain the syrup through a napkin, add an ounce and a half of clarified isinglass, (half cold,) mix well in, and pour into your mould. The remainder of the apricot would make a very good marmalade. No. 1240. Gelee d la Bacchante. Have two pounds of very fine green grapes, which pound in a mortar, with a few leaves of spinach well washed, addENTREMETS. 524 half a gill of water, pass the juice from them through a jelly bag, and mix it with three quarters of a pound of clari- fied sugar, yielding a pint and a half of syrup, and two ounces of clarified isinglass, both nearly cold, add a pint of champagne, stir well in, pour the jelly in your mould and leave it upon ice till set; when ready turn it out and serve. No. 1241. Gelee de Fleurs d’ Orange au Vin de Champagne. Clarify three quarters of a pound of sugar, and when boiling add two ounces of candied orange-flowers, take off the fire, cover over closely, and let remain till cold, then strain it through a napkin, when all has run through add two ounces of clarified isinglass, (cold but not set,) and nearly a pint of champagne, mix altogether and pour it into your mould. No. 1242. Pain de Fruit a la Russe. Pick a pint of fine red currants, half the quantity of raspberries, a pound and a half of cherries, (stoned,) and nearly a pottle of strawberries, place a few of them lightly at the bottom of the mould, then have ready a quart of strawberry jelly (No. 1238), in which dissolve a pound of powdered sugar; when well dissolved pour some of it in the mould containing the fruit, which place upon the ice, let it nearly set, then put more fruit with more jelly, pro- ceeding in like manner until the mould is full; when set dip it into warm water and turn carefully into your dish. No. 1243. Creme a la Vanille. Put the yolks of five eggs in a stewpan, with six ounces ol powdered sugar, beat well together with a wooden spoon; in another stewpan have a pint of milk, inENTREMETS. 525 which, put an ounce of isinglass, boil ten minutes, stir- ring occasionally to keep it from burning, throw in two sticks of vanilla, take it from the fire, put a cover upon the stewpan till three parts cold, then take out the vanilla, pour the milk in the other stewpan upon the eggs and sugar, mix well together, and stir over the fire until be- coming a little thick and adhering to the back of the spoon, but do not let it boil, pass through a tammie into a a round bowl; when cold set the bowl upon ice, add four glasses of noyeau or maresquino, keep stirring its contents, and when upon the point of setting add three parts of a pint of cream well whipped, mix well together and pour- ing into your mould, keep it upon ice till wanted, and when ready to serve dip into warm water, wipe with a cloth, and turn it out upon your dish. No. 1244. Creme aux Pistaches. Blanch and sldn a quarter of a pound of very green pistachios, which pound well in a mortar, with six ounces of sugar (upon which you have rubbed the rind of a lemon) and eight bitter almonds, have three quarters of a pint of milk boding in a stewpan, into which put the above ingredients, with three quarters of an ounce of isinglass previously dissolved, bod a few minutes, then in another stewpan have the yolks of five eggs, pour the milk upon them and stir altogether over the fire till it thickens, then pom it into a bowl to cool, pound wed in a mortar two or three good handfuls of spinach well washed, then place it in a strong cloth, which twist as tight as possible, thus squeezing ad the juice out of it, which put into a smad stewpan over the fire, the moment it boils it will curdle, pour it on the back of a silk sieve, then place the bowl with the other ingredients upon the ice, finish your cream as in the last, but at the moment of adding your whipped526 ENTREMETS. cream, add also some of the spinach from the back of the sieve sufficient to give it a beautiful light green colour. No. 1245. Creme a VAnanas. Take the half of a middling-sized pineapple, peel it, and throw the rind into a stewpan containing a pint of boiling milk and an ounce of isinglass, cut the pineapple up into small strips and put them into a small preserving-pan, with half a pound of sugar and a wineglassful of sherry or water, place on the fire and let it boil to a thick syrup, in another stewpan have the yolks of five eggs, to which add the milk by degrees, stirring all the while, straining it through a sieve, place over the fire, keeping it stirred till thickening, then pass it through a tammie into a bowl, add the syrup with the pineapples, leave it to cool, then place it upon ice, and finish as for the creme a la vanille. No. 1246. Creme aux Amandes. Blanch and skin a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, which dry and pound well with six ounces of lump sugar, put it into a stewpan, with the yolks of four eggs, mix well together, then in another stewpan have a pint of milk in which you have put an ounce of isinglass, boil until re- duced to three quarters of a pint, pass through a tammie, and pom’ over the other ingredients, which stir over the fire till it thickens, when pom into your bowl, let remain till cold, stirring occasionally to keep it smooth, add two glasses of noyeau, and finish as in the last. No. 1247. Creme d’ Orange. Bub the rind of two oranges upon six ounces of lump sugar, which pound and put into a small preserving-pan, with the juice of four large oranges, let the sugar dissolve, boil over the fire till forming a thick syrup, boil nearlyENTREMETS. 527 a pint of milk in a stewpan, with an ounce of isinglass ten minutes, then pour it into another stewpan containing the yolks of five eggs, which place upon the fire, stirring until it thickens, but not boiling, pass it through a tammie, add the syrup from the orange, and finish as for the creme a la vanille. No. 1248. Creme aux Fraises. Prepare a cream as directed for creme a la vanille, and when ready to pour in your mould add half a pound of fresh gathered strawberries well picked, placing them here and there whilst putting it in the mould, and serve when ready. No. 1249. Creme d’Abricots. Take a dozen ripe apricots, which cut in slices and put in a preserving-pan, with half a pound of powdered sugar and the juice of a lemon, stew them over a slow fire till tender, then rub them through a tammie with two wooden spoons, put rather more than half a pint of milk to boil, with an ounce and a half of isinglass, reduce to half a pint, then pom it into another stewpan containing the yolks of four eggs, stir over the fire till it thickens, when pass it through a tammie into a bowl, add the apricots, and finish as before. No. 1250. Creme au Ponche. Boil an ounce of isinglass in three quarters of a pint of milk (five minutes), take the rind from two lemons as thin as possible, without any pith • directly the milk commences boiling throw it in, then in another stewpan have the yolks of five eggs and four ounces of powdered sugar, beat well i together with a wooden spoon, then add the milk, mix well, and stir over the fire till it thickens, pass through a tammie528 ENTREMETS. into a bowl, and when cold add three glasses of maresquino, one of rum, and a teaspoonful of arrack, place upon ice and finish as before; six liqueur- glasses of milk punch added instead of the above liqueurs would be very excellent. No. 1251. Creme au Maresquin. Prepare a cream as for the creme a la vanille, only adding a quarter of an ounce more isinglass to the custard, and when cold mixing four glasses of maresquino with it. No. 1252. Creme au Noyeau. Proceed exactly as in the last, only substituting noyeau for maresquino. No. 1253. Creme au Cafe. Put three ounces of the best (unroasted) Mocha coffee into a stewpan, keep tossing over a sharp fire till it be- comes yellow, in another stewpan have a pint of milk in which you have boiled an ounce of isinglass, throw your coffee into it, place the cover upon the stewpan and let stand till half cold, have the yolks of five eggs in another stewpan, with which mix four ounces of powdered sugar, then add the milk, stir over the fire till it thickens, and finish as before. No. 1254. Creme au Caramel. Put four ounces of powdered sugar in a stewpan, which stir over a slow fire till quite melted and beginning to tint, take it off the fire; in another stewpan have three quarters of a pint of milk in which you have boiled an ounce of isinglass, pour it upon the caramel, which stir occasionally until it is quite dissolved, pour into another stewpan with the yolks of five eggs, stir over the fire till it thickens, when pass through a tammie, and finish as before.529 ENTREMETS. No. 1255. Bavaroise aux Praises. Pick two pounds of fine red strawberries, which put into a basin with half a pound of powdered sugar, let them re- main half an hour, then rub them through a tammie, add an ounce of isinglass, previously dissolved in two wine- glassfuls of water, boiled and passed through a tammie; set the whole upon the ice, stirring until upon the point of setting, when stir in a pint of cream well whipped, pom it into the mould, which keep upon the ice till set, and when wanted dip it into warm water, and turn out'upon your dish. Proceed exactly as for the strawberries in the last, using a pound and a quarter of raspberries and six ounces of curiants; or either of the above bavaroises maybe made by putting the fruit into a preserving-pan with three quar- ters of a pound of powdered sugar, moving it over the fire until boding, when strain it through a side sieve mixing the juice with the dissolved isinglass, and finish as before; should either of the above be deficient in colour a little essence of cochineal may be used. Take twelve ripe fleshy apricots, cut them in halves, stone hem, and put them into a preserving-pan with half a pound o sugar, the juice of two lemons, and an ounce of isinglass rllSRnlxrorl in o _ j No. 1256. Bavaroise aux Framboises. No. 1257. Bavaroise aux Abricots. dissolved in a little water, stew them till quite tender, then 34ENTREMETS, 530 No. 1258. Bavaroise aux Poires. Procure a dozen and a half of iniddling-sized pears, peel and cut out the cores, slice them into a preserving-pan, with the juice of two lemons (the rind of one of which also add, cut very thin), twenty bitter almonds blanched, and chopped very fine, half a pound of lump sugar, and an ounce of clarified isinglass, place the pan upon a moderate fire, moving the contents occasionally, stew until quite tender, when rub them through a tammie, and finish as in the last. No. 1259. Bavaroise aux Pommes. Peel and cut in quarters twenty small pippin apples, which put into a preserving-pan, with the juice of two lemons, two glasses of sherry, half a pound of sugar, and an ounce of clarified isinglass ; proceed precisely as in the last article, adding a glass of maresquino, if approved of, or noyeau. No. 1260. Bavaroise aux PistacJies. Blanch and skin four ounces of pistachios with twelve bitter almonds, and pound them well until six ounces of sugar, upon which you have rubbed the rind of a lemon; when well pounded throw it into three quarters of a pint of boiling milk with three quarters of an ounce of isinglass, boil altogether five minutes, then pour it into a bowl or basin, stand upon the ice, keep stirring, and when upon the point of setting add a pint of cream whipped and some of the preparation of spinach, as for the creme aux pistaclies (No. 1244); pour it into your mould, which must be pre- viously lightly oiled, and twenty chopped pistacliios shook over the interior, until adhering to the sides.ENTREMETS. 531 No. 1261. Bavaroise a VAnanas. Procure a middlingsized pineapple, peel and cut it in ! slices, which put into a small preserving-pan, with half a pound of sugar, half an ounce of isinglass, and a wineglass- fid of water, stew until quite tender, then rub them through a tarnmie, set it on the ice, keeping it stirred; when upon the point of setting add a piut of cream well whipped, mix well, and pour it into your mould. No. 1262. Bavaroise au Maresquin. Put one ounce and a half of isinglass in a stewpan, with half a pint of water, the juice of two lemons, and four ounces of lump sugar, boil altogether, reducing one half, skim and pass it through a tarnmie into a bowl; when cold add four glasses of maresquino, and two of brandy, place it on the ice, and when upon the point of setting add a pint of cream well whipped, and pour it into your mould. No. 1263. Bavaroise au Bonche. Boil one ounce of isinglass in a stewpan with the juice of four and the rind of two lemons cut very thin, half a pound of sugar, and nearly half a pint of water, reduce one half, then pass it through a tarnmie into a bowl or basin, and when cold add two glasses of maresquino, two of nun, and half a one of arrack, place it upon the ice and hmsh as m the last, or use the milk punch as directed for creme au ponche. I must here observe, that although I have stated as nearly as possible the quantity of isinglass to be used in the foregoing recipes, yet there are so many causes which may make it either too much or insufficient, such as the difference in quality of isinglass, or the difference in the quantity of juice extracted from the various fruits which532 ENTREMETS. would make it impossible to be exact; so that the surest method is to try a little first upon the ice before adding the whipped cream, if too still', a little more milk, juice, or liqueur (whatever it may be you are making) must be added, but if not stiff enough, a little more clarified isin- glass, which is the method adopted by most practitioners. No. 1264. Charlotte Russe. Line the inside of a plain round mould with Savoy bis- cuits (No. 1361), cutting and placing them at the bottom to form a rosette, and standing them upright round the sides, with a piece cut off the top and bottom of each, and trimmed at the sides to make them stand quite close, stand the mould upon ice, then have ready a creme au maresquin (No. 1251), to which you have added a good glass of cognac brandy, with which you fill the interior, when set and at the time of serving, turn over upon a dish and lift off the mould. No. 1265. Charlotte Prussienne. Put a little jelly (flavoured with a little brandy and~co- loured of a beautiful crimson, with a little essence of cochi- neal) into a plain round mould, covering the bottom half an inch in depth; place it upon the ice, then fine the sides of the mould with Savoy biscuits, and fill with a bavaroise au maresquin (No. 1262), place it upon ice till set, and when ready to serve dip the bottom of the mould very quickly in warm water, and turn it over upon your dish. No. 1266. Charlotte Russe en mosaigue. Have a plain round mould, at the bottom of which lay some grapes (white and black), strawberries, pieces of apples (stewed), pears, or any fruit in season; cover the bottom, variegating them as much as possible to imitateENTREMETS. 533 mosaic, set the mould upon ice, and pour in a little clear jelly, but only sufficient to just cover them) when set line the side of the mould with the biscuits, and fill as for charlotte russe, only introducing angelica and stewed apples, cut in large dice, with the cream. No. 1267. Charlotte Russe aux Liqueurs. Line a mould as directed in either of the three last ar- ticles, and fill with a cream made as for the creme au maresquin (No. 1251), only using one glass of curagoa, one of noyeau, and oneofmaresquino, instead of all maresouino. Line a plain round mould with ripe strawberries by buijdng the mould in ice to the rim, and dipping the straw- berries in calf s-foot jelly, first covering the bottom with them cut in halves, the cut side downwards, afterwards building them up the sides, the jelly (which must be cold, but not set) causing them to adhere; when finished, fill it with the cream as directed for the charlotte russe, and when ready to serve, dip the mould in warm water, and turn it out upon your dish. The cream must be very nearly set when you pour it in, or it would run between the stiawberries and produce a bad effect. No. 1269. Gateaux aux Fruits de belle saison. Line a charlotte mould very tastefully with various lands of fruits (such as stoned cherries, strawberries, pieces of peaches, apricots, apples, or pears, cut into very tasteful shapes, stewed in a little syrup, and drained upon the back of a hair sieve), by dipping them into jelly, forming some design at the bottom of the mould, and building them in reverse rows up the sides, having the mould previously P aced in ice, when well set, terminate as in the last. No. 1268. Charlotte aux Fraises.534 ENTREMETS. No. 1270. Charlotte de Volumes au Beurre. For the few following receipts, the russet apple is the one I should recommend, it being the most suitable, not being so watery, or falling in' puree, but in case they cannot be obtained other sorts may be used, which will require to be more reduced in stewing. Well butter the interior of a plain round mould, then cut twelve pieces of bread the size and thickness of a shilling, dip them in clarified butter, and lay them in a circle round the bottom of your mould; cut also eight small pieces in the shape of diamonds, dip them in butter, and with them form a star in the centre of the circle, cover the whole with a round piece of bread the size of the bottom of the mould and the thickness of a penny-piece, cut about thirty other pieces an inch wide and four inches in length, dip one after the other in clarified butter, which stand upright, one half way over the other, all round the interior of the mould ; then have ready prepared two dozen or more russet apples, which peel and cut in slices, put them into a round- bottomed preserving-pan with six ounces of butter and half a pound of broken lump sugar, with a little lemon-peel cut in strips, and a glass of sherry, place them over a sharp fire, tossing over occasionally, but keeping them togethei in a cake; when quite tender fill your mould (having previ- ously well egged and bread-crumbed the interior), place another round piece of bread (also egged and bread-crumbed) over the apples, and stand the mould in a hot oven until the bread becomes well browned, take out and turn it o\er upon your dish, have a few spoonfuls of red ciuiant je y in a stewpan, with a glass of sherry, melt it over the fire, and when quite hot pour round the charlotte; sugai an salamander the top if not quite crisp, and serve.ENTREMETS. 535 No. 1271. Charlotte de Famines a la Confiture. Proceed as in the last, but when the apples are ready mix a few spoonfuls of apricot marmalade with them and fill the mould ; place it in the oven, and serve as before. No. 1272. Chartreuse de Pommes. Procure twenty small russet apples, cut off the top and bottom of each, and with a long vegetable cutter cut out as many pieces as possible of the thickness of a quill, and about an inch in length, have in a stewpan upon the fire a thick syrup made from half a pound of sugar, with the juice of a lemon and half a pint of water; when well reduced throw in half your pieces of apples, stew them until tender, but not to break, take them out and lay them upon a hair sieve, put the other half of the apples into the syrup, stew them until nearly done, then add a little essence of cochineal to give them a crimson colour, stew a minute or so more, then take them out, lay them on the sieve till cold, lightly oil a plain round mould, cut some pieces of green angelica, with which form a star at the bottom of the mould, and a border round the bottom, then with the white pieces of apples make a row round the sides, standing each piece upon one end slantingly, one leaning upon the other, above which place a row of the red pieces m the same manner, and so on alternately till you reach the top ; you have previously peeled a dozen and a half of apples, which cut in slices and put in a preserving-pan, with half a pound of sugar, the juice of a lemon, a°small piece of butter, a little powdered cinnamon, and a small glass of rum, place them over a sharp fire, stirring occa- sionally until forming a thick marmalade, put them in a basm until cold, fill your chartreuse, and when ready to serve turn it out upon your dish, garnish with filletsENTREMETS. 536 of red currant jelly, and pour a little white syrup reserved from the apples over. No. 1273. Suedoise de Pommes. This very grotesque entremet was never a favorite of mine; any kind of ornaments, such as cascades, ruins, arches, &c., may be made from them, and ornamented with various fruits, but they look very heavy, and from the apples being so much boiled and reduced become very unpalatable, they being nothing more than apples boiled in syrup to a very firm marmalade; I shall not here enter into the various modes of dressing it, but substitute other entremets, which, if not so ornamental, are at any rate much more palatable. No. 1274. Pain de Pommes a la Busse. Put one pound and a half of lump sugar and a pint and a half of water into a round-bottomed copper preserving- pan, place it over a sharp fire and reduce it to au casse (No. 1379), have ready twenty-four good brown pippin apples peeled and cut into slices, which put into the sugar, keeping stirred until it becomes quite a thick marmalade, take off the fire and put it into a cylinder mould, previ- ously slightly oiled, shake it well down and let it remain until quite cold, when turn it out of the mould upon your dish; have a few spoonfuls of currant jelly in a stewpan, which melt over the fire, add two glasses of good old rum, and when partly cold pom over and serve with whipped cream in the centre, in which you have introduced a quar- ter of an ounce of candied orange-flowers. No. 1275. Croquettes de Pommes. Prepare some apples as in the above, (or the remains of one previously served,) when cold form it into the shape537 ENTREMETS. of pears, have three eggs in a basin well whisked, dip each piece into it, then throw them into a dish of bread-crumbs, smooth them over with a knife, then again dip them into the eggs and bread-crumbs, and fry of a light brown colour in very hot lard, dress them upon a napkin in pyra- mid, and serve with sifted sugar flavoured with orange over them. ■ No. 1276. Pommes au Riz. Peel and quarter twelve good-sized apples, put them into a preserving-pan, with three quarters of a pound of sugar, the thin rind of a lemon in strips, the juice of another, and a wineglassful of water, pass them over a sharp foe, and when tender lay them upon the back of a hair sieve to drain, then put six ounces of rice into a stewpan, with a quart of milk, place it upon the fire, stir until boiling, then place it upon a very slow fire to simmer very gently until quite tender, placing a little fire upon the lid, if it becomes dry before it is tender add a little more milk, then add a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, and four eggs, stir them well in, stir over the fire until becoming again thick, when put it upon a dish to get cold, then form a stand with it upon your dish eight inches in diameter and three in height, but hollow in the centre, where dress some of the apples, more rice over, then more apples, forming a pyramid; you have previously reduced the syrup drained from the apples, which pour over the whole, and garnish with some very green angelica, forming any design your fancy may dictate. Pommes au riz may be served hot as well as cold. No. 1277. Poires au Riz. Peel and cut in halves eighteen small ripe pears, which put in a small preserving-pan, with three quarters of a538 ENTREMETS. pound of sugar, a little water, and the juice of two lemons, stew them till tender, then lay them upon a dish to cool, and mix three tablespoonfuls of apricot marmalade with the syrup, have some rice prepared as in the last, with which make a stand, but not quite so high, dress the pears in a border in the interior, and again in the centre dress the remainder of the rice in pyramid; when ready to serve pour the syrup over, and garnish tastefully with angelica round. No. 1278. Abricots au Biz. Proceed exactly as in the last, only passing two dozen of apricots cut in halves, with the kernels from the stones pre- viously blanched and skinned, in the syrup instead of pears, dress them upon the dish precisely the same. No. 1279. Pommes au Biz en Timbale. Line a plain round mould with pate fine (No. 1136), having previously buttered it, the paste must not be thicker than a shilling, then fine the interior of the paste with rice dressed as for pommes au riz, placing eight apples in the centre, likewise dressed as for pommes au riz, cover auother sheet of paste over, and put in a hot oven until the paste is quite done; when three parts cold turn out upon your dish, mask it over with apricot marmalade, and decorate it with dried cherries and blanched pistachios, according to taste; do not serve until quite cold. Apricots and pears may also be used; this entremet may also be served hot. No. 1280. Pommes a la Trianon. Put four ounces of ground rice in a stewpan, with a pint and a quarter of milk and two ounces of butter, stir until boiling, then add the rind of a lemon cut very thin, let simmer over a slow fire until the rice is done and becomes rather thick, when take out the lemon-peel and add a539 ENTREMETS. quarter of a pound of powdered sugar and the yolks of eight eggs, stir again over the fire until the eggs are set, and put it out upon a dish to get cold, then turn twelve golden pippin apples, taking off the rind without leaving the mark of your knife, having previously with a long vegetable cutter taken out the cores, rub the apples with lemon-juice and stew them in a thick syrup (made with three quarters of a pound of sugar boiled with half a pint of water and the juice of a lemon), stew them until tender, but keep them whole, peel and quarter three oranges, which (after having taken out the apples) just give a boil up in the syrup, then dress the rice in pyramid in the centre of your dish, surrounded with the apples interspersed with the quarters of oranges, and pour the syrup over when ready to serve. No. 1281. Pommes Meringuees. Line a small raised pie-mould, three inches in height and eight in diameter, with pate fine (No. 1136), about a quar- ter of an inch in thickness, or if no mould raise a crust with the hands of pate a dresser, fill it with bran or flour, and bake in a moderate oven; when done empty it and have ready some apples dressed as for charlotte cle pommes (No. 1270), or dressed in syrup as in the last, with which fill the croustade, then make a meringue preparation (No. 1218), of five eggs, which lay over the top, smoothing it nicely, and ornamenting it with some of the mixture, by piping it with a paper funnel according to your taste, sift a little sugar over, and place it in a very slow oven till it becomes crisp, and serve when ready either hot or cold. No. 1282. Pommes a la Vest ale. Make a pyramid of rice (upon a dish) dressed as for pommes au riz (No. 1276), peel and cut eight russet apples540 ENTREMETS. in slices and put them into a preserving-pan, with half a pound of sugar and the juice of a lemon, stew tilf quite tender and put them into a basin to cool, then cut nine small apples, (golden pippins) in halves, to which give the shape of cups, which stew in a thick syrup until nearly tender, but not to break, then place the apples upon the pyramid, make eighteen small tartelettes (No. 1155) of thin gum paste, small enough to fix in each cup of apple, and dress them in pyramid upon the others; when ready to serve cover the whole with thick syrup, pour a teaspoonful of brandy into each tartelette, with some in the dish, which set on fire at the moment of going to table, it has a very pleasing effect. No. 1283. Pommes au Peurre. Peel eighteen russet apples, which cut in quarters and trim of a nice shape, put them into a small preserving-pan, with two ounces of butter and three quarters of a pound of sugar, having previously rubbed the rind of an orange upon it and pounded it, pass them over a sharp fire, moving occasionally until quite tender, have ready buttered a plain dome mould, put the apples into it, pressing them down a little close; when half cold turn it out of the mould upon a dish, and cover all over with apricot marmalade; when cold it is ready to serve. No. 1284. Miroton de Pommes. Procure a dozen russet apples, which cut into slices a quarter of an inch in thickness, peel and take out the cores with a round cutter, then put two ounces of butter in a saute-pan, spread it over the bottom and lay in your apples, with half a pound of powdered sugar and the juice of two lemons, stew gently over a moderate fire; when done dress them rather high in crown upon your dish, melt three541 ENTREMETS. spoonfuls of red currant jelly in a stewpan, with which mix a glass of Madeira wine, which pour over when ready to serve. Make a paste as follows: put a pound of sifted flour into a basin, with which mix a good half pint of water, mix it with a wooden spoon until very smooth, then have an ounce and a half of butter melted in a stewpan, which stir into it, whisk the whites of three eggs very stiff, which also stir in gently, then have six russet apples, which cut in slices a quarter of an inch in thickness, peel them and take out the cores with a round cutter, dip each piece separately into the batter, when completly but thinly enveloped drop them into a stewpan of hot lard, to fry them well, the lard should not at first be too hot, but become hotter as they proceed in cooking, proceeding thus till you have fried the whole of them a nice fight brown colour, drain them upon a cloth, then lay them upon a baking-sheet, sift sugar over and glaze them with the salamander, serve dressed in a double crown upon a napkin. Prepare a paste or batter as in the last, then peel eight middling-sized oranges, quarter them, without breaking the thin skin that divides them, and take off all the white pith, dip each piece singly into the batter, and then into a stewpan of hot lard ; fry of a nice fight colour, drain upon a napkin, lay them upon a baking-sheet, sift sugar over, gla.ze with the salamander, and serve them dressed in pyramid upon a napkin. The fruit for any description of fritters may be soaked in any liqueur for half an hour before they are required, but it often prevents their being well fried. No. 1285. Beignets de Pommes. No. 1286. Beignets d’ Oranges.ENTREMETS. 542 No. 1287. jBeignets de Peches. Skin and cut in halves twelve ripe hut firm peaches, take out the stones and put the peaches into a basin, with a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, toss them together lightly, but not to break the peaches ; have a batter pre- pared as in the last, in which dip each piece of peach se- parately, fry them in lard, not too hot, glaze and serve pre- cisely as in the last. No. 1288. Beignets d'Abricots. Cut twelve or fourteen apricots in halves, put them into a basin with a little powdered sugar, and proceed exactly as for beignets de peches. No. 1289. Croquettes de Biz. Well wash half a pound of the best Carolina rice, which put into a stewpan, with a pint and a half of milk, and a quarter of a pound of butter, place it upon the fire, stir until boiling, then place it upon a slow fire, cover the stewpan and let simmer very slowly until quite tender; rub the rind of a lemon upon a lump of sugar weighing a quarter of a pound, pound it in a mortar quite fine, add it to the rice, with the yolks of eight eggs (mix well), stir them a few mi- nutes longer over the fire until the eggs thicken, but do not let it boil, lay out upon a dish, when cold form it into a number of small balls, or pears, or into long square pieces, according to fancy ; have three or four eggs in a basin well whisked, dip each piece in singly, and then into a dish of bread-crumbs, smooth them gently with a knife, dip them again into the eggs and bread-crumbs, put them mto a wire basket, which put in a stewpan of very hot lard, fry a nice light brown colour, drain on a cloth, dress them pyra- midically upon a napkin, and serve with powdered sugar sifted over them.ENTREMETS. 543 No. 1290. Croquettes de Creme au Biz. Proceed precisely as in the last, only using ground rice instead of whole, they are finished and served exactly the same. No. 1291. Croquettes de Macaroni. Blanch six ounces of macaroni in half a gallon of boil- ing water until tender, then strain and put it in a basin of cold water; when cold cut it into pieces half an inch in length, and put it into a stewpan containing a pint and a half of boiling milk, in which you have infused a stick of vanilla, boil until it becomes tkickish, add a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, two ounces of butter, and the I yolks °f eight eggs, stir them well in over the fire until the eggs thicken, then pour out upon a dish, and proceed precisely as for the croquettes de riz. No. 1292. Croquettes de Vermicelle. Put six ounces of vermicelli in a stewpan with a pint and a half of milk, boil until very tender and becoming thick, keeping it stirred with a spoon, then add a quarter of a pound of sugar, upon which the rind of a Seville orange has been rubbed, and two oimces of butter, stir well in, add the yolks of eight eggs, and proceed as directed in the last article. Croquettes of semolina may also be made the same way. No. 1293. Creme Frite a la Patissiere. Put the yolks of six eggs in a stewpan with two good tablespoonfuls of sifted flour, mix quite smooth with a wooden spoon; then add a pint of boiling milk or cream, stn in by degrees and place it over the fire, keeping stirred544 ENTREMETS. until it thickens, add an ounce of butter, six ounces of sugar, two ounces of crushed ratafias, a little orange-flower- water, and three whole eggs, mix the whole well together, and stir it a few minutes longer over the fire until the eggs set; then pom’ it out upon a saute-pan, previously oiled, and when quite cold cut it into pieces one inch wide and two and a half long, dip them in eggs and bread-crumbs twice over, the same as for croquettes, fry them in the same manner, dress upon a napkin as high as you can, with sifted sugar over, they may be flavoured also with vanilla or lemon. They may be varied in shape according to fancy. No. 1294. Beignets Souffles a la Vanille. Place half a pint of milk in a stewpan over the fire, and when boding put in a fresh stick of vanilla, place a cover upon the stewpan, let it infuse ten minutes, then take out the vanilla and add rather more than an ounce of butter, place it again upon the fire, and when boiling stir in quickly six oimces of flour ; dry the paste well over the fire, keep- ing it from sticking to the bottom of the stewpan, then take it off and stir in six whole eggs gradually, and six oimces of powdered sugar; have ready a stewpan of hot lard, into which drop the above mixture in pieces about the size of small walnuts, fry a nice colour, and when quite done drain them upon a cloth, and serve upon a napkin with sifted sugar over; they may also be flavoured with orange-flower-water. No. 1295. Frangipane. Put six whole eggs in a stewpan with three tablespoon- fids of flour, beat well together with a wooden spoon, then add a pint of milk or cream, and keep stirring over the fire until it becomes thick and upon the point of boding; add a quarter of a pound of sugar, upon which the rind of anENTREMETS. 545 orange or lemon has been rubbed, two ounces of crushed ratafias, and a small glass of brandy (mix well); put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, place it upon the fire, and when getting a little brown stir ir into the frangipane, which is then ready for use; it may be flavoured also with vanilla or any of the flavours used for such purposes. No. 1296. Omelettes a la Celestine. Put a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar and a quar- ter of a pound of flour together in a basin, which well mix with four eggs till smooth, then add nearly half a pint of milk; have ready an omelette-pan, in which put a small piece of butter, when the pan is quite hot pour in two tablespoonfuls of the mixture, which let spread all over the pan, when quite set and of a light brown colour under- neath, turn it over upon the bottom of a stewpan-lid, pre- viously buttered, and again from that upon a cloth, pro- ceeding thus with the whole mixture, then spread a tea- spoonful of apricot marmalade upon each; have ready some frangipane as directed in the last, quite hot, lay a piece the size of a small sausage upon each, and fold them up neatly, tnm the ends, lay them upon a baking-sheet, sift sugar over and glaze lightly with the salamander, dress them in crown, or in pyramid upon your dish, and serve very hot. No. 1297. Panncquets a la Confiture. Put a quarter of a pound of sifted flour into a basin with four eggs, mix them together very smoothly, then add half a pint of milk or cream, and a little grated nutmeg, put a piece of butter in your pan (it requires but a very little) and when quite hot put in two tablespoonfuls of the mix- hire, let spread all over the pan, place it upon the fire and when coloured upon one side turn it over, then turn it upon your cloth; proceed thus till they are all done, 35ENTREMETS. 546 then spread apricot or other marmalade all over, and roll them up neatly, lay them upon a baking-sheet, sift sugar over, glaze nicely with the salamander, and serve upon a napkin; the above may be served without the marmalade, being then the common pancake.647 REMOVES. SECOND COURSE,, My readers could not have failed to remark the nume- rous innovations in all classes of dishes throughout this work, which nothing but constant study, practice, and profound knowledge of the art could have brought to perfection. In the following Removes still greater innovations will be found than in any other department, for I have always aimed at producing the greatest effect upon the last dishes sent to table, particularly as they are the ones over which each convive has time to pass remarks, and admire, if pro- Peily executed. The transformation of the second course fiom the first has never failed to give the greatest satisfac- tion, and has often caused the greatest hilarity at table; some parties, unacquainted with them, have ordered their removal, thinking they belonged to the first course, whilst others have actually carved them before discovering their mistake. And, again, those Removes being only& demi- glace, and not too sweet, refresh the palate, disposes it more favorably for the dessert, and does not prevent the freely partaking of the ices which there cannot be avoided. Any kind of ice pudding, however excellent when done to per- fection, is too close an imitation of the dessert ices, and properly belong to the confectioner. To regenerate that finish of the dinner, which is very properly much thought of in England, it only requires a little artistic feeling, which is soon acquired by prac- ice and perseverance. To simplify them as much as pos- sible, I have only described one sort of sponge-cake whichREMOVES. 548 is always varied in flavour by the different kinds of fruits and ices with which they are filled. The introduction of atelettes of fruit in the Removes as well as in the jellies, is also quite a new idea, and renders the appearance of both very novel as well as very handsome. No. 1298.. Gateau Britannique a VAmiral. Make a sponge-cake of twenty eggs as directed (No. •1369), have a tin mould in the shape of a vessel, which paper well at the sides, to prevent the mixture running over whilst baking (the mould requires to be eighteen inches in length, six in breadth, and high in proportion); butter and lightly flour the interior of the mould, into which pour the mixture, which bake an hour and a half in a moderate oven (this cake requires to be baked a day or two before using); mask the exterior with chocolate iceing (No. 1383) to imitate the colour of a ship, when quite dry partly empty the interior,* leaving a piece across in the centre, to fix the mast upon, which you have made of pate d’office (No. 1137), as also the ladders, rigging, and guns, by rolling pieces of the paste to the thickness required with the hands, cutting them to the lengths required, and baking them a light colour in a moderate oven; mask the guns with chocolate iceing, made rather darker than for the cake, and form the muz- zles with small rings of puff paste, place them judiciously at the sides, as also the mast and rigging at their respec- tive places (see design), place the vessel upon a dish, lay- ing rather upon one side, lay rolls of gelee a la bacchante * In emptying the interior of this or any of the following cakes for remo\ cs, care should be taken not to leave them either too thick or too thin; if too thick it would not hold sufficient ice, and eat very heavy, if the reverse it would be too delicate, and not hold together in dishing up. About three quarters of an inch in most cases would be the thickness required. Any of the Removes may be curtailed in point of size, but the above would be sufficient for a dinner of eighteen persons.SECOND COURSE. 541) (No. 1240) round, over which lay thin slices of the same to form waves, make the sails of wafer or rice-paper, fix them to the mast as if filled with wind, upon the side the vessel is laying on, have also a flag made of the same ma- terial, painted with a little water-colour, which place at the stern ; well soak the interior with wine and brandy, mixed with apricot marmalade, just before serving, and when ready fill with a delicate vanilla ice (No. 1381); you have previously formed some ropes of spun sugar, which affix to the rigging at the moment of serving. This dish has a pleasing effect, and, unlike many orna- mental dishes, the whole of it is eatable. It may be rather difficult for many, but with a few trials, aided by the above directions, I flatter myself it may be easily accomplished, but of course a great deal depends upon the taste of the person employed, who, if they could not accomplish one thing, would lesoit to another, and succeed in making a very handsome dish. Should you have no mould to bake the cake in, bake it in something as near as you can to the size, and afterwards shape it with a knife; and, again, should it be inconvenient to make the green jelly for °gar- mshmg, any other description of white clear jelly may be used. The remains and trimmings are very good made into cabinet pudding. No. 1299. TIure de Sanc/Iier glace en surprise, Or mock boar’s head; this dish, although more simple than the last, is no less pleasing. Make a sponge-cake of thirty eggs (No. 1369), which bake (in an oval baking-dish or common tin dish-cover) nearly two hours ; the cake re- quires to be ten inches in thickness at one end, and about six at the other (which may be accomplished by tilting the dish shghtly upon one end to bake the cake); the next dav cut it mto the shape of a dressed boar’s head with a knife en carefully take out the interior to within an inch of the550 ItEMOVES. surface, in as large pieces as possible, put the pieces back again to keep the cake in its proper shape, turn it over upon the bottom of a large dish, and mask it all over with a chocolate iceing as near as possible to the colour of the real boar s head, form the eyes with white iceing, placing a dried cherry in the centre, and forming the eyelashes with thin fillets of pistachios, make the tusks of gum paste (No. 1139) or pate d’office (No. 1137), and the ears of puff p^iste (No. 1132), by working it a little with the hands, giving them their shape, and baking them upon two round cutters of a corresponding size, fix them with a stiffish paste made of flour and white of eggs, when done, upon the head, and mask them also with chocolate iceing; fix in the tusks, and when well dried and ready to serve empty the interior, which soak with a little brandy, and fill with a lemon-cream ice (No. 1385) in which you have introduced four glasses of curacoa, turn it over upon a silver dish, glaze over with currant jelly, melted and mixed with a little wine, and garnish with gelee au citron (No. 1225) made reddish with a little cochineal, to give it the colour of a brown aspic (No. 1360), form some bold design upon the top (between the eyes) with it in croutons, and the re- mainder chopped and also in croutons around. No. 1300. Cigne glace en surprise. Make a large sponge-cake of forty eggs as directed (No. 1369), bake it in a large oval tin dish-cover (about two hours and a half would be the time required), and the next day cut it with your knife into the form of the body of a swan (leaving a space in the breast down the front for the neck), empty the interior as in the last; ice it over with a white iceing, and when upon the point of setting ruffle it with the prongs of a fork in imitation of feathers, form the head and neck of pate d’office (No. 1137) by rolling out a piece with the hands of sufficient length and proportionateSECOND COURSE. 551 thickness to form the neck, being rather thicker at one end than at the other; cut it in halves lengthwise, placing them upon a buttered baking-sheet, the cut side downwards, model each half head with taste separately, form each piece exactly alike, and of the same size for the neck, being some- what in the form of the letter S, but finishing quite straight at the bottom, bake them in a moderate oven, and when done join them together with a paste made of flour and white of egg, with which also affix it to the dish you intend serving it upon (previously scraping the bottom of the neck quite flat with a knife), mask it over with a white iceing, and when upon the point of setting ruffle it with the prongs of a fork, and set in a warm place until dry ; an hom* be- fore serving pour some gelee au maresquin (No. 1227) cold, but not set, into the dish, filling it to the inner rim, and stand it in a cold place until set; when ready to serve empty the interior of the body, which soak with three glasses of maresquino and three of brandy; fill with a va- nilla ice (No. 1381), with which you have mixed two ounces of citron, two ounces of angelica, two ounces of cur- rants, and two ounces of Smyrna raisins, the citron and angelica cut into dice, and all soaked three hours in mares- quino and brandy; turn it over on your dish upon the jelly, fixing it neatly to the neck, you have previously made some sucre file (No. 1380), with which form the wings and tail, and fix in their respective places, whip about a quart more of the jelly as above upon ice until upon the point of setting, and with it, when set, form a kind of foam at the breast, diminishing it at the sides by degrees, in imita- tion of waves caused by the bird swimming. No. 1301. Jambon glace en surprise. Make a sponge-cake of twenty-four eggs as directed . O- 1309), bake it in a mould of the shape of a ham, or m a baking-dish, having a cake about six inches in thick-552 REMOVES. ness, and when cold cutting it with a knife in the shape of a ham, empty the interior as before, mask the exterior with chocolate iceing as near to the colour of real cooked ham as possible, over which sprinkle a few chopped pistachios and crushed ratafias, in imitation of chopped parsley and bread- crumbs ; you have reserved a little of the iceing, with which mix some more melted chocolate, making it a very dark brown, it will when cool form a kind of paste, with which form a part of the skin of a ham left upon the knuckle end, cut in points when dry and ready to serve, line the interior with apricot marmalade, soak it a little with brandy, fill it with apricot ice (No. 1387), turn over upon your dish, glaze with a little melted currant jelly, form a star of clear brownish calf’s-foot jelly upon the top, flavoured according to taste, with some chopped and in croutons around, run a skewer in at the knuckle, upon which place a paper frill, and serve. No. 1802. Gigot de Mouton bouilli glace en surprise. Make a cake of the same size as the last, but bake it in a smaller compass, that is, more round and smaller at one end than at the other; the next day form it with your knife into the shape of a leg of mutton, mask it over with a white iceing in which you have introduced a very little chocolate, to give it the colour as near as possible of the fat of a leg of mutton when boiled (having previously emptied the interior); form the knuckle-bone of pate d’of- fice, and imitate the lean part with.some chocolate iceing; when dry and ready to serve, soak the interior with four spoonfuls of preserved greengages, mixed with two glasses of sherry, and fill it with strawberry ice (No. 1388); turn it over upon your dish, place a paper frill upon the knuckle, surround it with gelee mousseuse (No. 1232) in broken pieces, to imitate mashed turnips, and a few apples dressed as for pommes a la Trianon (No. 1280), to imitate wholeSECOND COURSE. 553 i ones; make also a custard with the yolks of four eggs and half a pint of milk (as directed for creme au maresquin, omitting the isinglass), to which, when cold and thickish, add an ounce of very green pistachios, blanched and coarsely. chopped in imitation of capers, which pour over the cake previous to garnishing. No. 1303. Selle de Mouton a la Jardiniere en surprise. Make a sponge-cake with the same quantity of eggs as in the last, which bake in a long square baking-dish, or form a square in a round one with bands of paper, fixing them in their place with pieces of common paste against the side of the dish; the next day form it with a knife to the shape of a saddle of mutton, trussed as for roasting (as near as possible), ice it as in the last, but rather darker, with chocolate, to imitate a real one when roasted (imitate it from a real one should you have one); you have previously emptied the interior, form the lean parts with darker co- loured chocolate iceing, and the flaps by graining it with a knife; when dry and ready to serve fill with apricot ice (No. 1387), turn it over upon your dish, garnish with a custard made as for vanilla ice (No. 1381), but coloured brown with a little melted chocolate, to which add a quan- tity °f fruits, dressed as directed for chartreuse de pommes (No. 1272), thus imitating a sauce with vegetables • green currants passed in sugar, and mixed with and served in the custard, make a very good imitation of peas. No. 1304. Cotelettes de Mouton glace en surprise. Make a sponge-cake of eighteen eggs as directed (No. 1369), which bake in a baking-dish so that the cake shall be about four inches in thickness; when baked and cold cut it m thin shoes, lay them upon your table, and spread Hpncot marmalade upon each alternate slice, then lay those554 REMOVES. slices without the marmalade upon the others, press gentlv together and cut them into pieces about three inches in length and one and a half in breadth, of the shape of cote- lcttcs, using a round cutter to form the circle of the cote- lctte, have ready some thin light chocolate iceing in a basin and some ratafia-crumbs in a dish, mask the cotelettes lightly with the chocolate iceing and throw them into the crumbs, take them out, pat them gently with your knife, put a piece of blanched almond in the end to imitate the bone, and put them upon a baking-sheet in the screen to dry ; when ready make a thin border of apricot or any other marmalade on a silver dish, upon which dress the cotelettes in border, garnish round with strawberry jelly, chopped and in croutons, and serve with a vanilla ice dressed very high in the centre. No. 1305. Haunch of Lamb glace en surprise. Make a sponge-cake (No. 1369) of thirty-six eggs, which bake in a very long mould • when cold cut it into the form of a haunch of lamb (or it may be baked in two separate pieces and afterwards joined together with the iceing), empty the interior, which again put into the cake to keep it in shape, mask it over with an iceing of a light gold co- lour, made by adding a little melted chocolate and coclii- neal; when dry and ready to serve moisten with some brandy and preserved strawberries, and fill with strawberry or vanilla ice (Nos. 1381, 1388), place a frill upon the knuckle-bone, which you have previously formed of pate d’office, glaze it over with apricot marmalade and currant jelly mixed, pom- a little melted currant jelly mixed with wine, in imitation of gravy, round and serve. No. 1306. Shoulder of Lamb glace en surprise Is very good for a small party; make a sponge-cakeSECOND COURSE. 555 (No. 1369) of twelve eggs, bake it in a flat saute-pan, and when done and cold form it into the shape of a shoulder, empty a little from the interior, fix on the knuckle, which you have formed of pate d’oflice (No. 1137), and mask the whole over with nearly a white iceing to imitate a boiled shouldei ol lamb; when dry and ready to serve dish it up with \anilla ice (No. 13bl) in the interior, and round in imitation of mashed turnips. No. 1307. Cotelettes d Agneau, a la JReforme en surprise aux Champignons. Make a sponge-cake as directed for cotelettes de mouton en suprise (No. 1304), cut it into pieces of the same shape, but much smaller; mask them over lightly with apricot marmalade, and dip them into ratafia crumbs, it will give them a lighter appearance; form the bone with strips of blanched almonds, and dress them the reverse way on your dish upon a border of marmalade, melt some currant jelly in a stewpan, with which mix some syrup of pine- apples, put in forty thin strips of pineapples, forty ditto of green angelica, and forty preserved cherries, porn- it over the cotelettes, and when set and ready to serve fill the centre with a lemon ice (No. 1385), and garnish with some mush- rooms of meringues (No. 1222). No. 1308. Chapon en surprise glace aux Fruits. Make a sponge-cake of twenty eggs, bake it in a long roundish mould, or an old tin dish-cover; when done and quite cold form it with your knife into the shape of a toasted capon trussed, with the legs inside; form the pinions oi the wings with pate d’office, stick them to the sides in hen proper position, then mask it over with a light choco- late iceing in which you have introduced a little prepared cochineal, to give it the colour as near as possible of a roastREMOVES. 5 50 capon; you have previously emptied it, and again filled it to keep it in shape, but when perfectly dry again empty it and -line the interior with orange marmalade, soak it with a little wine, fill the interior with an orange cream ice (No. 1386) flavoured with noyeau, turn it over upon a silver dish, garnish round with pears dressed as for poires au riz (No. 1277), mixing their syrup with a little apricot marmalade, and pouring it over them; you have made a croustade of pate d’ office, in imitation of the one of bread, in the form of a gondoliere, upon which place a few straw- berries, a peach, and cherries, which place at the head 'of the dish with silver atelettes of fruit upon it, and serve. To form a good imitation of a capon, you require to have a real one before you, or at least" a fowl, if possible. No. 1309. Petits Poussins en surprise a la Sutherland. Make a sponge-cake of thirty eggs (No. 1369), and when finished stir in a quarter of a pound of fresh butter (melted) very gently, bake it in three oval moulds, each about the size of a large chicken; when quite cold cut each one into the shape and size of a spring chicken trussed as for boil- ing, (having a real one as a model,) empty the interiors, place it in again to keep them in shape, mask them all over with a white iceing (No. 1373) to which you have added a little brown brandy instead of lemon-juice; you have previously formed the claws of pate d’office (No. 1137) and baked them, fix them at the sides in them proper posi- tions and place them to dry, you have also made three cakes of Genoise paste (No. 1201) of the same size as the above, and when cold cut two of them into the form of Russian tongues, well trussed, and make them with a cho- colate iceing as near as possible to the colour of real tongues, with the cake cut a croustade in imitation of a bread croustade, mask it with a very light chocolate iceing,SECOND COURSE. 557 and ornament it with small designs of puff paste baked very [white, or gum paste, place it at the head of your dish; when ready to serve, fix three silver atelettes of fruits (see Plate) upon the top; again empty the interior of the imitation chickens and fill them with a creme plombiere (No. 1332), place two of them with their tails towards the croustades, with a fine bunch of black grapes hanging from it, then the two imitation tongues, which glaze over with melted currant jelly, then the other imitation chicken between them, place the remainder of the creme plombiere round and between, place a fine red strawberry with the stalk on here and there, and seive with a thickish custard m which you have intro- duced two glasses of noyeau over each. No. 1310. Dindonneau en surprise a la Gondoliers. Make a sponge-cake (No. 1369) of thirty eggs, which bake (in an old tin dish-cover) in a moderate oven; when done turn it out upon a sieve, and when quite cold cut it into the shape of a trussed turkey, (having a real one for a model, which may be used in the first course, these dishes only being appropriated to large dinners,) which mask over with a chocolate iceing to imitate as near as possible the colour of a roasted turkey, having previously emptied the interior, which again place in to keep its shape, form the claws with pate d’office (No. 1137), and cover them with a little of the iceing made darker with a little more chocolate, make a nice croustade of Genoise paste (No. 1201), the shape of the head of a gondola, which fix at the head of the dish, again empty the cake, soak the interior with brandy and apricot marmalade, fill with an apricot cream half iced, turn over upon your dish, garnish round with a red mous- seuse jelly in croutons, and small pears cut in halves and stewed as directed (No. 1145), glaze over with currant jelly melted with a little wine, and serve.558 REMOVES. No. 1311. 1 eacoclc a la Louis Quatorze. Make a cake of the same size as in the last, bake the same, and when done and cold cut in the shape of the body of a large bird, mask it over with a pinkish white icemg, rather thick, having previously emptied it; have ready blanched a quarter of a pound of pistachios (very green), make the neck and head of pate d’office in two separate halves lengthwise, as direcftd for the swan, onlv giving the head the shape of a peacock, bake a light colour, and join them together with a paste made of whites of eggs and flour, fix it upon the dish with the same paste, having formed the bottom so that the body will adhere closely and unperceivedly to it, mask it with the same ice- ing, cut the pistachios in flat fillets, and stick them into the neck to form feathers, you have previously mixed a quantity of red and green sugar (No. 1376) together, which sprinkle thickly over the body of the bird; when dry, again empty the interior, which moisten with Malaga wine and brandy, fill with strawberry ice (No. 1388), turn over upon your dish, fitting it to the head and neck’ form the wings with sucre file (No. 1380), also the tail, fix the skins of some of the cherries upon the tail to imitate feathers. Any one perfect in sugar will form the tail open, which will produce a magnificent effect; have some very light jelly flavoured with gold water, (containing plenty of gold leaves,) chop it into rather small pieces, with which lightly cover the body of the bird; the crown of the head and eyes must be well imitated with sucre file, a small black currant imitating the balls of the eyes, garnish round tastefidly with croutons of the above jelly and serve. No. 1312. Faisans en surprise glace au Chocolat. Make a sponge-cake (No. 1369) of twenty eggs, whichSECOND COURSE. 559 bake in two separate oval moulds; when cold cut them into the shape of two pheasants trussed as for roasting, empty each one as before, putting the pieces again in to keep them in shape, make the legs and pinions of the wings with pate d office (No. 1137), mask them over with cho- colate iceing (No. lo74), imitating as near as possible the coloiu of roasted pheasants, making the legs darker than the body, imitate larding upon the breast with some blanched sv eet almonds cut into thin strips of about equal sizes; when dry and ready to serve line the interiors with currant jelly, and fill with a creme glacee au chocolat (No. 1383), or au cafe Moka (No. 1382), turn them over upon your dish and garnish with some jelly (No. 1225), chopped and m croutons round; white strawberries and pieces of apples prepared as for the chartreuse de pommes (No. 1272), and soaked in brandy, may be served with the ice in the interior. No. 1313. Maniveau de Champignons glace en surprise. Make a basket of pate d’office (No. 1137), which is done y lolling out a piece of the paste to three quarters of an mch m thickness, with length and breadth corresponding to the size of your dish, place it in a baking-sheet, put it in a moderate oven, and when about half baked cut an odd number of holes all round near to the edge with a lono- vegetable cutter a quarter of an inch in diameter, then form a number of pegs of the same paste to fit into the holes 'yen baked, and all of equal lengths, roll out a number of cords of the same paste as long as possible and the lekness. of blanched macaroni, which plait round the Pegs, going in and out one upon the other until you lave reached the top and formed a rustic basket let it staKl some time to get dry, then bake it in a moderate d™e ancl cold 8*“ °''er with some red cun ant jelly, dress a pineapple ice (No. 1384) in theREMOVES. 5G0 centre in pyramid, which cover all over with mushrooms of meringues (No. 1222), building them in clusters as high as possible; garnish round withagclee au rhum (No. 1231) chopped and in croutons, and serve. No. 1314. Turban de Conde glace a l’Ananas. Make a pound of puff paste into conde as directed (No. 1183), make a thin border of any kind of marmalade upon a silver dish, on which dress the conde in turban, that is, standing upon end, one resting upon the other, * dress a pineapple cream ice (No. 1384) in the centre in pyramid, garnish round with orange jelly in the skins of the oranges (No. 1237); cut in quarters and serve. No. 1315. JBombe demi glace a la Mogador. Make a good vanilla ice as directed (No. 1381), well flavoured with maresquino, have a large round pewter ice- mould which opens in two halves, partly fill each half, leaving a hollow in the centre of each, which fill -with all kinds of small fruits, grapes, strawberries, currants, Smyrna raisins, &c., soaked in maresquino, close the mould, (having it sufficiently filled to form a ball when turned out,) and bury it in ice and salt, then make a thin ornamented border of pate d’office (No. 1137) an inch in height, which fix upon a silver dish and bake in a moderate oven, place it somewhere for the dish to get cold; when ready to serve, dip the mould into lukewarm water, and turn the ice quickly out in the centre of your dish, you have previ- ously prepared some finely-spun sugar (sucre file, No. 13S0), with which form a fusee, stick it in the top of the ice, twisting it round, bringing the other end near the edge of the dish, pom* half a pint of brandy in your dish outside of the border of paste, which set on fire at the moment of going to table; the fire will require to burn the sugar,SECOND COURSE. 5G1 which will give it quite the appearance of a fusee; it would, however, be better that the brandy should not be set on fire until it reached the dining-room. No. 1316. Cerito’s Sultane Sylp/ie a la Fille de V Or aye. Procure a half oval-pointed mould about fifteen inches in height, ten inches by eight in diameter at the bottom, and the size of a five-shilling piece at the top, which bury to the rim in ice with which you have mixed plenty of salt, line the interior with a sheet of white paper, laying it in closely to fit the mould, have ready a pint of cieam mixed rather stiffly, with which you have mixed a meringue mixture of three eggs, as for the biscuit glace (No. 1318), spread it all over the interior of the mould to about an inch in thickness, place a cover over the mould made to fit tight, over which place some ice, and leave it one hour, when it will be quite frozen, take off the lid, have ready a nice cherry or strawberry cream ice (No. 1388), place a little at the bottoni of the mould, upon which lay a few fresh strawberries, then more ice, proceeding thus until quite full, place the cover again over, fixing it tight, bury it in ice and salt, and leave it an hour, or till wanted,' when dip it into very lukewarm water, turn it out upon your dish, take off the paper, have ready a silver atelette (see atelette of fruits m the Plate), upon which you have placed some fine fresh fruit, that is, a peach with a bunch of fine black grapes resting over, and a few red currants or straw- berries beneath, which stick into the top, have ready some finely-spun sugar (sucre file. No. 1380), which twine round lightly like rolls of gauze (see design), not, however, covering the whole of it, and at the moment of serving lay a fine bunch of black grapes upon each side on vine-leaves; have some very light gelee de Dantzic (No. 1226) chopped finely, with which garnish round, sprinkling some over the grapes,' 36562 REMOVES. but not too heavy, and serve as quickly as possible. As soon as it is turned out of the mould you had better set the dish upon the ice and salt you took it from (pouring off all the water) whilst ornamenting, and it would be better to make a border of pate d’office upon your dish as in the last, but smaller, to prevent it sliding about when carried to table, which would upset the garniture. No. 1317. Gateau glace a VMoise. Bury a mould in ice as in the last, then whip a quart of double cream very stiff, to which add a very little powdered sugar and two glasses of noyeau, put it in a freezing-pot, and when about three parts frozen line the mould as in the last, make a custard with eight yolks of eggs as for vanilla ice (No. 1381), to which add a little clarified isinglass (No. 1372), stir it upon the ice, and when becoming thickish add two glasses of noyeau, half a pint of whipped cream, and half a pound of cherries, stoned, and passed in sugar as directed (No. 1144), only dry well before adding them to the custard, which must be kept as white as possi- ble, place it in the centre of your mould, which cover up and bury in ice until wanted; when ready, dip the mould in lukewarm water, turn it out upon your dish, stick a few fine cherries here and there over it, prepare another custard of four yolks of eggs, which pom’ all over and serve. The garnishing of these dishes must be effected very quickly, as they require to be served the moment they are turned out. No. 1318. Biscuit Mousseux glace, en caisse. Make a custard of six yolks of eggs as directed for creme au maresquin (No. 1251), but omitting three parts of the sugar; put into your freezing-pot, and when half frozen have ready the following preparation: boil a quarter of a pound of sugar au casse (No. 1379), have ready five563 SECOND COURSE. whites of eggs whipped very stiff, with which mix the sugar by degrees; when quite cold mix with the custard, adding half a pint of whipped cream and three glasses of any white liqueur, freeze the whole together, keeping the pot twisted until you have obtained a good consistency; have ready a number ol small round paper cases,* place a band of paper round each, half an inch above the top, and fill with the above preparation; place them in a flat tin box, spiinlde ratafia crumbs upon the top of each, place the lid upon the box, which must close very tight, and bury it in ice and salt for six hours ■ when ready to serve, take them out of the box, detach the bands of paper from them, dress upon a napkin, and serve. They will have every appear- ance of having just left the oven. No. 1319. Souffle glace au Curagoa. Proceed exactly as in the last, only using curapoa instead of a white liqueur; place it in a middling-sized silver souffle- dish, surround it with a band of paper, sprinkle crushed ratafias over the top, place it in the box, which cover and bury in ice, and salt eight hours; when ready to serve take off the band of paper, and dress it upon a napkin on a silver dish. No. 1320. Ponding Souffle glace a la Mep/iistop/ieles. Proceed precisely as in the last, place in a dish of the same description, and whilst buried in ice make a cover from a meringue mixture (No. 1218) of four yolks of eggs, very firm, a large spoonful of which place upon a sheet of paper, forming it round, three inches in diameter, and the remainder in a paper cornet or horn, cut off the point of one, leaving a point the size of a sixpenny-piece, with which Bd PaPCT “ arC t0 ^ F°CUrCd ^ Temple’S) WIlitcomb564 ■REMOVES. work a spiral line round the meringue until you have formed a cover large enough for the souffle-case, sift sugar over it, and bake in a very slow oven; when done turn it gently over in your hand, take off the paper, empty the interior lightly, and place it to dry in a very slow oven (it might be made the day before); make a border of pate d’office upon a silver dish as for the bombe glace (No. 1315), bake in a warm oven; when ready to serve take the souffle from the ice, take off the paper, stand it in a dish of ice and salt to reach the rim of the souffle-case; place on the cover, which must be quite cold and crisp, and place it in the oven until the meringue cover is warm, when take it out, stand it in the centre of your dish, pour half a pint of brandy upon the dish outside of the border of paste, which set on fire upon its going into the dining-room. No. 1321. Brioche. Put four pounds of flour upon a marble slab, one pound of which place upon one side, with an ounce of German yeast dissolved in a gill of warm water in the centre, mix the yeast well with your fingers, add a little more water, and mix the flour into a stiffish but delicate paste, which roll up in the shape of a ball, cut an incision across it with a knife, place it in a basin well floured and put it into a warmish place for ten minutes or longer, untill becoming very light, make a large hole in the centre of the remainder of the flour, in which put half an ounce of salt, half a gill of water, two pounds and a half of fresh butter, and sixteen eggs, mix the eggs and butter well together, and work in the flour by degrees, if too stiff add more eggs, the paste must be kept rather softish, press it out with your hands by degrees, lay the leaven upon it, which spread over, bring the ends over with your knife, press it out again and fold over until well mixed, sprinkle some flour upon a cleanSECOND COURSE. 565 SECOND COURSE. cloth, fold the paste in it and let remain all night; when ready to use throw some flour upon your pastry slab, turn youi paste out upon it and work it up together with your hands, then cut a piece, which mould into a ball with the hands, place it upon a piece of buttered paper on a baking- sheet, make an impression with your hand in the centre, mould another ball of the paste two thirds the size of the former, wet the former ball with a little water, fix the other upon it, pi ess gently, egg over with a paste-brush, make a few incisions round with a knife, and put it in a moderate oven, (it will require about two hours baking, to try when done run a thm wooden skewer into it, if done it will come out perfectly dry,) bake of a nice gold colour. Many small cakes, nssoles, &c., are made from this paste. By butter- ing a middle-sized stewpan, putting a band of paper four nic ies m height round, and baking the paste in it, it will baking^ ^ * rem°Ve’ ^ °f COm’Se I^uirin« lonSer No. 1322. Baba. thp^Vw18 made °f ^ Same descriPtion of paste as soft ’ a nsing six more eggs, as it requires to be ®\a°d working lightly with your hand about ten mi- inites before adding the leaven, to which add a teaspoonful of powdered saffron; you have also picked and cleaned a uZ ° a T' f SmFna ^ “ a P-d o 3; » of a P°^d of currants, and a little s i , ange, lemon-peel, and citron, cut into thin slices T ha’f ‘ P!nt, °f Made™ ™e and thTO g sses of brandy or rum, and mix with the paste workim? sp?lr (S % nth the hands’ hare buttered a llf m0‘dd’,0r stewPau> Place a band of paper Place foftwomor tb 1°"^ ^ PU‘ “ into a «'u two or three hours, or until raised nearly to theREMOVES. 56G top of the mould, stand it upon a trivet in a warmish oven, and bake about three hours, ascertaining when done with a skewer, as in the last; your paste must not be made too thin, or all the fruit would fall to the bottom and spoil its appearance. Take off the band of paper, turn the baba over upon a hair sieve, and serve either hot or cold. Pre- viously to mixing the fruit with the paste you may line the interior of the mould very thinly with some of it, mix the fruit with the remainder and fill, this process will prevent the cake sticking to the mould, as the fruit will sometimes cause it to do, but gives rather too much the appearance of brioche when on the table. No. 1323. Brioche cm Fromage. Make the paste as directed (No. 1321), but rather softer, and when ready for use mix in a pound of Grayere cheese cut into small dice, with half a pound of grated Parmesan and a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper, mould it as for the brioche, put it into a buttered stewpan as there directed, egg lightly, place in a moderate oven, and bake it about two hours of a fine gold colour, (but try whether done or not as before,) and serve very hot. The same paste with cheese may likewise be served iu small cakes, making fifteen or sixteen from the same quantity of paste, or cutting up a large one with different shape-cutters into the same number of pieces, and placing them in a hot oven upon a baking- sheet (when the first course comes off the table) until very hot and becoming rather brown, dress them upon a napkin on your dish, and send very hot to table, with another nap- kin over them, which should not be removed until placed upon the table. No. 1324. Brioche frite au Vin de Madere. Make a brioche as directed (No. 1321), which w hen coldSECOND COURSE. 567 cut into pieces a quarter of an inch in thickness, and of the shape and size of small fillets of fowl, have ready four yolks of eggs in a dish, with which you have mixed a gill of good cream, have also clarified half a pound of fresh butter, a quarter of which put into a deep saute-pan over the fire; when hot dip eight pieces of the brioche into the eggs and cream quickly, and fry them in the saute-pan of a light 3 c^ow c°l°ur, proceeding thus until they are all done, dress them in crown upon your dish on a border of apricot mar- malade, and place it in the oven to keep hot, put half a pound of the marmalade in astewpan, and when melted add a pint of Madeira wine; when boiling pour over the brioche and serve very hot. The remainder of a brioche or baba from a Preceding dinner may be used for the above purpose. In saving a brioche or baba to table as a remove I strongly recommend the above method, as very few, even after a sumptuous dinner, could resist the temptations of this deli- cious dish, so well blended with the apricot and Madeira, whilst brioche or baba served entire cannot invigorate the appetite, and is not, in my opinion, exactly the kind of food to suit an already nearly satisfied stomach. They are however, excellent for breakfasts, luncheons, and ball sup- pers, where every person composes their meal according to their fancy. b No. 1325. Nougat aux Fraises. Blanch three quarters of a pound of sweet almonds in boiling water, and a quarter of a pound of pistachios, sepa- rate, take off the skins and cut each almond into five or six fillets, and the pistachios in two, place them upon a sheet of paper and dry in a warm oven until the almonds ecome a light straw colour, but taking the pistachios out earlier, then put a pound of sifted sugar into a copper pan and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until melted568 REMOVES. then throw in your almonds, (which must be hot,) and stir until well mixed, taking it off the fire, you have previously slightly oiled a large Savoy-cake mould, put in part of the mixture, which press to the sides with a lemon, then the remainder in small pieces, pressing the whole to the sides, forming it into one piece the thickness of a five-shilling piece, and when cold turn it out from the shape upon a dish, whip a quart of cream very stiff, which dress upon the dish you intend serving the nougat on, in pyramid, place some very fine strawberries upon it and the nougat over, have a little sugar boiled to the seventh degree (No. 1379), have also a few very fine strawberries, with the stalks on, as the green is an improvement, dip the stalks of the strawberries into the sugar, place one upon the top and the others all over, at the distance of two inches apart, fixing them in a drooping position, it is then ready to serve. The above makes a handsome remove, the pistachios, almonds, and strawberries correcting the taste of the melted sugar; if not convenient, the pistachios may be omitted, but adding more almonds in proportion. The sugar may be flavoured with lemon vanilla or candied orange-flowers. No. 1326. Croque en bouclie. Make some paste as directed for pate a choux (No. 1194), not, however, using so much butter, and adding a little more flour, drying it well in the stewpan, and adding suffi- cient eggs to make it of the same consistency as there directed, flavomlng with sugar upon winch you have rubbed the rind of a lemon, form about a hundred and fifty small balls the size of marbles, upon two baking-sheets, egg them over and bake very dry in a moderate oven of a light gold colour, then have some sugar boiled to the seventh degree (No. 1379), oil a large Savoy-cake mould lightly, place one of the petits choux upon a trussing-needle dip it in the569 SECOND COURSE. sugar, fix it at the bottom in the centre of your mould, then dip in the remainder one after the other, placing them round the interior of the mould, one adhering to the other until the mould is filled up, (to facilitate the building of them have your sugar in two different sugar-pans, being careful that it does not grain, for if the sugar is not quite clear and crisp it would stick to the mould, and your croque en bouche tumble to pieces,) when quite cold try gently with both hands to move it, just enough to detach it, turn it out carefully upon a napkin, and serve with whipped cream flavoured with vanilla sugar under it. The above when well made makes a pretty remove, but scarcely fit to eat, it being a mass of sugar without any relief to the palate. Although not a great admirer of nougat, the almonds certainly form a relief; a croque en bouche of oranges or any other fruit is a little more commendable, but is very difficult to succeed with, and do not in reality lepay in quality the trouble they give; such dishes, in my opinion, being fit only for children who are fond of sugar- plums. No. 1327. Meringue Pagodatique ala Chinoise. Have ready prepared a meringue mixture of fifteen eggs (No. 1218), with which make six rings upon paper, (lay- ing them out with a paper cornet or funnel, in the bottom of which you have cut a hole of the circumference of a shilling,) the three largest to be eight inches in diameter, the next one six and a half inches, the next five, and the smallest three and a half inches in diameter, and the whole of them an inch in thickness, have some of the preparation in a small paper cornet with a hole at the bottom of the size of a pea, with which ornament the rings, laying small fillets of it over them, then with the large paper cornet lay out four other pieces of an octagonal form, (to imitate the top of a570 REMOVES. Chinese pagoda, which may easily be accomplished if the mixture is firm, as it may then be laid out into any shape desired,) leaving a ring .in the centre, making the largest rather larger than the largest ring, diminishing the size in proportion to the other rings, and piping them according to fancy with the smaller paper cornet with which also form sixteen little bells by pressing an upright dot from it upon paper, and pulling the cornet up quickly, making the four largest half an inch in height and a quarter of an inch in width, and making each four a size smaller in proportion; bake the whole of the preparations (first sifting sugar over them) upon boards in a very slow oven, scarcely allowing them to obtain any colour; when baked and crisp place them in a hot closet until perfectly dry, when take them out, wet the back of the papers lightly with a paste-brush and carefully detach the meringues from them, which again put into the hot closet until quite crisp, then fix the bells, the largest upon the largest octagonal piece at the comers, and the smaller upon the smaller pieces, by running a needle with a piece of white silk through them, and fasten- ing them with a little boiled sugar or isinglass when upon the point of setting; when ready to serve place the tln-ee largest rings upon your dish, filling the middle with some whipped cream flavoured with vanilla sugar (No. 1377), then the largest octagonal piece, which also fill with cream, then the next sized ring, and so on until you have built the whole up, finishing with the smallest octagonal at the top, you have also made and baked a pointed meringue'of the shape of half a lemon, to fit into the hole at the top, hawing it decorated to correspond, which place upon the top and serve immediately, or it would become damp, and eat toughish instead of crisp.SECOND COURSE. 571 No. 1328. Meringue a la Parisienne. Prepare a meringue mixture of ten whites of eggs, with which make ten large rings, each about eight inches in diameter, and half an inch in thickness, laying them out upon paper; pipe them in stripes with the paper cornet, and sift sugai over, let them remain ten minutes, then shake off the superfluous sugar, lay them upon boards, and place them in a slow oven to bake; when of a light brown colour and quite set, put them into a hot closet to dry, then wet the back of the papers lightly with a paste-brush, from which carefully detach the rings, place them again in the hot closet to dry, and when ready to serve pipe them with bright red currant jelly between the stripes of meringue, dish them one upon the other, filling them with whipped cream, and serve as quickly as possible afterwards, with a few straw- berries upon the top. A meringue mixture may also be formed into various other shapes, according to fancy. No. 1329. Nesselrode Pudding. Blanch four dozen chestnuts in boiling water, skin and place them in the screen, when dry take them out, and when cold put them into a mortar with one pound of sugar, and half a stick of vanilla, pound the whole well together, and silt it through a fine wire sieve, put it into a stewpan with the yolks of twelve eggs, beat them well together; in another stewpan have a quart of milk, when boiling pour it over the other ingredients, mixing well, and stir over a sflarp fire until it begins to thicken and adheres to the back o the spoon, when lay a tammie upon a large dish, pour he mixture in and rub it through with two wooden spoons • Tno'1 1°Flac<; “ a freez“S-Pot freeze as directed Ihtlwf \ haVe a krge Mgh K*-m°uld, tloses hermetically, have also two ounces of currantsREMOVES. 572 and two ounces of Smyrna raisins, soaked in four glasses of maresquino from the previous day, with four ounces of candied citron cut in dice, put them into the freezing-pot with a pint of whipped cream and half the meringue pre- paration directed in (No. 1318); freeze the whole well together and fill your mould, which bury in ice and salt until ready to serve, when dip it into lukewarm water, and turn it out upon your dish. No. 1330. Pouding de Cabinet glace. Have ready prepared, and rather stale, a sponge-cake as directed (No. 1369), which cut into slices half an inch in thickness, and rather smaller than the mould you intend making the pudding in, soak them well with noyeau brandy, then lay some preserved dry cherries at the bottom of the mould, with a few whole ratafias, lay one of the shoes over, then more cherries and ratafias, proceeding thus until the mould is three parts full; then have ready a quart of the custard, as prepared for creme au maresquin (No. 1251), omitting half the quantity of isinglasss, pour it lukewarm into your mould, which close hermetically and bury in ice and salt, where let it remain at least two hours; when ready to serve dip it in lukewarm water, and turn it out upon your dish; you have made about half a pint of custard, which keep upon ice, pom* over the pudding when ready to serve, and sprinkle a few chopped pistachios over. No. 1331. Glace Meringue au four. Make a pineapple cream ice as directed (No. 1384), and when well frozen have ready a plain oval ice-mould, place the cream in it, filling it quite tight, close and bury it in ice and salt until five minutes before ready to serve, then dip it into lukewarm water, and turn it out upon your dish, which bury up to the rim in ice and salt upon a baking-B73 SECOND COURSE. sheet, have ready a preparation of meringue as directed for petits biscuits glaces, (No. 1318), with which cover it over, place it in a warm oven a minute, just setting the meringue, which will blister and brown slightly, and serve immediately. No. 1332. Plombiere. Blanch and skin a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, with six or eight bitter ones, when dry and cold place them in a mortar with three quarters of a pound of sugar, and ten or twelve leaves of candied orange-flowers, pound well, sift tluough a wire sieve, and place it in a stewpan with the yolks of nine eggs, beat them well together, then in another stewpan have boding a pint and a half of milk, which pour over the other ingredients by degrees, keeping it stirred, place it upon the fire, stirring until it thickens and adheres to the back of the spoon, rub it through a tammie, add two glasses of noyeau; when cold put it into your freezing-pot to freeze (see No. 1381), and when half frozen add a pint and a half of whipped cream, when quite frozen fill a mould, and serve as for the Nesselrode pudding. No. 1333. Plombieres Mousseuses a V Orange. Prepare about three parts of the quantity of plombiere ice as directed in the last, to which, when half frozen, add a pint and a half of whipped orange jelly (No. 1236) just upon the point of setting, beat the whole well together with the spatula, working it until well frozen ; have a dozen and a half of oranges, peeled, quartered, and passed in sugar as directed for vol-au-vent (No. 1147), and place them in a basin upon ice; when ready to serve make a border of pa- tisserie d’amande (No. 1183) upon your dish, in the centre o which put a little of the plombiere, then a layer of oranges, then plombiere and oranges again, proceeding US and fimsllmS m pyramid; garnish round with a littleREMOVES. 574 of the orange jelly (clear), chopped and in croutons, and serve. No. 1334. Gateaux de Fruit a la Gelee d' Orange mousseuse. Make a chartreuse of fruit as directed (No. 1269) in a large oval mould, having a quantity of fruit left; have also about a quart of orange jelly (No. 1236), which place upon ice in a bowl, whisking it until upon the point of set- ting, when place a layer of it in the chartreuse, then a layer of the fruit, the jelly, and so on until quite filled, place it upon ice, and when set and ready to serve dip in lukewarm water, and turn it out upon your dish; serve garnished round with orange jelly in the skins of the oranges (No. 1237), cut in quarters after it has set. No. 1335. Gateau Souffle a VEssence de Ponche. Break ten eggs, put the whites in a copper bowl, and the yolks in a basin, with four tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar, four of crushed ratafias, two of potato flour, a little salt, and a quarter of an ounce of candied orange-flowers, beat well together, whip the whites, which stir in lightly with the mixture ; well butter and bread-crumb the interior of an oval plain mould, butter also and bread-crumb a band of paper three inches broad, which tie round at the top of the mould, pour in the mixture, and half an hour before ready to serve stand it in a moderate oven (it will take about the above time to bake), when done turn it out upon your dish ; have ready a custard of three yolks of eggs, made as for creme au maresquin (No. 1251), to which you have added two glasses of essence of punch, pour round the gateau and serve. The above mixture may be baked in twelve small moulds and dressed in pyramid, but then they would require more sauce.575 SECOND COURSE. OF LARGE SOUFFLES FOR REMOVES. Souffles when well-made are excellent removes for the winter season, but I generally strive to avoid them in the summer, as they are not, in my opinion, at all suitable for that season of the year, for which reason I have introduced the new souffle glace, which, by pleasing the eye, and being more refreshing to the palate, cannot fail to give general satisfaction. No. 1386. Souffle a la Vanille. Prepare a crust or croustade of pate fine (No. 1136), or water paste, by fining a raised pie-mould with it filling- with bread-crumbs, and finishing the edges as for a raised pie; bake it (ol a very fight brown colour) about an hour m a moderate oven, when done empty out all the bread- crumbs without taking it out of the mould, then tie a band of buttered paper (four inches wide) round the top, and put it by until wanted. Put half a pound of butter in a stew- pan, with which mix three quarters of a pound of flour without melting it, in another stewpan have rather more than a quart of milk, into which, when boiling, put two sticks of vanilla, place a cover upon the stewpan and let it remain until half cold, then take out the vanilla, and pour the mfik upon the butter and flour, stir over a sharp fire boiling it five minutes, then stir in quickly the yolks of ten eggs, and sweeten with half a pound of sugar • when cold and an hour and a quarter before you are ready to serve’ 'P the whites of the ten eggs very stiff, stir them in with he mixture lightly, pour it into the croustade, and bake liable to b T “ 7"’ * g°iug ‘°° fest- a»d be done bdore squired, open the oven door, as it576 11EM0VE8. ought to be served the moment it is done; when ready to serve take it from the oven, detach the band of paper, take it from the mould, dress it upon a napkin on a dish, and serve immediately. These souffles may be baked in a silver souffle-case, if preferred, they will take considerable less time in baking, but fall quicker after being taken from the oven; any liqueur or spirits even may be introduced in souffles of this description if approved of. No. 1337. Souffle a la Fleur d’ Orange. Proceed exactly as in the last, but infusing an ounce of candied orange-flowers in the milk instead of the vanilla. No. 1338. Souffle au Cafe vierge. Proceed as for the souffle a la vanille, omitting the va- nilla, and procuring two ounces of green coffee, which place in a stewpan over a sharp fire, keeping them moved until of a very light brown colour, then throw them into the milk when boiling, cover over until hah cold, and finish as before directed, passing the milk through a sieve. No. 1339. Souffle a la Creme de Riz Is made by using ground rice instead of the common flour, finishing the same, and using any of the flavours di- rected in the three last. No. 1340. Souffle au Citron. Proceed as directed for souffle a la vanille, but infusing the rind of two lemons, free from pith, in the milk instead of the vanilla. No. 1341. Souffle au Macaroni. Have half a pound of macaroni blanched as directed577 SECOND COURSE. (No. 130), lay it upon a cloth to drain, and cut it into small pieces, the eighth of an inch in thickness; make half the preparation as directed for souffle a la vanille, but using an infusion of an ounce of bitter almonds; when it be- comes thick over the fire stir in the macaroni, and when again nearly boiling, the yolks of ten eggs, when cold whip the whites, which add to the other ingredients, and finish as where previously directed. No. 1342. Souffle au Tapioca. Put a half a pound of tapioca in a stewpan, with three pints of milk and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and when boding add the rind of two lemons, free from pith, tied in a bunch, bod until the tapioca is rather stiff and wed done, then take out the lemon and stir in the yolks of twelve eggs very quickly, stir another minute over the fire to thicken a little, and put by until cold; when ready, whip the whites of the eggs very stiff, stir them lightly with the tapioca, bake and serve as for the other description of souffles. No. 1343. Souffle au Jthum. Break the yolks of twelve eggs in a basin, to which add half a pound of sifted sugar, beat well with a wooden spoon . untd becoming quite thick and whitish; when stir in two glasses of ram and an ounce of potato flour; whisk the whites of the eggs very stiff, mix them gently with the mixture, put it upon the dish you intend serving it on, shaping in pyra- mid with a knife; and a quarter of an hour before serving place it in a moderate oven, when done pour a little rum lound, which set on fire and serve immediately. Souffles au maxesquin, noyeau, cura?oa, or whiskey, are made pre- cisely as the above, omitting the rum, adding two glasses of neor the other liqueurs instead, and serving without the me round it.REMOVES. 578 No. 1344. Omelette Soujjlee. Proceed as described in the last, but omitting the rum or liqueurs, and flavouring with three tablespoonfuls of orange- flower water, or rubbing the rind of a lemon upon the sugar previous to pounding and mixing (or vanilla sugar, No. 1377, might be used); place the souffle upon the dish, bake a quarter of an hour, and serve. These kinds of souffles are much more simple in their fabrication than the others, and much quicker done; their greatest difficulty is the whipping of the eggs, which must be very stiff; a little practice would, however, soon enable you to manage them; the best method is to put them into a copper bowl with a pinch of salt, and commence whipping very slowly, then quicker and quicker by degrees, until they adhere hke feathers to the whisk. These souffles may hke wise be baked in a silver souffle-dish, by tying a band of buttered paper round to bake it, which detach at the time of serving. No. 1345. Omelette Soujjlee a VAntiquaire. Though the last-mentioned article has received the name of omelette soufflee, it has no particular right to the name; for as there is no making an omelette without eggs, so is there no making an omelette soufflee without an omelette- pan ; I do not, therefore, intend entirely to forsake the old- fashioned method. The mixture is prepared precisely as the last, but the appearance and flavour are very different, being produced by the different method of cooking them; put an ounce of butter into a very clean omelette-pan over the fire, when melted, pour in half the preparation, place it over a very brisk fire a few seconds, then twist it round in the pan, which give a jerk, tossing the omelette half way over, stand it over the fire again, give the pan another jerk,579 SECOND COURSE. tossing the omelette again over, and turn it out upon your dish, set it in the oven and proceed the same with the re- mainder ol the preparation, which when done turn over upon the other, leave it in the oven about a quarter of an hour, sprinkle sugar over, salamander and serve very quickly. The butter the souffle is fried in gives it a superior flavour to the last. No. 1346. Omelette Soufflee a la Creme. Proceed as in the last, deducting two of the whites of eggs, and adding a gill of whipped cream, fry and serve as above. (No. 1347. Souffle au Gingembre. This is a very excellent remove for a party of gentlemen, make a preparation as for souffle a la vanifle (No. 1336), adding a little syrup, mixing a quarter of a pound of fresh pieseived ginger with it, cut into thin shoes, add two more whites of eggs to the preparation, which bake in a croustade as directed where above referred to. No. 1348. Souffle au Cerises. Prepare a souffle mixture as before, giving it the flavour of orange-flowers; when the whites of eggs are weh mixed, add a pound of cherries prepared thus: procure them not too ripe, take out the stones, and put them into a sugar-pan with half a pound of sugar, stew them until surrounded with a thickish syrup, then turn them out upon a sieve to dry, stir them into the souffle lightly, pom in your crous- tade, and bake it a short time longer, as the cherries will prevent the souffle rising so quickly. No. 1349. Souffle au jus d’ Orange et au Zeste praline. Prepare a souffle mixture as before, but when you pour580 REMOVES. in the milk add likewise the juice and pulp of eight oranges, having previously rubbed the rind of one of them upon two ounces of sugar, pound it fine, place it in the hot closet to dry, and add it as extra sugar to the souffle, bake and serve as before; a gill of milk less must be used in the above on account of the orange-juice, it would otherwise be too moist. No. 1350. Bisciuts Souffles a la Creme. Put the yolks of ten eggs in a basin, and the whites in a copper bowl, add half a pound of sugar, upon which you have rubbed the rind of a lemon previous to pounding, beat it well with the yolks of the eggs, then add half a pint of cream well whipped and ten ounces of flour; stir all together lightly, whip the whites of the eggs very stiff, and stir them into the preparation; have ready a dozen and a half of small paper cases, fill each one three parts full, and fifteen minutes before serving place them in a moderate oven; when done shake sugar over, dress in pyra- mid upon a napkin, and serve. No. 1351. Fondue au Parmesan et Gruyere. Put half a pound of butter and three quarters of a pound of flour in a stewpan, mix them well together (without melting the butter) with a wooden spoon, then add rather more than a quart of boding milk, stir over the fire, boil twenty minutes, then add the yolks of ten eggs (stir in well), a pound of grated Parmesan, and half a pound of grated Gruyere cheese; season with half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter do. of pepper, and half a saltspoonful of cayenne; if too thick add two or three whole eggs to give it the consistency of a souffle, whip the ten whites of egg firm, stir them gently into the mixture, have ready a crous- tade prepared as for the souffle (No. 1336), pour in the581 SECOND COURSE. above mixture, and bake it in a moderate oven; it will re- quire half an hour longer than the souffle; dish and serve the same. No. 1352. Fondue a la Napolitaine. Piepare three fourths of the mixture as in the last, but pievious to adding the whites of eggs stir in a quarter of a pound of good macaroni blanched as directed (No. 130) and cut into pieces an inch in length; add the whites, bake, and serve as before. No. 1353. Petites Fondues au Pdte d’ltalie. Blanch a quarter of a pound of any description of Italian paste in boiling water a few minutes, strain it upon a silk sieve until a little dry, put an ounce of butter and a spoon- ful of flour, mix well together, then add half a pint of boil- ing milk; stir over the fire until thickish, add your paste, I stir it a few minutes longer over the fire, then add a quarter °f a pound of Stilton cheese in small lumps, and a quarter of a pound of grated Parmesan; season with a little pepper, salt, and cayenne, add six yolks of eggs, stir it another minute until the eggs are partially set, and when cold whip the whites very stiff; mix them well in, fill small paper eases with it, bake a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven and serve very hot. No. 1354. Fondue {simple method). Put two ounces of Gruyere and two ounces of Parmesan cheese (grated) into a basin, with a little salt, pepper and cayenne, add the yolks of six eggs, with half a pound of cutter melted (mix well), whip the whites of the six eggs stir gently into the other ingredients, fill small paper cases with . bake about a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven ess upon a napkin, and serve very hot.UEMOVES. 682 No. 1355. Petites Fondues (en caisse) au Stilton. Put six ounces of butter and half a pound of flour in a stewpan, rub well together with a wooden spoon, then add a quart of warm milk, stir over the fire a quarter of an hour, then add the yolks of eight eggs, three quarters of a pound of grated Parmesan, and half a pound of Stilton cheese in small dice, season rather highly with pepper, salt, and cayenne, add the white of the eggs whipped very stiff, which stir in lightly; have a dozen and a half of small paper cases, fill each one three parts full, place them in a moderate oven, bake about twenty minutes; when done dress them upon a napkin on your dish, and serve very hot. No. 1356. Baviequins. Put a gill of water in a stewpan, to which add two ounces of Gruyere and the same quantity of Parmesan cheese (grated), two ounces of butter, a little cayenne pepper, and salt if required, set it upon the fire, and when boiling stir in two or three spoonfuls of flour; keep stirring over the fire until the paste becomes dryish and the bottom of the stewpan quite white, then add three or four eggs by degrees, until forming a paste like pate a choux (No. 1194), butter a baking-sheet well, and lay the paste out in pieces upon it with a tablespoon, making them long, and half the size of the bowl of the spoon; egg over, and lay a small piece of Gruyere cheese upon each, put them into the oven about twenty minutes before they are required; bake them a little crisp, and serve very hot, dressed in pyramid upon a napkin. No. 1357. Petits Bamequins au feuilletage. Make half a pound of paste (No. 1132), which roll very thin, have ready some grated Parmesan and Gruyere cheese583 SECOND COURSE. mixed, throw half a handful over the paste, which fold in three, roll it out to the same thickness again, cover again with cheese, proceeding thus until you have used the whole of the cheese (half a pound), then cut them into any shapes you like with pastry cutters, set on a wet baking-sheet, egg them over, bake a nice colour in a moderate oven, dress in pyramid upon a napkin on a dish, and serve very hot. \ No. 1358. Diablotins au Gruyere. Put a gill of milk in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, when boiling stir in two spoonfuls of flour, keep stirring over the fire until the bottom of the stewpan is dry, then add four eggs by degrees, half a pound of Gruyere, and half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese; mix well in, season with pepper, salt, and cayenne rather highly, mould the paste into little balls with the forefinger against the side of the. stewpan containing it, drop them into very hot lard; fry of a nice light brown, dress in pyramid upon a napkin, and serve very hot. No. 1359. Croquettes de Macaroni au Fromaye. Put two quarts of water, with a little salt and a small piece of butter into a stewpan, and when boiling add half a I pound of macaroni, which boil until tender, drain it upon a sieve, and when cold cut it into pieces a quarter of an inch in length, put them into a stewpan with half a pint of bechamel sauce, a little cayenne pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; let simmer a few minutes until rather thick, stirring it gently occasionally, then add half a pound of grated Parmesan and Gruyere cheese (or good common cheese may be used), turn gently a few minutes longer over the fire, take it off, stir in the yolks of four eggs quickly, stir another minute over the fire to set the eggs, and pour out upon a dish until quite cold, then form it into olive-584 REMOVES. shaped pieces, rather larger than walnuts, or into pieces of the shape of pears, or into croquettes two inches long, the thickness ol your finger; have three eggs well beaten upon a plate, into which dip them, roll them over, then throw them into a dish of bread-crumbs, pat them gently with your knife, dip again into eggs and bread-crumbs, place them in a wire basket, and fry in very hot lard; dress them in pyramid upon a napkin, and serve very hot. If the preparation is well prepared, once bread-crumbing would be sufficient. Macaroni a VItalienne. Boil half a pound of macaroni as above, when done lay it on a sieve to dry for oue minute, put it in a pan with four spoonfuls of white sauce, add half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, a little cayenne; toss the macaroni over the fire; when boiling, add two ounces each of grated Parmesan and Gruyere cheese, toss round and round until well mixed, then serve with a gill of very strong gravy around it. Macaroni au Gratin. Proceed the same as above, but after you have put the macaroni on the dish, omit the gravy, and cover it slightly with bread-crumbs, and about the same quantity of Parmesan cheese, grated, a little butter over, and then put in a hot oven for a quarter of an hour, if not hot enough, pass the salamander over it to give it a nice brownish colour, and serve very hot. Macaroni a la Napolitaine. Boil half a pound of the best quality of macaroni for half an hour (as at No. 1359), when tender, lay one quarter of it on the dish you intend to serve, have ready two ounces of grated Parmesan, which you divide into four parts, to lay over each layer of macaroni, then put over it two tablespoonfuls of strong gravy, made of half glaze and consomme; put the dish in the oven for ten minutes, and serve very hot. The real Italian method (called a 1' Estoufade). Boil and proceed as before, but make the gravy as follows, and use it instead of the preceding:—Take two pounds of rump of beef, larded through, put in a small stewpan with one quarter of a pound of butter, fry gently for one hour, turning almost continually, when forming a glaze add a pint of broth, let simmer another hour very gently indeed, take the fat off, and use that gravy instead of that above described; a little tomato sauce may be introduced if handy; serve the beef at the same time in a separate dish.appendix. No. 1360. Aspic, Or Savoury Jelly, extracted from the succulence of meat, when well made, is very inviting at any season of the year, I! especially in the summer, besides being the principal orna- ment and garniture of those savoury dishes which relieve the monotony ol the second course. The tediousness and expense ol its preparation in the old-fashioned manner has often been the cause of its being omitted, which has also pre- vented gourmets Irom partaking of the second course, but where well served, its delightful flavour will restore, cleanse, and invigorate the palate, causing each guest to partake more freely of the savoury dishes, which will afford a zest to the delicate Lafitte or Chateau Margot, which flows so generously in the glasses of true epicures. By following closely my new receipt, I venture to say that any cook, with a little experience, will produce an aspic fit for the table of a crowned head. Take two large knuckles of veal, which cut in large dice, having about six pounds of meat, well butter the bottom of a middling-sized stewpan, put in the meat, with one pound of lean ham and two calf’s feet, cut up, breaking the bones, add half a gill of water, and place the stewpan over a sharp fire, stirring the meat round occasionally until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a whitish glaze hen fill it up with five quarts of water, add three onions’586 APPENDIX. one small carrot, one turnip, half a head of celery, six peppercorns, one clove, half a blade of mace, a teaspoonful of salt, and a bunch of parsley, with which you have mixed two bay-leaves and a few sprigs of thyme, also two apples, peeled and cut in quarters; when boiling place it at the corner of the stove, let simmer gently for three hours, skimming off every particle of fat, or it would interfere with the clarification; it should be reduced to about a half, pass it through a fine cloth into a basin, place a little in a mould upon ice to ascertain if sufficiently firm, if too firm add a little light broth, but if, on the contrary, too weak, reduce it until you have obtained the consistency of strong calf’s-foot jelly, place the remainder in a stewpan upon the fire, taste if to your palate; have the whites of six eggs in a basin, with the shells, whisk them half a minute, add a gill of water or broth, two spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and a little salt, beat all together, have the stock boiling upon the fire, whisk round, pour in the eggs at once, and keep whisking a few minutes; set the stewpan at the comer with the lid on, upon which place some live charcoal, and let it remain five minutes, have a fine napkin, which tie in a square upon the top of your jelly-stand, through which pass it into a basin, pouring the first that runs through again into the napkin, when passed and set it is ready for use where di- rected. Should you require the aspic to partake of the flavour of fowl, twenty minutes before passing the stock, thrust a fowl just roasted into it, leaving it but a very short time. The same remark also applies to game of any description, should you require the aspic of such a flavour. To obtain aspic of a fine gold colour, let your stock draw down to a pale yellowish glaze before filling it up, or add a spoonful of brown gravy (No. 135); three very distinct co- lours may likewise be made of aspic, without introducing the colour-box of some celebrated artists, that is, leaving the587 APPENDIX. one nearly white, the other a gold colour, as above men- tioned, and the other quite a dark brown, adding more brown gravy and reducing it a little, clarifying it sepa- rately, and colouring before the clarification; place it in tliree separate saute-pans or flat moulds, which place upon ice, when set, ornament your dishes tastefully, it will pro- duce an excellent effect, especially in a large supper. Should you not succeed in clarifying it the first time, the operation must be again performed. No. 1361. Mayonnaise a la yelee. Put a quarter of a pint of melted aspic upon ice in a stewpan, which keep whisking until becoming a white froth, then add half a pint of salad-oil and six spoonfuls of tar- ragon vinegar, by degrees, first oil, and then vinegar, con- tinually whisking until it forms a white smooth sauce, to I all appearance like a cream; season with half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, and a little sugar, whisk it a little more, and it is ready to serve; it is usually dressed pyramidicaJly over the article it is served with. The advan- tage of this sauce (which is more delicate than any other) is, that you may dress it to any height you like, and it will remain so for a long time; if the temperature is not too hot it will remain hours without melting or appearing greasy. No. 1362. Mayonnaise ci la yelee aux fines herbes. Pioceed precisely as in the last, but adding half a spoon- ful of fresh chopped parsley, half a one of finely chopped eschalots, and one of finely chopped fresh tarragon and chervil. No. 1363. Mayonnaise a la yelee en Raviyote verte. Well pound two good handfuls of spinach in a mortar, and put it into a thick cloth over a dish, twist up the cloth538 APPENDIX. as tight as possible, until you have extracted all the liquor, which put into a stewpan, and place over the fire, the mo- ment it boils it will curdle, when pour it upon the back of a silk sieve, when cold take a spoonful of the green from off the sieve, wInch put into a basin with a good spoonful of chopped tarragon; have ready a good mayonnaise a la gelee (No. 1361), which put into the basin, mixing the Avhole lightly, but well together; it will be of a fine pistachio green colour, and is then ready for use where required. To make it red, use the spawn of lobster arid omit the spinach. It requires to be extremely well seasoned. No. 1364. Mayonnaise ordinaire. Put the yolks of two fresh eggs in a basin, with the yolk of one hard-boiled one, rub through a hah' sieve, add two saltspoonfuls of salt, and one of white pepper, stir round with the right hand with a wooden spoon, holding a bottle of salad-oil in the left, dropping it in by degrees, continually stirring, when becoming a little thickish, add a couple of spoonfuls of common vinegar, by degrees, still keeping it stirred, then more oil, proceeding thus until you have used a pint of oil and four or five spoonfuls of vinegar, having, by constantly working it, formed a stiffish cream-looking sauce, perfectly smooth; this sauce being used for salads, requires to be rather highly seasoned, as it affords the seasoning for salad, volatile, &c.; mayonnaise aux fines herbes, ditto en ravigote verte, are made as above, adding the herbs, or herbs and spinach as in the two preceding. Should the sauce curdle in making, the operation must be again commenced, putting the yolk of an egg in a basin, stirring in carefully a little oil and vinegar, and when forming a smoothish paste, stir in the curdled sauce by degrees until the whole has become very smooth. Always choose a cool place to make it in.APPENDIX. 5S9 No. 13G5. Mayonnaise a la JProvenc(ale. Prepare a sauce as described in the last, quite plain, bruise half a clove of a garlic to a puree, which add to the I sauce with twelve chopped olives, two of chopped gherkins, two of capers, and the fillets of a small anchovy cut in fine strips; this sauce may be used for any description of salad. There are many persons who, I am aware, have a great dis- like to game, but as there are a great many also very fond of it, 1 have here given it as a Lonne Louche. No. 1366. Montpellier Butter. Boil six eggs quite hard, when cold take out the yolks, which put into a mortar with four anchovies well washed, two spoonfuls of capers, six gherkins, a little salt and popper,* a spoonful of tarragon and chervil, and one of parsley, pound all well together (adding the yolk of a raw egg) until it forms a stiffish paste; then add by degrees a pint of oil (keep mixing with the pestle), moistening occasionally with vinegar, add a spoonful of the colouring from spinach prepared as (No. 1363), to give it a nice colour, rub it through a hair sieve into a basin, put it upon the ice, and when firm it is ready to use where directed; a quarter of the above only may be prepared if no more is required. No. 1367. Forcemeat for raised pies. Take three pounds of lean veal from the leg, which cut into very small dice, with one pound of fat bacon, put the whole into a middling-sized stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, two bay-leaves, two sprigs of thyme, six of parsley, one blade of mace, twelve peppercorns, half an ounce of pepper, and the same of salt, pass it over a sharp re until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a white g aze, stirring the whole time ; then turn it upon a dish,590 APPENDIX. and when cold chop it very fine, taking out the mace and peppercorns, put it in a mortar and pound it well; add two pounds of sausage-meat, pound and mix the whole well together, then add six eggs and a little cold white sauce, when well mixed it is ready for use where directed. No. 1368. Forcemeat of Liver for game pies. Procure a very nice calf’s liver, which lay in water a short time to disgorge, then cut it up in small dice, with a pound of lean veal and one of fat bacon, put the whole in a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, an ounce of pepper, the same of salt, rather less than a quarter of an ounce of mixed spice, two bay-leaves, and a little thyme and parsley, pass ten minutes over a sharp fire, keeping it stirred; then lay it upon a dish until cold, when put it into a mortar and pound well, when fine add one pound of pork sausage-meat, with six eggs and a little brown sauce, mix the whole well together, rub it through a wire sieve with a wooden spoon, and use where directed. No. 1369. Sponge-cake. Put one pound of powdered sugar in a good-sized bowl, which stand in a bain marie of hot water; sift one pound of flour upon a sheet of paper, then break twelve eggs into the bowl -with the sugar, which whisk rather quickly until they become a little warm and rather thickish, when take the bowl from the bain marie, and continue whisking until nearly or quite cold, when add the chopped rind of a lemon and the flour, which mix lightly with a wooden spoon ; have ready your mould or baking-dish lightly but- tered, into which you have put a little flour, knocking out all that does not adhere to the butter, porn* in the mixture and place it one hour in a moderate oven, it may require longer or not so long, but that will depend entirely uponAPPENDIX. 591 the compass you have it in; if done it will feel firm to the touch, but the surest method is to run a thin wooden skewer into the centre, if it comes out clean the cake is done, but if not some of the mixture would adhere to it; care should be taken not to disturb it until quite set, or it would sink in the centre, and never properly bake; when done turn it out upon a sieve to cool. As the above is for cutting, and many of my new removes are made from it, it had better be overdone than not done enough. No. 1370. Savoy Cake in mould. Have ready a large high mould lightly buttered, (with a soft brush, and clarified butter,) turn the mould up to drain, and when the butter is quite set throw some finely sifted sugar into it; move the mould round until the sugar has adhered to every part, after which turn out the superfluous sugar, tie a band of buttered paper round at the top, and place it in a cool place until the mixture is ready. Place the yolks of fourteen eggs in a basin with one pound of sugar (upon which you have rubbed the rind of two lemons previous to pounding), beat well together with a wooden spoon until nearly white, then whip the whites of the eggs very stiff, add them to the yolks and sugar, with six ounces of flour and six ounces of potato- flour, mix the whole lightly, but well together, and fill the mould rather more than three parts full, place it in a very moderate oven one hour, keeping the oven door shut; then try when done as directed in the last, if done take off the paper and turn it out upon a sieve until quite cold. The above mixture being more delicate than the last, would not do so well for removes, but may be used for that purpose by being made three or four days before it is required.592 APPENDIX. No. 1371. Savoy Biscuits. Have the weight of nine eggs of sugar in a bowl, which put into a bain marie of hot water, weigh the same weight of flour, which sift through a wire sieve upon paper, break the eggs into a bowl, and proceed as directed for sponge-cake; then with a paper funnel or bag, with a tin pipe made for that purpose, lay it out upon papers into biscuits three inches in length, and the thickness of your little finger, sift sugar over, shaking off all that does not adhere to them; place them upon baking-sheets and bake in rather a warm oven of a brownish yellow colour, when done and cold detach them from the paper by wetting it at the back, place them a short time to dry, and they are ready for use for charlotte russe, or wherever directed. No. 1372. To clarify Isinylass. Put a quarter of a pound of isinglass in a small stew- pan, just cover it with a little clear spring water, and add a piece of lump sugar the size of a walnut, place it upon the fire, shaking the stewpan round occasionally to prevent its sticking to the bottom; when upon the point of simmer- ing add the juice of half a lemon, let simmer about a quar- ter of an hour, skim and pass it through a fine cloth; if the isinglass is good it will be as clear as crystal, but if it should be a little clouded (which it might be, and yet the isinglass tolerably good) clarify it again thus: pom it into a larger stewpan adding half a gill of water, place it upon the fire, and when on the point of boiling have the white of an egg in a basin, whip tvell with half a gill of water, porn it into the isinglass, which keep whisking over the fire yntil boiling, when place it at the corner of the stove, and let re- duce to its former consistenc}^, it will keep good some few days if kept in a cool place; if required for cremes or ba-APPENDIX. 59? varoises it will not require clarifying, but merely dissolving as at first directed. No. 1373. Glace Boy ale or Iceing. Have ready a pound of the best white sugar, which pound well and sift through a silk sieve, put it into a basin with the whites of three fresh eggs, beat well together with I a wooden spoon, adding the juice of half a lemon, keep beating well until it becomes very light and hangs in flakes from the spoon (if it should be rather too stiff in mixing, add a little more white of egg, if, on the contrary, too soft, a little more sugar), it is then ready for use where required. No. 1374. Chocolate Iceing Is made similar to the last, but when finished have readv a piece of the common chocolate, which melt in a stewpan over the fire, keeping it stirred- when quite melted stir some of it in with the iceing until you have obtained the colour required, moistening the iceing with a little more white of egg, and use where directed. No. 1375. Sugar in grains Is made by pounding a quantity of sugar in a mortar, and sifting off all the fine through a hair sieve, then again what remains in the sieve put into a rather coarse wire sieve, and that which passes through is what is meant by the above term. No. 1376. To colour sugar in grains. Prepare about half a pound of the sugar as in the last, which put upon a baking-sheet; have a spoonful of the essence of spinach prepared as (No. 1244), which stir in with the sugar until every grain is stained, when put them 38APPENDIX. 594 in a warmish place to dry, but not too hot; to colour them red, use a little prepared cochineal or liquid carmine, in- stead of the spinach, and proceed exactly the same ; sugar may be made of other colours by the use of indigo, rouge, saffron, &c.; but not being partial to such a variety of co- louring, I have merely given the red and the green, which, with the white, I consider to be sufficient for any of the purposes for which they are used. No. 1377. Vanilla Sugar. Chop a stick of well-frosted vanilla very small, and put it into a mortar with half a pound of lump sugar, pound the whole well together in a mortar, sift through a hair sieve, and put by in a bottle or jar, corking it up tight, and using where required. No. 1378. Lemon Sugar. Rub the rind of some fresh lemons upon a large piece of sugar, and as it discolours the part upon which it is rubbed scrape it off with a knife; when you have obtained a suf- ficient quantity, dry a little in the screen, and bottle for use where required. Orange sugar may be made in the same manner, substituting very red oranges for the lemons. No. 1379. To clarify and boil Sugar. Break three pounds of fine white sugar, the hardest and closest grained is the best, put it into a sugar-pan with three pints of clear spring water, set over a sharp fire, and when beginning to boil place it at the comer to simmer, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, skim well and re- duce to two thirds, it is then ready to use for jellies, &c. If not able to obtain the best quality sugar it would be necessary to use white of eggs as an assistance in the cla- rification, by putting the white of one egg in a basin andAPPENDIX. 595 whipping it well with a pint of cold water, add half of it to the sugar, whipping it well in, let simmer, adding the re- main dei by degrees whilst simmering, and passing it through a fine cloth into a basin. The boiling of sugar is divided into seven different degrees, which may be ascertained by the following directions :— The fiist degree is known by dipping a copper skimmer into it whilst boding, turning it over two or three times, if the sugar falls from it in sheets it has attained the first degree. The second is known by boding your sugar rather longer, dipping your finger and thumb into cold water, then your finger into the boding sugar, putting your finger and thumb together, and again opening them, it will form a kind of thread; if it is too weak bod a little longer, this is the most useful degree for fruit or water ices. The third degree is attained by boiling it a little longer, and trying it in the same manner, upon the thread break- ing, should it form a kind of pearl, it has attained the above degree; the sugar in boiling would also be covered with a quantity of small bubbles resembling pearls. The next degree is attained by boding it still longer, dip a skimmer into it, turn, take out and blow it hard, when the sugar will form little bladders and float in the air this degree is called the souffle. For the next degree bod still longer, trying it in the ) same manner, but blowing harder, the bladders will be larger and adhere together, forming feathers; this degree is cafled la plume, or the feather. The next is called au petite casee, and is obtained by boiling the sugar a little longer, to know this degree have a J Pmt cold water in a basin into which you have put a piece of ice, dip you finger into it, then into the boding \\ sugar, and then into the water again, take the piece whichAPPENDIX. 59G adheres to the finger and bite, if rather crisp, but sticking to the teeth, it has attained that degree. The seventh and last requires great attention, to attain it boil rather longer, dip your finger in as before, if it cracks and does not at all adhere to the teeth in biting it is done, take from the fire and it is ready for use for making any kind of sugar ornament. When intended for such purposes, however, add a little tartaric acid when it arrives to the degree la plume, and pom it into a smaller sugar-pan, allowing it to reach the rims, it will be then unable to burn round the sides as if in a larger pan; if such a thing should, however, happen in a larger pan, wipe the interior of the pan round with a sponge previously dipped in cold water, or it would discolour the sugar. Ornaments of spun sugar I have a very great dislike to for a dinner, but if required, the sugar must be boiled to the last degree. Should the sugar grain it may be brought back by adding more water, and when dissolved, boiling over again; in spinning sugar you must keep the bulk of it in a warm temperature, having a little in a smaller pan for use, which keep in a melted state by placing it in a bain marie of hot water or in a hot closet. No. 1380. Sucre file. Having boiled your sugar to the seventh degree, as in the last, oil the handle of a wooden spoon, tie two forks together, the prongs turned outwards, dip them lightly into the sugar, take out and shake them to and fro, the sugar running from them over the spoon forming fine silken threads, proceeding thus until you have as much as 3 011 require, take it from the spoon and form it with your hands into whatever may be directed for the garnishing of any dish, not, however, too thick, or it would look heavy. An597 APPENDIX. experienced hand would prefer doing it from the lip of the sugar-pan. Other kinds of ornaments from sugar are made in a similar manner by oiling a mould or shape and running fillets of the sugar from the lip of the pan over it as taste- fully as possible, but as I have not referred to it in this work I will not enter into its details. No. 1381. Vanilla Cream Ice. Put the yolks of twelve eggs in a stewpah, with half a pound of sugar, beat well together with a wooden spoon, in another stewpan have a quart of milk and when boiling tlnow in two sticks of vanilla, draw it from the fire, place on the lid and let remain until partly cold, pom it over the eggs and sugar in the other stewpan, mix well, and place it over the fire (keeping it stirred) until it thickens and adheres to the back of the spoon, when pass it through a tammie into a basin, let remain until cold, then have ready a pewter freezing-pot in an ice-pail well surrounded with ice and salt;* put the above preparation into it, place on the lid, which must fit rather tightly, and commence twisting the pot round sharply, keeping it turned for about ten minutes, when take- off the lid and with your spatula clear the sides of the interior of the pot, place the lid on again, turn the pot ten minutes longer, when again clear the sides and beat the whole well together until smooth, it being then about half frozen, then add four glasses of noyeau or maresquino and a pint and a half of cream well whipped, beat the whole * To freeze quickly any description of ice the freezing-pot must be well set, piace it in tlie centre of the pail, winch must be large enough to give a space of four inches all round, break twelve pounds of ice up small, which put round at the bottom six inches in depth, over which put two pounds of salt, beat down tight with a rolling-pin, then more ice, then salt, proceeding thus until within three inches of the top of your freezing-pot, saltpetre mixed with the salt will facilitate it in freezing.598 APPENDIX. well together, place the lid upon the top, keep twisting it round a quarter of an hour, clear well from the sides, beat again well together, proceeding thus until the whole is frozen into a stiff but smooth and mellow substance, should you require to keep it sometime before serving, pom the water which has run from the ice out of the pail and add fresh ice and salt; when ready to serve work it up smoothly with your spatula. No. 1382. Coffee Cream Ice. Proceed exactly as in the last but omitting the noyeau or maresquino, and making an infusion with coffee as directed (No. 1253) instead of vanilla. No. 1383. Chocolate Cream Ice Is made similar to the vanilla cream ice, but omitting the vanilla and liqueur, in the room of which scrape a quarter of a pound of chocolate, place it in a stewpan over the fire and keep stirring until melted, then have ready boiling a quart of milk, which mix with the chocolate by degrees, finish with eggs and sugar, and freeze as before. No. 1384. Pineapple Cream Ice. Procure a rather small pineapple, take off the rind which reserve, and cut the apple into pieces an inch in length and about the thickness of a quill, place them in a sugar-pan, with half a pound of sugar and half a pint of water, set it npon the fire and reduce to a rather thickish syrup, have ready a pint and a half of milk upon the fire, into which when boiling throw the rind of the pineapple, cover it over and let infuse ten minutes, in another stewpan have the yolks of twelve eggs, to which add the milk by degrees, (previously straining it,) place over the fire, keeping it599 APPENDIX. stirred until adhering to the back of the spoon, when pass it through a tammie into a basin, add the syrup and pine- apple, and freeze it as in the last, adding a pint and a half of whipped cream; when half frozen use where directed. No. 1385. Lemon Cream Ice. Take the rind from six lemons as thin as possible and free from pith, squeeze the juice of the lemons into a sugar-pan, with half a pound of sugar and half a pint of water, place it upon the fire and reduce until rather a thickish syrup, have a pint and a half of milk upon the fire into which when boiling throw the rind of the lemons, cover over and let remain until half cold, in another stew- pan have the yolks of twelve eggs, (to which you have added an ounce of sugar), with which mix the milk by degrees, and stir over the fire till it adheres to the back of the spoon, when stir in the syrup and pass it through a tammie; when cold freeze as directed (No. 1381) adding a pint of whipped cream when half frozen. No. 1386. Orange Cream Ice. Proceed precisely as in the last, but using the juice and rind of ten oranges instead of lemons as there directed. No. 1387. Apricot Cream Ice. Procure a dozen and a half of fine ripe apricots, which cut in halves, take out the stones, which break, extracting the kernels, which blanch in very hot water and skin, then put them with the apricots into a sugar-pan, with half a pound of sugar and half a glassful of water, let them boil until almost forming a marmalade, when put them by in a basin, have the yolks of twelve eggs in a stewpan, with which mix by degrees a pint and a half of milk, set over the fire, keeping it stirred until thick enough to adhere to600 APPENDIX. the back of the spoon, when pass it through a tannine into a basin, add the syrup and apricots, and when cold three glasses of noyeau, freeze as in (No. 1381), and when half frozen add a pint of good whipped cream. No. 1388. Strawberry Cream Ice. Procure about two pounds of fine ripe strawberries, which pick and rub through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon, obtaining all the juice and pulp of the strawberries, with which mix half a pound of powdered sugar and put it by in a basin, in a stewpan have the yolks of twelve eggs, with which mix by degrees a pint and a half of milk, stir over the fire until it becomes thickish, adhering to the back of the spoon, when pass it through a tammie, and when cold add the juice from the strawberries and three glasses of maresquino, freeze it as directed (No. 1381), adding a pint of whipped cream when half frozen and sufficiently prepared; cochineal to give it a strawberry colour if ap- proved of. No. 1389. Apple Marmalade. Peel and cut thirty apples in slices, taking out the cores, and if for preserving to every pound of fruit put three quarters of a pound of broken sugar, (but if for immediate use half a pound would be quite sufficient,) place the whole into a large preserving-pan, with half a spoonful of powdered cinnamon and the rind of a lemon chopped very fine, set the pan over a sharp fire, stirring it occasionally until boiling, when keep stirring until becoming rather thick, it is then done; if for immediate use a smaller quan- tity would be sufficient, which put by in a basin until cold, but if to keep any time put it in jars, which cover over with paper, and tie down until wanted.appendix. 501 No. 1390. Apricot Marmalade. Stone about eight pounds of ripe fleshy apricots, break the stones, and blanch and skin the kernels, which with the apricots put into a preserving-pan, add six pounds of sugar and place it over a sharp fire, stirring occasionally until boiling, when keep stirring until becoming rather thick, take it off, put it in jars, and when cold tie paper over, and put by until ready for use. No. 1391. Quince Marmalade. Procure a sieve of fine ripe quinces, which peel and cut in four, taking out the cores, place them in a large pre- serving-pan and cover with cold water; set upon the fire, and when boding and tender to the touch, place them in a large sieve to drain one hour, pass them through a tammie, then have ready a corresponding weight of sugar boded to the sixth degree (No. 1379) in the preserving- pan, to which add the puree of quinces, keep stirring over the fire tid forming thin sheets, drop a little upon the cover of a stewpan, if it sets quickly take it from the fire, put it in small jars, and let remain a day untd quite cold, when tie them down, and put by untd wanted. No. 1392. Apricot Marmalade (transparent). Procure a quantity of very ripe apricots, each of which cut into four or six pieces, break the stones andblanch the kernels, put the apricots in a preserving-pan with a small quantity of water, bod them until quite tender, when pass them through a sieve; to every pound of fruit have three quarters of a pound of sugar (in a preserving-pan) boded to the sixth degree (No. 1379), add the apricots with their kernels, and keep stirring over the fire until forming thin transparent sheets, try when done as in the last, and put away in pots.602 appendix. The marmalade would be still more transparent if you were to peel the apricots first, but then you would lose some of their delicious flavour. No. 1393. Cherry Marmalade. Procure a sieve of bright Kentish cherries, pull out the stalks and stones, and put the fruit in a preserving-pan, place over the fire, keeping it stirred until reduced to two thirds, have in another preserving-pan, to every pound of fruit, half a pound of sugar boiled to the sixth degree vNo. 1379), into which pour the fruit when boding hot, let reduce, keep stirring untd you can just see the bottom of the pan, when take it from the fire, and fill your jars as before. A plainer way is to take off the stalks and stone the fruit, place them in a pan over a sharp fire, and to every pound of fruit add nearly half a pound of sugar, keep stir- ring until reduced as above, and let it get partly cold in the pan before filling the jars. No. 1394. Strawberry Marmalade. Pick twelve pounds of very red ripe strawberries, which put into a preserving-pan with ten pounds of sugar (broken into smallish pieces), place over a sharp fire, keep con- tinually stirring, boiling it until the surface is covered with clearish bubbles, try a little upon a cover, if it sets, fid the jars as before. No. 1395. Raspberry Marmalade. Pick twelve pounds of raspberries and pass them through a fine sieve to extract the seeds, boil as many pounds of sugar as you had pounds of fruit to the sixth degree (No. 1379), when add the pulp of the fruit, keep stirring over the fire, reducing it untd you can just see the bottom of the pan, take it from the fire, and put it into jars as before.APPENDIX. 603 No. 1396. Apple Jelly. Cut six dozen of sound rennet apples in quarters, take out all the pips, put them into a sugar-pan, just cover them with cold water, and place over the fire, let boil until the apples become quite pulpy, when drain them upon a sieve, catching the liquor in a basin, which afterwards pass through a new and very clean jelly-bag ; to every pint of liquor have one poimd of sugar, which boil to the sixth degree as di- rected (No. 1379), when, whilst hot, mix in the liquor from the apple with a very clean skimmer, to prevent it boding over keep it skimmed, lift the skimmer occasionally from the pan, and when the jelly falls from it in thin sheets, take it up and fill the pots as before; the smaller pots are the best adapted for jellies. No. 1397. Quince Jelly. Proceed exactly as directed in the last, but using quinces instead of apples. No. 1398. Currant and Raspberry Jelly. Put half a sieve of fine red currants in a large stewpan with a gallon of white currants and a gallon of raspberries, add a quart of water, place over the fire, keep stirring, to prevent them sticking to the bottom, and let bod about ten minutes, pom them into a sieve to drain, catching the juice in a basin and draining the currants quite dry, pass the juice whdst hot through a clean jedy-bag, have a pound of sugar to every pint of juice, and proceed precisely as directed for apple jedy. Should you have time to pick the currants from the stalks previous to boding, you would lose that bitter flavour, and have less difficulty in making your jelly clear.604 APPENDIX. No. 1399. Currant Jelly Is made precisely as in the last, omitting the raspberries, the difference being in the use; the last being adapted for the garnishing of pastry, and this to use for sauces, or to serve with hares, venison, or any other meat, where required. A more simple method of making currant jelly is to rub the fruit through a sieve, and afterwards squeeze it through a fine linen cloth, put it into a preserving-pan with to every pint of juice (three quarters of a pound of white sugar; place over a sharp fire, stirring occasionally with a skimmer, keeping it well skimmed; it is done when dropping in sheets as before from the skimmer. For my own part, I prefer this last simple method, being quicker done, and re- taining more of the full freshness of the fruit. It is not my intention to give a description of the various methods of preserving fruits which belong to the confec- tionary department; I have however given the few foregoing receipts, they being required for reference from various parts of this work, and being all that are required for the garnishing of dishes for the second course; various other fruits may, however, be made into marmalades and jellies by following those few simple directions. No. 1400. To preserve Tomatas. Procure six half sieves of fine red ripe tomatas, pull out the stalks, squeeze out the seeds, and throw the tomatas into a middling-sized stock-pot or large stewpan, add two carrots (cut in thin slices), ten onions (do.), a head of celery, ten sprigs of thyme, ten do. of parsley, six bay-leaves, six cloves of garlic, four blades of mace, ten cloves, ten pepper- corns, and a handful of salt; place upon the fire, move them occasionally from the bottom, and let boil threeAPPENDIX. 605 quarters of an hour; then line a couple of large sieves with cloths, into which put them to drain, (not too dry,) throw the liquor that runs from them away, rub them through a wire sieve, and afterwards through tammies, then put them into a stewpan, season with a teaspoonful of cayenne and a little more salt, place upon the fire, and stir until boiling, take from the fire, and when about three parts cold, put into strong glass bottles* (do not fill them too full), cork them down, tightly seeming the corks with wire or string, place them in a vegetable steamer, and steam them well for half an horn (or if no steamer, have a large fish-kettle of water simmering, in which stand the bottles, with their necks just out of the water) take them out, and when cold dip the tops into melted pitch and rosiD, then into cold water, and put by until required. * For this purpose I can recommend the stone bottles and apparatus for preserving fruits invented by Mr. James Cooper, of No. 7, St. John-street, Clerkenwell; I have used them upon several occasions and for different de- scriptions of fruit, and have never met -with any system that so well preserved the freshness of the fruit, or which is more simple in its operation. END OF RECEIPTS FOR THE TABLE OF THE WEALTHY.606 SERVICE PAGODATIQUE. My new pagodatique dishes, which have been pronounced by persons of taste who have seen them (and more so by those who have partaken of their contents) to be most novel, useful, and elegant, a service of them forming quite a new coup d oeil, and giving the greatest variation to small recherche dinners. Having invented them only last year, and having then this work in progress, caused me to refrain from giving them any great publicity previous to this publication; and the only service ever used was by me at the Reform Club, where they met with complete success. A minute description of the origin, utility, and construction will be found at the end of this work, with correct engravings, representing it both with and without the cover; so I shall here content myself by giving a bill of fare of a dinner served in them, to grace the table of the wealthy, as represented in the following engraving. They being entirely devoted for entrees, four of them make a service, and in very large dinners may be always introduced as corner dishes. In the following bill of fare I have given two entrees, containing four sauces each, and the others with only two, being the manner in which I have frequently served them, each brown entree must be lightly glazed, dressed elegantly in the centre, not covering too large a space, and just sufficient clear gravy to cover the bottom of your dish, whilst the white entrees would require a little thin white sauce; some entrees, again, which require to be dipped in white or brown sauce would have sufficient rim from them to cover the bottom of the dish.a la creme. 607 Eissolettes a la Pompadour. 33tH of jfare DINER POUR DIX PERSONNE9. Potage a la Victoria. Potage a la Prince of Wales. Petit Turbot en matelote vierge. Deux Poissons. Truites de riviere Deux Eeleves. Quartier d’Agneau de Maison roti. Petites Poulardes en Diademe. Quatke Entrees Pagodatique. Petites Cotelettes de Mouton au naturel, les quatres saucieres garrues des sauces et garnitures suivantes, Btmotdade blanche au jus d'Etfiuhte a la Reform. 'a ia palestbw. Eis d’Agneau Pique aux pointes d’Asperges. aux Concombres. , Quenelles de Pluviers * la fengueux au yehuU de Gibkr aux champignons. « la Financiere. . Eilets de Canetons au jus d Orange. aux petits pois. Deux Eotis. Les Cailles aux feuilles de vignes. Jeunes Dindonneaux aux cressons. o hj o B & o e La Gelee de Pruit derni chaud froid marbre. Asperges a la Hollandaise. Six Enthemets. Maniveau de Champignons en surprise a la creme. Petites Coquilles aux huitres. Galantine de Poussin a la Voliere. Charlotte dc Praises au noyeau. Deux Eeleves. ■Gateau Eritannique a TAmiral. Croquettes de Macaroni au fromage de Stilton.608 DINER LUCULLUSIAN A LA SAMPAYO. I beg to present to my Readers a copy of the Bill-of-fare of the most recherche dinner I ever dressed, which the liberal- ity and epicurean taste of the gentleman who gave it, to a select party of connoiseurs, enabled me to procure; he wish- ing me to get him a first-rate dinner, and spare no expense in procuring the most novel, luxurious, and rare edi- bles to be obtained at this extravagant season of the year j I, therefore, much to his satisfaction, placed before him and his guests the following: (see p. 609). I had also proposed the following dish to the party, which was accepted, but which I was unable to obtain from Paris on account of a change in the weather preventing then’ arrival, the articles being two dozen of ortolans; hav- ing already procured twelve of the largest and finest truffles I could obtain, it was my intention to have dug a hole in each, into which I should have placed one of the birds, and covered each with a piece of lamb’s or calf s caul, then to have braised them half an hour in good stock made from fowl and veal, with half a pint of Lachryma Christi added, then to have drained them upon a cloth, placed a border of poached forcemeat upon the dish, built the truffles in pyra- mid, made a puree with the truffle dug from the interim, using the stock reduced to a domi-glace and poured over, roasted the twelve remaining ortolans before a sharp the, with which I should have garnished the whole round, and served very hot.9 Mai, 1846. Deux Poissons. Deux Releves. Diner pour 10 Personnes. Les grosses Asperges vertes, Rissolettes a la sauce a la Creme. Pompadour. G09 Saumon de Severne a la Mazarin. REFORM CLUB. Potage a la Comte de Paris. Do. a la puree d’Asperges. Rougets gratings a la Montesquieu. Le Chapon farci de Foie gras a la Nelson. Saddleback d’Agneau de Maison a la Sevigne. Quatre Hors-d’ceuvres a la Franfaise. Les Olives farcies. Salade d’Anchois historiee. Thon marine a 1’Italienne. Sardines a l’Huile de Noisette. Quatre Entrees. Saute de Filets de Volatile a l’Ambassadrice. Petites Croustades de Beurre aux Laitances de Maquereaux. Cotelettes de Mouton Galloise a la Reforme. Turban de Ris de Veau puree de Concombres. W £ §' 1 ° £ d »• Deux Rots. Les Dotrelles aux Feuilles de Vignes. Le Buisson d’Ecrevisse Pagodatique, au Vin de Champagne a la Sampayo. La Gelee de Dantzic aux fruits Printaniers. Les petits Pois nouveaux a l’Anglo-Fra^ais. Les grosses Truffes a l’essence de Madere. Les Croqnantes d’Amandes pralinees aux Abricots. Le Miroton de Homard aux CEufs de Pluviers. La Creme mousseuse au Curasao. Deux Releves, La Hure de Sanglier demi-glacee, garnie de Champignons en surprise. Les Diablotins au fromage de Windsor. 39G] 0 DINER LXJCULLTJSIAN. [Note. The tradespeople received their orders a week previous to the dinner. The finest mullets I ever saw, as well as the Severn salmon, were obtained at Grove’s, in Bond Street; the remainder of the fish was from Jay’s, Hunger- ford Market. At seven o’clock the live Severn salmon was brought to me, it having just arrived direct from Gloucester, and was boiled immediately, being just ten minutes before the dinner was placed upon the table, and was eaten in its greatest possible perfection. The finest of the poultry came from Bailey’s, Davis Street, Grosvenor Square, and Townsend’s, Charles Street, Haymarket. The foies gras and some very fine fresh French truffles came from Morel’s; the hors-d’-ceuvres, from Edges and Butler’s, Regent Street. The saddleback of lamb came from Ncwland’s, Air Street, Piccadilly, the Welsh mutton from Slater’s, and the young green peas and a very expensive dessert came from Solomon’s, Covent Garden. My being so minute in mentioning the name of the above tradespeople is not to advertise their fame in their different specialities, as that I believe they have already acquired, but merely to prove the trouble a real gourmet will take to furnish his table, Mr. S. having called many times upon several of them himself, previous to this party taking place, to ascertain what his dinner was to be composed of. The most expensive dishes were the mullets, the salmon, poulardes a la Nelson, and, above all, the crawfish which, when dressed, cost upwards of seven guineas.]Gil DIALOGUE CULINAIRE Entre Lord M. II. et A. Soyer. S. Vous avez parfaitement raison, Mylord; le titre de gourmet n appartient qu’a celui qui mange avec art, avec science, avec ordre, et meme avec beaucoup d’ordre. Lord M. Le gonrmand n’est jamais gourmet; l’un mange sans deguster, l’autre deguste en mangeant. A. L homme iier et hautain, Mylord, s’occupe de son diner par besoin; l’homme du monde, epicure profond, s’en occupe avec plaisir. ; Lord M. 11 est certain que Ion ne saurait donner trop d’attention a la rigide execution et a l’ordre intelligent d’un diner. Le diner etant de chaque jour, de chaque saison, de cliaque siecle, est non seulement la seule mode hereditaire,mais aussil’ame de la sociability lisezl’histoire, et vous y verrez que de tous les temps, et chez tous les peuples, le bien qui s’est fait, et quelquefois le mal, fut toujom’s precede ou suivi d’un copieux diner. 8- Rien’_ n’est Plus vrai, Mylord, que de tous les plaisirs de la vie qui nous sont legues en ce monde, celui de la table est le seul auquel les renes du char de la vie n’echappent qu a regret; et souvent, en ami fidele, ne les lache qu’aux abords du tombeau; tandis que tous les autres s’epa- nouissent frivolement, comme a la suite d’un beau prin- temps, et, en nous delaissant, couvrent nos fronts radieux du givre cles ans. Lord M. 11 est positif que deguster est une faculte de tout age; mi vieillard de cent six ans, que j’ai beaucoup connu, degustait parfaitement alors. S Nos cent degustateurs demandent de continueUea etudes, et reclament, sans cesse, un continuel changement.612 DIALOGUE CULINAIRE. Lord M. Le plus bel esprit manquerait d eloquence s’il negligeait par trop l’ordre de ses repas. S. C’est ce qui nous prouve, Mylord, que nos plus agreables sensations dependent non seulement de la nature, mais aussi du soin que nous donnons a notre personne. Lord M. Oui, car plus l’ame est sensible, plus la degus- tation est feconde. Les sensations degustatives operent avec autant d’activite sur le palais que le charme de la melodie le fait sur louie; par exemple, l’homme dans un cas de folie, peut bien eprouver le besoin de manger, mais l’action enchanteresse de la degustation lui est aussi interdite que la raison. S. Votre argument sirr ce point est extremement juste, Mylord. N’etes-vous pas aussi de mon avis, que rien ne dispose mieux l’esprit liumain a des transactions amicales, qu’un diner bien congu et artistement prepare. Lord M. C’est ce qui m’a toujours fait dire qu’un bon cuisinier est aussi utile qu’un savant conseiller. S. Je me suis toujours aper?u, Mylord, que le palais le plus fin etait le plus difficile a plaire, mais aussi le plus juste a recompenser. Lord M. Le clioix des vins est de haute importance dans l’ordre d’un diner; un vin fin, leger et genereux protege le cuisinier et devient le bienfaiteur du convive. S. Permettez-moi de vous faire observer, Mylord, qu’une reunion gastronomique sans dames est a mes yeux un par- terre sans fleurs, l’ocean sans Hots, une flotte mai’itime sans voiles. Lord M. Certes, de telles reunions sont le berceau des bonnes mceurs et de la jovialite, comme la debauche est le tombeau de la moralite. Reform Club, May 14, 1846.THE KITCHEN DEPARTMENT OF THE REFORM CLUB ‘ This is a curious print, and unique of its kind: it presents on a large scale a coup-d’ceil of the matchless culinary arrangements of the Reform Club, the various offices for which extend over the whole basement of the building. To show them at one glance, the partition-walls are cut away, and a bird’s-eye view is given of the several kitchens, larders, sculleries, and batterie de cuisine: the different functionaries are all at their j osts, and the accomplished chef, Monsieur Soyer, is in the act of pointing out to a favoured visitor the various contrivances suggested by his ingenuity and experience. “ With a plan of the building, there are references to a minute explanatory account of the uses of the multifarious apparatus here exhibited, for the admiration of the scientific gastronome and the envy of rival artistes.” Spectator.DESCRIPTION OF THE KITCHEN OF THE REFORM CLUB, AND SIMPLE GUIDE FOR FITTING UP THE KITCHENS OF THE WEALTHY. INTRODUCTION. 'Che unexpected success my new plan has met with for the building of kitchens since the opening of the Reform Club, induced me a few years ago to publish a sectional plan of it on a large scale, which I am happy to say was very successful, and met with the approbation of all scientific men, and of the higher classes of society, having received instructions since that time to contrive and arrange nu- merous noblemen’s and gentlemen’s kitchens, by adapting many of my new and simple discoveries to any shaped kitchen with the greatest facilities, at a very moderate ex- pense ; I therefore beg to present my readers with the re- duced scale of the plan, as well as the correct measurement and size of all the apparatus. I have not the slightest hesi- tation in stating that, by the simple arrangements which I am about to submit, any kitchen, large or small, would be easily benefited and improved; it may also be always kept clean without much labour, the work more carefully done, and the appetite (my intimate friend) will become the keener. My motto has always been “ cleanliness is the soul of the kitchen.”10. Mortar. 18. Lift for sending up dinners. REFERENCE TO THE PLAN OP THE KITCHEN DEPARTMENT OF THE REFORM CLUB. A. La Boucherie, in which all Joints are trimmed for cooking. B. The Meat and Game Larder. 1. Table for provisions which are ready for dressing. 2. Slate dresser, with ice drawers and pickling tubs underneath. 3. Slate well for soaking hams. 4. Slate dresser, similar to the preceding, but larger. 5. Vegetable boxes. 6. Slab for opening oysters. *** The frame for hanging meat, game, &c. is suspended from the ceiling. C. The Cold Meat and Sauce Larder. 1. The safe. 2. Slate slab to deposit cold stocks, sauces, &c., and shelves. D. The Pastry and Confectionery. 1. Marble slab. 2. Mortar. 3.3. Dressers for dishing up the second course, and depositing pastry and confectionery, under which are hot and cold drawers, lined with tin, and having a steam-pipe pass- ing behind, which slightly warms them ; these drawers are for keep- ing either moist or dry whatever may require to be so kept. Above each dresser are closets. E. Office du Chef de Cuisine. F. Passage. 1. Fish slab. 2. Large shelf to deposit sauces, &c.,for cooling. 3. Hour shelf. G. Open Yard. H. Lift, to hoist Coals to the Dormitory De- partment. I. Passage. J. Kitchen Maids’ Dining Room. K. Roasting Kitchen. 1. Low French charcoal stove. 2. Stove. 3. Oven for gratins, souffles, &c. 4. Steam closet. 5. Fire-place. 6. Screen, with hot closets. 7. Large pastry oven. 8. French charcoal stove for vegetables. 9. Hot delivery -window for joints and vegetables. 11. Rack for the spits. 12. Dresser. 13. Iron rails for moulds and coppers. L. The Vegetable Kitchen. 1. Table to dish up vegetables. 2. Dresser, with steam-pans for cooking vegetables. 3. Sink for washing vegetables. 4. Draining dresser. 5. Dresser to deposit clean crockery. 6. Two sinks for washing plates and dishes, provided with bell-traps to prevent smell. Above is the plate- rack. 7. Delivery window for crockery. M. The Scouring Scullery. 1. Two sinks for washing coppers. 2. Scouring table. 3. Dresser and draining board. 4. Steam-boiler. 5. Large coal-box. N. The Butler’s Pantry. O. The Butler’s Room. P. Fire-proof Plate Closet. Q. Passage. R. Lift, to convey Dinners to the Coffee Room. S. Staircase. T. The principal Kitchen. 1. Table. 2. Hot closet. 3. Fire-place. 4. Screen and closets, as in the roasting kitchen. 5. Sideboard for silver dishes. 6. Dresser, and shelves for covers, moulds, &c. 7. Low French charcoal stoveforlargcfish. 8. Broiling stoves. 9. A bain marie. 10. Hot closet, to deposit fish, chops, &c., if required to wait. 11. Delivery window for entries. 12. Kitchen clerk’s desk. 13. A bain marie for soups and sauces, to supply coffee-room. 14. Large FVench charcoal, and gas stove for made dishes. 15. A bain marie for soups and sauces, for house dinners. 1G. Sink. 17. Hot plate for dishes to be sent up to private dining room.-*S »answ-iv* .NHor f ANI ' H3AOSKITCHEN OF THE REFORM CLUB, &c. (a.) la bouciierie. This essential part of the kitchen department is complete in its several ariangements, and one cannot help noticing that in spite of the moderate size of this room everything is contrived with the utmost convenience, perfect ventilation, and with due economy. As this small space is fully adequate to t le general wants of this large kitchen, it must, therefore, be equally good for one of smaller dimensions. My object not being to fix the size of all pri- vate boucheries according to this, it therefore must be left to localities, and the details below may be taken as a general principle. The length of the room is twelve feet by nine; at the further corners are two blocks to cut the meat upon which are two feet in diameter, and two feet seven inches high, includ- ing the supporters, eight inches from the floor, giving facility to clean under- neath, also to prevent decay; between the two blocks is a patent scale of a simple construction, and very convenient, upon which can be weighed above two hundred pounds of meat with great ease. On the right and left,are two tables three inches thick slx feet six inches long, one foot nine inches wide, and three feet three inches high, with a drawer to each, and a square box covered over, underneath the tables, for waste fat, &c.; above the tables is a flat rod wi h small hooks, one inch and a half long and three inches apart, upon which are various sized meat-hooks; allround the room upon the walls are thick slates set feet high. Those slates lately introduced?,! buddiufl veot ckan'tlCU ar y recommend wllere co°lness is required, and also as bemg (b.) principal larder for meat and GAME. The gastronomic variety generally collected in this sanctuary of taste eqmres the utmost care and cleanliness, the joints prepared for the dav langed with symmetry and taste, so as to present to the eye the finest sides7 the same respecting the dressed meat dishes and cold poultry, which should livays be trimmed and garnished with fresh parsley, ready to be served up at ICmTS riCT 1 A rtilation’ beinS of the utmost Importance^ assi C+ ^ att|nded t0‘ The folWinS dimensions will greariy proportions.6 C°ntmanCe °f a larder perfectly convenient if built with the saml is eighteen feet long and fifteen feet wide, having on the right t • dresser fourteen feet long, three wide, and two feet ten inches hirii th , P is of slate one inch thick, instead of wood, which is an £^h S lute, and always covered with a dresser cloth; there are eiriit ice VrL! hl'arimihr Ca8t°rS’when large and deep as these> jt is advisable to make them a similar manner running on castors, as their weight would • U cause them to open with difficulty. The first four are two fit • ,°fh.en!,8e square and nine inches deep, creams, &c, the others beneath are deeper, fe X fiKITCHEN OF 016 tom being inclined on each side towards the middle, which forms a channel, at the end of which there is a small drain to let the ice water escape without the assistance of hands, having at the back a pipe to receive the waste water running into other pipes outside. On the left going in there is another sideboard of the same material, eight feet and a half long and two feet wide, there are six drawers all of them lined with lead, and (which might be called simply ice-preservers, being almost free from air, and only now and then refreshed with ice at a trifling expense) from five to six inches thick, covered with a zinc plate to fit the drawer, and a cloth over it for chops, steaks, aspics, entrees, and a variety of things always kept fresh and tender; the woodcut below gives the exact form of the drawers as described above. It will be worth consideration to adopt the plan in all larders, as they certainly have the several advantages of preserving ice for a long time, and keeping in readiness any sort of prepared dishes, and even the flavour of fruit to perfection. At the end of this sideboard is a slate well, three feet six inches long, two feet wide, and one foot deep, supplied with hot and cold water; this well is used for soaking hams, tongues, and calf’s head ; adjoining is a slab for open- ing oysters, under which is a well to keep them in. In the middle of the larder is a dresser-table, ten feet long and two feet four inches wide, covered with a tablecloth, to depose fresh provisions ready for the day’s dressing. On the right going in are fixed divisions, boxes made of slate, for vege- tables, very simple and very useful, each having sliding fronts of wood to facilitate cleaning. The first row is ten feet long, divided into eleven parts, namely, five of one foot one inch opening and eight inches deep, six inches high in front, and ten inches at the back, the other six are smaller; the lower divisions are for large vegetables, and consequently of greater dimen- sions, divided into seven boxes, five of which are one foot seven inches deep, nine inches high in front, and one foot five inches at the back, with one foot five inches opening, the other two are for potatoes. The whole appearance of the above boxes is agreeable, for you see at once all the various productions of the kitchen garden the most in seasou, and kept separate. There is something new in the plan which might easily beTHE REFORM CLUB. G17 adopted. It is remarkably clean and cool. Too often vegetables are kept in drawers, or mixed together in any corners; where as if fitted in this style, a gardener or greengrocer, without asking what is wanted, can observe it at once, and replenishes all empty boxes, seeing actually what is required and not supplying by guess. VEGETABLE BOXES. On the ceiling suspended by fixed iron rods is a large frame ten feet long, and six wide, divided into three parts, hav ng eight iron rods, one on each side of the transverse battens to hang up the joints, game, poultry, &c.; SUSPENDED FRAME FOR MEAT, GAME, ETC. MEAT HOOK. by means of loose and moveable hooks tinned over of a particular form very unm, R TT frT Td1ll00k1 011 nllC {^me with joints or other articles upon it, by the aid of a long handle with a double hook, there being a holeCIS KITCHEN OE in the centre of the meat hook for that purpose, thus avoiding prickine anv unnecessary holes in the meat. 1 6 * (c.) The Cold Meat and Sauce Lardee. This room, close to the other is thirteen feet long and eleven feet wide; on the right is a meat-safe con- structed on a new principle for keeping cold meat, and by which flies are always excluded. The doors by a simple contrivance open and shut as it were by themselves, by means of a cord and a weight, which draws them the same as a sash rolling upon pullies, in a groove with iron plates in it* through which two pins are fixed six inches apart; on pushing the door open the pin is raised underneath to stop it, and by a retrograde motion of the elbow when taking a dish out the said pin drops, and the door shuts of itself it is so quickly done that there is hardly time for a fly to get in ,besides the wires are so close that the impediment is complete, in addition to that an excellent current of air always prevails. The meat-safe is four feet high, six feet wide, and three feet deep, with two shelves inside; under it, between the bottom and the floor, is a shelf for jars and kitchen basins, &c. MEAT SATE. On the opposite side is a slate dresser eleven feet long and two feet three inches wide, with a skirting all along, seven inches high; underneath at the further end is a cupboard, three feet long, with shelves for china, by the side is a shelf for jars, &c. ; abofe the dresser there arc two shelves the whole length and two feet wide, for preserves and bottles and jars of all sizes. (d.) Pastry and Confectionery. This important part of the kitchen department may appear small at first view, being only eight feet, long and thirteen feet wide, but the arrangement is in every respect perfectly conve- nient. A marble slab, five feet nine inches long and three feet wide, on a level with the window, with two ice-drawers beneath, one for butter and eggs, and619 THE REFORM CLUB. the other for preserving various forcemeats, salad, sauces, &c., is sufficient for the -work of two pastrycooks. On the right is a marble mortar, with a long-handled pestle going through a ring fixed in the wall, and on the left a flour-bin covered. Underneath are divisions for scales, weights, and sundry implements, on the right and left are dressers, two feet and a half wide, with two rows of drawers, where rolling-pins, cutters for all kinds of pastry, and sugar-sieves are kept. Above, at one toot four inches from the dresser, are closets, one foot six niches in depth and eight feet frontage, with three sliding doors. Within are divisions to put away fancy ornamental pieces and useful articles and ingredients for that tasty department; in this as well as in the other three rooms there is an admi- rable coolness, absolutely necessary for the making of pastry, and preserving it when completed. Any pastiy or entremet which requires to be kept dry, such as meringues, maccaroons, almond paste, &c., must be kept in a closet in the kitchen. (e.) Head Cook’s Office and Parlour. This room, nineteen feet long and thirteen feet wide, is conveniently situated on the same floor with the others, and very handy by its proximity to the kitchen; it is well fitted up with a closet for su- perior preserves and all kinds of new light kitchen utensils. PESTLE AND MORTAR. (f.) Passage. This space is three-and-thirty feet long and uric "feet iide dividing the rooms above described from the kitchen, although i passageAt is the ifU' !'r ;V'SCJ - •T*.ryit frorn fl‘csecond larder, and immediately under the statrs, there ts Iked a white marble slab, four feet long and three tat three Arlbtt SLAB. ha^ta’keepkg fresh and1 coolail ShCSS'8 “ ' tre“y of *•“ “ <■**KITCHEN OF 620 pipe supplied with iced water from a cistern above. On the opposite side, all along the wall, there is an hour shelf, thirteen feet and a half long and one foot six inches wide, divided by numbers showing the hour when dishes are to be cooked, which is from five to eight at night. Upon the same line on the left is another dresser, four feet and a half long and three feet wide, to cool sauces and stock before they are removed to the second larder to be put by the side of those already cooled ; a rule I would re- commend, because the fermentation of hot sauces or stock would affect those in the second larder if put there whilst hot. At the end of the passage on the right, and above the kitchen door, is a ventilating screen four feet square; it is a simple frame with two cross-pieces covered with canvas, and fixed horizontally above the door, with hinges so as to move it up and down at will, which is done by means of a cord nailed in the middle of the frame and passed through two pullies fixed in the ceiling, and tied with hooks on the wall opposite ; you make use of the cord the same as for a Venetian blind, the only difference is, that you keep moving it up and down all the time required to diminish the heat of the kitchen. No one would suppose, without seeing it perform, what surprising effect this simple contrivance produces, as the ascending movement draws away the heat from the kitchen into the passage, and introduces fresh air into it perfectly un- expected ; it is only on particular occasions, and in the heat of summer that it is made use of, as the ventilation of this kitchen is everything that can be wished for, it was more as a model for confined kitchens that I have applied this extra-ventilating screen. (g.) A small back yard, nine feet long and seven feet wide, separated from the passage by a glass partition and doors, wherein are deposited various things for kitchen use, and ice creams frozen. (h.) In the small passage leading to the roasting kitchen there is a lift worked by steam, to hoist coals to the sleeping-rooms; and a gas-meter inclosed in a wooden box for the supply of the gas-stoves in the principal kitchen. (i.) Passage leading to and from the roasting kitchen. (j.) The kitchen-maids’ dining-room, eight feet square, fitted with drawers, tables, closets, &c.; the entrance in the passage above mentioned. (k.) Roasting Kitchen. On entering into this room you see in a direct line the vegetable kitchen and the scullery. On the left there is a low cast- iron French stove for boiling large joints and making stock which has been previously boiled on a quick fire, and removed there to simmer gently; this stove is two feet seven inches long, two feet nine inches wide, and one foot nine inches high, and is purposely made low on account of the great weight lifted on and off. In the centre is a grate, one foot square, for charcoal. Contiguous to it is another cast-iron stove, or hot plate, the waste fire of which heats the small oven for gratins, souffles, &c. (see opposite). It is five feet long by two feet nine inches wide, and the same in height. At the end, on a line with the fire-place, is the steam-closet, six feet high, four feet and a half wide, and two feet deep, forming three shelves with the. bottom to keep the dishes very hot as well as the roasts ; near it is the large, roasting fire-place, six feet and a half wide and five feet and a half high. The grate is five feet wide and three feet high, and very shallow, giving a great heat at a compa-C21 THE REFORM CLUB. ratively small expense; a boiler is at the back, which holds one hundred gallons of water always hot, and amply sufficient for all kitchen purposes; the salamander is also easily and quickly heated at the same lire without in- CHAHCOAL STOVE AND HOT PLATE. terfering with the roasts, having a place formed in the front of the grate pur- posely for its reception. 6 “ In front of the roasting fire-place is a closet-screen, six feet wide, two feet deep, and six feet high, to keep all joints very warm. The plan of this screen differs from the common ones ; the back, fronting the fire, is covered with iron sheeting; the front shuts in with sliding doors, forming two sepa- rate closets the top being only sixteen inches high, and the lower four feet high, with two iron grated shelves; the doors being kept shut, there is & ,Y?f^ar1heat- Wtat renders this screen a perfect desideratum ar^ the two folding leaves at each end, fastened with hinges and completely in- closing the fire, thereby preventing the smoke escaping, and also the heat from being felt even close to the screen • and the advantage of £ whole's smiare°tWlt-llStandin^ the lmmense fire’ presenting a surface of fifteen feet quare, no inconvenience results from it. (See Cut, page 622). ,,L°7ef down ls,a large cast-iron oven for pastry, six feet nine inches hie-b of ?ne mCheS Wide’ divided int0 two Parts, one above the other each ^'edlXS °ne f°0t ““ iMheS “gh- ““d t'ro f“‘ * -ciSC two°fn!!inlnhe °T thc,f is a, French stove> three feet two inches long and Abov/^r^.T1^ Wlth one SratinS» t0 boil delicate vegetables four fficL? 6 thlClineSS °J the waU’ is a cistern two feet long two feet roasting dC?’ and °n? foot wlde’ to keeP the large boiler behind the roasting fire-grate constantly supplied with water. UlC rnn PPoslte 1® a sash window, by which roasts and vegetables fm< tr too* are handed to the waiter, 'beneath the windowT. pkte. aud'622 KITCHEN OF dishes, the top of which is of cast-iron and warmed by steam, thus dishes ar& removed from one hot place to another until they reach their destination • the length is four feet eleven inches, and two feet deep, with a sheet-iron shelf inside. ROASTING RANGE. On the right side of this closet is a marble mortar of twenty inches dia- meter, surrounded with wood-work and forming a pedestal, the pestle with a long handle passes through a ring fastened in the wall, four feet above. Near to the above is the iron rack to hang up all the spits and other im- plements. It consists of two half rings, to each of which are attached scroll hooks The hook on the upper ring supports the wheel end of a spit, and the lower hook holds the point. Further on, next to the door leading to the principal kitchen, is a dresser, eight feet long and two feet wide, to unspit the roasted joints or other purposes. v yEGETABLE Kitchen. At the end of the roasting kitchen, aud only divided by an arch twelve feet in span, you enter this room, fifteen feet long anc sixteen wide; in the centre is a deal table, nine feet long and two feet two inches wide, with drawers. On the left, upon a wide shelf, are three steam-boilers, two of them square,THE REFORM CLUB. G23 to cook potatoes, and the other for steaming puddings, &c. ; the square ones might be taken as models, they are one foot five inches square, and one foot high, divided into four parts, forming four distinct compartments in one. The round boiler is fifteen inches in diameter. The front of the shelf has a groove under the tap of the steamers to let out the water iiroduced by the steam, which runs into the sink ; a draining-board is next to the steamers, where vegetables are deposited after they are washed. Next is the vegetable sink, three feet nine inches long, two feet six inches wide, and one foot eight inches deep, with two taps for hot and cold water. Against the glass partition, on each side of the door which leads to the scullery, are two dressers, six feet long and two feet four inches wide, with four open divisions under each, for sundry articles of kitchen utensils. On the light are two sinks, three feet six inches long, two feet six inches wide, and one foot six inches deep, for washing dishes, having two taps each, for hot and cold water. Above is a plate-rack, eleven feet long and one foot deep, to dry plates and dishes. On the right side of the sinks is a delivery window with a closet beneath, four feet lpng and two feet wide, serving as a dresser, from which clean plates and dishes are sent to the coffee-room. (m.) The Scouring Scullery and Steam Boiler. This room, on a level with the vegetable kitchen, is thirteen feet long and seventeen feet wide ; on the left is a large dresser, or draining-board, with grooves, six feet long and three feet and a half wide, to dry all the coppers after being scoured; under it are large drawers. Above are two shelves the whole length of the room for large pans and coppers. Next to the dresser are two large sinks, three feet and a half long, two and a half wide, and one foot and a half deep, with two taps for hot and cold Against the window, and close to the sink, is a thick scouring table, three teet by two, with a box underneath for sand, &c. On the right is the steam boiler, eight feet three inches long, six feet wide and five feet high, surrounded with bricks, and by which large closets bains manes, plates for delivery-windows and tables, are heated, large coppers sup- OIK n"')1 3 T 0T cookin&; also dressing-rooms, baths, and closets in vari- ous parts or tne house. The appearance of these three rooms, each for a different purpose forms H8hted’ “ry C“0'- “lremCly “Anient, and wide’L?iD?EK,S PaNTRY‘ A larSe room’ twenty-four feet long and seventeen water ??dlDS(PfiVate '5Vlth <a fire-Place> cupboards, sink, and plenty of partm^nt isprepted!8 “ Whei’e everythinS belonSkS to liis de- (o.) Butler’s Office. Well fitted flRt} to the pantry and plate closet. up, and very convenient from its proxi- (p.) Iron closet for plate, fire-proof, i coflee\-oomr^C paSSa£e fading out, and also to the back staircase, to theKITCHEN OF 624 (u.) A lift, by which dinners are conveyed to the coffee-rooms either by steam or by hands. (s.) The back staircase for servants. (t.) Principal Kitchen. The size of this kitchen is twenty-eight feet long and twenty-four wide ; in the middle is an elm table, made on a plan entirely original, having twelve irregular sides, and giving the utmost facility for the various works of the kitchen, without any one interfering with another. The principal length is twelve feet by seven wide, and three inches thick. Under the edge of the table, in front, are two sliding boards, two feet long and two inches and a half thick, which are used for straining sauces, purees, &c.; as these sliding boards are lower than the table they are particularly useful, and save an additional width; below are two drawers, and at each end, in front, are two little moveable copper buckets with water, handy for sponging off any blood or mess left upon the board or table after the cutting of poultry, game, or fish. In the same direction there are two columns supporting the ceiling and passing through the table, round which, at a convenient height, are copper cases lined with tin, in ten compartments, each of which contains every ingredient and chopped herbs of the seasons for flavouring dishes, such as salt, pepper, spices, sweet herbs, crumbs and rasping of bread, eggs, chopped onions, &c.; the other contains various sauces for fish dressed in the English style. These cases turn round at will on castors fixed under it to the column, so that, without moving from your place, you can get every ingredient you may require ; the diameters of the columns are one foot, 3 and the cases for ingredients project over three inches and a half; as columns are not always wanted to support the ceiling of a kitchen, the cases might easily be introduced on the table supported by a stand, turning in the same way as, and similar in shape to a lamp. In the middle of the table is a cast-iron steam closet, four feet one inch625 THE REFORM CLUB. long, two feet eleven inches wide, and two feet nine inclies high, with two sliding doors on each side, and a shelf inside for keeping delicate entrees per- fectly good for several hours, by means of two different degrees of heat; above, five inches distant from the top, is a grated iron shelf, all round upon which are placed middle-sized and small stewpans, supported at each corner by li tie balusters, as it projects beyond the closet it forms a cornice and gives it an elegant appearance. The whole contrivance of this table is much more convenient than might be imagined, by the number of useful objects a common table is deprived of; I certainly could have had a table of large dimensions* upon which great dinners might be laid out, as is commonly done, but that was precisely what I wished to avoid, finding it much more to the purpose, as ,en *'e(; dlshes are ready, to put them quickly into a warm place until wanted to be taken up which is done with regularity; every dish being num- ?b?wbnlP W Tu the!table rth°Ut COGfusion’ a»d t0 ad appearance as if the whole had just been dressed, an advantage seldom if ever at the disposal ?f de cmfu?’ W1° generally finds it very difficult to dispose of dishes a fitting place to keep them m such a proper degree of heat as I obtain with the steam closet. Many culinary artists who have seen it for the first time question whether it is possible to dress a dinner of sixteen entrees or kitchen table. requireT lb, L f aU aP.Pearance adequate to the exigencies ve^ diffi n °nIy answer 1 can §1VC ls> that si»ce I have made use of t , very difficult circumstances, and with well known artists neitlmv J regularly employed in the kitchen of the Sfom Club I ™ t j™ 01 ^ng contrary to good order celeritv and onb • found a»y- ^nted for a large dinner; therefore I do not hesitate to rSnmnd'th^4!""8 mprovementm whatever kitchen i, may be, according to ita“evS talifa! 40KITCHEN OV 62G On the right hand side of the table is a roasting llre-place, principally used for »ame and poultry, on a plan entirely new, the size is seven feet wide and five feet six inches high, the bars are perpendicular and vertical, opening at one end, and supported upon castors, which allows the cleaning of it with much more ease, and affords access for the repairing of the boiler without pulling down any of the works around it; at the back of the stove in front of the boiler are thick Welsh lumps, by which hot water can be obtained twenty-four hours after the fire is put out. The great advantage of this range is, that from the smallest bird to the largest joint, even a baron of beef can be cooked to per- fection, although there is only four inches and a half depth of coals. As the consumption of this article is much less in a grate built on this principle, I expect that the old style of grates will disappear. Another advantage is, that broiling can be done in a very superior style, by means of a double gridiron suspended from an extending bracket hooked over the top bar; for which see my Kitchen of the Bachelor. On the left, in the thickness of the wall, is a small cistern to supply the boiler with water as it is drawn out hot on the right hand side. A screen closet is placed before this fire, drawn on castors, seven feet long, six feet high, and two feet wide, having two grated shelves for dishes, and open to the fire, with sliding doors and flaps, the same as the one described in the roasting kitchen. _ Turning your back to tlie fire-place, on the right is a recess, ten feet high, ten wide, and two and a half deep, forming an elliptic arch, in which is fixed a dresser used for silver dishes, &c., previous to a large dinner; underneath are four drawers for small kitchen utensils, and above the dresser three shelves for tinned iron saucepans ; in the front of the shelves are suspended covers of various sizes and large preserve-pans. On the right, in another recess, six feet four inches high, four feet three inches wide, and two feet and a half deep, there is also a dresser, above it large dish covers. . In the recess of the same size on the left is fixed a low cast-iron chaicoal stove for boiling large fish, which is only used when large fish are required to be stewed or boiled ; when not in use for that purpose it is covered with a thick board elevated one foot above, being supported upon four strong feet in wood, thus forming a dresser upon which to deposit any article previous to its being dressed at the broiling or fish stoves; on each side are tin drainers for kitchen spoons, &c., higher up are two rows ot hooks for large dish covers ; the whole appearance of that side is pleasing to the eye, by 1 e number of various articles to be seen, its regularity, and the brilliant c ean i ness of everything. Facing the fire-place is a large cast iron stov e, he ai with coals, twelve feet five inches long, and two leet ten inches wide, di\u c into five parts, two of them are used for broiling steaks, cotelcttcs, &c., an the others to boil and fry fish. On a compass brass rod, and mo\ea e, 1 fixed a fire-screen obliquely at the end, to prevent the heat injuring t le ey<x, and at the same time actiug as a reflector iu the interior of saucepans ou. , stove if required. At the extremity of the stove is a bain marie,, tw o feet eiB inches square, and seven inches deep, principally for keeping fish-sauces 10 • Next is a cast iron steam closet, four feet seven inches wide, two ee inches deep, divided into three parts, the two shelves are of iron, tvo inc and a half thick, therein are deposited all the fish dressed and waiting to taken up. . j Near it is another closet, five feet and a half long and two wide, van ■627 THE REFORM CLUB. also by steam, with sliding doors for china dishes and covers j the top, which is on a level with the delivery window, is of cast iron and heated by the same means, therefore every dish from the time they are dressed up to the time they reach their destination, keeps moving from one place to another in or upon places kept hot for that purpose. In the corner next to delivery window is the desk for the clerk of the kitchen, the size is four feet long and three feet wide, with a seat, all the ou C1® aie sent from the dining-room by a wooden pipe of communication, and after each dinner is served the bill is sent up in the same way. Every dish is called for by the clerk at the hour ordered. On his left are three voice conductors with bells communicating to all parts of the club where culinary services are required. Turning to the left is the large and principal fiench stove, fifteen feet three inches long by three feet nine inches wide. GAS STOVES, ETC. ttr6.™1'/ ““ marie ,w0 feEl and 0 half square, warmed bvateam L ° PS„for hot aml cold 'Ms bain marie is for soups “d . specially prepared for the coffee-room. By the side is a column fWiSan^ Cedmg’ round ifc at a proper height are three rows of hooks fir b?ck1l IL ^ spoo"s’ forks> skimming ladles, &c. Along the stove at two crntS C°Pln? 7a 1 seParatinS the two kitchens, on which arc fixed moulds n/ nlr0n shelZ,es> uPon whlch are placed a number of stewuans an 1KITCHEN OF 628 partments, (see Plate) each having a separate pipe and brass cock, with a separate main pipe to each stove, which supplies sufficient gas to bum the whole five compartments at once, or only one by not turning the gas into any of the other compartments, or if all burning at once the fire may be regulated to any height you may think proper by means of the brass cocks, turning the gas either full or only partially on. It possesses also the follow- ing advantages : you obtain the same hea.t as from charcoal the moment it is lit, it is a fire that never requires making up, is free from carbonic acid which is so pernicious, especially in small kitchens, and creates neither dust or smell (except the gas should neglectfully be not properly turned oft’), and bv my last improvement it is also now quite free from smoke. With the aid of my new octagonal trivet* I can place nine stewpans over without the fear of upsetting either, some only simmering and others boiling at the same time, which is invaluable, as by the gentle simmering you are enabled to extract all the fat from soups or sauces, assisting in the clarification, and causing them to digest more freely. The gas stoves also tend to greater economy^ as they are not lit till the moment wanted, then only the quantity required! and may be put out the moment it is done with, l think it a great pity that they can only be fitted in London and other large towns daily supplied with gas, but it is there it is most required, as the kitchens are smaller than in country houses, no heat whatever being created in the smallest kitchens by the use of gas stoves. Further on at the end of the stove and parallel with the bain marie there is another, two feet six inches square with two taps for hot and cold water, used for keeping sauces hot for a private dinner in the house dinner room, being three different bain maries, one for fish sauce, one for the coffee-room, and one for the private dinner. Next is a slate sink two feet and a half long, one foot two inches wide, and eleven inches deep, with two taps for hot and cold water used for washing various kitchen utensils used at the charcoal stoves. Above the sink, hot plate, and bain marie, is an iron rack nine feet long with hooks to hang large saute-pans. Near it is a hot plate two feet six inches square heated by steam, upou which are placed dishes prepared for dinners and from thence removed to the house dinner-lift, which is drawn up either by steam or hand machine. The sink trap bell is one of the most simple and useful fixtures of a kitchen; * The old fashioned triangular trivets seemed to have been made as inconvenient as possible, being made only for one large stewpan to stand over the fire, not leaving room for any smaller ones round. f The maker of these gas stoves is Mr. Rikett, who constructs them to perfection at a trilling expense according to their merit. BAIN MAUIE, SINK, HOT PLATE, AND HACK FOE. SAUTE-PANS.THE REFORM CLUB. 629 I invented it after twelve months of the greatest inconvenience arising from a complete stoppage in many of the drains of the dub, which not only created an offensive effluvia but frequently caused the opening of the greater portion of the basement ot the house. Since the introduction of the trap bell to the sinks throughout the kitchen department such offence has entirely ceased. The bell is made of copper and is six inches long and ten in circumference. It screws to the sink and has several holes pierced through for the passage of the water only and the prevention of anything else passing down. It will be seen that the plug is attached to a rod, which is in its turn joined to a chain. By pulling the latter the plug is removed and if it be necessary to keep it open a link of the chain may be attached to a nail fas- tened in the wall. The expense is a mere trifle, the comfort none can fully appreciate. 1 am happy to add that my example has since been followed with similar success throughout the club, and that it has been likewise copied in many noblemen’s and club-house kitchens. I now beg leave to remark to my readers that if I have been a little tedi- ous or profuse in giving the exact measurement of the different parts and every object of this kitchen by feet and inches, it was with the view to be useful to those who have honoured me with their subscription, and the public, I daie hope that my humble efforts will have the effect of producing hereafter a reform in the art of building and fitting up a kitchen which, without being of an immoderate size, contains all that can be wished for as regards saving of time, comfort, regularity, cleanliness, and economy. I am happy to have this opportunity of acknowledging that without the great liberality of the honorable members of the Reform Club, and the kindness of that celebrated architect Mr. Barry, I could never have succeeded in accomplishing the improvements so essential in a well regulated establish- ment ; I shall, therefore, remain always gratified for the encouragement they never ceased to give me in confiding to my direction this new system of building and fitting up a kitchen which is now in active operation, not only for the economy of the Reform Club but to serve as a guide to the amateurs' ot a good kitchen as well as of good living. END OP DESCRIPTION.MY KITCHEN AT HOME. Do not fancy, gentle reader, under this title to see a wonder of the age, as .egards grandeur and magnitude ; but for comfort and convenience you will find a correct miniature of the kitchen, the plan of which I have just de- scribed, the room being only large enough for one or two persons to work in instead of fourteen, and intended to supply parties of from eight to ten instead of a hundred and above ; whether of great or little importance, every- thing, more or less, has its share of merit when well contrived, and by the same rule, these two culinary departments, although upon a very different scale, possess the same advantages. In publishing my Plan of the Kitchen of the Reform Club, many persons could not conceive my motive for so doing, saying that no private family would ever be in want of so large a kitchen, and it would be madness to zo o such an expense, with which reason I fully concurred; but being aware at the same time that all my new plans and discoveries might be reduced to my scale, those just observations have induced me to make My Kitchen at Home as complete in its way as the other, and to be able to afford the facility ri any^man cook, if employed upon any extraordinary occasions, to dress a that of the Cottage. KKCn Mv intention 1 0*1 \/ 1 T1 fl* 4~ 11 A V\1 n /\ P r» 1 .— — 11 _ . 1 * ; 1 «REFERENCE TO PLAN OF MY KITCHEN AT HOME. THE KITCHEN. a. The kitchen-grate, for roasting, constructed with perpendicular bars, about two feet in height, and backed with Welsh lumps. The opening of the grate baa a slide, working up and down, to regulate the draught. b. A boiler behind the grate, c om which a constant supply of hot water is obtained. c. The smoke-jack. d. The screen and plate-warmer. e. The dripping-pan. f. The ash-pit, having an air drain attached, communicating with an air brick at the exterior, to increase the draught required to turn the smokq-jack; it would also prevent the chimney from smoking. 0. The oven, heated by a fire beneath. h. The bain marie, heated by hot water circulating from the boiler. 1. The hot plate, heated by a fire. The coal would be kept underneath. k. A charcoal, or gas stove. x. Thick kitchen table, with sliding shelves and rows of drawers. m. Place for wet sponge to wipe the table. nn. Seasoning box, and fish-sauce box, made to turn on centre pivots. o. Dresser with cupboards beneath, to put four entree services of china; above it the shelves and hooks for covers, baldng-sheet, &c. p. Iron rail, or shelf for coppers. Q. Dresser for dishes, with drawers for small kitchen utensils, one drawer for fat and a slide-board; over it a rail, with hooks for the covers. r. Iron rail similar to preceding. s. Rack for the spits, as described in the Kitchen of the Reform Club. t. The scrubbing-board. u. The hot water tub, with taps. w. The cold water tub. x. The draining-board, grooved and inclined towards the cold water tub. i. The plate-rack; that part which is over the tub being perforated with holes at the bottom. The other half of the bottom is inclined in the direction of the holes. z. A cistern, in the front area. THE LARDER. A. A dresser with drawers beneath, to deposit sauces and cold meat. b. Flour box. c. Narrow upright closet for preserves and spice jars. d. Marble slab for pastry, with ice drawers, and pickle drawers beneath. e. Mortar. f. Safe for cooked meat. g. Rail hung from the ceiling to hang up meat and game. n. Boxes of different sizes in two tiers j they are made of slate with wooden moveable fronts, and are for vegetables, i. Iron rail above, for moulds and spices. k. Potatoes.PLAN OF MY KITCHEN AT HOME. DUST AREA WINE WINE — —ir — — — ii J i 2P II ii 1 ii i * i m > 1 hREFERENCE TO PLANS. THE BACHELOR’S KITCHEN. a. The grate, with upright bars about eighteen inches in height, and Welsh lumps at the back. Near the bottom of the grate are small openings to assist the draught, which communicate with an air drain from the exterior. The open- ings can be regulated by slides. b. The boiler. c. Reservoir to supply boiler, the pipe from which has a ball-cock. d. The oven. e. The hot closet. Below this is a tap to procure hot water from the boiler. f. The screen and plate-warmer. g. The dripping-pan. h. The smoke-jack, i* A double gridiron. This is moveable, and hangs from a bracket which clasps upon the top bar of the grate. It can be moved to any distance from the bars, and can be turned without removing it from its position on the bracket. For this purpose there is a swivel-joint about the middle of the handle. j. Swing bracket, to support a pan. k. A charcoal or gas stove. l. Rack for the spits, as described in the kitchen of the Reform Club. mm 1 Iron shelves of open rails for the coppers, &c., about seven feet from the M f floor. n. The sink, furnished with taps for hot and cold water. It has the bell trap, of which a drawing has already been given. Under the sink the coal-box is kept. o. The plate-rack, placed above the sink. p. The dresser, with slide boards and drawers. q. Place for the sponge and water, n. The spice-box. s. The meat-safe. This is divided into two compartments, for raw and cooked meat. It is placed outside the building, and runs upon wheels and rails, being drawn forwards or pushed back. With this object a chain is attached to the front, and there is a weight, made to counterbalance the weight of the safe, exclusive of the contents. There is a slide board near the foot of the dresser to stand upon. The plan represents the safe in its position, when not in use. It could readily be adapted to balconies in existing buildings. It might be desirable to have the wire gauze double. t. Dresser, with marble top, to make pastry upon. Beneath are the vegetable boxes in two ranges ; they are shown by dotted lines, v. The mortar, which stands upon a block of wood, slightly hollowed to receive it. When not in use it can be placed beneath the dresser. There is an iron ring above, as in the other kitchens, for the handle of the pestle to work through, ■ww. Closets for preserves and other purposes, x. Shelves. THE COTTAGE KITCHEN. a. The grate, as before. b. The boiler. c. Reservoir to supplv boiler. d. Oven. e. The screen. This is a simple wooden rail covered with tin, and can be used as a clothes-horse. f. Swing bracket, to support a pan. g. Bracket for roasting, and gridiron, before described. n. Ash-pit, and air drain communicating with the exterior. x. The sink, with taps for hot and cold water. The coal-box may be placed under- neath. k. Plate-rack. l. Water-butt. M. The dresser, with drawers and slide boards. n. Place for the sponge and water. o. Salt and spice-box. f. The meat-safe, placed at the upper part of the larder, which is well ventilated by panes of perforated zinc in the window, a. Potatoes, beneath the stairs. n. Plate shelves. «• Shelves for the pans, below the plate shelves. t. Copper.CISTEFW THE BACHELOR'S KITOHEN KITCHEN KITOHEN Y.X' .',gd ■ PWARD hallarcT-dclT j. 'IUUM«LIir. II FECT4 IMCUEADINNER PARTY AT HOME. BILL OE PARE FOR BIGHT PERSONS. 1 Soup. French Pot au Feu. > n e p cw p CO 1 Fish. 3 Slices of Salmon en matelote. 2 Removes. Braised Fowls with spring vegetables. Leg of Mutton basted with devil’s tears. 2 Entrees. Lamb Cutlets with asparagus, peas. Salmi of Plovers with mushrooms. o a. •s O! 2 Roasts. 2 Ducklings. 4 Pigeons barded with vine leaves. 4 Entremets. Orange Jelly Omelette with fine herbs. Green peas. Gooseberry Tart with cream 1 Remove. Iced Cake with fruits. Nothing but light wine is drunk at the first course, but at the second my guests are at liberty to drink wines of any other description, intercepting them with several hors-d’ceuvrcs, which are small dishes of French pickled olives and sardines, thin slices of Bologna sausage, fillets of anchovies, ciboulcttes, or very small green onions, radishes, etc.; also a plain-dressed salade a la Franfaise (for which see end of the entrees, Kitchen at Home), fromage dc Brie, Ncufchatcl, or even Windsor cheese, when it can be procured. The coffee and dessert I usually leave to the good taste and economy of my mcnagerc.My Taisle at Home. Uue rdunion Gastronomique sans dames, est un parterre sans fleurs, L’ocean sans flots, une flotte maritime sans voiles.C37 RECEIPTS. PXAIN JOINTS ADAPTED TO THE TABLE OF THE WEALTHY AS WELL AS MY TABLE AT HOME. As hardly any dinner is properly served without a simple joint, which may be deposited either on the table or sideboard, 1 have placed all plain joints, . as also the directions for choosing meat, at the commencement of My Kitchen at Home, to which I shall beg to refer my readers while making the bills of : fare, or choosing different qualities of meat. OF THE CHOOSING AND BOASTING OF PLAIN JOINTS. Here I must claim all the attention of my readers : many of the profession will, I have no doubt, be surprised that I should dwell upon a subject which appears of so little importance, saying that, from the plain cook to the most professed, all know how to roast or boil a piece of meat, but there I must beg their pardon; I will instance myself: for, previously to my forming any intention of writing the present work, I had not devoted the time neces- sary to become professionally acquainted with it, always depending upon my roasting cook, who had constant practice, myself only having the knowledge of whether or not properly done. I have since not only studied it closely, but have made in many respects improvements upon the old system, and many discoveries in that branch which I am sure is the most beneficial to all classes of society (remembering, as I have before stated, that three parts of the animal food of this country is served either plain roasted or boiled). My first study was the fire, which I soon perceived was too deep, consumed too much coal, and required poking every half hour, thus sending dust and dirt all over the joints, which were immediately basted to wash it off; seeing plainly this inconvenience, I immediately remedied it by inventing my new roasting fire-place (see page 622), by which means I saved two hundred-weight of coals per day, besides the advantage of never requiring to be poked, being narrow and perpendicular; the fire is lighted with the greatest facility, and the front of the fire being placed a foot back in the chimney-piece, throws the heat of the fire direct upon the meat, and not out at the sides, as many persons know from the old roasting ranges. I have many times placed ladies or gentlemen, visiting the club, within two feet of the fire when six large joints have been roasting, and they have been in perfect ignorance that it was near them until upon opening the wing of the screen (see same Plate) by surprise, they have appeared quite terrified to think they were so near such an immense furnace. My next idea was to discontinue basting, perhaps a bold attempt to change and upset at once the custom of almost all nations and ages, but being so confident of its evil effects and tediousness, I at once did away with it, and derived the greatest benefit (for explanation, see re- marks at the commencement of the roasts in the Kitchen of the Wealthy), for the quality of meat in England is, I may say, superior to any other nation ; its moist soil producing fine grass almost all the year round, which is the best food for every description of cattle, whilst in some countries not so favoured by nature they are obliged to have recourse to artificial food, which638 KITCHEN AT HOME. fattens the animals, but decreases the flavour of the meat; and, again we must take into consideration the care and attention paid by the farmers’ and graziers to improve the stock of those unfortunate benefactors of the human family. Every country is famous, more or less, for some produce, so is ererv county ; for instance, for the best beef we are indebted principally to Scot- land : the Highland ox, which if bred in Scotland, kept there until four years old, and fed twelve months in Norfolk, cannot be surpassed; those also that are killed in Scotland are likewise very commendable, but the con- noisseur would give the preference by far to those that had undergone a change of atmosphere and pasturage. Norfolk also produces excellent beef, as like- wise does Herefordshire, which three sorts are ranked as the best by the first judges. J The Brighton downs are noted for producing sheep of the first qualitv next to which may be ranked those of the Norfolk downs, they are rather larger, more fleshy, and the meat sometimes a darker colour. Herefordshire also produces some very excellent. The Scotch mutton is also very good, and deservedly of high repute, but I rarely ever use it, as it is killed in Scotland and hurriedly packed, which causes it not to look so well, and frequently very much bruises it; but those of Leicestershire are, in my opinion, quite the con- trary, being coarse meat and very fat; 1 consider it unworthy of making its appearance upon the table of a man of wealth. When residing at Melton Mowbray I tried several haunches, even after hanging a month in winter, and then roasted to perfection, I could not find in them any flavour worthy of the taste of an epicure; I consider it more as a useful nourishment than a delicate meat. The best Welsh mutton is brought direct from its native mountains, the heath upon which it feeds gives a very rich flavour to the meat, which is very dark without much fat; many are fed in some of the English counties, they are very excellent and much fatter, but do not possess the same wild flavour. The best veal to be obtained in the spring time of the year comes from the west of England, being rather small and very white, but there is a steady supply of good veal from Surrey and Essex throughout the year. Although very fine veal may be obtained in this country, it is not to* be compared to the quality of veal we obtain in France ; the veal of Pontoise, a little town six miles from Paris, outrivals any; I would venture to say that one pound of that veal would make a better stock than double the quantity of the veal procured here : no one can account for it, but such is the actual case; al- though there the quality of any other description of animal food is deficient, we have to boast of the excellent flavour, succulence, and excessive whiteness of our veal. House lamb may be obtained throughout the whole year, but there is no great demand for it before February; grass lamb makes its appearance now much earlier than formerly : the quality much depends upon the winter season; if a mild winter they may really be fed upon grass, but if the contrary, they must be fed with prepared food, which increases their size but diminishes their quality. Pork for roasting is best when about six months old, Berkshire and Hamp- shire producing the best. The size of a leg of pork should not exceed more tlinn seven pounds, nor much less than six. I do not know why, but of late years pork has lost in a great measure its popularity, and but seldom appeal's upon a nobleman’s table ; it is in season from October to about March.KITCHEN AT HOME. 639 No. 1. Sirloin of Beef. The royal honour which this bold and hand- some dish received from the merry monarch, who conferred upon it the honour of knighthood, good Sir Loin, which title it has ever since retained (previously only bearing the cognomen of loin), and most likely will retain until the latest period : as a joint it claims precedence of all others. In roasting, the fillet and fat below keep the upper part moist, and when well roasted, such is the quantity of gravy, that after a few slices have been cut it may be taken from it with a spoon. Procure a line square piece of sirloin weighing about twenty pounds (which has been hung at least three weeks in winter, and eight or ten days, if possi- ble, in summer, observing that the older the meat is the longer it will require keeping before cooking, and this remark applies to all kinds of meat, especially to beef and mutton), trim nicely, leaving the fat about an inch and a half in thickness over the fillet, cut a slice slantwise from the flap, which turn under, fixing it with skewers, thus giving the joint an oblong shape ; with a sharp knife cut through the sinew (running along the chine-bones) in four or five places, or the meat would contract in roasting ; make an incision in the centre of the chine-bones, lengthwise, with a chopper, through which pass a spit an inch wide and half an inch in thickness, bringing it out at the flap, keeping the centre, and avoiding the fillet. When the joint is larger it would be advisable to use a cradle-spit, which, however like the other spit, has its inconveniences, one making a hole through the meat, and the other pressing upon the fat, making it heavy ; but in any kind of joint, if not over-roasted” you will never perceive the mark of the spit, as the cavity closes immediately upon the spit leaving it; always choose a spit corresponding to the size of the joint. In a large kitchen, where you require many joints roasting at one time, a cradle-spit is a nuisance, and must be used only where it cannot be avoided. Tie half a sheet of buttered foolscap paper upon each side of the beef, and place to roast, keeping it two feet from a very clear fire, let remain twenty minutes, then rub the top over with a piece of butter placed in the bowl of a large wooden spoon (see page 396), and place the beef back to the distance of three or four feet from the fire, allowing it two houi’s and a half to three hours to roast; take it from your spit, let remain a few minutes upon a dish until no more fat runs from it, when place it upon the dish you intend serving it on (previously taking out the piece of rump-bone affixed to the side to facilitate the carving ; but in choosing a piece of sirloin obtain it if possible without any of that bone attached, or, at any rate, with but a very small piece, as the joint looks so much handsomer without it), pouring half a pint of good gravy (page 394) under; you will then perceive my object in not basting meat, the fat and the skin will be of a very light gold colour winch would have been quite the contrary if continually basted. By placing the meat too near the fire the fat quickly melts and falls into the dripping- pan, whilst by keeping it a tolerable distance it cooks gradually, and as the meat revolves runs over its surface, keeping it continually moist • aild» aSain> by placing it too near the fire it is liable to catch, causing ' many persons to think that it has not been well basted; another evil in basting is, that by continually pouring hot fat over you cause that beautiful Jg it tat attached to the joint to become heavy, and the gravy which invariably alls from the joint with the fat remains upon it, burns, and causes it to be ery indigestible. It will also be easy to perceive in the habit of pouring a quantity of hot fat over all joints, that if three or four should be^-oasthm S?i-0fneTrthe °?er’ that °ne deScriPtion of meat becomes basted with the fat and gravy of several, whilst the mere rubbing of a piece of butter640 KITCHEN AT HOME. over is not the least objectionable, as nothing can fall upon other joints but a little butter or clear fat, which cannot in the least interfere with the flavour of other meats, but still I would advise that lamb, veal, poultry, and even game be kept at the top where there is beef, mutton, or pork roasting; this only applies to large establishments. The above description is applied for the Kitchen of the Wealthy, but I must confess I do not object to a small piece of beef for my Kitchen at Home; I should proceed precisely as above, only procuring a piece of not more than eight, ten, or twelve pounds in weight; put a little water in the dripping-pan, place the beef upon a spit papered as before, put it very near the fire°for a few minutes, rub over with butter, then put it back at the distance of two feet; let roast, if weighing from ten to twelve pounds, an hour and a half to two hours, depending much upon the fire, of which any person may judge with or without practice; take it up, dress upon your dish, then have the contents of your dripping-pan in a basin, from which extract the whole of the fat, and pour the gravy over the chine-bones, it will be very good, and save the trouble and expense of making gravy ; a couple of Yorkshire puddings, of two eggs each, are very excellent cooked under the meat; before I had a smoke- jack in my small kitchen I used to roast very well with a bit of string. For the cottage kitchen, where there is no smoke-jack provided, you may roast very well with a piece of worsted or string, by hooking it to the meat, and then suspending it to a bracket fixed under the mantel-piece, which will enable you to remove it to any distance you think proper from the fire, making a tea-tray, at the distance of three feet from the fire, act as a screen; the bottle-jacks are not bad, but soon get out of repair. No. 2. Ribs of Beef. A piece of from twenty to twenty-five pounds makes a very pretty joint; trim neatly by sawing off the tips of the chine-bones to make it stand flat, saw also about three inches from the tips of the ribs, merely sawing through the bones, which detach from the meat, leaving a flap, which fold under and fix with wooden skewers, not, however, pulling it too tight, or it would cause the skin to crack in roasting, which would produce a very bad effect; roast as directed for the sirloin, from two hours and a half to three hours would be sufficient, unless very thick. For a cold joint the ribs are better than the sirloin, which last should always be eaten hot. At home I often have a piece of ribs of beef weighing from six to eight pounds, and roast by passing a very thin spit through, and placing it down before a moderate fire ; or, if in a small cottage, hang it up with string as for the small sirloin; it would take from an hour and five minutes to nu hour and a quarter roasting, being perpendicular you may baste it slightly, as it does not receive much nourishment from its own fat. No. 3. Rump of Beef. This is also a very delicate joint, but can only be had to perfection in the winter months, as it requires hanging from three weeks to a month before it is in readiness to roast to perfection ; procure one of from thirty to thirty-five pounds in weight, trim neatly, leaving all the fat, for, taking so long to roast, should it be short of fat it would go to table quite dry; roast it in a cradle-spit as directed for sirloin, but keeping it still further from the fire, and giving it from four hours and a half to five hours roasting, it might also be roasted in paste as directed for haunch of venison (No. 222), or wrap it up in several sheets of paper well buttered, and browned by taking off the paste twenty minutes before removing from the fire.641 KITCHEN AT HOME. This hold joint never makes its appearance in my Kitchen at Home, but I have frequently used the piece of fillet attached to it, which weighs from three to five pounds ; I leave about an inch of fat upon it, pass a small spit through, and roast from three quarters of an hour to an hour; for gravy I proceed as for the sirloin. Cold potatoes, previously boiled, put under it in the dripping-pan whilst roasting, and turned occasionally, are very excellent. No. 4. Baron of Beef. It is an old saying that two extremes often meet, so with me, I leave my five pounds’ joint roasting and, like Gulliver, make a step towards the empire of the giant. This is, indeed, a colossal joint, which at nrst sight would put a modest fire out of conceit, my smoke-jack out of order, and, above all, drive my few guests’ appetites from their frugal stomachs ; they not being initiated in the grandeur or importance of a civic or aristo- cratic banquet would consider it a mighty dish of vulgarity. But stay, friends, I would observe grandeur and magnitude are far from being vulgar ; to prove that my assertion is correct I have the opinion of ages, for it is a dish almost as old as England herself. I have before stated that Charles the hecond gave the title and importance to the sirloin, and I have no doubt the baron owes its origin also to some such cause or great event, which I will attempt to discover for the information of some of my readers who, like myself, at present may be entirely ignorant of its origin, which I feel assured will prove interesting. A baron of beef is generally cut from a small ox, and includes the two rumps and two sirloins with one of the rib bones on each side ; it must be trussed precisely as for a saddle of mutton ; pass a spit, which of course must not be too large, through the spinal-marrow-bone, then wrap the beef up in paste as for a haunch of venison (No. 540), only a little thicker, add also more paper, set it three feet from a brisk fire, pouring fat over the paper to prevent its catching fire, twenty minutes afterwards remove the spit two feet further from the fire, inclose it well with the fire-screen, and roast eio-ht or mne hours, keeping it turned by hand; half an hour before it is done take off he paste and paper and give the beef a fine gold colour, when take up dress in a dish *ith gravy under and serve. The ancient style was to serve as- sentation of St. George and the dragon, cut from vegetables, upon the top fiesh salad also of every description used to be placed around, but the whole was obliged to be removed at the commencement of carving. Having promised my readers that I would make all possible inquiry relatino- “ ThDg j°inTt CaUed bar°n °f beef’ a carefa* search inlo f and others has not, I regret to say, been attended with quite a • °,ablf result> and the only information which I can at present obtain e legendary one that King John, after signing Magna Charta at Runnymede, partook of a repast in the company of his barons consisting of ^ °lthe fbs of beef roasted> and that hence arose tbe saying \ 1 b f‘ ,Now tIus aPPears very much like the traveller’s tale that contraicUt/01 “ ^ namcly> that no one Present could possibly pminf' 5‘ RT? °i Reef- “ Here ” says J°hn Bull, with a good-humoured prenareTfS W which a round of beef bein'(U2 KITCHEN AT HOME have not yet forgotten your seven hours’ dressing of a leg of mutton (p. 193 so if you are not above receiving a lesson I will give you one which will enable you to dress this all-important dish to perfection ; for I prize it as I do my own roast beef of old England, and you must be aware that after the centuries of practice I have had that I must understand some little about it. Well, in the first place, the quality of the meat has a good deal to do with it, of which you have given a fair description, I therefore pass it over; but to proceed: it must be cut pretty freely from the knuckle and placed in a brine-tub, cover well with salt, rub it well in, leave it until the next day, when again rub it with the salt and brine created by the gravy from the meat, rubbing well every other day uutil it has remained a fortnight, that is, if of a good size, weighing from thirty to thirty-five pounds, if larger or smaller, more or less time, which must be left to your own good judgment, then take it out of the pickle, let drain twenty minutes, take out and form it of a good shape, folding the fat round, which fix with skewers, tying it round with a few yards of very wide tape, tie it up in a thin cloth, and place it in a large stock-pot with plenty of cold water, set upon a good fire and when beginning to boil draw it to the corner, where let simmer five hours, but two hours before it is done put in eight fine carrots, scraped and cut into six or eight pieces, twelve turnips (peeled), and two suet puddings, weighing from two and a half to three pounds each, these articles would, perhaps, cause the water to cease boiling, if so, place it again quite over the fire until it does boil; when done take out the round, let drain ten minutes, take it from the cloth, detach the tape, take out the skewers, replacing them as you take them out with long silver skewers, dress upon a large hot-water dish, and pour over about a quart of the liquor it was boiled in, cut a large slice from the top about two inches and a half in thickness, dress the carrots and turnips tastefully around and serve, with the puddings upon a separate dish, sending one after the other, they will eat much lighter. When upon the table it must be carved with a regular round-of-beef knife (very sharp) in slices not exceeding the thickness of half-a-crown piece, assisting each guest to a slice, also give one third fat, with a little of the carrot and turnip, but never dig the underdone part from the centre to oblige any one, for they that cannot eat from a joint well-cooked and fairly carved are not worthy of having one set before them. Some persons like them, when salted, to cut red quite through, I do not admire it, but it is done by adding two ounces of sal prunella and half a pound of saltpetre to every fifteen pounds of salt used in the pickling. When around of beef is very large some persons place a tin tube in the centre to boil it, I do not think it a bad plan, as it causes it to cook more regular.” After receiving the above useful lesson, and being desirous of improving mj profession in all its branches, I remembered that amongst the number of joints boiled to serve cold for large civic, agricultural, or benevolent anniversary dinners, the round of beef was the most prominent, and having seen it stan ing in dishes to get cold, with the dish filled with the gravy that runs fr 01111 j particularly if a little overdone, caused me to hit upon the following cxpe ion to prevent the meat losing so much of its succulence : fill two large tubs vri cold water, into which throw a few pounds of rough ice, and when the roun is done throw it, cloth and all, into one of the tubs of ice water, let remain on minute, when take out and put it into the other tub, fill the first tub ngai with water, and continue the above process for about twenty minutes, t ic set it upon a dish, leaving the cloth on until the next day, or until fi111 cold; when opened the fat will be as white as possible, besides having save643 KITCHEN AT HOME. the whole ol tne gravy. If no ice, spring water will answer the same purpose, but will require to be more frequently changed; the same mode would be equally successful with the aitch-bone. Ihe above is a joint which I have always considered too large for my Kitchen at Home, but the aitch-bone or brisket is easily managed. No. o. Aitcli-bone of Beef . A good-sized one would weigh from fifteen to twenty pounds. _ Pickle it precisely as directed in the last, but one week would be sufficient, boil nearly three hours, and serve with the vegetables round as before, and a suet pudding separate; if for cold do not take the tape from it until cold, trim the top, run a silver skewer in at the extremity, and serve garnished with sprigs of very green fresh parsley. No. /. Brisket of Beef The whole brisket would require pickling for a week, it must not be too fat; this being a long awkward joint may be cut in two and served upon separate occasions, boil about five hours and serve as for the iast two, with the vegetables around it; when upon table it must be cut into thin slices, fat and lean m fair proportions. The remains of a brisket of beef are excellent when cold. No. 8. Brisket of Beef a la Garrick. This dish will, I am sure be as popular with the English public as the celebrated tragedian and comedian whose name I have borrowed, even if he were now alive. Procure Tnice nsket of beef with as little fat as possible attached, if too much cut a little of it off and detach the whole of the bones from it, then make a pickle with twenty pounds of salt, three quarters of a pound of saltpetre, form cakes of lPtreUaVtW°nP0Un/1S °f m°1St SUgar’ and two cloves ofPgarlic, with which rub the meat well, and leave it rather more than a week, rubbino-and turn in o- it over every day; then drain and cut it into two equal parts, place one upon _ , °theii’ “-mnS the fat and lean well, tie them together, and afterwards in lean cloth put into a large stewpan or stock-pot containing six o-allons of water, and let simmer for eight horns, (but to ascertain correctly ff done run it mrl 1 6 C°Yei.’ P*ace lfc uPon tire meat with half a hundred weight unnn ’ nd let remain m a cold place until the next morning then take weight and the board, pull the cloth gently at each angle anVlh T ^ turn it over upon your dish, take the cloth off gently, gfrnish with an"' °°Sr parsley, fresh watercresses, and small radishes (if in £afon r ,t i i SS °f cros^se. Nothing could be nicer tb, LTXjifa t?"1" It Will keep good a fortnight in winter, and as long as a week in tw’ bv putting it in a ™lrl „i„„„ t i ,. & , weej£ m the summer No. 9. Ilmncl, 0/ Mutton. The haunch U the meet important Joillt fmuKITCHEN AT HOME. 044 the sheep, it requires but little trimming, and to be hung about three weeks (season permitting). Saw about three inches from the knuckle, detach all the skin from the loin, and put it upon a spit, commencing running the spit in at the knuckle and bringing it out at the flap, avoiding the fillet of the loin (a cradle spit may be used for this joint,) set it down at the distance of two feet from a good solid fire, and if weighing about twenty pounds it requires two hours and a half roasting, ten minutes after it is down rub it over with butter, which you have fixed in the bowl of a wooden spoon, it will form a kind of froth over it, then place it back three feet from the fire, where let it continue until done, if approved of, shake over a little flour from a flour- dredge a quarter of an hour before taking it up, when done dress upon your dish with a paper frill upon the knuckle and about half a pint of gravy under. If the meat is rather fat the butter may be omitted. No. 10. Soyer’s Sadclle-back of Mutton. This is an entirely new joint which I have introdnced in this present month, April 1846. I have served it but three times in our coffee-room, where it gave the greatest satisfaction to those who had partaken of it, having dined from fifteen to eighteen each, whilst two saddles, which would weigh six or eight pounds more, would not dine more than seven or eight if badly carved, or more than ten if properly carved in the usual manner. The cut is a correct representation of the appear- ance of the new joint, which serves to indicate the mode of carving. It is composed of the two loins and two necks of a sheep trimmed into the form of a double saddle, without interfering in the least with the legs and shoulders, which would cause a serious loss to the butcher. Trim and dispose the saddle-baclc as follows: saw the centre hone of the back as far as the saddle, dividing it but not cutting the meat or making a hole through, then with a small saw divide each joint, so as to admit of the necks being cut into chops in carving, when well separated take a piece of a good length from the ends of the rib bones, trim the flaps, turn them under, fixing them with skewers and string, giving the proper shape as the design represents, pull the skin from the w:hole back, melt two ounces of butter, which rub over writh a paste brush to give a good appearance and let remain five or six days previous to roasting, w'eathcr permitting. To roast, pass a long saddle-of-mutton spit through the spinal-marrow-bone, bringing it out at the ends of the necks, fix it to a larger spit, and place at a good distance from a moderate fire for nearly three hours ; avoid basting, but a quarter of an hour before taking up shake a little flour mixed with some finely-ground rice over, which is very good for a little change. This joint looks very noble, and does not appear too large when roasted. For a small dinner a saddle-645 KITCHEN AT HOME. back of Welsh mutton or lamb will make a very fine remove. To carve, commence by passing your knife down the back where nothing hut the meat and skin holds it together, and from thence crosswise to the flap, serving a cutlet and a slice between to each person, continuing the same way through the saddle; you will thus carve the meat according to the grain, and produce fresh hot gravy for each person as you proceed carving. Should any remain, it is fit either to be sent cold to table or dressed otherwise advantageously. No. 11. Saddle of Mutton. Procure a fine saddle of mutton, about fourteen pounds in weight, that has been kept some time, take off the skin with a knife, and skewer the flaps under, run a lark-spit through the spinal marrow- bone, which spit affix to a larger one, and place down to roast as directed for the saddle-back ; it will require about an hour and three quarters roasting, and must be carved as in the last. No. 12. Leg of Mutton. A leg weighing eight pounds would take about an hour and a half roasting; run the spit in under the thigh-bone and bring it out at the knuckle, roast it as described for the haunch, and send to table with a frill upon the knuckle. When I have a leg of mutton to roast in my kitchen I make a small incision at the knuclde two or three days before roasting, in which I put two or three cloves of garlic, it will give the mutton a fine and peculiar flavour, not at all resembling the strong, and to some objectionable, flavour of garlic. I fre- quently serve it with haricot beans under it, dressed as directed (No. 1094). No. 13. Shoulder of Mutton of seven or eight pounds weight will require about one hour roasting ; run the spit in at the flap and bring it out at the knuckle, observe the same directions as before, not basting;, but raerelv rubbing it over with the butter. & 7 No. 14. Loin of Mutton. A loin weighing six pounds would require an hour to roast; take off all the skin with a knife, and separate the joints with a chopper, not cutting through the fillet; run a lark-spit through from one extremity to the other and affix it to a larger spit, observe the same directions in roasting as for the haunch. This is a very favorite dish of mine at home, where I in general joint it with a meat-saw so as to enable me to carve it into thin slanting chops, which look so much more inviting in the plate than those huge pieces which are generally carved. Ao. 15. Neck of Mutton. This f call a very recherche little joint when well kept; it must be nicely trimmed, sawing through the bones at the tips ot the ribs, which detach from the meat, folding the flap over; saw off the clime-bone, and with a knife detach the remainder of the bone from the fillet detach the skin from the upper part, fix the flap under with a couple of skewers* run a long flat iron skewer through the centre, from one extremity to the other5 hx it to a larger spit, roast (if weighing five pounds) nearly three quarters of an hour, observing the same directions as before, carve it crosswise, cutting it m cotelettes, one of which, with a bone, serve to each guest. Boded Leg of Mutton. Cut the knuckle from a leg of mutton ^inch has been hung some time, put into an oval braising-pan well covered with cold water, in which you have put two ounces of salt, place it upon a «lwp fire until boiling, when .kirn well, and place it upon'ti c comet ofThe fire to ..mmer about two hour., that ia, if the It, doe. not eseeed moreth™KITCHEN AT HOME. 646 nine pounds in weight; about half an hour before it is done add a dozen turnips, peeled and cut into quarters, when done take it up, dress upon a dish with the turnips around, place a frill upon the knuckle, pour nearly half a pint of the liquor it was boiled in over, and serve with caper sauce (No. 67) in a boat. Observe, in boiling any description of meat, fast boiling would not cook it any quicker, but cause it to eat very hard and bad. At home I have tried to cook them by placing them in the water whilst boiling, and when again beginning to boil drawing it to the corner of the fire; it certainly saves a little time, but does not eat so tender as when put into cold water. I generally there mash turnips and serve them separately (I do not like them plain and watery, although I consider they must be much more wholesome). Place the turnips when boiled into a stewpan, add half a tea- spoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, two ounces of butter with which you have mixed half a tablespoonful of flour, and four tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, mix all well together over the fire with a wooden spoon. For caper sauce I mix a tablespoonful of flour with an ounce of butter and put it in a smallish stewpan, add half a pint of the liquor the mutton was boiled in. stir over the fire until upon the point of boiling, when add a quarter of a table- spoonful of salt, quarter that quantity of pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a good spoonful of drained pickled capers ; then add another ounce of butter, shake round over the fire, and when melted it is finished. I sometimes also add a spoonful of liaison, it gives it a rich colour. No. 17. Shoulder of Mutton {boiled). Choose a very tender one, weighing about seven pounds, cut off the knuckle, and boil it as above; one hour and a half would be sufficient. Welsh Mutton.—No. 18. Saddle-back of Welsh Mutton. Trim and truss it as South Down mutton, it will take one hour less roasting; you may butter twice over. No. 19. Haunch. If weighing twelve pounds roast it an hour and a half as directed (in proportion) for the haunch of mutton, but if deficient of fat rub it over with butter three or four times instead of once. No. 20. Saddle. If weighing eight pounds roast it an hour and a quarter. No. 21. Leg. If weighing five pounds roast it an hour. No. 22. Loin. If weighing four pounds roast three quarters of an hour. No. 23. Neck. If weighing three pounds roast it half an hour. No. 24. Shoulder. If weighing four pounds roast it three quarters of an hour. Loin and neck about the same time. No. 25. Lamb is divided into but three principal joints, being the fore- quarter, haunch, and saddle, two joints may be made of each by separating : the shoulder from the ribs, the leg from the loin, or dividing the saddle, but they are usually roasted together. To trim the fore-quarter saw off the chine-bone, and break the rib-bones down the centre, pass two iron skewers from the breast to the back, and a lark-spit through lengthwise, fix it upon a larger spit, cover a sheet of buttered paper over the top, and roast an hour and a quarter before a good fire, rubbing butter over it, it would be a light gold colour; should the shoulder have been taken off it will only require three quarters of an hour to roast, serve in a dish with a little gravy under, and mint sauce in a boat. The haunch must be trimmed by cutting off the shank-bone, place it upon a small spit by running the spit in at the extremity of the loin, passing over647 KITCHEN AT HOME. tne thigh-bone, and bringing it out at the knuckle, which tie to the spit with a piece of string ; place a sheet of buttered paper over, and roast an hour and three-quarters before a solid fire ; place a frill upon the knuckle, and serve as before. The leg only would require one hour roasting. For the saddle, skewer the flaps underneath, curling each one round, run a lark-spit through the spinal marrow-bone, and fix it to a larger spit; place a sheet of buttered paper over, and roast an hour and a half before a good fire, dress upon your dish and serve as for the fore-quarter. No. 26. Fillet of Veal. Choose it of the best quality, as described at the commencement of this series. Procure a leg, saw off the knuckle, take out the bone in the centre of the fillet, and fill up the cavity with some stuffing made as directed (No. 127), fold the udder and flap round, which fix with three skewers ; place half a sheet of buttered foolscap paper top and bottom, which tie over and over with plenty of string, ran a spit through, fixing the fillet with a hold-fast, set down to roast, placing it rather close to the fire ten minutes, rub well over with butter, then place it at least two feet and a half from the fire, to roast very slowly, giving it a fine gold colour; a fillet weigh- ing sixteen pounds would require three hours roasting, when done, take it up, detach all the string and paper, trim the top and set it upon your dish ; have a pint of melted butter in a stewpan upon the fire, to which, when boiling, add four spoonfuls of Harvey sauce, and two of mushroom catsup, mix well, and pour round the fillet; have also boiled nicely an ox-tongue, which skin and trim, dress upon a dish surrounded with greens or cabbage nicely boiled, and serve as an accompaniment to the fillet. In my small kitchen I, however, content myself with a nice piece of streaked bacon, of about two pounds in weight, boiled and served surrounded with greens or turnip-tops if in season. For the different modes of dressing the remainder, see the Entrees, Kitchen at Home. No. 27. Loin of Veal. Procure one with plenty of fat and a nice kidney in it, cut off the chump, takeaway the rib-bone at the other extremity, and fasten the flap over the kidney with a skewer, run a spit through lengthwise (not too thick a one), commencing at the thickest end, and fixing it at the other ex- tremity with a hold-fast, tie it up in a sheet of oiled paper ; if weighing fourteen pounds it will require two hours and a quarter to roast, serve with sauce and tongue, or bacon, as in the last, upon a separate dish. At home I usually content myself with the chump, as taken from the loin, either roasting or boiling it, should it weigh four pounds it would require an hour roasting, or an hour and a quarter boiling; if roasted, serve with bacon and the same sauce as for the fillet, but if boiled I make half the quantity of sauce as for boiled leg of mutton, but omitting the capers, and adding a spoonful of roughly-chopped, fresh, green parsley. Dress the remains the second dav as directed in the Entrees, Kitchen at Home. No. 28. Breast of Veal. Procure a nice breast of veal, which trim ns directed (No. 455), stuff the interior with a long roll of stuffing (No. 127), roll the flaps over and sew it up with a trussing-needle and string, place it upon a spit, running it through lengthwise, and roast one hour and a quarter as directed for the loin, serve with the same sauce, and bacon and greens separate. The breast of veal stewed is also good, but for the details f must refer to the Removes in the first part of this work. At home I stew them, and add a few heads of celery with the stock it is stewing in, which l afterKITCHEN AT HOME. 648 wards dress round the veal, and make a litttlc white sauce similar to No. 7 with some of the liquor it was stewed in, or thicken the sauce with a little butter and flour, and add a gill of milk. No. 29. Shoulder of Veal. A shoulder weighing fourteen pounds would require two hours and a half to roast, and three hours to boil, serve with a parsley and butter sauce if boiled, or if roasted, with sauce as for the fillet; bacon and greens must be served with it separate, whichever way it is dressed. J Should you boil the shoulder add a few vegetables, and you may reduce the stock it was boiled in to a glaze (by continual boiling), which will be very serviceable in dressing the remains upon following days; by boiling a calf's foot with the shoulder you would produce a much greater quantity (ff glaze. No. 30. Neck of Veal is usually served as the shoulder, either roasted or stewed, with vegetables, but I have described a number of methods of dressing it in the Removes of the first department of this work. No. 31. Knuckle of Veal is a very favorite dish of mine ; I procure two of them, which I saw into three pieces each, and put into a stewpan with a piece of streaked bacon two pounds in weight, four onions, a carrot, two turnips, and six peppercorns, place over the fire, and when boiling add a little salt, skim well, and place at the corner to simmer gently for two hours, take up, dress them in your dish surrounded with the vegetables and bacon* and serve with parsley and butter over; very good soup may be made from the stock it was boiled in if required, or if not, into glaze, which put by until wanted. No. 32. Leg of Pork. Choose the pork as described at the commencement of this series, if a leg, one weighing about seven pounds, cut an incision in the knuckle near the thigh, into which put a quantity of sage and onions, pre- viously passed in butter, sew the incision up with packthread, score the rind of the pork in lines across, half an inch apart, place upon a spit, running it in just under the rind, and bringing it out at the knuckle. If stuffed the day previous to roasting it would improve its flavour; roast, if weighing seven pounds, about two hours and a half, and serve with apple sauce in a boat. I often roast a small leg of pork at home as directed above, and make apple sauce thus : peel and slice six nice apples, which put into a stewpan, with a tablespoonful of currants well washed and picked, and one of brown sugar, a little of the rind of a lemon chopped very fine, six spoonfuls of water, and a very small piece of cinnamon, boil until in pur6e, then stir in a handful of bread-crumbs, and serve hot. When, however, I am in a great hurry I merely put apples, water, sugar, and a little rind of lemon. Other joints of pork are roasted in the same manner, but do not require stuffing, a loin ■weighing six pounds requiring two hours and a quarter to roast; a neck of the same size will take about the same time, as will the spare-ribs, which is nothing but the necks of larger pork with the blade-bone cut out and the fat taken off. No. 33. Salt Pork. Pork is salted in the same manner as described for beef, omitting the saltpetre, but of course not requiring so long a time; a leg weighing seven pounds would be well salted in a week, as also would a hand and spring weighing about ten pounds, and either would require two649 KITCHEN AT HOME. Lours boiling, putting them in a stewpan with cold water, and serving with carrots and greens upon a separate dish. With the leg it is also customary to serve a pease pudding made thus : tie about a pint of split peas loosely in a pudding-cloth, throw them into boiling water to stew until tender, then take them up, turn from the cloth upon the back of a hair sieve, through which force them with a wooden spoon, put them into a basin, add two ounces of butter, season with pepper and salt, mix well with six whole eggs, tie up tightly in a pudding-cloth, boil an hour and serve very hot. A pig’s head is also excellent^pickled. Divide the head in two, take out the brains and detach the jaw-bones, pickle it twelve days, rubbing it every day, (the brine in which you have piclded one joint, with the addition of more salt, would, pickle several and keep good for upwards of a month ;) when ready, boil it nearly three hours, and serve with greens round as an accompaniment to veal or poultry. To pickle it red, rub it well with twelve pounds of salt, a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, two cakes of sal prunella, and half a pound of coarse sugar, rub it every day, allowing it to remain fifteen days in pickle, after which it may be hung, and dried or smoked previously to dressing. MADE DISHES THAT CAN BE EASILY PREPARED AT A MODERATE EXPENSE IN MY KITCHEN AT HOME. Preaching economy which has been practised from age to age in all domestic works is not here my intention, as my readers must quickly perceive that the simplicity of my receipts excludes the seal of extravagance, having simplified even dishes of some importance, which daily give and have given the greatest satisfaction at the Reform Club. The regular courses of a cuisine bourgeoise, or domestic cookery, will be found extremely easy to execute in my Kitchen at Home, and numbers of them done to perfection in the Kitchen (or sanctorum) of a Bachelor, as well as in the small Cottage Kitchen. No. 34. French Pot-au-feu. Out of this earthen pot comes the favorite soup and bouilli, which have been everlastingly famed as having been the support of several generations of all classes of society in France; from the opulent to the poorest individuals, all pay tribute to its excellence and worth. In fact this soup and bouilli are to the French what the roast beef and plum- pudding are on a Sunday to the English. No dinner in France is served without soup, and no good soup is supposed to be made without the pot-au- feu. Generally every quarter of a century makes a total alteration in fashions and politics, need I say also in cookery, which must be approximated not only to the fashion but more strongly so to the political world, humbly bending its indispensable services to the whims and wishes of crowned heads, which invariably lead the multitude ; for example, the bills of fare of the sumptuous dinners which used to grace the tables of Louis the Fourteenth, Sixteenth, and Eighteenth, of France, were all very different to each other, and none of them were ever copied to grace the sumptuous and luxurious tables of the Empire ; even the very features of them having undergone an entire clmirne m our own days; every culinary invention taking its title and origin from some celebrated personage or extraordinary event, every innovation in cookery like a change in fashion, causing us to forget those dishes which they have superseded; I have no doubt but that, if some correct historian tould'collect the lulls of fare of dinners from various centuries and nations which crowned650 KITCT1EN AT HOME. heads have partaken of, he might write a very interesting volume under the title of History of Cookery, in which we should be able closely to trace the original history of different countries.* Nothing can stamp the anniversary of any great event so well as a sumptuous banquet: peace, war, politics, and even religion, have always been the cause of extraordinary and sometimes monstrous gastronomic meetings ; for a proof of which my readers will find at the end of this work a correct bill of fare (found in the Tower of London,) of a dinner given by the Earl of Warwick at the installation of an Archbishop of York, in the year 1470. In time of war artists are engaged sketching on immense canvasses the horrors and disasters of a battle? while in peace they sketch the anniversary banquets for the victorious, in honour of the event, (reminding us of the calm after a storm;) and we may sincerely hope, for the credit of humanity at lai'ge, that a disastrous battle may have its hundreds of anni- versary banquets without a fresh combat. But to return to the humble but indispensable science of cookery. Everything seems to prove to us that it has always performed an important part in political events, and has been exposed to as many alterations ; still, amongst so many changes, it is with a national pleasure that I find, amongst the heap of frivolous culinary ruins, an old favorite of our great great-grandfathers still remaining ours, having boldly passed through every storm, it has for ever established its culinary power upon our changeable soil. The brown cheek of this demi-immortal is daily seen ornamenting the firesides of millions, and merely acquaints the children the first thing in the morning that something good is in preparation for their dinner : this mighty vessel is called in French pot-au-feu,'j* in which is made that excellent and wholesome luxury which for centuries has been the principal nourishment and support of the middling and poorer classes of France at a very trifling expense. It is not upon the tables of the wealthy that the best of this national soup is to be obtained, but upon the right or left side of the entrance to his noble mansion, in a square, oval, or octagonal room, commonly called la Loge du Fortier, or the Porter’s Lodge; as nearly every porter has his portibre, that is, a wife who answers the door (whilst her husband is doing j the frottage, or polishing the floor of the apartment), while pulling the string i or wire which loosens the lock to let people in with one hand, she skims the pot-au-feu with the other; should she be fortunate enough to possess two eyes \ she would keep one upon her pot-au-feu, and the other upon the individual, "who had, probably, come only to make inquiry; but unfortunately for La Mire Binard (whom I shall have the pleasure of introducing to my readers as a gastronomic wonder in her simple style), she had but one eye, which she almost entirely devoted to the ebullition of her pot-au-feu ; having been . portibre there two-and-tliirty years, she knew most of the people in the habit of calling by their voice, and used to answer them even without turning her shaking head. But what brought her domestic cookery in such high repute, j that she was not to be excelled by any portibre of Paris, was, that one day her : master, M. le Comte de C * * * * (who was a good gentleman and great epicure), came home from a long ride while she was performing her humble occupation of pouring the soup into the tureen; a triple knock came to the door, which immediately opened as by electricity, and in walked her beloved * Especially in France, where cookery was fust cradled, and has ever since been well nursed. f Being a brown earthen pot, which costs about sixpence or a shilling, and which with care would last twenty years; the more it is used the better soup it makes.651 KITCHEN AT HOME. master, who came „o the door of the lodge to pay his duties to his old and faithful servant, whilst an exhalation of the most delicious fragrance perfumed the small apartment from the boiling consomme which attracted his scientific attention ; after a short inquiry he discovered in au old brown pan the gloriously smoking hot consomme, and seizing with avidity a spoon by the side, tasted (much to the astonishment of La Mere Binard) several spoonfuls, pronouncing the first delicious, the second excellent, the third delightful, in fact, magnificent. “ Can you spare any of it ?” he said, addressing the worthy dame. “Yes,” said she, “but lam sure Monseigneur does not mean it.” “ But indeed I do,” replied he ; “ and if I had been aware I could have obtained such a treasure, I would have had nothing else for my dinner to-day; and if you were not so far advanced in years I would not object to make you a cordon bleu.” The earthen pan was immediately conveyed up stairs to the dining-room, and deposited upon the table of his seigneurie, where an excellent dinner was waiting for himself and friends ; but the immortal pot-au-feu, resting on a superb silver tray, with its handle half broken off, made all the homage of the dinner, to the great annoyance of the cook, who had thus sacrificed the art he had displayed in dressing a most recherche dinner, and felt much offended at the whim of his wealthy master, who had neglected his dinner to take pot-luck with his porter’s wife. By a friendly introduction to La Mere Binard, I, with a great deal of sup- plication, obtained from her the following valuable receipt, having been obliged first to listen to the constant repetition of the above anecdote before she could explain it to me. — “I generally choose,” says she, “a bit of the gite a la noix, part of the aitch-bone, a piece of the rump, or a slice from the thickest part of the leg, weighing from four to five pounds, with sufficient fat attached, or adding a small piece ; then I put it into the earthen pan, and fill with cold water till within two inches of the rim, being about four quarts; then I set it by my wood fire until beginning to get hot, when a thin scum will arise by degrees, which I carefully take off and throw away ; then I add half a pound of beef liver, and a tablespoonful and a half of salt, it will pro- duce more scum, which also carefully remove; have ready prepared, well washed and clean, two middling-sized carrots cut in halves, then in four, two small pieces of parsnip, four turnips, two onions, with two cloves stuck in each, eight young leeks, or two old ones, a head of celery cut into pieces three inches in length, tie the leeks and celery into a bunch, and put altogether into the pot-au-feu, set it alone nearer the fire until it commences boiling, skim again, draw it a little farther to the corner of the fire, put a wooden skimmer across the pot, upon which rest the lid to prevent its boiling fast, (which would entirely spoil the soup, the meat becoming very hard and the soup thick and muddy). “You quite astonish me, Mrs. Binard,” said I. “Oh,” says she, “ I have had so many years of experience, and I know it to be the case.” “ Yes,” said I, “ my dear lady, I do not in the least doubt your correctness.” “ Well, then, one hour afterwards I add a little cold water to keep it to the same quantity, put in a burnt onion to give it a colour, and let simmer four hours, sometimes five, depending if the meat is cut very thick ; then I cut some large thin slices of bread, which I lay at the bottom of the tureen, then I take off the greater part of the fat, cut the bunch of celery and leeks open, lay them upon the slices of bread] with one of the carrots, two turnips, and the pieces of parsnip ; take half of the broth with a ladle, which pour into the tureen, (there being quite enou li Boup for six of us, myself, Binard, my daughter and her husband, and the652 KITCHEN AT HOME. two boys) ; then I take out carefully the meat, which I lay upon the dish with half of the liver at the side, the other half, when cold, I give to Minette (her favorite cat), lay the remainder of the vegetables round, with some fine sprigs of fresh parsley ; by that time the bread is (trempe) moistened ; set both upon the table at once, keeping the meat covered until we have done with the soup : that is the way we dine upon a Sunday. The next day, with the remainder of the broth I make vermicelli or rice soup, or the same with bread in it, and fricassee the remainder of the beef in various ways. When my daughter was ill I used to put a calf’s foot in the pot-au-feu with the beef; it made the soup very strengthening and did her much good.” " Will you be kind enough,” said I, “ to tell me where you get these burnt onions,' for I perceive without it your soup would be quite white.” “ Bless you, sir !” she replied, “ you may get six for two sous at any of the grocers, or you can burn them yourself in the oven, or by the fireside, gently turning them now and then until they are quite black, but not burnt to a cinder, or it would spoil the flavour of the soup.” I then took leave of her, returning thanks for her kindness, and put down the receipt as she gave it me during her lon°- explanation, as follows : Receipt. Put in the pot-au-feu six pounds of beef, four quarts of water, set near the fire ; skim, when nearly boiling add a spoonful and a half of salt, half a pound of liver, two carrots, four turnips, eight young or two old leeks, one head of celery, two onions and one burnt, with a clove in each, and a piece of parsnip ; skim again and let simmer four or five hours, adding a little cold water now and then ; take off part of the fat, put slices of bread into the tureen, lay half the vegetables over, and half the broth, and serve the meat separate with the vegetables around. Since I have been in England I have broken my precious earthen pot; I have, however, made some very good soups at home in a black saucepan or stewpan, but must admit not quite so delicate and perfect as in the identical pot de terre. SOUPS.—No. 35. Julienne Soup. Put about six pounds of knuckle of veal in a stewpan cut in four pieces, with about half a pound of streaked bacon ; put a piece of butter at the bottom of the stewpan, and about half a pint of water, place it over a sharp fire, moving it round occasionally with a wooden spoon until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a white glaze, when add about a gallon of water, two ounces of salt, three onions (with two cloves in each), two turnips, one carrot, a head of celery, leek, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bayleaf; when boiling put in twro burnt onions (see Pot- au-feu) to colour it, and stand it at the corner of the fire to simmer for two hours, keeping it well skimmed, then pass the broth through a hair sieve into a stewpan; you have previously cut two middling-sized carrots, two turnips, an onion, a leek, and a little celery into very thin strips an inch long; put them in another stewpan with two ounces of butter and a teaspoQiiful of powdered sugar ; place it upon a sharp fire, tossing them over occasionally until well fried and looking transparent, then put them into the broth with the half a young cos lettuce, and a little tarragon and chervil, place it at the corner of your fire, and when it boils skim off all the butter: let it simmer until the vegetables are perfectly tender, when pour it into your tureen ; serve the veal and piece of bacon upon the dish with melted butter aud chopped parsley over. Beef may also be used for the above, and the vegetables cut in any of the shapes directed for the soups in the other department, of this work ; ^ y°u only require a smaller quantity, take only three pounds, or diminish .all in proportion.KITCHEN AT HOME. 053 No. 36. Mutton Broth. Any description of trimmings of mutton may be used for broth, but the scrag end of the neck is usually chosen. Put about two scrags into a stewpan (having previously jointed the bone), with three onions (a couple of cloves stuck in each), three turnips, one carrot, and a bunch containing a leek, a head of celery, and a few sprigs of thyme ana parsley, fill up the stewpan with rather more than a gallon of water; when boding skim it, and place it at the corner of the stove, where let it simmer for three hours, then cut a small carrot, two turnips, an onion, and apiece of leek and celery into very small square pieces, put them into a stewpan with a wineglassful of pearl barley, pass the broth through a hair sieve over them, and bod at the corner of the fire untd the barley is tender, when it is ready to serve; the meat may be trimmed into neat pieces, and served in the broth, or separately with melted butter and parsley, or onion sauce. No. 37. Irish Mutton Broth. This broth is made similar to the last, adding ten or twelve mealy potatoes cut in large dice, which by boiling to a puree thickens the broth ; just before serving throw in twenty heads of parsley, at the same time put in a few flowers of marigolds, which really give a pleasing flavour; it is then ready to serve. (At home I make clear soup of the trimmings of any meat, either beef, veal, mutton, or lamb, or the trimmings of two or three different sorts of meat, hi the same manner as directed for Julienne soup. No. 38. A very simple Receipt for the Scotch Cock-a-Leehj. This is a very favorite national soup with the Scotch, which by rights ought to have been the pride of Welsh cookery, ranking as high in the estimation of mdlions as their celebrated and generally appreciated rarebit, commonly called a Welsh rabbit. Take six or eight pounds of leg of beef (depending upon the quantity you want to make), with which make a stock as directed for Julienne soup, letting simmer two hours, and keeping it well skimmed; in the mean time trim two or three bunches of fine winter leeks, cutting off the roots and part of the head, then split each in halves lengthwise, and each half in three, wash well in two or three waters, pass the stock through a sieve into another stewpan into which put the leeks, with a fowl trussed as for boiling, let simmer very gently at the corner of the fire for three hours, keeping it well skimmed season a little if required, and half an hour before serving add two dozen French plums, without breaking them; when ready to serve, take out the fowl, which cut into neat pieces, place in a large tureen, and pour the leeks and broth over, the leeks being then partly in puree ; if too thick, however add a drop more broth or water. Should the leeks happen to be old and strong, it would be better to blanch them five minutes in a gallon of boilino- water previously to putting them with the stock. Although an old cock is usually procured in Scotland for the above purpose, I prefer a youim one but should an old one be most handy, stew it a short time in the stock before passing it. No. 39. Ox-tail Soup. Cut up two ox-tails, separating them at the joint put a small piece of butter at the bottom of a stewpan, then put in the o\’ tads, with a carrot, turnip, three onions, head of celery, one leek and a hunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, add half a pint of water and twelve grains of whole pepper, set over a sharp fire, stirring occasionally until theKITCHEN AT HOME. 654 bottom of tie stewpan is covered with a thickish brown glaze; then add a quarter of a pound of flour, stir it well in, and fill up the stewpan with three quarts of water, add a tablespoonful of salt, stir occasionally until boiling, when set it upon the corner of the stove, skim well, and let simmer until the tails are stewed very tender, the flesh coming easily from the bone ; take them out immediately and put them into your tureen ; pass the soup, which must not be too thick, through a hair sieve over them, add a head of celery previously cut small and blanched in a little stock, and serve. Ox-tail soup may also be made clear by omitting the flour, and serving vegetables in it as directed in Julienne soup (No. 35), but cut in any other shape. No. 40. Ox-cheek Soup. Blanch and wash well two ox-cheeks, cut off the beard, take away all the bone, which chop up, and cut the flesh into middling- sized pieces, leaving the cheek part whole, put altogether into a stewpan, with four quarts of water, a little salt, ten peppercorns, two carrots, two turnips, one leek, one head of celery, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay- leaf, also a burnt onion to colour it; let stew at the corner of the fire six hours, keeping well skimmed, then take out the fleshy part of the cheek and pass the broth through a hair sieve into another stewpan, mix half a pound of flour with a pint of cold broth, which pour into it and stir over the fire until boiling, place it at the corner, let simmer till tender (adding two heads of celery cut very fine, and a glass of sherry) ; when the celery is tender, cut the meat in small square slices, keep them warm, and when the soup is ready pour over and serve. Sheep’s or lambs’ heads also make very good soup by following the above receipt, and adding two pounds of veal, mutton, or beef to the stock, two heads would be sufficient, and they would not require so long to stew. No. 41. New Mock Turtle Soup. Procure half a calf’s head (scalded, not skinned), bone it, then cut up a knuckle of veal, which put into a stewpan, with half a pound of lean ham, two ounces of butter, one of salt, at the bottom, a carrot, one turnip, three onions, a head of celery, a leek, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, marjoram, basil, and a bay-leaf, with nearly half a pint of water; move round occasionally upon the fire until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a white glaze ; then add six quarts of water, and put in the half head, let simmer at the corner of the fire for two hours and a half, or till the head is perfectly tender, when take it up and press it between two dishes, pass the stock through a hair sieve into a basin ; then in another stewpan have a quarter of a pound of butter, with a sprig of thyme, basil, marjoram, and a bay-leaf, let the butter get quite hot; then add six ounces of flour to form a roux, stir over a sharp fire a few minutes, keeping it quite white, stand it off the fire to cool, then add the stock, boil up, skim, and pass it through a hair sieve into another stewpan, cut the head into pieces an inch square, not too thick, and put them into the soup, which season with a little cayenne pepper; when the pieces are hot, add a gill of cream, and pour it into your tureen. The above quantity will make several tureens of soup, and wdl keep good several days. No. 42. Broiun Mock Turtle Soup. Proceed the same as in the last article, only colouring the stock by drawing it down to a brown glaze, orKITCHEN AT HOME. 655 w ith a couple of burnt onions, and serving with a glass of port wine in it, or two of sherry, omitting the cream. No. 43. Mulligatawny Soup. Cut up a knuckle of veal, which put in a stewpan with a piece of butter, half a pound of lean ham, a carrot, one turnip, three onions, six apples, one head of celery, one leek, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, a blade of mace, six cloves, and half a pint of water ; set the stewpan over a sharp fire, move the meat round occasionally, let remain until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a brownish glaze ; then add two or three tablespoonfuls of currie powder, one of currie paste, if handy, and half a pound of flour, stir well in, and fill up with a gallon of water, add a spoonful of salt, half ditto of sugar, and a quarter ditto of pepper, let boil up ; then place it at the corner of the stove, where let it simmer two hours and a half, then pass it through a hair sieve into the tureen ; trim some of the pieces of veal, which serve in it, and some plain boiled rice separate; ox-tails or pieces of rabbits, chickens, &c., left from a previous dinner may be served in it instead of the veal; if too thick add a drop of broth or water. , No. 44. Giblet Soup. Clean two sets of giblets and soak for two hours, cut them into equal sizes and put them into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, four pounds of veal or beef, half a pound of ham, a carrot, turnip, three onions, a head of celery, leek, two ounces of salt, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; place the stewpan over a sharp fire, stirring the meat round occasionally, when the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a light glaze add half a pound of flour, stir well in, and fill up with a gallon of water, add two burnt onions to colour it; when boiling set at the corner of the stove, let simmer, skim well, and when the giblets are tender take them out, put them in your tureen, pass the soup through a hair sieve over, and serve; twenty button onions, or any small sharp vegetable, is very good in it, also a glass of port wine. No. 45. Green Pea Soup. Put two quarts of green peas into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, quarter of a pound of lean ham cut in dice, two onions in slices, and a few sprigs of parsley ; add a quart of cold water, and with the hand rub all well together, then pour off the water, cover the stewpan close and stand it upon a sharp fire, tossing or stirring them round occasionally ; when very tender add two or three tablespoonfuls of flour, mix well in, mashing the peas with your spoon against the sides of the stewpan, add three quarts of broth, made as for Julienne soup (No. 35), or broth from the pot-au-feu (No. 34), and a tablespoonful of sugar, with a little pepper and salt if required, boil all well together five minutes ; then rub it through a tammie or hair sieve, put it into another stewpan with half a pint of boiling milk, boil and skim, then pour it into your tureen, and serve with small croutons of fried bread-crumbs. It must not be served too thick. No. 4G. _ Winter Pea Soup. Wash a quart of split peas, which put into a stewpan with half a pound of streaked bacon, two onions in slices, two pounds ot veal or beef cut into small pieces, and a little parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf previously passed m butter in the same stewpan ; cover with a gallon of water, add a little salt and sugar, place it upon the fire ; when boding standKITCHEN AT HOME. 656 it at the side until the peas are boiled to a purde, and the water has reduced to half, then take out the meat, place it in the tureen, keep it hot, and rub the soup through a hair sieve or tammie, put it into another stewpan, and when boiling pour over the meat and serve. The bacon is good cold, the meat may also be put into the tureen if approved of. No. 47. Puree, or Vegetable Soup. Peel and cut up very fine three onions, three turnips, one carrot, and four potatoes, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of lean ham, and a bunch of parsley, pass them ten minutes over a sharp fire ; then add a good spoonful of flour, mix well in, moisten with two quarts of broth (prepared as for Julienne soup, No. 35), and a pint of boiling milk, boil up, keeping it stirred, season with a little salt and sugar, and rub through a hair sieve or tammie, put it into another stewpan, boil again, skim, and serve with croutons of fried bread in it. No. 48. Soup Maigre. Cut two onions into very small dice and put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, fry them a short time, but not to change colour ; have three or four handfuls of well-washed sorrel, cut it into ribands, and put it into the stewpan with the onions, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, mix well, then a pint of milk and a pint of water, boil all together ten minutes, season with a little sugar and salt, and finish with a liaison of two yolks of eggs, mixed with a gill of cream, stir it in quickly, do not let it boil afterwards ; put the crust of a French roll cut in strips into your tureen, pour the soup over, and serve. No. 49. Onion Soup Maigre. Peel and cut ten large onions into small 1 dice, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, place them over the fire, fry them well; then add three tablespoonfuls of flour, which . mix well, and rather better than a quart of water, boil till the onions are quite tender, season with a little salt and sugar, finish with a liaison, and serve as in the last; grated cheese is an improvement in it. No. 50. Vermicelli Soup. Make your stock as for Julienne soup (No. 35), when passed put it into another stewpan with two ounces of vermicelli, boil it a quarter of an hour, then pour it into your tureen, and serve. Semolina or tapioca soup is made the same, using either instead of vermi- celli. For rice soup, see No. 197, Kitchen of the Wealthy. No. 51. Macaroni Soup. (See No. 198, and Italian Paste, No. 194, Kitchen of the Wealthy.) FISH.—No. 52. Turbot. For the methods of cleaning fish, see the other department of this work. In My Kitchen at Home I should never think of cook- ing too large a turbot, but choose a middle-sized one which, generally speak- ing, is the best; cut an incision in the back, rub it well with a good handful of salt, then with the juice of a lemon, set it in a turbot kettle well covered with cold water, in which you have put a good handful of salt, place over the fire, and as soon as the water boils put it at the side; if a turbot ol ten pounds it will take an hour after it has boiled, if it should be allowed to more than simmer it will be very unsightly ; take out of the water, leave a minute upon yonr drainer, serve upon a napkin garnished with fresh parsley, and lobster sauce in a boat; for sauce (see No. 68), or shrimp sauce (No. 73)-657 KITCHEN AT HOME. No. 53. Turbot, the new French Fashion. Boil your turbot as in the last but dress it upon a dish without a napkin, sauce over with a thickish melted butter (having placed a border of well-boiled small potatoes round), sprinkle a few capers over and serve. No. 54. Turbot a la Creme is done with the remains of a turbot from a pievious dinner; detach the flesh from the bone, and warm in salt and water, make cream sauce as page 99, only omit a third of the butter. Brills are cooked in the same manner as turbots, but being smaller do not require so long boiling ; but in boiling any description of fish, never take it up until it leaves the bone with facility, which try by placing the point of a knife between the flesh and the bone, if done the flesh will detach imme- diately. No. 55. John Doree, Boulogne fashion. John Dorees, though not very handsome, are very delicate eating; choose them from four to six pounds in weight and boil as directed for turbot; one of the above size would require about three quarters of an hour; if any remain, dress like turbot, or with caper sauce, &c. No. 56. Salmon, plain boiled. I prefer always dressing this fish in slices CtLVnCh h tW0 !,nchet 7 boiling it in plenty of salt and water } “ h°wihe W1°e fish be boiled’ or tbe head and shoulders b!ini & bllt they reqiUre lonSer boiling. Salmon eats firmer, by not serve wiHi ^ "a* boilil^i dress the fish upon a napki/and W r°bSi SaUCG (Pa§e 3°)’ sbrimP do-> or plain melted butter in a • • \ fresb sPngs of parsley boiled a few minutes in it. A salmon weighing ten pounds will require an hour and a half boiling; a head and ‘ ers weighing six pounds, one hour. The remains may be dressed a la creme, as directed for the turbot (No. 54). * directed hi ST* Sauce,Matel°te- C°ok three good shces of salmon as directed in the last, or a large salmon peal trussed in the form of the letter , less i upon a dish without a napkin, having previously drained off nil he water; have ready the following sauce : peel8fifty smaB onfonf P? a S°od teaspoonful of powdered sugar into a convenient-sized stew' UP°" a 8barP fire> aad as the sugar melts and turns veT' tbP fib ^ a Tuarter of a pound of butter and the onions, place it ao-fin „Ln re, tossing them over occasionally until they become^ slio-htlv°brnwi]p 1 then add a good tablespoonful of flour (mix well, but gentivlS c, ’ and a pint of broth (reserved from some soup) le ^ stove skm, well, and tthen the onions nre done and Shelve “Xr t A add a little pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of catsup, one of H,rvpv! t kj ‘,UenClle8 (N0' 124• The remainder of the above is very good if put in flip nven ,. with a cover over and a little additional sauce 1 * Up°n a dmh No. 58. Cod Fish, plain boiled. (Sec page 119.) No. 59. Cod Fish earned ere,- mil Oyster Same. Boil three shoes of the 42KITCHEN AT HOME. 658 fisli as above, drain and dress them upon a dish without a napkin, blanch three dozen oysters by putting them into a stewpan with their juice upon the fire, move them round occasionally, do not let them boil; as soon as they be- come a little firm place a sieve over a basin, pour in the oysters, beard and throw them again into their liquor, put them into a stewpan ; when boiling add four cloves, half a blade of mace, six peppercorns, and two ounces of butter, to which you have added half a tablespoonful of flour, breaking it into small pieces, stir well together, when boiling, season with a little salt, cayenne pepper, and essence of anchovies, finish with a gill of cream, or milk, and sauce over. The remains of this fish may be taken from the bone and placed upon a dish, with a little of the above sauce (to which you have added the yolks of two eggs) over, sprinkle over with bread-crumbs, and place it twenty minutes in a hot oven till the bread-crumbs become brown. For Salt Fish, see page 122, in the other department of this work. No. 60. Haddocks. (See (Nos. 308, 309, 310, Kitchen of the Wealthy.) No. 61. Baked Haddocks. (See page 129.) No. 62. Soles, Fried. (See page 114.) No. 63. Soles, the Jewish Fashion. Trim the fish well, dip it into a couple of eggs, well heaten, but six tablespoonfuls of salad-oil in a saute-pan, place it over the fire, and when quite hot put in your sole ; let remain li' e minutes, turn over, and fry upon the other side ; ten or twelve minutes will cook it according to the size ; serve upon a napkin without sauce. They are excellent cold. No. 64. Sole a la Meuniere. (See page 115, in the other department of this work.) No. 65. Sole aux Fines Herhes. Put a spoonful of chopped eschalots into a saute-pan, with a glass of sherry and an ounce of buttei, place the sole over, pour nearly half a pint of melted butter over it, upon which sprinkle some chopped parsley, place it in a moderate oven for halt an hour, take the sole out of the pan, dress upon a dish without a napkin, reduce the sauce that is in the pan over a sharp fire, add a little Harvey sauce and essence of anchovy, pour over the sole, and serve them with a little flour an butter. No. 66. Fried Whiting. The whiting requires to be skinned, and the tail turned round and fixed into the mouth, dip it first into flour then egg over, and dip it into bread-crumbs, fry as directed lor the sole; loi nting aux fines lierbes proceed as directed for sole aux fines heibes. ome I prefer the whiting fried with then- skins on, merelj dipping t lcm in flour. No. 67. Whiting au Gratin. Put a good spoonful of chopped onion upon a strong earthen dish, with a glass of wine, season the whitings.win a little pepper and salt, put it in the dish, sprinkle some chopped parsley an chopped mushrooms over, and pour over halt a pint ot anc n,i \ (page 32), over which sprinkle some brown bread-crumbs, grated from im crust of bread, place it in a warm oven half an hour ; it requires to be nicety browned; serve upon the dish you have cooked it in.KITCHEN AT HOME. 659 No. 68. Red Mullets. Procure two red mullets, which place upon a strong dish not too large, sprinkle some chopped onions, parsley, a little pepper and salt, and a little salad-oil over, and put them into a warm oven tor half an hour, then put a tablespoonful of chopped onions into a stewpan, with a teaspoonful of salad-oil. stir over a moderate tire until getting rather yellowish, then add a tablespoonful of sherry, half a pint of melted butter, with a little chopped mushrooms and parsley ; reduce quickly over a sharp hre, keeping it stirred until becoming rather thick ; when the mullets are done sauce over and serve. No. 69. Mackerel are generally served plain boiled; put them in a kettle containing boding water, wed salted, let simmer nearly half an hour, take them up, drain, and dish them upon a napkin, serve melted butter in a boat d:w mimites7011 a tablesP00nful of chopped fennel, boiling it a No. 70. Mackerel h la Maitre d'Hotel. au beurre noir. (See p. 12/) ; as also for Mackerel No. 71. Gurnets are best stuffed and baked; stuff them as directed for haddocks, turn them round in the same manner, lay slices of butter over cut very thin, and bake half an hour or more (according to their size) in a warm oven, when done dress upon a dish without a napkin, and have ready the fol- owmg sauce : put a tablespoonful of chopped onions in a stewpan, with one of vinegar, place over the fire a couple of minutes, add half a pint of melted butter a tablespoonful of Harvey sauce, one of catsup, and two of water, reduce until rather thick, season with a little pepper, cut the fillets of a good ancbovv into strips, put in the sauce, which pour round the fish and serve8 7 1 . No< 72/ Boiled Gurnet. You may boil it either with or without the stuffing m very salt water, it will require rather more than half an hour- serve with anchovy sauce separate. ’ scive witii No. 73. Herrings boiled with Cream Sauce. Boil six herrimrs nbmu —n but only just to iSSSS the following sauce : put half a gill of cream upon the fire in a stewpan wfi it bods add eight spoonfuls of melted butter, an ounce of fresh butter a little pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon ; dress the fish upon a dish with out a napkin, sauce over and serve. 1 aisn without For Broiled Herrings a la Digon, see page 132. No. 74. Skate is usually crimped, cut into long slices and em-lnr! j procure two or three slices, tie them with string to keep the sbane in ’ put them into a kettle of boiling water, in which you have put a o-ood 1 1 !irSi of salt; boil gently about twenty minutes (hav/reaS X^apil nf ^ ver, which boil with it), when done drain well, and put it upon? li 1 v?6 out a napkin ; put three parts of a pint of melted Ltter in ? stel 1 upon the fire, and when quite hot add a wineMassful of nn ^ an’ ^ ace and serve. wmegiassrui of capers, sauce over For Skate au beurre noir, sec page 133. okate may also be served upon a napkin with a hnni nf „r„n i b“tter> ”Wch you have JLd . ,/oouM „f Survey^S°"C melWG80 KITCHEN AT HOME. No. 75. Flounders, Water Souchet. Procure four or six Thames flounders, cut each in halves, put half a pint of water in a saut6-pan, with a little scraped lioreradish, a little pepper, salt, sugar, and forty sprigs of fresh parsley ; place over the fire, boil a minute, then add the flounders, stew ten minutes, take them out and place in a dish without a napkin, reduce the liquor they were stewed in a little, pour over and serve. To fry flounders, trim them, and proceed precisely as directed for fried soles (p. 114). Smelts are likewise floured, egged, bread-crumbed, and fried as above. Plaice are plain boiled in salt and water, and served with shrimp sauce in a boat. FRESH WATER FISH.—No. 76. Pike. Clean as directed (page 93), stuff the interior as directed for haddocks (page 129), only adding some fillets of anchovies and chopped lemon-peel with it; curl round and put in a baking dish, spread a little butter all over, put in a moderate oven ; when about half done egg over with a paste brush, and sprinkle bread-crumbs upon it; a middling-sized pike will take about an hour, but that according to the size and the heat of the oven ; when done dress upon a dish without a napkin, and sauce round as directed for baked haddock above referred to. No. 77. Pike, Sauce Matelote. Cook a pike exactly as in the last, dress it upon a dish without a napkin, and sauce with a matelote sauce over, made as directed for salmon sauce matelote (No. 57). This fish may also be served with caper sauce as directed for the skate (No. 74)—the smaller ones are the best; the remains of a pike placed in the oven the next day, with a cover over it and a little more sauce added, is very nice. No. 78. Stewed Carp. Procure a good-sized carp, stuffit, then put it into a baking-dish with two onions, one carrot, one turnip, one head of celery, and^ a good bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; moisten with two glasses of port wine, and put it in a moderate oven about two hours to bake ; try it done with a knife, which is the case if the flesh leaves the bone easily, dress upon a dish without a napkin, then have ready the following sauce: mince a large Spanish onion with two common ones, and put them into a stewpan with three spoonfuls of salad-oil, fry rather a yellow colour, add two glasses of port vine and two spoonfuls of flour, mix all well together, add a pint of broth (reserved from some soup) or water, with half an ounce of glaze, boil it up, drain the stock the carp was cooked in from the vegetables, which also add to the sauce ; boil well at the corner of the stove, skim, and when rather thick add a tea- spoonful of Harvey sauce, one of essence of anchovies, twelve pickled mush- rooms, and a little cayenne pepper, pour all the liquor drained from the tis out of your dish, sauoe over and serve. No. 79. Carp, Sauce Matelote. Put your carp into a small oval fish- kettle, with wine and vegetables as in the last, to which add also a pint o water and a little salt, with a few cloves and peppercorns; put the lid the fish-kettle and stand it over a moderate fire to stew an hour and a ha , according to the size; when done drain well, dress upon a dish wit on a napkin, and sauce over with a matelote sauce made as directed tor sa monKITCHEN AT home. 6fil sauce matelote (No. 57), or caper sauce, as for skate (No. 74) ; small carp are very good-flavored, bread-crumbed and fried. No. 80. Truite a la TwicJcenham. When you have cleaned your trout as described at page 23, put them into a kettle of boiling water, to which you have added a good handful of salt, and a wineglassful of vinegar; boil gently about twenty minutes, or according to their size, dress upon a napkin, and serve melted butter, into which you have put a tablespoonful of chopped gherkins in a boat. The remains of trout, salmon, or mackerel are excellent pickled ; put three onions in slices in a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, one turnip, parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, pass them five minutes over the fire, add a pint of water and a pint of vinegar; boil until the onions are tender, then strain it through a sieve over the fish ; it will keep some time if required, and then do to pickle more fish by boiling over again. No. 81. Truite a la Burton. Boil the trout as in the last, then put half a pint of melted butter in a stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of cream and two of milk, place it upon the fire, and when upon the point of boiling add a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with a tablespoonful of cream (dress the fish upon a dish without a napkin), put two ounces of fresh butter, a pinch of salt, and the juice of a lemon into the sauce; shake round over the fire, but do not let it boil; sauce over the fish and serve. No. 82. Tench, Sauce Matelote. Put three onions, a carrot, and turnip, cut in slices, into a stewpan, or very small fish-kettle, with a good handful of parsley, a few sprigs of thyme, three bay-leaves, six cloves, a blade of mace, a little salt, and two glasses of sberry ; lay your tench over (it will require four for a dish, and they may be either cooked whole or each one cut into two or three pieces), add a pint of water, cover down close, and stew gently over a slow fire for about half an hour, take them out, drain upon a cloth dress in pyramid upon a dish without a napkin, and pour a sauce over made as directed for salmon sauce matelote (No. 57), or as for stewed earn (No. 78). 1 No. 83. Tench with Anchovy Butter. Cook the tench as in the last but they may be plain boiled in salt and water; dress upon a dish without a napkin then put six spoonfuls of melted butter in a stewpan, with one of milk ; place it upon the fire, and when upon the point of boiling add an ounce of anchovy butter (page 33), shake it round over the fire until the butter is melted when sauce over and serve. No. 84. Perch fried in Butter. Clean the fish as explained (p. 94), dry well, make an incision upon each side with a knife, put a quarter of a pound of butter in a saute-pan over a slow fire, lay in the fish, fry gently, turning them over when half done ; when done dress upon a napkin, and serve melted butter in a boat. No. 85. Perch, Hampton Court Fa.shion. Cook the fish as above, and have ready the following sauce : put six spoonfuls of melted butter in a’ stewpan with a little salt and the juice of a lemon ; when upon the point of boiihm stir in the yolk of an egg mixed with a tablespoonful of cream ; do not let itKITCHEN AT HOME. 662 boil; blanch about twenty small sprigs of parsley in boiling water ten minutes, drain and put them in the sauce, which pour over the fish and serve. Perch may also be served plain boiled or stewed as directed for tench, with sauce served separate. No. 86. Eels Fried. Cut your eels into pieces three inches long, dip the pieces into flour, egg over with a paste brush, and throw them into some bread- crumbs ; fry in hot lard as directed for fried soles (p. 114). No. 87- Stewed Eels, Sauce Matelote. Procure as large eels as possible, which cut into pieces three inches long, and put them into a stewpan, with an onion, two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme and parsley, six cloves, a blade of mace, a glass of sherry, and two of water; place the stewpan over a mo- derate fire, and let simmer about twenty minutes, or according to the size of the eels ; when done drain upon a cloth, dress them in pyramid upon a dish without a napkin, with a matelote sauce over, made as directed for salmon sauce matelote (No. 57), but using the stock your eels have been cooked in to make the sauce, having previously well boiled it to extract all the fat. No. 88. Gudgeons are floured, egged, bread-crumbed, or simply floured and fried as directed for smelts ; but being smaller, they require less time to cook. No. 89. Escaloped Oysters. Put two dozen of oysters with their liquor into a stewpan, place over a fire, and when a little firm drain them upon a sieve, catching the liquor in another stewpan ; detach the beard from the oysters, and throw them again into their liquor; add half a blade of mace, place again upon the fire, and when boiling add a piece of butter, the size of a walnut, with which you have mixed a teaspoonful of flour ; shake round over the fire until becoming very thick, season with a little cayenne, and salt if required, have an esealop-shell, well buttered and bread-crumbed, place the oysters in, sprinkle bread-crumbs over, put it in the oven a quarter of an hour, pass the salamander over, and serve. No. 90. Stewed Oysters. Blanch and beard the oysters as above, when done, put them with their liquor in a stewpan, with four cloves, a blade of mace, and a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, with a little chopped parsley and cayenne ; let simmer a minute, stir in two pats of butter, with which you have mixed half a teaspoonful of flour, let simmer a little longer, lay the oysters in your dish upon a piece of toast, and sauce over. No. 91. Gratin of Lobsters. Procure a good-sized lobster, cut it in halves, detaching the head from the body, take out all the meat, and save the four shells ; cut the meat into dice, then take a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with a piece of butter the size of two walnuts, pass them a few minutes over a fire, add a tablespoonful of flour (mix well in), halt a pint of milk, stir over the fire, boiling about five minutes, then add the lobster, which season with a little cayenne, salt, chopped parsley, and essence of anchovies ; stand it again upon the fire, stirring until boiling, then stir in the yolk of an egg; take off the fire, fill the shells of the lobster, sprinkleKITCHEN AT HOME. 663 bread-crumbs over, put them into tlie oven about ten minutes, the top requiring to be browned; serve upon a napkin garnished with parsley. SIMPLE IIORS-D’cEUVRES. No. 92. Rissoles of Oysters. Prepare two dozen of blanched oysters as directed for escaloped oysters, but cutting each oyster into six pieces, turn it out upon a dish, where leave it until quite cold ; then have the trimmings of some puff paste,* which roll very thin; put some of the oysters upon it in pieces the size of a walnut, fold them over with the paste, which cut out with a round cutter, giving each the shape of a turnover, egg with a paste brush, and throw them into bread-crumbs, cover well, have ready a stew- pan in which there is some very hot lard or white dripping (as for frying fish), in which fry your rissoles of a light brown colour; dress upon a napkin in a plate, garnish with fried parsley, and serve to be handed round the table. No. 93. Rissoles of Lamb. Cutup about a pound of cooked lamb (the remains of a previous day) into very small dice, with a quarter of a pound of lean cooked ham, then put a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan, with a piece of butter the size of a nut, pass them over the fire a couple of minutes, then stir in a teaspoonful of flour, after which add nearly half a pint of melted butter and the meat; stir it over the fire until it boils, season well with a little pepper and salt, and stir in the yolks of a couple of eggs, put it out upon a dish till cold, and proceed as directed in the last article. The flesh of any poultry or game may be used exactly the same. No. 94. Rocambole, or Croquettes of Meat, Game, or Poultry. Make a preparation as above with some description of cold cooked meat, or poultry; when cold divide it into pieces, each rather larger than a walnut, roll them to about two inches and a half in length, have three eggs in a basin well whisked, into which dip them, throw them into bread-crumbs, take them out, well covered, and smooth them by gently patting them with a knife, then dip them into clarified butter, and again into bread-crumbs, smooth them a°-ain and fry them of a light colour in a stewpan of hot lard, and serve precisely the same as for rissoles. y No. 95. Lamb's Fry. See the other department of this work, page 312 • nothing can be more simplified. REMOVES SIMPLIFIED. No. 96. Stewed Rump of Beef. Choose a small rump of beef cut it away from the bone, cut about twenty long pieces of fat bacon, which run through the flesh in a slanting direction, then chop up the bone place it at the bottom of a large stewpan, with six cloves, three onions* one carrot, a turnip, head of celery, a leek, and a bunch of parsley, thyme’ and bay-leaf, then lay in the rump (previously tying it. up with strine)* which just cover with water, add a good handful of salt and two burnt onions, place upon the fire, and when boiling stand it at the corner let simmer nearly four hours, keeping it skimmed; when done pass part of’ the T1,’f recciPts for Paste Pcing so simple in the other department of this book I shall flpon all e^wsions, refer my readers to them, (p. 4-78.) 3664 KITCIIliN AT HOME. stock it was cooked in (keeping the beef hot in the remainder) through a hair sieve into a basin; in another stewpan have ready a quarter of a pound of butter, melt it over the fire, add six ounces of flour, mix well together, stirring over the fire until becoming a little brownish, take off, and when cold add two quarts of the stock, stir it over the fire until it boils, then have four carrots, four turnips (cut into small pieces with cutters), and forty button onions peeled, put them into the sauce, when again boiling draw it to the corner, where let simmer until tender, keeping it skimmed, °add a little powdered sugar and a bunch of parsley; if it should become too thick add a little more of the stock, dress the beef upon a dish, sauce round and serve. No. 97- Stewed Rump of Beef with Onions. See page 172, in the other department. The remains of stewed beef, cut in slices and warmed in some of the stock, is good the next day served with a little sharp sauce (page 15). The remain- ing stock is good for any kind of soup or stock the next day. No. 98. Stewed Rump Steak with Oyster Sauce. Cut from a small stale rump of beef two steaks, about three quarters of an inch in thickness, season well with pepper and salt; well butter a deep saute-pan, lay in your steaks, with four cloves, a blade of mace, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bav- leaf, cover with a quarter of a pint of water, set over a slow fire, when they have simmered half an hour turn them over, and let remain until quite tender; take up, place upon your dish, and keep them hot, place the saute-pan at the corner of the fire, boil, skim well, add an ounce of butter, with which you have mixed half a tablespoonful of flour, stir well, and when it thickens add two dozen oysters previously blanched and bearded, half a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and a little cayenne pepper, sauce over the steaks and serve. The steak with common stewed oysters would be very good. No. 99. Ribs of Beef a VHdteliiire. Procure four ribs of beef, but not too fat or too thick, take off the chine-bone neatly, and the tips of the rib- bones, skewer the flap under, so as to form a good square piece; put a quarter of a pound of butter at the bottom of a large braising-pan, let melt, then lay in your beef (which must previously be larded through the best part 'with ten long pieces of fat bacon), seasoned with a teaspoonfill of salt, and half ditto of pepper, cover the braising-pan, and put it upon a slow fire for twenty minutes, keeping it stirred round until becoming a nice gold colour, then add a pint of water ; when about half done throw in eighty button onions and about sixty small pieces of carrot, cut the size and shape of young ones ; half an hour after add the same number of pieces of turnips, and a bunch of parsley, to which you have added three bay-leaves and four sprigs of thyme, keep stewing gently until the vegetables are done, and the beef is quite tender, which take out, trim, and lay it upon your dish, skim off as much fat as possible from the vegetables, add an ounce of butter with which you have mixed a tablespoonful of flour, with a teaspoonful of sugar, boil altogether, dress round and serve. No. 100. Beef cl la Mode. The real beef it la mode is made as follows, and not as a kind of soup daily sold in cookshops. Procure either a small piece of rump, sirloin, or ribs of beef, about twelve pounds in w eight, take away all the bone, and lard it through with ten long665 KITCHEN AT HOME. pieces of fat bacon; then put it into a long earthen pan, with a calf’s foot, four onions, two carrots cut in slices, if large, a hunch of parsley, two hay- leaves, two sprigs of thyme, two cloves stuck in one of the onions, half a teaspoonful of pepper, one of salt, four wineglasses of sherry, four ditto of water, and a pound of streaked bacon cut in squares, place the cover upon the pan, with a piece of common flour-aud-water paste round the edges to keep it perfectly air-tight; put in a very moderate oven four hours, take out, place upon your dish with the vegetables and bacon round, skim the gravy, which pour over; but the above is best eaten cold, when it should not be taken out of the pan, nor the pan opened until nearly cold. A long brown earthen pan for the above purpose may be obtained at any china warehouse, but if you cannot obtain one, a stewpan must supply the place. Another Method. Have ready six pounds of rump of beef cut into pieces two inches square, lard each piece through with two or three lardons of bacon ; have also two pounds of streaked bacon, clear it from the skin, and cut it into squares half the size of the beef, put them into an earthen pan with two calf s feet (cut up), half a pint of sherry, two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, a bunch of parsley, four onions, with a clove in each, a blade of mace, and half a pint of water, cover the pan as in the last, and put it in a moderate oven for three hours; do not open the pan until three parts cold, then take out the meat, lay a little of the beef at the bottom of a stewpan (not too large), then a little of the bacon, then more beef, and so on alternately, press them together lightly, then pass the gravy through a hair sieve over, and leave it until quite cold, then dip the stewpan into hot water, and turn out upon your dish to serve; the calf’s feet may be made hot in a little of the stock, to which add two pats of butter, with which you have mixed a tea- spoonful of flour, a httle chopped parsley, and half a spoonful of vinegar, and serve as an entree. The above is excellent either hot or cold. No. 101. Ox-tongue. Procure a well-pickled ox-tongue, if weighing five or six pounds it will take three hours gently boiling in a gallon of water; when done skin it and trim the root, serve where afterwards directed, or w'th spinach dressed as (No. 1088.) No. 102. Loin of Veal, with Stewed Celery. Put a small loin of veal upon a spit surrounded with all descriptions of vegetables, tied up in oiled paper; roast, if a middling-sized one, about two hours and a half before a moderate fire, have sixteen heads of celery, trim off all the green part from the tops, and a httle of the roots, wash well, then cover the bottom of a stewpan with slices of fat bacon, lay in the celery, two heads tied together, add two onions and a carrot, just cover them with a little good stock, made as directed for soupe Julienne (page 652), let simmer an hour or more until very tender, rain upon a cloth, untie them, dress the loin in the centre of your dish, lna^c a border of the celery round, take out the bacon, onions, and carrot, s im oil all the fat, reduce a little, add an ounce of butter, with which you a\e mixed half a tablespoonful of flour, stir well in, season with a little sugar, salt, and pepper, and when boiling, sauce over the celery and serve; a a ittle catsup and Harvey sauce to give a brownish colour to the sauce. No 103. Loin of Veal, with White Sauce. Roast a loin of veal as di- rec ed m the last, but keep it as white as possible, when done dress it uponKITCHEN AT HOME. 666 your dish, with some small well-boiled cauliflowers round it, have a quart of white sauce made as directed (No. 136) boiling in a stewpan, sauce over the whole and serve; should peas be in season, a pint of young green ones may be boiled and sprinkled over. No. 104. Di-ess Fillet of Veal for Remove. Procure a small fillet of veal, Skewered up very round, and well covered with udder, place a good piece of streaked bacon in the centre where the bone was taken out, and stuff it under the udder thus : chop three quarters of a pound of beef suet very fine, which put into a basin with six ounces of bread-crumbs, the rind of half a lemon chopped very fine, a little grated nutmeg, two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley, and a little chopped thyme and marjoram, with one bay-leaf, mixed, amalgamate the whole with the yolks of three, and two whole eggs, sew it in, surround your fillet when upon the spit with every description of vegetables, tie up in oiled paper, and roast about three hours before a mode- rate fire ; when done clear it from the vegetables, skewer up with silver, plated, or polished skewers, draw out those it was first trussed with, place upon you dish with celery sauce (page 47), white sauce (No. 136), or rather thin melted butter, with which you have mixed two tablespoonfuls of Harvey sauce and one of catsup, and boiled until it becomes rather a clear brown sauce. No. 105. Breasts and Necks of Veal may be plain roasted, or roasted in vegetables as above, and served with stewed peas (No. 10/7), or a sauce jar- diniere (page 40), which are very simply described. No. 106. Half Calf’s Head, with White Sauce. Procure the half of a scalded calf’s head, which put into a braising-pan, j ust cover with water, add a little salt, two onions, two carrots, two turnips, a large bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves, and six cloves; boil very gently for two hours, or until tender, which you can tell by pressing upon it with your finger ; when done take up, drain and place in your dish, surrounded with some well-boiled po- tatoes cut in halves, and have ready the following sauce: put a pint and a half of melted butter into a stewpan, with the juice of a lemon, when boiling add two ounces of fresh butter and a pinch of salt, when the butter is melted add a liaison of two yolks of eggs, mixed with half a gill of cream, stir in quickly over the fire, but do not let it boil, sauce over and serve ; the sauce requires to be rather highly seasoned. Should you have the tongue and brains, boil the tongue with the head, when done skin it, lay the brains in warm water to disgorge, blanch them two minutes in boiling water, to which you have added a little salt and vine- gar ; skin, chop, and put them into a stewpan, with the juice of a lemon, a little pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and half a pint of melted butter, boil altogether a few minutes, turn out upon a dish, dress the tongue over, and serve with the calf’s head. No. 107. Half Calf’s Head in Currie. Boil half a calf’s head as directed in the last, and have ready the following sauce: put four large onions in slices in a stewpan, with two ounces of lean ham, three apples in slices, six cloves, a blade of mace, two bay-leaves, and two ounces of butter, pass them over the fire, until slightly browned, add two good tablespoonfuls of flour, and one of currie-powder, or a little more if required, mix well in, addKITCHEN AT HOME. 6G7 a quart of the stock the head was boiled in, season with salt and sugar, reduce until of a proper consistency, rub it through a hair sieve or tammie, put into another stewpan, boil up, skim, and sauce over the head, which serve with rice, plain boiled, in a separate dish. No. 108. Llalf Calf's Head & la Vinaigrette. (See No. 460, Kitchen of the Wealthy.) No. 109. Half Calf’s Head Broiled, Sauce Piquante. Boil the head as before, when done drain upon a napkin, place it upon a baking-sheet, egg over with a paste-brush, cover with bread-crumbs, put a few small pieces of butter upon it at various places, and put into a hot oven until well browned; dress upon your dish with a pint of good sharp sauce (page 15) round. The tongue and brains may be served dressed as described before, with each of the methods for dressing calf’s head. No. 110. Large Veal Pie. Have ready boiled a pound of streaked bacon, when cold cut it in large thin slices, also cut four pounds of lean veal from the fillet into large but thin slices, season each piece well with pepper and salt, and dip them into flour; lay some of the bacon at the bottom of a pie- dish, then some veal, over which sprinkle a little chopped eschalots, then more bacon, and so on alternately, finishing in a perfect dome ; have ready a pound of half puff paste (p. 480), place a band round the edge of your dish, wet it, and pour in a quarter of a pint of water to the meat, cover with the remainder of the paste, egg over, and decorate it tastefully, bake an hour and three quarters in a moderate oven. They may also be made of the remains of a joint of veal previously served, but half a pint of white sauce (No. 136) used in it, and the water omitted, but the paste will then require to be much thinner, and it must be baked in a much warmer oven, or the meat would eat dry ; a couple of bay-leaves in a veal pie is a great improvement. No. 111. Saddle of Mutton u la Bretonne. (Seepage 189.) No. 112. Leg of Mutton basted with Devil’s Tears. Procure a fine but small leg of mutton which has been well kept, cut an incision in the knuckle in which put a clove of garlic, rub all over with a spoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of cayenne, two ditto of black pepper, and another clove of garlic (well mixed), and let remain upon a dish until the following day, when place it upon a spit before a sharp fire, then procure about a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, place it upon a long toasting fork, running the prongs through the rind, and hold over the fire until in a blaze, then hold it over the mutton upon which it will drop in tears of fire, until all melted ; it will give the mutton quite a peculiar flavour and appearance, and requiring a quarter of an hour less to roast than in the ordinary method; when done dress upon your dish sauce over with two spoonfuls of Harvey sauce and serve. No. 113. Leg of Mutton, the Housewife’s Method. Have a good leg, beat it a little with a rolling-pin, make an incision in the knuckle, in which put two cloves of garlic, then put it into a braising-pan, with a pound of lean bacon cut in eight pieces, set over a moderate fire half an hour, moving it now and then untd becommg a light brown colour, season with a little pepper and Balt, add twenty pieces of carrots of the same size as the bacon, fifreen midKITCHEN AT HOME. 668 dling-sized onions, and when half done fifteen middling-sized potatoes tw bay-leaves, two cloves, and a pint of water, replace it upon a moderate fm>° moving round occasionally, stew nearly three hours, dress upon vour dish with the carrots and onions dressed tastefully around, take off as much of tht fat from the gravy as possible (which will be a little thickened by the potatoes! take out the bay-leaves, and pour the garniture round the mutton which serve very hot. ’ LU No. 114. Shoulder of Mutton, Savoyard’s Method. Put a small shoulder of mutton in a deep saute-pan or baking-dish, season with a little penner and salt cover over with thin slices of fat bacon, then put in ten pota- toes peeled and quartered, and the same quantity of apples, with half a pint of water place in a moderate oven and bake for two hours, dress upon your dish, with the potatoes and apples round, skim all the fat from the gravy, which pour over and serve; it requires a little oil or butter over before baking. No. 115. Shoulder of Mutton d, la Polonaise. the other department of this work. As described (No. 467) in No. 116. Shoulder of Mutton, Provengale Fashion. Roast a fine shoulder °f mutton 5 whilst roasting mince ten large onions very fine, put them into a stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of salad-oil, pass them ten minutes over a good fire, keeping it stirred, then add a tablespoonfnl of flour, stir well in and a pint of milk, season with a little pepper, salt, and sugar; when the onions are quite tender, and the sauce rather thick, stir in the yolks of two eggs and take it off the fire ; when the shoulder is done spread the onions over the top, egg over, cover with bread-crumbs, put in the oven ten minutes, and salamander a light brown colour, dress upon your dish, put the gravy from it m your stewpan, with a pat of butter, with which you have mined a little flour, boil up, add a little scraped garlic, pour round the shoulder, which serve, ilie shoulder may also be dressed in the housewife’s method, as directed for the leg. A little burnt sugar may be added. No. 117. Saddle of Lamb, Berlin Fashion. Roast a small saddle of lamb an hour, keeping it rather pale; you have boiled eight or ten good potatoes, peel them, put in a stewpan, add two ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and a little grated nutmeg; mix all well together with a fork, add half a gill of milk and one egg, turn well with a wooden spoon, let it get cold, and roll them in long shape and size of plover’s eggs, egg and bread-crumb twice, fry light- coloured in hot lard or fat; dress your saddle upon a dish, surround ‘it with the potatoes, have half a pint of melted butter in a stewpan, place upon the ire,^ and when upon the point of boiling stir in a quarter of a pound of maitre hotel butter (page 33) highly seasoned; when quite melted sauce round and seive with mint sauce likewise in a boat; for other variations see pages J7, 198, and following pages. Haunch, fore-quarter, or ribs maybe dressed the same. J o. H8. Ley or Shoulder of Lamb with Peas. The leg or shoulder must be plain roasted (see page 645) ; boil a quart of very youug peas, which s mm and put into a eiewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, half a tea-069 KITCHEN AT HOME. spoonful of salt, and one of sugar, toss them well together over the fire until the butter is melted, when pour them into your dish and dress the joint over. No. 119. Leg or Shoulder, ivith French Beans. Plain roasted as before; you have cut and boiled two hundred French beans, drain and put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a little pepper, salt, pow- dered sugar, and grated nutmeg, toss over the fire till the butter is melted, add half a pint of melted butter ; boil altogether ten minutes, then stir in quickly a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with a quarter of a gill of cream, pour them in your dish and serve the joint over. No. 120. Boiled Leg of Lamb, with Spinach. Boil a small very white leg of lamb (see page 646), have also half a sieve of spinach, well picked, washed, and boiled, drain it quite dry, chop it very fine, and put it into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a little salt, sugar, and grated nutmeg; stir over the fire until very hot, then add a tahlespoonful of flour, eight of melted butter, and four of cream or milk, boil two or three minutes, keeping it stirred, then pour it upon your dish, and dress the leg over. No. 121. Neck of Lamb d la Jardiniere. Plain roast the neck; you have previously cut with a round tin cutter rather larger than a quill about fifty pieces of carrot, and one hundred pieces of turnip, half an inch in length, put them into a stewpan, with twenty button onions ready peeled, two ounces of butter, and a teaspoonful of powdered sugar; place them over a sharp fire (keeping them moved to prevent burning) ten minutes, add a table- spoonful of flour and a pint of broth, which reserve from your soup, stand it at the comer of the fire, add a small bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf and let boil until the vegetables are tender and the sauce becomes thickish, keeping well skimmed, then add a few ready boiled peas, French beans, Brussels sprouts, or any other green vegetables in season, pour the sauce in your dish, and dress the lamb upon it; if your sauce is not quite brown enough add a few drops of colouring to it. No. 122. Lamb’s Head Broiled, with Mint Sauce, or Sauce Piquante. Procure two heads, split them, hut not to detach them, take out the brains and the greater part of the skull bone, forming each head as nearly as possible to the shape of a heart, put them into a braising-pan, with two onions a carrot, turnip, head of celery, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, six cloves, a blade of mace, and just cover them with a little water, stew them until quite tender, then take out, drain, egg over with a paste-brush, and cover them with bread-crumbs, place small pieces of butter here and there over them, place them in the oven ten minutes, then brown them with a sala- mander, and serve them with a good sauce piquante (page 15) round them or they may be served with the brains cooked as directed for calf’s brains (page 282) under them ; sheeps’ heads are done the same, only they require a longer time to stew. 1 The heart and pluck are also excellent served under them as follows: blanch them in boiling water twenty minutes, and when half cold cut the whole in very fine dice, put an ounce and a half of butter in a stewpan, with a spoonful ot chopped onions, pass over the fire two minutes (keep stirrimr') then nrhl „ spoonful of flour (mix well), moisten with a pint of W or ndlk, Sen070 KITCHEN AT HOME. boiling add the mince, and season with a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of white pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. No. ] 23. Loin or NecJc of Pork k la Bourguinotte. The neck or loin must be plain roasted ; you have peeled and cut four onions in dice, put them into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, stir over the fire until rather brown, then add a tablespoonful of flour, mix well, add a good pint of broth if any! or water, with an ounce of glaze, boil ten minutes, add two tablespoonfuls of French mustard, with a little pepper, salt, and sugar, pour the sauce upon the dish, and dress your joint upon it; serve with a little apple sauce separate in a boat. No. 124. Loin or Neck of Pork, Normandy fashion. Procure a neck or loin, put it in a common earthen dish, having previously scored the rind, rub over with a little oil, place about twenty potatoes cut in halves or in quarters in the dish with the pork, ten onions peeled, and twenty apples peeled and quartered, place in a warm oven for an hour and a half or more, then dress it upon your dish with the apples, onions, and potatoes around, and serve. No. 125. Pigs Cheek, a new Method. Procure a pig’s cheek nicely pickled (see page 649), boil well until it feels very tender, tie half a pint of split peas in a cloth, put them into a stewpan of boiling water, boil about half an hour, take them out, pass through a hair sieve, put them into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, a little pepper and salt, and four eggs, stir them over the fire, until the eggs are partially set, then spread it over the pig’s cheek, egg with a paste-brush, sprinkle bread -crumbs over, place in the oven twenty minutes, brown it with the salamander and serve. No. 126. Sucking Pig is merely plain roasted (see page 204), stuffed with sage and onions, but before putting it upon the spit it requires to be floured and rubbed very dry, otherwise the skin would not eat crisp ; the usual me- thod of serving it is to cut off the head, and divide the body and head of the pig in halves, lengthwise; serve apple sauce separate in a boat if ap- proved of. In my Kitchen at Home I can also roast a haunch or neck of venison, de- pending upon which is presented to me, and precisely as recommended in the other department of this book (page 222) ; for the remains I also proceed the same. No. 127. Roast Turkey. Pluck, draw, and truss a turkey for roasting, stuff it at the breast with the same stuffing as directed for the fillet of veal (page 51) ; if it should weigh twelve pounds it will require two hours roasting before a strong fire, when done take it off the spit, take away the skewer and string it was trussed with, hold it by the legs, sprinkle a little salt over, and pour a little hot water or broth over the back to make a gravy,* and serve with broiled sausages, ham, or apiece of boiled bacon, separate. No. 128. Braised Turkey. Truss a nice turkey with the legs inside as for boiling, then put three onions in slices at the bottom of a stewpan, * 1 f you should have a little gravy, use it instead of water, if not a piece of glare added tc half a pint of water would make a very good gravy.KITCHEN AT HOME. 671 with a carrot, turnip, leek, and a head of celery, also cut small, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, four cloves, a blade of mace, half a pound of lean ham, and two pounds of veal cut in dice, cover them with two quarts of water, then lay in the turkey, breast downwards, cover the stewpan close, and let it simmer about two hours over a slow fire; then take it up, place it upon your dish, with a cover over it to keep it hot, then pass the stock from it through a hair sieve into a stewpan, place it upon the fire, boil and skim off all the grease ; then in another stewpan place two ounces of butter, let melt, then stir in a sufficient quantity of flour to make a roux, stir over the fire some time, but keeping it quite white, then take it off, stir until partly cold, add the stock, boil, keep it stirred; if too thick add a little milk, season with a little salt and sugar, place four cauliflowers nicely boiled round the turkey, sauce over the whole and serve; a boiled ham, tongue, or a piece of bacon is usually served separate with it. No. 129. Capons or Poulardes are almost too extravagant for My Kitchen at Home, but may be either plain roasted or braised, as directed for the turkey in the last, and served with peas, French beans, or sauce jardiniere, made as directed for the legs or shoulders of lamb, only for jardiniere, stewing the vegetables in the sauce you have made from your braise, instead of the method there directed. No. 130. Fowls, with Mushroom Sauce. Braise two fowls, trussed for boiling, precisely as directed for braised turkey; when your sauce is made add a pottle of white button mushrooms, stew for half an hour in the sauce' adding a little sugar, then stir in a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with a spoonful of cream, take it instantly from the fire, dress the poularde upon your dish, and sauce over. r No. 131. Fords, with Spring Vegetables. Braise a poularde as directed for the turkey, and make a sauce from the braise as there directed; then have twenty young carrots and twenty young turnips, lightly peeled,’ and three parts boiled, with twenty small onions, drain and put them into your sauce which you have made as No. 136, with a good teaspoonful of powdered su°-ar • stew them gently until tender, then dress the poularde upon vour dish’ arrange the vegetables tastefully around, mix half a gill of cream with the sauce, boil a lew minutes, sauce over the whole and serve. No. 132. Fowls Braised, Fricassee Sauce. Braise the fowls as before nnd make the sauce from the braise, in which put a bunch of parsley, fifty button onions, and a pottle of mushrooms, both well peeled ; stew half an hour add a little sugar salt, and a gill of cream, boil a few minutes, sauce over and erve. Chickens may be dressed in either of the above methods, calculating 'the time they require cooking by their size. cumulating No. 133. Roast Goose. Pluck, draw, and truss a goose, fill the inside th Jm8agfC and, omons> by cutting four large onions into small dice, and put hem mto a stewpan with a few leaves of sage (chopped fine') and n ,.n i of Jd -Mcd mealy potatoes, crumbled eery Lill, Stootnc“ „? 2 ° and a little pepper and salt; when the onions become tender stulf the "< ’ the day previous if time permit, which roast an hour and a dZ Lr E, ’ amoderat. hre, serve plan,, with a Me gravy on theKITCHEN AT HOME. 672 No. 134. Ducks may also be stuffed and roasted as a goose; a few apples may also be used with the stuffing instead of potatoes, for either ducks or geese, if approved of. No. 135. Duc/cs cl VAubergiste (or Tavern-keeper's fashion). Truss one or two ducks with the legs turned inside, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter; place them over a slow fire, turning round occasionally, until they have taken a nice brown colour, add two spoonfuls of flour, mix •well with them, add a quart of water, with half a tablespoonful of salt and sugar, let simmer gently until the ducks are done (but adding forty button onions well peeled as soon as it begins to boil), keep hot; peel and cut ten turnips in slices, fry them in a frying-pan with butter, drain upon a cloth, put them into the sauce, and stew until quite tender; dress the ducks upon your dish, skim the fat from the sauce, which has attained a consistency, pour round the ducks and serve. SIMPLIFIED ENTRIES. The word entree is a French culinary term (universally known by the nobility and gentry of Europe), signifying a corner, or made dish, in which sauce is introduced, the importance of which is known in the kitchens of the wealthy as forming the size and magnitude of a dinner. Being considered as the principal dish upon which it is intended to dine well, the wealthy epicure orders his cook to prepare a dinner of four, six, or eight entrees, thus making a criterion for the second course, which, in the opinion of real gourmets, is a secondary consideration of delight, and very often left entirely to the cook. But when a lady of moderate income is consulted, she very properly devotes all her attention, good taste, and economy to the subject. The entrees, however, which I am here about to describe, are very econo- mical ; whilst those entrees of importance, which are so well known for their excellence and unavoidable expense, I have left to those whose means will better afford it, and content myself with here offering to my readers those only with which I would be content in placing before my friends at home. My readers will find that certain made dishes, instead of being expensive, tend to greater economy. Every ordinary cook might be perfect in roasting and boiling a joint, but quite incapable of making a single made dish to per- fection, even from the remains of a joint. In a tradesman’s family it often happens that he dines once or twice a week from a Sunday joint, either in winter or summer; in the last it is partly excusable, but, in the former, hot meat for such an important meal is much more preferable, being more fight than cold, and of course digests more freely. To prove the truth of this argu- ment, pickles are continually used with cold meat to invigorate and open the appetite, and facilitate digestion. I would always advise to take a little cold lunch, and a hot late dinner, if circumstances permit, and avoid as much as possible a supper, particularly a late one. SAUCES.—No. 136. For daily use I avoid making any foundation sauces, but when I want to give a little party at home, I generally previously provide a small quantity of white and brown sauce as follows : Cut and chop a knuckle of veal, weighing about four pounds, into large673 KITCHEN AT HOME. dice; blitter the bottom of a large stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, add two onions, a small carrot, a turnip, three cloves, half a blade of mace, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and six of parsley tied in a bunch ; add a gill of water, place over a sharp fire, stirring round occasionally, until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with whitish glaze, when fill up with three quarts of water, add a good teaspoonful of salt, and let simmer at the corner of the fire an hour and a half, keeping well skimmed, when pass it through a hair sieve into a basin ; in another stewpan put a quarter of a pound of butter, with which mix six ounces of flour, stirring over the fire about three minutes, take off,.keep stirring until partly cold, when add the stock all at once, continually stirring and boiling for a quarter of an hour; add half a pint of boiling milk, stir a few minutes longer, add a little chopped mushrooms if handy, pass through a hair sieve into a basin, until required for use, stirring it round occasionally until cold; the above being a simplified white sauce. For a brown sauce I use the same proportion as for the white, but bavin" beef instead of veal'for the stock, which must be made brown by placing four large onions cut in halves at the bottom of the stewpan, which must be well buttered, placing the meat over, standing upon the fire, and drawing down to a brown glaze before filling up ; the thickening must also be made brown, bv stirring a few minutes longer over the fire, and the milk omitted. Sometimes I make both stocks in the same stewpan, pass one half for the white sauce, and put a couple of burnt onions into the remainder, allowing it to simmer an hour longer, when pass and use for a brown sauce. No. 137. Melted Butter. Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, with which mix a good teaspoonful of flour, using a wooden spoon, add a salt- spoonful of salt, half a one of pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and half a pint of water, stir over the fire until just upon the point of boiling, when take off, add two ounces more butter, and half a tablespoonful of vine°ar keeping it stirred until quite smooth, and the butter well melted, when pass through a hair sieve or tammie if required (you can also use milk instead of water for the above) ; it is then ready for use. In making melted butter great attention ought to be paid to the above directions, it being almost in daily use. ° No. 138. New and Economical Lobster Sauce. Break up a fresh lobster use the solid flesh for salad or any other purpose, pound the soft part and shell together (in a mortar) very fine, place the whole in a stewpan, cover with a pint of boiling water, place over the fire, and let simmer ten minutes when pass the liquor through a hair sieve into a basin, and use for makimr melted butter as in the last, to which add a little cayenne pepper and a niece of anchovy butter (see page 33, Kitchen of the Wealthy) the size of a walnut • if any red spawn in the lobster, pound and mix it with a small piece of fresh butter, and add to the sauce with a little lemon-juice when upon the point of 8ervmg; an anchovy pounded with the shells of the lobster would be an im- provement ; some of the flesh may be served in the sauce. -• N°; \39‘ L°foter Sauce a la Crime. Cut up a small lobster into slices the ize °t half-crown pieces, put into a stewpan, pound the soft and white part wnl an ounce of butter, and rub it through a sieve ; pour three spoonfuls nf melted butter, and two of cream, over the slices in the stewpan, add halVa 43KITCHEN AT HOME. 074 blade of mace, a saltapoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, and a little cayenne, warm gently, and when upon the point of boiling add the butter and two spoonfuls of thick cream, shake round over the fire until quite hot, when it is ready to serve. No. 140. Lobster Sauce simplified. Put the slices of lobster as above into a stewpan, with four spoonfuls of milk, add a little salt, pepper, cayenne, two cloves, and a quarter of a blade of mace, let boil, add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, with which you have mixed a little flour, shake round over the fire, and when getting thick, add half a gill of cream; when quite hot it is ready to serve. No. 141. Shrimp Sauce is very excellent made by pounding half a pint of shrimps with their skins, boiling ten minutes in three parts of a pint of water, finishing as directed for lobster sauce (No. 138), and always servin'* very hot. No. 142. Anchovy Sauce is made by adding a spoonful of Harvey sauce and two of essence of anchovy, with a little cayenne, to half a pint of melted butter; shrimps, prawns, or even blanched oysters may be served in it. No. 143. Oyster Sauce. Put two dozen of oysters into a stewpan with their liquor, and two spoonfuls of water, add six peppercorns, and half a blade of mace, blanch them until just set, drain the oysters upon a sieve, catching the liquor in another stewpan, detach the beards from the oysters, which put again into the liquor, place over the fire ; when beginning to simmer, add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, with which you have mixed sufficient flour to form a paste, breaking it in four or five pieces, shake round over the fire, when it thickens add a gill of milk, season with a little cayenne, salt, pepper, and a few drops of essence of anchovies, serve very hot. Another way. Blanch and save the liquor as above, omitting the water; reduce to half, add eight spoonfuls of melted butter made with milk, season rather high, adding a teaspoonful of Harvey sauce and one of essence of an- chovy ; it is then ready for use. No. 144. Caper Sauce. Make half a pint of good melted butter, to which add a tablespoonful of capers and a teaspoonful of their vinegar. Observe, that all fish sauces are better too thick than too thin, the fish being watery, the sauce would not envelope it if too thin. No. 145. To chop Onions, Herbs, fyc. Every practical cook knows how to chop the above ingredients to perfection, but many plain cooks instead of chopping, literally smash them writh their knives, thus losing the succuleuce and flavour, which becomes absorbed by the wood they are smashed upon. For onions, peel, and cut in halves lengthwise, then with a thin knife cut each half in slices, leaving them jointed at the root; again cut into slices cou- trarywise, aud then from top to bottom, thus having cut it into very small squares ; then take the knife lightly with the right hand, place two fingers ot the left upon the point, and commence chopping, lifting the knife entirely every stroke, not digging the point into the board, and pressing heavily upon the handle, as is too commonly the case; when chopped very fine put themKITCHEN AT HOME. 675 into the corner of a clean cloth, which rinse in water to wash them, squeeze quite dry in the cloth, they will be then as white as possible, and quite ready for use. Eschalots are chopped in the same manner, cutting first into small dice, without cutting them in halves. For parsley or herbs, previously wash very clean, take the stalks in your left hand (when quite dry), pressing upon the leaves with your fingers, holding the knife with your right hand, cutting as fine as possible ; chop as directed for the onions. By following the above directions you will be enabled to chop them very fine, scarcely staining the board ; the above directions to some may appear superfluous, but the difference made in the flavour of sauces, by their being well or badly chopped, being so great, caused me to make these observations. No. 146. To make a Colouring or Browning from Sugar. Put two ounces of white powdered sugar into a middling-sized stewpan, which place over a slow fire; when beginning to melt, stir round with a wooden spoon until getting quite black, when set it in a moderate oven upon a trivet about twenty minutes, pour a pint of cold water over, let dissolve, place in a bottle, and use wherever directed in My Kitchen at Home. ECONOMICAL MADE DISHES. No. 147. Fillet of Beef or a small rump steak is very excellent dressed in the following new way : Procure a piece of fillet of beef, weighing from three to four pounds, which can be purchased in any butcher’s shop, being the under part of the rump ; trim it a little, taking off part of the skin, leaving a piece of fat half an inch in thickness upon each side, cut it crosswise in slices a quarter of an inch in thickness, making about six pieces, beat lightly, giving them a roundish shape; place them upon a gridiron over a sharp fire, season whilst broiling with about a saltspoonful of salt, and the half of one of black pepper, turn them once or twice whilst upon the gridiron, which process will keep the gravy in, and when done dress them immediately upon a dish, in which you have put the following simple but excellent sauce, which I usually make over an ordinary fire ; put the yolks of four eggs in a stewpan or Iron saucepan, with half a pound of fresh butter (rather firm) cut into slices, half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper, the juice of half a lemon, and half a table- spoonful of chopped parsley; set upon a slow fire, keep stirring quickly with a wooden spoon in every direction, until becoming rather thick when remove it from the fire half a minute, still stirring, then again upon the fire stirring until the butter is quite melted, but congealed with the yolks of ego-s* forming a smooth thickish sauce ; should it, however, be too thick, acfd a little milk or cream, and if requiring more seasoning ,add a little pepper and salt, with the juice of the other half lemon ; proceed the same for rump steak but if for a corner dish, the fillet would be preferable, as the steak would be too large, appearing clumsy. The above quantity would be sufficient for a party of ten, but a much smaller quantity might be made. A great improvement would be to have four or five middling-sized potatoes peeled, cut in quarters lengthwise, and afterwards into thin slices crosswise • have ready upon the fire a stewpan, containing lard or dripping when hotG76 KITCHEN AT HOME. (which you may perceive by the smoke arising from it, or by throwing a firm* of water in, if sufficiently hot it will hiss and snap),’ put in potatoes, and fry about ten minutes until crisp, Lid a very lUt brown colour; care must be taken that the fat is not too hot, or the potatoes would be burnt before they were sufficiently cooked. 1 1 Another method of frying potatoes, although rather more extravagant is very simple and excellent: put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan or saucepan, and when me ted put in twenty small new potatoes, if in Wo n ol potatoes cut as before, place over a sharp fire, stirring them occasional until ot a nice gold colour; should they absorb all the butter, add a little more when done sprinkle a, little salt over, and serve round the fillet or steak- this may be used in many instances in the kitchens of the wealthy. ’ No. 148. A new Steak. Procure a piece of ribs of beef containing a couple of bones, from which detach the meat, and cut three steaks lengthwise beat l.ghtly with the cutlet-bat trim a little, broil one or two, seasoning them weU and serve with sauce and fried potatoes as before. ’ No. 149. Fillet or Steak a la Maitre d\Hotel. Cut, trim, and broil the fillet oi steaks, from either the rump or ribs of beef, as before (always butter LL'b wK 1 P CVhem UP°? y°Ur dish’ have feady two ounces of butter with which you have mixed a saltspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of white pepper one of chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon, rub <11 ovei the steaks, turning them three or four times, the butter mixino- with before^7 f°imS an admirable sauce J serve with- fried potatoes round as The above steaks or fillets are also very excellent broiled as above and served with anchovy butter (page 33), instead of the butter prepared as last directed, and using one ounce instead of two. Should any of the above steaks be required plain broiled, to give them an extra zest, sprinkle chopped eschalots in addition to the other seasoning over previous to placing them upon the gridiron ; a steak cut of the ordinary size, would require ten minutes broiling over a good fire. Mutton and lamb chops or even cotelettes, are very good dressed in the before-mentioned manners; a little glaze, it handy, is also an improvement. For mutton chops, a little llarvey sauce and Chili vinegar poured over just before taking from the gridiron renders them very beautiful eating. No. 150. A new Mutton or Lamb Chop. Having previously and success- fully introduced a new joint (the saddle-back), I thought I would also intro- duce a new form of mutton or lamb chops, and adopted the following one, as represented in the engraving, which is not only very novel, but the manner in wincii file chops are cut, by jagging the meat, causes them to eat much lighter an ie^ or, they being sawed oil the saddle instead of cut from the loin : proceed as follows : ' a ^idling-sized saddle of mutton, which cut into chops, half an inch in lickness, with a saw, without at all making use of a knife; then trim o c s ape represented in the drawing; season well with salt and pepper, p ace upon a gridiron over a sharp fire, turning them three or four times, ey wi require about ten minutes cooking; when done place them upon « is.i, spread a small piece of fresh butter (if approved of) over each, sene. ihe bone keeping the gravy in whilst cooking, is a veryKITCHEN AT HOME. 077 great advantage in having chops cut after the above method. At home, when I have a saddle of mutton, I usually cut three or four such chops from it, cook and rub maitre d’hdtel butter over, and serve them with fried potatoes round, using the remainder of the saddle as a joint the next day. The above are also excellent seasoned, dipped into eggs, and bread-crumbed previous to broiling; for lamb chops proceed precisely the same, only broiling them a few minutes less. ° No. 151 Veal Cutlets. Cut four cutlets from the neck, half an inch in thickness, beat lightly with a chopper, and cut off the chine-bones, season them well; have a couple of eggs well beaten upon a plate, into which dip them, then into bread-crumbs, take out, pat gently with a knife, and broil rather more than ten minutes upon a gridiron over a good fire, turning occa- sionally, keeping them of a very light brown colour; dress upon a dish spreading a piece of the maitre d’hotel butter over each, turning them two or three times m the dish, and serving very hot. Veal cutlets are also very good served with the new sauce as for fillets of beef or steaks, and the fried potatoes around them. i Por*C l°Ps- T^e four chops from a lom of pork, each about an lfnH T1'1!11 11(ikneSS’ beat them hghtly> trim> season well with pepper and salt, brod nearly a quarter of an hour over a good fire, and serve very hot upon a dish, with or without apple-sauce in a boat. J No. 153. Fork or Veal Chops Fried. Put one ounce of butter in a smite ei'tl m ofH"""I ^ °VGr ^ bofom’ lay in four choPs> well seasoned as in her of the last two ; place the pan over a moderate fire, when the chons ecome coloured upon one side turn them over, they will require turniim fin or hree times before done ; when done, and of a nice colour, ffv P n°i Upoil.a disb 5 Put a spoonful of chopped onions in the pan which y untd becoming of a brownish colour, then take off as much of the fat as possible, add a teaspoonful of flour (mix well with a wooden snooni ^ i moisten with half a pint of water; stir quickly, add a baXffP™T oiling season with half a saltspoonful of pepper, two of salt one of ■, '01! two spoonfuls of vinegar, stir over the fir? £5fing . and two'efi b0 Ch|°Pn If? simmer five minutes, dress the chops upon’a dish fdJ two chopped gherkins to the sauce, which pour over and serve n Ida i dd colouring (No. 146) added to the sauce wo^ld im^fe’KITCHEN AT HOME. 678 No. 154. Hashed Beef is made from any description of roast beef. It may also be made from stewed, but roast is preferable. Cut about a pound and a half of meat into thin slices, using a small quantity of the fat; lay them upon a dish, sprinkle a spoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter ditto of pepper, place the meat in a stewpan, moisten with half a pint of water or light broth, if handy ; add a little colouring (No. 14G) to give a nice brown colour, place it upon the fire, allowing it to warm gently, stirring occasionally, simmering a quarter of an hour, taste if requiring more seasoning, if so add a little and serve very hot immediately. In making a hash°of any de- scription, avoid having to keep it hot as much as possible, or it would become greasy, and likewise prevent the hash boiling over the fire, which would cause the meat to eat hard and tough. If the beef has been well roasted, as described (page 639), the remainder, being underdone, makes an excellent and very nutritious hash. To vary any description of hash, it may be served upon a large piece of buttered toast, or half a spoonful of chopped onions may be added with the flour and seasoning; chopped parsley may also he added with a spoonful of catsup, two of Harvey sauce, two of vinegar, or one of Chili vinegar ; four nice green gherkins in slices may also he added at the time of serving. Some fresh mushrooms from the fields, cleaned, and stewed in the hash, is also a great improvement, a bay-leaf also added imparts a pleasant flavour. A little meat left upon the bones, well peppered and broiled, are frequently served with the hash. No. 155. Remains of Salt Beef, although very good cold, in winter is very desirable made hot; one of the best methods of doing which is to convert it into that old-fashioned dish entitled bubble-and-squeak; the beef should be, as usual, rather underdone, and cut into slices not thicker than a five-shilling piece, then put two ounces of butter in a saute or frying-pan, when melted lay in the beef, which place over a quick fire, frying both sides of a yellowish brown colour, when take them out upon a dish, keeping them hot; you have previously boiled six or eight greens or one Savoy cabbage, which chop fine, season with four saltspoonfuls of salt and one of black pepper, place in the same pan you fried the beef in over the fire, keep turning them over until quite hot, when dress upon a dish with the beef over, and serve. A few slices of fat ought to be fried with the beef. Another way of warming salt beef, is to cut slices and lay in a pan with just sufficient water to cover them ; place over the fire, add about an ounce of fresh butter mixed with a little flour, a little Harvey sauce, and a piece of glaze about the size of a walnut, if handy. Another way would be to lay the slices in a saute or frying-pan well buttered, place over the fire and fry alight brown colour, pour olF as much of the fat as possible, add a quarter of a pint of water, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut, with which you have mixed half a teaspoonful of flour, shake round over the fire a minute or two, add two spoonfuls of piccalilly cut in slices, two ditto of the liquor, and one of the colouring (No. 146), and serve over when ready. No. 156. Ox Tails en Currie. Have ready some ox tails dressed as described in page 2/3 (they will keep several days in a basin covered with their own stock), when wanted warm them in their stock, cut four onions into very thin slices, put them into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, fry over a slow fire until the onions become brown and pulpy, when679 KITCHEN AT HOME. add a nicely boiled mealy potato (peeled), a tablespoonful of currie-powder, and one of currie-paste, or one and a half of the powder, mix all well together, moisten with three parts of a pint of the stock from the tails; then add the tails, stirring them round gently until well covered with the sauce, set over a slow fire to stew very slowly for half an hour, moving them round occasion- all v, finish with a little salt and the juice of half a lemon ; dress upon a dish pyramidically, pour the sauce, which must be rather thick, over, and serve with rice boiled as directed (page 51) upon a separate dish. Another way, for a change, would be to introduce four very ripe tomatas at the same time with the potato and currie-powder, omitting the lemon-juice, and adding half a teaspoonful of sugar. A tablespoonful of currie-paste added to any description of hash would convert it into a very good currie. No. 157. Ragout of Ox Tails. Cut two ox tails into pieces two inches in length, rub two ounces of butter over the bottom of a convenient-sized stew- pan, place in the pieces of tails, with half a pound of streaked bacon cut into square pieces the size of walnuts, place over a moderate fire, stirring occa- sionally until nicely browned, but not in the least burnt, add two ounces of flour (mix well) and three pints of water ; when boiling and half cooked add a bunch of parsley, with two bay-leaves, twenty young carrots, or pieces of old ones, and twenty button onions, season with a teaspoonful of salt, a half ditto of sugar, and a quarter ditto of pepper; let simmer until the tails and vegetables are quite tender, keeping well skimmed, when take out and dress them in pyramid upon mashed potatoes, garnish round with the vegetables, pass the sauce through a hair sieve into another stewpan, place over the fire, stir with a wooden spoon until adhering to the back, when pour over the tails, and serve very hot. No. 158. Ox Cheeks are very delicate when well stewed, and may be pur- chased very cheap; they require soaking all night, and about six hours to blanch in salt water, until the flesh will detach easily from the bone, when take it out, remove the bone, place some onion, carrot, and turnip, in slices, in a large flat stewpan, with a piece of bacon, a few sprigs of thyme, parsley, and two bay-leaves, cover with a little stock (if any) or water, place the flesh from the cheek over, put in a moderate oven until very tender, when take up, dress upon a dish, and serve with a sharp sauce over. Ox cheeks may also be served in currie, or converted into a ragout after blanching, as directed for ox tails. Should you happen to have the remains of a fresh ox tongue, it would be very good cut in slices, warmed, and served with a sharp sauce, or hashed • the remains of a pickled one may be used in any little made dish of veal, or poultry, hereafter described; to some persons it is, however, preferable cold , No. 159. Ox Kidneys are very good for breakfast or luncheon; cut the kidneys into thin slices, avoiding the piece in the centre, put two ounces of nutter in a stewpan, with a little chopped eschalots, place over the fire • when Decoming a little browned add the kidneys, which keep stirring for five minutes still over the fire, add half a tablespoonful of flour (mix well), two glasses of sherry, two of water, half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter ditto of pepper one ol chopped parsley, and a bay-leaf, let simmer gently five minutes, not how ever, to boil, or they would become hard and indigestible; should the sauce be too thin add a little butter and flour mixed together, it requires to be sufliG80 KITCUEN AT H03IE. ciently thick to envelope the kidneys ; when done pour out upon a dish and serve very hot. A few raw mushrooms stewed with the kidneys is also » great improvement. J ° a A bullock s heart is a favorite dish with some persons ; soak an hour in lukewarm water to disgorge, dry, and stuff the interior with a good vezd stuffing roast an hour and a half before a moderate fire, and serve very hot with a httle veal sauce (see page 647) around; proceed the same for calves* or sheep s hearts, but of course they will require less time. No. 160. Calf’s Head. Should you have any left from a previous dinner it may be dressed in various ways. To hash calf’s head, cut into good slices not too thm or it would have a bad appearance ; put a spoonful of chopped onions in a stewpan, with a wineglassful of vinegar, six peppercorns, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, and a gill of broth reduce to half over the fire, then add the slices of calf’s head and a mil more broth, season with a little pepper and salt, when quite hot through add half an ounce of butter, with which you have mixed a tablespoonful of flour first rf.i °? five Pieces> shake round over the fire until becoming a httle thickish, add a little colouring (No. 146) to give a light brown colour® pour out upon your dish, and serve with a few slices of gherkins sprinkled Calf s head may also be cut in slices, warmed, and served with some of the sauces as directed for fillet of beef, or curried as for the ox-tails (No. 156) • hashed calf s head, with a couple of spoonfuls of currie-paste added, is also very excellent. Ao. 161. Calf’s Brains ancl Tongue. Boil the tongue in stock or water until tender, lay the brains in lukewarm water to disgorge, then carefully take ofi all the skin, put about a quarter of a pound of butter in a saute-pan, rub all over the bottom, cut the brains in slices, lay them in the pan, season'with a little pepper, salt, and lemon-juice, place over a moderate fire, and when set turn them over, add about a gill of melted butter, and a little milk, if too thick, season a little more if required, shake the saute-pan round, moving the brains from the bottom, but not breaking them, and pour upon a dish,°skin and trim the tongue, cut it in halves lengthwise, glaze and serve dressed upon the brains. Sheep and lamb’s tongues and brains are dressed in precisely the same manner as the calf’s. No. 162. Veal Cutlets, the English Method. Procure a piece of fillet of veal weighing about four pounds, from which (to the best advantage) cut eight or ten pieces of the shape and size of fillets of fowl, season lightly with a little pepper and salt, have a couple of eggs, well beaten, upon a plate, into which dip the cutlets, and afterwards into bread-crumbs, beat lightly; then cut four oi five slices of streaked bacon, which fry in a saut£ or frying-pan ; when done take out and lay in the cutlets, which fry of a nice light brown colour, dress the bacon and cutlets alternately upon your dish, pour as much fat as possible out ot the pan, into which pour a quarter of a pint of water, and the same of melted butter; boil until becoming rather thickish, when add a tablespoonful ot Harvey sauce, one of catsup, a little colouring (No. 146), and a little pepper and salt, boil another second, pass through a sieve over the cutlets, and serve. eal cutlets cut and fried as above may also be served upon some very light mashed potatoes, omitting the sauce.KITCHEN AT HOME. G81 No. 1G3. Sweetbreads. I never can procure sweetbreads at home except in the autumn or winter season of the year, so many families being then out of town, they may be procured at a very reasonable price ; I usually dress them thus : lay them in water three or four hours to disgorge, blanch two minutes in boiling water, take out and put them into another stewpan, with a few slices of onions, carrot, turnip, a little parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, six peppercorns, a blade of mace, and a small piece of bacon, cover over with a little broth if any, place over the fire, and let boil about twenty minutes, then take out, dry them on a cloth, egg all over, throw into bread-crumbs, run a skewer through each, tie them to a spit and l’oast of a nice brown colour before a sharp lire, a quarter of an hour would be sufficient; they might also be browned in a hot oven, or fried in very hot lard or dripping ten minutes; then, however, they must be stewed rather longer ; serve them with vegetable • garniture of any description, if peas, merely plain boiling them, putting them in a stewpan, with a little sugar, pepper, salt, and a piece of fresh butter, toss them round over the fire until very hot, pour them into the dish, and dress the sweetbreads over, or serve with French beans dressed also in the same manner, spinach dressed as directed (page 43), or merely with the following- sauce : put a gill of melted butter into a stewpan, with a spoonful of Harvey or Reading sauce, and a little catsup, boil altogether, and if too thick add a little water. If I cannot meet with heart sweetbreads, I in general satisfy myself with the throats. No. 164. Calf’s Liver Stewed, French fashion. Procure a small delicate liver, cut twenty pieces of fat bacon, three inches in length and a quarter of an inch square, season with a little pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, then with a larding-needle run them into the liver crosswise, put two ounces of butter into a convenient-sized stewpan, with half a pound of lean uncooked ham, keep stirring over a sharp fire until the ham becomes rather brownish, then lay in the liver, cover the stewpan, stir round occasionally until the liver has become quite firm and of a brownish colour ; then add half a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of one of pepper, forty button onions, twenty young carrots (or twenty pieces of old, previously blanched), half a pint of water? a bunch of parsley, with three sprigs of thyme and two bay-leaves (tied together), four cloves, and a blade of mace, let simmer twenty minutes ; then add twenty new potatoes, or old ones cut of the same size, cover the stewpan, and let stew gently until all the vegetables are done, when take out the bunch of herbs, dress the liver upon a disb, with the vegetables and ham around it skim all the fat from the gravy in the stewpan, pour over the vegetables and serve; if any remain, it is excellent made hot the next day, or even to be eaten cold. No. 165. Calf’s Liver Fried. Cut the liver into slices the eighth of an inch in thickness, dip them in flour, and fry them in a sautd or frying-pan, in which you have previously fried some slices of streaked bacon, fry the liver until quite browned and rather crisp, when take out and place it upon a dish with the bacon, pour as much of the fat as possible from the pan, pour in" a quarter of a pint of water, when boiling add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, with which you have mixed a teaspoonful of flour, shake the pan round over the fire until becoming rather thiclcish, season with a little Harvey sauce, catsup, pepper, and salt, if too thick add a little more water, pour over the kver and serve. Or, for variation, after the liver is well fried take it out682 KITCHEN AT nOME. and put a tablespoonful of chopped onions in the pan, set upon the fire a minute, then p«ur off the greater part of the fat, add a teaspoonful of flour mix weH in, and half a pint of broth or water, bod until forming a thickish sauce, season with pepper, salt, two spoonfuls of vinegar, a little sugar and half a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, set upon the fire until quite hot ’pour over the liver and serve. Or liver may be served plain fried with bacon’ with- out any sauce whatever. Sheep or lamb’s liver may be dressed precisely in the same manner. 1 J With the remains of a joint of veal, either roasted, boiled, or braised I make mince, hashes, blanquettes, and even pies. For a blanquette of veal cut about a pound into thin slices of the size of half-crown-pieces, add also a few slices of cooked tongue, ham, or streaked bacon, season well with about a teaspoonful of chopped onions, half ditto of salt, and a quarter ditto of white pepper, add a gill of broth or water, warm gently, and when quite hot add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, with which you have mixed a tea- spoonful of flour, shake round over the fire, when becoming thickish add half a gill of milk or cream, with which you have mixed the yolk of an e°-g, stir in quickly, add the juice of half a lemon, and serve (it must not boil after the egg and cream have been added) with triangular pieces of toasted or fried bread round. A blanquette of lamb made in the same manner is equally good. With the bones you may make a little stock by chopping them up into small pieces, and putting them into a stewpan, with an onion in slices, a bay-leaf, bunch of parsley, and a little raw ham, add water according to the quantity of bones, and boil rather more than half an hour, convert it into sauce by thickening with a little butter and flour, and use for hash ; to make which cut the meat into small thin slices, put into a stewpan, with sufficient of the above sauce to moisten it, let simmer ten minutes, add two spoonfuls of vinegar and four gherkins in slices, season with a little white pepper and salt; pour upon your dish and serve. No. 166. Minced Veal and Poached Eggs are also a very favorite dish; from the remains of veal cut about a pound of the lean, with a little of the fat, and two ounces of cooked ham into very small dice, put a tablespoonful of chopped onions into a stewpan, with half an ounce of butter, place over the fire, keep stirring until the onions change colour slightly, then stir in a tablespoonful of flour, moisten with half a pint of stock or milk, let boil ten minutes, add the mince, season well with white pepper and salt, when quite hot stir in a yolk of egg, mixed with two tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, do not let boil after- wards, finish with the juice of half a lemon, and pour upon your dish ; have ready poached six eggs, by having a stewpan upon the fire with one quart of water, quarter of an ounce of salt, and a quarter of a gill of vinegar, when boiling break in six eggs separately, let boil from three to four minutes, draw of! the fire, take them out with a colander spoon, drain a moment upon a cloth, dress upon the mince, pour a little melted butter over each, and serve with triangular pieces of fried bread round. Minced lamb, beef, or mutton is done the same, using stock or water instead ot milk, and letting the onions with the thickening become a little brown over the fire, likewise omit the yolk of egg and cream, serve with the eggs precisely the same ; any kind of mince must be rather thick that the eggs may lest on it. By finishing the minced veal with the yolks of three eggs, stirring a moment over the fire until set, and pouring upon a dish until cold, you can serve it in any shaped croquettes you please, taking pieces from it ofKITCHEN AT HOME. 683 the size you may require, shaping them with a knife, dipping twice into eggs and bread-crumbs, patting them gently, frying a light brown colour in a stew- pan of hot lard or dripping, and serving upon a napkin garnished with fried parsley; they may be made in oblong shapes, the size and length of small sausages, and fried as above : they are then called boudins. Patties may also be made from cooked veal, preparing a blanquette as before described, and leaving it upon a dish until cold ; line six large patty- pans very thinly with half puff paste (see page 480), lay some of the veal in the centre of each, sprinkle a little water over, and cover with sheets of the same paste of the thickness of a five-shilling piece, egg over, crimp the edges a little with a knife, place a leaf of paste upon the top of each, and bake about twenty minutes in a very hot oven until the paste is well done. The remains of poultry, game, or any other description of meat, may also be converted into patties in the same method as above. The remains of meat dressed as for the above patties is also very excellent for larger pies, filling the dish with it, when cold covering with paste, and baking in a rather warm oven. No. 167. Mutton Cutlets Sautes. Cut eight cutlets from a neck of mutton, as directed (page 294), and put them into a saute-pan, with an ounce of butter, season well with pepper and salt, place over the fire, when becoming a little browned turn them over, when firm to the touch they are done (which will take about ten minutes) ; take up and dress them upon your dish, pour as much of the fat as possible from the pan, add a quarter of a pint of water or broth, let boil until becoming a thin glaze, add a little sugar and a spoonful of Harvey sauce, pour over the cutlets and serve. Should you want a thick sauce you can obtain it by adding a small piece of butter, with which you have mixed a little flour, to the gravy in the saute-pan, adding also a little colouring (No. 146). No. 168. Mutton Cutlets Sautes, with Vegetables. Dress the cutlets as in the last, have some vegetables of all kinds (that is, carrots, turnips, artichokes, and button onions), cut up small, stew them in a little broth with a little sugar until tender, when pour them into the saut6-pan you cooked the cutlets in, reduce until the stock becomes a thin glaze, then dress the vegetables in the centre of the cutlets, sauce over, and serve. No. 169. Mutton Cutlets, Irish Method. Cut eight or ten mutton cutlets, season well with pepper and salt, place them in a stewpan, just cover them with water, let simmer gently twenty minutes, then add forty button onions, and as many pieces of potatoes, cut with a scoop in pieces a size larger; stew until tender, dress the cutlets in a circle upon your dish, with the vegetables in the centre, skim off some of the fat from the stock in the saute-pan, reduce a little, sauce over, and serve. No. 170. Mutton Cutlets Broiled. Cut eight or ten cutlets, season well with pepper and salt, dip them into eggs, then into bread-crumbs, beat gently with a knife, have a little butter in a stewpan, which melt over the fire ; dip each cutlet into the butter, and again into bread-crumbs, beat again ligbtly, place them upon a gridiron over a moderate fire ; when lightly coloured upon one side turn them over; they will require about ten minutes to cook tho- roughly ; serve plain dressed upon your dish.684 KITCHEN AT HOME. Dressed as above they may likewise be served with a maitre d’liotel sauce made thus : put half a pint of melted butter into a stcwpan with a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, when boiling add two ounces of maitre d’kotel butter (see p. 33), shake the stewpan round over the fire ; when quite hot pour in the dish with the cutlets, have ready some thin slices of potatoes fried as • for the fillet of beef, dress in pyramid in the centre, and serve. No. 171. Mutton Cutlets Harricoed. Cut ten cutlets from a neck of' mutton, leaving them rather short, not beating them flat, and taking off some of the fat; put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, lay in the cutlets, which well season with pepper and salt; set upon a moderate fire, turning them round occasionally until of a lightish brown colour, then add a gooi? spoonful of flour; mix well, and moisten with a quart of water, keep stirring until boilim-, throw in twenty small onions, twenty small pieces of carrots, and the same • of tux nips (each about the size of walnuts), and a small bunch of parsley, with two bay-leaves; let simmer until the vegetables are done, skim well/ take out the cutlets, which di’ess in crown upon a dish, place the vegetables in the centre, reduce the sauce if required, which pour over and serve. Should it be convenient, it would be as well to pass the vegetables by putting about a quarter of an ounce of powdered sugar into a stewpan; place over the fire, and when melted add two ounces of butter and the vegetables, which keep tossing over the fire until covered with a kind of glaze, when put them into the stewpan with the cutlets; it gives the harrico quite a peculiar and good flavour. No. 172. Ragout of Mutton en Currie. Peel and slice four large onions, which put into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, place over a moderate fire, and when becoming lightly browned and pidpy lay in ten cutlets as in the last; move round occasionally until a little brown, when add a good spoonful of currie-powder and the half of one of flour; mix well, moisten with a pint of water, let simmer twenty minutes, or until the mutton is quite tender, finish with a little sugar, salt, and lemon-juice, take out the cutlets, which dress in circle upon a dish, have ready some boiled rice (p. 51) very hot, which dress in pyramid in the centre ; pass the sauce through a tammie, pour over the cutlets, and serve. No. 173. Mutton Currie. Peel and slice four large onions as in the last, fry the same, have ready two pounds of lean mutton cut into square pieces the size of walnuts, put into the stewpan with the fi’ied onions; let remain ten minutes over the fii'e, stirring frequently, then add a tablespoouful of curric- powder and one of currie-paste ; mix well in, let remain over a slow fire until the mutton is tender, season with a little salt and lemon-juice, pour out upon your dish, and serve with boiled rice sepai'ate. Lamb cutlets are dressed precisely as the mutton ; but when bread-crumbed and broiled they are very good served with peas or French beans, previously boiled, and placed in a stewpan with an ounce of fresh butter, a little pepper, salt, and sugar; when quite hot stir in half a gill of cream, with which you have well mixed the yolk of an egg, stir in quickly, pour out upon your dish, di-ess the cutlet over, and serve. No. 174. Fork Cutlets Sautds. Cut six or eight good-sized cutlets from the neck, of the same shape as the mutton, lay them in a buttered sautd-pr.n,KITCHEN AT HOME. 685 season well with pepper and salt, place over the fire; when done lay them i upon a plate, pour some of the fat from the saute-pan, add a good table- spoonful of chopped onions, pass over the fire a minute, then add a tea- spoonful of flour ; moisten with half a pint of broth or water, with a piece of glaze added, season a little more, add a bay-leaf and a teaspoonful of vinegar, with one of mustard, mix well, lay in the cutlets until quite hot, when dress upon a dish, sauce over, and serve. This sauce is good with any kind of cutlets, but especially pork. No, 175. Pork Cutlets aux Cornichons. Cut six or eight cutlets from a middling-sized neck of pork, season well with pepper and salt, dip in eggs well beaten upon a plate, and then into grated crust of bread (not too brown) ; put two ounces of lard or butter into a saute or frying-pan, lay in the cutlets and fry very slowly; when done place them upon a dish; keep hot, pour some of the fat from the pan, add a good teaspoonful of flour, mix well, moisten with half a pint of broth or water with a piece of glaze, add half a wineglassful of vinegar, a little salt, pepper, and six gherkins in slices, place the cutlets in the pan to warm gently in the sauce, then dress them upon a dish, sauce over, and serve. No. 176. Pork Cutlets, Sauce demi Robert. Cut eight cutlets from a neck as before, season well with pepper and salt, sprinkle chopped onions and parsley over upon both sides, beating the cutlets lightly to make them adhere, then dip them into eggs well beaten upon a plate, and then into bread- crumbs ; pat them lightly, have some clarified butter in a stewpan, into which dip the cutlets, and again into bread-crumbs, well covering them, place them upon a gridiron over a moderate fire, broiling a nice light brown colour; when done dress them upon a dish. Have ready the following sauce : cut two large onions into very small dice, put them into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, fry of a light yellow colour, add a teaspoonful of flour, mix well, moisten with half a pint of broth and two spoonfuls of vinegar, season well, let boil, skim, and reduce, until rather thick, when add a spoonful of mixed mustard, one of colouring (No. 146) ; sauce in the centre of the cutlets and serve. No. 177. Hashed Pork. Put two spoonfuls of chopped onions into a stewpan with a wineglassful of vinegar, two cloves, a blade of mace, and a bay-leaf, reduce to half, take out the spice and bay-leaf aud half a pint of broth or water, cut some pork previously cooked into thin small slices, season well upon a dish with pepper and salt, shake a good teaspoonful of flour over, mix all together, and put into the stewpan; let simmer gently ten minutes, pour out upon your dish, and serve with slices of gherkins in it; a little mustard may be added if approved of, or a little piccalilly with the vinegar is excellent. The remains of salt pork, though very palatable cold, if required hot may- be cut into large thin slices, and placed in a buttered saute or frying-pan, I with a little broth, or merely fried in the butter, and served with a puree of winter peas, made by boiling half a pint of peas until tender (tied up in a cloth) ; when done put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter ; season with pepper and salt, add a gill of milk or cream, pour it to the dish, and dres3 the pork over. No. 178. Pig's Liver. Procure a nice pig’s liver with the caul, cut theKITCHEN AT nOME. 686 liver into good-sizefl slices of the shape of hearts, season with a little pepper salt, and cayenne, sprinkle chopped eschalots and dried sage over and fold each piece of liver m a piece of the caul; put some butter in a saute or frying-pan, lay them in, place over the fire, let fry rather quickly, not too drv • when done it will be a beautiful colour; take out and dress in circle upon your disk ; have ready the following sauce : put six spoonfuls of melted butter in a stewpan, with one of catsup, and two of Harvey or Worcestershire sauce • when boiling pour over the liver and serve. To plain fry it, cut in slices, season with pepper and salt, dip in flour or eggs and bread-crumbs, fry a light brown in butter or lard, dress in a circle upon your dish, pour a gill of water into the pan, add a little Harvey sauce and a piece of butter the size of a walnut, with which you have mixed half a teaspoonful of flour; let boil a minute, add a little pepper and salt, sauce over and serve. No. 1/9- Pigs Kidneys. Cut them open lengthwise, season well with pepper and salt, egg over with a paste-brush, dip into bread-crumbs, with which you have mixed some chopped parsley and eschalot, run a skewer through to keep them open, and broil for about a quarter of an hour over a good fire; when done place them upon a dish, have ready an ounce of butter, with which you have mixed the juice of a lemon, a litle pepper and salt, and a teaspoonful of French or common mustard, place a piece upon each of the kidneys, place in the oven for one minute and serve. Pigs’ kidneys may also be sauted as directed for ox kidneys (No. 159). No. 180. Black Puddings. Very few people take the trouble to do them at home, it being part of the business of the pork butcher to prepare such delicacies. I shall, however, here describe a very simple method for making them more palatable tban those purchased in England, which have so much spice in them as to entirely destroy their delicate flavour. Cut into rather small dice twenty large onions, having cut off the roots, being hard, put them into a stewpan with half a pound of lard or butter, let stew gently, cut three pounds of pig’s flead, free from skin, into small dice, have ready boiled six heads of endive chopped fine, and put into the stewpan with the onions, add two ounces of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, half a nutmeg, grated, and four spoonfuls of parsley, chopped with a little thyme and bay-leaf; then add six pints of pig’s blood, mix well, leaving no lumps ; if too thin add a few hand- fuls of bread-crumbs, or half a pound of well-boiled rice; have ready the small intestines, which well scrape and wash in salt and water, tie one end upon a tin funnel, having a piece a yard in length, closing it at the other end, fill with the above preparation by pressing through a funnel; take off the funnel, tie up the end, and put them into a stewpan of nearly boiling water, let simmer twenty minutes, pricking them occasionally with a pin; when no blood oozes out they are done ; take up and place them upon a dish until cold; when ready to serve cut into pieces four inches in length, cut through the skin at different places, broil ten minutes over a sharp fire, serve : plain, but very hot. These puddings are best made whilst the blood is still warm from the pig, which if killed at home, the other ingredients may be prepared previously. rlhe endi\e may be omitted, but for a real epicure procure it if possible; they are served in Frauce on the best of tables, and are quite worthy of that honour. Many kinds of black puddings arc also made in Scotland, where687 KITCHEN AT HOME. they more frequently use sheep’s blood, using the interior of the sheep, fat and all, in the same proportions as if made of a pig, adding oatmeal, omitting part of the onions, and using the larger entrails. It being usual in this country to introduce leeks, you must then omit the bread-crumbs and rice, or part of the onions. To prevent the blood curdling, it must be salted, by adding a handful of salt, and whisking well for ten minutes as soon as you obtain it from the pig. Rice well boiled in broth but not too much so, is an excellent addition to black puddings (half a pound for the above quantity being quite sufficient), or grated bread; leeks also may be used instead of endive, or both may be omitted. I have mentioned these different articles, that if one cannot be pro- cured, another might be used instead, fill also very even, mixing fat and all well together, carefully avoid letting any air get in, or they would burst in boiling. No. 181. Excellent Sausage Cakes. Chop some lean pork very fine, having previously detached all the skin and bone, and to every pound of meat add three quarters of a pound of fat bacon, half an ounce of salt, a saltspoonful of pepper, the quarter of a nutmeg grated, six young green chopped onions, and a little chopped parsley ; when the whole is well chopped put into a mortar and pound well, finishing with three eggs ; then have ready a pig’s caul, which cut into pieces large enough to fold a piece of the above preparation the size of an egg, which wrap up, keeping the shape of an egg, but rather flattened, and broil very gently over a moderate fire. No. 182. Pigs' Feet. Procure six pigs’ feet, nicely salted, which boil in water, to which you have added a few vegetables, until well done, cut each one in halves, take out the long bone, have some sausage meat as in the last, and a pig’s caul, which cut into pieces each large enough to fold half a foot, well surrounded with sausage-meat, when well wrapped up broil slowly half an hour over a moderate fire, and serve. Or, when the pigs’ feet are well boiled, egg over, and throw them into some grated crust of bread, with which you have mixed a little parsley; broil a nice colour and serve with a little plain gravy. MADE DISHES FROM POULTRY. No. 183. Blanquettes of Turkey. With the remains of a roasted or boiled turkey you may make a very nice blanquette, cutting the meat into small thin slices, chop up the bones, and put them into a stewpan with an onion half a blade of mace, and a very little lean ham or bacon, just cover with water, boil twenty minutes, and with the stock make a white sauce as directed (No. 7, Kitchen of the Wealthy), put the slices into a stewpan, just cover with a little of the sauce, add a little white pepper, salt, and grated nutme» make all hot together, not, however, allowing it to boil, finish with three table- spoonfuls of cream, mixed with the yolk of an egg, stir in quickly, pour out upon a dish, and serve with triangular scippets of fried or toasted bread round. When cucumbers are in season I frequently use one, cutting it in pieces two inches in length, which again split into three, peel, and take out all the seeds, put them into a stewpan, with a few chopped onions, a little Dutter and sugar, and stew gently over a slow fire until tender ; five minutes oefore serving add them to the blanquette, they being a great improvementKITCHEN AT HOME. 68S No. 184. Boudins of Turkey. Cut up all the flesh remaining upon a turkc7 into small dice, if about a pound and a half, put a teaspoonful of chopped onions into a stewpan, with a piece of butter of the size of two walnuts pass a few seconds over the fire, then add half a tablespoonful of flour (mix well) and the mince, which moisten with a pint of stock made from the bones as in the last, simmer some time, keeping it moved, season with a little pepper salt, and sugar, finish with the yolks of three eggs, which stir in quickly over the fire, not allowing it to boil afterwards, pour out upon a dish until cold • just before ready to serve, divide it into equal parts, roll out each to about the size of small eggs, shaping them to fancy, egg and bread-crumb twice over frv in very hot lard or dripping of a light brown colour, and serve. A little ham or tongue (should you have any left) cut small, and mixed with the mince would be a great improvement. No. 185. Turban of Croquettes. Croquettes are made precisely as the last, but not more than half the size ; when done, dress them in crown upon a border of mashed potatoes, and have ready some of the blanquette of turkey, which serve in the centre. No. 186. Minced and Grilled Turkey. Detach the leg, wing, or take off the best part of the turkey remaining, which season well with pepper and salt, and broil over a good fire, have ready prepared a mince from the remain- ing flesh of the turkey, made as directed for the boudius, but omitting the yolks of eggs ; when quite hot and well seasoned pour into your dish, and dress the broiled piece upon it. No. 187. Devilled Turkey. Cut up the remains of your turkey into good- sized pieces or joints, if sufficient, cut incisions crosswise upon each piece, and well rub them with cayenne pepper, broil quickly over a sharp fire, dress them in your dish, and have ready the following sauce : put a tablespoonful of chopped eschalots in a stewpan with a wineglassful of Chili vinegar, reduce to half, add half a pint of thin melted butter, two tablespoonfuls of catsup, and two of Worcestershire sauce, boil about a quarter of an hour, stir in two ounces of fresh butter, pour over and serve. Many persons like the above best dry, so it would be as well to serve the sauce separate in a boat, or a little plain gravy only underneath. The remains of poulardes, capons, or fowls may be dressed precisely as directed for the turkey. No. 188. Goose Hashed. The remains of a goose is only fit for hashing, or devilling, for which proceed as last directed ; when for hashing put a spoonful of chopped onions into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, pass over the fire until becoming rather brown, when add a tablespoonful of flour, mix well, cut up the remains of a goose into moderate-sized pieces, season with pepper and salt, add about a pint of stock or water, let simmer ten minutes, when pour out upon a dish and serve. For a variation, a little sage and a couple of apples sliced and cooked in the sauce is very good. No. 189. Stewed Buck and Peas. Procure a duck trussed with the legs turned inside, which put into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter and a quarter of a pound of streaked bacon, let remain over a fire, stirring occa- sionally until lightly browned, when add a good tablespoonful of flour (mix veil) and a pint of broth or water, stir round gently until boiling, when skim.KITCHEN AT HOME. G89 and add twenty button onions, a bunch of parsley, with a bay-leaf, and two cloves, let simmer a quarter of an hour, then add a quart of nice young peas, let simmer until done, which will take about half an hour longer, take out the duck, place it upon your dish (taking away the string it was trussed with), take out the parsley and bay-leaf, season the peas with a little pepper, salt, and sugar, reduce a little if not sufficiently thick, pour over the duck and serve. No. 1 90. Buckling with Turnips is a very favorite dish amongst the middle classes in France. Proceed as in the last, but instead of peas use about forty pieces of good turnips cut into moderate-sized square pieces, having previously fried them of a light yellow colour in a little butter or lard, and drained them upon a sieve; dress the duck upon a dish as before, season the sauce with a little pepper, salt, and sugar, reduce until rather thick, a thin sauce not suiting a dish of this description ; the turnips must not, however, be in puree ; sauce over and serve. The remains of ducks left from a previous dinner may be hashed as directed for goose, and for variety, should peas be in season, a pint previously boiled may be added to the hash just before serving. The sage and apple must in all cases be omitted. No. 191. Fricassee of Fowl or Chicken. Cut a fowl or chicken into eight pieces, that is, the two wings and legs dividing the back and breast into two pieces each, wash well, put them into a stewpan and cover with water, season with a teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, a good bunch of parsley, four cloves, and a blade of mace, let boil twenty minutes, pass the stock through a sieve into a basin, take out the pieces of fowl, trim well, then in another stewpan put two ounces of butter, with which mix a good spoonful of flour, moisten with the stock, and put in the pieces of fowl, stir ocaaskmally, until boiling, skim well, add twenty button onions, let simmer until the onions are tender, when add a gill of cream, with which you have mixed the yolks of two eSSs> stir in quickly over the fire, but do not let boil, take out the pieces, dress in pyramid upon your dish, sauce over and serve. No. 192. Fricassee of Fowl with Mushrooms. Proceed as in the last, but add twenty mushrooms (peeled, if very black), not too large, about ten minutes before adding the cream and yolks of eggs. No. 193. Currie of Fowl, Oriental Fashion. Peel and cut two large onions into thin slices, which put into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, fry them over a slow fire untd lightly browned and quite pulpy, then add a good tablespoonful of currie-powder, and one of currie-paste, mix well, add half a pint of broth or water, let boil, keeping it stirred, then have a fowl cut into eight pieces, which put in the stewpan, cover well with the currie, add half a pint of cream, let simmer gently three quarters of au hour over a slow hre, stirring occasionally, take out the pieces, dress pyramidically upon a dish pom- the sauce over, and serve with rice plain boiled as directed' (pa°-e 511 on a separate dish. Vi ° ' Nf?; I94/ Broiled Fowl. Procure a fowl trussed as for boiling, cut out ne back-bone and press quite fiat, season well with pepper, salt and hopped eschalots, place in a sauffi-pan, fry upon both sidesj take out, egg 44090 KITCHEN AT HOME. over with a paste-brush, dip into bread-crumbs, place upon the gridiron, over a moderate fire, and broil a very light brown colour, glaze over, if any, and serve with a little plain gravy, or mushroom sauce, made by putting half a pint of melted butter into a stcwpan, with about twenty button mushrooms, well washed, let simmer ten minutes, add two tablespoonfuls of catsup, and two of Harvey sauce, finish with a pat of butter, pour the sauce in the dish, dress the fowl over and serve. I very frequently also serve it at home with a sauce a la tar tare made as directed page 19. No. 195. Fowl Sautecl in Oil. Cut a fowl in pieces as described for the fricassee, and put them into a stewpan, with four spoonfuls of oil, place over the fire, and when of a light brown colour add a good tablespoonful of flour (mix well), and moisten with a pint of broth or water, let simmer a quarter of an hour, keeping well skimmed, add a raw truffle cut in slices, or a few mush- rooms, season with a little pepper, salt, sugar, and a little scraped garlic the size of. a pea, take out the pieces of fowl, which dress pyramidieally upon your dish, reduce the sauce over the fire, keeping it stirred until adhering to the back of the spoon, when pour over and serve. No. 196. Fricassee of Babbits. Cut two nice young rabbits into very neat joints, or the legs only may be used, and put them into lukewarm water to disgorge for half an hour, take out and put them into a stewpan with a lar-ge onion cut into slices, two cloves, a blade of mace, a little parsley, one bay-leaf, and a quarter of a pound of streaked bacon cut in dice ; just cover with water, let simmer a quarter of an hour, keeping it well skimmed, pass the stock through a sieve, and proceed precisely as for the fricassee of fowl, page 689. No. 197. Gibelotte of Rabbits. Cut two young rabbits into joints as in the last, cut also half a pound of streaked bacon into dice, fry the bacon in butter in a stewpan, then put in the pieces of rabbits ; when slightly browned add a good spoonful of flour, mix well, and moisten with rather more than a pint of water, season with a little salt and pepper, when beginning to boil skim well, add fifty button onions, and a few button mushrooms, if any, let simmer a quar- ter of an hour, take out the pieces of rabbit, which dress in pyramid upon a dish; let the sauce boil, keeping it stirred, until the onions are quite tender, and the sauce thick enough to adhere to the back of the spoon, when add a little colouring, pour over the rabbit and serve. No. 198 Currie of Rabbit. Cut four middling-sized onions and two apples in slices, and put them into a stewpan with two ounces ot butter, place over a moderate fire, stirring occasionally, until the onions are slightly browned and quite pulpy, when add two tablespoonfuls of currie-powder and one of currie-paste ; mix well, and moisten with half a pint of stock or water, let boil; have ready a couple of young rabbits cut into joints, and tried in butter in a saute or frying-pan of a nice brown colour, put into the currie sauce, season with a little salt and juice of lemon, let stew very gently over a very slov fire, stirring occasionally, until the rabbit is quite tender, when dress upon your dish, and serve with rice, plain boiled, separate. The legs only of the rabbits may be dressed in cither of the foregoing ways, should the fillets be required for other purposes.KITCHEN AT HOME. 691 No. 199. Rabbit Pies. Cut two or three rabbits up in joints, and a pound of streaked bacon in slices ; butter a pie-dish, lay some of the slices of bacon upon the bottom, dip the pieces of rabbits into flour, place a layer of them over the bacon, season well with pepper and salt, then add another layer of bacon, then rabbit, again seasoning, proceeding thus, building them in a dome above the edge of the dish ; have ready a pound of half puff paste made as directed (page 480), with which cover them, ornamenting the top with leaves; egg over lightly, and bake about an hour and a half in a mo- derate oven, put half a pint of good gravy in with a funnel, and serve. Rabbits plain boiled and served with onion sauce are also very excellent; ! make the sauce thus : peel and cut six large onions into very small dice, put into a stewpan, with two ounces of butter, pass five minutes over the fire, keeping it stirred, add two ounces of flour, mix well, moisten with a pint i, and a half of milk, season with a little white pepper, salt, and sugar, keep stirring over the fire until the onions are quite tender, and it becomes rather a thickish sauce, when serve over the rabbit. The remains of rabbits may be warmed and served with the above sauce, : made into blanquettes, or minced as directed for turkeys or fowls. No. 200. Pigeon Pie. Procure four pigeons, but not trussed, and cut off the feet; have a nice tender rump-steak, well seasoned, which dip in flour and lay at the bottom of a buttered pie-dish ; place the pigeon over, elevating their tails to meet in the centre, season well with pepper and salt, place a piece of fat bacon over the breast of each bird, sprinkle a few chopped escha- lots over, have six eggs boiled, the yolks of which place in the dish, pour in half a pint of water, and cover the pie with a pound of half puff paste made as directed (page 480), ornamenting the top with leaves of paste, sticking the pigeons’ feet in the centre, and brushing eggs lightly over the top; bake about an hour and a half in a moderate oven. Lamb or veal may be used instead of the beef at the bottom, if preferred, and the whole of the e'^s each cut in four lengthwise, instead of the yolks only. No. 201. Pigeons in Compote. Put half a pound of lean bacon, cut into : large dice, in a stewpan, with half an ounce of butter, pass a few minutes over the fire, then have three pigeons trussed with their legs turned inside place them in the stewpan with the bacon, breasts downwards, let remain until becoming of a light brown colour, moving them round occasionally - add a tablespoonful of flour, move round until becoming a little browned” moisten with a pint, or a little more, water, mix well, add a good bunch of parsley, with a bay-leaf, thirty button onions, a little pepper and salt let simmer three quarters of an hour, skimming well, dress the pigeons upon a dish, with the bacon and onions round, reduce the sauce to a proper consist- f ency> take out the parsley and bay-leaf, pour over and serve. No. 202. Slewed Pigeons with Peas. Proceed precisely as in the last but : arldln.g nearly a quart of very fresh peas with the onions and parslev omitting the bay-leaf; dress the pigeons upon a dish, pour the peas and sauce over when ready to serve. 1 GAME.—N° 2°3. Pheasants, Partridges, Grouse, Black Game, Wood- cocks etc by the greater part of the population are preferred plain roasted *bicl, my opinion, the best; but by ,v.,y of change, and foriZ methodKITCHEN AT HOME. G92 of dressing the remains of any description of birds, I have given the few fol- lowing simple receipts: No. 204. Small Pheasants, the Miller's Fashion. Roast a pheasant as directed (page 403), previously dipping it in flour, and occasionally shaking flour over whilst roasting, thus it will be very crisp and keep nearly white; put the crumb of two French rolls in a stewpan, with half a pint of milk, a small eschalot, a bay-leaf, an ounce of butter, and a little pepper and salt /let boil, take out the eschalot and bay-leaf, place a piece of buttered toast upon your dish, pour the sauce over, dress the pheasant upon the top, and serve; a little gravy may also be served separate in a boat. No. 205. Pheasant with Cabbage. Procure a nice white-heart winter cabbage, which cut in quarters, and blanch five minutes in boiling water, drain quite dry, cut off part of the stalk, season well with salt, place it in a stewpan, with half a pound of streaked bacon and a pint of broth, and stew gently for about half an hour; then have a pheasant about three parts roasted, thrust it into the cabbage whilst hot, and let the whole stew gently together half an hour longer; take out the pheasant and cabbage, squeezing it to the sides of the stewpan to extract the stock, dress the cabbage in pyramid upon your dish, with the pheasant upon the top, dress the bacon, cut in slices, around, skim the stock well, let reduce to half, pour round and serve. No. 206. Hashed Pheasant. From the remains of a pheasant previ- ously served, make a hash in the following manner : cut it up into smallish pieces and put them into a stewpan, with a little flour, half a glass of port wine, a little pepper and salt, and a bay-leaf, and sufficient broth (or water with a piece of glaze in it) to moisten it; let simmer very gently five minutes, take out the pieces, dress them upon your dish, pass the sauce through a hair sieve over, and serve. No. 207. A Plain Salmi of Pheasants. Cut off and trim well the best pieces remaining of pheasants, previously served, and put them into a stew- pan ; then in another stewpan put the bones and trimmings (broken up small), with an onion in slices, a little parsley, a bay-leaf, four peppercorns, and a glass of sherry, boil a few minutes ; then stir in a tablespoonful of flour, and moisten by degrees with a pint of broth (or water with a piece of glaze), boil about ten minutes, keeping it stirred; when thick enough to adhere to the back of the spoon, pass through a tammie or fine sieve, into the other stew- pan over the pieces of pheasants, warm altogether gently, not allowing it to boil, colour a little brown with half a spoonful of colouring (page 673), take out the pieces, dress in pyramid sauce over, and serve with scippets of fried or toasted bread, cut in the shape of hearts, round. The remains of pheasants may be minced and served with eggs boiled five minutes, and the shells taken off, or made into boudius or croquettes as di- rected for turkey (page 687), as may any other description of game. No. 208. Grouse, Scotch Fashion. Plain roast the grouse, dress them upon toast on your dish, and serve with plain melted butter poured over them ; they may also lie dressed in any of the ways directed for pheasants, with the exception of being stewed with the cabbage ; black game is dressed . precisely the same as the grouse.C93 KITCHEN AT HOME. No. 209. Partridges a la Jardiniere. Have a plain round tin cutter, with which cut about forty pieces of carrot and turnip, each about the thick- ness ot a quill, and half an inch in length ; put them into a stewpan with twenty button onions, two ounces of butter, and a teaspoonful of powdered sugar; pass over a sharp fire until the vegetables become covered with a thin- nish glaze, when add a tablespoonful of flour (mix well) and a pint of stock or gravy; let simmer until the vegetables are tender, keeping it well skimmed. Roast two partridges rather underdone, which put into the sauce twenty minutes before serving ; let simmer very gently, skim off all the fat, dress the birds upon a dish, pour the sauce and vegetables over, and serve. No. 210. Partridges with Cabbage. Proceed exactly as described for the pheasant, but using two birds instead of one : if convenient, it would be a great improvement to lard the breasts of the birds with fat bacon. No. 211. Partridges sauted with Mushrooms. Divide two partridges each into halves, beat them a little flatfish, put two or three tablespoonfuls of salad-oil into a flat stewpan, lay in the partridges, the inner side down- wards, first seasoning with a little pepper, salt, and chopped eschalots; place o ver a model ate fire, put a cover upon the stewpan, and let remain until of a light brown colour; remove the lid, turn the partridges over, and let remain until coloured the other side; then pour off a little of the oil, add a table- spoonful of flour, turn round until well mixed, add a good glassful of sherry half a pint of stock or water, and twenty small button mushrooms; let sim- mer until the partridges are tender, and the sauce thick enough to adhere to them; having kept it well skimmed, season with a little pepper, salt, and sugar, if required; lay the partridges upon a dish, sauce over, and serve. The remains of partridges may be hashed or served in a plain salmi pre- cisely as directed for pheasants. 5 “ A No. 212. Woodcocks, Downshire Fashion. Plain roast the woodcocks as dn-ected (page 407), catching their tails upon toast, upon which, when done, dress the birds upon a dish; pour a thick melted butter (with which you have mixed the yolk of an egg and a little cream) over, sprinkle lightlv with bread-crumbs, salamander a light brown colour, and serve with a littlp gravy round. ]\o. 213. Woodcocks a la Chasseur. Roast two woodcocks rather under- done, catching the interior upon a large piece of toast; when done, cut each one in four, and place in a stewpan with the remainder of the interior chopped small ; add a little pepper and salt, a glass of sherry, a little chopped eschalots, parsley, the juice of half a lemon, and half a gill of broth • let sim- mer a few minutes, dish rather high upon the toast, sauce over, and’serve No. 214. Hashed Woodcocks. Should you have any remaining from a previous dinner, cut each one in four or more pieces; chop all tliaf remains in the interior, which mix with a small piece of butter, a spoonful of bread crumbs and a little chopped parsley, make six croutons in the shape* of heaits from a piece of toasted bread, spread the above preparation upon each and place a short time in the oven ; hash the pieces as directed for the plica’ sant, dress m pyramid on a dish, with the croutons round, sauce over! and694 KITCHEN AT HOME. No. 215. Snipes h la Minute. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan, over which lay six snipes, breasts downwards; add a spoonful of chopped onions, one ditto of parsley, a little grated nutmeg, half a tea- spoonful of salt, and a saltspoonful of pepper ; set over a brisk fire seven or ten minutes (according to the size of the birds), stirring occasionally, then add the juice of two lemons, two glasses of sherry or bucellas wine, and a spoonful of finely-grated crust of bread ; let the whole simmer a few minutes, dress the birds upon a dish, mix the sauce well, pour over, and serve. No. 216. Plovers, with English raw Truffles. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan, over which place four plovers, breasts downwards, and eight raw truffles, well washed, peeled, and cut into thickish slices ; add also two cloves, a bay-leaf, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a saltspoonful of pepper; pass the whole ten minutes over a sharp fire, stirring occasionally; add half a tablespoonful of flour, mix well, moisten with a gill of broth and a glass of white wine, let simmer ten minutes longer, skim well, dress the birds upon a dish, reduce the sauce, add a little sugar and the juice of a lemon, sauce over, and serve. No. 217. Wild Duck. Truss as directed (p. 688, No. 189), rub all over with the liver, making it quite red, and roast twenty minutes before a good fire, then with a sharp knife cut eight incisions down the breast; you have put au ounce of butter into a stewpan with a quarter of a saltspoonful of cayenne, the rind of an orange, free from pith, cut in strips, blanched in boding water, and well drained upon a sieve, and the juice of a lemon ; warm over the fire, and when melted, but not oily, pour over the duck, and serve. No. 218. Hashed Wild Duck. Cut up the remains of a duck or ducks into neat pieces, and put into a stewpan with half or a tablespoonful of flour, depending upon the quantity ; mix well, moisten with a glass or two of wine, and sufficient broth or water to make a thickish sauce, season well, add a little Harvey sauce, mushroom catsup, a little sugar, and cayenne pepper; let simmer but not bod, take out the pieces, which dress upon toast, reduce the sauce, pour over, and serve. A little colouring may be added d’ approved ot. No. 219. Widgeons. Truss as for wdd ducks, rub over with some of their livers, chop up the remainder, which mix with a few bread-crumbs, a little chopped lemon-peel, chopped parsley, and an egg, with which stufl the interior; roast nearly as long as for the wdd duck before a very sharp lire, dress upon toast on a dish, and have ready the following sauce: put ha a glass of port wine into a stewpan, with a teaspoonful of chopped eschalot, a little salt, pepper, and cayenne; bod a few minutes, add the juice o a lemon, and two ounces of fresh butter, sauce over, and serve. Widgeons are hashed in the same manner as described for wdd duck. No. 220. Teal, a new Method. Procure four, draw them, then put half a pound of butter upon a plate, with a little pepper, grated nutmeg, pars cy, a spoonful of grated crust of bread, the juice ot a lemon, and the ui o teal; mix well together, and with it fill the interior of the teal; cover tliem with slices of lemon, fold in thin slices ot bacon, then in paper, am ro twenty minutes before a sharp fire; take oil the paper, brown t ic * dress them upon a slice of thick toast, letting the butter from the c. over it, and serve very hot.KITCHEN AT HOME. No. 221. Teal cl la sans Fagon. Roast four teal quite plain, prepare a quarter of a pound of butter, as above, with the omission of the livers, which place in a stewpan over the fire, stirring quickly, until forming a kind of sauce ; add some fillets from the pulp of a lemon, sauce over, and serve. The i remains of teal also make an excellent hash. No. 222. Larks a la Minute. Proceed as directed for snipes a la minute, previously stuffing them with their livers, as directed for widgeons, adding a few mushrooms at the commencement, and not letting them stew too quickly, or the bottom would become brown and give a bad flavour to the sauce; ten i minutes is quite sufficient to stew them. No. 223. Lark Pie. Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with thin slices of beef and fat bacon, over which lay ten or twelve larks, previously rolled in flour, season with a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter do. of pepper, one of chopped parsley, and one of chopped eschalot; lay a bay-leaf over, add a gill of broth, and cover with three quarters of a pound of half puff paste (p. 480) ; bake one hour in a moderate oven, shake well to make the gravy in the pie form a kind of sauce, and serve quite hot. No. 224. Jugged Hare. Put nearly half a pound of butter into a good- sized stewpan with ten ounces of flour, making rather a thinnish roux by continually turning over a slow fire until becoming of a yellowish tinge, then add a pound of good streaked bacon, previously cut into good-sized square pieces; keep stirring a few minutes longer over the fire; you have previously cut the hare into nice pieces, throw them into the stewpan, and stir over the fire until becoming firm, when moisten with four glasses of port wine, and sufficient water to cover them ; when beginning to boil, skim well, season in proportion to the size of your hare, let simmer, add two bay-leaves, four cloves, and, when about half done, forty button onions, or ten large ones, cut into slices ; let simmer until the whole is well done, the sauce requiring to be rather thick ; dress the pieces as high as possible upon your dish, sauce over, and serve. The remains are excellent either cold or warmed up again in the stewpan. If cheap and in season, a few small new potatoes are excellent stewed with it. No. 225. Another and more simple Method. Put a quarter of a pound of i butter with a pound of bacon, cut into dice, and the hare, cut into pieces, in a stewpan set upon a moderate fire until the pieces of hare are becoming firm, when add six ounces of flour, mix well, and moisten with sufficient 1 water to cover it, add two glasses of any kind of wine and one of vinegar, season as above, let simmer until tender, keeping well skimmed: when done, and the sauce becoming quite thick, dress upon your dish, and serve as • before. MEAT PIES AND PUDDINGS. No. 226. Rump Steak Pie. Procure two pounds of rump-steak, which cut into thinnish slices, season well with pepper and salt, dip each piece into flour, and lay them in a small pie-dish, finishing the top in form of a dome ; add a : wineglassful of water, and cover with three quarters of a pound of half puff paste (page 480), egg over with a paste-brush, and bake rather better than an hour in a moderate oven ; serve either hot or cold.KITCHEN AT HOME. 69G No. 227. Mutton Pie. Procure tire chumps from three loins of mutton which cut into moderate slices, put a layer of them at the bottom of your dish* season well with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and eschalot, over which put a layer of thin slices of raw potatoes, then the meat, and seasoning again, pro- ceeding thus, finishing in a dome; add a wineglassful of water, cover with paste, and bake as in the last. No. 228. Lamb Pie. Cut a small loin of lamb into thin chops, which lightly season, lay them in your dish with a few slices of new potatoes, building them up in the form of a dome ; moisten with water, cover with paste, and bake as before. The proper way to cover these pies is to wet the edge of the dish, round which put a band of common paste, pressing it lightly on, wetting the top, and joining the paste with which the pie is covered to it. Pies, as I have previously observed, may also be made from the remains of any joints, first hashing the meat from them, which cut into large slices and well season ; when quite cold, fill your pie-dish, building it in a dome, two inches above the rim of your dish ; place a bay-leaf over, cover with paste, not, however, too thickly, and bake in a hot oven. Any kind of meat, game, or poultry remaining may be hashed and con- verted into a pie, as above, without much trouble, thus making a very excellent dish to serve to table. Or the remains of any description of meats may be thus dressed : lay a few slices of streaked uncooked bacon at the bottom "of a pie-dish, over which put layers of the meat, seasoning well between, leaving a space between the meat and the dish all round, and not building it above the edge of the dish ; then have some potatoes prepared as follows : put about a quarter of a pound of potatoes, well mashed, into a basin, to which add three eggs, a spoonful of chopped parsley, a little grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, and half a pint of milk; mix well, strain through a colander, pour over the meat in the dish, bake half an hour in a warm oven, and serve very hot. No. 229. Beef Steak Pudding. At home I can frequently make a very excellent dinner from a meat pudding, made as follows : Put one pound of flour upon a pastry slab, in the centre of which form a well, in which put half a pound of beef or mutton suet, whichever is most convenient, add a teaspoonful of salt, and mix the whole, with water, into a stiffish paste, adding more flour to detach the paste from the slab, and make it dry to the touch ; then slightly butter the interior of a round-bottomed basin, of the size you may require, which line with two thirds of the paste, rolled to the thickness of half an inch; you have previously cut two pounds of rump-steak into slices, the thickness of two five-shilling pieces, and as large as the palm of your hand, with a certain quantity of fat attached, or if no fat, add a few pieces separately, dip each piece in flour, and cover the bottom of your basin, over which sprinkle some pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and eschalots (which you have previously mixed upon a plate in the follow- ing proportions : two tcaspoonfuls of salt, half ditto of black pepper, two of chopped parsley, and one or two of chopped onions or eschalots), then more meat, and seasoning alternately until the pudding is filled, add a wineglassful or two of water, lay a bay-leaf upon the top, wet the edges of the paste, the remainder of which roll to the same thickness, with which form a lid, closing it carefully at the edges ; have ready boiling in a stewpan upon the fire a tKITCHEN AT HOME. 69-7 gallon of water, in which stand your pudding, having previously well wrapped it up in a cloth, and let boil continually for three hours, now and then adding a little more water to keep up the quantity; when done, untie the cloth, from which take the basin, pass your knife carefully round between the pudding and the basin, and turn over upon a dish, lifting the basin carefully, and you will have an excellent pudding, not one drop of gravy escaping until you have du°- in your spoon, which will cause it to eat much more delicate than by breaking the pudding on purpose to fill the dish with gravy when going to table, particularly if soup and fish are served before, and the pudding is kept half an hour waiting, the top pieces would then eat very dry and indigestible, being deprived of their succulence. At home I never carve such a pudding with a spoon, but lightly cut the crust with a knife, cutting along the top instead of down, and laying a piece of crust upon each plate, taking the meat and gravy from the centre with a spoon, thus leaving the bottom until the last, which, if any remain, is excellent cold.* The above may also be either steamed or baked, in which case it will not require to be tied in a cloth; to steam it, place a quart of water in a middling- sized stewpan, and when boding place in your pudding, cover the stewpan down close, and draw it to the corner of the fire, replenishing occasionally with more water; the pudding wdl require the same time cooking, and is served as before. If baked, the time required in cooking would of course greatly depend upon the heat of your oven, but it would require about two hours baking in a moderate oven, which is the best adapted. The pudding, when baked, may be kept entirely to be eaten cold. Should the onion or bay-leaf be objection- able to some, they may of course be omitted. Observe, that by shaking the pudding gently, previous to turning it out upon your dish, you will mix the gravy with the flour upon the meat, thus forming, when the pudding is cut, a thinnish sauce, without having a greasy appearance. This very long and minute receipt will probably surprise many, but by thus entering into it, I have given at least ten receipts in one, as I make all other savoury puddings precisely the same; the following sorts most frequently. I sometimes introduce one or two mutton kidneys in a steak pudding, which, although a very old custom, is nevertheless a very good one. Mutton pudding is also very excellent, especially if made from the meat cut from the chumps of the loins, and made similar to the beef-steak puddings, not, however, requiring quite so long a time to boil. Short mutton cutlets, cut without showing the bones, with slices of raw potatoes between, also make very excel- lent puddings, as also do cutlets of lamb, but in either case requiring an hour less time to cook. I have also frequently made very good puddings from veal, rabbits, poultry, and game, all of which are very acceptable for a change. Venison pudding is also very beautiful. I consider it a pity so few people make any experiments in cookery, which, like other arts, is almost inex- haustible. Some people who have partaken of some of these pudding previous to their being sent to table, have said they were sure they would not be approved of; but to my great satisfaction they have been totally deceived. For the veal pudding I cut slices (from any part of the leg) about the same * It would be very easy to ascertain when done, by running a packing-needle or sharn- pointed knife through, if tender it is done; this remark also applies to any description of meat, pies. r698 KITCHEN AT HOME. size as the beef for steak puddings, and put them into a saute-pan, over the bottom of which 1 have rubbed an ounce of butter, seasoning them with a lit le pepper and salt, adding a little thyme, and a couple of bay-leaves ; about half cook and leave them in the pan until quite cold, then dip each piece in flour, lay them in the basin with a few slices of streaked bacon, finish the pudding and boil it two hours. For young rabbits and fowls I proceed the same, and cook the pudding the same time; but to the last two I frequently add a spoonful of cume-powder to make it palatable. For venison I pre- viously stew it well, except I have left the remainder of a haunch which I convert into a hash, making the pudding of it when cold; this puddin- will require very little more than an hour boiling. ° I frequently also make puddings'of various kinds of fish, of which one made from the fillets of mackerel is very excellent, the fillets cut into good slices, rather highly seasoned, and laid lightly in the pudding; it will require an hour and a half boiling, and must be eaten very hot to be well appreciated. Lels also make a good pudding, by cutting them into pieces an inch and a nail in length slantwise, and blanching them ten minutes in boding water, to extract the od, previous to putting them in your pudding, before making which dip each piece of eel m flour. s ° SECOND COURSE, KITCHEN AT HOME. For the roasts, second course, in my Kitchen at Home, I must refer my readers to that series in the other department of this work, as it is impos- sible to explain them more simply; so also for the various methods of dressing vegetables (there so fully explained), from the most expensive to the most simple; and, to avoid repetition, pass over those two series in the second course, and commence a short series of simplified second-course dishes, with a rew plain salads. No. 230. Salad of Cold Meat. This salad in France is very much in vogue, and very frequently made with the remains of meat from the pot-au-feu, "but any meat, either roasted, boiled, or stewed, may be used. Cut your meat in slices (with a little of the fat) about the size of half-a- crown place them upon a dish, with three eschalots chopped very finely, a spoonf ul ot chopped parsley, one of chopped tarragon and chervil, and a little salt aud pepper, pour six tablespoonfuls of salad-oil and two of vinegar over, toss well together without breaking the meat, and serve either in a salad-bowl or upon another dish; the above proportion is for a pound of meat. nother method is to have as many slices of cold potatoes as of meat, cut t e same size, and after well seasoning the whole, dress them alternately round he dish, one resting upon the other; mix two spoonfuls of oil with one of vinegar, which pour over and serve. Spring onions, slices of beet-root, and radishes, may also be introduced. The remains of poultry may also be dressed in a similar manner. No. 231. Lobster Salad. Break up a lobster, obtaining as much of the cs i as possible, which cut into slices, have likewise two hard-boiled eggs a so m slices, two anchovies filleted, and two cabbage lettuces, or any other 8a. !V .cu^ UP sm;fll; mix the whole well together with a fork in a basin, season "1 1 la * a teaspoonful of chopped eschalots, one of chopped parsley, one ofKITCHEN AT HOME. 699 chopped tarragon and chervil, a little pepper and salt, six spoonfuls of salad- oil, and two of vinegar; when well mixed, turn the whole into a salad-bowl and serve. Crab may be dressed precisely the same. No. 232. Fish Salads are also very good, and may be made with the remains of John Doree, turbot, salmon, or brill; fillets of soles sauted in butter, when cold, also make excellent salads. Cut the fish into rather thin shoes, have also two young cos lettuces, which separate into leaves and cut lengthwise; add a few leaves of tarragon, a little chervil, season with a little pepper and salt, six or eight spoonfuls of salad-oil, and two of vinegar, or according to taste ; mix well together, turn into a salad-bowl and serve. The above salads are excellent for dinner upon a hot summer’s day. No. 233. Potato Salad. Peel and cut ten middling-sized cold potatoes into slices, and put them into a salad-bowl, season with a little pepper, salt, a teaspoonful of chopped tarragon and chervil, half ditto of chopped escha- lots, the same of chopped parsley, six spoonfuls of oil, and two of vinegar; toss all well together without breaking the potatoes, and serve. Cold haricot beans, French beans, and lentils are also excellent dressed in the above method. No. 234. Plain Salad a la Franr.aise. Throughout France, but in France only, this simple style of dressing a salad is fully appreciated, the sight of which refreshes the eyes and revives the appetite; I never heard (in France) any one say, after a copious dinner, this is too much and useless, but, on the contrary, every one reserves, if not an appetite, at least the shade of one, for the approaching salad, the simplicity of its seasoning and its trifling expense principally causing it to be thus popular and so freely partaken of. I have never given a small party at home, but my guests have been at all times anxious to partake of my French salad, which I simply make as follows: I procure a quantity of salad of any description the most in season (all descriptions of salad being dressed in the same manner, one receipt will do for the whole), but my favorite salad being endive, that is the one I shall here describe. Take four or five heads of very white endive, detach all the green leaves and wash each head well in a pail of cold water, but not leaving them in the water, or they would eat quite bitter, which, for my own part, I do not much object to, but many persons do ; when clean, cut each head in halves down the centre, cut off the roots, which throw away, lay the endive in the centre of a clean cloth, which take by the four corners and shake until the salad is perfectly dry; then put it into a convenient-sized salad-bowl, season with three saltspoonfuls of salt, two of white pepper, two tablespoonfuls of vinegar six of salad-oil, and one of tarragon and chervil chopped very fine, then stir up lightly with a spoon and fork, and when well mixed let the guests holn themselves. " Another method of dressing an endive salad, which, in the opinion of the generality of my guests, is the most preferable in point of flavour, is to rub t ie salad-bowl with a piece of fresh peeled garlic, then lay in the salad • have three or four pieces of crust of bread, about the size of shillings, let each be well rubbed with the garlic, season and stir well together as before Should any ladies, however, be going to partake of it, the bowl and crustsKITCHEN AT HOME. 700 must not be so much rubbed, as too strong a flavour might be objectionable: this last receipt is only applicable to endive, every other salad, such as cos or cabbage lettuce, is plainly dressed as in the first receipt, adding more or less seasoning, or tarragon and chervil; a dozen of green spring onions is also an improvement to a salad. To make a profitable family salad, a certain quantity of cold roast, stewed, or boiled meat (which you might have remaining) or poultry might be intro- duced in either of the above salads, having previously cut it into slices; you may also introduce a couple of hard-boiled eggs, cut in rings, with slices of beet-root, cucumbers, ripe tomatas, or even cold potatoes, but then a little more vinegar must be added: from such a salad a small family may in the summer months make an excellent meal. No. 235. Jelly of various kinds of Fruits. Having but little time to make very bright jellies at home, I usually simply make them as directed in the few following receipts—they are excellent and full of flavour: when in a hurry, I generally use isinglass, but at other times boil three calf’s feet, or two cow heels, in a gallon of water, and when well done pass the liquor through a sieve into a basin, and clarify the next day, by taking off every particle of fat, and putting it into a stewpan; place upon the fire, and when boding, add a pint of water, with which you have whipped the whites of six eggs, mixing the juice of four lemons and two ounces of lump sugar; keep whisking over the fire until upon the point of boiling, when take from the fire, place the cover upon the stewpan, with a little live charcoal, or a few live cinders upon the top, let stand twenty minutes, when pour it through a jelly bag, pouring that which first runs through in again, untfl running quite clear, when all has passed through, pour it into a stewpan, and reduce it over a sharp fire to about a quart, when put it by for use, instead of isinglass, where indicated. No. 236. Orange Jelly. The bountiful supply and cheapness of this delicious fruit will enable almost any person to partake of this excellent entremet. Procure ten middling-sized oranges and two lemons, take the rind from three of the oranges and one of the lemons, as thinly as possible, which put into a basin, put a sieve over, through which squeeze the juice of the oranges and lemons, then put half a pound of sugar in a stewpan over the fire with a pint of water, and let boil until becoming a very thick syrup, when take it off, and add the juice and rind of the fruits, cover the stewpan for a few mo- ments, when again place it over the fire ; as soon as boiling commences, skim well, and add two glasses of water by degrees, which will assist its clarifica- tion, let boil another minute, when add an ounce and a quarter of isinglass, dissolved as directed (page 592), pass the whole through a jelly bag or fine cloth, and add a few drops of prepared cochineal to give an orange tint; when fill a mould, which place in two or three pounds of ice until set quite firm and ready to serve, when dip the mould in hot water to the rim, wipe the exterior, turn over upon your dish, lifting the mould straight, but gently off from the jelly. As the sizes of the oranges very much fluctuate, and some produce more juice than others, it would be better to try a little jelly in a spoon upon ice, to ascertain if of the proper strength, before filling yqur mould. If handy, the same quantity, or a little more, of reduced calf’s foot jelly, as in the last, may be used instead of isinglass.701 KITCHEN AT HOME. No. 237. Whipped Orange Jelly. This makes a very pleasing variation, without incurring any additional expense, being merely when the je y is passed to put it in a bowl, which place upon ice, and commence whipping the jelly until upon the point of setting, when pour it quickly into youi mould, which place upon ice until ready to serve, when dip the mould into warm water and turn the jelly out. Orange jelly, as directed in either of the last two, may also be served in the skins of the oranges by proceeding as directed (page 522), and serving them upon a napkin with laurel-leaves be- tween, in the same manner as oranges for a dessert. The remainder of an orange jelly may be melted again, poured into glass custard cups, set upon ice, and served upon another occasion, if sufficient; the remains of a clear one might be whipped and poured again into the mould. No. 238. Lemon Jelly. Proceed precisely the same as directed for orange, but omitting the oranges, and using the juice of eight and the rind of two lemons; this jelly requires to be kept quite white, and may be served either turned out of a mould, or in glasses, but not in the skin of the fruit, it being too bitter ; half a pint of bucellas wine may be added to the above. . No. 239. Currant and Raspberry Jelly. Procure two pounds of fresh currants and a good handful of raspberries, which place in a clean cloth over a basin, fold the cloth up, and press the juice through it with your hands, then add two or three wineglassfuls of cold water, and pass the whole through a jelly bag, make a thick syrup from three quarters of a pound of sugar, to which add two ounces of dissolved isinglass (or sufficient calf’s foot jelly), mix the whole well together ; when the syrup is a little cool, taste if palatable, place a little upon some ice, and if strong enough, fill your mould, which place in ice until quite set and ready to serve, when turn it out as before directed. No. 240. Strawberry Jelly. Put a pint of water in a stewpan to boil, have ready picked a basket of fresh strawberries, and when the water is boil- ing throw them in, let simmer a minute, add the juice of a lemon, place the lid upon the stewpan, and stand by until half cold, when run the jelly through a napkin or jelly bag, make a syrup, and add the isinglass as above, but using less sugar, finish precisely as in the last. Either of the last two jellies are, for a change, also very excellent whipped as directed for the orange jelly. It is almost needless to mention that when calf’s foot jelly is used, not quite so much sugar will be required as if only the isinglass. JELLIES OF LIQUEURS AND SPIRITS. No. 241. Maresquino Jelly. Have, if any, a quart of rather firm calf’s foot jelly, to which add, when melted, six liqueur-glassfuls of maresquino, and two of brandy, pour in your mould, which set upon ice until firm and ready for use, when turn out of your mould, as before, and serve. If no calf’s foot jelly, isinglass must be used instead, by dissolving an ounce and a half of isinglass, and adding it to a syrup made with the juice of two lemons, half a pound of sugar, and a pint of water, pass through a napkin or jelly bag, add two wineglassfuls more water, with the maresquino and brandy, when partly cold place in your mould, and serve as before.702 KITCHEN AT nOME. Jelly made in either of the above methods maybe flavoured with arv nth liqueurs (the quantity used depending principally upon tasfrA „ otl?er n,m, brandy, or whiskey, whicE l„st a^more^XTpar^of No. 242 Syrup of Almond, Iced h la Farsovienne, a substitute fnr w mange. Almost every ordinary cook is acquainted with the old making a blancmange, and the tedimisnpsn nf t l • • metllod of Tte tV following ^substituted h°“ 1 of sweet and one ounce of hittpr oimn„fi0 i i-i 4.1 mortar tour ounces sugar to a thickish symn * lmu,d m^24'! PineaPPIe Cleam is what I now frequently make in the sum mer months, using the West Indian pineapples, which may be procured remarkably cheap. Peel a small one, aid put the rind into a^teZn ^ a ver t?S i°f SUSar’ ai'd two wmeglassfuls of water; let boil until deduced to mainLthnfktlSyrUP5 paSS * tlu'ouSh a sieve into a basin, cut the re- minder of the pine into very small strips, which put into the basin with the SP' have ready boding half a pint of milk, in which you have chssolved ather more than an ounce of isinglass, in another stewpan have the yolks of eggs, over which pour the ndlk, mix well, and stir over the fire* until it becomes a little thickish, but not boding, when pass it through a rievTover the yrup, m well together, place in a bowl upon some ice° keep ItiiS until upon the point of setting, when add three parts of a pint of cream° Tt^readVI PPed> fil1 your mould> ^ leav/upon the “e until ready to serve, when turn it out as in the last. 1 No 244. Prussian Cream. Put an ounce and a half of isinglass nre wmsly dissoNed, into a bowl, melt it, and add six glasses of anv liqueur and bowl ^ brandy’ Wlth SLX ounces of powdered sugar, let wed dissolve,%lace the bowl upon some ice, keeping its contents stored imtil upon th^ point of Md pfoetd Vbedfotree pnrtSOf°Pint whipped cream; fill you? mould. BOHEMIAN JELLY CKEAMS. vJv\e*b\?tr7ber-nj- Pi(ik ,and pass throuSh a fine sieve a pottle of owrl ' WbCr’ t0 Whlch add the iuice of a lcoion, six ounces of calf>7fpl “Spr’ fnd an ounce and a half of dissolved isinglass (or sufficient imnn i™ i to.set rt)» Put th.c above ingredients into a bowl, which set stir in Hi.- Ltpin? ds contents stirred until upon the point of setting, when and proceed .^before Pmt °f Cr6am’ previously whiPPed i fl11 your mould, anripntf1C11'l|’ raspberries, and currants, proceed as for strawberries, but for apricots, peaches, apples, pears, quinces, &c., proceed as follows : No. 246. Apricot Bohemian Cream. Stone and cut into slices ten703 KITCITEN AT HOME. or twelve rather small apricots, quite ripe, and throw them into a stewpan containing half a pint of boiling water, and let boil until forming a puree when pass them through a hair sieve, add six ounces of powdered sugar, with the juice of two lemons, and an ounce and a half of isinglass, previously dis- solved ; place the whole iu a bowl, which set upon ice, keep stirring until upon the point of setting, when add three parts of a pint of whipped cream, pour into your mould, which place upon ice, and turn out when ready to serve, as before. . . Should your apricots be very ripe there would be no necessity to boil them, but merely rub them through a sieve, mis the lemon-juice, sugar, and isinglass, and finish as above. Creams of peaches or of any of the before-mentioned fruits are made in the same manner: but until you have confidence in yourself, it would be better to taste for the sweetness, and try the stiffness by placing a little upon ice, pre- viously to finishing it. No. 247. French Custard Cream. Have ready ten custard glasses, or small coffee cups, measure one of them ten times full of milk, which place in a stew- pan, and set upon the fire until boiling, when add a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, and the rind of two lemons, free from pith, place the lid upon the stewpan, take from the fire and let infuse ten minutes, then in a basin have ready the yolks of eight eggs, with which stir in the milk by degrees, pass through a tammie and fill the cups ; have ready upon the fire a large flat stewpan, containing water sufficient to cover the bottom two inches in depth, and just simmering, stand in the cups, and let remain still simmering until I the custards are quite firm, when take them out, let remain until cold, when wash the cups outside, dress them upon a napkin and serve; any kind of flavour may be introduced into the above ; but for . No. 248, Coffee Custard Cream, proceed as follows : make half a pint of strong coffee according to the usual method, add half a pint of thin cream or milk previously boiled, sweeten to palate, mix with the yolks of eggs, pass through a tammie, and proceed precisely as directed in the last. No. 249. Coffee Custard Cream, White. Put a quarter of a pound of green Mocha coffee iuto a small stewpan, which place over a slow fire, tossing the coffee over frequently until becoming lightly browned, but not black, in another stewpan have boiling a pint of milk, take from the fire, let infuse ten minutes, placing the lid upon the stewpan, then mix with eight yolks of eggs, pass through a tammie, and finish as before. No. 250. Chocolate Custard Cream. Scrape half a cake of good chocolate, which put into a stewpan, and moisten by degrees 'with a pint of warm milk and cream, when well dissolved mix with the yolks of eggs, and finish as before. Any of the above custards may be put into common tart dishes, and set in a potato steamer, or slowly baked in the oven, should the above process be too tedious or inconvenient. Any description of English boiled custard may be made in the same man- ner, but instead of pouring it first into the cups, when the infusion is made, mix it with the yolks of eggs, and stir over the fire until thickening (but must not boil, or it would curdle), pass through a tammie, fill your cups or glasses, grate a little nutmeg over each, and serve when quite cold.KITCHEN AT HOME. 704 No. 251. Almond Custard Cream. The flavour of almonds, which appears to he so generally liked in England, and which were I to omit in custard I should consider it to be a piece of neglect, is generally obtained by the use of an essence which I cannot at all approve of, but consider the following method to obtain that delicious flavour to be much more commendable : blanch and skin two ounces of sweet with a few bitter almonds, pound them well, with sufficient sugar to sweeten a pint of milk, which vou have in a stewpan,’ when boiling throw in the almonds and sugar, cover the stewpan, let infuse ten minutes in another stewpan, have the yolks of eight eggs, upon which pour the infusion, stirring it well and mixing by degrees, stir over the fire until thickening, when pass it through a tammie into a bowl, which place upon ice or in cold water, keeping it stirred until quite cold, when mix a gill of cream whipped very stiff, fill your cups, sprinkle crushed ratafias over, and they are ready to serve. J By adding a little dissolved isinglass to the above when cooling, anv de- scription of spirits or liqueurs may be introduced. The cream may he omitted, it will then make a good plain custard. No. 252. Cabinet Pudding. Well butter a plain round mould or basin, round the interior of which stick a quantity of dried cherries, or Smyrna laisins, then about three parts fill the mould with sponge cake, interspersin°" two ounces of ratafias, over which sprinkle a good glass of brandy, then have ready the following custard : boil a pint of milk, in which infuse the rind of two lemons, free from pith, in a basin, have six whole eggs, which well whisk, with a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, and add the milk by degrees’ pass through a tammie and fill up the mould, round the edge of which place a band of buttered paper, have a convenient-sized stewpan, with about two inches in depth of boiling water, place in your pudding, cover a sheet of paper over, and let simmer gently over the fire, keeping the stewpan covered down close until the pudding becomes quite firm, by which time you should be ready to serve it, take out, detach the paper, and turn from the mould over upon a dish ; have ready the following sauce : put half a pint of melted butter into a stewpan, into which stir the yolks of two eggs, and add a glassful of brandy, with the juice of a lemon, and sufficient sugar to sweeten it, stir over the fire until becoming a little thick, when pass it through a tammie, sauce over the pudding and serve. No. 253. Bread Pudding. Procure four French rolls, the crumb of which put into a basin, with a pint of boiling milk, let remain until half cold, when add six whole eggs, with a quarter of a pound of currants, and one ounce of candied citron, cut into very small dice, mix the whole well together; have ready prepared as in the last a plain round mould, in which pour the above mixture, steam it as in the last; when done and ready to seiwe, turn from the mould, and serve with the same sauce poured over as before directed. No. 254. Ground Bice Pudding. Place a pint of milk in a stewpan over the fire, and when boiling throw in the rind of a lemon, cut as thinly as possible, and quite free from pith ; take from the fire, cover the stewpan, and leave ten minutes to infuse; then in a basin have six ounces of ground rice, which mix smoothly with half a pint of cold milk, take out the lemon- peel from the milk in the stewpan, pour in the mixture, and stir the whole over the fire until thickening, when take from the fire; add six whole eggs,KITCHEN AT HOME. 705 six ounces of powdered sugar and a little grated nutmeg, mix the whole well together, have ready, well buttered, a pudding-dish, into which pour the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven until set; serve hot. No. 255. Rice Pudding. Well wash six ounces of Carolina rice in one or two waters, drain and dry it upon a cloth, and put it into a stewpan with a pint and a half of cold milk and a quarter of a pound of butter, place the stewpan over a moderate fire, allowing its contents to simmer very gently until the rice becomes quite tender, when add six whole eggs well whipped, six ounces of sugar, and a little grated nutmeg; pour into a buttered pudding- dish, and bake in a moderate oven until set and nicely coloured ; serve hot as before. Sago, tapioca, semoulina, and vermicelli puddings are made very similar to the last, and served the same ; they, may of course be flavoured with lemon, any description of spice approved of, or a couple of glasses of brandy, rum, noyeau, maresquino, or almost any description of wine, spirits, or liqueurs. No. 256. Macaroni Pudding. Have half a pound of macaroni, which boil in half a gallon of water until becoming tender, when drain it upon a sieve • Have ready boding in a stewpan half a pint of mdlc, in which put the maca- roni (having previously cut it into pieces an inch in length), with a quarter of a pound of butter and the rind of a lemon, free from pith, tied in a bunch; let simmer gently about twenty minutes, when take out the lemon-peel and add six whole eggs, well whisked, with six ounces of sugar; have ready a pud- ding-dish well buttered, into which pour the above preparation ; bake and serve as before. No. 25 7. Gateau of Rice. Well wash half a pound of Carolina rice, which wed drain and put into a stewpan with a quart of milk, a quarter of a pound of butter, and a few sticks of cinnamon; let simmer over a slow fire until the rice is very tender, and the whole becoming thickish, when take out the pieces of cinnamon ; add six ounces of powdered sugar and eight whole ee<rS stir in quickly over the fire until becoming again thickish, when have readv a plain oval mould, well butter the interior, lay a sheet of buttered paper at the bottom, pour in the above, filling the mould to within three quarters of an inch from the rim, and place in a moderate oven, where let remain until set quite firm, when take from the oven, turn out of your mould upon a dish and serve quite hot, with a sauce over, as directed for cabinet puddin°-’ bateaux of macaroni, vermicelli, &c., may also be made by the above direc- tions, preparing them as for pudding, but making the mixture as directed for No. 258. Fruit Puddings. As almost every description of fruit puddine i, although om of the most WUt a Pou“d °f fl°ur uPon y°ur pastry Slab, with which mix half a pound of beef suet, well shred and finely chopped, make a hole in the centre in which pour near y balf a pint of water, mixing the flour and suet b by degrees anS baking the whole lightly together, then take two thirds, which roll up intc 45KITCHEN AT HOME. 706 a ball, and with the rolling-pin form it into a round sheet, nearly half an inch in thickness; have ready a round-bottomed basin, well buttered and floured, which line with the sheet of paste, keeping it about an inch above the rim of the basin ; have also ready sufficient apples peeled and cut in slices, with which fill the interior, adding a piece of butter the size of a walnut, six ounces of powdered or brown sugar, six or eight cloves, and a little grated nutmeg; wet round the edge of the paste above the basin, roll out the remainder to form a lid of about the same thickness, lay it over the top, joining them well together, then tie the pudding with the basin in a cloth ; have ready a good- sized stewpan over the fire, three parts full of boiling water, into which put the pudding, boiling it about an hour and a half: when done and ready to serve take it from the cloth, pass your knife carefully round the sides between the pudding and the basin, turn over upon a dish, lift the basin from it gently, and serve as soon as possible. Some people prefer the paste for fruit puddings made of butter, which is also very good; but in my opinion the suet paste is much lighter; the trimmings of puff-paste, if any, would also make an excellent crust for a fruit. Puddings of gooseberries, cherries, currants, raspberries, plums, damsons, &c., are made precisely the same, but omitting the cloves, nutmeg, and piece of butter, and less boiling. No. 259. Pastry. For the making of good puff-paste I could not give a more simple receipt than that (page 479) in the other department, to which I must refer my readers, as also for half-puff-paste (page 480), which will be found very serviceable in the making of pies or fruit tarts, the method of making which it is here my intention to describe, but for all other dishes of small fancy pastry, a great variety will be found in the Kitchen of the Wealthy, very simply explained, and requiring no greater convenience to make than what my Kitchen at Home will afford. No. 260. Short Paste for Fruit Tarts. Although I have above stated that the half-puff-paste is very excellent for the covering of fruit tarts, I am also aware that very many persons prefer a short sweet paste, as such I have given the following receipt, leaving my readers to choose between the two, the process being the same for either. Put a pound of flour upon your pastry slab, with six ounces of butter, and rub them well together with your hands, then make a hole in the centre, in which put two ounces of powdered sugar, two whole eggs, and rather more than a wineglassful of water; mix the eggs, sugar, and water well together, then draw in the flour and butter, shaking the whole well, and when dry work it together lightly with the hands. No. 261. Apricot Tarts. For tarts the apricots do not require to be too ripe. Procure about two dozen, or according to the size of your dish, split each one in halves, break their stones, and take out their kernels, m Inch blanch and skin, lay the apricots in your dish, building them in the form o a dome above the level of your dish, and interspersing the kernels here an there, cover them over with half a pound of lump sugar broken very sma > have ready sufficient half-puff-paste (page 480), or the tart-paste jusfidcseribe , a band of which, the eighth of an inch in thickness, lay round the rim of ) dish, previously wetting it, then roll out a sheet of the paste large enough707 KITCHEN AT HOME. cover the fruit, and a quarter of an inch in thickness, wet the band of paste upon your dish, and lay the cover over, in which prick a hole in each side between the fruit and the edge of the dish, forming a well all round, and closing the paste well at the edges, trim round with a knife, with which also decorate the edges, wet the top well with white of egg beat to a light froth, over which sprinkle two ounces of finely-powdered sugar, sprinkle with water until the sugar is well dissolved (but not to run off), place in a moderate oven, and bake about an hour, keeping it a very light brown colour, serve when cold. No. 262. Greengage Tart. Procure a sufficient number of ripe green- gages, which put into your dish whole, giving them the form of a dome at the top, and if about two dozen covering them with six ounces of powdered sugar; cover with paste, and proceed exactly as described in the last. Any description of plum tart is made precisely in the same manner, as also are gooseberry, cherry, currant and raspberry, cranberry, &c. and all requir- ing about the same time and same description of oven. No. 263. Apple Tart. Peel and cut about two dozen russet apples in shoes, which put into your dish, interspersing them with some lemon peel, fiee fiom pith, cut into strips, about six cloves, and a little grated nutmeg; build the apples up in a dome to the centre of your dish, and cover over with half a pound of powdered sugar, then have ready half a pound of puff-paste made as directed (page 479), with which make a band a quarter of an inch in thickness, laying it round the rim of the dish, roll out the remainder of the paste to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and large enough to cover the fruit, wet the band of paste upon the dish with a little water, lay the cover gently oyer, pricking a hole with your knife at the top to let out the air, closing it gently at the edges, which trim neatly with a knife; egg the top over with a paste-brush, and place in a moderate oven to bake, which will take about an hour; just before taking from the oven sift a little sugar over and let remain until melted, forming a nice glaze over the tart, which may be served either hot or cold. Brown sugar may be used for any of the above tarts if approved of, but I have given directions for the white, considering that the brown, although commonly used, frequently destroys the delicious flavour of some descriptions of fruit. The salamander may be used to brown it. No. 264. French Fruit Tart. Make half a pound of paste as directed (No. 1136, page 481), mould it into a round ball upon your marble slab and roil to a round sheet a quarter of an inch in thickness, wet round the rims turning the edge over to form a border half an inch in depth, winch press unon with your finger and thumb to about an inch in height, have ready about twenty greengages, or any other description of plums, split each into two and place them in the interior of your tart, shake some sugar over, and bake about half an hour in a hot oven ; serve cold, shaking more sugar over at the • time of serving. They may also be made with apricots, peaches, cherries currants, raspberries, cranberries, or gooseberries, in the same’manner- but it made of apples, the fruit must be previously boiled to a marmalade or stewed in a stewpan, with sugar and a small piece of butter, until tender ET- t0 pUtting!the v iQ thf ; fruit baked in tbese tarts is also very excellent meringued as directed (No. 267) ; plain whipped cream with a little sugar is very good for a change. 11 UUl aKITCHEN AT HOME. 708 No. 265. Plain Souffle Puddings. Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, with two spoonfuls of flour, mix well together, then add half a pint of milk* with a little salt, and two ounces of sugar, upon which you have rubbed the rind of a fresh lemon or orange, keep stirring over the fire until it thickens, but if becoming too thick, which will depend upon the flour add more milk, but if the contrary, let reduce until forming a fine softish paste; when stir in quickly the yolks of four eggs, when well mixed set by until cold; you have reserved the whites of the*eggs, which, half an hour before serving, whip to a stiflish froth, and mix well but lightly with the other part of the preparation, pour the whole into a deep pie-dish, previously well buttered, and set it in a warm oven, when about half done cut an in- cision in the top, and put again in the oven, when done shake powdered sugar over the top, glaze lightly with the salamander, if any, and serve imme- diately. Better the guests wait a few minutes for the souffle than the souffle for the guests. No. 266. Souffle Rice Pudding. Well wash two ounces of Carolina rice, which when dry put into a stewpan with nearly a pint of milk, an ounce of butter, half the rind of a lemon, free from pith, a little salt, and a spoonful of powdered sugar; set upon the fire until boiling, wfyen draw it to the corner, where let simmer very gently (or place the stewpan upon a trivet at a good height from the fire) until the rice is very tender, when take it from the fire, and beat well with a wooden spoon until forming a smoothish paste, when add the yolks of four or five eggs, mixing them well, pour the whites of the eggs into a bowl, whisk them until very stiff, and mix lightly with the preparation ; have ready, buttered lightly, a deep pie-dish, pour in the mixture, and about a quarter of an hour before ready to serve place it in a moderate oven, serving when done, and the moment you take it from the oven. Half the above quantity may of course be made. Souffle of gi'ound rice is made the same as the above, the rice, however, not requiring so long to simmer as when whole. As also are souffles of tapioca, semoulina, vermicelli, &c., changing their flavours according to taste, using vanilla, lemon, orange, orange-flower water, or a small quantity of any de- scription of liqueur. A few currants may also be mixed with any of the pre- parations, or laid at the bottom of the dish, as also may any description of light preserves. No. 267. Fruits Meringued. Any description of fruits may be served to table meringued, by following the above directions. For apples, peel and cut six into slices, which put into a stewpan, with an ounce of butter, half the rind of a lemon, free from pith, cut into thin strips, with the juice of half a lemon, and a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, or if the apples are perfectly ripe not quite so much, place the stewpan over a moderate fire, tossing the apple over occasionally until quite done, half fill a pie-dish with them, then whip the whites of four eggs to a very stiff froth, with which mis very lightly a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, and lay over the apples in the dish, shake a little sugar over, and set in a slow oven until forming quite a dry crust; it had better remain in the oven a little too long than not long enough, but be sure that the oven is not too hot when you put it in, or it would catch and become quite black, instead of being what it should be, a very light brown, or gold colour.709 KITCHEN AT HOME. Apricots, pears, &c., may be done the same, but omitting the butter; tor either, cover whilst still warm. The above fruits also thus prepared may be covered with a souffle of rice, or ground-rice pudding, and baked; they may be then served either hot or cold. No. 268. Snoiv Eggs are made with the whites of eggs, thus : whip the whites of five eggs very stiff, to -which add (mixing lightly) five ounces of sugar; have boiling in a flat stewpan upon the fire a pint of milk, form pieces of the mixture with a tablespoon in the shape of eggs, and drop them into the boiling milk to poach; when set rather firm take them out with a colan- der-spoon, and lay them upon a sieve with a plate under to drain ; when all are poached your milk will be reduced to about half; then in another stewpan put the yolks of three eggs, with a little sugar, and a few drops of orange- flower water, beat well together, then add the milk, and keep stirring over the fire until forming a thickish custard (but not allowing it to boil), when pass it through a tammie, dress the eggs tastefully in crown upon your dish, pour the custard over and serve. You may also poach six or eight very fresh eggs in water, with which you have added a little vinegar; w'hen well set take out with a colander-spoon, drain them upon a cloth until cold, dress them upon a dish, or in a flat glass dish, pour a custard over, prepared as above, but with which, if handy, you have mixed a little whipped cream. For every description of omelettes I must refer my readers to the series of omelettes in the other department of this work. No. 269. Plum Pudding. Pick and stone one pound of the best Malaga 1 raisins, which put in a basin, with one pound of currants (well washed, dried, and picked), a pound and a half of good beef suet (chopped, but not too fine), three quarters of a pound of white or brown sugar, two ounces of candied lemon and orange-peel, two ounces of candied citron, six ounces of flour, and a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, with a little grated nutmeg ; mix the whole well together, with eight whole eggs and a little milk ; have ready a plain or ornamented pudding-mould, wrell butter the interior, pour the above mixture into it, cover a sheet of paper over, tie the mould in a cloth, put the pudding into a large stewpan containing boiling water, and let boil quite fast for four hours and a half (or it may be boiled by merely tying it in a pudding cloth previously well floured, forming the shape by laying the cloth in a round-bottomed basin and pouring the mixture in, it will make no difference in the time required for boiling) ; when done take out of the cloth, turn from the mould upon your dish, sprinkle a little powdered sugar over, i and serve with the following sauce in a boat: put the yolks of three eggs in a i stewpan, with a spoonful of powdered sugar, and a gill of milk, mix well together, add a little lemon-peel, and stir over the fire until becoming thickish (but do not let it boil), when add two glasses of brandy, and serve. The above sauce may be served poured over tbe pudding if approved of. An excellent improvement to a plum pudding is to use half a pound of beef i marrow cut into small dice, omitting the same quantity of suet. No. 270. Currant Pudding. Put a pound and a half of flour into a basin, with a pound of beef suet, shred and chopped very fine, and a pound of cur- ■' rants, well washed, picked, and dried, add a little powdered cinnamon, or grated nutmeg, and mix well together, with four whole eggs, a quarter of aKITCHEN AT HOME. 710 pound of brown sugar, and half a pint of milk, boil it as directed for plum pudding, either in a mould or tied in a cloth, but two hours would be suffi- cient; when done turn out upon a dish and serve quite plain, or with sauce as above. The above mixture divided in small puddings or dumplings about the 6ize of apples, boiled about half an hour, and served hot to table with a little powdered sugar over, are also excellent. No. 271. Sweet Maccaroons. Blanch and skin half a pound of sweet almonds, dry them well in your screen, then put them into a mortar, with a pound and a half of lump sugar, pound well together, and pass the whole through a wire sieve, put it again into the mortar, with the whites of two eggs, mix well together with the pestle, then add the white of another egg, pro- ceeding thus until you have used the whites of about eight eggs, and made a softish paste, when lay them out at equal distances apart upon wafer paper, in pieces nearly the size of walnuts, place some strips of almonds upon the top, sift sugar over, and bake in a slow oven of a yellowish-brown colour; they are done when set quite firm through. No. 272. Bitter Maccaroons, or Ratafias, are made similar to the above, but deducting two ounces of sweet, and adding two ounces of bitter almonds; they are laid out in much smaller cakes upon common paper, and baked in a much warmer oven; when cold they may be taken off the paper with the greatest ease. These cakes are very serviceable in making a great many second-course dishes. No. 273. Mince Meat. Procure four pounds and a half of kidney beef suet, which skin and chop very finely, have also three pounds of candied lemon and orange peel, a quarter of a pound of citron, a pound and a half of lean cooked beef, and three pounds and a half of apples, the whole separately chopped very fine, and put into a large pan with four pomids and a half of currants, well washed and picked, two ounces of mixed spice, and two pounds of sugar; mix the whole well together with the juice of eight lemons and a pint of brandy, place it in jars, and tie down until ready for use ; a pound and a half of Malaga raisins, well stoned and chopped, may likewise be added to the above. No. 274. Mince Pies. Have apiece of puff-paste made as directed (page 479), which roll out to the thickness of a penny-piece, have also a dozen tartclette-pans, which lightly butter, cut out twelve pieces with a round cutter from the paste, each the size of your tartelette-pans, lay them upon the slab ; roll the trimming of the paste again to the former thickness, cut twelve other pieces, with which line the tartelette-pans, put a piece of mince-meat in each, wet them round, place on the lids, pricking a hole with a pin in the centre, and close them well at the edges; egg over lightly, and bake about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. END OF RECEIPTS FOR KITCHEN AT HOME.711 TO MAKE COFFEE IN AN ECONOMICAL MANNER. BY MY MENAGERE. After constant supplications to my menagere, I have obtained at last a valuable receipt of the method of making my coffee at home, which I must say she may well be proud of, having been continually complimented by my guests on account of its excel- i lence. It was only by touching her vanity, and assuring her that i it was not to oblige me but the public at large, that she permitted me to give it publicity, on the condition, however, that her name be appended. “ Buy your coffee not over-burnt; grind it at home if possible. Have a middle-sized filter like ours, which holds a little more than a quart, and came from Jakes’ or Benham’s, I forget which (but that is of little consequence, as you merely want the receipt), pour about a pint of boiling water into the filter to heat it through, then empty it, and put a quarter of a pound of ground coffee on the filter; then put on the presser, and lastly the grating; then pour about half a pint of quite boiling water over it, put the cover on, and let it drain through. “ After three or four minutes pour by degrees a pint and a half more boiling water, and when well passed through pour it from the filter into a very clean stewpan; set it on the corner of the fire, and when a little white scum rises to the surface (not letting it boil) pom- it a second time over the filter, and when passed I through pour either into the silver cafetiere or the cups. Serve boiling milk or cream in two small jugs, and white or brown, or sometimes candied sugar.” After promising her a fine gown for her kindness, I gave her a pen to sign her name. “ But stop/’ says she, “ I forgot that for your breakfast the next day I use a system of economy which I think will please : as soon as I have poured the coffee from the coffee-pot, I put i another quart of boiling water over it. This I find saves me an ounce of coffee by boiling it instead of water, and pouring it over as before.” (Signed) “ Irma ue L’Ombre.”712 THE FOLLOWING IS A CORRECT COPY OF A MONSTER BILL Of FARE FROM A PAPER FOUND IN THE TOWER OF LONDON. George Nevil, brother to the great Earl of Warwick, at his instalment into the Archbishopric of York, in the year 1470, made a feast for the Nobility Gentry, and Clergy, wherein he spent 300 Quarters of Wheat. 300 Tuns of Ale. 104 Tuns of Wine. One pipe of spiced Wine. 10 fat Oxen. 6 wild Bulls. 300 Pigs. 1004 Wethers. 300 Hogs. 3000 Calves. 3000 Geese. 300 Capons. 100 Peacocks. 200 Cranes. 200 Kids. 2000 Chickens. 4000 Pigeons. 4000 Rabbits. 4000 Ducks. 204 Bitterns. 400 Hernsies. 200 Pheasants. 500 Partridges. 5000 Woodcocks. 400 Plovers. 100 Curlews. 100 Quails. 1000 Eggets. 200 Rees. 4000 Bucks, Does, and Roebucks. 155 Hot Venison Pasties. 4000 Cold Venison Pasties. 1000 Dishes of Jellies. 2000 Hot Custards. 4000 Cold Custards. 400 Tarts. 300 Pikes, 300 Breams. 8 Seals, and 4 Porpoises. At the feast the Earl of Warwick was Steward, the Earl of Bedford Trea- i mm n, L°/f !Jast,lnSs Comptroller, with many noble officers : Servitors 1UUU, Looks 62, Kitcheners and Scullions 515. For description of the above, read the introduction of French Pot-au-feu, page 649.NEW PAGODATIQUE ENTREE DISH. A LA SOYER.* The union which has been forced between the “ Children of the Sun” and those of proud Albion has thrown some beneficial rays upon our European domains and costumes, and if they have not improved our manners and habits, they have at all events changed them. I It is true that we had, previously to this, reaped marvellous things from the “ Celestial Empirebut the English nation, always eager for novelty, could not be contented with their (Ombres Chinoises) Chinese shadows, but must possess them in reality. Since this astonishing conquest you have Chinese quadrilles, Chinese fashions, exhibitions furiously Chinese, and, for certain, several millions of dollars, which are every bit as Chinese as the 8 illustrious descendant of more than forty centuries, whom you are still ex- pecting as a most extraordinary ambassador. I already perceive that your shoes, “jolies Anglaises,” change and diminish with great rapidity. Even now you appear to walk with difficulty; really, if you continue this practice, you will, like the Mandarins’ ladies, have very pretty feet for sitting, but very bad ones for walking. The intellectual part, which is covered with your splendid “ blonde chevelure,” will suffer as much as your little feet; and it will be a contest between your astonishing and gracious Amazons, who shall have their hair turned up first, in hopes to resemble your celestial sister and nuptial companion of the expected plenipotentiary. Your beautiful eyes, I hope, will remain in their primitive purity; also that clear and rich tone of colour, which brings to mind those extraordinary fine visages clair de lune de Vantiquite. The island of Great Britain adds to and preserves this superb and almost ephemeric colour, unknown to the soil of the Continent. You may, nymphs of the ocean, let your nails grow in the fantastic man- ner of that captured country; that is, near an inch longer than our insigni- ficant custom in Europe, which is, they say, “ a part of the world far from being civilized.” I would also advise you to use with moderation the beaume Cremeux Houbigant, which will preserve them that beautiful vermeil, so greatly admired. But reflect for a moment, in giving full scope to your fashionable taste, you sacrifice a thousand chefs-d’oeuvre, and entirely forsake • our illustrious favorites, Mozart, Rossini, Meyerbeer, Auber, Handel, and many others; because you recollect that the harp, guitar, piano, &c., were not invented for the Mandarins : but setting aside all these little tribulations, while walkin'- about with pain, you will have the gratification of hearing, “ There goes a lady of the newest fashion.” * Extracted from my “ Delasscmcnts Culinaires,” late) / published by Arcade; a second edition of which will shortly appear. Jeffe, BurlingtonPAGODATIQUE ENTREE DISH. 714 While discoursing upon these trifling subjects, I did not perceive an enor- mous Epicurean, not very particular in fashions, and still less partial to po- litics (which proves the difficulty of finding several great accomplishments centred in one person), was waiting with intense anxiety, to hear the result of the notice on the title-page; immediately addressing me, he exclaimed, as our satiric Boileau might have said, “ Tout ce que vous venez de dibiter est certainement bien plat,” — “ but where the deuce is your new plat d’entree, or entree dish?” I begged a thousand pardons of my antagonist, and perceived, to my great surprise, that I had involuntarily left my culinary laboratory to undertake an ephemeric voyage to China. After an apology on each side, the following dialogue took place between us : “There is the model of the dish; what do you think of it, sir?” “I perceive with pleasure,” he very politely replied, “ that I have not lost anything by waiting ; it displays great taste and originality, and possesses the seal of innovation.” “ Allow me to take off the cover.”PAGODATIQUE ENTREE DISH. 715 « Ah! what is the use of those divisions, or compartments • “The Chinese, as I have been informed by several celebrated travellers, amongst which your great diplomatist, Sir Henry Pottinger (to whom I 1a latelv the honour of being introduced, upon the occasion of Ins visit to Ue y. Club), in viewing the dish, certified what I had previously heard from sever I illustrious men By the by, he has honoured me by subscribing for a set ot them—here is my album, and see, there is his autograph: . for four pagodatique entree dishes ; this completes the service for the pre- ■< sent, hut in a short time a complete service for first and second course can be I easily manufactured at a reasonable price. But to return to the subject. I i was telling you that those gentlemen had informed me that the Chinese have, upon their tables at their banquets, a profusion of fowls, and birds ot all kinds, ; served with sauce or gravy, a plate being placed before each guest, similar to t the European fashion, surrounded by three or four small saucers, each con- i taining different ingredients, spices, and pickles, suited to the dish they paitake of; each person takes a wing or fillet, that being the only part they consider • eatable. They then cut it in small pieces, on their plates, and dip them into the different sauces, until they produce a favorite seasoning to their taste. It i might not be to either yours or mine, but for all that, I do not blame them. “Ton my word, it is very curious and clever; by this mode your plate is 1 free from incumbrance, a fault with which I always reproach our nation. “ I have frequently heard of a ‘ Potage aux nids d’oiseaux,’ we call it in ! English, birds’-nest soup ; it is said to be of the most astonishing delicate « substance.” « I shall shortly have the pleasure of entertaining you upon that subject; we ' will now return to our new ‘ plat d’entree.’ ” Drawn by the frivolous fancy of fashion and folly of the times; why, I thought, should not I endeavour to make myself as ridiculous as any other person ; I therefore submitted to the proprietor of a large china establishment a drawing, from which he executed with great taste this pagodatique table n ornament. “ The several advantages which it possesses are easily understood, one entree ' may have four different sauces, four entrees the varieties of sixteen, or of eight, by putting the sauce double, I mean two compartments filled with the same sauce, and preserve the entrie as the Chinese do, au naturel. To add to its * To show plainly the interior of this dish, it has been drawn one size larger than it i is in reality. These dishes arc only to be had by applying to Mr. Soycr, of the Reform | Club, or at Mr. George Smith’s, No. 57, Conduit street, Regent street, he being the only h manufacturer.PAGODATIQUE ENTREE DISH. 716 great variety, small dinners (tris rechercM*) can be served upon it for one or two persons the sight of a small and delicate entrie will sometimes invite the appetite, where a large entrie approaches too near vulgarity, and would produce a contrary effect 5 to know how to live an Epicurean in desire is a great art, but so true it is, that if all our wishes were accomplished life would be an enormous burthen; and nothing can effect this important object but the delicacy and lightness of a well-conceived dish. This once obtained a first rate epicure will not only eat with a greater degree of zest and stimulation, but he will, at the same time, enjoy the pleasurable sensations arising; from his keen and unerring discernment, that the sister twins, art and science, have been busily employed m administering to his taste. I must also observe that from Ins profound knowledge of the rules of life, he will always bear in mind that ‘moderation is the goddess of health.’ ” J “ Very true! very true !” n “IZ i1nsl?Ce’ i r?al epicure, if wel1 aware> and can appreciate that he owes all the delights and pleasures of his existence to a good state of health,- for without it no one can enjoy the pleasures of life, and, still less, the pleasure of degustation ; so true is this, that even the company of our best and beloved friends, the possession of riches and honours, the greatest celebrity and glory lose their charms where health is compromised ; the most delicate food loses its zest, the most melodious chords of music, and the greatest optical delights are evanescent, the beauties of nature are lost, and everything is without charm, even the sun-yes, that sun itself, which pours life upon creation importunes our wretched frame with his torrent of light and universal splem dour; which proves that we ought profoundly to study those great agents of nature which preside over our organic movements. Allowing us to nse with moderation what our senses desire, is far from a meagre or redoubtable .privation for the illustrious disciples of Epicurus; excess and want of experience have often been the cause of man falling into the greatest errors, which have been most pernicious to his health. From the celestial vault the indefinable power desires to guide us safely, and by following his divine lesson we shall not only enjoy extreme happiness, but obey the dictates of our great and wise Creator.” ° “ I perfectly understand your argument, and have often recognized the profound truth of it. If it is not asking too much, would you be so kind as to name a few entries you would recommend for these compartments, and sufficient dinner for one or two ladies ?” “ It will give me much pleasure to do so, I will mention several: for in- stance, if a dinner for two persons, I would serve in the centre, filets de sole a la Hollandaise, and in the four corners Deux Cotelettes d’Agneau aux Pois, Un Filet deVolaille, pique a la Pur6e de Champignons, Deux Quenelles de Lapereaux aux Truffes, Demi Perdreaux en Salmi. Escalopes de Ris de Veau aux Pointes d’Asperges, Quatre Rissoles aux Iiuitres. In the centre. Poulet printanier piqu6 aux Cressons, Deux Cotelettes de Mouton a la lief or me, Blanquette de Filets de Volatile aux Truffes.717 PAQODATIQUE ENTREE DISH. Deux Filets de Grouse & la Bohexnienne, Deux Escalopes (le Filet de Boeuf, sauce poivrade. Centre. One slice of Salmon en Matelote, _ Deux Croquettes de Volaille, a la Puree de Foie Gras, Un Ris de Veau pique a la Financiere. Deux Grenadins de Veau a la Palestine, Deux Boudins de Volaille h la Richelieu. Centre. Roast Duckling, Deux Eperlans frits a la Boulangkre, Salmi de Becasse. Deux Ris d’Agneau pique a la Puree de Choufleurs. Une Caille aux Feuilles de Vigne. Centre. A slice of Turbot a la Mazarine, Un Ailleron et Filet de Volaille^a la Marengo, Deux Rissolettes a la Pompadour. “ I can also give you a few plainer bills of fare for the same. Pommes de Terre a la Maitre d’Hotel, Carbonade de Mouton a la Provencale. Centre. Small Rumpsteak, Un Choufleur, sauce au beurre, Un Pigeonueau a la Jardiniere. Cboux de Bruxelles a la Cr&me, Minced Veal and two poached Eggs. Centre. Half a broiled Fowl with gravy, Pomme de Terre a la Iiollandaise, Un Filet de Boeuf, sauce tomate. Deux Cotelettes de Mouton a la Soubise, Quatre Jerusalem Artichauts a la Bechamel. Centre. Slice of Cod and Oyster sauce. Minced Beef, sauce piquante, Pomme de Terre frite. Stewed Oysters, Two Potatoes plain boiled. Centre. Stewed Rabbit and Onion sauce, Two Escalopes of Veal and Ham, Un Brocoli, sauce au beurre. “ The sauces and garnitures of many of these may be varied; and as you see in some of the lists two entries only served, and the other two compart- ments filled with vegetables, either plain or dressed, the centre remaining for something larger, either plain or dressed, according to the taste of different persons; but your good judgment will enable you to perceive clearly that the variations of which it is capable are almost without end. I beg also to ob- serve that the dish, after having been placed an hour or two in a hot closet (as it is customary to do with all dishes previous to the dinner being served), will retain the heat nearly an hour, without applying hot water, red-hot iron,PAGODATIQUE ENTREE DISH. 718 or spirits of wine, which always produces a disagreeable effect, and is often the cause of a dinner being detained, as they must wait till the last minute before this operation commences.” “ This essential part,” he replied, “ added to its elegance, holds out most favorable prospects of success to this beautiful Pagodatique dish ; and I really cannot see why, in a dinner of eight, or ten entries, the four corners could not be ornamented with such dishes ; as they would produce the most agree- able effects, for too great uniformity in a service is not very picturesque,'=and unfortunately always employed. I have only one more favour to ask of you it relates to those birds’ nests.” “For the present I hope you will excuse me, as it is now five o’clock, and from six to eight I have several petits diners tres recherches, which require all my attention ; but favour me with another visit shortly, and then we will terminate our culinary conversation, without occupying our precious time about the eccentric Chinese, but will confine ourselves to their nests.” “ You are quite right in mentioning it. I should be very sorry to impor- tune you, for I know too well what it is to wait impatiently for a dinner, and know it to be equally as bad for a dinner to wait for you.” “ Both are very bad, but the latter is almost unpardonable to a real gourmet.” “ It may be, but observe, that by making a hungry stomach wait, you expose it to commit the greatest injustice ; because that ungrateful organ will make one believe that the minutes you are kept waiting before dinner are longer than the hours spent after.” “Your ai’gument is but too true, sir; and it. will prove to you at the same time, that there are immense difficulties to be surmounted in our very difficult and complicated profession, independent of the trouble and tedious work which must be carried safely through the greatest anxiety.” “Very true! very true! I wish you good afternoon; and before I leave London I shall do myself the pleasure of paying you another visit. Good day.” “I can assure you, sir, you will be most welcome. Oh, by the by, I am sorry to call you down stairs again, I will be with you in half a minute ; here it is,—I beg your acceptance of this small brochure, it is a receipt for the most recherche dish that ever was invented; it is extracted from my gastronomic work now in progress.” “Oh ! I am one of your subscribers ; when will it appear?” “Not before next season.” “That’s a long time.” “Yes, sir; but it is my intention to make an entire new work of it, and very different to any culinary work previously published. By that I do not mean to say it will be better, and perhaps not so good as many of them; but it will contain a large number of new receipts, written in a style which, I flatter myself, will tend very much to simplify the present system.” “Let me see this receipt, but I require my spectacles—here they are.— c La Crime de la Grande Bretagne, MacSdoine ; but it is French, I am sorry for that.” “ Why, sir ?” “ Because my cook is English, and it will be very difficult for him to make, as he understands so little of French.” t “ Oh, sir, if that is his only preventive, it would be a pity to deprive you of having it, so here is an English translation of it. You are welcome to both, sir. “ ‘ The Cream of Great Britain,5 oh ! thank you ! thank you ! I will read719 CULINARY INNOVATION. ! it at home, and then give it to him; but is it practicable at this season of the | ^ “ Quite as practicable at one season as another, for it is partly composed of flowers which bloom in all seasons.” «Indeed! then I will certainly have it made.” “ I depend upon your impartial judgment; be so kind as to let me know what you think of that unique composition.” “ I will, without fail, and do myself the pleasure of writing you a note upon that subject. Good afternoon.” “ Good afternoon, Sir.” It has been reported to us, that as soon as he got home, he comfortably set himself in his arm chair d la Douariere, and appeared reading with great surprise the receipt for THE CELESTIAL AND TERRESTRIAL CREAM OF GREAT BRITAIN. Procure, if possible, the antique Vase of the Roman Capitol; the Cup of Hebe; the Strength of Hercules; and the Power of Jupiter; Then proceed as follows: Have ready the chaste Vase (on the glittering rim of which three doves are resting in peace), and in it deposit a smile from the Duchess of Sutherland, from which Terrestrial Deesse it will be most graceful; then add a Lesson from the Duchess of Northumberland; the Happy Remembrance of Lady Byron; an Invitation from the Marchioness of Exeter ; a Walk in the Fairy Palace of the Duchess of Buckingham; an Honour of the Marchioness of Douro; a Sketch fron Lady Westmorland; Lady Chesterfield’s Conversation; the Deportment of the Mar- chioness of Aylesbury; the Affability of Lady Marcus Hill; some Romances of Mrs. Norton; A Mite of Gold from Miss Coutts; A Royal Dress from the Duchess of Buccleugh; a Re- ception from the Duchess of Leinster; a Fragment of the Works of Lady Blessington; a Ministerial Secret from Lady Peel; a Gift from the Duchess of Bedford; an Interview with Madame de Bunsen; a Diplomatic Reminiscence from the Marchioness of Clanricarde; an Autocratic Thought from the Baroness Brunow; a Reflection from Lady John Russell; an Amiable Word from Lady Wilton; the Protection of the Countess de St. Aulaire; a Seraphic Strain from Lady Essex; a Poetical Gift of the Baroness de la Calabrala; a Welcome from Lady Alice Peel; the Sylph- like Form of the Marchioness of Abercorn; a Soiree of the Duchess of Beaufort; a Reverence of the Viscountess Jocelyn; and the Goodwill of Lady Palmerston. Season with the Piquante Observation of the Marchioness of720 CULINARY INNOVATION. Londonderry; the Stately Mien of the Countess of Jersey • the Tresor of the Baroness Rothchild; the Noble Devotion of Lady Sale; the Knowledge of the Bine Aids of the Marchioness of Lansdowne; the Charity of the Lady De Grey: a Criticism from the Viscountess of Melville with a Musical Accompaniment from the whole; and Portraits of all these Ladies taken from the Book of Celebrated Beauties. Amalgamate scientifically; and should you find this Appareil (which is without a parallel,) does not mix well, do not regard the expense for the completion of a dish worthy of the Gods” Endeavour to procure, no matter at what price, a Virtuous Maxim from the Book of Education of Her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent; a Kiss from the Infant Princess Alice; an Innocent Trick of the Princess Royal; a Benevolent Visit from the Duchess of Gloucester; a Maternal Sentiment of Her Royal Highness the Duchess of Cambridge; a Compliment from the Princess Augusta de Mecklenbourg; the future Hopes of the Young Princess Mary; And the Munificence of Her Majesty Queen Adelaide. Cover the Vase with the Reign of Her Most Gracious Majesty, and let it simmer for half a century, or more, if possible, over a Fire of Immortal Roses. Then uncover, with the greatest care and precision, this Mys- terious Vase; garnish the top with the Aurora of a Spring Morning; several Rays of the Sun of France; the Serenity of an Italian Sky; and the Universal Appreciation of the Peace of Europe. Add a few Beams of the Aurora Borealis; sprinkle over with the Virgin Snow of Mont Blanc; glaze with an Eruption of Mount Vesuvius; cause the Star of the Shepherd to dart over it; and remove, as quickly as possible, this chef-d'oeuvre of the n ne- teenth century from the Volcanic District. Then fill Iiebe’s Enchanted Cup with a religious Balm, nd with it surround this mighty Cream of Immortality. Terminate with the Silvery Light of the Pale Queen of Night, without disturbing a Ray of the Brilliancy of the brightest Queen of the Day. Note. “We are authorised by the Author to inform his readers, that even up to tins moment of finishing the printing, no answer lias been received from the Gourmet bciore mentioned, stating his opinions with regard to the Cream of Great Britain, on account, as we have been informed, of his cook not having as yet been able to complete the Dish.—J. E. AdlnrdThe above cut represents the "Dindonneau a la Nelson," (see p. 510 ) ■' Poulardes cn Diademe " (see p. 516.)Galantine a la Voliere, (No 1012.) Salads de Grouse a la Soyer, (No, 1038)Mayonaise de Horoard, (No. 1045.)Croustade for the Turkey a la Nelson. (No. 510,) Croustade for Filet da Wa la Jeanne d'Arc, Croustade for the Poularde (No 515.) s en DiademeLucile Grata and Ceritta Sultane Svlphe a la Mile de l’Orage, (No 1315) Garnish with a Silver Terpsichorean Attelette^ Gateau Britannique a l'Amiral, (No. 1298.)Attelettes. The above attelettes are quite new, the four large ones being used for flancs or removes, and garnished as represented in the plate containing the croustades J “ay * 80 be garmslled witk vegetables turned of a good shape, and lightly stewed The one representing a dolphin is used to garnish dressed fish but must always be fixed upon a croustade, either at the head or in the centre of the d^, but not so as to interfere with the carving. Tim one represent a sheli, as well as the last mentioned, are also used for any kind of JguiUettefcor lors d oeuvres (page 161); the four smaller ones are to be lightly garnished with fresh fruits, and fixed upon the top of the jelly, the moulds7 for which are en died jely-moulds for attelettes; the heads of these last four smaller cdlt onttil madC S°ld’t0 C°rrespond weU with the richness of■ ■ • ' . ■ .TABLE OF CONTENTS. To render the Table of Contents more intelligible, the mere translation of all Comestibles and ingredient* have been introduced. The translation of proper names would be useless. FOUNDATION SAUCES. PAGE Brown sauce - - . ] Espagnole sauce - 2 Brown sauce from all sorts of meat - 4 For thickening brown sauce without making a roux - - - 5 Veloule - - - * ib. Veloute, a plainer way - .7 White sauce, or bechamel - - ib. Sauce Allemande (or German sauce blanche - - . - 8 Demi-glace 9 THIN SAUCES, Sauce au jus d’Estragon (tarragon) - ib. Jsu d’Estragon clair (clear) - 10 Sauce au jus de Tomates - . ib. au jus de Champignons (mush- rooms) . . jb. demi-provenyale - - 11 au jus Piquant (sharp) - ib. d’Echalotte - . ib. d’Orange - . jb. de B igarades (bitter oranges) 12 Jus lid demi Currie - . jb, aux Concombres (cucumbers) - ib.' Truffles - . J3 Anchois (anchovy) - ib. fines Herbes - - jb. petits Navets (turnips) - 14 Olives - . - ib. sauces. Sauce aux fines Herbes - . ib. piquante (sharp) . 15 Robert - - . - ib. Robert demi-provenyale - ib. a l’ltalienne - . - 10 a l’ltallenne (white) - ib. poivrode - . - ib. poivrade demi-provenyale - 17 a la Bateliere - - - ib. a la Reforme - - ib. au jus de Groseilles (currant jelly) 18 Sauce aux Tomates - - ib. a la Tartare - - - 19 Papillote Sauce - - ib. Sauce a la Diable - - - 20 Corinthien - - - ib. Provenyale chaude - - 21 a la Maitre d>H6tel - - ib. a la Ravigote - - - ib. a l’lndienne - - - ib. Curry Sauce - - - - 22 Sauce Soubise ... jb. Soubise (brown) a la Milanaise a la Financiere - aux Truftes aux Champignons (mushrooms) - a la puree de Truffes a la puree de Champignons (mush- rooms) - Perigueux Bechamel a la Creme - au Supreme Veloute de Gibier (game) Sauce a la puree de Gibier (ditto) au fumde de Gibier (ditto) Demi-glace de Gibier (ditto) Sauce matelote - Genevoise - a la Beyrout - a 1’essence de Poissons (of fish) a la Hollandaise (Dutch'' Caper Sauce , ' Lobster Sauce Oyster Sauce another method a plainer method Muscle Sauce- Melted Butter - Anchovy Suuce Shrimp Sauce Demi Maitre d’Hotel Sauce - Fennel Sauce - Egg Sauce Lobster Butter Anchovy Butter - Maitre d’Hotel Butter Ravigote Butter - 23 ib. ib. 24 ib. ib. 25 ib. ib. 20 ib 27 ib. ib. 28 ib. ib. 29 ib. 30 ib. ib. 13 ib. ib. ib. 32 ib. ib. 32 ih O ib. ib. iU 4b2 TABLE OF CONTENTS. PAGE SAUCES AND GARNITUIIE8 OF VEGETABLES. Purde de Choax de Bruxelles (Brussell sprouts) - - - 34 Sauce aux Choux de Bruxelles - ib. Haricots verts (French beans) 35 Petit Pois a l’Anglaise (peas) - ib. Petits Pois an Lard (ditto) - - ib. Puree de Pois vert (ditto) - ib. A la Palestine (of artichokes) - 36 Palestine a la Bourgeoise - - ib. Palestine au maigre - - - ib. Puree d’Artichauts (artichokes) - 37 Puree a la Palestine maigre - - ib. Navets Vierges (turnips) - - ib. Ragout de Navets a brun (ditto) - 38 Puree de Navets a blanc (ditto) - ib. Puree Navets a brun (ditto) - 38 Sauce aux Chouxfleurs (cauliflower) 39 Puree de Chouxfleurs (ditto) - - ib. Macedoine de Legumes (vegetables) ib. (brown) - - 40 Jardiniere (vegetables) - ib. Pointes d’Asperges en petits-pois - 41 Puree d’Asperges (sprue grass) - ib. Concomhres a blanc (cucumbers) - ib. Concom ores a brun - - - 42 Pure'e ue Concombres - ib Epinard au Jus (spinach) - - 43 Blanched Mushrooms - - ib. Puree d’Oseille (sorrel) - - 44 Ragout aux jeunes Racines (young ve- getables - - ib. de petits Oignons (onions) - ib. de petits Oignons a blanc - 45 Garniture de fond d’Artichauts - ib. de Haricots lilancs nouveaux ib. Gros Oignons farcis (beans) - - 46 Stewed Cabbage Lettuce - - ib. Chou braise and Choucroute - - ib. Stewed Celery for Garniture and Celery Sauce 47 Chouxfleurs for garnitures (cauliflowers) ib. Chicoree, or Endive Sauce - - 48 Appendix to the Sauces. Forcemeat of Veal ... 48 Forcemeat of Rabbits - - - 49 Fowl - - ib. Game - - - 50 Whitings - - ib. Panada for Forcemeats - - ib. Forcemeat of Cod’s Liver - - ib. Veul Stuffing - - - - 51 To prepare Cockscombs - - ib. To boil Rice - . - - ib. To blanch Macaroni - - 52 Croquettes de Pommes de Terre (pota- toes) - . - - ib. Glaze ib. POT AGES on SOUPS. 53 ib. 55 56 57 ib. 58 59 60 61 ib. 62 ib. 63 ib. ib. i Clear light Broth, or first Stock Consomrnd, or clear Soup - Brown Gravy ... Potage a la Victoria Louis Philippe Prince of Wales Comte de Paris Princesse Royale Saxe Cobourg Comtesse Gresham - Colbert Clermont - Macedoine de Legumes a la Jardiniere Julienne aux petits Navets a brun (turnips) 64 a la Printaniere - - ib. Jerusalem - - 65 Marcus Hill - - ib. aux pointes d'Asperges et CEufs pochds (asparagus and poached eggs) 66 a la Brunoise Nivernaise ... Palestine - - puree de Navets (turnips) puree d’Asperges (asparagus) - Crecy ... purde de Choufleur (cauliflower) puree de Concombres (cucumbers) purde de Pois verts (peas) Clear Giblet Soup - - - Potage aux Queues de Bceuf (clair) (ox tails) aux Queues d’Agueau (lambs’ tails) aux Queues de Veau (clair) (calf’s tail) a la Duchesse - - - Clear Grouse Soup Partridge Soup - Pheasant Soup Woodcock Soup Hare Soup - Potage clair a la Poissoniere (fish soup) Grouse Soup ... Pheasant Soup ... Partridge Soup ... Hare Soup .... Puree of all kinds of Game, mixed or separate ... Giblet Soup - Potage a la Reine - - - a la Regenie . Soup Mulligutawny Potage Queues de Veau k blanc (calves’ tails) - Queues de Veau a lTndienne TdtedeVeau a lTndienne (calf's head) ib. 67 ib. ib. 68 ib. 69 ib 70 ib. - 71 ib. ib 73 ib. ib. ib. 74 ib. 75 78 ib. ib. 77 ib. 78 ib. ib. 79 ib. SO3 TABLE OF CONTENTS. PAGE Potage Queues de Bcpuf a l’Tndienne (ox tails) - - - 80 Queues de Boeuf a l’Anglaise ib. aux Huitres (oysters) - 81 aux Filets de Soles (soles) ib. a la Poissonniere - - 82 d’Anguille (eels) - - ib. de 11 omard (lobster) - 83 a la Chanoinaise - - ib. Pkte d’ltalie - - 84 au Vermicelle - - ib. a la Semoule (semoulina) - ib. au Riz (rice) - - ib. au Macaroni - - 85 au Macaroni en rubans - ib. Turtle Soup - - - - ib. Clear Turtle Soup - - - 87 Mock Turtle Soup - - - 88 Method of cleaning Salt-water Fish. Turbot ... 90 Brill - - ib. John Dory ib. Cod-fish ... - ib. Whitings 91 Haddocks ... - ib. Salmon ... 91 Soles ... - ib. Mackerel 92 Red Mullets - ib. Gurnets ... - ib. Herrings ... - ib. Smelts ... ib. Method of cleaning Fresh-ivaler Fish. Carp ... Pike .... Trout ... Tench .... Perch ... Eels - Lampreys ... ib. 93 ib. ib. 94 ib. ib. POISSONS (fish). Turbot, to boil a la Creme (cream) sauce Homard (lobster) a la Hollandaise - Mazarine en Matelote Normande - en Matelote vierge a la Rdligieuse Creme (gratind) Poissonniere - . ,0- c „ Crdme d’Anchois (anchovy) 100 Small Turbot a la Meunidre - ib. Turbot au gratin h la Provencule - lol Brill au naturel . . jj, 95 ib. 90 ib. ib. 9T 98 ib. 99 ib. Brill a la puree de CSlpres (capers) a la I-lollanduise aux Capres (capers) a la Meuniere sauce Homard (lobster) a la Billingsgate au gratin ... a la Creme d’Anchois (anchovy) Filets de Brill a la Juive en Matelote John Dorde - a l’Orleannaise en Matelote Mariniere a la Cremiere en Ravigote a la puree de Crevettes (shrimps) Bateliere Creme (gratind) Hollandaise - Saumon (plain salmon) au naturel Crimped Salmon au naturel Saumon en Matelote Mariniere a la Mazarine Hollandaise - Cardinal a 1’Amiral en Matelote Saxone. - a la Beyrout a la Pecheuse a l’Ecailldre a la Creme d’Anchois au gratin a la Proven9ale a la Creme (gratind) - Sole en Matelote Normande au gratin a la Poltaise a la Hollandaise aux fines Herbes a la Maitre d’Hdtel a l’ltalienne - Soles plain fried ... Sole a, la Colbert - . . Meuniere ... Creme d’Anchois Filets de Soles en Matelote - au gratin - a lu Maitre d’H6tel Hollandaise Italienne - en Ravigote a l’Orlie a. la Reforme r„lfl aux Huitres (oysters) . Cod-fish au naturel . m Cabillaud aux Huitres (oysters) ' . it la Bechamel . Colldgienne Noble Dame Stewed Cod a l’Ecossaise Cabillaud entier r\ la Bourgeoise - a la Rachel - Slices of Cod k la Montefioro PAGE 101 102 ib. ib. ib. ib. 103 ib. ib. 104 ib. ib. 105 ib. 106 ib. ib. • 107 ib. ■ ib. ib. 108 ib. ib. ib. ib. 109 ib. ib. 110 ib. 111 ib. ib. ib. 112 113 ib. ib. ib. 114 ib. 115 ib. ib. ib. 116 ib. ib. 117 ib. ib. 118 ib. 119 ib. ib. ib. 120 ib. ib. 121 ib.TABLE OE CONTENTS 4 Cabillaud a la Creme (gratine) PAGE - 121 Provenyale ib. J uive - - ib. Hollandaise 122 Salt Fish - ib. Salt Cod a la Maitre d’H6tel ib. Salt Fish a la Bourgmestre - ib. Red Mullets a l’ltalienne 123 ala Vdnitienne - - ib. Ravigote ib. Fillets of Mullets a la Montesquieu - 124 a l’ltalienne ib. Venitienne - ib. sauce Ravigote ib. a la Mazarine - ib. Whitings, to fry them 125 Whiting au gratin - ib. Whitings broiled - ib. a la Maitre d’Hotel - ib. Fillets of Whitings fried - 126 a la Hollandaise - ib. a l’ltalienne ib. Whiting a l’Huile (oil) - ib. Mackerel ... ib. a la Maitre d’Hotel - 127 Fillets of Mackerel a la Dumas ib. Mackerel au beurre noir (black butter) ib. Fillets of Mackerel a la Venitienne 128 Dublin Bay Haddock a la bonne Femme ib. Dublin Bay Haddock, baked - 129 Common Haddock, plain - ib. Haddock a la Maitre d’Hotel ib. Walter Scott 1 to 0 Fillets of Haddock a la St. Paul ib. Hollandaise - ib. Gurnets and Pipers ib. Roast Gurnet ... - 131 Fillets of Gurnets en matelote ib. a la Maitre d’Hbtel ib. a l’ltalienne - ib. Herrings broiled, sauce Digon 132 plain boiled - - ib. Boiled Herrings a la Creme ib. Skate plain boiled - ib. au beurre noir (black butter) 133 a la Maitre d’Hotel - ib. Smelts, to fry them ib. a la J uive - 134 Boulangere - ib. Atelettes d’Eperlans it la Menagere - ib. Buisson d’Eperlans (smelts) ib. Flounders, water souchet - 135 a la Greenwich ib. plain fried - ib. broiled ib. Plaice ... - ib. Whitebuit ... 136 Sturgeon ... - ib. a la Chanceliere ib. Shell Fish. Lobsters ... - 137 PAGE Crabs - - . - J38 Muscles - - - - ib. Oysters - 139* Fresh-water Fish. Pike roasted - - - ib. a la Chambord - - - ib. Pike en matelote - - - 141 a la Hollandaise - - - ib. Small Pike a la Meuniere - ib. Pike with caper sauce - - ib. a la Maitre d’Hotel - - ib. a l’Egyptienne - - 142 Fillets of Pike a la Maitre d’Hotel ib. en matelote - - ib. a la Meunidre - 143 Carpe en matelote - - - ib. a la Genoise - - ib. Stewed Carp a la Marquise - - 144 Carp with caper sauce - - ib. Carp fried - - - - ib. Tench en matelote - - ib. ? la Beyrout - 145 Poulette - - ib. sauce aux Moules (muscles) - ib. fried or broiled - - ib. Perch a la Hollandaise - - 148 Maitre d’Hotel - ib. Small Perches en water souchet - ib. frits au beurre (fried in butter) ib. Trout plain boiled - 147 Trout a la Maitre d’H6tel ib. Genoise - - ib. Baked Trout ib. Trout a la Beyrout - - ib. Fillets of Trout a la Mazarine J 48 Eels fried ... - ib. a la Tartare ib. Spitchcocked Eels - ib. Stewed Eels ib. Eels en matelote - 149 Lampreys . - - ib. Crawfish ... - ib. hors-d’ceuvres, or dishes to be handed ROUND THE TABLE. Petits Vol-au-Vents a la Moelle de Bceuf (beef marrow) - - 151 au laitnnce de Maquereau (mac- kerel) - - - 152 au foie de Raie (skate liver) A** aux Huitres (oysters) . - ib* de Homard (lobster) - 153 Petites Bouchees a la Moelle de Bceuf ib. au laitance de Maquereau - jj*» au foie de Raie - aux Huitres - - * de Homard - a la Reine - - * J®* puree de Volaille (of fowl) 1" de Gibier (of game) - • I55TABLE OF CONTENTS. 5 PAGE Petites Bouch6es a la purlfe de Gibier 155 Petits Pat£s a la Patissiere - - ib. aux Huitres a la Patissiere 156 de Homard a la Patissiere ib. of Shrimps or Prawns a la Patissiere - ib. Rissoles aux Huitres (oysters) - - ib. de Homard (lobster) - 157 of Shrimps - - - ib. de laituncesde Maquereaux(mac- kerel) - - - 158 de Gibier (of game) - ib. de Volaille (of fowl) - - 159 Croustade de Beurre (butter) - ib. a la Duke of York 160 Croquettes de Homard (lobster) - ib. Aiguillettes de Ris de Veau (sweetbread) 161 (escalopes) aux Huitres (oysters) ib. de Homard (lobster) 162 de filets de Sole - - ib. aux Huitres (oysters) - ib. de Homard (lobster) - 163 de Sole - - ib. de Volaille a la jolie fille ib. REMOVES. Croustades of Bread for removes - 164 To obtain, lard, and dress a Fillet of Beef ib. Fillet of Beef 4 la Jeanne d’Arc - 165 a la Beyrout - 166 au jus d’Orange - ib. au jus de Tomate - ib. a la Napolitaine - ib. Strasbourgienne - 167 Napolitaine - 168 Miianaise - - ib. Bohdmienne - 169 Romuine - - 170 Stewed Rump of Beef a la Flamande 171 aux Oignons glaces (onions) 172 a la Voltaire - . ib. Portugaise - - 173 Jeanne d’Arc - - 174 Beyrout - - - ib. Macedoine de legumes (of vegetables) - . ib. sauce piquante (sharp) - ib. sauce tomate - . - 175 Stewed Sirloin of Beef . . ib. a la Printaniere - ib. Ribs of Beef a la Jean Bart - 176 Ox Tongues - _ - 177 Loin ot Veal a la Cambaceres - ib. Macedoine de legumes (of vege- tables) - - - 178 puree de Celeri - - ib. Strasbourgienne - - ib. iilletoi Veal it la Princiere - 179 Versaillienne - 180 Palestine Artichokes ib. Jardiniere - ib. Potagere - - 181 PAGE Fillet of Veal aux petus pois (peas) ib. Neck of Veal a la pur4e de celeri - ib. Rouennaise - 182 Miianaise - - ib. Bruxellaise - ib. Breast of Veal - - - 183 aux pois fins a 1’Anglaise (peas) ib. a la puree de Cdleri - - 184 sauce tomate - - ib. Calf’s Head - - - ib. au naturel - - 185 Half a Calf’s Head ala Luxembourg 186 Tete de Veau en Tortue (calf’ head) 187 Calf’s Head a laPottinger - 188 in currie - - ib. Saddle of Mutton a la Bretonne - 189 au Laver - - - ib. a la Polonaise - - ib. Marseillaise - - 190 r6ti, braisd, ala Mirabeau (roast, braised) - - - 191 r6ti, braise, aux legumes glaces (vegetables) - - - ib. Haunch of Mutton - - ib. au jus de Groseilles (currant jelly) ib. a la Bretonne ... 192 Polonaise - - - ib. Bohdmienne - - - ib. aux legumes glaces (vegetables) 193 Leg of Mutton a la Bohemienne - ib. Bretonne - ib. au Laver - - ib. a la Provencale - ib. Gigot de Mouton de sept heures (seven hours) - - - - 193 Necks of Mutton a la Legumiere - 194 Bretonne - 195 Neck of Mutton a la Bohemienne 195 Prove n 9 ale - ib. Charte - ib. Breast of Mutton panee, grillee, sauce piquante - . - 196 Saddle of Lamb aux petits pois a la S6vigne ib. a l’lndienne - - ib. Demi Provenyale - 198 a la Mdnagere - jb. Haunch of Lamb . y.ijj Fore-quarter of Lamb a i’Hoteliere - ib. House Lamb aux pointes d’as- perges (sprue grass) - . jb. Ribs of Lamb a la Chanceliere - ib. Leg of Lamb a la St. John - . 200 aux pois (with peas) - ib. Boiled Leg of Lamb and Spinach - 201 a la Palestine ib. Roast Leg of Lamb ii la Jardiniere - ib. Shoulder of Lamb a la Bruxellaise ib." Polonaise - jb. Pork. Leg of Pork sauce Robert - . 202 11 la Piedmontaise - jb~6 TABLE OF CONTENTS. PAGE Loin of Pork a la Bourguignote - 203 Neck of Pork a la Remoulade, k l’lndi- enne - - 203 a la V6nitienne - jb. Roast Sucking Pig ... 204 Sucking Pig a la Savoyarde - jb. Turkey a la Nelson . . 205 Godard - . 206 Cbipolata - . 207 Small Turkey a la Duchesse - 208 Poulurde a PAmbassadrice - - ib. Poulardes en Diademe - . 210 a la Vicomtesse - - - 211 Jeanne d’Arc - - ib. Jeune Princesse - . 212 Financiere - . 213 Varsovienne - - - ib. aux legumes printaniers (spring vegetables) - . - 214 legumes verts (green ditto) 215 Petits Poulets a la Warenzorf - - ib. Perigord k bianc - - 216 .Macedoine de legumes - 217 a Plndieune - - ib. au jus d’estragon (tarragon ) 218 a la Marie Stuart - - jb. Petits Poussins a la Chanoinaise - ib. Petits Poulets a la Priutaniere (spring chickens) ... 219 Tartare - - ib. Marecbal - - 220 Goose a la Cbipolata - - ib. stuft'ed with cbesnuts - - ib. a la Portugaise - - 221 Ducklings aux olives - - - ib. au jus d’orange (orange-juice) ib. aux legumes printaniers (spring vegetables) - ib. a la Chartres - - ib. Haunch of Venison - - . ib. Doe Venison a la Corin- thienne - 223 Necks of Doe Venison a la Corinthienne 224 Necks of Venison a la Bokemienne - ib. Faisans a la Corsaire (pheasants) - ib. Garde Chasse - - 225 trufles a la Pidmontaise - 226 a l’Extravagante - - ib. Grouse a la Rob Roy - 228 Corsaire - . jb. Piemontaise - ib. Garde Chasse - - ib. Of Black Cocks and Gray Hens - 229 Ilare a la Macgregor - - jb. Levraut a la Coursiere (leveret) - ib. FLANC8. P diet of Beef piqud aux legumes prin- taniers (spring vegetables) - 230 Filet de Bceuf au jus de groseilles - 231 Pillet of Beef a la Bevrout - jb, Lungue de Bceuf a la Marquise (ox- tongue) - ib. pa or 232 ■ ib. 233 - ib. ib. 234 ib. Langue de Bceuf a la Prima Donna St. Aulaire Jardiniere ,lr Milanaise Westphalia Ham, small Loin of Veal a la Cambaferes . Cremiere Noix de Veau pique au J us (knuckle of veal) a la Potagere Palestine - aux legumes nouveaux (new vege- tables) a la puree de Champignons (mush- rooms) Prince Albert Neck of Veal a la St. Claire Calf s Head a la Constantine Neck of Mutton demi Proven^ale - a la Soubise - a l’Algerienne a la Portugaise Loin of Mutton en Carbonade Carbonade de Mouton a la Bourguinote Saddle ot Lamb a la Bonne Fermiere Shoulder of Lamb farci aux Truffles a la Financiere puree de pois vert (of green peas) Maitre d’Hotel Neck of Lamb aux legumes printaniers aux petits pois (with peas) a la Bruxellaise Douariere - Maitre d’Hotel - .... Petits Poussins a laMoskovite (chicken) ib. 244 215 ib. ib. 246 ib. 247 ib. 235 236 ib. ib. 237 ib. ib. 238 ib. 239 ib. 240 ib. 241 ib. 242 ib. ib. ib. ib. .43 ib. ib. Ecarlate - Palestine Venitienne Prince Albert - au jus d’Estragon (tarragon) a la Chevaliere Marengo - Ducklings aux petits pois au lard (with peas) au jus d’Grange Faisans a la Fontainbleau - a la purSe de Gibier (game) - trulles a la Piemontaise a l’Amiral - ib. 218 in. 249 ib. 250 Grouse - - - - ib. Chartreuse de Perdreaux (of partridges) ib. de Perdreaux ii l’lmperiai 251 de Perdreaux k la Moderne 252 Perdreaux a la Mecklenbourg - ib. puree de Gibier (of game) 253 truffles a la Perigord - ib. Levraut sauce poivrade (leveret) - ib- au jus de groseilles - - 25'- Lapereaux ii la Taverniere (rabbits) ib. Jardiniere - - 255 aux petits pois (peas). - ib. k la Villageoise - ib. Bourgmestre - 256 Anglaise - . ib.7 TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE Pittl cliaud d’Agneau (lamb) - 256 de Mouton a l’lrlandaise - 257 d’Escalopes de Filet de Boeuf ib. d’Escalopes de Veau et de Ris de Veau - - 258 de Volaille (fowl) - ib. Pigeonneaux - - 259 Lapereau (rice) - 260 Vol-au-vent - - - - ib. Casserole de Riz (rabbits) - ib. aux queues d’Agneau (lambs’tails) 261 queues de Veau (calves’ ditto) ib. pieds d’Agneau (lambs’ feet) ib. pieds de Mouton (sheep’s ditto) 262 a la Napolitaine - ib. Polonaise a la Koroski 263 a la Royale - - ib. Chevaliere - 264 ENTREES. Of Beef for Entries ... 266 Escalopes de Filet de Bceuf a la Reforme ib. Gotha - - 267 Portugaise - 268 Nemours - - ib. Ostende - 269 pique alaChasseur 270 Other Entries of Fillets of Beef - ib. Aiguillette de Langue de Boeuf en papil- lote (ox-tongue) - - 271 Turban de Langue de Boeuf a l’Ecarlate 272 Langue de Bceuf a la Jardiniere - ib Langue de Boeuf, sauce piquante 273 Queues de Boeuf aux navets au bran (turnips) - ib. a la Jardiniere - 274 Queues de Bceuf (ox-tails) sauce aux cornichons (gherkins) . - 274 Queues de Bceuf en Currie - ib. a la Sicilienne - 275 Marseillaise - ib. To prepare and dress Palates of Beef - ib. Palates de Bceuf a la Ravigote - 276 Atelettes de Palates de Bceuf - - 277 Palates de Boeuf a la Vivandiere - ib. Turban de Palate de Bceuf au gratia - 278 Vol-au-vent de Palates de Bceuf - ib. Palates de Bceuf en Papillote - - ib. 1 urban de Fete de Veau en Tortue (calf’s head) - - - 279 a la Maitre d’Hotel - - ib. Flollandaise - - 280 Poulette - . ib. Indienne - - - ib. Oreilles de Veau farci (calves’ ears) 281 en Marinade - ib. Langues de Veau aux Champignons (calves’ tongues with mushrooms) ib. Calves’ Brains - - - 282 Queues de Veau ala Ravigote (calves’ tails) - - - ib. a la Poulette - 283 PAGE Of Sweetbreads ... 283 Ris de Veau a la Santa Cruz (calf’s sweetbread) - - - ib. piqul a la Turque - 284 piqul a la Financiere - 285 piqul a la purle d’Asperges ib r6ti (roasted) - - ib. Caisse de Ris de Veau a la Ninon de 1’Enclos .... 286 Escalopes de Ris de Veau au supreme ib. aux pointes d’Asperges 287 a l’lndienne - ib. en caisses - - ib. Atelettes de Ris de Veau - - 288 Blanquette de Ris de Veau aux truffes ib. Vol-au-vent de Ris de Veau - 289 Of Tendrons de Veau (of veal) - ib. Tendrons de Veau a la Noble Dame ib. a la Dauphine - 290 Cotelettes de Veau piques aux petits pois (with peas) - - - ib. Cotelettes de Veau en Papillote - 291 a la Sans Fayon - ib. Noix de Veau for Entrees - - 292 Grenadins de Veau pique aux racines nouvelles (young vegetables) • ib. Of Veal Kidneys - - - ib. Veal Kidneys en Caisses - . 293 Boudin de Veau a la Legumiere - ib. a la Richelieu . 294 Of Mutton for Entrees - . ib Cotelettes de Mouton a la Reforme - ib. Vscomtesse - 295 Westphalienne 296 Provenyale - 297 Soubise - 298 Durcelle - ib. aux petites racines - . 299 sauce piquante (sharp) . jb. a la Jardiniere - . jb! aux champignons (mushroom.:) ib! aux navets au brun (turnips) - ib Cotelettes de Mouton it la Palestine 30C aux pointes d’asperges (aspara- gus points) . . ib. aux haricots verts (French beans) 301 petits pois (peas) - . jj, choufieurs (cauliflowers) . ib truffes ... a la Maintenon - . 302' sauce remoulade - jb! a la Financiere - . j|,! Maitre d’Holel - 303 Flollandaise - - ib nfr . . Paljee, grill! (crumbed, broiled) ib! Ol Cotelettes braised - ..., Cotelettes de Mouton braisees a la Mar- seillaise . . _ .. Carbonade of Mutton ... Poilrine de Mouton sauce piquante (breast ° of mutton) . v .. Rognonsde Mouton a la brochette (sheens’ kidneys - . * . ib8 TABLE OF CONTENTS. PAGE Rognons a la Tartare - - 300 de Mouton a la Vdnitienne - ib. sautes an vin da champagne ib. Pieds de Mouton ii la Poulette (sheep’s feet) .... 307 Pieds de Mouton a la puree d’oignons ib. Entries of Lamb. Pieds d’Agneau (lambs’ feet) - - ib. farcis (stuffed) - 308 en marinade - - ib. cartouche - ib. Oreilles d’Agneau a la Belle Fermiere (lambs’ ears) - 309 Oreilles d’Agneau a la Marquise - ib. Ravigote - 310 Maitre d’Hotel ib. en marinade - ib. farcis - - ib. Queues d’Agneau a la Cremiere (Jambs’ tails) - - - -311 Langue d’Agneau a la Persane - ib. Lambs’ Brains a l’lnnocent - - 312 Lamb’s Fry - - - ib. Ris d’Agneau aux petits pois (lamb’s sweetbread) - - - 313 Ris d’Agneau a la Cambayeres - ib. aux concombres (cucumbers) 314 a la Madone - - ib. Epigramme d’Agneau aux haricots verts (beans) - - - - 315 Epigramme d’Agneau aux petits pois (peas) ib. concombres 316 a 1’Ancienne - ib. Cotelettes d’Agneau aux petits pois ib. pointesd’asperges (asparagus tops) 317 haricots verts (beans) - - ib. aux racines glac6es - - ib. jeunesoignons (young onions) - 318 a la Palestine - - - ib. Vicomtesse - - - ib. pur6e de truffes - - 319 purdede champignons (mushrooms) ib. pure'e d’artichauts - - ib. farcis aux truffes - - 320 farcis aux champignons - ib. Blanquette d’Agneau (lamb) - 321 Croquettes d’Agneau - - ib. Entries of Pork. Cotelettes de Pore a l’Indienne ■. 322 sauce remoulade ib. a la Siamoise - ib. Bolognaise 323 Jeune France ib. Filets de Pore ii l’Hanovdrionne - 324 Escalopes de I’orc a In Lyonnaise - ib. Langue de Pore demi said (pig’s tongue) 325 Doc Venison, or Chevrcuil. Cotelettes de Ghevreuil ii la Bohdmienne 325 saute's sauce poivrade 320 Minced Chevreuil - _ 8 Of the Wild Boar - 327 Of Venison for Entries . . jb. Cotelettes de Venaison en demi-glace ib. aux olives - . 328 au jus de groseilles (cur- „ , . .. . rant jelly) - . ib. Flashed Venison - - - ib. Venison Pie ... 329 Entries of Poultry. Turkeys. Estomac de Dinde a la Turenne - 329 Jeune Comtesse 330 Escalopes de Dinde en blanquette ib. a la Belle Fermiere 331 Emince'e de Dinde a I’ltalienne - ib. Blanquette de Dinde au Jambon (ham) ib. Filets de Poulardes a l’Ambassadrice 332 Marie Stuart ib. Talma - 333 Russe - 334 Pierre le Grand 335 Dumas - 330 Blanc de Poularde aux concombres (cu- cumbers) . . . . ib. Cuisses de Poulardes a la Talleyrand de Perigord - 337 au Soleil - 338 a l’Ecaillere - ib. farcis aux petits legumes (vegetables) - 339 en fricassee a l’Hoteliere ib. a la Bayonnnise - 340 Entrees of Spring Chickens, Pullets, Fowls, &c. - - - ib. Filets de Volaille a la Sevignd (fowl) 341 Neva - . ib. sautd au Supreme 342 aux truffes - - ib. a la Bechamel 343 aux champignons (mushrooms) ib. a la Bechamel ib. Filets de Poulet a l’Ambassadrice - ib. a la Strasbourgienne - 344 Filets de Volaille a la Duchesse - ib. Epigramme de Filets de Volaille a la Josephine ... 345 Filets de Volaille aux concombres (cu- cumbers)- - - - ib Fricassee de Poulet a la Ckevaliere - ib Ancienne 347 Spring Chickens. Petits Poulets Printaniers sail tits aux truffes (spring chickens) - - ib. Poulet Printnnier braist? a la Financiere 348 Petits Poulets Printaniers sauce remou- lnde (ebaude) - - - ib9 TABLE OF CONTENTS. PAGE Poulet Printnnier grille nux champig- nons confits (pickled mushrooms) 349 Cuisses de Volaille truffes a la Pdrigord ib. a la Dino - - 350 braise aux concombres (cucumbers) - ib. braisd aux pois (peas) ib. en fricassee a l’An- cienne - - 351 a la Marengo - ib. Poulet k la Provenfale - - ib. Turban de Quenelles de Volaille ala Russe - 352 Quenelles de Volaille a l’Ecarlate ib. aux concombres - ib. en demi deuil 353 a la York Minster 354 Pair de France ib. Silene - ib. Boudins de Volaille a la Richelieu 355 Sully - ib. Croquettes de Volaille aux truffes 356 au Jambon (with ham) ib. Rissolettes de Volaille a la Pompadour 357 Filets de Canetons aux petits pois (ducklings with peas) - - 358 Filets de Canetons a la chicoree (with ib. endive) - - - - ib. Filets de Canetons a la macedoine de legumes (vegetables) - - ib. aujus d’Orange 359 farcis - - ib. Entries of Game. Hares. Filets de Lievre sauce Reforme (hare) - 360 pique sauce poivrade ib. a la Bourguignote ib. marine en demi- glace - 361 Escalopes de Lievre a la Chasseur ib. Cotelettes de Lievre a la Dauphine 362 Turban de Lievre a la Peronne - ib. Rabbits. Filets de Lapereau a la Valenciennes (rabbit)- - 363 Ecarlate •> ib. Turban de Lapereau a la Douariere 364 Epigramme de Filets de Lapereau - ib. Filets de Lapereau a la Musulmane 365 Cotelettes de Lapereau aux petites ra- tines ... - ib. Lapereau saute aux truffes - ib. a la Marengo 366 Rabbit Currie - - - ib. Fricassee de Lapereau - - ib. Filets de Faisans piques aux ldgumes (vegetables) Turban de Faisans en salmi Filets de Faisans a la Marquise Maintenon Turban de Quenelles de Faisans PAGE 368 ib. 369 ib. 370 CtTMI.SP . Grouse a la Commodore - - ib. Filets de Grouse a la Paoli - - 371 Chanceliere ib. Salmi de Grouse aux truffes - 372 Grouse a la Ailsa - - - ib. Turban de Quenelles de Grouse a la Moderne - - - 373 Partridges. Perdreaux a la Silene (partridges) - ib. grilles a la puree de Gibier 374 aux choux (cabbage) - ib. Chartreuses de Perdreaux - - ib. Filets de Perdreaux aux petits ldgumes 375 a la Florentine ib. Cotelettes de Perdreaux a la Bacchante ib. Douariere 376 Due de Chartres ib. Epigramme de Perdreaux a l’essence de Gibier - - 377 aux Champignons (mushrooms) ib. Turban des Filets de Perdreaux a la Pdrigord - - - ib. Turban de Quenelles de Perdreaux a la Berri . . . ib. Wild Dticks. Filets de Canetons Sauvages a l’essence (wild ducklings) - 378 Syrienne - ib. aujus d’Orange - 379 au fumde de Gibier ib. Salmi de Canetons Sauvages aux truffes ib. Filets de Canetons Sauvages a la puree de Grouse - - - ib. Teal. Turban de Filets de Sarcelles a la Mo- derne - 38Q Turban de Sarcelles a la Toulouse ib. Sarcelles nu jus d’Orange (teal) - ib. a la Buteliere - - 381 macedoine de legumes ib. puree de champignons (mushrooms) - ib. Pheasants. Faisans au veloutd de Gibier (pheasants) 367 a la purde de Gibier - ib. Filets de Faisans a la Comte de Brabant 368 Woodcocks. Filets de Becasses a la Lucullns - 382 Talleyrand Hr. Imperial . 38310 TABLE OE CONTENTS. paob Turban do Becasses aux champignons 383 Salmi de Becasses (woodcocks) - ib. a la Joinvillo - ib. Entrde de Bdcasses a la Comtesse 384 Brasses a la P6rigord - . jb, a 1’essence - 355 a la Financidre - - jb, puree - - - ib. Snipes or Bocassines - - jb. Plovers. Plovers - - . jb Filets de Pluviers a la Marie Antoinette ib! aux trades - . 353 champignons (mushrooms) ib. Filets de Pluviers a la Regence - lb. Piite chaud des Pluviers - . 387 Quails. Quails .... jb> Cailles en macddoine de legumes aux l'euilles de vignes (vine leaves) - ib. aux petits pois (peas) - 388 1 urban des Cailles a la Financiere - ib. aux concombres ib. a la puree de trades 389 Quails for Vol-au-vents, or P&te chaud ib. Pigeons. Cofelettes des Pigeonneaux a la Pari- sienne (pigeons) - - ib. a la Financiere ib. aux pois verts - ib. a la Suliman 390 Larks. 1 urban of Larks a la Parisienne - ib. aux fine herbes - 391 aux quenelles - ib. Pflle chaud de Mauviettes (larks) - ib. gratmes - ib. v ol-au-vent de Mauviettes - 392 OF THE ROASTS FOR SECONO. COURSE. Roast Turkey au cresson (watercress) 395 '1 urkey Barded ... 333 Larded - . - ib. Dindonneau trade a la Pdrigord (turkey) ib! farci - . jb_ Roast Turkey a PAnglaise - ib' Turkey Poults - . . jh‘ Cliapon r6ti au cresson (with watercress) 398 l oularde a la DemidolT rfili a la Stael Poulet rfiti (roasted) Spring Chickens - h la Forrester Geese ... - ib. 399 ib. ib. ib. 400 Ducklings Canetons au vin de Madere Becasses a la Perigord au jus (i’orange d’echulote Guinea Fowls- Pea Fowls - Pigeons ... Quails - Cailles a l’Eloise Pheasants . Faisans a la Galitzine - Grouse - a la Bonny Lassie Ptarmigans Ptarmigan a la Charles the Twelfth Black Cocks and Gray Hens Partridges ... Dun Birds ... Wild Ducks and Pintails a la Chasseur Widgeons Teal.... au jus d’orange Plovers ... Of the Woodcock Woodcocks a la Stael fumee de Gibier Piedmontaise Larks ... Snipes .... Hares Leverets - Rabbits - PA OE - 400 ib. - ib. - 401 ib. - ib. ib. - 402 ib. - ib. 403 - ib. 403 - ih. 404 - ib. 405 - ib. ib. - ib. 406 ib. ib. 407 ib. ib. 408 ib. ib. ib. 409 ib. ib. ib. SAVOURY DrSHES FOR SECOND COURSE. The Boar’s Head - - -4)0 Of the Boar’s Head a l’Antique - 4 11 Ribs of Beef a la George the Fourth 413 Bolingbroke - 415 froid a la Bohemienne ib. Filets de Boeuf farcis a la Dr. Johnson 416 Cold Ox Tongues - - .4)7 Tongue a la Lancret - - 41s Printaniere - - ib. Comedienne - - ib. Cold Ham - - - - 419 Fillet of Veal a la Pontoise - jb. Cardinule - - 420 Loin of Veal au Jambon - - ib. Datne Blanche - 421 Galantine de Veau au Jambon - ih. Pftt6 de Veau au Jambon - - 422 Cotelettes de Veau a la St. Garat - 423 Princesse 424 Ris de Veau a la Chinoise - - ib. Cotelettes de Mouton braise atix navels 425 Turban de Cotelettes de Mouton a la Fermiere - - - - ih Carbonade de Mouton - . 425 Ballottins d’Agneau a la de Bazan - 426 a la Catalanaise - - ib.TABLE OE CONTENTS. li PAGE Cotetettes d’Agneau a la Gelee - 427 froid a la Princesse ib. Galantine de Dinde - - ib. anx foies gras - 428 a la Voliere - ib. Patd de Dinde au bianc de Volaille - 429 Galantine de Poularde a la Persane 430 Piite de Volaille aux Truffes - -431 Poulardes a la Mazagran - - ib. Banquiere - - 432 Poulets Printaniers a la Santa Cruz (spring chickens) 433 a la Princesse Royale (ditto) ib. Poularde a la Guillaume Tell (capon) ib. Cbaud froid de Poularde - - 434 a la Pembroke 435 en mayonnaise - ib. Filets de Poulardes a la Nesselrode ib. Ravigote - 430 Petits Canetons en aspic (duckling) ib. Salade de Volaille (fowl) - -437 Salade de Filets de Poularde ala Brunow ib. Poulets Printaniers a la Masaniello (spring chickens) - - 438 Moule d’Aspic a la Royale (mould) ib. Galantine de Faisan aux Trulies (phea- sants) - - 439 Faisans a la Voliere - ib. Patti de Faisans aux Trufl'es - ib. Filets de Faisans a la Prince George - 440 Chaud froid de Filets de Faisans - ib. Grouse - - - . 44] Galantine de Grouse a la Montagnard ib. Salade de Grouse a la Soyer - - ib. Perdreaux a la Downshire (partridges) 442 Galantine de Perdreaux a la Voliere (partridges) - . - 443 Pa td de Perdreaux (ditto) - ib. Bdcusses a la d’Orleans (woodcocks) - ib. Pate froid de Mauviettes (cold) - 444 Salade de Homard a ITndienne - 445 Mayonnaise de Homard a la gelee ib. Miroton de Homard a la Curdinale (lobster) - - - ib. Homard en Aspic (ditto) - - 440 Homard au gratin (ditto) - - ib. Crabs - 447 Coquilles aux Huitres (oysters) - ib. Salade de Filets de Soles - - ib. Filets de Soles aux Concombres - 418 1 ruites marinees en mayonnaise (trout) ib. Dame de Saurnon marinee (slice of salmon) ... jb. Galantine d’Anguille (eels) - - 449 VEGETABLES FOR SECOND COURSE. Asparagus - . - 459 Asperges en petits jiois (ditto with peas) ib. Sea-Kale - . . - 451 Celeri a la Mobile de Boeuf (marrow) ib. Celeri a la Cketwynd - . 452 Salsifis a la Poulette - - ' - ib. PAGE Salsifis a la Mobile de Bceuf (marrow) 453 Fried Salsilis - - - ib. Concombres farcis en demi-glace - ib. a la creme - 454 Croustnde aux Concombres - - ib. Vegetable Marrow - - ib. Jerusalem Artichokes - - 455 Cauliflowers and Brocoli - - ib. Choufleurs au Parmesan (cauliflowers) 456 Artichokes - - ib. a la Barigoule - - 457 Artichauts a la Bordelaise - ib. a l’ltalienne - - 458 au Veloute - - ib. a la Bruxellaise - - 459 Peas ib. au sucre Anglo-Franyais -400 a la Franpaise - ib. French Beans - - - - 401 sautes au beurre (butter) ib. aux lines herbes - ib a la Poulette - - ib. Brussels Sprouts sautes au beurre - 402 a la Maitre d Hotel ib a la Creme en turban de Concombres - ib. Spinach - - - - 403 au jus - - - io a la Francaise - - jb. au sucre (sugar) - . 434 Endive au jus - - - ib. Sorrel - - - - - ib. Laitues braisee alaPensionnaire (lettuces) 405 farcis - - - ib. Feves de Marais (Windsor beans) - 4b0 White Haricots (beans) - - jb. Haricots blancs a la Bretonne - 407 a la Maitre d’H6tet ib. Tomates au gratin - . - ib. a la Pierr.ontaise - . 4^8 Mushrooms plain broiled - _ j|,. farcis - jb. Croute aux champignons - . jj,. Young Carrots in their glaze - 439 Young Turnips in their"glaze - - jb. Oignons Printaniers au Sirop doree (spring onions) - . jb. Macddoine de Legumes Printaniers (spring vegetables) Pommes de Terre a la Maitre d’Hotel (j)o(atoes) sautees au beurre a la Lyonnnaise I.entilles - a la Comte an riz (rice) - Truffles - Trulies au vin de Champ igne Croute aux Trufl'es - Trufl'es en croustnde a lTtalienne - demi Pi6montai.se a la Dino - Omelette aux fines herbes uu Jumbon (li.uu) - ib. 470 ib. ib. 471 ib. 472 ib. 473 ib. ib. 474 ib. ib12 TABLE of contents. PAGE Omelette aux Trufres - 475 nux Champignons (mushrooms) ib. aux Olives - - ib. a la Jardiniere - - ib. aux Huitres (oysters) - ib. aux filets de Soles - - 47(5 aux Moules (muscles) - ib. de Homard (lobster) - ib. au Sucre (sugar) - ib. au Confiture (preserve) - ib. au Rhum - - 477 ENTREMETS. Observations upon Pastry - 478 Of different sorts of Paste - - ib. Puff Paste - 479 with Beef Suet - - 480 Half Puff Paste - - - ib. Pate a dresser - - - 481 fine or Pate a foncer - - ib. d’Office or Confectioner’s Paste 482 d’Amande (almond) - - ib. Pastillage or Gum Paste - • 483 Vol-au-vents - ib. de Peches (peaches) - 484 d’Abricots - - 485 of Greengages - ib. de Cerises (cherries) - ib. de Poires (pears) - ib. de Pommes (apples) - 486 d’Oranges - - ib. Gateau de Millefeuille a la Moderne (cake) - - - - ib. Turban a la Creme aux Macarons amers 487 Puit de Fruit aux Blanches Couronnes (veil) - - ib. Gateau de Pithiviers (cake) - - 488 Tourte d’Entremet a la Creme - 489 Marmelade de Pommes (apples) ib. au Confiture (preserve) - - 490 Tartelettes pralinees aux Abricots ib. de Peches (peaches) - 491 aux Cerises (cherries) - ib. aux Groseilles vertes (green gooseberries) - - ib of Greengages - ib. aux Fraises (strawberries) ib. de Pommes (apples) - 492 de Poires (pears) - - ib. of Cranberries - - ib. d’Oranges - - 493 Faucbonettes a la Vanille - . ib Dauphines .... 494 Tartelettes it la Pompadour - ib. Mirlitons nux Fleurs d’Orange - ib. aux Amandes - . 495 uu Citron - . jb. Petits Vol-au-vents kin Chantilly (small) ib. nux Abricots - ib. a InGelee mousseuse 496 Petits Puits aux Pistachios ib. Gateau fourtf a la Creme - - ib. PAGE Gateau fourre an Confiture (preserve) 407 ou d’Artois, aux Pommes (apples) ib. Anglo-Fran9ais - - ib. Petits au Confiture (small) - 498 (round) Petits - - ib. Petits aux Amandes - - 499 Petits Meringue - - jb. Patisserie d’Amandes a la Condd - ib. Turban de Condd a la Rhubarbe - 500 Petits Gateaux d’Abricots - - ib. re n verses - - ib. Petites Bouchdes a la Patissiere - 501 Eventail aux Cerises (cherries) ib. Petits Gateaux a la Royale - - ib. A Flan of Puff' Paste - - 502 de Pommes a la Portugaise (apples) - - - ib. Poires (pears) - - 503 Flanc a la Creme pralinfe - - ib. Pate a Cboux ... 504 Petits Choux a la Creme - - ib. aux Amandes - - ib. a la Comtesse - 505 en Gimblettes - - ib. Petits Pains a la Cremiere - ib. Madeline au vin de Porto - . 506 Genoises - - - - ib. fourrees - - - ib. a l’Ornnge - - 507 aux Pistaches - - ib. Darioles - - - - ib. Biscatelles - 508 Gateaux a l’lndienne (cakes) - ib. Gauffres aux Pistaches - - ib. a l’Allemande - - 509 a la Van file - - - ib. Flamande - - ib. Casalesry - - 510 Red Nougat - ib. Small Cups of Nougat - - 511 Nougat d’Abricot (apricot) - ib. Chataignes Croquantes (crispchesnuts) 512 Amandes Croquantes - - ib. Meringues a la Cuilliere - - ib. Turban de Meringues - - 513 glac6 (iced) 514 Petits Meringues aux Pistaches - ib. Champignons en surprise - - ib. Biscuit manque aux Amandes - 515 au Rbum - - ib. Calf’s Foot Jelly - 516 GeRe de Dantzic aux Fraises (straw- berries) - - 518 Mnresquin aux Peches - ib. Noyeau nux Abricots -519 Macedoine aux Fruits de belle saison - - ib. Bordure de Poires en gelee (pears) - 520 GeRe nu Rbum - - . ib. Mousseuse k PEnu de Vie - ib. demie chnude froide marbr^e 521 fouettde aux Fruits - - ib. k l’Ananas - - ’b.13 TABLE OF CONTENTS. PAGE Orange J elly - in the skins of the oranges Gele'e de Fraises (strawberries) d’Abricots - a la Bacchante de Fleurs d’Orange au vin de Champagne - Pain de Fruit a la Russe - Creme a la Vanille - aux Pistaches a FAnanas (pine-apples) aux Amandes d’Orange - aux Fraises (strawberries) - d’Abricots - au Ponche (punch) au Maresquin - - - Noyeau - Cale - Caramel Bavaroise aux Fraises (strawberries) - Framboises (raspberries) Abricots Poires Pommes (apples) Pistaches a l’Ananas (pine-apples) Maresquin Ponche (punch) Charlotte Russe - Prussienne Russe en mosaique - Russe aux liqueurs aux Fraises (strawberries) - Gateaux aux Fruits de belle saison Charlotte de Pommes au Beurre a la Confiture (preserves) Chartreuse de Pommes (apples) Suedoise de Pommes (do.) Pain de Pommes a la Russe Croquettes de Pommes Pommes au Riz ... Poires au Riz (pears) - - - Abricots au Riz - Pommes au Riz en Timbale (apples) - a la Trianon Pommes Meringuees - a la Vestale au Beurre (butter) - Miroton de Pommes Beignets de Pommes - - - d’Oranges de Peches (peaches) - d’Abricots Croquettes de Riz (rice) Creme au Riz Macaroni Vermicelle - Creme Frite a la Pfitissiere Beignets Souffles a la Vanille Frangipane - Omelettes a la Celestine - Pannequets a la Confiture (preserve) 522 ib. 523 ib. ib. 524 ib. ib. 525 526 ib. ib. 527 ib. ib. 528 ib. ib. ib. 529 ib. ib. 530 ib. ib. 531 ib. ib. 532 ib. ib. 533 ib. ib. 534 535 ib. 536 ib. ib. 537 ib. 538 ib. ib. 539 ib. 540 ib. 541 ib. 542 ib. ib. 543 ib. ib. ib. 544 ib. 545 ib. REMOVES. SECOND COURSE. PAGE Gateau Britannique a l’Amiral - 548 Hure de Sauglier glace en surprise (boar’s bead) - 549 Cygne glace en surprise (swan) - 550 Jambon glace en surprise (bam) - 551 Gigot de rnouton bouilli glace en sur- prise (leg of mutton) - - 552 Selle de Mouton a la Jardiniere en surprise (saddle) - 553 Cotelettes de Mouton glace en surprise ib. Haunch of Lamb glace en surprise - 554 Shoulder of Lamb glace en surprise ib. Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Reforme en surprise aux Champignons (mush- rooms) - 555 Cbapon en surprise glacl aux Fruits - ib. Petits Poussins en surprise a la Suther- land .... 556 Dindonneau en surprise a la Gondoliere (turkey) ... 557 Peacock a la Louis Quatorze - 558 Faisans en surprise glace au Chocolat ib. Maniveau de Champignons glace en surprise - - - - 559 Turban de Conde glace a l’Ananas 560 Bombe demi glace a la Mogador - ib. Cerito’s Sultane Sylphe a la Fille de 1’Orage - - - - 561 Gateau glace a l’Eloise (cake) - ib. Biscuit Mousseux glacd, en caisses (in cases) - - - * ib. Souffle glace au Curayoa - 563 Pouding Souffle glace a la Mephisto- pheles - - . - ib. Brioche - 564 Baba ... 565 Brioche au Fromage - - 566 frite au vin de Madere - ib. Nougat aux Fraises (strawberries) 567 Croque en boucbe ... 568 Meringue Pagodatique a la Chinoise 569 a la Parisienne - -571 Nesselrode Pudding - . ib. Pouding de Cabinet glace - - 572 Glace Meringue au four - - ib. Plombiere - 573 Plombieres Mousseuses a l’Orange ib. Gateaux de Fruit a la Gelee d’Orange mousseuse (frothed) - - 574 Gateau Souffle a l’Essence de Ponche ib. Of large Souffles for Removes. Souffle a la Vanille ... 575 Fleur d’Orunge (orange-ilower) 576 au Cai'6 vierge (green coffee) - ib. a la Creme de Riz (ground rice) ib. nil Citron - . - ib. Souffle au Macaroni - . 573 Tapioca - . 577 Rhum - _ ib. Omelette Soufflee - . 57314 TABLE OF CONTENTS. PACK Omeibtte Soufflee a l’Antiquaire - 578 a la Creme - 579 Souffle au Gingembre (ginger) - ib. Cerises (cherries) - . jb. jus d’Orange et au Zeste pra- line (burnt orange-peel) ib. Biscuits Souffles a la Creme - 580 Fondue au Parmesan et Gruyere - ib. a la Napolitaine - - 581 Petites au Pate d’ltalie - ib. (simple method) - - ib. Petites (en caisses) au Stilton (in cases) - 582 Ramequins - jb, Petits Ramequins au feuilletage . ib* Diablotins au Gruyere - - 583 Croquettes de Macaroni au Fromage ib. APPENDIX. Aspic - - - - 585 Mayonnaise a la gelee - . 587 aux fines herbes ib. en Ravigote verte - ib. ordinaire - - 5g8 a la Provenyale - . 589 Montpelier Butter - . jb. Forcemeat for raised pies - . ib. of Liver for game pies - 590 SpoDge cake - - . - ib. Savoy Cake in mould - . 591 Biscuits - 592 To clarify Isinglass - . 592 Glace Royale or Iceing - . 593 Chocolate Iceing - . jb. Sugar in grains To colour Sugar in grains Vanilla Sugar Lemon Sugar ... To clarify and boil Sugar Sucre file (sugar threads) Ice Cream Vanilla Coilee Chocolate Pineapple Lemon Orange Apricot - Strawberry Marmalade Apple Apricot Quince Apricot (transparent) Cherry Strawberry Raspberry Jelly Apple - Quince - Currant and Raspberry Currant - To preserve Tomatas Table of the Wealthy. Service Pagodatique Bill of fare (diner pour dix personnes) Diner Lucullusian a la Sampayo Bill of fare (Reform Club) Dialogue Culmaire between Lord M— H— and A. Soyer Description of Kitchen of the Reform Club, with sectional and ground plan, and numerous apparatus - 613 PAGE - 593 ib. - 594 ib. - ib. 590 - 597 598 • ib. ib. • 599 ib. ib. 600 ib. 001 ib. ib. 602 rb. ib. 603 ib. ib. 604 ib. 606 607 608 609 - 611 END OF CONTENTS TO THE KITCHEN* OF THE WEALTHY.MY KITCHEN AT HOME TAGE My Table at Home. Prefatory Address - - - 631 Reference to Plan of My Kitchen at Home - - - - 632 Plan of My Kitchen at Home - 633 Reference to Plans of Bachelor’s and Cottage Kitchens - 634 Plan of the Bachelor’s Kitchen - 635 Cottage Kitchen - ib. Bill of Fare for Eight Persons - 636 PLAIN JOINTS. Of the Choosing and Roasting of Plain Joints .... 63T Sirloin of Beef ... 639 Ribs of Beef - - - - 640 Rump of Beef - - - ib. Baron of Beef - • - 64] Round of Beef - - - ib. Aitch-bone of Beef ... 643 Brisket of Beef - - - ib. a la Garrick - - ib. Haunch of Mutton - - ib. Soyer’s Saddle-back of Mutton - 644 Saddle of Mutton - - 645 Leg of Mutton - - - ib. Shoulder of Mutton - - ib. Loin of Mutton - - - ib. Neck of Mutton - - » ib. Boiled Leg of Mutton - . ib. Shoulder of Mutton - 646 Saddle-hack of Welsh Mutton - ib. Haunch do. - ib. Saddle do. - ib. Leg do. - ib. Loin do. - ib. Neck do. ib. Shoulder do. - ib. Lamb - ib. Fillet of Veal a. _ - 647 Loin of Veal - ib. Breast of Veal _ _ - ib. Shoalder of Veal 648 Neck of Veal _ _ - ib. Knuckle of Veal . ib. Leg of Pork - • - ib. Salt Pork - ib. MADE DISHES. French Pot-au-feu - - - 649 SOUPS. Julienne Soup ... 652 Mutton Broth ... 053 Irish Mutton Broth - - ib. A very simple receipt for the Scotch Cock-a-leeky - » - ib. I PAGB Ox-tail Soup - 653 Ox-cheek Soup - - 654 New Mock Turtle Soup - ib. Brown Mock Turtle Soup - - ib. Mulligatawny Soup - 655 Giblet Soup - - ib. Green Pea Soup - - ib. Winter Pea Soup - - ib. Puree of Vegetable Soup - 656 Maigre Soup - - ib. Onion Soup Maigre - ib. Vermicelli Soup - - ib. Macaroni Soup “ ib. FISH. Turbot _ - 656 Turbot, the new French fashion 657 a la Creme _ - ib. John Doree, Boulogne fashion ib. Salmon, Plain Boiled _ - ib. Sauce Matelote - _ ib. Cod Fish, Plain Boiled _ - ib. sauced over with Oyster Sauce ib. Haddocks - 658 Baked Haddocks _ - ib. Soles, Fried . ib. the Jewish fashion . - ib. Sole a la Meuniere . ib. aux Fines Herbes _ - ib. Fried Whiting . ib. Whiting au Gratin . - ib. Red Mullets . 659 Mackarel _ - ib. a la Maitre d’H6tel _ ib. Gurnets - ib. Boiled Gurnet 1 - _ ib. Herrings boiled with Cream Sauce - ib. Skate - ib. Flounders - - 660 FRESH-WATER PISH. Pike - Sauce Matelote Stewed Carp Carp, Sauce Matelote Truite a la Twickenham Burton Tench, Sauce Matelote with Anchovy Butter Perch fried in Butter Hampton Court fashion Eels, Fried Stewed Eels, Sauce Matelote Gudgeons Escaloped Oysters Stewed Oysters Gratin of Lobsters 660 - ib. ib. - ib. 661 - ib. ib. - ib. ib. - ib. 662 - ib. ib. - ib. ib.TABLE OF CONTENTS. 1C SIMPLE HORS-D CEUVIIES. Rissoles of Oysters Lamb - Rocambole, or Croquettes of Meat, Game, or Poultry - Lamb’s Fry ... REMOVES SIMPLIFIED. PAGE 663 il/. ib. 664 ib. ib. ib. 665 ib. ib. ib. 666 ib. ib. ib. 66T Stewed Rump of Beef with Onions - Stewed Rump Steak with Oyster Sauce Ribs of Beef a l’Hoteliere Beef a la Mode ... Another method ... Oi Tongue ... Loin of Veal with Stewed Celery White Sauce Dress Fillet of Veal for Remove Breasts and Necks of Veal Hall Calf’s Head with White Sauce in Currie a la Vinaigrette * broiled, Sauce Piquante ib. Large Veal Pie . . - ib. Saddle of Mutton a la Bretonne - ib. Leg of Mutton Basted with Devil’s Tears ib! the Housewife’s Method ib. Shoulder of Mutton, Savoyard’s Method 668 a la Polonaise ib Provenfale fashion ib. Saddle of Lamb, Berlin fashion Leg or Shoulder of Lamb with Peas . with French Beans Boiled Leg of Lamb with Spinach Neck of Lamb a la Jardiniere Lamb’s Head Broiled, with Mince Sauce or Sauce Piquante - . 1L)i Loin or Neck of Pork a laBourguinotte 670 T). , Normandy fashion ib. Pig’s Cheek, a New Method Sucking Pig Roast Turkey ... Braised Turkey Capons or Poulardes Fowls with Mushroom Sauce Spring Vegetables Braised Fricassee Sauce Roast Goose Ducks _ a l’Aubergiste (or Tavern-keeper’s fashion) . _ Simplified Entries ib. ib. ib. 669 ib. ib. ib. ib. 670 ib. 671 ib. ib. ib. ib. 672 ib. ib. SAUCES. Melted Butter . New and Economical Lobster Sauce Lobster Sauce a la CrGme _. , simplified Shrimp Sauce Anchovy Sauce Oyster Sauce another way 67.3 ib. ib. 674 ib. ib. ib. ib. Caper Sauce ... To chop Onions, Herbs, &c. . jj, J o make a Colouring or Browning from Sugar - . 075 ib. ib. ECONOMICAL MADE DISHES. Fillet of Beef A new Steak Fillet or Steak a la Maitre d’Hotel A new Mutton or Lamb Chop Veal Cutlets ... Pork Chops Pork or Veal Chops Fried Hashed Beef Remains of Salt Beef Ox Tails en Currie Ragout of Ox Tails Ox Cheeks Kidneys ... Calf’s Head - Brains and Tongue Veal Cutlets, the English Method Sweetbreads Calf’s Liver Stewed, French fashion Fried Minced Veal and Poached Eggs - Mutton Cutlets sautes saute's with Vegetables Irish Method Broiled Harricoed Ragout of Mutton en currie Mutton Currie Pork Cutlets sautes aux Cornichons Sauce demi Robert - Hashed Pork - Pig’s Liver ... Pig’s Kidneys - Black Puddings Excellent Sausage Cakes Pig’s Feet - ib. - 676 ib. - ib. 677 - ib. ib. - 678 ib. - ib. 679 ■ ib. ib. - 680 ib. ib. ■ 681 ib. ib. 682 • 683 ib. ib. ib. 684 ib. ib. ib. 685 ib. ib. ib. 686 ib. 6S7 ib. MADE DISHES FROM POULTRY. Blanquettes of Turkey - - ib. Boudins of Turkey - - 688 Turban of Croquettes - - ib. Minced and Grilled Turkey - - ib. Devilled Turkey - - - ib. Goose Hashed - - - ib. Stewed Duck and Peas - - ib. Duckling with Turnips - - 689 Fricassee of Fowl or Chicken - ib. with Mushrooms ib. Currie of Fowl, Oriental fashion - ib. Broiled Fowl - . - ib. Fowl Sauted in Oil ... 690 Fricassee of Rabbits - - ib. Gibelotte of Rabbits - - ib, Currie of Rabbit - . ib. Rabbit Pies ... 691 Pigeon Pies - - - ib. Pigeons in Compote - - ib, Stewed Pigeons with Peas - ih.TABLE OF CONTENTS. 17 PAGE GAME. Pheasants, Partridges, Grouse, Black Game, Woodcocks, etc. - - 001 Small Pheasants, the Miller’s Fashion 002 Pheasant with Cabbage - - ib. Hashed Pheasant - - ib. A plain Salmi of Pheasants - - ib. Grouse, Scotch Fashion - ib. Partridges a la Jardiniere - - 603 Partridges with Cabbage - ib. Partridges Sauted with Mushrooms ib. Woodcocks, Downshire Fashion - ib. a la Chasseur - ib. Hashed Woodcocks - . ib. Snipes a la Minute - . 604 ! Plovers with English Raw Truffles - ib. Wild Duck - - - ib. Hashed Wild Duck - . ib. Widgeons - . - ib. Teal, a New Method - - ib. Teal a la Sans Fafon - - 605 Larks a la Minute - - - ib. Lark Pie - - - ib. Jugged Hare - - - ib. Another and more simple Method ib. MEAT PIES AND PUDDINGS. Rump Steak Pie - ib. Mutton Pie 696 Lamb Pie ... ib. Beef Steak Pudding ib. SECOND COURSE, KITCHEN AT HOME. Salad of Cold Meat - 698 Lobster Salad ib. Fish Salads - 699 Potato Salad ib. Plain Salad a la Franjaise -• ib. Jelly of various kinds of Fruit 700 Orange Jelly - ib. Whipped Orange Jelly 701 Lemon Jelly PAGE - 701 Currant and Raspberry Jelly - ib. Strawberry Jelly - ib. JELLIES OF LIQUEURS AND SPIRITS. Maresquino Jelly - ib. Syrup of Almond, Iced a laVarsovienne, a substitute for Blancmange - 702 Pineapple Cream - ib. Prussian Cream - ib. BOHEMIAN JELLY CREAMS. Strawberry ... - ib. Apricot Bohemian Cream - ib. French Custard Cream - 703 Coffee Custard Cream . ib. Coffee Custard Cream, White - ib. Chocolate Custard Cream ib. Almond Custard Cream - 704 Cabinet Pudding - - ib. Bread Pudding - ib Ground Rice Pudding - ib. Rice Pudding - 705 Macaroni Pudding . ib. Gateau of Rice ib. Fruit Puddings _ ib. Pastry - - 706 Short Paste for Fruit Tarts m ib. Apricot Tarts - ib. Greengage Tart 707 Apple Tart - ib. French Fruit Tart ib. Plain Souffle Puddings - 708 Souffle Rice Pudding _ ib. Fruits Meringued - ib. Snow Eggs , 709 Plum Pudding - ib. Currant Pudding ib. Sweet Macaroons - 710 Bitter Macaroons, or Ratafias M ib. Mince Meat - - ib. Mince Pies - ib. MISCELLANEOUS. Description of the Composition of this Work Soyer’s New Mode of Carving ... Directions for Carving ..... Soyer’s Tendon Separator .... Directions for Larding ..... Meat, Poultry, &c. ..... Fish ....... Vegetables and Fruit .... How everything should be in Cooking ... Braised Roasted Turkey, Capon, or Fowl Amateur’s Receipts - Bouquet de Gibier, or Sporting Nosegay Number ol Stewpans and other Kitchen Utensils required, &c. Economical Mode of Making Coffee ... Monster Bill of Fare - New Pagodatique Entrde Dish ... The Celestial and Terrestrial Cream of Great Britain PAGE - xi xiv xv xx i xxv xxvi xxii ib. XXX xxvi ib. xxxii xxxiv 711 - 712 113 - 71918 SOYER/S SAUCE. DIRECTIONS FOR USE. For any kind of Cold Meat, Game, and Poultry.—Use it in moderation, as it is. For Mutton, Lamb, Pork, and Steaks.—When properly broiled and seasoned, pour one tablespoonful or more, according to the quantity of meat, which you turn over in the dish with a fork several times, then you will have a most exquisite gravy. Plain way for Hot Made-dishes.—In any sort of Hash it is a very great improvement.—For Made-dishes or Entr4es, put four tablespoon- fuls of Brown Sauce, six of Broth, and, when quite hot, add four table- spoonfuls of Soyer’s Sauce ; just boil it, and pour over your Entrees. For General Purposes.—Put eight tablespoonfuls of water into a stew- pan ; when boiling, add four ditto of the Sauce, half an ounce of fresh butter, mixed with a quarter of an ounce of flour; stir quick on the fire; add, if required, a little salt; boil one minute, and pour over your dish of meat, game, or poultry. SOYER’S SAUCES, one for Ladies and one for Gentlemen. Principal Agent—Messrs. CROSS & BLACKWELL, Soho Square and Manufactured at 33, Frith Street, Soho. LIST OF M. SOYER’S CULINARY PRODUCTIONS. THE MODERN HOUSEWIFE, or Menagere. Tenth Thousand. WTth Engravings. Price 7s. 6d. DELASSEMENTS CULINAIRES: containing La Fille de l’Orage—Le R4ve d’un Gourmet—Le Plat Pagodatique—and La Cr6me de la Grande Bretagne. Published by Jeffs, Burlington Arcade Price THE CREAM OF GREAT BRITAIN, in French and English. Published by Jeffs. Price Is. 6d. KITCHEN PLAN OF THE REFORM CLUB. Litho- graphed. Price 10s. _ , SOYER’S CPIARITABLE COOKERY; or the Poor Man s Regenerator. Price 6d. Captain White’s Curry Paste and Powders. Having used the above for a considerable time, I am quite satisfied that in the preparation of various dishes of Curry, none can be emp ove with better advantage, and of finer flavour. The severa! ingredieuts are so well proportioned, that Capt. White’s Curry Paste and Powder possess a delicacy of taste not always to be met with m India.—A. S. Sold at 33, Frith Street, Soiio Square.MADAME SOYER. INTRODUCTION TO HER PORTRAIT, AND BIOGRAPHY. A general, indeed almost universal, interest has been evinced for the loss of the late Madame Soyer, by reason of her celebrity as an artist, whose close adherence to nature procured for her in France (from her pictures which were exhibited in the Louvre in Paris) the famed name of the English Murillo. Her paintings evinced a great partiality for the same subject, and a like boldness of effect and sentiment were introduced in all her composi- tions, though never having copied or tried to imitate this celebrated master.* The amiable character of a life but too short, induces me to give an engrav- ing from a portrait of herself, the finished touches of which" were put upon the canvas but a few days previous to her lamented decease ; her career was one, while it lasted, of great success, and must, had it not been so fatally brought to a close, have resulted in the highest fame; as it was, crowned heads of many nations paid homage at the shrine of her talents, and the cultivated sensibility of the aristocracy of this and other civilized nations has at once appreciated her artistic excellences by the spontaneous expression of admiration upon the examination of her works. I feel, and am proud in the possession of such an emotion, most strongly —I trust not too much so,—upon this sensitive point. Such reasons, to°-ether •with the fact that Madame Soyer being an English woman, are amongst my motives for giving here a short biography of her private and industrious life, which, although it appeared in nearly every journal of interest at the period of her unexpected death, will yet, I am assured, possess claims upon the sympathy of her countrymen and women. In the fullness of my own individual regard for her memory and of her rare gifts, and with a view to perpetuate a memorial of her extraordinary genius, I have for some while been adding to my collection, and at any expense, all those of her paintings which may come within my reach. The last purchase I made was No. 43 in the catalogue, a Buy-a-Broom Girl and Boy, from the celebrated Saltmarsh collection ; this, and many of her other works are to be met with in the galleries of men of the greatest taste and judgment. BIOGRAPHY. “August 29. Died in London, in her 29th year, Emma, the wife nf M. Soyer, of the Reform Club House, Pall Mall. “Madame Soyer (formerly Emma Jones) was born in London in 1813 Her father died when she was only four years of age, and left her to the care of a fond mother, who sacrificed the prospect of an increasing fortune to de- * “ But though in his manner, none of her works has the least subservienev of i,no- tation, or the stiffness of copy.”—Tim*. iCUCy ot2 vote her time entirely to the education of her child, who showed great incli- nation for study. The usual instructions were received with success, the French and Italian languages soon acquired, and music became a favorite amusement; in fact, it appeared that whatever was undertaken was of easy accomplishment. “About the year 1817, M. Simonau, a Flemish artist, pupil of the cele- brated Baron Gros, visited London, and brought with him some of his works, which were purchased by an antiquary, who advised him to open an academy for drawing and painting, which he did, and in a short time gained great celebrity. Mrs. Jones having heard of the fame of M. Simonau, went to him with her little girl, and wished him to give her lessons ; the extreme youth of the child at first made him hesitate, but at length he consented, and when Emma had been with him about six months, she showed such decided talent, that her mother proposed to remunerate him for the loss of all his other pupils if he would give his whole time to her daughter’s instruction ; to this, after some consideration, he agreed, and every succeeding year her improvement was so great, that before the age of twelve she had drawn more than a hundred portraits from life with surprising fidelity. “ During the same time she advanced wonderfully in music, under the eminent pianist, Ancot, who, at that time, was patronized by her Royal High- ness the Duchess of Kent, and was a great friend of Rossini and Weber—the last of these heard little Emma play a passage of his c Der Freischutz’ with so much execution, that he declared, in the most flattering terms, that she would become a brilliant star in the musical world. M. Ancot strongly recom- mended that she should adopt music as a profession ; and, as her mother feared that drawing would injure her health, his opinion was for some time adopted. Through the following circumstances, however, painting was finally chosen instead of music. Mrs. Jones (who, in 1820, had become the wife of M. Simonau) having gone to the continent for her health, young Emma one day looking out of a window at Dunkirk, saw some children blowing bub- bles, and immediately, with a piece of charcoal, made a sketch of the group upon the wall : the execution of this rude drawing evinced so much power, that it was at once finally decided by her mother and M. Simonau to adhere to the original intention of making painting her principal study, and that music should only be cultivated as an accomplishment. A few years after a picture from this sketch was sold at Liverpool for sixty pounds. “ At an early age many original paintings and portraits bore ample testimony to the perseverance of the mother, the care of the master, and the genius of the young artist. “ In 183G, MissEmma Jones was married to M. Soyer at St. George’s church, Hanover square. “ In 1839, the poor mother died, happy th.it her daughter had attained emi- nence by her talents, and enjoyed prosperity with the husband of her choice. But, alas ! the happiness of nearly six years was destroyed in a few hours; Madame Soyer was taken in premature labour, and died on the same day, regretted by all who knew her. She was of a most amiable and cheerful dis- position, a kind friend, excellent and affectionate wife, too modest to set much value upon her works, leaving the palette to attend to her household duties. “ The acuteness of her husband’s feelings was painfully increased by his un- fortunate absence, being at Brussels at the time with the suite of the Duke o Saxe Cobourg-Gotha, who had seenM. Soyer in his culinary department at the Reform Club, and having greatly admired several of Madame Soyer’s pictures.3 did her the honour to subscribe for a print from her picture of the ‘Young Israelites,’ which has since been dedicated, by permission, to his Serene Highness.” * “ The death of this lady has been a source of great regret to all the lovers and encouragers of art. Cut olf at a moment when her reputation was. about to make her fortune, and when, in spite of all obstacles, her merits were be- come known to her countrymen, it is a sad reflection that she can no longer* enjoy the encomiums she so justly deserves, nor share in those rewards which were about to be conferred on her. Besides an immense variety of drawings, sketches, and studies, she had painted upwards of 400 pictures, some of them of very high merit, and some of them which, when exhibited in the Louvre, obtained the highest meed of praise. No female artist has exceeded this lady as a colorist, and very few artists of the rougher sex have produced portraits so full of character, spirit, and vigour, and that boldness and breadth of light and shadow which constitutes one of the highest triumphs of art. She was exceedingly clever in recognizing the character of those who sat to her, so that her portraits convey the mind as well as the features of the sitters, their thoughts and sentiments. Her group, already mentioned, depicting Two Boys selling Lemons, has been recently engraved by Gerard of Paris, in mezzotint, and is a fine illustration of the talents of the deceased. It partakes of the style of Murillo ; but, though in his manner, it has not the subserviency of imitation, nor the stiffness of copy. There are a few of Madame Soyer’s paintings at the Reform Club-house, which will well repay a visit from those who have a taste for genuine merit and real nature.”—Times. The three following letters are selected from a numerous correspondence, as exhibiting at once sympathy for her loss, and admiration for her talents. “ Gotha, le 4 Janvier, 1843. A MONSIEUR ALEXIS SOYER. “ Monsieur, “ Je vous suis tres oblige du dessin original fait du feue Madame votre epouse, ainsi que des gravures d’apres le tableau des jeunes Israelites, que vous avez bien voulu m’envoyer. “ C’est avec beaucoup d’interet que j’adjoindrai 4 ma collection de dessins les produits d’un talent aussi distingue que celui de feue Madame Soyer. “ En vous disant mes remercimens et en souhaitant que le temps adoucit votre grande et juste douleur sur sa perte prematuree, je vous assure encore de toute mon estime. “ Ernest Due de Saxe-Gotha.” “ Cambridge House, le 21 Mai, 1S46. “Monsieur, “ Je suis chargd de la part de S. A. R. Monseigneur le Due de Cambridge de vous remercier pour l’envoi des trois tableaux, peints par feue Madame votre epouse, qui ont ete dement admires et apprdcies, non settlement par k. A. R., le Due, mais aussi par Madame la Duchcsse, ainsi que par ceux a qu’il a 6te donne de les voir. “ J’ai l’honneur d’etre, Monsieur, “Votre tres humble et obeissant serviteur, “ Le Baron de Knesebeck.” * Gentlemau’s Magazine.4 “ Stafford House, Yendredi. “ La Duchesse de Sutherland prdsente ses compliments k M. Soyer, et accepte avec plaisir ladedicace de la gravure* d’apresle tableau peint par feue Madame Soyer. “ Elle a appris avec bien du regret la perte immense qu’il a faite.” MEMORIAL TO THE LATE MADAME SOYER, THE CELEBRATED ARTIST. “ The inauguration of a splendid monument, erected to the memory of Madame Soyer, whose name is so intimately connected with the genius of art, took place on Sunday, before a numerous and distinguished party, at Kensal Green Cemetery. The design, which is quite new, is by M. Soyer, her hus- band, Lnd reflects the greatest credit upon that gentleman, who is so well known from his position at the Reform Club. It consists of a pedestal, about twelve feet in height, surmounted by a colossal figure of Faith, with her right hand pointing towards heaven, and the left supporting a golden cross. At her feet, lightly floating upon clouds, are two cherubims, the one holding a crown over the head, and the other presenting a palm to a beautiful medal- lion of the deceased; the latter executed in white marble, and surrounded by the emblem of eteruity. A palette and brushes, embellished with a wreath of unfading laurels, is gracefully placed beneath the medallion. M. Puyen- broack, of Brussels, one of the principal sculptors to his Majesty the King of the Belgians, has added to his fame by this new example of his talent. Although the figures of the monument are larger than life, so fight and elegant is their construction, that the observer might almost fancy they were leaving this terrestrial sphere, while the cherubims, poised upon the ascending clouds, convey such an idea of buoyancy, that one is led to believe that the heavy and solid stone (like the pure and eternal spirit of her who sleeps below) had taken its departure from earth, and was following that shade whose memory it was erected to perpetuate. We are informed that the palette and brushes, with the laurel and her initials, were sketched by the lamented artist the morning previous to her death, she being then in perfect health ; while the medallion is from her portrait by M. Simonau, her father-in-law, and only master. “ Amongst the parties present at the inauguration we perceived the fair Cerito, bestowing upon the shrine of her sister artist a wreath funcraire, made from a crown placed upon her head in La Scala, at Milan, before several thousands of her country people. Such feeling impressed all with the highest respect for that fairy child of Terpsichore, and deserves a distin- guished place in the history of art. The wreath, together with the palette of the artist, will be placed in a glass case, and fixed at the back ot the pedestal. The inscription upon the pedestal will be simply the words ‘ To Her,’ without any addition whatever.”—Morning Post, 1844. EXTRACTS FROM THE PRESS. “ L’Angleterre sera vengee par une femme de l’dchec dont Messieurs Foggo sont tombes les victimes. Madame Soyer de Londres nous a envoye deux morceaux exquis; si nous pouvions disposer d’une couronue au plus dignc, c’est assurement h elle que nous rendrions cet hommage; tie pouvaut pas presenter de lauriers, donnons lui la premiere place dans nos colonnes: pour la correction du dessin, la vigueur, le modble et la purete du colons, ce * “ La C6rcs Anglaisc.”o ftont la les qualites qui seraient envides par les plus liabiles de nos maitres. Mais ce que nous admirons par-dessus tout, dans son sens le plus vrai, est la touche delicate, la douceur du coloris, touj ours plein de souplesse et de naivete.”—La Revue des Deux Mondes. “TJne Glaneuse, par Madame Soyer, de Londres, a passe inapercu. Les critiques et le public se sont bien gardes d’en parler, parce que ce tableau, quoique renfermant de tres grandes qualites, ne plait pas au premier abord. Nous ne connaissons point Madame Soyer; nous ne pourrions meme dire si ce nom est un pseudonyme, ou s’il est veritablement celui de cette artiste. Ce qu’il y a de singulier, c’est que jamais aucune femme n’a peint avec autant de verve, de chaleur et d’entrain. Madame Soyer (en supposant tou- jours que Madame Soyer soit une femme) est aux autres peintres ce que Madame George Sand est aux litterateurs. Nous verrons plus tard si cette femme-peintre se soutiendra, et si ses productions procbaines vaudront celles de cette annee.”—La Capitole. “ The appearance of a very beautiful engraving of the picture of * The Jew Lemon-sellers’ reminds us of the loss which art has sustained in the death of Madame Soyer. This gifted lady, better known, perhaps, as Miss Emma Jones, has been snatched away in the midst of a career, the opening success of which fully justified the most flattering anticipations of her numerous friends. Some of Madame Soyer’s pictures exhibited here were the subjects °f very general admiration, and such of our readers as visited the last exhibition at Paris (where Madame Soyer was even more popular than in England) will recall with pleasure her picture, in the style of Murillo, of * The Two Israelites,’ which received so much praise from the French critics. The devotion of Madame Soyer to the art which she so much adorned by her talents is illustrated as much in the number as in the excellence of her works, which form the basis of a lasting and honorable fame. Although but twenty-nine years of age when she died, she had already painted no less than 403 pictures. Many of them are in the possession of the most distin- guished collectors in this country.”—Morning Chronicle. KITCHEN OF THE REFORM CLUB. “ We copy the following, by the Vicountess de Malleville, from the last number of the Courrier de l’Europe. Without subscribing to the justice of all the writer’s remarks, we think, as the opinion of an intelligent foreigner that the article will be read with some interest. ‘“We now quit the upper regions and follow the secretary of the club, and the politest and most obliging cicerone in the world. Theatrically speaking, we have as yet only seen the stage and its sumptuous decorations from the boxes and pit; we now go behind the scenes, among the scene-shifters and the machinists. But unlike in a theatre, we see no naked walls behind the scenes—no tattered draperies—no floors strewed with sawdust. This fine apartment is the kitchen—spacious as a ball-room, kept in the finest order and white as a young bride. All-powerful steam, the noise of which salutes your ear as you enter, here performs a variety of offices : it diffuses a uniform heat to large rows of dishes, warms the metal plates, upon which are disposed the dishes that have been called for, and that are in waiting to be sent above • it turns the spits, draws the water, carries up the coal, and moves the plate6 like an intelligent and indefatigable servant. Stay awhile before this octa- gonal apparatus, which occupies the centre of the place. Around you the water boils and the stewpans bubble, and a little further on is a moveable furnace, before which pieces of meat are converted into savoury rutis—here are sauces and gravies, stews, broths, soups, &c.; in the distance are Dutch ovens, marble mortars, lighted stoves, iced plates of metal for fish, and various com- partments for vegetables, fruits, roots, and spices. After this inadequate, though prodigious nomenclature, the reader may perhaps picture to himself a state of general confusion, a disordered assemblage, resembling that of a heap of oyster-shells. If so, he is mistaken. For, in fact, you see very little, or scarcely anything, of all the objects above described; the order of their arrangement is so perfect, their distribution as a whole, and in their relative bearings to one another, all are so intelligently considered, that you require the aid of a guide to direct you in exploring them, and a good deal of time to classify in your mind all your discoveries. “ ‘ The man who devised the plan of this magnificent kitchen, over which he rules and governs without question or dispute, the artiste who diverts by his gestures his subalterns tricked out in white, and whose eye takes in at a glance the most difficult combinations in the culinary art—in a word, the chef by whom every gourmet admitted within the precincts of the Reform Club swears, is M. Soyer, of whom it may justly be said that he is not more distinguished as a professor of the science of the Vatels and Caremes, than as a well-behaved and modest man. Allow him, therefore, to give you the history of his discoveries and improvements ; let him conduct you into the smallest recesses of his establishment, the cleanliness of which would shame many a drawing-room ; and listen to him, also, as he informs you that those precious pictures which crowd his own parlour are from the pencil of a wife who has recently been taken from him hy a premature death. Of this you might almost doubt till he again affirms it, for, judging from the poetry of the composition, and the vigour of the colouring and the design, you might swear that these pictures were the work of Murillo when he was young. “ ‘ Let all strangers who come to London for business, or pleasure, or curiosity, or for whatever cause, not fail to visit the Reform Club. In an age of utilitarianism, and of the search for the comfortable, like ours, there is more to be learned here than in the ruins of the Coliseum, of the Parthenon, or of Memphis.’ ”—Chambers's Journal. “Workhouse Cookery.—The disclosures in the Andover Union have thrown quite a new light on the science of cookery, which not even the inspiration of a Soyer could have hit upon. That ingenious chef de cuisine has blended together pastry and politics; with considerable skill he has invented a Creme d’Angleterre, consisting of charms borrowed from the female aristocracy; but those ingredients, imaginary and unsubstantial as they are, must be con- sidered as solids when compared with the materials used for constituting the dishes served up to the paupers in the Andover Union. Butter, according to the new poor law cookery, is made from the skimmings of grease pots, and parochial tea is made from boiling old leaves which have already had their strength drawn out of them. “ A new cookery book, edited by M'Dougal, the master of the Andover Union, is evidently a desideratum in culinary literature, which even Soyer’s universal genius has hitherto left unsupplied.”—Punch.THE GASTRONOMIC REGENERATOR. OPINIONS OP THE PKESS. THE TIMES. The Gastronomic Regenerator.—The Modern Cook.—“ Any body can dine,” says the clever and profound author ot the ‘ Original,’ “ but very few know how to dine so as to ensure the greatest quantity ot health and enjoyment.’’ The pith and truth of this remark are un- questionable ; and, indeed, we know nothing more painful than that utter disregard of the very hi st principles ol gastronomic science evinced by so many unprincipled and reckless individuals oi the piesent day, who eat as though the sole object of eating were to sustain life. Not that they take the best means for accomplishing even that ignoble end. The rules, whose observance renders eating a luxury and an art, also conduce in the highest degree to health. S.ici ifices io Ceres and Bacchus, in the very act oi the offering, should have a sweet fragrance in the nostrils of Hygeia. Who shall affix a boundary to the possible progress of an art 1 Let the vulgar do so, who, struck by apparent perfection, conclude at once that the force of genius “ can no further go.*’ V\ e assert iearlessly that the limits ot human creation and improvement are yet unknown. Least oi all are they to be defined with reference to that great art which has been styled “ the standard and gauge ot human civilization/* and which Montaigne, with less respect, denominated th* science de la gueule. Sceptics were they who, revelling at the table of Louis XIV in the sauces of a Bechamel, or lingering at the board of the great Conde over the chefs d oeuvre ot a Vatel—that illustrious martyr to a point of culinary honour!—or inhaling gently and delicately, and degustating slowly, and with marvellous discrimination, the exqui- site and quintessential results of the vigils of an Ude, who refused, in their turns, to believe that the science professed by these great men could be capable of improvement, or was susceptible ol higher elevation. Alas! have we not lived to vote the resources of all per- ruque and rococo, and to behold the precious laurels that wreathed the temples of the culinary demigods ol the 18th century, transferred by acclamation in the 19th to the mighty brows 0 a Cateme and a Beauvilliers, a Soyer and a Francalelli—great names every one—poetizers 01 the spit, philosophers of the larder, sublime fire-worshippers, high priests of a kitchen xulier than Druidical groves of deep and sacred mysteries ? The two bulky and important volumes before us are characteristic of the distinguished artists to whom we owe them. Written, the one by a Frenchman, the other by an English- man (for Mr. Francatelli, in spite of his name, boasts of an Anglican origin), they differ greatly in lorm, although in substance, as fur as the uninitiated may judge, they are equally excellent. The Modern Cook enters upon his task in a grave and business-like fashion never tempted into digression, never moved into metaphor, ever keeping in view bis main object, which, we are proud to say, is eminently patriotic, for he seeks to elevate the cha- racter and position of Ihe English Cook, and to produce a work creditable to the gastronomic knowledge ol the nation. “ The Gastronomic Regenerator” is a different personage. He can allord to garnish his prose with the flowers of fancy, us his material dishes are crowned with crous/ades and atdettes ; he handles with equal ability the quill of Pegasus and the larding-needle, and records with the former the achievements of the latter, in a strain of enthusiasm and heroic sensibility that are not to be surpassed even in the odes of a poet laureate. We confess at the outset that there is much to marvel at in the recondite pages <>l the Regenerutor, but there is nothing to admire more than his matchless modesty his courteous urbanity, bis devotion to the fair sex, and his occasional touching and liiklv imaginative digressions. 8 ° ' “ Why do you not write and publish a Cookery-book ? was a question continually put to me. tor a considerable time this scientific word caused a thrill of horror to nervuHn my frame, and brought back to my mind that one day, being in a most superb library m the midst of a splendid baronial hall, by chance 1 met with one of Milton’s allegoric.^ works, the profound ideus of Locke, the several chefs d’xuvre of one of the noblest8 champions of literature, Shakspeare; when all at once my attention was attracted by the nineteenth edition of a voluminous work: such an immense success of publication caused me to say, ‘ Oh ! you celebrated man, posterity counts every hour of fame upon your regretted ashes !’ Opening this work with intense curiosity, to my great disap- pointment what did I see,—a receipt for Ox-tail Soup ! The terrifying effect produced upon me by this succulent volume made me determine that my few ideas, whether culinary or domestic, should never encumber a sanctuary which should be entirely devoted to works worthy of a place in the Temple of the Muses.” Why, then, great artist, transgress this noble resolution? Why commit a desecration which, indeed, is no desecration, save to your own pre-eminent and too fastidious judgment ? Ah, shall we confess it? It is the old story, familiar to the playgoing public, and to the printers of playbills. “ The particular desire of several persons of distinction,’’ and especi- ally of the ladies, to whose appeals M. Soyer informs us he could never turn a deaf ear, has dragged the sage from his retirement, and compelled him to do violence to a settled convic- tion and a holy purpose. Some idea of the sacrifice which M. Soyer was called upon to make by the enireaties of the ladies and the distinguished individuals adverted to, may be gathered from the history of the hero during the composition of his work. For ten months he laboured at the pyramid which the remotest posterity shall applaud; and during the whole of that period he was intent upon providing the countless meals which a living generation have already approved and fully digested. Talk of the labours of a Prime Minister or Lord Chancellor ! Sir R. Peel was not an idle man. Lord Brougham is a tolerably busy one. Could either, we ask, in the short space of ten months—ten “ little months”—have written ‘ The Gastronomic Regenerator,’ and furnished 25,000 dinners, 38 banquets of importance, comprising above 70,000 dishes, besides providing daily for 00 servants, and receiving the visits of 15,000 strangers, all too eager to inspect the renowned altar of a great Apician temple? All this did M. Soyer, and we back him for industry against even the indefatigable Brougham. That more than one of the 38 banquets were of the highest moment, and must at the time have engrossed the mind of their accomplished author, to the serious derangement of his literary avocations, admits of no question the moment we peruse one bill of fare which M. Soyer places before our dazzled and admiring eyes. A memorable dinner was given at the Reform Club, upon the 9th day of May of the present year, to a select party of ten highly-gifted connoisseurs; none of your gobble-and-gulp people, who, in their melancholy ignorance, swallow a potctge a la Comte tie Paris, or a rissolette d la Pompadour, with the same frightful nonchalance as a sailor will devour his pea-soup, or a rustic bolt his bacon ; but creatures of ethereal natures, devotees of what the painters call “ high art;” men who feed their bodies only to give elasticity and vigour to their souls. The Diner Lucullusian d la Sampayo was ordered with a magnificent contempt of expense. No money was to be spared in obtaining the most novel, luxurious, and rare compounds that ingenuity could discover or gold procure. Stimulated by the anxious and repeated visits of a noble- spirited, and judicious guide, a Grove and a Jay, a Townsend and a Morel, a Slater and a Solomon, surpassed themselves in the quality of the viands they purveyed. One dish, the “ Buissun d’ Ecrevisses Pagodatique au vin de Champagne d la Sampayo,” cost something more than seven guineas—a trifle ! Two large bottles of Perigord truffles, value four guineas, were stewed with the ecrevisses in champagne. We have no heart to proceed, for “the author regrets that, in fulfilment of an agreement between him and M. Sampayo, he is re- stricted from giving the receipt of crawfish a la Sampayo." Why was the dish mentioned at all, if the world is still to be deprived of the receipt ? The loss is a national one. Doubtless it would have been very popular at the small clubs, and in great request with gentlemen of limited incomes! But to return to the incomparable dinner. There were dotrelles aujc feuil/es de vignes, and there was miroton de homard aux tcufs de p/uvier, and there were many other dishes, too, enough as you would think to crown the happiness ot a cook, and to satisfy the ambition of the proudest caterer in Christendom. You know not cooks. At page 008 of ‘ The Regenerator,’ the soft sigh of a Soyer tails painfully upon the readers ear ; und no wonder ! A brilliant thought—one of those superb inspirations, the property of great minds—had occurred to our author during the procreation ol this matchless banquet. Mentioned by him to the mysterious and too exclusive Sampayo and his friends, they caught with joy the idea. Two dozen of ortolans and twelve of the largest and finest truffles were to be procured, and in each of the latter a hole was to be dug, wherein one ol the unctuous and semi-transparent little volatiles was to be buried. Yes, the delicate native ol Provence gloriously interred in the choicest production of Perigord; then must a piece of call or lamb’s caul (exquisite minuteness of description !) cover the aperture and shelter the im- prisoned bird; then was there to be braising in a gravy of fowls and Lachrym® Christt, pouched forcemeat upon the dish, the truffles in pyramid. Upon that, a puree with the9 truffle that had been dug out of the graves, and a garniture of roasted ortolans. Stupendous thought! we have read of superior minds overcoming obstacles long deemed insurmountable, and have gathered from the perusal strength for the difficult struggle of life. Such strength find we here. “ An ortolan,” said Alexis Soyer, pondering on the difficult and self-ap- pointed task, “ an ortolan can hardly be truffled, but I will undertake that a truffle shall be ortolaned !” He might have added, “ ’Tis not in mortals to command success ; we’ll do more, Sampayo, we’ll deserve itfor great as the Regenerator’s conception was, it was not destined to be realized. The elements were uripropitious, and the ortolans did not arrive in time from Pari^, whence they had been ordered. This, however, was the only failure. Everything else was to the turn, the minute. At seven o’clock the Severn salmon arrived alive, and by express lrom Gloucester. Ten minutes later it smoked upon the board. Happy Sampayo !—happier guests !—immortal Soyer ! We turn to the pictorial portion of this notable book. After the agreeable portrait of the author, which laces the title-page, the first of the woodcuts that attracts attention is “ The Table ol the Wealthy,” with the motto, “ liien ne dispose mieux I’esprit humain a des trans- actions arnica Iks qiiun diner bien conga et artistement prepare.” A great maxim of diplo- macy ! How many treaties ot peace and commerce have owed their conclusion to the mollifying effects ot a series of good dinners ! What numerous misunderstandings have been arranged and thorny points happily settled, less by the wisdom of the ambassador than by the ability ol the ambassador’s cook ! On a judiciously-compounded sauce, or a roti cuit a point, or the seasoning of a salmi, or the twirl ol a casserole, may depend the fate of a crowned head, the marriage ol a prince,—the weal or woe of a nation. Is cookery, then, no art ? Truly is it—the highest, the noblest! A second plate, “ My f able at Home,” represents M. Soyer, in his foyers, presiding over a select party assembled round his hospitable and well-furnished board. Behold again the unrivalled gallantry ol the country, and the individual finding a vent in a poetic and touching smile. “ A gustronomical reunion, without ladies,” says the chief cook of the Reform Club, “ is a parterre without flowers, the ocean without waves, a fleet without sails.” Talking of fleets, let us pass on at once to the Turkey d, la Nelson, which deceased but much honoured bird is placed with its tail in the prow of a Roman galley, duly provided with anchor, sail, and all fitting appurtenances, and surmounted by fictitious ducklings. 'i j o —. — _ ~ **&&**Jo» wao»u8 wavca ui gate tt ICL Bacchante,—her canvas’ swelling to a favouring breeze,—her sides dripping with wine and marmalade,—her interior, even to the hatchways, filled with such a freight as none but Soyer could provide, and perfect gourmets thoroughly appreciate. It is whispered that upon this gallant ship Commodore Napier did fearful execution in the presence of his quondam foe and present Iriend, Ibrahim Pacha, when that illustrious individual dined with the Com- modore at his club. Assaulting the craft with the fierce impetuosity for which the hero of Acre is so renowned, and thrusting his boarding-pike—his spoon we would say deep into the hold ol the luscious craft, he destroyed in an instant Soyer’s labour of a day. Timbers were stove in or out,—sails came down by the run,—masts went by the board,—and all was wreck, where a second before all had been symmetry and perfection. Nothing that relates to the kitchen or the table has been neglected or overlooked by the Regenerator. We have plans and drawings of kitchens of every description from the matchless establishments of the Reform Club, with its ice drawers, slate wells, steam closets bains marie, and fifty other modern refinements, to the unpretending cooking-places of the cottage or the bachelor. But perhaps the section of the book to be chiefly prized by the general reader and indifferent gastronome, is the short one relating to carving. Good carvers are aimost as rare as good tenor singers. The proper dissection of flesh and fowl is a matter ol high importance, rarely excelled in, but should be always studied. It is mi as may put your neighbours in fear of their live however, if an accident should happen, make no excuses, for they are only an acknowledtr' ment of awkwardness. We remember to have seen a man of high fashion deposit a turkev in this way in the lap of a lady, but with admirable composure, and without ofterimr tlm slightest apology, he finished a story which he was £T e turning to her, merely said, ‘ Madam, I’ll thank inay not possess similar coolness, and (he same stoical dresses and the results of ladies’ indignation, M. Soyer’s improvements in curvi was telling at the same time, and then quietly iank you for that turkey.’ ” To those who indifference to the fate of ladies’ indeed »’ing are valuable “ Nutur<?> says I to myself, compels us to dine more or less once a day ; each of thiwo10 days you tire, honorable reader, subject to meet cn tete-a-tete with a fowl, poularde, duck, pheasant, or other volatile species ; is it not had enough to have sacrificed the lives of those aniniaux bicnfaisans to satisfy our indefatigable appetites, without pulling and tearing to atoms the remains of our benefactors ? it is high time for the credit of humanity and the comfort of quiet families, to put an end to the massacre of those innocents.” Incomparable benevolence ! Tenderest commiseration ! Perfect humanity ! “ We will be sacrificers, not butchers, Caius Cassius.” The philanthropic progress of the century has reached the kitchen, and animal love is most intense in the vicinity "of the stockpot. What would the kitchen of the Reform Club he without humanity and the liberal sentiments ? No more will barbarous cooks be haunted by horrid visions of the night! * Incipient porkers shall no longer pine away their sweetness, and stiive to toughen their crackling in anticipa- tion of a final flagellation. Eels shall no longer be required to give up their skins before their ghosts, and some humaner process than a surfeit of food, a deprivation of drink, and a gradual roasting near a scorching fire, will, let us hope, be discovered, to give to the livers of ducks that glorious expansion and pinguid richness so much appreciated by the epicure. We will not despair of witnessing, under the dominion of M. Soyer, the introduction and use of some instrument analogous to the guillotine, which by a stroke shall do its deadly necessary work: nay, might not advances lately made in Mesmerism be turned to good account in procuring painless death to those whom the feeling Soyer so beautifully calls our “ bene- iactors ?” A goose, in a state of coma, would be uncognizant of the penknife that divides its jugular ; calves and sheep properly subjected to the action of the magnetic fluid would pass from life into the larder without a struggle or a groan. But to carving! For joints, our author gives most lucid directions, which, if properly studied, cannot fail to convert the merest tyro into an admirable carver. For game and poultry he has done more. He has in- vented an instrument, to he bad at Bramah’s, in Piccadilly, and with which printed direc- tions are given, by theaid of which the joints of birds are severed without the smallest detriment to their good looks. “ Formerly,” he says, “ nothing was more difficult to carve than wild fowl, the continual motion (when alive) of the wings and legs making the sinews almost as tough as wires, puzzling the best of carvers to separate them ; my new method has quite abolished such a domestic tribulation.” For which, as well as for the many other benefits conferred by him upon the human race and the brute creation, we beg to reiterate our humble hearty thanks to the talented author of ‘The Gastronomic Regenerator.’ THE MORNING CHRONICLE. Alexis Soyer, the Gastronomic Regenerator.—Everybody who knows him, everybody who has sat before his dishes, everybody interested in the promotion of the Reform cause, or who likes to have a good dinner at home, has long since said in his heart “ Why does not Sover write a hook about cookery ?” When Reform was flagging, when Peel had it all his own way, belore a country party was thought of, or a revolt seemed possible, when the idea of the Whigs coming in was hopeless, and the party therefore needed consolation, what did Soyer do ? At that moment of general depression Alexis Soyer invented cutlets a la reforme. He didn’t despair, he knew the avenir that was before the party. Ha rallied them round the invigorating table, from which they rose cheered and courageous ; flushed with victuals, their attack upon the enemy was irresistible (as under such circumstances the charge of Britons always is), and Downing-street may he said to be the dessert of the dinners in Pall- mall. H e is one of the greatest politicians and pacificators in the world. If they bad him in Conciliation-hall, even there they would leave oil'quarrelling. Look at bis influence upon the diplomacy ol our country ! In this very day’s paper appears an account of a dinner at that very Relorm Club which Soyer loves, and which has stood ns sponsor to the great cut- lets which he invented—of a dinner at which Lord Palmerston and Ibrahim Pacha had their hands in the same dish of pilnR', and the maker of that dish was Alexis Soyer. To such a noble and magnanimous spirit as Soyer’s evidently is, such a meeting will cause pride and thanklulness indeed. It is a happy omen. They have eaten salt together, and the pence of Hie world is assured. How it was that Gibbon came to write the * Decline and Fall;’ under what particular circumstances Newton conceived the theory of gravitation ; how Scott invented his works, &c., are historic anecdotes with which all persons interested in literature are familiar. It is always pleasant to know how and where a great thought came into the brain of a great man, and so it is agreeable to know how this cookery book, which all the world longed for, was suggested to Soyer. (See the Preface.) Surely this preface is one of the most remarkable documents that ever ushered any book mlo the world. Soyer has made it a rule never to refuse anything in his power to the ladies (tae rogue) ! and, amongst other favours, they asked him for a cookery-book- The request11 caused him “a thrill of horrorbutlietng In a library In the midst of a hall, where he met with owe of Milton’s allegorical works, Locke’s profound ideas, and several chefs d'atuvre of that noble champion of literature, Shakspeare, what should his eye turn to but a cookery- book closeted in such company ! “ The terrifying etl’ect of that succulent volume” made him determine that he never would write a book of the culinary sort. What was the consequence ? The very determination not to write, forced him into “a thousand gastronomic reflections.” Write he must, and it was sheer modesty that gene- rated the Regenerator. Mark the pleasantry upon the word “ lost,” the last word in the preface, and fancy Soyer lost in Paradise. Tempter ! if you had been in any such place, to what could you not have persuaded the first gourmand ! In fine, Soyer determined to write this book, because he justly “considered that the pleasures of the table are an every-day enjoyment, which reflects good and evil on all classes.” And when we remember that he has written the work in ten months, during which he has also supplied 25,000 dinners to the gentlemen of the Reform Club, and 38 dinners of importance, comprising 70,000 dishes ; that he had to provide daily for 60 servants, and to do the honours of the club to 15,000 visitors, one may fancy what genius and perseverance can accomplish. He says he is “ entirely satisfied with the composition, distribution, and arrangement of the volume.” Exegit monuinentum in fact. Pie has been and done it. He gives you his signature, bis portrait en buste, and another full length, in which he is represented in his parlour at home (where, in spite of his avocations, he has leisure to receive his friends and consume a most prodigious quantity of victuals), surrounded by a select society of private friends, dispensing to them some of the luxuries which he describes in his 700 pages. After a few prefatory observations about carving, for which he has invented a new and apparently successful, though unintelligible method—about larding, which he recommends to the English “middle classes”—the seasons offish and game, &c.—the utensils for the kitchen—Soyer plunges into sauces at once, as the great test of culinary civilization. The key-sauces are the White Sauce, No. 7, and the Brown Sauce, No. 1. They are the prin- cipia of the science—they are the sauces which Soyer daily and principally uses. If the reader suspects that we are going to transcribe the formula for the preparation of these sauces, he is disappointed. No; let those who want the sauce buy the book, and enjoy both. From sauces we go to “ Potages or Soups” (and what are these, in fact, but diluted and agreeable sauce?), commencing with the clear light broth, or first stock of soup, and pro- ceeding to a hundred delicious varieties—the Louis Philippe, the Jerusalem, the Marcus- Hill, the Princess Royal, See. Nothing can be more delicate or worthy of a young princess than this latter little soup ; whereas the “ potage a la comtesse,” beginning with “ cut half a pound of lean ham with an onion,” is of a much stronger character. All these soups are flavoured with appropriate observations, as, for instance—“ In fact it is much better for all thick soups to be too thin than too thick.” Louis Philippe soup, he says, should contain “ Brussels sprouts, boiled very green.” Here is surely some wicked satire here. From soup wTe come to fish, as in the order of nature; thence to the hors-d’oeuvre and removes, to the flancs, the entrees, the roasts, the vegetables, the sweets, or the entremets, and the second-course removes. As the critic reads from page to page his task becomes absolutely painful, so delicious is the style, so “ succulent” are the descriptions, and so pro- voking the hunger which they inspire. Every now and then you get anecdotes, historical and topographical allusions, <fcc. (See p. 472.) Flow finely it is written ! “ Will your excellency call to-morrow morning?” Talleyrand’s friend says nothing, but you see his rank at once, and when his excellency is gone, the Prince of Benevent rings the bell and orders—some of his favorite dishes. There is an account in the volume of crawfish aux trufl'es a la Sampayo, which makes one almost frantic with hunger. And what will the reader say to this dish, which is the invention, not of Soyer the cook, but of Soyer the poet:—“The Celestial and Terrestrial Cream of Great Britain.” (See p. 719.) If this dish was provided for his Highness Ibrahim Pacha last night, no Eastern prince since the days of the Barmecide was ever so entertained. Ardebit Alexim. His Highness will be bribing away this Gascon genius at any price to Cairo. He will become - Pacha, and the cause of Reform will begin to droop. Beside^ poetry, there are pictures in this incomparable volume. The dindonneau it la Nelson (of which the croustade is the bow of a ship, in compliment to the hero of Aboukir) is a picture worthy of Turner. The engraving of Soyer’s own parlour, where a pretty maid is in waiting (and an exceedingly pretty girl, by the way, is seated by the great artist) is an enticing interior, in which any man would like to let his portrait appear. The picture of “ Salade de Grouse it la Soyer” is a capital portrait, and will be recognized by all who know and love the original. Soyer’s own portrait we have mentioned before. But perhaps the finest and12 niost interesting work of art in the volume, is the plate at p. 294, which represents, of the natural size, a mutton cutlet, a pork cutlet, and a lamb cutlet. This cut-this ..late of c lets we should say—is incomparable. 1 nl* THE MOairiNG POST. In spite of all that we have heard tor some years past about the enlightenment of the aec there are still certain vu gar errors, and errors on very vital subjects, to which the e3 adhere with all the constancy of martyrs. ®USD Perhaps these errors are more abundant in relation to the preparation of food than to almost any other matter. At present, in the middle of the nineteenth century, the generalite of people in England have only roast and boil, after a fashion; and the e the cul na v acquirements of the multitude find their extreme limits. Others, there are, indeed who uke a higher flight; they aflect soups and gravies, and even aspire to put vegetables on their tables , but in all these cases nothing can be more inartificial than the system pursued. Hot water is the chief ingredient, and pepper the condiment. Thus, for soupfry two or three slices of coarse beef in plenty or fat, boil it in water, and saturate it with pepper and salt, and your tureen is provided lor. Of mutton broth we are not so sure of the process ; but the decoction has all the appearance of being composed of the eternal hot water, stirred with a tallow candle, to give the necessary number of globules of grease on the surface, and ornamented at the top with a few floating particles of parsley. A gravy in more frequent use is exceedingly simple. When a leg ol mutton is roasted, the person miscalled a cook pours a teacuplul of water over the joint, and the gravy is complete. Vegetables are only required to retain as much as possible of the fetid water in which they are boiled, and to be sunk as deep in melted batter as a river bound collier is in the sea, and they are considered “ a dainty dish to set before a king.” Such are a few everyday examples of the English practice of cookery—principles it evi dently has none. In France they order these things differently. During a succession of revolutions, extending over a space of nearly sixty years, constitutions have been abandoned as soon as adopted; kings and nobles have been murdered; but La. Cuisine has ever been held inviolate, and chefs deserving of the name have not ceased to be venerated. And what is the result ?—that in France, where the raw material is, with the single exception of veal, perhaps, interior to ours, a dinner can be produced worthy of LucuUus ; in England, save under the superintendence of French artists, such a feat is plainly impossible. Surely, then, it behoves us to do what we may for availing ourselves, in their fullest extent, of the advan- tages we have received from nature, not perhaps by going the somewhat extreme length that we have heard suggested, of establishing professorships of gastronomy in our universities, on the broad ground that domestic is as well worthy of being encouraged as political economy, but by profiting, to the best of our abilities, under the instructions of those who really under- stand the art in which we are so lamentably deficient. So desirable an object has hitherto been baffled by the popular prejudice that good cookery is necessarily unwholesome. It is no such thing. An accomplished cook is an accomplished chemist; he knows the several affinities of substances for each other, and not only balances these with the utmost exactitude, but even prescribes, with the same view, the particular description of wine proper to each stage of his banquet. We all remember the celebrated answer of Careme to George IV, whose cuisine he superintended while that sovereign was regent. “ Careme,” said the true is it that the evil lies in the abuse and not in the use of good things. Another objection to elaborate cookery is the expense it is supposed to involve. Both tbe points have been satisfactorily met in the work before us. The many receipts furnished by M. Soyer, and they amount to nearly two thousand, afford evidence at once of careful study and of extreme delicacy. Everything gross is excluded, and the more nutritious portious of food are alone preserved, in such forms ns to please the eye and the palate, without embar- rassment to the digestive process. Neither of these objects is attained under the ordinary English system. Huge joints offend the sight, and half-raw meat tasks the organs of diges- tion beyond their power, by presenting to them masses of unbroken fibres. To save trouble to the stomach the fibre must be destroyed by the action of heat, and this can never be effected by exposing food to the fire during only half the time that is necessary. u hen, as to the expense of superior cookery, M. Soyer has taken the best means of refuting tbe error by showing that much improvement may be made without addition to tbe cost, in one portion of his book he provides materials for the dinner of an emperor; in tbe o her, entitled, “ My Kitchen ut Home,” he enables the smallest private family, or even the solitary bachelor, to live well on small means.13 It would be incompatible with our limits to discuss fully tbe two systems of the author, and to abstain from any illustration of them would be unjust to him and unsatisfactory to the reader. We will therefore give one example of each—the magnificent and the simple ; and the first shall be a banquet served at the Reform Club, on the 9th of May last to a private party of ten persons (see page 009), and for a dinner party for eight persons, at home (see page 636). Of the simple arrangement for a bachelor or a married couple, combining, as they do, elegance with economy, we cannot give a selection ; because we would not offer a brick as a specimen of the house; but we strongly recommend them to all who are tired of conven- tional dinners composed of everlasting chops and steaks. In short the work of M. Soyer is one that cannot fail of being extensively read. If it be worth while to spend as much time as everybody does in eating, it is surely advisable to see that our time is not thrown away—that we live like civilized beings rather than New Zealand savages. In this important point the system of M. Soyer is worthy of praise, and we feel that we only anticipate our readers in thanking him for the labour he has bestowed in elucidating a pursuit that, in despite of twaddle, is at least one of the minor amenities of life. THE RZOR.lN'iarG HEHALD. We approach with all due reverence and respect the discussion of the important and mys- terious changes effected by the chemical action of that most potent of all galvanic agencies, whose resistless influence is acknowledged by sages, philosophers, and statesmen, and whose sympathetic vibrations find a response in every breast—thshatteriede cuisine. ‘ The Gastronomic Regenerator ; a New System of Cookery.’ We have given both the titles, because in so deeply interesting a race, all parties from the Royal duke, whose gracious condescension sanctions the dedication in the title-page, to the humble artisan who sniffs the fragrant per- fume as he passes the area of tbe Reform Club, are entitled to start fair; and to the unini- tiated the pronomen would require a greater amount of consideration than accords with good digestion. For ourselves, we can only say, with the cockney lady in the play, “ How delightfully unintelligible! how far-fetched ! how French!” But we have a shrewd guess that the impracticable title was designed, like some of his sauces piquantes, as a cabalistic whet or provocative to the teeming fancies and gustatory glories of the interior, and that pronounced with due emphasis and discretion before a meal, it would “ create an appetite under the very ribs of death.’’ The importance of a good dinner is become almost an axiom in morals and philosophy ; with ourselves it has been elevated to the rank of an article of faith. We cannot, therefore, too highly appreciate the labours of distinguished men who, like M. Soyer, sacrifice themselves to a sense of public duty, and present to an admiring and hungry world those treasures of gastronomie which are the very triumph of artistic skill. The ancient proverb has it that “ any one can dine/’ to which modern political economy has added, “if he have the means,”—happily for the present generation they live in the third era of progressive advancement, when dining has become a science, and the good things which Providence has abundantly supplied to us are rendered subservient at once to health and refined enjoyment. M. Soyer tells us that nothing better disposes the humic; mind to amiable feelings than a dinner, bien conquel artistement prepare. How deeply grateful, then, should our countrymen feel who make dining the great business of life, and with whom a dinner forms the grand rallying point lor every striking demonstration of pleasure, or business, or friendship, or charity, to one who in the proud humility of his unrivalled genius is content to rank a good cook only on the same footing us a wise counsellor! We have been accus- tomed to vaunt of our liberty, our independence, and our unbounded wealth, but to our eternal disgrace be it recorded that, while we enjoy the fruits of their labours, we are silent on the subject of our obligations to the accomplished cuisinier. The talent and research of a Vatel, a Car&me, and a Bechamel have done much to place us on an equulity with our more fastidious and artistic neighbours, the French—it remained for a Soyer to consummate the good work, and place the golden atelette upon the croustade of the dindonneau d la Nelson. M. Soyer has evidently a just appreciation of the dignity of the science of which be is so distinguished a professor; with a mind comprehensive enough to grasp all the most intricate and difficult combinations of the culinary art, he is above the littleness of discarding his guests because they may add salt to their soup, contenting himself with the sage maxim that “ it is tbe duty of the cook to season for the guests, and not the guests for the cook.” And verily, if all our cooks were such “ top’’ Soyers, it would be downright heresy to “ paint the lily or add a perfume to the violet.” Since we read the work we have been tempted more than once to renounce our honest convictions, and sell our party for a mess of potage & la Julienne. We had no ideu that so much good could emanate from the Reform Club and lived in the belief that their dinners were us dull as their dogmas, and their pat£s as indif-14 ferent as their principles. But political discussions nre interdicted over the dinner table, and with M. Soyer us caterer we honestly confess that we could dine in all love and amity with a Radical or a Repealer, and get “jolly” with a Chartist or an Owenite. We shall entertain a better opinion all our lives of a party so well served in the culinary department. Our readers will be naturally anxious to learn the moving cause of the thousand gastronomic reflections that crowd the volume—what powerful agency impelled him tot adire lubores • and but for the habit of discursiveness which has marred our fortunes to the present hour we should have given it the prominence it deservedly obtains in the preface. Honour then to whom honour is due,—place aux dames—it is “ at the request of several persons of distinction particularly the ladies, to whom I have always made it a rule never to refuse anything in my power.” Never was there so touching a tribute of homage; never was the proverbial gal- lantry of his countrymen so strikingly or so gracefully exemplified. But we have all this time withheld our readers from a peeffinto the interior, and here our difficulties begin. We have rambled through the greater portion of the 700 or 800 pages of the book, and find every recipe an epic, every dish a picture, and ever)' sauce a study. We are perplexed between the glories of the diner Lucullusian, the most recherche dinner ever dressed, the pagodatique entree, the gateau Britannique a I'amiral, theortolaned truffles which Soyer devised, but the fates forbid, and the more unpretending but not less valuable details of “ My Kitchen at Home,” redolent of savoury and appetitizing streams, which are within the reach of the middle and humbler classes. All are exquisite in their way ; and had the Abyssinian prince, who roamed over half the globe in search of happiness, but lighted on this volume he would have sat down contentedly, ordered a new dish for every day in the year, and abandoned all thought of returning to the happy valley. Mats revenons a nos moutons, the approach to which is stopped by the cheveux de f rise of a carving-knife and fork. Now carving, being, the coup de gr&ce to cookery, rather unaccountably, but probably artistically, occupies the first chapter; and our author, after referring to the tribulation of carving “ for appetites more or less colossal, and when all eyes are fixed upon you with anxious avidity,” opens his instructions with the following curious historic anecdote (see p. xii). And then follow some very sage reflections upon the necessity of dining “ more or less once a day,” and a pathetic appeal to the “ manglers” not to tear to atoms the remains of our benefactors; and with this flourish of the knife enter “ directions for carving,” which are extremely brief and simple, and which are wound up with the hint, seldom attended to by even experienced carvers, that nothing is more creditable to a carver than leaving a piece of meat, game, or poultry fit to reappear at table in an inviting state. One extract more, and we shall terminate our pleasing labours, premising that our selection has been made more with u view to novelty than from any want of more recherche and attrac- tive materials. The fanfare is with reference to the French pot-au-feu (see p. 649). But here we must pause, for we are almost cloyed with sweets and dainties. With the best appetite and inclination in the world, we are reluctantly compelled to subscribe to our artist’s doctrine, that a man can dine but once a day, and our literary banquet has been already a most seductive and profuse one. ' We purposed giving the recipe of the far-famed pot-au-feu, but we presume it is already, or shortly will be, in the hands ot all the world, and if any of our readers have not yet made up their minds, we advise them to send without loss of time to Simpkin, Marshall, and Co. THE MOR.XTIM-G ADVEJITISEK. “ The fame of the Reform Club and its matchless cuisine, under the direction of that great master of his art, Alexis Soyer, have gone to the uttermost ends of the earth. To render that fume imperishable, Soyer has composed his * Gastronomic Regenerator,’ a work ■fc which is destined to throw all others, from the time-honoured Mrs. Glass to the learned Eustuche Ude, into the shade. The former, most loveable in her way, will henceforth only be remembered for her one receipt, “ first catch your hare,” &c.; the piquancy, the utile et dulce characteristics of Soyer, like one of his own chyle-begetting and renowned sauces, entirely neutralises, absorbs, swallows up the greatest effort of Ude. Tempus edax rerum ! Soyer is a wit and a wag of the first water; hence a perusal of the introduction to tbo goodly volume before us acts as a whet. “ Laugh and grow fat’’ is an old and a true adage; readSoyer’s introduction, und the veriest valetudinarian will afterwards sit down and eat like a man ! Soyer’s experience has been vast—magnijique ! hear, on the important head, what he tells his readers:—“During the lust ten months I had to furnish 25,000 dinners for the gentlemen of the Reform Club, and 38 dinner parties of importance, comprising above 70,000 dishes, and to provide daily for 60 servants of the establishment, independent of about 15,000 visitors who have seen the kitchen department in that lapse of time.’’ Authors frequently ussign a reason for writing; Soyer, in this respect, is not behindhand ; in his preface b15 snys " At the request of several persons of distinction who have visited the Reform Club, particularly ladies, to whom I have always made it a rule never to refuse anything in my power, for, indeed, it must have been the fair sex who have had the majority in this domestic argument to gain this gastronomical election. Why do you not write and publish a cookery- book ? was a question continually put to me. For a considerable time this scientific word caused a thrill of horror to pervade my frame, and brought back to my mind that one day, being in a most superb library in the midst of a splendid baronial hull, by chance I met with one of Milton’s allegorical works, the profound ideas of Locke, and several chefs d’xuvre of one of the noblest champions of literature, Shakspeare ; when all at once my attention was attracted by the nineteenth edition of a voluminous work. Such an immense success of pnbli»tion caused me to say, « Ob, you celebrated man, posterity counts every hour of fame upon your regretted ashes !’ Opening this work with intense curiosity, to my great disappointment, what did I see,-a receipt for Oxtail Soup ! The terrifying effect produced upon me by this succulent volume, made me determine that my few ideas, whether culinary or domestic, should never encumber a sanctuary which should be entirely devoted to works worthy of a place in the Temple of the Muses.” That section of the work entitled “ Soyer’s new mode ol carving (worthy of the deepest attention; is thus ushered in You are all aware, honorable readers, of the continual tribulation in carving at table, for appetites more or less colossal, and when all eyes are fixed upon you with anxious avidity. Very' few persons are perfect in this art, which requires not only grace, but a great deal of skill Others become very nervous ; many complain of the knife which has not the least objection l: 0ln ,faul °l e se tfJeZ sayVtbls capon, pheasant, or poulard is not young, and “ "ot of tbe fbest 9uallty-. You may sometimes be right, but it certainly often happens that the greatest gourmand'is the worst carver, and complains sadly during (hat very long process saying to himself “I am last to be served, my dinner will be cold ’* Soyer s motto is, “cleanliness is the soul of the kitchen the cuisine of the Reform Club Th this healthful axiom. That portion of the work before us devoteS to The Kitchen at Home deserves the attentive perusal of every housewife who wishes to enjoy comfort herself and be the cause of it toothers; the author is almost as earnest “nndn®n/.hus’ustlc m his directions for the production of a good rump-steak pudding for thl stomach of common life as he is for that of the most aristocratic and indulged The work is, in short, one suited to the palace of the prince, and the cottage of the peaS The two thousand practical receipts it contains, adapted to the incomes of all parties, have bepn eaten by a committee of taste,5 who have pronounced a verdict in their favour It i* aunro pnately dedicated to his Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge, and the volume is tendered W ^ lt8,numerous well-executed illustrations. The frontispiece is a fine po^ Wr f rht Uth0r’t*f e/J,pamtmg by the once-accomplished and now lamented Madame* 14 18 tm°8t truthful P°rtralt; each feature indicates the man—the play of the eloouent %»/ ’ °DCe P° °f WU aDd thS mini8ter of inteilse Palatic sensibility. Zele THE GLOBE. t T]1® '™Pression grows on us that the man of his age is neither Sir RnWt p„Qi Lord John Russell, nor even Ibrahim Pacha, but Alexis Soyer P°e1’ nor Hazlitt has said that, if literary men directed the world, they would leave noth!™ standing but printing presses. We know that parliamentary leaders imagine nZl notblnS tactics, and talk the prinium mobile of mankind. Eastern despots thinkfit isamentary but Alexis Soyer knows it is the saucepan. When Napofeon fi st st 11 h , f?W°/d5 of the “ Legion of Honour,” Moreau ridiculed it by proposing to confer^ on his cook. But we beg to propose seme “ Soyer testimonial,” without nnv i u- wn.ne\" Have we not had a “Hudson testimonial ?”—are we not threatened with^ at u I Jones testimonial ?’ •—to recompense, amongst other things, the laving thaT ,» ,Lambert mother earth, called the Royal Exchange. What then shall be done TJ load up°n reared that light fabric of a Pyramid a l’Ibrahim Pacha, on which twentv rm.t W,b° less looked down last Friday evening, us they had very good reason to do —sin .ur..es l oubt' have seen Pyramids any day these two or three thousand years but it u’n t ° tb^y miSbt could see a Pyramid with “an elegant cream d I’ananaJ on the to of , f0’ d“y tbey r uthatATgnin “a highly-finished portrait of the illustrious stranger in -V 0,1 tbf toP futher, Mehemet Ali, carefully drawn on a round shape of satin carton ” ’ llm 1 acba,!i) 1 he veracious chronicler to whom we are now indebted for ,nm * ,, , world would not willingly let die, of that dinner at the iLf0rm Clnl^lwi?U!arl’ wbicb tbe some of our Paris contemporaries from their propriety, proceeds as follm '"^ h“S frlgbted The appearance of this ‘ Creme d’Egypte a Plbmhim i ^ : Royal Highness’s attention, who at once ^perceived^the' honour* conferred '^pon wf £ '1810 carefully took off the portrait cn carton in his hands to admire it; and after showing it to several of his suite, he nll'ectionutely placed it in his bosom near his heart, with the inten- tion of never parting with it again. JBut what was his astonishment, on looking at the spot where the former portrait had been deposited, at seeing in the cream, as under a glass, the portrait of himself, as highly finished, and as striking a likeness as any miniature painter could have produced, and surrounded by a gilt-like frame! Monsieur Soyer, having been sent for by the party, was highly complimented by his Highness through his interpreter, who desired to know where and how he coidd procure such a likeness of bis father, and how was his own so correctly drawn in the cream? ‘Please tell his Highness,’ said Monsieur Soyer to the interpreter, ‘ that both were executed from the original sketches drawn by our celebrated artist Horace Vernet, whilst in Alexandria. The portray, in the cream is drawn on wafer-paper, which, placed on the damp jelly, representing the glass, dissolves, and nothing remains but the appearance of the portrait drawn in light water- colours. The imitation of the gilt frame is made with eau de vie of Dantzic, and gold water.mixed with jelly, the gold leaf of which forms the frame. After having been thanked by the Pacha, the pyramidal cream of Egypt was ordered to be shown to each guest, by sliding it from one to the other round the table (which was more than 250 feet), to the great satisfaction and admiration of every one present. Though everything was eatable in it, this magnificent dish was respected, and remained untouched, but every one tried to partake of the fruit which surrounded this extraordinary and appropriate culinary wonder.” The above is given chiefly for the benefit of our Paris contemporaries, who do us the honour to mention that “ le Globe nous fait connaitre les etranges discours qu’ils ont, tun et l’autre (Lord Palmerston and Sir C. Napier), recites d ceite occasion?’ Waiving the question whether there was anything “ strange” in either speech we beg our Paris con- temporaries to observe that their compatriot, Monsieur Soyer had effected a most skilful diversion from all delicate topics whatsoever. “ Segnitus irritant animos demissa per aures Quam qua; sunt oculis subjects fidelibtis.” Ibrahim Pacha’s interpreter, it now appears, had other things to do than to interpret either political retrospects or prospects, as touched by the several speakers. Ai>d surely it might soften the hearts of our jealous friends about the Palais Royal, to see how large a part of the triumph of the day was, in fact, a French triumph. Would we could stop here ! But truth compels us to say that our ally, Monsieur Soyer, forces us, in the sequel, to feel strange doubts of his thorough devotion to English interests. “The next dish which much amused his Highness was the one entitled the Gateau Brilanniqite d I’Amiral, being the representation of an old man-of-war, hearing the English and Egyptian flag drawn on rice-paper, the ship being filled with ice mousseuse mix peches, and loaded with large strawberries, cherries, grapes, and bunches of currants, being so placed on the table that the brave and gallant Commodore Napier had to help from this cargo the illustrious stranger, who did not cease smiling. During that process the moisture and liquor of the ice, which gradually melted, saturated the hull of the vessel, which was made of a kind of delicate sponge cake. Whilst the gallant commodore was in the act of helping I the remains of the ice, the ship gave way, and formed a complete wreck, which caused great hilarity among the company who were close enough to witness the scene.” The above might form a most fertile text for sinister inferences, if we possessed the talent in that line of some of our Paris contemporaries. We content ourselves with ex- , pressing our satisfaction that Monsieur Soyer never has been, and we hope never will be, intrusted with the charge of Surveyor of the Navy, in addition to that of Chef de Cuisine at the Reform Club. We have no objection to his building gateaux Britanniques, which “ give way” in the heat of actiou ; but we desire to see no brioche of his contriving in the Mediterranean. THE SUW. Who has not beard of the cuisine of the Reform Club ? Who has not heard of its chef, Alexis Soyer, and his soufflct monstre d la Clontarf, and his creme de VEgyptc a l'Ibrahim Pacha ? Well, here we have the mighty gastronomic magician coming forward, in proprid persona, and informing us of the methods he employs to produce those results which astonish and delight the world. If we mistake not, this book of M. Soyer’s is destined to produce a revolution in the kitchens of England, and to substitute for the fat, greasy, unscientific school of cookery the science of gastronomy, a science which teaches the art of extracting from food, animal and vegetable, the nutritious portions in such a manner as to please the eye and the taste, while at the same time the material is economised to the utmost. The fol- lowing passage shows that M. Soyer bus hud considerable experience on the subject of which he treats: i17 “ During the last ten months, I had to furnish 25,000 dinuers for the gentlemen of the Reform Club, and 38 dinner parties of importance, comprising above 70,000 dishes, and to provide daily for 60 servants of the establishment, independent of about 15,000 visitors who have seen the kitchen department in that lapse of time.’’ The result of that experience we have in this volume. He gives us bills of fare for parties of all sizes, from a coronation banquet to a bachelor’s snug party in chambers. He also gives us plans of kitchens of all sizes, from the magnificent gastronomical laboratory of the Reform Club to my “ Kitchen at Home,” which is suited to the means and requirements of the solitary bachelor. Let all those who are tired of the eternal roast and boiled, alter- nating with chop and steak—who think that mutton broth is [not the only potuge in the world—that there are methods of dressing fish other than plain boiling and frying, and other sauces than melted butter—purchase M. Soyer’s book. They will find that it is indeed that which it professes itself to be—a Gastronomic Regenerator. BEi.&CSCW'OOB’S BEiiG-AZZM'E. Cookery and Civilization. It is only after passing through an ordeal cruelly insidious, tolerably severe, and rather protracted, that we feel conscientiously entitled to assert our ability to dine every day of every week at the Reform Club, without jeopardy to those im- mutable principles which are incorruptible by Whigs and indestructible by Rats. A sneer, perhaps, is curling with “beautiful disdain” the lips of some Conservative Achilles. Let us nip his complacent sense of invulnerability in the bud. To eat and to err are equally attri- butes of humanity. Looking at ourselves in the mirror of honest criticism, we behold features as unchangeable as sublunary vicissitudes will allow. “ Time writes no wrinkles on our azure brow.” Witness it! ye many years of wondrous alternation—of lurid tempest and sunny calm—of disastrous rout and triumphant procession—of shouting psean and wailing dirge—witness the imperturbable tenor of our way! Attest it, thou goodly array of the tomes of Maga, laden and sparkling, now as ever, with wisdom and wit, science and fancy !—attest the unwavering fidelity of our career! All this is very true; but the secret annals of the good can never be free from temptations, and never are in reality unblotted by peccadilloes. The fury of the demagogue has been our laughing-stock—the versatility of trimming politicians, our scorn. ’ We have crouched before none of the powers which have been, or be ; neither have we been carried oil'our feet by the whirlwinds of popular passion. Yet it is difficult to resist a good dinner. The victories of Miltiades robbed Themistocles of sleep. The triumphs of Sorer are apt to affect us, “ with a difference,” after the same fashion. There was, we remember, a spirit of surly independence within us on visiting, for the first time, the “ high capital” of Whiggery, where the Tail at present, “ New rubb’d with balm, expatiate and confer Their state affairs.” To admire anything was not our mood : “ The ascending pile Stood fix’d her stately heighth ; and straight the doors, Opening their brazen folds, discover, wide Within, her ample spaces, o’er the smooth And level pavement.” And as these lines suggested themselves, we recollected who the first Whig is said to have been, and whose architectural glories Milton was recording. We never yet heard a Radical disparage a peer of the realm without being convinced, that deep in the pocket, next his heart, lay an incautious hospitable invitation from the noble lord, to which a precipitate answer in the affirmative had already been dispatched. Analogously, in the magnificent edifice, whose tesselated floor we were treading gingerly, it seemed to us that we surveyed an unmistakable monument of an innate predilection for the splendours and comforts the pomp and the abandon, of a “proud aristocracy.” This was before dinner, and we were hungry. To tell all that happened to us for some hours afterwards, would, in fact force us to transfer to our pages more than half of the volume which is prompting these observations Suffice it to say, that when w,e again stood on Pall-Mall, a bland philanthropy of sentiment’ embracing ad races, and classes, and seels of men, permeated our bosom. Whence came the mellowing iufiuence, seeing that we had been, as our custom is, very innocent of wine 5 Nor could it be the seductive eloquence of the company. We had, indeed, been roundly vituperated in argument by the Liberator. Oh, yes! but we had been fed by the Regenerator. To us, then, on these things much meditating—so Cicero and Brougham love to write—18 many of the speculations In which we had Indulged, and of the principles which we had ndvocated, were obviously not quite in harmony with the views long inculcated by us on a , docile public. Suddenly the truth flashed across and illuminated the perplexity of our pon- derings. We were aware that, early in the evening, a much milder censure than usual upon some factious Liberal manoeuvre had passed our lips. This took place just about the fourth spoonful of soup. The spells were already in operation under the shape of « potage a la Marcus Hill.’ There is a fascination even in the name of this “ delicious soup”— such is the epithet of Soyer—which oui readers will better understand in the sequel. A fain it was impossible to deny that we had hazarded several equivocal observations in reference to the Palmerstonian policy in Syria. But it was equally true that such inadvertencies slipped from us while laboriously engaged in determining a delicate competition between “ John Vor6e d I’Orltannaise” and “ samnon a la Beyrouth A transient compliment to the influence at elections of the fumous Duchess of Devonshire was little liable to objection, we imagined, during a playful examination of a few “ aiguillettes devoluille a la jolie filled More questionable, it must be admitted, were certain assertions regarding the Five Points, enunciated hastily over a " neck of mutton a la Charte.” No fault, however, had we to find with theJ utting facetiousness with which we had garnished “ cotelettes d’agneau a la reforme en surpyi'ise aux champignons,’’ The title of this dish was so ludicrously applicable to the consternation of the remnants of the Melbourne ministry—the cutlets of lamb—in finding themselves outrun in the race by mushroom free-traders, that our pleasantry there- anent was irresistible. It was difficult, at the same time, to justify the expression of an opinion, infinitely too favorable to Peel’s commercial policy, yielding to the allurements of a ‘‘ turban des cailles d la financiered And, on the whole, we smarted beneath a con- sciousness that all our conversation had been perceptibly flavoured by “filets de becasses d la Talleyrand.” The result of these reflections was, simply, an alarming conviction of the tremendous influence exercised by Soyer throughout alt the workings of the British constitution. The causes of the success of the League begin to dawn upon us, while our gravest suspicions are confirmed by the appearance, at this peculiar crisis, of ‘ The Gastronomic Regenerator.’ What patriotism can withstand a superabundance of untaxed food, cooked according to the tuition of Soyer? How can public virtue keep its ground against such a rush of the raw material, covered by such a “ batterie de cuisine?” Cobden and Soyer, in alliance, have given a new turn, and terribly literal power, to the fable of Menenius Agrippa. “ There was a time when all the body’s members Rebell’d against the belly.” Such times are gone. The belly now has it all its own way, while “ The kingly-crowned head, the vigilant eye, The counsellor heart, the arm our soldier, Our steed the leg, the tongue our trumpeter,” are conjunctly and severally cuffed or bunged up, or broken, or stifled, unless they are perpetually ministering to the service of the great cormorant corporation. It is mighty well to talk of the dissolution of the League. The testament of Csesar, commented on by Mark Antony, was eventually more fatal to the liberties of Rome, than the irrepressible ambition which originally urged the arch-traitor across the Rubicon. ‘ The Gastronomic Regene- rator, in the hands of every housewife in the country, is merely to convert the most invincible portion of the community into a perpetual militia of free-traders. All cooks proverbially encourage an enormous consumption of victuals. The study of Soyer will infallibly transform three fourths of the empire into cooks. Consequently, the demand for every variety of sustenance, by an immense majority of the nation, will be exorbitant and perennial. No syllogism can be more unassailable. We venture also to affirm that the judgment of posterity will be rigidly true in apportioning the endurunce of fame which the conflicting merits of our great benefactors may deserve. It is far from unlikely that the glories oi a Peel may be disregarded, forgotten, and unsung, when the trophies of a Soyer, still odorous, and unctuous, and fresh, shall be in everybody’s mouth. The ‘ Gustronomic Regenerator’ bus not assumed his imposing title without a full appreciation of the dignity of his office, and the elevation of his mission. The brief and gruceful “ dialogue culinaire’’ between Lord M. II. und himself, illustrates the grand doctrines that man is a cooking animal, and that the progress of cooking is the progress of civilization. There is something prodigiously sublime in the words of the noble inter- locutor, when he declares, “ Read history, and you see that in every age, and among all nations, the good which has been done, and sometimes the evil, has been always preceded or followed by a copious dinner.’’ This language, we presume, must be considered, on the great scale, ns applicable to the most solemn and momentous occurrences in the history of governments and countries. Not that we can exclude it from individual biography. Bene-19 Tolence we have always regarded as a good sauce, and have often observed It to be an excellent dessert. The man who tucks his napkin under his chin immediately after con- ferring a benefit on a fellow-creature, invariably manifests marvellous capabilities for di- gestion; and, on the other hand, the man who has dined to his own entire satisfaction, if solicited in the nick of time, will frequently evince an open-handed generosity, to which his more matutine emotions would have been strangers. But—to reverse the picture—any interruption to the near prospect of a “ copious dinner” is at all times inimical to charity ; while repletion, we know, occasionally reveals such unamiable dispositions as could not have been detected by the most jealous scrutiny at an earlier period of the day. Nations are but individuals. We understand, therefore, the noble lord to mean, that all the history of all the thousand races of the globe concurrently teaches us that every great event social or political, domestic or foreign, involving their national weal or woe, has been harbingered or commemorated by a “copious dinner.” Many familiar instances of this profound truth- some of very recent date-crowd into our recollection. But we cannot help suspecting a deeper meaning to be inherent in the enunciation of this “great fact.” Copious dinners are as it strikes us, here covertly represented as the means of effecting the most extensive ameliorations. To dine is insinuated to be the first step on the highway to improvement. In the consequences which flow from dining copiously, what is beneficial is evidently stated to preponderate over what is hurtful, the qualifying “sometimes" being only attached to the latter. In this respect, dinners seem to differ from men, that the evil is more freouentlv “interred with their bones,” while the “good they do lives after them.” This is assuredly ringing a dinner-bell incessantly to the whole universe. We have ourselves, not half an hour ago, paid our quota for participating within the last week in congratulatory festivities to two eminent public characters. The overwhelming recurrence, in truth of these enter! tainments, drains us annually ot a handsome income; and, reading as we do daily in the newspapers, how every grocer on changing his shop round the corner, and every professor of dancing, on being driven by the surges ol the Utilitarian system up another flight of sta rs must, to felicitate or soothe him receive the tribute or consolation of a banquet and demon^ wl00,’ r„ u'd UP 0UZ hands 111 amazement at the opulence and deglutition of Scotland What shall become of us, driven further onwards still, by tbe impetus of the « oSonomic Regenerator, we dare not fortell. The whole year may be a circle of public fea^s • nml our institutions gradually although with no small velocity, relapse into the common’tabte of Sparta. But never, whispers Soyer, into the black broth of Lycurgus. And so be e, snares us into the recognition of another fundamental principle, that the simpliciW of Laconian fare might be admirably appropriate for infant republics and penniless helots but worlH^Th10 subs'stence an, overgrown empire, and the possessors of the wealth of the world. Thus cookery marks, dates, and authenticates the refinement of mankind The savage cuts his warm slice from the haunches of the living animal, and swallows ft reeS from the kitchen of nature. The civilized European, revolting from the dreadful renast burns, and boils, and stews, and roasts his food into an external configuration colour and substance, as different from its original condition as the mummy of Clmops differs from the Cheops who watched, with an imperial dilatation of his brow, the aspiring immortalTtv of the pyramids Both ,n acting so differently, are the slaves and the types of tbe c reum ,fr° ol their position. The functions in the frames of both are the same • but these fnn^i curiously follow the discipline of the social situation which directs and regulates H, • ' j"S velopment. The economy of the kitchen is only a counterparUn its simnlSv nr ee dr* cation, its rudeness or luxury, of the economy of the state. The subjects of leiMarei,"11’ 'i despots may eat uncooked horses with relish and nourishment. The denizens^f a uomfcl system whose every motion is regulated by an intricate machine^, in which he C " all the myriad wheels in motion are indented with inextricable multiplicitv of each other, perish under any nurture which is not ns intricate comulev °? lnt® confused. What a noble and comprehensive science is this Gastronomy ’ ’ ' Cm ’ and ‘Are you not also,” says the philosophic Soyer, in the same interestino- diain^..^ .< r opinion with me, my lord, that nothing better disposes the mind of man to amitv i>ft ?’ i°f and deed, than a dinner which has been knowingly selected, and artistically served “n answer is most pregnant. “It is my thinking so,” replies Lord M. II. “ which h,,'. 1 1 made me say that a good cook is as useful as a wise minister.’» Behold to wh„f * f we are carried! The loaves and fishes in the hands of the Whigs, aud Sorer at the iuh e Club to dress them 1 Let us banish melancholy, and drive away dull care Th! i n'°lm propensities of a foreign secretary ure happily innocuous. The nimnnr. The bellicose like the idle wind which we regard not. Protocols and treaties notes and ,7” us are henceforth disowned by diplomacy. The figure of Britannia with 1 r®Presentations, ,pK Ior “«< ■ TtoSw ss “Surveys mankind from China to Peru;”20 and with an unruffled ocean at her feet, and a cloudless sky overhead, smiles on the count- less millions of the children of earth, chatting fruternully together at the round table of universal peace. Bright will be the morning of the day which sees the impress of such an image on our currency. Of course, it will be understood that we are entirely of the sama mind, abstractly, as M. Soyer and Lord M. H. The maitre de cuisine appears to us un- questionably to be one of the most important functionaries belonging to an embassy. Peace or war, which it is scarcely necessary to interpret as the happiness or the misery of two great countries, may depend upon a headache. Now, if it were possible, in any case, to trace the bilious uneasiness which may have perverted pacific intentions into hostile designs, to the unskilful or careless performance of his momentous duties by the cook-legate, no punishment could too cruelly expiate such a blunder. We should be inclined to propose that the brother artist who most adroitly put the delinquent to torture, should be his suc- cessor, holding office under a similar tenure. It may be matter of controversy, however, at once whether such a system would work well, and whether it is agreeable to the pre- valence of those kindly feelings which it is the object of M. Soyer, and every other good cook or wise statesman, to promulgate throughout the human family. The publication of ‘ The Gastronomic Regenerator’ inspires us with better hopes. The tyro of the dripping-pan will be no more entitled to screen himself behind his imperfect science or neglected education, than the unlettered criminal to plead his ignorance of the alphabet as a justification of his ignorance of the statute law whose enactments send him to Botany Bay. The rudiments and the mysteries—the elementary axioms and most recondite problems—of his lofty voca- tion are unrolled before him in legible and intelligible characters. The skill which is the offspring of practice, must be attained by his opportunities and his industry. And if “ Fame is the spur which the clear spirit doth raise,” it might, we trust, satiate the most ravenous appetite which ever gnawed the bowels even of a cook, not merely to secure the tranquillity of the universe, but to save his native land the expense of armies and fleets, and turn the currents of gold, absorbed by taxation, into the more congenial channel of gastronomical enterprise. The majestic and far-spreading oak springs out of the humble acorn. In future ages the acute historian will demonstrate how the “ copious dinner” which cemented the bonds of eternal alliance between vast and consolidated empires, whose people were clothed in purple and fine linen, lived in habita- tions decorated with every tasteful and gorgeous variety which caprice could suggest and affluence procure, and mingled the physical indolence of Sybaris with the intellectual activity of Athens, was but the ripe fruit legitimately matured from the simple bud of the calumet of peace, which sealed a hollow truce among the roving and puny bauds of the naked, cityless, and untutored Indian. So, once more, the perfectibility of cookery indi- cates the perfectibility of society. The gallantry of Soyer is as conspicuous as his historical and political philosophy. He would not profusely “scatter plenty o’er a smiling land” solely for the gratification of his own sex. The sun shines on woman as on man ; and when the sun will not shine, a woman’s eye supplies all the light we need. The sagacious Regenerator refuses to restrict to the lordly moiety of mankind a monopoly of his beams, feeling that, when the pressure of mortal necessity sinks his head, fairer hands than those of the statesman or the warrior, the ecclesiastic or the lawyer, are likely to be the conservators of his reputation. “ Allow me,’’ he remarks, “ to suggest to your lordship, that a meeting for practical gastronomical purposes, where there are no ladies, is in my eyes a garden without flowers, a sea without waves, an experimental squadron without sails.” “ Without the smile from partial beauty won, Say what were man ?—a world without a sun !” The harrowing picture of desolation, from the pen of M. Soyer, may be equalled, but cannot be surpassed, by a line here and there in Byron’s ‘ Darkness.’ The sentiment, at the same time, sounds oddly, as it issues from the penetrulia of a multitudinous club. Our notion has hitherto been, that a club was an invention of which a principal object was to prove that female society was far from being indispensable to man, and that all the joys of domesticity might be tasted in a state of single-blessedness beyond the precincts of home for a small annual payment. A thorough-going club-man would very soon drive a coach and four through the Regenerator’s polite eloquence. For instance, a garden without flowers has so much the more room for the growth of celery, asparagus, artichokes, and the like. There could not possibly bo a greater convenience than the evaporation or disap- pearance of the waters of the ocean; because we should then have railways everywhere, and no nausea. Sails, likewise, are not requisite now-a-days for ships ; on the contrary, steam-vessels are so evidently superior, that the sail-maker may as well shut up his shop. The flowers of a garden are an incumbrance—the waves of the sea are an impediment—the sails of a ship are a superfluity. Garden, sea, and ship would be better wanting flowers.21 waves, and sails. On the same principles a club is preferable to a family fireside, and tho lot of a bachelor to the fate of a Benedict. M. Soyer, speaking ex cathedrO. from the kitchen of the Reform Club, would find it no easy matter to parry the cogency of this reasoning. He forgets, apparently, that he bares bis breast to a most formidable attack. What right have men to be cooks ? What hypocrisy it is to regret that women cannot eat those dinners which women alone are entitled, according to the laws of nature and the usages of Britain, to dress ! Be just before you alt'ect to be generous ! Surrender the place, and the privileges, and the immunities, which are the heritage and birthright of the petticoat! Hercules with a distaff was bad-enough ; but where, in the vagaries and metamorphoses of heathen mythology, do you read of Hercules with a dishclout? What would the moon say, should the sun insist on blazing away all night as well as all day? Your comparisons are lull oi poetry and humbug. A kitchen without a female cook—it is like a flowerless garden, a waveless sea, a sailless ship. A kitchen with a male cook—is a monster which natural history rejects, and good feeling abhors. The rights of women are scarcely best vindicated by him who usurps the most precious of them. There will be time to complain of their absence from the scene, when, by a proper sell-ostracism, you leave free for them the stage which it becomes them to occupy. These are knotty mutters, M. Soyer, for digestion. W ith so pretty a quarrel we shall not interfere, having a wholesome respect for an Amazonian enemy who can stand fire like salamanders. To be candid, we are puzzled by the sprightli- ness of our own fancy, and do not very distinctly compreheud how we have managed to Involve the Regenerator, whose thoughts were bent on the pule and slim sylphs of the boudoir, in a squabble with the rubicund and rotund vestals who watch the inextinguishable flames of The Great Hearth. This marvellous dialogue, from which we have taken with our finger and thumb a tit-bit here and there, might be the text for inexhaustible annotation. It occupies no more than two pages ; but, as Gibbon has said of Tacitus, “ they are the pages of Soyer.” Every topic within the range of human knowledge is touched, by direct exposition or collateral allusion. The metaphysician and the theologian, the physiologist and the moralist, are all challenged to investigate its dogmas, which, let us forewarn them, are so curtly, positively, and oracularly propounded, as, if orthodox, to need no commentary; and if heterodox, to demand accumulated mountains of controversy to overwhelm them. For he, we believe, can hardly be deemed a mean opponent, unworthy of a foeman’s steel-pen, who has at bis fingers’ ends “ Mullets a la Montesquieu,” “ Fillets of Haddock a la St. Paul,” “Saddle of Mutton a la Mirabeau,” “ Ribs of Beef a la Bolingbroke,” “ Pouding Souffle a la Mdphistopheles,” “ Woodcock a la Stael,” and “ Filets de Bceuf farcis a la Dr. Johnson.” The constitution of English cookery is precisely similar to the constitution of the English language. Both were prophetically sketched by Herodotus in his description of the armv ot Xerxes, which gathered its numbers, and strength, and beauty from “ all the quarter’s in the shipman’s curd.” That imperishable mass of noble words—that glorious tongue in which Soyer has prudently written ‘ The Gastronomic Regenerator,’is in itself an un- equalled specimen of felicitous cookery. The dishes which furnished the most recherchi dinner Soyer ever dressed, the “ Diner Lucullusian a la Sampayo,” being resolved into the chaos whence they arose in faultless proportions and resistless grace, would not disclose elements and ingredients more heterogeneous, remote, and altered from their primal nature than those which go to the composition of the few sentences in which he tells us of this resuscitation ol the ctxna of Petronius. A thousand years and a thousand accidents the deepest erudition and the keenest ingenuity, the most delicate wit and most outrageous lolly have been co-operating in the manufacture of the extraordinary vocabulary which bas enabled the Regenerator himself to concoct the following unparalleled receint for “ The Celestial and Terrestrial Cream of Great Britain. (See p. 719.) Haifa century hence, when the simmering over the roseate fire is silent, may we with cen(fmfMma^nMion^! ° ^ °" halW consummation of the conceptions of his trans- The Regenerator is too conversant with universal history not to know that his book in crossing the Tweed northwards, approaches a people more familiar with its fundamental principles ban any other inhabitants of these Fortunate Isles. England, for anyth" g we care, may deserve the opprobrious title of perfidious Albion. Scotland-(“ Stands Scoihmd where it did? )-was ever the firm friend of France. Ages ago, when our southern co ins were incessantly fighting, wo were constantly dining, with the French O, , rl a s noblest fnmi ies were mingled b, tl,„ dearest lies wlAe ,,,Z anptadSblS of l o edopted and of Ms,,. For centuries uninterrupted!, dm maintained nn , te eb»nee of every gentle courtesy, and every iriendly succour; and when the broadsword w.Tnnf^fi S£5£ir «•« =■£ Regenerator did not disdain to Might on hung,, shores, ,„,d l««,.T„ES°t?W tl'eta22 beneficence, which nro grateful to this hour in the nostrils and to the palate of prince and peasant. Nay, we shrewdly conjecture that some time-honoured secrets still dwell with u* of which the memory has long since perished in their birthplace. Boastful we mav not sufler ourselves to be But if M. Soyer ever heard of, or dressed, or tasted precis we have dressed and tasted, what is known to us and a very limited circle of acquaintances as Lamb-foasty,’ we shall start instantly from the penultimate habitation of Ultima Thule commonly known as John O Groat’s House, expressly to test his veracity, and cratifv ouJ voracity. Perhaps he may think it would not be too polite in us to transmit him the receipt Not for a wilderness of Regenerators! Could we unfold to him the awful leg-end in con- nexion with it, of which we are almost the exclusive depositaries, the cap so lightly lying on his brow would be projected upwards to the roof by the instantaneous starting of his hair The Last Minstrel himself, to whom it was narrated, shook his head when he heard it and was never known to allude to it again ; in reference to which circumstance, all that the bitterest malice could insinuate was, that if the story had been worth remembering, he was not likely to have forgotten it. “ One December midnight, a shriek”—is probably as far as we can now venture to proceed. There are some descendants of the parties, whose feelings, even alter the lapse of five hundred years, which is but as yesterday in a Highlander’s genealogy we are bound to respect. In other five hundred years, we shall, with more safety to our- selves, let them “ sup full of horrors.” ‘ The Gastronomic Regenerator’ reminds us of no book so much as the Despatches of Arthur Duke of Wellington. The orders of Soyer emanate from a man with a clear, cool determined mind—possessing a complete mastery of his weapons and materials, and prompt to make them available for meeting every contingency—singularly fertile in conceiving and fortunate without a check in executing, sudden, rapid, and difficult combinations-overlook- ing nothing with his eagle eye, and, by the powerful felicity of his resources, making the most of everything—matchless in his “ Hors-d’ceuvres”—unassailable in his “ Removes”— impregnable in his “ Pieces de rdsistance”—and unconquerable with hi3 “ Flanks.” His directions are lucid, precise, brief, and unmistakable. There is not a word in them super- fluous—or off the matter immediately on hand—or not directly to the point They are not the dreams of a visionary theorist and enthusiast, but the hard, solid, real results of the vast experience of a tried veteran, who has personally superintended or executed all the operations of which he writes. It may be matter of dispute whether Wellington or Soyer acquired their knowledge in the face of the hotter fire. They are both great Chiefs—whose mental and intellectual faculties have a wonderful similarity—and whose sayings and doings are characterized by an astonishing resemblance in nerve, perspicuity, vigour, and success. In one respect M. Soyer has an advantage over his illustrious contemporary. His Despatches are addressed to an army which as far outnumbers any force ever commanded or handled by the Hero of Waterloo, as the stars in the blue empyrean exceed the gas-lamps of London—an army which, instead of diminishing under any circumstances, evinces a ten- dency, we fear, of steadily swelling its ranks year by year, and day by day—a standing army, which the strong hand of the most jealous republicanism cannot suppress, and which the realization of the bright chimera of universal peace will fail to disbnnd. Before many months are gone, thousands and tens of thousands will be marching and countermarching, cutting and skewering, broiling and freezing, in blind obedience to the commands of the Regenerator. “ Peace hath her victories no less than those of war.” But it is not to be forgotten that if the sword of Welington had not restored and confirmed the tranquillity of the world, the carving-knife of Soyer might not have been so bright. The confidence of Soyer in his own handiwork is not the arrogant presumption of vanity, hut the calm self-reliance of genius. There is a deal of good sense in the paragraph which we now quote. (See p. xi.) It seems a childish remark to make, that all salts do not coincide in their saltness, nor sugars in their sweetness. The principle, however, which the observation contains within it, is anything but childish. It implies that, supposing the accuracy of a Soyer to be nearly infallible, the faith in his instructions must never be so implicit ns to supersede the testimony of one’s own senses, and the admonitions of one’s own judgment. It is with the most poignant recollections that wo acknowledge the justice of the Regenerator’s caution on this head. We once, with a friend who shared our martyrdom, tried to make onion soup in exact conformity with what was set down in an Oracle of Cookery, which a foul mischance had placed across our path. With unerring but unreflecting fidelity, we filled, and mixed, and stirred, arid watched the fatal caldron. The result was to the eye inexpressibly alarm- ing. A thick oily fluid, repulsive in colour, but infinitely more so in smell, fell with a flubby, heavy, lazy stream into the soup-plate. Having swallowed, with a Laocoonic con- tortion of countenance, two or three mouthfuls, our individual eyes wandered stealthily towards our neighbour. Evidently we were fellow-sufferers; but pride, which has oc- casioned so many lamentable catastrophes, made us both dumb and obdurate in our agony23 Slowly and sadly, at lengthened Intervals, the spoon, with Its abominable freight, continued to make silent voyages from the platters to our lips. How long we made fools of ourse'ves It is not necessary to calculate. Suddenly, by a simultaneous impulse, the two windows of the room favoured the headlong exit of two wretches whose accumulated grievances were heavier than they could endure. Hours rolled away, while the benutiful face of Winander mere looked ns ugly as Styx, os we writhed along its banks, more miserably moaning th.n the hopeless beggar who sighed for the propitiatory obolus to Charon. And from that irrevocable hour we have abandoned onions to the heroines of tragedy. Fools, in spite Oi all warning, are taught by such a process as that to which we submitted. Wise men, take a hint. “Nature, says I to myself’—Soyer is speaking—“compels us to dine more or less once a-day.” The average which oscillates between the “more” and the “less,” it requires considerable dexterity to catch. Having read six hundred pages and fourteen hundred receipts, tbe question is, where are we to begin ? Our helplessness is confessed. Is it possible tbe Regenerator is, after all, more tantalizing than the Barmecide? No—here is the very aid we desiderate. Our readers shall judge of a “ Dinner Party at Home.” (See p. 636.) We shall be exceedingly curious to hear how many hundred parties of eight persons, upon reading this bill of fare in our pages, will, without loss of time, congregate in order to do it substantial honour. Such a clattering of brass and brandishing of steel may strike a new government as symptomatical or preparatory of a popular rising. We may therefore reassure them with the information, that those who sit down with M. Soyer, will have little thought of rising for a long time afterwards. We have introduced ‘ The Gastronomic Regenerator’ to public notice in that strain which its external appearance, its title, its scheme, and its contents, demand and justify. But we must not, even good-humouredly, mislead those for whose use its publication is principally intended. To all intents and purposes M. Soyer’s work is strictly and most intelligibly practical. It is as full of matter as an egg is full of meat; and the household which would travel through its multitudinous lessons must be as full of meat as the Regenerator is full of matter. The humblest, as well as the wealthiest kitchen economy, is considered and in- structed ; nor will the three hundred receipts at the conclusion of the volume, which are more peculiarly applicable to the “Kitchen at Home,” be, probably, the portion of the book least agreeable and valuable to the general community. For example, just before shaking hands with him, let us listen to M. Soyer, beginning admirably to discourse of the “Choosing and Roasting of pluin Joints.” (See p. 637.) How full of milky kindness is his language, still breathing the spirit of that predominant idea—the tranquillization of the universe by “copious dinners!” He has given up “ basting” with success. Men may as well give up basting one another. Nobody will envy the Regenerator the bloodless fillets worthily encircling his forehead, should the aspira- tions of his benevolent soul in his lifetime assume any tangible shape. But if a more distant futurity is destined to witness the lofty triumph, he may yet depart in the confidence of its occurrence. The most precious fruits ripen the most slowly. The sun itself Joes not burst at once into meridian splendour. Gradually breaks the morning; and the mellow light glides noiselessly along, tinging mountain, forest, and the city spire, till a stealthy possession seems to be taken of the whole upper surface of creation, and the mighty monarch at last uprises on a world prepared to expect, to hail, and to reverence his perfect and unclouded majesty. r THE IWOUMTUG POST. Cream of Egypt VIbrahim Pacha. The novelty of the bill of fare which appeared in our columns ol Saturday last relating to the banquet given to his Highness Ibrahim Pacha by the members of the Reform Club, the day previous, having since been the topic of general conversation, our readers will perhaps feel interested in the description of two of the most novel and original dishes served on that occasion. The first, entitled “Cream of Egypt a l’lbrabim Pucha,” and composed expressly for the occasion by M. Soyer, the chef de cuisine of the club, was the admiration of the whole company, and especially so of the Pacha who as soon as it was placed before him, quickly perceived the honour intended to be conferred upon him. This dish consisted of a pyramid about two feet and a half high, made of light meringue cake, in imitution of solid stones, surrounded with immense grapes and other traits, but representing only the four angles of the pyramid through sheets of waved sugar to show, to the greatest advantage, an elegant cream a L'ananas, on the top of which w.ii resting a highly-finished portrait of the illustrious stranger’s father, Mehemet Ali carefullv drawn on a round-shaped satin carton, the exuct size of the top of the cream The nnrtn.ii was immediately observed by his Highness, who carefully took it up, and, after showing it24 to several of his suite, placed it in his bosom. What was his Highness’s astonishment however, on again looking at the spot, to observe in the cream, as under a glass, a highly! finished portrait of himself, surrounded by a very carefully-executed frame. M. Soyer having been sent for by the party, was highly complimented by bis Highness, throughhi! interpreter. The Pacha desired to know where and how he could procure such a likene-s of his father, und how his own was so correctly drawn in the cream ? “ Please tell his Highness,” says M. Soyer to the interpreter, “that both were executed from the original sketches drawn by our celebrated artist Horace Vernet, whilst in Alexandria. The portrait in the cream is drawn on wafer-paper, which being placed on the dump jelly representing the glass, dissolves, and nothing remains of the wafer-paper but the appearance of the portrait painted in light water-colours. The imitation of the gilt frame is made with the cuu de vie ol Dantzic and gold water mixed with the jelly, the gold leaf of which forms the frame.” After having been thanked by the Pacha, the pyramidal cream of Egypt was ordered to be shown to each guest by sliding it from one to the other round the table. Though everything was eatable in it, this magnificent dish was respected, and remained untouched until the end ol the banquet, though everybody tried to partake of the fruit which surrounded it. The next dish which much amusfcd the company was the one entitled the “ Gateau Britannique a I’amiral,” being the representation of an old man-of-war, bearing the English and Egyptian flags, drawn on rice-paper, the ship being filled with ice vtousseuse aux ylche, and loaded wiih large strawberries, cherries, grapes, and bunches of currants. It was so placed on the table that Commodore Napier had to help from this cargo the illustrious stranger, who appeared much amused at the incident. The moisture and liquor of the ice gradually melted and imbibed the carcase of the vessel, which was made of a kind of delicate sponge cake. While the gallant commodore was in the act of helping the remainder of the ice, the ship gave way, and formed a complete wreck, which caused great hilarity among the company who were close enough to witness the scene. NEWSPAPERS, &c. IN WHICH M. SOYER’S WORK HAS BEEN NOTICED. Atheneeum. Bell’s Life. Literary Gazette. Liverpool Chronicle. L’Observateur Franyais. Morning Chronicle. Morning Herald. Morning Post. Musical VYorld. Naval and Military Gazette. Observer. Petit Courrier des Dames. Pictorial Times. Punch. Satirist. Sharpe’s Magazine. Spectator. Sun. Sunday Times. Tablet. Times. Weekly Chronicle. Windsor and Eton Journal. Atlas. Blackwood’s Magazine. Britannia. Brussels Herald. Builder. Chambers’s Journal. Colburn’s New Monthly, Court Journal. Courrier de PEurope. Douglas Jerrold. English Gentleman. Era. Examiner. Glasgow Constitutional. Globe. Guardian. Hood’s Magazine. Illustrated News. John Bull. Journal des D6bats. La Mode. Dispatch.From ‘ THE TIDIES’ of the 19th FEBRUARY, 1847. Third Edition.—Yes! a third edition of this truly nationul work now lies before us. The public, as we shrewdly foresaw, have not failed to appreciate the labour of its author. Alexis Soyer has received the reward that sooner or later is bestowed upon the philan- thropist and the patriot. It may possibly be remembered that when the incomparable cook of the Reform Club was overcome, to use bis own words, with “ a thrill of horror,” by the request of several persons of distinction, “particularly the ladies,” who urged him to publish a cookery book, he suddenly recollected having been in “a most superb library,” where all at once his attention was attracted by the 19th edition of a voluminous work, which was supported on either side by the glories of a Milton and a Shakspeare. When the Rege- nerator found courage to open the precious volume, to his great disappointment he disco- vered “ a receipt for ox-tail soup.” “ The terrifying effect produced upon me,” says Monsieur Soyer, “ by this succulent volume made me determine that my few ideas, whether culinary or domestic, should never encumber a sanctuary which ought to be entirely devoted to works worthy of a place in the temple of the Muses.” Alas, how rash are human resolutions! How little, in the obscurity of our spring-time, do we dream of the daz- zling splendour that awaits our coming summer 1 Every library, from the London to the British Museum, from Brocket Hall to the Palace of the Tuileries, has welcomed the Regenerator to its choicest shelf, and edition follows edition with a rapidity which, in the case of so ponderous a work, is positively marvellous. Like Byron, M. Soyer finds himself famous in a morning. We do not grudge him his greatness, but we confess we do envy the succeeding generations, who, destined to be the offspring of men lhat have been taught by Soyer to eat—not to appease hunger, but to elevate the soul,—will have acquired a delight in existence for which their grosser grandfathers were physically unfit. We welcome with all respect the third appearance of this true child of civilization. We can do no more.26 AENEY’s PATENT JELLY & BLANCMANGE POWDERS. For the last eighteen months, I have invariably used the ubove production, and must acknowledge that these Powders combine all the requisites generally expected in a new invention. It is well known that cooks, in the country in particular, are very often disap- pointed in obtaining calf’s feet, and it also happens at times that they do not always succeed in' producing a clear and fine jelly, although good in taste, not pleasing to the sight; the above Powders obviate all disappointments. They can be in store, and used when required; there is an economy in the cost, economy of time, und a certainty of having a brilliant jelly at any time.—A. Soyer. As these Powders are prepared with the very best material, they are equal to calPs feet; and although already flavoured, can be altered according to taste. Sold at Is. per Packet, or 2s. per Bottle, at 33, Frith Street, Soho Square; and at Arney’s Factory, Willow Mills, Mitcham Common, Surrey. One Packet at Is. will make a Jelly of one pint and a half; and a Bottle at 2s. three pints. MAKEPEACE’S CULINARY HERBS. I feel justified, from experience, in very strongly recommending Makepeace’s Culinary Herbs, which are admirably prepared for kitchen purposes, and of inestimable value for sea voyages. Their convenience and utility are decidedly of the greatest advantage in a well- organised kitchen ; the cook having at all seasons of the year every species of herb used in cookery, which hitherto could only be partially obtained. The flavour is kept in high perfection; and the appearance of these herbs are really pleasing to the sight. Amongst the great variety of them, parsley, sage, tarragon, and winter savory are particularly useful; the onion, garlic, and eschalot powders, when sprinkled over hot joints, steaks, or chops, impart a most delicious flavour to it. The veal and pork stuffing are very fine, and save an immense deal of trouble. In fact, 1 may say that no exception can be made, as all these excellent herbs are prepared, regardless of trouble and expense, in a most careful und scientific manner ; which is a great credit to the patience of the inventor, and a benefit to society.— A. Soyer. Sold in neat Boxes, sorted at l.v. and 2s. per Bottle, at 33, Frith Street, Soho Square; and at Makepeace’s Factory, Mitcham, Surrey.27 “ Reform Club, Sept. 23.” SOYER’S MODEL KITCHEN. From the Times, Sept. 28, 1347. “ To the Editor of the Times. "Sin, The great interest you manifested in February last, when I made known my intention ot erecting by subscription a model kitchen for the poor, was handsomely responded to by the public, and the scheme being considered by Government likely to be (at that dis- tressing period) ol immense advantage for Ireland, I was requested to lay my plans before the Lords of the Treasury, and being approved of, I willingly accepted the invitation of erecting my model kitchen in Dublin, instead of London, as I at first intended. “ Having successfully proved that the system was of paramount importance, both as regards the large quantity of superior food that could be produced, and the immense saving that could be effected, the Government then purchased my model kitchen, and the South Union Kehef Committee of Dublin have had the use of it ever since the 24th of April. “ As I am certain, Sir, that my subscribers and the public will feel interested in the result of my plan, the following brief statement will, I hope, awaken all local boards (if at all anxious), and adopt a system which must save, on a very moderate calculation, at least 50 per-cent, at any period of either scarcity or plenty. “ I leaye to those who are better acquainted than I am with statistics what would be the amount saved to the ratepayers all through the country. “ From the opening of my model kitchen by me, on the 6th of April last, to the 24th, the number of rations of 2£ lb. each was - - 40,000 “ from the 26th of April to the 22d of May, by the South Union Relief Committee, the number of rations, averaging 12,500 per day, was - 300,000 ‘From the 24th of May to the 31st of July, also by the South Union Relief Committee, the number of rations per day varying from 1,750 to 23,640, was . . ... . 729,279 “ From the 2d of August to the 14th, averaging 6,500 a-day, was - 78,000 “ Making 2,868,179 lb. of food, and of rations .... 1,147,279 “ To supply that ^number of rations by the old plan of preparing food in different depots, would have cost, at 3d. per ration (which is rather under the average), the sum of - " But, accordingito my plan of preparing food with my model kitchen, as it was estimated in a report made to the Relief Committee by its Secretary, on the 23d of April last, the cost of each ration, including coals, expenses of house, carriage, labour, <fcc. came to 1(W., making altogether, for 2,863,197 lb. of solid food, a sum of - . £15,538 7,768 “ -Effecting a saving in favour of the South Union Committee of 50 per cent., or a sum of - . . . _ £7,768 In support of the above statement, I beg to observe that the ratepayers of the North Lmon of Dublin have paid 3s. id. in the pound, whilst those of the South Union only paid result, Sir, speaks volumes in favour of my system. In addition to the model kitchen, Messrs. Brown & Co., of Great Suffolk Street, Borough, have erected one of their patent steam-plate ovens, which can bake on an average 1,000 loaves of 4 lb. each everv U hours whh three bushels of coke. The 1,000 loaves require 11 sacks of flour, conse- quently, 22 sacks can be worked in 24 hours, 132 sucks per week, at about lrf. per sack for fuel. What with the savings in baking, and also the new process of making bread, I have introduced, I calculate that full 25 per cent, can be saved on the cost of bread at all times. I beretore, admitting that the model kitchen, the new oven, and the new bread could only save 35 or 40 per cent, to the ratepayers, the system cannot be otherwise than particu- larly interesting to the whole community. 1 “ I am, Sir, yours most respectfully, “A. SOYER.28 “ Reform Club, Feb. 17.” Under tbe Patronage of the Right Rev. the Lord Bishop of London. SOYER’S PAROCHIAL MODEL KITCHEN, FOR THE POOR WEAVERS OF SPITALFIELDS. From the Times of February 21. “ Sir—Having lately been introduced by several gentlemen of distinction to the Reverend Joseph Brown, the benevolent pastor of Saint Matthias, Spitalfields, with tbe view of relieving, if possible, at a trifling expense, the sufferings of that industrious but distressed class ol society, the Weavers of Spitalfields; and having,.with that gentleman, visited several of their abodes, we found, in many of the houses, five or six in a small room entirely deprived of the common necessaries of life—no food, no fire, and hardly any garment to cover their persons, and that during the late severe frost. In one of the attics we visited we inquired of a woman how they subsisted. Her husband, she said, had no employment during the last four months, and that they merely lived on what he could get by begging in the streets ; she added, that she and her children had not tasted a bit of food for twenty-four hours, the last of which consisted of apples partly decayed, and bits of bread given to her husband, which food we may consider, if even plentiful, to be pernicious to health. The only piece of furniture in that gloomy abode of misery was the weaving machine, now at rest, and which, in time of prosperity, was used to provide food, and made, if not a wealthy, at least a happy home for those now wretched and destitute families, and the scientific production of which has often, and even now, adorns the persons of thousands of the aristocracy and gentry of the country. “ I am quite convinced, Sir, that the wearers of those luxuries possess at all times the most charitable feelings towards their fellow-creatures in distress; and when they are made aware, through the medium of your powerful journal, of the facts of the present lamentable position of those who have by their industry so often gratified their sights and wishes, none of them will, I am certain, refuse a small token of charity towards the relief of those unfor- tunate martyrs of industry, whose poverty no one can blame, but whom everybody must pity. Alter having witnessed such distressing scenes, I immediately proposed that my Subscription Kitchen for the Poor, which was being made at Messrs. Bramah and Prestige’s factory, should be erected, without any loss of time, in the most populous district of Spitalfields, where there are no less than 10,000 poor people in one parish, and hardly any wealthy families among them to give them relief. “ I ani happy to inform you, Sir, that my first experiment, made last Saturday, has been * most successful, having been able to make a most excellent peas panada and meat soup in less than one hour and a half, and that at a very moderate expense—the quickness and saving of which are partly owing to the contrivance of my new steam apparatus, and which food was distributed, without any confusion, in less than twenty minutes, to about three hundred and FirTY children, who were selected for the occasion from the different schools, the remainder of the food, with bread, being given away to many poor families in the neigh- bourhood. “ The kitchen will remain open daily, and nothing will be given away except to those who are proved to be quite destitute ; a quart of food or soup, and a quarter of a pound of bread, will be given for one penny. “ All information respecting the issuing of tickets and receiving of subscriptions will be made known by advertisements. “ I am aware that every nobleman, gentleman, and tradesman have to support their own poor, and therefore propose that not more than a guinea should be received from any one as a subscription ; but from (itl. to the above sum will be most thankfully received, and disposed of with the greatest economy. “ I beg to observe, that uny of the subscribers who should wish to keep their names private, will be pleased to make a private mark, that they may see it correctly entered in a catalogue, which will be published monthly, with an account of all the subscriptions received, expenses incurred, the quantity of ingredients consumed, with a correct list of the poor relieved. “ I trust, under all these circumstances, you will be good enough to give a place to this ietter in your journal. “ With the highest consideration, “ I am, Sir, your most obliged, “ A. SOYER.SOYER’S MINIATURE MARINE KITCHEN. As constructed on hoard the ‘ Guadalquiver.’29 SOTTER’S CUT. IN AHY INNOVATION. MINIATURE KITCHEN FOR THE NAVY. BY AN OBSERVER. The indefatigable Gastronomic Regenerator, Mons. Soyer, whose mind is always catering for the comfort and the taste of all classes of society, has not only given us a most useful work on Cookery, containing thou- sands of excellent receipts, hut also various plans for the construction of kitchens, such as the matchless Kitchen of the Reform Club, the Kitchen of the Wealthy, his Kitchen at Home, the Bachelor’s, and the Cottage Kitchen. But when the late famine took place in Ireland, his attention was quickly drawn to the shortest and most economical means of relieving a vast number of the destitute, and that, by the erection of a Model Kitchen on a plan entirely new, and which proved of the utmost importance in Dublin, noth as regards superiority of wholesome food, and its immense saving in preparation, which can be tested daily by rich and poor in meiely con- sulting that excellent sixpenny little book, the c Poor Man’s Regenerator,’ containing twenty-three invaluable receipts for the working class and the poor. What leads us to the above introductory remarks is, that for a little while we find him abandon the inhabitants ot terra firma for the wide ocean, to show us that he can devote also a portion of his time and ex- ertion to the comfort of seafaring life in the fitting up of a commodious Miniature Kitchen on board every-sized vessel laying claim to real im- provement. Lately the beautiful and splendid steam-ship the Guadalquiver, built at Liverpool, left that wealthy mercantile town for the Spanish Main with a kitchen such as never was before attempted to be erected. To give our readers an idea of the completeness of this Marine Miniature Kitchen, they will be surprised when we say that in a confined space of seventeen feet long and eight wide, a range with vertical bars, smoke-jack, screen, spits and dripping pan are erected, where roasting may be done in great perfection : next is a bain-marie, for keeping soups and sauces very30 of bcin,s "paet in ro''*h «■“- vegetables, and even m^hfu Zd “1" ^ baiI» *» *-* There is also a good oven for Inkin» h i & ^reat convenience. 1.0. eloset above® a kiteben tablewh,7' P"“7' ^ a"d * which i. „ cupboard washing boxes; under the stove anZZlatear T””' TeSetable a,ld ' above the stoves are rfiaeerl rnw e n 1 ^ le wo recesses for fuel; are bred T‘ « ”« covers, and ladles are suspended, and secured noth bandTof InT^ Z’ to prevent the rattling: in fact a comnW« * n ** • , “ . 1 dia rubber disposal of the cook ; and the last but not the^ ^ G CU1Sme’ 1S at the moveable balance grating, with somethin- nevVZZZriv^11 ““ prevents the upsetting of any saucepans use°d upon it Two perpendicular pieces of iron of about fifteen inches are fixed Lto a circle, the size of the charcoal stove, at the extreme points of the square tw e P!DS 0f ir<;n are fixed to keep the circle in its place; between the two uprights is the grating, supported by two rods on each side finishing " th,e eDd like a h00k’ t0 “to the hol^perfo8 the top of the uprights, thus acting like the compass, the sauce- pans arc thus always on a level; and by Merely turning the e je “ over rtf0111 ^thlS balance grating will support its burthen the fire constantly on a level, despite the rolling of the vessel Out stdc, leading to the deck, are rows of hooks covered over to bang p me laT S7' faCt> ,he "h0le 0f the » so®contrived tliat they have the appearance of fixture. diJnt8 ™ tCheV8 Z WeU;“tUated a”d and in it a recherche dmner can easrly be dressed for one hundred persons, being the average “U"b“ °£ rsengers ,itel5r t0 be *aken "P by tbe Guadaiquiver on the the Mand “ C°™WOa with tbe railroad constructed right through for a kitchen in a vessel of less dimension, one steam pan, the hot plate and oven would be sufficient, and only a few of the useful articles mentioned would be required, thereby considerably diminishing the ex- pense, and then possess a kitchen very superior to those now constructed. 4 C. and J. Adlard, Printers, Bartholomew Close.RECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: 3^06 Microfilm No: Date Particulars JlVl Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification (br\c\ k--uyCc vc> Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives Remarks Fines for late returns will be charged in accordance with the regulations.