.... 641.5942 RAW - ‘V;nu :; .*.0^ 'f*r >viiiLEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Camden 30106 023325912AX OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOKDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21538396AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK With Preface hy MRS. WILLINGHAM RAWNSLEY LONDON GEORGE ROLTLEDGE & SONS Limited New York : E. P. DUTTON & CO. A (/«scj5 PREFACE MY GRANDMOTHER’S RECIPE- BOOK It is an ancient, white-vellum- covered book, yellow now with age, that has been handed down in the family, for, I should imagine, many generations, and was a familiar object, often consulted in the kitchen and store-room, in the days of our youth, when the produce of a large garden, farm and orchard, in the country came in, in its season, for cooking and preserving. And, as many of the recipes therein con- tained are as useful now as whenPREFACE 6 they were first penned, and have lost no whit of their value, but rather, through much use and proved effi- ciency have gained an added worth, like the crust on old Port, it has seemed to me, that perhaps some extracts from the Volume may find favour, and be of practical assistance to some of those who still live in the country, and love to make use of its produce in their homes ; while the occasional quaint spelling, and men- tion of ingredients, or methods, now obsolete, may possibly give them an added charm, to the minds of some of us—in these days, when our jams so often come from the fruit-farm, or the factory, instead of from ourPREFACE 7 own kitchen-gardens ; when home- brewed beer, once the most usual thing, is almost unknown, v/hen the art of curing our own bacon and hams is little practised, and even home-made bread is the exception, and not the rule. Who can remember the delight of the children of the house in being sent out in April and May into the fields to gather cowslips for wine ? and then, returning with huge bunches of the golden-sweet flowers, to sit on the grassy lawn amongst the daisies, and pull out the “ pips ” of the cowslips from their green calixes, throwing them into a china bowl, until it was heaped high with thePREFACE 8 feather-light, fragrant mass—and how many of these bowls-ful were re- quired until the barrel for the brew was filled up to the brim, and the making of the wine could commence ? Then, in the middle of June, when the elder-trees were a mass of creamy - white clustered blossom, there was the gathering of them to make elder - flower wine, or “ Eng- lish Frontignac,” which had indeed a delicious muscat flavour ! And in autumn, when the berries upon these same bushes were ripe, and hung down over-weighted with their own abundance, they also were ready to be cut and collected, not only into tin pans or crockery bowls—for thePREFACE 9 luscious, deep crimson juice, where the berries were broken, would make stains in a wicker basket that could never be washed out. The wine made from the elderberries was a rare treat, when warmed up in a saucepan and taken hot, to a weary party of young ones, coming in late in the winter twilight, after a long walk home from a day’s skating. “It will warm the cockles of your heart,” as a dear old friend used to say to us, and we thoroughly agreed with that wholly inexplicable phrase ! Again, after the harvest, and the delights of gleaning in the home- fields, when the sheaves of wheat had been stored away in the old-PREFACE stone-gabled, ivy-clad barn, there would come a morning when we awoke to the sound of a continuous low humming proceeding from the farmyard, and well we knew what that meant ! It was the thrashing- machine ; and all through that day every spare moment would be spent in watching its slow devouring of the sheaves of corn that were thrown into it, and a quartern-measurefull of the sifted wheat would be brought into the house to make “ Furmety ” for next morning’s breakfast—a much-prized delicacy in the school- room. But, to return to our ancient recipe book. The spelling is peculiar lOPREFACE at times, as in the instructions for making an “ omlette,” the “ Sheps Head ” required for Scotch Soup, and also the “ Cellery.” “ How to Colar a Pig’s head,” is extremely racy reading, also the “ Old Sports- man’s recipe to pot Grouse ”—and we are glad to know how to preserve “ Green Plumbs ! ” In the “ Cure for Lumbago,” there is a very curious expression—“ for three nights hand-xurmmg ”—where it is only necessary, one would think, to say “ three nights running.” But the oldest and quaintest recipe of all is that “ For a cold,” which was found amongst some other papers, yellow with age, in the secretPREFACE 12 drawer of an old carved oak bureau, dated 1784. “ Squees the duce lemin,” is phonetic, and musical, and “Oalive Oil,” and “ Hunny,” have a patriarchal sound, so we hope that the remedy was effectual! But whatever is meant by “ crabs- eyes,” in the recipe for making plate- powder ? This, and a few other words, are a puzzle in these later days ; but the recipes for Christmas cakes, and other delicacies, bring before the mind’s eye visions of far- off days, and of long-gone-by mirth and festivities by which the old- world Christmas used to be cele- brated, when— A Christmas frolic well might cheer The poor man’s heart through half the year.CONTENTS I PAGE Soups 15 Meats 29 Pickles 36 Puddings 39 Creams 46 Jellies 53 Savouries 61 Cakes 67 Biscuits 71 Desserts 73 Wines 79 Cheese 86 Useful Receipts for House- keepers 91 >31 ii I % * 4.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK Consomm6 or Clear Soup An equal quantity of Beef and Veal is best, rub a quarter of a lb. of Butter over the bottom of a Stew- pan into which put the Meat, with some lean Ham, i lb. to sixteen pounds of Meat, 4 Onions, 4 Turnips, 2 Carrots, 6 Cloves, one blade of Mace and a pint of Water, set it over a brisk fire stirring it occasionally, until the bottom is covered with a clear light glaze, then add four Gallons of Water or thin broth. Skim 13AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 16 it well, add a bunch of parsley, 3 Sprigs of thyme, 2 Bay leaves, a quarter of a lb. of Salt, 2 Onions and 2 heads of Celery, let it simmer three hours, skim off all the fat and pass it through a cloth into a basin. Give it the colour of light Sherry with some brown gravy. For a smaller quantity to 4 lbs. Veal, a qr. of a lb. of ham, 8| oz. Butter, 2 Onions, half a carrot, a turnip, a head of Celery, a Sprig of parsley and of Thyme, a Bay leaf, 3 Cloves, 6 Pepper Corns, 1 oz 8c \ of Salt & four quarts of Water. Boil two hours—if not clear clarify it with the Whites of Eggs with their Shells in another Stewpan, Whisk themAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 17 B about a minute then add some of the cold soup continuing to Whisk till it simmers, then Whisk the boiling Soup & pour in the Whites of Eggs still continuing to Whisk till it simmers & the eggs separate from the Soup ; eight eggs for the large quantity. Directions for Making one Gallon of Mock Turtle Soup Clean and soak half the skin of a calf’s head, boil it with a calf’s tongue for one hour or until it is tender. Make the water you have boiled the skin in six quarts, and add to it a shin of beef, a cow heel cleaned but not boiled, a few bones,AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 1 lb. of bacon or a bacon bone, a lb. of onions sliced and friend brown, with I lb. of flour dredged on whilst frying ; three carrots, two parsnips, a turnip, two heads of celery, a little thyme and parsley, a crust of burnt bread, and a little salt. Let the whole stew gently for eight hours to obtain all the goodness out of the meat, by which time it should be reduced to four quarts. Strain through a hair sieve or fine calender —when cold take the fat off it—put it into a stew pan, and when it boils add to it 2 ozs. of flour rolled in 2 ozs. of butter, and i oz. of loaf sugar. Cut the skin and tongue into pieces | of an inch square and i8AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK add it to your soup, and the balls as receipt. To every quart of soup put two tablespoonfuls of the Turtle sauce and the same quantity of Sherry or white wine, let it just boil and take it off ; when serving squeeze the juice of a lemon into your tureen, and put your soup upon it. To make halls.—Take 2 ozs. of flour, 2 ozs. of grated bread, 2 shallots, a little thyme and parsley and lemon peel chopped very fine ; as much Cayenne pepper as will lie on a sixpence, and as much grated nutmeg as will lie on a shilling ; mix with an egg—a lump of butter, and a little Turtle sauce ; make intoAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK balls about the size of marbles and fry brown in the pan. This receipt is very excellent for gravy hare, carrot, or other soups—leaving out the skin and substituting either carrot or hare, but they will not require so much thickening. The bones of a calf’s head greatly im- prove soup. Three lbs. of skin and a tongue, with the balls ordered, is sufficient for one gallon of soup. For carrot soup, add more carrots, and pulp a few through a sieve to thicken with. All soups are in- finitely better for being made the day before you want them. May 14, 1844.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK Hare Soup Take a Hare, skin it and cut it in pieces, wash it very little, put it in a stewpan with 2 Turnips, 4 Carrots, 6 Onions (fry the Onions a good browTi), half a pound of Bacon, 2 pounds of lean Beef, a head of Celery, a teaspoonful of sweet pepper, one ditto of black pepper & one of Cloves, salt to your taste, a bunch of sweet herbs, 4 quarts of boihng Water, let it simmer 5 hours, then strain it & take the best part of the Hare out, strain the gravey & thicken it with Flour & a little Mushroom Ketchup. The Beef must be fried also. Only a few Cloves.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 22 Peas Soup Put Lettice leaves, pea-scods, old Peas, mint, an onion or two, some pepper corns & the crumb of a penny loaf, into a boiler of water & when these are all boiled tender rub them through a sieve; then chop the heart of the lettice small and put into the boiler with young peas & thicken your soup with flower & butter, salt it to your taste. Scotch Soup Sheps Head and pluck to eight quarts of Water, six onions, one Carrot, one Turnip, and a bunch ofAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 23 parsley. Stew all together five hours, strain it from the Meat the next day, take off the fat, put in a teacupfuU of port wine, pepper, salt and cayenne to your taste, cut the tongue in small slices, 2 forcemeat balls. Prussian Soup Take 2 large Leeks, 4 roots of Cellery, 2 Carrots, 2 or 3 Turnips, i Onion, and i Potatoe ; cut them in small pieces and fry them with a small piece of Beef or Mutton drip- ping, and a pound of Beef or any other Meat cut small. Put all together in a large saucepan and keep it stewing for an hour withoutAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 24 any water, then put two quarts of boiling water and let it stew again for two hours. A Spanish Onion Soup Take four Onions, pare and slice them, put them in a Saucepan with as much water as will cover them, put in a thick slice of Crumb of Bread, when well boiled, rub them through a sieve. Then put about Two oz. of Butter in the pan, fry it and add two spoonfuls of flour to thicken the butter, scald a pint of Milk in the same pan with the butter and put the onions to it. Stir it gently over the fire (mind it does not burn), add a Teaspoonful ofAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 25 Sugar and season with a little Mace. Ox Tail Soup Cut Two Tails in pieces, fry them a light brown, take some Onions and fry, rather brown, put some flour in the pan, keep the pan moving, till the flour and onions are brown, put all on, boil in as much water as will cover the Tails, boil all very tender, put sweet herbs, whole pepper, three blades of Mace, and a knuckle of ham. When enough, strain it off to stand all night. Take off the fat. Serve it up with Cut Carrot, Celery and Cayenne pepper. The pieces of Tail must be put in the Soup Tureen.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 26 Soup Maigre Fry a large handful of Sorrel in a quarter of a lb. of butter till it is tender, add a quart of boiling water, and some bread, pepper and salt to your taste, boil all together a quarter of an hour, beat two eggs and mix them with the soup when served. Brown Gravy Butter the bottom of a Stewpan, peel six large Onions, cut them in three slices, lay them flat on the bottom of the Stewpan. Two lbs. of Beef, lay the Meat over the Onions with the bones, add 6 Cloves,AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 27 2 Blades of Mace, 2 Carrots, 2 Tur- nips, I Head of Celery & a Table Spoonful of Salt, put it over a brisk fire 10 minutes. Shake the Stewpan, and when forming a brown glaze at the bottom let it stand a few minutes, set it on again and let it remain half an hour till it gets very brown but not burnt, pour the fat off, which must be clear, if not it is not ready to fill up ; fill up with ten quarts of Water, let it simmer two hours, skim it well, strain it & use when required, Mulligatawney Soup for 4 or 5 Persons Cut up one Rabbit, fry with 6AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 28 Onions, when brown put into a stew Pan with one pint of Stock, let it simmer, add a small spoonful of Currey Powder, more or less accord- ing to taste, a small I Tea spoonful of Cayenne Pepper, a small quantity of flour and butter. Pieces of rabbit to remain in the soup. Peas Soup Put ye meat into a pan with water to cover it. Let it stew gently, put in a few cloves & skim it well; the herbs must be stewed seperate for half an hour with a ^ lb. of Butter, then to be added to the liquor with the peas, and be stewed for an hour with pepper & salt.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 29 Green Peas without Meat Take half a peck of old Peas, lettice of all sorts, a little celery, mint, parsley. Marigold leaves, & purslain, of each one a handful, 5 or 6 cucombers and onions, boil all these well together, then with a spoon rub them through a culender till the juice or pulp is all squeezed out, then take Spinage chopped, young peas, a little pepper & salt and burnt Butter. Harrico of Mutton Take a neck or Loin of mutton, cut it into stakes, flower it & fry it brown in butter, take it out and lay it to drain, then put it into a stew-AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 30 pan & cover it with gravy, put in an onion, a Turnip or two, & stew them till tender, then take out the chops, strain the liquor & skim off the fat, put a little butter with flower in the stewpan, stirring it well all the time, then put in the chops, have ready some carrots & turnips cut in small dice, put them to your meat, & season with pepper & salt, stew them gently for 15 minutes then take out the chops with a fork, lay them into the dish & pour the sauce over them. To Stew a Briskit of Beef Wash free from soiling the water 4 pounds of beef, put into 5 quartsAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK of water, then add one spoonfull of salt, 4 heads of celery, 2 leaks or onions, a httle sorrel and endive, I carrot, a peice of parsnip. To Stew a Neck of Mutton in Stakes Cut the Mutton in stakes, pepper and salt them, fry them a little brown, then take them out of the pan and put them into a stew pan, fill the frying pan with water, let it boil, and pour it upon the stakes, when it boils throw in peas, onions, herbs, turnips and carrots cut small, let them simmer till they are enough, then add more pepper, salt, or water if required. 3'AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 32 Rabbit Pudding Bone a young Rabbit, pound it with 2 02. of fat Bacon, pass it through a sieve. Boil the Crumb of a Penny loaf with a very small piece of Shallot, 2 Blades of Mace, 6 Cloves, 4 Mushrooms and Salt and Pepper to your taste in half a pint of Milk, till quite thick, pass it through a sieve again, and pound the whole in a Mortar with the yolks of three Eggs, a quarter of an hour beat the whites on a Pewter Plate and mix altogether. Lay some fat Bacon in the bottom of your Mould and put the mixture into it. Boil it one hour in a Stewpan of waterAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 33 c which must be an Inch or two below the upper surface of the mould. Take out the Bacon when served. Pork Cutlets Fry some pork Chops a good brown, pour off the grease, and strew the crumbs of a crust of bread mixed with peper, salt and herbs. Pour over them two Spoonfuls of Vinegar and a little water, Cover them down and let them stew gently. When served garnish them with green pickle cut in slices. To Colar a Pig’s Head, Etc. Cut off the Head as large as you can ; split it down the middle, putAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 34 upon it I oz. of Salt Petre, & a of a pd. of common Salt, let it remain 7 days, then have ready 2 Cow heels, the feet & Ears of the Pig, 7 sheeps tongues split in four (or the best part of a Beast’s tongue, the latter pre- ferred) either of which should be ordered as for common use. Boil all together sufficiently tender for a straw to pass through them, be care- ful to take out all the bones from the head & feet, put a cloth into the mould, then place the above in it mixing all by degrees, of fat, lean 6c stiff parts, & as much as possible put the rind of the outside. Cover it up & put a large weight on the top not less than 2 stone; it should tOjMAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 35 Stand two or three days before it is taken out of the mould. If you wish to preserve the cheeks, a piece of the fat part of the pork will answer the purpose equally. The size of the Mould—7 inches deep, & 8 across to the outside of the wood. Veal Cake Boil four Eggs hard, cut the yolks into three or four pieces lay some of them at the bottom of a shape, take slices of Veal and Ham, season them with a little pepper, then add Eggs again, shaking in some chopped parsley with a little seasoning, add gravy enough to cover it, tie a doubleAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 36 paper over the shape, and set it in the oven in a dish of water to prevent ts burning. It will require an hour and half to bake it. When taken out of the oven set a weight upon it to press it. Ham that has been cooked will do equally well. To Pickle Red Cabbage Cut the cabbage in small slices, set in a cullender, shake over it a lb. of salt, let it stand about 5 minutes, then pour over it a kettle of boiling water, while it is draining get ready on the fire your vinegar with some sliced Ginger, when it boils put in the Cabbage and let it just boil about aAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 37 minute, put it in the Jar, stop it down close, when cold it is fit for use. To Pickle Cucumbers in Slices Take 15 large Cucumbers pared and cut into slices, put them into an earthen J ar with a quart of hot vine- gar, add 2 onions shced, 2 Sharlots, a good head of garlick, a handful and half of salt, one handful of ground pepper, and as much of Cayenne pepper as will lay upon a sixpence, it is not good till it has been made half a year. Indian Pickle I lb. of ginger laid in salt and water one night, cut it in thin slices, put it in a Bowl with dry salt, andAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 38 let it stand till the following things are ready ; take i lb. of garhck, peel it, and cut it in pieces, salt it and let it stand three days, wash and dry it in the sun on a sieve. Take any sort of garden stuff and salt them three days, then squeeze all the water out and set them 2 days in the sun to dry, then boil them in salt and water, take some long pepper and salt, a quarter of a lb. of mus- tard, and I ounce of turmeric bruised very fine. Put all the ingredients in a stone Jarr with a quart of the strongest vinegar, fill up the Jarr f full, and look at it m a fortnight. If occasion fill the Jarr, you may do cucumbers, melons, plumbs, applesAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 39 or anything else in this manner, you never empty the Jarr, but as things come in season put them in, being all dried in the sun. Keep it filled with Vinegar. Prince Albert’s Pudding Beat to a Cream ^ lb. of fresh Butter, & mix to it by degrees I lb. of sifted Sugar, five Eggs beaten seperately, yolks & Whites—strew in I lb. Flour & half a lb. jar of Raisins. Boil the Pudding three hours, a httle pounded Mace or the grated peel of a lemon is an improve- ment.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 40 Arrowroot Pudding Three Table Spoonsful of Arrow root to half a pint of Milk and one oz. Butter mixed with it. To be boiled till thick. 2 oz. loaf Sugar, 6 Bitter Almonds, 4 Eggs. Mix the Sugar, Almonds, Yolks of Eggs with the Milk, &c., and add lastly the Whites beat to a froth. Half an hour will bake it. Arrowroot Mange Three Table Spoonsful of Arrow Root with a little Milk to mix it. A pint of Milk put on the fire with two or three Bay leaves and four Oz. of Sugar. Pour the boihng Milk onAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 41 the Arrow Root, stirring it well, and give the whole a boil up till it thickens. To be made the night before required. It should look like Blanc Mange. The Queen’s Favourite Pudding ^ lb. Suet, I lb. of grated Bread, i pint of Cream, 3 Eggs, I lb. Cur- rants, I lb. Lump Sugar, the juice and rind of one lemon, beat all weU together for a quarter of an hour, to be baked in Cups. This will make six puddings. Sweet Pudding 2 oz. of Flour mixed in a pint ofAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK new Milk and boiled to the thickness of a Hasty Pudding. Six oz. of Sugar and butter beat together with the peel of a Lemon grated. Mix them with the Pudding when quite Hot. Six Eggs, leaving out half the Whites, to be well beaten and put to the other ingredients, just before cooking it. Half an hour will either bake or boil it. Orange Paste Lay Oranges in water three or four days, then boil them till they are tender, cut them in halves and take out all the pulp. To every pound of peel well pounded add a pound of Sugar. Separate the Pulp 43AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 43 from the Skins and Seeds, and add to it its weight of Sugar. Then beat the peel and pulp well together, and boil about three-quarters of an hour. The Pudding To three eggs and two ounces of sifted Sugar, a quarter of a pound of Butter melted in a large teacupful of water, three tablespoonfuls of the Orange Paste, and the juice of one Lemon. The Butter must be cooled before it be mixed with the eggs. Put a nice Paste at the bottom of the dish, and bake the Puddings an hour.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 44 Little Baked Plum Puddings Crumbs of a penny loaf grated, a pint of new Milk poured boiling hot upon it. Let it stand till cold, put to it four eggs, a small piece of butter,' a quarter of a lb. of Currants, the same quantity of sugar ; bake them in large cups. ^ Treacle Plum Pudding Half a lb. of Currants, ^ lb. of Raisins, half a lb. of suet, one lb. of Flour 2 Table Spoonfuls of. Treacle, one pint of Skim Milk with a little Ginger. It must boil four hours.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 45 Light Plum Pudding Bread Crumbs, ^ pint Boiling Milk, } Pint Suet chopped fine, a pint Raisins, | lb. Sugar, 3 Tea- spoonfuls of Flour, 3 Eggs. Boil two hours. Duke’s Custard Drain well from their juice, and then roll in dry sifted Sugar as many Morelia Cherries as will cover the bottom of the dish, pour over them a pint of rich cold boiled Custard. Garnish the edge with Macaroons, or pile upon the Custard some Rose Coloured whipped Cream flavoured v/ith Brandy. Sugar, 2 or 3 oz.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 46 The Rajah’s Sauce Strain very clear the juice of six fine lemons, add a small teaspoonful of Salt, a Drachm of Cayenne pepper and a Strip or two of the lemon peel; cut thin. Give the Sauce three or four minutes simmering, turn it into a basin, when quite cold strain it again, put it into small bottles. Keep it in a cool place. Lemon Cream Take the rind of 2 large lemons peeled very thin, infuse it in a pint of water three or four hours ; beat the yolks of four eggs and the whites of 2, with 8 ounces of fine sugar ;AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 47 add the water with the lemon peel, mix altogether wdth the juice of 2 lemons and strain through a fine cloth. Stir the hquid over a stove, taking care that it does not boil, and when as thick as cream take it off and stir it till cold. Blanc Mange Boil I ounce of Isinglass in a pint of water until it jellies, then take a pint of Cream (or half Cream and half New Milk), i ounce of Sweet Almonds, a few bitter ones beat fine, a slice of Lemon peel, and Sugar to your taste ; boil all to- gether a quarter of an hour, then strain through a thin cloth, andAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 48 when nearly cold put it into your Shapes, A little Noyau or Brandy is an improvement, but not to be added till nearly cold. Lemon Cream The juice of a large lemon or one and a half of small, half a glass of white wine, and the rind of one Lemon grated. Put these into the dish you intend to come to table, a pint of Cream sweetened very much, boil it, then put it into a tea pot to cool a little, and then pour it gradu- ally into the dish. N.B.—No spoon must be used to stir it after the cream is in.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK D 49 Orange Cream Take the peel of one Orange, the juice of three, four yolks, and two whites of eggs well beat and a quarter of a pint of spring water ; put to the juice half a lb. of sugar, then put in the eggs, stir it well and run it through a muslin strainer, put it over a slow fire and keep stirring till it is the thickness of cream. Apple Pudding Scald 4 large Apples, rub them through a sieve, the peel of i lemon grated, 4 yolks of Eggs, 3 Oz. of butter melted without water, pourAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 50 it in hot, and add the juice of a large lemon, a glass of White wine. Sweeten to your taste, put a thin crust at the bottom of the dish. Cheese Cakes The rind of two Lemons grated, ^ lb. of apples Grated, } lb. of Sugar sifted, six eggs, leave out one white, ^ lb. of butter Clarified & put it in the last, a little bit of mace if you have it; bake them half an hour. Half this quantity will make sixteen. Christmas Puddings I Peck and Three Quarters of Grits. 8 lbs. Chopped Suet, ii lb.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK Raisins, 9 lbs. Currants, Ginger, Allspice, &c., 10 lbs. Sugar. Yule Cakes I St. and half of Flour, 6 lb. Sugar, 6 lb. of Raisins, 3 lb. Cur- rants, 3 lb. Butter. Transparent Pudding Take four Eggs, leaving out two whites, beat them well, four oz. of lump sugar, two oz. of butter melted and poured upon the Eggs and Sugar ; beat them well together for half an hour just before it goes to the oven, as it must not stand to settle. Put a thin paste at the SIAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK bottom of your dish, then put Mar- malade into the dish, and pour the mixture upon it. A Httle more than half an hour will bake it. An Excellent Lemon Pudding Beat well together four Oz. of fresh Butter, creamed, and eight of sifted Sugar, to these add gradually the yolks of six, and the Wliites of two Eggs, with the grated rind and strained juice of one large lemon. The last must be added by slow degrees, and stirred briskly to the other ingredients. Bake in a dish lined with Paste, three-quarters of an hour.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 53 Lemon Pudding A quarter of a lb. bread, suet chopped fine, ^ lump sugar, 2 Eggs, the grated peel and juice of one lemon, 2 Oz. sweet almonds, and a very httle milk. Either bake or boil. Gloucester Jelly, for an Invalid 2 Oz. of Isinglass, 2 Oz. of Eringo root, 2 Oz. of Rice, 2 Oz. Pearl Barley, 2 Quarts of water boiled all together till reduced to one. This jelly may be put into broth or milk, or mixed with wine and lemon, as may suit the patient.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 54 Crisp Paste I oz. loaf Sugar sifted, put into a lb. of flour, mixed up with a gill of boiling Cream, and 3 oz. of butter melted in it. White of Egg and Sugar over the top of the tarts. Sweet Pastry To a lb. and quarter of Flour, a quarter of a lb. of sifted lump Sugar, and make it into a stiff with eggs, the yolks and Whites beaten to- gether. Frozen Cream Grate the rind and squeeze the juice of a lemon into a dish, well sweeten a pint of Cream, boil it, andAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 55 while quite hot put it into a Teapot and pour it slowy from a height upon the Lemon. A Lemon Pudding ^ lb. of Suet, ^ lb. Bread Crumbs, ^ lb. of fine sugar, 2 oz. of sweet Almonds, 2 Eggs, and a httle Milk, to which add the juice of one lemon and the peel grated ; the Pudding may be either baked or boiled. Flemish Cream Whip a quart or three Pints of Good Cream according to The Size of The Mould, and let it stand to drain for 4 or 5 hours. Then melt about half an Ounce of Isinglass inAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 56 a little water. Then strain it, and add Apricot Jam or any you like. (But the Syrup of preserved Apri- cots is much the best), a large Wine glass of Brandy, less or more as liked. Warm it altogether, pass it thro’ a sieve with the back of a sieve spoon—and mix it just Warm with the whip’d cream, & put it into The Mould to stand till quite cold. The water must not be boihng, or it will cause it to turn before you turn it out. Stone Cream Let the bottom of a glass dish be covered with preserve, or with fresh fruit sweetmead, grate the rind of aAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 57 small lemon over it, and squeeze the juice ; boil an Oz. of Isinglass in a pint and half of Cream, when dis- solved sweeten it to your taste, when nearly cold strain it, and pour it gently upon the fruit. Baked Custard A pint of Cream boiled with mace & Cinnamon, when cold take four Eggs & two whites, a little rose water, nutmeg, & Sugar to your taste; mix altogether & bake them in China Cups. To Make Beignets Half a pint of Milk boil’d with cinnamon and sugar, i spoonful ofAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 58 flour, 6 yolks of eggs, beat it in a mortar till it ropes, put it on a pewter dish for an hour or two, then take lard, and, when boiling hot, drop some in with a tea spoon. Orange Jelly Infuse I ounce & a quarter of Isinglass in a pint of water, then add the juice of five large china oranges and the juice of half a lemon or Seville orange paired thin, a quarter of a pound of fine sugar ; boil all together and strain it, when near cold then put it into your mould. Orange Jelly Ten Oranges and two Lemons,AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 59 take the rind from the Oranges as thinly as possible, squeeze the juice of the fruit upon rind through a sieve. Half a pound of Sugar with a pint of Water, let it boil till it be- comes a thick syrup, add the juice and rind to it, let it stand a few moments and again put it on the fire ; as soon as boiling commences skim well and add two wine glasses of Water by degrees, let boil another minute, when add i|- Oz. of dis- solved Isinglass, skim the whole and add a few drops of prepared Co- chineal to give an Orange tint. Gateau de Pomme A Pound of lump Sugar put to aAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK pint of water, and let it boil till it becomes sugar again ; then add 2 pounds of apples cut and cored, and the peel of a large lemon. Boil alto- gether till it becomes stiff, then put it into a mould, and when cold it will turn out very well. Strawberry Jelly Put a pint of water into a stew- pan to boil, throw in the straw- berries when it boils, let simmer a minute, add the juice of a lemon, place the lid on the saucepan to stand till half cold, strain it, make a syrup, and add the isinglass. 6oAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK To Stew Cheese Two ounces of scraped Cheese, a piece of Butter the size of a walnut, a middle-sized tea cup full of cream, and one egg, beat these together, put them into a pan, stirring it till it is melted, then pour it into the dish. Fromage Soufflee Equal portions of grated cheese and bread crumbs, the yolk of a raw Egg, some pepper and salt, all mixed up with some clarified butter, put them into a saucepan and let them just boil, then pour it into a dish. 6iAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 62 To Dress Maceroni Boil 2 ounces of pipe mace till it is quite tender, and lay it on a sieve to drain, then put it into a tossing pan with almost a gill of good Cream, a lump of Butter rolled in flour, boil it 5 minutes and lay it in your dish, then scrape some par- mazan cheese upon it, and put the dish into a dutch Oven to brown it. To Make Ramakins Take half a lb. of parmezan grated Cheese, & Butter melted, about one spoonful of flour, three yolks of eggs mix’d with the above, the whitesAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 63 to be kept seperate, and beat up very high, and only to be put in just before they are put into the Oven. These are baked in papers. Ham Toast Take the lean of Ham that has been dressed and chop it small, to two large spoonfuls put three eggs well beaten, a small lump of butter, and some cream. Stir it altogether over the fire till quite hot. Lay it on square pieces of toast, season it with pepper. An Omlette Beat the yokes and whites ofAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 64 four Eggs, and if you like it richer, the yoke only of one more. Mix a small table spoonful of Flour in about four tablespoonfuls of good milk, add to this the eggs with some chopped parsley and thyme, and season it with pepper and Salt to your taste, fry it in a httle fresh butter which should melt in the pan, but not boil before you put in the Omlette. Be careful not to shake the pan till the egg shall just have set, and make it only of a light brown on one side. Serve it either with or without gravy. Fricando Take cold Veal, and if not fatAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 65 E enough, take a little suet and fat of bacon or ham, a few bread crums, a httle marjerom, thyme and onion, a httle mace, nutmeg, pepper and salt, make them into Cakes an inch thick, fry it and send it in brown gravy. Old Sportsman’s Receipt to Pot Grouse Pluck, singe, draw, wipe out with a dry cloth. Put whole into a brown pot, with pepper & salt inside each bird, also a piece of butter the size of a hen’s egg ; put the rest of the butter over and about them, tie two or 3 folds of paper tight over the pot, & bake slowly 2 hours.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 66 Pick every bit of meat outside & inside from the bones, put this into potting pots, & when quite cold cover with clarified butter. Never let a drop of water touch the birds not even a wet cloth, i lb. butter is enough for a brace. (Instead of paper, it is better to cover the birds with a thick crust made of flour, or meal & water.) Calves’ Feet Jelly To four feet cut into small pieces put a gallon of water, boil them gently till about half is consumed, run it through a sieve and let it stand till it is quite cold, take off the fat with a knife, and the fineAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 67) part of the jelly melt with a pre- serving pan, and add wine, lemon juice and fine sugar to your taste, the whites of eight eggs beat to a froth, stir, and boil it all together half an hour, then strain it through a seive into a Jelly bag, and let it pass through that till it is quite clear. Yorkshire Cakes Two lb. of flour, i ounce of Butter, I ounce of sugar, 3 eggs, a tea cup full of yeast, about a quart of good milk, rub the Butter and flour well together, and beat the eggs, the sugar, the yeast altogether before you mix them. Make them up inAN OLD WORLD RECIPE BOOK 68 light paste and bake them in a slow oven; half the quantity will be enough for Breakfast. Soda Cake Rub into a lb. of Flour, a quarter of a lb. of Butter, add a quarter of a lb. of Sugar sifted, half a lb. of Currants, a quarter of an Oz. of Soda dissolved in half a pint of Milk. Do not mix the milk with the Soda, until it goes into the Oven, put the batter into tins or Moulds. Lemon peel or Ratafia greatly im- proves the Cake. Domestic Yeast Boil one pound of good flour, aAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK quarter of a pound of brown sugar, a little salt, in two Gallons of water for one hour when Milk-warm, bottle it and Cork it close, and it will be fit for use in 24 hours. One pint will make 18 pounds of bread. 1833. “ Simnel ” or Common Cake I lb. flour, ^ lb. butter, ^ lb. sugar, ^ lb. currants, some candied peel. I Egg & a oz. of soda mixed with a httle milk, put into a mould instantly and bake. To make a richer cake put in more butter. Tea Cakes I lb. Flour, I oz. butter, i egg.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 70 about a teaspoonful of yeast, ^ a pint of warm milk—mix together & let it stand to rise. Form into cakes & bake about a ^ of an hour. Currants may be added if required. Ginger Cakes I lb. Flour, I lb. lump sugar, 2 oz. ginger & 5 eggs : mix well to- gether & bake on small tins. Currant Loaf + lb. Currants, ^ lb. Raisins, 6 oz. Raw Sugar, i lb. flour, about 2 oz. Candied Peel. Buns lb. of Flour, six ozs. of ButterAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 71 well nibbed into the Flour, 2 Spoon- fuUs of Yeast, & 3 Eggs put into a pint of Milk rather warm—Mix the paste lightly and let it stand 3 Hours to rise ; then add 5 ozs. of Loaf Sugar sifted, and a little lemon peel—Bake them in small Pots or Tins. To Make Biscuits Take i ounce of butter and rub it well into i lb. of flower, make it into a paste with a little warm milk, role it thin, and cut them out with a Bason, prick them all over and bake them in a slow oven upon tins.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 72 Spunge Biscuits The same weight of eggs and of fine lump sugar powdered, half the weight of flour, grated lemon peel to give it taste, keep the whites of the eggs seperate, beat them to a strong froth, and only put them to the other ingredients just before you want to put the Biscuits into the Oven. Sift a little sugar over the biscuits, when you have put them into the tins. The flour must be very fine and dry and sifted, when you put it to the eggs &c. Almond Cakes Beat some whites of eggs, as muchAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 73 sugar sifted, drop them in little Cakes on wafer paper, slice some Almonds and stick in. Peaches in Brandy Gather your peaches before they begin to soften, put them in scalding hot water, be sure they don’t boil, when you think they are hot through, take them out and put them in cold water for a short time, then put them on a sieve bottom to drain ; to a pound of fruit take half a pound of loaf sugar, and a pint of Brandy ; after your peaches are well-drained, put them in your pots. Pour your syrup over them boiling hot, andAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 74 after that your brandy, and bladder them for use, your best way is to weigh your fruit before you scald it. To Dry Cherries To every 6 lbs. of British Cherries stoned, i lb. of sugar, let them stand three or four days, then warm over the fire, and let them stand 3 or 4 days more, warm them and let them stand the same time, then boil them till tender, and after pouring boihng water over them, set them spread thin to dry. To Preserve Green Plumbs Take them when green, scald them in water with a handful of VineAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 75 leaves, then put them in again and boil them till tender, take the weight of them in sugar, and put to them as much water as will make a syrup to cover them, then boil them gently and take them up, then boil the syrup till it is thick and clear, and when cold put it to the plumbs. To Preserve Quinces Take six large Quinces, core and scald them till tender, drain them from the w-ater, and when cold pare them, take their weight in sugar, boil it to a syrup, skim it well, then put in the quinces and let them stand all night, when they are red enough, boil them as the marmalade withAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 76 two poringers full of Jelly, when they are soft enough to run a straw through them, put them into pots, let the liquor boil till it jellies, and then pour it over them. To Preserve Quinces Boil them tender in a liquor made of the parings, then make a syrup of the hquor, taking half a pound of sugar to a pint of liquor, give them a boil in the syrup, take them out, and boil the syrup up after. To Make Marmalade of Quinces Boil the Quinces tender in water, then beat them in a mortar, just wet the sugar with some of theAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 77 water, and then boil it altogether till you think it is like Jam. Jelly for the Quinces Take some of the small Quinces, with parings and cores, cut them in quarters, put as much water as will cover them, let it boil up once, till it is strong of the quinces, then strain it thro’ a Jelly bag, if it is for white quinces pick out the seeds. Rum Butter J lb. butter, 2 oz. Castor Sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of rum (or brandy). Beat the butter to cream, sprinkle sugar in gradually, mixing in well.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 78 Then add rum slowly, mixing well, or it will curdle. Spread it out on a plate, with a broad knife : then cut into shapes, & set it to freeze. To Clarify Isinglass Put a quarter of a lb. of isinglass in a small stew pan, just cover it with a little spring Water, and add a piece of Sugar the size of a Walnut, shaking the stew pan to prevent its sticking to the bottom, when upon the point of simmering add the juice of half a lemon, let simmer about a quarter of an hour, skim, and pass through a strainer.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 79 Currant Wine A stone of Currants, a stone of lisbon sugar, 14 wine quarts of water, squeeze the Currants, a double handful at a time, through a grout sieve, stalks and all; then take them out of the sieve and press them into a pail with some of the measured w'ater to get the goodness from them. Don’t let them stand, but squeeze them directly, after this put the sugar into a Barrel and also the mash, stirring it night and morning with a stick that will reach the bottom, till it has done working, then bung the Vessel w'ell dow'n, and paper it over to keep the air out. ThisAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 80 receipt is supposing you make an hogshead, but if you only make a small quantity, use less water &c. Bottle it off the latter end of May, or early in June, leaving a little bit of flanel tied to the end of the cork. To a wine hogshead, ii stone of Currants, 154 lbs. of sugar, and 35 gallons of Water. Clara Wine To 10 Gallons of water, 3 pound of Sugar to the Gallon, and the white of 6 Eggs well beaten, boil it slowly one hour, and skim it well, then put it into a tub till it is almost cold. Take a pint of Clary Flowers, with theAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 81 F small leaves and stalks, put them into a Barrel with a pint of Ale Yeast, then put in your Liquor and stir it twice a day till it has done working, make it up close, and keep it 4 months and then bottle it off. Mo7iday, June 14, 1818. Louth. Receipt for Ginger Beer Take of Ginger root bruised and Cream of Tartar each two ounces, one lemon sliced, one pound and a half of white or browm sugar ; on these ingredients put into a proper Vessell, pour two gallons of boiling water ; let it stand till nearly cold, strain it and then add four tableAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 82 Spoons full of Yeast, bottle it in stone bottles and tie the corks down closely. English Frontignac Boil 18 lbs. white sugar in 6 gallons of water, with 2 whites of eggs well beaten, skim it, and put in a quarter of a Peck of Elder Flowers, do not keep them on the fire ; when nearly cold, stir it, and add 6 table-spoonsful of lemon juice, and 2 oz. of German Yeast on toast, beat the whole well into the liquor, stir it every day : put 6 lbs. of the best raisins, stoned, into the cask, and then the wine, stop itAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 83 close, and bottle it at the end of 6 months. Super Excellent Ginger Wine, For a wine Gallon Barrel. Take 7 Gallons of Water, 64 Oranges, 32 Lemons, 32 lbs. moist Sugar, f lb. Ginger, (a little bruised) and 21 lbs. of chopped raisins. Boil the water, sugar, and Ginger together one hour, skim it well all the time, then let it stand till hike Warm. Take off the peel of the Oranges and Lemons, slice them, take out the kernels and put them into the hquor, then add all the lemon Peels, and a fourth part ofAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 84 the Orange Peels. Let it stand 24 hours, then strain it through a hair sieve, take out the Orange and Lemon peels, and put it in the barrel. Strain the Orange and lemon skins well through a strainer before the wine is put into the barrel, then put in 2 lbs. of Raisins. When the Wine has done working bung it down, and let it stand three months, when it should be drawn off, and take out of the Barrel all the peel and pulp, wash it out with a little of the Wine, and strain the bottom through a flannel bag, put it in the barrel again with ^ oz. oi Isinglass, bung it down as before, and let it stand (at least) 2 or 3 months before it is bottled.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 85 To Cure Hams I lb. Bay Salt, ^ lb. Common Salt, one ounce of black pepper, 2 ounces of Saltpetre ; beat these all very fine and dry them all well before the fire, rub the Flour before the fire with these ingredients for five or six days, then put a pound and a half of treacle to the Ham, rub and turn the Ham every day for five weeks, then take it out of the pickle, and soak it 24 hours in cold water, let it hang to dry a month, when it comes home put a thick paste over it, and tye it up in brown paper. N.B. The above receipt is for a large Ham of 30 lbs.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 86 To Cure Hams For two large hams i^lb. of com- mon salt, 3 oz, of bay salt, 2^ oz. of saltpetre i lb. of coarse sugar— boil all these together in a quart of stale beer, when the pickle is cold, rub the hams with it every day for three weeks together. The salt- petre and bay salt must be pounded quite fine. Throw the liquor very frequently over the tops of the hams. A Cheese like Stilton Cheese If you keep three Cows, take four meals of milk and a gallon of CreamAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 87 that is turn’d sour, stir in a little wann milk with the cream before you put it to the rest of the milk, then take the stuff to colour it, and pare it very thin into a dish, and pour about a pint of the milk boiling hot upon it, stir it with a spoon till it is dissolved, and then strain it to the rest of the milk and cream. Make the milk not quite new-milk-warm; when it is come then take the wey from the curd, but do not press it much as you put it into the Cheese vat, strew some salt between every layer of curd and press it very little with your hands, when your cheese vat is full, lay about a stone weight upon it, and in two hours after it isAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 88 made, turn it, if it should fall to pieces put it into the vat over again, but never lay a greater weight upon it than what is mentioned above ; after it is taken out of the vat, keep it bound round with a cloth till the outside begins to harden. Fish Sauce Two spoonfuls of water, one of vinegar, two or three slices of an onion, 2 anchovies, some horseradish, put them into a saucepan and boil them till the anchovies are dissolved, strain the liquor and mix it up with butter and flour; you may add a little nutmeg and lemon peel. IfAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 89 you chuse a richer sauce put gravy to it, if for Carp or Tench add a spoonful of red wine. If you want a white sauce, put some Veal gravy and a spoonful of cream. The above sauce is very good to any white meats as well as Fish. Dutch Milk Take a quart of Milk, a quarter of a lb. of Raw sugar, add Cinnamon to your taste, put sippets into your dish, pour your milk over it, and set it over the fire, simmer gently until your bread be soft. Take the yoks of two Eggs, beat them well, and mix them with a little milk, simmer altogether gently.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 90 To Make Furmety Take fresh wheat, after it has been threshed, and soak it in water for four-and-twenty hours. Then boil it in milk, when the outside of the wheat will soften, and the white inside swell out from it. It can then be eaten for breakfast, like porridge. Scald Cream The method in Devonshire, where almost all our Butter is made of it. Set the Night Milk in the same Pan the next morning over a slow Fire to simmer for six or 7 hours— when enough take off the Pan and set it till quite cold into the Dairy.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK Take off the cream just before you want it as thick as possible. The Milk must have stood 12 hours in The Milk Pans before it is scalded (& if you let it boil it entirely spoils it). June, 1814. Mint Drops Take double refined sugar, sifted as fine as flour, perfume it if you hke, then have ready some gum arabic steeped in orange flower water, and with that make the sugar into a stiff paste, drop into some of it 3 or 4 drops of Oil of Mint, of Cloves ; or, if you hke, any other sort, make them up in little drops, lay them in 01AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 92 paper, dry them in the sun or before the fire. For a Cold put new laid Egg into a glass. Squees the duce Lemin to cover it. Let the egg Bide in the glas till the shel eaten of, then take the skin away, then put to Large spoons full of the Best Oalive Oil, to spoonfull of Brandy, to spoonfull of Rum, to spoonfull of hunny. Cure for Lumbago Take a piece of Common Saltpetre about the size of an ordinary Horse- bean, for three nights hand-running, upon going to bed.AN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 93 Do not expose the body to cold, during the three days, but do not keep too warm. Take a glass of good gin & water too, each evening. It is as weU, if hable to Lumbago, to take one glass of gin & water regularly, upon going to bed. This recipe has never been know to fail, for over 8o years. Particularly note. Sweet Spirits of nitre wiU not do at all, they must he avoided. Plate Powder Crab’s Eyes, 3 oz.. Alkalized Mer- cury I oz.. Oxide of Tin 2 Drachms, Rouge Powder one oz. (as sold by silversmiths). The whole must beAN OLD-WORLD RECIPE BOOK 94 very carefully mixed together, it had better be done by a druggist, as the Mercury must be entirely killed. The Plate is well cleaned with this powder occasionally, and always rubbed after use with the leather used in cleaning. Marking Ink Lunar Caustic loo Grains. Gum Arabic 2 Drachms. Rain Water (by Measure) i oz. Sap Green enough to colour it very strongly. Wet the linen with the following mixture : One Oz. of Soda dissolved in 2 Ozs. of Rain Water. It is better shghtly coloured, to shew where the Mark is to be.INDEX 95 PAGE Apple Puddings . 49 Arrow Root Mange 40 ,, Pudding . 40 Beignets . . .57 Biscuits ... 71 Biscuit Spunge . 72 Blanc Mange . . 47 Brisket of Beef, to stew . . . .30 Buns .... 70 Cakes, Almond . 72 „ Ginger . . 70 ,, Soda . . 68 ,, Simnel . . 69 „ Yorkshire . 67 Calves’Feet J elly . 66 Cheese Cakes . . 50 ,, to stew . 61 ,, likeStilton. 86 Cherries to Dry . 74 Christmas Pudding 50 Clara Wine . . 80 Clear Soup . .15 Crisp Paste . 54 Cucumber to pickle 37 Cure for a Cold . 92 Currant Loaf . . 70 Currant Wine . 79 Custard, Baked . 57 • 45 . . 89 PAGE English Frontignac 82 Fish Sauce . . 88 Flemish Cream . 55 Fricando ... 64 Fromage Soufflee . 61 Frozen Cream . . 54 Furmety ... 90 Gateau de Pomme 59 Ginger Beer . .81 Ginger Wine . . 83 Gloucester Jelly . 53 Gravy, brown . .26 Green Peas without meat ... 29 Green Plumbs to preserve . . 74 Hams to cure 85, 86 Ham toast . . 63 Hare Soup . . 21 Harrico Mutton . 29 Indian Pickle . . 37 Isinglass to Clarify 78 Jelly, Orange . 58 ,, Strawberry 60 Lemon Cream 46, 48 „ Pudding 53, 55 ,, ,, excel- lent . Dukes Custard Dutch .Milk • 52INDEX 96 PAGE Little Baked Plum Puddings . . 44 Lumbago to Cure . 92 Maceroni, to dress . 62 Marking Ink . . 94 Mint Drops . . 91 Mock Turtle Soup . 27 Mulligatawney Soup 17 Neck of Mutton, to Stew . . .31 PAGE Quince Jelly . . 77 ,, Marmalade . 76 Quinces, to Pre- serve . . 75, 76 Rabbit Pudding Rajah’s Sauce Ramakins, to make Red Cabbage, to Pickle Rum Butter 32 46 62 36 77 Old Sportsman’s re- cipe to Pot Grouse 65 Omlette ... 63 Orange Cream . 49 ,, Paste . . 42 Oxtail Soup . . 25 Pea Soup 22, 28 Peaches in Brandy 73 Pig’s Head to Colar 33 Plate Powder . . 93 Plum Puddings, light ... 45 Pork Cutlets . . 33 Prince Albert’s Pud- ding .... 39 Prussian Soup . .23 Scald Cream . 90 Scotch Soup 22 Soup, Maigre 26 Spanish Onion Soup 24 Stone Cream . 56 Sweet Pastry . 54 Sweet Pudding 41 Tea Cakes 69 The Pudding . 43 Transparent Pud- ding . . . . 51 Treacle Plum Pud- ding .... 44 Veal Cake . 35 Queen Victoria’s Puddings Yeast . . . 41 Yule Cake . 68 51 Butler & Tanner, Frome and Londo*.- '■* .\ -• • r,'»Y '%"’■ ^ - • .« V- ' . > ■ • ’ .; • *. ■ • • A', ■^‘'‘' *'C •’ V . 1 * ' . ■ ? • * • . • .. $' ' • > * •* ^ V • • 1 < i \ Tt it# I • • w V f I * • » •4i -f. V % • I,- V- • f « « f f’ r .*i-.-- • / f* ^ '•• '*4^ , . . » *^ • . .♦ * •' ^. ito., • , . ', < • # • T • <^ « • * ♦ » . * ^ 4 1^ - . .' .♦ .vC t • :• . • *1 • V ' • * # • , * ^ . , » { ■ . ■' ’4 ■ , • > • », > ../- * * . ' *. ♦, * ' *BH