ST. PANCRAS PUBLIC LIBRARIES Camden Town Branch. 18, Camden Street, N.W.l (EUSton 1976) \ The Home-Reading Library -is open from 10 a.m. iVtil 8 p.m. Monday to Friday (inclusive) and from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturday. Tbe time allowed for reading each work issued, whether one volume or more, is fourteen days. For OTy book not returned within that period, a fine M twopence for the first week or portion of a w\ek, and fourpence for each succeeding week orVortion of a week, is charged. In cas^ of infectious disease, books must NOT be returns to the Library, but must be delivered either to \^e Sanitary Authorities at the time of their ca\l, or to the Disinfecting Station, Public HealM Annex, 67-71 Prospect Terrace, Gray’s Inn RVad, W.C.l. Ter.8567 - open from 9 a.m. until A p.m., Monday to Friday; Saturday, 9 am. until la noon. No book can Ke issuei^ unless the reader’s ticket is presented or a'.book returned.-No book can be exchangecKon the day on which it was issued. \ Changes of addr^s of readers or of their sponsors must be n^ified within one week of such change. \ Readers leaving theVorough or ceasing to use tho to return their LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special CollectionsLondon Borough of Camden Swiss Cottage Library 88 Avenue Road LONDON NWS 3HA Tel: 01-278 4444 Extensions: Book Renewals 3021 Lending Library 3012 This book is due for return on or before the date stamped below. The period of loan can be extended if the book is not reserved (please ask for details of renewal facilities). I :L 1^' t 'T - TfPi Leiy^Xrb.raf.v.Jourg: lVlbn=^rf 0^6-8.' ^it 9.30-5 LA 104Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21538244THE COMPLETE COOKUNIFORM WITH THIS VOLUME The Complete Motorist The Complete Golfer The Complete Cricketer The Complete Rugby Footballer The Complete Shot The Complete Photographer The Complete Mountaineer The Complete Lawn Tennis PlayerCHOCOLATE CAKE A CHRISTMAS CAKETHE COMPLETE COOK BY LILIAN WHITLING LATE STAFF TEACHER OF THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL OF COOKERY WITH FORTY-TWO ILLUSTRATIONS vV METHUEN & CO. 36 ESSEX STREET W.C LONDON1430947PREFACE IN compiling this book, modelled as it is on the lines of that excellent work, The Boston Cookery Book by Mrs. M. J. Lincoln, several special objects have been kept in view. I. To give thorough grounding in the principles of each cooking process, so that the operator’s work may be rendered intelligent, not merely mechanical. 2. To so apply certain recipes that, by the suggested variations of ingredients and utensils, the title of the book may be fairly earned, yet without unduly increasing its size. 3. To give such clear directions that a reasonable success may be assured. This work is not intended for those who are already masters of the culinary art, nor yet primarily for the wealthier house- holds, but rather for the average housewife whose income permits of no thoughtless expenditure. In the following recipes measures are almost invariably directed to be used, in lieu of weights. Doubtless this will give rise to some unfavourable comments, but such a course was not decided upon without careful consideration. The reasons for its adoption were mainly because— I. Under certain circumstances weights and scales are impracticable, i.e. when yachting, camping out, etc. 2. The majority of cooks appear to have a racial antipathy to them, even if close at hand, yet their scruples do not extend to a cup and spoon.VI THE COMPLETE COOK A rule hitherto rarely followed, but strictly adhered to throughout this book, is that raw meat be invariably quickly washed, then dried. All thinking persons who use their eyes and common sense should agree with this essential process, for even if a fraction of nutriment be lost, the gain in cleanliness will be ample recompense. It is a matter on which several eminent members of the medical profession have written strongly. I am greatly indebted to Mrs. Charles Clarke, Lady Super- intendent of the National Training School of Cookery, etc., Buckingham Palace Road, for her courtesy in permitting photographs to be taken of dishes prepared in her School. LILIAN WHITLINGCONTENTS CHAP. PAGE I. The Kitchen, Larder, Storeroom—The Scullery: Kitchen Utensils: Care of the Same—Disposal OF Kitchen Refuse ..... i II. Cooking Stoves: Coal—Gas—Oil . . .12 III. Monthly Food Calendar — Average Price Lists— Short Marketing Hints . . . .21 IV. The Principles of Cooking —Methods of Cooking: Their Special Points—Common Causes of Failure —Average Times Required for Cooking Foods— Temperatures Required : Judging with and with- out A Thermometer—Table of Measures . . 52 V. Economy in the Kitchen—How to Adapt and what TO Substitute — What to do when Things go Wrong ....... 81 VI. How TO ....... 93 VII. How TO Compile a Menu—The Usual Accompani- ments TO Serve with various Standard Dishes— The Tasteful Serving and Garnishing of Dishes —Miscellaneous Hints . . . . .106 VIII. Soups —Stocks—Clear Soups —Purges—Thickened Soups—Broths—Fish Soups . . . .119 IX. Fish ........ 160 X. Meat—Cold-Meat Cookery .... 194 XL Poultry ....... 229 XII. Game ........ 241 XIII. Vegetables ....... 256 )THE COMPLETE COOK vin CHAP. page XIV, Sauces ....... 285 XV. Puddings and Pastry . . . . .303 XVI. Sweet Souffles . . . . . .344 XVII. Jellies ....... 352 XVIII, Creams ....... 361 XIX. Savouries ....... 370 XX. Cheese Cookery . . . . . .386 XXL Salads ....... 395 XXII. Sandwiches . . . . . . , < 404 XXIII. Breakfast Dishes and the Chafing Dish . . 409 XXIV. Eggs and Omelets . . . . .417 XXV. Invalid Cookery and Diet for Infants and Children ....... 428 XXVI. Bread and Scones . . . . .475 XXVII. Cakes and Biscuits . . . . .481 XXVIII. Cake Icings ....... 503 XXIX. Sweetmeats ....... 508 XXX. Ices 518 XXXI. Jams and Pickles . . . . . -523 XXXII. Beverages ....... 536 XXXIII. Miscellaneous ...... 545 Index ....... 549LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS Chocolate Cake A Christmas Cake Some Useful Kitchen Utensils . j- Frontispiece FACING PAGE 6 A Closed Range ..... The Entire Range is here Removed to Show ti STRUCTION OF THE FlUES AND POSITION OF THE Boiler ”...... Back View of Top of Range Showing Back View of Lower Part of the Range Showing OF the Ovens Lobster Cutlets Filleting a Plaice Fried Whiting Beef Galantine Fried Mutton Cutlets Cutlets Trimmed and Untrimmed Quenelles of Veal . Shaping Quenelles . Rissoles Timbale of Cold Meat Roast Rabbit . Scollops of Game Moulding a Raised Pie by Hand HE Dampers ; Con Arch 12 13 14 15 177 201 209 217 239 249\ Stuffed Tomatoes Apple Amber Pudding Chocolate Tartlets . Kneading the Dough for Puff Pastry Folding the Butter into Puff Pastry Folding Puff Pastry in Three . MILANAISE SOUFFLfi . A Prepared Souffle Tin . Macedoine of Fruits Charlotte Russe Coffee Cream .... Fig Cream .... Wafer Charlotte Olives A la Newport Cheese Straws Potato and Tomato Salad Russian Salad Curried Eggs .... Savoury Eggs .... Coffee Cake .... Rolling a Swiss Roll FACING PAGE . 282 } } 303 331 • 332 • 346. • 350 } 355 } 368 • 391 I 400 I 418 . 487 . 500 The illustrations are from photographs by Mr. Arthur Ullyett, except the Kitchen Utensils, which are included by kind permission of Messrs. Harrods Ltd.COOKING STOVES 15 the steam and fumes of cooking; otherwise the delicate flavour of the food is spoilt. Usually a little knob is fixed by the side ' of the oven, which, when pulled out, opens a little window-like arrangement in the side or back of the oven, which leads into the flue. 2. An Inlet from the kitchen into the oven. This is con- trived by putting a kind of grating on the outside of the oven door, which is opened or closed by a sliding arrangement, similar to the ventilators in a railway carriage. It must be borne in mind that when either of these is open, the tempera- ture of the oven is lowered. Some Modern Improvements 1. A Convertible Stove, to which allusion has already been made. 2. Adjustable Grates.—By which the space for the firing can be made larger or smaller at will. A simple lever-like arrange- ment is fixed to the side of the grate, which, when manipulated, raises, or lowers, the bottom of the fire space. This is much better than keeping up a low fire, for, by the former plan, the fire is always on a level with the hot plate, so that the air sucked in is first heated before passing into the stove. If only a low fire is kept, there is a large space between the burning fuel and the hot plate, so the air drawn in is not properly heated, and consequently lowers the temperature of the entire stove. 3. Reversible Dampers.—By these the flame can be directed round the ovens, so as to give the greatest heat at the top or bottom of the oven, according to whether top or bottom heat is required. Bread, cakes, and pastry require bottom heat; meats, top heat. In very many stoves only top heat is arranged, that is, the flame passes from the fire, over the oven, down the side of it, under it, and then out into the flue. Reasons why a Stove Fails to Act.—Want of draught; this may arise from— 1. Leakage of air into the flues, through their having been badly set, or— 2. The insufficient height of the chimney, or the presence near it of a higher building, or tall trees, these causing a down draught. Both these are errors of builder and architect. 3. Sooty Flues.—And this is the commonest cause of all.i6 THE COMPLETE COOK Often a stove is simply choked up in every passage wii soot. It wraps up the ovens and boiler in a soft black blanket, and, as soot is a most effective non-heat conductor, the heat cannot penetrate; no air can be drawn into the flue passages, and fires cannot burn without air. So if the kitchen range will not work, before buying a new one or sending for the plumber, put on an apron and a pair of old gloves, take off every movable piece of the stove, and with the soot-rake scratch and poke upwards and downwards and note the result. It generally leaves mistress and maid sadder and wiser women. T/ie Fuel.—The best coal for closed ranges is hard steam coal,, as it is low in price, makes little smoke, or deposit of soot, consumes slowly and gives out a powerful steady heat. This coal, however, kindles slowly, so, unless the usual soft, more gaseous coal can also be stored for use in the open grates of the sitting-rooms, it is tiresome to use the first named. Then, coke should be mixed with ordinary coal; this effects a considerable saving. When to Clean the Stove.—Have the chimney swept every six months at least. Brush out the flues at least once a week, or oftener if much cooking is done or a soft sooty coal used. Brush under the boiler and under the hot plate, over the top of the ovens every morning, and rake out the soot. Wash the shelves, door, sides, and bottom of the oven at least weekly with a stiff brush and hot soda water. Scrape off any burnt matter with an old knife. The fumes from a dirty oven are most unpleasant in a house, and ruin the foods cooked in them. To Clean a Coal Range.—l. Put on a coarse apron and a pair of housemaid’s gloves. 2. Close the windows and door to prevent the soot being blown about. 3. Remove the fender, fire-irons, lay down the hearth cloth, and over that some sheets of old newspaper. 4. Lift off all movable parts of the stove one by one, and brush off any soot underneath them on to paper, or into a pail. 5. Remove the bars in front of the grate, rake out all cinders and ashes into the ash box, clearing well under the boiler. 6. Lift out all small doors into the flues and brush them. 7. Push the flexible flue-brush up and down into each flue, as far as it will reach, pulling it up and down.THE COMPLETE COOK CHAPTER I THE KITCHEN, LARDER, AND STOREROOM—THE SCULLERY; KITCHEN UTENSILS: CARE OF THE SAME—DISPOSAL OF KITCHEN REFUSE THE KITCHEN, LARDER, AND STOREROOM The Kitchen This is one of the most important departments in a house; much of the health and happiness of the family depends on its efficient management and the intelligent preparation of the food cooked within its walls. It should be located in the most convenient part of the house for the distribution of food: a long transit from kitchen to dining-room is an immense drawback. Too much care cannot be paid to its light, height, and ventilation. This latter point is one of extreme importance; no cook can possibly be expected to turn out first-class work if she has to labour in a small, dark, airless room, only fit for a cellar. Not only for this reason, but also because the odours and steam from an ill-ventilated kitchen are carried all over the house in such a way, that it is neither pleasant nor healthy. There should be an outlet for the hot air right against the ceiling, above the level of the top of the window, and a ventilator put over the stove is very effective. Should the kitchen only be used for cooking purposes and not also as the servants’ sitting- room, which is undesirable for countless reasons, the fittings can be plainer, tiled walls and concrete floors being quite the best; walls that have been distempered show every mark. If no servants’ hall is possible, varnished papers are cleanly, and a high dado of matting or oilcloth can be made very2 THE COMPLETE COOK effective and is easily washed. Thick plain linoleum is better for the floor than any form of carpet or rug, and is warm and comfortable to the feet. Cupboards, roomy drawers, and a large, steady, wooden table are essential, also well-arranged shelves, dresser, etc. One of the graduated iron saucepan stands is far more handy and cleanly than the old-fashioned pot board; and do not grudge a good kitchen clock with a clear face, placed where the cook can easily consult it, otherwise do not expect punctuality and economy of time. Consider the maid’s comfort. An easy-chair or two, a cheap screen if the room is draughty, a corner for their books and writing materials, etc., gives a homelike air and fosters good feeling between mistress and servant. If they have no time to benefit by them, either they are muddlers and do not know how to plan their day, or else the duties are badly apportioned and they are overworked. The Larder The Larder should face north, so that the sun does not penetrate; should this be impossible the window must be shaded with a blind, or in very hot weather wet matting, such as gardeners use, is effective. The larder must be perfectly dry and thoroughly ventilated, not by windows only, but by venti- lators and perforated bricks. There must be no communication with the drains by means of an untrapped sink in the floor, such as is sometimes put for carrying off water used for washing purposes. The windows should be covered with perforated zinc, or wire gauze, sufficiently fine to keep out flies. The walls, if possible, must be tiled,—if not, whitewashed; crevices in the bricks being first filled with mortar or putty. The shelves are best of marble, slate, or stone, as wood is absorbent, but unfortunately for the sake of economy it has often to be used. The floor for the same reason should be of stone, concrete, or brick. Let the fittings be as simple as possible, so that they can be easily cleaned. Iron rods with hooks attached should be fixed across the ceiling in a good draught. If, however, there is an outside safe for raw meat, game, etc., these are not so essential. The Temperature should be kept down to 50° Fahr. in summer, and not below 38° Fahr. in winter. This is not always easy to contrive, but, with a little common sense and ingenuity, the temperature may be kept sufficiently near to these degrees.3 THE STOREROOM Management of the Larder.—The housekeeper must inspect it daily to note if everything is clean ; what scraps are left over and want using; what requires ordering, and that nothing is in the least tainted or sour. On no account must hot foods be placed in the larder, or food on dirty dishes and plates just as they have been removed from the table. Cover everything possible with thin muslin, wire covers, or perforated kitchen paper. This is specially needful during the hot months. Never permit meat, fish, poultry, or game to lie on the shelves, hang them up with hooks or string. Foods not suitable to Keep in the Larder.—Herrings, smoked fish, apples, onions, strong cheese, and game that is high, should always be kept separate, as they speedily impart their flavours to other foods. Should the milk and butter have to be kept in the larder special attention must be paid to this point. To Keep the Larder Clean.—Wipe the floor and shelves daily with a damp cloth, so that no crumbs or pieces of food are left about, but never use a brush, too much dust is thereby raised. Thoroughly wash and scrub it once a week, also the window gauze, leaving door and windows wide open to dry it; damp being most detrimental to any food. A weak solution of carbolic acid, sanitas, or vinegar and water, may be used with advantage in the water used for washing. Have the ceiling and walls whitewashed at least once a year, and all holes filled up to prevent mice or beetles entering. In the early spring, wash all cracks and scrub the wire gauze across the windows with carbolic acid and water; this will diminish the number of flies later on. Keep all basins, etc., scrupulously clean, and every now and then scald and dry the meat hooks. Bags of powdered charcoal or bowls of Condy’s fluid and water will help to keep sweet or disinfect the larder. The Storeroom The Sto7'erooin.—This department is of the utmost con- venience to the housekeeper, assisting greatly in her efforts to be economical and orderly. In a large establishment it is imperative, and even in small houses, unless, at least, one large cupboard is devoted to stores; otherwise they are obliged to be kept in various places, often most unsuitable, about the house. The room should be conveniently near the kitchen quarters and must be perfectly dry, cool, and well ventilated.THE COMPLETE COOK 4 P'irm, wide shelves, at varying distances apart, should be fixed, and small brass hooks screwed into their edges. Drawers are needed for cloths, kitchen and fancy papers, cotton wool, etc., and either rods or hooks fixed in the ceiling are convenient. The shelves are most easily kept clean if covered with white oil baize, or American cloth; if these are too expensive, clean white paper must be used, only this will need changing frequently. A table, chair, small pair of steps, scales, and a weighing machine will be needed, the latter only if very large amounts are purchased at a time. Plenty of air-tight tins, glass and earthenware jars and bottles, all with well-fitting lids, will be wanted: boxes, scissors, scoops, measures, tin-opener, hammer, screwdriver, corkscrew, a knife or two, slate and pencil, a file for invoices, gum, labels, pen and ink, and a dust-pan and brush, are all accessories of a well-appointed storeroom. The Arrangement.—“ Have a place for everything, and keep everything in its place,” so that anything wanted can be found even in the dark ; let every bottle and canister be clearly labelled. All materials for cleaning purposes, such as soda, etc., must be kept apart; also anything that is poisonous must bear a large red label with the word Poison written largely on it. Medicinal stores must have a corner to themselves ; they are often invaluable, especially in the country, and by their quick application will often prevent or alleviate many sudden attacks of illness. Store jam, pickles, sauces, and syrups in the driest and coolest corner, for they will ferment with warmth or damp. Have a box, or bag, for pieces of string, and a drawer for wrapping-paper off parcels, etc. These if unknotted or smoothed out will save many shillings in a year, and will render the send- ing off of a parcel a less tiresome affair than it frequently is. The Management.—It is wisest to have a regular time for ordering fresh supplies, either monthly or quarterly, or even weekly. It is a sign of bad management if petty orders of sugar, coffee, etc., have to be sent for daily. It is a bad habit sprung from always living near too convenient shops. Again, some stores are cheaper if bought in larger quantities, then time and money are saved. The goods on arrival should be weighed, inspected, and the amounts and date entered in the storebook. Give stores out at a set time, either at a certain hour each morning or weekly; thus by a little forethought many irritating interruptions are saved, and fewer things forgotten. In large establishments theTHE SCULLERY 5 amounts given out must be entered with the date in the store- book. All goods must be periodically overlooked, in order to see if everything is in good condition, and what requires re- stocking. Never permit crumbs anywhere, or anything to be un- covered ; beetles and mice will never come if they cannot find a meal handy. The door of the storeroom or cupboard should be kept locked, and the key kept by the one who is responsible for its management. THE SCULLERY: KITCHEN UTENSILS: CARE OF THE SAME The scullery and sink are an index to the kitchen; for in all probability if these are dirty, greasy, and full of tea leaves, etc., the kitchen will also be disorderly. Scullery work is not perhaps the most pleasant of occupa- tions, but a well-trained woman knows by experience that it need not be so laborious and unpleasant as it often becomes, if grease and dirt are not allowed to reign supreme. “ Clean as you go,” is an excellent rule, but method and energy are even then needed to prevent an undue accumulation in the sink. A hard-and-fast rule should be made that nothing is left unwashed overnight; much trouble is saved if vessels are cleaned at once, and a sink full of dirty pots and pans is, to say the least of it, a bad start for the fresh day’s work. The sink should be made of glazed stoneware, which is non- absorbent and is easily cleaned. In a well-planned house, it is fixed against an outer wall, so that the waste pipe may lead at once into the outer air. It should also be inspected, to ascertain that the pipe is properly “ trapped ” and does not communicate directly with the house drain. Much illness is often caused through defective sink drainage. Stoppage of the waste pipe must be prevented by a grating, with quite small holes being fixed over the pipe, also the use of an enamelled sink basket, costing about tenpence, is to be strongly recommended; the waste water is poured through it and all pieces kept back. Daily Flushing of the sink with plenty of boiling soda water is essential; after this has gone down, clean water must6 THE COMPLETE COOK be poured down in order that clean water is left in the syphon- bend in the pipe. A little disinfectant may be advantageously used in hot weather. The value of absolute cleanliness cannot be too strongly impressed ; a dirty spoon or pan, with a fragment of burnt food from a former dish, will spoil both colour and flavour of other foods, so will saucepans with badly worn linings, and pans once burnt will invariably “ catch ” again. Copper pans, if allowed to become dirty and the linings defective, will cause actual poisoning, so they need most careful attention. The Kitchen Utensils It is not wise to have too many saucepans in use, for some will rarely be used and will only become rusty and neglected ; at the same time the operations of the cook must not be hampered by a scarcity of utensils. Provide a chopping board, and a specially marked knife and fork for onions; there is then no excuse for the pastry board being used for chopping purposes, and the unbearable flavour of onion being imparted to bread and butter, etc. If much fish is fried it is wise to have a separate pan of frying fat for it; if only needed occasionally one pan of fat will suffice. Cast-Iron Saucepans are largely used for ordinary kitcheners, lined either with tin or enamel. The latter are preferable for milk, fruit, etc., but, unlike the former, once the enamel chips they are useless, for they cannot be repaired. A few good Enamel Pans are most useful, but beware of the showy cheap ones. Pretty as they are, the enamel soon chips, especially in the case of frying pans ; and many cases of ap- pendicitis have been traced to fragments of it being swallowed with the food. Seamless Steel Pans are most durable, light, easily repaired, and the initial outlay is not very heavy. They are perhaps the best of all for ordinary use. Copper Pans wear splendidly, are good even conductors of heat, but they are expensive and troublesome to keep clean, though they greatly add to the appearance of the kitchen. Also, with a careless cook, they present a source of danger. Aluminium Pans are excellent, especially for portable cookery utensils, as the metal is so light and strong. There is no lining to wear off, and no polishing is required. The6. TIN SUGAR SCRAPER SOME USEFUL KFIVHEN UTENSILS I. chae-'INm; dish 4. IJAIX-MAKIK AND PANS 5. WIRE SWEET FORK7 KITCHEN UTENSILS drawbacks are that they are expensive and so thin that the cooking is very rapid, thus they are hardly so useful in cases where slow cooking is essential. Block Tin Goods are suitable for fish kettles, light kettles, and for use for oil and spirit lamp cookery, but the very cheap tin ware is not worth buying, as frequently a spout or handle will drop off the first time of using. A Steamer, fitted with several compartments over one boiling pot, is most useful and economical, notably where the top space on a stove is limited. A Bain-Marie is really invaluable, especially in families, such as a medical man’s, where some member of it is liable to be unpunctual. The pans of food are kept hot in a shallow pan about 6 or 8 inches deep, which is filled with boiling water; this prevents the contents of the smaller pans boiling or becoming dry. A Mincing Machine will save much time and give better and more professional results when cold meat, etc., has to be chopped for entrAs and suchlike. Fireproof Ware, in the form of casseroles, au gratm and soufflA dishes, are now ’argely used in every up-to-date kitchen, and are invaluable. They are so ornamented that the food is not only cooked but served in them, so there is no loss of heat, a most important point. Utensils often dispensed with, but ivhich are invaluable aids to the Cook and not expensive: A forcing bag and pipes. A few cook’s knives. A wire frying basket. A hair and wire sieve. A box of pastry and vegetable cutters. An omelet pan for that purpose only. A salamander. A small pestle and mortar. A pastry brush. A wire egg-whisk. Pointed strainers. A palette knife. Fancy moulds of various sizes. A simple apparatus for ices. A Dutch oven. A pastry drainer. Special Points on Cleaning Utensils.—It is not intended in8 THE COMPLETE COOK this to give minute directions for all cleaning, but merely some rules which are often passed over or not known. Silver sand is as necessary as soda in the scullery, but neither is any use without “ elbow grease.” An old knife is most useful for scraping tins, etc.; unless it is kept handy, a best table-knife is usually selected. Bowls in which flour has been mixed or eggs used, are more easily cleaned if put into cold water at once. Hot water hardens the mixture. Wash and scour all saucepans and lids inside and out, also the handles. This is often thought unnecessary. Remove all black and grease from the outside of pans, as well as wash the inside; otherwise there is much loose soot to come off on the cook’s hands and aprons; also, as the heat cannot penetrate so easily, time and fuel are wasted. Remove all scraps from plates and dishes before placing them in the water, it is a most slovenly habit to do otherwise. Rub the worst of the grease off pans and dishes with some soft paper (this does excellently afterwards for lighting fires), and the water used for washing does not become so hopelessly greasy or need changing so often. Wash all silver first of all. Stand the knives upright in a jug of warm soda water, so that the handles are not in the water, as this discolours and loosens them. Do not put the blades in very hot water, as the expansion of the steel will cause the handles to crack. Never wash saucepans in the same bath that is used for dishes, etc. Stand a burnt pan on the stove with cold water and soda in it for some hours, then scour it well. Enamel and aluminium pans must never be washed with soda. A little salt or fine ash is better than sand to scour these with, as the grains of the latter are so sharp that they scratch the surface. All pans should be kept turned downwards, never placed upright with the lids on, this position often indicates that they are dirty. Unless tin utensils are placed in a very warm place, or on a cool stove after washing, they are certain to rust at the seams. A mincing machine needs the same care. Omelet and frying- pans should not be washed, but merely scraped and rubbed with pieces of paper till they are clean. Water will often cause the food to stick the next time of frying. It is useless to attempt to polish tins with whiting till theyCARE OF KITCHEN UTENSILS 9 have been first washed in hot soda water. Soda should not be used for wooden goods, as it tends to make them yellow. Sand whitens wood, but it must be most carefully washed off after- wards. If dough has to be scraped off boards, use the back, not blade of the knife, and scrape with the grain ; if done otherwise the surface becomes roughened. A capital Scouring Paste for all wood, tins, and general cleaning purposes is: One pound of soft soap. One pound of powdered whiting. One pound of silver sand. One quart of boiling water. A little salt. Put all these in an old saucepan, boil, and stir well for ten minutes. Cool a little and pour into a jar or tin for use. It will keep a long time. Never clean dish-covers, or anything that comes in contact with food, with paraffin. Sieves need most careful drying, otherwise hair sieves will mildew and iron-wire sieves rust. Copper-wire sieves are so troublesome to keep in order and so dangerous if neglected, that it is wisest not to use them at all. Stains and burnt particles of food on crockery, can be removed by soaking it first, then rubbing it well with a piece of woollen material dipped in sand or salt. Brushes and dish-cloths should be kept perfectly clean, and dried when possible in the open air. Glass should be washed in a wooden bowl, kept for that purpose only, and with cups and saucers, etc., should be washed in the pantry. Never wash pudding, jelly, or any other strain- ing cloths with soap, or of course send them to the laundress. When done with, place them at once in clean hot water, with a little borax if greasy, this is better than soda. Wash them in several waters. Rinse them well and hang them up till perfectly dry. When assured on this important point, fold them neatly and keep them in a dry drawer. Any good scouring soap will remove the stains off knives, etc., after which they must be well washed. Do not wash the insides of metal tea and coffee pots with soapy water. Rinse them well with clean water and rub off any brown marks with a dry cloth. Never use a ragged or fluffy dish-cloth. The pieces are sucked into the pipe and cause serious obstruction. A stoutlO THE COMPLETE COOK round paste brush, costing about tenpence, is for many things far preferable to a dish-cloth. The bristles penetrate into all crevices, the brush is very easily kept clean, the right hand need never be put into the water, and if a good brush is bought and it is soaked overnight in cold water before it is used, the bristles will never come out, and will last till they are worn to a stump. If dish-cloths and tea-cloths are soaped and well rinsed out every time they are used, they are easily kept clean. It is far better to have three or four cloths to use in rota- tion, than to use only one until it becomes stained and greasy. Endeavour should be made to use the proper cloths for each operation—not to wipe black saucepans on the tea-cloth, to open oven doors and lift hot tins with dusters, etc. If these suggestions were carried out, together with the usual common well-known rules, this much-abused portion of domestic work would become more popular and not beneath the dignity of any woman who knew how to perform it in the best possible manner. DISPOSAL OF KITCHEN REFUSE Cremation is the most satisfactory method of disposing of various animal and vegetable matter, both for economical and sanitary reasons: the former because by so doing fuel is saved. Certain rubbish, however, cannot be burnt, and for this a Dust-Bin is necessary; but unless certain rules are observed, this receptacle becomes a public nuisance and dangerous to health. If possible it should be placed at least six feet from the house, and be small in comparison to the house, so that it will require to be frequently emptied. It must be made of galvanised zinc, or some non-absorbent material; all wooden boxes and baskets are to be condemned, also fixed brick dust-bins. It should be removable, so that it can be carried out and thoroughly emptied, and a lid is essential, otherwise the contents become moistened with rain, and moisture fosters decay. No vegetable parings, bones, tea leaves, etc., should find their way into the dust-bin, all these must be burnt, after drying them as much as possible. Common sense should dictate thatDISPOSAL OF KITCHEN REFUSE II a suitable time be selected to destroy them, when only a slow fire is needed ; also all dampers must be pulled out, so thajj the odours that arise may escape through the flues out into* the open air, not into the house. The frequency with which dust-bins are emptied will depend on the local authorities : it should not be less than twice a week, and daily in large establishments. In hot weather the use of a disinfectant is advisable to sprinkle over the bottom of the dust-bin.CHAPTER II COOKING STOVES COAL—GAS—OIL Coal Ranges To attempt cooking before understanding the cooking range, its mechanism, cleaning, etc., is as foolish as for an engine driver to be ignorant of the working of his engine. Yet to hundreds of housewives and cooks the kitchen stove is a sealed mystery ; if it is satisfactory all very well and good, if it will not “draw” and is generally inefficient, they blame the maker, builder, etc., and make it the handy excuse for raw or burnt food, lack of boiling water, etc. If this chapter is given a little study, with the help of the accompanying photos, much that has hitherto been puzzling should be solved. There are two kinds of coal stoves in common use. 1. An open range. 2. A closed range. In the first, the fire grate is not covered on the top, most ot the flame and smoke passing directly into the chimney. In the second, the top of the fire is enclosed under iron plates, and the flame, etc., is drawn round the ovens and boiler, by varying draughts, before it is allowed to escape out into the centre flue. Closed ranges are most generally used, but open ranges are still largely met with in country places and in the north. The Advantages of Open Ranges are: 1. They burn slowly, as the draught is less sharp; this lessens the amount of fuel and labour of stoking. 2. They aid in ventilating the kitchen; a matter of vital importance where the kitchen is also the living room of the family.A CLOSED RANGE"I i r £?;. K ■■■ 1 i i13 COOKING STOVES 3. They furnish a cheerful warmth and glow, and are con- venient for the airing of clothes. Their Disadvantages are serious: 1. They are dirty and cause much dust. 2. They blacken and very quickly wear out utensils, as they come into actual contact with the fire. 3. They are very liable to smoke and are irregular in action. 4. They are extravagant, as much heat is radiated into and wasted in the kitchen, and thus causes great discomfort to the individual who is doing the cooking. 5. They distribute the heat unevenly. The Advantages of a Closed Range are: 1. Cleanliness: and the utensils are easily kept clean and last three times as long as with the open range. 2. A greater amount of heat is obtained, and more cooking is possible with the same amount of fuel. 3. Refuse is easily and pleasantly burnt. 4. The ovens are quickly heated and easily regulated. 5. Economy of fuel if dampers are understood and carefully regulated. 6. The hot plate may well be adapted for an ironing stove, when not required for cooking purposes. The Disadvantages of a Closed Range are: 1. It dries the air and does not assist to ventilate the kitchen. 2. It does not furnish a cheerful heat and appearance when not needed for cooking purposes. 3. It is very expensive if the dampers are not understood and properly managed. The most desirable type of stove is a Convertible Stove, which can, by a simple adjustment, be made open or shut as desired. If you intend to buy a new range, choose one simple in construction, so that its parts and their uses efre quickly learnf, plainly enough finished to be easily cleaned, and give careful consideration to its probable durability, efficiency, and power of economising fuel. Take as much of it as possible to pieces; learn how to clean it inside; examine the dampers and how to regulate them according to the variations of temperature required and the wind. A Flue is a passage at the back of the stove, behind the iron plates; through it the heat, flame, and products of combus- tion pass from the Are into the main chimney shaft.14 THE COMPLETE COOK There are usually three flues, one behind the oven, the second behind the fire space, the third behind the boiler, or second oven, if the boiler is fixed behind the fire, which is the best plan. The Dampers are flat metal plates, which are pushed from the front of the stove into and horizontally across the flue passages. They can be pushed in or drawn out as desired. When pushed right in they close right across the flue, prevent- ing all draught or escape of smoke, etc.; when pulled out the flue is open and there is a sharp draught, and consequently the fire burns fiercely. These dampers can be arranged in any intermediate position desired, according to whether a large fire or not is wanted. Probable Daily Use of Dampers To Light the FPe.—Pull all three dampers fully out. To Heat Bath- Water and Kettle for Early Tea.—Pull centre one fully out and push the two others in. To Heat Oven for One o'clock Roast and Pastry Making.—Pull out the dampers over both pastry and roasting oven: push in centre one. To Keep in Low Fire for Four o'clock Tea.—Push in oven dampers: leave middle damper half out: make up fire with cinders. To Boil Tea Kettle and make Toast.—Pull middle damper only right out. Seven o'clock Dinner.—Push in middle damper and pull out both or one oven damper as required. To Burn dry Kitchen Refuse when Cooking is done.—Pull out all three dampers and shut up door in front of fire. If a Roaring Noise is heard., or Ovens Burn Food, or Top of Stove is Red-hot.—Push the dampers nearly in. Remember unless one damper is about half-way out, the smoke cannot escape, and it will force its way through the various cracks and joints of the stove. The Boiler should be of iron and “self-feeding,” as cooks rarely remember to fill it in good time. It is best fixed behind the firebricks in the fire grate. The “ saddle-back ” or “ arch ” boiler is much used, the flame being drawn from the fire, under the arch of the boiler, into the centre flue, the boiler acting as a big kettle. The Ovens should have two ventilators, that is: An Outlet from the oven into the flue, this is to carry offBACK VIEW OF TOP OF RANGE SHOWING THE DAMPERSI i j iCOOKING STOVES 17 8. Brush all soot from over the top of the ovens, down the passages at each side. 9. Take out the soot doors under the ovens, hold a paper or dust-pan under and rake out all soot possible. 10. Replace all movable parts, brush the stove over, wash off any grease spots, and blacklead it in the usual manner polishing all steel parts. ’ 11. Lay the fii'e; tidy the hearth: open the windows and doors, and save all cinders for sifting. Gas Stoves Cooking stoves heated by gas are very much used, and now- adays have been raised to a high standard of perfection. In districts where gas is obtainable and the rates for it reasonable. It IS to be greatly recommended, especially for the summer nonths and use in flats. The Advantages of Gas Stoves.—They are cleanly, causing no dust or smoke. 2. The cost of fitting a stove is but a few shillings. 3. They can be easily managed, even by ignorant cooks. 4. They are instantly lit and extinguished. 5. The heat is very easily regulated and never varies. 6. No time is lost in cleaning flues, making up the fire carrying coals, etc. ’ 7. Broken and worn parts are replaced free of charge for a hired stove, by the gas company. 8. Utensils are kept clean and so wear better. 9. It has been found that meat roasted in a gas oven loses less in weight than when cooked by a coal stove Thezr Disadvantages.—1. Careless consumers waste an enormous amount of gas if {a) large burners are used, when a smaller would answer as well. {b) Heavy iron utensils are used, instead of lighter metal, thus much gas is needed before the heat penetrates. (c) Lack of forethought in arranging the cooking, i.e. only, one dish being baked in the oven, a stew cooking on a top burner, also a saucepan of boiled potatoes and a boiled pudding. The economical arrangement would be to cook the stew in a covered jar in the oven, this gives excellent results, and to have steamed the potatoes in a vessel over the boiled pudding. In that way the gasl8 THE COMPLETE COOK required for the two top burners would have been saved. (d) Neglecting to lower or turn out the gas burners at the first moment possible. (e) Using the gas stove, when perhaps the coal range is also alight, affording plenty of accommodation for all cooking to be done. 2. The fumes of cooking often escape into the house, owing to there being no flue pipe attached to the oven. This pipe should be carried out into the open air, or into some chimney. 3. An objectionable smell is often noticed in the house where gas cooking is performed, owing to the gas being allowed to “ light back,” as it is called, in the air chamber of the burner. This is caused when the oven door is banged, or there is a sudden draught, or if the match is applied at the very instant the tap is turned on. Just a second or two should be allowed to elapse before it is lit. This incorrect lighting can only be where the stove is fitted with atmospheric burners, not luminous burners, such as are used for lighting purposes. The former give a more powerful heat, while using a lesser amount of gas, so are generally adapted for heating purposes. The disadvantage of atmospheric burners is, that they burn a mixture of air and gas; the atmosphere of the room suffers; and very thorough ventilation is necessary. It is easily judged if a gas stove has lit incorrectly, for there will be a peculiar roaring sound, the light becomes yellowish, instead of blue, the burners in a short time become sooty, and there is always present a most disagreeable smell. All that is required is to turn out the taps, turn them on again very slowly, and let a little gas escape before applying the match. This may have to be done five or six times before it will light properly. Of course should the oven and stove be dirty and coated with grease, the fumes arising from it will be as objectionable as from a coal stove. Another drawback with gas is, that the hot water supply to the house is cut off. Geysers can be used and gas boilers are most convenient, but are more suited to small houses than large ones. The most modern stoves are now lined with movable fittings of white or grey enamel, with a tray of the same under the boiling rings. These render the cleaning of the stove and oven a very simple affair, while at the same time the bright surface reflects the heat and aids the cooking.19 COOKING STOVES The excellent reversible grills now provided, are an immense boon for making toast, grilling chops, etc. Good stoves are double cased, the space between being packed with a non-heat-conducting substance. Very small or inferior stoves are only of a single thickness, and this is easily seen by examining the door, and with these much heat is simply wasted in overheating the kitchen. Oil Stoves These stoves are most valuable in districts where gas is not obtainable; in country places during the heat of summer, when the inmates of the house are desirous of avoiding lighting the large coal range, or again for yacht or camp cookery. In some sudden emergency such as the kitchen boiler bursting, or in a hilly district with the roads snow and ice bound and the coal- cellar empty, they are worth their weight in gold. Oil is the cheapest fuel that can be used, even if the best is bought, and note this point, cheap inferior oils are dangerous, and by their noxious fumes will render the house almost unbearable. Oil stoves are portable, very reasonable in price, no flue is needed, and if well constructed very nice cooking can be carried out on them. But, and here lies the whole keynote of success. Absolute Clemiliness is essential; if neglected and carelessly used explosions may occur with dangerous results. They should be used in a well-ventilated room, and the lamps of the oven lit about ten minutes before it is required. The cooking by them is, as may be supposed, somewhat slow, but steady, and the heat is very fairly easy to regulate. Sojne Special Points to remember when using oil stoves are: 1. Keep every part scrupulously dry and clean. 2. Renew the wicks about every two months. 3. Remove all charred portions from the wicks daily, and trim them quite evenly. 4. See that the wicks are put in straight and that they are dry. 5. Do not turn the flame up high for the first few moments. 6. Take care the oil lamps are pushed right back into position. 7. Wash all parts thoroughly in hot soda water, or with plenty of soap, every month.THE COMPLETE COOK 20 8. Turn foods which are baking frequently, as the heat is great at the sides of the oven. 9. Use utensils made of block tin, or some light metal, through which the heat will soon penetrate; they should be constructed purposely to sink down into the boiling-holes on the top of the stove.CHAPTER III THE MONTHLY FOOD CALENDAR-AVERAGE PRICE LISTS—SHORT MARKETING HINTS THE MONTHLY FOOD CALENDAR It is said, that now, England no longer has special seasons for foods, because no sooner does the home supply terminate, than foreign and colonial imports flood the markets. The follow- ing lists have been compiled from various well-known Arms, etc., but allowance must be made for weather vagaries, and if the place of residence is north or south of the British Isles. January Fish Bream. Brill. Carp. Cod. Crabs. Crayflsh. Dory. Eels. Flounders. Gurnet. Haddock. Hake. Halibut. Herrings. Lobsters. Mackerel. Mullet (red). Mussels. Oysters. Plaice. Perch. Pike. Prawns. Salmon (Dutch and Canadian—frozen). Scallops. Skate. Smelts. Soles. Slips. Sprats. Shrimps. Turbot. Whitebait. Whiting. Meat Beef. Mutton. Veal. Pork. Venison. House lamb. Poultry. Capons. Chickens. Ducks. Fowls. Geese. Pigeons. Rabbits (tame). Turkeys. Game Black game (foreign). Hares. Leverets. Landrails. Par- tridges. Pheasant. Ptarmigan. Plovers. Pintail ducks. Wild22 THE COMPLETE COOK ducks. Quails, Rabbits (wild). Ditto Ostend, Snipe, Teal. Widgeon. Woodcock. Vegetables Artichokes (Globe and Jerusalem). Brussels sprouts. Beet- root. Batavia, Cabbages. Carrots. Cauliflowers. Celeriac. Celery. Chicory. Chillies. Cucumber. Chervil. Cress. Corn-salad. Endive. Garlic. Horseradish. Leeks. Lettuces. Mushrooms (cultivated). Onions, Spanish ditto. Pickling ditto. Parsley. Parsnips. Potatoes. Radishes. Salsify. Savoys. Scotch kale. Shallots. Seakale. Spinach (winter). Sprue. Turnips. Turnip tops. Fruit Apples. Bananas. Cranberries (Russian). Grapes. Lemons. Limes. Lychees. Mandarine oranges. Oranges. Pears. Pineapples. Rhubarb (forced). Tomatoes. Nuts (walnuts, chestnuts, cobs, Brazil, etc.). February Fish Bream. Brill. Carp. Cod. Cod’s roe. Crabs. Cray- fish. Dory, Eels. Flounders. Gurnet. Haddocks. Hake. Halibut. Herrings, Lobsters. Mackerel. Mullet (red). Mussels. Oysters. Plaice. Prawns. Salmon (Irish or Scotch). Skate. Smelts. Soles. Slips. Lemon soles. Sprats. Scallops. Turbot. Whitebait. Whiting. Meat Beef. Mutton. Veal. Pork, Venison. House lamb. Poultry Capons. Chickens. Ducks. Fowls. Geese. Guinea- fowls. Pigeons. Rabbits (tame). Turkeys, Game Black game. Capercailzie. Hares. Landrails, Leverets. Partridges (till the 15th). Russian ditto. Pheasants (till the 12th). Ptarmigan. Plovers (golden and grey). Pintail ducks.THE MONTHLY FOOD CALENDAR 23 Wild ditto. Prairie hens. Quails. Rabbits (wild). Ostend ditto. Snipe. Teal. Widgeon. Woodcock. Vegetables Artichokes (Globe, Jerusalem, and Japanese). Brussels sprouts. Beetroot. Batavia. Broccoli (purple). Broccoli tops. Cabbages. Cabbage-greens. Carrots. Cauliflowers. Celeriac. Celery. Chicory. Chillies. Cress. Cucumbers. Corn-salad. Chervil. Endive. Garlic. Horseradish. Leeks. Lettuces. Mint. Mushrooms (cultivated). Onions. Spanish ditto. Pickling ditto. Parsley. Parsnips. Potatoes. Radishes. Savoys. Salsify. Shallots. Scotch kale. Seakale. Spinach (winter). Sprue. Turnips. Turnip tops. Fruit Apples. Bananas. Cranberries (Russian). Grapes. Lemons. Limes. Lychees. Mandarine oranges. Oranges. Pears. Pineapples. Rhubarb (forced). Tomatoes. Nuts (chestnuts, Brazil, cobs, walnuts, etc.). Also apricots, peaches, nectarines, and plums from the Cape. March Fish Bream. Brill. Cod. Cod’s roe. Crabs. Crayfish. Dory. Eels. Flounders. Gurnet. Haddock. Hake. Halibut. Herrings. Lobsters. Mackerel. Mullet (red). Mussels. Oysters. Plaice. Prawns. Dublin or Lobster ditto. Salmon (Irish or Scotch). Shrimps. Skate. Smelts. Scallops. Soles. Lemon ditto. Slips. Sprats. Trout. Turbot. Whitebait. Whiting. Salt fish. Meat Beef. Mutton. Veal. Pork. House lamb. Venison. Poultry Capons. Chickens. Ducks. Ducklings. Fowls. Geese. Guinea-fowls. Pigeons. Rabbits (tame). Turkeys. Game Black game. Capercailzie. Hares. Leverets. Partridges (English till the 12th, then German and Russian). Wood pigeons.THE COMPLETE COOK 24 Quails. Ortolans. Rabbits (wild). Ostend ditto. Plovers (golden and grey till the 15th). Ptarmigan. Prairie hens. Pintail ducks. Wild ditto. Ruffs and reeves. Snipe (till the 15th). Teal. Widgeon. Woodcock (till the 15th). Vegetables Asparagus. Artichokes (Globe, Jerusalem, and Japanese). Broccoli (purple). Broccoli tops. Beetroot. Batavia. Cabbages. Cabbage-greens. Carrots. New round ditto. Cauliflowers. Celeriac. Celery. Chicory. Cucumbers. Corn-salad. Chervil. Endive. Garlic. Horseradish. Leeks. Lettuces. Mint. Mushrooms (cultivated). Onions. Spanish ditto. Spring ditto. Parsley. Parsnips. Potatoes. New ditto. Sweet ditto. Radishes. Savoys. Shallots. Salsify. Scotch kale. Seakale. Spinach (winter). Sprue. Turnips. Turnip tops. Fruit Apples. Bananas. Grapes. Lemons. Limes. Lychees. Mandarine oranges. Oranges. Pears. Pineapples. Rhubarb (forced and outdoor). Tomatoes. Nuts (Brazil, cob, walnuts, etc.). Also apricots, nectarines, peaches, and plums from the Cape. Grape berries (for cooking). April Fish Bream. Brill. Cod. Crabs. Crayfish. Dory. Eels. Flounders. Gurnet. Haddock. Hake. Halibut. Herrings. Lobsters. Mackerel. Mullet (red). Oysters. Prawns, Dublin or Lobster ditto. Plaice. Salmon. Shrimps. Skate. Smelts. Soles. Lemon ditto. Slips. Trout. Turbot. Whitebait. Whiting. Salt fish. Beef. Mutton. Venison. Meat Veal. Pork. House and grass lamb. Poultry Capons. Chickens. Ducks. Ducklings. Fowls. Guinea- fowls. Pigeons. Rabbits (tame). Game Black game. Capercailzie. Hares. Leverets. Partridges25 THE MONTHLY FOOD CALENDAR (Russian). Quails. Ortolans. Ptarmigan. Prairie hens. Ruffs and reeves. Rabbits (wild). Ostend ditto. Plover’s eggs. Vegetables Asparagus. Artichokes (Globe and Jerusalem). Batavia. Beetroot. Broccoli (purple). Broccoli tops. Cabbages (spring). Cabbage-greens. Carrots (old and new). Cauliflowers. Celeriac. Celery. Chicory. Cress. Cucumbers. Corn- salad. Chervil. Endive. Garlic. Leeks. Lettuces. Mint. Mushrooms (cultivated). Onions. Spring ditto. Spanish ditto. Parsley. Parsnips. Potatoes. New ditto. Sweet ditto. Radishes. Shallots. Scotch kale. Seakale. Spinach (winter). Sprue. Turnips (old and new). Turnip tops. Fruit Apples. Bananas. Grapes. Green figs. Lemons. Limes. Lychees. Melons (hothouse). Mandarine oranges. Oranges. Pears. Pineapples. Rhubarb (forced and outdoor). Tomatoes. Nuts (Brazil, cob, walnuts, etc.). Plums from the Cape. Grape berries (for cooking). May Fish Bass. Bream. Brill. Cod. Crabs. Crayfish. Dory. Eels. Flounders. Haddock. Hake. Halibut. Herrings. Lobsters. Mackerel. Mullet (red and grey). Plaice. Prawns. Dublin or Lobster ditto. Salmon. Shrimps. Soles. Lemon ditto. Slips. Smelts. Trout. Turbot. Whitebait. Whiting. Meat Beef. Mutton. Veal. Lamb. Poultry Capons. Chickens. Ducklings. Fowls. Goslings. Pigeons. Rabbits (tame). Game Black game. Hares. Plover’s eggs. Prairie hens. Ptarmigan. Quails. Rabbits (colonial).THE COMPLETE COOK 26 Vegetables Asparagus. Artichokes (Globe and Jerusalem). Beans (broad and Jersey). Broccoli tops. Beetroot. Cabbages (spring). Cabbage - greens. Cress. Corn - salad. Chervil. Cucumbers. Cauliflowers. Carrots (old and new). Endive. Garlic. Horseradish. Leeks. Lettuces. Mushrooms (culti- vated). Onions. Spring ditto. Parsley. Parsnips. Peas. Potatoes (old and new). Sweet ditto. Radishes. Shallots. Sorrel. Spinach (winter). Sprue. Turnips (old and new). Fruit Apples. Bananas. Cherries. Figs (green). Gooseberries (green). Grapes. Lemons. Limes. Lychees. Melons, (hothouse). Oranges. Pears. Pineapples. Rhubarb. Straw- berries (hothouse). Tomatoes. Nuts. June Fish Bream. Brill. Cod. Crabs. Crayfish. Dory. Eels. Flounders. Gurnet. Haddock. Hake. Halibut. Herrings. Lobsters. Mackerel. Mullet (red and grey). Plaice. Prawns. Dublin or Lobster ditto. Perch (after the 15th). Pike (after the 15th). Salmon. Soles. Lemon ditto. Slips. Shrimps. Trout. Turbot. Whiting. Whitebait. Meat Beef. Mutton. Veal. Lamb. Buck venison. Poultry Capons. Chickens. Ducklings. Fowls. Goslings. Pigeons. Petits poussins (baby chickens). Rabbits (tame). Game Black game. Prairie hens. Ptarmigan. Quails. Ruffs and reeves. Ortolans. Rabbits (colonial). Vegetables Asparagus. Artichokes (Globe). Beans (Jersey and broad). Beetroot. Cabbages (spring). Cabbage - greens. Cress.27 THE MONTHLY FOOD CALENDAR Corn-salad. Chervil. Endive. Cucumbers. Carrots (old and new). Cauliflowers. Garlic. Horseradish. Leeks. Lettuces. Mint. Mushrooms (cultivated). Onions. Spring ditto. Parsley. Peas. Potatoes. Sweet ditto. Radishes. Shallots. Sorrel. Spinach. Sprue. Turnips (old and new). Fruit Apples. Apricots. Bananas. Cherries. Figs (green). Gooseberries. Grapes. Lemons. Limes. Melons (hothouse). Mangoes. Oranges. Pears. Pineapples. Rhubarb. Straw- berries. Tomatoes. Nuts. July Fish Bream. Brill. Carp. Cod. Crabs. Crayfish. Crawfish. Dory. Eels. Flounders. Gurnet. Haddock. Hake. Halibut. Herrings. Lobsters. Mackerel. Mullet (red and grey). Plaice. Prawns. Dublin or Lobster ditto. Salmon. Salmon grilse. Shrimps. Smelts. Soles. Lemon ditto. Slips. Trout. Turbot. Whitebait. Whiting. Meat Beef. Mutton. Veal. Lamb. Buck venison. Poultry Capons. Chickens. Ducklings. Fowls. Goslings. Pigeons. Petits poussins. Rabbits (tame). Game Hares. Quails. Ptarmigan. Partridges (Russian). Vegetables Ortolans. Artichokes (Globe). Aubergines. Beans (French). Broad ditto. Scarlet runners. Beetroot. Cabbages (spring). Cabbage-greens. Carrots. Cauliflowers. Cucumbers. Cress. Chervil. Chillies. Endive. Garlic. Horseradish. Leeks (new). Marrows. Mint. Mushrooms (cultivated and button). Onions. Spanish ditto. Spring ditto. Parsley. Peas. Potatoes. Radishes. Shallots. Sorrel. Spinach. Turnips.THE COMPLETE COOK 28 Friiit Apples. Apricots (cooking). Bananas. Cherries. Currants (red, black, and white). Figs (green). Gooseberries (ripe). Grapes. Greengages. Lemons. Limes. Melons. Nectarines. Oranges. Peaches. Pineapples. Plums (cooking). Rasp- berries. Rhubarb. Strawberries. Tomatoes. Walnuts for pickling. August Fish Brill. Cod. Crabs. Crayfish. Dory. Eels. Flounders. Gurnet. Haddock. Hake. Halibut. Herrings. Lobsters. Mullet (red). Mackerel. Mussels. Plaice. Prawns. Dublin or Lobster ditto. Salmon. Shrimps. Soles. Lemon ditto. Slips. Sea-bream. Trout. Turbot. Whitebait. Whiting. Meat Beef. Mutton. Veal. Lamb. Venison. Poultry Capons. Chickens. Ducklings. Ducks. Fowls. Goslings. Pigeons. Petits poussins. Rabbits (tame). Turkey poults. Game Black game (from the 20th). Capercailzie, grouse (from the 12th). Plovers. Ptarmigan (from the 12th). Pintail ducks. Wild ditto. Quails. Snipe. Teal. Widgeon. Woodcock. Vegetables Artichokes (Globe). Aubergines. Beans (kidney and broad). Scarlet runners. Beetroot. Cabbages. Carrots. Cauliflowers. Cresses. Cucumbers. Chervil. Chillies. Celery. Endive. Garlic. Horseradish. Leeks. Lettuces. Mint. Marrows. Mushrooms. Onions. Peas. Potatoes. Spinach. Scotch kale. Turnips. Herbs for drying. Fruit Apples. Apricots. Bananas. Cherries. Currants (red, black, and white). Figs (green). Gooseberries (ripe). Grapes.29 THE MONTHLY FOOD CALENDAR Greengages. Lemons. Limes. Melons. Nectarines. Oranges. Peaches. Pears. Pineapples. Plums. Raspberries. Nuts. Filberts. September Fish Bream. Brill. Cod. Crabs. Crawfish. Crayfish. Dory. Eels. Flounders. Gurnet. Haddock. Hake. Halibut. Herrings. Lobsters. Mackerel. Mullet (red). Oysters. Plaice. Prawns. Dublin ditto. Salmon (till the 7th). Salmon grilse. Shrimps. Soles. Lemon ditto. Slips. Smelts. Trout (till the 7th). Turbot. Whitebait. Whiting. Meat Beef. Mutton. Veal. Lamb. Pork. Buck venison. Poultry Capons. Chickens. Ducks. Ducklings. Fowls. Geese. Goslings. Pigeons. Rabbits (tame). Turkeys. Game Black game. Grouse. Hares. Leverets. Partridges. Quails. Ptarmigan. Plovers. Wild duck. Snipe. Teal. Widgeon. Woodcock. Vegetables Artichokes (Globe). Aubergines. Batavia. Beetroot. Beans (French and scarlet runners). Cabbages (spring and red). Cabbage-greens. Capsicums. Carrots. Cauliflowers. Celeriac. Celery. Chervil. Chillies. Cucumbers. Cress. Endive. Garlic. Horseradish. Indian corn-cobs. Leeks. Mint. Mushrooms (cultivated and outdoor). Onions. Spanish ditto. Pickling ditto. Parsley. Peas. Potatoes. Pumpkins. Radishes. Shallots. Salsify. Sorrel. Spinach. Turnips. Vegetable marrows. Fruit Apples. Bananas. Blackberries. Bilberries. Cranberries (English). Damsons. Figs (green). Grapes. Greengages. Lemons. Limes. Medlars. Melons. Nectarines. Oranges. Peaches. Pears. Pineapples. Plums. Quinces. Tomatoes. Nuts.30 THE COMPLETE COOK October Fish Bream. Brill. Carp. Cod. Crabs. Crayfish. Dory. Eels. Flounders. Gurnet. Haddock. Hake. Halibut. Herrings. Lobsters. Mackerel. Mussels. Mullet (red). Oysters. Prawns. Plaice. Canadian salmon (frozen). Smelts. Soles. Lemon ditto. Slips. Skate. Sprats. Scallops. Shrimps. Turbot. Whitebait. Whiting. Meat Beef. Mutton. Veal. Lamb. Pork. Buck venison. Poultry Capons. Chickens. Ducks. Ducklings. Fowls. Geese. Pigeons. Rabbits (tame). Turkeys. Game Black game. Grouse. Hares. Leverets. Plovers (golden and grey). Ptarmigan. Pintail ducks. Wild ditto. Par- tridges. Pheasants. Snipe. Teal. Widgeon. Woodcock. Vegetables Artichokes (Globe and Jerusalem). Aubergines. Beetroot. Beans (French and scarlet runners). Batavia. Brussels sprouts. Cabbages. Cabbage-greens. Red cabbages. Capsicums. Cardoons. Carrots. Cauliflowers. Celeriac. Celery. Chillies. Cucumbers. Cress. Chervil. Endive. Garlic. Horseradish. Indian corn-cobs. Leeks. Lettuces. Mint. Mushrooms (cultivated). Onions. Spanish ditto. Parsley. Parsnips. Potatoes. Sweet ditto. Pumpkins. Radishes. Savoys. Salsify. Shallots. Seakale. Sorrel. Spinach. Turnips. Vegetable marrows. Fruit. Apples. Bananas. Blackberries. Bullaces. Cranberries (Russian). Damsons. Figs (green). Grapes. Lemons. Limes. Melons. Oranges. Peaches. Pears. Pineapples. Plums. Pomegranates. Quinces. Sloes. Tomatoes. Nuts.31 THE MONTHLY FOOD CALENDAR November Fish Bream. Brill. Cod. Crabs. Crayfish. Dory. Eels. Flounders. Gurnet. Haddock. Hake. Halibut. Herrings. Lobsters. Mackerel. Mullet (red). Mussels. Oysters. Plaice. Prawns. Dublin or Lobster ditto. Salmon (Canadian frozen). Skate. Scallops. Shrimps. Smelts. Sprats. Soles. Lemon ditto. Slips. Turbot. Whitebait. Whiting. Meat Beef. Mutton. Veal. Lamb. Pork. Buck venison. Poultry Capons. Chickens. Ducks. Ducklings. Fowls. Geese. Pigeons. Rabbits (tame). Turkeys. Game Black game. Grouse. Hares. Leverets. Partridges. Pheasants. Ptarmigan. Pintail and wild ducks. Plovers. Quails. Rabbits (wild). Ostend ditto. Snipe. Teal. Widgeon. Woodcock. Vegetables Artichokes (Globe and Jerusalem). Beetroot. Batavia. Beans (French and kidney). Brussels sprouts. Cabbages. Cabbage-greens. Red cabbage. Capsicums. Cardoons. Carrots. Cauliflowers. Celeriac. Celery. Chicory. Chillies. Cucumbers. Cress. Chervil. Endive. Garlic. Horseradish. Leeks. Lettuces. Mint. Mushrooms (cultivated). Onions. Spanish ditto. Parsley. Parsnips. Potatoes. Sweet ditto. Radishes. Salsify. Sprue. Seakale. Scotch kale. Sorrel. Spinach (winter). Turnips. Turnip tops. Fruit Apples. Bananas. Chestnuts. Cranberries (Russian). Grapes. Lemons. Limes. Lychees. Mandarines. Medlars. Melons. Oranges. Pears. Pineapples. Pomegranates. Quinces. Tomatoes.THE COMPLETE COOK 32 December Fish Bream. Brill. Cod. Crabs. Crayfish. Dory. Eels. Flounders. Gurnet. Haddock. Hake. Halibut. Herrings. Lobsters. Mackerel. Mullet (red). Mussels. Oysters. Plaice. Prawns. Dublin ditto. Salmon (Dutch). Canadian ditto. Skate. Smelts. Scallops. Shrimps. Sprats. Soles. Lemon ditto. Slips. Turbot. Whitebait. Whiting. Meat Beef. Mutton. Veal. Pork. Buck venison. Poultry Capons. Chickens. Ducks. Fowls. Geese. Guinea- fowls. Pigeons. Rabbits (tame). Turkeys. Game Black game. Grouse (till the lOth). Hares. Leverets. Partridges. Pheasants. Plovers (golden and grey). Ptar- migan. Rabbits (wild). Ostend ditto. Pintail ducks. Wild ditto. Quails. Snipe. Teal. Widgeon. Woodcock. ' Vegetables Asparagus (French). Artichokes (Globe and Jerusalem). Beetroot. Batavia. Beans (French). Brussels sprouts. Cabbages. Red ditto. Cabbage-greens. Carrots. Cauli- flowers. Celeriac. Celery. Cucumber. Chicory. Chillies. Cress. Chervil. Corn-salad. Endive. Garlic. Horseradish. Leeks. Lettuces. Mint. Mushrooms (cultivated). Onions. Spanish ditto. Parsley. Parsnips. Potatoes. Radishes. Shallots. Salsify. Scotch kale. Seakale. Sorrel. Spinach. Sprue. Turnips. Turnip tops. Tarragon. Fruit Apples. Bananas. Cranberries (Russian). Grapes. Lemons. Limes. Lychees. Mandarines. Oranges. Pears. Pineapples. Pomegranates. Rhubarb (forced). Tomatoes. Nuts.33 AVERAGE PRICE LISTS AVERAGE PRICE LISTS Meat : Beef Part or Joint Average Price English Foreign Aitchbone 6W. per lb. 5| per lb. Brisket, best cuts .... 7d. „ Flank, thin, best cuts 5d- 4|d. „ „ thick, best cuts lod. „ 9id. „ Clod 4d. Hock 5d- „ Beef steak I id. lod. per lb. Buttock steak IS. „ I id. „ Rump steak IS. 3d. „ IS. 2d. „ Fillet steak IS. 3^d. „ IS. 3d. „ Gravy beef, no bone 8d. 7|d. „ Stock meat, with bone 6d. 5|d. „ Shin 5d. Topside, middle .... I id. „ lod. per lb. Silverside, salted .... 9id. „ 8^d. „ Sirloin, best cut .... IS. „ I id. „ „ wing end .... I Id. lo^d. „ Fore ribs 9W. „ Wing rib IS. „ I id. per lb. Top rib, rolled 9d. „ Suet 8d. Ox brains 6d. per set „ feet lod. each „ hearts IS. 6d. to 2s. 6d. each „ kidney I id. per lb. gd. per lb. „ palate yd.each „ sweetbreads .... 6d. „ „ tails IS. gd. to 2s. each IS. each „ tongues, best salted . 3s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. each „ cheek IS. 3d. each Tripe 8d. per lb. Sausages yd. to 8d. per lb. 3THE COMPLETE COOK 34 Veal Part or Joint Best and Cheapest Average Price Breast March to August pd. per lb. Cutlet )> jj IS. 3d. „ Fillet IS. 2d. „ Knuckle 7d. Loin, kidney end .... ,, „ I id. „ „ middle io|d. „ „ chump end .... „ ,, 9d. Shoulder 8id. „ Neck, middle Ji )> 9jd. „ „ best end .... 5) » IS. „ „ scrag 6d. „ Soup meat 6d. „ Calf’s brains „ „ 8d. per set „ feet )) n 6d. each „ head, whole .... )) „ 5 s. to 6s. each „ hearts 8d. to lod. „ „ liver >> )) IS. per lb. „ sweetbreads, heart. „ „ 5s. per pair „ „ throat )) )) IS. each „ tails Sd. „ Mutton Part or Joint Average Price English Foreign Breast 4d. per lb. 2^d. per lb. Haunch io|d. „ 7id. „ Leg lod. „ 8d. Loin, best end IS. „ 6^d. „ „ chump end .... lo^d. „ Neck, best end .... iid. „ yd. per lb. „ middle 8d. „ scrag 6d. Saddle I id. „ Shoulder 9R 6^d. per lb. Chops, trimmed .... IS. id. „ „ chump I id. „ pjd. per lb. Suet 4d. Sheep’s brains 4d. per set „ heads 6d. to lod. each „ hearts 3d. to 4d. „ „ kidneys .... 3d. each i|d.each „ liver pd. per lb. „ tongues .... 3gd each „ trotters .... i|d. to 2d. each „ pluck (heart, liver, and lights) pd. each35 AVERAGE PRICE LISTS Lamb Part Average Price Best and Cheapest English F oreign Breast .... May to July 7^d. per lb. 4id. per lb. Forequarter „ „ lod. „ 6|d. „ Hindquarter „ „ iGd. „ 8ld. „ Leg IS. ' „ 9|d- ,, Loin IS. id. „ 8id. „ Neck, best end . I id. „ 6d. „ scrag 8d. 5d. Shoulder .... ,, „ iid. 8*d. „ Lamb’s fry . IS. 2d. „ „ sweetbreads, throat IS. 6d. „ „ „ heart. 6d. each Pork Part or Joint Best and Cheapest Average Price Spring, or belly .... November to March 8d. per Ib. Hand ,, )) 7id. „ Hand and spring .... „ ,, 8d. Loin, fore end ,, ,, 8d. „ middle cut .... ii^d. „ „ hind ..... lod. „ „ chump end .... „ „ 9d. Leg 9d. „ Spare ribs 8d. Chops „ ,, IS. „ Pickled pork 8id. „ „ „ middle cut . J) 9d- „ Pig’s head 3|d. „ „ cheek „ fry (heart, liver, sweetbread, 8d. and lights) .... 51 55 6d. „ „ kidneys 55 5 5 qd.to bd.each „ Pettitoes 55 55 Sd. per pair Sausages 55 55 qd. to lod. per lb.THE COMPLETE COOK 36 August to December Sea-bream .... 4d. to 6d. „ Fish Variety In their Prime Average Price Bloaters September to March id. to 2d. each Brill, whole j, „ 8d. to IS. per lb. „ cut .... „ „ IS. to IS. 3d. per lb. Bream .... August to December 4d. to 6d. per lb. Cod, head and shoulders . October to March 3d. to IS. each „ middle „ „ 8d. to IS. per lb. „ tail .... 6d. to 8d. „ Carp October to February IS. to 2s. 3d. each Crab May to August gd. to lod. per lb. plain Crayfish .... 2s. to 3s. per dozen Crawfish .... Summer months lod. to IS. 6d. per lb. Dory February to December Sd. to gd. „ Eels August to May 6d. to IS. 4d. „ Flounders .... July to October 4d. to IS. Grayling .... August to December 6d. Gudgeons .... October to December 6d. Gurnet .... September to February 6d. to lod. per lb. Haddock .... „ „ 4d. to lod. each Hake July to January 4d. to gd. per lb. Halibut .... October to March 8d. to IS. lod. per lb. Herrings, fresh . August to December ^d. to 2d. each Ling November to April 5d. to 8d. per lb. Lobster .... January to October 6d. to 3s. each „ prawns or Dublin prawns .... » It IS. 6d. to 2s. per doz Mackerel .... May to August 3d. to lod. each Mullet, grey July to October 8d. to IS. per lb. „ red April to October lod. to 2s. 6d. per lb. Mussels .... October to March i^d. to 3d. per pint Oysters .... September to April gd. to 3s. per dozen Perch November to January 6d. to IS. each Pike October to February 3d. to 6d. per lb. Plaice .... October to April 8d. to IS. 2d. per lb. Prawns .... January to October gd. to 2s. 6d. per doz. Shrimps .... All the year good 4d. to 6d. per pint Salmon, jowl February to August lod. to IS. 2d. per lb. ,, tail ,, „ 1s.3d.tois.iod. „ „ middle . „ „ IS. 8d. to 3s. „ „ Canadian, frozen . All the year 6d. to IS. 6d. „ „ Dutch . December to February 3s. 6d. to 5s. „ „ trout April to August IS. to 3s. 6d. „ „ smoked. All the year IS. 6d. to 5s. „ Scallops .... Winter 6d. to 2s. per doz. Saltfish .... During Lent 4d. to IS. per lb.37 AVERAGE PRICE LISTS Fish—contmued Variety In their Prime Average Price Shad April to May IS. to IS. 6d. per lb. Skate October to April 4d. to 6d. „ Smelts .... November to April IS. to 2s. per dozen Sole June to February is.6d.to 2S. 6d. per lb. Sprats .... December to March id. to 3d. „ Sturgeon .... September to March IS. 6d. to 3s. „ Trout April to July IS. to 2S. „ Turbot .... October to April 6d. to 2s. 6d. „ Whitebait .... March to July IS. 6d. per quart Whiting .... September to March 3d. to 6d. each Game Average Price Black game IS. 6d. to 2s. each Capercailzie 3s. to 4s. 6d. „ Duck, wild IS. to 3s. „ Grouse 2s. qd. to 4s. per brace Hares 3s. to 5s. each Leverets 2s. 3d. to 3s. each Ortolans IS. 6d. to IS. qd. each Partridges, English 2s. to 4s. 6d. per brace „ Foreign IS. to IS. qd. each Pheasants 2S. to 5s. „ Plovers, golden IS. to IS. 6d. „ grey 8d. to IS. „ „ eggs, cooked and tested 2s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. per dozen Pi^airie hens IS. 2d. to 2s. each Ptarmigan lod. to IS. 6d. „ Quails IS. to IS. qd. „ Ruffs and reeves lod. to IS. „ Snipe lod. to IS. 6d. „ Teal IS. to IS. 8d. „ Venison From yd. per lb. Widgeon IS. to 2s. each Woodcock 3s. to 5s. per brace38 THE COMPLETE COOK Poultry Best and Cheapest Average Price Chickens June to October 2S. 3d. to 3s. 6d. each Ducks .... September to November 3s. to 4s. 6d. „ Ducklings June and July 2s. 6d. to 5s. „ Fowls .... June to November 2s. pd. to 4s. 6d. „ Geese .... October and November 5s. to 8s. 6d. „ Goslings.... June and July 5S. to 7s. „ Guinea-fowls . March to May 2s. pd. to 3s. 6d. „ Pigeon, Bordeaux . All the year IS. 6d. to IS. 8d. „ „ wood or tame . „ „ lod. to IS. 4d. „ Rabbits, tame October to February IS. 3d. to 2S. „ „ wild . „ „ IS. 2d. to IS. 6d. „ „ Ostend . „ „ 8|d. per lb. Turkey, cock . November to February 7s. 6d. to 30S. each „ hen . » 5s. to lOS. „ Vegetables Best and Cheapest Average Price Artichokes, Globe . „ Jerusalem . February to April 4d. to 6d. each. November to January id. to 2d. per lb. Asparagus End of April to June IS. pd. to 5s. 6d. per 100 heads Beans, broad . July to August 2d. per lb. „ French June to August 3d. to lod. per lb. „ scarlet runners . August and September id. to i^d. „ Beetroot.... Autumn id. to 3d. each Broccoli, tops March and April id. per lb. Brussels sprouts November to January lid. to 2d. per lb. Cabbages, spring . March and April i|d. to 2d. each „ greens . ” id. per lb. or 7 lb. for 6d. „ savoys . Winter months i^d. to 2d. each „ red Autumn 3d. to 4d. „ Carrots, old . Summer and Autumn 4d. per bunch „ new . May and June pd. to IS. per bunch Cauliflowers . Spring and Summer 2d. to 6d. each Celery .... Winter months 2d. to 4d. per head Cucumbers August and September 3d. to pd. each Chillies .... September and October 4d. to 6d. per dozen Chervil .... Summer 3d. to 4d. a punnet Celeriac .... Autumn and Winter 3d. to 4d. each Chicory .... Winter 6d. to 7d. per lb.AVERAGE PRICE LISTS 39 „ white 8d. to IS. „ V EGETABLES—continued. Best and Cheapest Average Price Endive .... Winter 2d. to 3d. each Garlic .... Autumn and Winter 6d. a bunch Herbs .... August and September 2d. to 6d. a bunch Horseradish . Winter id. to 2d. a stick Leeks .... October to January 3d. to 6d. a bunch Lettuces .... Summer lid. to 6d. each Kale, Scotch . December to February i|d. to 2d. per lb. Mushrooms, outdoor August and September 8d. to IS. „ Onions .... All the year Id. „ Spanish October to February id. to 2d. „ „ spring April and May 2d. per bunch Parsnips. November to March id. to lid. each Peas .... July and August IS. to IS. 9d. per peck Potatoes.... Autumn ^d. to 2d. per lb. „ new . May to July 2d. to 4d. „ „ sweet November to February 3d. „ Radishes May to August i^d. to 2d. per bunch Seakale .... Winter IS. to 2s. per basket Shallots .... 6d. per lb. Spinach .... Summer, and then Winter variety 2^d. to 3d. per lb. Sorrel .... Winter 4d. to 6d. „ Sprue .... Spring IS. per bundle Salsify .... December to February 4d. to 6d. per bundle Tomatoes August to October 4d. to lod. per lb. Turnips .... Summer and Autumn 4d. „ new . May and June lod. to IS. per bunch „ tops . Winter id. to i|d. per lb. Vegetable marrows August to October 2d. to 6d. each Watercress Spring and Summer id. per bunch Fruit Best and Cheapest Average Price Apples . October to December 2d. to 6d. per lb. Apricots .... July and August 2d. to 3d. each Bananas.... All the year id. to i^d. „ Blackberries . September and October 4d. to 5d. per lb. Bullaces .... October 2d. to 4d. „ Cherries .... July 3d. to lod. „ Currants, red . July and August 4d. to 6d. ,, »40 THE COMPLETE COOK „ lard yd. to 8d. „ Fruit—continued. Best and Cheapest Average Price Currants, black July and August 4d. to 6d. per lb. Figs .... October IS. to 2s. 6d. per doz. Grapes .... 8d. to 4s. per lb. Greengages . August 4d. to 8d. „ Gooseberries . June to August 4d. to lod. per quart Lemons .... Autumn 6d. to IS. per dozen Limes .... Summer 4d. to 6d. „ Lychees .... Winter is.6d. to IS. qd. per lb. Medlars .... October 4d. to 8d. per lb. Melons .... 4d. to 5s. each Nectarines September 3s. to 5s. per dozen Oranges .... Winter From 6d. „ Pears .... October and November IS. 3d. to 4s. „ Peaches .... September and October 3s. to ss. Pineapples Summer 2s. 6d. to 6s. 6d. each Plums .... September and October 2d. to 8d. per lb. Pomegranates. October and November IS. to 2s. per dozen Raspberries . July 8d. to lod. per lb. Rhubarb March and April 2d. to 8d. per bundle Quinces .... October IS. 6d. to 2s. 6d. per dozen Strawberries . July 6d. to IS. per lb. Nuts— Brazil .... Winter 6d. per lb. Chestnuts . 2d. to 3^d. per lb. Cobs .... Autumn and Winter lod. per lb. Walnuts November and December lod. to IS. per lb. Ham and Bacon Average Price Ham, English I id. to IS. 2d. per lb. „ American 8d. to 8|d. „ Bacon, fore end 8d. to 8|d. „ „ gammon, middle I id. to IS. „ „ „ knuckle 5^d. to 7d. „ „ loin I id. to IS. „ „ streaky best I i^d. to IS. id. „ „ back IS. to IS. id. „ „ larding 8^d. to 9^d. „AVERAGE PRICE LISTS 41 Dairy Produce Average Price Eggs, newlaid IS. qd. to 2S. 6d. per dozen „ cooking IS. to IS. 4d. „ Butter, best fresh IS. 4d. to IS. 6d. per lb. „ salt IS. 2d. to IS. 4d. „ „ cooking IS. to IS. 2d. „ Milk 4d. per quart „ separated 2d. „ Cream, fresh ....... 2s. per pint „ (containing a small quantity of preser- vative) IS. to IS. 3d. per pint Cheese, English Cheddar 9d. to lod. per lb. „ Canadian Cheddar .... yd. to 8d. „ „ Dutch yd. to 8d ,, „ Gruy^re lod. to loid. „ „ Gorgonzola 9d. „ Parmesan 8d. to IS. „ „ „ grated in bottles . IS. per bottle „ Cream 2d. to IS. each Principal Groceries Required for Cooking and Cleaning Purposes Almonds, Jordan „ Valencia „ bitter „ ground in tins Angelica Arrowroot . Baking powder . Barley, pearl Bathbrick . Beans, haricot . Candied peel, mixed . „ „ citron . „ „ orange „ „ lemon . Capers Caviare Celery, salt „ seed Cherries, glace . Chicory Chillies Dates .... Figs .... Gelatine, sheet . IS. 6d. to 2s. per lb. lod. to IS. id. „ I id. „ IS. iW. per tin IS. id. per lb. 5^d. to 2s. 3d. per lb. id. packets to 6d. per j lb. lid. per lb. id. each 2d. per lb. 4d. to 6d. per lb. yd. to 8d. „ 4^d. „ 4|d. „ 6d. to 9d. per bottle 2s. to 3s. per jar 4id. per bottle 7|d. „ lod. to IS. per lb. 4d. to 5d. „ yd. to 8d. per bottle 4d. per lb. 4d. to 6d. per lb. IS. 3d. to 2s. 3d. per lb.THE COMPLETE COOK 42 „ Valencias 4d. to 6d. „ Principal Groceries Required for Cooking and Cleaning VvKVOSK'S.—conimued Average Price Ginger, preserved IS. per jar Herbs 6d. per bottle Herring’s roe 7|d. per tin Hominy ........ 2d. per lb. Honey lod. to IS. 2d. per lb. House flannel 4|d. per yard Isinglass 6|d. to I id. per oz. Italian paste 3d. per lb. Jams 4d. to 8d. per lb. Junket powder S|d. per bottle Knife powder 4|d. to 7^d. per tin Lax ......... IS. gd. per tin Lentils, Egyptian or red i^d. per lb. „ German or brown 2U. „ . „ flour 3d. „ Macaroni 3d. to 5|d. per lb. „ ribbon 3^d. „ Spaghetti 3d. „ Vermicelli 4d. to 5^d. „ Marmalade 4d. to S|d. „ Milk (compressed) for Colonial use, etc. . IS. 7d. „ Milk Powder for Colonial use, etc. . IS. 3d. per lb. tin Swiss milk, sweetened 3d. to 5d. per tin „ „ unsweetened 3d. to 5^d. „ Mustard 5d. to 8d. per ^ lb. tin Oatmeal i^d. to 2|d. per lb. Olives gd. per | bottle Rice flour 4M per packet Chestnut flour 7|d. „ Potato flour 2W. „ Barley flour 6d. Peas, split i^d. per lb. „ green, dried 3d. „ flour 7d. to g^d. per lb. Pepper, white IS. 3^d. „ „ black 9id. „ cayenne 3§d. per oz. „ paprika (Hungarian red) lod. per bottle Pilchards in oil gjd. per tin Pimentoes io|d. „ Pistachios 3s. gd. per lb. Plums, French IS. I id. to 3s. 6d. per 2 lb. bottle „ prunes 3d. to 8d. per lb. Raisins, sultanas 5|d. to 7^d. per lb.43 AVERAGE PRICE LISTS Principal Groceries Required for Cooking and Cleaning Purposes—co7ttinved Average Price Raisins, Muscatel (dessert) .... yd. to is. per lb. Rice, Carolina 3d. to ad. „ „ Patna 2id. „ „ ground ifd. „ flaked 2|d. Sago, large 2|d. „ small 2d. „ Salad oil From 6d. per gill bottle Salt, table id. to 5^d. per lb. „ cooking pel. per 28 lb. „ freezing 5d. per 14 lb. Sardines 6d. to ii^d. per small tin Semolina 2d. per lb. Soap, household 6d. to 8d. per 3 lb. bar Soda 4d. per 7 lb. Spices, mixed 5d. per 4 oz. Allspice berries 6d. per lb. Cinnamon sticks IS. 8d. „ „ ground 6d. per 4 oz. Cloves, whole IS. id. per lb. „ ground 4^d. per 4 oz. Ginger, whole 8|d. per lb. „ ground 4d. per 4 oz. Mace, blades 3s. per lb. „ ground IS. per 4 oz. Nutmegs, whole ...... 2s. 3d. per lb. „ ground yid. per 4 oz. Sugar, loaf 2d. to 3d. per lb. „ castor 2fd. „ Demerara 2ld. » icing aid. Syrup, golden 6^d. to y^d. per 2 lb. tin Tapioca 2d. to 2^d. per lb. Tea IS. to 3s. „ Tomatoes, tinned 5d. to IS. per tin Tongues, small IS. 2d. „ » large 3s. 6d. to 4s. 6d. per tin Treacle 5Jd. per 2 lb. tin Truffles IS. yd. to 5s. lod. per bottle Turtle, dried ys. to 8s. per lb. Vanilla, pods 4d. per pod „ essence 5id. per small bottle Vinegar, malt 8d. to I id. per quart Wafer paper IS. per 50 sheets Yeast cakes 3d. for box of 644 THE COMPLETE COOK SHORT MARKETING HINTS By doing your own marketing, “ order books ” are avoided, the pick of the market is secured, and full advantage can be taken of any commodity which is very abundant. Fish is particularly liable to sudden rises in price, and, by studying the daily fluctuation, the expensive kinds may often be dis- pensed with, and the less sought after, and consequently cheaper, varieties substituted. Ready cash, or at least weekly accounts, command the lowest prices and at the same time give independence to bestow custom where best value is given. Cheapened foods are but rarely good bargains, the reductions arising from the loss of their primary freshness. To buy “the whole at a shilling,” instead of half of it at sevenpence, is no economy, if there is but small chance of using it wFile it is fresh. Take advantage of the seasons, so that variety may be secured, when each food in its turn becomes abundant and therefore cheap. Deal at good shops with a brisk trade, as the goods are fresher and there will be a larger selection from which to choose. Goods out of their natural season, but still in the markets, are expensive, and often the flavour is but poorly developed. Meat The flesh of young animals is less easily digested and less nutritious than that of mature ones. No joint of meat, even if low in price, can be deemed economical if very fat or bony. Therefore steaks and small pieces without bone are less expensive than they at first appear to be. Meat should not be moist and watery, and, if properly cooked, it should not shrink and waste greatly. If the colour is of a deep purple, or a pale pink, it is a sign of inferior and often of diseased meat. There should be but little smell from meat, and that not unpleasant, and such parts as kidneys and liver should be quite free from discoloration or spots. Beef is the most economical meat to buy, as it has the least bone and most nutritive material in a given bulk.SHORT MARKETING HINTS 45 The lean should be a deep, bright, red colour, well marbled with creamy white fat, and with a thick outside layer of fat. The grain should be firm and elastic. The suet hard, easily crumbled, and of a pinkish tinge; if the fat is a deep yellow the animal has been largely fattened on oil cake and the flavour will be less fine. Hard, skinny fat, and a horny strip along the rib portion, denotes old age and often inferiority. Ox beef is best; no good butcher offers cow or bull beef for sale. Sirloin and ribs are the prime roasting pieces, but are ex- pensive, on account of the amount of bone they contain. Topside or round is about the most economical roast for a family, as it contains no bone or superfluous fat. Scotch beef is usually reckoned as the best. Mutton stands next to beef in nutritive qualities, and for some people it is of more value as food, because it is more easily digested, its fibres being shorter and more tender. It has, however, a strong flavour. The cheaper joints, being very bony, are not economical: the legs are the most so for family use. Welsh and Southdown mutton are considered the best varieties. Joints off small animals should be selected, as large meat is coarse and wasteful. The lean should be finely grained and a clear, dark red, with the bones small. The fat clear, white, and veiy hard. Mutton should be well hung, without being in the least tainted. To ascertain if it is freshly killed, look at the cut surfaces. If well hung they will be dry looking and almost a blackish, purple colour; but if freshly killed a bright red. Butchers will often let a joint be selected, and hang it themselves for their customers. Legs may be hung for a longer period than the loins or shoulders. The flesh of sheep fed on the marshy grounds near the sea coast is considered a great delicacy, as the flesh gains firmness and flavour from the saline particles conveyed with the food. Veal.—This meat is not considered to be very digestible, and if it is very young it contains little nourishment. It stands lowest among heat-producing meats, and for that reason requires to be eaten with bacon, rice, potatoes, etc.; these also help to redeem its lack of flavour.THE COMPLETE COOK 46 The flesh is usually preferred when of a very pale colour though it is more juicy when a deeper pink. The fat should be clear and white: the lean, finely grained and a delicate pink. The kidney small, free from discoloration, and wrapped in plenty of firm white fat. Veal very rapidly turns sour, so must be cooked speedily. Lamb has many points in common with veal. It is immature meat, needs thorough cooking, and does not keep well. The flesh should be firm, clear, and of a delicate red, and the fat white with no tinge of yellow. The kidney and fat round it should show no sign of being flabby or tainted. The veins of the neck end of the forequarter should be of a bluish tint, not greenish, as the latter denotes that the meat is stale. Pork.—Fresh pork, though very nourishing if it can be digested, cannot be regarded as a wholesome meat, and should never be eaten by children, or those with delicate digestions, as it contains an excess of fat. Pork is the one meat which is rendered more wholesome with salting. Never buy it in warm weather; an old but wise rule is, only to permit it on the table in those months that have an “ R ” in their spelling. As the flesh of the pig is peculiarly liable to disease, it is most necessary to exercise care in selecting it, and to purchase it from reliable dealers only. Pork is best when small and lean, with the flesh of a delicate brownish pink with a fine grain. The fat should be white, firm, and free from specks or kernels. The skin thin, elastic, and smooth. Soft, flabby flesh and yellowish fat with kernels indicate that the pork is of very inferior quality and probably diseased. Never buy pork from which the rind has been removed, or any which shows signs of discoloration. “ Dairy fed ” pork is the most delicate in flavour. No pork will keep, but requires to be quickly, and, it may be added, most thoroughly cooked. Venison, like mutton, must not be too young. Buck venison is the most highly esteemed. The lean should be finely grained and dark in colour; this deepens if it is well hung, as it should be. The fat should be plentiful, firm, and of a clear, creamy white colour. The age of the animal may be judged from the hoof. If the cleft is47 SHORT MARKETING HINTS small and smooth, the animal is young; if rough and deeply cut, the animal is old. The haunch is considered the prime roasting joint. Hajns.—Select a short, thick ham, rather than a long one. If it is cut, note that the fat is free from a yellowish tint and not coarse, also that the lean is springy to the touch and not over red, for if it is, it is liable to be hard. As all meat becomes tainted near the bone first, push a clean skewer close against it, and on pulling it out it should have no unpleasant or rancid smell, nor should it appear greasy or have soft particles of fat sticking to it. If these signs are observed, it shows the curing is faulty. Bacon.—The rind should be thin, smooth, and elastic, the lean a deep pink and adhering closely to the bones. The fat of a pinkish white, free from the least sign of yellow streaks or patches. A gammon may have the skewer test applied in the same way as a ham. Fish Rules applicable to all Varieties The eyes should be bright and full, the gills a clear, bright red. The body stiff, with the flesh firm and elastic. The colours and markings should be clear and bright. The smell should be fresh and not unpleasant. The girth of the fish should be large in comparison to its length. Very large fish will probably be old and tough. If a “cut” of fish is bought, avoid that having a loose, fibrous, or watery texture, the grain should be fine and close. All shell-fish should weigh heavily in comparison to their size. Special Points in Certain Varieties Cod should have large head ; thick shoulders ; small tail; clear, silvery, bronze hue of skin ; liver white. Salmon.—Small head and tail; thick shoulders; silvery scales; flesh, a bright, rich, yellowish red. Skate should be creamy, white, thick, and broad. Mackerel.—Pearly white underneath; markings very dis- tinct and bright; it must be very fresh when eaten, or is not wholesome.48 THE COMPLETE COOK Red Mullet should be a bright rose colour. Eels are best bought alive to ensure absolute freshness. Silvery eels about one and a half pounds in weight are usually preferred. Trout.—The spots on the skin should be very clear, and the skin bright. Sprats and Herrings.—The scales must be very silvery and not much knocked off; the eyes clear, if greatly suffused with blood the fish is stale. Plaice.—The body thick ; the orange spots clear and bright; the skin tight, unwrinkled, and of a pinkish, not bluish tint, on the white side. Soles.—Thick in body; creamy, not bluish white under- neath; the skin tight and unwrinkled. Turbot, Brill, and Halibut.—The same as soles. Smelts.—When perfectly fresh, have a faint odour, sug- gestive of a cucumber newly cut. Lobster, Crabs, Prawns, and Shrimps should be heavy for their size. The tails should clip tightly against the bodies, and spring back sharply into position when pulled out straight and then loosened. Lobsters with white shell-like incrustations over the shells are probably aged and stringy. Hen lobsters, with large eggs under the body, will be watery, light, and in poor condition. Lobsters having broad tails, thick shells, with some black markings, are usually the best. Oysters. — Small varieties, with fairly smooth shells, are usually preferred. The shell should close sharply on the knife when it is inserted. If the shell is even a little open, the fish is not in its primary freshness, and if it remains open, it is dead and is not fit to eat. Poultry Rules applicable to all Varieties The weight should be great in proportion to size, but an overfat bird is not economical, and owing to the flesh being greasy, it is less digestible and delicate in flavour. The feet should be large in comparison to the size, the spurs very small and round, the legs and feet smooth and supple, with the scales hardly overlapping one another. Also the toes should break easily, if bent backwards. The skin should be thin and smooth, if coarse and hairy the bird is of inferior quality or old.SHORT MARKETING HINTS 49 The breast should be plump, and both the breastbone and the beak soft and pliable. The former is sometimes broken in fowls, to deceive purchasers; but the difference between a broken bone that slips when moved and the soft, yielding cartilage may be very easily detected. Be careful to note that the birds are free from all discolora- tion, and that the eyes are full and clear. Long thin necks, with a purplish tint, denote age, so also does a purplish tint on the thigh. Hen birds are usually considered more tender than cocks, and for boiling select fowls with light-coloured legs and very white skins. For roasting, the darker-hued black - legged varieties are richer in flavour. Young birds are downy under the wings and have short wing feathers. Ducks and Geese should be under a year old, and should have the bills and feet pliable and yellow; if these are stiff, red, and hard, the birds are old. Turkeys should have smooth black legs and the skin and flesh very white, Norfolk turkeys are reckoned the best. Pigeons should have the flesh on the breast a light red, with the legs a darker tint. Old birds are thin and very dark coloured on the breast. Wild pigeons, though cheaper, are apt to be dry and tough. Squabs are young tame pigeons, and the wing feathers will be very short. Rabbits, if young, will have large knee joints in comparison to their size, soft brown fur, smooth sharp claws, and short necks ; the ears will be so soft and thin that they will tear easily. If old, they will have greyish fur, thick blunt claws, and tough ears. If ready skinned, the flesh should be fresh and moist looking, with a slight bluish tinge. Game In young birds, the legs should be smooth and the feet supple: the beaks so brittle, that the under portion snaps across easily if it is bent backwards. The breasts should be firm, hard, and plump, and the long quills in the wings soft and not fully developed. In all Waterfowl the feet should be moist and pliable, as they soon become dry and hard after killing, and these birds must be eaten fresh, as from the oily nature of their flesh they soon become rank in flavour. If the beaks appear to be moist and the throat muddy, they are stale.50 THE COMPLETE COOK Partridges, when young, have dark bills, and the quill feathers in the wings are pointed at the end like a V, but in old birds they become rounded. The legs should be of a yellowish colour. Old birds have a mark almost like a horse- shoe on the breast feathers. Cock birds have a reddish brown plumage, hens a light brown. French and Russian birds, though a little larger and cheaper, are of inferior flavour. Hares should have smooth, sharp claws, the cleft in the lip should be narrow, and the ears soft and easily torn across. A leveret is best for roasting purposes. Grouse.—The birds with very handsome plumage are usually too old for anything but the stockpot or stewing, and age will also stiffen the bones of the legs and thighs considerably. Vegetables All vegetables must be as fresh as possible, many varieties cannot indeed be cooked too soon after picking them, and they become positively unwholesome when stale. Pods, leaves, and stalks begin to lose bulk and flavour as soon as cut. The freshness of nearly all vegetables may be judged by noting if they are crisp and the colour bright. Should they show signs of being flabby, or withered, they are stale. Pods and stalks should snap across easily when they are bent in the fingers. Caulijlower.—The flower must be firm, close, and a creamy white, the leaves round the flower being green and crisp. Cucumbers.—These must be very stiff and thick. Peas.—The pods should be crisp and bright green with no sign of yellow. They should be full, but if very large they are apt to be old. If the peas be heard to rattle in the pods, they are worthless. Potatoes.—Those with rough skins are usually the most floury when boiled. Select those free from “eyes,” and remember large ones will be the most economical, as there is less waste in peeling them. New Potatoes must have rough, ragged-looking skins, easily scraped off with the finger nail. Celery should be very wide, thick, stiff, and snap across easily. Miscellaneous Flour.—This must have no musty or unpleasant smell, or acid taste. To the touch it must feel smooth, not gritty or greasy, and when a little is squeezed together in the hand, itSHORT MARKETING HINTS 51 should adhere together, not lose its shape when the pressure is relaxed. The colour should be a creamy white for ordinary household purposes, if very white and fine it contains but little nutriment. “ Households ” or “ Seconds ” is best for family use, as it contains more of the nitrogenous portion of the wheat grain. “Vienna,” “Hungarian,” “Pastry Whites,” “Supers,” etc., are all very fine, white varieties, well suited for very light bread, cakes, and pastry. Yeast should not be in the form of dark crumbs, but in a firm, compact, moist mass free from any sour smell. It should be of a delicate pinkish fawn tint, and when worked with a little sugar it should become liquid, and after a space of some few minutes begin to bubble. If it does not, it is useless, the yeast plant being dead. Eggs should be heavy and have rough dull shells, when stale these become quite shiny as if polished. When held in front of a strong light they should have a transparent look and no dark spots should be visible. Stale eggs float and fresh ones sink if placed in a strong brine. Butter should be firm in texture, not crumbly, free from moisture or any rank or rancid smell. It should be rich, but not too deep in colour, for then it is probable that some colouring has been added ; this, though probably harmless, is not desirable, as butter cannot be too pure. The flavour should be mild and “ nutty ” as it is often described. Lard.—The best is very white, close, and has little or no odour. If it splutters greatly when heated it indicates the presence of water, due either to careless “ rendering ” of the raw fat, or to its having been added to the melted fat, to give increased weight. Milk.—Note the depth of cream which rises after it has stood for some hours: if it be very slight, the milk has been previously skimmed, or is of a poor quality; if it is very thin and slightly bluish looking, change the dairy at once. Candied Peel.—The rinds should be thick, supple, and well drained of sugar; if not, there is a large lump of sugar inside which is almost useless. Rice.—The grains should be unbroken, free from dust or tiny black insects called “ weevils.” Patna rice should have long very pointed grains, Carolina large thick rounded grains. Currants., Sultanas, and Raisins.—The fruit must be dry and separate, not clogged together, and fairly free from stalks.CHAPTER IV THE MOST IMPORTANT CHAPTER IN THE BOOK:— THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING—THE METHODS OF COOKING: THEIR SPECIAL POINTS—COMMON CAUSES OF FAILURE —AVERAGE TIMES RE- QUIRED FOR COOKING FOODS—TEMPERATURES REQUIRED: JUDGING WITH AND WITHOUT A THERMOMETER—TABLE OF MEASURES. THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING Master these and it should be comparatively easy to follow intelligently any recipe; also to detect where, as is sometimes the case, the directions are unscientific. What is a Principle? It is a great fixed law from which rules are formed. There may be exceptions to rules but never to principles. The Principles of Boiling Potatoes 1. Peeling potatoes thickly causes waste. 2. Exposure to the air after the skins are removed causes discoloration. 3. Salt is necessary for the health, and potatoes are deficient in this mineral. 4. Fast boiling breaks potatoes before they are cooked. 5. Moisture caused by the retention of the steam prevents potatoes being dry and floury. Therefore—i. Peel potatoes thinly. 2. Lay them in cold water after peeling. 3. Add salt to the water in which they are cooked. 4. Boil them gently. 5. Drain off the water carefully and dry them well by the side of the fire.THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 53 The Principles of Boiling Fish 1. Cold water extracts the juices of fish, thus it loses flavour and nutriment, 2. Heat hardens the albumen, thus assisting to retain the juices. 3. Fast boiling breaks the delicate skins and flakes of fish. 4. The time required for boiling fish depends on its thickness not weight. 5. Undercooked fish is unwholesome and even dangerous. 6. Fat is necessary to health, but fish is deficient in fat. Therefore—l and 2. Place fish in hot water. 3. Simmer it gently. 4 and 5. Note if the fish is thin or thick, judge the time accordingly and cook it thoroughly, 6. If possible serve fish with melted butter sauce. The Principles of Boiling Fresh Meat 1. Hardening the outside albumen of meat keeps in the juices ; if they escape the meat loses flavour and nutriment. 2. Heat hardens albumen. 3. Boiling, after the first few minutes, will harden the albumen all through the meat, making it tough. 4. Slow cooking softens the fibres of meat, making them more digestible. 5. The water will contain some flavour and nutriment of both meat and vegetables. Therefore—i and 2. Place the meat in boiling water. 3 and 4. After the preliminary boiling, simmer the meat gently till it is cooked. 5. Save the meat liquor for broths. The Principles of Boiling Green Vegetables 1, Carelessly washed vegetables are dangerous and un- pleasant, 2, Cold or hard water and slow boiling will extract and thus spoil the green colour. 3, Soda softens hard water by precipitating the calcium salts held in solution. Therefore—i. Wash vegetables thoroughly. 2. Place them in boiling water and boil them quickly.THE COMPLETE COOK 54 3. Add a very small piece of soda to the water if it is hard. The Principles of Boiling Salted Meat 1. Salted meat contains too much salt to be wholesome, unless some of it is extracted. 2. Tepid water, by not hardening the outside albumen of meat, draws out some of the salt. 3. Salt meat requires fresh vegetables to counteract the excessive amount of salt it contains. 4. Continuous boiling hardens the albumen all through the meat, making it tough. 5. Slow cooking softens the fibres, making them more digestible. Therefore—i and 2. Place salted meat in tepid water to cook it. 3. Cook and serve fresh vegetables with salted meat. 4 and 5. Simmer the joint slowly after the first few minutes. The Principles of Boiling Puddings 1. Grease prevents mixtures sticking to the basins and moulds, if they stick the puddings break. 2. Water soaking into the mixture causes puddings to be heavy. 3. Water soaks in if there is any space left in the top of the basin. 4. Checking the cooking by allowing the water to stop boiling causes heavy puddings. 5. Suet being a rich fat needs long cooking to render it digestible. Therefore—i, 2, and 3. Grease all basins and see they are full. 4. Place them in boiling water and boil steadily. 5. Boil suet puddings thoroughly. The Principles of Making Beef Tea 1. Exposing as large a surface of the meat as possible facilitates the extraction of the juices. 2. Cold water extracts the juices of meat. 3. Boiling water, by hardening the meat albumen, retains the juices.THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 55 4. Boiling hardens the albumen in meat, making it difficult to digest. Therefore—i. Scrape the meat finely. 2. Place it to soak in cold water. 3 and 4. Never permit beef tea to reach boiling point. The Principles of Re-heating Cooked Meats 1. Re-heated meat contains less nutriment and flavour than when it is freshly cooked. 2. Great heat will harden the albumen in the meat, thus making it tough. 3. Cold gravies will draw out the remaining juices of the meat. Therefore—i. Season the mixtures carefully, using stock made from the rougher portions for gravies. 2 and 3. Place the meat in hot, but not boiling, or cold gravies, and re-heat it gently without letting it boil. The Principles of Steamed Puddings, etc. 1. Grease prevents mixtures sticking to basins and moulds, if they stick the puddings break. 2. Water soaking into the mixtures causes puddings to be heavy. 3. The slow cooking by steam takes a longer time, but renders food more digestible than when it is boiled. 4. Food that is steamed loses none of its nutritious elements in the water, as is the case with boiled foods. Therefore—i. Grease all basins. 2. Cover the basins over and see the water cannot boil into them. 3. Steam mixtures for a longer period than if they are boiled. 4. When possible steam foods instead of boiling them. The Principles of Making Sauces 1. Hot liquids added quickly to flour cause the starch grains to form lumps. 2. Starch grains that cook unevenly form lumps. 3. Insufficiently cooked starch grains are indigestible and have a rough taste.THE COMPLETE COOK 56 4. Sauces that are made too thick or thin or badly seasoned are spoilt. Therefore—i. Add hot liquids slowly. 2. Stir sauces continually till they boil. 3. Boil sauces thoroughly. 4. Pay careful attention to the consistency and flavour of all sauces. The Principles of Making Batters 1. Correct beating introduces air into the mixture, and air expands with heat. 2. Starch grains swell and soften in cold liquids. Therefore—i. Beat batters carefully till the surface is well covered with bubbles. 2. Allow batters to stand for an hour or so before cooking. The Principles of Bread Making 1. The yeast plant grows, if acted upon by warmth and moisture. 2. Great heat or cold or rough usage kills the yeast plant. 3. During the growth of the yeast plant it throws off carbonic acid gas. 4. This gas in its endeavours to escape from the dough, and with its expansion, caused by the heat of the oven, raises the dough, making it light and porous. 5. If the gas is permitted to escape before baking, the dough sinks and the bread is heavy and sour. Therefore—i and 2. Avoid great heat or cold for the yeast plant, and do not overcream it. 3, 4, and 5. Do not overprove the dough and bake it in a quick oven to expand the gas it contains and to kill the yeast plant. The Principles of Making Pastry 1. Heat, heavy handling, and rolling, make heavy pastry. 2. The ebullition of any description of fat, mixed with the flour, raises and lightens it. 3. Baking powder when moistened throws off carbonic acid gas, which raises the flour in its endeavours to escape from it. 4. If this gas is permitted to escape before the pastry is cooked, its action is lost and the pastry will be heavy.THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 57 Therefore—i. Keep pastry cool and handle it as little and lightly as possible. 2. Mix plenty of fat with the flour, or if the supply of fat is limited, add baking powder. 3 and 4. If baking powder is used, bake the pastry as soon as possible after adding the moisture. The Principles of Stewing 1. Boiling hardens the albumen contained in the meat, making it tough. 2. Long slow cooking in a moist heat softens the fibres of the meat, rendering them easily masticated and digested. 3. Much of the aroma and flavour of foods is lost, and liquids wasted by evaporation, if cooking vessels are left uncovered. Therefore—i. and 2. Simmer foods to be stewed, do not let them boil. 3. Use a covered utensil to retain all the aroma and flavour of stews. The Principles of Making Milk Puddings 1. Starch grains swell with moisture and heat to about three times their original size. 2. Imperfectly cooked starch grains are indigestible. 3. Milk, if cooked quickly, deteriorates in flavour and wastes by evaporation before the grains of rice, etc., used are cooked. Therefore—i. Use barely 2 ounces of rice, etc., to one pint of milk, so that the grains have enough moisture to absorb and sufficient room for their increased size. 2. and 3. Cook milk puddings as slowly as possible, so that the grains have time to cook and the quantity and flavour of the milk is preserved. The Principles of Cake Making 1. Correct beating introduces air into mixtures. 2. Beating, after adding the flour and fruit, results in the air being forced out of the mixture. 3. Air when it expands with heat raises and lightens mixtures. 4. Large cakes baked quickly burn on the outside before they are cooked through.THE COMPLETE COOK 58 5. Small cakes baked slowly become dry and hard. Therefore—i. Beat eggs and butter and sugar well together. 2. Never beat the mixtures after adding the flour and fruit. 4 and 5. Bake large cakes slowly and small cakes quickly. The Principles of Frying 1. Moisture in any form causes hot fat to splutter and spoils the colour and crispness of the article fried. 2. Foods placed in fat, before it is the right heat, become greasy, sodden, indigestible and badly coloured. 3. Very hot fat seals the outside of the food to be fried at once, preventing grease soaking into or juices escaping from the food. 4. Overheated fat is dangerous, and makes food fried in it very unwholesome. Therefore—i. Dry all foods to be fried as much as possible. 2. Wait till a faint bluish smoke rises from the fat before putting in the food. 3. Be careful the fat does not become overheated and burn. If the smoke rises very thickly the fat is too hot, and if the pan is not removed from the fire it will burst into flame. The Principles of Invalid Cookery 1. The digestions of invalids are very weak, and must be given as little work to do as possible. 2. Invalids require nourishing foods to regain their strength. 3. Illness leaves invalids usually with very little desire for and often a great disinclination against food, so they must be tempted to eat. Therefore—i. Prepare all foods so that they can be easily digested. 2. and 3. Select nourishing articles of food and serve them in small portions as daintily as possible. The Principles of Vegetable Soups. 1. Cold liquids soften pulse or dried vegetables, but spoil the colour of fresh ones. 2. Fat is necessary for health, if it is lacking in any food the deficiency must be supplied. 3. Fast boiling wastes liquids by evaporation.THE PRINCIPLES OF COOKING 59 Therefore—i. Use cold liquids for pulse and dried vegetable soups, and boiling for fresh vegetable. 2. Add fat of some description to the soup, as vegetables are deficient in fat. 3. Boil soups slowly. The Principles of Roasting or Baking Meat 1. If the juices are permitted to escape when cooking meat, it becomes tasteless and loses much of its nutriment. 2. Hardening the outside albumen of meat by sharp heat forms a coating over the surface and keeps in the juices. 3. Basting meat prevents it becoming dry and shrivelled. Therefore—i. and 2. Expose meat to great heat for the first ten minutes. 3. Baste meat frequently. The Principles of Grilling 1. A dull slow fire fails to harden the outside albumen of the meat or fish, etc., the result being the food becomes dry and hard owing to the evaporation of its juices. 2. A smoky fire imparts an unpleasant flavour to grilled food. 3. Coarse inferior parts of meat become tough and dry if cooked by the process of grilling, owing to the rapid cooking. 4. Perforation of the meat, etc., permits the escape of the juices, thus their flavour and nutriment are lost. 5. The application of heat to only one side of meat, etc., permits the escape of its juices on the other. Therefore—i. and 2. Make up a good fire some time before it is required, in order that it may be sharp and clear. 3. Select small choice juicy pieces of meat, etc. 4. Never stick a fork or skewer into the lean of meat, etc., in order to turn it, but into the fat or skin. 5. Turn the food to be grilled frequently. The Principles of Meat Soups 1. The larger the surface of meat exposed to cold water, the more easily and completely will the juices be extracted. 2. Cold water extracts, boiling water hardens the albumen and keeps in the juices of meat. 3. Bones require fast boiling to extract the nutriment they contain.6o THE COMPLETE COOK 4. Fast boiling wastes soup by evaporation. 5. Frequent skimming improves the colour and clearness of soups. Therefore—i. Cut the meat small and chop the bones in short pieces. 2. Place them in cold water. 3. and 4. Boil soups gently unless they contain much bone. 5. Skim meat soups carefully. METHODS OF COOKING: THEIR SPECIAL POINTS Boiling This term implies that the food is cooked by moist heat, by immersing it in boiling liquid for a certain time. Correctly speaking it is a vague expression, often used erroneously, for in no case does the solid mass of food boil, merely the water or liquid in which it is placed. Also “ boiled meat,” “ boiled custard,” etc., are spoken of, when if actual boiling heat were used, the food would be ruined. Boiling is one of the simplest, most economical, most generally used and abused methods of cooking; but when used legitimately it renders food both wholesome and digestible. Boiling has three distinct objects : 1. To 7'etain all possible nutriment and flavour within the food boiled, preventing as far as possible their escape into the liquid used for the boiling,—example, boiled fowl or fish. This result is accomplished by putting the food into boiling liquid, and by a preliminary process of actual boiling, say for ten minutes, thus hardening the albumen over the entire surface, thereby forming a coating through which the juices cannot escape. After this sealing process is complete, the heat must be reduced to simmering point. 2. To extract the nutriment and flavour into the WqmA—for example, bone and meat soups and broths. This result is obtained by putting the material used into cold liquid, which extracts the juices ; soaking it before applying heat; slowly heating to boiling point and then boiling the in- gredients steadily till all the goodness is extracted. 3. Meats are placed in cold water, to have the nutriment partly in the liquid and partly in tne meat,—example, Irish stew, various fricassees. The liquid is brought quickly to boiling point, kept at that heat for a minute or so and then reducedMETHODS OF COOKING: THEIR SPECIAL POINTS 6i to simmering point. The cold water will have drawn out enough of the juices to enrich the liquid, which is later to form the accompanying gravy, then as it reaches boiling point the albumen hardens and thus retains the remainder in the meat. Actual Boiling is required for: 1. All green vegetables and most other varieties. 2. Bone and meat soups. 3. The first few minutes, as the preliminary step when boiling meat, fish, etc. 4. All boiled puddings. 5. In cases where evaporation is required, or reduction of stock, sauces, etc. 6. The thorough cooking of starch grains,—example, boiled rice, thickened sauces, macaroni, etc. Simmering, except in the above cases, is far more effective, satisfactory, and economical. It should be noted that after the liquid has reached boiling point (that is, the application of heat has been sufficient to cause ebullition or agitation of its surface, forming bubbles) all the fire in the world cannot make the water any hotter, unless the escape of the steam is prevented, which is impossible in ordinary vessels. Thus it is only a waste of fuel and ingredients to permit the furious boiling often to be ob- served in many kitchens; besides which it renders the walls, ceilings, etc., damp and unhealthy by the condensation of the steam. The great disadvantage of the process of boiling is, that even with great care a certain proportion of the nutritious elements in the foods will be lost in the liquid. This is of less con- sequence if the water is to be served as broth or gravy, but is more serious when it is poured down the sink, as is usually done with water in which vegetables or fish are boiled, instead of utilising it for vegetable stock in the former, or for fish soup and sauces in the latter case. Steaming is to cook foods by moist heat in the vapour arising from boiling water. It is the most gradual of all the methods of cooking, and though this necessitates the use of more fuel, yet, as many different articles of food can be steamed over one vessel containing boiling water, it is really economical, and is largely adopted in large establishments, hotels, hospitals, etc. The Advantages of Steaming over Boiling Food are: 1. The gradual heat renders the food more digestible, hence its special value for invalid cookery. 2. Puddings are lighter and richer, none of the suet, etc., having boiled out into the water.62 THE COMPLETE COOK 3. None of the nutritious elements of meat, fish, or vege- tables are lost in the water, thus all foods retain their full flavour and food value. 4. Pudding cloths are not required, thus the washing of them is saved. 5. Watery vegetables waste less and become drier,—example, marrows, turnips, certain varieties of potatoes. Steaming has, however, its drawbacks : 1. A long time is required before the food is cooked. 2. Steamed meat, fish, etc., will not produce any gravy. 3. It is a somewhat uncertain method, because should the water cease to boil rapidly under the steamer, the supply of steam will be insufficient and the cooking will be checked. 4. More fuel is required, unless the same steamer is utilised to cook several foods in separate compartments, one above the other. Stewing To stew is to cook foods by what is really a very gradual process of simmering; a small quantity of liquid only being used, and evaporation, loss of aroma and flavour prevented as much as possible by using a closely covered vessel. It is without doubt the most economical and nourishing of all methods, as the liquid used for the cooking is, in almost every instance, served as gravy or syrup, etc., so no soluble elements of the food, which are extracted into the liquid, are wasted. Should a fire have to be specially kept up, stewing would necessitate the use of much fuel, but this need never be the case, especially as, if the top space is limited, any stew can be equally, if not better cooked, in a covered utensil in a slow oven. The Advantages of Stewing are: 1. Coarse and therefore cheaper parts of meat can be used, as the slow cooking in moist heat softens the hard fibres and gelatinous substances. 2. As both liquids and solids are served, there is no waste of soluble nutritious elements. 3. Meat loses but little weight if stewed. 4. Little fuel is required and economy of time effected by the small amount of attention needed. 5. Vegetables being usually added to the meat, the bulk of the stew is economically increased, and it is rendered more wholesome and savoury.METHODS OF COOKING: THEIR SPECIAL POINTS 63 6. As stews can be easily re-heated, or kept hot, without spoiling them, they are most convenient for family use. It is well to remember that the tougher the meat, etc., is likely to be, the longer and slower must be the stewing process. There are two methods of stewing meat: I. Lightly fry it before stewing, in order to brown it, retain the juices and give additional flavour. For example, haricot mutton, stewed steak. For this method, however, tough stringy parts of meat are not suitable. The second way, when coarse meat containing much gristle is used, is either to soak it a few minutes first in vinegar, the action of which softens the fibres, or to place the meat in cold water and par-boil it,—this is done for Irish stew. Roasting This method is one of the oldest, most wholesome, and popular of all, indeed it may be described as our national method, “the roast beef of old England” having long ago become famous. It is, therefore, regrettable that it must also be described as the most expensive. It consists of cooking meat, etc., by radiant heat from an open fire. Meat thus cooked will retain more of the juices and develop more flavour than by any other process. The success, however, will largely depend on the manage- ment of the fire; it is essential that it is quick and clear the whole time. Should the heat be insufficient to harden the surface albumen rapidly, the watery juices evaporate and the meat becomes dry and tasteless. The heat must, however, not be so fierce that the albumen is hardened all through the meat; after the preliminary ten or fifteen minutes, it must be slackened, or the joint will be charred and tough. Thus with large joints the fire needs to be less sharp after the outside is sealed, than with small joints, birds, etc. Roasting may be performed in two ways ; 1. Before an open fire,—this is the favourite method. 2. In a properly ventilated oven. This is, however, con- sidered to give less excellent results than the first, the flavour being frequently less delicate, but this will depend largely on the perfect cleanliness of the oven and the system of its ventilation. It is, however, an exceedingly convenient method, and meat so cooked loses slightly less in weight, and the same rules are applicable to both methods.64 THE COMPLETE COOK Baking A process of cooking by dry heat with hot air in a closed oven. It is one of the oldest methods recorded. Ovens may be heated in various ways, by gas, steam; the flame from the burning fuel in ordinary coal ranges passing round the oven previous to its escape into the flues ; or, by first being burnt in the oven itself and removed when the interior is sufficiently heated, this is done in bakers’ brick ovens. Too much import- ance cannot be attached to keeping the oven scrupulously clean, otherwise the fumes arising from burnt grease, syrup from tarts which have boiled over, etc., will spoil the flavour of other foods, particularly of milk puddings and meats. Frying This is cooking foods in smoking hot fat, or oil, and is the quickest of all cooking methods. Therefore it is not a wise one to choose for foods that require gentle cooking to soften tough fibres, etc., such as the cheaper parts of meat. The busy woman who frys everything because it will cook the food rapidly, is abusing the use of the frying pan, although for several reasons her partiality for this popular kitchen utensil will appeal to practical women. Fat has to be heated to a far higher degree before it is fit to fry food than water heated for boiling purposes; therefore it is incorrect to speak of boiling fat. For that reason, over-fried food becomes hard, dry, and ultimately a charred black mass, while food over-boiled merely breaks to pieces and in some cases almost dissolves in the water. Shallow or deep frying pans must be made of strong, heavy iron, as the intense heat melts the solder of tin utensils: enamel-lined pans are rarely of any use, the same reason causing the enamel to crack and chip off. There are two methods of frying : 1. Deep, Fre^ich, or Wet Frying being known by any of these three terms. A deep pan is used containing enough hot fat to cover the food to be fried. This method is used for fritters, filleted fish, rissoles, etc. Foods fried thus are usually, though not always, protected from the intense heat by a coating of egg and bread crumbs, batter, pastry, etc. 2. Shallow, English, or Dry Frying.—For this method only a very small amount of fat is used, just enough to prevent the food from sticking to the shallow frying pan. It is employedMETHODS OF COOKING: THEIR SPECIAL POINTS 65 for sausages, eggs, omelets, pancakes, cutlets, bacon, etc. For the latter the pan is heated and the bacon fried in the fat that is extracted from it by heat. Of the two methods the first is the most economical, because, though the amount of fat seems large at the outset, it can be strained when a little cooled through a fine cloth, and with proper care be used over and over again. While, with dry frying, the ounce or two of fat used each time is usually so full of pieces, crumbs, etc., when done with, that any remaining is thrown away. It is necessary to remember that food, if very moist or cold, or if too many pieces are fried at a time, will greatly lower the temperature of the fat, and there is then danger of the grease soaking in. In the case of the presence of moisture, the commotion caused by the bubbling makes the fat boil over on to the stove. This will result in the fat catching fire, and this not unfrequently has ended in loss of life. It may be wise to remark here, for the benefit of the ignorant, that water must never be poured on to biirning fiat. Smother the flame if possible by putting a lid on the pan, or put sand, salt, earth, or ashes on it, but never water, as you value your life. For the reason that moisture causes fat to bubble over, never have the pan more than half full of fat, so that there is room for it to rise up a reasonable amount, and never let drops of water, or condensed steam from lids of saucepans, etc., fall into the hot fat. A wire frying basket is convenient, as the food can be easily raised to the surface to ascertain if of the right colour ; it is not, however, suitable for all preparations, some of which require a perforated fish slice or iron spoon. As grease adhering to the surface of fried food is displeasing to the eye, palate, and digestion, all foods so cooked must be drained carefully on soft paper or a clean cloth. There are, as is usual with every rule, exceptions, for bacon, sausages, and meat of all kinds are never drained. Fat which bubbles when it contains no food, is never hot enough for frying purposes. Ignorant cooks will imagine that because water bubbles when it boils, fat must be hot enough if it does the same. This is quite wrong and is the cause of nearly all failures in frying. Bubbling fat merely indicates the presence of moisture, and until that moisture has been evaporated and the bubbling ceases, the right heat has not been reached; neither will the 5THE COMPLETE COOK 66 faint smoke rise. This fact must be grasped before success is possible. Though frying is a speedy and very savoury method of preparing food, it is not by any means the most digestible, and if incorrectly performed is a potent cause for dyspepsia. Again, in many modern flats and badly arranged houses, the fumes given off from smoking fat are very irritating to the mucous membrane of the nose and equally so to a delicate stomach. A little coffee sprinkled on the stove during frying, will greatly disguise all undesirable odours. SAUTfilNG The exact meaning of this term is best described as “ tossing.” It is also a form of shallow frying, for just enough fat or butter, etc., is used to toss the food about in to prevent it from sticking to the pan. A sharp fire is needed, and the contents of the pan kept continuously moved and turned, by moving it backwards and forwards or skilfully tossing the food over. A saute pan resembles an ordinary frying pan, with the ex- ception of the edges, which are straight, not sloping outwards as is the case with frying pans. The latter, however, or an omelet pan, can be quite well used for this process. Grilling or Broiling The latter is the ancient word used for grilling, and is derived from the French briller to burn. Both terms are in use, and both indicate the same method, viz. to cook small pieces of meat, fish, poultry, game, or vegetables over, or in front of, a clear sharp fire. It is a similar process to roasting, with the same results and the same drawbacks, viz. it is an extravagant method, as much fuel and the best cuts of meat are essential to success. It is quickly performed, and the results are savoury and digestible. If, however, evaporation is not prevented, by the heat being intense enough to seal over the exterior of meats, they become dry and tasteless. It is essential that the griller is well heated and greased; unless the former is done, the albumen behind the shadow of the bars of the griller does not become hardened, and little streams of gravy will escape. Flat tongs for the purpose of turning the food are useful, in order to avoid piercing the flesh;METHODS OF COOKING: THEIR SPECIAL POINTS 67 but if a double griller is used, in which the food can be securely fastened, the meat need not be moved, merely the griller twisted round. Arrange the food so that the thickest part of it will be just in the centre of the fire, thus it will obtain the greatest heat; also should there be any fat on the meat, it should be placed at the top, so that, as it melts, the dripping trickles down and bastes the meat. Avoid, however, fat dropping on to the coal, as it causes a smoky flare from the fire, which is apt to spoil the flavour of the food. Charcoal is an excellent fuel for grilling purposes, as it throws out a powerful heat, free from flame or smoke. Should the fire be smoky, a little salt thrown on it will help to clear it. Braising This is a combination of two methods, stewing and roasting. Stewing, because the food is cooked very slowly in a small quantity of liquid, in a closely covered pan ; roasting, because the braising pan proper has the top of the lid deeply sunken, in order that live coals or charcoal may be placed in it, so that there is a fire over as well as under the food; the top heat slightly scorching the surface of it and imparting the character- istic flavour. It is an excellently economical method, deservedly popular with the French, who fully appreciate the specially rich flavour and aroma it develops, due to the bed of mixed vegetables or mirepoix, as it is termed, on which the meat rests. The liquid is slowly reduced, forming a rich gravy to serve with it. This method is peculiarly suited for meat, etc., which are apt to be dry and lack flavour, notably veal; and in the case of delicate foods, a buttered paper is frequently placed over them, under the lid, to prevent the top heat from the lid drying the surface overmuch. The operation of braising can be carried out very successfully with an ordinary saucepan, although when such is used the hot coal in the lid must be omitted. The pan used for braising is best placed in the oven, not on the top of the stove; it then is surrounded by a slow uniform heat, and will need very little attention.68 THE COMPLETE COOK COMMON CAUSES OF FAILURE Batters 1. Wrong proportioning of ingredients. 2. Milk added too rapidly or slowly. 3. Flour dashed in, not smoothly stirred. 4. All the milk added before beating, not half only. 5. Incorrect or insufficient beating. 6. Beating after thinning the batter with the rest of the milk, 7. Neglecting to let the batter stand before cooking. 8. Cooking the batter too slowly. 9. Not serving it immediately after the cooking is completed. Boiling Fish 1. Not trimming or trussing the fish in a sightly manner. 2. Placing it in cold or boiling water, 3. Boiling it quickly, instead of simmering it gently. 4. Not removing the scum. 5. Cooking it too much, or not sufficiently. 6. Breaking it by careless lifting from the water. 7. Neglecting to drain it well before serving it or pouring the sauce over. 8. Serving it in a semi-chilled condition. Boiling Green Vegetables 1. Careless trimming and cleansing. 2. Placing in cold, or warm, instead of boiling water. 3. Insufficient amount of water allowed. 4. Hard water not softened by adding soda. 5. Salt forgotten, or too much soda added. 6. Scum not removed. 7. Boiled slowly, instead of very rapidly. 8. Under or over boiled. 9. Stringy portions not removed. 10. Badly pressed and drained. 11. Untidily served in probably a cold dish. Boiling Meat 1. Placing fresh meat in cold, and salted in boiling water. 2, Neglecting the preliminary sealing process by boiling.COMMON CAUSES OF FAILURE 69 3. Continuing to boil it after the sealing process is complete. 4. The scum not removed. 5. No vegetables boiled with the meat. 6. Too much water used, so pot-liquor too weak. 7. Undercooking, so meat remains hard ; overcooking, so that it becomes stringy and tasteless. Boiling Potatoes 1. Careless washing and wasteful peeling. 2. “ Eyes ” not removed. 3. Discoloration caused by not placing them in cold water after peeling. 4. Too much water used. 5. Salt forgotten. 6. Boiled too fast, so they become broken before being cooked. 7. Some cooked before the others, no pains being taken to choose them of a uniform size. 8. Insufficiently drained and dried, so are sodden instead of floury. Boiling Puddings 1. Basin badly greased due to : (a) Being wet. (^) Not enough grease used. (c) Not evenly rubbed over with it. 2. Basins not full, so water soaks in. 3. Cloths insecurely tied on. 4. Basin put in the saucepan before the water boils. 5. Water not covering the basin. 6. Cooking checked by the water ceasing to boil, owing to too low a fire, or from adding cold water to the saucepan. 7. Water being allowed to boil away, so pot and pudding are burnt. 8. Insufficient boiling. 9. Breaking the pudding by turning it out carelessly. Beef Tea 1. Wrong proportion of beef to water allowed. 2. Nutriment lost by selecting sinewy portions of beef, instead of juicy lean parts, such as topside free from gristle, fat, or bone. 3. Chopping instead of finely scraping the beef. 4. Placing it in hot or boiling, instead of cold water.THE COMPLETE COOK 70 5. Neglecting to soak it before heating it. 6. Heating it too rapidly. 7. Allowing it to boil. 8. Overseasoning it. 9. Neglecting to remove any fat from the surface. Bread Making 1. Inferior flour and stale yeast used. 2. Yeast plant killed by overcreaming it with the sugar. 3. Water too hot or cold. 4. Sponge set to rise in too cold or hot a place. 5. Dough made too dry or moist. 6. Dough insufficiently kneaded, or chilled by kneading it too long. 7. Dough soured by : (a) Allowing it to rise too rapidly. (d) Subjecting it to uneven distribution of heat. (c) Letting it rise too much, so that the gas escapes and the dough sinks. 8. Oven too cool, so the yeast plant is not killed rapidly enough after the dough is put in the oven. 9. Oven too hot, so the exterior of the loaves is too dark before being cooked through. 10. Oven too cool, so the bread is too pale in colour, and dry and hard owing to the slow baking. 11. No test applied to ascertain if the loaves are baked through. 12. The steam not permitted to escape from the loaves, so it condenses in them, causing them to become sodden and heavy. Cakes 1. Using bad or damp flour, rancid butter, cheap, dirty fruit, inferior sugar, and eggs of doubtful freshness. 2. Rubbing the butter into the flour, or creaming the butter and sugar insufficiently. 3. Insufficiently beating in the eggs. 4. Beating the mixture after mixing in the flour. 5. Mixing all the ingredients carelessly, so that they are not evenly distributed. 6. Baking large cakes quickly and small cakes slowly. 7. Omitting to test the cakes to ascertain if they are cooked through.COMMON CAUSES OF FAILURE 71 8. Managing the oven badly, so that the cakes are burnt or too pale. 9. Neglecting to allow the steam to escape, the result being the cakes become heavy. Frying 1. Food too moist or badly coated. 2. Insufficient fat used. 3. Fat dirty or burnt by previous use. 4. Fat used before it is still and a faint smoke rising from it. 5. Fat overheated, so the food is too dark and indigestible from being cooked in burnt fat. 6. Too many articles of food put in at one time. 7. The fat not reheated between each lot of food put into it. 8. No pains taken to fry all the food the same shade of golden brown, or to lift it in and out carefully. 9. Food drained insufficiently from the fat. 10. Food allowed to become chilled before serving. Grilling 1. Coarse parts of meat used instead of juicy tender cuts. 2. Fire dull or smoky. 3. Gridiron not heated or greased. 4. The food not turned sufficiently, and the surface not sealed rapidly. 5. Juices allowed to escape, owing to a fork or skewer being stuck into the lean. 6. Meat undercooked, therefore flabby and purple inside. 7. Meat overcooked, therefore dry owing to the evaporation of its juices. Feeding Invalids 1. Selecting unsuitable materials. 2. Not using the most digestible methods of cooking. 3. Failing to carry out the doctor’s orders as to what must and what may not be given the patient. 4. Neglecting to make the food appear as dainty and appetising as possible. 5. Serving it in large portions. 6. Neglecting to see that the plate, glass, etc., are clean, light to handle, and as pretty as circumstances permit. 7. Serving the meal unpunctually. 8. Leaving uneaten foods in the patient’s room.THE COMPLETE COOK 72 9. Worrying the patient as to what he or she would fancy to eat. Milk Pudding 1. Wrong proportions of the farinaceous preparation to the milk. 2. Careless sweetening. 3. Too rapid cooking. Pastry 1. Insufficient shortening allowed. 2. Damp flour used. 3. Rubbing the shortening in too heavily and too much. 4. Making the pastry in a hot place. 5. Much handling with hot hands and over-kneading. 6. Water not perfectly cold and pastry made too wet. 7. Too little water used, so pastry dry and crumbly. 8 Uneven and heavy use of the rolling pin. 9. Not baking the pastry quickly enough after moistening it when baking powder is used. 10. Oven too hot, so pastry burns, or too cold, so that it becomes dry and chippy. Roasting 1. Fire dull or smoky. 2. Surface of the meat not hardened rapidly enough, so the nutritious juices are lost. 3. Too fierce a heat kept up for too long, especially for large joints, so the exterior is charred before the inside is cooked. 4. Small joints and birds dried by being cooked too slowly. 5. Insufficient basting. 6. Meat over or under cooked owing to lack of experience or carelessness in apportioning the time. 7. The gravy too pale, weak, greasy, or badly seasoned. 8. Meat rendered sodden by pouring the gravy over, instead of round the joint. Re-heating Cooked Meat 1. Using water for gravies instead of stock made from the bones, rough pieces, etc. 2. Hardening the meat by placing it in boiling gravies, or extracting its remaining juices and flavour by putting it in cold gravies.COMMON CAUSES OF FAILURE 73 3. Gravies spoilt by making them : (a) Too thick or thin. (/>) Too dark or pale. (c) Careless seasoning. 4. Hardening the meat by letting it boil and re-cook, instead of merely re-heating it. 5. Not allowing the meat to remain long enough in the gravy to become flavoured by it, in the case of curry, hash, mince, etc. Sauces 1. Wrong proportion of ingredients used, especially flour, to liquids, so that the consistency is too thick or thin. 2. Burning the butter when heating it. 3. Letting the roux (butter and flour) become brown for a white sauce during the glazing process. 4. Browning the roux for a brown sauce too much, so that the flour tastes bitter. 5. Browning the roux insufficiently for a brown sauce. 6. Not stirring the flour in smoothly. 7. Adding hot liquids too quickly, so that lumps form. 8. Neglecting to stir the sauce till it boils, so that it becomes lumpy. 9. Boiling it insufficiently, so that owing to the uncooked starch grains, the flour tastes rough and raw. 10. Failing to remove any scum. 11. Over or under seasoning. 12. Neglecting to strain the sauce. Stewing 1. Insufficient vegetables used. 2. Too much liquid added. 3. Boiled instead of simmered. 4. Grease not removed. 5. Too much, or insufficient time for cooking allowed. 6. Pan not closely covered, so loss of flavour, aroma, and liquid result. 7. Carelesss seasoning and unsightly serving. Steaming 1. Moulds and basins insufficiently greased. 2. A greased paper not twisted over the top, so condensed steam leaks in.74 THE COMPLETE COOK 3. Too much water used, so it boils into the pudding. 4. Water allowed to boil away, so pan and pudding burn. 5. Water not kept boiling fast, so supply of steam is in- sufficient ; thus, owing to the check in the cooking, the pudding becomes heavy, and time needed for cooking it uncertain. 6. Mixture insufficiently cooked. 7. Carelessly turned out and served. THE AVERAGE TIMES REQUIRED FOR COOKING FOODS Meat Weight How Cooked Average Time Beef 6 lb. Roasted or baked if to 2 hours „ 12 „ „ „ 3 to 3i ,; „ salted .... 6 „ Boiled to 3 „ Bacon 2 „ „ 1 „ 4 „ „ 1; f to 2 „ Calf’s head .... ,, 3 to 3i „ Ham 8"ib. „ 4 to 4h » Lamb, leg .... 5 » Roasted or baked Mutton, leg 7 ,, 2 to 2| „ „ „ . 9 » „ „ 2i ^ „ » )» • 7 ,, Boiled 21 ^ » „ shoulder 4 ,, Roasted or baked d Pork, leg .... 6 „ „ „ 2] 5 » Boiled 2! Sheep’s head „ 2 to 2^ „ Ox tongue .... 4'ib. „ 2^ Veal, fillet .... 6 „ Roasted or baked 2 to „ Pig’s head .... Boiled ho 3 » Venison .... 6"ib. Roasted or baked ho If » without pastry Poultry and Game Fowl, large .... Roasted li hours „ medium 1 „ Duck .... „ 4! ; to 60 minutes Goose, medium size . Roasted or baked 1 to 2 hours Gosling .... I hour Turkey, medium size . „ „ to 2 hours Duckling .... „ „ 25 to 30 minutes Rabbit .... 30 to 40 „ Pigeon .... „ „ 20 to 25 „ Fowl, young Boiled 1 to I hour Rabbit ....AVERAGE TIMES REQUIRED FOR COOKING FOODS 75 Poultry and Game—continued. Weight How Cooked Average Time Turkey, medium size . Boiled if to hours Wild duck .... Roasted or baked 20 to 30 minutes Partridge .... „ „ 2S to 35 Woodcock .... 35 53 20 to 25 „ Grouse .... 33 33 30 to 35 Ptarmigan .... 33 33 30 to 40 „ Capercailzie 33 33 45 to 60 „ Black game 33 33 1 to I hour Pheasant, small . 33 35 25 to 30 minutes „ large . 33 33 45 to 60 „ „ .... Boiled 40 to 60 „ Quail Roasted or boiled 10 to 15 „ Plover .... 53 33 15 to 20 „ Snipe 33 53 „ „ Teal 33 33 20 to 30 ,, Ortolan .... 53 33 15 to 20 „ Widgeon .... 35 33 „ „ Ruffs and reeves 55 33 10 to 12 „ Hare 55 33 to 2 hours ...... Fi; Jugged ;h i| to 2 „ Brill 2 lb. Boiled 10 to 15 minutes Cod or hake 20 to 30 „ Eels, small .... )) „ Flounders, medium ” 5 to 10 minutes after water boils Small fish, stuffed Baked 20 to 30 minutes Fish, thick, stuffed 30 to 40 „ Haddock .... 2Tb. Boiled 15 to 20 „ Halibut .... 3 » 20 to 25 „ Mackerel, medium 10 to 15 „ Prawns .... 8 Shrimps .... „ 5 Lobster, small . „ 20 to 30 „ „ large 30 to 45 Salmon .... 4’ib. j, 35 to 40 „ Salt fish .... 3 » „ 35 to 40 Skate, small 30 to 40 „ Sole, large .... ,3 10 minutes after water boils Tench, small 15 minutes Trout li’ib. 10 to 12 minutes Turbot, middle . Whiting, small . 3 ?) 25 to 30 „ 53 7THE COMPLETE COOK 76 Vegetables Average Time Asparagus about 20 to 25 minutes Artichokes, Globe » 30 to 35 „ Jerusalem Beans, French ” 151025 ” „ broad, young „ 15 to 20 „ „ haricot „ 2 to 2^ hours Beetroot, small „ i| to 2 „ Broccoli, young „ 10 to 15 minutes Brussels sprouts „ ,, „ Cabbage, spring „ 15 to 20 „ „ large and savoys „ 30 to 40 „ Carrots, new „ 20 to 25 „ „ old „ I to i-g- hours Cauliflower, medium ,, 20 to 25 minutes Celery, young head „ 45 to 60 „ Leeks . . .' „ 40 to 45 „ Lentils „ I hour Onions, Spanish „ i^ to 2 hours Parsnips, large „ I to hour Green peas ,, 15 to 25 minutes Split peas „ 2^ to 3 hours Potatoes, new „ 15 to 25 minutes „ old „ 25 to 40 „ Salsify „ 45 minutes to ij hours according to size Seakale „ 25 minutes Sorrel „ 20 „ Spinach „ 20 to 25 minutes Turnips, old „ 1 to I hour „ new „ 15 to 20 minutes Turnip tops „ 20 to 25 „ Vegetable marrows „ 15 to 25 Grilling Steak, I inch thick „ 8 minutes „ L^- inches thick „ 8 to 10 minutes Loin chops „ „ „ Neck chops „ 5 to 8 „ Kidneys, sheep » 5 Mushrooms „ 7 to 10 „ Mackerel, split „ 10 to 15 „ Salmon steak, | inch thick „ 15 to 20 „TEMPERATURES REQUIRED 77 General Hints on Time for Cooking Beef should be slightly under, not over cooked. Mutton usually preferred well done. White meat, such as lamb, veal, and pork, must invariably be well cooked, or it is not wholesome. Venison is lightly cooked. All poultry and rabbits must be well cooked. Wild duck, teal, widgeon, and black game should be under- cooked, but to what extent depends on individual taste. Freshly killed meat will take longer to cook than joints that have been hung. During the hot weather, somewhat under the usual time is required. If joints have been boned and stuffed, or if solid meat free from bone, a longer time per pound is necessary. Undercooked fish, no matter what the variety, is not whole- some. TEMPERATURES REQUIRED: JUDGING WITH AND WITHOUT A THERMOMETER Temperatures Needed for certain Methods of Cooking, where a Thermometer is used Boiling— „ fast „ slowly „ simmering . Frying—■ ,, fish „ meat . ,, fritters. „ whitebait Baking— „ meat . „ pies „ cakes and pastry „ bread and puff pastry . 212° Fahr. . 205° to 210° „ 180° to 190° „ . 360° to 375° „ 370° to 380° „ . 340° to 375° „ 400° „ . 300°to 310° „ • 290° • 320° • 340° To JUDGE TFIE SAME WITHOUT A THERMOMETER Boiling (fast)—Bubbles all over the surface of the liquid. „ (simmering)—Small bubbles at the side of the pan nearest to the greatest heat. Frying—Test {a) The fat becomes still, and a faint bluish smoke rises from it.78 THE COMPLETE COOK Cheese, grated . I „ = 2 rounded tablespoonfuls Fryifig—Test {h) A piece of crumb of bread placed in the fat should become a golden brown in about twenty seconds. The density of the smoke and the speed with which the bread colours, shows whether or not a great degree of heat has been attained. Baking—Place a sheet of white paper, or a little flour on the oven shelf. If it at once turns black it is too hot for anything. If in about three minutes it turns dark brown, it is correct for bread and puff pastry. If in about three minutes it turns light brown, for fruit pies and small cakes. If in about three minutes it turns dark yellow, for large pies and cakes. If in about three minutes it turns light yellow, for sponge- cakes, gingerbread, milk puddings. TABLE OF MEASURES Almonds, whole . h lb. = li level breakfastcupfuls „ „ . . . I oz. = I rounded tablespoonful „ ground ^ lb. = i|- level breakfastcupfuls „ „ . . I oz. = I rounded tablespoonful Arrowroot .... i lb. = if breakfastcupfuls ,5, .... I oz. = 2 rounded tablespoonfuls Barley, pearl ^ lb. = I level breakfastcupful „ „ ... I oz. = I „ tablespoonful Beans, haricot . ^ lb. = I „ breakfastcupful „ „ . . . I oz. = I „ tablespoonful Biscuits, savoy . 1 lb. =16 biscuits „ „ in crumbs . I oz. = 2 rounded tablespoonfuls Breadcrumbs, fresh . ^ lb. = 2 lightly piled breakfastcupfuls „ „ . . I oz. = 2 rounded tablespoonfuls „ dried . ^ lb. = 2 level breakfastcupfuls „ „ . . I oz. = 2 „ tablespoonfuls Bread, fresh, cut in dice I „ = I „ loosely filled breakfastcupful Butter .... ^ lb. = I „ breakfastcup packed solid „ .... I oz. = I slightly rounded tablespoonful Currants .... ^ lb. = I heaped breakfastcupful ,, .... 1 oz. == I rounded tablespoonful Cornflour .... i lb. = i| breakfastcupfuls „ .... I oz. = 2 rounded tablespoonfuls Cream of tartar . i „ = 5 level teaspoonfuls Carbonate of soda 1 » = 5 » Cocoa or chocolate, grated. I » = 3 » tablespoonfuls Curry powder I „ = I „ tablespoonful79 TABLE OF MEASURES I oz. = I rounded tablespoonful ” .... Table of continued Dripping . . . • i lb. = I breakfastcupful packed solid ,, .... I oz. = I slightly rounded tablespoonful Eggs i lb. = 5 of a medium size Flour, household 1 „ = barely if level breakfastcupfuls M )) • * I oz. = 2 level tablespoonfuls „ Vienna i lb. = i| level breakfastcupfuls )J 3) • • • I oz. = 2-| „ tablespoonfuls Figs i lb. = lo Gelatine, sheet . I oz. = lo sheets Ginger, ground . i „ = 3 level teaspoonfuls Jam, stoneless . 1 lb. = I gill or teacupful 33 33 ... I oz. = barely i tablespoonful Lentils .... i lb. = I level breakfastcupful 33 .... I oz. = I „ tablespoonful Lard i lb. = I breakfastcupful packed solid and level 33 .... . I oz. = I slightly rounded tablespoonful Marmalade. j lb. = I gill or teacupful 33 .... I oz. = I bare tablespoonful Mustard (dry) . J lb. = I level breakfastcupful Macaroni .... I oz. = 2 long sticks or coils Macaroons .... Jr lb. = about nine Meat, cooked, chopped 1 „ =2 bare breakfastcupfuls Oatmeal, medium ^ = li level „ „ „ . . I oz. = „ tablespoonfuls Peel, mixed ^ lb. = 5 pieces „ „ ... I oz. = ^ piece of lemon peel with the sugar removed Ratafias .... \ lb. =72 biscuits, or 18 in i oz. Peas, split .... •5 „ = I barely full breakfastcup „„.... I oz. = I level tablespoonful Rice i lb. = I barely full breakfastcup „ I oz. = I level tablespoonful „ ground i lb. = I slightly heaped breakfastcupful „ „ ... I oz. = I rounded tablespoonful Raisins .... i lb. = I heaped breakfastcupful ,, .... I oz. = I rounded tablespoonful Salt I „ = I „ „ Sugar, Demerara ^ lb. = I level breakfastcupful „ „ . . I oz. = I „ tablespoonful „ castor lb. = I „ breakfastcupful „ „ ... I oz. = I „ tablespoonful „ loaf.... 1 lb. = I loosely packed breakfastcupful » » • I oz. = about 5 lumps „ icing h lb. = i| level breakfastcupfuls „ „ ... I oz. = I slightly rounded tablespoonful Semolina .... i lb. = I heaped breakfastcupful „ .... I oz. = I5 level tablespoonfuls Sultanas .... ^ lb. = 1 heaped breakfastcupfulTHE COMPLETE COOK 8o Table of M^hSVK^S—continued Sago, large. i lb. = I heaped breakfastcupful I oz. = I slightly rounded tablespoonful „ small i lb. = I „ heaped breakfastcupful „ „ ... I oz. = I level tablespoonful Suet, chopped . I „ = I heaped „ „ lump of . . . I „ = piece size of small hen’s egg Treacle .... 1 lb. = I gill or teacupful „ .... I oz. = I small tablespoonful Tapioca, crushed I „ = I level „ Vermicelli, broken up I „ =1 heaped „ Liquids—■ Milk, etc. liquid oz.= 2 tablespoonfuls Sherry .... I glass =4 „ Port wine I » = 5 Claret .... I » = 7 » Fluids .... I gill = 8 Juice of one lemon = I » Note. —The spoons used are such as would be used on the dinner table, not those for kitchen purposes, as two of these are rarely alike. The breakfastcups are the ordinary ^ pint size. Some Useful Household Weights I sack of flour I bushel of flour I peck or stone of flour I gallon of flour I quartern of flour . i )) )) • I stone of butcher’s meat I firkin of butter . I „ soft soap I sack of potatoes . I bushel of potatoes 1 peck of potatoes . I „ beans I „ apples or onions I ton of coal I chest of tea I bar of salt j cwt. of soap = S6 = 64 = 168 = 56 = 20 lb. = 9 , = 16 , = 20 cwt. = about 80 lb. = 25 lb. = 28 „CHAPTER V ECONOMY IN THE KITCHEN—HOW TO ADAPT AND WHAT TO SUBSTITUTE—WHAT TO DO WHEN THINGS GO WRONG ECONOMY IN THE KITCHEN Waste is said to be one of our national faults; and lack of thrift noticeable in every class of English society, and in no department more woefully than in an English kitchen. This is regrettable, because there is a large amount of truth in the/accusation, and waste is a sin, no matter whether it arises from ignorance, carelessness, or indifference, or whether it is found in the artisan’s or millionaire’s kitchen. There are many forms of waste : Waste of Food, Waste of Fuel, Waste of Time, the latter by lack of forethought and proper arrangement of the day’s work. True economy is not niggardliness, as some imagine, and are therefore afraid to practise it in case they are styled “ mean.” Neither does it necessarily imply the purchase of cheap foods and goods, but it does mean obtaining the best value for every penny spent, by selecting foods with due regard to their nutritive qualities and sound condition, not merely because they are cheap or reduced in price; storing scraps, etc., carefully, so that they remain wholesome and fresh till required ; recollecting that there is no scrap of good food too insignificant to be used in some form or other; keeping a sharp lookout on the bread pan and rubbish pail, and never permitting “ perquisites ” or a man to call for the contents of that convenient and mysterious receptacle, the pigtub. Nothing of this nature is required in a 6THE COMPLETE COOK 82 well-ordered establishment, for the kitchener will dispose of everything unsuited to the dust-bin, and save the coal at the same time. When possible it is wise to buy certain stores in large quantities, as then often a considerable saving may be effected; but this is possible only if there is proper storage for them, and a responsible individual to deal them out in rational quantities. The utilisation of household scraps is one of the most puzzling and important problems that the housekeeper has to solve, so suggestions are given here as to— What to do with— Stale Bread—i. If a large piece, damp it slightly and re- bake it till it feels soft and crisp, it is then equal to new. 2. Pull, not cut, it in small rough pieces and bake them in a moderate oven till they are a light brown and crisp. When cold store these in a tin and serve them with cheese and butter, etc. An excellent substitute for “ pulled bread.” 3. Or proceed as in 2, and when crisp, crush the pieces, pass the crumbs through a fine wire sieve and store them for sprink- ling on boiled hams and bacon, or dishes au gratin. If only coloured very slightly, they are excellent to use for coating fried foods which require to be egged and crumbed. It is a good plan to have different tins of golden brown crumbs, very light brown crumbs, dried white crumbs. The latter are far preferable to use for crumbing purposes, than fresh ones. 4. Cut the bread into very thin slices or sippets, and bake them a light brown, and serve with soup or in the place of rusks or toast. 5. Cut thin slices of bread and butter, make into sweet or savoury sandwiches, dip in batter and fry as fritters. 6. Use as the foundation for many baked, boiled, and steamed puddings. Dripping, Pieces of Fat, Skimmings from the Stockpot, etc., must be made into Clarified Fat. Put all dripping from joints, odd pieces of cooked or uncooked fat, whether beef, mutton, or pork, etc., into a saucepan with enough cold water to come to about a quarter of the depth of fat. Boil it quickly without a lid till the water has evaporated and the liquid fat is quite clear like oil, and the pieces floating in it are like shrivelled brown skin. Stir it frequently during boiling, and when cooled a little strain off the liquid fat into a jar or basin, and use it for pastry.83 ECONOMY IN THE KITCHEN cakes, frying, etc. It will save pounds of butter and lard. In a poor neighbourhood the brown scraps strained off are greatly appreciated by hard-up families, they are savoury, nourishing, and can be used instead of suet and dripping. Bones, Cooked or Raw, and Gristle.—Put in the stockpot, or make into special soups. Ham Bones are a valuable addition when making pea, lentil, or haricot soup—as also are Bacon Rinds and Bones. These are often thrown away after cutting the matutinal bacon, but if dipped in boiling water and scraped to remove any dirt, they are excellent for flavouring. Sc7'aps of Meat, Game, Poidtry, Ham, Tongue, and Fish.— I. If in too small quantities add them to the stockpot with the exception of fish. 2. Or mix several varieties together, and after chopping use for various made-up dishes. Most of the dainty little entrees, souffles, patties, kromeskies, toasts, etc., mainly require scraps of this description for their foundation. Cold Vegetables Potatoes may be—i. Mashed, fried, or converted into scones, cakes, and croquettes. 2. Used for salad, with some good dressing, or steamed till hot, and served “ au maitre d’hotel.” 3. As a covering for pies made of re-heated meat or fish. Gatmots, Caidiflower, Leeks, etc., may be used as garnitures for soups or ragouts, stews, etc. Peas, Beans^Aspar'agus, in fact nearly all cold vegetables, make delicious salads, either each kind separately or mixed. Gelery,the outside Sticks and Tips,-ajs, flavouring for stock, stews, etc. Potdiquor, in which salted or fresh meat or poultry has been boiled, use as the foundation for broths and thick soups, or add it to the stockpot if not too salt. Water in which I'oot Vegetables have been boiled should also be saved for stock, as it contains much of their flavour and nutritive elements. Stale Cheese.—this, either grated or sliced, for any cooking purposes. It is invaluable for savouries. Oddments, such as drops of gravies and sauces, tomatoes, celery tops, the remains of sauces in bottles, trimmings of meat from cutlets or vegetables, must be put in the household stockpot. If it is needed for clear soups, thickened sauces should not be added.84 THE COxMPLETE COOK It is more economical to have fish filleted at home, then the trimmings and bones are available for delicate fish soups and to make stock for fish sauces. If the cook has time to draw and truss the fowls, etc., she gains the giblets without buying “ sets ” for various purposes. The ordinary kitchen refuse, if dried and burnt when the fire only needs to be just kept in, will make a considerable differ- ence in the coal bill. Also egg and nut shells, dried orange peel from the dining-room, all make excellent fuel. If only the gas jets were turned out, or lowered as soon as possible, the dampers of the range properly adjusted, so that a large fire is not kept up needlessly, and old wooden boxes chopped for firewood, instead of using nothing but the halfpenny bundles, what pounds might be saved in a year! A good cook—and the best are always the most economical—• will save her mistress looking after all these details, but if the latter is ignorant of the rudimentary elements of household management, it throws needless temptation in the way of the servant, and improvidence is absolutely encouraged. HOW TO ADAPT AND WHAT TO SUBSTITUTE A cook blessed with the virtues of resource and adaptability, is often of really more value in the average middle-class family than a very superior, well-trained woman who lacks these good points. How frequently is heard “ Oh, it’s easy enough to turn out things nicely if there is every convenience to hand,” or again, “It’s no use trying recipes; we never have half the necessary ingredients.” Granted, it is more difficult and the result somewhat less satisfactory, still, if you can adapt yourself to circumstances cleverly, many would never be the wiser. The following hints are specially intended for those who cannot afford the proper apparatus, etc., or who are so situated in colonies or elsewhere that much is unobtainable. ApparaUis needed Pestle and mortar . Assorted pastry cutters Egg whisk Substitute An enamel tin, or wooden bowl, and the flat end of a rolling pin. The tops of wine glasses, tumblers, tin lids, and suchlike. For cream, a basin and fork; for whites of eggs, a plate and broad-bladed knife.HOW TO ADAPT AND WHAT TO SUBSTITUTE 85 Apparatus needed Substitute Pastry brush Flour or sugar dredger . Frying basket . Wire sieve Electro or fireproof scallop shells Ice tub .... Freezing pot Wooden spatular Ice pick .... Rolling pin Double saucepan Tammy cloth . Salamander Dutch oven Wire griller Pretty moulds . Basins too large for boiled puddings Saucepan stands Chopping boards Pastry board . Colander .... Trussing skewer Knife board Jelly stand and bag . Stockpot . . . . Kitchen stove, owing to burst boiler,frozen pipes, no water in cistern, etc. Saute pan.... A firm quill feather, crust of bread or a piece of dough rolled up. Paper becomes sodden. Any clean small tin with a few holes punched in the lid. A penny tin fish slice, iron spoon, or a skewer. A coarse gravy strainer, or fine colander ; for bread crumbs grate the bread on a grater. A few of the deep natural scallop shells from the fishmonger. A zinc bath or pail. A large milk can. Palette, or strong paper knife, or iron or electro spoon. Coarse darning needle or„, hat pin, gently hammered in. Empty glass bottle, if very light, half filled with cold water, the latter also aids in cooling the pastry. Pour the custard, etc., into a jug or a large empty jam jar, and stand this in a saucepan half full of boiling water. Rub the puree or sauce through a hair sieve or fine gravy strainer. Heat an old shovel till nearly red hot and leave a few red cinders in it, or even a red- hot poker will colour small surfaces. A wire griller. A Dutch oven or toasting fork, only the latter needs holding. Pudding basins, glasses that have contained preserved tongues, brawn, etc. Pack up with bread and remove it before serving. Penny flat iron stands, small wooden box lids, or brown paper. Clean stout wooden box lids. Top of well-scrubbed wooden table, or stone or slate slab in larder. Wire sieve. Use coarse needle and fine string. Two large corks, one to rub on the powder with, the other for polishing. Clean tea-cloth tied over legs of an inverted chair, the basin slipped under the bars on the seat. Large saucepan or boiler. Spirit lamp or oil stove, if no gas is obtain- able. A frying pan.86 THE COMPLETE COOK Apparatus needed Siibstitute Braising pan . Bain-Marie Steamer . Stewing jars ^r casseroles Omelet pan Roasting jack . Roasting screen A saucepan with a good fitting lid. Get a local ironmonger to make an iron or block tin oblong bath, about 16x12^ inches and 6 inches deep, or stand the pan to be kept hot in another larger one containing boiling water. Place the food to be steamed in a covered tin or basin in a saucepan with boiling water to come only half-way up the basin ; «?xfit a colander over a pan of boiling water, and cover the top 'of the former with a saucepan lid ; if a small piece of meat or fish, put it on to a buttered plate, cover it and stand it on the top of a saucepan of boiling water. A pie dish or pudding basin and cover it over tightly. Clean, dry, frying pan. Hang down a skein of worsted with a hook tied on to it from over the mantelpiece. Place two or three chairs, or the wooden clothes “horse” used for airing linen, round the roasting meat. Hang these with old newspapers. Ingredient lacking Substitute Cream .... In many cases milk can be used and a scrap of butter. Butter .... Good dripping, lard, or margarine. Brown stock Some meat extract and water. White stock Milk and water well flavoured by simmering in them a small piece of carrot, onion, and celery. Wines .... Omit altogether, or use for some dishes any fruit syrup or vanilla essence. Shallots .... Onions in larger proportions. Cloves .... A small blade of mace, or one or two all- Glaze .... spice. Dissolve six sheets of gelatine in one and a half gills of hot water, and stir into it a large teaspoonful of any meat extract, cool and use. Brown, Espagnole or Piquante Sauce A small piece of glaze and a little sauce, such as Harvey, Worcester, etc., mixed with water. Capers .... Pickled nasturtium seeds. Truffles, mushrooms, cockscombs Little harm done if omitted entirely. Chicken .... Rabbit, veal or pheasant, altering the name of the dish.WHAT TO DO WHEN THINGS GO WRONG 87 Ingredient lacking Substitute Parmesan cheese Castor sugar . Suet. Celery Pearl barley Red currant jelly Arrowroot Currants . Any other hard or stale variety. Finely powdered and sieved loaf sugar. Dripping, coarsely chopped. If for flavouring, tie a small quantity of celery seeds in a piece of fine muslin, add them to the soup, etc., and remove them before ■ serving. Rice, if for soups or puddings. Black currant, rowan, cranberry, or black- berry jelly. Cornflour, potato flour. Sultanas, chopped raisins, or figs. Should it be necessary to use less shortening to a given quantity of flour, the only difference will be the pastry is less rich ; the result is the same if the butter in a cake is diminished. It is often wise if very little butter is to be used to increase the amount of baking powder. Frequently fewer eggs have to be used in cakes than the recipe dictates, owing to their scarceness, or high price; some- times they are omitted altogether, and also from puddings, and yet a very presentable result is achieved if an increased quantity of baking powder is introduced. WHAT TO DO WHEN THINGS GO WRONG Mishaps will happen, and in no other household department does it seem simpler for the machinery to get out of gear than in the kitchen. It is all very well when everything works like a well-oiled machine, but the truly valuable person is the one who shows herself full of resource when the family peace seems in jeopardy through some domestic crisis. Poor Meg, in Good Wives, moaned “ the jelly won’t jell,” and straightway threw it away; shockingly wasteful, but then her mother had not taught her how to act in such an emergency. Following are some very ordinary accidents which are sure to occur during cooking operations. Potatoes Overboiled Result.—A watery mash. Remedy.—Drain off all moisture ‘possible. Leave them in the pan over the fire minus the saucepan lid, stir them88 THE COMPLETE COOK frequently till the water has evaporated and they appear dry. Add a nice lump of butter or dripping, some salt and pepper, beat them well with a fork, and serve as a dish of mashed potatoes. Custard Curdled From being allowed to boil. Remedy.—For a custard made with a pint of milk, mix two level tablespoonfuls of cornflour smoothly with a little cold water or milk. Strain the curdled mixture on to this cornflour, mixing it smoothly. Stir this over the fire till it boils and thickens. Whisk in one extra beaten egg if possible, re-heat it for a minute or two and add sugar and vanilla to taste. Mayonnaise Sauce Curdled Through heat or the oil having been added too quickly. Remedy.—Put an extra raw yolk of an egg into a basin, add the curdled sauce to this yolk, drop by drop, stirring it well all the time with a wooden spoon. A Discoloured White Soup or Sauce Through using a dirty or badly lined pan or spoon, or through slightly browning the flour when mixing it with the butter. Remedy.—Add a drop or two of caramel to colour it a pretty brown; or colour it a delicate green with a little spinach juice or green vegetable colouring ; or if neither of these colours is permissible add one or two raw beaten yolks of eggs to make it a pale yellow. The name may require altering to agree with the changed colour. Overboiled Fish Result—A broken, unsightly mass. Remedy—Remove all skin and bones, breaking the fish into as large flakes as possible. Put this flaked fish into the fish sauce that was prepared for the boiled fish ; heat it without breaking it; season it carefully and turn the mixture on to a hot dish. Place crofitons or sippets of toast round as a border; sprinkle across a few lines of chopped parsley and serve as fricasseed fish.WHAT TO DO WHEN THINGS GO WRONG 89 Overboiled Fowl Result.—Bones protruding and a general untidy appearance. Remedy.—Cut the bird into the usual joints neatly, pour the sauce all over it and put sippets of toast or croutons and rolled bacon round as a border. Brown Soups, Minces, Ragouts, etc., too Pale a Colour Through carelessly and insufficiently browning the flour and onions. Remedy.—Add a few drops of caramel or a piece of glaze till the correct shade is obtained. Burnt Pastry Remedy.—At once grate off the blackened portion, and dust off all crumbs. In the case of pies or tarts brush the top either with beaten white of egg, and sugar it well, or for the former rebrush it with beaten yolk of egg—set both in the oven again till the glaze is set. Mixtures for Rissoles, Croquettes, Fish-Cake, etc., TOO Moist Result.—They are too soft to handle and shape. Remedy.—Work in more meat or fish if there is any, if not, add sufficient fresh breadcrumbs to stiffen it or some raw egg. Cook the mixture well after adding either of these to swell the crumbs and to cook the egg, and thus bind the other in- gredients. Sauces too Thin Remedy.—Mix a little extra flour smoothly and thinly with cold liquid. Strain this into the sauce and stir till it reboils, or reduce the sauce by boiling it sharply without the lid. Sauces too Thick Remedy.—Add some extra of whatever liquid is being used, till the desired consistency is obtained. A Sauce that has Become Oily Remedy.—Add to it a little cold milk or water. Stir it90 THE COMPLETE COOK briskly over the fire till it just reaches boiling point, then draw the pan aside at once and on no account allow it to reboil. Clear Soups or Jellies Found to be Cloudy Remedy.—Pour the liquid back into a perfectly clean pan. Whip the whites of two eggs to a light froth and wash and crush the shells. Add these both to the jelly, or soup, bring it to boiling point, whisking it all the time. Let it settle a few minutes, then strain it and use. A Broken Cream or Jelly Through turning it out awkwardly, or because too little gelatine has been used, or owing to hot weather. Remedy.—Break it up a little more, but neatly, and serve it in custard glasses; or heap it up in a glass dish and put a border of whipped cream round; or if not wanted at once, it may be remelted and set again in the mould. Broken Puddings Through being awkwardly turned out, or an insufficiently greased basin, or too soft a mixture. Remedy.—If only slightly broken replace the piece as neatly as possible, smooth the edges with a knife dipped in boiling water, and dust it well over with castor sugar. If much broken, heap it together, cover it all over with a meringue made of one or two beaten whites of egg and sugar, decorate it with a few glacd cherries, etc., and place it in a cool oven till the surface is crisp and a light fawn colour. Or it may be cut in neat slices, crumbs removed, and served on a hot dish with castor sugar dredged over. Milk Puddings with the Skin Burned Remedy.—Pull off the blackened skin, add a little more milk, a morsel of butter, and rebake it slowly. A Tart or Pie cut, with Fruit or Meat not Cooked Sufficiently Remedy.—If the pastry is recooked it will be ruined, so carefully cut off the pastry lid and restew the fruit or meat till tender. Egg the edge of the pie dish, replace the pastryWHAT TO DO WHEN THINGS GO WRONG 91 lid ; re-heat and serve as usual. More liquid has sometimes to be added. Cream Over-whipped Result.—Rough and curdled. Remedy.—None, so as to be able to use it as whipped cream, but if it is whipped a little more it will become butter, and with a little salt added it is delicious for immediate use as fresh butter. Fruit Preserves that will not Jelly This may arise from insufficient boiling, or, which frequently happens, because the fruit, through some reason or other, lacks the necessary gelatinous substance it should contain to form jelly. It then merely becomes gummy. Remedy.—For the first error continue to boil it for a longer time. If the fault lies in the fruit, add some juice strained off from apples stewed in a little water. The apples should not be peeled or cored. Add the juice, mix it well in and reboil the preserve. An Insufficiently Cooked Pudding Residt.—When turned out it breaks, and the centre is dis- covered to be unset. Remedy.—Regrease the basin or mould, slip the pudding back into it. Cover again with the cloth or paper and reboil, steam, or bake it as the case may be. Jelly too Stiff Remedy.—Melt it, adding more wine, water, lemon juice, etc., pour it back into the mould and reset it. A Cream that Sets too Rapidly Result.—It becomes rough and knotty as the gelatine is being stirred into it, and fails to take the shape of the mould. Remedy.—Put the mixture in a basin over a pan of hot water, stir it gently till it melts, then whisk it lightly off the fire till it is just beginning to set again, then pour it into the mould. Greasy Soups, Sauces, Gravies, etc. Remedy.—Boil them gently, letting the heat be greater on92 THE COMPLETE COOK one side than the other, when the greasy scum will be thrown to the opposite side and can be easily removed. Boiled Sugar Icing that Granulates Remedy.—Put it back in the sugar boiler, add a little more water, and reboil it again to the right degree. Meat Found to be Slightly Tainted Remedy.—Cut away any part particularly noticeable, then wash the rest well in cold water, containing either a little Condy’s fluid or vinegar. Then dry it and cook it at once, by dry heat; on no account stew or boil it.93 CHAPTER VI HOW TO This useful chapter will greatly simplify the recipes, and should be mastered by all, except those who are thoroughly versed in the various branches of cookery. Mix This deserves very careful study, for next in importance to care in measuring, comes the manner of mixing. The most accurate measurement of the best materials is often rendered useless by a neglect to put them together properly, and the blame is usually charged to the oven or the recipe. There are three distinct ways of mixing; stirring, beating, and cutting or folding. Stir Let the bowl of the spoon rest slightly on the bottom of the mixing basin, then move it round and round in widening circles without lifting the spoon out of the mixture, except to scrape the sides of the bowl occasionally. Stir slowly at first, to avoid spattering; add the liquid gradually, and be sure the bowl of the spoon (not the edge or the tip merely) touches the bottom and sides of the basin. This is mashing as well as stirring, and the mixture soon becomes a paste. When perfectly smooth and free from lumps, add more liquid until you have the desired consistency. We stir flour and water together for a thickening, or butter and flour and milk for a sauce. We stir when we rub butter to a cream, or when we make a batter or semi-dough. When we make a stiff dough we stir first and then turn the tt^hole mass over, bringing the knife or spoon round the basin and cutting up through the dough.94 THE COMPLETE COOK Beat Tip the basin slightly and hold the spoon so that the edge scrapes the basin, and bring it up through the mixture and over, with a long quick stroke, to the opposite side; under and up through again, lifting the spoon out of the mass and cutting clean through, scraping from the bottom at every stroke. Keep the bowl of the spoon and the sides of the mixing basin well scraped out, so that all the material may be equally beaten. We stir simply to blend two or more materials. We beat to add all the air possible to the mix,ture. We beat eggs, or batter, or soft dough. The albumen of the eggs and the gluten of the flour, owing to their viscidity, or glutinous properties, catch the air and hold it in filmy cells, in the same way as soap bubbles are made by blowing air into soapy water. The faster we beat, and the more we bring the material up from the basin into the air, the more of it is introduced and the more bubbles we have; but one stirring motion will destroy them. Yolks of eggs should be beaten nearly as much as the whites, or until they are light and lemon-coloured and thicken perceptibly. The whites should be beaten until they are stiff and dry, or fly off in flakes, or can be turned upside down on the plate without spilling. When beaten yolks and beaten whites are to be put together, always turn the whites into the yolks, as there is less waste than when the yolks are turned into the whites. Let the whites stand a minute, then run a palette knife round the edge of the basin, they will then slip out easily and leave the basin almost clean. Basins with slightly spreading sides and not too deep to be clasped from bottom to rim in the left hand, are most convenient. If tipped slightly towards the right the beating is done more effectually. Cut or Fold or Lift Omelets, sponge cakes, whipped cream, etc., should have the beaten white cut, or folded in carefully, to avoid breaking the air bubbles. Turn the mixture over the spoon, cut through, lift up, and fold the materials together, lifting the part from below up and over and mixing very gently until just blended. Do not stir round and round, or beat quickly. All mixtures which are raised with eggs alone, should have the yolks and whites of the eggs thoroughly and separately beaten. Shall we stir only one way ? No; stir any way you please.HOW TO 95 as long as you blend or mix the materials. But after beating in air bubbles, do not break them by stirring. Always let the last motion before turning the mixture into the pan be one of quick vigorous beating, except in those recipes where folding instead of beating is indicated. Chop Suet Remove as much skin as possible ; cut the suet into thin shavings ; sprinkle it with flour or crumbs to prevent it clogging together, but only if some such ingredient is being used in the recipe. Then chop it as fine as coarse oatmeal. Remove all pieces of skin as they stic.l^o the knife. Clean Currants or Sultanas 1. Wash them well in tepid water; dry them on a clean cloth; spread them on shallow tins or plates and dry them slowly in a warm but not hot place. 2. If needed quickly — rub them on a wire sieve with a handful of flour; then pick off any stalks remaining with the hand, or place them in the corner of a clean cloth, dredge them well with flour, fold the cloth over them, and rub them gently. Then pick them out of the flour and pull off any stalks still adhering. Stone Raisins Wash them in tepid water if they seem dirty, then dry them well in a soft cloth. Cut each raisin in half, so that it opens like a book, remove the pips with the finger and thumb, or a knife, taking care that the pulp of the fruit is not removed. Get rid of the pips by dipping the knife or fingers into a little bowl of warm water, this is much more cleanly than smearing them off on paper or on to a plate. Boil a Pudding in a Cloth Make the cloth of strong unbleached calico. Wring one out in boiling water, dredge it well with flour, this forms a paste over the cloth and keeps the water from soaking in. Place the cloth inside a pudding basin, the floured side away from the basin; put the mixture in the cloth; gather up the ends and tie them tightly together. The cloth to tie over the top of a basin is scalded and floured in a similar manner. '96 THE COMPLETE COOK Grease Moulds and Basins See they are perfectly dry, then brush them over every- where evenly with warmed clarified dripping or butter. These should not be so hot that they trickle down into the top of the mould, but should cling to the sides, giving them a creamy appearance. Blanch Almonds and other Nuts Place them into boiling water; boil them just sufficiently long to soften the skins, then rub these off with the fingers. Use a Salamander Make the iron plate which is attached to the long handle red hot; hold it over the top of the food that requires browning, being careful not to hold it too close, or it will scorch. An inexpensive substitute for a salamander is an iron shovel heated and used in the same way. Chop Parsley Wash the parsley well; remove all the stalks; gather it up in the fingers in a bunch and cut it through several times. Then chop it to a fine powder; fold this in a cloth, rinse it well in cold water, then squeeze it very dry and turn it on to a plate. Blanch Meat and Vegetables This is done to extract some undesirable flavour or sub- stance, or to partially soften. Place them in cold water, bring them quickly to boiling point, boil about half a minute, then drain off the water and use as directed. If it is necessary to blanch parsley, tarragon, or chervil it is best to only dip them several times into boiling water. Whip Cream Cool the cream well, stand in a cool place and pour the cream into a cool basin. Should the cream be so thick that it appears ropy add a little milk. Use the ordinary whisk of hooped wire or a fork. Whisk the cream gently till it is lightly frothed ; if it is to be flavoured, add now the required castor sugar and flavouring essence. Continue to whisk gently till the cream will just hang on the whisk. One turn too much at this97 HOW TO point will make it rough, curdled, and quite useless for the purpose intended. Clarify Butter Place two or three ounces of butter in a stewpan. Melt it gently and heat it till it bubbles thickly. Remove| the white scum then stand it aside for a few minutes to settle. Pour off the clear oily portion, carefully keeping back all the sediment at the bottom of the pan. Butter wastes considerably in clarify- ing, so it is wise to do over the amount required. Whisk Eggs Separate the whites from the yolks carefully, bearing in mind if the least speck of yolk mixes in with the whites nothing will make them stiff. Place the whites in a basin, or for about two or three in number a plate is preferable. If a basin is used, beat with a wire whisk, if a plate, use a broad-bladed knife. Add a few grains of salt to the whites and whisk slowly at first, gradually using a quicker motion till the whites are so stiff that they will not fall off the plate or out of the basin if turned over, and they also begin to have a very slightly curdled appearance. Stale eggs will never become stiff, as the whites are thin and watery. After standing for a short time the air bubbles break, the air escapes and the frothy mass sinks, and it is not possible to whisk it a second time. Pound Almonds or Pistachio Nuts After blanching and shelling dry the nuts gently but thoroughly in a slow oven. Place them in a mortar and pound them well, turning the mass over repeatedly. Every now and then a drop or two of orange flower water or plain water may be added, this will often prevent them becoming oily. Egg and Crumb Foods Beat a raw egg very thoroughly on a plate, for the sake of economy two teaspoonfuls of milk may be added. Have close at hand a piece of soft paper containing plenty of dried white breadcrumbs, or if these are not possible make some fresh white crumbs. Brush the article to be coated all over with the egg, moving it with the brush and a knife, and with these two utensils, not fingers, lift it out of the egg. Drain off some of the egg, lay the food gently in the crumbs and shake plenty of 7THE COMPLETE COOK 98 them all over. Then raise the food in the hands, turning it gently from one to the other, in order to shake off loose crumbs. Lay it on the board and with a dry knife gently press down the crumbs in order to obtain a flat surface; on no account stroke down the crumbs, this merely rubs off the coating. All foods of every description are egged and crumbed in this manner. Turn out Jellies, Creams, or any Dish stiffened WITH A Gelatinous Substance Dip the mould into a basin of warm, but not hot, water, move it‘about in the water for a second or so; lift it out, dab it quickly with a cloth, turn it over on the left hand, grasping the top of the mould securely with the right; give it a sharp down- ward shake, when it should slip down on to the left hand. Place the left hand on the dish, and withdraw it gently from under- neath, then lift off the mould. Avoid shaking the mould up and down, always shake it downwards. Hitting the mould on the top is also useless. If an earthenware mould is used, the water must be hotter, and the immersion longer, than for a tin mould. Scald Meat, Legs of Poultry, etc. Place or hold the parts to be scalded in fast boiling water for a few seconds, or minutes, according to the nature of the food to be so treated. Par-boil Foods This is done to partly cook foods for various reasons. Place the food in hot or cold water as directed and partly boil it until it feels slightly softened, but not in the least cooked. The time depends on the article to be par-boiled. Coat Moulds with Jelly, Cream, Chaudfroid Sauces, etc. Have the mould perfectly dry and imbed it on chipped ice till cold. Then pour in a little warmed jelly or cream or chaud- froid sauce and move the mould round on the ice, so that the liquid flows evenly all over the top and sides of the mould, setting as it cools. Add more jelly if needed, and pour out any if there seems too much. This operation must be repeated if a thick coating is required. Skill is needed to turn the mould in such a manner that it is evenly masked all over, not bare in parts and thickly coated in others.HOW TO 99 Pound Meat, Game, etc. Free it from all bone, fat, gristle, and skin. Pass the lean through a mincing machine or chop it small. Then pound it well, doing a small quantity at a time; when all the mass is fairly smooth, add the cream, panada, eggs, etc., as directed. If fish is to be pounded it does not require mincing first. Chop Fresh Mushrooms Remove the stalks and peel them, then wash them quickly in cold water; dry them lightly and chop them finely, or coarsely as desired. Fry Parsley Pick off large feathery tufts of parsley. Well wash and thoroughly dry it. Place it in a frying basket if possible, and slip the basket gently into some hot fat from which the blue smoke has barely risen. Move the basket gently about till the fat has stopped, or very nearly stopped, bubbling, then lift it out at once. Drain off the fat and turn the parsley on to paper to remove all grease. Properly fried parsley should be light green and so crisp that it will crumble if rubbed between the fingers. If the fat is too hot or if the parsley is kept in too long, it becomes brown or even blackened. If the fat is too cool or the cooking too short in duration, it will be tough and greasy. If no basket is available, gently drop the parsley right into the fat. It should be noted that parsley when fried will shrivel up to about one-third of its original bulk. Curl Celery Trim the root and green sticks off a good head of celery. Wash it well. Cut the head into four even portions lengthways and once across. Use a small sharp knife and slit each stick finely and evenly about six times, but leave half an inch at the bottom end uncut. As each is done, put it into plenty of ice- cold water, the colder the better, and leave it in till well curled. This is a pretty garnish for cold dishes, or to hand with cheese. Open Oysters Keep them as cool as possible, scrub the shells. Hold the oyster in a thickly folded cloth in the palm of the left hand, with the deep shell downwards so as to retain the liquor. WorkTHE COMPLETE COOK lOO an oyster knife (or a sharp tin-opener will do) between the edges of the two shells, with a see-saw action, till enough of the knife is inserted to wrench them apart. Be careful to remove all bits of shell. Keep Oysters Alive If not wanted for a few days, scrub the unopened shells, lay them in a deep pan, with the flat shells uppermost. Shake over them some fine oatmeal and cover with cold water, made about as salt as sea water. Change the water daily, leaving them out of the water for an hour or so, and resprinkling them with oatmeal. Keep the pan in a very cool place and the fish will not only keep alive but fatten. Tammy Sauces, Pur£es, Soups, etc. That is to rub, wring, or strain any of these through a specially strong fine woollen material, called “tammy cloth,” —the object being to make the sauce, etc., peculiarly smooth. Two persons are needed, each gathering up the two ends of the cloth in their left hand, a basin being placed under the cloth. The cloth is lowered into the basin, and the sauce poured into the cloth. Each person then raises the cloth from the basin, twists the ends lightly together, and then one twists her ends to the left and the other to the right; when as much as possible of the sauce or purde has been wrung through, each person takes a wooden spoon in the right hand, the bowls of the spoons are pressed against each other inside on the bottom of the cloth, and are kept moving backwards and forwards in the cloth, the two spoons touching all the time, till all the purde possible has been rubbed through. Peel Tomatoes Easily If not ripe enough to skin easily, lay them, or dip them for a second or two into boiling water, lift them out and the skin is easily taken off. The tint is not quite so brilliant as when unpeeled, but it renders them more convenient for eating. ,If wanted cold, perform this a little while before they are needed. Skin Plaice After the fish is filleted, take each piece that has the black skin on, lay it skin side downwards on the table, the tail towardsHOW TO lOI you. Dip the fingers in a little salt to prevent them slipping, hold the tail with the left hand. Hold a sharp knife in the right, with its edge quite flat with the fish and begin cutting the flesh off the skin, rolling it back from the knife as you proceed. Pull the tail rather back from the knife. Unless the latter is laid with the edge quite flat with the table, it will cut through the skin instead of removing the flesh from it. Lard Meat, etc. This may be done with strips of bacon, truffle, gherkin, tongue, ham, etc.; the first mentioned is the most often used. The object of larding is to introduce fat into very lean meat and poultry and vice versa, thus adding greatly to its nutritive value and flavour. “ Larding bacon ” should be bought, and this is cured without saltpetre, which gives a reddish tinge to other foods it is cooked with. But whatever bacon is used, it must be hard, firm, and without lean. A “larding needle” is necessary, into the shaped end of which the “ lardoons ” or strips are tucked. The size of the lardoons varies according to whether they are to lard a large bird or small fillet, etc. Cut the strips evenly, a little smaller than the needle—a useful size is about if inches long and an eighth of an inch wide; keep them as cool as possible. Across each slice of bacon will be noticed a line running the length of it. Cut the lardoons so as to avoid this line, or the top of each will fall off. If a small piece of meat is to be larded, place it on a piece of paper folded to three thicknesses and hold it across the fingers of the left hand. Thread the needle, push it into the meat and out again, leaving half the lardoon sticking out at each end. Have three or more rows in horizontal lines. Each row should not be directly under the last but betzveen the spaces, which thus become diamond shaped. Lastly, cut the endsjof the lardoons evenly with scissors, about a quarter of an inch should show of each strip. Bard Poultry and Game This is done to protect the breasts of delicate birds and so prevent them becoming dry and burnt. Take a slice of raw fat bacon, or even cooked may be used. It must be sufficiently large to well cover the whole breast. Slit the bacon at intervals, to prevent it curling up, and tie it over the breast of the bird with two or more pieces of string.102 THE COMPLETE COOK Scrape Horseradish Scrub the root well. Peel the brownish outside off. Use a sharp knife, scrape downwards and obtain the thinnest shavings possible, as thick pieces are unpleasant to eat. Bone Meat and Poultry Anyone who can use a sharp knife and scrape and cut meat or fish from a bone without cutting her own flesh, can bone anything from the smallest bird, chop, or fish, to a leg or forequarter of lamb or a turkey. A small knife with a sharp, short, pointed blade is all that is required. It is well to begin on a small scale by removing the bone from a chop. The aim is to remove the flesh from the bone, without cutting into the flesh or destroying its shape more than is necessary. To Bone a Leg of Mutton Cut it off at the first joint, insert the knife near the joint, leaving all the gristle and tendons on the bone. Then begin at the thick end and scrape the fat away from the bone, then follow it (you can easily tell by feeling if you cannot see it) until you come to the joint. Leave all the gristle and cords on the bone and continue scraping off the flesh until the whole bone is out. It could easily be cut through from the outside to the bone and remove it in that way, but the flesh would have to be sewn together and much of the juice would escape. After removing the bone, stuff the cavity left and sew the skin together at the smaller end. Then bring the edges together at the upper end, crowding all the flesh inside, and sew the skin together tightly. This gives a rectangular form of solid meat and stuffing. When exposed to the air in a hot oven the juices are kept inside; the meat is more con- veniently served, and when cold does not become hard and dry. Any other pieces of meat are boned in a similar way. To Bone a Bird, Fowl, or Turkey In this case the flesh is to be kept in the skin in order to preserve the shape. The skin should be firm and unbroken and the bird should not be drawn. Remove the head, singe103 HOW TO and wipe the bird carefully. Remove the tendons from the legs and loosen the skin round the end of the “ drumstick.” Make an incision through the skin from the neck to the middle of the back, or near the junction of the side bone. Scrape the flesh with the skin away from the backbone, until the end of the shoulder blade is felt; loosen the flesh from this and then follow the bone to the wing joint and down to the middle joint in the wing. The skin lies very near the bone underneath the joint, and care must be taken to avoid cutting through the skin at these places. Leave the first bone in the wing to aid in keeping the shape, it may be removed before serving. In small birds there is so little meat on the wings that it is just as well to cut them off at the middle joint. Remove the bone from the other wing in the same way, then follow the collar bone from the wing down to the breast bone, loosening the crop from the flesh. In removing the flesh from the breast bone, be careful not to cut through the skin on the ridge. The flesh may be pushed away with the fingers, and the fillets or pieces that are detached from the other flesh can be laid aside and put in place afterwards. When the breast bone is bare, separate the flesh from the ribs and be careful not to break through the membrane into the inside. Remove the flesh from the second joint, then the “drumsticks,” turning the flesh wrong side out as in pulling a glove off a finger. Repeat this process on the other side. Then scrape down to the end of the backbone and cut through the bone, leaving a part of it in the tail. Separate the membrane under the body without breaking it. Thus you have the flesh in the skin and the skeleton left entire with the contents undisturbed in the inside. Lay the stuffing in, filling out the legs and wings, then sew the skin along the back and skewer or tie into the original shape. An easier way of boning a fowl where it is to be rolled like a galantine, is to cut off the wings at the second joint, break the “drumstick” half-way from the joint, cut the skin down the entire length of the back, remove the flesh off like a glove; then do the same on the other wing and leg, leaving the breast until the last. The wings and legs are turned inside, the stuffing is laid in the flesh, and the whole rolled over and over and sewed on the edge of the skin and at the ends of the roll.THE COMPLETE COOK 104 Cream, Butter, and Sugar This process of mixing together the sugar and butter is so termed because, when correctly performed, the result resembles whipped cream. If very cold weather the butter should be first warmed to soften it, but on no account is it to be melted, merely thawed gently. Put it in a clean dry basin and press and work it well against the sides of the basin with a wooden spoon, till the warmth set up by the friction has softened it somewhat. Then add the sugar, and continue working both ingredients together against the basin till the mixture will drop heavily out of the spoon. Then beat it well till quite light and creamy. Unless this is sufficiently done, the cakes, etc., will be close and heavy. Chop Candied Peel Remove the lump of hard sugar from the centre of each piece. Turn the hollowed side of the peel downwards on the board and slice it through thickly or thinly as desired. It is then ready to chop coarsely or finely. Should the peel be stale and hard it must be soaked for a short while in warm water. Line Cake Tins with Greased Paper Take a sheet of kitchen paper and fold it so that there will be three thicknesses of it. Stand the tin which is to be lined, on this paper, and with a pencil mark the size it is round on the paper. Put the tin aside and cut round this line so that three rounds, the exact size of the tin, are obtained. Brush these with melted dripping or clarified butter, and put them aside. Take another piece of paper and fold it into a band long enough to wrap right round the tin and with the ends to well lap over each other. The band must be about three inches deeper than the tin, so that it will stand up above it, and folded so as to give three thicknesses. Lay this band flat and turn back the uncut edge of it, to the depth of half an inch. Crease it down and notch the flap thus formed at intervals, so that it lies better in the tin. Then grease it thoroughly. Fit the band round inside the tin with the notched flap laid out flat on the bottom of it, then fix in the rounds for the bottom and it is ready to receive the mixture.HOW TO 105 Rub Purges, etc., through Sieves Put under, a basin or plate that the sieve will just fit over, and select a wooden spoon that is neither too large nor small to hold comfortably. Put the shallow top of the sieve upper- most, and put some of the mixture to be sieved on it, do not attempt too much at a time. Grasp the spoon sufficiently high up for the first and second fingers of the right hand to be almost inside the bowl of it, this enables the proper pressure to be used. Give heavy long strokes of the spoon, drawing it towards you. Add more of the mixture as required. Much of the thicker portion sieved will remain suspended underneath; it is best to stop every now and then and scrape it from under the sieve with a clean iron spoon, it then needs less force to rub the fresh mixture through. Prepare a Meringue Board A board made specially for this purpose should be about three to four inches thick ; it resembles a very thick pastry board. The latter can be used if a meringue board is not procurable, but as it is thinner there is less to protect the underside of the meringues from the heat of the oven shelf. Brush over the board on one side very lightly with salad oil. Cover this side with one or more sheets of foolscap paper according to the size of the board. Lightly oil this paper also, being most careful to use as little oil as possible. Should the paper be difficult to keep quite flat, fasten it down with drawing or ordinary pins. It is then ready for the meringue mixture to be forced on for baking.106 CHAPTER VII HOW TO COMPILE A MENU—THE USUAL ACCOM- PANIMENTS TO SERVE WITH VARIOUS STAND- ARD DISHES—THE TASTEFUL SERVING AND GARNISHING OF DISHES—MISCELLANEOUS HINTS HOW TO COMPILE A MENU This is a very comprehensive subject, and much space might be devoted to it were it deemed necessary to treat it very thoroughly. It is not at all an easy matter to draw up a perfectly balanced, seasonable, and reasonable menu, in which none of the numerous rules laid down by culinary etiquette, common sense, and science shall be violated. Fortunately for the average housewife, the modern diner objects strongly to the tedious heavy repasts of days gone by. Speed and simplicity are nowadays essential to success, coupled of course with perfection in every detail. As with most matters, if once the elementary rules of draw- ing up a menu are firmly grasped, it requires only an increased amount of experience and thought to enable anyone to plan a repast on a more or less elaborate scale. 1. Give each occasion, be it a family, friendly, formal society dinner, or “At-Home” supper, its full careful pre- paration. 2. Let the style of the entertainment correspond with the host and hostess’s position and income. The regrettable efforts made by so many to ape or outdo their wealthier neighbours, wrecks the harmony of much hospitality. 3. Bear in mind any whims or fancies known to you of the guests. This is particularly necessary at the present day when “ food faddists ” abound. 4. Consider the cook, what dishes she excels in, etc, and107 HOW TO COMPILE A MENU if need be let her practise those she is nervous about beforehand ; never attempt too much. 5. Calculate what are the resources of the kitchen, and arrange the menu to suit the stove, number of pans, moulds, time-saving appliances available, etc. 6. Increase or reduce the number of courses according to the style of the menu required. One soup, fish, entree, joint or roast of game or poultry, followed by a hot pudding, or cold sweet, and a savoury, will furnish a most dainty dinner in the hands of a skilful manager. If liked, offer either soup or fish, not both, and it is not unusual to have the sweet banished and merely a particularly choice savoury handed. Hors d’ceuvres, two soups, etc., and joint as well as a roast bird, and sweets ad lib., can be provided for a more elaborate menu. 7. Study the marketing lists intelligently, so as not to squander money unnecessarily: aim at a touch of originality, for excellent as soles, turbot, salmon, asparagus, sweetbreads, etc., are, they become horribly monotonous when they put in an appearance at almost every dinner throughout the season. 8. Pay due regard to the season and temperature. Take advantage of the numerous cold entrees, sweets, etc., when summer is at its height, and use them with great caution when the thermometer is down to zero, 9. A discreet selection and artistic assortment of dishes, as regards the ingredients employed, and the prevailing flavours and colours, is essential, e.g.: Two Soups.—One must be clear, the second thick ; one brown, the other white, red or green. If only one is given, clear is most popular. Two Dishes of Fish.—One plainly dressed, served whole, or in fillets; the other in the form of fritters, souffle or cream. Tivo Entrees.—Let one be cold, the other hot. One very light, such as kromeskies, quenelles, and suchlike, the second more substantial: cutlets or beef fillets in same style. The same with Two Sweets. The principal ingredient used for one dish should not appear in any other. If spinach puree is handed in the soup course, spinach should not enter into the composition of any other dish on the menu. No two dishes of beef or mutton or white meats may be used in the same dinner. Nor yet two fried foods following onio8 THE COMPLETE COOK one another, or sauces or garnishes of a similar colour or character. Aim at variety in every detail. lo. Write out a detailed menu for both cook and parlour- maid, so that there is no excuse for incompleteness in any item. It is vexatious to all parties to have to wait for, or do without, some necessary accompaniment to a dish, such as mint sauce for the lamb, red currant jelly with venison, castor sugar or cream with the fruit tart, etc,; but it is inconsiderate and sense- less to expect a flurried, busy cook to recollect everything herself. For the successful execution of a menu, have all the required apparatus and every possible ingredient in the house two or three days beforehand. Perishable goods such as salads, vegetables, fish, cream, and so on, must of course be sent in on the day itself This plan prevents ingredients being forgotten or disappointments at the last moment. Also exercise forethought, and insist that all preparations practicable shall be put in hand two or three days in advance, in order to reduce the work on the day of the dinner to a minimum. THE USUAL ACCOMPANIMENTS TO SERVE WITH VARIOUS STANDARD DISHES Time-honoured rules and customs and scientific knowledge have made it almost compulsory that with these dishes at least some of the following adjuncts are served :— Hors d’CEuvre Oysters.—Quarters of lemon, or white vinegar: thin brown bread and butter : cayenne. Caviare.—Quarters of lemon : thin slices of brown bread and butter: cayenne. Melon.—Chipped ice: castor sugar; salt: powdered mace. Soups Clear Soup.—Frequently a small dish of grated Parmesan cheese is handed with it. Purges, Cream, and Thickened Soups.—Crofitons of bread in dice, or rounds the size and thickness of a shilling. Mulligatawny Soup.—Boiled rice. Pea Soup.—Powdered mint.THE USUAL ACCOMPANIMENTS TO SERVE 109 Fish Boiled Fish.—Plainly boiled potatoes: cut lemon: fresh parsley: some good fish sauce such as egg, anchovy, etc. Boiled Salmon.—Lobster, shrimp, or Hollandaise sauce: cut cucumber; lemon. Cod, salted, boiled.—Egg sauce: boiled parsnips. Eels boiled.—Parsley sauce: cut lemon. Mackerel boiled.—Fennel, or parsley sauce. Fried Fish.—Fried parsley: cut lemon : a fish sauce. Mackerel grilled.—Maitre d’hotel butter. Meat Beef roast.—Yorkshire pudding: hot or cold horseradish sauce ; finely scraped horseradish. Salted or fresh Beef boiled.—Carrots, turnips : leeks or onions : some of the meat liquor: suet dumplings. Calf's Head boiled.—Parsley, brown or piquante sauce: boiled bacon. Mutton boiled.—Caper or parsley sauce; carrots, turnips : leeks or onions. Mutton roast, leg, loin, or saddle.—Red currant, cranberry, or rowan jelly. Mutton roast, shoulder.—Baked potatoes : onion sauce. La^nb roast, hot or cold.—Mint sauce. Veal roast.—Boiled bacon or ham: forcemeat balls: fried bacon : thick brown gravy: slices of lemon or stewed prunes. Veal stewed or boiled.—Parsley sauce : boiled bacon : cut lemon. Pork roast.—Sage and onion stuffing: apple sauce: thickened brown gravy: baked potatoes. Fresh or pickled Pork boiled.—Pease pudding, carrots, or parsnips: some of the meat liquor, or plain melted butter sauce. Steaks grilled.—Maitre d’hotel butter: fried potatoes. Grilled Chops a?id Cutlets.—Maitre d’hotel butter: fried potatoes. Minced or hashed Meat.—Sippets of toast, croutons, or mashed potatoes as a border. Calf's Liver fried.—Fried bacon : cut lemon. Boiled Bacon.—Cabbage or broad beans and parsley sauce. Curries, all varieties.—Boiled rice.no THE COMPLETE COOK Poultry Fowl roast.—Fried bacon: bread sauce: thickened brown gravy: watercress. Fowl boiled.—Egg or parsley sauce: boiled bacon. Duck roast.—Apple, gooseberry, or cranberry sauce: sage and onion stuffing: thickened brown gravy: green peas. Ttirkey roast.—Grilled or fried sausages: bread sauce: thickened brown gravy : oyster, herb, chestnut, or sausage stuffing. Turkey boiled.—Celery, oyster, or egg sauce: herb stuffing : boiled ham or bacon. Goose roast.—Sage and onion stuffing: apple sauce: thickened brown gravy: French beans or Brussels sprouts. Pigeons roast.—Toast under bird: watercress: thick gravy. Rabbit roast.—Herb stuffing: forcemeat balls: thickened brown gravy or piquante sauce. Rabbit boiled.—Pickled pork : onion sauce. Roast Grouse. Partridge. Ptarmigan. Ortolans. Pheasant. Quail. Blackcock.—Bread sauce: fried crumbs: watercress: strong, clear gravy: toast under birds. Guinea-Fowl roast.—Bread sauce : watercress : thick gravy. Snipe. Plover. Teal. Wild Duck. Widgeon. Woodcock roast.—Watercress: toast under birds: strong, clear gravy: orange sauce or salad : cayenne: cut lemon. Hare roast.—Red currant, cranberry, or rowan jelly: force- meat balls: bread, green gooseberry, or port wine sauce. Venison roast.—Red currant jelly: French beans: thickened brown gravy : port wine sauce. It should be noted that all roast game or poultry are accompanied by fried potatoes in some form, i.e. chips, straws, ribbons, or souffle. Asparagus and Seakale hot.—Oiled butter: melted butter sauce: Hollandaise sauce. Asparagus and Seakale cold.—Mayonnaise or vinaigrette sauce. Globe Artichokes.—Oiled butter: Hollandaise or piquante sauce. Broad Beans.—Parsley and butter sauce. French Beans and Peas.—Fresh butter placed on the top. Game VegetablesTHE SERVING AND GARNISHING OF DISHES iii Potatoes new boiled.—Fresh butter rubbed over them: :hopped parsley. Beetroot boiled hot.—White sauce. Potatoes baked in their skins.—Cold fresh butter. Sweets Christmas pudding.—Warmed brandy fired round: brandy 5auce. Pancakes.—Quarters of lemon : castor sugar. Hot boiled, or steamed puddings.—Any hot sweet sauce. Batter steamed.—Fresh butter: good Demerara sugar. Blancmange. Rice. Semolina moulds, etc.—Jam: stewed fruit or fruit syrups. Cheese.—Balls of butter : biscuits : pulled bread : crisp celery ar cress. IHE TASTEFUL SERVING AND GARNISHING OF DISHES This matter is well worth a little careful study, for endeavour ?hould be made to please the eye as well as the palate. Not anfrequently a dish may be excellently cooked, yet by its unsightliness it will rather repel, than stimulate, the appetite. A common fault is to overcrowd dishes, either through using too small a dish or by heaping on too much of the cooked Food. The same effect is gained, plus disaster to the table- :loth, by pouring round an injudicious amount of sauce or g^ravy. Again, foods literally tumbled out of the pan anyhow on to the dish, must invariably look untidy, especially if the edges of the latter are not carefully wiped free from drops, crumbs, etc. Many plain, simply cooked foods may be converted into quite elaborate dishes, if only a little skill and pains are taken when serving them. Garnishes call for the display of taste and good judgment. The combinations of colour must be pleasing, and all crude and glaring effects avoided. The garnishes should be composed of edible material, and be appropriate to the dish they are to beautify. Most operators will be wise to restrict themselves to simple light designs, and :o avoid the common fault of Overdecoration. Masses of fresh, or fried parsley, the lavish use of gold and silver leaf in jellies, or truffle, pistachio nuts, etc., are not goodII2 THE COMPLETE COOK style, and are sometimes resorted to in order to cover defects of cooking or dishing. Also they greatly increase the kitchen expenditure. The following suggestions are popular as garnitures :— Chopped Parsley Wash it well, remove the stalks, chop it finely, and next screw it up in the corner of a clean cloth. Hold it under the cold water tap for a few seconds, then squeeze it as dry as possible and shake it out of the cloth. It then forms a light green powder, very different from the result if it is not washed after being chopped. Lobster Coral for Fish This is most effective. Well wash the coral, dry it in an exceedingly slow oven, then pound it and rub it through a hair sieve. The result is a brilliant scarlet powder. The Various Red Peppers now prepared and sold, answer much the same purpose as the above, and are handy when lobster coral cannot be procured or is not suitable. Beetroot, truffles, chillies, gherkins, angelica, pimentos, pistachios, may all be cut into stars, diamonds, crescents, strips, etc., and used to carry out designs for decorating chaudfroids, fowls masked in white sauce, jellies, creams, cakes, etc., if the cook has a little skill and patience. Tiny cutters of various shapes may be bought with which to stamp out the patterns required. Carrots, Turnips, French Beans, etc., are first cut out in the form of marbles, strips, etc., then each variety is boiled separately and used for garnishing entrees of meat, poultry, and game, or to add to clear soup. Fluted and Sliced Cucumber is one of the daintiest decorations for cold savoury dishes, more especially when used in conjunction with chopped aspic jelly. Cut the cucumber unpeeled into blocks about one and a half inches long. With a sharp knife remove lengthways very narrow strips of the peel at regular intervals, so that there areTHE SERVING AND GARNISHING OF DISHES 113 long strips of green and white alternately. Do not cut too deeply downwards when removing the green strip. Cut each block in half lengthways and slice each half very thinly. Each half slice is then arranged in scallop form round the dish by lightly pinching each together. Small Tufts of Washed Parsley, Cress, and Endive make a pretty garnish for cold dishes if not overdone. A few sprigs of fresh parsley are generally laid round boiled fish. Hard-Boiled Eggs For decorating purposes, separate the white and yolk ; either chop the former or stamp it out in shapes. Rub the yolk through a fine strainer, so that it forms light feathery coils. Shake this powder as delicately as possible over boiled fish, poultry, etc., after coating them with white sauce. Croutons These are merely pieces of bread cut in fancy shapes and fried in hot fat. They are used to garnish hashes, mince, ragouts, savoury dishes of cheese, macaroni, etc. Green Peas, Mushrooms, Olives, Capers, Cocks- combs, ETC., may be used for both hot and cold dishes, some whole, others shaped, or, in the case of olives, stoned and stuffed. Fried Parsley is correct to use as a garnish with all fried fish, rissoles, croquettes, etc., while Fried Potatoes in any Form should accompany fried or grilled cutlets, steak, kidneys, and suchlike. Pink Sugar is popular for dusting over the surface of trifles, cakes, puddings, and tarts. Care is needed to obtain a very delicate pink, or the effect is too hard. To prepare it, put some castor sugar on a plate; let fall on to it one or two drops of cochineal, and work 8114 THE COMPLETE COOK these into the sugar with a wooden spoon till every grain is evenly tinted. More cochineal can be added if necessary, or should the tint be too deep more sugar must be worked in. This can be kept ready for use in a corked bottle. Cooked Ham, Tongue, or Sausage are useful. The two former being specially suitable for cutting into shapes. Glac6 Cherries and Crystallised Flower Petals form a most effective decoration for cakes and cold sweets of every description. Fleurons Shapes of puff pastry cut out and then baked take the place of crohtons in more elaborate dishes. Strips of Tarragon Leaves and Sprigs of Chervil are used for setting in aspics of all kinds, or for placing on chaudfroids. Finely Grated or Scraped Horseradish is appropriate for decorating joints of roast beef, steaks, or entries of beef. With a little ingenuity on the part of the heads of the culinary department the above may be varied ad infinitum. MISCELLANEOUS HINTS Core apples before paring, as there is less danger of their breaking. A thick layer of salt or sand placed under the cake in the baking tin will prevent the cake burning underneath. Never bang oven doors, as the inrush of cold air and the shock will cause light cakes and pastry to sink, unless they are already set. When beating whites of eggs, add a few grains of salt, these aid in the beating. Hard-boiled eggs should be cracked and laid in cold water directly they are removed from the saucepan, to prevent discoloration.MISCELLANEOUS HINTS 115 Gelatine if dissolved in milk will often cause it to curdle, Dissolve it in water, then strain it into the milk. Keep the remains of lemons, used for their juice, to scour the copper utensils. Do not wash macaroni and suchlike pastes before cooking. Young beetroot leaves are excellent dressed as spinach. Never cut lettuce leaves, but pull them in pieces with the fingers. Keep all tinned foods as cool as possible, and in summer place them on ice or in cold water before opening them. Turn all tinned foods out of the tins immediately they are opened, except foods preserved in oil. After blanching and shelling almonds, throw them in cold slightly salted water to whiten and crisp them. When using tinned stone fruit, from which usually the kernels have been removed, a few drops of almond essence will be found an improvement. Arrowroot, if of a good quality, should crackle when rubbed between the fingers and feel firm. Never allow soups, stews, etc., to remain overnight in the saucepan, as this will often cause them to turn sour. If coffee is ground long before use, it loses flavour. It must also be kept closely covered, or it absorbs other flavours and loses its own. After washing currants and other fruit, if dried quickly they become hard and tough. When candied peel is chopped, remove the lump of sugar from the centre. Save it and use it for gingerbread or milk puddings. Have everything in readiness before commencing to cook. A little salt thrown on will clear a smoky fire. Never cut off the fins of turbot and brill, as they are considered a delicacy, being very gelatinous. A good cook knows the value of a stockpot, for water is the resource of a thriftless cook. A mincing machine will save much time and labour. If onions are blanched, they become more digestible, as some of the essential oil is extracted. Break eggs separately into a cup to ascertain if they are good. Perfectly new-laid eggs will take a minute or so longer to cook than if a day old. An egg that has been laid twenty-four hours is more easily poached than one just taken out of the nest.THE COMPLETE COOK i6 The pith of oranges and lemons is very bitter, and must never be used for cooking purposes. Sour milk makes very light cakes and scones. Mutton dripping is excellent for frying, but having a stronger flavour, and being harder, it is less good than beef dripping for cakes and pastry. Steam issuing from the spout of the kettle does not indicate that the water boils, wait till the surface bubbles. Never wash pudding cloths with soap, nor send them to the laundry. Semolina is the most nutritious of all farinaceous prepara- tions. Perfectly new-laid eggs will not shell easily when hard boiled, as the whites are in curdlike flakes. Broiled or toasted bacon is infinitely superior to fried. Fried eggs are savoury, but difficult to digest. Open tartlets are much lighter if baked on tin, not earthen- ware plates. A little chopped apple, rhubarb, or green gooseberries if added to curries will greatly improve their flavour. When boiling milk, if the pan is first rinsed out with cold waiter, there is less risk of the milk sticking and burning. It is wisest to add pepper at the last, after the food is cooked, as it loses its aroma after being cooked. The rinds of oranges and lemons may be dried, grated, and bottled. Always sieve cream of tartar and carbonate of soda, as they readily form into lumps when kept. Bones boiled for stock purposes will appear full of tiny holes and have a dry appearance when all the goodness has been extracted. Stock, etc., will be a richer brown if the skins are left on the onions. Old damask table linen will often cut into excellent fish napkins. Dishes containing cooked potatoes will be lighter if the latter are warmed and well beaten before they are added. Dripping added to the water in which pulse in any form is being cooked, will help to soften the peas, lentils, etc. Damp flour will make heavy cakes, bread, etc.; it may be dried before use in a slow oven or over the range on the plate rack. A musty pudding cloth will spoil the flavour of any pudding it covers.MISCELLANEOUS HINTS 117 Place all bread, cakes, etc., on their side, or on a sieve, or tilted against a plate, when removed from the oven, to let the steam escape, otherwise it will condense in the food, making it heavy. Before turning out puddings, allow them to stand for a minute or so, they will then shrink away from the sides of the basin, etc., as the steam escapes. Apple puddings and tarts are improved if a little syrup is made from the peelings and cores and poured round or into them just before serving. The addition of too much salt will make batters heavy. Oversalted ham or bacon may be improved by soaking it in hot water for about ten minutes before cooking. Common faults in cooking are: 1. Too much fire: result, cooking too speedy. 2. Too much grease: result, it cannot be digested. 3. Too much water : result, the natural juices of the food are overmuch diluted. Salt added when liquids are to be brought to boiling point helps to raise the scum; used with cold liquids it assists in drawing out the juices. Eggs are used in cookery: 1. To give lightness, flavour, nutriment, and colour. 2. To increase the tenacity of dough, so that it will better retain the air. 3. To bind mixtures and to coat them for frying purposes. Sugar added to batter before it is cooked will cause it to be heavy. Use a rolling pin of even thickness from end to end, or too great pressure is given in the centre of the pastry. Pastry boards and pins should be smooth and free from knots and cracks in the wood. Never use the oil in which sardines, anchovies, etc., are preserved ; if some is needed, add fresh olive oil. Pounds of soap are wasted yearly by being left to dissolve in the water. Cooking is hot and thirsty work ; if lemonade, barley water, cider, or unlimited tea is provided for the cook, there would be less temptation to desire stimulants. “ The eye of an experienced mistress is worth two pairs of hands.” Cinders in the dust-bin show there is wasteful management below stairs. Strawberries, shellfish, and mackerel will produce nettlerash in some people.THE COMPLETE COOK Ii8 Curries are always popular in hot weather, strange though it may seem. Never use any tinned foods if a bulge outwards is noticed in the tin, a dent is of no consequence. Never use butter for greasing cake tins unless it is clarified, as the salt it contains causes it to make the mixture stick and burn easily. Monday is not a good day for marketing, for unless large first-class firms are dealt with there is danger of being supplied with the surplus stock from Saturday. Never place meat, fish, pastry, etc., right on the ice: put it on a plate or baking sheet and fix that on the ice. The cold will penetrate sufficiently, and the food does not become sodden. Remove meat at once from any paper it may be packed in, as the latter will absorb the juices: for the same reason never permit it to lie on a wooden board. Frozen fish may be sufficiently thawed by laying it in cold water for a short while.119 CHAPTER VIII SOUPS—STOCKS—CLEAR SOUPS—PUREES— THICKENED SOUPS — BROTHS — FISH SOUPS SOUPS It is popularly supposed that a good soup can be made from nothing. This is an error, arising from ignorance; but it is perfectly correct to state, that where economy is practised, there should be sufficient material left from the daily meals to furnish ordinary family soups, without buying expressly for them. After breakfast, etc., do not put away the remnants on the dishes, but inspect and lay aside all bones, pieces, and gravy off the dishes for the stockpot. Save a tablespoonful of vegetables, a stalk of celery, egg, macaroni, etc. ; a use will be found for them. Be sure and preserve the water in which any meat, salt or fresh, or vegetables have been boiled, excepting the water used to cook green vegetables. Soups are made from meat, fish, and vegetables, with water or milk; seasoned and flavoured with any or every kind of vegetable, sweet herbs, spices, curry powder, aromatic sauces, etc. They may be served thin and clear or thickened with various “ liaisons,” cereals, or by pulping the materials from which the soup was prepared through a fine sieve, and adding the puree to the stock, so as to give it the required consistency ; such soups are called Purees. Au Maigre Soups are made without meat of any kind. What Stock Is To many people this term conveys little or no meaning. It is derived from the Anglo-Saxon stician—to stick. Stock in aTHE COMPLETE COOK 120 trade, or business, means the money or material laid by, or stored^ stocked, fixed, as a source of supply, ready for use at any time; and in the business of cooking, stock is the material stored or prepared in such a way that it may be kept for use for various purposes, viz. soups, sauces, etc. Definitely, it is a liquid containing the juices, flavours, and nutriment of meat, bones, and vegetables, or fish, which have been extracted by proper cooking. The materials used not being required, merely their juices and soluble parts. This liquid is more or less solid when cold, according to the gelatinous nature of the ingredients, and varies in quality according to the manner in which it is prepared and the material used. Cheap, inferior parts of meat are suitable for stock, also scraps of cooked meat, etc. Fat should be added with the meat; it is necessary as an element of perfect food and adds to the flavour. After cooking, when the stock is cold, the superfluous fat can be removed from the surface. Mutton fat should, however, be avoided, as it is apt to give somewhat a rank flavour. Foods Unfit for the Stockpot Rice, potato, bread, or green vegetables in any form must not be added to the stockpot. Also care is needed when adding scraps of game, for any that are in the least high should never be used. If it is desired to keep the stock very clear for soups or glaze, all thickened sauces, gravies, etc., should not be put in, as the flour they contain would cloud the stock. Also thickened sauces cause it to turn sour very rapidly. Apart from the ordinary household stock, supplied by the stockpot, there are— Five Kinds of Specially Made Stocks 1. Brown Stock 2. White „ 3- Fish 4. Game „ 5. “Second”,, A term met with frequently is “ Pot-Liquor.” This is liquid in which meat, vegetables, or fish has been boiled ; when the object has been to keep in the juices, etc., of the materials used, inSTOCKS I2I order to utilise them as food. Thus pot-liquor is much weaker than stock, but still valuable for family broths and sauces. The Management of the Stockpot Place the stockpot or large clean saucepan on the stove; fill it a quarter or half full of cold water, according to the probable supply of scraps to hand, and add a teaspoonful of salt. Collect the pieces of bone, meat, vegetables, etc., to be used, add them and let the pot simmer gently for about five or six hours, adding suitable scraps from each meal. Empty the Stockpot every night, straining the contents off into a clean basin. Thoroughly wash and air the stockpot, put it on the fire next day with the strained stock and fresh scraps, or those from the day before if it is thought all nourishment has not boiled out of them. Skim the stock free from fat before I'eturning it to the pot, saving the fat to clarify later. Add more water if the liquid has reduced too much. This liquid is then always at hand to draw off or ladle out, to use instead of water or expensive meat extracts, for preparing soups and sauces. Prepare Fresh Stock once a week, or even more frequently in warm weather. Do not waste any stock that may be left over if it is still fresh, but use it for Glaze Put the strained stock into a saucepan, leave it uncovered and boil it quickly till only about a third of the stock is left, but the amount will depend on the quality of the stock. Keep it well skimmed during boiling. When sufficiently reduced, the remaining liquid will be a dark brown colour and about the same thickness as hot glue would be. Cool it a little, pour it into a clean jar, and when cold it will be like hard, dark brown glue. To Keep Glaze It will keep for several weeks in a dry place, or if required to do so, for a much longer period ; pour on to it when cold a little warmed lard dripping, or butter.THE COMPLETE COOK 122 Uses of Glaze A small piece added to soups, sauces, and gravies gives great additional flavour and strength, and is thus invaluable to the cook; or it can be warmed gently in a jar placed in a pan half full of boiling water and brushed over galantines, game pies, tongues, pressed beef, cutlets, fillets, etc., to give a rich shiny surface. It may be bought, but is very expensive, being about two shillings a pound, and its flavour is not to be compared with that made at home. Special Stocks For the very best soups, especial’y consommds, a stock should be made from fresh bones and meat. Brown stock for clear brown or thick soups. White stock for all white or light- coloured soups. Brown Stock Ingredients for four quarts— Four pounds of shin or neck of beef. Four quarts of cold water. One medium-sized carrot, turnip, and onion. One tomato. Any bones of poultry or lean scraps of ham. Method.—Wash the meat quickly and dry it well. Cut it into blocks about one inch square and chop the bones small, remove any marrow and save it for a breakfast dish or savoury. Place the water, salt, meat, and bones in the saucepan and let them soak for half an hour or till the water is well reddened. Next bring the water very slowly to boiling point. Do not skim the soup till it has been cooking for some time, otherwise the albumen which coagulates with heat (and being lighter than the water) rises to the surface and is removed. Add the prepared vegetables, cut in large pieces, the spices tied in a piece of muslin, and all the other ingredients. Let the stock boil gently with the lid half on for about five hours. Remove the vegetables when quite soft, for when once they are thoroughly cooked they absorb the flavour instead of adding to it. They can be lifted out carefully and served for some meal. When boiled sufficiently, strain the stock off carefully into Two sticks of celery. A bunch of a sprig or two of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. Five allspice. Eight white peppercorns. A level teaspoonful of salt.STOCKS 123 i clean basin, through a hair or fine wire sieve, till needed, ^fter all the nutriment is extracted from the meat, etc., do lot attempt to make further use of the worthless residue of muscular fibre. It is dry, tasteless, and utterly useless as rood, rieeding much additional material to even make it palatable. Should the stock not be sufficiently dark, a little caramel ^burnt sugar) can be added; this is quite as effective and less trouble than browning the onions, which is sometimes done. Keep the cake of fat on the stock till it is needed, as the air is thus excluded and it will keep better. To Clear Stock for Consomme Remove all fat from the stock, and if it is in a jelly wipe the top of it over with a cloth wrung out in very hot water; this will absorb all grease, and unless this is done carefully the soup will not be clear. Should the stock be in a very stiff jelly, it is best to add a small amount of water, as so much gelatinous matter is likely to make it troublesome to clarify. If the stock has been boiled slowly, the fat carefully removed, and the straining done through 1 fine strainer, the stock will often be quite clear. Without clarifying, it must be reheated, then ladled, not poured out, very gently through a perfectly clean fine cloth, an Did table napkin answers the purpose admirably. The cloth should be laid in a colander, or sieve, over the basin. Do not squeeze the cloth, or stir its contents. Should the stock be :loudy, or if it is wanted particularly sparkling, it must be clarified in the following manner:— Ingredients to clarify two quarts of stock— Half a pound of raw lean beef. One small carrot, turnip, and onion. One shell and raw white of egg. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Method.—Remove all fat from the beef, wash the lean quickly and pass it through a mincing machine or chop it finely. Put it into a saucepan with the stock, which should be cold, or only warmed enough to melt the jelly. Whisk the beef into the stock and let it soak for ten minutes. Wash the egg shells, crush, and add them, also the white whipped to a light froth, the prepared vegetables left whole and the herbs. Whisk all over a slow fire till the stock boils. Let it boil well up, then draw the pan aside and let it settle for ten minutes. It is then ready to strain gently through a clean, fine cloth in the same way as described above ; or the cloth may be tied over the legs of an124 THE COMPLETE COOK inverted chair, as is often done for straining jellies. In any case pour some boiling water through the cloth first to heat it. After straining, it is ready to be re-heated, seasoned, and the particular garnish required should now be added to it. White Stock Ingredients for four quarts- Four pounds of knuckle of veal. Four quarts of cold water. Any scrap of unbrowned bones and pieces of poultry. One medium sized carrot, turnip, and onion. Method.—Wash the meat quickly, dry it, cut the meat into blocks about an inch square and saw or chop the bones small, removing and saving the marrow. Put the water, salt, meat, and bones into a well-lined pan, let the meat soak about ten minutes, then heat the water slowly to boiling point. Add the prepared vegetables cut in halves, the herbs and pepper- corns, etc. Boil the stock gently for about five hours, remov- ing any greasy scum and keeping the lid half on. Take out the vegetables when quite cooked, as after then they absorb the flavour. When it is cooked, strain the stock off through a fine strainer into a basin and put it into a cool place till it is wanted. Remove all fat before using it. Second Stock is prepared by adding to the bones and meat left from the good brown stock about two-thirds of the amount of cold water as was first used, and a supply of fresh vegetables and herbs, and letting it reboil for four hours. It is, of course, of a much poorer quality than the first stock made from the fresh meat, but it is useful for the usual purposes of stock. Bone Stock is sometimes spoken of. It is prepared from all, or nearly all, bones and no meat, except the sm^ll particles found adhering to the bones. Unlike the meat stock it requires to be boiled quickly in order to dissolve and extract the gelatinous matter. Bone stock forms a useful, economical, and digestible stock, but contains far less nutriment and flavour than stock for which lean meat is used. Two sticks of celery. A bunch of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. Ten white peppercorns. A teaspoonful of salt.125 STOCKS Game Stock Ingredients for two qtiarts— Two pounds of any game, either an old bird, or pieces, bones, etc., raw if possible. Two quarts of cold second stock. Four ounces of raw bacon, fat, and lean. Onesmallonion, carrot andturnip. Two sticks of celery. A bunch of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. Six peppercorns. Half a teaspoonful of salt. Method.—Chop the bones and meat small. Prepare and chop the vegetables coarsely. Cut the bacon in large dice and fry it slightly. Add to it the game, vegetables, and herbs. Cover the pan and let the contents fry for about fifteen minutes, shaking them well now and then to prevent them sticking. Then add the stock, salt, and peppercorns and simmer the stock gently for three hours. Strain it through a fine strainer, and when ready to use remove the fat, and if desired clarify it as directed for the Brown Stock, Fish Stock This is often in demand for souchets, etc. Ingredients for one quart— One pound of any white fish, fish bones, or cuttings. One quart of cold water. Half a small carrot and onion. delicate fish soups, sauces, and A bunch of parsley, thyme, mar- joram, and one bay leaf. A very small blade of mace. Four white peppercorns. Half a level teaspoonful of salt. Method.—Wash the fish, bones, etc., thoroughly. Place them in a clean well-lined pan, add the water and salt. Bring these to boiling point and add the spice, herbs, onion, and :arrot after preparing them in the usual way. Simmer the stock gently for half an hour, skimming it now and then ; then strain it, and it is ready for use. Fish with thick gelatinous skins and iins, such as brill and turbot, will make richer stock. Fish :uttings can be bought for a few pence per pound from the fishmonger, if it is not possible to have sufficient from boiled Dr filleted fish at home. Classification of Soups They are usually divided into the following four classes :— 1. Clear soups, consommes. 2. Thickened soups. 3. Purees. 4. Broths.126 THE COMPLETE COOK Clear Soups.—These are prepared from clarified stocks, to which various garnishes are added : the name of the consommd indicating the garnish to be supplied, e.g. Consomme a la Royale, clear soup with a savoury custard garnish. Thickened Soups.—These are thickened with “liaisons” of {a) flour, cornflour, rice flour, crushed tapioca, small sago, semolina, etc.; {b) a mixture of yolks of eggs and cream or milk. Purhs.—The consistency in these is obtained by rubbing the material from which the soup is made through a sieve. The pur^e or pulp thus obtained is mixed smoothly into the stock. Broth is the unclarified stock made from beef, mutton, veal, chicken, etc., generally garnished with neat dice of the best parts of the meat and vegetables used in its preparation, and with a little cooked pearl barley or rice. CLEAR SOUPS Clear Soup k la Jardiniere Ingredients— One quart of boiling clear soup. The heart of a fresh lettuce. A dozen points of cooked asparagus. Six very small button onions. Half a teacupful each of cooked peas, small balls of carrot, turnip, and cucumber. Four leaves of tarragon. Two or three sprigs of chervil. Salt: pepper : castor sugar. Method.—Wash the lettuce and shred it finely, also the tarragon and chervil, blanch these for five minutes in boiling water. Peel the tiny onions, and boil them till tender in boil- ing salted water. Boil the various balls of vegetable separately, as they each require a different length of time. Add the vegetables to the boiling consommd, add seasoning and a dust of castor sugar; boil for five minutes and serve with thin sippets of crisp toast. Note.—Vary the vegetables according to what varieties are in season. Julienne Soup Ingredients— One quart of clear soup. One pint of stock. One carrot. One turnip. One inner stick of celery. One leek. One tablespoonful of shelled peas. {Consomme Julienne) Six French beans. Half a small lettuce. Half a dozen leaves of tarragon. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. A saltspoonful of castor sugar. Salt; pepper.CLEAR SOUPS 127 Method.—Wash and prepare the vegetables, slice them very :hinly and cut them into long fine shreds about an inch and a quarter long. Use only the orange-coloured part of the carrot and eave the peas whole. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add all ;he vegetables, except the shredded lettuce and tarragon, toss :hem gently in the butter over the fire till they colour slightly. Add to them about a pint of ordinary stock, the sugar, and 1 little salt, and let the vegetables cook in it gently till they ire tender; skim off all grease as it rises. For the last five minutes add the lettuce and tarragon. When the clear soup is rhoroughly hot, strain out this Julienne garnish and add about a areakfastcup of it to the hot clear soup. Let it reboil, season ,t if necessary, and remove any scum and serve it in a hot lureen. Note.—Cooked asparagus points may be added when in season. If fresh peas and beans are not obtainable, use the preserved ones or leave them out. Clear Soup with Macaroni {Consomme aux Macaroni) Ingredients— One quart of clear soup. About half a teacupful of grated A breakfastcupful of cooked Parmesan cheese. macaroni. Method.—Break the macaroni into half-inch lengths. Boil it ior about three-quarters of an hour, or till it is tender ; in boiling slightly salted stock or water the former is best. Drain it, rinse it well in hot water to separate the pieces. Boil the clear soup, slip in the macaroni, ascertain if the seasoning is correct, ind serve in a hot tureen. Hand the grated cheese separately. Clear Soup with Vermicelli {Consomme aux Vermicelli) Proceed as for the above soup, using a teacupful of vermicelli aroken into fairly short lengths. It will take about eight minutes only to boil. Clear Soup with Spaghetti {Consomme aux Spaghetti) Proceed as for Vermicelli Soup. Dlear Soup with Italian Paste {Consommi aux pAtes dItalie) Proceed as for Macaroni Soup, using about three large ;ablespoonfuls of the paste and cooking it for about fifteen minutes in stock or water.THE COMPLETE COOK 128 Clear Soup with Nouilles Paste (Consomm/ mix Nouilles) Ingredients— One quart of boiling clear soup. One egg. Four slightly rounded tablespoon- Salt. 1 fuls of flour. Cold water. 1 Method.—Mix the flour and salt in a basin; make a well ' in the middle and put the broken egg into it. Add a tea- spoonful of water and mix these ingredients thoroughly together. Turn the paste on to the board and knead it for about fifteen minutes till it is stiff, smooth, and elastic. It must be stiff, so add more flour if necessary. If possible make this Nouilles i Paste an hour or two before it is wanted. Roll it out on a ; floured board till it is like a sheet of paper. Flour it and fold ■ it in three lengthways. Cut it across into very narrow strips. Shake them apart lightly, spread them on a tin, cover them with a clean dry cloth and leave the paste for an hour. Then drop them into plenty of fast boiling salted water and boil the strips for about ten minutes. Strain off the water, drain the Nouilles on a clean dry cloth and add them to the boiling consommd. Consomme aux CEufs Files Ingredients— One quart of boiling clear soup. Barely a tablespoonful of milk or One egg. cream. Two level teaspoonfuls of flour. Salt: pepper. Method.—Put the flour in a basin, break the egg on to it, and stir both smoothly together. Add the milk and a little | seasoning. Have the clear soup boiling on the fire. Hold a j fine pointed gravy strainer over the pan, pour in all the batter and stir it through with a small spoon. Move the strainer about ‘ over the soup as this is done. Boil for about two minutes and it is ready to serve. The cooked batter should resemble fine threads all through the soup. with Ravioli Clear Soup Ingredien ts— One quart of boiling clear soup. Four ounces of Nouilles Paste. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of chopped cooked poultry or game. One level tablespoonful of chopped cooked ham. One level tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. One level tablespoonful of cooked spinach. One raw yolk of egg. Two teaspoonfuls of cream. Half a teaspoonful of grated onion. Salt: cayenne : nutmeg.CLEAR SOUPS 129 Method.—Pound the poultry, spinach, ham, cheese, onion, ream, and yolk together, then rub them through a fine wire ieve and season the mixture carefully. Roll out the Nouilles ’aste very thinly. Cut it into strips about an inch and a half dde. Put about half a teaspoonful of the sieved mixture in ittle heaps at regular intervals down one strip. Moisten round :ach heap with beaten egg or water. Lay another strip gently )ver this first one, pressing it down gently but firmly round ;ach heap so as to join the strips where they were moistened, stamp out each heap from the strip, with a round cutter the lize of a two-shilling piece. See that the edges of each round ire closed. Boil the ravioli for nearly ten minutes in plenty of soiling salted water. Lift them out, drain them on a clean cloth ind add them to the boiling consommd. Clear Soup with Rice {Consomme au Riz) Ingredients— One quart of clear soup. Two tablespoonfuls of Carolina rice. Method.—Wash the grains and cook them till tender, but lot broken, in plenty of boiling stock or water. When cooked itrain off the water, rinse the rice well in fresh boiling water to leparate the grains, and add it to the boiling clear soup, season carefully and serve in a hot tureen. Croutes of bread he size and thickness of a shilling should be handed with the ;oup. Note.—Cooked pearl barley, sago, or tapioca can be used nstead of rice. Clear Soup k la Royale Ingredients— One quart of clear soup. r ^^^ole egg and two extra yolks. For the savoury custard . . -! One gill of stock. [Seasoning. Method.—To make the savoury custard for the garnish. Beat the egg and extra yolks till mixed, but not frothy, idd the gill of stock and season the mixture to taste. Thickly butter a small clean jam jar, strain in the custard and twist a piece of greased paper over the top. Stand this jar in a sauce- pan with enough boiling water to come barely half-way up the jar. Put on the lid and let the water round the jar bubble very slightly for about twenty minutes or till the custard is solid. If the water boils or even bubbles a little too much, the custard will resemble a honeycomb; it should be solid all 9130 THE COMPLETE COOK through and quite free from holes. When cooked turn the custard out of the jar, cut it into slices about an eighth of an inch thick and stamp these out into fancy shapes with a cutter, such as diamonds, dice, crescents, etc. Pour the boiling con- somme into the hot tureen and slip the shapes of custard gently in. Note.—The eggs could be mixed with a little stock made of some meat essence and water if liked. Consomm^ k la Savoy Ingredients— One quart of boiling clear soup. Two tablespoonfuls of cooked ham Four chickens’livers. cut in dice. Two teaspoonfuls of tarragon leaves. Method.—Simmer the livers whole in enough plain stock to just cover them till they are quite tender. Probably they will take about ten minutes. Then lift them out and cut them into small neat dice. Put them in a hot tureen with the ham cut in dice the same size as the liver, and the leaves of tarragon cut in fine shreds. Pour the boiling consommd on to them and serve. Beef Broth in Cups {Bouillon en Tasses) Ingredients— Two pounds of lean beef, such as topside or sticking piece. Two quarts of cold water. One carrot, turnip, and onion. Two small sticks of celery. A bunch of parsley and herbs. One clove. Two allspice. Six peppercorns. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Salt and pepper. Method.—Wash the meat quickly, dry it, and cut it up into small dice. Chop any bones there may be. Let the meat and bones soak in cold water for half an hour. Then put them into a saucepan, add the water and a little salt and bring them slowly to boiling point. Add the vegetables cut in quarters and the bunch of herbs, also the spice tied in a little piece of muslin. Simmer the broth very gently for three hours, skim it carefully. Strain it through a fine clean cloth or old table napkin into a basin, and leave it until cold. Then remove all grease, re-heat it and season it carefully. Serve in heated small soup cups, adding a little dust of parsley to each cup. Note.—This is much used to serve at dances, etc. Un- sweetened rusks or thin sippets of crisp toast should accom- pany it.VEGETABLE PURGES AND THICKENED SOUPS 131 Beef Broth with Eggs Ingredients—- The same as for Beef Broth in Cui3S. For each quart of broth add four raw yolks of eggs. Method.—Prepare the broth as directed for Beef Broth in Cups. When it is re-heated, but not boiling, strain it into the yolks of eggs beaten with a tablespoonful of the cold broth. Re-heat without boiling and serve as directed. VEGETABLE PUREES AND TPIICKENED SOUPS Artichoke Soup {Pnre'e d la Palestine') Ingredients— Two pounds of Jerusalem arti- One gill of cream. chokes. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of One quart of white stock. butter. One gill of hot milk. Pepper : salt. Method.—Scrub the artichokes. Have ready a basin of cold water to which has been added a little lemon juice. Peel the artichokes, and as each one is peeled, dip it and slice it at once in the cold water. This point needs care, as this vegetable turns black very quickly. Melt the butter in a stewpan, lift out the artichokes and add them to the butter. Stir them over the fire for four or five minutes, but on no account allow them to colour. Pour in the stock and boil the soup gently till the vegetables are tender, probably for three-quarters of an hour. Rub the soup through a hair sieve. Rinse out the saucepan, pour back the puree, add the milk and seasoning, and let it reboil. Add the cream and serve it in a hot tureen with dice of toast or croutons. Note.—If there is no white stock, use half and half of milk and water, but boil a few pieces of vegetable in it till it is well flavoured. Cream can be left out. Puree of Asparagus Ingredients— The same as used for the Marmites a I’Allemande. Substituting cooked green peas. Method.—Prepare the soup as for Marmites a I’AHemande. Cook the peas separately. If the soup is desired a deeper green, boil and sieve a breakfastcupful of washed spinachTHE COMPLETE COOK 132 leaves with the short pieces of asparagus. As usual serve this soup in a hot tureen. Beetroot Ingredien ts— One large cooked beetroot. One quart of stock. Half a gill of cream or milk. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Soup Three sticks of celery. One shallot. One clove. Half a small lettuce. A bunch of parsley and herbs. A few drops of cochineal (if needed). Method.—Peel the beetroot, slice it thinly. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and chopped shallot. Stir these over a slow fire for five minutes without browning them. Add the stock and stir these over the fire till the soup boils. Add the bunch of herbs, clove, shredded celery, and beetroot. Boil the soup gently for about twenty-five minutes, if cooked for too long the colour is spoilt. Pour the soup on to a hair sieve and rub through enough of the beetroot to make the soup a good colour and consistency. Add the cream, and season it. The colour should be a fairly deep pink, so, if the beetroot is a bad colour, add cautiously a drop or two of cochineal. Wash, dry, and shred the lettuce finely. Put it into the hot tureen and pour the soup on to it. Serve with rounds of fried bread cut the size and thickness of a shilling. Bonne Femme Soup Ingyedieyits— One quart of boiling white stock. One gill of milk or cream. Three raw yolks of eggs. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Four leaves of sorrel. Four sprigs of chervil. Six leaves of tarragon. Two small lettuces. About four inches of cucumber. Salt: pepper : castor sugar. Method.—Carefully wash the tarragon, sorrel, lettuces, and chervil. Cut them all into fine shreds. Peel the cucumber and cut it also into thin strips. Melt the butter in a stewpan. Add all the vegetables and toss them in the butter over a gentle heat for five minutes; they must not colour. Add the stock and half a level teaspoonful of castor sugar and a dust of salt. Boil the soup gently about half an hour, or till the vegetables are tender. Then draw the pan off the fire for a minute or so. Beat the yolks of eggs withVEGETABLE PURGES AND THICKENED SOUPS 133 the cream or milk, then when the soup is cooked a little strain in this “ liaison,” that is the thickening of eggs, and re-heat the soup enough to cook the eggs, but do not boil it, or the soup is ruined. Add the seasoning and serve with croutons or toast. Brittany Soup Ingredients— Two pounds of potatoes. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of One pound of leeks. butter. A quarter of a pound of mush- One quart of white stock. rooms. One pint of hot milk. Salt: pepper ; castor sugar. Method.—Scrub, thinly peel, and cut the potatoes into thick slices. Cut the green parts of the leeks and thoroughly wash them, as frequently they are very gritty. Cut these into rounds. Melt the butter in a clean stewpan, add the potatoes and leeks, and stir them over the fire without letting them brown for ten minutes. Add the stock, a little salt, half a teaspoonful of castor sugar, and let the soup boil gently till the vegetables are soft. Rub it through a fine wire or hair sieve. Rinse out the pan, pour back the soup, and add enough of the milk to make it the consistency of good cream. The amount varies somewhat with the quality of the potatoes. Reboil the soup and season it. The mushrooms must be peeled, stalked, washed, cut in dice and stewed till tender in a little extra milk or stock. Then strain out the dice and add them to the soup. Note.—If leeks cannot be procured substitute Spanish onions. Puree of Broad Beans Ingredients— One quart of shelled beans. Half a gill of cream. About a pint of boiling white stock One tablespoonful of butter. or milk. One tablespoonful of flour. One small onion. Salt : pepper : nutmeg. Method.—Put the beans and sliced onion into plenty of fast boiling water slightly salted, and boil them quickly till soft; the time depends on the age of the beans. Then drain off and throw away this water, rinse the beans in cold water to cool them, and remove the tough outer covering, so that just the bright green interior is left. Rub these green husked beans and onion through a hair or wire sieve. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour smoothly, add about three parts of134 THE COMPLETE COOK the stock or milk gradually, and stir it till it boils and thickens. It is wisest not to add all the liquid, as sometimes it is too much, and it can be easily added later. Stir this thickened mixture to the sieved beans, adding more liquid if required. Reboil it, add the cream, and season the soup carefully. Strain into a hot tureen and serve with it croutons of bread. Brussels Sprout Puree Ingredients— One pound of Brussels sprouts. About one quart of boiling white stock. Two level teaspoonfuls of corn- flour. Half a gill of cream if liked. A piece of soda the size of a pea. Salt; pepper. Method.—Trim off any faded leaves and well wash the sprouts in cold salted water. Boil them in a pan of fast boiling water to which the soda and a little salt have been added. Boil them quickly with the lid off the pan till they are tender, skim them well. Probably they will take about ten to fifteen minutes. Then drain off and throw away this water and toss the cooked sprouts in a cloth to drain them thoroughly. Rub them through a very fine wire or hair sieve. Mix the cornflour smoothly and thinly with a little cold water. Pour it into the boiling stock, and let it boil well. Add this stock to the sieved sprouts, stirring it in smoothly. Add the cream and seasoning and re-heat the soup without letting it boil, as in this case the colour would be spoilt. Serve in a hot tureen with croutons. Scotch Cabbage Soup Ingredients— One firm white cabbage. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter or dripping. Two level tablespoonfuls of medium oatmeal. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. One and a half pints of boiling water. One pint of hot milk. One small onion. Salt and pepper. Method.—Trim and well wash the cabbage. Cut it into thin shreds. Throw it into fast boiling water and blanch it for five minutes. Then drain off and throw away this water. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the cabbage and chopped onion. Cook these for five minutes in the butter. Then add the water, and when it reboils sprinkle in the oatmeal. Add a little salt andTwo heaped tablespoonfuls of VEGETABLE PURGES AND THICKENED SOUPS 135 Salt : pepper : nutmeg. let the soup boil gently till the cabbage is quite tender. Stir it now and then. Add the milk, not using all if it seems too much. Season the soup carefully, add the parsley, and serve in a hot tureen with dice of toast. Carrot Soup {Potage a la Crecy) Ingredients— One quart of stock. One heaped breakfastcupful of the red part of raw carrots chopped. One onion. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. chopped raw bacon or ham. Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan ; add the chopped carrot, onion, and ham. Turn these about in the butter over the fire for ten minutes ; keep the lid on when not tossing them. Add the stock and boil the soup gently till the carrots are quite soft. The time depends on their age. Rub the soup through a hair sieve, put it back into a clean saucepan and let it reboil. Mix the cornflour smoothly and thinly with a little cold stock or water. Pour it into the boiling soup and stir it till it boils, and let it continue to boil gently for about fifteen minutes. Remove any grease that boils up. Season the soup carefully, adding the sugar at the same time. Have the rice boiled in stock if possible, strain it, and, just before serving it, add it hot to the soup. Cauliflower Ingredients— Two small cauliflowers. One pint of white stock. One pint of hot milk. Half a gill of cream. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Method.—Wash the cauliflowers well, trim off all green parts, and break the flowers into sprigs. Pick out about six of the best of these and boil them separately in salted water till tender, but not broken,—these are for the garnish. Put the remainder of the cauliflowers into a saucepan with the stock and a little salt, and let them boil gently till soft. Rub these and the stock through a hair sieve. Melt the butter in a clean stewpan, add Cream Soup One well-rounded tablespoonful of flour. Salt: pepper: castor sugar nutmeg. One level tablespoonful of corn- flour. Half a level teaspoonful of castor sugar. Half a teacupful of cooked rice.THE COMPLETE COOK 136 the flour, and cook it in the butter for a few minutes without letting it brown. Add the sieved soup gradually and the milk. Stir it over the fire till it boils. Season the soup carefully, add the cream and the cooked branches of cauliflower. Re-heat the soup without letting it boil, and serve it in a hot tureen with croutons of bread and grated Parmesan cheese. White Celery Soup Ingredients— Two heads of celery. One small shallot. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. One quart of white stock. One gill of milk. One gill of cream. Two raw yolks of eggs. Half a teaspoonful of castor sugar. Salt: pepper. Method.—Wash the celery, use the white sticks only, any discoloured parts will do for flavouring. Put it in a saucepan with cold salted water, bring it to boiling point, and blanch it for five minutes. Drain off and throw away this water and cut the celery into thin rings. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the chopped shallot and celery and stir them over the fire for five minutes without colouring them. Add the flour and mix this in smoothly and cook all for about ten minutes longer. Add the stock and boil the soup till the celery is soft; the time will depend on the age of the celery, probably about an hour will be required. Rub the soup through a hair or fine wire sieve. Rinse out the pan, pour back the soup, and add the milk. Reboil the soup. Beat the yolks of eggs with the cream. Cool the soup for a minute or so, then strain in the liaison of eggs. Re-heat sufficiently to cook the eggs without curdling them by boiling. Add the seasoning and sugar and serve with croutons or toast. Note.—Instead of stock, the same amount of milk and water may be used, but in that case add a little more onion and about two inches of uncut carrot and turnip to the soup while it is cooking. But on no account rub these through the sieve. Cream may be left out for ordinary family use. Brown Celery Soup Proceed as for white celery soup, using brown stock instead of white; one tablespoonful more flour instead of yolks; no milk or cream ; and allow the onion and flour to brown in the butter.VEGETABLE PURGES AND THICKENED SOUPS 137 Cream of Rice Soup Ingredien ts— One quart of white stock. Two raw yolks of eggs. One gill of cream. Salt: pepper : nutmeg. Two level tablespoonfuls of ground rice or rice flour. Method.—Free the stock from fat and put it on to boil. Mix the ground rice thinly and smoothly with a little cold milk. When the soup boils, pour in the rice, stirring it all the time. Allow the soup to simmer gently for about eight minutes. Beat up the yolks of eggs with the cream, let the soup cool slightly, then strain in this liaison and let it re-heat but not re- boil. Season it carefully, using the nutmeg with great discretion, and pour the soup into a hot tureen. Serve with it toast cut in dice or croutons. Note.—If wanted quite white, leave out the yolks of eggs. Milk can be used in the place of cream for ordinary occasions. Rice flour is finer than ground rice. Cucumber Cream Soup Ingredients— Three good-sized cucumbers. One quart of white stock. Half a pint of hot milk. One gill of cream. Two yolks of eggs. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Half a teaspoonful of castor sugar. Salt: pepper : nutmeg. Half a dozen washed spinach leaves or a little green vegetable colouring. Method.—Peel the cucumbers. With a small round vegetable cutter scoop out a sufficient number of balls of cucumber to fill a teacup. Boil these till tender in boiling salted water for a garnish. Cut up the rest of the cucumber into thick slices. Boil for five minutes in boiling water, then drain out the slices and throw away the water. Melt one tablespoonful of the butter in a stewpan, add the spinach, slices of cucumber, and a little salt and sugar, and let them cook in the butter slowly without browning for twenty minutes or till tender. Keep the pan covered, but shake it well now and then. Melt the rest of the butter in another pan, stir in the flour smoothly, cook it in the butter for five minutes, but do not let it colour. Add the stock and stir it till it boils and thickens. Add the cooked cucumber, spinach leaves, and half the milk. Simmer the soup for about fifteen minutes, then rub it through a fine wire or hair sieve. Rinse out the pan, pour back the soup and reboil it.THE COMPLETE COOK 138 Beat the yolks of eggs with the cream, cool the soup slightly, and strain in these ingredients. Re-heat the soup without boiling it. Season it carefully, add the balls of cucumber, and if too thick add more of the boiling milk and serve it in a hot tureen with croutons handed separately. Note.—For a more economical soup use a little more flour instead of the thickening of eggs and cream. Essex Soup Ingredients— Five tablespoonfiils of pearl barley. One and a half quarts of white stock. One level tablespoonful of butter. One gill of cream. One raw yolk of egg. Four tablespoonfuls of cooked peas. Fourtablespoonfulsof cooked balls of carrot. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Salt: pepper : nutmeg. Method.—Wash the barley. Put it in a little saucepan with cold water to cover it, then boil it for five minutes to blanch it. Strain off and throw away this water and put the barley in a saucepan with a quart of boiling slightly salted water and the butter. Boil these gently for about an hour and a half or until the barley is soft. Then strain off the water; it could be used as the foundation for some plain broth or other, as it is not wanted for this soup. Rub the barley through a hair sieve and mix the puree thus made with the white stock. Reboil the soup in a clean pan, add the balls of carrot and the peas and simmer the soup for ten minutes. Beat up the yolk of egg with the cream. Let the soup cool a little and strain in the egg. Re-heat the soup without boiling it. Season it carefully, add the parsley and serve with croutons. Puree k la St. Ingredients— Half a pint of dried green peas. One teaciipful of cooked fresh peas. One quart of white stock or pot- liquor. One pint of hot milk. Half a Spanish onion. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Germain A small bunch of parsley. Six leaves of fresh mint. One teacupful of washed spinach leaves. Salt; pepper ; half a teaspoonful of castor sugar. Method.—Soak the dried peas for twenty-four hours in cold water, then drain off any water not absorbed. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the sliced onion, spinach leaves, andVEGETABLE PURGES AND THICKENED SOUPS 139 dried peas. Let these stew slowly in the butter for ten minutes. Then add the stock, parsley, and mint and boil the soup gently till the peas are soft. Every now and then mash them against the sides of the pan to break them. Rub the soup through a fine wire sieve, pour it back into a clean saucepan, add the milk, using sufficient to make it as thick as good cream. Season it carefully, add the cooked fresh peas and reboil it. Pour the soup into a hot tureen and serve with toast cut in dice or croutons. Note.—Preserved fresh peas can be used if the freshly grown ones are out of season; or for economy’s sake they may be omitted altogether. Haricot Ingredients— Half a pint of haricot beans. One quart of water or pot-liquor. One small onion. Three slices of fat bacon, or Puree One rounded tablespoonful of butter. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Half a pint of hot milk. Salt and pepper. Method.—Soak the beans in cold water overnight. Next day drain off the water from them and cut the bacon and onion into dice. Heat the bacon gently in a saucepan till the fat is drawn out without browning it, or melt the butter. Add the beans and onion and stir them over the fire for five minutes, but without colouring them. Add the water or pot-liquor and herbs and boil the soup gently for about three to four hours according to the hardness of the beans. Rub the soup through a fine wire or hair sieve. Pour the puree back into the clean saucepan, add the milk, and let it reboil. Season the soup carefully and serve with croutons or toast. Note.—If the pot-liquor is that in which salt meat was boiled, care is needed to see it is not too salt. Brown Haricot Soup Ingredients— One pint of haricot beans. Two and a half quarts of brown stock. Three tablespoonfuls of cooked chopped bacon. One onion. Four tomatoes. One leek. One small carrot and turnip. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. One rounded tablespoonful of dripping. Salt and pepper. Method.—Soak the beans for twenty-four hours in cold water. Wash, prepare, and coarsely chop all the vegetables, except the140 THE COMPLETE COOK tomatoes. Melt the dripping in a saucepan, add the bacon, fry it for a minute or so, then put in the onion and leek and brown them well. Add to these the stock, beans, and the rest of the vegetables. Boil gently for about three hours, or till the beans are soft. Then rub the soup through a fine wire sieve. Rinse out the saucepan, pour back and reboil the soup. Add the seasoning and chopped parsley and it is ready to serve in a hot tureen. Puree of Leeks Proceed as for Puree of Onions, using in their place a bunch of leeks. Do not use the green tops, and remember leeks need to be thoroughly washed to rerpove the gritty particles always found in them. Lentil Soup Ingredients— Half a pint of red Egyptian lentils. A ham bone, or a few scraps of One quart of cold pot-liquor, stock, ham or bacon. or water. One rounded tablespoonful of One onion. butter or dripping. Half a small carrot. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Two sticks of celery. Salt and pepper. Method.—Wash the lentils, picking out any blackened ones. Put them to soak overnight in enough cold water to cover them. Chop the carrot, onion, and celery finely, chop the ham or ham bone into several pieces. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the strained lentils, herbs, and vegetables, and stir them over the fire for five minutes. Add the stock and let the soup boil gently till the vegetables are soft. The pieces of carrot will take longer than the lentils. Remove the herbs and bones. Rub the soup through a hair or wire sieve. Rinse out the pan, pour back the soup and let it reboil. Season it carefully and serve it in a hot tureen with toast or croutons handed separately. Note.—If sieving the soup is inconvenient, a capital family preparation is made by merely removing bones and herbs and crushing the soup a little against the sides of the pan. Normandy Ingredients— Two large carrots. One pint of boiling white stock. Half a pint of hot milk. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Soup One rounded tablespoonful of flour. One shallot. One bay leaf. Salt and pepper and castor sugar.VEGETABLE PUREES AND THICKENED SOUPS 141 Method.—Wash the carrots and scrape them quite clean. Take a round vegetable cutter, with the scoop about the size of a large pea, and cut the red part of the carrots into balls. Grate the remaining carrot on a bread grater. Two large tablespoonfuls of grated carrot are needed, so it may be neces- sary to use a third one. Chop the shallot finely. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the shallot and grated carrot and stir them over a low fire for about eight minutes, but without browning them. Then add the stock, balls of carrot, bay leaf, and a little salt and a dust of castor sugar. Cover the pan and let the soup boil gently for about thirty-five minutes or till the carrots are soft; mix the flour smoothly and thinly with a little cold milk or water. Take out the bay leaf from the soup, strain in the mixed flour, add the milk and stir it over the fire till the soup boils. Season the soup, be careful it is not too thick, and serve it in a hot tureen with croutons of bread. Note.—A little cream can be used if wished. Method.—Peel and slice the onions. Put them in a pan with cold water to cover; bring them to boiling point and scald them for five minutes. Drain off as much of this water as possible, it is used to remove much of the pungent oil from the onions. Melt half the butter in a stewpan, add the onions, and cover them. Let them cook in the butter for about ten minutes without colouring in the least, add the stock and boil the soup till the onions are soft. Rub all through a hair or wire sieve. Rinse out the saucepan, melt the rest of the butter in it, and stir in the flour smoothly. Add the sieved soup and milk gradually and stir till it boils. Beat up the yolks of the eggs with the cream and strain them into the soup. Re-heat it again without letting it boil. Season the mixture carefully, pour it into a hot tureen and serve with it sippets of toast or croutons and grated parmesan cheese. Note.—For a plainer soup, omit the 3^oIks of eggs and cream, using a little more flour. Puree of Onions Ingredients— Two large Spanish onions. One pint of boiling white stock. One pint of hot milk. Two level teaspoonfuls of flour. Two raw yolks of eggs. One gill of cream. Salt; pepper ; nutmeg. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter.142 THE COMPLETE COOK Pea Soup Ingredients— Half a pint of split peas. Any scraps of cooked or raw bones Two quarts of cold water, or stock, of ham or fresh meat. or pot-liquor. One rounded tablespoonful of One large onion. dripping or butter. One small carrot. One level tablespoonful of flour. Four sticks of celery. Salt: pepper. Method.—Wash and pick over the peas and leave them in sufficient cold water to cover them to soak all night. Prepare the vegetables and chop them finely. Chop any bones used. Melt the dripping in a saucepan ; put in the strained peas and vegetables. Stir them over the fire for five minutes. Add the stock and bones and let the soup boil gently for about two to three hours, according to the age of the peas. Then remove the bones and rub the soup through a wire sieve. Rinse out the saucepan, pour back the soup and let it reboil. Mix the flour smoothly and thinly with a little cold water; add it to the boiling soup and stir it till it thickens. When thus thickened with flour the soup will not separate after standing for some time. Season the soup carefully and serve it in a hot tureen. Hand separately with it croutons of bread and some dried, powdered, and sieved mint. Note.—Whole dried peas can be used but they will take a very much longer time to boil. A few tomatoes added to this recipe give a pleasant variety. Do not sieve the soup if incon- venient, though a more digestible and delicate preparation is gained by doing so. Green Pea higredients— One pint of shelled green peas. One and a half pints of boiling white stock or water. Half a pint of hot milk. A small bunch of stalked parsley sprigs. Eight leaves of fresh mint. Soup One spring onion, or a small piece of shallot. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. Half a teaspoonful of castor sugar. Salt: pepper. Method.—Put about a gill of the best peas aside and boil them separately to add whole later on. Put the boiling stock into a saucepan, add the rest of the peas, the parsley, sugar, mint, and onion. Boil all these till the vegetables are soft. Strain the peas, saving the liquid in which they were boiled. Rub the peas through a hair sieve, gradually mix into this puree the liquid which was strained off. Rinse out the saucepan, andVEGETABLE PURGES AND THICKENED SOUPS 143 melt the butter in it. Stir in the flour smoothly, add the sieved soup and milk gradually, and stir it till it reboils thoroughly. Season the soup carefully, add the peas that were cooked separately, and serve the soup in a hot tureen with croutons of bread. Note.—A plainer soup can be made by using half a pint of shelled peas and half a pint of the pods, stripped of their horny inner lining. About two tablespoonfuls of cream is an improve- ment to this soup. A handful of well-washed spinach leaves can be used instead of the parsley. Potato Soup {Maigre) Ingredients— Four medium-sized raw potatoes. Two sticks of celery. One small onion. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One and a half pints of boiling water. One pint of hot milk. One level tablespoonful of semo- lina. Salt: pepper. Method.—Wash, peel, and thinly slice the potatoes; lay them in cold water directly they are cut. Wash and chop the celery; peel and slice the onion. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the vegetables and turn them about in the hot butter over the fire for about eight minutes, but do not let them colour in the least. Add the water and a little salt and boil the soup gently till the potatoes are soft. Then rub the soup through a wire or hair sieve. Rinse out the saucepan, put back the sieved soup, add the milk and let it reboil. When it boils sprinkle in the semolina and let the soup boil gently till the semolina is quite transparent and is suspended through the soup, not sinking. It will probably take about eight minutes. Season the soup carefully and be careful the consistency is that of good cream. Pour it into a hot tureen and hand with it toast dice or croutons. Note.—Crushed tapioca, small sago, or flour may be used instead of semolina for thickening purposes. If the soup may be made with meat, white stock can be used instead of water. A little cream is a great improvement if it can be afforded. This soup is not easily made when potatoes are new and waxy; it is more suitable for the autumn and winter months. Potato and Macaroni Soup {Maigre) Proceed as for Potato Soup, but use only a pint and a quarter of milk and water and eight sticks of macaroni cut144 THE COMPLETE COOK Salt: pepper. One stick of celery. in half-inch length and boiled till soft. Add this at the last instead of the semolina. Spinach Puree Ingredients— Two pounds of spinach. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. One and a half pints of white stock. One teaspoonful of chopped Half a pint of hot milk. shallot. One rounded tablespoonful of Salt : pepper: nutmeg. butter. Method.—Pick over, stalk, and wash the spinach well in several waters. Put it wet into a saucepan with a dust of salt and cover the pan. Let it boil gently till tender, stir it now and then ; no water should be necessary, but if it seems too dry, add just a spoonful or two. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour smoothly, add the stock and stir it till it boils and thickens. Add the spinach, after draining off any water and the shallot. Let all these boil gently for ten minutes. Then rub it through a hair sieve. Add enough of the milk to make it the consistency of good cream. Season, reboil it, and serve with croutons or toast. Note.—Half a gill of cream may be added if liked: also if more convenient use milk and water flavoured by having some pot vegetables boiled in it, instead of white stock. Tomato Soup {Purh de Tomates) Ligredients— One quart of stock. Two pound tin of tomatoes, or Two pounds of fresh tomatoes. Two tablespoonfuls of lean raw bacon or ham in dice. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Half a small carrot. Method.—Cut the prepared vegetables, except the tomatoes, in dice or slices. Melt the butter in a saute pan, add the bacon or ham, sliced vegetables and herbs. Turn them about in the butter over the fire for ten minutes. Slice the tomatoes, put them in a saucepan with the stock, ingredients from the saute pan, and the sugar. Let the soup boil gently till the vegetables are soft. Then rub all through a hair sieve, first removing the herbs. Pour the purde back into a clean saucepan, let it reboil. Half a small turnip. One shallot. A small bunch of parsley and herbs. Two lumps of sugar. One rounded tablespoonful of cornflour.VEGETABLE PURGES AND THICKENED SOUPS 145 Mix the cornflour smoothly and thinly with a little cold water. Pour it into the boiling soup and stir it till it boils well and thickens. Let it continue to boil for about five minutes, then see it is correctly seasoned and serve it in a hot tureen with toast cut in dice or croutons. It should be as thick as good cream; if the tomatoes are very juicy more cornflour may be added. Note.—Cooked ham or bacon will do, or even a ham bone can be cooked in it to give the desired flavour. The same amount of semolina, small sago, or crushed tapioca can be used to thicken this soup instead of cornflour, but this must be sprinkled in dry, then stirred till it is cooked. White Vegetable Soup {Maigre) Ingredients— One pint of boiling water. Half a pint of hot milk. One small carrot. One small turnip. One small onion. Two sticks of celery. One small leek. A teacupful of shelled peas. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. A small bunch of herbs and parsley. Half a level teaspoonful of castor sugar. Salt: pepper. Method.—Wash and prepare the vegetables and cut them like small thin matches, excepting the peas. Melt the butter in a well-lined saucepan, put in the shredded vegetables and herbs and turn them about in the butter over the fire for about ten minutes, do not let them colour in the least. Add the water and sugar and let the soup boil gently till the strips of carrot and celery are cooked, these will take the longest time. Remove the herbs. Add the hot milk. Mix the flour smoothly with cold milk. When the vegetables are tender, pour it into the boiling soup and stir tiU'^it boils. Boil it for a few minutes, season the soup carefully, note that it is the right consistency, viz. like good cream, and serve it in a hot tureen. Hand with it croutons of bread. Note.—A little cream enriches and improves the colour of this soup. Use any variety of vegetables in season.146 THE COMPLETE COOK MEAT, GAME, AND POULTRY SOUPS (THICKENED) Bone Soup Ingredients— Four pounds of raw bones. Two and a half quarts of cold water. Any scraps of cooked or raw meat. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of dripping. One large carrot, turnip, and onion. Two sticks of celery. A bunch of herbs and parsley. A dozen peppercorns. Four sticks of boiled macaroni. Four allspice. Salt ; pepper. Method.—Wash the bones quickly, dry them well and fry them and the sliced onion a good brown in the hot dripping. Add the meat scraps and water, it should just cover the bones, and a little salt. Bring these to boiling point and skim them. Add the prepared vegetables cut in large pieces, and the herbs, peppercorns, and allspice. Boil the soup steadily for four hours. Skim it now and then. Strain the soup into a clean basin, and when cold remove all grease. Save the vegetables. Reboil the soup, add the macaroni cut in half-inch lengths, and some of the vegetables cut in neat shapes. Season the soup carefully and serve. Note.—Cooked vermicelli, spaghetti, rice, Italian paste, etc., can be added instead of macaroni. Cock-a-Leekie Soup Ingredients— One small fowl. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Two pounds of shin of beef. One carrot and turnip. Two quarts of cold water. Two cloves. Bunch of leeks. Salt and pepper. Two tablespoonfuls of rice. Method.—Have the fowl trussed for boiling. Wash the meat quickly and wipe it well, cut it into large dice. Put the water, beef, fowl, prepared carrot and turnip left whole, the cloves stuck in the carrot, and the bunch of herbs into a saucepan. Bring these to boiling point, add the rice previously washed in boiling water, and the leeks carefully trimmed, washed, and cut up into one-inch lengths. Add a little salt and simmer the soup till the fowl is tender, probably it will take about an hour. Skim the soup during its cooking. When the fowl is tender take it out and keep it hot. If the leeks and rice are not cooked enough, let them simmer for a little longer. Cut the fowl iri half, save one half to use cold for any purpose, and cut the second half into neat dice. Take the beef, carrot.MEAT, GAME, AND POULTRY SOUPS 147 turnip, and herbs out of the soup, they may be added to the stockpot. Put the pieces of chicken into the soup, reboil it, see the seasoning is correct, and serve it in a hot tureen. Note.—Sometimes about a dozen stewed stoned prunes are added just at the last, as well as the rice. A somewhat ancient fowl will do for this soup, only it will require longer cooking. If liked use two pounds of neck of mutton cooked whole with the fowl instead of the beef, and take it out when cooked. This can be served as a separate dish with parsley and butter sauce, thus lessening the expense of the soup. Gravy Soup Ingredients— Three pounds of shin of beef. Three quarts of cold water. Any cooked meat or poultry bones, or trimmings free from sauce. Two small carrots and turnips. One medium-sized onion. Four sticks of celery. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Method.—Wash the meat quickly and dry it. Cut it into one- inch squares. Peel and slice the onion. Melt the dripping in a saucepan, add to it the beef and onion. Fry these quickly in it till browned. Add the water, any oddments of bone to be used, the vegetables cut in large pieces, the herbs, spices, and a little salt. Let the soup boil very gently for about three hours. Keep it well skimmed during the cooking. Strain off the soup through a very fine strainer or hair sieve. When cold remove all the fat from the surface. Reboil it, cut some of the vegetables neatly and add them, and shake in the vermicelli broken in convenient lengths. Let this boil for about ten minutes, or till the vermicelli is quite cooked. Season the soup carefully and serve in a hot tureen. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of dripping. Eight peppercorns. Four allspice. Three tablespoonfuls of broken vermicelli. Salt and pepper. Hare Soup Ingredie7i ts— One small hare. Two quarts of stock. Three ounces of raw lean ham. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of butter or dripping. One onion and carrot. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Two glasses of Marsala or port. One tablespoonful of red currant jelly. A blade of mace. Four allspice. A dozen black peppercorns. The rind of one lemon. Seasoning.THE COMPLETE COOK Salt: pepper. Method.—Have the hare cleaned and cut up; the blood should be saved unless this is objected to. Cut the hare into small joints. Put the butter into a stewpan, add the ham cut in dice, the hare and onion, fry these a light brown. Add the flour and colour this also. Next add the stock, carrot, herbs, spice, and thinly peeled lemon rind. Simmer the soup steadily for two hours. Then strain off the soup and reboil it by itself in order that all grease may rise and be removed. Take the meat off the bones, pound it well in a mortar and rub it through a hair sieve, adding some of the soup; this is done to render it easier. Mix this puree with the soup, add the jelly and any blood to be used. Re-heat the soup without letting it boil again. Season it carefully, add the wine and serve in a hot tureen with toast or croutons. Note.—The wine can be left out and water used if for a plainer soup: in that case a little raw beef cooked with it is an improvement. If liked some of the best pieces can be cut in squares and added with the jelly. A Good Household Soup Required— Bones and trimmings from any joint of roast meat, i Bones of game or poultry. Two cold mutton chops. Any pieces of uncooked meat, trimmings, or bones. Two baked apples. Two stalks of celery. From Left-Over Scraps A breakfastcupful of cooked onion or one large raw one. Four quarts of cold water. Two teaspoonfuls of salt. Four cloves. Four allspice. Four peppercorns. A bunch of parsley, thyme, marjoram, and a bay leaf. MetJiod.—Chop the bones and cut the meat small. Put them in the saucepan with the water, salt, and other ingredients. Let the soup simmer until the water is reduced to about half Strain it into a clean basin. Leave it till next day, then remove all the fat. Re-heat and season it. Serve in it either some cooked macaroni, vermicelli, rice, or any other garnish liked. Or it may be thickened with flour, semolina, crushed tapioca, etc. Kidney Soup Ingredients— Half a pound of ox kidney. Half a pound of lean beef. Three pints of brown stock. Three tablespoonfuls of coarsely chopped fat bacon. One tablespoonful of chopped onion. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. One rounded tablespoonful of butter.MEAT, GAME, AND POULTRY SOUPS 149 Method.—Wash the kidney and beef quickly, dry them, and cut them up quite small. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the bacon, onion, and kidney, and fry them until brown. Add the stock and a little salt, and simmer the soup for about two and a half hours. Strain out the solid parts, pound them to a paste, and rub this through a fine wire or hair sieve. Rinse out the pan, mix the flour smoothly and thinly with a little of the strained soup. Reboil the rest of the liquid, pour in the flour, and stir it till it boils. Cook it for ten minutes and carefully skim it. Then mix in smoothly the sieved meat, add seasoning, re-heat the soup without boiling it after adding the meat, and it is ready to serve. Note.—Water can replace stock ; if so, add a piece of carrot and turnip and a bunch of herbs to the soup, but do not pound or sieve these. A more delicate soup is made with four or five sheep’s kidneys instead of ox kidney. Add a little caramel colouring if needed. A Lancashire Soup htgredien ts— Half a pound of calf’s livei'. Three slices of raw lean ham. Three pints of brown stock. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. A penny French roll. One small onion. One lemon. Salt: pepper : cayenne. Method.—Wash and wipe the liver quite dry, cut it in thin slices. Chop the ham and onion. Melt the butter in a sauce- pan, add the ham, liver, and onion, and fry them all a good brown. Then add the flour and slightly brown that. Pound all these till smooth, and mix the paste smoothly with the stock. Put the stock, etc., in a saucepan, add the French roll cut in thin slices, and let all these simmer for twenty minutes. Then rub the soup through a wire sieve. Season it carefully and re-heat it. Serve with cut lemon, cayenne, and toast dice. Note.—Sheep’s liver and bacon trimmings instead of ham, and a slice of bread instead of the roll, would lessen the expense of this soup. Marmites a 1’Allemande Ingredients— A bundle of fifty heads of aspara- gus or sprue. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. • Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. One quart of white stock. One pint of milk. One gill of cream. Three tablespoonfuls of cooked lean ham in dice. .Salt : pepper ; castor sugar ; nut- meg.THE COMPLETE COOK ISO Method.—Wash and scrape the white parts of the asparagus, and cut off the green tips. Cut the remainder of the heads into short pieces. Boil these for fifteen minutes in boiling, slightly salted water. Boil the tips separately till soft, but not broken, as they are required as a garnish. Boil the short pieces of asparagus in the stock till they are soft; then rub as much of it as possible through a fine wire sieve. Melt the butter in a clean saucepan, add the flour, and cook it over a slow fire for two or three minutes without browning it. Add the sieved asparagus and stock to the flour and butter and stir it till it boils. Add enough of the milk to make it the right consistency. Add the cream, seasoning of salt, pepper, and a dust of castor sugar, the cooked tips of asparagus, and the cooked ham cut in small squares. Re-heat it without it actually boiling, be careful it is not thicker than good cream, and ladle it into the small heated Marmite pots. Note.—This method of serving soup in the small French earthenware covered pots called “ Marmites,” is very popular. One is allowed to each guest and is handed in a hot soup plate. Thick Mock Ingredients— Half a small calf’s head. One pound of lean raw beef. A quarter of a pound of lean ham. Four quarts of stock or water. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Half a gill of Marsala. Turtle Soup One carrot. One turnip. Two medium-sized onions. Four sticks of celery. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Four cloves : ten peppercorns. Half a lemon. Forcemeat balls. Salt: cayenne. Method.—Soak the head in cold water for an hour, then wash, dry, and bone it. Remove the brains and tongue ; these should be laid aside in cold water and saved to make some entree. Chop the bones of the head and tie the meat up in a piece of coarse muslin. Put the bones, meat, cold stock, ham, and lean beef cut in dice into a saucepan. Add a little salt, bring it slowly to boiling point, and skim it well. Simmer the head for about three hours, oi ‘ill the meat is quite tender. Then lift out the meat of the head, put it between two dishes with a weight on the top to press it till it is cold. Add to the stock the vegetables cut in large pieces, herbs, and spices. Continue to boil the stock gently till it is reduced to about two- thirds, after which strain it into a basin and leave till cold, then remove all fat from the surface. Melt the butter in a stewpan.Two sour apples. Salt: pepper. MEAT, GAME, AND POULTRY SOUPS 151 add the flour, and fry it carefully a good brown colour. Pour in the cold stock and stir till the soup boils and thickens; let it boil gently and skim it well. Cut some of the best pieces of the meat off the head into even one-inch squares, enough to fill a breakfastcup. Add seasoning, wine, and a teaspoonful of strained lemon juice to the soup, and strain it. Re-heat it, add the pieces of meat and about a dozen forcemeat balls. Serve in a hot tureen. Note.—Worcester sauce can be used instead of wine. If good stock is used the beef can be left out. This soup is sometimes made with two calf’s feet and two pounds of knuckle of veal. Soak and scald the feet before using them. Thick Mulligatawny Soup Ingredients— Two quarts of cold water. One pound of lean beef, or trim- mings from fillets, etc. One pound, or more, of any bones. A quarter of a pound of lean ham or bacon, or a ham bone or trimmings. One carrot. One turnip. Two onions. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Method.—Wash the beef and bones quickly. Chop them in small pieces. Put the water in a saucepan, add the bones and beef and a little salt. Bring these slowly to boiling point and let them boil gently while the other ingredients are prepared. Chop the ham, vegetables, and apples finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add all the chopped vegetables and ham, but not the apples. Fry these a light brown in the butter. Then add the curry powder and paste, the flour and herbs, and continue to fry these for about five minutes longer. If the pan seems too dry, add a little more butter or dripping. Add gradually enough of the stock to make a sauce of all these ingredients, mixing it smoothly; add all this mixture to the rest of the stock which is cooking; also the apples, cloves, and pepper- corns. Mix them well in and let the soup boil gently for two hours. Skim it now and then. Pass the soup through a fine wire sieve, rubbing through some of the vegetables, etc. Lift out the spice, herbs, and bones before rubbing it through. Rinse out the saucepan, pour back the soup, add the seasoning carefully and a little lemon juice if it seems necessary. Serve One lemon. Two cloves. Four peppercorns. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One tablespoonful of curry powder. One tablespoonful of curry paste. Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. A breakfastcupful of boiled curry rice.THE COMPLETE COOK 152 the soup in a hot tureen and hand with it hot boiled rice prepared as for a curry. Note.—If good stock is used instead of water, fresh meat need not be used, merely a few additional bones of poultry, game, etc. The amount of curry powder and paste must depend on the varieties used and according to the tastes of the diners. Small cubes of the best pieces of the meat, chicken, etc., used can be removed as soon as cooked and served in the soup. Mutton Broth. No. i Ingredients— Two pounds of middle, or scrag of mutton. Two quarts of cold water. Two level tablespoonfuls of rice. Two tablespoonfuls of carrot in dice. Two tablespoonfuls of turnip in dice. One tablespoonful of chopped onion. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Salt: pepper. Method.—Wash the meat quickly in tepid water and dry it. Cut off as much fat as possible; then cut the meat into small dice. As each piece is cut lay it in the cold water with a little salt to soak slightly. Then put the meat, bones, and water on the fire, bring them slowly to boiling point. Add the washed rice and onion, carrot and turnip. Let the broth simmer very gently for two hours. Skim it well during the cooking. To serve it, remove all the bones and grease on the top, using soft paper if necessary. Season the broth carefully, add the parsley, and pour it into a hot tureen. Note.—If the broth is needed specially for invalids, see the recipe given in the invalid section. Thick Oxtail Soup Ingredien ts— One oxtail. Two quarts of cold stock, or two oxtails and two quarts of cold water. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of dripping or butter. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. One onion. Two small carrots. One turnip. Four outer sticks of celery. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Four cloves. Ten peppercorns. A small blade of mace. One glass of Marsala. Salt: pepper. Method.—Cut the oxtail into short pieces, dividing them at each joint, but make two pieces out of the largest joints. Wash these well, then put them into a saucepan with boiling water153 MEAT, GAME, AND POULTRY SOUPS to cover and blanch them for about five minutes. Then lift them out and dry them. Melt half the dripping in a saucepan, add the prepared and sliced vegetables, spice, the bunch of herbs, parsley, and the pieces of oxtail. Fry these until they are lightly browned. Pour in the cold stock, add a littlefsalt, and simmer the soup for three hours or till the meat and gristly portions are quite tender but not falling to pieces. Keep the soup well skimmed. Select some of the nicest joints to serve in it, trimming them a little if necessary. Strain the soup into a basin and rinse out the pan. Put in and melt the rest of the dripping, add the flour and fry it a good brown colour. Add the soup and stir it over the fire till it boils. Draw the pan to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently in order that any grease may rise and be skimmed off. Add the wine, the pieces of oxtail and seasoning and about a teacupful of cooked carrot and turnip cut in thin rounds the size of a sixpence, these should be boiled separately. Serve the soup in a hot tureen. Polish Ingredients— Two quarts of white stock. One and a half tablespoonfuls of coarse oatmeal. Eight tablespoonfuls of very finely chopped cooked poultry. Soup One gill of cream or milk. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One teaspoonful of chopped onion. Salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Method.—Put the oatmeal in a fine strainer and wash it by letting cold water run over it. Boil the stock in a saucepan; when it boils sprinkle in the oatmeal, stirring it all the time. Add the butter and onion. Let the soup boil gently till the oatmeal is cooked, probably it will take about half an hour. Then rub the soup through a hair sieve. Add the chopped poultry and reboil it for a second or two. Add the cream and seasoning and serve the soup in a hot tureen with crohtons or toast dice. Potage k Ingredients— One raw chicken. Two quarts of white stock. One gill of hot milk. One gill of cream. Four tablespoonfuls of fresh white crumbs. One rounded tablespoonful of ground sweet almonds. Three hard-boiled yolks of eggs. la Reine Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. Two slices of raw ham or bacon. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Half a small carrot. One small onion. Salt: pepper : nutmeg.154 THE COMPLETE COOK Two onions. Salt : pepper. Method.—Cut the bacon and vegetables in large dice. Lay these and the herbs in a thickly buttered saucepan. Cut the chicken in joints, wash these in cold water and lay them on the top of the vegetables. Add half the stock, cover the pan, and let the contents simmer for half an hour. Add the rest of the stock and simmer it again till the meat is perfectly tender, probably for about half an hour. Remove all bones and skin, and pound the chicken meat thoroughly with the crumbs, yolks of eggs, and ground almonds. Season this mixture well and moisten it with a little of the stock. Rub this all through a fine sieve. Melt the rest of the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, and mix it in smoothly; mix in the stock gradually and stir it over the fire till it boils. Add the sieved chicken, etc. Let it simmer by the side of the fire for about ten minutes and skim off all grease as it rises. Add the cream and enough milk to make it as thick as rich cream. Season the soup and re-heat it without boiling it again. Serve croutons with it. Note.—This soup can also be prepared without the cream, using more milk. An economical variation may be made by substituting rabbit for chicken. Asmallibunchof thyme: marjoram: one bay leaf. Method.—Wash the meat quickly, dry it, and tie it with tape into a good shape. Put it in a saucepan, add the water and bring it to boiling point. Remove any scum, add a little salt and simmer it for two hours. Add the vegetables. Cut the carrot and turnip into four, if they are large; leave the onions and leeks whole, only trim off most of the green from the latter. Trim and wash the cabbage, cut it in four and tie it up together again with tape. Add also the herbs, peppercorns, and cloves stuck in the onion. Simmer all gently for about one hour or till the meat is tender. When any of the vegetables are suffi- ciently cooked, lift them out of the pan and keep them hot. When everything is cooked, lift out the meat on to a hot dish Pot-au-Feu Ingredients— Three pounds of topside of beef. Two quarts of cold water. One cabbage. Two leeks. One carrot and turnip. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. One tablespoonful of small sago. Ten peppercorns : two cloves. A French roll.155 MEAT, GAME, AND POULTRY SOUPS and remove the tape. Untie the cabbage and serve it in a hot vegetable dish. Arrange some of the other vegetables neatly round the joint, save the rest for the broth. Pour a little of the broth round the meat and it is ready to serve. Pour the rest of the broth into a basin ; when cold remove the fat and reboil it. Sprinkle in the sago and boil the broth till the sago is quite clear. Season it carefully, add the chopped parsley, and vege- tables cut in dice. Cut the roll into thin slices, crisp them in the oven and lay them in a hot tureen. Pour the broth on to them and serve it at once. Note.—This is quite a national dish in France and in other parts of the Continent. Meat, soup, and vegetables are prepared in one pot. The soup and meat need not be served for the same meal, unless it is desired. The meat, instead of being served whole, may be cut into somewhat thick slices, a thick brown piquant sauce poured over them and small heaps of the vegetables arranged round. Scotch Ingredients— Two pounds of middle neck of mutton. Two quarts of cold water. One teacupful of carrot in dice. One teacupful of turnip in dice. One leek. One onion. Half a small white heart of a cabbage. Broth One small cauliflower. One teacupful of shelled green peas. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Two tablespoonfuls of pearl barley. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Salt and pepper. Method.—Wash the meat quickly in tepid water, dry it, remove as much fat as possible and cut it up into one-inch dice. Put these and the bones into a saucepan, with the cold water and a little salt. Bring it to boiling point, add the barley after washing it, and let it boil gently while the vegetables are being prepared. Well wash the leek and cabbage and cut them into fine shreds. Chop the onion finely. Wash and break the cauliflower into large sprigs, use the flower only. Melt the butter in a frying pan, put in the onion, leek, and cabbage ; cook these slowly over the fire till the butter is absorbed by them, but do not brown them. Then add the fried onion, etc., and the remaining vegetables to the broth and continue to boil it gently for two hours. Skim the broth now and then. When sufficiently cooked remove the bones, scraping off any meat on them ; season the broth carefully and add the parsley. Should156 THE COMPLETE COOK the broth seem too thick, add a little boiling water, but it is correct for it to be a thick broth. Note.—A greater or lesser variety of vegetables can be used, and a larger or smaller amount of each according to the thick- ness desired. Rice can be used instead of barley, and takes less time to soften, and lamb instead of mutton. Scrag end of neck of mutton is cheaper than the middle part, but it is so bony that it is not nearly so economical as it first appears. Sheep’s Head Broth Ingredients— One sheep’s head prepared and split. Three quarts of cold water. One carrot, turnip, and onion. Two sticks of celery. Three tablespoonfuls of pearl barley. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of fine oatmeal. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Salt: pepper. Method.—Remove the brains from the head, lay them in cold water, and save them for some savoury or entrde. Wash the head and tongue thoroughly. Cut away all small bones from the nostrils, remove the eyes and any hairy portions. Soak the head and tongue in enough tepid salted water to cover them for one or two hours. Then put the head and tongue in a saucepan, add the three quarts of cold water and a little salt. Bring these to boiling point and skim very thoroughly. Add the vegetables, cut in large pieces, and the washed pearl barley. Simmer the broth for three and a half hours, skimming it now and then. Then lift out the head and tongue, cut the latter into neat dice after skinning it. Cut some of the best parts of the meat off the head into half-inch dice, also some of the vegetables, save these and a little of the barley. Rub as much of the rest of the head meat, barley, and vegetables as possible through a rather coarse wire sieve. Moisten it now and then with some of the broth. Mix this sieved meat, etc., smoothly with the strained broth. Reboil it, add the oatmeal after first mixing it smoothly and thinly with a little cold water. Stir the soup till it boils. Add the barley, dice of meat, and vegetables and seasoning. Let it simmer for ten minutes. Add the parsley and serve with toast. Note.—If more convenient, do not rub the meat, etc., through a sieve, but cut up as much of them as seems desirable, and add it to the broth. Rice can be used instead of pearl barley. Lamb’s instead of sheep’s head.MEAT, GAME, AND POULTRY SOUPS 157 Turkey Ingredients— The remains of a roast turkey. Two quarts of cold stock. A piece of ham bone, or a slice or two of raw or cooked ham or bacon. One onion. Soup One tablespoonful of dripping. Two tablespoonfuls of flour. One tablespoonful of walnut ketchup. A bunch of herbs and parsley. Salt : pepper. Method.—Remove any stuffing from the turkey, as it is often too strongly flavoured to improve the soup. Chop the bones small after taking off as much meat as possible. Put the meat and bones into a saucepan, with the stock, herbs, and ham, add a little salt and boil it steadily for two hours. Keep it well skimmed. Then strain the soup, take out the bones and herbs and rub as much of the meat as possible through a wire sieve. Rinse out the saucepan. Melt the dripping, put in the chopped onion and flour and fry these a good brown; add the soup gradually and stir it till it boils. Put back the sieved turkey meat, add seasoning and the ketchup. Let the soup simmer gently by the side of the fire for ten minutes, skimming off all grease as it rises. Strain the soup into a hot tureen through a rather coarse gravy strainer. Serve with it toast or croutons. Note.—If it is too much trouble to rub the flesh of the bird through the sieve, chop the meat very finely and add it after thickening the soup. Turtle Ingredients— Half a pound of sun-dried turtle. One pound of lean beef. One pound of knuckle of veal. Quarter of a pound of lean ham. Two and a half quarts of stock. Four level tablespoonfuls of flour. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Two sherry glasses of Marsala. Half a glass of brandy. A bunch of parsley, thyme, mar- Soup joram, sweet basil, and one bay leaf. One carrot, turnip, and onion. Two sticks of celery. Four cloves : four allspice. A blade of mace. A dozen peppercorns. Salt and pepper. Half a lemon. Half a teaspoonful of anchovy essence. Method.—Wash the pieces of turtle thoroughly in cold water. Put them in a basin of cold water and let them stand for four days, changing the water each day. Next place the turtle in a saucepan with the stock, veal, beef, and the vegetables washed, prepared, and cut in pieces. Add also the herbs tied together, the anchovy essence and the spice tied up in muslin. Boil all these slowly from eight to nine hours, or until the pieces of158 THE COMPLETE COOK turtle are quite soft, skimming it carefully. Next strain the stock into a basin and cut the turtle into neat fairly large squares. Melt the butter in a clean saucepan, add the ham cut in dice and fry it a light brown, before it is sufficiently coloured shake in the flour and fry that a light brown also. Remove all grease from the turtle stock, then add it to the flour, etc.; stir it over the fire until it boils and thickens. Let it simmer gently for half an hour, removing all scum as it rises. If the colour is not dark enough add a small piece of meat glaze. Add the wine, brandy, salt, and pepper and lemon juice to taste. Add the pieces of turtle and serve in a hot tureen. Note.—This is a much less costly soup than it would be if made from fresh turtle, and it is generally used, except for City banquets and suchlike. FISH SOUPS Lobster Ingredients— One lobster. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Two quarts of fish stock, or milk and water. Half a gill of cream. One glass of sherry. Bisque Two teaspoonfuls of anchovy essence. Half a lemon. Half a carrot. Half a turnip. One shallot. Two sticks of celery. A bunch of parsley and herbs. ■ Salt: cayenne. Method.—Wash the lobster, cut it up, remove the meat, and save that from the claws for the garnish. Slice the vegetables, melt the butter in a stewpan, add the vegetables, the bunch of herbs, the finely pounded lobster shell and flour. Stir these over the fire for five minutes. Add the stock and stir till the soup boils. Put in the rougher pieces of lobster meat finely chopped. Let the soup simmer for half an hour, keep it well skimmed. Strain it through a fine sieve. Rinse out the pan, pour back the soup, add the cream, sherry, anchovy essence, seasoning, and a few drops of strained lemon juice. Re-heat without boiling it. Add the claw meat cut in small dice and serve the soup in a hot tureen. Note.—Wine and cream may be left out. About six large oysters cut in quarters are also sometimes added. For an inexpensive soup use a tin of lobster.FISH SOUPS 159 Oyster Ingredients— Two dozen sauce oysters with their liquor. Two quarts of fish, or white stock. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Half a gill of cream. Bisque Half a gill of hot milk. Two raw yolks of eggs. Half a lemon. A bunch of parsley and one bay leaf. One blade of mace. Ten white peppercorns. Salt: cayenne : nutmeg. Method.—Put the oysters with their liquor in a small pan, heat them gently till the edges curl up and the oysters begin to plump up; then take them off the fire, beard and halve them and strain the liquor. Save this and the beards. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, mix it in and stir it over the fire for two or three minutes, do not let it colour. Add the stock, oyster liquor, and beards, parsley, bay leaf, mace, and peppercorns. Stir all these till the soup boils, and let it boil gently for half an hour. Keep it well skimmed. Then strain the soup through a hair sieve or tammy cloth. Pour it back into the saucepan, reboil it; add the milk and strain in the yolks of eggs beaten up with the cream; let the soup cool a minute or so before adding this liaison, or the eggs will curdle. Re-heat without boiling the soup, add a careful seasoning, a few drops of strained lemon juice and, just before serving, the pieces of oyster. Note.—A plainer soup is made by leaving out the yolks and cream and using a little more flour if it is too thin. Tinned oysters may be used when fresh oysters are unobtainable.160 CHAPTER IX FISH Fish, on account of its abundance, cheapness, and wholesome- ness, is invaluable as an article of food. It is less nutritious and less stimulating than meat, and as it contains little fat, particularly the white varieties, it is easily digested. Fish is usually divided into three classes; 1. White fish, e.g. whiting, sole, turbot, cod, etc. 2. Oily fish, eg. salmon, herrings, eels, etc. 3. Shell fish, e.g. oysters, lobster, crabs, etc. White Fish have the fat or oil in the liver only, resulting in the flesh having a particularly white appearance. This class is the most digestible. Oily Fish have the oil distributed throughout the body, all through the flakes of the flesh. This gives it a dark tint, and the fish is much richer and more nutritious than white fish, but far less digestible. Shell Fish are not digestible, owing to the close texture of their flesh. An exception must be made in the case of oysters, for when raw, they are almost self-digesting and most nutritious. Other varieties are popular and harmless to those with normal digestions, providing that the fish is absolutely fresh. Fresh Water Fish should be cleaned as soon as possible—at the waterside many advise—as they soon acquire a rank, muddy flavour. ShouldFISH i6i they smell at all muddy, soak them for a short while in cold salted water. They must also be cooked immediately. All fish must be perfectly fresh and thoroughly cooked, or it is most indigestible and sometimes very unwholesome. Oily fish is best grilled, baked, or boiled, not fried, as this method makes it even richer. Salting draws out the nutritive parts of fish in the same way as it does with meat, and so salt fish should be used as a relish and not depended upon for nourishment. Oily fish are less injured than white fish by salting. All varieties of fish need an accompaniment of starchy foods, like bread and potatoes; and white fish requires also to be served with a sauce, enriched with butter and milk, or to be cooked with butter, to supply the fat it lacks. To Clean Fish It is well to know how to set about this, even though it is usually done by the fishmonger. Wash the fish first of all in cold salted water to remove slime. If it has scales, remove them next by scraping with a small sharp knife from the tail to the head ; hold the knife flat and slanting as it rests on the fish. Scrape slowly, or the scales will fly over everything, and rinse the knife frequently. Then rewash the fish. Salmon and trout are usually not scaled. Flat fish, such as soles, flounders, etc., are cleaned by slitting open the bag-like cavity just under the gills and scraping it well out, carefully removing all dark skin from inside. Fish, such as haddock, cod, trout, etc., that swim with the dorsal fins uppermost, are slit open underneath, from close under the head, nearly to the tail, and all soft parts scraped out. The liver may be left in. Many leave the sound in also, that is the white, rather leathery part adhering to the backbone, but it is better removed. Be careful to remove all blood from the backbone, and if necessary remove dark skin by rubbing it with a little salt. Mullet, called “ the woodcock of the sea,” is not drawn ; the gills are pulled out, and this removes all that is necessary. Smelts, sprats, and other small fish, served whole, are often treated in a similar manner. Large roes are better removed from the fish and cooked separately, as they require to be so thoroughly cooked that the fish would be overcooked. Small roes can be left in.i63 THE COMPLETE COOK To Skin Fish For haddocks, whiting, and fish of a similar shape, cut a thin narrow strip off down the backbone, taking off the back fins and also those on the underside. Loosen the skin round the head and bony part of the gills, take the skin between the thumb and finger and pull it off towards the tail. Repeat this on the other side as well. Dipping the fingers in salt will pre- vent them from slipping. For soles and other flat fish, except plaice, the skin on each side is raised just by the tail, the little finger pushed in under the skin right along the fins, the raised piece of skin by the tail seized in the thumb and finger and pulled off towards the head. This is repeated on the other side also. In plaice the skin adheres so tightly that it can only be removed by cutting it off gradually with a sharp knife, working from the tail to the head. To Grill Bloaters Ingredients—• Bloaters. Pepper. Butter or dripping. Method.—Trim them neatly, split the fish open and pull out the backbones with the fingers. Heat and grease the gridiron, lay on the fish and grill them before a sharp clear fire for about six to eight minutes. Serve them on a hot dish, rubbing each over with a little butter and adding a dust of pepper. Note.—These can be most successfully cooked by toasting them on a toasting fork or hanging the fish in a Dutch oven. Bloater Fritters Ingredients— Two bloaters. Frying Batter No. 2. Two tablespoonfuls of grated Frying fat. cheese. Pepper. Method.—Split the bloaters open and remove skin, backbone, and as many other bones as possible. Divide each half fish into three or four pieces, according to the size of the fillets. Mix three parts of the cheese with the frying batter. Season the fish with a light dust of pepper, and dip each piece separately into the batter, see it is well coated. Fry the fritters in plenty of fat, so hot that a faint smoke is rising from it, until they are a light brown. Drain them when cookedFISH 163 on paper and shake over the rest of the cheese. Serve the fritters as quickly as possible, as they deteriorate every minute after they leave the fat. Note.—The cheese can be left out if disliked. Pieces of kipper can be used instead of bloaters. Cod’s Head and Shoulders Steamed Ingredients—- A cod’s head and shoulders. Salt. Half a lemon. Half a pint of oyster sauce. Method.—Wash and dry the head, remove the eyes. Rub the fish over inside with a little salt and the cut lemon, about two hours before cooking it. This will improve its flavour. Put the fish into a steamer and cover it over with a piece of greased paper. Steam it steadily for about thirty to forty-five minutes, or until the flesh can be easily separated from the bone. Lift it out carefully on to a hot dish, with a heated fish-napkin under it. Garnish it with cut lemon and serve the sauce in a separate tureen. Cooked in this manner, the fish will lose neither nutriment nor flavour. Note.—If there is not a steamer available, place a large pie dish upside down in a fish kettle, or oval boiler, lay the fish on it, cover it with paper, and pour down by the side of the pie dish enough boiling water to come barely half-way up the dish. It must not touch the fish. Any other fish can be steamed in this manner, and it will be found a far superior method of cooking it to boiling. The time must vary with the thickness and variety of fish. Cod’s Roe with Anchovy Sauce Ingredients— One cod’s roe. Salt : pepper : butter. Half a pint of anchovy sauce. Method.—Wash the roe, if the skin is broken tie it up in a piece of fine muslin. Boil it in salted water for twenty-five minutes. Let it become nearly cold, then peel off the outer skin and cut the roe in thick slices. Butter a fireproof oval dish, lay in the roe. Pour the sauce over and place the dish in the oven till the sauce and fish are thoroughly hot. Send to table in the fireproof dish. Note.—Any other suitable sauce for fish can be used.THE COMPLETE COOK 164 Cod’s Roe, Fried Ingredients— One cod’s roe. Frying fat. One egg. Parsley : lemon. Breadcrumbs : vinegar : salt. Method.—Well wash the roe without breaking the skin if possible. Should the skin break, wrap the roe up in a piece of fine muslin while cooking it. Then place it in a saucepan of slightly salted water, to which add half a tablespoonful of vinegar. Boil the roe gently for twenty-five minutes. Lift it out and lay it in cold water till a little cooled, then press it very lightly between two tins to flatten it slightly. Before the roe is quite cold, remove the plates and carefully peel off the outer skin ; the roe should be quite firm if nearly cold. With a sharp knife cut it into rounds about half an inch thick. Brush these over with beaten egg, cover them with the breadcrumbs, and fry until a golden brown in hot fat. Drain the rounds on paper and arrange them neatly on a hot dish garnished with parsley. Serve with fried parsley and cut lemon. Note.—Tomato sauce makes an excellent accompaniment to this dish. Cod’s Steaks, Fried Ingredients— Three cod’s steaks. Breadcrumbs. One egg. Frying fat. One tablespoonful of oiled butter. Salt : pepper. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped One lemon ; fried parsley. parsley. Method.—Wash and dry the steaks, which should be cut about three-quarters of an inch thick. If the skin of any of the steaks has been cut through for cleaning purposes, fold the flaps of skin over each other neatly and bind round a piece of thread, or skewer the edges together with a fine pointed match to prevent them opening. Sprinkle the steaks with a few drops of lemon juice, and a little salt and pepper. Beat up the egg on a plate, mix it with the parsley and oiled butter. Brush each steak over with this mixture. Cover them with the crumbs, flatten these down smoothly and fry the steaks in hot fat for about ten to twelve minutes. The fat must have a faint smoke rising from it when the fish is first put in; then lessen the heat till the cooking is done, otherwise the exterior will be far too dark, and inside the fish will be165 FISH half raw. If a pan of shallow fat is used, the steaks must be turned, so as to brown both sides. When cooked, drain the fish on paper, remove the thread or skewer if either was used, and serve the steaks neatly arranged on a fish paper on a hot dish. Garnish it with cut lemon and fried parsley. Hand with this dish any suitable fish sauce, such as oyster, shrimp, egg, etc. To Dress Ingredients— One good-sized heavy crab. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of fresh crumbs. About two or three tablespoonfuls of salad oil. a Crab About one or two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Two ounces of butter. Salt : pepper. Method.—If possible choose a crab with large claws. Break off the large and small claws. Lay the crab on its back, pull back the flap under its body, pull it right out and commence to remove the flesh from the shell. Take care that the little bag near the head, usually full of sand, etc., is taken out. Throw away all bone and finny pieces. The flesh is of two kinds, some firm and white, the rest soft and dark. Separate the former into little shreds with a fork or skewer, also the white meat from the claws, which must be cracked in order to obtain it. Mix the dark soft substance with the crumbs, add oil, vinegar, and seasoning to taste. Toss the shredded white meat also in a little seasoning, but keep the two kinds separate. When the shell is empty wash and dry it well. Chip off the under portion of the shell within about an eighth of an inch of the edge: there will be found a faint line round, which is a guide where to chip. Fill the shell with the two mixtures, arranging them alternately, so that they appear in dark and white stripes. Have it heaped a little higher in the centre. Decorate the meat with lines of finely chopped parsley, and force a little butter round the edge with a forcing bag and pipe. Place the crab on a lace paper, or on a bed of fresh salad. Arrange some of the small claws in a circle round the shell. Note.—For a more elaborate decoration, use coral and green butters, instead of parsley and plain butter. For a simpler garnish use parsley and chopped white of egg and powdered ^olk, instead of forced butter.166 THE COMPLETE COOK Stewed Ingredients— About two pounds of eels. Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One onion. A bunch of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. One bay leaf. A small blade of mace. Eels Four peppercorns. One pint of good stock. One glass of claret or port wine. One tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Salt: pepper. Method.—Cut ofif the heads of the eels and skin them. To do this, cut the skin all round the head, so as to have a piece to pull at. Dip the fingers in salt and pull off the skin in one long piece as if pulling a glove backwards off the hand. It is more convenient to hang the eel up by its head on a strong hook. Clean and wash the eels very carefully and cut them in pieces about two inches long. Put these in a pan with boiling water and boil from three to five minutes, then drain off the water and dry the pieces of eel slightly. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the chopped onion, herbs, spice, and the pieces of eel and fry these for ten minutes, keeping them well turned. Shake in the flour, add the stock, and stir over the fire till it boils, add the ketchup and let it simmer from half to three-quarters of an hour or till the eel is quite tender. Keep it well skimmed. Arrange the pieces of eel on a hot dish, add the wine and seasoning to the sauce, and strain it over the fish. Sprinkle over the chopped parsley and garnish the dish with toast or fried bread. To Boil Fish Boiling is the most insipid and wasteful method of cooking fish. It is far superior if steamed. If boiled, the flavour of the fish is greatly improved if the water to be used is boiled for ten minutes previous to laying in the fish, with half an onion, a small bunch of parsley, tied with a sprig of thyme, marjoram, and one bay leak Add to it also six peppercorns, three cloves, half a teacup of vinegar, and a tablespoonful of salt. These quantities are sufficient for two quarts of water. Wash, trim, and tie the fish in shape. Place it on the strainer in the fish kettle ; or a small fish may be tied in a piece of muslin, or laid on a plate and the plate tied in a cloth. It is then easier to raise the fish from the water without breaking it. To boil nicely, a piece of fish should be of a uniform thickness. Put the fish into warm water, not into boiling or cold, the former causesFISH 167 the skin to break, the latter draws out the flavour. Let the fish simmer gently till cooked and keep it well skimmed. The time depends on the thickness and kind of fish,—if it is thin, about six minutes to the pound ; eight to ten minutes if it is a thick piece. When cooked the skin begins to crack and some of the larger bones can be easily detached from the flesh. Lift it carefully from the water, drain it well, keeping it covered with a hot clean cloth meantime, and serve it on a heated folded fish-napkin with some good fish sauce accompanying it in a hot sauce tureen. Note.—Unflavoured water with salt and a little lemon juice may be used, but the fish will be less well flavoured. Boiled Salt Fish Ingredien ts— Three pounds of salt fish, or a Milk and water to cover it. small codling. Method.—Well wash the fish. Soak it overnight in cold water with the skin side uppermost. Then rinse it and lay it in tepid milk and water mixed in equal parts. Bring it to boiling point, skim it well, and draw the pan to the side of the fire and let it simmer very gently till cooked; allow about twenty-five minutes or till the flesh easily leaves the bones. If it boils, it will be tough and stringy. Lift it out, drain it well, serve it on a heated fish-napkin, and hand with it boiled parsnips, potatoes, and egg sauce, or it may be coated with the sauce, or flaked and mixed with the sauce and heaped in a hot dish. To Coat Fish, Cutlets, etc., for Frying without Eggs Mix about four level tablespoonfuls of flour, more or less according to the amount of food to be coated, with enough cold water to make a smooth batter as thick as fairly good cream. Brush the fish over with this instead of beaten egg, then cover it as usual with breadcrumbs and fry in the ordinary way. This is an excellent method when eggs cannot be obtained, as is often the case in some parts of the Colonies, or in the country during winter. American Salt Fish Balls Ingredients— One breakfastcupful of raw salt fish. One teaspoonful of butter. One pound of raw potatoes. Pepper : salt if needed. One raw egg. Frying fat. Method.—Wash the fish, pull it with two forks into half-inch168 THE COMPLETE COOK pieces. If it is likely to be very salt, do this in water, that will remove enough of it without soaking it. Peel and quarter the potatoes. Put the fish and potatoes into a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover them. Boil the two gently till the potatoes are soft. Drain off the water, stand the pan un- covered by the side of the fire for a few minutes to dry the potatoes. Then mash and beat the fish and potatoes till they are very light. Add the butter and seasoning. Beat and mix the egg well in. Shape the mixture in a tablespoon without smoothing the rounded top too much, scoop it out with a second spoon (see Illustration of Quenelles'), and lay about five at a time in a frying basket. Place the latter in a pan of smoking hot fat and fry them a light brown. Or, the shapes may be scooped out and slipped at once into the fat without using a basket. Drain the balls on paper and serve as quickly as possible. Fish Cakes Ingredients— Half a pound of cooked fish. Four well rounded tablespoonfuls of cooked potatoes. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One hard-boiled egg. Two raw eggs. Salt: pepper. Breadcrumbs and frying fat. Method.—Remove all bone and skin from the fish, do this if possible while it is still warm, as it will take far less time. Break it up with a fork into small pieces. Rub the potatoes through a wire sieve, or potato masher. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the potato, heat it, and beat it well to lighten it. Add the fish, the egg cut in small dice, seasoning, and the yolk of one raw egg. Heat the mixture thoroughly to bind it with the egg. If it seems crumbly, add a little milk. When hot spread it evenly on a plate and mark it out in equal divisions. Leave the mixture till cold. Shape each division into round balls, then flatten them lightly into round cakes about half an inch thick. Beat up the remaining raw egg on a plate. Brush the cakes over with it, then cover them with the crumbs. Flatten these in order to make the surface even, and fry a few cakes at a time in smoking fat, until a golden brown. Drain them on paper. Arrange them neatly on a lace paper on a hot dish. Garnish if possible with fried parsley. Note.—Any kind of fresh or salted fish can be used for this dish, or a mixture of fish scraps. Should there be any fish sauce left over, it should be used instead of the butter and raw yolk. A little chopped parsley is often used instead of the hard-boiledFISH 169 egg. If more convenient use equal parts of fish and potato or even more of the latter. A Fish Cake higredients— The same as for fish cakes, only use one tablespdonful more butter, and only one raw egg, and no breadcrumbs or frying fat. Method.—Prepare the mixture as for fish cakes. But instead of shaping it into cakes, thickly butter either an enamelled tin plate, or fireproof dish. Press the mixture into it; smooth the top and score it with a fork. Put the tin plate on the top of the stove, or in a quick oven, and cook the cake till it is well browned underneath ; then if the top is not coloured enough, turn the cake over on to another plate and then slip it back again on to the hot one, this time with the pale side downwards. Serve it in the fireproof dish, but if a tin plate was used, slip the cake on to a clean hot dish to serve it. This is an excellent method for a busy household, as it saves the shaping, crumbing, etc. The mixture may be cooked in the plate or a frying pan entirely over the fire,—this is handy if there is no oven. Creamed Fish in Potato Border Ingredients— About one and a half breakfast- cupfuls of any cooked fish free from skin and bone. One large tablespoonful of butter. Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. About half a pint of milk or fish stock. Method.—Break the fish into large flakes. Melt the butter, add the flour smoothly, and pour in the milk or stock and stir over the fire till the sauce boils well. Then add the fish, hard- boiled egg cut in dice, and a careful seasoning of salt and pepper and strained lemon juice. Let all these heat thoroughly through. Make the potatoes very hot and arrange them as a border on a hot dish, patting it into a symmetrical form and then marking it prettily with a fork or knife. Heap the hot fish mixture neatly in the centre and serve immediately. Variation.—Should there be any unsweetened sauce, either white or brown, be sure and use it instead of making fresh. A border of well-boiled rice, macaroni, haricot beans, spinach, or merely sippets of toast, or fried bread, can be used instead of potato. Salted or smoked fish is delicious cooked as above. One hard-boiled egg. One teaspoonful of lemon juice. Salt: pepper. One and a half breakfastcupfuls of mashed potatoes.THE COMPLETE COOK 170 The addition of about one tablespoonful of grated cheese to the sauce is thought excellent by many, or that amount of cheese and the same of fresh breadcrumbs may be shaken over the surface of the fish, after which the dish must be placed in the oven till the cheese browns nicely, unless a salamander is used. Fish Cutlets Ingredients— One level breakfastcupful of cooked chopped fish. Two hard-boiled eggs. One raw egg. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. One teacupful of fish stock. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. One teaspoonful of anchovy essence. Seasoning : a slice of onion. Breadcrumbs : frying fat. Method.—Put all the fish bones and trimmings into a saucepan with enough cold water to cover them. Add a sprig or two of parsley, one slice of onion, and a little salt. Boil these gently for twenty minutes, then strain off this fish stock. See that all skin and bones are removed from the fish,—this is most easily done when it is still hot. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour smoothly, add the hot fish stock gradually, stirring all the time. Then boil this “ panada ” till it leaves the sides of the pan without sticking to them. Mix in the fish, chopped hard-boiled eggs, parsley, anchovy essence, and season- ing. Turn the mixture on to a plate to cool a little. Then flour the hands and shape the mixture into even-sized cutlets, resembling lobster cutlets. Roll these in the crumbs, then brush them over with beaten egg and again cover them with crumbs. Flatten these down so as to give a smooth surface, and fry a few cutlets at a time in plenty of smoking hot fat. When cooked drain them on paper, and insert a short piece of parsley stalk in the pointed end of each. Serve them on a hot dish with a lace paper under them, and a garnish of cut lemon and fried parsley. Note.—Any kind of cooked fish can be used for these, and if there is any suitable thick sauce left over, use it instead of making fresh. Fish Pie Ingredients— One heaped breakfastcupful of any kind of cooked fish. Two heaped breakfastcupfuls of mashed potatoes. Two tablespoonfuls of butter. Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. One or two hard-boiled eggs. One pint of milk or fish stock. .Salt and pepper.Method.—Rub the potatoes through a sieve. Melt half the butter in a saucepan, add the potatoes, a tablespoonful of the milk, and salt and pepper to taste, mix all well together. Remove all skin and bone from the fish, chop it coarsely and put it in a pie dish. Melt the rest of the butter, stir in the flour smoothly, and add the stock or milk ; the latter should have been boiled for ten minutes with the fish bones and trimmings. Stir this sauce over the fire till it boils and thickens, then add the egg chopped in large pieces and salt and pepper. Add enough sauce to the fish to well moisten it, cover the dish with the potato, smooth it evenly over the top, then mark it prettily with a fork. Put a few small bits of butter here and there on it, and bake in a moderate oven till a light brown. Note.—Dripping may be used instead of butter. Should there be any kind of fish sauce over from a meal, it must be used instead of making fresh. If instead of potato, this pie is covered with cooked macaroni and slices of tomato on the top of this, and baked till the tomato is cooked, it will be found excellent. Potted Fish Ingredients— Six fresh herrings. One bay leaf. Three thin slices of Spanish onion. Four allspice. Half a pint of vinegar. One tablespoonful of seasoned One gill of water. flour. Ten peppercorns. Method.—Wash the herrings, remove the heads and tails; split them open down the backs and take out the large bones. Roll up each fillet with the skin side turned inwards, and roll each in seasoned flour. Pack these rolls tightly in a stone jar or dish; unless they can be tightly packed, each coil must be tied with a piece of thread, as they will unroll. Add the spices, bay leaf, rings of onion, and pour over the vinegar and water. Tie a thick piece of brown paper over the dish and then put on a cover, as it is necessary, as much as possible, to prevent evaporation of the vinegar. There must be enough vinegar to cover the fish. Bake it in a very moderate oven for four or five hours. Then arrange the fish in a clean dish and strain over the vinegar. The slow cooking in the acid will quite dissolve the bones. Note.—Mackerel are excellent cooked in this fashion. If required to keep some considerable time, leave out the flour.THE COMPLETE COOK 172 but it is a great improvement if only needed to last a week or ten days. If liked very acid, use all vinegar. Fish Stewed in Milk Ingredients— One fresh haddock, about one pound weight. Half a pint of milk. One gill of water. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. Method.—Wash, dry, and fillet the fish. Put the bones into a saucepan with the milk, water, vegetables, mace, and herbs. Let this stock simmer gently for fifteen minutes, then strain it. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour smoothly, cook it without browning it for five minutes. Add the stock gradually and stir it over the fire till it boils. Season this sauce and lay in the fish cut in neat lengths. Let it simmer very gently from ten to twenty minutes according to the thickness of the fillets. Then lift them on to a hot dish, add the strained lemon juice and parsley to the sauce and pour it smoothly over the fish. Serve it with cut lemon and boiled potatoes. Note.—Any white fish may be cooked in this manner. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Half a lemon. Half a small onion and carrot. A small bunch of herbs. A small blade of mace. Salt and pepper. Fish Scollops Ingredients— A breakfastcupful of any cooked fish. * One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. One gill of milk or fish stock. One teaspoonful of anchovy essence. Salt: pepper: a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Browned crumbs. Method.—Butter some natural, or china scollop shells, dust them over inside with some of the browned crumbs. Break the fish into small pieces, removing all skin and bones. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the milk, and stir this sauce till it boils. Season it with salt, pepper, anchovy essence, and the lemon juice. Add the fish, mixing it lightly. Fill the shells with the mixture, heaping it up in the centre. Cover the surface of each with crumbs and add a few small bits of butter here and there. Bake in a quick oven till hot, and173 FISH serve them in the shells on a fish-napkin or lace paper. A slice of cut lemon may be laid on each. Note.—All sorts of fish are suitable for this; oysters, shrimps, prawns, and lobsters are excellent. If there is any suitable sauce left over, use it instead of making fresh. Baked Fish Souffle Ingredients— One breakfastcupful of any cooked chopped fish. One teacupful of cooked potato. Two raw eggs. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Two tablespoonfuls of milk or cream. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Salt: pepper. Method—Butter a deep au gratin, souffle, or pie dish. Melt the butter, add the mashed potatoes, and beat them together till hot and light. Add the prepared fish, parsley, milk, yolks of eggs, seasoning, and lastly lightly mix in the whites of eggs beaten to a very stiff froth. Turn the mixture into the dish and bake it in a quick oven till well browned and puffed up. Serve it at once in the dish in which it was cooked. Dried Haddock, Grilled Ingredients— One dried Finnan haddock. Pepper. One level tablespoonful of butter. Method.—Trim off the ends of the fins and tail. Well wash the fish in warm water and dry it. Heat and grease the gridiron. Brush the fish over with the butter, warmed until it is slightly oiled. Fasten it in the gridiron and turn the yellow side to the clear brisk fire. Grill it quickly till lightly tinged with brown and well puffed out. It will take about ten to fifteen minutes, according to its thickness. Turn it once and grill the other side. Then lay it on a hot dish, rub it over with a little butter, add a dust of pepper, and serve immediately. Dried Haddock, Baked Proceed as for Grilled Haddock, but lay it on a greased baking tin in a quick oven and bake it till cooked. It may, if necessary, be held in front of the fire for a minute, just to colour it a little.174 THE COMPLETE COOK Baked and Stuffed Haddock Ingredients— One haddock, about two pounds weight. Two heaped tablespoonfuls of fresh crumbs. Two level tablespoonfuls of chopped suet. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. One teaspoonful of dried powdered herbs. One egg. Half a teacupful of milk. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of dripping. A teacupful of browned crumbs. Salt and pepper. Two slices of fat cooked, or raw bacon. Half a pint of anchovy sauce. Method.—Wash, dry, and trim the fins and tail neatly. Remove the eyes. To make the Stuffing: Mix the crumbs, suet, parsley, herbs, and seasoning with enough milk to prevent it crumbling. Press this into the cavity made for cleaning the fish. Skewer or sew the edges together to keep this stuffing in. Then either truss the fish into the shape of the letter S, by running a threaded trussing needle through the body at the tail, back again through the middle of the body and out the other side again through the eye sockets, then draw the string up tight enough to get the desired shape and knot it. Or, a more simple method is to push the tail right through the eye sockets, ramming it well in, then it will stick securely. Next rub it over with a little flour to dry the surface. Brush the fish all over with beaten egg and cover it with the browned crumbs, flattening these down gently. Lay the slices of bacon on the baking tin, put the fish on these, as they will prevent it sticking to the tin. Put the dripping into the tin and bake the fish in a moderately hot oven for fifteen to twenty minutes, ac- cording to its thickness. Baste it frequently. When cooked, pull out the skewers and string or thread. Lift the fish on to a hot dish, and pour round it some anchovy sauce. Note.—Other stuffing can be used, such as oyster stuffing. Tomato or piquante sauce can be used instead of anchovy. Gurnets, small codlings and unskinned whitings may be cooked by this recipe. To Fillet Haddock, Whiting, Mackerel, etc. Wash and dry the fish. Trim off the tail and fin bones. Cut off the head. Take a sharp pointed knife and make a deep cut from the head to the tail along the ridge of the back fins. Make a similar cut from head to tail on the other side also. Gradually work off the flesh from the bones, cuttingFISH 175 partly from head to tail, partly from side to side. Fish of this shape are less easy to do than flat fish. When one side is bare, remove the second fillet. There will only be two fillets off these round fish. Then smooth down the flakes and divide each into pieces and cook as desired. Smoked Haddock Fritters Ingredients— One dried haddock. Frying fat. Frying Batter No. 2. Fried parsley. Method.—Place the haddock in a basin, pour on to it enough quite boiling water to cover it. Leave it for two or three minutes, then lift it out, dry it, and peel off the under black skin. Remove the flesh in pieces about an inch and a half square, so that the fish is in large flakes. Dip these in the batter and fry as directed for oyster fritters. Haddock Rarebit Ingredients— One fresh haddock. One raw egg. Four tablespoonfuls of grated One teaspoonful of made mustard. cheese. Salt and cayenne. Two tablespoonfuls of milk. Method.—Wash the fish, dry, and fillet it. Cut each fillet in half. Lay the slices in a greased fireproof au gratin dish. Mix the cheese with the beaten egg, seasoning, milk, and mustard. Spread this mixture on the top of each slice, and put the dish in a very hot oven to cook until the cheese melts and browns and the fish is firm. Serve it in the dish in which it was cooked. Note.—Cod or other white fish, either filleted or cut in steaks, could be cooked in a similar manner. Halibut a la Conant Ingredien ts— Two pounds of halibut. Six thin slices of fat bacon. Three thin slices of Spanish onion. Flalf a bay leaf. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. Two tablespoonfuls of browned crumbs. Half a lemon.. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Seasoning. Lay four slices of bacon and Method.—Wash and dry the fish, in a deep baking tin ; on these put the slices of onion1/6 THE COMPLETE COOK bay leaf. On the top of these lay the fish. Warm the butter, mix it with the flour and a little seasoning. Spread this on the top of the fish, then scatter over it a light dust of browned crumbs. Cut the rest of the bacon into thin shreds and place them about on the top of the crumbs. Bake the fish in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes, or till a knife can be easily pushed in along the bone of the fish. Lift it lout carefully on to a hot dish, leaving the onion and under slices of bacon behind. Garnish the fish with cut lemon round the dish and crossway lines of chopped parsley on the fish. Note.—Cod, hake, etc., can also be cooked in this fashion. Halibut k la Joinville Ingredients— Two pounds of halibut. Two tablespoonfuls of grated One pint of white sauce. Parmesan cheese. One rounded tablespoonful of One glass of sherry. butter. Salt: pepper. One tablespoonful of browned breadcrumbs. Method.—Wash, dry, and fillet the halibut; cut each fillet in pieces sufficient for one portion. Be careful to remove all skin and bones. Thickly butter a saute pan or baking tin, lay in the fillets and sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and pour the wine over them. Cover the fish with a piece of buttered paper and cook it for about ten to twelve minutes in a quick oven. Vary the time with the thickness of the fish. When cooked, lift the pieces of fish on to a deep fireproof dish. Heat the white sauce with half the cheese, season it, and pour it over the fish. Mix the browned crumbs with the rest of the cheese and sprinkle it over the top of the sauce. Brown the cheese by placing the dish in a hot oven, or with a salamander. Note.—Any filleted fish could be used for this recipe. The wine may be replaced by a little stock if liked. Kedgeree htgredients— Onebreakfastcupful of cooked fish. Four level tablespoonfuls of rice. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Two hard-boiled eggs. One breakfastcupful of stock or milk. Salt: cayenne. Method.—Boil the rice in plenty of fast boiling salted water for ten minutes. Then drain off" the water and finish cooking..cr'/, ;v;,^.‘^ . > M , toi'.rJfet*;’ ■ ^T, ‘f 'A ■-V .■.?,‘T'^^'.. .IF- ,M.^ w ■wi^i ■' i ■i rt ■n s L*?: JFILLETING A PLAICEFISH 177 the rice in the milk or stock till quite soft Remove all skin and bone from the fish; break it up into large flakes. Shell and chop one egg in dice. Chop the white of the second one and rub the yolk through a sieve or strainer. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the rice and cook it in the butter for five minutes. Add the fish, the eggs, except the powdered yolk, and season the mixture carefully. Make it very hot over the fire and serve it heaped up in pyramid form on a hot dish. Sprinkle the powdered yolk over the top. Note.—Any fish, fresh, salted, or shell fish, may be used. If there is any cooked rice left over, use it instead of boiling fresh. Lobster Croquettes Proceed as for Oyster Croquettes, substituting a lightly filled breakfastcupful of finely chopped lobster meat for the oysters and fish stock, or water for the oyster liquor. Serve with lobster, anchovy or shrimp sauce. Prawn or Shrimp Croquettes Follow the directions for Lobster Croquettes, using the different kinds of shell fish. Fish Croquettes Proceed as for Lobster Croquettes, using the same amount of any kind of coarsely chopped cooked fish, instead of lobster. Add also two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley for this variety. Lobster Cutlets {Illustrated) Ingredients— One medium-sized lobster. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Three level tablespoonfuls of flour. One teacup of water. One raw egg. One tablespoonful of cream. A saltspoonful of made mustard. Salt: cayenne. Breadcrumbs : frying fat. Method.—Remove all flesh from the lobster and chop it coarsely. Save the feelers and any lobster coral should there be any. Wash the coral, dry it in a slow oven, pound with it two extra teaspoonfuls of butter, and rub the scarlet mixture through a hair sieve. This is Coral Butter. Melt the table- spoonful of butter in a stewpan, mix in the flour and stir these two over the fire for a few minutes; do not let them brown. Add the water and stir till the mixture boils. Put in the coral 12178 THE COMPLETE COOK butter, mustard, cream, and lobster. Mix well and season it carefully. Spread the mixture on a plate; when cool shape it into even-sized cutlets. Dip each in breadcrumbs, then in the beaten egg and again in the crumbs. Fry the cutlets a golden brown in fat, so hot that a faint smoke is rising from it. Drain the cutlets on paper, insert a small piece of lobster feeler in the pointed end of each, and arrange them on a hot dish garnished with fried parsley. Note.—The cream can be left out if more convenient. Frequently there is no coral with the fish, in that case a drop of cochineal may be added if it is necessary to heighten the colour of the mixture. Lobster Fritters Proceed as for Oyster Fritters. Cut the flesh of the lobster into convenient sized pieces. Lobster Newberg Ing7'edien ts— One small lobster. Half a pint of milk or cream. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of Two tablespoonfuls of sherry. butter. Salt: cayenne. Two eggs. Toast. Method.—Remove the meat from the lobster and cut it into half-inch pieces. Beat the eggs with the milk. Put the butter in a pan and heat it, add the lobster and sherry and let them cook for five minutes. Then pour in the egg and milk mixture, stirring it well all the time. Cook the eggs slowly till they are of a soft creamy consistency, but on no account let the mixture boil, or the eggs will curdle. Season it carefully and serve it on a hot dish with sippets of dry toast. Note.—Leave out the wine if preferred, and use the same quantity of any bottled sauce. Grilled Red Mullet Ingi'edients— Four small red mullet. Salt: pepper. Three tablespoonfuls of salad oil. Maitre d’Hotel butter. Half a lemon. Fried parsley. Method.—Wipe the fish carefully, but do not clean it. Score each side across three times with the knife. Lay the fish in the oil, lemon juice and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Turn the fish over once or twice and leave them to marinade for half an hour. Heat and grease the gridiron, see the fire is clear179 FISH and sharp. Lay on the mullet and grill them over, or in front, for about ten minutes, turning them frequently. When cooked lay them on a hot dish, put one or two pats of the Maitre d’Hotel butter on the top of each fish. Garnish them with a little fried parsley and serve them immediately. Note.—Grey mullet may be cooked in this fashion, but they are thought less highly of. To Serve Raw Oysters Have the oysters opened; examine each carefully; remove any splinters of shell, etc. Dust them lightly with salt and pepper and lay them in the refrigerator or on ice for about half an hour. Serve them on fancy oyster plates or on the flat shells; if the latter method is adopted, lay a lace paper or folded linen doyley on the plate under the shells. Serve separately with them quarters of lemon, thin brown bread and butter, and cayenne. Oysters in Aspic Ingredients— One dozen oysters in the deep A small piece of truffle, or shells. A few sprigs of chervil. About half a pint of aspic jelly. Brown bread and butter. One or two pickled chillies. Cayenne. Method.—Note that the shells of the oysters are washed clean and the flsh themselves free from grit or fragments of shells. Beard them. Lay an oyster in each shell, or two if they are very small. Pour in about a teaspoonful of slightly warmed aspic jelly and let it set. Then arrange round the oyster a light decoration of a strip or so of chilli and a tiny shape of truffle, or else a feathery sprig of chervil. Set these with a drop or two more of jelly, but not enough to float them out of place. When firmly set, add enough jelly to just cover the oysters. Leave till cold. Serve two or three shells to each guest, placing the shells on a doyley on plates. Hand with them rolled bread and butter and cayenne. Creighton Ingredients— Two dozen oysters in their liquor. Two level tablespoonfuls of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. One tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Oysters One tablespoonful of Worcester sauce. One teaspoonful of lemon juice. Half a teacupful of milk or stock. Buttered toast. Salt: cayenne.i8o THE COMPLETE COOK Method.—Save the liquor from the oysters and beard them. Melt the butter in the chafing dish or stewpan, stir in the flour smoothly. Add the milk or stock, the oyster liquor, ketchup, and sauce and stir over the fire until it boils. Add the lemon juice, oysters, and heat for about five minutes without boiling. Add a seasoning of salt and cayenne and serve the mixture on rounds of hot buttered toast. Variations.—Any fish sauce left over can be used instead of making fresh. Fried bread, or hot buttered plain biscuits, can be used instead of toast. Oyster Croquettes higredients— Two dozen sauce oysters and their liquor. Four level tablespoonfuls of flour. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One gill of milk and oyster liquor. Two tablespoonfuls of cream. Two raw yolks of eggs. Half a lemon. Salt: cayenne. Egg : breadcrumbs : frying fat. Fried parsley. Method.—Beard the oysters and simmer the beards with the milk and oyster liquor. Quarter the oysters and see that they are free from bits of shell. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour and stir it in smoothly. Strain in gradually the milk and oyster liquor and stir this sauce till it boils. Add the two beaten yolks of the eggs and cook the mixture again for a few minutes. Add the oysters, cream, strained lemon juice, and seasoning. Spread this mixture on a plate to cool. Then form it lightly into neat balls, or cylinder shapes. Roll these in crumbs, then brush them over with beaten egg and crumb them again. Fry them a golden brown in smoking hot fat, drain them on paper and serve piled upon a hot dish. Garnish them with fried parsley. Oyster sauce may accompany them. Note.—If preferred use one whole egg instead of the two yolks and omit the cream, substituting milk, to make this recipe less expensive. Oysters 4 la Demerara Ingredients— Two dozen oysters. One tablespoonful of any thick Two level tablespoonfuls of butter. bottled sauce. One tablespoonful of mango Thin round of hot buttered toast, chutney. Method.—Beard the oysters, be careful that no splinters of shell are left. Lay them in a stewpan and heat them till theyi8i FISH plump up. Pour off any liquid from them, add the butter, chutney, and sauce and heat the mixture thoroughly. ^ Have the toast hot and ready and serve the oyster mixture in neat heaps on it. Fried Oysters, Egged and Crumbed Ingredients— Oysters. Lard for frying. One egg. Lemon : seasoning. Breadcrumbs. Parsley. Method.—Beard the oysters, carefully remove any bits of shell. Dust them with a little salt and pepper and let them stand for twenty minutes. Mix the crumbs with a little salt and pepper, roll the oysters in them till well covered with crumbs. Then dip them in beaten egg and again roll in the crumbs. Very lightly shake off any loose crumbs and fry the oysters for about one minute in lard heated till a bluish smoke can be seen rising from it. Drain the oysters on paper. Serve heaped up on a hot dish with a paper doyley under them. Garnish with fried parsley. Hand with them cut lemon, cayenne, and thin rolled brown bread and butter. Variations.—To make a more elaborate dish, roll large oysters in crumbs, then dip them in thick Mayonnaise dressing. Next roll in crumbs and fry at once. Fried Scollops.—These must first be stewed, till they can be easily pierced with a fine skewer, in either milk or fish stock. Then drain them well on a soft cloth and fry as directed for oysters. Oyster higredients— One dozen oysters. Six very thin slices of streaky bacon. Fritter Batter No. 2. Method.—Beard the oysters and see they are free from shell. Sprinkle each with a grain or two of cayenne and a few drops of lemon juice. Flatten out the slices of bacon very thinly with a knife and cut each across in halves. Roll each oyster neatly up in one of these pieces. Have ready a deep pan of clean fat, so hot that a very faint smoke is rising from it. Dip each oyster separately into the fritter batter and lay it gently in the hot fat, frying only a few at a time. Fry them a light brown colour, lift them out of the fat, drain them on soft paper. Fritters Frying fat. Parsley : cayenne. Half a lemon.i82 THE COMPLETE COOK and serve as quickly as possible, heaped up on a hot dish. Garnish the fritters with fried parsley and cut lemon. Cayenne and thin brown bread and butter should be handed with this dish. Note.—For a somewhat plainer dish leave out the bacon and dip the oysters direct into the batter. Oysters on Ice Prepare for each guest a small porridge, or soup plate, full of finely chopped ice. Allow four or six oysters for each plate and the same number of small thin slices of lemon. Lay the latter at intervals on the ice in the plates and place an oyster on each slice. Garnish with a few very finely cut shreds of tarragon leaves. Serve with thin brown bread and butter and cayenne. Panned Oysters Ingredients— Two dozen oysters. Two level tablespoonfuls of butter. One heaped tablespoon ful of finely chopped celery. Method.—Melt the butter in a stewpan or chafing dish. Add the celery and stew it gently in the butter for ten minutes without browning it. Pour in the cream and lemon juice. Heat thoroughly. Add the oysters previously bearded. Season all carefully, re-heat without boiling for five minutes and serve the mixture in china, or plated ^ramekin cases. Hand with them thin rolled brown bread and butter or sippets of hot dry toast. Variations.— The same mixture may be served on hot toast instead of in cases. Mushrooms used instead of celery. White sauce instead of cream. Oyster Ingredients— T wo dozen oysters and their liquor. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. About three-quarters of a pint of milk or fish stock. Method.—Roll out the pastry to the thickness of half an inch and stamp it into rounds the size of a wineglass with a plain Patties Half a lemon. One yolk of egg. Salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Half a pound of Pufif Pastry. with Celery Two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice. One gill of thick cream. Salt: cayenne.183 FISH cutter. Mark a ring in the centre with a cutter three sizes smaller, and with the same cutter stamp out some extra rounds for lids. Bake the cases and lids in a very quick oven until they are a pale brown, then remove the marked round carefully, put them on one side and hollow out the cases carefully. Put the oysters with their liquor in a saucepan and bring them almost to boiling point, or until they puff up slightly. Strain off the liquor and save it. Beard the oysters and cut each in three. Put the beards in a pan with the milk and let them simmer gently for ten minutes. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the oyster liquor and enough of the milk or fish stock to make it three-quarters of a pint. Stir this till it boils, add the lemon juice and salt and pepper to taste. When it is slightly cooled, add the beaten yolk of egg and the oysters. Stir them over the fire for a minute or so to cook the egg. Fill in the cases with the mixture, heaping it up slightly, and place the little lids of pastry on the top. Serve these hot or cold. Note.—If liked two tablespoonfuls of cream may be used and the yolk of egg omitted. Prepare these as for Oyster Patties, using a lightly filled breakfastcup of coarsely chopped lobster meat instead of oysters, and also about two teaspoonfuls of anchovy essence. There is no other way of cooking the oyster in which the natural flavour is so fully developed. Wash and scrub the unopened shells. Place them on a baking tin with the rounded side of the shells downwards, this holds the juice. Place the tin in a hot oven, or on the top of a hot stove, or the shells may be fixed on a gridiron over a sharp fire for ten to twenty minutes. When the shells open wide, the oysters are cooked sufficiently. Remove the upper shell, season the oysters with a little salt, cayenne, vinegar, or lemon juice, and a scrap of butter, and serve at once in the lower shells. Lobster Patties Oysters Cooked in the Shells Smothered Oysters Ingredients— Two dozen oysters and their liquor. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Half a level teaspoonful of salt. A few drops of lemon juice. A dust of white pepper.184 THE COMPLETE COOK Method.—Melt the butter in a small stewpan. When it is hot add the bearded oysters and the strained liquor and the other ingredients. Cover the pan tightly, place it on a low fire, and shake it occasionally to keep the oysters from sticking. Cook them for two or three minutes or until they look plump instead of flat. Then serve them on neat rounds of toast, pour- ing some of the juice from the pan on to each toast. Fried Filleted Plaice, Soles, Flounders, etc. {Illustrated') higredients— One plaice. One teaspoonful of salt. One egg. Half a teaspoonful of pepper. White breadcrumbs. Frying fat. One tablespoonful of flour. Method— To Fillet the Plaice.—Wash and dry the fish. Lay it flat on the board, white side downwards; tail towards you. Cut round the head bone and across the tail with a sharp pointed knife. Next cut round the edge of the fins, where the thick flesh ends in the fin bones (see Illustration). Repeat these cuts on the white side also. Then turn it over so as to have the black skin uppermost. Make a cut along the backbone on each side of the fish, a faint line on the skin indicates its direction. Cut down until the bone is felt. Then the actual filleting com- mences ; begin by taking off the fillet on the left side of the fish. Hold the knife very flat, put the tip of the left first finger and the point of the knife into the backbone cut; pull back the flesh with the left hand and cut the flesh off the bones with the knife. Make long smooth strokes with the knife, always cutting towards you only, not pushing the knife up. Let the knife feel the bone all the time, thus it will be left clean and bare and the fillet will be free from jagged cuts. Continue to pull back the flesh and cut it free until the first fillet is right off. Then lay it on a paper on a tin by your side. Turn the fish, so as to have the second fillet also on the left hand, and proceed as for the first. When that is done the upper half of the fish has the bone quite exposed, so turn the fish right over and remove in the same way the two under fillets, bearing in mind that the piece being filleted must always be on the left hand. There should be four fillets in all. If the filleting has been well done the skeleton will be complete, with no gaps in the fin bones round. Should any spaces be noticed in the skeleton, where bones have been raised by the knife, feelFISH 185 over the fillets and probably the lower bones will be on the flesh and should be removed. The bones and trimmings should be used for fish stock for sauces, etc. Cut each fillet in two or three pieces, according to their size ; make the cut in a slanting direction, as it gives a prettier shape. Mix the flour, salt, and pepper. Dip each piece of fish in this seasoned flour to dry and flavour it. Beat up the egg on a plate, lay in the pieces of fish separately, and brush them well over with it, then cover them with the crumbs. Flatten these down gently so as to give an even surface. Fry a few pieces of fish at a time in plenty of fat, so hot that a faint smoke is rising from it. The colour must be a light golden brown. Drain the fish on paper. Serve it neatly on a fish-paper, or heated fish-napkin on a hot dish. Garnish it with fried parsley and cut lemon. Note.—All flat fish such as brill, soles, etc., are filleted and fried in this manner. To Skin Plaice The skin of this fish is not removed by the fishmonger, as is the case with soles, on account of the time the operation requires. It has to be cut off inch by inch, but as the black skin is most objectionable to many, it is well worth while having it done at home. After filleting the plaice, and before cutting each fillet into pieces, take one of the black-skinned pieces, lay it on the board black skin downwards, dip the finger and thumb of the left hand into a little salt to prevent them slipping, take hold of the tip of the tail end of the fillet, hold the knife very flat, not on its edge, cut up a little piece of the white flesh of the fish, but do not cut through the skin, that is needed to hold on by. Continue to cut off the flesh, rolling it backwards, and hold the flap of black skin, gradually appearing, tightly down. The object is to cut the flesh off the black skin, without cutting through the latter. Plaice, Soles, Flounders, Haddock, etc. {Nezvhaven Style') Ingredients— One plaice or other fish. One egg. One tablespoonful of flour. One teaspoonful of salt. Half a teaspoonful of pepper. About a teacupful of coarse oat- meal. Frying fat. Fried parsley : lemon. Method.—Wash, dry, and trim the fish. Mix the flour, salt, and pepper. Dip the fish in this seasoned flour. Brush it wellTHE COMPLETE COOK 186 over with the beaten egg, then cover it with coarse oatmeal, as in the ordinary way breadcrumbs would be used. Again brush it with egg, taking care to dab it on, rather than actually brush it on, so as not to move the first coating. Cover it again with oatmeal, and fry the fish in a pan of smoking hot fat until it is nicely browned. Drain the fish on paper and serve it on a hot dish, garnished with fried parsley and cut lemon. Note.—The fish can be filleted if preferred. Scolloped Prawns and Shrimps Ingredien ts— Abreakfastcupful of shelled prawns Half a glass of Marsala, or shrimps. Two tablespoonfuls of butter. Rather more than half a teacupful Fresh white crumbs : seasoning, of any thick good sauce, brown, tomato, or fish. Method.—Thickly butter some plated, fireproof, or natural scollop shells. Dust them well over with seasoned crumbs. Mix the fish with the hot sauce, add the wine, and heap the mixture on the shells. Smooth the surface and sprinkle over a thick layer of crumbs. Put small pieces of butter here and there over the surface and bake in a sharp oven till the crumbs are browned. Serve in the shells, arranging them neatly on a folded fish-napkin. Serve with brown bread and butter, cut lemon, and cayenne. Salmon Fritters Ingj'edients— About six ounces of cooked Frying Batter No. i or 2. salmon. Frying fat. Two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Fried parsley. Pepper. Method.—Separate the fish carefully into large flakes. Lay these on a dish, sprinkle them with a little vinegar and pepper and let them marinade in this while the batter is being made. Then dip the flakes carefully in the batter and fry as directed for Oyster Fritters. Note.—Cooked cod, or any other cooked fish, can be used if liked, but if the kind to be used is a white fish such as cod, brill, etc., sprinkle with a few drops of salad oil as well as the vinegar.187 FISH Souffles of Salmon Ingredien ts— One pound of raw salmon. One gill of cream. One gill of white sauce. One white of egg. Two fillets of anchovies. Three-quarters of a pint of cardinal sauce. One tablespoonful of lobster coral and a small tablespoonful of butter. Salt : cayenne. Method.—Wash and dry the fish. Remove the skin and bones. Pound it with the anchovies, after wiping them free from oil. When fine add the sauce, white of egg, and the coral butter, prepared by washing the coral, drying it in the oven, pounding and sieving it with the butter. Pound all these again and season carefully with salt and cayenne pepper. Then rub the mixture through a fine wire sieve. Whip the cream till it will nearly, but not quite hang on the whisk, mix it in very lightly. Thickly butter some small dariole moulds and three parts fill them with the mixture. Place these in the steamer, cover the tops with greased paper, and steam them gently for about thirty to thirty-five minutes. Turn them carefully out, press each lightly with soft paper to remove any grease. Arrange them on a hot dish and pour the hot cardinal sauce over and round them. If liked a little chopped truffle or parsley can be sprinkled on the top of each. Note.—Tinned salmon can be used. If preferred the mixture may be steamed in one large souffle tin. If there is no lobster coral and the mixture is too pale a colour, cautiously add a drop or two of cochineal. Prepare this as for Souffles of Salmon, but use half a pound of raw whiting free from skin and bone and half a pound of lobster meat instead of salmon. Proceed as for Oyster Fritters. But as the scollops are large and somewhat tough, divide each into two or three pieces according to their size, and stew them gently in a little fish stock or milk till they can be easily pierced with a skewer. Then drain them well, lightly drying them in a cloth, and follow the direction given for Oyster Fritters. Souffles of Lobster Scollop FrittersTHE COMPLETE COOK i88 Grilled Slips, Flounders, etc. Ingredients— One slip, or other small flat fish, Three teaspoonfuls of chopped for each person. parsley. About one rounded tablespoonful Salt and pepper : flour, of butter for four fish. Method.—Wash, dry, and cut the tails and fins off, so that the fish may look short and neat. Dip each side of the fish in a little flour, next brush them all over lightly with the oiled butter. Heat and grease a double gridiron, fasten the fish securely into it between the bars, and grill them over, or before, a clear sharp fire for about four to eight minutes according to their thickness. Turn them once or twice, in order to brown both sides. When cooked, serve them on a hot dish, brush them over with a little warmed butter, add a light dust of salt and pepper, sprinkle over the parsley and serve immediately. Note.—Chopped watercress, or the same in sprigs, can be used instead of parsley. Maitre d’Hotel butter is also excellent, or such sauces as tomato, tartare, etc. Stuffed Ingredients— One dozen smelts. Six sauce oysters and their liquor. One teacupful of fresh bread- crumbs. One tablespoonful of oiled butter. Smelts One raw egg. About four tablespoonfuls of browned crumbs. Salt: pepper : lemon. Any fish sauce : fried parsley. Method.—Wash, wipe, and trim the smelts neatly. Beard and chop the oysters, mix them with the fresh crumbs, oiled butter, strained oyster liquor, seasoning, and a spoonful of milk if it is very crumbly. Open and clean the smelts and fill them with the oyster mixture. Fasten the edges together over the stuffing, either sewing them or using little skewers made of pointed matches. Brush each fish over with beaten egg and roll them in the browned crumbs. Bake the fish on a greased tin in a moderately hot oven for about ten minutes. Then remove the skewers or sticks carefully and serve the fish neatly arranged on a hot dish, with the fish sauce handed separately. Garnish the fish with fried parsley and quarters of lemon. Note.—The stuffing may be varied by using shrimps coarsely chopped, or a plain forcemeat, such as is used for roast veal.189 FISH Sole au Gratin Ingredie^its— One sole. Two teaspoonfuls of grated Par- mesan cheese. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. One level teaspoonful of chopped shallot. Half a lemon. Method.—Thickly butter a fireproof gratin dish. Mix the chopped shallot and parsley and sprinkle half of them down the centre of the dish. Wash well and dry the fish. Skin it and trim off the fins, tail, and head, and score it three times on each side with a sharp knife. Lay the sole in the dish. Put the rest of the parsley and shallot on the top of it; dust it with salt and pepper and a few drops of lemon juice. Cover the top thinly with the crumbs and cheese mixed together. Put a few small bits of butter here and there on the top and bake it in a moderate oven for about ten to fifteen minutes. Boil the sauce, add the wine, and strain it round the sole when it is cooked. Send the fish to table in the dish in which it was cooked. Note.—If preferred, the sole may be filleted and folded in three before laying it in the dish. Filleted plaice and other fish are excellent cooked in the same way. One level tablespoonful of butter. Three tablespoonfuls of good brown sauce. Half a glass of sherry. Two tablespoonfuls of browned crumbs. Salt: pepper. Sole, Plaice, etc., k I’Orley Ingredients— One sole. One tablespoonful of salad oil. Two teaspoonfuls of chilli vinegar. Two teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. One level teaspoonful of chopped shallot. Frying Catter No. 3. Frying fat: seasoning. Fried parsley. A gill of tomato or anchovy sauce. Method.—After preparing the batter, wash, dry, and fillet the fish, and cut each fillet into two or more pieces, according to their size. Mix the oil, vinegars, shallot, parsley, and seasoning in a pie dish. Lay in the fillets and allow them to marinade, that is steep, in this mixture for about half an hour, turn them now and then. Have ready a pan of hot fat, from which a faint smoke is rising. Lift the fish out of the pie dish into the batter, then lower it gently into the fat and fry it a light golden brown.190 THE COMPLETE COOK Drain it on paper and serve it piled on a lace paper on a hot dish, garnished with fried parsley. Hand the sauce separately. Note.—Any other kind of filleted white fish can be used. It is sometimes served with quarters of lemon and no sauce. Trout or Smelts k la Meuniere Ingredients— Four small trout, or salmon trout, or about a dozen smelts. Two tablespoonfuls of flour. Half a teaspoonful of salt. Quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper. MetJiod.—Clean and trim the fish carefully, then wash and dry them. Mix together the flour, salt, and pepper, dip each fish into this, shaking off all that will not stick. Melt the butter in a stewpan, lay in the fish, sprinkle it with the chopped parsley and strained lemon juice. Cook gently until one side of the fish is nicely browned, then turn and cook the other side. Arrange the trout on a hot dish and pour over the liquid from the pan. Serve them very hot with brown bread and butter and cayenne. Note.—Good dripping may be used in the place of butter. If liked, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, or a tablespoonful of any white wine, may be sprinkled over the fish with the lemon juice. Broiled Turbot Ingredients— About two pounds of turbot. A bunch of watercress. Two tablespoonfuls of oiled butter. Cucumber sauce. Pepper : salt: vinegar ; salad oil. Method.—Wash, dry, and fillet the fish. Cut the fillets into large neat pieces. Brush these over well with the oiled butter and a little salt and pepper. Heat and grease the gridiron, lay on the fish and grill it before, or over, a clear sharp fire, for about ten to twelve minutes, or until it is delicately browned. Serve on a hot dish with a little piece of butter rubbed over each piece and a dust of pepper. Garnish the dish of fish with carefully washed sprigs of watercress ; these should be seasoned with a few drops of salad oil and vinegar. Hand the cucumber sauce separately. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. The juice of one lemon.191 FISH Note.—Brill and other firm white fish are excellent cooked in this manner. Use other sauce than cucumber if preferred. Turbot a la Normande Ingredien ts— Two teaspoonfuls of anchovy- essence. The juice of half a lemon. Three-quarters of a pint of good white sauce. Two or three filleted anchovies, pickled gherkins, and chillies. A dozen olives. Seasoning. Method.—Wash and wipe the fish, then bone it, so as to leave the fish whole; it then forms a kind of bag into which the shrimp farce is placed. Use a sharp knife and cut the flesh gradually back off the bone. The short bones along the flns must be left in. Chop the shrimps very finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour smoothly, add the water or, what is much better, fish stock made from the centre bone and some fish trimmings. They only need to be boiled in enough cold water to cover them for about fifteen minutes; add also to them a bunch of parsley and herbs and a scrap of onion ; the stock is then strained off for use. After adding the water or stock, stir the mixture till it boils and will leave the sides of the pan without sticking to it. Mix in the shrimps, lemon juice, anchovy essence, seasoning, and the raw egg. Mix all these very thoroughly. If liked a deeper pink, add a drop or two of cochineal. Spread this farce evenly over inside the fish in the baglike cavity made by removing the large bone. Press the upper side well on to the under one. Rub the outside of the fish over with lemon juice and wrap it up in a piece of greased paper. Lay it on a baking sheet in a moderate oven and bake it for about twenty-five to thirty minutes, according to its thickness. Remove the paper, pour any liquor in it into the sauce, and lay the fish on a hot dish. Have a rich white sauce, made with fish stock, ready; strain it smoothly over the fish and garnish it tastefully with strips of anchovy, gherkin, and chillies. Add a further garnish of the turned olives. Note.—Brill or halibut is excellent cooked by this recipe. Preserved prawns could be used if liked. Three pounds of turbot. A gill of shelled shrimps. One raw egg. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Four level tablespoonfuls of flour. Half a -oint of cold water or fish stock.192 THE COMPLETE COOK Whitebait Ingredients— One pint of whitebait. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Frying fat. Salt: pepper. One lemon. Thin brown bread and butter. Cayenne. Method.—Leave the fish on ice till the last possible moment. Heat the pan of deep fat before starting to prepare the fish. It must be clean fat. Pick any pieces of weed, etc., from the fish, then lay them on a cloth. Sieve the flour on to a large sheet of paper. Put a few fish at a time into the flour, toss them lightly in it, in order to separate each one. Handle them as little as possible. Put a few at a time into the frying basket, shake it gently over the paper to sift out any loose flour, and when a very thick smoke rises from the fat, lower the basket gently into it and fry them for about two minutes, gently shaking the basket all the time. Turn them to drain on paper, and fry more until all are cooked. Then put enough back into the basket to fill it to the depth of the fat in the pan. Re-heat the fat until the smoke is quite thick again, put in the basket of fish and refry them for about half a minute. Drain them on paper. Dust them with salt and pepper and serve immediately on a hot folded fish-napkin with quarters of cut lemon, cayenne, and brown bread and butter. Note.—The fat, after being allowed to reach such a great heat, is spoilt for anything but very ordinary frying purposes afterwards. Devilled Whitebait Proceed as for Whitebait, but after the second frying dust them with salt, pepper, and cayenne, turning them over lightly as these are added. Be cautious with the cayenne. Fried Whiting {Illustrated') Ingredients— Two whitings. One raw egg. About a breakfastcupful of white breadcrumbs. Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. One teaspoonful of salt. Half a teaspoonful of pepper. Half a lemon. Fried parsley. Frying fat. Method.—Wash and dry the fish. Fasten the tails in the mouths by means of a small wooden skewer or pointed match. Mix the flour, salt, and pepper. Dust the fish all over with this193 FISH seasoned flour. Beat up the egg on a plate. Put the crumbs on a sheet of paper. Brush the fish thoroughly with egg, lift them on to and cover them with crumbs. Shake off the loose ones and flatten the surface by gently pressing the crumbs with a knife. Have ready a deep pan of hot fat. When a faint smoke rises from the fat, put in one fish at a time and fry it a golden brown. It will take about five to eight minutes accord- ing to the thickness of the fish. After the first two minutes draw the pan somewhat to the side, in order to lessen the heat, or the fish will be too dark a colour before being cooked through. Drain the fish on soft paper. Arrange them on a lace paper on a hot dish. Garnish the fish with heaps of fried parsley and cut lemon. Note.—Very small fresh haddocks may be fried in a similar manner. Fried Fillets Ingredients— Four skinned whitings. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. One raw egg. One tablespoonful of salad oil. of Whiting One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Half a lemon. Salt and pepper : fried parsley. Breadcrumbs : frying fat. Method.—Wash, dry, and fillet the whitings. Mix the flour with a little salt and pepper. Beat up the egg, mix it with the oil, parsley, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Smooth the fillets, trim off any rough edges. Dip them in the flour, etc. Then brush them over with the beaten egg, etc., and crumb them. Skewer the fillets round like rings, using pointed matches for skewers, and dip each end of the fillets in egg to make them stick more firmly. Should any egg and crumbs be removed in the skewering, retouch the patches up. Fry the fillets a golden brown, in plenty of smoking hot fat, drain them on paper, draw out the little skewers carefully, and serve the rings heaped on a hot dish. Garnish them with fried parsley and cut lemon, and hand with them a tureen of fish sauce. Note.—Strips of filleted sole, haddock, or plaice can be fried in this way, but require trimming to make a neat ring. 3194 CHAPTER X MEAT To Roast or Bake Meat of all Kinds The Fire.—Build up a good fire in ample time before the joint is to be put down to roast, as it is essential that it be sharp and clear. A smoky, dull, or dying fire is useless to roast in front of, or to heat the oven. Judge by the size of the joint whether a very large fire will be required or not. If it has to be remade during the roasting, push the red coal to the front and put on the fresh at the back. Time to be Allowed.—The variety of meat, its shape, and proportions of bone, lean and fat must all be taken into consideration. Weigh the joint, then consider the above mentioned points. For legs of mutton, shoulders of mutton, loins of mutton, saddle of mutton, sirloin of beef, ribs of beef, allow a quarter of an hour for each pound the joint weighs and one extra quarter of an hour, e.g. a leg of mutton weighing eight pounds will take two hours and a quarter. For joints of lamb, veal, and pork, having a fair proportion of flesh and bone, allow twenty minutes to each pound the joint weighs, and one extra twenty minutes, e.g. a leg of pork weighing five pounds will take two hours. For thick solid joints without bone, or if boned and stuffed, such as fillet of veal, topside of beef, rolled and stuffed shoulder or loin of mutton, allow twenty-five minutes to each pound, and twenty-five minutes extra for the veal, and in the case of the two latter, twenty minutes to each pound, and an extra twenty minutes. Some exceptions— Freshly killed meat will always require more time to cook it than will well hung. In hot weather less time is usually needed.195 MEAT Individual tastes must be considered as to whether the joint of beef or mutton is preferred well or under cooked, but bear in mind, lamb, veal, and pork are unpalatable and unwholesome unless very thoroughly cooked. Experience teaches that as joints increase in weight it is undesirable to allow an exact corresponding increase in the time for cooking. This can only be learnt by practice, observa- tion, and common sense. When cooked sufficiently, the meat will no longer feel flabby when firmly pressed with the finger, and it should be well browned. To Prepare the Joint.—Wash the meat quickly, dry it very thoroughly, and tie or skewer it into the correct shape. Tape or string is far preferable to skewers, as through the holes made by the latter, much of the juices escapes into the dripping pan. Saw off unsightly bones and make the joint look as trim and compact as possible. Score the skin of pork finely with a sharp knife and rub it over with a little salad oil. Be careful to note that loins and necks are jointed, otherwise the carver has an almost impossible task. Tie greased paper over any meat that is liable to dry or become scorched by the first great heat that is essential, such as fillet of veal, or joints of lamb (unless a piece of caul has been sent, which is better). When paper is used, it must always be removed for at least the last half-hour before the cooking is finished, to allow the exterior to brown. Positio7i of Jomt du7'ing Cookmg For Roasting.—Wind up the roasting jack and hang the joint so that the thickest part of it will be just opposite the centre of the fire, thus obtaining the greatest heat. This necessitates the thickest part hanging downwards. Put the joint close to the fire for the first ten minutes, so that the intense heat may harden the outside albumen and so keep in the juices; then draw it farther back from the fire, so that it will be cooked through, not burnt outside and raw inside. For Bakmg Meat.—Use a double baking tin; this allows of water being kept in the under pan, which prevents the dripping from burning. If a double tin is not possible, use an ordinary one and put a second tin, or even a pie dish of water, on the shelf below the meat, and do not let the water boil away. Put the meat on a trivet in the pan, so as to prevent it from actually lying in the dripping, and place the joint in the hottest part of the oven for the first ten minutes. In some ovens it is neces- sary to turn the joint over to brown it equally.THE COMPLETE COOK 196 Basting.—Add a tablespoonful or so of dripping to the tin with which to baste the joint. The amount needed depends on whether the joint is fat or lean. Unless the meat is frequently basted it will be spoilt. When Cooked.—Lay the joint on a hot dish and keep it hot while the gravy is made. Remove any tape or skewers. Put a neat frill on the ends of unsightly bones, e.g. the shank bones of legs, or shoulders of mutton, and dust the joints with a little seasoning. Pour off the dripping from the tin into a basin and save it. Be careful to keep back all brown particles and sedi- ment to be seen under the surface of the dripping. To Make the Gravy Serve a thin clear gravy for beef, mutton, and lamb, and a thickened brown gravy for veal, pork, and boned and stuffed joints of mutton. Clear Gravy for Roast or Baked Meat.—After pouring the dripping out of the tin, add to the meat juice and brown particles left in it a gill to half a pint, or more according to the joint, of boiling stock or water; add salt and pepper to taste. Put the dripping tin over the fire, and let the gravy boil well, stirring and scraping off all the brown pieces from the tin into the gravy with an iron spoon; it is these which will colour and flavour the gravy. Skim off all grease as it rises. Strain a little gravy round the joint, not over it, and the rest serve separately in a sauce tureen. Much gravy in the dish renders carving neatly an impossibility. Thick Gravy for Roast or Baked Meat.—Pour off all except about a tablespoonful of the dripping from the tin, as directed for the clear gravy. Shake about a level tablespoonful of flour over the tin in the dripping. Brown it carefully over the fire without burning it. Stir in gradually about half a pint of hot stock or water, drawing the dripping tin aside while this is done. Next stir it over the fire till the gravy boils. Skim it well, season it carefully, and strain a little round the joint and the rest into a sauce tureen. Boiling Fresh and Salted Meats Fresh Meat To Prepare the Joint.—Put a saucepan of water on the fire to boil. Wash the joint, wipe it, and trim off all rough or197 MEAT unsightly pieces or superfluous fat. This is particularly necessary when boiling a piece of neck or loin of mutton. Note if the joint requires to be jointed, such as is the case with loin, neck, and breast of mutton or lamb. Or whether there is any length of bone to be sawn off, e.g. the shank bone of a leg, or shoulder of mutton or pork. If necessary tie the joint in shape, but avoid skewers if possible, as they allow the juice of the meat to escape. Time for Cooking.—Weigh the joint and allow fifteen minutes to each pound the joint weighs, and an extra fifteen minutes on the whole joint, eg. for a leg of mutton weighing four pounds allow one and a quarter hours. For Fresh Pork., or very thick joints with little bone, allow twenty to twenty-five minutes for each pound the joint weighs and an extra twenty minutes on the whole joint. Reckon the time from when the water reaches boiling point, not when the joint is put into it. How to Boil the Meat.—Lay the joint in boiling water, with about a tablespoonful of salt in it. The water must just cover the joint. When it reboils, skim it carefully and let the water boil for five minutes, so as to seal the outside. Then add one or two carrots, turnips, and onions, cut in quarters. Parsnips and leeks can also be used and, if liked, little suet dumplings boiled with the meat for the last twenty minutes. Draw the pan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer very gently until the meat is cooked. If it actually boils it will be tough. To Serve Fresh Boiled Meat.—Fresh boiled meat is usually served with caper or parsley sauce poured over it, or, if liked, handed separately in a tureen and some of the meat liquor poured round the joint. In any case neat pieces^of the vegetables must be arranged round the dish, and some meat liquor sent to table. Save the remainder for broths, etc. Fresh Poi'k is served with boiled parsnips, meat liquor, onion sauce, and pease pudding. Salted Meat To Prepare the Jomt.—Well wash the joint, and if likely to be very salt, soak it overnight in cold water. It is usually best soaked for a few hours to extract some of the salt. Trim the joint neatly, saw off any unsightly bones, or bind it in shape with tape, as it seems desirable. Time for Cooking.—Allow twenty to twenty-five minutes forTHE COMPLETE COOK 198 each pound the joint weighs, and an extra twenty minutes on the whole joint. If the joint is very thin or contains much bone, twenty minutes to the pound will suffice. Salted pork should be allowed twenty-five minutes. To Boil the Joint.—Lay it in a pan with warm water to cover it, unless it is very salt, when it is best to use cold water, to extract some of it. Bring the water to boiling point. Skim it well, boil it for a minute or so, then add the vegetables and simmer it as directed for fresh meat. To Serve Boiled Salted Meat.—No sauce is required. Pour round a little of the meat liquor and send more of it to table in a tureen. Arrange the vegetables round and dumplings, if used. Save the rest of the liquor for broths, etc. All salt meat, if intended to be eaten cold, will be more juicy and mellow if allowed to become cold in the liquid in which it was cooked: this is not wise, however, if the weather is hot, or if the joint is needed to last some time, as the moisture it will contain causes it to sour quickly. BEEF American Spiced Beef Cake Ingredients— Four pounds of the middle cut of the shin. Boiling water to cover it. One onion, carrot, and turnip. Three sticks of celery. A bunch of thyme, marjoram, parsley, and a bay leaf. Four allspice. Six peppercorns. One blade of mace. Method.—Wash the meat well and remove any skin, etc., which is not perfectly sweet and clean, or fragments of bone. Cut the meat and chop the bone in about four pieces. Put these into a saucepan with the water, prepared vegetables cut in halves, the herbs and the spice tied up in a piece of muslin. Simmer steadily till the meat falls off the bone and the liquor is reduced to about half a pint. Keep it well skimmed during cooking. Strain off the liquid, separate the meat from the vegetables and bone, and add the meat only to the liquor. Season somewhat highly and break up the meat with a fork. Pack it tightly into a mould or bread tin. Put weights on the top of the meat and press it well. Leave till cold. Then dip the tin, if necessary, into warm water to loosen the meat cake, and serve. Variations.—Knuckle of veal may also be prepared in the199 BEEF same way ; the addition of a ham bone or a few ounces of ham to the veal will be found an improvement. Beef Collops Ingredients— One pound of topside of beef. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One tablespoonful of grated onion. Half a pint of stock. One level tablespoonful of flour. Salt and pepper. A slice of dry toast. Method.—Wash the meat quickly in tepid water, dry it well, and cut it into small dice, removing all skin and gristle and leaving on very little fat. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the beef and onion and fry them a light brown, then shake in the flour and add the stock and seasoning. Cover the pan and let the contents simmer very gently for three-quarters of an hour. Arrange it on a hot dish with a border round of sippets of toast or croutons. American Corned Beef Ingredients— Four pounds of brisket of beef Six allspice and cloves. salted. Ten peppercorns. Two carrots, turnips, and onions. A bunch of parsley, herbs, and Half a head of celery. bay leaf. Method.—Wash the meat well and soak it fora few hours, or overnight, if likely to be very salt, in cold water. Lay it in a pan with tepid water to cover it. Bring it slowly to boiling point and remove all scum. Then add the prepared vegetables cut in quarters, the bunch of herbs and the spice tied up in muslin. Simmer the beef very slowly for about three hours, or until it is so tender that it could be pulled in shreds with a fork. Let it remain till half cold in the water. Lift it out of the pan, remove any bones, pull it apart a little and pack it into a large square bread tin, or any tin of a suitable size and shape. Let the long fibres run the length of the tin, mixing in the fat so that it will be well marbled. Put on a board, or some lid, that is a little smaller than the tin, so that it will rest on the meat. On this lid put heavy weights so as to press the meat well down. Leave it till cold. Then turn it out and cut it as required in thin slices. Save the liquor it was cooked in for broths, etc., diluting it if too salt.200 THE COMPLETE COOK Fillets of Beef k la Como Ingredien ts— One pound of fillet of beef. A dozen mushrooms. Three or four slices of cooked ham. Four tablespoonfuls of hot mashed potatoes. A piece of glaze the size of a walnut. Half a pint of brown sauce. Two tablespoonfuls of port wine. One tablespoonful of butter. Method.—Cut the fillet into small rounds, about the size of the top of a claret glass and nearly three-quarters of an inch thick. Flatten these slightly and trim into neat rounds. Brush them with a little warmed butter, put them in a heated and greased gridiron, and grill them for eight to ten minutes by a sharp fire. Turn them several times; they should be slightly underdone. While these are grilling, cook the washed and peeled mushrooms in a little butter in a frying pan until tender. Heat the sauce with the glaze and wine. Arrange a straight bed of the mashed potato down a dish, and put both to keep hot. When the fillets are cooked, brush them over with a little warmed glaze and arrange them in two straight lines on the potato, each overlapping the previous one. Put a single line of the mushrooms up the centre, and on them a narrow line of the lean of the ham cut in small dice. Strain the sauce round and put any ham left over in a heap at each side. Fillets of Beef with Oysters Ingredients— Half a pound of fillet of beef. > Three tablespoonfuls of stock or Six oysters. gravy. Two teaspoonfuls of butter. Salt and pepper. One teaspoonful of flour. Method.—Wash and dry the meat quickly. Cut it into small neat fillets about three-quarters of an inch thick. Heat the butter, put in the fillets and the flour and fry them till slightly browned, then pour in the stock. Mix it well and put on the lid of the pan and let all simmer very gently for about an hour. It must not be allowed to boil, or the fillets will be tough. When cooked, season the gravy carefully, strain into it any liquor there may be with the oysters, and add the oysters after first bearding them and cutting each in half. Re-heat the gravy for a few minutes without boiling it. Arrange the fillets on a hot dish with the oysters in the centre, and strain the gravy over.w L. kBEEF GALANTINE201 BEEF Curried Beef, Mutton, or Veal Ingredients— One pound of rump steak, or lean mutton, without bone, or fillet of veal. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One tablespoonful of chopped onion. One tablespoonful of grated raw apple. One teaspoonful of chopped chutney. One slightly rounded tablespoon- ful of curry powder. Half a pint of hot stock. One tomato. Four tablespoonfuls of Patna rice (boiled) Salt: pepper: a few drops of lemon juice. Method.—Wash and dry the meat, remove all skin and sinew, and cut it into cubes about half an inch square. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the onion, and cook it for three minutes without browning it. Add the meat and stir it over the fire for five minutes. Shake over the curry powder and cook it again for about five minutes. Then add the stock gradually, stirring it all the time, next the apple, chutney, and sliced tomato. Season it with a little salt, cover the pan, and let its contents simmer very gently for about an hour, or until the meat is perfectly tender. Lift the meat on to a plate. Strain the sauce into another pan, re-heat the meat for a minute or so, see the seasoning is correct, and add a few drops of strained lemon juice. Serve on a hot dish with either a border of the boiled rice round, or with it handed separately. Note.—More or less curry powder can be used according to the desired heat of the curry. If much less is wanted make up the amount with flour. A small piece of chopped rhubarb, or green gooseberries, can be used if there is not an apple. The tomato and chutney can be omitted. Beef Galantine {Illustrated) Ingredients— One pound of raw topside of beef. One gill of good stock. Half a pound of raw streaky bacon. A piece of glaze the size of a Three level teacupfuls of fresh walnut. white breadcrumbs. Salt: pepper : nutmeg. Two raw eggs. Method.—Wash the meat quickly in tepid water and dry it well. Remove any skin a«d gristle, also the rind and rust from the bacon. Chop both meat and bacon ■ finely, or put them through a mincing machine. Mix them with the crumbs, beaten eggs, and stock. Add a careful seasoning and pound202 THE COMPLETE COOK the mixture gently with the end of a rolling-pin, to ensure its being well mixed. Shape it like a roly-poly pudding and roll it up tightly in a clean pudding cloth, tying the ends with string. Boil it gently for two hours in the stockpot. Then lift it out, reroll it tightly in the cloth, and press it between two flat tins, or dishes, with a weight on top till cold. Brush the top and sides over with two coatings of the warmed glaze, letting the first dry before adding the second coat. Trim a small slice off each end and lay the galantine on a dish paper. Pipe the top prettily with fresh butter and put a few sprigs of parsley round. Note.—If there is not a stockpot available, boil the roll in water to which a few pot vegetables have been added. Butter need not be piped on it unless liked. la Mode Beef a Ingredients— Three pounds of beef fillet cut thick. Two large slices of larding bacon. One quart of stock. One breakfastcupful of vinegar. One medium-sized onion sliced. One large carrot. Bunch of parsley, herbs, and bay leaf. A bunch of spring onions. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Two tablespoonfuls of dripping. .A teaspoonful each of cloves, allspice, and mustard seeds. Half a lemon. Salt: pepper. Method.—Wash the meat and dry it well. Trim it neatly and lay it in a deep earthenware dish. Boil the vinegar for five minutes with the cloves, allspice, and mustard seeds. Then strain it off, cool it, and pour it over the beef. Let it be in this marinade for two hours, turning it often. Cut the bacon into long strips a third of an inch wide, and lard the best side of the beef. Tie it into a good shape with a piece of tape. Melt half the dripping in a stewpan, put in the beef and brown it on both sides. Lift it out and fry the sliced onion and carrot. Lay in the beef on the top of these vegetables, add the bunch of herbs, stock, and the spring onions. Trim off all but half an inch of green from these. Cover the pan tightly and let its contents simmer very gently from two to two and a half hours, or until the meat is tender. Melt the rest of the dripping in a stewpan, add the flour and brown it carefully. Strain in the hot stock gradually, stirring it all the time. Let it boil well, skim, and season it with salt, pepper, and lemon juice. Lay the beef, larded side uppermost on a hot dish, remove203 BEEF the tape, strain the sauce over it, and garnish the dish with the spring onions left whole and the carrot cut in neat pieces. Note.—For a less expensive dish, use topside of beef or rump, or beef steak: these will require longer stewing probably. Omit spring onions when out of season and substitute turnips cut in dice. Beef Olives Ingredients— One and a half pounds of rump steak. Two heaped tablespoonfuls of chopped beef suet. Six tablespoonfuls of breadcrumbs. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Method.—Wash and dry the beef. Cut it into pieces about a third of an inch thick and three inches long. Flatten them slightly with a wet knife. Chop the trimmings from the beef with the suet, lemon rind, parsley, and herbs. Mix these with the crumbs and beaten egg, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Spread a layer of this mixture on each piece of beef, roll it up and tie it round with a piece of string. Put the rolls in a stewpan with the sauce and let them stew gently for about three-quarters of an hour. Remove the string. Arrange the rolls on a bed of mashed potato or spinach, and strain the sauce round. Note.—Veal may be used in the place of beef, and bacon instead of the suet. If there is any of the forcemeat over, make it into small balls; egg, crumb, and fry these, and use them to garnish the dish. Quarter of a teaspoonful of mixed powdered herbs. One egg. The grated rind of a lemon. One pint of brown sauce. Salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Smothered Beef or Pot Roast Ingredients— About four pounds of topside of One breakfastcupful of boiling beef. water or stock. Method.—Wash the meat quickly in tepid water, wipe it well, trim, and, if necessary, tie it in shape. Harden the outside by quickly browning both sides in a frying pan, or by grilling it for a minute or so. Put the meat in a saucepan, pour in the stock. Cover the meat with a piece of thickly greased paper. Put on the lid of the pan, for it must be kept tightly covered to retain the steam, and stand it where it will keepTHE COMPLETE COOK 204 just below boiling point. Do not let the water evaporate entirely, but add only enough to just keep the meat from burning. Cook very slowly, the time will depend on the quality of the meat; probably it will take about two to three hours. It must be very tender but not ragged. This is excellent hot, or cold ; if the former, serve with it any good brown sauce. Potted Raw Beef, Chicken, etc. Ingredients— One pound of topside of beef. Three tablespoonfuls of butter Three allspice. Three cloves. MetJiod.—Wash the meat, dry it, and cut it into very small pieces. Put half the butter into an earthenware stewing jar, let it melt, then put in the beef, bay leaf, and the spice tied up in muslin. Cover the jar tightly with greased paper and let it bake in a very slow oven for about two hours. Lift out the spice and bay leaf and pound the beef and butter in a mortar, then rub the paste through a hair sieve. Should it seem in the least dry, add some more oiled butter until it is a stiff smooth paste. Season it rather highly and press it firmly down into small jars. Smooth the surface of each until perfectly level. Then clarify any butter left, or take more if required, and when the meat is quite cold, pour the warm clarified butter over the top till the meat is covered. Let this set. In cold weather this will last ten days or more. Note.—Raw veal and ham can be used, or rabbit or chicken. If ham is used less butter is required. Steak and Kidney Pudding higredients— One and a half pounds of steak. Salt and pepper. Half a pound of ox kidney. Two tablespoonfuls of flour. Three-quarters of a pound of suet pastry. Method.—Wash and dry the meat. Cut the steak and kidney into fairly thin slices. Mix the flour, salt, and pepper. Dip each piece of steak and kidney into this mixture, put a piece of kidney on a slice of steak and roll them up neatly. Three peppercorns. One bay leaf. Salt and pepper.BEEF 205 Roll out the pastry, putting a third of it on one side, this is for the lid. Grease a pudding basin, line it with the pastry, and put in the rolls of steak. When the basin is full, pour in enough water or stock to half fill the basin. Wet the edge of the pastry, put on the lid and press the edges together. Scald and flour a pudding cloth, tie it over the pudding, taking care to make a pleat in the middle of the cloth to allow the crust to swell. Put the basin in a pan of fast boiling water and boil it from two to three hours. Serve it in the basin with a clean table napkin pinned round it. Note.—Mushrooms may be used instead of kidney, or one pound of steak and two pigeons cut in joints are an excellent combination. Steak and Mushroom Pie Ingredients— Two pounds of steak. About three-quarters of a pound of mushrooms. One tablespoonful of flour. One teaspoonful of salt. Haifa teaspoonful of pepper. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. One teaspoonful of chopped onion. Stock or water. Three-quarters of a pound of any good pastry. One raw egg. Method.—Wash and dry the meat, cut it into slices about two inches square. Look over the mushrooms carefully, stalk and peel them. Mix together on a plate the flour, parsley, onion, and seasoning. Roll the pieces of steak in this mixture. Put a layer of meat in a pie dish, then one of mushrooms, and so on until the dish is full. Next fill the dish two-thirds full of cold stock or water. Roll out the pastry to about a third of an inch thick. Cut off a strip for the edge of the pie dish. Brush the edge of the dish with a little cold water, lay on the strip of pastry, brush this with water and cover the meat with the lid of pastry. Trim the edges neatly and flake them up in horizontal lines with the back of a knife, and crimp them. Decorate the top of the pie with leaves and a tassel cut out of pastry. Brush over the top, but not the edges, with the beaten yolk of egg. Bake it in a moderate oven for about two and a half hours. Carefully remove the centre ornament and fill up the dish with some well-flavoured stock. Serve hot or cold. Note.—Half a pound of ox kidney can be used instead of the mushrooms.THE COMPLETE COOK 206 Grilled Steak Ingredients— One pound of rump or fillet steak One level tablespoonful of butter. an inch thick. Salt; pepper. Method.—See that the fire is quick and clear. Dip the steak quickly into tepid water and wipe it quite dry. Brush it over with a little oiled butter. Heat the gridiron and grease the bars. Fasten the steak in between them with the rim of fat uppermost, so that as it melts in the cooking it flows over and bastes the steak. Either hang the gridiron close in front of, or put it over the fire, and grill the steak for about ten to fifteen minutes according to its thickness, the heat of the fire, and whether it is wished well or under cooked. Turn the gridiron round two or three times, or turn the steak over, if it is cooked over the fire: in this case either stick a fork into the fat, or use two knives to turn it; do not stick a fork into the lean, as it allows the juices to escape. When cooked it should be a dark brown on each side, and red and full of gravy when cut. This does not mean it is to be flabby and of a purplish tint. Lay the steak on a hot dish, dust it with salt and pepper, and either rub it over with a piece of butter, or lay on it small pats of Maitre d’Hdtel butter, and put Potato Ribbons or Straws round it. Note.—Rump steak is thought by many to have the most flavour, but fillet steak is more generally tender. Stewed Steak Ingredients— One pound of rump steak. One large carrot, turnip, and onion. One rounded tablespoonful of dripping or butter. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. Three-quarters of a pint of stock or water. Three allspice, one clove, half a bay leaf. Salt: pepper. Method.—Wash and dry the meat. Remove any hard skin or superfluous fat, a thin rim of the latter must be left on. Melt the dripping in a frying pan, fry the steak quickly until well browned on each side. Lift it on to a plate, put the vegetables cut into small dice and the flour into the fat, and brown these also. Should there not be enough dripping to do this, add more. Add the stock and stir until the gravy boils. Add a little salt, lay in the steak and the spice and bay leaf tied in muslin. Cover the pan tightly and stew the steak very gently for about an hour and a half. Skim it now and then. RemoveBEEF 207 the spice, season the gravy, lay the steak on a hot dish, strain the gravy over and round it and put heaps of the vegetables round. Note.—Stewing steak may be bought, if a cheaper piece is needed. This dish is really better if stewed in a casserole or stew- ing jar in a slow oven, Vienna Steaks Ingredients— One pound of raw trimmings of fillet of beef. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Half a level teaspoonful of powdered herbs. One egg. Four tablespoonfuls of butter clarified. One Spanish onion. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Half a pint of brown sauce. Salt: pepper ; nutmeg. Method.—Remove all fat, skin, and hard pieces from the beef and put it through a mincing machine. Mix it with the parsley, herbs, seasoning, and yolk of egg. Knead all well together and divide the mixture into nine or ten portions. Slightly flour the hands and form each into the shape of round beef fillets. Peel the onion, cut it into thin rings. Put aside about a dozen of the largest and fry them a golden brown in half the butter. Lift them out and add the rest of the onion, chopped finely, to the butter. Fry this a light brown, then add two tablespoonfuls of the sauce and let the chopped onion simmer till tender. Dip the dozen rings in flour, then in the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth, then into the flour a second time. Lay these rings in a frying basket and fry them in smoking hot fat until a golden brown. Drain them on paper and keep them hot. Dust the shaped steaks with a little flour and melt the rest of the butter in a frying pan. Lay in and fry the steaks for about ten to twelve minutes according to their thickness. Turn them carefully over several times. Arrange in a straight double row down a hot dish, using a strip of mashed potato to hold them in place if necessary. Put the stewed chopped onion in a line up the centre, and the rings of fried onion over them, each ring overlapping the last. Strain the hot brown sauce round. Tripe in Ingredients— One pound of dressed tripe. One tablespoonful of salad oil. One teaspoonful each of malt and tarragon vinegar. Batter One teaspoonful of chopped parsley and onion. Salt and pepper. Batter No. 3. Fried parsley.208 THE COMPLETE COOK Method.—Wash the tripe, blanch it by laying it in a saucepan with cold water to cover, and boil it for three minutes. Lift it out, scrape off and cut away all fat and divide the tripe into pieces two inches long and one broad. Mix the oil, vinegars, seasoning, parsley, and onion. Lay the pieces of tripe to marinade in these for half an hour, turning them often. Have the batter prepared as directed for Batter No. 3. Dip each piece of tripe into it without wiping off the marinade and fry them in clean hot fat until a bright golden brown. Drain them on paper; heap them up on a lace paper on a hot dish and garnish with fried parsley. Serve at once. Note.—Batter No. 2 may be used if preferred. Tomato or piquante sauce is excellent to accompany this dish. Tripe k la Ingredients— One pound of dressed tripe. One tablespoonful of chopped onion. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. Lyonnaise One pound of tomatoes. Half a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. A piece of glaze the size of a filbert nut. A breakfastcupful of cooked rice. Seasoning. Method.—Wash the tripe, lay it in a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bring it to boiling point, and boil it for three minutes. Lift it out on to the board and scrape off and cut away any fat on it. Cut the tripe into two-inch squares. Melt the butter, add the onion and fry it a light brown. Rub the tomatoes through a fine sieve, add this pulp to the onion and butter and mix them well. Lay in the pieces of tripe and add vinegar and glaze. Cover the pan and let the tripe simmer very gently for about two hours, or until it is easily pierced with a skewer. Should the tomato juice seem insufficient to cook it in add more pulp or a little stock. When it is tender, lift out the tripe and lay it on a hot dish. Mix the flour smoothly and thinly with a little cold stock or water; pour it into the tomato pulp and stir it until it boils. Add stock or water if this sauce is thicker than good cream. Season it carefully, add the parsley and pour it over the tripe. Boil the rice as for a curry, and when hot and dry arrange it as a border round.V ->. V. •3 OCUTLKTS TKIMMKI) AND UNTKIMMED209 MUTTON AND LAMB To Cure a Bullock’s Liver for Gravies, etc. Ingredients— One bullock’s liver. One pound of moist sugar. One pound or rather more of common salt. One ounce of saltpetre. Method.—Select a perfectly fresh liver. Wash it in tepid salted water. Put it in an earthenware vessel and rub it well all over with moist sugar. Let it lie for four hours with the sugar on it, then add the rest of the ingredients. Rub the liver well with them and turn it every day for three weeks. Then hang it up in a cool dry place to dry and harden. Cut off pieces as required for flavouring gravies and sauces. As soon as the liver is dry, hang it up in a muslin bag. This keeps for a long time and is most handy to store, especially in the country. One ounce of bay salt. One ounce of ground cloves. One ounce of allspice. Half an ounce of black pepper. MUTTON AND LAMB Fried Mutton Cutlets (Illustrated) Ingredients— Two pounds of best end neck of mutton. One egg. About a breakfastcupful of dried white crumbs. Half a pint of a good brown or tomato sauce. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter or beef dripping. Salt: pepper. Method.—Remove the spine or chine bone, as it is called, of the mutton : saw the ends of the rib bones, leaving the cutlet bones about three inches long. Divide the mutton into cutlets (see Illustration). Scrape half an inch of the ends of the cutlet bones free from meat, fat, and skin. Slightly flatten each cutlet with a cutlet bat dipped in cold water, to keep it from sticking, or a heavy knife. Then trim the meat of the cutlets neatly, avoid unnecessary waste, and leave a n-rrow rim of fat round each. Save all trimming and bones for some other dish. Beat up the egg, season it with a little salt and pepper. Dip the cutlets in the crumbs, holding them by the end of the bone, then in beaten egg, then again in the crumbs. Flatten the crumbs with a dry knife. Heat the butter in a saute or frying pan, till it nearly stops bubbling; lay in a few cutlets at a time and fry them a bright golden brown on each side. The time varies with the thickne.ss; if liked underdone they 14THE COMPLETE COOK 210 will take about five to seven minutes ; if well cooked, eight to ten minutes. Re-scrape the ends of the bones, as they must be quite clean. Place a tiny paper cutlet frill on the end of each bone and dish the cutlets in a circle, or semicircle, on a hot dish. Hold the bone in the left hand, the curved side of the cutlet facing you. It is sometimes necessary to prop the first one in position with a piece of crust of bread tucked in under it out of sight. Strain the hot sauce round and place any suitable hot garnish in the centre. Note.—The name given to the particular dish of cutlets depends on the garnish and sauce. Fried Lamb Cutlets Prepared exactly as for Mutton Cutlets, but lamb should always be well cooked. Chaudfroid Ingredients— Seven untrimmed mutton, or lamb, cutlets. Half a pint of brown sauce. Half a pint of aspic jelly. A piece of glaze the size of a walnut. Three teaspoonfuls of sherry. of Cutlets Two sheets of gelatine. Two tablespoonfuls of butter. A small lettuce. Half an endive. A tablespoonful of Mayonnaise sauce. Seasoning. Met/iod.—Heat the butter in a frying pan, lay in the cutlets and fry them quickly over a clear quick fire for about seven to eight minutes, turning them frequently. Lift them out of the pan and press them till cold between two tins weighted. When cold, trim them in the usual manner and brush each over with glaze, but not the bones. Heat the brown sauce with the glaze, sherry, gelatine, and half a teacupful of melted aspic: on no account melt all the aspic, but a little as required. When this sauce is thoroughly mixed, lay the cutlets on a wire pastry stand over a dish, or right on the dish if there is no stand, and pour the sauce over the cutlets to mask them. They must be well coated, so repeat this if necessary. Let this chaudfroid sauce set, then pour over each a little aspic jelly, warmed just sufficiently for it to flow over smoothly; repeat this also if the jelly seems to run off too rapidly. Leave them on ice until cold. Scrape any mixture off the ends of the bones and put a little cutlet frill on each. Put a bed of carefully prepared21 MUTTON AND LAMB salad on an entree dish, arrange the cutlets in a semicircle on it, with a heap of salad mixed with the Mayonnaise sauce in the centre of it. Put round the dish a border of very cold coarsely chopped aspic jelly. Note.—For a more elaborate dish, coat some cutlets with a white chaudfroid sauce; others with the same tinted a delicate green, and the remainder with a tablespoonful of tomato pur^e added to the white chaudfroid sauce. The effect of this is excellent, or white and brown chaudfroid mixed is very effective. If there is no Mayonnaise sauce use any good salad dressing. Mutton or Lamb Cutlets en Papillotes Ingredients— One pound of mutton cutlets. Two slices of cooked ham for each cutlet. Two chopped shallots. Six chopped mushrooms. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Method.—Wash the meat, dry it well, and trim it into neat cutlets with short bones. The ham should be the shape of, but a little larger than, the round lean portion of each cutlet. Melt the butter, put in the shallot, and fry it a light brown; add the mushrooms, parsley, and lemon rind, and cook them for a few minutes longer. Season the mixture carefully and turn it on to a plate to cool. Cut out as many heart-shaped pieces of thick white, or foolscap, paper as there are cutlets and large enough to easily fold them in. Brush these with oil or butter. Lay a slice of the ham on one half of each paper, spread the ham with a little of the savoury mixture and lay a cutlet on it, spread this with more of the mixture and cover with the second slice of ham. Fold the edges of the papers together and roll the edge well over so that no juice can escape. Lay the prepared cutlets on a greased baking tin and bake them in a moderately hot oven for about ten to twelve minutes, according to their thickness. Do not remove the papers, but serve the cutlets in them neatly on a hot dish, with a lace paper under them. A hot sauce may be served with them, or not, as wished. For lamb, mint sauce is appropriate. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Half a level teaspoonful of grated lemon rind. Salt; pepper.212 THE COMPLETE COOK Loin Chops en Papillotes Proceed exactly as for Cutlets, but be careful to trim off all but a thin rim of fat, and allow five or more extra minutes for the baking. Grilled Mutton or Lamb Chops Proceed as for Grilled Steak, using neatly trimmed loin or neck chops. The former will, of course, take a longer time to cook than the latter, which are smaller and thinner. Loin chops will take about ten to fifteen minutes. Serve as directed for the steak. A little cutlet frill may be placed round the end of the bones in the neck chops. Haricot Mutton Proceed as for Stewed Steak, but use a pound and a half of best end or middle of the neck of mutton cut into neat chops. Probably about an hour will be sufficient to make the chops tender. Hot-Pot Ingredients— Two pounds of neck chops. Four sheep’s kidneys. Two pounds of potatoes. One tablespoonful of butter. Half a pound of onions. Stock or water to half fill the pot. Half a pound of mushrooms. Seasoning (a red chilli, if liked). Method.—Wash the chops, trim off any superfluous fat and save it for clarifying. Peel the potatoes, cut them in slices about an inch thick. Wash, stalk, and peel the mushrooms. Peel and slice the onions as thinly as possible. Skin, halve, and core the kidneys. Put a layer of onion in the special hot- pot dish sold for the purpose, then the other ingredients in layers until the dish is full, ending with one of potatoes. Pour in the well-seasoned stock. Put tiny bits of butter here and there on the top. Cover the dish with a piece of thick greased paper, and stand the pot in a moderately hot oven for about three hours. For the last hour remove the paper in order that the potatoes may brown. Send to table in the hot-pot with a clean table napkin neatly pinned round it. Note.—If a veritable “pepper-pot” is required, use one or more red chillies. A dozen sauce oysters are sometimes added to this dish and greatly improve it. The mushrooms and kidneys can be left out for a plainer dish.213 MUTTON AND LAMB Kidneys and Tomatoes Ingredien ts— Four sheep’s kidneys. One rounded tablespoonful of One large tomato. dripping. Eight thin slices of bacon. Salt and pepper. Four small rounds of bread. Method.—Split each kidney open lengthways, without quite dividing it. Remove the skin and white core from the centre. Cut the tomato into four slices. Roll the slices of bacon and put them close together on a skewer. Cook them in the oven until they are slightly coloured. Stamp the bread into rounds the size of the top of a tumbler. Melt the dripping; when a faint smoke rises from it, fry the bread a golden brown. Drain it on paper and keep it hot. Fry the slices of tomato next, until they are just tender. Lay one on each crouton. Put the kidneys into the hot dripping, cut side down ; when one side is nicely browned, fry the other. They will take from five to eight minutes. Lay a kidney on each slice of tomato and two little rolls of bacon on each kidney. Sprinkle them with pepper and serve very hot. Note.—If preferred, mushrooms may be used in place of tomato and toast for fried bread. Lamb en Casserole Ingredients— Two pounds of best end neck of lamb. One rounded tablespoonful of beef dripping. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. One large onion. Two tomatoes. Two sticks of celery. One pint of brown stock. Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. Four tablespoonfuls of port wine. Two teaspoonfuls of red currant jelly. One teaspoonful of chilli vinegar. Salt and pepper. Method.—Wash and dry the meat, divide the neck into neat chops. Peel and slice the onion, cut the celery into thin rings, and slice the tomatoes. Melt the dripping in a frying pan, fry the onion brown, then fry the chops. Put them on a plate. Sprinkle in the flour and brown it carefully, then add the stock and stir it in smoothly till it boils. Put the tomatoes, celery, onion, and parsley in a casserole. Lay the chops on these, with a little salt, pepper, and the vinegar. Pour over the thickened stock. Lay a piece of greased paper over the top of the casserole and put on the lid. Put the casserole in a slow214 THE COMPLETE COOK oven and let it cook very slowly for two and a half hours. Add the wine and jelly and see the gravy is nicely seasoned. Wipe round the top of the casserole with a cloth dipped in hot water. Pin a folded dinner napkin round and serve it at once. Note.—Mutton may be used instead of lamb. Shoulder of Mutton, Stuffed Ingredients— A shoulder of mutton. One and a half breakfastcupfuls of fresh crumbs. One teacupful of chopped suet. Two table§poonfuls of chopped ham. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Two teaspoonfuls of powdered herbs. One egg. Seasoning. Method.—Wash and well dry the joint. Lay it with the curved side turned downwards, and with a sharp knife cut back the flesh from the shoulder bones. Cut it off as cleanly as possible till every piece of bone is removed. Spread the boned meat flat out on the board and dust it with a little salt and pepper. To make the Stuffing: Mix the crumbs, suet, parsley, ham, and herbs with seasoning and the beaten egg. If the latter does not seem sufficient to bind it, add a spoonful or two of milk. Spread this mixture over the cut side of the meat, leaving a margin of about an inch round bare. Roll the joint up from side to side neatly; tie it in shape with tape or string and roast it. (See directions for Roast Meat.) Serve with thick gravy, baked or grilled tomatoes and red currant jelly. Note.—Lamb may also be cooked in this fashion. Leave out the ham in the stuffing if liked. Leg of Mutton, Stuffed and Roasted Ingredients— The same as for Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton. Method.—Proceed as for Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton, but remove the bone without cutting the leg open. Work the flesh back gradually from each end and fill the cavity thus made with the stuffing. Tie a piece of greased paper over each end of the leg to keep the mixture in and roast it. (See directions for Roast Meat.)VEAL 215 VEAL Calf’s Head with Maitre d’Hdtel Sauce Ingredients— Half a small calf’s head. Cold water to cover. One small onion. Half a small carrot and turnip. Two sticks of celery. A small bunch of parsley and herbs. Six peppercorns. Two cloves : three allspice. Salt and pepper. Half a pint of Maitre d’Hotel sauce. Method.—Clean the head thoroughly. Remove the brains and lay them aside in cold water. Put the head to soak in cold salted water for two hours. Next put it in a saucepan with cold water to cover it and a little salt. Let this boil for ten minutes, then pour off and throw away this water. Add more cold water, enough to cover the head, add a little salt, the cleaned vegetables cut in large pieces, the spice tied up in a small piece of muslin, and the bunch of herbs. Let these simmer very gently for about three to four hours. Skim it well. Lift out the head, cut off all the meat in neat large pieces, arrange the required quantity on a hot dish. Pour the hot sauce over and serve very quickly. Note.—The tongue and brains may be used for other dishes. The latter are suitable for invalids, but the texture of the tongue is too close. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped Salt: pepper, shallot. Method.—Wash, wipe, and cut the meat into half-inch dice. Remove all skin or sinews. Melt the butter in a sautd pan, put in the meat and fry it quickly until lightly tinged with brown, add the shallot and also colour that slightly. Sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, add the potatoes cut in cubes like the meat, and turn the mixture gently over the fire for five minutes, —on no account break the potatoes. Pour off as much of the butter as possible and add the cream and tomato pulp, the latter made by rubbing some tomatoes through a fine sieve. Pour all these ingredients into a casserole; season the mixture Veal k la Carmen Ingredients— One pound of fillet of veal. One pound of cooked new potatoes. One tablespoonful of butter. A breakfastcupful of cream. Two tablespoonfuls of tomato pulp or sauce.THE COMPLETE COOK 2i6 carefully and cook it in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Serve in the casserole immediately it is cooked. Note.—Half cream and half white sauce could be used, but it somewhat alters the character of this dish. Chicken and rabbit are also excellent cooked by this recipe. Cassolettes of Veal Ingredients— For the cases— Two breakfastcupfuls of mashed potato. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. For the mixture— Four tablespoonfuls of minced cooked veal. Four tablespoonfuls of minced cooked ham. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. Method.—Mash the potatoes very finely. Stir into the warmed butter the beaten yolk of one egg, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir the mixture over the fire till hot, to cook the egg. Turn it on to a plate and leave it to cool. Shape it into small round cases about one and a half inches high, or press out the potato and stamp out the cases with a cutter. Beat the second egg, brush each case over with it, then roll it lightly in the breadcrumbs. Repeat this egging and crumbing a second time. With a small pastry cutter mark the centre of each case. Fry these cases a light brown in plenty of smoking hot fat. Drain each on paper and remove the marked centre with a knife, carefully scooping out some of the soft potato so as to leave a hollow case. To prepare the Mixture.—Mix the chopped veal, ham, and parsley. Melt the butter, add the shallot and flour and stir them over the fire for a few minutes without browning. Add the milk and stir the sauce until it boils. Let it cool slightly, then put in the meat, stir all together and season it carefully. Fill the cases neatly with the mixture, heaping it a little in the centre. Serve the cassolettes on a lace doyley, garnishing each with a small sprig of parsley or chervil. Note.—Any mixture of game, poultry, meat, or fish may be used, and bacon substituted for ham. Two eggs. White crumbs. Salt and pepper. One and a half gills of milk. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Half a teaspoonful of chopped onion or shallot. Salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste.•J ) ■ iSHAPING QUENELLESVEAL 217 Fillets of Veal with Voting Carrots Ingredients— One pound of fillet of veal. One bunch of new carrots. Four tablespoonfuls of Marsala. Two rounded] tablespoonfuls of butter. Three-quarters of a pint of brown stock. Method.—Wash and dry the meat. Cut it into neat fillets about half an inch thick. Beat each lightly with a knife and trim them into neat rounds the size of the top of a claret glass. Melt the butter in a stewpan, lay in the fillets, sprinkle over them the lemon juice, chopped shallot, and salt and pepper. Turn them about in the butter over a quick fire until they are a pale brown. Add the brown sauce and Marsala, lay a piece of greased paper over them and place the pan in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Scrape and trim the carrots, and cook them in boiling stock or water to which has been added a lump of sugar and a little salt. When they are tender drain off the water. Add the glaze and toss them gently about until it melts and coats them. Arrange the fillets in a circle on a hot dish and place the carrots in the centre. Season the sauce carefully and strain it over and round the fillets. Note.—If new carrots are out of season, cut old ones into large marbles with a round vegetable scoop and treat as directed for the new carrots. Half a pint of brown sauce. A piece of glaze the size of a small walnut. Half a lemon. Salt and pepper. One shallot. Quenelles of Veal {Illustrated) Ingredients— One pound of lean raw veal. Four level tablespoonfuls of flour. One slightly rounded tablespoonful of butter. One teacupful of white stock, milk, or water. Two eggs. One tablespoonful of cream. Salt: pepper : nutmeg. Half a pint of white sauce. A few cooked peas, or other vegetable garnish. Truffle or parsley. Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour smoothly. Add the stock and stir this “ panada ” over a slow fire till it thickens and will leave the sides of the pan without sticking. Chop the veal or put it through a mincing machine; then put it in a mortar with the panada and pound it well. Add one raw egg and pound again, then the second egg, cream, and some seasoning. Pound till smooth and creamy and rubTHE COMPLETE COOK 2I8 the mixture through a wire sieve. Take great care with the seasoning or the quenelles will be insipid. Throw a morsel of the mixture into boiling water, cook it for two or three minutes, taste it, and if too solid and firm beat into the uncooked mixture a little more cream or stock. The consistency is of the greatest importance. Slightly butter a shallow pan. Dip two dessert- spoons into boiling water, fill one with some quenelle mixture, smooth the rounded top with a knife dipped in boiling water, scoop it out with the second spoon (see Illustration) so that the quenelle is egg-shaped. Lay each quenelle as it is shaped in the pan. Fill it three-parts full of boiling water. Lay a piece of greased paper over them. Poach them very slowly for about fifteen minutes. Baste them now and then with the boiling water. Lift them out on to a hot clean cloth to drain. Arrange them on a hot dish, if liked, on a very low bed of mashed potatoes. Pour a good white sauce over and round them. Put a few hot cooked peas, tossed in a little butter, down the centre, and a light decoration of chopped truffle or parsley on each quenelle. Quenelles of Chicken Make exactly as Quenelles of Veal, using raw chicken in place of veal. Quenelles of Rabbit Proceed as for Quenelles of Veal, using raw rabbit. To Prepare Sweetbreads Wash them, and soak them in cold salted water for two hours. Put them into a stewpan with enough cold salted water to cover them and add a squeeze of lemon juice. Let them simmer gently for about eight minutes. When blanched, lift them out and lay them in cold water again to become white and firm. Then remove all gristle and fat and membranes, but not the skin. They can then be pressed until cold, before their cooking is finished, or cooked at once, as the recipe may direct. Calf’s heart sweetbreads are expensive, but lamb’s throat sweetbreads are quite inexpensive and often will answer quite as well, unless a large well-shaped one is requii'ed to serve whole, or in large slices.219 VEAL Fried Sweetbread Ingredients— One large sweetbread. One teaspoonful of chopped One egg. parsley. Breadcrumbs. One tablespoonful of oiled butter. Half a pint of stock : frying fat. Method.—Prepare the sweetbread as already directed, then cook it gently in stock for about forty minutes. Press it until cold between two plates. Then cut it into slices half an inch thick. Beat up the egg, mix it with the warm butter and parsley. Brush each slice of sweetbread over with it, then cover them with crumbs. Fry them a golden brown in hot fat. Drain them on paper and arrange them neatly on a hot dish, garnished with fried parsley. A tureen of some hot piquant sauce is usually served with this entree. Note.—If required to look more elaborate the sweetbread may be arranged on a circle of mashed potato on the dish, the sauce is then poured round, and the centre filled with cooked peas, French beans, or spinach. If served plain, cut lemon and brown bread and butter are popular and suitable accom- paniments to this dish. Lamb’s throat sweetbreads could be used, but will only need a few minutes’ cooking, and will not require to be sliced after the preliminary preparation. The result will not, of course, be so good. Stewed Sweetbread Ingredients— One calfs heart sweetbread. One pint of milk, or white stock and milk in equal proportions. Half a small carrot and onion. A bunch of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. Three teaspoonfuls of cornflour. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. A little lemon juice. Salt and pepper. Method.—Put the sweetbread in a saucepan with cold water to cover it, add a little salt. Bring it to boiling point and let it simmer for five minutes. Then lift it out and lay it in a basin of cold water. This renders it firm and white. Next trim off all the gristly parts. Put the sweetbread in a stewpan with the milk, or stock and milk. Add the cleaned vegetables and herbs, and simmer very gently for three-quarters of an hour. Then place, it on a hot dish and keep it hot while the gravy is being thickened. For this—Mix the cornflour smoothly and thinly with a little220 THE COMPLETE COOK cold milk, strain on to it the milk in which the sweetbread was cooked. Pour the cornflour back into a saucepan, stir it over the fire till it boils, and let it cook slowly for five minutes. Add the parsley, lemon juice, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour some of this sauce carefully over the sweetbread and garnish it with sippets of toast. Note.—Calf’s heart sweetbreads are expensive, though the prices vary considerably, but lamb’s throat sweetbreads are far less expensive and would answer the purpose excellently. Sweetbreads h. la St. James Ingredients— Four lamb’s sweetbreads. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. One gill of milk. One gill of white stock. Two tablespoonfuls of cream. About half a pint of aspic jelly. Two tablespoonfuls of cooked chopped ham. One truffle. About a tablespoonful of Mayon- naise sauce. Seasoning. Method.—Prepare the sweetbreads in the usual way. Cook them in the stock and milk for ten minutes. Save the two latter ingredients, taking out the sweetbreads. Have some small round pastry cutters, just a little larger than the sweet- breads. Stand these on a dish and squeeze a sweetbread into each. Make a sauce of the butter, flour, stock, milk, and cream, and season it well. Mix it with a teacupful of slightly warmed aspic jelly. When this sauce is just beginning to set, pour it over and quite cover each sweetbread set in the rings. Leave until quite cold. Have ready a china, plated, or paper ramekin case for each sweetbread. Put a thin layer of chopped ham, mixed with a little Mayonnaise sauce, into each case. Slip a knife round inside the tin rings. Lift out the sweetbread set in the sauce and press it well into the ramekin case. Decorate the tops prettily with truffle, and fill each up to the brim with aspic jellys, which is just on the point of setting, but will .still flow smoothly. Leave till quite cold. Chop a little aspic very finely, put it into a forcing bag, with a large rose pipe in it, and force a ring round just on the edge of the top layer of jelly. Serve this cold entree on a pretty bed of fresh salad. Note.—Calf’s sweetbread can be used. If there is any rich white sauce already made, use it instead of making fresh. Neat rounds of carefully stewed or braised chicken, pheasant, or even veal, could be substituted for the sweetbreads if more convenient.221 COLD MEAT COOKERY A dainty cold fish entree is made in the same way, using a neat piece of cooked salmon, lobster, turbot, or oysters. Put a little small salad in the case instead of the ham, and if it is a red fish, tint the sauce a delicate pink with anchovy essence or lobster coral. COLD MEAT COOKERY Small Ham Mousses Ingredients— Half a pound of lean cooked ham. Pepper, grated nutmeg, and mace One gill of brown sauce. to taste. Half a pint of melted aspic jelly. Quarter of a pint of cream. Truffle or chilli. Method.—Chop the ham finely; pound it to a paste in a mortar, adding the brown sauce gradually while doing so. Whisk one and a half gills of melted aspic till it is just be- ginning to set, then stir it into the ham mixture, adding pepper, grated nutmeg, and ground mace to taste. If necessary add salt, but probably it will not be required. Whip the cream until it will just hang on the whisk, stir it into the mixture and whisk it gently until the mixture is just thickening. Have ready small china souffle cases with bands of foolscap tied round the top of each. Put in the mixture. Arrange a pretty design in truffle or chilli in the centre of each, then pour in a little melted aspic jelly to the depth of a quarter of an inch. Leave until set. Wet the outside of the paper band with warm water and draw it off carefully. Arrange the souffle cases on a lace paper. Croquettes of Meat, Poultry, etc. higredients— Two barely full breakfastcupfuls'of any cooked chopped meat. One gill of stock. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. Two teaspoonfuls of grated onion. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. For Beef.—One small teaspoonful of made mustard. For Veal.—One small teaspoonful of grated lemon rind. For Muttofi.—One small tea- spoonful of chopped chutney. Salt: pepper : nutmeg. One raw egg : breadcrumbs. Frying fat. Method.—Remove all bones, skin, etc., from the joint and use them to make the stock. Chop the meat very finely and mix it with the onion, parsley, and the particular flavouring222 THE COMPLETE COOK suited to the kind of meat being used. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the strained stock gradually, stirring it all the time until it boils. Cool the sauce for a minute, then add the meat, etc., and season the mixture carefully. It should be of quite a soft creamy consistency, so, should the meat be particularly dry, a little more stock, milk, bottled sauce, or tomato pulp, etc., must be added. Turn the mixture on to a plate until cold. Mark it into even divisions and shape each into round balls, ovals, pear or cork shapes. Flour the hands a little if the mixture sticks. Roll each croquette in the fine dry breadcrumbs, then brush them over with beaten egg, next cover again with crumbs. Fry the croquettes in plenty of smoking fat until they are a bright golden brown. Drain them on paper and serve neatly heaped on a lace paper on a hot dish. Garnish them with fried parsley. A tureen of hot sauce may be served with them if liked. Note.—Pay great attention to the flavouring and consistency of the mixture, or croquettes are most uninteresting. Any variety of poultry, game, or meat is suitable, or two or more kinds mixed. Do not make fresh sauce if there is any left over. For a change roll the egged croquettes in vermicelli, broken rather small, instead of crumbs. For white meats such as chicken, veal, rabbit, and pheasant, use a white sauce, and a little cream is a great improvement, so also are chopped cooked mushrooms, truffle, etc. Should the meat be very dark, egg and crumb the croquettes twice, or the dark brown will show through the crumbs and spoil the appearance. Hash of Cooked Meat Ingredients— About a pound of cooked meat. Two small onions. One small carrot and turnip. A bunch of parsley, herbs, and bay leaf. Four allspice. Two tomatoes. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter or dripping. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. Three-quarters of a pint of cold stock or water. Salt: pepper : nutmeg. Sippets of toast or croutons. Method.—Make stock of the chopped bones and rough pieces of the joint; with the stock, one onion, the rest of the prepared vegetables, and allspice. This should simmer for one hour and then be strained. Chop the second onion finely and fry it and the flour a fairly dark brown in the dripping. AddCOLD MEAT COOKERY 223 the stock gradually if hot, stir it all the time until the sauce boils. Season it carefully, note if the colour is appetising and the consistency that of good cream. Unless these points are correct the dish will be a failure. Cool the sauce a little, then lay in the meat. Cover the pan and let it stand by the side of the fire until the meat is flavoured by the gravy and hot through, but on no account allow it to boil, or the hash will be tough. The meat should remain in the sauce for at least half an hour. Then arrange the slices neatly on a hot dish ; strain the sauce over them and put round a neat border of sippets of toast or fried bread. Mince of Cooked Meat Ingredients— The same as for Hash. Method.—Proceed as for Hash, but cut the meat into very small dice, or it may be chopped finely, or put through a mincing machine. Stir the chopped meat into the sauce and proceed as already directed. Note.—The border may be made of cooked rice, macaroni, spaghetti, haricot beans, mashed potatoes, peas, chopped carrots or cabbage as convenient. Potted Cooked Meat, Game, etc. Ingredien ts— One pound of any cooked meat. Four tablespoonfuls of butter. game, poultry, etc. Salt: pepper : made mustard. Method.—Remove all bone, skin, and gristle from the meat. Pound it to a paste and rub it through a hair sieve. It is best mixed with a little of the oiled butter before pounding it. Season it somewhat highly, cayenne may be added if liked. Add enough oiled butter to make it into a smooth stiff paste. Pack it tightly into small pots. Smooth the top of each and level it. When the butter used for mixing has had time to set, pour some clarified butter over the top, so that the meat is quite covered. Let this butter set, and keep the jars in a cool place until needed. Note.—When ham is used, if there is plenty of fat with it, butter for mixing into the paste will not be required. Beef, game, and fish are better alone, but veal and ham, chicken and tongue, etc., make good combinations.224 THE COMPLETE COOK Meat Porcupine Ingrcdicn ts— One breakfastcupful of chopped cooked ham or bacon. Two breakfastcupfuls of cooked chopped veal, poultry, or lamb. One egg. One teacupful of stock. One teacupful of mashed potato. Three teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. One teaspoonful of lemon juice. Two ounces of raw fat bacon. Method.—Mix the chopped cooked veal and ham, parsley and potato. Add the beaten egg, lemon juice, and enough stock to bind the mixture so that it will not crumble. Season it carefully. Well grease a baking tin. Shape the mixture into the usual form of a galantine. Cut the raw bacon in strips one inch long, and a quarter of an inch wide. Make holes in the meat shape with a skewer, insert the strips of bacon, leaving the ends of it half an inch out. Should the holes be made too large, gently push the meat up round the bacon. Bake in a moderate oven till the roll is hot through and the bacon is browned. Lift it carefully on to a hot dish, and pour round any good brown or tomato sauce. Note.—Chicken, rabbit, or other meat can be used. Tongue instead of ham, and fresh breadcrumbs for the potato. Baked Meat Roll Use the same mixture and make in the same way as for Meat Porcupine, but instead of larding it with bacon brush the surface over with an extra beaten egg, and cover it evenly with browned breadcrumbs. Also add a heaped tablespoonful of dripping to the tin and baste the roll with it frequently. Rissoles of Meat, Game, etc. {Illustrated') Ingredients— About one heaped breakfastcupful of chopped cooked meat. One teacupful of stock. Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One teaspoonful of chopped onion. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. .Salt: pepper ; nutmeg. Half a pound of any pastry. One raw egg. A breakfastcupful of raw vermicelli. Frying fat.RISSOLES TIMBAI.E OF COTJ.) MEATCOLD MEAT COOKERY 225 Method.—Melt the butter and fry the onion a light brown in it. Mix the flour in smoothly ; add the stock and stir this sauce till it boils. Add the parsley, meat, and seasoning, and spread the mixture on a plate to cool. Meantime, roll out the pastry very thinly on a floured board. Stamp it out in rounds the size of the top of a teacup. Place a little heap of the mixture on one half of each round, damp the edges, fold over the other half like a fruit turnover. Press the edges together and trim them with the cutter if they are uneven. Beat up the egg, brush the rissoles over with it and cover them with vermicelli broken up into fairly short lengths. Fry them in smoking hot fat till a golden brown. Drain them on paper. Serve them hot piled up on a lace paper on a hot dish; garnish with fried parsley. A tureen of brown or tomato sauce may be handed with these. Note.—For this dish any scraps or mixture of scraps of cooked meat, game, or poultry can be used. Should there be any made savoury sauce in the larder, use it instead of making fresh. If there are no oddments of pastry to utilise, make half a pound of short pastry. Breadcrumbs are as often used as vermicelli with which to coat the rissoles. Savoury Rolls Ingredients— Twelve finger-shaped rolls. Four tablespoonfuls of chopped cooked veal. Three tablespoonfuls of chopped cooked ham. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Ef?MONDSRr \ One level tablespoonful of flour. One gill of milk. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Salt and pepper. Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the milk and stir over the fire until the sauce boils , and thickens. Mix into it the veal, ham, parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Leave the mixture until cold. Split the rolls in half lengthways. Spread a good layer of the prepared mixture on one half, lay the other half on the top, pressing them well together. Arrange them on a lace paper and serve. Note.—If there is any white sauce left over from a meal, use it instead of making fresh. Any kind of meat, fish, poultry, or game may be used. T5226 THE COMPLETE COOK Scolloped Ingredients— One pound of cooked mutton with- out bone. One breakfastcupful of fresh bread- ^ crumbs. One breakfastcupful of cooked macaroni. Mutton One teacupful of thick tomato or brown sauce. Four tablespoonfuls of oiled butter. Three pickled gherkins. Salt: pepper : nutmeg. Method.—Cut the meat into thin slices free from skin and gristle. Well grease a pie dish, shake it all over with crumbs, and leave a thin layer of the same in the bottom of the dish. Next put in a layer of meat and season it slightly, then some of the macaroni, sauce, and chopped gherkin, and continue these layers until the dish is full. End with a thick layer of crumbs. Sprinkle the surface over with the oiled butter and bake the pie in a quick oven until it is heated through and the crumbs browned. Put a pie dish frill round the dish and serve very hot. Note.—Any kind of meat, game, or poultry is suitable. Bearded oysters can be used instead of macaroni, or stalked and peeled mushrooms, or boiled rice. Baked Meat Souffle Ingredients— One and a halfbreakfastcupfuls of any cooked chopped meat. Two raw eggs. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. One gill of stock from meat trimmings. One gill of milk. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Two teaspoonfuls of grated onion. Salt : pepper ; nutmeg. Method.—Make stock from all bones and rough pieces of the joint. Mince the meat very finely and mix it with the onion and parsley. Melt the butter, stir in the flour smoothly, and add the strained stock and milk gradually. Stir the sauce until it boils thoroughly. Add the meat, etc., and season the mixture carefully. Separate the yolks and whites of egg and add the former to the meat, beating them well in. Next add the whites whipped to a stiff froth. Turn the mixture into a well-buttered fireproof souffle case or a pie dish. Bake it for about twenty minutes in a quick oven. Serve immediately in the souffle case. Some good sauce, such as tomato, mushroom, etc., should be served with it. Note.—Any kind of cooked meat, poultry, game, or fish can be used. Do not make fresh sauce if there is any left over. This dish looks well if baked in small souffle cases.227 COLD MEAT COOKERY Timbale of Cold Meat, Game, Poultry, etc. {Illustrated) Ingt'edients— Two level breakfastcupfuls of cold meat chopped. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of fresh white crumbs. One rounded tablespoonful of dripping or butter. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped onion. One egg and one extra yolk. Half a teacupful of stock. Salt: pepper. About six sticks of macaroni. Half a pint ofbrown sauce. Method.—Thickly butter either a souffle tin, deep cake tin, or basin. Boil the macaroni in salted water till it is tender, but not broken. Drain off the water, rinse the macaroni in cold water, and cut it into thin rings. Arrange these closely and evenly together all over the greased tin, pressing them into the butter. Next melt the butter in a stewpan, add the onion, and fry it a light brown, and strain it out. Mix the meat with the crumbs, parsley, and onion. Beat up the eggs with the stock, stir these in and season, and mix all the ingredients carefully. Put the mixture, a little at a time, gently into the lined tin, so as not to move the rings of macaroni, press each layer down firmly. Twist a piece of greased paper over the top and steam the timbale for half an hour. Takeoff the paper, gently slip the shape on to a hot dish; remove any grease from the top with soft paper and strain round some of the hot brown sauce. Note.—Any mixture of meat, game, or poultry is suitable. Fish can also be substituted. Cooked peas, rings of carrot, etc., give an excellent effect instead of macaroni. Small dariole moulds can be used instead of a large one; if these are done alternately with macaroni and peas they look well. If time is an object, only decorate the top of the tin and about half an inch down the sides; it will look very well. Melton Ingredients— One lightly filled breakfastcup of cooked chopped veal. One teacupful of cooked chopped ham. Six tablespoonfuls of fresh bread- crumbs. One teaspoonful of grated onion. Veal One teaspoonful of grated lemon rind. One teaspoonful of made mustard. Half a teacupful of gravy or sauce. One raw e!gg. Three hard-boiled eggs. Salt : pepper ; nutmeg. Method.—Shell and slice the eggs in rings. Thickly butter a plain round mould and line it with slices of egg, pressingTHE COMPLETE COOK 228 them gently into the butter so that it will hold them in position. Mix the chopped veal and ham with the crumbs, onion, lemon rind, mustard, and the egg beaten up with the gravy. Season the mixture carefully and press it down gently but firmly into the mould, taking care not to disarrange the egg. Cover the top with a piece of greased paper, and put a lid with a weight on it over the paper to keep the mixture pressed together. Steam it for about three-quarters of an hour. Then slip it out of the mould and leave it until cold. Note.—Veal or rabbit may be used and tongue instead of ham.CHAPTER XI POULTRY To Prepare Poultry for Cooking Method.—k\\ poultry should be dressed as soon as killed. The feathers come out more easily when the fowl is warm, and when stripped off towards the head. If the skin be very tender, pull the feathers out the opposite way. Use a knife to remove the pin feathers. Singe the hairs and down by holding the fowl over a gas-jet, or over a roll of lighted paper held over the fire. Cut off the head, and if the fowl is to be roasted, slip the skin back from the neck and cut the neck off close to the body, leaving skin enough to fold over on the back. Remove the windpipe; pull the crop away from the skin on the neck and breast, and cut off close to the opening into the body. Be careful not to tear the skin. Always pull the crop out from the end of the neck, rather than through a cut in the skin, which if made has to be sewn together. Cut through the skin about two inches below the leg joint; bend the leg at the cut by pressing it on the edge of the table and break off the bone. Then pull, not cut, out the tendons. If care be taken to cut only through the skin, these cords may be pulled out easily, one at a time, with the fingers. Or take them all out at once, by putting the foot of the fowl against the casing of a door, then shut the door tightly and pull on the leg. The tendons will come out with the foot; but if once cut they cannot be removed. The drumstick of a roast chicken or turkey is greatly improved by removing the tendons, which always become hard and bony in baking. There is a special advantage in cutting the leg below the joint, as the ends of the bones afford more length for tying, and after roasting these are easily broken off, leaving a clean, unburned joint for the table.230 THE COMPLETE COOK Chicken en Casserole Ingredients— Cold chicken in neat joints. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. One pint of stock from the chicken bones. Two shallots. The rind of one lemon. A sprig of thyme and parsley. One glass of port wine. Salt and pepper. Method.—Put the stock in a stewpan with all bones and trimmings from the chicken, peeled shallots, the thinly pared rind of the lemon and the herbs. Let these simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Melt the butter in a frying pan, stir in the flour and brown it carefully. Strain in the stock gradually, stirring it all the time. Let it boil, then add the wine and seasoning. Pour the gravy into the casserole, add the pieces of chicken and let the bird heat very gently, on no account must it be allowed to boil. It should cook at least for half an hour, so that the meat becomes well flavoured. Serve in the casserole. Note.—The wine may be left out if desired. Chaudfroid of Chicken Ingredients— One cold-boiled fowl. Three - quarters of a pint of Bechamel sauce. A pint of aspic jelly. Half a teacupful of Mayonnaise sauce. A small truffle. One lettuce. Two inches of cucumber. A few sprigs of endive. Method.—When the chicken is cold cut it into neat small joints and remove all skin. Trim off any rough edges and lay the joints on a wire pastry stand, or on a dish. Warm the sauce, strain it if it has been allowed to stand, and add to it a teacupful of warmed aspic jelly. Make sure that the sauce is well seasoned and stir it until it is cool, but not set. Pour a spoonful or so smoothly over each joint of chicken, so as to mask each piece completely and evenly. If they are not well covered, coat them a second time, warming the chaudfroid sauce if necessary. Have the truffle cut into pretty shapes such as crescents, diamonds, etc., and arrange a few pieces artistically on each joint. Gently pour over these decorations a small spoonful of slightly warmed aspic, taking care not to move the truffle. Let this set in a cool place for about an hour. Carefully wash and dry the lettuce,231 POULTRY mix it with a little Mayonnaise sauce. Set the rest of the aspic on the ice to become very cold, then chop it rather coarsely. Cut the cucumber in thin slices and then across in half. Heap the salad in the centre of an entree dish, arrange the pieces of chicken round it, and garnish the dish with a few sprigs of endive, a border of chopped aspic, and an edging of the half slices of cucumber bent together so as to represent a scolloped border. Note.—The fowl may be left whole if desired, the breast being handsomely decorated with truffle, shapes in cut aspic jelly, etc. Instead of truffle, sprigs of chervil may be used, or shapes of radishes or beetroot. If it is not convenient to use aspic jelly, dissolve three sheets of gelatine in the white sauce, adding a little tarragon vinegar to flavour it, then strain the sauce and use it for coating as directed. The decorations cannot then be set with the warmed aspic, but the effect is still very good. Chaudfroid of Turkey Proceed as for the Chaudfroid of Chicken, but usually the bird is boned, stuffed, made into a galantine, boiled and then masked and decorated. Quite twice as much or even more sauce will be required. Crepinettes Ingredients— One and a half breakfastcupfuls of chopped chicken. One barely full breakfastcup of chopped tongue. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. One egg and two extra yolks. of Chicken One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Half a teaspoonful of chopped shallot. One gill of white stock or milk. Salt, pepper, and nutmeg. A little lemon juice. Pig’s caul. Breadcrumbs. Method.—Melt the butter and fry the chopped shallot in it for a few minutes without colouring it. Stir in the flour smoothly, add the milk or stock, and stir over the fire until it boils well. Then put in the chicken, tongue, and parsley. Beat up the two yolks and add them with a dust of nutmeg, salt, pepper, and lemon juice to taste. Make the mixture hot without boiling it, then turn it on to a plate to cool. Next shape it into even-sized cork-like shapes,232 THE COMPLETE COOK wrap each in a small square of the caul, having first thoroughly washed it in cold salted water. Brush these over with beaten egg and cover them with crumbs. Fry them a delicate brown in plenty of fat from which a faint blue smoke is rising. Drain them on paper. Serve on a lace paper garnished with fried parsley. Note.—Tomato sauce is an excellent accompaniment to this dish. Any kind of roast game maybe used in this manner. Chicken and Macaroni Cutlets Ingredients— One breakfastcupful of chopped cooked chicken. One heaped tablespoonful of chopped ham. One breakfastcupful of boiled macaroni cut in inch lengths. One tablespoonful of grated cheese. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. One gill of stock or milk. One egg. Breadcrumbs. Salt and pepper. Fried parsley. Method.—Chop the chicken and ham finely and cut the macaroni into thin rings. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the stock, and stir the mixture over a slow fire till it thickens and does not stick to the sides of the pan. Add the chopped meats, cheese, macaroni, and seasoning. Turn the mixture on to a plate to cool, then shape it into neat cutlets. Brush each one with beaten egg and cover it with crumbs. Fry them in fat from which a faint bluish smoke is rising, till they are a golden brown. Drain them on paper, place a short piece of parsley stalk in the end of each and arrange them on a lace paper on a hot dish. Garnish with bunches of fried parsley. Note.—Cold turkey or rabbit may be used in the same way and tongue substituted for ham. Galantine Ingredients— One large fowl. Six pork sausages. Two hard-boiled eggs. One barely full breakfastcup of chopped ham or tongue. of Chicken A piece of glaze the size of a large walnut. A little aspic jelly. Salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Method.—First bone the fowl; to do this cut off the head, then cut the bird down the back to the bone and slowly work233 POULTRY all the flesh off the bones with a sharp knife until only the carcase is left. Take care not to slit the skin. Draw the flesh of the wings and legs outside, turning them inside out like a stocking. Draw out all sinews possible. Skin the sausages and season the meat with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Place the boned fowl on the table, spread a layer of sausage meat all over the flesh, on this lay alternate strips of tongue and hard-boiled egg from the head to tail of the fowl. Cover these with more sausage meat and roll the bird up from side to side like a roly-poly. Next roll it in a clean pudding cloth, tie the ends securely with string and cook it gently in the stockpot for about one and a half hours or more according to its size. Re-roll it tightly in the cloth. Place it between two baking tins with weights on the upper one, and leave it till cold. Next trim a slice off each end, brush it all over except the ends with melted glaze, and decorate it with diamond shapes of aspic jelly and piped butter. Note.—Pheasant and turkey may be treated in the same way. If preferred the galantine may be masked with chaudfroid sauce instead of glaze. Chicken a la Ingredients— One good-sized chicken. One gill of salad oil. Half a pint of brown sauce. Two tomatoes. Two shallots. Marengo Two tablespoonfuls of Marsala. Eight button mushrooms. A few slices of lemon. Salt and pepper. Method.—Cut the chicken into neat joints. Heat the oil in a stewpan, put in the pieces of chicken and fry them quickly till they are lightly browned, then add the finely chopped shallots. Pour the oil off into another pan and add the sauce to the chicken, also the pulp of the tomatoes and the mushrooms and a sprinkling of salt and pepper. Put on the lid and let these simmer gently for about one hour. Arrange the chicken neatly on a silver dish, put the mushroom in little heaps round with the slices of lemon between. Season the sauce carefully, add the wine, and pour it over. Note.—Fleurons, that is small crescent-shaped pieces of puff pastry baked a delicate fawn colour, are a pretty garnish for this dish. Bottled or tinned mushrooms may be used in place of fresh. Rabbits may be served in the same way.234 THE COMPLETE COOK Medallions of Chicken Ingredients—■ Slices of cooked chicken and A little foie-gras. tongue. Chaudfroid sauce. Two truffles. Aspic jelly. Two large chillies. Method.—^With a plain round cutter about two and a half inches in diameter, stamp out rounds of chicken and tongue; they should be barely a quarter of an inch thick. It may be necessary to patch up the rounds of chicken to obtain a circle; if so, do it very neatly. Chop up the trimmings of chicken and ham, then pound them in a mortar, adding the foie-gras, a little chopped truffle and salt and pepper. When these are all well pounded, rub the mixture through a sieve. Next spread some of it on one side of each round of chicken. Place each round of chicken on one of tongue, then coat both carefully with some of the chaudfroid sauce. Let this set, then pour over a second coat. Cut the truffle and chillies into small crescents or stars, and arrange them in any pretty design on the top of each medallion, keeping them in place with a few drops of aspic. Pour a little melted aspic over each, leave [till set, then arrange them on a bed of salad and serve. Chicken Ingredients— One pound of puff pastry. Half a cold chicken. Two breakfastcupfuls of dice oi ham. Patties Half a pint of white sauce. Salt, pepper, and grated nut- meg. One tablespoonful of cream. One teaspoonful of lemon juice. Method.—Cut the pastry into rounds about half an inch thick and two and a half inches in diameter; then with a cutter an inch in diameter, stamp half-way through the rounds of pastry. Bake them in a quick oven a delicate biscuit colour. Remove the tops carefully and keep them, and scoop out all the soft part from inside the cases. Cut the chicken and ham into small dice; mix them with the white sauce and the cream and lemon juice, season carefully. Make the mdxture hot, fill in each case, replace the little tops of pastry and serve them hot or cold. Note.—A mixture of cooked veal and ham or tongue can be substituted for the chicken if wished.235 POULTRY Ramekins of Chicken, etc. Ingredients— Three rounded tablespoonfuls of cooked chicken. One tablespoonful of chopped ham. One dessertspoonful of butter. One dessertspoonful of flour. Method.—Chop the chicken and ham finely. Melt the butter, stir in the flour smoothly. Add the stock or milk and stir the mixture over a gentle heat till it boils. Add the chicken and ham and season the mixture very carefully. Pound all together for a few minutes. Whip the cream till it will just hang on the whisk, then stir it very lightly into the mixture. Put it into some small buttered ramekin cases, and bake them in a quick oven for about five minutes, or till they are set and hot through. If they are not nicely browned on the top, sprinkle them with a few browned crumbs. Serve them in the cases. Note.—Any white meat, poultry, or game can be used. Roast Duck Proceed as directed for Roast Goose, but allow only about forty-five to sixty minutes for roasting it. Two tablespoonfuls of cream. One gill of white stock or milk. Salt and pepper. Lemon juice and nutmeg. Browned crumbs. Boiled Ingredients— One fowl. One large slice of fat bacon. Two onions. One carrot and turnip. Two sticks of celery. Fowl A bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay leaf. Half a lemon. Six peppercorns. Three cloves. A blade of mace. Method.—Have the fowl trussed for boiling. Rub it over with the lemon. Cut a few slits in the bacon and tie it over the breast of the bird, then wrap it up in a piece of buttered paper. Wash and prepare the vegetables and cut them in halves, tie the spice in a piece of muslin and the herbs in a bunch. Put these in a stewpan large enough to hold the bird easily and add enough hot water to about half fill the pan. When the water boils, put in the chicken and let it simmer very gently for about one to one and a half hours. Then take off the bacon and paper. Wipe the fowl with a soft clean cloth and serve it on a236 THE COMPLETE COOK hot dish. Mask it with some good sauce. Egg or plain white sauce is suitable. Note.—The fowl may be boiled in the stockpot; it is then not necessary to use the vegetables, herbs, and spice. Roast Fowl Ingredients— One fowl. A little butter, or good dripping. One slice of fat bacon. Method.—Put a piece of butter the size of a walnut in the bird, this prevents it getting dry. Slit the bacon once or twice, then tie it over the breast of the bird, which should be trussed for roasting. Wrap it in a piece of buttered paper and either hang it before a clear sharp fire, or put it in a quick oven. Cook it for about half an hour, more or less, according to size. Baste it well and often ; for the last eight minutes remove the paper and bacon ; sprinkle it with a little flour, baste it well, and let it brown nicely. Serve on a hot dish, garnished with neat rolls of bacon. Hand with it some good gravy and bread sauce. Roast Goose with Sage and Onion Stuffing Ingredients— A goose. One rounded tablespoonful of Three Spanish onions. butter. One heaped breakfastcupful of Salt: pepper: castor sugar; fresh breadcrumbs. nutmeg. One tablespoonful of powdered sage leaves. Method.— To make the Sage and Onion Stuffing: Peel, thickly slice, and par-boil the onions for five minutes. Strain off the water, add fresh, and boil the onions until half-cooked. Take them out of the water, chop them finely, and mix them with the dried and powdered sage leaves, crumbs, warmed butter, and seasoning. Wipe the goose inside with a clean damp cloth, put the stuffing into the body of the bird and close the ends neatly. Tie a piece of greased paper over the breast for the first half-hour, and roast or bake the bird for about an hour and a half to two hours, for a medium-sized bird. Baste it well, and nearly at the last dredge the breast with flour, then baste it again and finish cooking. Serve with apple sauce and thick gravy. Note.—This sage and onion stuffing is also used for roast duck or pork.237 POULTRY Roast Guinea-Fowl Ingredients— One guinea-fowl. A little butter or dripping. Larding bacon. Method.—Having larded the guinea-fowl carefully, proceed as for Roast Fowl. Braised Duck Ingredients— One good-sized duck. Two carrots. One turnip. One onion. Two sticks of celery. A bunch of parsley, thyme, mar- joram, and bay leaf. with Turnips Three-quarters of a pint of good brown stock. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. A dozen young turnips. Four slices of ham or bacon. Selt, pepper, and nutmeg. Method.—Wash and cut the old vegetables in large pieces. Pnt them in a deep stewpan which has a closely fitting lid. On these place half the ham, then the duck trussed for roasting, and lastly the rest of the ham. Add the herbs, stock, and a dust of salt and nutmeg. Lay a piece of buttered paper over the top, then the lid, and let it simmer very gently for about an hour, or until the duck feels tender. Meantime wash and prepare the turnips. Melt the butter, put in the turnips and toss them in it over the fire till they are a golden colour. Drain off the butter, then cook them till soft in enough brown stock to cover them. When the duck is cooked, remove the string and skewers. Put it on a hot dish, arrange the turnips round. Skim the stock in which the turnips were cooked, also that in which the duck was braised, put both together, reboil them till they are of a sauce- like consistency. Season to taste and strain them over the duck. Note.—If new turnips are not obtainable, use old ones, but cut them into small pieces, as much as possible the shape of new ones. Ducklings may be cooked in this way. Pigeons k Ingredients— Two Bordeaux pigeons. Half a pound of calfs liver. Four large tablespoonfuls of chopped bacon. One small shallot or onion. One egg. Breadcrumbs. Salt and pepper. la Medicis One gill of brown sauce. Half a gill of cooked button mushrooms. Carrots and turnips. Two tablespoonfuls of mashed potato. One rounded tablespoonful of butter.238 THE COMPLETE COOK Method.—Split the pigeons in halves, cutting right down to the backbone. Take out the breast bones and flatten the birds by beating them slightly. Draw the skin neatly over the cut side. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the birds the cut side downwards, put a tin on the top with a weight on it to keep the halves flat. Cook them for about ten minutes, then press them between two plates till cold. Wash the liver and slice it finely. Chop the shallot, fry it and the bacon a light brown, then add the liver and salt and pepper. Fry these over the fire for four or five minutes. Then pound them well and rub them through a wire sieve. Spread a layer of this mixture on the cut side of each half of pigeon, smoothing it into a neat rounded shape with a knife dipped in hot water. Put a thin layer also on the uncut side. Brush each half with beaten egg and cover it with crumbs. Fry them in deep fat, so hot that a faint smoke is rising from it. Arrange them on a semi- circle of mashed potato on a hot dish, pour the hot brown sauce round and garnish with the mushrooms, carrots, and turnips cut in shreds. Stewed Pigeon and Spaghetti Ingredients— One small pigeon. One rounded tablespoonful of spaghetti. One level teaspoonful of flour. One rounded dessertspoonful of butter. Method.—Cut the pigeon into neat joints. Put the stock in a pan on the fire ; when it boils lay in the pigeon, the onion with the clove stuck into it, and the carrot. Let these simmer gently from an hour to an hour and a half, or till the bird is tender. Boil the .spaghetti in boiling salted water, until it is half cooked. Then drain off the water, put the spaghetti with the pigeon to finish cooking. Melt the butter in a pan, add the flour and brown it very carefully. Strain off the stock from the pigeon and add it gradually to the flour, stirring it all the time till it boils. Add enough stock to make the gravy of a good flowing consistency. Season it carefully and strain it over the pigeon and spaghetti. Make it thoroughly hot and arrange it on a hot dish. Note.—Macaroni may be used instead of spaghetti if more convenient. Half a pint of brown stock. One small onion. One clove. A small piece of carrot. Salt and pepper.POULTRY Two teaspoonfuls of powdered 239 Salt and pepper. Rabbit en Casserole Proceed as for Chicken en Casserole, using rabbit cut in neat joints, and adding two or three slices of bacon cut in strips or dice. jsiote.—The wine can be omitted if preferred. Roast Rabbit {Illustrated) Ingredients— One rabbit. One level breakfastcupful of fresh breadcrumbs. Four tablespoonfuls of chopped suet. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. herbs. Method.—Wash the rabbit well in tepid water, dry it, and rub it over with flour. To make the Stuffifig: Mix the crumbs, suet, parsley, herbs, lemon rind, and seasoning with one raw beaten egg. Should this forcemeat be crumbly, a spoonful of milk may be necessary. Fill the rabbit with half this mixture and sew the edges of the flesh over it. Truss the rabbit for roasting and wrap it up in a piece of greased paper to prevent it drying during the cooking. Place the rabbit on a deep baking tin in the oven with a few pieces of dripping. Bake it for about three- quarters to an hour, according to its size. Baste it frequently. Twenty minutes before it is cooked, remove the paper in order to let it brown. Make the rest of the forcemeat into balls the size of marbles. Egg, crumb, and fry these. When the rabbit is cooked, remove all skewers, string, etc., place it on a hot dish with some of the hot brown sauce poured round. Put the force- meat balls and rolls of bacon round. Serve the rest of the sauce in a hot tureen. To cook the bacon cut very thin slices, roll these up, thread them closely together on a skewer and bake them in the oven till they are lightly browned. Note.—If liked, all the forcemeat may be put into the body of the rabbit. Spatchcock Ingredients— One fowl. Half a teaspoonful of chopped One tablespoonful of butter. onion. One teaspoonful of chopped Salt and pepper, parsley. A few browned crumbs. One teaspoonful of grated lemon rind. Two raw eggs. Four ounces of bacon. Breadcrumbs and fat for frying. Three-quarters of a pint of brown sauce.THE COMPLETE COOK 240 Method.—Cut the fowl straight down through the backbone, but not through the breast. Wipe it with a damp cloth. Season it well inside and out with salt and pepper. Open it out quite flat like a book and keep it in place with two skewers. Brush it all over with the melted butter and sprinkle it with the chopped parsley and onion. Grill it before, or over, a clear fire for about twenty minutes, turn it frequently, and just before it is done, sprinkle over it a few brown crumbs. Remove the skewers and serve it very hot, with tomato or any other piquant sauce. Note.—Pigeons, pheasants, partridges, and grouse may all be treated in this manner with excellent results. Boiled Turkey Proceed as for Boiled Fowl, but it will require considerably longer cooking. Allow fifteen minutes to each pound the bird weighs. It is usual to stuff turkeys either with a veal, sausage, or oyster farce. Devilled Legs Ingredients— The legs of a cooked turkey. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One teaspoonful each of French and English made mustard. Method.—Chop off the ends of the “ drumsticks,” gash each across several times. Brush them over with the melted butter. Mix together the mustards, peppers, salt, and chutney, then spread this mixture over the legs. Sprinkle them with a few crumbs and grill them over a clear sharp fire till they are crisp and well browned. Serve them on a hot dish with a few tiny bits of butter placed here and there. Note.—If preferred, the chutney and French mustard may be omitted, merely using pepper and ordinary mustard. of Turkey One teaspo’onful of chutney. Salt: cayenne and black pepper. A few browned crumbs.CHAPTER XII GAME HOW TO ROAST DIFFERENT VARIETIES OF GAME A Few General Hints Endeavour not to break the skin of the birds when plucking them. Game should never be washed inside or out, merely wiped with a clean cloth slightly damped. The birds should be kept in shape by using string when trussing them, not skewers, if they can be avoided. Birds that are badly shot cannot be hung for any length of time, as they soon become uneatable. Waterfowl of all descriptions are best cooked and eaten when freshly killed. Woodcock also deteriorate if kept for long. Prevent the breasts of game becoming dry during the process of roasting, by tying a slice of fat bacon over them. Cut a few slits in the bacon to prevent it curling up. As game lacks fat in itself, it needs special attention as regards the basting, or it becomes dry and shrivelled. The sauce and gravy for roast game are served separately, never poured into the dish. Carefully fried potatoes in any form should be served with all varieties of roast game. How Long to Roast Various Kinds of Game As a rule game is preferred by the majority slightly under, not over cooked ; the exact opposite to poultry. Exceptions to this rule are, however, made for pheasant and partridge. Blackcock require about 45 to 60 minutes Capercailzie „ „ 45 „ 60 „ t6242 THE COMPLETE COOK Duck,wild,require about 25 to 30 minutes Grouse n if 30 » 35 Hare I i- hours to 2 hours Landrail if if 12 to 20 minutes Larks fr if 10 12 Leverets 40 ,, SO Ortolans i) if 15 ,, 20 Partridges 25 ,, 35 Pheasants if if 30 » 45 Plovers 15 » 20 Ptarmigan 30 ,, 35 Quail if if 10 ,, 15 Reeves 10 12 Ruffs 10 ,, 12 Snipe if if 15 ,, 20 Teal a if 20 ” 30 Venison, large haunch of buck vension in paste about 4 to 5 hours Venison, large haunch of doe venison in paste about 3 to 3| hours Without paste allow a shorter time Wheatears require about 10 to 12 minutes Widgeon „ ,, 15 ,, 20 „ Woodcock „ „ 20 „ 25 „ Roast Capercailzie Use the same ingredients and method as for Roast Grouse, but to improve the flavour put about four ounces of raw beef steak inside the bird. This meat is removed before serving, and it can then be used for some preparation of cold meat. The bird will require about forty-five to sixty minutes to roast. Roast Grouse Ingredients— One brace of grouse. Half a teaspoonful of salt. Two slices of raw fat bacon. Half a saltspoonful of black Two slices of toast. pepper. A level tablespoonful of butter. A few drops of lemon juice. Method.—Have the birds prepared for roasting. Mix the butter, salt, pepper, and lemon juice, and -put half of it inside each bird. Tie a slice of bacon over the breast of the birds and roast them before a clear sharp fire for about thirty to thirty-243 GAME five minutes. Baste them frequently with butter pr good beef dripping. About ten minutes before the roasting is completed remove the bacon, dredge the breasts of the birds with a little flour, and baste them with butter. At the same time put the slices of neatly trimmed toast under the birds in the dripping tin. When cooked, remove any string or skewers, lay the topt on a hot dish, place a grouse on each slice, and garnish the dish with heaps of fried crumbs and sprigs of washed watercress sprinkled with a few drops of salad oil and salt and pepper. Serve with them strong well-flavoured gravy and bread sauce. Roast Grouse k la Rob Roy Ingredients— A brace of grouse. Some sprigs of fresh heather. Two slices of raw fat bacon. Method.—Prepare the birds in the usual way for roasting. Wrap them in slices of fat bacon and sprigs of heather, and roast them according to the instructions given for Roast Grouse. Roast Ingredients— One young hare. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of fresh crumbs. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of chopped suet. Two teaspoonfuls each of chopped and powdered parsley, mar- joram, lemon thyme, and grated lemon rind. Method.—Prepare the hare for roasting; save the liver, having carefully removed from it the gall bladder. Prepare the forcemeat by mixing the crumbs, suet, herbs, finely chopped liver, shallot, seasoning, and enough beaten egg to mix them all stiffly. Fill the hare with this forcemeat, saving about two tablespoonfuls out of it for forcemeat balls. Sew up the skin over the forcemeat with a needle and strong cotton. Truss it into shape and tie slices of slitted bacon all over the back. Roast the hare before a clear bright fire, not putting it too close at first. Begin at once to baste it with the milk, to which two large tablespoonfuls of dripping should be added ; frequent basting is needed. The time required is usually about one and a half to two hours. When the hare is about three parts Hare One teaspoonful of chopped shallot. Two eggs. Pepper and salt. Slices of fat bacon. Half a pint of milk. Butter or beef dripping.244 THE COMPLETE COOK cooked, remove the bacon, dredge the hare lightly with flour, and baste it well with butter. When sufficiently cooked remove the strings, etc. Lay the hare on a hot dish garnished with small egged, crumbed, and fried forcemeat balls, cut lemon and a little gravy poured round. Serve with it a tureen of good strong gravy, red currant, cranberry, or rowan jelly and, if liked, port wine sauce. Some people also like bread sauce as an accompaniment. Roast Leveret These are cooked in a similar manner to Roast Hare, but they do not require to be stuffed. The time usually required is about forty to fifty minutes. Roast Larks Let those who can bring themselves to eat these little songsters, prepare and cook them by the same instructions as given for Roast Wheatears. Roast Partridge The ingredients and method are the same as directed for Roast Grouse. Roast Blackcock Use the same ingredients and method as for Roast Grouse, but allow about forty-five to sixty minutes for the cooking. Roast Ptarmigan Follow the directions and method given for Roast Grouse. Roast Pheasant higredients— One pheasant. A slice of fat bacon. Four ounces of raw beef steak. Watercress : butter or dripping. Method.—A few of the tail feathers should be saved to push into the bird after it is roasted. Put the piece of beef steak inside the bird,—this keeps it moist and improves its flavour. Remove the meat before it is served, and use it for some dish of cold meat. Tie the slice of slitted bacon over its breast. Roast the pheasant before a quick clear fire for about thirty to forty-five minutes, according to its size. Baste it frequently with butter or good beef dripping. When the cooking is about three parts done, remove the bacon and dredge the bird lightlyGAME 245 with flour, and baste it with butter, as this gives it a crisp frothed appearance. Then remove the string, skewers, and beef; place the bird on a hot dish; insert the tail feathers and garnish the dish with tufts of washed watercress seasoned with salt, pepper, and a few drops of salad oil. Serve with the bird fried crumbs, bread sauce, and good brown gravy. Note.—The beef can be omitted if liked and a lump of butter mixed with salt and pepper placed inside the bird. The pheasant can be larded if preferred, it is then not necessary to cover the breast with bacon. Roast Quails Ingredients— One quail for each person. A slice of raw fat bacon. A vine leaf, and A slice of toast for each quail. For every two birds allow One level tablespoonful of butter. One teaspoonful of chopped shallot. Two teaspoonfuls of melted glaze. Salt and pepper. Method.—Lay the livers of the birds aside. Brush the quails over with warmed butter, then lay over the breast of each a fresh vine leaf if procurable, and a slice of slitted bacon ; secure these with string. Roast them in a Dutch oven if possible, before a quick clear fire, for about ten to fifteen minutes. Baste them frequently with a little extra butter. Melt the tablespoonful of butter in a pan, add to it the chopped livers of the birds, the shallot, and a little salt and pepper. Stir all these over a slow fire until the livers are cooked, pro- bably they will take about four or five minutes. Then pound the mixture and add the glaze. Spread this paste on some neat pieces of toast or fried bread, a piece for each quail. Heat them in the oven. Lay each cooked quail, with the vine leaf and bacon removed, on one of the pieces, and arrange them on a hot dish. Garnish them with washed and seasoned watercress. Hand with them fried crumbs and good gravy. Roast Ortolans Cook and serve as directed for Roast Quails. Roast Snipe Ingredients— Snipe (one for each person). A piece of toast for each bird. A slice of fat bacon, and Butter. Method.—These birds, like woodcock, should not be drawn. Skin and leave the heads on and use the birds’ long beaks to246 THE COMPLETE COOK truss them with, instead of a skewer. Brush them over with warmed butter, and tie a slice of fat slitted bacon over the breast of each. These and similar small birds may with advantage be hung in a Dutch oven before a clear sharp fire. Put the toast in the tin under the birds. Baste them frequently, allowing about fifteen to twenty minutes for cooking. For the last five minutes remove the bacon. Serve each bird on a slice of toast; arrange them on a hot dish ; garnish with washed and seasoned cress. Serve with them quarters of lemon and good gravy. Follow the directions given for the ingredients and method for Roast Snipe. Add a little port wine, or claret, and lemon juice to the gravy which is to accompany them. Roast Teal Follow the directions given for Roast Wild Duck, allowing about twenty to thirty minutes for the roasting. Method.—Trim off the feet, remove the gizzards, and truss them in shape all on one long skewer, pushing it in, so as to secure the bacon over the breast of each, and also keep the birds in a compact shape. Brush them over with warmed butter. Roast them before a sharp clear fire for about ten to twelve minutes, basting them frequently. Put the toast under the birds in the dripping tin to catch the gravy from them. When they are cooked, draw out the skewer ; remove the bacon and place each bird on a piece of toast. Arrange them in a circle on a hot dish garnished with watercress and quarters of lemon. Potato straws may be heaped in the centre. Fried crumbs should be handed separately. Ruffs and Reeves Cook and serve these in the same way as directed for Roast Wheatears. Roast Plovers Roast Wheatears Ingredients— Six wheatears. Six small thin slices of fat bacon. Six oval pieces of buttered toast. Butter. Watercress. Lemon.GAME 247 Roast Wild Duck Ingredients— One wild duck. One rounded tablespoonful of Flour. Watercress. Lemon. butter. Method.—Hang the trussed bird before a quick clear fire. Baste it well with the butter. Roast it for about twenty-five to thirty minutes. About ten minutes before the cooking is finished, dust the breast over with a little flour and then baste it again. Serve the bird on a hot dish, garnished with washed and seasoned watercress and quarters of lemon. Port wine sauce and orange salad usually accompany this dish. Roast Widgeon Proceed exactly as for Roast Wild Duck, but usually fifteen to twenty minutes is sufficient time for cooking. Use the same ingredients and method as directed for Roast Snipe. Usually twenty to twenty-five minutes is required for cooking, unless it is desired that they are served decidedly underdone. Roast Woodcock with Oyster Stuffing Ingredients— A brace of woodcock. One rounded tablespoonful of A dozen oysters. butter. Two yolks of eggs. Half a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of Half a gill of milk. Method.—Beard the oysters, then cut each in quarters. Put the crumbs into a basin, add to them the beaten yolks, the butter slightly warmed, and enough milk to well bind the mixture. Add the oysters, the lemon juice, and salt and pepper to taste. Draw the birds, stuff them carefully, and sew them up with fine string. Tie a piece of fat bacon over the breast of each, and either roast them before a clear fire or in a quick oven from thirty to thirty-five minutes. Keep them well basted. For the last ten minutes of cooking remove the bacon, so that the breast may brown nicely. Arrange each bird on a slice of hot buttered toast and hand with them a tureen of good gravy, some fried crumbs, and bread sauce. Roast Woodcock breadcrumbs. Salt and pepper.248 THE COMPLETE COOK Roast Haunch of Venison Ingredients— A haunch of venison. Beef dripping. Flour. About four tablespoonfuls of butter. Water. Method.—When the meat has been sufficiently hung, wipe it well with a clean cloth, trim off any rough pieces, and brush the haunch well over with some warmed dripping: then roll it up in a well-greased paper. Make a stiff paste of flour and cold water, roll it out about three-quarters of an inch thick, and cover the venison all over with it. Over this tie another piece of greased paper. These precautions are necessary to preserve the fat from burning or being overcooked before the lean is roasted. If a large haunch of buck venison, roast or bake it for about four to five hours, one of doe venison will take usually about three to three and three-quarter hours. Baste the joint well during cooking. About half an hour before the cooking is completed, remove the papers and paste, dredge the meat lightly with flour, and baste it well with butter. Then serve the haunch on a hot dish, fasten a paper frill round the knuckle bone, and serve it as quickly as possible, as venison fat cools very quickly. Good brown gravy, red currant, cranberry, or rowan jelly should accompany this dish. Note.—If the covering of paste is not used the venison will require a shorter time to roast. Game Pie Ingredients— Uncooked game of any kind, or what is better, a mixture of various kinds. One pound of raw lean veal. One pound of ham. Two tablespoonfuls of chopped mushrooms. One tablespoonful of chopped truffle. For the Pastry— One and a half pounds of flour. Seven ounces of butter. Two eggs (yolks). Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Three-quarters of a pint of good stock. One egg. One gill of aspic. Salt, pepper, nutmeg, and glaze. Half a teaspoonful of salt. About half a pint of milk. Heat the butter and flour, add the two Method.—Sieve the flour and salt, milk. Pour these into the middle of the\ h.GAME 249 yolks of eggs, and work the whole into a smooth paste. Well grease a raised pie mould. Roll the pastry out one-third of an inch thick, line the tin carefully with it, pressing it well into the mould. Chop the ham and veal finely, mix and season them with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Put a layer of this forcemeat all over the inside of the pastry. Remove all bones from the game and boil them with the stock. Fill in the centre of the pie with the game. Between each layer of the game, put in one of chopped mushroom, parsley, and truffle all mixed together. The last layer should be one of the veal and ham forcemeat. Egg the edges of the pastry, put on the lid of pastry, trim the edge and decorate the top with leaves of pastry, etc. Beat up the egg, brush the top of the pie over with it. Tie a greased band of paper round the mould about four inches deep, this is to protect the top of the pie. Bake it in a moderate oven from three to four hours. Take off the mould, let the pie get cold, then remove the centre ornament and strain in the stock in which the aspic jell}/ has been melted. Replace the ornament and brush the pie with a little glaze. Serve it cold. For a plain pie, such as pork, mould the paste up by hand. (See Illustration?) Scollops of Game, Poultry, etc. {Ilhistrated) Ingredients— Six rounded tablespoonfuls of chopped^ cooked game. About three-parts of a teacupful of any brown sauce. Half a tablespoonful of butter. Cayenne : salt. Three tablespoonfuls of browned crumbs. Method.—Chop the game coarsely. Use any bones and trimmings to flavour the sauce. Thickly butter three or four plated, fireproof-ware, or natural scollop shells. Sprinkle them over inside with some of the browned crumbs. Mix the game with enough sauce to well moisten it; season it well and arrange a good rounded heap in each shell. Sprinkle browned crumbs over the surface of each, dot a few small pieces of butter here and there on each, and bake them in a quick oven till very hot. Serve the shells with a lace paper under them. Note.—Pieces of poultry, meat, or fish are prepared in the same way. Use white sauce with white meats. With fish use any fish sauce that is left over. If there should be no sauce left in the larder, make a little with a tablespoonful of butter, half a tablespoonful of flour, and a teacupful of stock or milk.THE COMPLETE COOK 250 Game Souffle Ingredients— Two level breakfastcupfuls of any cooked chopped game. Two level tablespoonfuls of browned crumbs. Three yolks of eggs. For the Panada— Four tablespoonfuls of water. One teaspoonful of butter. Method.—To make the “panada,” boil the water and butter. Add the flour, beat well until it is smooth, and cook it slowly, stirring,it all the time until the mixture leaves the side of the pan without sticking to it. Turn it on to a plate to cool. Pound the game smoothly, add the crumbs, a large tablespoonful of the “ panada ” and the yolks, one at a time. Mix and pound thoroughly. Add the cream, stock, and seasoning. Put this paste through a wire sieve. Thickly butter a round or oval plain mould. Decorate the top prettily with shapes of truffle, and carefully pack the mould with the mixture to within one inch of the top. Twist a greased paper over the top and steam the souffld for about forty to forty-five minutes. Turn it out carefully on to a hot dish. Remove any grease by gently pressing some soft paper over the surface, and strain over and round any good brown sauce flavoured with wine and red currant jelly. Note.—Small dariole moulds can be used instead of a large one. Three tablespoonfuls of cream. Four tablespoonfuls of brown stock (made from the bones). A truffle : salt: pepper : cayenne. One tablespoonful of flour. Salmi of Grouse Ingredients— A brace of partly cooked grouse. One loosely packed breakfastcup- ful of dice of ham. Two shallots. A bunch of parsley, herbs, and a bay leaf. Four cloves. Four peppercorns. Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. Three-quarters of a pint of brown stock. Two teaspoonfuls of red currant jelly. A piece of glaze the size of a walnut. Salt and pepper. A little lemon juice. Method.—Cut the birds into large joints, pound the livers and hearts slightly. Put the ham into a stewpan with the sliced shallots, the herbs, and spice and fry these a pale brown.251 GAME Dredge in the flour and fry it carefully. Add the stock and stir until it boils. Add the pieces of game, jelly, glaze, and lemon juice. Put the lid on the pan and simmer its contents very gently for half an hour. Arrange the joints on a hot dish, strain the sauce over and garnish with fried crescents of bread. Note.—Although partly cooked birds are best for this dish, cold cooked remains of game may be used. Jugged Ingredients— One hare. One pound of steak or lean beef. One carrot, one turnip, one onion. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Eight cloves. Six peppercorns. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Hare Four level tablespoonfuls of flour. Four tablespoonfuls of port wine, if liked. A strip of lemon rind. Salt and pepper. Stock or water. Method.—Use either a brown stewing-jar or a casserole. Wash, prepare the carrot and turnip, and cut each in four. Peel the onion and stick the cloves into it. Skin and paunch the hare, keeping some, or all of the blood to add to the stew. Cut it up into small neat joints and dip them into a little of the flour. Cut the beef into large dice. Put the hare and beef in layers in the jar, add the vegetables, herbs, cloves, peppercorns, and lemon rind, the three latter tied up in muslin. Pour over the blood and enough stock or water to cover the meat. Put on the lid and let it cook very gently in the oven or at the side of the fire from three to four hours, or longer if the hare is an old one. About fifteen minutes before serving it take out the vegetables, herbs, spice, and peel. Melt the butter, stir in the flour smoothly, then add very gradually some of the boiling stock. Add this thickening to the stew, stirring it all the time until the gravy thickens. Lastly add the port wine and salt and pepper to taste. Serve it in the casserole with a folded napkin pinned round it. Serve it with red or black currant jelly. Note.—Some object to saving and using the blood ; if so, it can be left out, but the dish will be less rich in flavour and colour. A saucepan can be used if the utensils named are not obtainable.THE COMPLETE COOK 252 Broiled Partridge or Grouse Ingredients— A brace of partridges or grouse. Salt and pepper. Two slices of hot buttered toast. Maitre d’Hotel butter. A little salad oil. Method.—Split the birds in halves lengthways through the backbone, but not through the breast, they should open out flat like a book. Lay them on a dish, sprinkle them with salt, pepper, and about a tablespoonful of salad oil. Rub this well into them. Rub the gridiron over with a little oil or butter. Put on the birds and broil them over a sharp clear fire for about eight minutes on either side. Place them on the slices of toast. Put a few small neat pats of Maitre d’Hotel butter on each and serve them as hot as possible. Note.—Grouse may be treated in exactly the same way. Brown Fricassee of Partridge Ingredients— A brace of partridge. Quarter of a pint of tomato Two slices of bacon or ham. ketchup. Half a pint of boiling stock. A level tablespoonful of flour. Salt and pepper. Method.—Divide the partridges in halves through the back- bone. Fry the ham, cut in dice, in a stewpan. Put in the birds and fry them a good brown. Add the stock and ketchup, put the lid on the pan and let the birds.cook very gently, adding a little more stock if necessary, until the birds are tender. They will probably take from one to one and a half hours. Lift the birds on to a hot dish. Skim the gravy carefully, mix the flour smoothly with a little cold water, then add it to the gravy, and stir it over the fire until it boils and thickens. Season it carefully. Put the partridges back into it and heat them through gently. Serve them on a hot dish with the sauce strained over, garnished with potato straws or chips. Pheasant Boiled higredients— One pheasant. A few slices of fat bacon. One onion. Four cloves. One carrot and turnip. A bunch of parsley, thyme, and a bay leaf. Half a lemon. Celery sauce. White stock or water.253 GAME Method.—Put the bacon in the bottom of a stewpan, lay on the pheasant; add the onion with the cloves stuck into it, the carrot and turnip cut in slices, the herbs tied together, and the sliced lemon. Lay a piece of buttered paper over the bird, pour in enough boiling stock or water to come half-way up it, and let it simmer very gently from three-quarters of an hour to an hour, until it is tender. Place the bird on a hot dish and pour over it some carefully made celery sauce. Note.—If more convenient, wrap and tie the bird up in a well-greased paper and cook it in the stockpot. Compote Ingredients— Four plovers. Three ounces of lean ham. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Four mushrooms. Two shallots. of Plovers Half a small carrot and turnip. One tablespoonful of flour. One pint of brown stock. Salt and pepper. Two tablespoonfuls of sherry. Method.—Cut the ham into small dice and fry it in the butter, lift it out and fry the chopped mushroom and shallot and the carrot and turnip cut into small dice. Put in the trussed plovers and fry them also. Take them out, shake in the flour, and when that is well browned pour in the stock and stir until it boils. Add salt and pepper to taste, put back the birds and let all simmer gently until they are tender; they will probably take about three-quarters of an hour to an hour. Arrange a neat bed of spinach, or potato, on a hot dish, arrange the plovers on this. Strain the gravy, reduce it by boiling it without the lid, add the sherry and seasoning to taste, and strain it round the plovers. Broiled Quail Ingredien ts— One small quail. A slice of hot buttered toast. Method.—Cut the quail right down through the breast bone towards the back,—the backbone, however, must not be divided, —then flatten out the bird like a book. Thickly butter a piece of note or foolscap paper, fold the flattened quail in this, twist- ing up the ends. Broil it over a clear sharp fire for about five minutes on each side. Have ready a neatly trimmed slice of buttered toast; remove the paper and place the bird on theTHE COMPLETE COOK 254 toast and pour over any juice there may be in the paper. Garnish with a sprig or two of well-washed watercress. Note.—The watercress may be sprinkled with a few drops of good salad oil and the best vinegar or lemon juice. Some like a little good, clear gravy with this dish, also bread sauce. Chaudfroid of Quails Ingredients— Four boned quails. A small bunch of parsley, thyme, and a bay leaf. Half a pint of good brown stock. Three tablespoonfuls of sherry. Half a small carrot, turnip and onion. A gill of aspic jelly. For the Stuffing— Half a pound of calfs liver. Quarter of a pound of bacon. One small onion. Half a small carrot. A bunch of parsley, thyme, and a bay leaf. One tablespoonful of chopped truffle. Salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Method.—Cut the bacon, liver, onion, and carrot into small dice. Cook the bacon in a pan over the fire for a few minutes, then put in the liver, herbs, and vegetables and cook them for ten minutes. Take out the herbs, and pound the rest of the ingredients in a mortar. Rub the mixture through a sieve, add the truffle and season it carefully with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Remove all bones except the leg bone from the quails, or get the poulterer to do so. Next stuff each bird with the stuffing, making it into as natural and neat a shape as possible. Wrap each in a piece of buttered paper and put them in a stewpan with the stock, herbs, onion, carrot, and turnip, the bones of the birds and the sherry. Put the lid on the pan and let all cook steadily for about half an hour. Put the quails on one plate with another plate over them, on this place weights at equal distance apart and leave them until cold. Strain the stock and skim it very carefully. Boil it with the lid off the pan until it is reduced to the consistency of glaze. Brush each bird over with this, let it get cold, then give each a second coating of glaze. When this is set, pour over each a little melted aspic jelly, and, if liked, decorate them with truffle stamped out into tiny fancy shapes. Arrange the quails on a bed of fresh salad, with a garnish of cut cucumber and chopped aspic. Note.—The truffle may be omitted from the farce if wished.255 GAME Snipe Pudding Ingredients— Six snipe. Half a pound of lean veal. One onion. One tablespoonful of flour. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Four mushrooms. A bunch of parsley and herbs. A piece of glaze the size of a walnut. Half a pint of good brown stock. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Salt and pepper. About a pound ot suet pastry. Lemon juice. Method.—Cut the snipe in halves and sprinkle each with salt and pepper and lemon juice. Melt the butter, when it is hot fry in it the thinly sliced onion and flour. Add the chopped mushrooms, parsley, and the herbs tied together. Fry these for a few minutes, then add the stock. Boil gently for ten minutes, then take out the herbs, add the glaze, and season it carefully. Well grease a pudding basin, roll the suet crust out to a quarter of an inch thick. Line the basin carefully with it. Put in the veal cut in dice, the pieces of snipe, and the gravy. Wet the edge of the pastry, cover the top with a round of it, pressing the edges together. Tie a scalded and floured cloth over the top, taking care to make a pleat across the top of the pudding. Place it in a pan of fast boiling water, and boil it for two and a half hours. Serve it in the basin with a serviette pinned.round it. Hand with it a tureen of good gravy, made from the giblets and trimmings of the birds. Note.—Partridges may be used in the same way. If liked a glass of claret may be added to the sauce in the pudding. Hashed Venison Ingredieyits— One pound of cooked venison. A piece of glaze the size of a One pint of good brown sauce. walnut. One tablespoonful of red currant A glass of port wine. or rowan jelly. Salt and pepper. Method.—Cut the meat into thin slices. Put the sauce in a pan with the glaze, jelly, and wine. Bring these gently to boiling point. Cool the sauce for a minute. Put in the slices of meat and let them heat very gently in the sauce from fifteen to twenty minutes. On no account must the gravy be allowed to boil, or the meat will be tough. Arrange the slices on a hot dish, season the sauce carefully, pour it over, and garnish the dish with neat sippets of fried bread. Hand red currant jelly with the hash.CHAPTER XIII VEGETABLES The inhabitants of Great Britain have at last freed themselves of the accusation that the only vegetables they could cook were potatoes, and those by one method only, namely, boiling. The art of cooking vegetables has made enormous strides of late years. This is as it should be, for no country possesses a better or more varied supply from all sources than ours. The dinner becomes more wholesome, gains greater approval, and is less costly, if the accompanying vegetables are cooked and served with care. The objection to some strongly flavoured varieties would be removed if they were boiled in plenty of water, and if this were changed once or twice. This is very noticeable with onions, turnips, Scotch kale, etc.; the fresh water must be added boiling, or the vegetables will be spoilt. Probably some of the principal causes of failure in vegetable cooking, are over or under cooking, and insufficiently draining off the water. Enterprising individuals will do well to try some of the delicious, but little known kinds, which are now so easily procurable, and to give their families a little rest from the never- failing “ greens ” and potatoes. Artichoke Bottoms, Fried Ingredients— Six globe artichokes. Fried parsley. Batter No. 2 or No. 3. Brown sauce : seasoning. Frying fat. Method.—Prepare and boil the artichokes as for Boiled Globe Artichokes. Drain them, strip off the leaves, remove the inner fibrous piece called the “ choke,” and divide the white round saucer-like bottoms thus obtained into two or three257 VEGETABLES pieces, according to their size. Season each of them with a little salt and pepper. Dip them into the prepared frying batter and fry them a golden brown in plenty of smoking hot fat. Drain the pieces on paper, heap them up on a lace paper on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley. Hand the sauce separately. Artichokes, Globe, Boiled Ingredien ts— Three globe artichokes. Water. A small bunch of parsley, thyme. Salt. and marjoram. Method.—Cut the stalks off the artichokes, trim off some of the outer leaves, and the tips of any others that seem to require it. Wash them well in several waters. Lay them in a pan of boiling salted water with the herbs. If the water is very hard, or the artichokes old, add a scrap of soda the size of a pea. Leave the lid off the pan and boil the vegetables quickly for about twenty-five to thirty minutes, or until tender. Lift them out, drain them well, place them on a heated folded napkin in a hot vegetable dish, and hand with them oiled butter, vinaigrette, Hollandaise, or some other suitable sauce. Artichokes, Jerusalem, Boiled Ingredients— Two pounds of Jerusalem arti- Lemon juice or vinegar. chokes. Half a pint of melted butter or Two quarts of boiling water. white sauce. Two heaped teaspoonfuls of salt. Method.—Brush the artichokes free from earth. Peel them with as little waste as possible, but owing to their irregular shapes they have to be trimmed either round or oval. As each is peeled, place it at once into cold water, to which about a teaspoonful of lemon juice or vinegar has been added. The acidulated water helps to keep them white, an important point with this vegetable, as they turn a dirty grey tint almost immediately they are peeled. Lay the artichokes in a pan with the boiling water and boil them for about twenty minutes or until tender. Drain off the water, heap the artichokes in a hot vegetable dish, and pour over some hot white sauce, or melted butter. Note.—If liked, the artichokes may be cooked in half milk 17258 THE COMPLETE COOK and half water. In this case use about half a pint of this liquor for the sauce, merely adding a level tablespoonful of thinly mixed flour to it and boiling it well. The rest should be saved for a white soup. Jerusalem Artichokes au Gratin Ingredients— One pound of boiled artichokes. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Method.—Mash the artichokes finely with a fork. Add to them the beaten yolks and half the butter. Mix all well together and season carefully. Butter a fireproof dish, put in the mixture. Sprinkle a thick layer of the grated cheese over the top and a few crumbs. Put the rest of the butter in small pieces here and there on the cheese and crumbs. Bake the dish in a moderate oven, until the mixture is hot through and the cheese nicely browned. Note.—Parmesan is the best cheese for this dish, but other kinds may be used. Artichokes, Jerusalem, Mashed Ingredients— Two pounds of boiled artichokes. Two tablespoonfuls of cream. One rounded tablespoonful of Salt: pepper. butter. Method.—Drain the artichokes carefully, pressing them to get rid of all water. Rub them through a wire sieve. Put them into a saucepan with the butter, cream, and seasoning. Mix and heat thoroughly, then serve. Note.—Leave out the cream if liked, or add a little milk. Asparagus, Boiled Ingredients— One bundle of asparagus. Toast: lemon. Boiling salted water. Method.—Cut the stalks of the asparagus to an even length. Scrape the white portion from the tip downward until quite clean, taking care not to break off the green points. Tie the asparagus with tape into small bundles of about eighteen in each. Keep these in cold water until needed for cooking. The yolks of two eggs. Salt, pepper, and a dust of nutmeg. Browned crumbs.259 VEGETABLES Have ready a pan of boiling salted water and add a few drops of lemon juice. If there is not a drainer fitted to the pan, on which to lift out the bundles when cooked, it is best to wrap up each in a piece of muslin; this prevents the danger of breaking off the points. Lay the bundles gently into the water, which should just cover them, leave the lid off and boil the asparagus for about twenty to thirty minutes, or until tender. Lift it out carefully and drain well. Remove the tape and lay the heads neatly on the slice of dry trimmed toast laid on a folded table napkin in a hot vegetable dish. Arrange the points all one way. Hand oiled butter mixed with a few drops of lemon juice with them. Asparagus, Steamed Prepare the asparagus as directed for Boiled Asparagus, then stand them upright in an asparagus boiler, or in a high narrow pan which will keep them upright with the green points out of the water. These will be cooked in the steam by the time the stalks are soft. Asparagus k la Vinaigrette Ingredients— Boiled asparagus. One teaspoonful each of chopped Four tablespoonfuls of salad oil. parsley, tarragon, chervil, gher- One tablespoonful of tarragon kin, and capers. vinegar. Salt: cayenne. One teaspoonful of chilli vinegar. Method.—Drain the cooked asparagus well, dish it, and leave it on ice till required. Mix the other ingredients well together and hand the sauce separately in a sauce tureen. Note.—Cold asparagus is also excellent with a Mayonnaise sauce or Swiss sauce, made as follows:—A gill of cream mixed with one tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, a little salt, cayenne, and nutmeg, and whipped until it will just hang on the whisk. Aubergines or Egg Plant, Stuffed Ingredients— Two aubergines. Four tablespoonfuls of fresh crumbs. Two tablespoonfuls of chopped, cooked, or raw ham. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Two tablespoonfuls of warmed butter. About a teacupful of tomato puree. Stock or milk. Salt: pepper : browned crumbs.26o THE COMPLETE COOK Method.—Boil the aubergines whole until tender. Peel and halve them lengthways, and scoop out the seeds and enough pulp to leave space for the stuffing. Remove the seeds, chop the pulp and mix it with the crumbs, ham, parsley, seasoning, and enough tomato pulp or stock to bind it stiffly. Put some of the stuffing into the cavities, heaping it up slightly. Lay the halves, cut side uppermost, on a greased baking tin, pour over the warmed butter and sprinkle the surface over with crumbs. Bake them until thoroughly hot and serve with any brown or tomato sauce. Broad or Windsor Ingredients— Half a peck of broad beans. Boiling water. Salt. Method.—The beans should be small, young, and freshly gathered. Shell them, rinse in cold water and put them into a saucepan with boiling water to cover, and two teaspoonfuls of salt to each two quarts of water. Keep the lid off the pan and boil them quickly for about fifteen to thirty minutes according to their age and size. When the skins are wrinkled and the inner portion soft, drain off all water through a colander, and serve them in a hot vegetable dish with parsley sauce either poured over them or handed separately. If the outer skins are very white and tough, which signs indicate that the beans are somewhat old, they should be peeled off after the beans are cooked. Then re-heat the green portions in a little butter. These beans served with boiled bacon furnish the popular homely dish. Beans and Bacon. Beans, Boiled Half a pint of parsley and butter sauce. Beans, French, Boiled Ingredients— French beans. Salt: pepper: soda. Boiling water. Butter. Method.—The beans must be as young as possible or they will be stringy. Cut off the stalks, the tips at the opposite end, and a thin strip from down each side, to remove the strings. Cut them into thin strips lengthways, in a slanting direction, placing them as they are cut in a basin of cold water. Have a large pan of fast boiling water ready, adding a large teaspoonful of salt to each quart of water, and a tiny piece of soda the size261 VEGETABLES of a pea. Boil the beans quickly, with the pan uncovered. Remove any scum and boil them for about twelve to twenty minutes, according to their age. When tender they will sink to the bottom of the pan. Drain off the water directly they are cooked. Add a dust of salt, pepper, and a small piece of butter. Toss them lightly over once or twice and serve piled up on a hot vegetable dish. Beetroots, Boiled Ingredients— Beetroot. A little vinegar. Boiling water. Method.—Carefully wash any earth off the beetroots, but every care is needed to avoid breaking the skin, roots, or crown ; if this is done much of their colour will be lost, and they will be a dull pink. Lay them in plenty of boiling water, with a little vinegar; boil them steadily, keeping them well covered with water for about one and a half to two hours for a small beetroot, and two to three and a half hours for a large one. If it is to be served hot, cut off the roots and crown and rub off the skin directly, but if to be served cold, leave it until it has become cold, and then prepare it for table. If to be eaten hot cut it into thick slices, arrange them on a hot vegetable dish, and pour over white sauce or melted butter, or hand these separately. Beetroot Leaves, Boiled Prepare, cook, and serve them as directed for Boiled Spinach with Poached Eggs. The eggs need not be used unless wished. It is essential that young tender leaves only are used. Broccoli, Boiled Follow the directions given for Cauliflower, Boiled. Brussels Sprouts, Boiled Ingredients— Two pounds of Brussels sprouts. Boiling water. One rounded tablespoonful of Salt: pepper ; soda, butter. Method.—Trim off the stalks, remove all discoloured leaves, and wash the sprouts well in cold salted water. Leave them inTHE COMPLETE COOK 262 cold salted water for half an hour. To each quart of water add two tablespoonfuls of salt. When the water boils, add a piece of soda the size of a pea, put in the sprouts, take the lid off the pan when they reboil, and boil them quickly for about ten to fifteen minutes or until tender. Remove any scum. Drain off the water through a colander, drain them well. Add the butter, a little salt and pepper, and toss them lightly over the fire to mix in the butter. Heap the sprouts neatly in a hot vegetable dish and serve. Note.—For the sake of variety, a little lemon juice, or a dust of nutmeg and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley can be added to the sprouts. Brussels Sprout Fritters Ingredients— A heaped breakfastcupful of un- Salt and pepper. broken cooked sprouts. Batter No. 2 or 3. A few drops of vinegar. Method.—Trim off all loose leaves from the sprouts. Dust them lightly with salt, pepper, and vinegar. Have ready the batter, also the pan of frying fat. Lift a sprout on a skewer, dip it into the batter, and put it gently into the fat and fry it a golden brown. Drain it on kitchen paper. When all the sprouts are fried, arrange them on a fancy paper and serve them with fried parsley. Cabbage, Boiled Ingredients— A large firm white cabbage. Salt: pepper : soda. Boiling water. One tablespoonful of butter. Method.—Remove all discoloured leaves. Cut off the stalk close up to the leaves and halve the cabbage, or if very large quarter it. Remove a wedge-shaped piece from the middle of each piece of stalk. Wash the cabbage well in plenty of cold well-salted water; the cleansing needs to be carried out most thoroughly, so separate all the leaves if necessary. Drain the cabbage in a colander, put it into a pan with plenty of fast boiling salted water, allowing a large tablespoonful of salt to each two quarts of water. Add a piece of soda about the size of a pea. When the water reboils, remove the lid and any scum. Keep pressing the cabbage well down under the water. Boil it quickly for about fifteen to twenty-five minutes, accord- ing to its size and age. If a piece of the smaller stalks feels soft when a skewer is pushed in, the cabbage is cooked. ButVEGETABLES 263 if the very thick stalks are still tough, they can be removed, for if the boiling were continued longer, the best portions would be worthless. Strain off the cabbage into a colander. Press it well with a plate, or presser. Arrange it neatly in a hot dish, season it, put the butter on the top, cut it across in four, and serve. Cabbage k la Creme higredien ts— One firm white cabbage. One clove. One onion. Salt and pepper. Half a tablespoonful of butter. Sippets of fried bread or toast. Three tablespoonfuls of cream. Method.—Trim and wash the cabbage thoroughly. Put it in a pan of fast boiling salted water, add the peeled onion with the clove stuck in it, and boil quickly until the cabbage is tender. Take out the onion and drain the cabbage through a colander, press it well. Either chop it finely, or rub it through a sieve. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the cabbage, stir it well, add the cream gradually, and salt and pepper to taste. When it is thoroughly hot, pile it up in a hot dish, and garnish it with sippets of fried bread or toast. Boiled Carrots Ingredients— Carrots. Salt. Boiling water. Method.—Cut off the green tops and roots. Scrub, then scrape the carrots downwards till quite clean, and cut out any specks. Lay them in clean cold water. If large, cut them in quarters. Place them in boiling salted water and boil them until tender. Young ones will take about half an hour, old ones from one to one and a half hours. Pierce them with a skewer to see if they are soft. Drain off all water, and serve them plain or with parsley and butter sauce, or warmed butter and chopped parsley. Mashed Carrots After boiling them until soft, rub them through a wire sieve, or chop them coarsely. Add a small piece of butter and season- ing and heap them up in a hot dish, or press them into small cups or moulds, and then turn them out and serve.264 THE COMPLETE COOK Young Carrots, Glazed, etc. Scrub the carrots, rub the skin off with a cloth, then boil them as directed for Boiled Carrots. Do not cut them. Serve with parsley and butter or brown sauce, or roll them about in a little warmed glaze until coated with it, and add a dust of sugar and chopped parsley. Note.—Balls the size of marbles can be scooped out of old carrots, boiled and glazed in a similar fashion. Cauliflower, Boiled Ingredients— One cauliflower. Salt. Boiling water. Half a pint of white sauce. Method.—Cut off the stalk close to the flower and notch it across in four. Trim off all withered or very coarse leaves and cut the tips of the others level with the flower. Hold it side- ways under the tap and let the water flow through it to wash out any insects, then leave it in cold salted water for an hour before cooking. Rinse it again, and lay it flower downwards in boiling salted water, allow a large teaspoonful of salt to each two quarts of water. Leave the lid off the pan and boil the cauliflower gently until the flower is tender but not broken. Allow from twelve to twenty-five minutes after the water reboils, according to the size. Remove any scum as it rises. Raise the cauliflower carefully out of the water, directly it is cooked, with a fish slice. Drain off the water, lightly pressing the cauliflower together in a clean cloth. Lay it on a hot dish and pour a little hot white sauce or melted butter over it. Cauliflower au Gratin Ingredients— One boiled cauliflower. One level tablespoonful of flour. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. Method.—Put the hot cauliflower on a hot “ au gratin ” dish, and squeeze it gently together in a clean cloth with the hands to press it into a neat shape. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour smoothly, add the milk, and stir over the fire until it boils and thickeris. Add half of the cheese, and pepper, Salt, pepper, and a dust of nut- meg. One and a half gills of milk. A few browned breadcrumbs.265 VEGETABLES salt, and nutmeg to taste. Pour this sauce over the cauliflower. Sprinkle the rest of the cheese over the top, and, lastly, a few browned crumbs. Put the dish in the oven until the cheese has browned, then serve it quickly. Note.—Parmesan cheese is best, but other scraps can be used for the sake of economy. Boiled Celeriac Ingredients— Four or more roots of celeriac. Stock or water. Three-quarters of a pint of egg Salt. sauce. Method.—Well wash and peel the celeriac. Cut them in quarters. Boil them in stock or water until they are quite tender. Drain them well. Arrange them in a hot dish and pour the egg sauce over them. Note.—Parsley or any good white sauce may be used instead of egg sauce. Celery Fritters Ingredients— Four heads of celery. Frying fat. Batter No. 2 or 3. Method.—Well wash the celery and remove the white centres, and cut them into pieces from four to six inches long. Put them in a pan of boiling salted water and boil them until they are just soft, drain the pieces as dry as possible on a cloth, and cut each in half Have ready the frying batter and the pan of frying fat. Dip the pieces of celery into the batter, then with two forks lift them out of the batter into the hot fat, and fry them a golden brown. Drain them well on kitchen paper. Serve them in a hot dish garnished with fried parsley. Stewed Celery with Egg Sauce Ingredients— Two heads of celery. Salt. Hot buttered toast. Half a pint of egg sauce. Milk and water in equal pro- portions. Method.—Trim and wash the celery carefully, using only the hearts. Put them in a pan with enough milk and water in equal proportions to cover. Add a little salt and boil the pieces gently until they are tender. Drain them well. Cut266 THE COMPLETE COOK two finger-shaped pieces of buttered toast. Lay a head of celery on each and pour over it some egg sauce. Serve very hot. Note. — Jerusalem artichokes, seakale, onions, etc., are excellent treated in this way. Colcannon Ingredients— One heaped breakfastcupful of One rounded tablespoonful of mashed potato. butter or good dripping. One heaped breakfastcupful of Salt and pepper. finely chopped cooked cabbage. Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the potatoes, cabbage, and seasoning. Mix all thoroughly, put the mixture into a greased pie dish, and bake it in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. Turn the mould on to a hot dish and serve it very hot. Note.—Spinach, or turnip tops, or any finely chopped greens may be re-heated in this way. Corn, Green, Boiled Ingredien ts— Cobs of fresh green corn. Butter. Boiling water. Salt and pepper and cayenne. Method.—Remove the outer husks and strip off every thread of the silky fibre. Take some of the cleanest of the outer husks, lay these round the cobs and tie them round them. Lay the cobs in enough boiling water to cover them. Boil them gently for ten to twenty minutes. After they have boiled a short time, try a kernel to see if the raw taste is destroyed, and if so lift it up at once and drain off the water. Corn, if boiled too long, becomes hard and the flavour impaired. Untie and remove the outer husks. Serve the corn on a hot dish with oiled butter seasoned with salt and cayenne. Note.—When eating corn, every row of kernels should be cut through with the point of a sharp knife ; the centre of the kernel pressed out either with the teeth or a knife, leaving the hulls on the cob, as these are indigestible. Corn, Green, Roasted Prepare the cobs as directed for Boiled Corn, but do not put back any of the outer husks. Brush the cobs with warmed267 VEGETABLES butter, hang them in a Dutch oven before a clear fire, and roast them fqr about ten to fifteen minutes, turning them frequently. Serve in the same way as Boiled Corn. Cassolettes of Cucumber higredients— One cucumber. Two or more tomatoes. One raw egg. Four tablespoonfuls of brown or A little chopped parsley or truffle. white sauce. Breadcrumbs. - Salt and pepper. Four tablespoonfuls of minced game, meat, or poultry. Method.—Peel the cucumber thinly and cut it in blocks two and a half inches long. Let these simmer until tender, in stock, or milk and water. Drain them well. Remove some of the centre from each, so as to leave a case of cucumber. Roll each piece in breadcrumbs, brush it with beaten egg, and cover it again with crumbs. Fry the pieces a golden brown in smoking hot fat. If the centre has become filled up, hollow it out again. Cut the tomatoes in thick slices and cook them until just tender in the oven. Place each case of cucumber on a slice of tomato. Have ready the minced game, poultry, or meat, moisten it with the sauce. Season it carefully. Pile the mixture rather high in the cases. Sprinkle the tops with chopped parsley or truffle and serve. Dandelion Leaves, Stewed Ingredien ts— About two pounds of young Three tablespoonfuls of cream, dandelion leaves. milk, or stock. A rounded tablespoonful of butter. Salt ; pepper. One rounded teaspoonful of flour. Method.—Wash the leaves well. Remove any coarse stalks. Leave them in cold water for two hours. Drain them well and put them in a saucepan with plenty of fast boiling water and a large teaspoonful of salt, and par-boil them for five minutes, then drain off and throw away this water. Put them in fresh boiling salted water and take off the lid when the water reboils. Remove any scum and boil them quickly for about fifteen to twenty-five minutes, or until quite tender. Drain off the water, press them well, and chop them finely. Melt the butter in a clean saucepan, stir in the flour, add the milk, stock, or cream, and stir until it boils; beat the dandelion leaves in well, season them carefully, and stir until thoroughly hot. Serve neatly in a hot dish.268 THE COMPLETE COOK Endive, Stewed Ingredieiits— Six heads of endive. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. A breakfastcupful and a half of Two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, stock. Salt: pepper : croutons. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Method.—Cut off the stalks, outer leaves, and green portions of the leaves, as only the white part is needed. Pull off the white leaves, wash them well in several quantities of salted water, and examine them well, as being curly they are difficult to free from insects. Rinse them in clean water and put them into plenty of boiling salted water, and boil them for ten minutes. Pour off and throw away this water. Drain and chop the endive finely. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, add the stock, and stir these until they boil. Put in the endive, lemon juice, and seasoning. Simmer these for about twenty minutes or until the endive is tender. Lift it on to a hot dish, heaping it up. Do not add all the sauce if it seems too much. Garnish the endive with croutons. Boiled Flageolets with Butter Ingredients— One pint of flageolets. One onion. A bunch of parsley, herbs, and a bay leaf. T wo or three slices of ham orbacon. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Salt and pepper. Method.—Soak the flageolets in cold water for twelve hours. Put them in a saucepan of boiling very slightly salted water, add the onion, herbs, bacon, and cook them steadily for three to four hours, or until the beans are tender. Then drain off the water, remove the herbs and onion, put the beans back in the pan with the butter and a dust of pepper. Shake the pan over the fire until the beans are hot. Put them in a hot dish and sprinkle the parsley over. Haricot Beans k la Maitre d’Hotel Ingredients— One pint of haricot beans. Stock or water to cover them. One onion. A bunch of parsley, thyme, and a bay leaf. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. A slice of ham or bacon, or trim- mings of either.269 VEGETABLES Method.—Soak the beans in cold water for twenty-four hours. Put them in a pan with enough stock or water to cover them, add the herbs tied together, the peeled onion and bacon. Cook these steadily until the beans are quite soft; they will probably take from three to four hours. If necessary add more stock or water. When the beans are soft, remove the herbs, onion, and bacon, and drain the beans in a colander. Put them back in the pan with the butter and parsley, and shake the pan about over the fire for a few minutes. Serve the beans in a hot dish. Haricot Ingredients— One pint of haricot beans. A slice of ham or bacon. One small onion. One carrot. Method.—Cook the beans, bacon, vegetables, and herbs as for Haricots a la Maitre d’Hotel. Drain them well. Remove herbs, bacon, and vegetables; pile them up in a hot dish, pour the tomato sauce over, and garnish the dish with sippets of fried bread. Boiled Leeks Ingredients— A bunch of leeks. Boiling water. Salt and pepper. One tablespoonful of butter. Method.—Cut off the roots and all but about two inches of the green tops. Wash the leeks very thoroughly, as they are very gritty; this is done best by holding them under the cold water tap. Put them in a pan with enough boiling water to cover them, and add a teaspoonful of salt to each quart of water. Boil them gently till they can be easily pierced with a skewer; they will probably take about half an hour. Drain them well. Serve them in a hot dish, with the butter put in small pieces here and there on them, and a dust of pepper. Note.—If preferred they may be served with melted butter sauce. Mock Scollop Pie Ingredients— One medium-sized vegetable One gill of milk. marrow. One tablespoonful of butter. One Spanish onion. Salt and pepper. Six tablespoonfuls of fresh bread- crumbs. Beans k la Tomate A bunch of herbs. Salt and pepper. Half a pint of tomato sauce.270 THE COMPLETE COOK Method.—Well butter a quart pie dish, shake over a layer of crumbs, leaving a thick layer at the bottom of the dish. Peel the marrow, cut it in quarters and remove the seeds, then cut each quarter into slices about half an inch thick. Peel and slice the onion thinly. Put layers of onion, marrow, salt, pepper, and crumbs in the dish until it is full, the last layer must be of crumbs. Pour in the milk, and on the top put some small pieces of butter. Bake in a moderate oven until the marrow is tender. Serve it very hot. Mushroom Ingredien ts— Half a pound of mushrooms. One heaped teacupful of boiled rice. One egg and two extra yolks. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Croquettes Half a teaspoonful of chopped shallot. One gill of white sauce. Breadcrumbs : frying fat. Salt and pepper. Method.—Peel, wash, and examine the mushrooms carefully. Stew them until tender in equal parts of milk and water. Chop them coarsely and put them in a saucepan with the rice, parsley, and shallot. Mix these together, then add the white sauce and the beaten yolks of two eggs. Stir the mixture over the fire until it is very hot. Season it and turn it on to a plate. Spread it evenly over and mark it into even divisions. When it is cold, form each division into a neat ball. Brush it with beaten egg, and cover it with crumbs. Fry them a golden brown in smoking hot fat. Drain them on paper and serve on a lace paper garnished with fried parsley. Grilled Mushrooms Ingredients— Large mushrooms. Salt and pepper. Two tablespoonfuls of butter. Method.—Carefully peel, stalk, and examine the mushrooms. Brush them over with a little warmed butter. Grill them over, or in front of, a clear fire for about eight minutes. Turn them now and then. Sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and serve them on rounds of buttered toast or fried bread. Note.—If liked a few drops of lemon juice may be sprinkled on each mushroom.271 VEGETABLES Devilled Mushrooms are cooked in the same way as those grilled. Season them highly with black pepper and cayenne. Stewed Mushrooms Ingredients— Half a pound of mushrooms. One rounded tablespoonful of Three-quarters of a pint of milk. flour. One tablespoonful of butter. Salt, pepper, and lemon juice. Method.—Peel, stalk, and wash the mushrooms, carefully examining them. Put them in a saucepan with the milk, and let them simmer until tender. Mix the flour smoothly and thinly with a little cold milk, add it to the hot milk and mush- rooms, and stir it over the fire until the sauce boils well and thickens. Season it to taste with salt, pepper, and lemon juice. Serve it on a hot dish with sippets of fried bread or toast round. Nettles on Toast Ingredients— About two pounds of young nettle Salt, pepper, and lemon juice. tops and leaves. Rounds of hot buttered toast. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Method.—See that the nettles are really young, otherwise they will be tough. Wash them carefully. Put them in a saucepan with a teacupful of boiling water, and let them boil until tender. Chop them finely. Add the melted butter and salt, pepper, and lemon juice to taste. Have ready some neat rounds of hot buttered toast. Pile some of the mixture on each round of toast and serve them very hot. Note.—If liked, sprinkle a little sieved hard-boiled yolk of egg on each piece, this being a pretty garnish. Or chopped nettles may be served in a hot vegetable dish. Onions, Spanish, Baked Ingredients— An onion for each person. Salt: pepper. Butter. Method.—Take off one layer only of the outer brown skins. Put the onions in a pan of slightly salted water and boil them for one hour. If liked very mild, change the water twice during this boiling. Then take out the onions, twist each up inTHE COMPLETE COOK 2/2 a piece of buttered paper, put them in a tin in a moderate oven for about two hours, or until they feel quite tender when pierced with a needle. Either serve them unpeeled in a hot vegetable dish and hand fresh butter with them, or peel them and pour over some brown sauce. Onions, Spanish, Boiled Ingredients— Spanish onions. Seasoning. White sauce. Method.—Peel the onions. Put them in a pan of cold water, bring to boiling point and blanch them for five minutes. Pour off this water, add more boiling water to cover the onions and a little salt. Boil the onions gently from one to one and a half hours, according to their size. Pierce them with a long needle to judge if they are tender. Pour off the water, drain the onions well. Put them on a hot dish and pour white sauce over them, or serve them plain with oiled butter and cayenne. Scolloped Onions Ingredients— Two or three large boiled Spanish Two large tablespoonfuls of grated onions. cheese. Half a pint of white sauce. One teaspoonful of browned crumbs. Method.—Grease a fireproof dish, or a pie dish. Quarter and lay in the cooked onions. Pour over the sauce after mixing it with half the cheese. Sprinkle the rest of the cheese and the crumbs over the surface. Bake in a quick oven until hot and browned. Note.—Brown sauce may be used; in that case do not use the browned crumbs. Boiled Parsnips Ingredients— Six parsnips. Salt and pepper. Half a tablespoonful of butter. Water. Method.—Wash the parsnips and scrape them well, or if they are old it may be necessary to peel them thinly. If they are large, cut them in quarters. Put them in a saucepan with boil- ing water to cover them, and two teaspoonfuls of salt to each quart of water. Boil them quickly till they are tender. Drain off the water. Put the parsnips in a hot dish, rub them over with the butter, and dust them with pepper.273 VEGETABLES Peas, Green, Boiled Ingredients— Green peas. Salt: loaf sugar. A few sprigs of mint. Butter : pepper. Boiling water. Method.—Shell the peas, put them in a colander, and rinse them well under the cold water tap. Put them into a saucepan with plenty of fast boiling water, add a couple of sprigs of washed mint, a lump of sugar, and half a teaspoonful of salt to each two quarts of water. When the water reboils, take off the lid of the pan and boil the peas for about ten to twenty-five minutes, according to their age. When tender, drain off the water, remove the mint, add a small piece of butter and a dust of pepper and salt and toss them lightly about to mix these together, then serve. Note.—A good plan is to boil the pods for ten minutes in the water, then strain them out and put the peas into the same water to boil. Should the peas be somewhat old, add a tiny piece of soda to the water in which they are boiled. A lettuce boiled with the peas and removed before serving gives additional flavour. Peas a la Frangaise Ingredients— One pint of boiled peas. One level teaspoonful of flour. Four tablespoonfuls of coarsely Two tablespoonfuls of cream, milk, chopped ham. or stock. One level tablespoonful of butter. Croutons. Method.—Melt the butter, put in the ham and fry it a light brown. Add the flour, stir it in, add the cream or milk and let them just come to boiling point. Put in the peas and heat thoroughly by tossing them lightly over the fire; serve heaped up in a hot dish garnished with croutons. Green Peas k la Tartare Ingredients— Cold cooked peas. Aspic jelly or a lettuce. Tartare sauce. Method.—Mix together the cold peas and enough tartare sauce to well moisten them. Heap them up in a glass dish and arrange either a border of lettuce leaves, or chopped aspic round. 18274 THE COMPLETE COOK Pease Pudding Ingredients— Two breakfastcupfuls of split peas. One rounded tablespoonful of One egg. Salt and pepper. butter. Method.—Soak the peas in water overnight. Drain off the water and tie them up rather loosely in a clean cloth, so that they will have room to swell. Put them in a saucepan of cold water and boil them from two to two and a half hours, or until they are soft. Take off the cloth and rub the peas through a wire sieve. Add to the mixture the butter, beaten egg, and seasoning. Scald and flour a pudding cloth, put in the mixture, tie it up tightly in a ball and boil it quickly for one hour. Take off the cloth and serve the pudding in a hot dish. Note.—If there is no sieve at hand, mash the peas finely with a fork. The sieved peas may be boiled in a greased basin instead of in a cloth, if preferred. Method.—Wash, scrub, and thinly peel the potatoes, put them in a pan of boiling salted water and boil them till they are half cooked. Drain them from the water and dry them. Put them in a dripping tin with some melted dripping and bake them in the oven until they are nicely brown and cooked through. They may require turning over. Sprinkle them with a little salt and serve them in a hot dish. Note.—If a joint of meat is being baked, the potatoes should be cooked in the same tin. Ingredient— Large potatoes. Method.—Choose potatoes of as much one size as possible. Wash, scrub, and dry them. Place them in a moderately hot oven and bake them until they are soft; they will probably take an hour or more, according to their size. Serve them on a folded dinner napkin in a hot dish. Butter should be handed with them. Potatoes, Baked Ingredients— Potatoes. Good dripping. Salt. Potatoes, Baked in their SkinsVEGETABLES 275 Potatoes, Boiled Ingredients— The required number of potatoes One large teaspoonful of salt to of as much one size as possible. each quart of water. Method.—'Wash, scrub, and peel the potatoes thinly. Re- move all specks and lay them in clean cold water when peeled. Put them in a saucepan with enough cold water to cover them, and salt in the given proportion. Boil them gently until they can be easily pierced with a skewer. Then drain off all water, put the pan at the side of the fire with the lid half off to dry the potatoes. Shake them gently about in the pan, occasionally, until they are quite dry and floury. Then serve them in a hot dish. Put any broken pieces underneath, and the whole ones on the top. Note.—Some varieties of potatoes will cook better if placed in boiling, not cold water, so should the result be unsuccessful with the latter, try the former. Potatoes, Boiled in their Skins Ingredients— Potatoes of as much one size as One teaspoonful of salt to each possible. quart of water. Method.—Wash and scrub the potatoes well. Put them in a pan with boiling water to cover them, add salt in the given proportion. Boil them until they feel tender when pierced with a skewer. Drain off the water, and if the skins have not cracked, prick them slightly with a fork to allow the steam to escape. Place them in the oven for a few minutes to become floury. If served in their skins, arrange them on a heated folded fish or table napkin, but, if preferred, they may be peeled before they are sent to table. New Potatoes, Boiled Ingredients— Two pounds of new potatoes. A teaspoonful of butter. Two or three sprigs of mint. Pepper. A teaspoonful of salt to each quart of boiling water. Method.—Wash the potatoes well and scrape off the skins. Lay them in cold water when peeled. Put them in a saucepan of boiling water with the mint and salt and boil them until they are tender. Drain off the water and remove the mint. Shake276 THE COMPLETE COOK the pan over the fire for a few minutes with the lid off to dry them, add about a teaspoonful of butter and a good dust of pepper, toss them about in this and serve them in a hot dish. Note.—If liked, a little chopped parsley may be sprinkled over them when in the dish. Potato Croquettes Ingredients— One pound of boiled potatoes. One egg and one extra yolk. One rounded tablespoonful of Breadcrumbs. butter or good dripping. Salt and pepper. Method.—Rub the potatoes through a sieve, or mash them finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the potatoes and salt and pepper to taste. Stir the mixture over the fire till it is hot through. Add the beaten yolk and, if necessary, a little milk, stir it over the fire for a few minutes to cook the egg. Turn the mixture on to a plate. Mark it into even-sized divisions and leave it to cool. Flour the hands very slightly and form the mixture into neat balls or cork shapes. Brush each with beaten egg and coat it with crumbs. When a faint blue smoke rises from the frying fat, put in the croquettes, a few at a time, and fry a delicate brown. Drain them on paper. Serve them on a. lace paper and garnish with fried parsley. New Potatoes, Crumbed Ingredients— One pound of large new potatoes. Browned breadcrumbs. One egg. Salt and pepper. Method.—Prepare and cook the potatoes as for Boiled New Potatoes. After draining off the water, dry them in a clean cloth, and cut each in half lengthways. Sprinkle the pieces with salt and pepper. Beat up the egg, brush each half potato over with it, then cover it with crumbs. Lay the halves on a greased baking tin and bake them for about ten minutes. Serve them on a lace paper on a hot dish. Potatoes, Fried Ingrediefits— Potatoes. Frying fat. Salt. Method.—Wash and peel the potatoes thinly, cut them into slices about a quarter of an inch thick. When a faint blueVEGETABLES 277 smoke rises from the frying fat, put in the potatoes, a few at a time, and fry them a golden brown. Drain them on paper and dust lightly with salt; serve quickly. Potato Straws Prepare as for Fried Potatoes, but cut the potatoes into pieces the size of very small thin matches. Dry them lightly in a soft cloth, then fry in the usual manner. Potato Ribbons Prepare as for Fried Potatoes, but cut the potatoes into slices half an inch thick. Trim these round with a cutter, then carefully peel each slice round and round as if peeling an apple; the longer the strip the better. Lay the ribbons in cold water, then dry them lightly, after loosely twisting them into a kind of knot, and fry as usual. Note.—If preferred, the Fried Potatoes and the Straws may be fried in a shallow frying pan. The Ribbons to be successful must be done in a deep pan. Potatoes, Mashed Ingredients— One pound of boiled potatoes. One tablespoonful of milk. One small tablespoonful of butter. Salt and pepper. Method.—Rub the potatoes through a sieve, or mash them finely with a fork. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the potatoes, milk, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir the mixture over the fire until it is hot through. Beat it well with a fork. Pile it up in a hot dish, marking it prettily with a fork. Note.—Only a spoonful of milk and no butter need be used if wished. Should the potatoes be at all moist leave out the milk entirely. After the potatoes are arranged on the dish, they may be browned with a salamander, or before the fire, or in the oven. Potatoes, Saute Ingredients— A pound of boiled potatoes. One tablespoonful of chopped Two rounded tablespoonfuls of parsley. butter. Salt and pepper. Method.—Cut the potatoes into slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Melt the butter in a frying pan ; whenTHE COMPLETE COOK 2/8 it is hot cover the bottom of the pan with slices of potato and fry them on each side a delicate brown. Drain them well on paper. When all are cooked, dust them with the parsley, salt, and pepper, and serve them in a hot dish. Potatoes, Steamed Ingredients— Even-sized potatoes. Salt. Method.—Wash and thinly peel the potatoes. Lay them in cold water. Place them in a steamer over boiling water and steam them until they are soft. Serve them in a hot dish and add a light sprinkle of salt. They will take longer to steam than to boil, but it is a better method, as none of their nutriment will be wasted in the water. Note.—When no steamer is available, the potatoes may be put in a colander over a pan half full of boiling water; the lid of the pan should be put on the colander. Potatoes, Ingredients— Three large even-sized potatoes. To each tablespoonful of potato pulp allow Half a tablespoonful of chopped meat, poultry, or game. Stuffed Half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Half a level tablespoonful of butter. Salt and pepper. Method.—Scrub the potatoes, then bake them in the oven till they are soft. Cut off a piece from one end of each and with a teaspoon scoop out the inside. Mash this finely, add to it the chopped meat, parsley, butter, salt and pepper to taste in the above proportions. Refill the skins carefully with the mixture. Put the potatoes back in the oven until they are hot through. Serve them on a folded table napkin. Note.—If preferred, the meat may be omitted, and grated cheese used instead. A beaten egg can be added to the mixture, if liked. Potatoes k la Duchesse Ingredients— One pound of mashed potatoes. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. The yolks of two small eggs. Salt, pepper, and a dust of nutmeg.VEGETABLES 279 Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the potato, beaten yolk, and cheese, and mix all well together. Season the mixture to taste with salt and pepper and a dust of nutmeg. Shape the mixture in pieces about three inches long, one and a half wide, and a quarter of an inch thick. Mark the top in a lattice pattern with the back of the knife. Brush it over with the other beaten yolk. Put the pieces on a greased baking tin in the oven and bake them a delicate brown. Serve them in a hot dish. Note.—The potato mixture may be flattened out and stamped out into rounds the size of the top of a claret glass, instead of squares, if liked. Potatoes a I’Hollandaise Ingredients— One and a half pounds of new potatoes. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One yolk of egg. About two tablespoonfuls of thick white sauce. A little lemon juice. Salt and pepper. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Method.—Boil the potatoes as directed for New Potatoes, Boiled. Drain off the water and dry them in a cloth. Put them in a hot vegetable dish and keep them hot. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the sauce, stir it over the fire until it is hot. Strain in the lemon juice and season rather highly with salt and pepper. Beat up the yolk, stir it into the sauce, and re-heat it carefully without boiling it. Pour the sauce over the potatoes, sprinkle the surface with the parsley, and serve as hot as possible. Potatoes, Sweet, Roast Ingredients— Sweet potatoes. Seasoning. Butter. Method.—Scrub the potatoes, put them in a moderately hot oven, or in a Dutch oven in front of a clear fire. Turn them now and then and cook them until they are soft all through, the length of time depending on their size. Then scrape off the skin, cut them in slices, and serve in a hot dish with a little butter on them and a dust of seasoning, or mash them with butter, seasoning, and, if liked, a little cream.28o THE COMPLETE COOK Salsify or Oyster Plant Fritters Ingredients— One pound of salsify. Lemon juice. Two tablespoonfuls of dripping. Batter No. 2 or 3. One tablespoonful of grated cheese. Frying fat. A little oil and vinegar. Method.—Wash and scrape the salsify and lay it in cold water. Have a pan of hot water on the fire, add to it the dripping, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, and one of salt. When the water boils put in the salsify, and with the lid half off the pan let it simmer gently for about half an hour, or until it is tender. Drain off the water and cut the salsify into pieces about two and a half inches long, sprinkle them with a few drops of oil and vinegar and a dust of pepper. Have the frying batter ready and the pan of hot fat. Dip each piece of salsify into the batter, lower it gently into the faintly smoking fat, and fry the fritters a golden brown. Drain them on paper, sprinkle with cheese, and serve at once. Savoys, Boiled Follow exactly the directions given for Boiled Cabbage. Scarlet Runners, Boiled Ingredients and method exactly the same as for French Beans, but sometimes they require somewhat longer boiling. Method.—Trim off all the stump except just enough to hold the stem together. Wash each piece most carefully, as it often harbours much grit and even worms. Tie several pieces together in small bunches with tape. Lay them in boiling salted water and boil quickly for about twenty to thirty minutes. Try with a skewer to see if the pieces are tender. Lift them out of the water carefully, drain well, untie the bunches, and serve in a hot dish, with a sauce tureen of melted butter or white sauce, some of which can be poured over if liked. Note.—Seakale is excellent cold, sprinkled with a little tarragon vinegar and a tureen of slightly whipped and seasoned cream, or Mayonnaise sauce handed with it. Seakale, Boiled Ingredients— One pound of seakale. Boiling water. Salt. Melted butter.VEGETABLES 281 Sorrel, Puree of Ingredients— Three pounds of fresh sorrel. Two tablespoonfuls of stock, One tablespoonful of butter. cream, or milk. One level tablespoonful of flour. Seasoning : castor sugar. Croutons. Method.—Pick over the sorrel, remove the stalks, wash it well in several waters. Put it in a saucepan with just enough water to cover the bottom of the pan. Add a little salt; cover the pan and let it cook for about twenty minutes; keep turning the sorrel over well and pressing it down. Drain off all moisture, pressing it well; rub the sorrel through a fine sieve. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the stock, sorrel puree, and a little castor sugar. Heat very thoroughly and serve with croutons. Note.—All recipes for spinach are equally suitable for sorrel. Spinach, Boiled with Poached Eggs Ingredients— Two pounds of spinach. Salt and pepper. Three new-laid eggs. One level tablespoonful of butter. Three rounds of hot buttered toast. Method.—Remove all the stalks and stringy fibres from the spinach. Wash it in several waters, put it while very wet in a large saucepan, but add no other water. Boil it quickly until it is soft, keeping it well stirred. Press out all water and either rub the spinach through a wire sieve, or chop it very finely. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the spinach and seasoning and make it thoroughly hot. Have ready three neat rounds of hot buttered toast, divide the spinach into three and put a third on each. Smooth it down, making a slight hollow in which to place the egg. Poach the eggs neatly, place them in the spinach, and serve at once. Note.—If liked, two tablespoonfuls of cream may be added to the spinach. Tomatoes au Gratin Ingredients— About six tomatoes. Three tablespoonfuls of bread- One tablespoonful of butter. crumbs. Three tablespoonfuls of grated Salt and pepper. cheese. Method.—Well butter a pie dish or “au gratin ” dish. Shake over it some cheese and crumbs mixed, leaving a layer at theTHE COMPLETE COOK 282 bottom of the dish. Wash, wipe, and slice the tomatoes. Put a layer in the dish, then one of crumbs and cheese, and so on until the dish is full—the last layer must be crumbs and cheese —dusting each layer with salt and pepper. Put a few small bits of butter on the top and bake in a moderate oven until the tomatoes are soft and the top nicely browned. Serve as hot as possible. Stuffed Tomatoes {Illustrated') Ingredients— Six firm, even-sized tomatoes. Two tablespoonfuls of cooked chopped ham. One rounded tablespoonful of fresh breadcrumbs. Two level teaspoonfuls of chopped shallot. Two level teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One tablespoonful of thick gravy or brown sauce. Three teaspoonfuls of grated cheese. One tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms. Salt: pepper : nutmeg. A few browned crumbs. Six croutons of bread. Method.—Wash, wipe, and stalk the tomatoes. Melt the butter in a sautd or frying pan. When hot put in all the finely chopped ingredients and fry them until the shallot is a light gold colour. Then add the white crumbs, brown sauce, and half the cheese. Season the mixture carefully and keep it hot. With a sharp knife remove a round piece from the stalk end of each tomato. Scoop out some of the soft interior so as to leave a cavity for the stuffing; take great care not to crack the tomatoes. Fill each with the prepared mixture, heaping it slightly on the top. Mix the rest of the cheese with the browned crumbs and sprinkle a little on the top of each heap of stuffing. Wipe any crumbs off the tomatoes. Cook them in a moderately hot oven for about five to eight minutes, or till tender, but not broken. Spread any mixture left over on the hot croutons, which should be cut to fit the tomatoes. Place a tomato on each crouton, arrange them on a lace paper on a hot dish, and they are ready for serving. Note.—If there is no brown sauce, or gravy, use some of the scooped out tomato. Omit mushrooms, if more convenient, and use a little more ham. Tongue, chopped game, or poultry can be used in place of the ham. Also excellent if made with lobster, oysters, or crab.STUFFED TOMATOESVEGETABLES 283 Turnips, Boiled Ingredients— Turnips. Salt: pepper. Boiling water. Butter : chopped parsley. Method.—Scrub and peel the turnips thickly, or thinly, according to their age. If old the woody rind is often very thick. The faint line between the rind and inner portion of the turnip can be easily seen. Leave them uncut, or quartered, if large; when cutting them note that thete is no sign of any small grub inside. Put the turnips into boiling salted water and boil them gently until tender. Try with a skewer to see if they are cooked. Drain them well and serve with a small piece of butter rubbed over them and a little salt, pepper, and chopped parsley sprinkled over. Mashed Turnips Prepare and cook as for Boiled Turnips, but press them well to get rid of moisture, and beat them up well with a fork. If sieved they become too much of a purde. Heat well with a little butter, salt, and pepper. Two tablespoonfuls of cream are a great improvement. To Boil Turnip Tops, Kale, etc. Ingredients—• The “greens.” Salt. Boiling water. Soda. Method.—Pick over the greens and remove decayed leaves, strip off any coarse stalks, and wash the greens well. Put them into fast boiling water, boil for five minutes, and then strain off and throw away the first water, and add more boiling water to which has been added two teaspoonfuls of salt and a piece of soda the size of a pea to every two quarts of water. Boil the greens quickly without the lid, remove any scum; the length of time depends on the variety and age. When tender drain off the water thoroughly, chop them through several times, and serve neatly on a hot dish. Butter or vinegar is often served with them. Cake of Cooked Vegetables Ingredients— One teacupful of cooked carrot. One cooked onion, if liked. One teacupful of cooked cabbage. Two large tablespoonfuls of Two teacupfuls of cooked potatoes. dripping. Salt: pepper.284 THE COMPLETE COOK Method.—Mash the potatoes. Chop the carrots, cabbage, and onion. Mix and season them well with salt and pepper. Make the dripping very hot in the frying pan. Put in the mixture, spreading it evenly over the pan. Fry it for about five minutes, then raise a corner and see if it is browned ; if so, put a plate over the pan and turn the cake on to it. Slip it back again into the pan with the browned side uppermost and fry the second side. If necessary, add more dripping for the second frying. Serve it whole on a hot dish, or cut into four pieces. Note.—Any sort of cooked vegetables can be used including beetroot, this latter would of course colour the cake. It is excellent with potatoes only. Method.—Unless there is need of great haste, boil the marrow uncut and unpeeled. In this way no flavour is lost. Put the marrow into boiling water and boil it for twenty to thirty-five minutes, or until tender when pierced with a skewer. Then peel, quarter, and remove the seeds. Lay the pieces on a slice of dry toast in the vegetable dish with the white sauce poured over, or served separately. Peel, quarter, and seed the marrow, place the pieces in a steamer and steam them for about thirty minutes to one hour, or until tender. This is the best way to cook marrow, as no flavour is lost. Serve it as for Boiled Marrow. Vegetable Marrow, Boiled Ingredients— A vegetable marrow. Toast. Three-quarters of a pint of white sauce. Vegetable Marrow, SteamedCHAPTER XIV SAUCES Many so-called good cooks fail when called upon to prepare various sauces. It is considered to be one of the highest branches of cookery, as it calls for so much discretion in selecting wisely, and skill in blending, flavours and ingredients, so as to carry out the characteristic features of the sauce and yet suit the tastes of the diners. The flavour of sauces must never be allowed to predominate over that of the meat, game, etc., which they are to accompany. Many inexperienced cooks think to hide defects, or to improve sauces by a liberal use of bottled sauces, wine, etc. ; this is a mistake, and rarely succeeds in its object. It is absolutely necessary for cooks to taste the various foods they prepare, and never more so than when concocting a sauce, for it is impossible to lay down hard-and-fast rules for seasoning and flavourings. Foundation Sauces With a few exceptions the actual foundation sauces, from which an almost unlimited supply of varieties is prepared, are only two in number: Espagnole, a rich brown sauce. BMiamel, a rich white sauce. Plain household sauces have for their foundation a less rich brown sauce and white sauce. Master these foundation sauces completely and a little experience will soon teach variations. Much of the success of brown sauces depends on the correct frying of the flour in the butter. This is done not only to colour the flour and thereby the sauce, but to develop a rich nutty flavour, obtainable by no other means. It is imperative also that the sauces are gently simmered 28sTHE COMPLETE COOK 286 by the side of the fire sufficiently long to permit the scum to rise, and by its removal clear the sauce and remove all grease. In white sauces it is also necessary to blend the flour with the butter and let it cook gently in it for a few minutes, but without allowing it to colour in the vety least. By doing this the butter is absorbed by the flour, the starch grains cook more quickly, and the flavour and appearance of the sauce are greatly improved. Undercooking sauces results in a rough, raw taste due to the starch grains of the flour not being thoroughly burst and cooked. This is unpleasant and indigestible. Overcookhig sauces—If this occurs through some error of judgment it often causes the butter to separate from the flour, this making the sauce oily. The Consistency of Sauces Sauces are required chiefly for two purposes;— 1. To coat or mask some article of food, eg. a chaudfroid sauce. 2. To flow smoothly round some preparation or other, e.g. sweet melted butter sauce poured round a pudding, or tomato sauce round cutlets. Should the sauce be too thick or too thin for the purpose it is intended, it must be described as a failure. A coating sauce should be sufficiently thick for it to smoothly cover the back of a wooden spoon when it is dipped in. If it all drips off it is too thin. A flowing sauce must be thin enough to flow smoothly round the pudding or meat, etc. It must not form ridges or lumps as it is poured round, if it does it is faulty. Strain or Tammy sauces in order to render them perfectly smooth, unless they contain some ingredients such as capers, parsley, etc., which it is necessary not to remove. Anchovy Sauce Add about one teaspoonful or more, according to taste, of anchovy essence to half a pint of White or Bechamel sauce.SAUCES 287 Apple Sauce Ingredients— One pound of sharp green apples. Castor sugar. Boiling water. About a teaspoonful of fresh butter. Method.—This sauce is often a failure as regards colour, fre- quently being a dingy brown. Try this method : With a silver knife cut the apples in quarters, remove the cores next, then peel them and put them at once into a bowl of cold water. Then put them into an enamel-lined pan; use a large shallow one, so that there will not be a great depth of apple. Add enough boiling water just to show among the pieces. ' Cover the pan tightly so as to keep in the steam, and cook them quickly. Shake the pan now and then and stir and mash the apple with a silver or plated fork. On no account touch the fruit with an ordinary metal utensil. Add sugar to taste, also the butter. This sauce may be served hot or cold. If carefully mashed it should not require sieving. Aspic Mayonnaise Sauce {For Coating Cold Salmon, etc.) Ingredients— One gill of thick Mayonnaise Two gills of warmed aspic jelly. sauce. Method.—When the jelly feels cool to the finger, but before it begins to set, stir it slowly and gently into the Mayonnaise sauce, and use it for whatever purpose it is desired before it sets. Bearnaise Ingredients— Three raw yolks of eggs. Three slightly rounded table- spoonfuls of butter. Eight tablespoonfuls of white or Bechamel sauce. Sauce Four tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar. Three finely chopped shallots. Two tablespoonfuls of stock. Method.—Put the vinegar into a small stewpan. Add the shallots and boil these until only half the amount of vinegar is left. Heat and mix in the hot white sauce. Beat up the yolks with the stock, strain them into the sauce, shallots, etc., and whisk them over a gentle heat sufficient to bind the yolks, but not boil them. Take the pan off the fire and chop the288 THE COMPI.ETE COOK butter into it, small bits at a time, until all is used. Whisk it well as each piece is added, and do not put in another until the last is mixed in. Season the sauce and quickly pour it through a fine pointed strainer. Do not re-heat it after adding the butter, or it will curdle. Bechamel Sauce {Rich White Foundation Sauce) Ingredients— One pint of milk or equal parts of milk and white stock, or fish stock. One gill of cream. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Three level tablespoonfuls of flour. One small onion. Half a small carrot. A bunch of parsley and a bay leaf. Eight peppercorns, half a blade of mace. Salt: pepper : nutmeg. Method.—Put the milk into a stewpan with the prepared carrot, onion, bunch of herbs, and spice. Simmer all these for about fifteen minutes until the milk is well flavoured. Melt the butter in a pan, mix in the flour, and stir both over a low fire for three or four minutes, but without browning them in the least. Strain the milk, stir it gradually into the flour, and butter and whisk it over the fire until it boils. Season it carefully, adding only a grain or two of nutmeg, and either tammy or pass it through a fine sieve. Re-heat it, add the cream, and it is ready to use. Note.—Use fish or white stock, according to whether the sauce is for meat, poultry, or fish. Bigarade Sauce Ingredients— One Seville orange. Salt and pepper. Half a pint of brown sauce. One teaspoonful of red currant One gill of port wine. jelly. A pinch of castor sugar. . Method.—Pare the rind very thinly off the orange, cut it into thin shreds, put these into boiling water, and boil them for five minutes, then drain off the water. Put the sauce into a pan, strain in the juice of the orange, add the shreds of peel, port wine, jelly, sugar, and salt and pepper to taste. Boil this for three minutes, then pour it into a hot tureen. Note.—This sauce is specially suitable for serving with wild fowl.SAUCES 289 Bread Sauce Ingredients— One teacupful of white bread- One small onion. crumbs. Half a tablespoonful of butter. Half a pint of milk. Salt and pepper. Two cloves. One tablespoonful of cream. Three peppercorns. Method.—Put the milk in a pan on the fire with the onion with the cloves stuck into it, and the peppercorns. Bring it to boiling point, then shake in the crumbs, add the butter and let it simmer very gently for about ten minutes. If it is too thick, add a little boiling water or more milk. Remove the cloves, onion, and peppercorns, season it with salt and pepper, add the cream and serve it in a hot tureen. Note.—\i a cheaper variety of this sauce is preferred leave out the cream and butter. Brown Sauce {Plain Brown Foundation Sauce) Ingredients— One pint of brown stock. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. One rounded tablespoonful of butter or dripping. One teacupful of sliced carrot. One sliced onion. One teaspoonful of lemon juice. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Salt; pepper. Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the vegetables, herbs, and flour and fry them a light brown. Pour in the stock and stir until the sauce boils. Season it with salt, pepper, and the lemon juice. Simmer the sauce for fifteen minutes, skim it well. Pour it through a gravy strainer and use as desired. Note.—If there is no stock, water must be used. Any scalded and scraped bacon rinds, bones, or trimmings may be added with the stock and are a great improvement, making it resemble more the rich Espagnole sauce. Caper Sauce Ingredients— One pint of the meat liquor. Two tablespoonfuls of capers. One rounded tablespoonful of Two teaspoonfuls of caper vinegar. flour. Salt : pepper. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Method.—Melt the butter, add the flour, and cook the two for about three minutes over a slow fire without browning them. 19THE COMPLETE COOK 290 Add the hot stock gradually, stir until it boils, cook it for five minutes. Halve the capers, add them and the vinegar, season it, and it is ready to serve. Note.—Pickled nasturtium seeds may be used instead of capers. If the sauce is needed for fish, use fish stock or water instead of the meat liquor. Brown Caper Sauce Ingredien ts— Half a pint of brown sauce. Salt, pepper, and nutmeg. One tablespoonful of halvedcapers. Method.—Stir the capers into the sauce, season it carefully, and serve in a hot tureen. Cardinal Sauce Ingredients— Half a pint of white or Bechamel One level tablespoonful of butter. sauce made with some fish stock. One teaspoonful of lemon juice. Lobster coral. Salt: pepper : nutmeg. Method.—Wash the lobster coral. Put it in a mortar with the butter and pound these together smoothly, then rub them through a hair sieve. Have the sauce in a small pan, whisk into it enough lobster butter to make it a pretty red, add the lemon juice and seasoning and strain. Note.—For a richer sauce add two or three tablespoonfuls of cream. Celery Sauce Ingredients— One head of celery. One pint of milk. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of Four tablespoonfuls of cream. butter. Salt: pepper : nutmeg. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. Method.—Use the white part of the celery only. Save the rest for flavouring purposes. Put the celery in cold water, bring it to boiling point and boil it for two or three minutes. Drain off the water, chop the celery in short pieces and boil it in the milk until tender. Melt the butter in another pan, mix in the flour, stir it over a low fire for a few minutes without browning it. Pour in the hot milk and celery gradually, stirring it all the time. Simmer these all for ten minutes. Tammy the sauce, or pass it through a hair sieve. Re-heat it, add the cream and seasoning, and serve,SAUCES 291 yV£,/^.__Xhe cream can be left out, and a little extra milk used if necessary. Brown Chaudfroid Sauce Ingredien ts— One pint of Espagnole sauce. Four sheets of French gelatine. Four tablespoonfuls of sherry. Two tablespoonfuls of cream. Eight tablespoonfuls of warmed aspic jelly. Method —Bo\\ the Espagnole sauce. Dissolve the gelatine in it, add the aspic, the wine, and let it stand by the side of the fire for five minutes. Skim it well and strain it through a tammy cloth or fine sieve. Add the cream, season it carefully, bearing in mind that foods to be eaten cold require to be slightly more highly seasoned than hot foods. This sauce is now ready to use as required. Note.—The plain brown sauce could be used instead of Espagnole and the cream left out. White Chaudfroid Sauce Make it as directed for Brown Chaudfroid Sauce, but use Bechamel instead of Espagnole sauce, and a teaspoon ful of lemon juice instead of the sherry. Green, Pink, or Fawn-Coloured Chaudfroid Sauce Prepare the desired quantity of White Chaudfroid Sauce and add to it either a few drops of green colouring, cochineal, or melted glaze to colour it delicately. Great care is needed, as vivid tints are objectionable. If there is no glaze, a drop or two of caramel (burnt sugar) colouring can be used instead. Chocolate Sauce Ingredients— Two tablespoonfuls of grated plain Half a pint of water or milk, chocolate. Half a teaspoonful of vanilla One rounded tablespoonful of icing essence, sugar. Two teaspoonfuls of brandy. One rounded tablespoonful of arrowroot or cornflour. Method.—Mix the chocolate and sugar slowly to a smooth paste with a little of the water or milk. Add the rest of the liquid and stir it until it boils. Mix the cornflour smoothly and thinly with a little extra cold water, add it to the hot chocolate.THE COMPLETE COOK 292 stirring it all the time until it boils. Cook it for five minutes. Pour it through a very fine strainer, add the vanilla and brandy, and serve very hot. Note.—Brandy need not be used unless liked. Cucumber Sauce (Cold) Ingredients— Half a large cucumber. Four tablespoonfuls of cream. Eight tablespoonfuls of Bechamel Salt: pepper. or white sauce. Green colouring. Eight tablespoonfuls of Mayon- naise sauce. Method.—Peel the cucumber, cut it into small pieces. Boil it until tender in boiling salted water. Drain the cucumber on a clean cloth and rub it through a hair sieve. Mix this purde with the warmed Bechamel sauce in a saucepan. Let it boil until it is reduced to half the amount. Then pour it into a basin and leave it until cold. Whip the cream until it will nearly hang on the whisk, and mix it with the Mayonnaise sauce. Add the cold Cucumber sauce slowly to these two, season it carefully, and make it a very pale tint of green with one or two drops of green vegetable colouring. Keep on ice, if possible, until it is needed. Cucumber Sauce (Hot) Use the same recipe as for Cucumber Sauce (Cold), but leave out the Mayonnaise sauce and use twice as much Bechamel sauce. Boil it after sieving it, then mix in the cream. Curry Sauce (for Eggs, Chicken, etc.) Ingredients— Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Three level tablespoonfuls of flour. One level tablespoonful of curry powder. Two tablespoonfuls of chopped onion. Method.—Melt the butter, golden brown. Add the flour Mix in the curry powder and ‘ add the apple, chutney, sliced t Two tablespoonfuls of grated apple, or One tablespoonful of chopped green gooseberries. Two teaspoonfuls of chutney. One tomato. About three gills of stock. Salt : castor sugar. put in the onion and fry it a and fry that a light brown also, tir that for a few minutes, then )mato, and stock. Stir all these293 SAUCES until the sauce boils. Let the sauce simmer for fifteen or twenty minutes. Add more stock, or a little milk, if it is too thick. Skim it well and season it carefully with salt and a dust of castor sugar. Strain the sauce through a fine strainer and use as desired. Note.—The amount of curry powder used must be increased or decreased, according to its strength and individual tastes. Curry paste may also be used. If very little powder is added, use a little more flour. A little fresh or sour cream is an excellent addition. Milk and water may be used, if meat stock has to be avoided. Egg Sauce Ingredients— Half a pint of white or Bechamel One hard-boiled egg. sauce. Seasoning. Method.—Boil the sauce. Shell the egg, separate the yolk and white and cut each into dice. Add these to the hot sauce, season it and serve in a hot tureen. Note.—If the sauce is required to look more ornamental, rub the yolk through a wire gravy strainer and sprinkle it on the surface of the fish, chicken, etc., after it has been coated with the sauce. Espagnole Sauce {Rich Brown Foundation Sauce) Ingredients— One pint of brown stock. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Three heaped tablespoonfuls of raw ham or bacon cut in dice. A bunch of parsley and herbs. One teacupful of sliced carrot. One sliced onion. One tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms or mushroom trim- mings. Three raw tomatoes. One clove ; three peppercorns. One glass of sherry or claret. Seasoning. Method.—Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the ham, vegetables, herbs, and spice and fry all these a light brown. Add the flour and brown that carefully also. Put in the stock and tomatoes and let the sauce simmer gently for half an hour. Stir it and skim it well. Add the sherry and seasoning and pass the sauce through a hair sieve or a tammy cloth. Should the sauce be too thick add more stock. Note.—If the stock is very weak, put in a small piece of glaze, or, failing that, a little meat extract.294 THE COMPLETE COOK Flemish Sauce Ingredients— Half a pint of brown sauce. One tablespoonful each of chopped One teacupful of cooked carrot in gherkins, parsley and grated and small dice. chopped horseradish. Method.—Boil the brown sauce. Add all the other in- gredients and simmer them for five minutes, then use; this sauce should be somewhat thick. Note.—The horseradish should first be grated and then chopped finely. Foam Sauce Ingredients— Two whites of eggs. One teacupful of boiling water. Three tablespoonfuls of castor Two tablespoonfuls of brandy, sugar. sherry, or lemon juice. Method.—Dissolve the sugar in the water, add the wine. Beat the eggs to a stiff froth. Whisk in the egg quickly, but thoroughly, and serve at once. German Sauce Ingredients— The raw yolks of two eggs. Two teaspoonfuls of castor sugar. Four tablespoonfuls of sherry. Method.—Put the yolks into a small pan, add the sugar and sherry, beat them up. Whisk these over a gentle heat until the mixture is thick and nothing but froth. It must not be allowed to reach boiling point, or it will curdle. Serve it at once. Hanoverian Sauce {for Cold Meats, etc.) Ingredients— Three rounded tablespoonfuls of mashed potato. Three hard-boiled yolks of eggs. Three tablespoonfuls of salad oil. Two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. One teaspoonful of made mustard. One teaspoonful of chopped spring onion. Salt; pepper. Method.—-Mix the potato, yolks, mustard, oil, vinegar, and onion together. Season the mixture and rub it all through a hair or very fine wire sieve. Add the parsley. This sauce should be so thick that it drops heavily from the spoon. If too stiff add more oil and vinegar, or milk or cream.295 SAUCES Hard Sauce Ingredients— Four slightly rounded table- Half a teaspoonful of vanilla or spoonfuls of butter. lemon juice, or four teaspoonfuls Two level tablespoonfuls of castor of brandy, sugar. A dust of nutmeg. Method.—Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar gradually and beat again until it is light and frothy, and add the flavouring. Heap the mixture in a glass dish, sprinkle over a dust of nutmeg, and put it on ice, or in a cold place to harden it until required. Hollandaise Sauce Ingredients— Three raw yolks of eggs. Two tablespoonfuls of stock. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of Two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, butter. Salt : pepper. Eight tablespoonfuls of Bechamel or white sauce. Method.—Boil the Bechamel sauce. Beat up the yolks with the stock. Strain them into the hot sauce over a slow fire. Whisk the sauce so as to bind, but not boil the yolks. Add the strained lemon juice and season it carefully. Drop small bits of butter one at a time into the sauce, whisking it all the time off the fire ; be careful one piece of butter is well mixed in before the next is added. Do not re-heat the sauce after adding the butter, or it will probably curdle. It should not need straining if the Bechamel sauce was perfectly smooth. Horseradish Sauce (Cold) Ingredients— One stick of horseradish. One tablespoonful of vinegar. Half a teaspoonful of made One gill of cream, mustard. A pinch of salt. One teaspoonful of castor sugar. Method.—Lay the horseradish in cold water for a short time, this makes it easier to grate. Wash, scrub, and peel the stick and grate it as finely as possible. Add to it the mustard, sugar, salt, and the vinegar. Mix these together. Next whip the cream slightly and add it. Mix all well together, and keep on ice or in a cool place until required. Note.—Milk may be substituted for cream, but the sauce will be thinner ; this can be remedied by adding a few fine fresh crumbs.THE COMPLETE COOK 296 Italian Sauce Ingredients— Half a pint of Espagnole or brown One tablespoonful of butter. sauce. Four tablespoonfuls of sherry. Two chopped shallots. One bay leaf and a sprig of thyme. Six chopped preserved mushrooms. Method.—Fry the shallots, mushrooms, and herbs in the butter until very lightly browned. Add the wine and simmer all for five minutes. Add the Espagnole sauce, simmer for a few minutes, removing all grease. Strain the sauce and use. Lemon Sauce Ingredients— Half a pint of boiling water. One level tablespoonful of castor One rounded tablespoonful of sugar, cornflour. Two lemons. Method.—Grate off all the rind of the lemons. Put the water in a pan on the fire. Mix the cornflour smoothly and thinly with the strained lemon juice. When the water boils, pour in the cornflour and stir it over the fire until it boils. Add the lemon rinds and sugar and simmer it for five minutes. Serve in a hot tureen. Note.—Orange rinds and juice may be used in place of lemon. Lobster or Shrimp Sauce Proceed as for Oyster Sauce, adding a teacupful of shelled shrimps or chopped lobster and a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, instead of oysters. Madeira Sauce Ingredients— Four tablespoonfuls of Espagnole Four tablespoonfuls of sherry. sauce. A piece of glaze the size of a One teacupful of good brown stock. walnut. Method.—Put the stock, sauce, and glaze into a pan. Boil them, add the wine, and boil again until the sauce is reduced by about one-third. It is then ready for use. Maitre d’Hotel Sauce Prepare as for Parsley Sauce, but use Bechamel instead of white sauce, and only half the parsley.SAUCES 297 Marmalade Sauce Proceed as directed for Lemon Sauce, adding one table- spoonful of marmalade in the place of the one of lemon. Mayonnaise Sauce Ingredients— The raw yolks of two eggs. One teaspoonful of made mustard. Half a pint of good salad oil. Half a teaspoonful of salt. One tablespoonful of malt vinegar. Pepper. One tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar. Method.—Put the yolks into a basin with the salt and mustard. Mix them together with a wooden spoon, then add the oil, drop by drop, stirring it all the time. When the sauce seems getting too thick add the vinegars gradually. The sauce should then be of the thickness of very thick cream. Add pepper and salt to taste. Keep it in a cool place until required. Note.—If preferred, add a larger quantity of vinegar. If there is no tarragon vinegar at hand, use double the malt. If the sauce is required specially thick continue to add more oil. If hot weather, there is less risk of the sauce curdling if the basin is set in another filled with chipped ice. Plain Melted Butter Sauce Ingredients— Half a pint of cold water. One slightly rounded tablespoon- One rounded tablespoonful of ful of flour. butter. Salt : pepper. Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the water gradually, and stir until it boils. Let it simmer for ten minutes. Season it, strain it into a hot tureen, and serve. - Sweet Melted Butter Sauce Ingredients— Half a pint of milk. One rounded tablespoonful of Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. butter. One tablespoonful of castor sugar. Method.—Melt the butter, stir in the flour, cook it without colouring it for a few minutes. Add the milk and stir until it boils. Sweeten to taste, strain, and serve it in a hot tureen.298 THE COMPLETE COOK Mint Sauce Ingredients— Two tablespoonfuls of finely Quarter of a pint of good vinegar, chopped mint. A pinch of salt. Two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Method.—Wash, dry, and chop the mint very finely. Put the salt and sugar in the tureen with the vinegar; when they are quite dissolved stir in the mint and let it stand for half an hour. Note,—If the vinegar is very sour, put in less, making up the quantity with water. Mousseline Sauce Ingredients— Two eggs. Three tablespoonfuls of sherry, Four tablespoonfuls of cream. brandy, liqueur, or lemon juice. Two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Method.—Put all the ingredients into a small stewpan. Stand it in a bain-marie or a larger pan, with boiling water to come three parts up the smaller one. Whisk the sauce briskly until it is light and frothy, but on no account must it boil, or it is ruined. Serve it at once. Mustard Butter Sauce ( for Fish) Ingredients— Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Two raw yolks of eggs. Two large teaspoonfuls of Gennan mustard. Two teaspoonfuls each of lemon juice and chopped parsley. One teaspoonful of warmed glaze. Two tablespoonfuls of fish stock or water. Method.—Heat the butter until it is just beginning to turn brown. Have all the other ingredients beaten up in a sauce- pan. Stir into them the hot butter, whisking it well all the time. Stand the pan in another larger one containing boiling water to come half-way up the smaller pan, and stir or whisk the sauce until it thickens, but on no account must it boil. Onion Sauce Boil three large onions until tender, drain them well, chop them finely, and add them to half a pint of white sauce.SAUCES 299 Oyster Sauce Ingredients— Half a pint of Bechamel or white One teaspoonful of lemon juice, sauce. Salt : cayenne. One dozen sauce oysters and their liquor. Method.—Put the oysters in a stewpan with their liquor. Heat them gently until they plump up. Next beard, halve, or quarter them according to their size, and add them and the strained liquor to the hot Bechamel sauce. Add the lemon juice, seasoning, and serve. Note.—Add a tablespoonful of cream and one raw beaten yolk of egg, if it is required richer. Parsley and Butter Sauce Ingredients— One pint of white sauce made with One large tablespoonful of half milk and half boiled meat chopped parsley, liquor. Half a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Method.—Boil and season the sauce, strain it unless perfectly smooth. Add the parsley and lemon juice and serve. Piquante Sauce Ingredients— Half a pint of Espagnole or brown sauce. Two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Two teaspoonfuls of any bottled sauce. One teaspoonful of chopped capers. One teaspoonful of chopped gherkins. A few drops of anchovy essence. Alethod.—When making the Espagnole, or brown sauce, add the vinegar after frying the flour and boil it until it is reduced to half. Then add the stock and proceed as directed for Brown Sauce. When the brown sauce is strained add the gherkins, capers, bottled sauce, and anchovy essence. Note.—For a plainer sauce leave out the capers, gherkins, and anchovy essence. Pistachio Sauce Ingredients— Two rounded tablespoonfuls of pistachio nuts. One rounded tablespoonful of cornflour. One level tablespoonful of castor sugar. One tablespoonful of cream. Three-quarters of a gill of water. Vanilla. Four tablespoonfuls of Marsala.300 THE COMPLETE COOK Method.—Cook the-pistachio nuts in boiling water for a few minutes, shell them, and pound them until smooth in a mortar. Mix the cornflour smoothly and thinly with the cold water, put it in a saucepan with the pounded nuts and bring these to boiling point, keeping it well stirred ; simmer for five minutes. Add the wine, sugar, cream, and vanilla to taste. Strain the sauce into a hot tureen and serve. Note.—If more convenient use milk in place of cream, and if liked, omit the wine altogether and use instead lemon juice and water. Port Wine Sauce Ingredients— Eight tablespoonfuls of port wine. The juice of half a lemon. Eight tablespoonfuls of brown Half a teaspoonful of castor sugar, sauce. Salt and cayenne pepper. One tablespoonful of red currant jelly. Method.—Put all the ingredients into a clean bright pan, bring them to boiling point. Keep the sauce well skimmed. Season it carefully and strain it into a hot tureen. Sauce Ingredients— Half a pint of Espagnole or brown sauce. Half a teaspoonful-of castor sugar. A quarter of a teaspoonful of dry mustard. Robert Two teaspoonfuls of butter. One teaspoonful of chopped onion. Two tabiespoonfuls of sherry, or One tablespoonful of vinegar. Method.—Fry the onion a good brown in the butter. Mix in the mustard and sugar, add the wine or vinegar, and boil it for a minute. Stir in the Espagnole sauce, boil all for five minutes, skim, and season it. Strain it and use. Soubise Sauce Ingredients— Half a pint of Bdchamel sauce. Three large onions. Half a pint of white stock or milk. Salt: pepper : castor sugar. Method.—Peel and slice the onions. Boil them until soft in the milk. Press them well and rub them through a hair sieve. Add the pulp to the white sauce and boil it until reduced to about half the quantity. Add the seasoning of salt and pepper and a pinch of sugar and serve. Note.—White sauce may be used. A little cream is an improvement.SAUCES 301 Tartare Sauce Ingredients— Half a pint of thick Mayonnaise sauce. One tablespoonful of Bechamel sauce. Half a tablespoonful of chopped gherkins. One teaspoonful each of chopped capers, parsley, and olives. Half a teaspoonful each of chopped tarragon and chervil. A pinch of castor sugar. Method.—Put the Mayonnaise sauce into a basin, add all the other ingredients, mix these well in and place it on ice until needed. Note.—Leave out the olives if wished. A tablespoonful of thick cream or white sauce can be used instead of the Bechamel sauce. Tomato Aspic Sauce {for Coating Cold Entrees, etc.) Ingredients— Half a pint of warmed aspic jelly. One teaspoonful of sherry. One gill of tomato pulp sieved. Seasoning. Method.—Warm the jelly, sieved tomato pulp, and sherry, simmer it for one or two minutes. See that it is well flavoured, strain it through a fine pointed strainer, and use when it is cool, but before it sets. Tomato Sauce Ingredients— One pound of tomatoes. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of cornflour. One onion. Two tablespoonfuls of ham or bacon cut in dice. A bunch of parsley, herbs, and a bay leaf. One pint of stock. Six peppercorns. Salt. Method.—Melt the butter in a stewpan, chop the onion, add it and the ham, spice, and herbs, and fry them gently for fifteen minutes. Put in the sliced tomatoes, add the stock and the cornflour mixed smoothly with a little cold stock or water. Simmer the sauce gently for fifteen minutes, stirring it well. Season it carefully. Rub it through a hair or fine wire sieve and serve it in a hot tureen. Note.—If the tomatoes are very watery and the sauce seems too thin, boil it quickly for a few minutes with the lid off the pan. If too acid add a dust of castor sugar.302 THE COMPLETE COOK Vanilla Sauce To half a pint of sweet melted butter sauce add essence of vanilla to taste. White Sauce {Plain White Foundation Sauce') Ingi'edients— One pint of milk, or half milk and half white, or fish stock. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. One bay leaf: half a small onion. Half a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Salt: pepper. Method.—Melt the butter, mix in the flour and cook both for three or four minutes over a slow fire without browning them. Add the milk and stir until it boils. Put in the onion and bay leaf and simmer the sauce for ten minutes; season and strain it and it is ready for use. Note.—Use white stock, or fish stock, according to whether it is to be used for fish, meat, or poultry. Wine Sauce Ingredients— Two tablespoonfuls of any jam. One teaspoonful of lemon juice. One teacupful of boiling water. Castor sugar to taste. Four tablespoonfuls of sherry. Method.—Put the water, jam, and lemon juice in a pan. Boil it until it becomes like syrup. Add the wine and sugar also, if needed. Then reboil it and strain. Note.—Use a coloured jam which will contrast prettily with the pudding with which it is to be served.APPLE AMHER PUDDING CHOCOLATE TARTLETSCHAPTER XV PUDDINGS AND PASTRY Apple Amber Pudding {Illustrated) Ingredients— Six large sharp apples. Three tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Three eggs. One lemon. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Method.—Peel, core, and quarter the apples. Put the butter in a stewpan, warm it, then add the apples, sugar, and grated lemon rind, and let them stew slowly till they are in a soft thick pulp. Rub this through a hair or fine wire sieve. Beat in the yolks of the eggs and add the cinnamon. Damp the , edge of the pie dish, roll out the pastry thinly, cut off a strip and press it on the edge and inside the dish so as to line it. Cut out the rest of the pastry into small fancy rounds about the size of a sixpence. Brush the edge of the pastry with a little white of egg or water. Arrange the fancy rings of pastry round on it, overlapping each other. Put the apple mixture into the dish and bake it in a quick oven till the pastry is cooked and the centre mixture set, probably it will take about twenty-five minutes. Have the whites of eggs beaten to a very stiff froth and mixed with three level teaspoonfuls of extra castor sugar and a drop or two of vanilla. Heap this meringue roughly all over the apple mixture. Dust the surface well with castor sugar and here and there place a glace cherry. Replace the pudding in the slowest part of the oven till the meringue feels crisp and is delicately tinged with brown, then serve at once. Note.—The edging of pastry can be left out, but the effect is less good. The addition of cinnamon is a matter of taste. Angelica or other fruits can be used as decoration. 303 Three ounces of any good pastry. About ten glace cherries. Half a level teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Vanilla.THE COMPLETE COOK 304 Gooseberry Amber Pudding is made in the same way, using about a pound of the fruit, which must be first washed and “ topped and tailed.” If these are very hard, a spoonful or so of water may be necessary. Should the purde be too juicy, add a few cake crumbs. Leave out the lemon rind and cinnamon. Apricot Amber Pudding The same as Apple Amber. Use about a pound of fruit; un- ripe apricots are excellent. Stone them before stewing. Add a few shredded almonds or kernels from the stones to the pulp. Amber Pudding from Dried Fruits Make it the same as Apple Amber, but soak the pound of dried apples, figs, apricots, etc., overnight, and stew them in a little of the same water till soft. Sieve them, add butter, etc. Baked Apples Two or three tablespoonfuls of Demerara sugar. Water. Method.—Peel and core the apples. Put them in a pie dish, fill the centres with sugar and lemon rind mixed together, pour in enough water to cover the bottom of the dish. Bake the apples in a moderate oven until they are soft, but not broken, basting them frequently with the juice. Serve them on a clean dish with a little castor sugar sprinkled on them. Note.—If preferred, a clove may be placed in each, instead of the lemon rind, and merely prick the apples once or twice, and do not peel or core them. Ingredients— Six sour apples. The rind of a lemon. Dutch Apple Cake Ingredients— Two breakfastcupfuls of flour. One breakfastcupful of milk. One teacupful of butter. Two level teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. Half a level teaspoonful of car- bonate of soda. Half a level teaspoonful of salt. One egg. One pound of apples. About two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Method.—Sieve the flour, salt, soda, and cream of tartar together twice; rub in the butter; beat the egg and mix it with305 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY the milk, then strain these into the flour, stirring them in with a knife. Use enough milk to make a very soft dough. Slightly grease a deep round or square baking tin. Spread the soft dough to the depth of half an inch in the tin, rolling it back slightly to make a thicker edge. Have the apples ready peeled, cored, and cut in eight sippets. Arrange these in rows over the dough, the sharp edge pressed slightly down into the dough. Sprinkle the sugar over the apple. Bake the cakes in a quick oven for about twenty to thirty minutes. It is sometimes eaten hot with butter for tea, or served with lemon sauce as a pudding. Note.—Four level teaspoonfuls of baking powder can be used instead of the soda and cream of tartar. Powdered cinnamon, or cloves, or grated lemon rind can be sprinkled over with the sugar for flavouring. Apple Charlotte Ingredien ts— One pound of apples. Four tablespoonfuls of moist sugar. Four heaped tablespoonfuls of One grated lemon rind. chopped suet. One rounded tablespoonful of Three-quarters of a breakfast- butter. cupful of breadcrumbs. Method.—Peel, core, and slice the apples. Well butter a pie dish. Mix the crumbs, suet, and grated lemon rind. Fill the dish with alternate layers of the crumbs and apples and sugar. The first and last layers must be of crumbs and suet. Put any butter left, in pieces on the top, and for the first twenty minutes put a piece of greased paper over the top. Put the dish in a moderate oven and bake it for about an hour, or until the apple is soft and the charlotte nicely browned on the top. Serve in the dish or carefully turned out. Cream or custard may accompany it. Note.—If liked, half a saltspoonful of cinnamon may be added. Ripe berries, such as currants, blackberries, goose- berries, or rhubarb, may be used instead of apples, or oatmeal in the place of breadcrumbs. If the apples are not juicy, pour in a little water, and if not sharp cooking ones add the juice of the lemon as well as the rind. Compote of Apples Ingredients— One breakfastcupful of loaf sugar. One breakfastcupful of water. One inch of cinnamon stick. Eight sharp apples. 20 One or two tablespoonfuls of jelly or marmalade. Half a teacupful of cream. Cochineal.3o6 THE COMPLETE COOK Method.—Put the sugar, water, and cinnamon into a pan. Boil them without the lid steadily for ten minutes. Skim this syrup well and take out the cinnamon. Colour it a fairly deep pink with cochineal. Core and pare the apples, lay them in the syrup, and cover them with the cores and peel. Simmer the fruit until it is tender, but not broken ;"The time will depend on the variety of apple, probably half an hour will be sufficient. Lift out the apples carefully on to a tin and cook them for a few minutes in the oven. Strain the syrup and boil it quickly until it is very thick ; if the apples are good it will almost jelly when some is cooled on a plate. Arrange the apples on a dish, pour the syrup when half cold over them. Just before serving fill the centre of each with jelly, and put the whipped and flavoured cream round them or heaped in the middle. Apple Dumplings Ingredients— Four large baking apples. Demerara sugar. Four cloves. For the Short Crust Pastry— One and three-quarter breakfast- cupfuls of flour. Five rounded tablespoonfuls of butter, lard, or dripping. Half a teaspoonful of baking powder. Quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. Cold water. Method.—Remove the cores from the apples without breaking them, using a corer or sharp-pointed knife. Then peel them. Next prepare the pastry as directed for Short Crust Pastry. Divide the pastry into four, roll each piece out large enough to cover the apples. Place an apple on each round, fill in the centre with sugar and one clove. Wet the edges of the pastry, close them neatly together under each apple. Place the apples on a greased tin and bake them in a moderate oven for half an hour, or until the apples are tender ; this is best ascertained by sticking a clean skewer into them. Brush the dumplings over with a little water and dust them with sugar. Note.—A spoonful of jam or marmalade placed in the centre of the apples, instead of the sugar and clove, makes a pleasing change. Meringued Apples higredients— Two large sharp cooking apples. Three level tablespoonfuls of castor Two whites of eggs. sugar. Method.—Peel and core the apples, put them in a baking tin with water to come half-way up them, and one tablespoonful ofCochineal. 307 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY Ten lumps of sugar. the sugar. Bake them slowly till they are tender, but not broken, basting them now and then with the syrup. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, shake into it three parts of the remaining sugar. Put the whipped whites into a forcing bag with a plain pipe and force it round and round the apples until the apple is entirely encased in meringue ; make it slightly higher in the centre. Shake the rest of the sugar over them. Put them in a very slow oven until the meringue is crisp and of a pale biscuit tint. Serve them either hot or cold. Note,—If a forcing bag is not obtainable, the meringue may be put on roughly with a fork. This is an attractive- looking and wholesome sweet. Apple Ingredients— Four medium-sized apples. Half a pint of water. Half a lemon. Method.—Wash the apples, do not core or peel them, but cut each in eight. Put the pieces in a stewpan with the water, sugar, clove, and the thinly pared rind of the lemon. Let these cook gently until the apples are soft, then rub them through a fine sieve. Dissolve the gelatine in two tablespoonfuls of warm water, and strain it into the sieved apple. Mix it well in and add a few drops of cochineal to make the mixture a delicate pink. Pour it into a mould which has first been rinsed out with cold water. Leave until the mixture is set, then dip the mould into tepid water and turn the contents on to a glass dish. Note.—If more convenient set the mixture in small moulds. Custard or cream, plain or whipped, is a great improvement to this dish. Gooseberries or rhubarb may be used in the place of apples. New York Apples Ingredien ts— Six or eight apples. Two or three tablespoonfuls of One small pot of red currant jelly. lemon sponge. Castor sugar. Method.—Wash the apples and core them, either with a corer or pointed knife. Peel them thinly and roll each apple in castor sugar. Place the apples in a slightly buttered fireproof dish, and bake them very slowly until they are soft but not broken. Sprinkle them with “hundreds and thousands” or Mould Five sheets of gelatine. One clove.THE COMPLETE COOK 3o8 chopped pistachio nuts. Leave them until cold, then fill in the centre of each with a little lemon sponge and on this put a small round of jelly to form a lid. Note.—Whipped and flavoured cream is excellent in the place of lemon sponge. Apple Tart Ingredien ts— About two pounds of apples. Half a pound of any good pastry. About four tablespoonfuls of Dem- Two cloves, or a little grated lemon erara sugar. rind. Method.—Peel, core, and quarter the apples. Cut each quarter in half. Half fill a pie dish with the fruit, next put in the sugar and flavouring, and then the rest of the fruit. Half fill the dish with cold water. Roll out the pastry to the shape of the dish, but a little larger and about a third of an inch thick. Cut off a strip to fit round the edge of the dish, brush it with water, put on the strip of pastry, moisten this also and put on the top. Press the edges together, trim and flake them up with the back of the knife and crimp them neatly. Raise the pastry from the dish at each end, and bake the tart for about three- quarters of an hour, first in a quick part of the oven for the pastry to rise, and then in a cooler part to cook the fruit. Brush the top of it with a little cold water and dust it with castor sugar. Note.—All other fruit tarts are made in a similar manner, but the preparation of the fruit, and the amount of sugar and water added to it, must vary with each kind, according to whether the variety is, or is not, very juicy or sour. The top of the tart has a more finished appearance if it is brushed after baking with a little whipped white of egg, dusted with castor sugar, and then placed again in the oven for about five minutes. Apple Whip Ingredients— Two large sharp cooking apples. One tablespoonful of cream. One tablespoonful of sugar. Two tablespoonfuls of water. Half a teaspoonful of grated lemon The white of one egg. rind. Method.—Peel, core, and slice the apples. Put them in a saucepan with the water and lemon rind, and stew them gently until they are soft. Then beat them till they are smooth with a fork, and sweeten them to taste. Whisk the white of the egg309 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY very stiffly, stir it into the apple lightly, and whisk it again till it is stiff and white. Whip the cream also and add it very lightly. Serve the whip either in custard glasses or on glass plates. Hand with them some sponge fingers or plain biscuits. Bananas with Fruit Sauce Ingredu7i ts— Four bananas. One large teacupful of castor One and a half pounds of red sugar. currants. Method.—Stalk, wash, dry, and then mash the currants. Rub the fruit through a hair or fine wire sieve in order to keep back the pips. Add the sugar to the fruit juice, and let it stand until the sugar is dissolved, stirring the juice now and then. Peel the bananas, remove all the stringy membranes, and cut them in halves lengthways and then across again. Arrange them in a shallow glass dish and pour the currant juice over them. Serve as cold as possible. The flavour of the currant juice improves the bananas and the effect of the colour is good. It makes a cool, simple summer sweet, far more acceptable on a summer day than a hot starchy pudding. Note.—Blackberry juice, or raspberry and currant juice mixed can be used. Cream or custard may accompany this sweet. Batter No. i Baking, Steaming, and Pancakes) Ingredients— A breakfastcupful of milk. One egg. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of A quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, flour. Method.—Sieve the flour and salt into a basin. Make a well in the centre, put the egg into it, breaking it into a cup first to make sure it is fresh; add about four tablespoonfuls of milk to the egg; take a wooden spoon and stir in these two ingredients slowly and smoothly to the flour. Keep the pool of liquid neatly in the middle, so that the walls of flour round it are gradually drawn in by the spoon. When the mixture becomes thicker than good cream, add more milk until half of it is used. By this time all the flour should be mixed in, and if it has been well made the batter will be free from lumps.THE COMPLETE COOK 310 Should any be seen, work them out by pressing them against the basin with the spoon. Beat the batter thoroughly, until the surface is well bubbled. An experienced operator will do this in half the time that one who does not understand how to beat correctly would take (read How to Beat). Then add the rest of the milk and allow the batter to stand for about an hour if possible. It is then ready to use as required. Batter No. 2 {for frying purposes) Ingredients— Four rounded tablespoonfuls of One tablespoonful of salad oil, or flour. warmed butter. A teacupful of tepid water. Two whites of eggs. Quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. Method.—Sieve the flour and salt. Add the oil to the water. Four half of this liquid into a well in the centre of the flour and stir it gradually and smoothly in ; as the batter becomes thicker than good cream add more oil and water. When all the flour and water are mixed, beat the batter until the surface is bubbled. Let it stand for an hour if possible, then stir in very lightly at the last moment possible, before frying, the whites of the eggs beaten to a very stiff froth. The batter is then ready for use as required. Note.—If to be used for coating fish or meat, add two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice to the batter. If for fruit, a tea- spoonful of castor sugar. Batter No. 3 {a richer frying batter) Ingredients— Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. One whole egg and one extra yolk. One tablespoonful of salad oil. Two tablespoonfuls of cream or milk. A few grains of salt. Method.—Sieve the flour and salt. Add the oil to the milk and pour these into the middle of the flour and mix them in smoothly. Add the yolks of the eggs and beat the batter well. Whisk the white to a stiff froth and add it very lightly to the batter the last moment before cooking. It is then ready for use.311 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY Bilberry Cakes Ingredients— Two breakfastcupfuls of flour. One breakfastcupful of milk. One teacupful of castor sugar. Three level teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of Half a teaspoonful of salt. One egg. One heaped breakfastcupful of bilberries. butter. Method.—Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder. Cream the butter and sugar until soft. Add the yolk of egg and beat it well. Stir in the milk gradually, add this mixture slowly and smoothly to the flour, beat it thoroughly and add the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Have the berries picked over, washed, lightly dried, and dredged with a little flour; be careful not to break them ; stir them lightly into the flour, etc. Bake the cake mixture in greased shallow pans, deep patty tins, or buttered saucers, for about half an hour. Note.—Sour milk may be used instead of fresh, then leave out the baking powder and use half a level teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Sliced apples, or red or black currants may take the place of the bilberries, or whinberries, or huckleberries, as they are also called. One tablespoonful of marmalade. Method.—Butter a pie dish. Spread just a little marmalade on each slice of bread and butter. Beat the eggs, mix them with the sugar, salt, and half the milk. Lay the slices in the dish, pour in the custard, add and mix in as much more of the milk as the dish will hold. Let the pudding soak for half an hour, or much longer if the bread is very hard. Stand the dish in a deep tin with water round the dish and bake the pudding very slowly until lightly browned. Note.—Usually the slices of bread and butter left from some meal are used, but it makes really a lighter pudding if the bread is quite half an inch thick. This enables any wedges of bread left from dinner to be buttered and used. Jam may be used instead of marmalade, but is hardly as nice, or currants, or sultanas instead of either. Bread and Butter Pudding Ingredients— One pint of milk. Two eggs. One tablespoonful of castor sugar. Slices of bread and butter to barely half fill the dish. A few grains of salt.THE COMPLETE COOK 312 Cabinet Pudding Ingredients— About four stale sponge cakes. Glace cherries, or mixed candied fruit. One pint of milk. One whole egg and two extra yolks. Three tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. A few grains of salt. Vanilla, or some other good essence. Method.—Well butter a mould, decorate the bottom prettily with some of the fruit. Break up the sponge cakes, pack them loosely into the mould in layers with a little fruit cut in small dice. Bring the milk nearly to boiling point, beat up the eggs, add the milk when slightly cooled gradually to them, stirring all the time, then add the sugar, salt, and essence. Pour the custard over the cake in the mould. Let it stand to soak for at least half an hour. Cover the top with a piece of buttered paper and steam it very gently for one hour. Turn it on to a hot dish and serve with it a good sweet sauce. Note.—If preferred, raisins may be used instead of candied fruit. A few macaroons, or ratafias, coarsely crushed and mixed with the cake are an improvement. If liked, this mixture may also be baked. Chelsea Pudding Prepare a custard as directed for Baked Custard Pudding, but before pouring it into the pie dish, put in a thick layer of any sieved cake crumbs, such as stale sponge cake, macaroons, etc. Then add a good layer of any jam or stewed fruit next the custard and cook the pudding in the same way as baked custard. Cherry Roly-Poly Ingredients— Two breakfastcupfuls of flour. Half a teaspoonful of salt. Three large teaspoonfuls of baking powder. For the Sauce— One teacupful of the cherry syrup. Half a teacupful of boiling water. Two large tablespoonfuls of butter. About half a pint of milk. Half a pound of stewed or bottled cherries. One tablespoonful of butter. Two teaspoonfuls of cornflour.PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 313 Method.—Mix the flour, salt, and baking powder. Rub into it finely the butter. Mix the flour to a stiff paste with the milk. Roll out the pastry in an oblong shape to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Have the cherries stoned and well drained. Lay them all over the surface of the paste and dredge a little flour lightly over. Brush round the edges with water. Roll up into a bolster-like form. Tie it in a scalded and floured cloth and boil the pudding for one and a half hours. Then remove the cloth, place the pudding on a hot dish and serve with it the following sauce:—To make the Sauce: Mix the water and cherry syrup, sweeten to taste, add the cornflour mixed smoothly and thinly with a little cold water. Boil all well, stirring it all the time. Add the butter and, if liked, a drop or two of cochineal to improve the colour. Note.—Other fruits can be used. Chopped suet substituted for butter. Sour milk will give excellent results. Cherry Tartlets Ingredients— A pound of any good pastry. Half a breakfastcupful of water. Two breakfastcupfuls of fresh One teaspoonful of fresh butter, cherries. One teaspoonful of cornflour. One breakfastcupful of loaf sugar. Method.—Line some deep patty tins thinly with the pastry. Fill them with raw rice in order that they may not lose their shape during the baking. Bake them quickly for about ten or fifteen minutes, or until they are a delicate brown. Then tip out all the rice, being careful no grains are left sticking to the pastry ; this rice should be saved to use again for a similar purpose. Wash and stalk the cherries. Boil the sugar and water, put in the cherries and simmer them for about ten minutes, or until soft. Strain off the syrup and put it back into the pan. Stone the fruit as neatly as possible. Add the butter to the syrup, boil it until quite thick. Pour into it the cornflour mixed thinly and smoothly with cold water. Reboil the syrup for five minutes. Fill the pastry cases with cherries and fill up with syrup. If they are required cold, do not add the syrup until it is very nearly cold. Sometimes a few drops of cochineal are needed to tint the syrup.3H THE COMPLETE COOK Chocolate Ingredients— Two level breakfastcupfuls of breadcrumbs. One and a half teacupfuls of grated ^ chocolate. Three slightly rounded tablespoon- fuls of butter. Pudding Two level tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Three eggs. Half a pint of milk. Half a teaspoonful of vanilla. Method.—Well grease a mould or basin. Beat together the sugar and butter till they are like cream, and beat in the yolks of the eggs. Dissolve the grated chocolate smoothly in the milk, add it to the yolks and butter, etc., also the crumbs, and the whites of the eggs beaten to a very stiff froth. S*tirthe latter in very lightly. Pour the mixture into the greased mould, cover the top with a piece of greased paper. Put it into a pan with boiling water to come half-way up the basin, and steam it for one and a half hours. Turn the pudding on to a hot dish and serve with it any good sweet sauce, wine sauce being particularly suitable. Note.—This mixture may be placed^ a greased pie dish and baked. a Chocolate Tartlets {IllustraUd^) Ingredients— Half a pound of any scraps of good ' pastry. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of fresh butter. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. One rounded tablespoonful of ground rice. ot of Two rounded tablespoonjuls cake crumbs. Two rounded tablespoi grated chocolate. Two eggs. * Apricot jam : vanilla. A gill of chocolate icing. A teaspoonful of chopped pistachio nuts. Method.—Roll out the pastry about an eighth of an inch thick. Line some patty tins with it. Put a small teaspobnful of jam into each. Beat the butter and sugar to a soft cream. Mix in the two yolks of eggs, ground rice and cake crumbs. Dissolve the chocolate in a teaspoonful or so of water, using as little as possible, and stir it into the cake, etc. Add the whites of the eggs lightly beaten to a very stiff froth, and a drop or two of vanilla. Fill the pastry cases half full with the mixture and bake them in a moderately hot oven for about twenty minutes. Lift them out of the tins, and when cold coat the mixture in the centre with a little chocolate icing and sprinkle with chopped pistachio nuts.PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 315 Christmas Pudding. No. i Ingredients— Four breakfastcupfuls barely full of chopped suet. Two level breakfastcupfuls of brown sugar. Two heaped breakfastcupfuls of sultanas. Two heaped breakfastcupfuls of raisins. Two well-heaped breakfastcupfuls of currants. -One and a half breakfastcupfuls of Two well-heaped breakfastcupfuls of breadcrumbs. About five pieces of mixed peel. Half a piece of citron. Two lemons. One nutmeg. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of sweet almonds. One rounded tablespoonful of bitter almonds. Six or eight eggs. Half a teaspoonful of salt. Quarter of a pint of milk. Quarter of a pint of brandy, or home-made wine. Method.—Mix the suet, sugar, flour, and breadcrumbs. Clean and stalk the sultanas and currants; stone and chop the raisins, also the peel. Skin and chop the almonds. Add all the fruit to the suet, etc., also the grated nutmeg, lemon rind, and salt. Mix all these dry ingredients together, strain in the lemon juice and add the beaten eggs, milk, and brandy. Put the'ipixture into well-greased moulds or basins. Tie over them scalded and floured pudding cloths, taking care to make a pleat®cross the top of the cloth to allow room for the pudding to s^ell. Put*them into a pan of fast boiling water and boil them steadily from eight to ten hours. g^ade.—If preferred, the puddings can be made in scalded and fldured pudding cloths. Stout can be used instead of the milk afc brandy with excellent results. Christmas Pudding. No. 2 Ingredients— Three breakfastcupfuls of fresh brown breadcrumbs. Two breakfastcupfuls of chopped suet. Three breakfastcupfuls of currants and stoned raisins mixed. Half a breakfastcupful of chopped citron peel. One breakfastcupful barely full of Demerara sugar. Method.—Mix all the ingredients together in a basin, in the order given above. Put the mixture either into well-greased Half a teaspoonful of salt. Half a teaspoonful of grated nut- meg. Five beaten eggs. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Half a glass of brandy. Four tablespoonfuls of milk.316 THE COMPLETE COOK moulds or into scalded and floured cloths. Boil them for four hours. Note.—If preferred, the puddings may be steamed ; in that case they will take much longer to cook, but they will be lighter. Coburg Ingredients— Three breakfastcupfuls of milk. One teacupful of rice. One breakfastcupful of boiling water. One egg. Pudding Four tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. One level teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. One tablespoonful of butter. Half a level teaspoonful of salt. Method.—Well wash the rice, sprinkle it into the boiling water and cook it gently until all the water is absorbed. Heat the milk, in a double saucepan if possible, add the half-cooked rice and boil it gently until it is perfectly soft and of a thick creamy consistency. Should it become too thick before it is really soft, add more milk. Beat the egg until very light, add half the sugar to it. When the rice is cooked, whisk the egg in at once, a little at a time. Then add the salt and a piece of the butter the size of a walnut. Turn the mixture into the dish in which it is to be served. Mix the rest of the sugar with the cinnamon. Sprinkle this evenly over the top of the rice. Put the rest of the butter in small pieces over the top of the pudding just before it is required. Place the pudding in front of the fire, or in the oven for a second or two, when the butter, etc., ^^ill form a delicious sauce over the surface of the pudding. ^ Note.—Tapioca, sago, or semolina can be used instead of tife rice. Small pieces of red or black currant jelly instead of the butter and sugar. The jelly requires heating to make it flow over the pudding. Cornflour or Arrowroot Pudding Ingredients— Two level tablespoonfuls of corn- Three teaspoonfuls of castor sugar. flour or arrowroot. A lump of butter the size of a Half a pint of milk. walnut. Two eggs. A dust of nutmeg. Method.—Mix the cornflour or arrowroot thinly and smoothly with a little cold milk. Boil the remainder; when it comes to boiling point pour it on to the mixed cornflour and stir it well. Pour it back into the saucepan and boil it317 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY gently for five minutes, stirring it all the time. Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs. Let the boiled cornflour cool a little, then stir in the yolks of the eggs, the butter and sugar. Turn the mixture into a buttered pie dish ; beat the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth and mix them in lightly. Dust a little nutmeg over the top and bake the pudding in a moderate oven for about five to ten minutes. Serve it quickly before its souffld-like appearance goes. Note.—Ground rice may be used in the same way. If nutmeg is objected to, leave it out. Creme Frete Ingredients— One pint of hot milk. One whole egg and three extra yolks. Two well-rounded tablespoonfuls of cornflour. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. Four tablespoonfuls of cold milk. One teaspoonful of butter. One teaspoonful of vanilla. Half a teacupful of castor sugar. Breadcrumbs : a few grains of salt. Frying fat: an inch of cinnamon. Method.—Boil the milk with the cinnamon until well flavoured. Mix the cornflour, flour, salt, and sugar smoothly and thinly with a little extra cold milk. Take out the cinnamon and pour the boiling milk on to the cornflour, etc., stirring well all the time until the mixture boils well. Let it cool slightly, then add the three beaten yolks of eggs. Pour the mixture into a double saucepan and let it cook for fifteen minutes, keeping it well stirred. Add a teaspoonful of butter and the same of vanilla, and turn the mixture into a deep buttered baking tin, the layer should be about an inch thick. Leave until cold. When very firm, sprinkle the pastry board with some crumbs and turn the cream on to it. Cut it into strips two and a half inches long and one wide, or into squares or diamonds. Roll these in crumbs, then dip them into beaten egg and then again in crumbs. Fry the shapes a golden brown in smoking hot fat. Drain them on paper, dust them with sugar, and serve them as quickly as possible. Baked Custard Pudding Ingredients— One pint of milk. Nutmeg. Three eggs. A few grains of salt. One tablespoonful of castor sugar. Method.—Butter a pie dish. Make the milk hot, but not boiling. Beat the eggs, pour on the hot milk, stirring them3i8 THE COMPLETE COOK all the time. Add the sugar and salt, and pour the custard into the pie dish; grate a little nutmeg over the top. Stand it in a deep baking tin with hot water to come half-way up the dish. Bake the pudding very slowly until it is set; probably it will take about an hour if the oven is cool. Serve it hot or cold. If it cooks too quickly it will be full of holes, with a sweet watery liquid under the custard. Note.—Two eggs only, need be used, but the custard will be less rich. For a richer pudding use two whole eggs and three extra yolks. A strip of lemon rind may be boiled with the milk and then removed, instead of grating on the nutmeg. If there are any scraps of pastry left on hand, roll it out rather thinly, brush the sides down to the bottom of the dish with white of egg, and line the edges and sides of the dish with a broad strip of pastry. Cut out fancy rounds of pastry and fasten them on to the edge of the pastry with white of egg. Let each round overlap the pre- ceding one. A variety is made by baking this custard in buttered deep custard tins or cups. Method.—Bring the milk to nearly boiling point. Beat the egg and yolks. When the milk has cooled a little, pour it slowly on to the eggs, mix them well, strain the mixture either into a milk boiler or a jug. Place the jug in a pan with boiling water to come half-way up it; place it over the fire and stir the custard until it thickens, it must not actually boil or it will curdle. When nearly thick enough, the froth on the top disappears and the custard begins to coat the spoon, and the sense of feeling makes the operator conscious that it is thicker, by the way the spoon goes through it. As soon as it is thick enough, lift the jug out of the pan and dip it at once into cold water. This will stop further cooking, for eggs continue cooking for a few seconds after they are removed from heat. Then strain it, and when cold add the sugar and flavouring to taste. Note.—If the custard is to be served as a sauce, it should be thin enough to pour out easily. If as an accompaniment to fruit, etc., it should be made a little thicker. A thicker. Boiled Custard Ingredients— One pint of milk. One whole egg and two extra yolks. Three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Vanilla or other flavouring.PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 319 richer custard is made by adding more eggs, yolks preferably, as these make it richer and smoother. Varieties of Boiled Custard Many combinations may be made by adding the whites of the eggs after the custard is cold. Beat the whites stiffly, put them on a sieve, and cook over steam, or pour boiling water through them. The water will cook and stiffen the egg, and when well drained it may be piled in rocky form on the custard. Or the white may be poached by dipping it by the spoonful into boiling milk. Serve the custard in a large glass dish, and pile the white in a mass, or put spoonfuls of it here and there on the custard with bright coloured jelly on the white. Or serve in small glass custard cups with the white and jelly on the top. Or pour the custard over slices of sponge cake (soaked in wine, if you prefer), and cover with a meringue of the whites sweetened and flavoured. Floating Island, Flummery, Tipsy Pudding, and hosts of other dishes are only fancy names given to the different combinations of cake, boiled custard, and meringue. Any of the following ingredients may be used as flavouring to custard, this will give a variety of dishes, which want of space prevents me from giving as separate recipes: half a square of chocolate melted; sugar melted to a caramel before mixing with the yolks; one teacupful of grated cocoanut, or cocoanut cakes crumbled; six macaroons soaked in wine; one cup of chopped almonds, or any varieties of candied fruits. Custard Caramel Pudding Ingredients— For the Caramel— One loosely packed teacupful of One gill of water. lump sugar. For the Pudding— Four yolks and two whites of eggs. Half a pint of milk. One tablespoonful of castor sugar. A few drops of vanilla. Method.—Boil the sugar and water together until the syrup is a light brown. Pour it quickly into a plain dry mould and coat the inside of it all over. Let the mould cool. Beat the eggs in a basin, but froth them as little as possible; bring the milk to boiling point. When it has cooled slightly, pour320 THE COMPLETE COOK it gradually on to the eggs, add the sugar and vanilla and strain this custard into the mould. Cover the top with buttered paper. Steam it very slowly for about an hour, or until it is quite set. The water in which the mould is placed must barely bubble, as unless the custard is cooked very slowly, it will be full of holes. If the pudding is to be served hot, let it stand for a minute after taking it out of the saucepan, and then turn it carefully on to a dish. If, however, it is to be served cold, let it stand for an hour or more before turn- ing it out. Denver Pudding Ingredients— One and three-quarter breakfast- cupfuls of flour. Two loosely filled breakfastcupfuls of chopped suet. One heaped breakfastcupful of cleaned currants. One level breakfastcupful Demerara sugar. One heaped breakfastcupful grated carrots. Half a level teaspoonful of salt. of of Method.—Mix all ingredients very thoroughly. Put the mixture into a well-greased mould or basin and steam it steadily from four to five hours. Turn it out and serve it dusted with castor sugar and any good sweet sauce. Note.—This pudding may be boiled for about three hours, if preferred. Fig Pudding Ingredients— One breakfastcupful of butter. Two breakfastcupfuls of castor sugar. Three breakfastcupfuls of fresh breadcrumbs. Three eggs. One pound of dried figs. One teacupful of milk. Half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. One teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. A few grains of salt. Method.—Cream the butter and sugar together, slightly beat the eggs, then add them and beat well. Carefully look over the figs, chop them finely and add them with the crumbs, spice, and salt. Mix all together with the milk. Turn the mixture into a well-buttered mould or basin. Cover the top with greased paper and steam it for three hours. Serve with a thin sweet sauce poured round ; this should be flavoured with lemon or wine, or made of fruit syrup. This quantity makes a large pudding. Note.—Substitute dates, prunes, or dried apricots in placePUDDINGS AND PASTRY 321 of figs. The two latter should be soaked in cold water over- night. Method.—Wash and carefully lock oner hhe figs. Put them in a stewing jar with the other ingredients. Cover the jar and let all simmer gently in the oven for about two hours, or till the fruit is so tender that the head of •»' pin will easily pierce it. Arrange the figs neatly on a glass dish, and pour over the syrup. Serve cold with cream or custard. Note.—Figs are highly recommended by medical men, especially for breakfast, but in that case omit the wine. If more convenient the figs may be cooked at the side of the stoye. > Apple, Orange, Apricot, etc., Fritters Ingredients— Batter. No. 2. Castor sugar. Three or four apples, or oranges, or Frying fat. about two dozen pieces of tinned Method.—To prepare the fruit: Apples.—Peel and cut them into slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Stamp out the cores with a small round cutter or a sharp knife, and sprinkle them with a few drops of lemon juice. Oranges.—Remove the rind and every scrap of the white pith and divide the fruit into sections, two together if very small. Apricots, Peaches.—Merely drain off a little of the syrup in which they are preserved. Pineapple.—Remove all black specks, and cut it into con- venient sized pieces for eating. ■Bananas.—Peel and quarter lengthways. Have the batter ready and a deep pan of clean fat, from which a very faint siMoke is rising. Dip the pieces of fruit one by one into the batter, lift them out carefully and lower them gently into the fat. Fry them a golden brown, turning them if necessary. Drain them on paper, dust with castor sugar, and serve im- mediately. Stewed Figs & Ingredients— Ten dried figs. Fifteen lumps of sugar. One and a half gills of water. One^ikss of ciirr^.'' TUee of lemon juice. 21THE COMPLETE COOK 322 Italian Fritters Ingredients— One egg. A breakfastcupful of milk. Two tablespoonfuls of butter. The grated rind of one lemon. Four or six slices of stale bread. Half a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Castor sugar : a few grains of salt. Method.—The bread should be about a quarter of an inch thick, not less. Stamp it out into round or oval shapes with a cutter. Beat the egg, mix it with the milk, lemon rind, salt, and about a teaspoonful of castor sugar. Lay the slices of bread in this custard until they are soft, but not crumbly ; the time will depend upon how stale the bread is. Heat half the butter in a frying pan, lift a few pieces of bread up carefully and lay them in the hot butter. Brown one side, then turn them over and brown the other also. Add some pieces of butter as required. Mix the cinnamon with two teaspoonfuls of castor sugar and sprinkle some of these over each fritter. Serve them at once with hard or wine sauce. Note.—Stale cake may be used instead of bredd. Method.—Cut the oranges round in halves, and with a spo(?p scoop out all the pulp and juice. Scrape out the white pith, but take care not to pull out the little stalk portion, or a hol& will be made; should this happen, fill it with a little lump of butter. Put the cups on ice. Put the best pieces of orange pulp. fice from pith and pips into a basin. Strain and save all the orange juice. Halve the grapes, remove the pips, and the skin also if tough. Stalk and halve the strawberries. Peel and slice the bananas. Mix all the fruits, add to them the strained lemon and orange juice, the sugar, salt, and wine. Mix them well and fill in the orange cups with the mixture, put a spoon- ful of the juice in also, and a spoonful of whipped cream on the top. Serve as cold as possible with vine or strawberry leaves under each cup. Note.—Other fruits may be used as in season. Fruit Cups Ingredients— Four sweet oranges. One teacupful of black and white One lemon. '' Castor sugar to taste. A few grains of salt. Half a glass of sherry or liquet^f- One gill of cream. grapes. One teacupful of strawberries. Three bananas.323 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY Boiled Fruit Pudding Ingredients— Half a pound of suet pastry. Four cloves. Six or more cooking apples. Cold water. Two tablespoonfuls of brown sugar. Method.—Cut off one-third of the pastry and put it on one side for the lid. Roll out the remainder until it is about twice the size of the top of the basin. Well grease the basin and line it with the pastry, pressing it gently and evenly to the sides. Peel, core, and quarter the apples, half fill the basin with fruit, put in the sugar and cloves and then the rest of the apples and water to fill the basin. Roll out the piece of pastry, wet the edges, put it over the basin, pressing the edges together. Tie over the top a scalded and floured pudding cloth. Put the basin into a pan with plenty of fast boiling water, and let it boil steadily for two hours; as the water boils away, replenish it with more that is boiling. Let the pudding stand for a minute or two after taking it off the fire and removing the cloth, then turn it on to a hot dish. Note.—Rhubarb, gooseberries, plums, in fact any fresh fruit can be used, varying the quantity of sugar and water according to the kind of fruit. Gooseberry Fool Ingredients— One pint of gooseberries. Three level tablespoonfuls of castor Half a pint of boiled custard. sugar. Two tablespoonfuls of cream. One gill of water. Method.—Wash, top, and tail the gooseberries, and put them into a stewpan with the water and sugar; stew them until they are soft. Rub them through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon. When the custard is cold, stir it into the gooseberry pur^e, add the cream and, if necessary, more castor sugar. Serve it either in one large glass dish or in custard glasses; let it be as cold as possible. Note.—Wafers or sponge fingers are a nice addition to this dish. If more convenient the cream may be omitted, or, if wished, only cream used, and no custard. Hasty Pudding Ingredients— Two breakfastcupfuls of milk. A few grains of salt. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of Demerara sugar. flour. Fresh butter, or jam, or treacle.324 THE COMPLETE COOK Method.—Put the milk on to boil. Mix the flour and salt smoothly and thinly with a little cold water. Pour it into the milk, stirring it all the time. Let it boil well for about ten minutes, keeping it well stirred. Pour it into a pie dish, shake a very little Demerara sugar over it and a few small lumps of butter. Serve it at once, or instead of the sugar serve separ- ately with it jam or treacle. Note.—If this pudding is liked with little balls of flour in it in the old-fashioned style, merely shake in the flour with one hand, and do not mix it with liquid first. Coffee Junket with Cream Ingredients— One pint of milk. One tablespoonful of castor sugar. A few grains of salt. About one teaspoonful of coffee extract, or one tablespoonful of very strong black coffee. Rennet powder or tablets, accord- ing to the directions issued with them. One gill of cream. Method.—Warm the milk with the sugar and salt until it feels quite warm, but not hot to the finger. Add the coffee. Dissolve the rennet powder smoothly in a little cold milk. Add it and pour the junket into a junket bowl or glass dish. Place it on ice, or in a cool place until needed. Just before serving, heap the whipped and sweetened cream over the top. Thin unsweetened biscuits should accompany this sweet. Lemon Castles Ingredients— Two eggs. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. One teaspoonful of baking powder. Two tablespoonfuls of milk. One lemon. Method.—Well grease some small cups or moulds. Cream together the butter and sugar. Mix the flour, grated lemon rind, and baking powder. Beat the eggs with the butter, etc. Add the flour lightly, also the milk and lemon juice. Half fill the cups with the mixture. Cover them with a piece of buttered paper and steam them for three-quarters of an hour. Turn them out on to a hot dish and serve with jam sauce. Note.—If liked, oranges may be used in the place of lemon. The mixture can be baked instead of steamed, or made into one large pudding instead of the small ones.325 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY Lemon Ingredients— Three - quarters of a pound of flaky pastry. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of cornflour. Three-quarters of a breakfastcupful of castor sugar. Pie One breakfastcupful of boiling water. Two lemons. Two eggs. A few grains of salt. Method.—Line a large tin or tin plate with the pastry; flake and crimp the edges. Prick the bottom of the pastry over several times to prevent it blistering. Put the water and sugar into a saucepan; when they boil, pour in the cornflour mixed smoothly and thinly with a little cold water. Stir and boil these for five minutes. Add the salt, grated lemon rind, and the strained juice. Let the mixture cool for a minute or so, then add the beaten yolks of the eggs and the whites beaten to a very stiff froth. Fold these in, as for an omelet. Spread this filling in the pastry-lined plate, and bake it in a moderately hot oven for about twenty minutes or until the pastry is crisp and brown. Serve the’tart hot or cold. If liked, strips of pastry can be arranged in lattice form over the filling, or a meringue made of two whipped whites and two heaped tablespoonfuls of white sugar spread over after baking and then put in the oven to set. Note.—Oranges may be used if liked. Lemon Sponge Ingredients— Five sheets of gelatine. One tablespoonful of castor sugar. Half a pint of boiling water. The white of one egg. The rind and juice of a lemon. Method.—Put the water and gelatine in a pan on the fire ; when the gelatine has dissolved add the sugar and the grated lemon rind. Put the white of egg on a plate and whisk it until stiff. Strain the gelatine and^lemon juice into a large basin ; when they have cooled slightly stir in the stiffly whisked white and whisk the mixture to a very stiff froth. Serve it either heaped up roughly on a glass dish, or before it is quite stiff turn it into a mould which has been rinsed in cold water, and leave until it is cold, when turn it out. Note.—This dish is very effective if half the mixture is coloured a pale pink. Orange Sponge is made in the same way, substituting an orange for the lemon.THE COMPLETE COOK 326 Macaroni or Vermicelli Pudding, Baked Ingredients— One pint of milk. One tablespoonful of Demerara Four long sticks of macaroni or sugar. two heaped tablespoonfuls of Nutmeg: a teaspoonful of butter broken vermicelli. or dripping. One egg. A few grains of salt. Method.—Break the macaroni into half-inch lengths. Boil the milk, shake in the macaroni and salt and boil it very slowly for half an hour, or until quite tender, or if vermicelli is used, for about ten minutes. It is best to eat a piece, as cutting is not a safe test. Keep it well stirred during the cooking. Thickly grease a pie dish and beat up the egg. Add the sugar to the macaroni, let it cool a little, then pour in the egg and mix it well. Grate a little nutmeg on the top and bake the pudding very slowly until the top is delicately browned. Macaroni Pudding, Boiled Ingredients— One pint of milk. Ten long sticks of macaroni. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. Two tablespoonfuls of Demerara sugar. The grated rind of one lemon. Eight ratafias powdered. A few grains of salt. Method.—Break the macaroni in one-inch lengths. Put it into fast boiling slightly salted water and boil it for about half an hour, or until quite tender. Drain off the water carefully and lay it in a sauce made as follows: melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the milk, and stir until it boils. Add the sugar, salt, grated lemon rind, and cooked macaroni. Simmer all these gently for ten minutes. Pour them into a hot pie dish and sprinkle the powdered ratafias over the surface. Note.—\{ liked, small heaps of jam may be put round as a border instead of the ratafias. Meringues Ingredients— Three whites of eggs. Cream for filling. Six heaped tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Method.—Prepare the meringue board ; this is a thick board resembling a pastry board, only thicker. A pastry board may be used instead, but baking tins let the heat penetrate tooPUDDINGS AND PASTRY 327 easily. Brush the board on one side very slightly with salad oil, cover it with foolscap paper. Put the whites in a basin with a pinch of salt and whisk them to a very stiff froth. Add the sugar lightly, if it is stirred in too much the mixture begins to get watery. Shape the mixture either with two dessertspoons, in the same way as Quenelles are formed (see Illustration of shaping Quenelles), or use a plain large forcer. Meringues are usually about the shape and size of half an egg, but may be made round and any size desired. Arrange them in rows about an inch apart on the foolscap and dust each well with more castor sugar. Bake them in a very slow oven for about an hour and a half; they must be barely tinted straw colour when they are taken out, so the cooler the oven the better. When done, loosen them carefully off the paper, gently crush in the soft part underneath so as to leave a hollow shell. They need very delicate handling. Place them on a tin, hollow side uppermost, either in a warm oven overnight, or in a warm dry place. If packed when quite cold in dry airtight tins, these meringue cases will keep for weeks, and are very useful to have at hand should unexpected guests turn up. To fill the cases, whip, sweeten, and flavour a little cream, put a spoonful of it into each case and press them gently together in pairs. They must be filled just at the last moment before serving, otherwise the meringues will crumble. Lemon Meringues Proceed as directed for Meringues, but add the grated rind of one lemon to the sugar before stirring it into the whites. The cream may be slightly flavoured with lemon also. Mincemeat Ingredients— Four breakfastcupfuls of chopped suet. Two heaped breakfastcupfuls of chopped raisins. Two breakfastcupfuls of currants. Four medium-sized apples grated. Two level breakfastcupfuls of Demerara sugar. One piece of candied orange peel chopped. One piece of candied lemon peel chopped. A slice or two of citron chopped. The grated rind and juice of two lemons. One tablespoonful of chopped almonds. One heaped teaspoonful of pudding spice. Four powdered cloves. Quarter of a pint each of port wine and brandy, or Half a pint of cider, or home- made wine. Half a teaspoonful of salt.THE COMPLETE COOK 328 Method.—Mix all the dry ingredients together in a basin, strain on to them the lemon juice, the wine, and brandy, and mix all well together. Put the mixture into clean dry jars and cover them securely with parchment paper. Norwich Puddings Proceed as directed for Lemon Castles, but add two table- spoonfuls of cleaned currants or sultanas, French Pancakes Ingredients— Two eggs. A breakfastcupful of milk. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Method.—Beat the butter and sugar to a soft cream. Beat the eggs until frothy and stir them in. Beat well. Add the flour and salt lightly, then the milk gradually. Butter some small circular tins or old saucers. Half fill them with the mixture and bake them in a quick oven for about ten to fifteen minutes, or until lightly browned and set. Have ready a thickly sugared piece of paper on the table and some stoneless jam heated. Turn the pancakes brown side downwards on to the sugar, put about a teaspoonful of jam on one half, fold the other half over like a jam turnover, and serve them im- mediately. Remarks on Pastry Puff pastry, when skilfully made, is light and tender, and so delicate that it cannot be touched without crushing. It should be thoroughly baked, and is therefore suitable for tarts and patties and the upper crust of pies. It is no more injurious than the ordinary pastry seen on many tables, as it contains no more shortening than much of the pastry made with a “guess measure” of lard. It is not so much the amount of fat the pastry contains that makes it indigestible, as the inferior quality of the fat (such as rancid butter or impure lard), or the sodden, greasy, half-cooked paste. Pastry that is light, dry, and flaky, is more easily separated by the gastric fluids than that which is heavy. Many house- keepers use lard in making pastry, as it is cheaper than butter, Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Jam. A few grains of salt.PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 329 and makes a softer and lighter crust. Butter is more whole- some and is preferable if you wish to make a brown crust. A mixture of half lard and half butter answers very well for common pastry, but for puff pastry butter alone should be used. How to cut Patty Cases, Tarts, Vol-au-vents, and other forms of Puff Paste There are two ways of shaping the paste for patties and tarts. First, roll puff paste one-eighth of an inch thick, and stamp out circular pieces with a cutter, two and a half inches in diameter. With a small cutter stamp out the centres from half of these pieces, leaving rings half an inch wide. Dip the cutters in hot water and cut quickly, so that the edges are not pressed together or cut unevenly. Rub a little white of egg on the top of the large rounds near the edge, put on the rings, and press them lightly to make them adhere, but be careful not to get any egg on the edges, as that will prevent them from rising. Put round pieces of stale bread, cut half an inch thick, in the centre, to keep the paste from rising and filling the cavity. Bake on shallow tins lined with paper, and when done remove the bread and soft paste underneath. Bake the small pieces cut from the centres on a tin by themselves, as they take less time for baking. In serving, place them on the top of the cases for a cover. Another way is to roll the paste a quarter of an inch thick, cut with a round cutter, and then with the smaller cutter cut nearly through the centre of each round, making a rim half an inch wide. After baking, remove the centre crust and soft part underneath, without breaking through, as then the case will not hold any liquid mixture. Some persons prefer this method ; but there is less waste when cut in the first way, as the parts cut out may be baked for covers, and usually prove to be the most delicate part of the paste. Or, if covers are not wanted, these centres may be rolled out thinner, and used as bottom pieces. The paste for patties is usually rolled a quarter of an inch thick and cut with a plain cutter. Two or three rims may be put on when a deeper case is desired. Any kind of delicate cooked meat or fish, chicken, sweetbreads, oysters, lobster, etc., may be cut into small pieces, and warmed in a thick cream sauce, and served in hot patty cases with a cover of the paste. Tarts are made thinner, and cut with a fluted cutter. TheyTHE COMPLETE COOK 330 are filled with jelly or preserves, and served cold without a cover. Cupid's Wells.—Cut the rounds of puff paste three or four different sizes; use the largest one for the bottom, and cut the centres from the others, leaving the rims of different widths, and put them on the whole round, with the narrowest at the top. Bake and fill with jelly. To cut a Vol-au-vent.—This is made from the lightest form of puff paste, cut to any size and shape desired, a large oval being generally preferred. Mark the outline with an oval cutter, and cut quickly with a knife dipped in hot water. Put on two or three rims, wetting the edge of each with white of egg. Make an oval hoop of stiff paper, two inches high, and slightly larger than the vol-au-vent, and place around it to prevent scorching. Bake a large vol-au-vent nearly an hour. Cakes h la Polonaise.—Roll puff paste fairly thin, cut it into pieces three inches square, wet the centre, turn each corner over, press the point down in the centre, and put a very small round of paste on the centre. Bake, and when cool put dots of jelly on each corner. Bow-Knots.—Cut thin puff paste into half-inch strips, and shape them on the baking tin into the form of a double bow-knot. When baked, put jelly on each loop of the bow. Choux Pastry {^for i^clairs, Cream Buns, etc.) higredients— Half a pint of boiling water. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Two whole eggs and one extra yolk. A few grains of salt. Flavouring and castor sugar to taste. Method.—Put the water and butter into a stewpan, bring- ing them to boiling point; add to them the sieved flour and salt. Take the pan off the fire and beat the mixture well with a wooden spoon until all the lumps disappear. Then put the pan over a slow fire and stir it well until the mixture can be rolled about without it sticking to the sides of the pan.^ If overcooked the butter oozes out and the “ panada,” as it is called, must be made again. Let the mixture cool a little, then beat in the eggs one by one, stirring each one in smoothly before adding the others. Vanilla and castor sugar may now be added, and the mixture is ready for use. If it is required to be handled, let it become perfectly cold before touching it.•IKNKADING THE DOUGH FOR PUFF PASTRY FOLDING THE BUTTER INTO PUFF PASTRY331 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY Flaky Pastry Ingredients— Two level breakfastcupfuls of Half a level teaspoonful of salt, pastry flour. Cold water. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Method.—Sieve or mix the flour and salt. Divide the butter into four parts. Chop one-fourth finely into the flour in the basin, then rub it lightly into the flour until no large lumps of butter are visible. Pour a little cold water into the middle of the flour and mix it in with a knife, adding more water gradually until the flour is made into a stiff, but not crumbly paste. Add the last quantity of water cautiously. Turn the paste on to a floured board, knead it lightly until free from cracks, and roll it out into an oblong strip barely a quarter of an inch thick. Work each of the other portions of butter on a plate with a knife, until they can be easily spread. Put little bits of one of these portions in rows down the whole length of the pastry, but leave a narrow margin round the edge without butter. Dust a little flour over the butter. Fold the pastry in three, press the edges firmly together and roll it out again Spread on the second portion of butter as before and repeat this folding, rolling, and spreading until all the butter is used After the last is rolled in, it is ready for use. Puff Pastry Ingredierits— One and three-quarter level break- Half a level teaspoonful of salt, fastcupfuls of pastry flour. Cold water. One breakfastcupful packed solid One teaspoonful of lemon juice, of good butter. Method.—Wash the butter well by working and kneading it in ice-cold water. Fold it in a clean soft cloth, squeeze and knead it well to press out the moisture, and shape it into a flat square, or oblong. Lay the butter on ice till very hard. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin, make a well in the centre, into which put the strained lemon juice and two or three table- spoonfuls of the coldest water obtainable. Mix the flour into a soft, pliable, but not sticky paste, adding more cold water as it is required, and work all the time from the centre. Knead this paste lightly until it is free from cracks and rough bits (see Illustration'), Roll out this paste until it forms a square or oblong about twice the size of the butter. It should be about a quarter of an inch thick and a little thinner round the edges332 THE COMPLETE COOK than just in the centre. Lay the shape of butter in the middle of this paste, fold one half over the butter (see Illustration), then the other half over that, so that the butter is completely wrapped up. Press the edges firmly together with the rolling pin, and flatten down the butter lightly by pressing it gently three or four times with the rolling pin, and let the pastry cool on the ice for fifteen minutes. Have a large smooth pastry board and light straight rolling pin. Turn the board length- ways in front of you so as to have room to roll out the paste to the required length. Brush or dredge the board and pin well with fine flour, put the pastry on the board so that the side without any pressed-together edges is on your right hand, and place it in this way each time it is necessary to move the pastry. For the first roll press out the pastry until fairly flat with the rolling pin, then roll it out very lightly until it is about a quarter of an inch thick, or less if possible. Keep the pastry, board, and pin dry by lightly brushing them with flour every now and then. Fold the pastry in three (see Illustration), press the rough edges together, arrange the pastry in the position already directed, and roll it out again as before. -Fold it in three and again lay it, folded in paper, on a baking tin on the ice to cool. Continue t@ roll out and fold the pastry until it has been rolled out seven times, putting it aside on the ice to cool for about fifteen minutes, between each two rolls. It is then ready to use. Aim at keeping the strip of pastry a neat shape with square corners and straight sides, so that the edges will meet evenly, thus forming an equal number of layers in all parts; keep the butter from breaking through the film of pastry which covers it, and endeavour to use the rolling pin with a light, even pressure, always pushing the pastry out from you, never giving it a backward roll. If the pastry does not seem to be getting longer and thinner with each roll, it indicates either that the pressure is too light, or that the pastry is stick- ing to the board. If the paste is not made sticky at first, the butter properly cooled and the rolling light, it should not stick, and but little flour should be needed. Each time the pastry is folded over, a small amount of air is enclosed and retained if the edges are evenly folded and pressed together. These bubbles of air may be plainly seen when the dough is rolled out, and care must be taken not to break the blisters thus formed. The more air retained the lighter and more puffy the pastry will be, as the air expands with the heat and lifts up the layers. No streaks of butter should be seen when the rolling out is completed.333 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY To Bake Puff Pastry The pastry must be as icy cold as possible when it is put in the oven. If it has become softer while being cut out into patties, etc., put it again on to the ice. The greater heat should be underneath, so that the pastry may rise to nearly its full height before it browns; to prevent it from burning underneath when once it has well risen, and while the top is colouring, put another tin on the shelf under it. A very hot oven is required (see Ove7t Tests'). If too slow, the butter will ooze out and the pastry spread ; if too hot, it will burn before it has risen. Rough Puff Pastry Ingi'edients— One and three-quarter level break- One teaspoonful of lemon juice, fastcupfuls of pastry flour. Half a level teaspoonful of salt. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of Cold water, butter. Method.—Sieve the flour and salt into a basin. Make a well in the centre, put in about half a tablespoonful of the butter, the lemon juice, and a little cold water. Mix these in with a knife, adding more water until a stiff dough is obtained. Knead it lightly on a floured board, then roll it out into an oblong strip about a quarter of an inch thick. Lay the butter in the centre, fold the half of the pastry over it, then the other half over that. Press the edges together, turn the side with no rough edges to your right, and roll it out lightly and as thinly as possible. Fold the pastry again in three, and roll out again. Repeat this folding and rolling until it has been rolled out four times. If possible let it cool on ice between each two rolls. Short Crust Pastry. No. i Ingi'ediefits— One and three-quarter breakfast- Half a teaspoonful of baking cupfuls of flour. powder. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of Half a teaspoonful of salt, butter. Cold water. Method.—Sieve or mix the flour, salt, and baking powder. Lay the butter on the flour and cut it into quite small pieces ; this avoids handling, and thus heating large lumps of butter. If dripping is used and it is very hard, cut it into thin shavings first. Next rub the butter into the flour with the tips of the fingers ; if the finger-tips begin to appear greasy, too muchTHE COMPLETE COOK 334 pressure is being used. When the butter is finely rubbed in, make a well in the centre of the flour, pour in a little cold water and with a knife mix the flour into a stiff but not crumbly paste. Mix from the middle, and when one lump seems the right consistency, push it aside and mix up another part. Then cut and mix all together and knead lightly on the board with the hand to ascertain if it is right, that is, not sticky, nor yet dry and powdery. If the butter is very soft, less water can be used. When the mass has been lightly worked together it is ready to roll and cut out as desired. Note.—Other fats can be used; if made with a more liberal allowance of dripping, etc., baking powder will not be needed. In hot weather it is better to have the butter only very coarsely rubbed in, otherwise it becomes so oily that it binds the flour itself, allowing no water or very little to be added, and the pastry becomes so short it is almost i.;„possible to roll it out. Short Crust Pastry. No. Ingredients— One and three-quarter breakfast- cupfuls of pastry flour. Si-x rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. 2 {I'ich ; for sweet dishes) One level tablespoonful of castor sugar. One yolk of egg : half a teaspoon- ful of salt. Cold water. Method.—Sieve the flour, salt, and sugar. Rub in the butter finely. Make a well in the centre of the flour, put in the yolk of egg and two tablespoonfuls of water. Mix these in and add more cold water as required, until the flour is mixed into a stiff paste. Knead lightly together and it is ready to use for fruit tarts, etc. Suet Pastry Ingredients— Three and a half level teacupfuls of flour. Four heaped tablespoonfuls of chopped suet. Half a teaspoonful of baking powder. Half a level teaspoonful of salt. Cold water. Method.—Sieve the flour, baking powder, and salt. Remove all skin from the suet, shred it finely, and chop it until it resembles coarse oatmeal. Use a little of the flour to mix with it while chopping, to prevent it clogging together. Mix the suet with the flour, add enough cold water to mix the dryPUDDINGS AND PASTRY 335 ingredients to a stiff but not crumbling paste. Roll out and use as required. For the Pears— About eight stewing pears. One inch of cinnamon. Two loosely packed breakfastcup- One and a half gills of cream. fuls of loaf sugar. Cochineal. One pint of water. Method.—Rinse out a saucepan with cold water, then put in the milk and bring it to boiling point. Wash the rice thoroughly, and when the milk boils add the rice, the thinly pared rind of the lemon, and the sugar. Put the lid on the pan and let the rice boil very gently until it has absorbed all the milk and the whole has become a creamy mass. Stir it frequently. Take out the lemon rind. Rinse a border mould in cold water, pour in the rice and leave it until cold. To Stew the Pears: Put the water, sugar, cinnamon into a stewing jar or saucepan. Colour the water a very deep pink with cochineal. Peel and halve the pears, leave on the stalks, put the fruit into the jar, covering them with the peel. Cover the jar, put it in a moderate oven, or over the fire, and let the pears stew gently until they can be easily pierced with the head of a pin ; they will take probably from an hour to an hour and a half, but the time depends largely on the kind of pear. Lift out the pears, strain the syrup into a clean pan, and boil it until it is reduced to half, or appears syrupy. Turn the rice border carefully on to a glass dish. Arrange the pieces of pear round the top. Pour over the syrup. Whip the cream until it will just hang on the whisk, sweeten and flavour it to taste, and heap it up in the centre of the pears. Note.—If liked, remove the stalks of the pears and replace them with strips of angelica. Cook these as directed for Baked Apples, but use a little more water and allow a longer time for baking. Eaten hot with butter, cream, or custard and sugar they are excellent. Stewed Pears with Rice Border Ingredients— One quart of milk. Four level tablespoonfuls of rice. Fifteen lumps of sugar. One lemon. Baked QuincesTHE COMPLETE COOK 336 Raisin Roly-Poly Ingredients— Three and a half breakfastcupfuls of flour. Two and a half breakfastcupfuls of chopped suet. Half a breakfastcupful of Demerara sugar. Half a breakfastcupful of stoned raisins. A few grains of salt. Cold water. Method.—Mix together the flour, suet, halved raisins, sugar, and salt. Add enough cold water to mix the whole into a soft paste. Roll it into a shape like a bolster. Roll and tie it up in a floured and scalded cloth, and boil it steadily for three hours. Remove the cloth and serve the pudding on a hot dish. Note.—Less suet may be used if more convenient, but in that case add one teaspoonful of baking powder. Cleaned currants, chopped figs, dates, or prunes may be used instead of raisins. Rhubarb Fool Make it in exactly the same way as Gooseberry Fool, using half a dozen large sticks of rhubarb in place of the gooseberries. Strawberry Fool For this the fruit need not be cooked but merely sieved. Then proceed as for Gooseberry Fool and add a few drops of cochineal and lemon juice to it. Do not touch the fruit with a metal spoon, as it injures its flavour and colour. Rice Pudding, Baked Ingredients— One pint of milk. One rounded tablespoonful ot Two tablespoonfuls of Carolina Demerara sugar. rice. One large teaspoonful of butter. Nutmeg : a few grains of salt. Method.—Thickly butter the pie dish. Wash the rice and lay it in the dish with the sugar, salt, milk, and any butter left after greasing the dish, and a light dust of nutmeg on the top. Bake the pudding as slowly as possible for two and a half to three hours. The more slowly it bakes the richer and more creamy it will be. When it should be cooked, raise a corner of the browned skin and draw out a grain or two of rice, eat them and judge if perfectly soft. Should it be too stiff owing to337 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY careless baking, pour in a little more milk under the skin and mix the rice into it by stirring it with the knife inserted under the skin. Serve with extra milk or cream, if liked, or with jam or stewed fruit. Note.—Inferior rice will never make good creamy puddings; condensed milk may be used and the sugar left out, if it is a sweetened brand. If skimmed milk is used, a little more butter can be added, or scraped suet. Lemon rind, a dust of powdered cinnamon or vanilla may be used as flavouring. Rice Pudding to Serve Cold Ingredients— A quart of milk. Nutmeg or vanilla. Four tablespoonfuls of Carolina A gill of cream, rice. A few grains of salt. Three tablespoonfuls of Demerara sugar. Method.—Wash the rice. Boil the milk, sprinkle in the rice and let it simmer gently until about half cooked. Then add the sugar and salt and pour it all into a double saucepan, or a large covered jar can be placed in a pan with boiling water to come half-way up the jar. Let the rice continue cooking in this way until it is thick and creamy, add more milk if it seems necessary. It must not be stiff, but moist enough to drop heavily from a spoon. Add a flavouring of vanilla or nutmeg and stir in the cream whisked until it will nearly, but not quite, hang on the whisk. Serve the rice as cold as possible, heaped up in a glass dish. It must not be moulded, as even when cold it must be a soft creamy mass. Serve with any stewed fruit. Note.—The cream may be left out if wished, but more milk must be added to make it the desired consistency. Rice Croquettes Ingredients— Four level tablespoonfuls of rice. Two and a half breakfastcupfuls of milk. Two whole eggs. Two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. One level tablespoonful of butter. Method.—Wash the rice, boil in the milk. Should it get too 22 The grated rind of one lemon. Two tablespoonfuls of chopped glace cherries. Breadcrumbs. Frying fat. it until it is very thick and soft thick before it is soft enough,THE COMPLETE COOK 338 add a little more milk. Keep the pan covered and the rice very carefully stirred. Then add the sugar, lemon rind, butter, cherries, and one whole well-beaten egg. Cook the mixture for a minute or so to bind the egg, without, however, boiling it. Turn all out on to a plate, smooth it over evenly, divide it into even portions, and leave it until cold. Then shape it into balls or cork or pear shapes, brush each over with beaten egg, and roll in the crumbs. Fry the croquettes a golden brown in smoking hot fat, drain them on paper, and sprinkle them with sugar. Serve quickly with any good sweet sauce. Note.—Leave out the cherries, if liked, or other preserved fruit, such as chopped raisins, ginger, etc., can be used instead. Sefton Puddings Proceed as directed for Lemon Castles, but add two table- spoonfuls of chopped glacd cherries and the same of chopped peel instead of the lemon. Semolina, Sago, or Tapioca Pudding Ingredients— One pint of milk. One level tablespoonful of Three level tablespoonfuls of either Demerara sugar. semolina or sago or tapioca. A teaspoonful of butter or dripping. One egg. Nutmeg : a few grains of salt. Method.—Rub the pie dish thickly over with the butter, using it all. Rinse out a saucepan with cold water, pour in the milk, and when it boils sprinkle in the semolina gradually with one hand, and stir all the time with a spoon in the other. Boil it gently until the semolina has thickened the milk and does not sink. Add the sugar and salt. Let the pudding cool a little, then add the beaten egg. Pour the mixture into the pie dish. Grate a light dust of nutmeg over the top and bake it in a moderately hot oven until the top is lightly browned. Note.—The egg can be left out if wished. For a lighter pudding separate the white and yolk of the egg; stir in the yolk, and add the white, stiffly whipped, at the last. Condensed milk can be used, but if sweetened, leave out the sugar. Skimmed milk makes a cheaper pudding, then add a little more butter or dripping or finely scraped suet. Use other flavourings in- stead of nutmeg, if preferred.PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 339 Sponge Cake Pudding Ingredmits— A stale sponge cake, enough to Two eggs. fill a three pint dish. One teacupful of castor sugar. Half a pound of dates. Vanilla. One pint of milk. Method.—Cut the cakes in slices. Stone the dates and cut each in four lengthways. Place the cake and dates in layers in the dish. Pack it very loosely, or there will not be sufficient room for the custard. Beat up the yolks of the eggs with the milk, add half the sugar, and vanilla to taste. Pour this over the cakes and let them soak for about half an hour. Then bake the pudding very slowly, standing the dish in a deep baking tin filled with water. When the custard is set, heap over the top the whites of eggs beaten to a very stiff froth and lightly mixed with the rest of the sugar. Dust the surface with sugar and let it colour a delicate fawn tint in a very slow oven. Note.—Other dried fruits could be used instead of dates; wine or brandy substituted for vanilla. Tapioca or Sago Cream Ingredients— One rounded tablespoonful of Half a glass of Marsala. tapioca or sago. Half a gill of cream. Half a pint of milk. Castor sugar to taste. Two eggs. Method.—Soak the tapioca or sago in the milk for about two hours, if possible. Then put it in a saucepan and boil it very gently till it is quite transparent and soft, if necessary adding a little more milk if it becomes too thick. Beat up one whole egg and the yolk of the other, putting the white aside till later. When the tapioca has cooled slightly, beat in the eggs, add the sugar and wine, and turn the mixture into a glass dish. Whip the cream until it will just hang on the whisk, and the white of egg very stiffly: mix them lightly together and sweeten them carefully. Heap them up roughly all over the pudding and serve it cold. Note.—If liked, a little jam or stewed fruit may be put on the glass dish before the tapioca or sago mixture. Any other flavouring can be used instead of wine, if liked.THE COMPLETE COOK 340 Fruit Tapioca Ingredients— One teacupful of tapioca. Three breakfastcupfuls of water. Four tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Two breakfastcupfuls of any ripe fruit, such as raspberries, cherries, or tinned peaches, apricots, etc. Method.—Crush the tapioca as finely as possible. Wash it well and soak it overnight in half of the cold water. Next turn the soaked tapioca into a double saucepan, if possible, with the rest of the water, and boil it gently until quite soft and trans- parent; keep it well stirred. Add the sugar, salt, strained lemon juice, and the prepared fruit. Pour the mixture into a glass dish and serve as icy cold as possible with sugar and cream or custard. Note.—The mixture must flow smoothly into the dish, not be rocky. If liked, make it a little stiffer and mould it, turning it out when cold. If liked, about six tablespoonfuls of jam or jelly can be stirred well in, instead of fresh fruit, or small sago may be used instead of tapioca. A few grains of salt. The juice of one lemon. Cream or custard. Treacle Ingredients— One and a quarter heaped break- fastcupfuls of flour. Six small tablespoonfuls of treacle. One and a half breakfastcupfuls of chopped suet. Sponge One egg. One level teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. About four tablespoonfuls of milk. Two teaspoonfuls of ground ginger. Metiiod.—Mix together the flour, ginger, and suet. Stir in the treacle. Beat up the egg, add it with enough milk to mix the whole into a stiff batter. Lastly, add the carbonate of soda dissolved in a little milk; mix it well. Put the mixture into a well-greased mould or basin and cover the top with a piece of greased paper. Put the basin in a saucepan with boiling water to come half-way up it and steam it steadily for two hours. Turn it on to a hot dish and serve with it sweet melted butter sauce or some treacle heated with the addition of a little lemon juice. A Simple Trifle Ingredien ts— One Swiss roll or a round of jam One gill of cream, sandwich. Vanilla. Half a pint of boiled custard. Castor sugar. One white of egg. A dozen glac^ cherries.PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 341 Method.—Cut the cake into blocks about half an inch thick. Heap these up in a glass dish. Pour the custard over them and baste them with it until the cake is well soaked. Whisk the cream until it is slightly thickened and whisk the white to a stiff froth. Stir it lightly into the cream, adding vanilla and sugar to taste. Whisk the two together till the mixture just hangs on the whisk. Heap it over the sponge cake, decorate it with the cherries, and it is ready. Note.—Any kind of plain stale cake may be used, but it must then be spread with jam. If preferred, leave out the egg and use all cream. Tropical Snow higredients— Four sweet oranges. Half a fresh cocoanut grated. Four bananas. One glass of sherry. Three or four slices of fresh or The juice of one lemon. preserved pineapple. Castor sugar to taste. Method.—Peel and divide the oranges into sections and remove the pips and tough membranes between the pieces. Peel and slice the bananas, and remove the specks from the pineapple and cut it in dice. Put a layer of orange in a glass dish, pour over a little wine and lemon juice mixed, and sprinkle with castor sugar and add a little cocoanut, banana, and pine- apple. Repeat these layers until all the ingredients are used and heaped high in the dish. Sprinkle the top over thickly with cocoanut and sugar and put a ring of sliced bananas round the base. Let it soak for an hour before serving it, and keep it on ice, if possible. Note.—Other combinations of fruit may be used and a meringue of whipped and flavoured whites of eggs instead of cocoanut, if liked. Viennoise Pudding Ingredients— Four loosely filled breakfastcupfuls of bread cut in dice. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of sultanas. One piece of candied peel. Three level tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. The rind of one lemon. Two eggs. Half a pint of milk. One glass of Marsala. Four lumps of sugar. Method.—Put the lump sugar in a dry saucepan and heat it until it turns a dark brown. Add the milk and stir it over the fire until the sugar dissolves. Mix the bread, cleanedTHE COMPLETE COOK 342 sultanas, chopped peel, castor sugar, grated lemon rind, and coloured milk. Beat up the eggs and add them with the wine. Let the mixture stand for half an hour, or longer, if the bread is stale. Have ready a greased mould or basin, put in the mixture, cover the top with a piece of greased paper, and steam it for two hours. Turn it carefully on to a hot dish and serve with it any good sweet sauce. Note.—If a cheaper pudding is preferred, omit the wine, and the juice of the lemon may be used instead. For a richer pudding add half a teacupful of cream. Windsor Tartlets Ingredients— Six ounces of any good pastry. Two eggs. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Four level tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. One rounded tablespoonful of cornflour. Five powdered macaroons. Eighteen glac^ cherries. One piece of lemon peel. Half a tablespoonful of chopped almonds. Method.—Put the butter and sugar into a basin and beat them to a cream. Add the yolks of eggs, one at a time, and beat each well in. Chop the cherries and peel, add them and the powdered macaroons to the mixture, mix thoroughly, add the almonds and cornflour. Roll out the pastry and line some small patty tins thinly with it. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir them lightly into the mixture. Fill each lined tin three- parts full. Bake them in a moderate oven until the mixture is set and the whole is a delicate brown. Dust them with castor sugar and serve either hot or cold. Note.—Place crossbars of pastry over the mixture, if liked. Any stale cake crumbs can be used instead of macaroons. Yorkshire Pudding Ingredients— Batter No. i. One well-rounded tablespoonful of beef dripping. Method.—Put a shallow Yorkshire pudding tin into the oven with the dripping in it. When the tin and dripping are hot, pour in the batter. This makes the pudding lighter than if a cold greased tin is used. Plenty of dripping is required for343 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY this pudding. Put the tin and batter into a quick oven and bake it for about half an hour, or until it is brown and crisp. Serve it at once, either whole or, what is more convenient, cut into six or eight squares. Note.—If a joint of beef is being roasted, use a couple of spoonfuls of dripping from the tin under the meat.344 CHAPTER XVI SOUFFLES Cold Apricot Souffle Ingredmtts— Half a pint of thick apricot pur^e. Three level tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Four eggs. One gill of cream. Four sheets of French gelatine. One teaspoonful of lemon juice. Six pistachio nuts. Cochineal. About two tablespoonfuls of boiling water. Method.—Rub about half a tin of apricots through a hair sieve to make the pur^e. Separate the yolks and the whites of the eggs. Put the yolks in a basin over a pan of boiling water with the sugar and pur^e, and beat them together until warm and thick. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, stir it into the fruit pur^e, etc. Whip the cream until it will just hang on to the whisk, and the whites to a stiff froth, add these very lightly to the fruit, etc. Strain in the lemon juice and, if necessary, add a few drops of cochineal. Have ready a china souffle case with a band of foolscap to come three or more inches above the mould, tied or pinned round outside it. Pour in the mixture, leave it until set. Then carefully draw off the paper band and serve the souffle in the case. Decorate the top of the souffle with two lines of finely chopped pistachio nuts. Note.—The purde may be made of apple, gooseberries, strawberries, etc., as wished. Beignets Ingredients— Half a pint of boiling water. Two w'hole eggs and one extra yolk. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of dried flour. Souffles Two teaspoonfuls of castor sugar. One small teaspoonful of vanilla essence. About two tablespoonfuls of icing sugar. A few grains of salt.SOUFFLES 345 Method.—Before measuring the flour dry it in a cool oven, but it must not colour in the least. Rub it through a sieve. Put the butter and water into a stewpan ; when they boil add the flour; take the pan off the fire, and beat it in smoothly. Cook this mixture over a very gentle heat until it will leave the sides of the pan without sticking to them. Cool the mixture slightly, and well beat in the eggs one by one. Add the castor sugar, vanilla, and salt. Have ready a deep pan half full of clean fat, so hot that a very faint smoke is rising from it. Have two dessertspoons, dip each in the fat, and fill one nearly full of the mixture and scoop it out with the other into the fat. When the pan is full enough, fry them slowly for about eight to ten minutes. If the fat gets too hot they will be too dark a brown before the inside is hollow and light. At first the shapes sink, but then rise, and will need turning. When a golden brown, drain the beignets on paper, dust them with icing sugar which has been rubbed through a hair sieve, and serve them very quickly, piled up on a hot dish. Jam or wine sauce may be served with them. Brown Bread Souffle Ingredients— One gill of milk. One gill of cream. Two level breakfastcupfuls of brown breadcrumbs. Four eggs. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Grated rind of one lemon. One level teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. One teaspoonful of vanilla. Method—Prepare a souffle tin as directed for Vanilla SoufiflA Melt the butter, add the milk, cream, and lemon rind, bring these to boiling point and shake in the crumbs. Let these boil gently for about two minutes, stirring them well. Take the pan off the fire, add the sugar, cinnamon, and, when these are slightly cooled, the beaten yolks of eggs. Add vanilla to taste. Beat the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth and add them lightly. Pour the mixture into the prepared tin, cover the top with a round of greased paper, and steam the souffle very gently for about one hour, or until it_feels spongy in the centre. Let it stand a minute, then turn it out carefully on to a hot dish, and serve with some good sauce. Note.—All milk and no cream can be used if wished, and sherry instead of cinnamon and vanilla flavouring.THE COMPLETE COOK 346 Cerise Souffle Proceed as for Vanilla Souffle, but omit the vanilla and add three tablespoonfuls of glace cherries cut in dice. When the soufde is turned out pour the sauce round and garnish it with little heaps of glace cherries cut in halves. Chocolate Souffle Ingredients— One breakfastcupful of grated chocolate. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One and a half level tablespoonfuls of flour. Method.—Prepare a souffle tin (see Ilhistration). Mix the milk, sugar, and grated chocolate together smoothly. Melt the butter, stir in the flour smoothly, add the chocolate and milk, and let the mixture boil well. Cool it slightly and stir in the yolks of the eggs, beating each in separately. Add about a teaspoonful of vanilla. Whip the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth and stir them lightly into the mixture. Put it into the prepared tin and steam it for about an hour, or until it is spongy in the centre. Turn it carefully on to a hot dish and pour round it custard or German sauce. ^ Milanaise Souffle {Illustrated') Ingredients— Three eggs. Half a gill of hot water. Four level tablespoonfuls of castor Seven sheets of leaf gelatine, sugar. One tablespoonful of pistachio Half a pint of cream. nuts. Two lemons. Two or three macaroons. Method.—Tie a band of foolscap paper about four inches deep securely round, outside a plated or white china souffle case, it should stand about three inches up above the case. Put the three yolks of eggs into a basin with the sugar, the strained juice and grated rinds of the lemons. Whisk them well, then stand the basin over a saucepan of hot water on the fire and continue whisking till the mixture is a thick froth, quite hot, but on no account boiling. Strain it into a basin and let it become nearly cold. Dissolve the gelatine in the water. Whip the cream till it will just hang on the whisk, beat the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth. Stir in the cream to the yolks of Four eggs. One gill of milk. Two teaspoonfuls of castor sugar. Vanilla essence to taste.MILANAISK SOUFFLKf- j347 SOUFFLES eggs, then the whites very lightly, and, lastly, strain in the gelatine. Keep stirring ‘it very gently till it is just beginning to set, then pour it quickly into the souffle case. Leave it till quite cold, then remove the paper band, either damping it with hot water on the outside, or drawing it back gently with a knife from the mixture clinging to it. Make two wide crossway bands on the top with pistachio nuts, and fill the spaces between with powdered and sieved macaroons. Stand the case on a lace paper and serve as cold as possible. Note.—The top may be piped with sweetened and whipped cream to make a novelty, and candied violets, rose petals, etc., or chopped and browned almonds used instead of pistachio nuts. Cold Orange Souffle Use two small oranges instead of lemons and proceed as for Milanaise Souffle. Pineapple Souffle Ingredieii ts— Three tablespoonfuls of small dice of pineapple. Six level tablespoonfuls of flour. Three level tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Two slightly rounded tablespoon- fuls of butter. Half a pint of milk. Four eggs. Method.—Prepare a souffle tin (see Vanilla SouffliandIllustra- tion'). Melt the butter in a pan, stir in the flour smoothly and add the milk. Stir this over the fire until it thickens and leaves the pan without sticking to it. Add the sugar and pineapple dice. Beat in the yolks of three of the eggs, each one separately. Whip the whites to a very stiff froth and stir them very lightly into the mixture. Pour the mixture into the mould and steam it for about one hour, or until the centre feels spongy when pressed. Turn it out carefully and serve with it the following sauce, poured round:— One gill of pineapple syrup. One tablespoonful of small dice of Five lumps of sugar. pineapple. One glass of sherry. A few drops of cochineal. Put the pineapple syrup, sugar, and sherry into a small pan, dissolve the sugar and boil the syrup for a few minutes to reduce it. Add the pineapple dice and enough cochineal to colour it prettily. Pour it round the pudding. Note.—This souffle may be prepared with preserved ginger instead of pineapple.348 THE COMPLETE COOK Pistachio Ingi’edients— One gill of cream. Three tablespoonfuls of pistachio nuts. One and a half tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. The whites of two eggs. Souffles Two and a half sheets of gelatine. Brandy or vanilla and orange flower water to taste. Green colouring. A little wine jelly. Method.—Prepare some small paper souffle cases by pinning a band of foolscap paper round outside each to stand an inch above the case. Shell and pound the nuts, then rub them through a hair sieve. Mix them with the sugar and orange flower water and other flavourings. Whip the cream until it will just hang on the whisk, stir it lightly into the pounded nuts. Dissolve the gelatine in a tablespoonful of hot water and strain it when cooled slightly into the cream and nuts. Whisk the whites of the eggs very stiffly and add them with a drop or two of colouring very lightly to the mixture. Pour the mixture into the cases, it should come about half-way up the paper. Leave them until set. Lastly, pour on the top of each warmed wine jelly to the depth of a third of an inch, and leave it until .set. Damp the paper bands and draw them gently off. Sprinkle a little finely chopped pistachio nut on the top, and serve in the cases. Praline Ingredients— Three eggs. Three level tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Two and a half sheets of French gelatine. Four and a half level tablespoon- fuls of grated chocolate. Souffle Two ounces of almond rock. Two tablespoonfuls of boiling water. One gill of cream. Two or three tablespoonfuls of milk. Two dozen preserved violets. Method.—Prepare a china souffle case by pinning a band of foolscap paper round outside it to come about three or four inches above the case. Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs. Put the former into a basin with the sugar. Put the basin over a pan of boiling water, and whisk until the mixture looks “ ropy.” Dissolve the gelatine in the boiling water, and melt the chocolate gently in the milk. Pound the almond rock in a mortar. Add the strained gelatine, chocolate, and almond rock to the eggs and sugar. Whisk the whites of the eggs stiffly and the cream until it hangs on the whisk, stir these lightly into the mixture. Put the mixture into the case and349 SOUFFLfiS leave it to set. When set, damp the paper band, draw it off gently and decorate the top with the violets. Note.—Powdered ratafias or powdered almond rock may be used instead of the violets. Souffle Rice Ingredients— Half a breakfastcupful of rice. One pint of milk. One quart of water. Four tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. One tablespoonful of butter. Half a teaspoonful of vanilla or other flavouring. A few grains of salt. Three eggs. Method.—Put a quart of boiling slightly salted water into a pan on the fire. Sprinkle in the washed rice and let it boil for twenty minutes. Drain off the water and add the milk. Cook these in a double saucepan for fifteen minutes, stirring them often. Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs. Beat up the yolks with the sugar, add them and the butter to the other ingredients when slightly cooled. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes without boiling it, then put it away to cool a little. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add them and the flavouring lightly to the mixture. Turn it into a well-buttered pie dish and bake it for half an hour. Serve immediately with some good sweet sauce. Note.—This mixture may also be steamed in the same manner as Semolina Souffle. Semolina Souffle Ingredients— One and a half pints of milk. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of semolina. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. The grated rind of a lemon. Two rounded teaspoonfuls of butter. A few grains of salt. Three eggs. Method.—Thickly butter a china fireproof souffle case. Tie a band of buttered foolscap securely round outside it, coming two or three inches above the edge (see Illusti'ation). Bring the milk to boiling point, sprinkle in the semolina, salt, and stir it over a slow fire until the mixture is thick and the semolina clear. Add the sugar, butter, lemon rind, and, when slightly cooled, the yolks of eggs. Beat the whites to a very stiff froth and stir them lightly into the semolina. Pour theTHE COMPLETE COOK 350 mixture into the mould. Lay a piece of buttered paper over the top and steam it gently for about twenty minutes, or until it is well puffed up and feels spongy when pressed in the centre. Remove the band carefully, and immediately serve the souffle in the case. Note.—This mixture is also excellent when baked. Swiss Souffle Ingredients— Three rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Three rounded teaspoonfuls of flour. Four eggs. One teaspoonful of grated lemon rind. One teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. One teaspoonful of vanilla. Method.—Beat the sugar and butter to a very soft cream. Stir in the yolks of the eggs one by one, and beat the mixture well for eight or ten minutes. Add the sieved flour, lemon rind, and vanilla. Beat the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth and stir them in very lightly. Well butter a fireproof souffle case or a pie dish. Pile the mixture up in it and bake it in a moderately hot oven for about half an hour, or until well browned and puffed up. Mix the cinnamon with three tea- spoonfuls of extra castor sugar and shake it all over the sur- face. Serve immediately in the dish, either plain, or with sauce or stewed fruit. Vanilla Souffle Ingredients— Four eggs. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. One gill of milk. One tablespoonful of castor sugar. Half a teaspoonful of vanilla essence. A few grains of salt. Method.—Thickly butter a souffle tin, tie a band of buttered paper round outside it, wide enough to come two or three inches above it (see Illustration). Melt the butter, stir in the flour smoothly, then add the salt and milk, and stir these over the fire till the panada thickens and leaves the sides of the pan clean. Draw the pan off the fire and add the sugar and the yolks of the eggs, beating each one in separately. Add the vanilla. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth and stir them very lightly into the other ingredients. Pour the mixture into the prepared tin.A PREPARED SOUFFLE TIN351 S0UFFL1&S lay a piece of buttered paper over the top, and steam very gently from twenty to thirty minutes, or until it is spongy in the centre. Turn it carefully on to a hot dish with wine or other sweet sauce poured round it. Note.—This mixture may also be baked, and, if preferred, omit the vanilla and serve it as Custard Souffld352 CHAPTER XVII JELLIES Aspic Jelly Ingredients— One and a half pints of good veal stock, or One and a half pints of cold water. One gill of sherry. One gill of malt, tarragon, and chilli vinegar mixed. The juice and pared rind of one lemon. A bunch of parsley, thyme, and one bay leaf. Two sticks of celery. One medium-sized onion and carrot. Eight peppercorns ; eight allspice. A small blade of mace. Half a teaspoonful of salt. Two ounces of French gelatine. Two whipped whites of eggs. Two washed and crushed shells of eggs. Method.—Prepare and quarter the vegetables. Remove every speck of grease from the stock. Put it into the pan with all the other ingredients and clarify as directed for Wine Jelly, except that, instead of letting it stand to settle for five minutes, let it stand by the side of the fire for thirty minutes before straining it. Calf’s Foot Jelly Ingredients— Two calf’s feet. One breakfastcupful of loaf sugar. Five pints of water. Three cloves. Half a pint of sherry. One inch of cinnamon. One tablespoonful of brandy. Two eggs. The rinds and juice of three lemons. Method.—Wash the feet thoroughly in boiling water. Chop each in four pieces. Put them in a saucepan with cold water to cover them, and boil them for five minutes. Then strain off the water. Put the feet back into the pan, having first rinsed it out with cold water, pour in the five pints of water and boil the feet gently from five to six hours, keeping them wellJELLIES 353 skimmed; the liquid should now be reduced to a little over a quart. Strain it off and let it get cold. Next remove every suspicion of grease from the top of the jelly ; this is best done by wiping it with a cloth dipped in boiling water. Turn the jelly into a clean saucepan, heat it gently, and add the wine, brandy, spice, sugar, the thinly pared lemon rinds and strained juice, and lastly the crushed shells of the eggs, after having washed them carefully, also the lightly whipped whites of the eggs. Whisk all these ingredients over a gentle heat till the jelly boils up to the top of the pan. Let it sink and reboil twice. Then let it settle by the side of the fire for about ten minutes. Next strain it through a clean coarse tea-cloth, after having first poured through it plenty of boiling water to heat it. Let the jelly run through the cloth two or three times if necessary. It should be perfectly clear. Rinse out some moulds with cold water, pour in the jelly, and leave it to set. Note.—It is a good plan to set a little of the jelly quickly, and if it seems too stiff, a little more wine, lemon juice, or water could be added to it. Wine and brandy can be left out, if liked, and more water and lemon juice used. Castile Ingredien ts— One pint of clear claret, or wine jelly coloured red. About a teacupful of cream. Two and a half sheets of French gelatine. A dozen glace cherries coarsely chopped. Jelly One tablespoonful of preserved ginger cut in dice. Twelve shredded pistachio nuts. Two halves of preserved apricots cut in dice. Castor sugar. Method.—Rinse a plain round mould with cold water. Pour in enough warmed jelly to set the top of the mould to the depth of about half an inch. When it is set, stand a smaller mould or tumbler inside on this layer of jelly; there must be a space of about half an inch between the tumbler and the sides of the mould. Fill in this space with more warmed jelly and let it set firmly. When the surrounding jelly is firm, put a little warm water in the tumbler; this will loosen the jelly round it, and the tumbler may be easily withdrawn, showing a cavity in the middle for the cream filling. To make this: Dissolve the gelatine in a tablespoonful or so of water. Whip the cream, add the mixed fruits and sugar. When it is a little cooled, strain in the gelatine, mix well, and, when the cream is on the point of setting, pour it into the 23354 THE COMPLETE COOK centre of the jelly. When firmly set, turn it carefully out of the mould and put a little chopped, clear, uncoloured wine jelly round the base. Champagne Jelly Ingredients— One and a half pints of water. Half a pint of champagne. One gill of sherry. The juice of one orange and lemon. One lemon rind thinly pared. One clove. Method.—Make and clarify Wine Jelly. Half an inch of cinnamon stick. One teacupful of loaf sugar. Twenty-four sheets of French gelatine. The whipped whites and washed and Crushed shells of two eggs, the jelly as directed for Clear Claret Ingredients— Half a pint of claret. One teaspoonful of brandy. One lemon. ' Jelly Two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Three sheets of gelatine. Cochineal. Method.—Dissolve the gelatine in two tablespoonfuls of water. Add the sugar, the thinly pared lemon rind, and the strained juice of the lemon. Heat the claret and the brandy until they feel hot to the finger, but they must not boil. Strain in the gelatine and enough cochineal to make it a pretty colour. Pour the jelly into small moulds which have first been rinsed with cold water, and leave them until set. Then turn out as required. Note.-—\{ weaker jelly is required, use a gill of water in place of a gill of claret, and leave out the brandy altogether. Dantzig Jelly Ingredients— One quart of clear wine jelly. One teaspoonful of very finely Two sheets of gold leaf. chopped pistachio nuts. Two sheets of silver leaf. Method.—Rinse a mould with cold water. Dry the pistachio nut powder in a cool oven until it ceases to cling together. Pour the melted jelly into the mould. Leave it until it is beginning to set, then add the decorations of gold and silver leaf and pistachio nuts. Mix these in very gently with a fork and stir them now and then until the particles no longer sink and are evenly distributed. When set, turn out carefully.n-' r* •:T^, «• ' fc^» -»■ ' *. IMACEDOINE OF FRUITS CHARLOTTE RUSSEJELLIES 355 Clear Lemon Jelly Ingredients— Half a pint of lemon juice. One and a half pints of water. Twenty sheets of French gelatine. The rinds of four or six lemons. Method.—Make and clarify Jelly. One teacupful and a half of loaf sugar. One inch of cinnamon stick. Four cloves. Two shells and whites of eggs, as directed for Clear Wine Macedoine of Fruits {Illustrated) Ingredients— One and a half pints of clear wine jelly. One banana. Eight or ten black grapes. Eight or ten white grapes. Half a dozen strawberries. Half a dozen dessert cherries. A tablespoonful of shredded almonds. A tablespoonful of shredded pistachio nuts. Method.—Warm the jelly till just liquid. Rinse a mould out with cold water; fix it firmly in a colander containing some chipped ice. Pour in some jelly to the depth of half an inch, and let it set. Meantime, stalk the grapes and strawberries, stalk and stone the cherries, peel and slice the banana in rings. Arrange a pretty design of various fruits and shredded nuts in the top of the mould, add a little more jelly, and let it set to hold the fruit firmly: then add enough jelly to well cover it. Let this set, then add another layer of mixed fruits, then more jelly, and so on till the mould is full. Let the mould become perfectly set and cold, on ice, if possible, then dip it into warm water and turn it carefully out on to a pretty dish. Put a border of chopped jelly round. Note.—Any mixture of fruits can be used, the more variety the better. In winter Tangerine oranges, or bottled or tinned kinds are handy. Greengages, peaches, apricots, etc., stoned and cut into neat pieces are excellent when in season. Any clear jelly of any flavour is suitable. Set in small moulds, the effect is very good, or in a border mould with the central space filled with whipped and flavoured cream. Maraschino Jelly Make a pint of clear lemon or wine jelly, using rather more water and less lemon juice. If sherry is used, it should be of a very pale tint. After it is clarified add about oneTHE COMPLETE COOK 356 tablespoonful of maraschino, using more or less of it, according to taste. Other liqueurs may be used instead of maraschino. Newport Ingredients— One pound of prunes. Three level tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Seven or eight sheets of French gelatine. A little cochineal. One lemon. Jelly Four tablespoonfuls of Marsala or sherry. One pint of clear wine jelly. One pint of water. Half a pint of whipped and flavoured cream. Method.— Soak the prunes overnight. Put them into a pan with the water and sugar and cook them until soft. Take out the stones, break them, and take out the kernels. Put into a saucepan the prunes, kernels, grated rind, and juice of the lemon, the Marsala, and a little cochineal, and let them boil from fifteen to twenty minutes. Strain in the gelatine dissolved in about four tablespoonfuls of water. If possible, use a four-tier mould; rinse it out in cold water. Fill up the first step with jelly and let it set, fill up the next with the prune mixture, let that set, and so on until the mould is full. When set, dip the mould into warm water and turn the jelly on to a pretty dish. Pipe the whipped cream as a border round the edge of each step. Orange Baskets Ingredients— Orange jelly. Whipped cream. Orange peels. Method.—Cut the oranges round in halves. Make the orange jelly according to the recipe given for it, but do not chip off the rinds, and when squeezing the juice from the oranges take care not to damage the peel. Scoop out all the fruit with a tea- spoon, without breaking through the pith lining of the peel, or removing the little knot in the centre of each; if it does come out, stop the little hole with a scrap of butter. With a small sharp knife notch round the edge of the peel. Place the cups of peel on ice and pour in the orange jelly, leave it until set. Put a teaspoonful of whipped cream on the top of each basket. Arrange them on a bed of laurel leaves and serve. Note.—If liked, handles of orange peel or angelica may be fixed across the top of each basket. Also the cream may be omitted.357 JELLIES Orange Jelly Ingredients— Half a pint of orange juice. One teacupful loosely packed of Half a pint of cold water. lump sugar. The rinds of four oranges. Nine sheets of gelatine (French). Two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Method.—Wipe the oranges and pare off the rinds very thinly. Put them in a pan with the water, sugar, and lemon juice. Heat these gently, add the gelatine, and stir until it is dissolved. Pour in the orange juice. Strain the jelly into a pretty mould, having first rinsed it in cold water. Leave the jelly till cold and set. Dip the mould into tepid water, shake it gently on to the left hand and slip the jelly out on to a glass dish. Note.—If liked stronger, use less water and more orange juice. Orange Sippets Ingredients— Orange jelly. Cochineal. Method.—Cut the oranges in halves roundways. Remove all pulp without damaging the peel. Make the jelly as already described. Colour one-half of it a pretty red with cochineal. Arrange the halves of peel in ice or in a shallow baking tin, so that they keep each other steady. Fill some with the coloured jelly, others with the plain. Leave until set; then with a sharp knife cut each in two. Probably some of the sippets will not be quite full of jelly, in that case with a sharp knife trim off the edge of peel, taking care not to break the jelly. Arrange them on laurel leaves. Note.—Should there be a little hole made in the centre of the cups of orange when scooping out the pulp, fill it up with a little butter before putting in the jelly. Polish Ingredients— One and a half pints of maraschino or other wine jelly. One pint of milk. One level tablespoonful of corn- flour. Two and a half sheets of French gelatine. Jelly Two yolks of eggs. One rounded tablespoonful of castor sugar. Maraschino or vanilla flavouring. Cochineal.THE COMPLETE COOK 358 Method.—Put the milk on to boil. Mix the cornflour smoothly and thinly with a little cold milk ; add it to the boiling milk, stirring it all the time. Boil and stir it for five minutes, then add the sugar and gelatine dissolved in about two tablespoonfuls of water. Cool the mixture for a minute or so, then stir in the beaten yolks of eggs and cook them without boiling for a minute. Add whatever flavouring is desired, and pour half the custard into a basin and colour it a pretty pink. Strain this and the plain yellow custard on to separate flat dishes; the layers should be about a third of an inch thick. Let these set, then stamp them out in diamond shapes or dice. While the custard is setting rinse a mould with cold water and pour in and set a layer of the clear jelly on the top of it, next arrange in as symmetrically as possible a ring of the custard shapes, then pour in and set another layer of jelly, and continue these layers until the mould is full; the last must be of jelly. Arrange the coloured custard tastefully and see that the layers of jelly are of the same depth, or else the effect is spoilt. When cold unmould and decorate with chopped clear jelly. Note.—If creams have been made and any of the mixture can be spared, set some of it as directed on dishes and use instead of making a fresh cornflour custard. It is a good way of using up the remains left over of a cream, for it need not be cut into regular shapes, if irregular ones are more con- venient. Ingredients— Port Wine Jelly Three-quarters of a pint of port wine. One gill of water. The rind and juice of one lemon. Twelve lumps of sugar. Ten sheets of French gelatine. Two cloves. Cochineal. Method.—Dissolve the gelatine in the water, with the thinly pared lemon rind, lemon juice, sugar, and cloves. Let all these stand by the side of the fire for ten minutes. Then strain them into the port wine and colour the jelly with cochineal, as gelatine always spoils the colour of the wine. Pour it into a mould rinsed with cold water, and leave to set. Note.—Less wine and more water and lemon juice may be used, if preferred. Do not use the sediment in the bottle of port, or if it escapes, strain the jelly through muslin to filter it out again.JELLIES 359 Russian Jelly Ingredients— One pint of clear jelly. Cochineal. Method.—Rinse a mould with cold water. Warm the jelly, put it into a basin, and whisk it briskly until it is like white froth. Pour about a teacupful into another basin, add to it enough cochineal to colour it a very delicate pink, whisk until beginning to set, then pour it into the mould to any depth that will give a good effect. Pour the rest of the white whisked jelly, as it is setting, on to the top of the pink and leave the mould until set, then turn it out. If the second layer of jelly is allowed to become too set before being poured on to the first, each will come out separately when unmoulded, and if they are not set enough, one will blur into the other. Clear Wine Jelly Ingredients— One pint and a quarter of water. Twenty sheets of French gelatine. A quarter of a pint of lemon juice. Half a pint of sherry. The rinds of two lemons. A teacupful and a half of loaf sugar. Two cloves. Half an inch of cinnamon stick. Two shells and whites of eggs. Method.—Select a perfectly clean well-lined pan that will hold at least two quarts. Put into it the water, gelatine, strained lemon juice, sherry, very thinly pared lemon rinds, sugar, spice, the washed and crushed shells of the eggs, and the whites whipped to a fairly stiff froth. Take a clean egg whisk and whisk all these over the fire until the mixture is very hot, then leave off whisking and let the jelly boil well up in the pan. Draw the pan aside, let the jelly sink, then reboil it up once more. Put the pan at the side of the fire, cover it and let the jelly settle for five minutes. Meanwhile, rinse out a perfectly clean, rather coarse tea-cloth, which is kept only for straining jellies, in boiling water, place it under the hoop of a jelly stand, or place a wooden chair upside dowm on the kitchen table. Lay the cloth over the legs, twisting and tying it securely to the same with string; arrange the cloth so that it dips down in the centre after the fashion of a jelly bag. Put a clean hot basin under the cloth on the upturned seat of the chair, and carefully pour the jelly into the centre of the cloth. When the pan is empty, put it down, and slip a second hot basin under the cloth, drawing out the first one and pouring its contents back again36o THE COMPLETE COOK to refilter. What runs through before the filter, composed of whipped whites and crushed shells, is in the cloth, is always cloudy. Should the jelly still appear cloudy, refilter what is in the second basin, but rinse the basin each time. Be most careful not to touch or stir the sediment in the cloth; give the jelly plenty of time to run through, and keep it in as warm a place as possible, and covered over so as to prevent the jelly cooling and setting. Should it begin to set in the cloth, very gently place a tin mug or round mould half full of boiling water in the cloth. When all the jelly is clarified it can be used as desired. Note.—All clear jellies are clarified in exactly the same manner.! A speck or two of flour, dirty eggshells, lemons, spoons, etc., or a greasy cloth, or one that has been washed with soap, will effectually prevent a jelly from being clear and sparkling. In very cold weather use about two or three sheets less gelatine; if very hot, about four extra, or if the jelly has to be packed for travelling, or is to be set with a large amount of fruit, etc. If wished, the jelly can be tinted to any desired tone of red with cochineal after straining.361 CHAPTER XVIII CREAMS Andermatt Ingredients— Two breakfastcupfuls of milk. Two level tablespoonfuls of rice. One teacupful of cream. Four sheets of gelatine. Cream One teacupful of fresh, ripe, or candied fruits in pieces. Two level tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Vanilla to taste. Method.—Either rinse out a border mould in cold water, or decorate it prettily with clear jelly and some device in cherries, etc. Wash the rice, boil the milk, sprinkle in the rice and stir it. Let it reboil and simmer very slowly until the rice is soft and the whole a thick creamy mass. It is most conveniently done in a double saucepan. Keep it well stirred. Put the rice into a basin and add the sugar. Dissolve the gelatine in two or three tablespoonfuls of hot water. When the rice is a little cool, strain the gelatine into it and mix it well. Cool the mixture until it feels warm to the finger, then stir in the fruit, the whipped cream, and vanilla to taste. Stir it until it is just beginning to set, then pour it at once into the mould, and leave until cold. Turn it carefully out and, if liked, put a little extra fruit and whipped cream in the centre. Apricot Cream Ingredients— A tin of apricots. The juice of half a lemon. Three level tablespoonfuls of Half a pint of cream. castor sugar. About a gill of clear jelly. Ten sheets of gelatine. Half a dozen pistachio nuts. Method.—Decorate a mould with clear jelly set with some prettily cut pieces of apricot and pistachio nuts. Rub enough of the apricots through a hair sieve to fill a breakfastcup withTHE COMPLETE COOK 362 the pulp. Whip the cream till it will just hang on the whisk, add it and the sugar to the pulp. Put the gelatine with a gill of the apricot syrup in a small pan, and when it has dissolved strain in the lemon juice. Cool the mixture slightly, strain it into the cream, etc., and mix quickly. Pour the cream into the mould and leave it until quite cold. Then turn it out and put a little chopped jelly round it. Note.—This cream should be of a very delicate pink tint, so, if necessary, add a drop of cochineal. The mould need not be decorated with jelly, etc., but the effect is plainer. About a pound and a half of fresh apricots cooked until tender in half a pint of water and then sieved may be used. Bavaroise Ingredietits— Four yolks of eggs. Half a pint of milk. Half a pint of good cream. One level tablespoonful of castor sugar. Cream Ten sheets of gelatine. Four tablespoonfuls of brandy or sherry, or any liqueur. Two tablespoonfuls of water. Method.—Make a custard with the eggs and milk. Strain into it the sugar, the gelatine dissolved in water, and the wine or liqueur. Whip the cream stiffly, when the custard has cooled slightly mix it in lightly. Rinse a mould in cold water, pour in the cream, and leave it until set. Turn it out carefully on to a dish. Charlotte Russe Ingredients— About eighteen Savoy finger biscuits. Half a pint of cream. Six sheets of leaf gelatine. One gill of water or fruit syrup. {Illustrated ) One tablespoonful of castor sugar. Vanilla to taste. Half a gill of clear wine jelly. A few glace cherries. Angelica, about an inch. Method.—Take a plain round souffle tin which holds about a pint, pour in enough warmed jelly to cover the top of it to the depth of half an inch, and let this set. Make a pretty design on the top with a ring of cherries cut in halves placed round the edge, and cut angelica. Pour in a little more jelly to cover this decoration and let it set. Trim the biscuits carefully in order to make the sides quite straight, and cut enough off one end of each to make them stand level on the jelly and just the right length to reach from the jelly to the top of the, ' - • 3- II 1! i f \FIG CREAM363 CREAMS tin. Fit these biscuits neatly round inside the tin to line it; they should be packed in so well that they do not fall out of place; turn the outside of the biscuit against the tin, then prepare the cream. Dissolve the gelatine in the water or fruit syrup, and add the sugar. Whip the cream till it hangs on the whisk ; when the gelatine has cooled a little, strain it into the cream, stir it in and flavour it with vanilla. When this cream is just on the point of setting, pour it into the prepared tin, and put it on ice, or in a cool place to set. If the cream is poured into the tin before it is just setting it oozes through and soaks into and softens the biscuits. When it is ready to turn out, dip just the bottom of the tin, in which the jelly is set, into warm water, and slip the charlotte carefully out on to a dish. Put a border of chopped wine jelly round. Note.—Any variety of cream, such as strawberry, apricot, coffee, etc., can be poured into the centre. Chocolate Cream Use the same ingredients and method as for Vanilla Cream, but add to the custard three sticks of good sweetened chocolate melted in two tablespoonfuls of water. Coffee Cream Ingredients— Half a pint of cream. Half a pint of milk. The yolks of four eggs or two whole ones. Ten sheets of leaf gelatine. One level teacupful of loaf sugar. {Illustrated) Half a teacupful of very strong coffee or coffee essence to taste. Si.x glace cherries, A teaspoonful of desiccated cocoanut. A teacupful of clear wine jelly. Method.—Rinse a mould with cold water and decorate it prettily with the jelly, the cherries, and cocoanut. Warm the milk in a saucepan, pour it on to the beaten eggs, and cook this custard in a jug placed in a pan of boiling water till it thickens but does not reach boiling point, as it will curdle. Strain it into a basin and let it cool slightly. Melt the sugar in about three or four tablespoonfuls of boiling water, then put in and dissolve the gelatine. Strain them into the warm custard and add the coffee, flavouring it to taste. Whip the cream, stir it lightly into the custard, etc., and pour all into the prepared mould. Leave till quite set, then turn the cream out on to a dish and put round a border of coarsely chopped wine jelly.THE COMPLETE COOK 364 Note.—Any other pretty decoration can be used for the mould, or if more convenient the cream may be poured into an undecorated mould, but the effect is less good. Small creams set in dariole moulds are made in the same manner. Fig Cream or Mould {Illustrated') Ingredmits— One gill of milk. Three tablespoonfuls of castor One gill of cream. sugar. Five sheets of French gelatine. Three yolks of eggs or two whole Eight dried figs. ones. One teaspoonful of lemon juice. Method.—Examine the figs and stew them with the sugar until perfectly soft in just enough water to cover them. Should they seem inclined to stick before they are soft, add a tiny drop more water. When soft, cut them up in small dice. Beat the yolks of eggs with the milk, strain this custard into a jug, and stand it in a pan of boiling water ; stir until it thickens, taking care it does not boil. Add this to the figs, etc.; add the cream whipped until it will hang on the whisk, also the lemon juice. Strain in the gelatine dissolved in two tablespoon- fuls of water, after cooling it a little. Mix well, and just as it is beginning to set pour the mixture into a mould rinsed with cold water. When cold and set turn it out carefully. Note.—If preferred, use half a pint of milk and no cream, and call it Fig Mould. Flavoured Creams Ingredients— One pint of cream. Vanilla or any other flavouring to Three level tablespoonfuls of taste. castor sugar. Wafers. Cochineal. Method.—Whip the cream until it will only just hang on the whisk, then very lightly stir into it the sugar and flavouring. Put half the cream into another basin and colour it a delicate pink with a few drops of cochineal. Heap the two coloured creams up roughly, blending the colours prettily, either in little ice tubs or on small glass plates, and serve with them ice wafers. Note.—If liked, a macaroon slightly soaked with sherry, or a small spoonful of fresh fruit may be placed in each ice tub, and the cream heaped on it.CREAMS 365 Ginger Cream Proceed as directed for Vanilla Cream, but leave out the vanilla and add instead three rounded tablespoonfuls of pre- served ginger cut in small dice, and half a gill of the syrup. Norfolk Cream Proceed as for Vanilla Cream, but leave out the vanilla and add four tablespoonfuls of mixed glace fruits cut in small dice, and a dozen pistachio nuts cut into shreds. Peach Cream Prepare it exactly as directed for Apricot Cream. Pineapple Cream Ingredients— Half a pineapple, or a tin of pine- Three level tablespoonfuls of apple. castor sugar. Half a pint of good cream. One gill of pineapple syrup. Eight sheets of gelatine. One gill of clear jelly and a few pistachio nuts. Method.—Decorate the mould with jelly and pistachio nuts. Cut half the pineapple, after removing all the “ eyes,” into neat dice. Pound the rest in a mortar and pass it through a sieve. Whip the cream, add to it the sieved pineapple, and then the dice of the same. Dissolve the gelatine in the syrup, add the sugar, let this get cool, and strain it into the cream, etc. Stir all well together, pour it into the mould, and leave it until set. Dip it into tepid water and turn the cream on to a dish. Note.—Small creams can always be set instead of a large mould. Prunes and Cream Pudding Ingredients— One pint of lemon jelly. Castor sugar. One heaped breakfastcupful of Two tablespoonfuls of brandy or stewed prunes. vanilla to taste. Half a pint of cream. An inch of angelica. Method.—T\\& prunes must have been stewed until quite soft in enough water to cover them and three tablespoonfuls of sugar; if liked, add the grated rind of a lemon also. Strain out the fruit, let it drain well, make a neat slit in each prune,THE COMPLETE COOK 366 and slip out the stone as neatly as possible. Lay the prunes on a flat dish, first selecting about six of the best shaped of them and lay them aside. Pour a little slightly warmed jelly on to the prunes, turning them about in it until they are coated all over. Slightly melt the rest of the jelly; when it is just beginning to restiffen, stir in gently the jelly-coated prunes, and turn all into a wet pudding basin, or mould. Unless the prunes are first coated the juice spoils the rest of the lemon jelly. When cold, turn out the shape on to a dish and heap over it the cream whipped, sweetened, and flavoured. Cut little stalks from the angelica, insert a stalk into each of the reserved prunes, and garnish the cream with them. Gateau of Prunes Ingredients— Two breakfastcupfuls of prunes. Two breakfastcupfuls of water. Seven sheets of gelatine. Three level tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Method.—Decorate a border mould with clear jelly and shredded almonds. Wash, then soak the prunes overnight in the pint of water. Next day stew them until quite soft in the same water, adding the sugar, grated lemon rind, and strained lemon juice. Strain out the prunes and save the syrup. Cut the prunes in halves, remove and crack a few of the stones and add the kernels to the fruit. Dissolve the gelatine in the prune syrup and strain it on to the fruit. Mix all well, and when the mixture is beginning to stiffen, pour it at once into the mould. When it is set, dip the mould into tepid water and turn out the shape. Heap whipped and flavoured cream in the centre, and a pretty finish is given by putting round a border of chopped jelly. Note,—Vanilla, brandy, or wine can be added as flavouring, if wished. One lemon. About one gill of clear jelly. A few blanched almonds. One gill of cream. Riz a rimperatrice Prepare a cream as directed for Bavaroise Cream, but add to the hot custard one teacupful of well-boiled Carolina rice. Stir the mixture now and then until it is beginning to set, then pour it into the mould. Unless this is done the rice will sink. The rice should be boiled in milk and be very soft.CREAMS 367 Stone Ingredien ts— Eight sheets of gelatine. One gill of hot water. The rind of one lemon. Two level tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Cream One glass of sherry, or one table- spoonful of vanilla, or brandy. Half a pint of good cream. Jam or stewed fruit. Method.—Put the water and gelatine in a pan on the fire ; when the latter is dissolved, add the grated rind of the lemon, the sugar, and wine. Whisk the cream stiffly. When the gelatine has cooled sufflciently, strain it into the cream, mixing it well. Have ready a thick layer of jam, or stewed fruit in a glass dish, pour the cream smoothly over it and leave it until cold and set. A light dust of chopped pistachio nuts may be sprinkled on the surface, if liked. Strawberry Cream Ingredients— One pint of strawberries. One tablespoonful of lemon juice. Three level tablespoonfuls of castor Four tablespoonfuls of cold water. sugar. About one gill of clear jelly. Eight sheets of gelatine. Pistachio nuts. Half a pint of cream. Cochineal. Method.—Decorate a mould prettily with jelly, a few straw- berries, and some shredded pistachio nuts. Stalk the straw- berries, rub them with the sugar sprinkled on them through a hair sieve. Put the water and gelatine in a pan on the fire; when the latter is dissolved, add the juice of the lemon and strain it into the strawberry pulp. Whip the cream till it will just hang on the whisk, stir it lightly into the mixture, add cochineal, if necessary. Pour it into the mould and leave it until set, then turn it out and put round a border of chopped jelly. Note.—A pound pot of good strawberry jam can be sub- stituted for the fresh fruit; rub it through a hair sieve, but use less sugar and rather more lemon juice. Raspberry, or Raspberry and Currant Cream Make as directed for Strawberry Cream, but use raspberries or half raspberries and half red currants instead of strawberries.THE COMPLETE COOK 368 Vanilla Ingredients— Four yolks of eggs. Half a pint of good cream. Half a pint of hot milk. Ten sheets of gelatine. Two level tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Cream Half a teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Four tablespoonfuls of water. One gill of clear jelly and a few glace cherries. Method.—Decorate the mould with jelly and cherries. Beat up the yolks, add the milk, and strain these into a jug. Place the jug in a pan of boiling water and stir the custard over the fire until it thickens, without boiling. Melt the gelatine in the water; strain it into the custard, mixing it well; let it cool a little. Whip the cream stiffly, add to it the sugar and vanilla. When the custard has cooled sufficiently, stir in the cream, etc.; pour it into the mould and leave it to set, then turn it out carefully. Note.—Three whole eggs could be used, if more convenient. Velvet Cream Ingredients— Eight sheets of gelatine. Quarter of a pint of water. Two level tablespoonfuls of castor The rind and juice of one lemon. sugar. One gill of clear jelly and a few Four tablespoonfuls of sherry. glace cherries. Half a pint of good cream. Method.—Decorate a mould with the jelly and cherries. Put the water and gelatine in a pan on the fire ; when the latter is melted add the sugar, lemon juice and rind, and the sherry. Let it cool a little, then add the stiffly beaten cream, mix it well; when just beginning to set pour it into the mould and leave it until set. Dip it into tepid water and turn it on to a glass dish. Note.—The mould need not be decorated. Wafer Charlotte {Illustrated) Ingredients— About a dozen oblong ice wafers. A round thick slice of Genoese or other plain cake. About a teacupful of royal icing. A breakfastcupful of shelled walnuts. Half a pint of cream. One tablespoonful of castor sugar. One tablespoonful of brandy, or Essence of vanilla. One teaspoonful of chopped pistachio nuts.WAFER CHARLOTTE OLIVES A LA NEWPORTCREAMS 369 Method.—Cut the slice of cake into an octagonal shape. Each of its eight sides should be the width of one of the wafers, and the slice about an inch in thickness. Spread the sides of the slice thinly with a little of the icing and stand the cake on the dish with a lace paper underneath, and press the wafers gently upright against the sides on to the icing, which acts like glue and keeps them in position as it hardens. Put the icing into a forcing bag and join up the sides of the eight wafers where they touch the next one. Put a rose of the icing on the top of this sugar line and press on to each two halves of walnuts at regular intervals. Now a complete wafer case is made. Chop four large tablespoonfuls of the walnuts and add them gently to the whipped cream. Add sugar and brandy to taste. Put a large pipe into the bag and fill in the wafer case with this cream, etc., or a spoon can be used. Heap the cream high in the centre. Decorate it with a few halved walnuts and a light sprinkling of chopped pistachio nuts. Tie the wafers round with a pretty white ribbon and serve as cold as possible. Note.—Glace cherries and other fruits can be used instead of walnuts, and the cream flavoured in any way desired. 24370 CHAPTER XIX SAVOURIES Anchovy Aigrettes Ingredients— Six fillets of anchovies. Salad oil and cayenne or coraline One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. pepper. Frying Batter No. 2. Method.—Wipe the fillets and put them on a plate. Sprinkle them with oil, chopped parsley, and a little cayenne, and let them stand for one hour. Dip each fillet in the frying batter and fry them a pretty brown in fat from which a faint smoke is rising. Drain them on paper. Sprinkle each aigrette with chopped parsley, a little coraline pepper, and serve quickly on a lace paper. Note.—Sardines may be substituted for anchovies. Anchovy Puffs Ingredients— Scraps of puff pastry. Cayenne. Six anchovies. The yolk of one egg. Two heaped tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. Method.—Roll out the pastry thinly. Wipe and bone the anchovies. Cut the pastry into pieces the length and double the width of the anchovies, place an anchovy on a piece of pastry, wet the edges and fold them over, pressing the edges together. Place the puffs on a baking tin, brush them over with beaten yolk of egg, and sprinkle them with cheese and a dust of cayenne. Bake them in a quick oven for about ten minutes. Serve them immediately. Note.—Sardines may be used instead of anchovies.SAVOURIES 371 Anchovy Straws Ingredients— One and a quarter level teacupfuls The yolk of an egg. of flour. Cold water. Two well-rounded tablespoonfuls Anchovy paste. of butter. Cayenne. Method.—Rub the butter very lightly into the flour. Beat up the yolk with two tablespoonfuls of cold water. Add this to the flour and mix it into a stiff paste. Roll it out on a floured board to about an eighth of an inch thick. Spread it over with a thin layer of anchovy paste and a little cayenne. Cut the pastry into thin straws about two inches long and lay them on a tin. Bake them a pale brown in a moderate oven. Serve them either hot or cold. Note.—For these the tin need not be greased. Anchovy Toast. No. i Ingredients— Eight boned anchovies. Cayenne. Two hard-boiled eggs. A piece of toast for each person. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Method.—Wipe the anchovies free from oil. Shell the eggs and put the whites aside. Pound together the anchovies, yolks, butter, and a dust of cayenne. Rub this mixture through a sieve. Have ready the hot buttered toast, trim the pieces neatly. Spread some of the mixture on each piece. Heat them in the oven. Garnish with finely chopped white of egg and serve. Anchovy Toast. No. 2 Ingredients— Si.x boned anchovies. Cayenne. Two eggs. Hot buttered toast. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Method.—Wipe the anchovies free from oil, rub them through a sieve. Beat up the yolks and add them gradually to the anchovies. Cut the toast into neat rounds the size of the top of a claret glass. Melt the butter, stir it into the anchovies and eggs; stir the mixture over the fire until it thickens, but it must not boil. Spread it over the rounds of toast and serve very hot. Note.—If more convenient, anchovy paste may be used instead of the whole fish, but the flavour will not be so good.THE COMPLETE COOK 372 Angels on Horseback Ingredients— One dozen large oysters. Twelve croutons or rounds of hot Twelve very thin slices of raw toast. streaky bacon. Salt: cayenne : lemon juice. Sprigs of watercress. Method.—Remove the beards from the oysters, sprinkle each with a few drops of lemon juice and grains of cayenne. Smooth the bacon out with rather a heavy knife, trim it, lay an oyster on one end of each slice and roll it up in the bacon. Twist a bit of thread round the bacon to keep it from uncurling, and cook the little rolls in the oven for about eight minutes, or until the bacon appears cooked. Have the croutons, or toast cut not more than one inch in diameter and freshly prepared and hot. Lay a roll on each, arrange them on a hot dish and garnish it with tufts of carefully washed watercress. Bouchees ^ I’Osborne higredients— Small puff pastry cases. Three sardines. One raw egg. Two teaspoonfuls of butter. One teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. Half a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce. Quarter of a teaspoonful of flour. Method.—Stamp out pastry cases the size of half a crown, with a small cutter mark a round in the centre of each. Bake them carefully and remove the centres. Skin and bone the sardines. Melt the butter in a small pan, stir in the flour, add the sardines, the sauces and, if necessary, a little salt. Stir the mixture over the fire until it is very hot, add the beaten egg and re-heat. Fill up the pastry cases, heaping the mixture slightly in the centre. Put the cases in the oven to heat through. Arrange on a lace paper and serve. Note.—Other pounded or finely chopped fish can be used; salmon, lobster, and crab are excellent. Cassolettes a la Cecil Ingredients— One breakfastcupful (packed solid) of butter. Half a gill of good brown sauce. One truffle. One small cooked carrot. Two gherkins. Two anchovies. One egg. Breadcrumbs. Salt and pepper Method.—Divide the butter into eight even-sized pieces. Work each into a round cake about an inch thick. Put them373 SAVOURIES on one side, on ice, if possible, to get cold and hard. Cover them with breadcrumbs, brush them with beaten egg and cover them again with crumbs; repeat this egging and crumbing a second time, pressing the crumbs firmly on with a knife. When a faint smoke rises from the frying fat, fry the cassolettes a golden brown and drain them on paper. Take a sharp pair of scissors, cut out a neat round from the top of each, and empty out the melted butter and keep the cases hot. Cut the truffle, carrot, gherkins, and anchovies into shreds. Warm the sauce in a small pan, add the shredded ingredients, and salt and pepper to taste. Fill in the cases, heaping up the mixture in the centre. Arrange them on a fancy paper and serve. Note.—These cassolettes of butter are useful, as they can be filled with any savoury mixture of fish, game, meat, etc. The butter that is poured out must be saved; it will be found to be none the worse. Devilled Caviare Ingredien ts— A small pot of caviare Small rounds of bread. Cayenne. One level tablespoonful of butter Method.—Shell and shred the almonds; put them on a baking sheet and bake them a pale brown. Put the caviare in a basin with the juice of the lemon and a dust of cayenne, mix these well together with a wooden spoon, add the almonds and season carefully. Before frying the rounds of bread in the butter scoop out each slightly in the centre. When fried fill in the hollows with caviare, heat thoroughly in the oven, garnish each with tiny crescents of red chilli, or pimento, and serve them at once with slices of lemon. One rounded tablespoonful of sweet almonds. One lemon. Devilled Chickens’ Livers Ingredients— Four chickens’livers. Half a teaspoonful of chopped Four slices of bacon. shallot or onion. One teaspoonful of chopped Salt and cayenne. parsley. Small rounds of fried bread. Method.—Wash and wipe the livers, sprinkle them with salt, cayenne, chopped parsley, and shallot. Roll each liver in a thin piece of bacon, place each roll on a round of fried bread, put them on a baking tin in a moderate oven and bake themTHE COMPLETE COOK 374 for about eight to ten minutes. Serve them as hot as possible on a fancy paper. Croutes of Caviare Ingredients— Small rounds of fried bread. A small pot of caviare. Quarter of a teaspoonful of chopped shallot. Quarter of a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Cayenne. Two or three tablespoonfuls of butter. Parsley. Method.—Put the caviare into a basin with the shallot, lemon juice, and dust of cayenne. Mix these together with a wooden spoon. Put a heap of the mixture on each round of bread, then with a forcing bag, pipe a pretty border of butter round each croute. Arrange them on a lace paper and garnish with a few sprigs of parsley or chervil. Note.—On no account use a metal spoon when handling caviare, as it spoils the flavour. Leave out the shallot, if preferred. Croutes of Smoked Haddock Ingredients— Half a medium-sized cooked dried haddock. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One hard-boiled egg. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Salt and pepper. Croutes of bread. Method.—Remove all skin and bone from the fish and chop the flesh finely. Melt the butter in a small pan, add the fish and seasoning to taste. Stir this mixture over the fire until very hot. Have ready some small rounds of fried bread, put a heap of the mixture on each. Garnish the heaps, from the top to the base, with lines of parsley, the yolk of the egg rubbed through a sieve and the finely chopped white. Arrange the croutes on a lace paper. Note.—A dust of powdered lobster coral is an effective decoration, or strip of red chillies or pimentos. CroCites k la Louise Ingredients— Six small rounds of buttered toast Six mushrooms. Six soft roes of herrings. Method.—Cut the rounds of toast the size of a claret glass. Peel, stalk, and examine the mushrooms. Brush the gridiron Coraline pepper. A tablespoonful of butter.375 SAVOURIES with melted butter, also the mushrooms, and grill them until tender ; place one on each round of toast. Grill or fry the herrings’ roes ; place one on each mushroom, curling it round as neatly as possible. Dust over with coraline or paprika pepper, and serve as hot as possible. Croutes a la St. George Ingredients— Four sardines. Slices of hot buttered toast. Two tablespoonfuls of finely Cayenne. chopped cooked ham. Method.—Skin and bone the sardines; mix them with the ham and season them highly with cayenne, adding salt, if necessary. Have ready some neat finger-shaped pieces of toast. Spread some of the mixture on each; place them in the oven or under the grill until they are very hot, and serve immediately, Daventry Toast Ingredients— Six stoned olives. Two teaspoonfuls of fresh butter. Six rounds of hot toast. One teaspoonful of chopped capers. Three teaspoonfuls of anchovy A few sprigs of chervil. paste. Method.—Cut the toast into rounds the size of a two-shilling piece. Mix the capers with half the butter, spread it on the toast. Work up the rest of the butter with the anchovy paste. Place an olive in the centre of each toast. Put the anchovy butter into a forcing bag with a small rose pipe, and force it prettily round the base of each olive and fill the centre of it with it, finishing with a slightly larger rose of butter on the top. Stick a small feathery sprig of chervil in the top of each olive and arrange them on a lace paper. Note.—Any other fish or savoury paste may be used instead of anchovy. Gherkin Croiltons Ingredients— Four pickled gherkins. One hard-boiled egg. Six rounds of fried bread. Two teaspoonfuls of butter. Method.—The croutons must not be larger than a two- shilling piece, and if possible fry them in butter. Chop the white of egg finely and rub the yolk into the butter until •smoothly mixed, and then season both. Spread a thick layer376 TPIE COMPLETE COOK of this egg butter on each crouton and cut the gherkins into thin strips. Lay these strips in lattice fashion on the top of each crouton, trim off any overhanging ends with scissors. Put a neat border round the edge of the crouton of the chopped white of egg. These may be served hot or cold. Herrings’ Roe Toast Ingredients— Four soft roes of herrings. A little chopped parsley. Four small rounds of hot buttered Cayenne, lemon juice, or vinegar. toast. One tablespoonful of butter. Method.—Cut each roe in four and fry them gently for about five minutes in the butter. Arrange them on the rounds of toast. Season them highly with cayenne, sprinkle over a dust of parsley and a few drops of lemon juice or vinegar. Put them in the oven for a few minutes to get hot through, and serve them at once. Note.—The roe from mackerel can also be used. Indian Crofites Ingredients— Onetablespoonfulof grated cheese. Small rounds of fried bread. One tablespoonful of chutney. Cayenne. Six or eight almonds. Method.—The rounds of bread should be the size of a two- shilling piece. Peel and shred the almonds and brown them carefully in the oven. Chop the chutney, heat it in a small pan, add the cheese and cayenne to taste. When the mixture is thoroughly hot, heap it on the rounds of bread and stick fine shreds of almonds over each. Indian Toast Ingredients— Two tablespoonfuls of any curry. Rounds of toast. Half a tablespoonful of butter. One teaspoonful of chopped truffle Two tablespoonfuls of tomato or parsley. sauce or puree. Method.—Chop the curry finely. Melt the butter in a small pan, add the curry and tomato sauce and make these very hot. Trim the toast into pieces the size of a five-shilling piece. Spread some of the mixture on each, heaping it up slightly. Put them under the grill for a few minutes. Sprinkle them with chopped parsley or truffle and serve at once.377 SAVOURIES Lax Toast higredmtts— One tin of lax. One hard-boiled yolk of egg. One tablespoonful of butter. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped Half a small brov/n loaf (stale). parsley. One saltspoonful of curry powder. A few scraps of truffle trimmings. Method.—Toast the bread, trim off the crusts, and cut’it into neat fingers. Mix the butter, yolk of egg, and curry powder to a smooth paste, season it and spread on the toast sippets. Open the tin, take out some of the lax and drain it on a cloth. Lay enough of it on the toast to cover it. Lay the toasts on a baking tin and cover them with a buttered paper. Heat them for about five minutes. Decorate each prettily with the parsley and chopped truffle. Serve as hot as possible. Sprigs of seasoned watercress are a suitable garnish for this dish. Devilled Ingredients— Half a lobster. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Two level tablespoonfuls of bread- crumbs. Lobster One tablespoonful of vinegar. Mustard, cayenne, and grated nutmeg. Small rounds of fried bread. Half a lemon. Method.—Put all the meat from the lobster in a mortar and pound it to a paste with the butter, vinegar, crumbs, and rind and juice of the lemon. Season the mixture highly with cayenne, made mustard, and nutmeg. Put a small heap of the mixture on each crouton. Sprinkle over a little chopped truffle, if possible, and serve at once. Macaroni a 1’Americaine Ingredien ts— One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. About eight long sticks or coils of macaroni. Half a pint of tomato puree. Salt, pepper, and castor sugar to taste. Method.—Cook the macaroni in plenty of fast boiling salted water until tender. Drain off the water and wash the macaroni under the cold water tap and cut it into short pieces. Melt the butter, stir in the flour smoothly, add the tomato puree, stir it over the fire till it boils, season it carefully, and add the macaroni. When the mixture is hot, turn it on to a hot dish and garnish it with sippets of fried bread.THE COMPLETE COOK 378 Note.—Cooked spaghetti may be used in place of macaroni. If wanted for an after dinner savoury, put small heaps of the mixture on to small croutons, or into ramekin cases. Nouilles or “Noodles” Prepare the Nouille Paste as directed for Ravioli. After standing for an hour, roll it very thinly and cut it into strips about seven inches wide. Roll each of these up tightly and cut them with a sharp knife crosswise into narrow strips about an eighth of an inch thick. Shake out and loosen these strips until long and straight, dredging them with a very little flour. Put them into fast boiling salted water, stir them for a few minutes to keep them apart, and boil them for about ten minutes. Lift them out with a fish slice, drain them on a clean cloth and put them in layers in a buttered au gratin dish with grated cheese. Put cheese, mixed with an equal amount of white breadcrumbs, for the last layer. Sprinkle the surface well with oiled butter and bake in a quick oven until browned. Olives a la Newport {Illustrated) Ingredients— Eight Spanish olives. Eight fillets of anchovy. Eight croutes of bread. Two hard-boiled eggs. Two rounded teaspoonfuls of grated cheese. One rounded tablespoonful of fresh butter. Two teaspoonfuls of tomato catsup. Two teaspoonfuls of cream. Cayenne, salt, a few leaves of tarragon. Method.—Wipe the olives free from oil and stone them. Re- move the yolks from the eggs and mix them with the butter, tomato catsup, cheese, cream, and seasoning. When cold rub the paste through a sieve. Spread a little of the mixture on each croute of bread, put an olive in the centre, curl an anchovy fillet, free from oil, round the base of the olive and fill the cavity with the prepared mixture; this is most easily done with a forcing bag and pipe. Chop the whites of the eggs finely and decorate the croutes of bread with a little of it. Put a few spikes of the shredded tarragon in the centre of the egg mixture with which each olive is filled. Arrange neatly on a lace paper and serve. Note.—Sprigs of chervil or a little parsley can be used instead of tarragon. Milk instead of cream, or more tomato catsup. Rounds of buttered toast can be substituted for the fried bread or tiny crisp biscuits.SAVOURIES 379 Stuffed Olives Ingredients— Six olives. One tablespoonful of butter. Six small croutes the size of the One tablespoonful of pate cle foie- top of a sherry glass. gras. One hard-boiled egg. Cayenne : salt. Method.—Put the foie-gras, yolk of egg, and butter in a mortar, pound them to a smooth paste and rub them through a sieve. Stone the olives carefully and fill them with some of the mixture. Spread what mixture remains on the croutes. Place an olive on each and decorate with finely chopped white of the egg. Oysters a la St. Ermine Ingredients— Six oysters. Two level tablespoonfuls of butter. Six soft roes of bloaters. Salt, cayenne, and lemon juice. Six croutons of bread. Method.—Halve the roes and beard the oysters. Melt the butter in a frying pan, put in the oysters and roes and toss them about in the butter over the fire for a few minutes. Dust them with salt and pepper. Have ready some neat rounds of fried bread. Place a few pieces of roe on each, then an oyster on the top. Squeeze a little lemon juice on each, and serve them very hot. Portuguese Toast Ingredien ts— One cold cooked sausage. Toast. One tablespoonful of boiled rice. Cayenne. Three tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce. Method.—Skin the sausage and cut it into slices an eighth of an inch thick. Put the sauce in a small pan with the rice and seasoning to taste. Cut tl^te toast into neat finger-shaped pieces. Arrange some of the slices of sausage on each, let them slightly overlap each other. Spread the sauce over them, heat in the oven for a few minutes, and serve at once. Note.—Cooked vermicelli may be used instead of rice. Prawns in Aspic higredients— Half a pint of aspic jelly. The hard-boiled white of an egg. Six or eight prawns. A little chervil. Method.—Rinse out some very small dariole moulds in cold water. Pour a little melted aspic into each and let it set.THE COMPLETE COOK 38o Decorate the top of each with any pretty design cut from the white of egg and a few sprigs of chervil. Set these decorations with a few drops of aspic. Place a shelled prawn in each mould, fill up the moulds with melted aspic, and leave them to set. Dip the moulds into tepid water, turn the jelly on to a dish, and arrange some chopped aspic lightly round. Note.—If prawns are very expensive put two shrimps into each mould. Preserved prawns may be used. Various other ingredients can take the place of prawns, i.e. bearded oysters, dice or balls of foie-gras, stuffed olives, fillets of lax (bought in tins), plovers’ eggs, etc. Prawn Ingredients— Small rounds of fried bread. One dozen prawns. Two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. One tablespoonful of breadcrumbs. Method.—Shell the prawns, put six on one side, and chop the rest. Put the paste into a mortar with the crumbs and cheese and pound them together, adding enough slightly whipped cream to bind them smoothly. Stir in the chopped prawns and season with cayenne or coraline pepper. Put a small heap of the mixture on each croute and place a whole prawn across the top. Arrange on a lace paper. Note.—Mayonnaise sauce may be used instead of cream. Coraline pepper is not so hot as cayenne, is a lovely scarlet, and gives a pretty touch of colour to any dish. Preserved prawns may be used, if liked. Crofites Two teaspoonfuls of prawn or shrimp paste. A little cream. Cayenne or coraline pepper. Ravioli a Ingredients— For the Nouille Paste— Four tablespoonfuls of flour. Two raw yolks of eggs. For the Farce— Two tablespoonfuls of chopped poultry or game. One tablespoonful of chopped ham. One tablespoonful of grated Par- mesan cheese. One raw yolk of egg. Two teaspoonfuls of cream or white sauce. ritalienne Half a teaspoonful of salt. Cold water. One tomato. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Salt, cayenne, and nutmeg. About a teacupful of any brown or tomato sauce.SAVOURIES 381 Method.—Make the Nouille Paste first. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin. Make a well in the centre, put in the yolks of eggs and work them gradually into the flour ; add more flour, if necessary, or a little water, if too dry. The paste when mixed must be very stiff Knead it well until smooth and stiff, shaking in flour until there is no trace of any stickiness. Fold it up in a cloth and put it aside for an hour. Then roll it out as thinly as possible, until it seems almost possible to see through it, and divide it into two pieces. Pound the poultry, ham, two teaspoonfuls of the cheese, yolk of egg, tomato, and cream or white sauce, and rub the mixture through a fine wire sieve. Add the parsley and season it well. Arrange small balls of this farce in even rows down one piece of paste at about one and a half inches apart. Brush round each little heap with white of egg or water. Lay the second strip on the top of the first. Press the upper paste down gently round the heaps, so as to fasten the edges together. Take a plain or fluted round cutter, a little larger than the balls of forcemeat, and stamp out each ravioli. Note that the edges of each are well closed. Have ready a pan of fast boiling slightly salted water. Drop in the ravioli, boil them fast for two minutes, stirring them gently, then let them boil slowly for six minutes. Lift them out with a fish slice, lay them on a clean cloth to drain, and put them in layers in a hot fireproof dish with the rest of the cheese and the hot tomato sauce. Re-heat in the oven for a few minutes, and serve them at once. Note,—Any savoury mixture may be used for the farce. Savoury Rice Ingredients— One teacupful of rice. One teacupful of chopped ham or smoked fish. Three breakfastcupfuls of stock. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One tablespoonful of finely chopped onion. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Salt: cayenne. Method.—Wash the rice, melt the butter, and fry the onion in it until a pale yellow. Add the rice and stir it into the butter over the fire for five minutes. Add the stock and cook the rice very slowly until it is soft and has absorbed the stock. Should it seem too thick before it is cooked enough, add more stock or water. When the rice is a soft thick mass, add the ham, parsley, and seasoning. Heap the mixture up pyramid382 THE COMPLETE COOK fashion in a hot dish, and serve as hot as possible. This makes an excellent and economical supper dish. Note.—Cooked rice left over from some meal may be used instead of boiling it purposely, but it will not be so well flavoured as if boiled in stock, so add more butter, seasoning, and, if liked, a little Worcester or other bottled sauce. Savoury Rice Croquettes Ingredients— A breakfastcupful of well-boiled rice. Two raw eggs. Four tablespoonfuls of milk. One level tablespoonful of butter. One level tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Half a teacupful of shelled shrimps. One teaspoonful of flour. Salt and cayenne. Breadcrumbs : frying fat. Method.—Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour smoothly, add the milk and stir until the mixture boils well. Add the rice and, when very hot, one of the eggs well beaten. Re-heat these without boiling, mix in the parsley, shrimps, and seasoning. Spread the mixture on a plate until cold. Shape it into small rolls barely as long and no thicker than the little finger of the average size adult. Brush these with the other beaten egg, cover them with crumbs. Fry the rolls in smoking hot fat until a golden brown, and drain them on paper. Serve very hot, garnished with fried parsley. Note.—Prawns cut in pieces, quartered oysters, pieces of lobster may be used instead of shrimps, or dice of chickens’ livers, ham, mushrooms, etc. Sardine Eclairs Ingredients— Six sardines. A little anchovy paste. One yolk of egg. Puff or rough puff pastry. Method.—Roll out the pastry thinly and cut it into pieces about two and a half inches wide. Remove the heads, tails, and skins from the sardines. Spread a little anchovy paste on each piece of pastry. Lay a sardine on one half, wet the edge of the pastry, and fold over the other half, pressing the edges together. Trim neatly and brush each over with beaten yolk of egg. Place them on a greased baking tin, and bake them in a quick oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Serve them either hot or cold. Note.—Strips of other varieties of cooked fish may be used instead of sardines.SAVOURIES 383 Sardines a la Sterneau Ingredients— Half a tin of sardines. One tablespoonful of Worcester One tablespoonful of walnut sauce. ketchup. Three teaspoonfuls of lemon juice. Rounds of hot buttered toast. Method.—Drain the oil from the sardines. Skin and bone them. Mash them finely with a silver fork. Put them into a chafing dish with the lemon juice, ketchup, and Worcester sauce. Mix and heat thoroughly. Serve very hot on neat rounds of buttered toast. Allow a round for each person. Note.—Use tinned sprats, pilchards, or herrings instead of sardines. Vinegar in place of lemon juice, and any unsweetened biscuits, such as water or cream crackers, instead of toast. Can be heated on the fire in an ordinary stewpan. Scotch Toast Ingredien ts— The remains of a dried haddock. Toast. One tomato. Two or three shelled walnuts. Method.—Remove all skin and bone from the haddock, chop it and season with pepper, and cut the tomato into slices. Have ready some neat rounds of toast. Spread a layer of haddock on each round, lay a slice of tomato on the top, and, lastly, half a walnut. Put the toasts in the oven till they are very hot and the tomato tender. Serve them at once. Scotch Woodcock Ingredients— Six small rounds of buttered toast. Two tablespoonfuls of butter. Anchovy paste. A little chopped parsley. Three raw yolks of eggs. Cayenne. Three tablespoonfuls of cream. Method.—Spread a layer of anchovy paste on each round of toast. Arrange these on a hot dish and keep them hot. Melt the butter in a pan, put in the yolks of the eggs and the cream, and stir them over a slow fire until the mixture is a creamy mass. Add the parsley and cayenne. Pour this mixture on to the toast, and serve as hot as possible.THE COMPLETE COOK 384 Devilled Shrimps Ingredients— One pint of shrimps. A little flour. Half a lemon. Cayenne. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Method.—Shell the shrimps. Toss them lightly in the flour. Have ready a deep pan of frying fat ; cover the bottom of the frying basket with shrimps. When a faint smoke rises from the fat, plunge in the basket and fry the shrimps a golden brown. Drain them on paper. Sprinkle them at once with cayenne and parsley. Keep them hot until all have been fried, and serve them piled up on a lace paper. Garnish with slices of lemon. Brown bread and butter is a suitable accompaniment to this dish. Prawns, though more expensive, are often treated in a similar manner. Three tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. Method.—Roll out the pastry thinly, sprinkle over it a third of the cheese and fold it in three. ' Repeat this rolling, sprinkling, and folding until it has been done three times and all the cheese is used. After the last folding, roll the pastry out a quarter of an inch thick and cut it into two long strips about two and a half inches wide. Work the anchovy paste with the anchovy sauce until soft and smooth. Spread a thin layer of this over one strip, and cover it with the second strip of pastry. Cut it into rounds the size of a half a crown. Brush the top of each with a little raw yolk of egg, thinned down with a little milk or water. Bake the tartines until a light brown in a quick oven. When baked, lay two thin strips of chilli crosswise on each and serve immediately. Tartines a la Conde Ingredmits— About six ounces of puff pastry. Four teaspoonfuls of anchovy One teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. One raw yolk of egg. Two or three red chillies. paste. Turkish Fritters Ingredients— Thin brown bread and butter. Thin slices of boiled ham or Two tablespoonfuls of mango tongue. chutney. Frying Batter No. 2.385 SAVOURIES Method.—Stamp the bread and butter into rounds the size of the top of a sherry glass. Trim the ham into pieces the same size. Chop the chutney slightly. Spread a layer of it on a round of the bread and butter, lay on a round of ham, then another of bread and butter, spread with more chutney. Have ready a deep pan of frying fat, dip the sandwiches into the frying batter, drop them gently into the fat and fry a golden brown. Drain them on paper and serve garnished with fried parsley as quickly as possible. Yarmouth Straws Ingredients— One kippered herring. Cayenne. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of Half a pound of short crust pastry. grated cheese. Method.—Roll out the pastry to about a quarter of an inch in thickness. Sprinkle half the cheese over it and a dust of cayenne. Fold the pastry in three and roll it out again. Sprinkle over the rest of the cheese, fold it in three and roll it out to about an eighth of an inch in thickness. Cut the pastry into strips about three inches long and a quarter of an inch wide. Cut the herring into strips to match. Place together a strip of herring and one of pastry, twist them round each other, pinching the ends well together. Lay the twists on a baking tin and bake them a delicate brown in a quick oven. Serve them very hot on a lace paper. Yarmouth Toast Ingredients— Two bloaters with soft roes. One egg. One rounded tablespoonful of Small rounds of fried bread. butter. Salt and pepper. Method.—Remove the roes and bones from the fish, putting the former on one side. Pound the flesh in a mortar with the butter, egg, and seasoning, then rub the mixture through a sieve. Put a small heap of it on each round of fried bread, and on the top place a piece of roe. Put the croutes on a baking tin in a moderate oven and heat thoroughly. Serve them at once sprinkled with a little paprika or coraline pepper. 25386 CHAPTER XX CHEESE COOKERY Cheese Aigrettes Ingredients— Four rounded tablespoonfuls of Vienna flour. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Two whole eggs and one extra yolk. A breakfastcupful of hot water. Salt: cayenne. Frying fat. Method.—Spread the flour on a tin and dry it very slowly in the oven ; it must not colour at all. Then pass it through a wire sieve and measure it. Put the water and butter into a saucepan ; when it boils, add the flour all together, take the pan off the fire and stir and beat the mixture until it is smooth. Cook it over a gentle heat, stirring it all the time until the “panada’’will leave the sides of the pan without sticking to them. If over- cooked, or cooked too quickly, the butter will separate, and a fresh quantity of “ panada ” must be made. Add the cheese and let the mixture cool slightly. Beat in the eggs thoroughly one at a time. Season carefully and turn the mixture on to a plate. When the first signs of a faint smoke rise from the fat, put in small teaspoonfuls of the mixture and fry the aigrettes a light brown. At first they sink, then float, and must be very slowly fried for about ten or twelve minutes. If the fat is too hot they become heavy and too dark a brown. When fried, drain them on soft paper and sprinkle with a little of the grated cheese and serve at once, heaped up on a hot dish. Note.—These will keep well in a tin for a week if put into it cold, and re-heat quite well a second time in a moderate oven.CHEESE COOKERY 387 Cold Cheese Creams Ingredients— Four small tablespoonfuls each of One level teaspoonful of made grated Parmesan and Gruyere mustard, cheese. Salt ; cayenne. Half a pint of cream. A few strips of tarragon and One gill of Aspic Jelly. chervil. Method.—Prepare about ten small paper ramekin cases, by fastening round on the outside of each a band made of foolscap paper to come up one inch above the edge of the case. Whip the cream until it will just hang on the whisk, stir the cheese and mustard into it. Warm the jelly and whisk it until frothy. Stir it lightly into the cream and season carefully. Pour the mixture into the prepared cases to about half-way up the paper band, and leave until set. Then decorate the top of each with a design in tarragon, chervil, or chilli, truffle, etc., and set it with a few drops of slightly warmed aspic jelly. When set, pour in enough extra melted aspic to make a depth of about an eighth of an inch. When this is set, damp the outside of the paper bands with hot water and gently peel them off. Serve the savoury in the cases as cold as possible. Note.—If liked, the tops need not be decorated, but just finished with two lines of the red Hungarian pepper or chopped truffle. If liked, decorate the tops of small dariole moulds with jelly, chervil, etc., then, when set, pour in the cheese mixture, leave until cold, then dip the tins in warm water, turn out the creams, and serve with chopped aspic round. Cheese Ingredients— Four rounded tablespoonfuls each of grated Cheddar and Parmesan cheese. Two tablespoonfuls of spaghetti in short lengths. Half a pint of milk and water. Cutlets Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Three eggs. One level teaspoonful of made mustard. Salt ; cayenne. Breadcrumbs : frying fat. Method.—Put the milk and water on to boil. When it boils sprinkle in the spaghetti and boil it for about ten minutes, or until quite tender. Then drain off all water and cut the spaghetti into about half-inch lengths. Stir the cheese, butter, and mustard into it over the fire, add the two beaten eggs and re-heat the mixture sufficiently to bind the eggs. Season and388 THE COMPLETE COOK turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. When cold, shape it into quite small cutlets, pointed at one end. Brush each over with beaten egg, cover evenly with the breadcrumbs, and fry them in plenty of smoking hot fat until a pretty light brown. Drain them on paper and push a short length of raw spaghetti into the pointed end of each to represent a bone. Serve hot with fried parsley. Note.—Vermicelli could take the place of spaghetti, or macaroni could, if sliced somewhat thinly. Cheese and Eggs higrcdients— Three eggs. A small lump of butter. About one and a half teacupfuls of Salt: pepper. grated cheese. Method.—Well butter a fireproof baking dish. Shake into it a thick layer of the cheese. Carefully break the eggs on to it. Dust each with a little salt and pepper and cover entirely with the rest of the cheese. Bake in a quick oven until the cheese is lightly browned, or it can first be cooked in the oven until the eggs are lightly set, and then browned under a gas griller, before the fire, or with a salamander. Serve at once. Note.—A twopenny enamelled tin plate makes an excellent substitute for a fireproof dish if the latter is not forthcoming. Cheese Fritters Ingredients— Batter No. 2. One tablespoonful each of malt and Slices of cheese, Gruyere, if pos- tarragon vinegar and salad oil. sible. Frying fat. Fried parsley. Method.—Prepare the batter as directed. Cut the cheese into slices about a quarter of an inch thick and two inches long. Lay them in a pie dish, pour the vinegar and oil over them, add a good dust of pepper, and let them marinade in these for half an hour. Heat the fat until a faint smoke is rising from it; dip the slices of cheese separately into the batter and lower them gently into the fat. Fry them a golden brown colour, drain them on paper, and serve at once garnished with fried parsley.389 CHEESE COOKERY Cheese Parfait Ingredients— Two whole eggs and one extra Three small tablespoonfuls each yolk. of grated Parmesan and Gruyere One and a half gills of cream. cheese. Salt: cayenne. Method.—Lightly butter some fireproof ramekin cases. Beat the eggs so that the whites and yolks are mixed, but do not froth them unnecessarily. Strain the eggs into the cream, mix these, and add the cheese. Season the mixture, bearing in mind that some cheese is very salt. Fill the ramekin cases with this cheese custard, stand them in a deep baking tin with hot water round them. Bake in a moderately hot oven until set and a delicate brown. Serve at once in the cases. Note.—Half milk and half cream can be used, but the custard is less rich. Cheddar cheese can be substituted for the Gruyere, if necessary. Cheese Pudding Ingredie?! ts— Twelve tablespoonfuls of any grated cheese. Six tablespoonfuls of fresh white crumbs. Two eggs. Enough milk to make it about as thick as batter, probably about a breakfastcupful. Salt: cayenne. Method.—Thickly butter a pie dish, or a fireproof souffle dish. Mix the cheese and crumbs. Beat the eggs until well frothed, mi.x with a teacupful of milk, and stir them into the cheese and crumbs. Add as much more milk as is necessary to make the mixture the right consistency. Season it carefully and pour it into the dish. Bake it in a moderately hot oven until set, well puffed up, and nicely browned. Serve at once in the dish. It falls very rapidly after leaving the oven. Cheese Puffer Ingredients— Two teacupfuls of grated cheese. Slice of bread one and a half Two raw whites of eggs. inches thick. Salt : cayenne. Method.—Cut the crust off the bread, trim it neatly and notch it all round to make it ornamental. Hollow out the centre so that it forms a case. Mix the cheese with the very stiffly whipped whites of eggs, season the mixture and heapTHE COMPLETE COOK 390 it inside the case. Bake it for about ten minutes in a quick oven and serve at once, standing the case on a lace paper. Note.—A fireproof dish might be used, instead of the case of bread, if wished. Cheese Puffs Ingredients— Four rounded tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of grated Cheddar cheese. Four level tablespoonfuls of dried white crumbs. Four raw whites of eggs. Salt : cayenne. Frying fat. Method.—Put the pan of fat on to heat. Put aside two teaspoonfuls of the Parmesan cheese, and mix all the remaining cheese with the crumbs and season them carefully. Whip the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth. Stir these lightly into the cheese and crumbs. When a faint smoke is rising from the fat, put in small balls of the mixture!; they should be about the size of a medium-sized marble. Or, the mixture can be forced out into the fat by means of a forcing bag and pipe. Fry them a light golden brown, drain them on kitchen paper, sprinkle a little Parmesan cheese over each and serve immediately, heaped up on a hot dish on a lace dish paper. Baked Cheese Souffles higredients— One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. Two whole eggs and one extra white. One teacupful of milk. Salt : cayenne : nutmeg. Method.—Lightly brush over with oiled butter the insides of some small paper, or fireproof china ramekin cases. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour smoothly, add the milk and stir all over the fire until the “panada” thickens. Take the pan off the fire, add the cheese, keeping back about two teaspoonfuls of it. When the mixture has cooled slightly, beat in the yolks of egg one at a time, season the mixture carefully and stir in lightly the whites of the eggs beaten to a very stiff froth. Half fill the cases with it, and bake the souffles in a quick oven for about ten to twelve minutes. When well puffed up and browned, sprinkle the surface of each with a little of the cheese put aside, and serve immediately.■ '4iCHEESE COOKERY 391 Note.—If wished, the mixture may be baked in one large greased soufifld tin with a paper band tied round outside to come about two inches above the edge. This band is removed for serving, and a clean table napkin pinned round outside the tin. A pie dish can also be used, though it is not correct. Any grated cheese may take the place of Parmesan, if more convenient. Cheese Straws Ingredients— Four level teaspoonfuls of flour. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Method.—Mix the flour and cheese; add a few grains of cayenne and salt. Rub in the butter lightly. Mix the yolk of egg with the water; add enough of these to mix the flour, etc., to a stiff paste. Knead it till smooth on a floured board, then roll out the paste into a strip about four inches long and barely an eighth of an inch thick. Cut it into narrow strips to represent straws, stamp some of the paste into rings. Bake the rings and straws on a baking tin in a quick oven for about eight to ten minutes, or until they are a delicate biscuit colour. They require to be carefully watched, as they burn easily. When cooked, very carefully place three or four straws through each ring and serve them on a hot dish standing up like bundles of faggots. Note.—Parmesan cheese is best, but other dry kinds can be used. The straws are very brittle, so always prepare more than are actually required. They re-warm well with care. Cheese Biscuits Make the pastry as for Cheese Straws, but stamp it out into rounds the size of a two-shilling piece, then bake as directed above. Cottage Cheese Ingredients— One quart of thick sour milk. One rounded teaspoonful of butter. One tablespoonful of fresh cream. Salt: pepper. Method.—Put the milk into a pan on the side of the stove and scald it until the curd separates from the whey. Place a fine strainingcloth over a basin, so that it hangs down inside it. {Illustrated) One raw yolk of egg. Two teaspoonfuls of cold water. Salt: cayenne.THE COMPLETE COOK 39^ pour in the milk, lift and draw together the edges of the cloth, and drain and squeeze the curd quite dry. This curd is the most nutritious part of the milk and is worth saving. Put it into a small basin with the cream and butter, and mix it to a smooth paste with a spoon ; add seasoning to taste. It may be shaped like butter, or served just broken up lightly with a fork. It ought to be moist enough not to crack when handled; if too soft put it aside for an hour in a cool place. If scalded too long, the curd becomes very hard and brittle. It is best freshly made, and is considered excellent by many spread on fresh ginger-bread. Golden Ingredients— About a breakfastcupful of thin small pieces of any rich cheese. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Two tablespoonfuls of milk, cream, or ale. Buck Two raw eggs. One teaspoonful of Worcester sauce. Salt : pepper. Hot buttered toast. Method.—Heat the butter and milk, or ale, in a stewpan or chafing dish. Add the cheese and Worcester sauce. Stir well over a slow fire until the cheese is nearly melted, then pour in the eggs well beaten together. Whisk or stir this mixture over a slow heat until it is a creamy, soft mass just lightly set. Season it and pour at once on pieces of prepared toast. Garnish them with parsley and serve immediately. Gruyere Ramekins Ingredients— Two rounded tablespoonfuls of Two tablespoonfuls of Gruyere Vienna flour. cheese in dice. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of Two eggs. butter. One teacupful of hot water. Salt: cayenne. Method.—Dry the flour slowly on a tin in the oven, then sieve and measure it. Put the water and butter into a sauce- pan; when they boil turn in all the flour at once. Take the pan off the fire and beat the mixture until smooth. Let it cool slightly, then beat in the eggs thoroughly one by one. Season it somewhat highly. Grease a baking sheet. Put small round balls of the mixture about the size of a large walnut on the tin, not too close together. Use either twoCHEESE COOKERY 393 spoons, or a forcing bag. Brush the tops of the balls over with a little beaten egg. Cut the cheese into neat small dice and press them lightly into the tops of each ramekin. Bake them in a quick oven until a delicate brown and quite light and hollow. Serve at once on a lace paper on a hot dish. Macaroni Cheese Ingredients— Eight coils of the curled, or sticks of the straight macaroni. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Method.—Break the macaroni into short lengths. Put it into plenty of fast boiling salted water and boil it from half to three-quarters of an hour, or until perfectly tender without losing its shape. Drain off the water and cut the macaroni into one-inch lengths. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour smoothl}^, add the milk, and stir this sauce over the fire till it boils. Add the macaroni, rather more than half the cheese, and mustard, and seasoning to taste. Grease a pie dish, or a fireproof china baking dish, and turn the mixture into it. Sprinkle the rest of the cheese over the top and bake it in a quick oven until well browned. Have ready some neat triangles of toast, arrange these round inside the dish on the cheese and serve at once. Note.—The surface may be browned with a salamander, if liked. Should there be any white sauce left over, use it instead of making fresh. For an after-dinner savoury make about half this quantity and serve it heaped up on small croutons of fried bread, or hot buttered toast, either browning the surface as already directed, or sprinkling them over with cheese and browned crumbs in equal proportions. The same mixture may be served also in fireproof china ramekin cases. Savoury Biscuits Ingredients— About eight small water or milk One level tablespoonful of butter, biscuits. Half a teaspoonful of made One teacupful of grated Parmesan mustard, or other cheese. Method.~K\Ia the cheese, mustard, and butter well together. Keep back about two teaspoon fills of cheese. Season them One level tablespoonful of flour. One breakfastcupful of milk. One teaspoonful of made mustard. Salt: cayenne : toast.394 THE COMPLETE COOK well and spread a thick layer of the mixture on the upper side of each biscuit. Lay these on a baking sheet and bake until very hot and slightly coloured. Sprinkle some of the remaining cheese on each and a dust of cayenne or Hungarian pepper. Serve this simple and quickly prepared savoury at once on a lace paper. Welsh Rarebit Ingredients— About a breakfastcupful of Cheddar or any rich cheese, cut in small thin pieces. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Two tablespoonfuls of ale, cream, or milk. One level teaspoonful of made mustard. Salt; cayenne. Hot buttered toast. Method.—Put the butter into the stewpan, or chafing dish, add the ale or milk, and when it is hot put in the cheese, seasoning, and mustard. Stir continuously over a slow fire until the mixture has become thick, smooth, and creamy. Have the toast hot, crisp, neatly trimmed, and ready on a hot dish. At once pour the cheese over the toast, sprinkle a dust of red Hungarian pepper, or a few grains of cayenne, if liked, over each, and serve at once, or it becomes tough. Note.—The quality of the cheese makes all the difference to this dish; it should be mild, soft, and rich, or it is a failure.395 CHAPTER XXI SALADS American Nut Salad Ingredients— Equal quantities of prepared apple, Mayonnaise or cream dressing, shredded celery, and chopped Olives or gherkins, nuts. Seasoning. Lettuce. Method.—Any mixture of nuts can be used, those met with usually are almonds, peeled walnuts, and pine-kernels. The walnuts may be par-boiled and then peeled, if liked, but this slight cooking will soften them somewhat. Equal portions of each variety used are not necessary. Peel the apples with a silver knife ; if large, cut in eight pieces lengthways ; remove the cores and slice thinly. Shred the celery thinly across each stick. Mix all these together with a liberal amount of the dressing used, and arrange them with the prepared lettuce round as a border in the salad bowl. Garnish the dish with stoned olives or strips of gherkins. Carrot Ingredients— One breakfastcupful of cooked carrot, cut in dice. One lettuce. Half a lemon. A small stick of horseradish. Salad Salad oil. Any salad dressing preferred. Salt, pepper, and castor sugar. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Method.—Lay the dice of carrot on a dish. Sprinkle them with the parsley, salt, pepper, castor sugar, and grated lemon rind and a few drops of oil. Mix all lightly together and heap them up in a salad bowl. Wash the lettuce and tear it in small pieces; toss these lightly in any good salad dressing, then arrange them in a border round the carrot. Garnish with a few tufts of grated horseradish.396 THE COMPLETE COOK Cauliflower Salad Ingredients— One large boiled cauliflower. Two tomatoes. Half a gill of Mayonnaise sauce or A little chopped parsley. any other good salad dressing. Salt and pepper. MetJiod.—Divide the cauliflower into large sprigs. Sprinkle them with salt and pepper and heap them up neatly in a salad bowl. Slice the tomatoes and arrange them as a border round ; sprinkle them with a little chopped parsley and pour the dressing over the centre heap of cauliflower. Crab Salad Ingredients— One good-sized crab. A head of celery or one endive. Salad oil, French or malt vinegar. Mustard, anchovy essence, and pepper to taste. One lettuce. One lemon. Two hard-boiled eggs. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Method.—Crack the claws and remove all the meat from them and the body. Keep some of the larger and best pieces for the top of the salad. Shred, chop, and mix the remaining white portions with the darker soft meat, and add enough oil, vinegar, etc., to make it into a soft creamy paste and to flavour it agreeably. Add about one-fourth its quantity of finely shredded celery or endive. Serve it on small salad plates, heaping it neatly on prepared lettuce leaves, and decorate each salad with eggs, slices of lemon, chopped parsley, and pieces of crab. Note.—This salad can be served in the usual bowl, if liked. Variety can be obtained by pounding three tablespoonfuls of a rich creamy cheese grated with the flesh of the crab. German Cucumber Salad Ingredients— One cucumber. Half a teaspoonful of chopped Two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. chives. Two tablespoonfuls of sour cream. Salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Method.—Stir the vinegar and chives into the cream, season the mixture carefully with salt, pepper, and a dust of nutmeg. Feel and slice the cucumber, mix it with the dressing, and arrange it in a shallow dish. Sprinkle over the chopped parsley, and keep on ice or in a cold place until required.SALADS 397 Egg Ingredients— F'om- hard-boiled eggs. One lettuce. Three tablespoonfuls of cream. Three tablespoonfuls of Mayon- naise sauce. Salad One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. One tablespoonful of chopped celery. One teacupful of cooked macaroni. Salt and pepper. Method.—Shell the eggs, slice three of them thickly. Separate the yolk and white of the remaining one, rub the yolk through a wire sieve or strainer, and chop the white finely. Wash and prepare the lettuce and pull it into small pieces. Cut the macaroni into one-inch lengths. Whip the cream until it will just hang on the whisk, mix the Mayonnaise sauce lightly into it, and see that it is nicely seasoned. Put a layer of lettuce into the salad bowl, then one of egg, next macaroni, celery, parsley, and dressing, and so on until all ingredients are used. The last layer should be of lettuce. Decorate the top prettily with the yolk and white of the egg. Note.—If preferred, the cream may be omitted. Fish Salad The ingredients and preparation are the same as for Salmon Mayonnaise. A couple of hard-boiled eggs will be an im- provement, and if intended for a homely meal, a plainer dressing might be used and beetroot substituted for the more elaborate garnish. French Ingredients— Two lettuces. Four tablespoonfuls of salad oil. Two tablespoonfuls of tarragon or French wine vinegar. One teaspoonful of French mustard. Salad Two teaspoonfuls of chopped chives or spring onions. One teaspoonful each of tarragon and chervil. Salt: pepper ; castor sugar. Method.—Wash and prepare the lettuces. Put the mustard, salt, and a good dust of pepper and sugar in a basin. Mix the vinegar smoothly into them and then the oil. Arrange the lettuce, chives, and herbs tastefully in a salad bowl. Sprinkle over the dressing, taking care that every leaf is seasoned. Serve at once. Note.—Chives or onions may be left out, if wished.398 THE COMPLETE COOK Fruit Salad Ingredients— One gill of sherry. One gill of water. One gill of any preserved fruit syrup. A teacupful of lump sugar. The juice of one lemon. About a dozen grapes, black and white. Haifa dozen French plums. Method.—Boil the sugar, water, and syrup together until a thin thread will form between the finger and thumb. When cold, add the wine and lemon juice. Prepare the fruit. Arrange it in a glass bowl, or deep glass dish, pour over the syrup, mix all well together. Sprinkle over the shreds of almonds and stand the bowl on ice and serve it as cold as possible. Note.—Vary the fruits with the seasons. Strawberries, cherries, pieces of peach, nectarine, greengage, and red and white currants are all desirable additions. Shreds of the bright green pistachio nut also have a good effect. This salad is often served in small glass cups. Two bananas. Four halves of tinned apricots. Four tablespoonfuls of pineapple dice. One orange or two tangerines. A dozen glace cherries. A tablespoonful of shredded almonds. Lincoln or Oyster Salad Ingredients— Two dozen large oysters in their One teaspoonful of chopped liquor. parsley. One cucumber. Salt: black pepper. A bunch of watercress. Cream dressing or Mayonnaise sauce. Method.—Examine the oysters and remove any bits of shell; put them into a stewpan with the liquor, and blanch them until the edges curl. Then strain off and save the liquor and beard and quarter the oysters. Peel the cucumber, cut it in four lengthways, and then slice each quarter thinly. Season these pieces highly with salt and pepper and mix them with the oysters. Add enough cream, or Mayonnaise dressing, to well moisten them. Wash, pick over, and cut off all thick stalks from the cress. Line a salad bowl with it, putting the best sprigs round as a border. Turn the oyster mixture neatly into the centre and sprinkle a little parsley over the top. Keep the dish on ice, or in a very cool place until needed.SALADS 399 Lobster Salad or Mayonnaise Ingredients— One large hen lobster. About half a pint of Mayonnaise sauce. One lettuce. One endive. A bunch of watercress. Method.—Remove the lobster coral, wash all white pieces from it, dry it slowly in the oven, pound it, and rub it through a fine wire or coarse hair sieve. Save the red powder for garnishing. Split the lobster and remove all the flesh from the claws and body. Keep the tips of the claw meat and the long feelers aside with the coral. Cut the rest of the lobster into about half-inch dice. Prepare the cress, lettuce, and endive carefully, saving some of the prettiest pieces for the top, pull the remainder into convenient sized pieces. Shell and slice the eggs. Arrange'the. fish, salad, and a little seasoning and sauce in layers in the bowl, put the slices of egg over the top and cover smoothly with the rest of the sauce. Decorate the salad tastefully with the meat from the lobster claws, the capers, tufts of watercress, lettuce, endive, and strips of gherkin and anchovies. Put a few feelers upright in the centre. Place the bowl in a cool place, or on ice until required. Note.—A good brand of tinned lobster may be used, or the large crawfish when in season. It is convenient for balls, etc., to have small decorated portions arranged on plates. One teaspoonful of capers. Two pickled gherkins and anchovy fillets. Seasoning. Two hard-boiled eggs. Nut and Celery Salad Ingredients— One teacupful of peeled walnuts. One gill of Mayonnaise sauce. A head of celery. One small lettuce. One tablespoonful of cream. Salt and pepper. Method.—Carefully wash the celery and cut it into thin shreds, put it into cold salted water and let it stand for five minutes, then dry it on a clean cloth. Chop the nuts coarsely and mix them with the celery. Add the cream. Mayonnaise, and seasoning to taste. Heap the mixture up neatly in a shallow salad bowl, arrange a border of lettuce leaves round, and add a dust of red Hungarian pepper over the top. Note.—If preferred, the cream may be omitted. Other kinds of nuts may be used in the place of walnuts.THE COMPLETE COOK 400 Potato Salad Ingredients— One pound of firm, cold, cooked potatoes. One small lettuce. A plain dressing of oil and vinegar. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. or Mayonnaise sauce. Method.—Cut the potatoes into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Wash and separate the lettuce leaves. Stir half the parsley into the dressing. Pile the potatoes neatly up in a salad bowl, pour over the dressing and arrange the lettuce in a border round. Sprinkle the rest of the parsley over. Note.—If preferred, chopped tarragon may be used instead of the parsley. Shredded celery combines well with the potato. A few drops of onion juice are also thought an improve- ment by some. Potato and Tomato Salad {Illustrated') Ingredmits— One pound of cold, firm, boiled Two teaspoonfuls of chopped One lettuce. Method.—Cut one tomato across in four, the rest in thick slices. Peel and slice the cucumber thinly. Wash the lettuce very thoroughly but gently, so as not to bruise the delicate leaves. Shake it lightly in a clean cloth to dry it. Pull out the centre tuft, then tear, not cut, the leaves in convenient sized pieces. Cut the potatoes in neat round slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Arrange potato, lettuce, cucumber, and slices of tomato in the salad bowl, put the quartered tomato and centre of the lettuce in the middle, and a few good leaves of lettuce as a border. Pour over the dressing, sprinkle with the chopped parsley, and keep in a cool place till needed. Note.—Any other dressing can be used. If liked, the bowl may be rubbed over inside with a cut clove of garlic if a sug- gestion of onion flavouring is desired. potatoes. Two or three ripe tomatoes. About two inches of cucumber. parsley. Three - quarters of a teacup of Mayonnaise dressing. Russian Salad (Ilmstrated) Ingredients— About a pint of aspic jelly. One gill of Mayonnaise sauce. About a pint of cold, cooked, mixed A few capers. A few strips of gherkin and chilli. One hard-boiled egg. Three or four anchovies. vegetables cut in pretty shapes.POTATO AND TOMATO SALAD RUSSIAN SALAD401 SALADS Method.—The vegetables should consist of carefully boiled peas, carrots, turnips, French beans, and sprigs of cauliflower. Rinse out a border mould with cold water. Slightly warm the jelly, and coat the bottom of the mould about half an inch deep with it. Let this set, then decorate the top of the mould with some pretty design made out of strips of anchovy, eggs, chilli, and gherkin. Pour in more aspic jelly and let it set. Put in the vegetables, capers, etc., in layers with the jelly, arranging them as prettily as possible until the mould is full, the last layer being of jelly. Leave it until set. Dip the entire mould into warm water and slip the jelly on to a glass dish. Have ready some nice mixed salad and mix with it any cooked vegetables there may be over. Arrange this in the centre of the mould, coat with Mayonnaise and garnish with truffle and some chopped jelly round. Salmon Mayonnaise or Salad Ingredients— About three-quarters of a pound of cold cooked salmon. Half a pint of Mayonnaise sauce. Half a small cucumber. One lettuce. One endive. One teaspoonful of capers. Two pickled gherkins and red chillies. Two filleted anchovies. Method.—Remove all bone and skin from the fish and break it into large flakes. Put it in layers in the dish with the pre- pared lettuce, endive, a little seasoning, and sauce. Pour the rest of the sauce over the top and put round a narrow border of small lettuce leaves and a thick ring of thin slices of cucumber overlapping each other. Garnish the salad with capers and strips of the gherkins, anchovies, and chillies, and keep in a cold place until needed. Winter Salad Ingredients— A gill each of cold cooked carrot. One lettuce. turnip, beetroot, potato, and One teaspoonful of chopped sprigs of cauliflower. parsley. Three hard-boiled eggs. A gill of Mayonnaise or any other A bunch of watercress. salad dressing. Method.—Break the cauliflower into neat sprigs and cut the other vegetables into dice. Carefully wash the lettuce and watercress and remove all stalks from the latter. Shell the eggs and cut each in quarters lengthways. Mix together the vegetables and dressing, arrange these in a heap in the centre of a salad bowl and place a neat border of lettuce leaves round. 26THE COMPLETE COOK 402 Garnish with tufts of watercress, and lay the quarters of eggs round the centre pile, sprinkling them with chopped parsley. Claret Dressing for Lettuce Salad Ingredients— One teaspoonful of French Four tablespoonfuls of salad oil. mustard. One tablespoonful of claret. Half a teaspoonful of salt. Pepper to taste. Method.—Mix all these carefully together. Have a head of lettuce washed and drained dry. Tear it lightly into bits, pour the dressing over it, and toss gently about to well coat the leaves. Whipped Cream Dressing Ingredients— One teacupful of cream. One and a half tablespoonfuls of One and a half tablespoonfuls of grated horseradish. lemon juice. Salt and cayenne. Method.—Whip the cream until it will nearly, but not quite, cling to the whisk. Add to it gradually the strained lemon juice and the grated horseradish, and mix and season it care- fully. When the mixing is finished, it should be just stiff enough to hang to the whisk. Keep the dressing on ice, if possible, until required. French Salad Ingredients— Three tablespoonfuls of the best salad oil. One tablespoonful of French white wine, or tarragon vinegar. One teaspoonful of French mustard. Dressing Half a teaspoonful each of castor sugar and salt. A saltspoonful of black pepper. One large teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Method.—Put the mustard, salt, sugar, and pepper into a basin. Mix these well with a wooden spoon and add the vinegar; lastly, the oil and parsley. Stir together thoroughly and sprinkle it over the prepared salad. Note.—If it is impossible to obtain the flavoured mustard or vinegar, use the ordinary kinds. The addition of about a salt- spoonful of onion juice is liked by many, and lemon juice instead of vinegar.403 SAXADS A Good Salad-Dressing Ingredients— Two hard-boiled yolks of eggs. Eight tablespoonfuls of salad oil. Three tablespoonfuls of mixed vinegars. Two teaspoonfuls of French mustard. Two teaspoonfuls of castor sugar. Two tablespoonfuls of cream. One tablespoonful of claret. Seasoning. Method.—Mix together the salt, pepper, mustard, and sugar. Rub the yolks of egg through a sieve and add the mustard, etc., gradually and smoothly to them. Next add the oil and vinegars, stirring the mixture well all the time. Lastly, add the cream and claret. Put all into a bottle and shake it well. Cork it tightly and keep it in a cool, dry place.CHAPTER XXII 404 SANDWICHES Beef and Potato Sandwiches Ingredimts— Thin slices of bread and butter. Salt, pepper, and mustard. Thin slices of cooked beef. A little milk. Two or three cooked potatoes. Method.—Mash the potatoes finely, add to them salt, pepper, and about a teaspoonful of milk. Spread a layer of potato on a slice of bread and butter; on this put a layer of beef cut into fine shreds; sprinkle with salt and pepper. Spread a little mustard on a second slice of bread and butter, lay this on the meat and cut it into neat small shapes, trimming off all crusts. Note.—Other kinds of cold meat, fish, poultry, or game may be used in the place of beef. These sandwiches are particularly suited for school children’s lunch baskets, or for picnics, etc. Cheese and Nut Sandwiches Ingredients— Equal parts of grated cheese and Salt and pepper. pounded walnuts or almonds. Slices of brown or white bread and Whipped cream. butter. Method.—Mix the cheese and nuts together. Make them into a stiff paste with whipped cream. Season well with salt and pepper, and spread it between thin slices of brown or white bread. Butter can be spread on the slices of bread, if liked, but many prefer to omit it with the cream. Mayon- naise dressing can be used instead of cream.405 SANDAVICHES Dresden Sandwiches Ingredients— Two hard-boiled eggs. Two tablespoonfuls of shrimp Two level tablespoonfuls of butter. paste. Two tablespoonfuls of cream. Cayenne and salt. Thin slices of bread. Method.-~2\x\. the yolks in a basin with the butter and shrimp paste. Mix well together with a wooden spoon, season the mixture carefully and rub it through a fine sieve. Whip the cream until it will barely hang on the whisk, add it gradually to the egg mixture, stirring it lightly in. Spread it on the unbuttered bread and cut it into neat sandwiches. Note.—Other fish pastes may be used. Egg Sandwiches Ingredients— The yolks of four hard - boiled A little lemon juice, eggs. Salt and pepper. A level tablespoonful of butter. Bread and butter. Two teaspoonfuls of anchovy essence. Method.—Work all the ingredients, except the last, to a smooth paste with a wooden spoon. If possible, rub the mixture through a sieve. Season it carefully to taste. Spread it on the bread and butter and cut it into neat sandwiches. Note.—Any kind of fish paste can be used. Ham Sandwiches Ingredients— Thin slices of bread. One tablespoonful of melted Four tablespoonfuls of chopped butter. ham. A saltspoonful of dry mustard. Four hard-boiled eggs. Pepper and salt. Method.—Put the ham, yolks of eggs, mustard, and butter into a mortar, pound these into a smooth paste and season. Stamp the bread into neat rounds and spread each with some of the mixture. Press two rounds together. Serve on a lace paper. Note.—Brown bread may be used in the place of white, and, if liked, a teaspoonful of parsley may be added to the mixture.THE COMPLETE COOK 4o6 Lettuce and Sardine Sandwiches Ingredients— Thin slices of brown bread and One small lettuce. butter. One teaspoonful of vinegar. Four sardines. Salt and pepper. Method.—Skin and bone the sardines, mash them with a fork, season them with the vinegar and a dust of salt and pepper and, if liked, a little fresh oil or some from the tin. Wash, dry, and tear the lettuce into small shreds. Spread a slice of bread and butter with the sardine paste, on this put a layer of shreds of lettuce, sprinkle over a little salt, and cover with a second piece of bread and butter. Trim off the crusts and cut into neat sandwiches. Mushroom Sandwiches Ingredients— Thin slices of whole meal bread Mushrooms. and butter. Salt: pepper. Method.—These form a popular and nutritious sandwich, excellent for sportsmen, etc. Peel and stalk the mushrooms. Stew them until perfectly tender in a little well-flavoured stock, or, if liked, fry them in butter. In either case drain off all moisture or grease thoroughly. It is best done by laying them on a piece of clean butter muslin. Place the mushrooms between bread and butter, having previously well seasoned them. Trim, the edges neatly, if the bread was cut square; but rounds of bread are less wasteful for these sandwiches. Salmon and Brown Bread Sandwiches Ingredients— Thin slices of brown bread. One tablespoonful of Mayonnaise A teacupful of flakes of cold boiled sauce. salmon. Salt and cayenne. Cucumber. Method.—Cut thin slices of brown bread, but do not butter them. Break into flakes enough cold boiled salmon to fill a teacup, mix with it the Mayonnaise sauce. Season with salt and cayenne to taste. Spread this on the bread, cover with thin slices of cucumber, then with another round of bread, press lightly together and arrange them overlapping in a circle with a few sprigs of parsley. Note.—Any cold boiled fish can be used. Mackerel is an excellent substitute for salmon.407 SANDWICHES Sandwiches Ingredien is— Four hard-boiled eggs. Four tablespoonfuls of any white sauce. Four tablespoonfuls of chopped chicken. la Royale Two tablespoonfuls of chopped ham. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Salt and pepper. Thin slices of bread and butter. Method.—Mix the yolks of the eggs and the sauce smoothly together with a wooden spoon. Stir into them the chicken, ham, parsley, and seasoning. Mix well together. Stamp the bread and butter into small rounds, spread with the mixture and cut into dainty sandwiches. Arrange on a fancy doyley and garnish with fresh parsley. Note.—Veal and ham or tongue, or chopped game all make good fillings. Savoury Cream Sandwiches Ingrediejtts— Three tablespoonfuls of cream. One teaspoonful of finely chopped Three teaspoonfuls of any kind of parsley, fish paste. Salt and pepper. Thin slices of brown bread. Method.—Whip the cream until it will just hang on the whisk. Then stir the parsley and fish paste lightly into it. Season it to taste. Spread a slice of bread with the mixture; make into sandwiches and cut into pretty fancy shapes. Sorrento Sandwiches Ingredients— The livers from a couple of fowls. Slices of white or whole meal An equal quantity of olives. bread and butter. About two teaspoonfuls of Mayonnaise sauce. Method.—Boil the livers slowly for about twenty minutes in a little stock or water. Pound them and rub them through a wire sieve. To every teaspoonful of this liver paste add the same of finely chopped olives which have been previously wiped free from oil and stoned. Add enough Mayonnaise sauce to make a soft paste, season it carefully, and use for sandwiches. Note.—The livers from geese, etc., can be used equally well, and chopped cooked mushrooms in place of olives.THE COMPLETE COOK 4o8 Watercress Sandwiches Ingredmits— Three rounded tablespoonfuls of Slices of brown or white bread. butter. Salt and pepper. Two bunches of watercress. Method.—Wash and examine the cress very carefully, and stalk and dry it lightly in a clean cloth. Chop the leaves very finely. Beat the butter to a cream, stir into it the cress and seasoning, spread a thick layer of the mixture on a slice of bread, cover with another and cut into neat shapes.CHAPTER XXIII 409 BREAKFAST DISHES AND THE CHAFING DISH The Successful Management of Breakfasts The first meal in the day receives in too many households the least care as regards its menu and service; this despite the warning of medical men that after the night’s fast the body requires good nourishing food to render it less susceptible to the harmful assaults of its numerous foes. The man who partakes of a good wholesome breakfast in a cosy bright room, starts the day well, sallies forth on good terms with himself and the world, and has a better chance of doing a successful day’s work. Unless the servants are quite reliable the mistress should rise sufficiently early to supervise the arrangement of room and table. Let the room be thoroughly aired, no matter how bad the weather, to remove the fumes of yesterday’s food ; the fire lit early enough to be blazing, not sulkily smoking and smoulder- ing ; the lights turned on if the day be dull and foggy, and the table as dainty as a spotless cloth, shining silver and crockery, orderly arrangement, and fresh flowers can make it. Vary the menu as much as possible; see the food is really hot, the toast thin and crisp, and the tea and coffee each perfect of its kind; and last, and not least, insist on punctual serving, so that there is time for everybody to comfortably eat and appreciate the good things provided, and no need for that rush for train or omnibus which wrecks the health of many a business man and woman. Many suitable breakfast dishes will be found in the sections of fish, meat, vegetables, eggs, and omelets. Breakfast Bacon Cut the bacon on the previous day, this lessens work in the early morning. “Thick streaky” is most popular for410 THE COMPLETE COOK frying, or “thin streaky” if narrow rashers are wanted. If sufficient is needed for several persons, it saves time and renders it more easily sliced if a large piece of rind and “rust,” as the brown under part is often called, is cut off all at once, and not each rasher trimmed separately. Cut the bacon thinly and evenly and remove all pieces of gristle and bone. To Fry.—Put the rashers in a dry, heated frying pan over the fire, which must not be so fierce that the fat burns before the lean is tender. Keep the slices well turned during the cooking. When done it should be slightly crisped, but not chippy, and lightly tinged with brown. Some prefer it only cooked until the fat is transparent, that is a matter of taste. Serve the bacon on a hot dish with a little of the dripping round and some neatly trimmed pieces of bread fried a golden brown in the remaining fat. Save all bacon fat for cooking purposes. To Toast.—This is really a far superior method to frying bacon. Prepare it in the same way, and either push the slices on to a toasting fork, or what is better, hang them on the hooks of a Dutch oven. In both cases the slices need to be turned. The lean part of the slice should be placed downwards in order that the melting fat above may baste it and keep it from drying. The same effect is gained if the bacon is cooked under a gas griller instead of before the fire. Rolled Bacon.—This makes a pretty garnish to a dish of veal, rabbit, or chicken. Cut the rashers very thinly and roll them up neatly; run a skewer through each, pushing them closely against each other to keep them curled. Then either toast the bacon or lay the skewer on a tin in the oven and bake the rolls. Remove the skewer when the cooking is completed. A small bunch of herbs. Method.—Well wash the pig’s head in tepid salted water, remove the brains, any veins, and broken pieces of bone. Put the head into the Pickle for Meat given opposite, for four days. Then take it out of the brine, rinse it thoroughly and put it Brawn Ingredients— Half a pig’s head (pickled). About two quarts of cold water. One small onion. Six allspice. Twenty white peppercorns. One small blade of mace. About two inches of carrot. Seasoning.BREAKFAST DISHES 411 into a saucepan with enough cold water to cover it. Bring it to boiling point and skim it well. Let the head simmer gently for about two hours or until the meat will easily leave the bones. Lift it out of the pan, save the liquor, and take all the meat off the bones. Remove any coarse or skinny pieces and skin the tongue and ear. Cut these and all the remaining meat into small dice. Put the bones and a little over a quart of liquor into the saucepan, tie the herbs and spice up in a piece of muslin and add them, also the peeled onion cut in quarters and the piece of scraped carrot. Let all these boil for about three-quarters of an hour, or until only a pint of stock is left. Keep the liquor well skimmed during the boiling, and if it seems to get at all dark in colour remove the vegetables and bag of spice and herbs, as the liquid which is to form the jelly is wanted to be clear and light. When reduced sufficiently, strain off this gelatinous stock into a clean saucepan, put in the dice of meat and bring all once more to boiling point, and taste it and .see if any more seasoning is needed. Rinse out a suitably shaped mould or basin with cold water, put in spoonfuls of the meat, pressing it down lightly but not so as to pack it too solidly unless preferred, when it can be pressed in very firmly. Strain the liquor through a fine strainer and pour in as much of it as the mould will hold. Leave until cold. Wipe off any grease from the surface, dip the mould into warm water, shake it out gently, and serve. Note,—A few shreds of shelled pistachio nuts mixed with the meat improve the appearance. If much lean is liked a little extra lean pickled pork may be added when the head is boiled. This quantity makes a good-sized mould of brawn. Pickle for Pig’s Head and Meat Ingredients— Two quarts of water. Half an ounce of saltpetre. Half a pound of salt. Four ounces of brown sugar. Method.—Place all these ingredients in a saucepan. Boil them for ten minutes and remove all scum carefully. Strain the brine into a basin and leave it until cold, it is then ready to receive the meat. This can be used several times if strained, reboiled after each time it is used, and kept corked down. After pickling a pig’s head, however, it is never fit to use for other meat, and fresh must be made.THE COMPLETE COOK 412 Calf’s Brains Toast Ingredients— One set of cooked calfs brains. Two tablespoonfuls of milk. Buttered toast. Two teaspoonfuls of butter. Two raw yolks of eggs. Salt and pepper. Method.—Skin and chop the brains rather coarsely. Have ready a neatly trimmed and well buttered piece of toast. Beat up the yolks with the milk. Stir in the chopped brains and seasoning. Melt and heat the butter till it just begins to bubble, pour in the above mixture, stir it briskly over a slow fire till it becomes like a soft custard. Season it and heap it up on the toast. Serve it at once. Note.—On no account coc eggs will become curdled a digestibility. Devilled Ingredients— Slices of raw ham. One tablespoonful of butter. Two teaspoonfuls of French mustard. One teaspoonful of English made mustard. ik the mixture quickly, or the ,nd tough and will lose their Ham, etc. Half a teaspoonful of lemon juice. One teaspoonful of chutney. Cayenne : salt. Browned crumbs. Watercress. Method.-—Work the mustards smoothly into the butter on a plate. Chop and add the chutney, strained lemon juice, and a dust of salt and cayenne. Have the ham cut in slices barely a quarter of an inch thick, gash each slice once or twice to prevent it curling up. Spread one side of the ham thickly with this “ devil ” paste and sprinkle over it a layer of the crumbs. Lay the slices on a greased baking tin in a quick oven, and bake them sharply for about eight to ten minutes, or lay them, crumbed side uppermost, on a flat gridiron over a sharp clear fire and grill them. Put the slices of ham on a hot dish on a lace paper, garnishing them with tufts of prepared watercress, seasoned with salt and lemon juice. Serve immediately. Note.—This devil paste may be spread in the same way on game, poultry, fish, bones, kidneys, mirshrooms, etc. Stewed Kidneys higredients— Four sheep’s kidneys. Two slices of streaky bacon. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped onion. Two or three mushrooms. Two teaspoonfuls of flour. One tablespoonful of butter. Salt: pepper. Half a pint of stock.413 BREAKFAST DISHES Method.—Cut each kidney in half lengthways. Remove the skin and core from each. Cut the bacon into small squares. Stalk, peel, and cut the mushrooms in the same fashion. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the bacon, kidneys, onion, and mushrooms. Fry these a good brown, lift them on to a dish, then fry the flour brown also. Add the stock and stir until the sauce boils and thickens. Season carefully, adding, if liked, a little grated orange rind. Put in the kidneys, bacon, etc., and let them stew very gently for about an hour. Serve on a hot dish, garnish them with neat sippets of toast or fried bread. Note.—Ox kidney may be served in the same way, but is less popular and needs longer stewing. Kidney Ingredients— Three sheep’s kidneys. One small shallot or onion. One tablespoonful of butter. One teaspoonful of flour. Half a gill of stock. One small egg. Toast One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Two teaspoonfuls of ketchup. Salt and pepper. Hot buttered toast. Method.—Skin, core, and quarter each kidney. Melt the butter in a small pan, put in the parsley and shallot and then the kidney, cook these slowly in the butter until the kidney is tender. Mix the flour smoothly with the stock, add the ketchup, and add these to the kidneys ; stir over the fire until the mixture reaches boiling point, then let it cool slightly. Beat up the egg, add it to the kidneys, and stir all over the fire for a few minutes to cook the egg. Season the mixture carefully and serve on neat squares of hot buttered toast. Marrow on Toast Ingredients— A small fresh beef marrow bone. Salt and pepper. .A neat round of hot toast. Method.—Remove the marrow from the bone in one piece, if possible. Put it in a small pan with enough cold water to cover it and let it boil for five minutes. Take out the marrow and let it get cold. Dust the toast with a little salt and pepper, spread on the marrow, put it in the oven until it is hot through, then serve it immediately. Unless it is really hot it is not agreeable.THE COMPLETE COOK 414 Oatmeal Porridge Ingredients— One teacupful of coarse Scotch Two breakfastcupfuls of boiling oatmeal. water. A saltspoonful of salt. Method.—Put the water and salt on to boil. When boiling point is reached dredge in the oatmeal with the left hand, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon or Scotch porridge stick; the latter resembles a thin short rolling-pin. Allow the porridge to simmer very slowly for thirty to forty minutes, stirring it fre- quently. After the preliminary boiling, it may be turned into a double milk boiler; this saves stirring, and it is impossible for it to burn, but it will require at least an hour longer cooking. When sufficiently cooked the oatmeal should be soft and swollen, the whole being a thick mass which will just pour smoothly into the heated pretty porridge platters. It is too thick if in rough rocky heaps. Serve it very hot with cream or milk, salt or the best Demerara sugar, according to taste. Note.—Some meals are more floury than others and the water is absorbed too quickly; in this case add more boiling water; the same if it seems too thick at the last. The porridge may be sent to table in a chafing dish or small porcelain sauce- pan to fit over a spirit lamp; a little milk added and heated, and it is ready to ladle out for immediate consumption. Dry Toast Bread is toasted, that is, dried and browned before the fire, to extract the moisture and make it more palatable and digestible; unfortunately these results are not always obtained. Bread a day old is best; cut it into uniformly thin slices, not quite a quarter of an inch thick. The fire should be clear, red, not blazing, so that the bread is not cooked slowly. A toasting fork may be used, or the slices fastened into a double griller, if pre- ferred. Hold the toast at a little distance from the fire at first, to draw out the moisture, then hold it nearer to the coals and colour it a delicate golden brown. Trim off the crusts and place the slices upright in the toast rack; if laid flat the steam con- denses in the bread and makes it sodden. If toast is liked soft inside, cut the slices a little thicker and toast them more quickly. Buttered Toast Have the bread cut nearly half an inch thick and toast it rather more rapidly than for dry toast. Trim off the crustsBREAKFAST DISHES 415 before buttering it so as to avoid waste, spread the slices quickly with plenty of butter, or just oil the butter in a soup plate over some hot water, and spread or brush it on with a clean pastry brush. Do not put lumps of butter on the toast and set it in the oven to melt. Cut the slices in neat squares, pile these up in a covered hot water dish, or stand the dish over a small basin of hot water and serve at once. Note.—Brown bread toast is often liked and is prepared in the same way. The Chafing Dish Nowadays this handy appliance has become very popular and occupies a prominent position among the apparatus needed for the preparation of food. It is simply invaluable in the sickroom, for the solitary male and female bachelors residing in lonely flats, or for the much- tried wives of medical men and clergy whose unpunctuality is proverbial. Where late theatre suppers are required it is a real boon to the servants, as when once the dainty paraphernalia and tray of necessary ingredients is placed ready, the mistress of the house will quite enjoy concocting some savoury little dish before the admiring and hungry lookers-on. The apparatus consists of— 1. The stand to hold the lamp. 2. The spirit lamp, capable of easy regulation. 3. The hot water pan, fitted with non-heating side handles ; this pan rests on the rim of the stand. 4. The actual cooking pan or “ blazer ” as it is often called. If possible, procure besides these (i) a metal tray, as ornamental as desired, to prevent any danger of setting the tablecloth on fire. (2) A small spirit flagon, fitted with a cap on the spout, to replenish the lamp. (3) Plated or polished horn, or bone fork, spoon, and perforated ladle. For slow cooking, such as is needed for keeping foods hot, preparations of scrambled eggs or creamy rich sauces, or any foods liable to burn easily, place the cooking pan over the hot water pan. For quick cooking, such as frying, omelets, and so on, remove the water pan altogether and let the cooking pan come in direct contact with the flame of the lamp. Burn good methylated spirit in the lamp; that of a poor quality gives but a feeble heat. Avoid wasting it, by im- mediately covering the spirit lamp when it is extinguished and keeping the cap on the flagon. Also exercise care in regulatingTHE COMPLETE COOK 4i6 the flame during the cooking. To save time have all the ingredients to be used correctly measured out on a side table, and everything prepared as far as possible, that is to say, cheese grated; parsley, meat, fish, etc., chopped; mushrooms peeled, and so on. Recipes suitable for this particular method of cookery are those for omelets, eggs, cheese, kidneys, oysters, mushrooms, etc., and all preparations which can be easily re-heated in creamy sauces. Recipes for these will be found under their respective headings.CHAPTER XXIV EGGS AND OMELETS Eggs in Cookery— 1. Give increased nutriment, richness of colour, and flavour to foods. 2. Lighten mixtures by their power of entangling and re- taining air, owing to their glutinous nature. 3. Bind mixtures, giving increased tenacity to dough. 4. Soups and jellies, etc., are clarified with the whites, the albumen of which, when whisked with hot liquids, coagulates into a porous mass, which acts as a filter, entangling in its meshes any solids and impurities in the liquid, which, unless removed, would cloud it. Eggs are most digestible when consumed raw, or at most very lightly cooked. Albumen, of which eggs are mainly composed, becomes tough and leathery with fast, or long cooking, instead of being of a soft jelly-like consistency. If needed for poaching or whisking, eggs are best if they have been laid about thirty-six hours; before then the whites are not thick enough, being almost milky, with a curdlike appearance when cooked, but they are then in perfection for boiling. Those with dark shells are thought to possess larger and richer yolks. To Preserve Eggs for the Winter 1. Choose sound, perfectly new-laid eggs; handle them carefully, as any rough motion may cause the vTite and yolk to become mixed, by rupturing the membrane which separates them, and then the egg soon spoils. 2. Place them pointed end downwards in a large crock in a solution of water-glass, that is, silicate of soda. The tins are procurable with full directions from any stores or chemists. 274i8 THE COMPLETE COOK This modern method is thought by experts to be superior to any other, but— 3. Packing them pointed end downwards in layers with dry coarse salt answers very fairly well. Both processes are more effective than the older ones of storing eggs in lime water, or smearing the shells with fat of some kind. Boiled Eggs {the best way) Put the eggs in a saucepan, cover with boiling water, and let them stand about ten minutes where the water will keep hot (180°), but not boiling. The white should be of a soft jelly-like consistency, and the yolk soft but not liquid. Experience will show the exact time to keep the eggs in the water to suit individual tastes. They should be served immediately, as they harden by being kept in the hot shell. An egg to be cooked soft should never be cooked in boiling water^ as the white hardens unevenly before the heat reaches the yolk. Hard-Boiled Eggs Cook eggs for twenty minutes in water just below the boiling point, for use in any recipe which specifies hard-boiled eggs. The yolk of an egg cooked ten minutes is tough and indigestible; twenty minutes will make the yolk dry and mealy; then it may be more easily rubbed smooth for salads, or other mixtures, and it can be more quickly penetrated by the gastric fluid. Curried Eggs {Illustrated) Ingredients— Four hard-boiled eggs. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Two rounded teaspoonfuls of flour. One level teaspoonful of curry powder. One teaspoonful of chutney. Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the onion, curry powder, and flour, and fry them slowly for about five minutes. Add the stock and stir the sauce till it boils. Put in the apple, chopped chutney, and season the mixture. Let it simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Boil the eggs for twenty minutes, shell them at once and cut each egg in half, the round way of the egg, and each half across in four. Make a circle on Two teaspoonfulsof chopped onion. One tablespoonful of grated apple. One teacupful of stock or milk. Four tablespoonfuls of boiled curry rice. Salt.CURRIED EGGS SAVOURY EGGSEGGS AND OMELETS 419 a hot dish of some of these egg sippets. Chop the remainder coarsely, stir them into the curry sauce, and pour this into the circle of eggs. Arrange round this a border of hot boiled rice and it is ready to serve. Note.—Many prefer the eggs to be merely cut round in halves, served in the sauce, and the rice handed separately. If apple cannot be procured, substitute a small piece of chopped rhubarb, or two or three green gooseberries. Devilled Eggs with Anchovy Toast Ingredients— Four hard-boiled eggs. A heaped tablespoonfiil of butter. Two tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce. One tablespoonful of Worcester sauce. One tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Method.—Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the mustard, tomato and Worcester sauces, ketchup and chutney. Heat these well ; shell and thickly slice the eggs. Heat them thoroughly in the prepared mixture. Trim the toast neatly, butter it, spread each piece thinly with anchovy paste. Heat these slices in the oven for a minute or two, then arrange the eggs on them and pour the sauce over. Serve immediately. Note.—Any fish paste may be used. Also mushrooms previously peeled and fried are excellent instead of eggs. One teaspoonful of chopped chutney. Half a level teaspoonful of dry mustard. Slices of buttered toast. Anchovy paste. Eggs en Coquilles higredients— One teacupful of breadcrumbs. One teacupful of finely chopped cooked ham, tongue, or lean bacon. Pepper: salt. One level teaspoonful of made mustard. One tablespoonful of butter. Two or three tablespoonfuls of hot milk or stock. Six or seven new-laid eggs. Method.—Mix the crumbs and ham with a dust of salt and pepper, put about four tablespoonfuls of it aside. Mix the rest with the mustard, one tablespoonful of butter oiled, and enough hot milk to make a smooth paste. Butter some scollop shells, spread them thickly inside with the prepared paste, hollowing it out in the centre. Break an egg carefully Into each shell, sprinkle the top of the egg with the dry mixture, putting a fewTHE COMPLETE COOK 420 bits of butter on the top. Bake in a quick oven for about four or five minutes, or till the egg is set, according to individual taste. Serve at once. Note.—Chopped game, or chicken, or cheese may be used instead of ham. Guinea-fowls’ eggs thus cooked make a delicious dish, and for those who like large and strong flavoured eggs, ducks’ or turkeys’ are excellent. An “ au gratin ” dish can replace the shells; the dish is then called “ Eggs au Gratin.” Egg Ingredien ts— Three hard-boiled eggs. One raw egg. One level tablespoonful of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. One gill of milk. Cutlets A level teaspoonful of curry powder. Half a teaspoonful of lemon juice. .Salt and pepper. Bread. Frying fat. Method.—Melt the butter in a small pan, add the flour and curry powder, and cook them over the fire for a few minutes without browning. Add the milk and stir over the fire until the mixture leaves the sides of the pan without sticking. Chop and add the hard-boiled eggs, salt, pepper, and lemon juice to taste. Turn the mixture on to a plate, spread it level and let it cool. Shape it into neat small cutlets, brush them over with beaten egg and coat them with crumbs. Fry them a golden brown in smoking hot fat, drain them on paper, and serve them on a lace paper garnished with fried parsley and slices of lemon. Egg Fritters Ingredients— Three hard-boiled eggs. Breadcrumbs. Two sardines. A little vinegar. Salt and pepper. Frying fat. One raw egg. Method.—the eggs for twenty minutes, then lay them in cold water and cut them in halves lengthways. Take out the yolks without breaking the whites. Skin and bone the sardines, mash them with a fork, then add the yolks, seasoning, and a little vinegar. Rub the mixture through a wire sieve, refill the cases of white, smoothing them evenly over. Brush each piece with beaten egg and cover it with crumbs. Fry them a golden brown in smoking hot fat and drain them on paper. Serve them on a hot dish garnished with slices of lemon and fried parsley. Note.—Sardine, or any other fish paste, may be used if liked.EGGS AND OMELETS 421 Fricasseed Eggs Ingredients— Four or more hard-boiled eggs. A few slices of bacon. One pint of good white or brown One teaspoonful of chopped sauce. parsley. Method.—Shell and halve the eggs, put them in the sauce, taking care not to break the yolks. Heat them gently through. Cut the bacon into very thin slices, roll them up neatly and thread them close together on a skewer, cooking them either in the oven or in front of the fire. Arrange the eggs on a hot dish, pour the sauce over. Sprinkle over the parsley and garnish the dish with the rolls of bacon and sippets of toast. Poached Eggs Ingredients— One new-laid egg for each person. Water. A slice of hot buttered toast for Salt. each egg. Method.—Have ready some neat rounds of hot buttered toast. Fill a shallow pan half full of boiling water and add about a teaspoonful of salt. Let the water simmer, break each egg carefully into a cup, then slip it gently into the slightly bubbling water. Pour a little water over it now and then with a spoon, and when a film has formed on the yolk and the white is slightly set, lift it out carefully with a fish slice, trim the edges neatly, and place it on a round of the toast; dust it with salt and pepper and serve immediately. Note.—Eggs for poaching are best a day old. Ramekins of Eggs Ingredients— Two eggs. Two teaspoonfuls of butter. One teaspoonful of milk. Salt and pepper. One tablespoonful of chopped ham. A few browned breadcrumbs. Method.—Have ready some china or paper ramekin cases. Beat the eggs to a light froth, add the milk and a little season- ing. Heat the butter in a small pan; when it bubbles pour in the egg mixture and stir it over a low fire until it is a soft and creamy mass. Half fill each case with the mixture, then put in about a teaspoonful of the ham, and on this a little more egg, heaping it up slightly. Sprinkle a few browned crumbs422 THE COMPLETE COOK on the top and serve immediately in the cases on a lace paper. Note.—Cooked tongue, poultry, game, or fish may be used instead of ham. Savoury Eggs Ingredients— Six hard-boiled eggs. One level tablespoonful of butter. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of chopped cooked chicken. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. One teaspoonful of chopped chutney. {Illustrated ) Half a level teaspoonful of curry paste. One tablespoonful of cream. Salt. Three tablespoonfuls of boiled curry rice. Two slices of bread an inch thick. Method.—Boil the eggs for twenty minutes. Shell them at once and cut each egg in half roundways. Take out the yolks without breaking the cups of the whites. Keep the latter hot. Rub the yolks, butter, and curry paste through a wire sieve, or gravy strainer. Mix in the chicken, chutney, parsley, cream, and seasoning. Heat the mixture gently and heap it up quickly in the cups of the white. Have the bread trimmed to fit the dish, one round being much smaller than the other. Put the larger one in the dish, the smaller one on the top of it. Arrange a ring of eggs on the lower ring and the remainder on the upper one, so as to form a pyramid of eggs. Shake round a border of hot boiled rice, prepared as for a curry, and serve. Note.—Any meat, game, or fish can be used instead of chicken. These are also excellent cold. Scotch Eggs Ingredien ts— Four hard-boiled eggs. One raw egg. Four raw pork sausages. Frying fat. Breadcrumbs. Salt and pepper. Method.—Boil the eggs twenty minutes. Remove the skins from the sausages and season the mixture with salt and pepper. Shell the eggs, roll each in flour, then coat it with a quarter of the sausage meat, keeping the shape of the egg as much as possible. Beat up the egg, brush the coated eggs with it, and cover them with crumbs. Fry them slowly a golden brown in hot fat. Drain them on paper, then with a sharp knife cut each egg across in half. Serve each either hot or cold on a neat round of fried bread.423 EGGS AND OMELETS Scrambled Eggs Ingredients— Three eggs. Salt and pepper. Two tablespoonfuls of milk. Hot buttered toast. One tablespoonful of butter. Method.—Have ready some neatly trimmed slices of hot buttered toast. Break the eggs into a basin, beat them with a fork until yolk and white are mixed, and add the milk and seasoning. Melt the butter in a small pan, pour in the egg mixture and stir it with a wooden spoon over a slow fire until the mixture becomes a soft creamy mass. Heap it up neatly on the toast, and serve at once. Note.—If liked, a little chopped parsley may be added to the mixture, or a tablespoonful of chopped ham, tongue, poultry, game, fish, or mushrooms. Steamed Eggs Ingredients— Two small eggs. Salt and pepper. A small piece of butter. Method.—Well butter two fireproof china pannikins or small cups. Break an egg carefully into each. Sprinkle them with salt and pepper. Put them into a pan with boiling water to come half-way up them. Cover them with a piece of buttered paper, and let the water boil gently until the eggs are lightly set. Serve them immediately in the cases in which they were cooked. OMELETS It is stated that an Englishwoman cannot master the art of omelet-making, in which her Continental sisters excel. It is merely a matter of taking a little pains to learn the few simple rules, and to remember that “ Practice makes perfect.” The first two or three trials will probably not meet with success, but after that a person of average intelligence should have acquired something of the necessary skilful manipulation. There are various kinds of omelets :— Plain savoury. Stuffed. Sweet, Souffle.424 THE COMPLETE COOK The chief points to remember are:— Keep the omelet pan for omelets only, and do not permit it to be washed, only rubbed with paper till clean. A copper tin-lined pan is desirable, but an ordinary iron one will answer quite well, or one of fireproof chinaware. Use fresh butter and the best eggs : only a few ingredients are needed, but these must be of the best. Omelets made with three to four eggs are sufficiently large to manage conveniently. See all the ingredients and apparatus, both for cooking and serving, are at hand before starting to prepare the omelet. Beat the eggs lightly till whites and yolks are mixed, but not frothed, except in the case of the souffle varieties. A tablespoonful of milk or cream to every three eggs is an improvement. The butter for frying must be so hot that it is just ceasing to bubble when the egg mixture is poured into the pan. The fire must be very brisk and clear; slow cooking makes a tough omelet. The exterior should be delicately browned and crisp, while the mixture inside is only just set, being soft and creamy. Omelets must be served immediately they are cooked, or they sink and become tough in a very few minutes. Cheese Omelet Prepare and cook a mixture as for Savoury Omelet, but leave out the herbs, onion, and parsley, and stir into the eggs a heaped tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. Sprinkle a little of the same over the surface when the omelet is served. Fish Omelet Ingredients— Three eggs. One tablespoonful of milk. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One tablespoonful of cooked chopped fish. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Half a tablespoonful of any fish sauce or milk. Seasoning. Method.—Be careful there is no bone or skin with the fish. Heat it with the parsley, a small bit of the butter, and enough sauce or milk to well moisten it. Add the seasoning and keep it hot. Beat up the eggs, add the milk, and a little seasoning. Heat the butter in the omelet pan. When it has nearly left off425 EGOS AND OMELETS bubbling pour in the eggs and stir them with a fork over a quick fire, shaking the pan gently at the same time. When the eggs are soft and creamy, draw them toward the handle of the pan, tilt it well up and shape the omelet like an oval cushion. Press down a little hollow with the spoon in the middle of it, put in the fish, cover this over with some of the soft egg mixture, and when the under side is slightly browned slip the omelet, turning the upper side downwards, on to a hot dish. Note.—Any fish mixture is suitable, such as oyster, salmon, lobster, etc. Kidney Omelet Prepare and cook an egg mixture as directed for Fish Omelet, but instead of fish, put in the centre one sheep’s kidney, skinned, cored, cut into thin small pieces, and fried for a few minutes in a small bit of butter. Moisten the kidney with about a table- spoonful of brown sauce or stock. Season it and substitute it for the fish mixture. A tureen of any hot brown or tomato sauce should accompany this dish. Note.—Other savoury mixtures of game, poultry, ham, mushrooms, tomato, etc., may be used in the same way. Omelet Ligredients— Three eggs. Two level tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. One level tablespoonful of butter. One level teaspoonful of cornflour. Souffle About two tablespoonfuls of stone- less jam. A few drops of vanilla. Salt. Method.—Thickly butter a round or oval fireproof china baking dish. Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs. Put the sugar and yolks into a basin, add the cornflour, and work all these smoothly together until they have a frothy appearance. Add the vanilla and beat the whites very stiffly. Mix these thoroughly, but very lightly, with the yolks, etc. Pour half the mixture evenly into the dish, put a little jam in the centre, and cover this with the remaining mixture. Smooth the surface, mark it prettily with a knife, and dredge the surface well with castor sugar. Bake the omelet in a quick oven for about ten minutes, or until it is a delicate brown and feels spongy when gently pressed in the middle. Serve it immediately in the dish in which it was cooked.426 THE COMPLETE COOK Rum Omelet Proceed as for a Sweet Omelet, but use no jam. After rolling it over and shaping the mixture, turn it on to a hot dish, dust it well with castor sugar, and pour round it half a glass of warmed rum. Set this on fire and pour the flaming spirit over the omelet as long as it will blaze, and serve it at once. Savoury Ingredients— Three eggs. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One tablespoonful of cream or milk. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Omelet A few sprigs of tarragon and chervil. A small pinch of powdered sweet herbs. A small half teaspoonful of grated onion. Salt: pepper. Method.—Season the pan to make sure the mixture will not stick. To do this, heat the pan with a tiny scrap of butter in it, rub it well over and then off with a piece of soft paper. Beat the eggs until slightly frothy, add the cream, chopped parsley, tarragon, chervil, herbs, onion, and seasoning. Heat the butter in the pan until it has nearly ceased bubbling and is gaining the faintest tinge of brown. Pour in all the egg mixture ; keep the pan over a quick fire. As soon as the under part of the mixture sets, raise it up with the flat of the knife or fork and let some of the unset mixture flow under. Continue this until all the egg is very lightly set. Tip the pan up towards you. Shape the creamy mixture with a fork or knife into a bolster-like cushion against the side. Cook it for a moment, and then with a dexterous twist of wrist, pan, and knife roll the omelet over on to the other side and cook the upper surface. Turn out immediately on to a hot dish and serve at once. Note.— Leave out the tarragon and chervil if it is not procurable. Sweet Ingredients— Three eggs. One level tablespoonful each of castor sugar and butter. Half a teaspoonful of vanilla. Omelet About one tablespoonful of heated stoneless jam. A few grains of salt. Method.—Season the omelet pan as directed for the Savoury Omelet. Beat the eggs together, add the salt, sugar, and vanilla.EGGS AND OMELETS 427 Melt the butter in the pan ; when it has nearly stopped bubbling, pour in the eggs and whisk them with a fork over a quick fire until they are just setting. Draw the mixture all down to the handle side of the pan, tilting it well up, press in the centre with the spoon so as to form a hollow. Put in a little jam, fold the mixture neatly over it and shape it like an oval cushion. Slip the knife under to prevent the under side sticking. Turn it upper side downwards on to a hot dish, dust it with a little castor sugar, and score it three times across with a red-hot skewer, or brown it with a salamander. Swiss Omelet Prepare and cook a mixture as for Savoury Omelet, but in- stead of onion, herbs, and parsley mix into the eggs two table- spoonfuls of lightly fried streaky bacon cut in small dice.CHAPTER XXV INVALID COOKERY AND DIET FOR INFANTS AND CHILDREN Suitable Cookery for Invalids Under this heading will be found directions for dishes which are mainly intended for the sick and convalescent. Many other recipes may be used that will be found each under its special heading, i.e. sauces, egg cookery, etc. The reader must study the principles of invalid cookery intelligently, note what foods should be avoided, modify recipes which seem likely to be too rich, and thus supplement this section by consulting the others. Not the least of the many qualifications desirable in a good nurse is the thorough knowledge of the nature, use, and digestibility of, as well as the best methods of preparing, different kinds of food for her patients; combined with the art of offering them in such a way that the eye as well as the palate is pleased. < In many cases the doctor’s skill is unavailing, unless he is able to obtain well-cooked food, “ kitchen physic,” as it is often described, to aid his efforts. Many a person has been carried safely through a long severe illness, only to succumb at last to injudicious feeding, through the nurse’s ignorance or his own indiscretion. A woman may be excused if she cannot make a cake, but it should be regarded as a social crime if she is unable to prepare a cup of good beef tea or some simple dish which will further, not retard, the invalid’s recovery. In acute disease the nourishment given is in the simplest form, often requiring but little cooking or skill, but this affords no excuse for careless serving; if anything, special care must be taken to have everything perfect of its kind. Some nurses harbour the mischievous opinion that the invalid is too ill to429 INVALID COOKERY notice trifling neglects; such a notion should never be entertained, for it is taking an unfair advantage of the patient’s weakness. When the crisis of disease is past, the system needs gradual but complete nutrition, and the appetite is clamorous, fickle, or perhaps altogether wanting; this time is most critical for the patient and trying to the tact, skill, and patience of the nurse and cook. Then the test of skill comes in; to concoct little delicacies, vary the wearisome eggs and milk, give a novel touch of colour here or there, or use a new mould, or dish, even if the material must be the same, and thus tempt the capricious and fitful appetite. Give small quantities at short intervals is a rule that must be borne in mind. Should three tablespoonfuls of food every hour prove too much, try one and a half tablespoonfuls every half-hour, probably that will easily be assimilated; always give nourishment immediately after a long sleep. Try and anticipate the patients wants, so that he is spared the exertion of asking. For instance, recollect that thirst is always experienced when waking; or notice if some particular dish has been enjoyed, and suggest, or, better still, offer a second helping. Never,ask invalids what they woidd like to eat; let the food be a surprise as far as it is practicable, and avoid by all possible means the odours of cooking entering the sickroom. Serve less than the patient will probably reqtcire ; do not gauge his appetite by your own, or, by over-anxious zeal for his good, so overload the plate, or present such a generous cup of soup, that he is filled with a helpless loathing and, to solve the difficulty, refuses to partake at all. A whole jelly, pudding, custard, etc., made in a dish that holds the right amount for an invalid’s appetite, is far more appreciated than a small portion cut from a large mould. It is also more economical, as the latter soon becomes dry or dis- coloured when once turned out and cut. When the meal is over, remove immediately every trace of food from the room. Keep in the sickroom choice fruit or delicacies, which have been sent to the patient, only just long enough to gratify the eye, then remove them to a cool place, to be re-served when required as fresh and daintily as possible. Food will deteriorate in the atmosphere of the room, especially in the case of milk or foods with much milk in their preparation. Of course, exception must be made where, owing to circumstances, the patient has to be left alone for any con-THE COMPLETE COOK 430 siderable interval. Then care must be taken to place both liquid and solid refreshment conveniently within reach. Punctuality is an important point when preparing food for those who are ill. Minutes are very valuable in the sickroom ; as often as not they mean actually Life. It is not possible to be punctual unless the cook exercises forethought and method, so that she is always well ahead with her work. Cleanliness in every minute detail is needed. Not only in regard to the glass, silver, etc., but especially the saucepans and other cooking apparatus. Invalid foods are of a very delicate flavour, and this is easily destroyed by the use of Imperfectly clean utensils. Light cups and spoons as daintily fashioned as possible; miniature cruets ; a little vase, which will not roll over easily, of not too powerfully scented flowers; a spotless tray cloth, or better still in many illnesses, a pretty Japanese paper one, are all necessary adjuncts to the invalid’s tray. Endeavour to have it completely equipped, so that it is not necessary to run off to fetch the bread or spoon, etc. A light wooden bed-table with legs about six inches high, to stand on the bed, is very convenient for serving meals. Also a covered feeding cup, for use when the patient is in a recumbent position, prevents liquids being spilt, as is almost invariably the case if an ordinary cup is used. A glass tube is often used to draw liquid foods through, in the same way as American drinks are taken through straws. Hints on Foods for the Sick and Convalescent Mutton is more easily digested than beef, though slightly less nourishing. Sweetbreads are very suitable. Avoid all parts of a close texture such as kidneys, liver, etc. Salted Meats, Pork, and Veal are not permissible, as they are difficult to digest. Bacon, if lightly fried or toasted or well boiled, is a popular and wholesome form of fat. A dust of cayenne aids its digestion at times. Poultry and Game are tender, nourishing, and easily digested. The latter must not be in the least “ high.” Chicken,INVALID COOKERY 431 turkey, pheasant, quails, partridges, and young pigeons are best. Do not give rabbits, ducks, or geese. Fish is a valuable food; but white fish should be selected, such as whiting, sole, haddock, plaice, turbot, etc. These have all the oil stored ift the liver, and thus there is an entire absence of fat in the flesh. “ Oily fish,” though nourishing, is not as digestible, as the oil penetrates all through the flakes of the flesh, rendering it too rich. To this class belong herrings, salmon, eels, mackerel, etc. Oysters are the only shellfish allowable. These are, when eaten raw, most nourishing and digestible, so much so that sometimes they can be retained by the patient when other foods are not possible. Milk, being the only perfect food that is capable of sustain- ing life and health without being supplemented by other foods, is of the greatest value. It should be swallowed very slowly, and by many is more easily digested if gently heated, than if taken quite cold. It must not, however, boil, as by so doing the albumen coagulates on the top, entangling with it much of the cream ; both these are then removed as “ skin.” The addition of soda water or barley water will render milk more digestible, as these prevent the formation of the large curds, which in cases of great weakness have at times produced fatal results. Eggs are most digestible for sick people when taken raw; or at most very lightly cooked. They are best when beaten and mixed with milk or wine. Ahvays strain beaten eggs to remove any stringy portions. Next to milk, they most nearly approach a perfect food. Cream.—Not only is this of great value in severe illness, but it is easily made into most appetising dishes. Whey.—In this the curdy portions and some of the cream are removed, and thus it becomes very digestible, more so than whole milk. Skim Milk is refreshing and nutritious, but of course lacks the valuable milk-fat, viz. cream. Junkets.—A very popular and dainty form of offering milk. Much appreciated when the patient is on a milk diet. Butter supplies the necessary fat in one of the most easily assimilated forms. Cheese is not usually desirable for invalids, though they frequently desire it for its savoury flavour. It is too con- centrated a food to be easily digested. Sugars.—Most valuable on account of the warmth-giving properties they possess.432 THE COMPLETE COOK Soups and Broths, if well made, possess valuable restorative qualities, and in a very digestible form. Strong clear soup, mutton or chicken broths, are the most useful. Also those containing cream, milk, or eggs. Beef Teas are very valuable if correctly made. They have strong restorative powers, and, if the fine particles of lightly cooked albumen can be digested, contain much nutriment. Coffee and Tea contain no nutriment, except that added by the milk and sugar. They have, however, a stimulating effect on the respiratory and nervous system. Cocoa is more of a food than a beverage, containing con- siderable nutriment. It is of a less stimulating character than tea or coffee. Potatoes may be allowed if dry and floury. They are best mashed, with a little butter and milk. New or waxy potatoes must never be given to invalids. Onions.—These, if well boiled, have a soothing effect to the mucous membrane, and are sometimes ordered for internal inflammation. Green Vegetables are wholesome if well boiled and drained ; spinach and asparagus are by far the most suitable. Avoid mushrooms and cucumbers. Fruit is wholesome and most refreshing. Care should be taken to see that it is in perfect condition ; skins and pips should be removed. Grapes and lemons are the two most valuable varieties. Never give pineapple unless it is a spoonful of juice, and stone fruit should be used with discretion. Arrowroot and Cornflour.—These being almost entirely composed of starch are lacking in nutriment, except for the milk with which they are usually combined. But they are so light and digestible and can be so easily converted into tempting puddings, etc., that they become really valuable foods. Semolina and Macaroni in its various forms contain much gluten, and when added to milk are most digestible and nourishing preparations. Rice, Tapioca, Sago, etc., require the addition of milk and eggs to render them of great food value, as they are composed of too large a proportion of starch. Oatmeal, except in the form of gruel, when the particles are strained out, is liable to give rise to digestive trouble, as it irritates the digestive canal. It is also somewhat heating to those leading an inactive life. Isinglass and Gelatine contain little or no nutriment, but433 INVALID COOKERY are most easily digested, and by their use, liquids may be offered in a solidified form as jellies. These offer immense variety and are tempting and popular. Care is needed to prepare these jellies, so that they are only slightly set, not stiff enough to mould well, as this usually necessitates the actual mastication of the food, which is not correct. Pepper is valuable at times if a slight stimulant is needed, but it is wisest to ascertain if its use will not be harmful. White pepper and even cayenne is less irritating than the coarse black. Vanilla and all Spices and Flavourings should be used with great discretion and only on permission from the medical man. Bread and Cakes.—The former must never be allowed new, but at least one day old. Toast, if well made, is better than bread, and rusks are light and digestible. If cakes are allowed, those varieties containing no butter should be chosen, such as sponge or a Mocha mixture. No fruit of any kind should be added. Foods prepared in the form of souffles, quenelles, and panadas are very light, easily digested, and will contain no indigestible fibres, etc. Steamed Foods will be lighter than the same boiled. Occasionally a carefully fried article of food is much appreci- ated, such as a perfectly fried sole or a fillet of whiting with all the bones removed. Ice is often in great demand in a sickroom. It is best wrapped up in a square coarse flannel or blanket and laid on a sieve in a basin or bath. It must be thickly covered over with more flannel. If ice is allowed to lie in the water melting from it, it will soon vanish altogether. BEEF TEAS: BROTHS: SOUPS: FOR INVALIDS Barley Cream Soup Ingredients— Half a pound of lean veal. One pint of cold water. Two level teaspoonfuls of pearl barley. One teaspoonful of chopped onion. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. One gill of cream. Salt and pepper. Method.—Put the pearl barley into a saucepan with enough cold water to cover it. Bring it to boiling point and boil it 28434 THE COMPLETE COOK for five minutes, then drain off and throw away the water. This blanches the barley and removes all bitter flavour from it. Wash and wipe the veal, then scrape it finely. Lay it to soak in the cold water with a little salt for half an hour. Then turn it into a saucepan with the barley and onion. Let it boil gently till the barley is quite tender; it will probably take one and a half hours. Next strain off the liquid and put it aside. Pound the barley, onion, and meat well and rub them through a fine wire sieve, adding a little of the liquid to thin it. Mix the rest of the liquid smoothly into this mixture, re-heat it, add the cream, seasoning, and parsley. Serve it very hot. Beef Tea Ingredients— One pound of lean raw beef. A quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. One pint of cold water. MetJiod.—Wash the meat quickly in tepid water and dry it. Next cut it in slices, and scrape these finely with a sharp knife. As each piece is scraped lay it at once in the water with the salt and let it stand for half an hour. Put the meat and water in an earthenware jar. Tie a piece of thick paper over the top. Place the jar in a pan of boiling water on the fire and let it simmer gently for three and a half hours, stirring it occasionally. When cooked strain out the meat, but do not use too fine a strainer unless it is imperative that not a particle of solid matter is given. Carefully remove every vestige of grease with pieces of kitchen paper. Season it carefully with salt and pepper if the latter is permitted. Serve it in small quantities as required. Note.— If more convenient the jar may be placed in a slow oven, instead of in the pan of water. Beef Tea {thick) Ingredients— One pound of lean beef. One sheep’s kidney. One pint of cold water. Quarter of a saltspoonful of salt. Method.—Wash the meat quickly, dry it, and trim off all fat, then scrape it into fine shreds. Skin the kidney, remove the core or white part in the centre, then chop it. Let the meat and kidney soak in the salt and water for half an hour. Turn all into a saucepan, heat it slowly, stirring and pressing the meat constantly until the colour becomes a deep reddish435 INVALID COOKERY brown. Strain out the solid part; pound it in a mortar, then rub it through a fine wire sieve. Stir into this paste gradually and smoothly the liquid beef tea and season it carefully. Note,—Nourishing and digestible as this is, it must never be given to a patient when solid food is not allowed, but it makes an excellent variety. Raw Beef Tea Ingredients— Three ounces of raw, very fresh Three large tablespoonfuls of cold topside of beef. water. Half a saltspoonful of salt. Method.—Wash and wipe the meat and trim off all fat Scrape the meat as finely as possible with a sharp knife. As it is scraped, lay it in a shallow dish, or soup plate, with.the water and salt. Cover it over and let it stand until the meat is almost white and the water a deep red. Keep pressing the meat well. It will take an hour or more to soak sufficiently, unless there is need of greater speed in its preparation. When ready, pour it into a very fine strainer or piece of muslin and squeeze out all the juice. It may be served in a coloured glass or a feeding cup, as sometimes the patient objects to the colour. Note.—This will only keep for a short time, so it is of no use to make much at a time. Usually one or two teaspoonfuls are giveri at a time, as it is very strong. This preparation is literally invaluable in cases of extreme exhaustion, or for weakly infants. Beef Tea and Claret Jelly Ingredients— Three-quarters of a pint of claret. Half an inch of cinnamon. One gill of strong beef tea. One tablespoonful of red currant Ten lumps of sugar. jelly- Nine sheets of gelatine. Cochineal. One clove. Method.—Put all the ingredients except the beef tea in a bright saucepan. Stir carefully till the gelatine is dissolved, then let it stand by the side of the fire for five minutes so as to obtain the flavour of the spices. Put it aside to cool a little, then strain it on to the beef tea, which should be unsalted; add a few drops of cochineal to make it a pretty colour. Pour it into small cups or fancy moulds and let it set. Note.—If liked, leave out the red currant jelly and theTHE COMPLETE COOK 436 spices. If there is no beef tea available, use some good meat extract. Port wine may be used instead of claret. Jellied Beef Tea Ingredients— Half a pint of strong beef tea. Salt and pepper. Two leaves of sheet gelatine. Caramel colouring. Method.—Dissolve the gelatine in a little hot water, then strain it into the beef tea. Season it carefully and add a few drops of caramel to improve the colour ; this is quite harmless. Pour the jelly into little moulds and leave them to set. To turn them out, dip the tins into tepid water and shake them gently. Note.—Clear soup could be used instead of beef tea. Jellied Beef Tea. No. 2 Ingredients— One pound of lean raw beef. One quart of cold water. -One ox or calPs foot. Half a teaspoonful of salt. Method.—Wash the meat and foot quickly and dry them. Scrape the meat into fine shreds. Lay it as soon as scraped in the water with the salt and let it stand for half an hour. Chop the foot into small pieces. Put it and the meat and water into an earthenware jar. Cover it tightly. Place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water on the fire. Let the water boil steadily round the jar for about eight hours, taking care to replenish it as it boils away. If more convenient place the jar in a slow oven. Then strain off the solid parts, season the liquid, and put it aside till cold. Remove any grease that may rise on the top. Note.—This is particularly strengthening, and beef tea in a jelly makes an agreeable change. It may be heated, if liked. Beef Tea and Malt Extract Ingredients— Half a pint of beef tea. One small teaspoonful of malt One tablespoonful of fine fresh extract. white crumbs. Salt. Method.—Heat the beef tea without boiling it, add the crumbs, stirring all the time, then add the malt extract. See that it is nicely seasoned, and serve.437 INVALID COOKERY Beef Tea with Oatmeal Ingredients— Half a pint of beef tea. A piece of butter the size of One small tablespoonful of fine hazel nut. oatmeal. Salt and pepper. Method.—Mix the oatmeal thinly and smoothly with a little of the cold beef tea. Put the remainder in a pan on the fire, and bring it to boiling point!; pour in the mixed oatmeal and add the butter. Stir it over the fire, letting it boil gently for five minutes. Season it, strain it through a piece of muslin, and it is ready for serving. Beef Tea with White of Egg higredients— One gill of strong beef tea. Salt and pepper. One raw white of egg. Method.—Beat the white of egg to a froth, but not so stiffly that it will hang on a whisk. Pour gently on to it the beef tea, which must be hot but not boiling, or the white will curdle. Whisk it gently all the time. Season and serve it in a hot cup. Note.—Mutton broth, or any clear soup, may be used instead of beef tea. Beef Tea with Yolk of Egg Ingredients— One teacupful of strong beef tea. Salt and pepper. One yolk of egg. Method.—Heat the beef tea in a small saucepan. Beat up the yolk of egg in a cnp. When the beef tea is hot, but not boiling, pour it slowly on to the yolk, stirring it all the time. Season it carefully and strain it quickly into a clean hot cup and serve. Beef Tea with Vermicelli, etc. Ingredients— A teacupful of strong beef tea. Salt and pepper. About a dessertspoonful of cooked vermicelli. Method.—To boil the vermicelli, put it into some fast boiling water with a little salt and boil it fast for about five minutes, or till it is twice its original size. Then strain off the water, put the vermicelli into a hot cup, and on to it pour the beef tea, which must be hot but not boiling. Season it to taste.THE COMPLETE COOK 438 Note.—Any cooked vegetables cut with a cutter like small peas, or in shreds; cooked macaroni, Italian paste, etc., can be used, if solid food is permitted, in place of the vermicelli. Beef and Sago Broth Ingredien ts— One pound of topside of beef. Two raw yolks of eggs. One and a half pints of cold water. Salt: pepper. One tablespoonful of small sago. Method.—Wash the meat quickly, dry it, remove all fat, and scrape it finely with a sharp knife. As quickly as it is scraped lay the meat in the cold water with a little salt. Let it soak for half an hour, then pour it all into a saucepan and let it barely simmer by the side of the fire for an hour and a half. Do not let it boil. Then strain it through a rather coarse gravy strainer, pressing the meat well. Re-heat it and sprinkle in the sago, stirring it all the time. Let it simmer gently till the sago is quite transparent and well suspended all through the soup. Season the broth and let it cool for a minute or so, then strain in the yolks of the eggs beaten with a tablespoonful of cold water or stock. Re-heat sufficiently to cook the eggs without bringing it to boiling point. Serve with sippets of toast or unsweetened rusks. Note.—Any beef tea that is ready can be used instead of specially preparing the broth. Semolina or crushed tapioca can take the place of the sago. Chicken Ingredients— Half an uncooked chicken with the giblets. A level tablespoonful of rice. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Broth Half a teaspoonful of chopped onion. One quart of cold water. Salt and pepper. Method.—Cut the meat into small pieces, chop the bones, and clean the giblets thoroughly. Put these into a saucepan with the onion, water, and a little salt and let them simmer gently for three hours, keeping it well skimmed. Wash the rice carefully, and, half an hour before the broth is cooked, sprinkle it in and continue cooking. Next strain off the broth, remove every scrap of skin and bone from the meat and cut it into neat small dice. Put it and the rice back into the broth.INVATJD COOKERY 439 Add the parsley, and salt and pepper to taste, and serve it either hot or cold. Note.—All stringy portions of meat, as well as the heart, lungs, and liver, should be removed after they have been cooked. Chicken Essence Ingredients— Half an uncooked chicken. Salt and pepper. Three tablespoonfuls of cold water. Method.—Cut the meat in small pieces, removing all fat, and chop the bones small. Put meat, bones, and water in an earthenware jar, add a little salt. Cover the jar tightly and place it in a pan of boiling water and let it boil gently from four to five hours. Season it carefully to taste. Next strain off the liquid, pressing the solid part well. Leave it till cold, then carefully remove all grease from the top. This is excellent served cold in a jelly, or it may be re-heated. Note.-—Old fowls will do for this recipe; they will, however, require longer cooking. Chicken Soup Ingredients— One uncooked fowl and the giblets. One gill of cream. Three pints of cold water. Two yolks of eggs. One small onion. Two teaspoonfuls of arrowroot or One small carrot. cornflour. Half a blade of mace. Salt and pepper. Method.—Wash the fowl and giblets, cut them in small pieces. Put these with the cleaned vegetables and water into a saucepan, add the salt and mace. Let these simmer for three hours, skimming frequently. Strain the liquor into a basin and leave it till cold. Then remove all fat. Reboil it and pour into it the arrowroot or cornflour thinly mixed with a little cold milk. Stir this till it reboils; let it continue to do so for five minutes, otherwise it will have a rough taste. Let it cool slightly. Meantime beat up the yolks with the cream, and, when the soup has cooled, strain them in. Cook gently for a minute or two, but do not let it boil. Season it to taste and serve with sippets of dry toast. Egg and Broth Whip Ingredients— One egg. One teaspoonful of warmed butter. One tablespoonful of strong beef Salt and pepper, if permitted. essence, or raw beef juice.440 THE COMPLETE COOK Method.—Break the egg into a small basin, add the butter, beef essence, and seasoning. Place the basin over a saucepan of boiling water, which must be kept at a gentle simmering heat. Beat the egg lightly till it tastes hot and has slightly thickened. Serve at once in a custard glass, or give in spoonfuls. It is excellent when nourishment is needed quickly. Variations.—Chicken or mutton broth, wine, brandy, milk, or cream, may be used instead of the beef essence. Raw beef juice is the most nutritious. If permissible a few very thin fingers of toast should accompany this preparation. A Delicate Ingredients— One pound of raw whiting. One quart of white stock or half milk and half water. Half a carrot. A small piece of onion. One inch of celery. A sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. A small blade of mace. Fish Soup The yolks of two raw eggs. Half a gill of milk. Half a lemon. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One slightly rounded tablespoon- ful of flour. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Method.—Wash and dry the fish and cut it into small pieces. Put it in a saucepan with the stock, vegetables, bunch of herbs, and mace. Let these simmer gently for twenty minutes, then strain off the liquid. Melt the butter in a pan, stir in the flour .smoothly, then add the fish liquor and stir it till it boils. Draw it to the side of the fire and let it cool slightly. Beat up the yolks with the half gill of milk, and, when the soup has cooled, strain them in. Re-heat the soup without boiling it, to cook the eggs. Season it, adding a few drops of lemon juice and the parsley. Serve with sippets of dry toast. Note.—Other white fish such as sole or plaice could be used. Lamb’s Head Broth Ingredients— One lamb’s head. One level tablespoonful of rice. One quart of cold water. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped Half a carrot, turnip, and onion. parsley. A small piece of celery. Salt and pepper. Method.—Chop the head in half, well wash and clean it. Take out the brains, and, after washing them in cold salted water, tie them in a piece of muslin to save for another dish.441 INVALID COOKERY Cut all small bones from the nostrils and remove the eyes. Tie the head together again with a piece of tape. Put it in a saucepan with the water and a little salt. Bring it slowly to boiling point and remove every particle of scum. Add the vegetables cut in dice and let it simmer for two hours. For the last half-hour boil the rice in it. When cooked lift out the head, cut some of the best pieces of the meat and tongue into neat small dice and lay them aside. Skim the broth well, strain and season it carefully, add the meat and a little vegetable, and just at last stir in the parsley. Serve with sippets of dry toast. If necessary, all solid portions could be strained out; in that case the entire head should be neatly arranged on a hot dish, sauced over with parsley and butter sauce, and served as Boiled Lamb’s Head at some other meal. Note.—This broth is more delicate than if sheep’s head were used. Pearl barley might be used instead of rice, but it should be put in with the vegetables at the beginning. Soup Milk Ingredients— Four medium-sized potatoes. One quart of boiling white stock, or half milk and half water. Two sticks of celery. One medium-sized onion. A slice of ham or bacon. One slightly rounded tablespoon- ful of butter. One tablespoonful of crushed tapioca. One gill of cream. One gill of milk, or half a pint of milk and no cream. Salt and pepper. Method.—Wash and scrub the potatoes, then peel and slice them. Lay them as they are done in clean cold water. Wash and slice the celery, peel and slice the onion and cut the bacon in dice. Melt the butter in a bright pan, put in the vegetables and bacon, stir them over the hre for five minutes for the vegetables to absorb the butter. On no account allow them to colour in the least, for it should be as white a soup as possible. Add the stock, or milk and water, and let it boil gently till the vegetables are soft; they will probably take three-quarters of an hour. Rub the soup through a hair sieve. Rinse out the saucepan, put back the soup and reboil it. Shake in the tapioca, stirring it all the time, then add the milk, a gill or half a pint, according to whether cream is used or not. Cook it until the tapioca is quite clear. Season carefully, adding the cream, if it is to be used, and it is ready. The consistencyTHE COMPLETE COOK 442 should be that of good cream, so if it seems too thick add more milk. Note.—Small sago or semolina may be used instead of tapioca. Mutton Broth Ingredients— One pound of lean mutton. Two small teaspoonfuls of chopped One and a half pints of cold water. parsley. One small tablespoonful of pearl A teaspoonful of chopped onion. barley. Salt and pepper. Method.—Wash the meat quickly, dry it, and trim off all fat. Cut the lean into small dice, put it in a saucepan with the water and half a teaspoonful of salt, and bring it slowly to boiling point. Skim it carefully, add the onion and pearl barley, after washing the latter in boiling water. Let it simmer gently for three hours, skimming it frequently. Next strain off the liquid ; carefully remove all grease. Add the parsley and salt and pepper to taste. Serve it either hot or cold. Note.—If allowed, a few of the meat dice and grains of barley may be left in. A slice from the leg of mutton is best for this broth. Mutton Tea Ingredients— Half a pound of lean raw mutton. A quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. Half a pint of cold water. Method.—Wash the meat quickly, dry it, and trim off all fat. Scrape the lean finely with a sharp knife. Lay it in cold water with the salt. Let it stand for half an hour, then put it in a saucepan ; heat it very slowly, pressing the meat well. On no account allow it to boil. Next strain off the liquid carefully; the meat should be nearly white and the liquid a light brown. Season it carefully and serve it either hot or cold. Note.—Mutton tea, though less nourishing than beef tea, is easily digested and affords a pleasant change. A few vegetables can be added for flavouring, if allowed. A Nourishing Broth Ingredients— Quarter of a pint of mutton broth. One yolk of egg. Three tablespoonfuls of cream. Seasoning. Method.—Strain out the meat from the broth. Put the broth in a saucepan, make it hot, but i-t must not boil. Beat up theINVALID COOKERY 443 yolk, add the cream, and strain these into the broth. Mix well and season carefully, and re-heat for about three minutes to remove the raw taste of the egg, but without boiling it. Note.—Beef tea or any other broth or soup can be used. Oyster Cream Broth Ingredients— Half a dozen oysters. Salt and pepper. One gill of cream. A few drops of lemon juice, if no Half a gill of white stock or milk. milk is used. Method.—Beard the oysters and cut each in eight or ten pieces. Put the cream and stock in a small pan with the oysters and any strained liquor from them. Bring these to boiling point. Let them barely simmer for about two minutes, not longer, or the oysters will be hardened. Season well, add the lemon juice, and serve with brown bread or toast cut in sippets. Veal Broth. No. i Ingredients— One pound of lean veal. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped One pint of cold water. parsley. Half a tablespoonful of rice. Salt and pepper. A small piece of onion. Method.—VIdiSh. and wipe the meat and remove all fat. Cut it into small dice and chop the bones. Lay meat and bones as they are cut into the water with a little salt. Bring the broth slowly to boiling point and add the chopped onion and the rice, which should first be well washed. Let these simmer gently for two hours, skimming it occasionally. Strain off the liquid, remove all grease. Season the broth carefully, stir in the parsley, and serve either hot or cold. Note.—If solid food is permitted a little of the rice and meat might be put back. In some cases the flavouring of onion should be omitted. Veal Broth. Ingredients— Two pounds of knuckle of veal. One quart of cold water. Half a small carrot and turnip. Half a small onion. One stick of celery. No. 2 One level tablespoonful of pearl barley. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Salt and pepper. Method.—Wash the knuckle well and chop it into small pieces. Lay it in the saucepan with the water and salt. Bring444 THE COMPLETE COOK it slowly to boiling point and skim it well. Wash, prepare, and cut the vegetables into small dice, add them, also the barley, having first washed it in boiling water to remove the bitter flavour. Simmer the broth steadily for four hours, skimming it now and then. Strain off the broth, put back into it some of the barley, vegetables, and pieces of veal cut in small squares, taking care to put in plenty of the soft gelatinous portions. Season the broth carefully, add the parsley, and serve. INVALID FISH DISHES Light Fish Cakes Ingredients— Two rounded tablespoonfuls of any cooked fish. One rounded tablespoonful of boiled potatoes. Two rounded teaspoonfuls of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. One gill of milk. One egg and one extra yolk. Salt and pepper. Breadcrumbs. Method.—Beat the potatoes with a fork till they are very light. Remove all skin and bones from the fish and chop it coarsely. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, stir in the flour smoothly, add the milk and stir the sauce till it boils. Let it cool for a few minutes, then add the yolk of egg, beating it well. Mix the fish and potato together in a basin, add enough of the sauce to make the mixture sufficiently soft to drop heavily from a spoon. Season it, turn it on to a plate, spread it evenly over, and leave it to cool. Shape it into small round cakes. Brush each over with the beaten egg and cover them with crumbs. When a faint blue smoke rises from the frying fat, put in a few at a time, and fry them a pretty golden brown. Drain the cakes on soft paper and serve them garnished with fried parsley. Custards Fish Ingredien ts— One egg and one extra yolk. Half a gill of milk. One small tablespoonful of any chopped cooked flsh. Salt and pepper. Method.—Beat up the eggs lightly, stir into them the finely chopped fish, a seasoning of salt and pepper, and lastly the milk. Well butter some dariole moulds. Pour in the mixture,445 INVALID COOKERY put them in a shallow pan with boiling water to come half-way up them, lay a piece of buttered paper over the top, and steam them very gently for about fifteen minutes or until they are lightly set. Unless they are cooked very gently, they will be full of holes. Turn them carefully on to a hot dish and serve at once with bread and butter. Small Fish Ingredients— Four rounded tablespoonfuls of any cooked fish. One rounded tablespoonful of fresh breadcrumbs. One egg. One slightly rounded tablespoon- ful of butter. Moulds Four tablespoonfuls of milk. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. One gill of parsley sauce. Salt and pepper. Method.—Remove all skin and bone from the fish. Put it in a mortar and pound it well with the crumbs, parsley, warmed butter, beaten egg, milk, and seasoning. Well butter some small dariole moulds. Fill them half full of the mixture. Cover the top with greased paper and steam them gently for about half an hour, or until the mixture feels firm when pressed in the centre. Then turn them carefully on to a hot dish and pour the parsley sauce over and round them. Note.—Any other sauce can be used. It is a wise plan to let the moulds stand for a minute after taking them out of the water. The mixture shrinks from the sides of the tin and they are easier to turn out. Oyster Sandwiches Ingredien ts— Four oysters. Salt: pepper. Slices of thin brown or white Half a lemon. bread and butter. Method.—Strain the lemon juice into a cup. Beard the oysters and lay them in it, while the bread and butter is being cut. Stamp the bread and butter into rounds the size of the top of a claret glass. Place an oyster on a round, dust it with salt and pepper, press a second round over the oyster, pressing the edges neatly together. Serve them on a lace paper. Note.—These are most nourishing and digestible. In some cases it would be advisable to halve the oysters and cut smaller rounds of bread and butter, just the size for one mouthful.446 THE COMPLETE COOK Oyster Scollops Ingredients— One dozen oysters. One gill of milk. One rounded tablespoonful of Salt and pepper. butter. Breadcrumbs. Two teaspoonfuls of flour. Method.—Well butter some small scollop shells. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour smoothly. Add the milk and stir it over the fire till the sauce boils. Add any strained liquor there may be from the oysters and season them carefully. Beard the oysters, note they are free from grit, and cut each in four pieces. Put these in the sauce. Divide the mixture evenly into the shells, sprinkle some breadcrumbs all over the top, and on these place here and there some very small pieces of butter. Bake them in a quick oven until they are nicely browned on the top. Serve in the shells, placing each one on a lace paper on a small plate. Note.—Scollops are excellent done in this way, though hardly as digestible. If there is any suitable sauce left over in the larder use that instead of making it fresh. Stewed Oysters Ingredients— One dozen oysters. Half a gill of cream. One level tablespoonful of flour. A little lemon juice. One rounded tablespoonful of Salt and pepper. butter. A dust of nutmeg. Half a gill of milk. Method.—Put the oysters with their liquor in a stewpan; if there is not enough liquor to cover them add a little water. Heat them till they plump up and the beards begin to curl slightly, then take out the oysters, beard them and cut each in half. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour smoothly, add the strained liquor in which the oysters were cooked and the milk. Stir these over the fire until the mixture boils; let it cool gently for three or four minutes, then season it carefully and add lemon juice. When this sauce is well off the boil, add the oysters and the cream ; make them very hot, without letting them boil, as if they do, the oysters will be tough and indigest- ible. Serve on small plates with sippets of toast and cut lemon round.447 INVALID COOKERY Oyster Toast Ingi'edients— Half a dozen oysters. Two rounded teaspoonfuls of butter. One large tablespoonful of fresh crumbs. One tablespoonful of cream, Salt and pepper. A slice of buttered toast. Four tablespoonfuls of milk. Method.—Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the crumbs, add the milk and stir over the fire till the mixture boils. Whisk the cream until it will just hang on the whisk, then stir it lightly in. Beard the oysters and cut each in four, add them to the sauce. Have ready a neat round of hot buttered toast, heap the mixture on to it; it should not be thin enough to flow off; if it does so, stir in a few extra crumbs. Put the toast in the oven for a few minutes to make sure it is hot through, and serve it at once. Baked Sole Ingredients— One small sole. A few drops of lemon juice. Two rounded teaspoonfuls of A few browned breadcrumbs. butter. Salt and pepper. Method.—Fillet the fish and fold each fillet in three, turning the side that has had the skin on inside. Butter a piece of kitchen paper, fold it in half, lay it on a baking tin, put the fish on one half, sprinkle it with salt, pepper, and lemon juice, and a few browned crumbs. Fold the other half of the paper over it and twist up the ends. Put the tin in a moderate oven and bake the fish from eight to ten minutes, according to its thickness. Lift it on to a hot dish, pour round it any liquor that is in the paper, and serve with it slices of lemon. Note.—Any fish suitable for delicate digestions may be cooked in this way. It is most wholesome and savoury. Hot Sandwiches of Sole Ingredients— One small sole. Salt, pepper, and lemon juice. One tablespoonful of white sauce. Thin brown bread and butter. Method.—Skin and fillet the sole. Put the fillets on a buttered plate over a pan of boiling water. Lay a piece of buttered paper over the fish, and over this put a lid or another plate. Let this steam until the fish is quite cooked ; it will take448 THE COMPLETE COOK from ten to twelve minutes. Next cut the fish into shreds, put these in a stewpan with any juice that may be on the plate, adding the sauce and a seasoning of salt and pepper and lemon juice. When the mixture is hot, spread some of it on each slice of bread and butter, free from crusts, and roll them up lengthways. Serve them at once. Note.—Any light fish will do in the place of sole. Great care must be taken that no bones are left in. If it is incon- venient to prepare sauce a tablespoonful of cream would do. Stewed Sole Ingredients— One small sole. Half a gill of good stock. One egg. One teaspoonful of red currant Four tablespoonfuls of crumbs. jelly. Half a gill of brown sauce. Salt, pepper, and lemon juice. Method.—Wash, dry, and fillet the fish. Brush each fillet over with beaten egg, then cover them with crumbs. Fry the fillets a golden brown in hot fat. Drain them well on paper. Put the stock, sauce, and jelly in a saucepan, heat them and season to taste with salt, pepper, and lemon juice. Lay in the fillets and stew them very gently for eight to ten minutes. Lay them on a hot dish with neat sippets of toast round. Note.—For a change, the fillets may be left unfried and laid at once in the stewpan; a few minutes, longer cooking may be required. Plaice or whiting can also be used. Ingredients— Whiting Souffles Four ounces of raw whiting. Two eggs. Two rounded teaspoonfuls of Half a gill of cream or milk, butter. Salt and pepper. One level tablespoonful of flour. A little lemon juice. Method.—Remove all skin and bones from the fish. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour smoothly, add the cream and stir it over the fire till the “ panada,” as it is called, thickens and leaves the sides of the pan without sticking to it. Then put the fish, panada, and yolks of eggs into the mortar, pound them well and rub through a fine wire or hair sieve. Season carefully. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir them lightly into the mixture. Well butter some small china souffle cases. Tie a band of buttered paper round the top of each and half fill the cases with the mixture. Put them449 INVALID COOKERY in a shallow pan with boiling water to come barely half-way up them, lay a piece of buttered paper over the top and steam them gently for about twenty minutes. Turn them carefully on to a hot dish and strain some good fish sauce over and round them. Note,—Any other fish may be used instead of whiting. They may be served without sauce if it seems advisable. This mixture is excellent if baked for a change. Steamed Whiting Ingredients— One small whiting. A few browned crumbs. One teaspoonful of lemon juice. Salt and pepper. Two rounded teaspoonfuls of butter. Method.—Fillet the fish carefully. Twist each fillet round the finger, putting the skin side inside; unless this is done it will uncoil during the cooking. Thickly butter a soup plate, lay the fish in it, sprinkle it with lemon juice, a few browned crumbs and salt and pepper. Cover it with a piece of buttered paper, over this place a plate or saucepan lid. Stand the plate over a saucepan of boiling water and let the water continue to boil steadily. When the fish can easily be pierced with a skewer and has lost its clear look, it is done ; the length of time will depend on the thickness of the fish. If very thick, it should be turned. Serve it on a hot plate with the liquor from the fish poured round. Garnish it with a little cut lemon, and hand with it some thin brown bread and butter. Note.—Any suitable white fish can be used in this way. The crumbs may be omitted, but the touch of brown makes a somewhat colourless dish look more inviting; if preferred, a little finely chopped parsley may be used instead. INVALID MEAT DISHES A Grilled Neck Chop Ingredients— One mutton or Iamb neck chop. Half a lemon. Two teaspoonfuls of butter. A few sprigs of parsley. Salt and pepper. Method.—Make sure the fire is clear and sharp. Wash, dry, and trim the chop neatly; warm a small piece of the 29THE COMPLETE COOK 450 butter and rub it over both sides of the chop. Heat and grease the gridiron. Lay on the chop and grill it before, or over, the fire for three or four minutes on each side. Turn it over with a knife, and on no account stick a fork into it, as through the holes thus made, the nourishing juices would escape. While it is grilling work up the rest of the butter on a plate with half a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley and a good dust of pepper and salt, also a little lemon juice. Make this Maitre d’Hotel butter into a neat little pat. When the chop is cooked slip it on to a plate, put the pat of butter on the top of the chop and serve at once. Note.—Loin chops may be cooked in the same way, but sometimes they are rather less tender. A Steamed Chop Ingredients— One mutton or lamb neck chop. Salt and pepper. Two teaspoonfuls of fresh butter. Method.—Well butter a deep plate. Wash quickly, dry, and trim the chop neatly and lay it on the plate. Cover it with a piece of buttered paper and also with a lid of some kind. Place the plate over a saucepan containing boiling water. Keep the water boiling steadily underneath the plate for about thirty minutes, or less if the chop is required very lightly cooked; turn it once during the cooking. When done, serve it on a hot plate, with any juice there may be in the plate poured over. Add a dust of salt and pepper and serve very hot. Note.—This is one of the most nutritious methods of cooking. If preferred,' loin chops may be used and Maitre d’Hotel butter can be put on the chop. A Stewed Chop Ingredients— One mutton or lamb neck chop. One teaspoonful of chopped Half a pint of hot stock. parsley. One teaspoonful of rice. One thin slice of onion : season- ing. Method.—Wash quickly, dry, and trim the chop neatly. Put it in a small stewpan with the stock and onion. Bring the stock to the boil, then add the salt and the rice, after washing it. Let these simmer gently for one hour, then add the parsleyINVALID COOKERY 451 and season it carefully. Place the chop on a hot plate with a little of the rice and gravy poured round. Note.—Loin chops may be used and pearl barley instead of rice, but it must be par-boiled for five minutes first to remove all bitter flavour. Cutlets, Egg and Crumbed Ingredients— One or two lamb or mutton Two rounded tablespoonfuls of cutlets. butter. One egg. A little strong gravy. White breadcrumbs. Method.—Wash and dry the cutlets, trim off all but a narrow rim of fat from each, and scrape the end of the bones quite clean. Beat up the egg, season it with a little salt and pepper. Brush each cutlet over with it, then cover them with crumbs, flattening the crumbs down well with a knife. Make the butter very hot, lay in the cutlets and fry them slowly for three or four minutes on each side, turning them several times with a knife, not by sticking a fork into them. Lay them on a hot plate and pour the gravy round. If permitted, a little mashed potato or puree of spinach is an excellent accompaniment. Note.—Good beef dripping may be used instead of butter. Raw Beef Balls Ingredien ts— Three ounces of fresh lean steak. Half a saltspoonful of salt or One teaspoonful of cream, or sugar. One teaspoonful of cherry brandy. A piece of butter the size of a small nut. Method.—Wash quickly, dry, and scrape the beef very finely with a sharp knife. Rub it through a coarse wire sieve. Mix the meat with either the cream or brandy and the sugar or salt. These conceal the raw flavour of the meat. Roll the mixture into balls the size of a very small marble. Rub a small frying pan over with the butter, heat it, lay in the balls and roll them about in the pan over a quick fire till the extreme outside alters in colour. Serve them at once with a little good soup or wine. On no account are the balls to be cooked; some medical men forbid even this slight heating which is done to render the colour less noticeable. Note.—This food is very valuable in cases of great weakness and debility.452 THE COMPLETE COOK Raw Beef Sandwiches Ingredients— Two ounces of fresh lean steak. Salt, pepper, or castor sugar. Thin slices of brown or white bread and butter. Method.—Wash quickly, wipe, and shred the meat very finely. Pound it and rub it through a coarse sieve. Season the meat well, using either salt and pepper or, what is strongly recom- mended by many to disguise its flavour, castor sugar. Spread a slice of bread and butter with some of this mixture, cover it with another slice and cut into fancy shapes. If a little finely chopped parsley is permitted, it will be found a great improvement. Note.—These sandwiches are very digestible and nourishing. Gravy Toasts Ingredients— Slices of thin crisp toast. Salt and pepper. About half a gill of strong gravy from beef, or mutton obtained during the cooking. Method.—Cut the toast into dice or rounds the size of a penny. The joint that is cooking must be well pricked with a fork so that the gravy may flow out easily; do this while the meat is still underdone. Some gravy can be obtained from the dripping tin, taking care that it is quite free from grease. Heat the gravy without boiling. Lay the toast in a hot soup plate or cup. Season it, then pour over the gravy, and serve. Note.—If preferred, plain bread or rusks may be used in the place of toast. Invalid’s Irish Stew Ingredients— Three mutton neck chops. One gill of cold water. Two medium-sized potatoes. Salt and pepper. Half a small Spanish onion. Method.—Wash and dry the meat quickly, trim off all but a thin rim of fat from each chop. Peel and slice the onion, put it into cold water, bring it to boiling point and par-boil it for five minutes. Then drain off and throw away the water. Peel the potatoes and cut them into large dice. Grill the chops quickly for a minute or so on each side, then lay them in the pan,453 INVALID COOKERY pour in the water, add the onions and, lastly, the potatoes. Shake over a little salt and pepper. Let all simmer gently for one hour. Then arrange the meat on a hot dish, with the potatoes round and the onion in the middle. Season the gravy carefully and pour it over. Note.—If preferred, lamb chops may be used, and less onion, according to taste. Stewed Tripe Ingredients— Half a pound of the best tripe. One clove. A few thin slices of Spanish onion. Salt and pepper. Half a pint of milk. Sippets of toast. Two teaspoonfuls of flour. Method.—Wash the tripe well. Put it in a pan with cold water to cover it, and a little salt. Par-boil it for five minutes, then take it out and carefully scrape off all fat. Cut the tripe into neat square pieces, about one and a half inches long. Put the slices of onion into enough cold water to cover them, and par-boil them for five minutes, then drain off the water and chop them finely. This makes the flavour less strong and renders them more digestible by getting rid of some of the essential oil. Put the tripe, milk, clove, and onion in a stewpan with the addition of a little salt. Cover the pan and let the tripe simmer very gently for two hours, or till it is perfectly tender. This is a most important point. Mix the flour smoothly and thinly with a little cold milk. Take out the clove. Pour in the mixed flour and stir it over the fire till it boils. Season the sauce carefully and arrange the tripe neatly on a hot dish with sippets of toast round. Note.—If allowed, potato straws are an excellent garnish for this dish. INVALID DISHES OF POULTRY AND GAME Chicken and Barley Cream Ingredients— Four slightly rounded tablespoon- Two teaspoonfuls of pearl barley. fuls of shredded raw chicken One gill of white stock or water. meat. Salt, pepper, and a dust of nutmeg. Three large tablespoonfuls of cream. Method.—Scrape the chicken into fine shreds. Put the barley into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bring it toTHE COMPLETE COOK 454 boiling point and boil it for five minutes; this is to blanch and get rid of the bitter taste. Strain off and throw away the water. Put the chicken, barley, and stock into a pan with a saltspoonful of salt. Let these simmer very gently from one hour and three-quarters to two hours. Next take out the chicken and barley and pound them, adding the liquid slowly. Rub the puree through a fine wire or hair sieve. Whip the cream till it will nearly, but not quite, hang on the whisk. Stir it in very lightly but thoroughly. Season the mixture and re-heat it. Serve it on small rounds of buttered toast. Note.—It may also be served cold. Veal, pheasant, or rabbit could be used. Chicken Custards Ingredients— Two rounded tablespoonfuls of raw chicken. One egg and one extra yolk. Half a gill of cream or white stock. Half a gill of milk. Two or three tablespoonfuls of good gravy. Salt and pepper. Method.—Put the chicken through a mincing machine, then pound it and rub it through a wire sieve. Beat the eggs just sufficiently to blend the yolks and whites, but not until they are frothy. Add to them the chicken, milk, cream, or stock, and seasoning to taste. Well butter some small moulds or cups ; pour in the mixture. Place the moulds in a steamer or a shallow pan, with boiling water to come barely half-way up them; in either case lay a piece of buttered paper over the top to prevent the condensed steam falling into the custards. Steam them very gently till they feel set in the centre; they will probably take about fifteen minutes. Then turn them carefully on to a hot dish, heat and season the gravy and strain it round. Note.—The custards may be eaten with bread and butter instead of gravy, if preferred. Mince of Raw Chicken Ingredients— Four rounded tablespoonfuls of raw chicken cut in dice. One raw yolk of egg. Two teaspoonfuls of butter. One teaspoonful of flour. Quarter of a teaspoonful of chopped onion. Half a gill of milk or white stock. A little lemon juice. Salt: pepper. A slice of toast.INVALID COOKERY 455 Method.—Put the milk in a saucepan with any rough bits of chicken, bone, skin, and the onion. Let these simmer until the milk is nicely flavoured, then strain it off. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the chicken and stir it over the fire till it loses the pink tinge and becomes white, but do not fry it brown. Mix in the flour smoothly, add the stock gradually. Cover the pan and let it simmer gently for about three-quarters of an hour, or until the meat is quite tender. Beat up and stir in the yolk of the egg. Season the mince carefully and arrange it on a hot dish. Cut the toast into neat sippets and put them as a border round. Note.—Pheasant can be used and a border of spinach ; young peas or French beans used in the place of toast. Panada of Chicken Ingredients— Four rounded tablespoonfuls of A few drops of lemon juice. raw chicken free from skin, etc. Salt and pepper. Four tablespoonfuls of cream. Butter. Method.—Pass the chicken twice through a mincing machine. Well butter a clean jar, put in the chicken, cover the jar tightly and place it in a saucepan of boiling water. Let the water simmer steadily for one hour. Next turn the contents of the jar into a mortar, pound them well, then rub them through a fine wire sieve., \Vhip the cream lightly—it should not be stiff enough to hang on the whisk—and stir it lightly into the chicken. Season it carefully with salt and pepper and a few drops of lemon juice. Make the mixture very hot and serve it on finger- shaped pieces of dry toast. Or it may be served cold, in which case season it rather more highly, and spread it on thin biscuits, or arrange it in small fancy cases. Note.—Veal or pheasant could be used instead of chicken. This is a delicate and nutritious preparation. Chicken Sandwiches Ingredients— Two tablespoonfuls of cooked One teaspoonful of butter. chicken. Brown or white bread and butter. One tablespoonful of lean cooked Salt and pepper, ham. Method.—Chop the chicken and ham finely, then pound them in a mortar with the butter and seasoning. If the ham is very lean or the chicken very dry, it may be necessary to addTHE COMPLETE COOK 456 more butter. Cut the bread and butter thinly and trim off all crusts before spreading on the mixture, otherwise so much of it is wasted. Press two slices together and cut them into neat shapes. Arrange them on a lace paper and garnish them with a sprig of parsley. Note.—Any game or poultry can be used, and tongue may be substituted for ham, or only chicken used, if preferred. Steamed Breast Ing7'edients— Half the breast of a raw fowl. A small piece of fresh butter. of Chicken A tablespoonful of well-cooked spinach. Salt and pepper. Method.—With a sharp knife remove half the breast of the chicken, then carefully take the skin from off it. Butter a plate, lay on the piece of chicken, sprinkle it with a little salt and pepper and cover it with another plate. Place the plate over a pan of boiling water, choosing a pan on the top of which the plate will just fit. Let the water boil fast for about thirty-five to forty minutes, then try a small piece of the chicken to see it is quite tender ; this is an important point. If it is, it is cooked enough; if not, steam it a little longer. Then serve it on a hot plate, and pour round it any essence which may have escaped, during cooking, on to the plate. Arrange the spinach neatly on the plate, and serve very hot. Note.—Any game or poultry is specially nourishing cooked in this way. Stewed Chicken higredietits— Half a young chicken. One gill of water. One gill of milk. One tablespoonful of cream. One stick of celery. Quarter of a teaspoonful of chopped onion. One level tablespoonful of flour. Salt and pepper. Method.—Cut the chicken into neat small joints, taking off all the outer skin. Put it in a stewing pan with the water, milk, the chopped onion, and celery, and a little salt. Let these stew gently in the oven for one and a half hours, keeping the cover on the jar. Mix the flour smoothly with a little extra cold milk, add it to the chicken, etc. Let it come to the boil so as to cook the flour and thicken the sauce, then season it carefully, and add the cream. Arrange the pieces of chicken on a hot dish and strain the sauce over.INVALID COOKERY 457 Cutlets of Ingredients— Two rounded tablespoonfuls of chopped raw pheasant. One teaspoonful of butter. Three tablespoonfuls of milk or white stock. Pheasant Three or four tablespoonfuls of white sauce. One tablespoonful of cream. One level tablespoonful of flour. Half a beaten egg. Salt and pepper. Method.—Melt the butter in a small pan, stir in the flour, then add the milk or stock and stir the mixture over a slow fire till it can be rolled about in the pan without sticking to it. Let this mixture cool for five minutes, then add the pheasant and cream and half a beaten egg. Pound this mixture well and rub it through a fine wire sieve. Brush some small cutlet moulds with clarified butter, press some of the mixture well into each, so that they will take the shape nicely; level the top of the mixture with a knife dipped in hot water. Place them in a shallow pan on the fire with boiling water about half an inch deep. Lay a piece of buttered paper across the tops. Let the water simmer very gently till the mixture feels set in the centre ; they will 'probably take about fifteen minutes. See that the water is not deep enough to bubble over the edges of the tins. When they are sufficiently cooked shake them gently out on to a soft clean cloth and lightly wipe off all grease. Serve them on a hot dish with a little good white sauce strained over them. Note.—A little well-cooked spinach is excellent with this dish. Chicken, veal, or any raw game may be used. If the game is a dark colour a brown sauce should be used for coating them, not white. Panada of Pheasant {French) Ingredients— Three rounded tablespoonfuls of One slightly'rounded dessertspoon- chopped lightly cooked pheasant. ful of butter. A penny French roll. One tablespoonful of cream. Flalf a pint of milk. Salt and pepper. Method.—Put the crumb from the roll into a basin with the milk, and when it is well soaked beat it up with a fork as finely as possible. Chop the pheasant finely, then pound it in a mortar, if necessary adding a spoonful or two of extra milk, as this makes the pounding easier. Add this to the soaked roll, also the butter, the cream lightly whipped, and salt and pepper to taste. Beat the mixture over the fire for ten minutes, thenTHE COMPLETE COOK 458 serve it heaped up in a pyramid form on a hot dish. Garnish it with neat sippets of toast. Note.—Chicken or pigeon may be used in the place of pheasant. INVALID JELLIED FOODS Chicken Jelly Ingredients— One fowl. Salt and pepper. One pint of cold water. Method.—Chop the fowl into small pieces. Put it in the pan with the water and a little salt. Let it simmer slowly for one hour. Then take out the bones, pound them in a mortar, add them again to the other ingredients, and let them simmer for another hour, skimming occasionally. Strain off the liquid through a fine sieve or piece of muslin. Season it carefully and serve cold, a few spoonfuls at a time. Note.—Before adding the seasoning, ascertain that it is allowed. Egg Jelly Ingredients— Two new-laid eggs. Three and a half gills of water. Half a gill of lemon juice. Five sheets of gelatine. Two lemons. One teacupful of loaf sugar. Method.—Wipe the lemons and pare them very thinly. Put the rinds into a pan with the water, sugar, and strained lemon juice. Bring these to boiling point, add the gelatine and let it dissolve. Then draw the pan to the side of the fire and let it cool slightly. Beat up the eggs and add them gradually to the other ingredients, whisking well all the time. Heat the mixture carefully for a few minutes, but on no account let it boil, or the eggs will curdle. Strain the jelly into a mould and leave it till cold. Note.—Orange rinds and juice may be substituted for lemons, if liked. Jellied Milk Ingredients— Half a pint of new milk. Three sheets of gelatine. Half a gill of cream. Six lumps of sugar. Half a gill of water. A few drops of vanilla. Method.—Put the water, sugar, and gelatine in a pan over a slow fire and let the gelatine dissolve; stir it occasionally.459 INVALID COOKERY Whisk the cream slightly, add the milk to it, then strain in the gelatine, etc., and add vanilla to taste. Pour the mixture into a basin, stir it now and then till it is just beginning to set, then leave it till cold. Unless it is stirred until half set the mixture will separate, the cream rising to the top. Note.—This jelly is most nutritious. A little brandy or rum may be used in the place of vanilla if it is advisable to make it still more strengthening. Savoury Meat Jelly higredien ts— Half a raw fowl. Half a pound of lean beef. Half a pound of lean veal. Five sheets of gelatine. One teaspoonful of chopped shallot. One inch of carrot and celery. A bunch of herbs. Half a glass of sherry. One teaspoonful of meat glaze. One and a half pints of water. Salt and pepper. Method.—Cut off all fat from the chicken and meat, and cut them into small pieces; put them in a saucepan with the cold water and a little salt, and let them soak for half an hour. Now add the herbs, carrot, celery, shallot, and glaze, and simmer all for four hours, keeping the lid tightly on the pan. Melt the gelatine in a little warm water. Strain off the meat liquor into a basin and add the dissolved gelatine, wine, and seasoning. Strain this through a fine hair sieve or a piece of muslin and leave it until cold, and use as required. PUDDINGS FOR INVALIDS Apple Cream Ingredients— Two medium-sized cooking apples. Castor sugar to taste. Half a gill of cream. Three ratafias. Method.—Peel, core, and slice the apples, then stew them until soft in two tablespoonfuls of water. Rub them through a fine wire sieve. Whip the cream till it will just hang on the whisk. Stir it lightly into the apple pulp. Sweeten it to taste and colour it a pretty pale pink with a few drops of cochineal, if liked. Pile up the mixture in a glass dish and grate the ratafias over the top. Serve it cold. Note.—The ratafias may be omitted if the patient is on strict diet.460 THE COMPLETE COOK A Steamed Batter Pudding Ingredients— Four level tablespoonfuls of flour. One gill of milk. Two eggs. A little salt. Method.—Sieve the flour and salt into a basin. Make a well in the middle, put in the eggs and stir the flour gradually into them, taking great care the batter does not get lumpy. Next add to it gradually half the milk, and beat it well until the surface is covered with bubbles. Add the rest of the milk and let the batter stand for one hour. Thickly butter a pudding basin, pour in the batter and twist a piece of buttered paper over the top of the basin. Steam it gently for two hours. Turn it carefully on to a hot dish and serve it immediately, as it spoils when it begins to cool. Hand with it any nice sweet sauce. Cream and Rice higredients— One level tablespoonful of Caro- Half a gill of cream. lina rice. Two teaspoonfuls of sherry. Half a pint of milk. Castor sugar to taste. Method.—Wash the rice, put it into boiling milk and let it simmer very slowly till the rice is quite soft and has absorbed all the milk. Keep the lid on the pan, but stir the rice often. It should be quite thick when it is cooked enough. Whip the cream till it will just hang on the whisk. Stir it lightly into the rice, add the sherry and sugar to taste. Serve it heaped up in custard glasses or on fancy plates. Note.—If permitted, stewed fruit is an excellent accompani- ment to this dish. Custard Shape Ingredie7its— Two eggs and two extra yolks. Two and a half sheets of gelatine. Half a pint of milk. Vanilla or brandy to taste. Two teaspoonfuls of castor sugar. Method.—Beat up the eggs and the two extra yolks. Put the sugar and milk in a saucepan, bring it to boiling point, let it cool slightly, then pour it gradually on to the eggs, whisking them all the time. Strain the mixture into a jug, place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir the custard in the jug till it thickens but on no account boils. Keep the water round the jug gently boiling. Dissolve the461 INVALID COOKERY gelatine in two or three tablespoonfuls of hot water, strain it into the custard. Sweeten and flavour it and pour it into small moulds. Leave till cold, then turn out carefully. Note.—This is most nutritious, as well as being agreeable to take. Steamed Custard Ingredients— One gill of milk. One teaspoonful of castor sugar. One whole egg and one extra yolk. Vanilla. Method.—Beat the eggs lightly but well together without frothing them. Boil the milk. When it has cooled slightly pour it on to the eggs, add the sugar and a few drops of vanilla. Well butter some small cups or moulds. Strain in the custard and twist a piece of buttered paper over the top. Steam the custards very slowly till they are firm; if they are cooked at all quickly they will be watery and full of holes. When they are sufficiently cooked, let the custards stand for a minute or two, then turn them carefully out. Serve them either plain, or with stewed fruit or jam. Note.—This mixture can be baked, if so wished. If a particularly nourishing dish is required use half a gill of cream and half a gill of milk. Invalid’s Trifle Ingrediejits— Two penny sponge cakes. One whole egg and one extra A little red or black currant yolk. jelly. Half a gill of cream. One glass of sherry. Castor sugar to taste. One gill of milk. Method.—Cut the cakes in halves lengthways, spread each with a little jam, press the pieces together, and cut them through again lengthways so as to have four finger-shaped sandwiches. Arrange these in a pretty dish and pour the sherry over them. Next beat up the egg and yolk, boil the milk, when it has cooled slightly pour it on to the eggs, stirring them all the time. Put this custard into a jug, place it in a pan of boiling water, let the water boil steadily until the custard thickens, stirring it all the time. Sweeten it to taste, and when cold pour it over the cakes. Whip the cream stiffly, sweeten it slightly, and heap it roughly over the custard. Note.—Any plain cake without fruit will do, and it is of noTHE COMPLETE COOK 462 consequence if stale, only allow longer soaking. The cream whip can be omitted, if preferred. Nightingale Pudding Ingredients— About two fairly thick slices of One gill of milk. bread. One teaspoonful of brandy. One tablespoonful of castor sugar. A little grated lemon rind. One egg. Method.—Cut the crusts off the bread and cut it into small dice; there should be enough to loosely fill a teacup. Boil the milk, add the sugar, lemon rind, and brandy; let it cool slightly, then strain in the beaten egg. Mix all well together and pour it on to the bread. Let it soak for ten minutes. Butter a small mould, put the mixture in it. Twist a piece of greased paper over the top and steam the pudding very gently for one hour. Turn it carefully on to a hot dish and serve with it some plain sweet sauce, or whipped and flavoured cream. Note.—If the bread is very stale, more milk may be needed, as it will soak up so much, also longer soaking will be required. Suet Puddings Ingredients— Four level tablespoonfuls of flour. Four lightly rounded tablespoon- fuls of crumbs. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of chopped beef suet. for Invalids Half a teaspoonful of baking powder. One saltspoonful of salt. A gill of milk. Method.—Sieve together the flour, baking powder, and salt, then mix with them the crumbs and suet, the latter must be chopped very finely. Mix these ingredients to a soft dough with the milk. Well butter a pudding basin, put in the mixture, twist a piece of buttered paper over the top, and steam the pudding gently from three to four hours. Turn it carefully on to a hot dish and serve with it either some good gravy, stewed fruit, or cream and sugar. Note.—If liked, this same mixture may be boiled and have added to it a teaspoonful each of brown sugar and sultanas; it will then take less time to cook, but will not be so digestible.463 INVALID COOKERY BEVERAGES: GRUELS, ETC., FOR INVALIDS A Cup of Arrowroot or Cornflour Ingredients— Two rounded teaspoonfuls of Half a pint of boiling milk. arrowroot or cornflour. Castor sugar to taste. Method.—Mix the arrowroot thinly and smoothly with a little extra cold milk. Pour on to it the boiling milk, stirring it briskly all the time. Pour it back into the saucepan and stir it over a slow fire until it boils and thickens. Cook it slowly for ten minutes longer, otherwise it will be indigestible and will taste raw. Sweeten it to taste and serve it very hot. Note.—It should be about the consistency of thick crearn, so, if necessary, add more milk. A spoonful of brandy or sherry can be added, if wished. Barley Gruel Ingredients— One rounded tablespoonful of A glass of port wine. pearl barley. A piece of lemon rind. Half a pint of boiling water. Castor sugar to taste. Method.—First blanch the barley, that is, put it in a pan with enough cold water to cover it, and let it boil for five minutes, and strain it out of the water. Put the barley back in a saucepan with the half-pint of water and the strip of lemon rind. Let it simmer gently for half an hour. Strain out the barley, add the wine and sugar to taste, and serve very hot. Clear Barley Water Ingredien ts— Two large tablespoonfuls of pearl Four lumps of sugar. barley. One pint of boiling water. The rind of one lemon. Method.—Put the barley in a saucepan with cold water to cover it. Bring it to boiling point and boil for five minutes. Strain off and throw away this water. This is done to blanch the barley and so improve the colour and flavour. Put the barley in a jug or basin with the thinly pared rind of the lemon and the sugar. Pour on the boiling water. Cover the jug464 THE COMPLETE COOK tightly and leave it till cold, then strain off the liquid and it is ready for use. Note.—This is nourishing as well as refreshing. If it is to be added to milk leave out the lemon rind. Thick Barley Water Ingredients— Two large tablespoonfuls of pearl One pint of boiling water barley. Sugar to taste. Method.—Put the barley in a saucepan with cold water to cover. Boil this for five minutes; this is to blanch the barley so as to clear it and remove all bitter flavour. Throw away the water, put back the barley, and add the boiling water. Boil it gently until it is the consistency of thin cream; this will be when it has boiled down to about two-thirds of its original quantity. Strain off the liquid and sweeten it to taste with castor sugar. If liked, a little lemon juice may be added. Note.—Barley water will only keep really fresh for a short time, so it is a mistake to make it in large quantities. Black Currant Tea Ingredients— One tablespoonful of black currant Half a pint of boiling water. jam. One teaspoonful of lemon juice. Method.—Boil all the ingredients gently together for about six minutes. Then strain off the liquid and serve it either hot or cold. The former is useful for a cold. The latter for thirst, coughs, and huskiness. A Brandy Cordial Ingredients— One gill of brandy. One tablespoonful of cream. One gill of thick barley water. Castor sugar to taste. Three raw yolks of eggs. Method.—Beat the yolks up with the cream. Add the barley water and brandy. Stir the mixture briskly and sweeten it to taste. Strain the mixture and use it in cases of great weakness, giving a few spoonfuls at a time.465 INVALID COOKERY Brandy and Cream Ingredients— Two tablespoonfuls of cherry Half a gill of cream, brandy. Method.—Mix the brandy and cream well together and serve. This is a pleasant and very nourishing preparation. Caudle higredients— One level tablespoonful of fine oat- meal. Quarter of a pint of boiling water. Quarter of a pint of boiling milk. One glass of sherry. The yolk of an egg. Two teaspoonfuls of castor sugar. One teaspoonful of grated lemon rind. Six raisins. A little grated nutmeg. Method.—Mix the oatmeal smoothly and thinly with a little cold water: put the milk and water in a saucepan ; when this boils, pour it on to the oatmeal. Pour it back into the saucepan, add the raisins after stoning and halving them, also the lemon rind. Let these boil gently for a quarter of an hour, then strain off the liquid ; add the beaten yolk of egg, the sherry, a dust of nutmeg, and the sugar, and serve it at once. Cinnamon and Egg Mixture Ingredien ts— Four tablespoonfuls of brandy. The yolks of two eggs. Four tablespoonfuls of cinnamon syrup. For the Syrup— Four tablespoonfuls of lump sugar. Eight tablespoonfuls of cold water. Four inches of cinnamon stick. Method.—Put the sugar in the pan with the cinnamon after breaking it up well. Add the cold water and boil it until it is reduced to about half and is strongly flavoured with cinnamon. Then strain it off. Beat up the yolks, add the brandy, and strain. When the syrup has cooled slightly, add it and mix it well. Note.—This has a powerful stimulating action, and is very valuable in cases of exhaustion, A dose is usually a tea- spoonful. 30466 THE COMPLETE COOK Beaten Egg Ingredients— One new-laid egg. Sugar to taste. One glass of sherry. Method.—Separate the yolk and white of the egg, remove the thread. Mix the yolk with the sugar, mix it with the sherry, and strain it. Whip the white to a light froth, then stir it very lightly into the yolk and wine. Serve it in a tumbler. Note.—If preferred, the yolk and white may be beaten together, but the mixture will not be quite so light. Do not forget to strain the mixture. Strengthening Egg Mixture higredients— One raw white of egg. One tablespoonful of cream. One tablespoonful of brandy. One teaspoonful of castor sugar. Method.—Beat the white of egg to a light froth. Mix the cream, sugar, and brandy together; stir the white of egg in lightly, and serve at once. Egg Nog Ingredients— One new-laid egg. Two teaspoonfuls of castor sugar. Half a pint of milk. Three teaspoonfuls of brandy. Method.—Put the milk in a jug, place it in a saucepan of boiling water, and let this water boil round it till the milk is very hot, but not boiling. Leave it till cold. Beat up the yolk with the sugar, and whisk the white to a light froth. Add the cold milk and brandy to the yolk. Strain these, mix the milk in thoroughly, and serve. Boiled Flour and Milk Ingredients— One level tablespoonful of grated Half a pint of milk. boiled flour. Castor sugar to taste. Method.—Put half the milk in a pan on the fire to boil. Pass the grated flour through a sieve, then mix it smoothly with the remainder of the milk. When the milk boils, pour in the flour, etc., and cook it gently from eight to ten minutes, stirring it all the time. Add the castor sugar to taste, pour it into a hot cup, and serve.467 INVALID COOKERY To boil the Flour.—Tie six or eight large tablespoonfuls of ordinary flour in a pudding cloth and boil it fast in plenty of water for about four hours. Leave it till cold. It will then be in a hard ball, and must be grated before it is ready for use. This method renders the flour peculiarly easy to digest, and is often ordered by medical men. Gruel higredients— Half a pint of boiling milk. Castor sugar or salt to taste. Two rounded teaspoonfuls of the best fine oatmeal. Method.—Mix the oatmeal smoothly and thinly with a little cold milk. Then pour on the boiling milk, stirring it all the time. Pour it back into the saucepan, and cook it gently for ten minutes, keeping it well stirred. Strain it and add salt or sugar to taste, and serve it very hot; unless it is so, it is practically useless. Note.—If liked, a tablespoonful of brandy or sherry may be added to the gruel after it has been strained; in that case, use sugar, not salt. Or another variety may be obtained by using rum in the place of brandy and by adding a small piece of fresh butter. Prepared patent groats may be used instead of the oat- meal, and water instead of milk. Irish Moss Drink Ingredients— A teacupful of Irish moss. Castor sugar to taste. One pint of cold water. A little lemon juice. A glass of sherry or Marsala. Method.—Wash the moss very thoroughly, then let it soak overnight in cold water. Next day strain out the moss, put it in a clean saucepan with the pint of water, and let it boil gently for an hour. Strain off the liquid, add the lemon juice, sherry, and sugar to taste. Great pains should be taken in the flavour- ing, so as to disguise the somewhat unpleasant characteristic flavour of this seaweed. Lemon Posset Ingredients— Two raw eggs. One pint of water. Two glasses of sherry. The rind and juice of a lemon. Two tablespoonfuls of fine fresh breadcrumbs. Sugar and nutmeg to taste.68 THE COMPLETE COOK Method.—Put the crumbs in a pan with the thinly pared lemon rind and the water. Boil them till the water is reduced to about one-third. Take out the lemon rind and add the strained lemon juice and the wine. Beat up the eggs thoroughly, stir them briskly into the crumbs, etc.; reheat the mixture well without boiling it. Add a dust of nutmeg and sugar to taste, and serve as hot as possible. Linseed Ingredients— Two small tablespoonfuls of whole linseed. One pint of boiling water. One inch of liquorice. Tea Three lumps of sugar, or a small piece of sugar candy. One tablespoonful of lemon juice. Method.—Wash the linseed carefully, put it in a saucepan with the sugar, liquorice, and water. Let this simmer gently for three- quarters of an hour. Strain off the liquid, add the lemon juice and serve it either hot or cold. Note.—This will be found most beneficial in severe colds. Orangeade Ingredients— Four oranges. Soda water. Half a pint of boiling water. Sugar to taste. Method.—Wash and wipe the oranges, pare off the rind very thinly, put them in a jug with about a dozen lumps of sugar, the boiling water, and the strained juice of the oranges. Cover the jug, and leave it till cold. To serve it: pour about a fourth of this quantity into a glass and fill it up with soda water. A few small pieces of ice would be an improvement. ^ Prairie Oyster Ingredients— , One raw yolk of egg. Or the same of Worcester sauce. One teaspoonful of white French Salt and pepper. vinegar. Method.—Pour half the vinegar in a glass. Break in the yolk of an egg, add the rest of the vinegar and a dust of salt and pepper. It should be swallowed whole. Note.—If wished, the whole egg can be administered. This is most nourishing and highly digestible.INVALID COOKERY 469 Sago Gruel Ingredients— Two teaspoonfuls of small sago. One glass of port wine. Half a pint of boiling water. Sugar and nutmeg to taste. Method.—Put the water in a small pan ; when it boils, sprinkle in the sago and stir it over the fire until the water is thickened and the sago transparent. Add the wine and sugar and grated nutmeg to taste. Serve it very hot. Care must be taken that it is not made too thick ; it must not resemble a pudding. Suet Milk Ingredients— One heaped tablespoonful of One tablespoonful of castor sugar. chopped beef suet. Half an inch of cinnamon. One pint of milk. Method.—Put the suet with half the milk in a small pan, and let it boil gently for a quarter of an hour. Strain the milk through a piece of muslin, pressing the suet thoroughly. Put the milk back in the pan with the other half-pint, the sugar and cinnamon, and boil it gently for five minutes. Strain out the cinnamon, and serve the milk either hot or cold. Note.—This is most nourishing ; give a small glassful at a time. A little brandy can be added instead of cinnamon. Toast Water Ingredients— A crust of bread. Half a pint of cold water. Method.—Toast the crust till it is very brown all over, but not burnt. Put it into a basin with the cold water, and let it soak for three-quarters of an hour. Then strain it off without mashing the bread ; the liquid will then be perfectly clear. Note.—Crumb of bread toasted very brown and hard may be used if the liquid is to be consumed at once ; if it is likely to be kept, use crust, the crumb being more liable to turn sour. Whey Ingredients— Half a pint of new milk Or three-quarters of a teaspoonful Half a square inch of rennet. of pepsine wine. Method.—Heat the milk slowly till it feels warm but not hot to the finger. Put in the rennet, and stand the milk in aTHE COMPLETE COOK 470 warm place for three-quarters of an hour. Strain out the curds, and the liquid is ready to serve. White of Egg with Milk Ingredients— The white of one egg. Castor sugar and vanilla to taste. One gill of milk. Method.—Bring the milk to the boil, then let it cool slightly. Whip the white of egg stiffly, mix it lightly with the milk, sweeten and flavour it to taste. Pour the mixture into a tumbler and serve at once. Note.—If it is to be served cold, do not add the egg until the milk is quite cold. Brandy and rum can be used instead of vanilla. White Wine Whey Ingredients— Half a pint of new milk. Castor sugar to taste. One sherry glassful of sherry. Method.—Bring the milk slowly to boiling point, then as it boils pour in the sherry. Strain out the curds through a piece of muslin, and serve the liquid hot or cold after sweetening it. Note.—This is useful in many children’s ailments as well as for adults. It is both nourishing and stimulating. Wine Lemonade Ingredients— Three lemons. One pint of boiling water. Half a pint of sherry. Two ounces of lump sugar. Four eggs. Method.—Wipe the lemons, chip off the rinds very thinly, putting them in a basin or jug with the sugar. Pour on the boiling water, cover the jug, and leave it till it is cold ; then strain it. Add the sherry, strained lemon juice, and the beaten eggs. Strain the mixture, whisk it well for a few minutes, and serve as required. A Valuable Food for Delicate Infants, Cases of Exhaustion, etc. Given by an Experienced Medical Ma7i Ingredients— One raw white of a new-laid egg. Twelve tablespoonfuls of cold boiled water.4/1 DIET FOR INFANTS AND CHILDREN Method.—Cut the white by slightly beating it with a fork. Put it into a clean medicine bottle with the water and shake it until thoroughly well mixed. Give one or more spoonfuls at a time. There is no taste to this, and the egg being albumen in its purest and most digestible form makes it most valuable. DIET FOR INFANTS AND CHILDREN Infants Infant mortality, and how it may be decreased from its present high rate, is a subject of national importance. The ignorance of mothers is the main cause of such loss of life, so every authority agrees; and though there are doubtless other issues responsible, still the majority of women certainly do not realise that a child’s constitution all through life is made or marred by its diet during infancy or childhood. If mothers are able to nurse the babies for some months, and the children thrive, all is simplicity itself. The trouble begins when children, for any reason, have to be reared by hand; that is, when bottles have to be resorted to. It is impossible to lay down hard-and-fast rules for feeding infants. One child will need more or less food, shorter or longer intervals between each meal, the proportions varied, etc. Mothers and nurses must use their eyes and common sense; see if the child thrives and is increasing in weight-, if not, something is wrong in the diet, and it will be wise to consult their medical adviser. The following rules will, however, be a slight guidance to those who lack experience and who are not able to obtain a good experienced nurse. How often to Feed Infants First month.—Every two hours in the day and three hours at night. Average amount, 1-2 ounces in each bottle. Second month.—Same intervals as above. Average amount, 3-4 ounces. Third and fourth months.—Same intervals as for first month. Average amount, 4-5 ounces. The next six months.—Every three hours during the day and four hours during the night, gradually giving longer intervals. Average amount, 6 ounces. At twelve months.—A little broth, custard, or milk pudding may be allowed. Mashed potato in gravy is enjoyed, but theTHE COMPLETE COOK 472 diet is still mainly milk, and no meat should usually be given till two years of age. The Proportions in zvhich to Mix the Food For the first few months, to each tablespoonful of boiled milk add two tablespoonfuls of boiled water and half a tea- spoonful of sugar-of-milk. This is quite inexpensive, and much better for infants than cane sugar. If not obtainable, add fine white sugar. Gradually lessen the water till at three months give equal parts of milk and water, and at six months two parts of milk to one of water. The food must be freshly mixed for every bottle, not re-warmed. The Bottles Use plain boat-shaped glass bottles with short indiarubber teats and no long tubing. Keep them perfectly clean. Wash them in warm water containing a little soda. Keep them when not in use and the teats, the latter turned inside out, in a basin of water with a little carbonate of soda in it. Be sure and rinse them well before using. An extra bottle or two and some teats should always be in the house ; but in case of an accident, the teat can be fixed on to a clean medicine or oval soda-water bottle. The Milk must be perfectly fresh, and it is best boiled, unless the dairy it is obtained from is above suspicion, because: 1. Often it is more digestible, though it will have lost a certain proportion of its nutriment. 2. There is less risk of disease being conveyed by it. Milk that is not absolutely fresh may cause very serious illness and even death to infants. Keep milk in perfectly clean jugs or basins covered with muslin or perforated paper. Never let it stand in the can or near sinks, drains, or strong-smelling foods. Condensed Milk though valuable at times, should never be given for too long a period, as it contains too much sugar and too little cream. Babies fed on it grow very fat, but would soon develop tendencies to rickets. The best brand of milk in the market must be used. Should infants be unable to digest cow’s milk with water.473 DIET FOR INFANTS AND CHILDREN add lime water, allowing one teaspoonful to every three table- spoonfuls of milk and water: or, thin barley water may be substituted instead of boiled water; this is often successful. Delicate babies should have a teaspoonful of good pure cream added to each bottle, or a spoonful of raw beef juice. The latter has saved the life of many an infant. No starchy foods such as bread, sponge cake, rice, potato, etc., must ever be given until the child has cut one or two teeth. Before this takes place, the saliva lacks the ferment to convert the starch into sugar, which is the first step towards digestion. So, though the food is perhaps swallowed, it merely sets up irritation and often serious harm. For the same reason Patent Foods, which are not all free from starch, should never be given except if ordered by a medical man. It may be as well to add a caution against Over-Heated Food A baby’s mouth and throat are very delicate and easily scalded. A careful nurse will draw a little through the teat herself, to test the temperature of the food and also to see if the flow of milk is not too slow or rapid. Lack of Fat —that is, milk-fat or cream—will result in rickets in children. Many believe this disease arises from a deficiency of lime-salts in the water, but more often than not the child is not having enough fat. Give cream, cod-liver oil, or good fresh butter or bacon dripping to supply it in additional quantities. Soothing Syrup should be forbidden unless ordered by a doctor. Children have been physically and mentally ruined, and even killed, by the use of these by unconscientious or ignorant mothers and nurses. Children , Children and all young people while growing need the most nutritious food, plenty of it, and at regular intervals. Rich and stimulating foods are most undesirable for children; milk is still most necessary, and should be drunk instead of tea and coffee, except for an occasional treat. Children are usually very fond of sweet things, some help- ing themselves most liberally out of the sugar bowls! This is an instinctive craving and, within reason, should be gratified.THE COMPLETE COOK 474 not suppressed. When the system has absorbed as much as it requires, the desire for sugar in all forms will cease. Plenty of light puddings, eggs, stewed fruits, well-cooked vegetables, as well as fish and meat in moderation, are very needful for the well-being of young people. A good plain cake and well-made pastry will do no harm to the average child once in a way, but new bread, pickles, highly seasoned foods, pork, and veal are best left alone. Children .should be given and compelled to take sufficient time for eating, and should be taught to masticate everything slowly and thoroughly. Much harm is done by allowing the habit of constantly eating sweets, biscuits, etc., between meals. Not only do digestive troubles ensue, but when the proper time arrives for the necessary wholesome food, there is no appetite. Children need variety in food quite as much as their elders, a point often overlooked : also, without spoiling the members of nursery and schoolroom, a wise mother will not expect every child to have the same taste, nor yet for the same foods to agree with all alike, and will give a reasonable consideration to their various tastes. Some of these so-called fads and fancies are often natural instincts, pointing out what is beneficial to the system, or the reverse.CHAPTER XXVI .k 475 BREAD AND SCONES White Bread Ingredients— Six heaped breakfastcupfuls of flour (half quartern). Half an ounce of compressed yeast. One and a half breakfastcupfuls of tepid water. Two level teaspoonfuls of salt. One level teaspoonful of castor sugar. Method.—Warm a basin and the flour; this saves time. Sieve the flour and salt into the basin. Put the yeast and sugar into another basin ; cream them together until liquid. Add the tepid water; if too hot it will kill the yeast plant, and the flour will not rise. Make a well in the flour and strain in the yeast and water. Stir in a little of the flour from the sides, leaving a wall of it all round the yeast and water. Cover the basin, and put this “ sponge,” as it is called, in a warm place to rise for about twenty minutes, or until the surface of the yeast and water is thickly covered with bubbles. (When letting a dough of any sort rise, the time required depends on the warmth of the weather and room, and where the basin is placed. If the latter is too hot, the dough rises too rapidly and the bread may be heavy ; if too cool, the action of the yeast is delayed.) Then knead all the flour into the “ sponge,” using the hand Add more tepid water if the dough is too stiff It should be as soft as possible, without actually sticking to the fingers. It is better made a little too soft than too dry. Dough that is to be made into special shapes and baked without the support of a tin should be stiffer than tin or pan bread. When mixed, turn the dough on to a floured board and knead it well with the hands until quite smooth and elastic. This is done so that all the ingredients are evenly distributed and no balls of dry flour left in the dough. Use as little flour as possible while kneading, and on no account put back the little wads of dough off the fingers and scrapings of the board. Take care the kneading is476 THE COMPLETE COOK not so slowly done that the dough becomes chilled. Put the dough back into the basin, cover it and put it in a warm place to rise a second time for about one and a half hours, or until the dough is about twice its original size and the surface covered with fine cracks. If it rises too much, the bubbles, formed by the carbonic acid gas, break, the gas escapes, and the dough sinks down into a flabby wrinkled mass, and it does not rise a second time properly; consequently, the bread is heavy and probably sour. When sufficiently risen, cut the dough away from the sides of the basin even, if not quite ready to shape it; this reduces the bulk somewhat, by releasing some of the gas, but it will rise again ; it also checks the fermentation at the right moment, and thus the bread will be better for it. When ready to shape the loaves, turn the dough on to the board, knead it very quickly and lightly together, divide it into as many pieces as loaves are wanted (this makes one half-quartern loaf). For a Tin Loaf.—Grease a bread tin, shape the dough for it, drop it into the tin, prick it if liked on the top, and set the tin in a warm place until the dough, which should only half fill it, has risen to the top. Then bake it at once; it is better to bake it a little too soon than let it rise too long. For a Cottage Loaf.—Divide the dough into two balls, one a little smaller than the other; put the smaller on the top of the larger ball, and push the little, or fore finger right through the centre of both balls. Gash the upper and under ball here and there with a knife, put the loaf on a floured tin, and allow it to rise, or “prove,” a little in a warm place. If it rises too much the loaf will lose its shape. Bake the bread in a hot oven (340°) for the first fifteen minutes, then let the heat very gradually decrease for the rest of the time. A half-quartern will take about one and a quarter to one and a half hours to bake ; it is best over rather than under baked. When well baked, if tapped underneath with the fingers, a hollow, empty sound is noticeable. Take bread at once out of the tin and lay it on a sieve or on its side, in order that the steam can escape, and do not cover until quite cold. Whole Meal Bread l7igredients— Three heaped breakfastcupfuls of white flour. Three heaped breakfastcupfuls of whole meal flour. Half an ounce of com.pressed yeast. One breakfastcupful of tepid water. Half a breakfastcupful of tepid milk. Two level teaspoonfuls of salt. One teaspoonful of castor sugar.477 BREAD AND SCONES Method.—Mix the two flours and salt. Cream the yeast and sugar until liquid and stir into it the tepid milk and water. Make a well in the centre of the flour. Strain the yeast into it and stir a little flour into the liquid. Cover and place this “ sponge ” in a warm place for about twenty minutes, or until the yeast is covered with bubbles. Then knead in the rest of the flour, adding more tepid water if required. Knead the dough quickly and for a shorter time than white bread. Shape it at once without proving it a second time, and put it into a greased bread tin. Let the dough rise to the top of the tin, and bake it as directed for White Bread. Any other shaped loaf can be made. Vienna or Fancy Bread higredients— Three and a half breakfastcupfuls of flour. Half an ounce of compressed yeast. One breakfastcupful of tepid milk. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One egg. Two teaspoonfuls of salt. One teaspoonful of castor sugar. Method.—Sieve the flour and salt. Cream the yeast and sugar. Melt the butter, add the milk, and make it lukewarm. Add the beaten egg to the milk, etc., and stir it into the yeast. Make a well in the flour, gradually strain in the mixed yeast, etc., mixing in the flour smoothly. Knead the dough well, put it into a basin, cover it, and put it in a warm place to rise for about an hour and a half, or until twice its first size. Take it out of the basin, knead lightly for a minute or so, then divide into about six pieces and shape into rolls, crescents, twists, etc. Place them on a floured baking tin. Put them to rise until about half as large again, and bake in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes. When baked, brush them over with one table- spoonful of milk boiled with two teaspoonfuls of butter; this glazes the rolls. Baking Powder Bread Ingredients— Three level teacupfuls of flour. Two rounded teaspoonfuls of bak- One teaspoonful of salt. ing powder. About one and a half teacupfuls of milk. Method.—Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder. Mix them with the milk to as soft a dough as possible, without being478 THE COMPLETE COOK actually sticky. Do this very quickly, and knead it lightly together. Divide it and shape into about four little fancy loaves, put them on a floured tin, and bake at once in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. Brush over with a little milk to give a shiny appearance. This bread is spoiling every minute it is kept out of the oven after adding the milk, so it must be made quickly. Note.—This is best made in small batches, so as to be more quickly finished off, and also it soon gets stale. It is convenient in places where yeast is hard to obtain. Dough Cake Ingredients— Half a quartern of bread dough. (For this proceed as for White Bread.) Six rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Eight rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. One breakfastcupful of currants. Method.—Prepare the dough as directed. After it has risen for the second time, beat the butter to a cream, add it to the dough, beating it well in—with the hand is easiest. Add the beaten eggs, the cleaned fruit, chopped peel, sugar, spice, and mix them evenly through the dough. Put it into the prepared tin to rise, until it fills it,then bake in the same way as ordinary bread. One breakfastcupful of sultanas, or raisins. Four heaped tablespoonfuls of chopped peel. One level tablespoonful of mixed spice. Three eggs. London Ingredients— Seven and a half level teacupfuls of flour. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Scones One white of egg. Half a pint of milk. Five level teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. Two and a half level teaspoonfuls of carbonate of soda. Method.—Sieve the flour, sugar, cream of tartar, and soda. Rub in the butter finely, add the unbeaten white of egg and the milk gradually. Mix the whole into a smooth soft dough. Turn it on to a floured board, roll it out in rounds half an inch thick. Place them on a slightly greased tin, and bake in a quick oven for about half an hour. Note.—These are often cut into rounds the size of the top of a claret glass and then baked.479 BREAD AND SCONES Soda Scones Ingredients— Three and a half level breakfast- cupfuls of flour. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of butter or good dripping. One rounded tablespoonful of castor sugar. Half a pint of milk. Two tablespoonfuls of sultanas. Five level teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. Two and a half level teaspoonfuls of carbonate of soda. Method.—Have ready a flat baking tin slightly buttered. Sieve the sugar, cream of tartar, carbonate of soda, and flour. Rub in the butter finely, add the cleaned sultanas, and mix to a soft but not sticky dough with the milk. More or less milk may be required. Turn the dough on to a floured board, knead lightly, make it into two rounds, and roll them out half an inch thick. Mark tljem deeply across in four with the back of a knife. Put them on the tin, and bake in a quick oven for about three-quarters of an hour. When done, brush them over with a teaspoonful of butter melted in a tablespoonful of milk, and break the scones apart; on no account cut them, or they will be heavy. Yorkshire Tea-Cakes Ingredients— Two and three-quarter breakfast- cupfuls of flour. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One and a half gills of milk. One egg. One teaspoonful of castor sugar. Half a teaspoonful of salt. Half an ounce of compressed yeast. Method.—Well grease two round souffle or cake tins. If the latter is used, tie a band of greased paper round outside it; otherwise it will not be high enough. Warm the milk and butter until lukewarm. Mix the yeast and sugar together until liquid. Sieve the flour and salt. Make a well in the middle of the flour and strain in the yeast, milk, and beaten egg. Stir in the flour smoothly and knead and beat the dough well; it should be very soft without being actually sticky. Turn the dough on to a floured board and work it well together with a knife for five minutes, then cut it in half. Form each piece into a round flat cake, quite free from cracks. Drop a cake into each tin, twist a piece of paper over the top of each, and put them in a warm place to rise. When the dough fills the tins, put them in a very hot oven and bake for about twenty minutes. When the cakes are nearly done, take them out of the tins and finish cooking without them; the sides will be a better colour.480 THE COMPLETE COOK Brush the tops with a mixture of a tablespoonful of milk warmed with a teaspoonful of butter. When baked, place the cakes on a sieve to cool. Note.—Serve them cut into thick rounds toasted and buttered, or they are excellent cut in slices and buttered instead of bread.CHAPTER XXVII CAKES AND BISCUITS Helpful Hints about Cake Making 1. See the oven is heating before starting to make the mixture. 2. Sieve all flour to remove any lumps and to aerate it, this lightening the cakes. 3. Line all cake tins, except tiny ones, with greased paper. 4. Use good butter and eggs; good dripping is better than bad butter. 5. “Fold” (see How to Fold, etc.) flour into the eggs, etc., as lightly as possible. 6. Clean all fruit, and take the sugar out of the peel. 7. Fruit cakes need rather a hot oven just at first, in order to set the mixture quickly; otherwise the fruit sinks to the bottom. 8. Until a cake is set, do not move it, and shut the oven door very gently, or, if a light mixture, it will fall, and have a hole in the middle. 9. To prevent a cake getting too dark on the top, lay a sheet of paper over it, resting it on the edges of the paper band lining the tin. 10. To see if cakes are cooked through, push a clean skewer into the centre. If baked sufficiently, it will be quite clear and bright on withdrawal. 11. Leave all cakes tilted up against the edge of a plate, or place them on a sieve, when taken out of the oven, to allow the steam to escape, not to condense in them. 31THE COMPLETE COOK 482 Apricotines Ingredients— About six ounces of short pastry. Two rounded tablespoonfuls each of butter, castor sugar, and plain cake crumbs. One rounded tablespoonful of ground almonds. One egg. A dozen chopped shelled pistachio nuts. Two tablespoonfuls of apricot jam. One tablespoonful of sherry. A few drops each of vanilla and ratafia essence. Six chopped shelled almonds. Method.—Grease and line some small deep patty or boucWe moulds thinly with the pastry. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream. Beat the egg in thoroughly. Add the ground almonds, crumbs, and essence. Fill the cases half full with this mixture and shake some of the chopped almonds on the top of each. Bake the cakes for about fifteen to twenty minutes in a moderately hot oven. Warm the jam slightly and mix it with the wine, rub it through a hair sieve, and when the cakes are cold, brush the top of each with the prepared jam, and sprinkle with finely chopped pistachio. Breakfast Puffs, or “Pop-Overs” Ingredients— One breakfastcupful of flour. One saltspoonful of salt. One breakfastcupful of milk. One egg. Method.—Mix the flour and salt together, make a well in the centre and drop in the yolk of the egg, add half the milk to the egg, gradually stirring in the flour smoothly. Beat the batter for five minutes, then add the rest of the milk and the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Thickly grease some very hot deep patty tins (about one and a half inch deep) or small cups with hot butter or dripping. Half fill them with the batter, and bake them in a quick oven for about thirty minutes, or till they are browned and well popped over. Serve at once. Baking Powder Biscuits Make as for Soda Biscuits, but use eight level tea- spoonfuls of baking powder instead of soda and cream of tartar. i483 CAKES AND BISCUITS Soda Biscuits Ingredients— Four breakfastcupfuls of flour. One level teaspoonful of cream of One large tablespoonful of butter. tartar. One level teaspoonful of salt. About two breakfastcupfuls of One level teaspoonful of carbonate milk. of soda. Method.—Sieve the flour, salt, cream of tartar, soda, and flour twice. Rub in the butter lightly with the tips of the fingers. Flour the board thickly and grease some baking tins very slightly. Mix in enough milk to make a very soft dough of the flour, etc., just stilT enough to be handled. Use a broad knife to mix with. Turn the dough on to a board, turn it about with the knife till it is well floured. Handle it as little as possible, press it (not roll it) very lightly with a well-floured rolling pin ; when it is half an inch thick, cut it into rounds the size of the top of a claret glass. Place these on the tins, and bake at once in a quick oven for about ten to fifteen minutes. Sour Milk Biscuits Make as for Soda Biscuits, but use sour milk and leave out the cream of tartar. The lactic acid will supply the acid necessary to combine with the alkali. Turin Biscuits Make as for Soda Biscuits, but roll out the dough a quarter of an inch thick. Cut it into rounds, spread each with a little slightly warmed butter, put two together, and bake. Boston Wonders Ingredients— One 0} About four tablespoonfuls of flour. One saiispoonful of salt. Frying fat. Method.—Beat the egg till very frothy, add the salt, and stir in gradually enough flour to make a stiff paste. Turn this on to a floured board. Knead it for a few minutes and roll it out as thin as a sheet of paper. Stamp out this dough into large rounds, and fry them for about one minute in clean hot fat. Drain on paper, and serve them immediately with honey, syrup, cream and sugar, or preserves.THE COMPLETE COOK 484 I Buns Ingredients— For first basin— Three and a half level teacupfuls of flour. Three-quarters of a pint of milk. For second basin— Four slightly heaped breakfast- cupfuls of flour. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Three heaped tablespoonfuls of chopped peel. One teaspoonful of castor sugar. One ounce of compressed yeast. One level breakfastcupful of sul- tanas or currants. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. One level teaspoonful of mixed spice. Method.— To prepare the first basin.—Put the flour into a large basin. Heat the milk until tepid. Mix the yeast and sugar in a small basin until liquid. Stir the tepid milk into the liquid yeast. Make a well in the flour, strain in the yeast and milk gradually, as if making a batter. Cover the basin with paper or cloth, and put it in a warm place by the fire, or over it in the plate rack, for about half an hour, or until the surface is well bubbled. Meantime Prepare the second basin. Mix the flour and spice. Rub in the butter. Add the sugar, peel, and cleaned fruit. When the contents of the first basin are ready—that is, the surface covered with bubbles—beat some of the mixed ingredients from the second basin into it. Use the hand for this. Continue this mixing and beating until all the dry ingredients are mixed with the “ sponge ” in the first basin, add the beaten eggs gradually as the mixture seems getting dry. Beat vigorously, and continue to do so until the dough can be pulled right out of the basin in a thick ropy mass. If it crumbles, a little more tepid milk is needed. Cover the basin, put it in a warm place, and let the dough rise for one and a half hours, or until it is twice its original size and the surface covered with fine cracks. Flour the hands, take small pieces of the dough and make them up into small balls. Put these well apart on a greased ^ flat tin. Put them in a warm place to rise for about twenty i minutes, or until the buns are about half as large again. Bake them in a quick oven for about twenty to twervty-five minutes. When cooked, brush them over with a tablespoonful of milk, mixed and warmed with one tablespoonful of castor sugar. This gives a good glaze. This quantity makes about two dozen medium-sized buns.485 CAKES AND BISCUITS Hot Cross Buns Proceed as for Buns, but add more spice, and less, or no fruit, as desired. Mark a cross on the top of each bun after shaping it, and if liked more solid than the others, do not allow them to rise for so long after shaping and marking them. Cherry Cake Proceed as for Foundation Cake, adding about two to three dozen glacd cherries cut in quarters. Chocolate Cake Ingredien ts— One and three-quarter teacupfuls of flour. Half a pound packet of plain chocolate. One solid breakfastcupful of butter. Four tablespoonfuls slightly rounded of ground rice. {Illustrated) Six level tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Four eggs. One level teaspoonful of baking powder. Essence of vanilla. Two tablespoonfuls of milk. Chocolate and royal icing. Method.—Line a square or round cake tin with greased paper. Chop the chocolate and dissolve it smoothly in the milk. Beat the butter and sugar to a soft cream. Sieve the flour, ground rice, and baking powder. Beat the eggs one by one into the butter and sugar, then stir in the dissolved chocolate. Add the flour, etc., lightly, flavour it with a few drops of vanilla, and pour the mixture into the tin. Bake the cake carefully in a moderate oven for about an hour. It burns easily. Turn it carefully out of the tin, remove the paper, and let it become cold. Trim the top and sides quite evenly, dust off loose crumbs, and pour the chocolate icing evenly over and let it set. Decorate the top prettily with a little white royal icing. Mote.—If it is inconvenient to make royal icing, merely decorate the top with chopped or shredded pistachio nuts, chopped and browned almonds, or desiccated cocoanut, putting any of these on before the icing is quite set. If liked, cut the un-iced cake up into slices, next into fancy shapes, then ice and decorate them.THE COMPLETE COOK 486 A Rich Christmas Cake {Illustrated) Ingredients— Two breakfastcupfuls packed solidly of butter. Two level breakfastcupfuls of castor sugar. Five breakfastcupfuls slightly heaped of flour. Two heaped breakfastcupfuls of currants. Two heaped breakfastcupfuls of sultanas. About ten pieces of mixed peel. Ten eggs. Two lemons. One teacupful pressed down of glace cherries. One and a half level breakfast- cupfuls of almonds. One level teaspoonful of salt. One slightly rounded tablespoon- ful of ground allspice. Half a pint of brandy. {About two and a half pounds of almond paste. About four pounds of royal icing. About one pound of boiled icing. Method.—Line a large cake tin with four layers of greased kitchen paper. Beat the slightly warmed butter and sugar to a soft cream with the hand—this is. easiest for such large quantities. Beat in the eggs one by one. Sieve the flour, all- spice, and salt: a little of this may be added as each egg is beaten in if the mixture seems inclined to curdle. Clean and stalk the currants and sultanas, cut the cherries in halves, chop the peel, shell and chop the almonds finely, grate the lemon rinds. Mix all these thoroughly. Add the flour to the butter and eggs, then the mixed fruit. Mix thoroughly, and add the brandy. Care is needed to see all the ingredients are well mixed. Put the mixture into the tin, smooth the top with a knife dipped in hot water, and stand the cake on a baking sheet on which is spread a thick layer of rough salt or sand—this is to prevent the cake from burning underneath. Bake the cake in a moderate oven for about five to six hours; the heat must gradually be lowered so that it is cooked thoroughly, without getting burnt. When cooked, a skewer pushed through the centre will be perfectly bright when withdrawn. This cake should be kept for six or eight weeks before it is used, so when cold wrap it in well-greased or grease-proof paper, then in several layers of soft paper, and pack it away in a dry tin with closely fitting lid; store it in a dry, cool, but not cold place. When it is time to ice the cake, follow the detailed directions given in How to Ice Cakes. This particular cake is decorated with a wreath of holly made of almond paste. Take great pains in tinting the paste correctly for the leaves and berries, A wonderfully natural effect is gained by those possessing artistic eyes and fingers. Tie round a handsome band and bow of white satin ribbon..1COFFEE CAKECAKES AND BISCUITS 487 Cocoanut Cake Proceed as for Foundation Cake, adding to it one heaped tea- cupful of desiccated cocoanut and leave out the lemon juice. Coat with a glacd icing and sprinkle a little cocoanut and chopped pistachio nut on the top. Coffee Cake {Illustrated') Ingredients— Four eggs. One level teacupful of castor sugar. Four tablespoonfuls, slightly rounded, of Vienna flour. Four tablespoonfuls rounded of potato flour. For the Butter Filling— Six rounded tablespoonfuls of fresh butter. One and a half level breakfastcup- fuls of icing sugar. Method.—Separate the whites and yolks of the eggs. Beat the yolks with the castor sugar till the mixture is frothy and a light colour. Mix together the two flours and baking powder and sieve them. Beat the whites to a very stiff froth. Add as lightly as possible first half the flour, etc., then half the whites, then the remainder of each. Mix very lightly. Pour the mixture into a shallow round cake tin lined with greased paper. Bake the cake in a moderately hot oven for about thirty minutes, or till it is a light brown and feels firm when pressed gently in the centre. Turn it out of the tin, remove the paper, and let it get cold. Then cut the cake in half, so as to have two round cakes. If necessary, cut the top cake so as to level it and turn this side downwards, spread it with some of the coffee filling, and lay the second cake on the top. Pour the coffee icing smoothly over the top and let it set. Put the rest of the coffee butter filling into a forcing bag and pipe the top of the cake in any pretty design. Decorate also with blanched and shelled pistachio nuts. To make the Coffee Butter Filling.—Put the butter into a basin; work it till soft with a wooden spoon. Sieve the icing sugar through a hair sieve; beat it smoothly into the butter. Add coffee a few drops at a time; use enough to give it the One level teaspoonful of baking powder. One tablespoonful of pistachio nuts. Coffee icing. About one tablespoonful of strong coffee or coffee essence.THE COMPLETE COOK desired tint and flavour. For piping, the butter should be allowed to cool again. Note.—If liked, the coffee icing may be dispensed with and the top and sides spread very smoothly with the butter filling and then the top piped with the same. Cookies Ingredients— About two level breakfastcupfuls of flour. One level breakfastcupful of castor sugar. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Two eggs. One tablespoonful of milk. Three level teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Method.—Cream the butter and sugar. Sieve the flour and baking powder. Beat in the eggs one by one. Add the flour lightly, then the milk. Add more flour if the paste is too soft to roll out, or milk if it seems too dry. Roll out small pieces of the paste at a time to about a quarter of an inch in thickness. Stamp it out into rounds, lay these on a slightly greased tin, and bake in a moderately hot oven for about ten minutes. Cornflour Cakes Ingredients— Eight rounded tablespoonfuls of cornflour. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Two eggs. Quarter of a teaspoonful of baking powder. The rind of half a lemon. Method.—Sieve the cornflour and baking powder. Grate the lemon rind on to the sugar. Beat the butter and sugar until like whipped cream. Whisk in the eggs one at a time. Stir in the cornflour very lightly. Half fill the greased patty tins with the mixture, and bake in a moderately hot oven for fifteen minutes, or until it is set and a very pale colour. These break easily, so allow them to cool a little before taking them from the tins. Note.—If liked, make the mixture into a large cake, not small ones, baking it for about half an hour. Cream Buns Choux pastry is needed for these (see Pastry). To shape the buns, put the choux pastry cold into a forcing bag with a plain489 CAKES AND BISCUITS pipe, and force the mixture on to a greased tin in small round heaps. Use spoons if no forcing bag is to hand. Bake them very slowly for about three-quarters of an hour. When cold, cut each neatly open down one side and fill with whipped and sweetened cream. Dust over each a little sieved icing sugar. Easter Ingredients— Three and a half level teacupfuls of flour. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Cakes Three rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of currants. Two yolks of eggs. Method.—Cream the butter and sugar. Mix in the yolks, then the flour lightly, and lastly the cleaned currants. Knead well and roll the paste out about an eighth of an inch thick. If too soft, leave it in a cold place, but try and avoid adding extra flour. Cut the cakes out the size of teacup saucers. Lay them on a greased baking tin, and bake slowly for about ten to fifteen minutes until set and a light yellowish colour. When nearly baked, brush over lightly with slightly whisked white of egg and sprinkle over with sugar, then finish baking. Note.—When made these are usually sold about six together, tied up with different-coloured narrow ribbon. Eclairs Ingredients— Make some choux pastry (see A teacupful of whipped and sweet- Pastry). ened cream, or confectioners’ Chocolate, or coffee glace icing. custard filling (see Cake Filling). Method.—When the choux pastry is cool, shape small pieces of it with the hand into little finger-shaped rolls, about three inches long and as thick as the middle finger. Lift them on to a greased baking tin at a little distance apart. Bake very slowly for about three-quarters of an hour. They should feel quite hollow and light and be a very pale colour. When cold, split open carefully down one side only, and fill each with the cream, or custard. A forcing bag fills them the most neatly. Pour on the glace icing, and allow it to set.490 THE COMPLETE COOK Foundation Cake Ingredients— Twelve rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Eight rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Eight rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Five eggs. Two level teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Six tablespoonfuls of milk. One lemon rind grated. Method.—Sieve the flour and baking powder. Cream the butter and sugar. Beat in the eggs, one at a time. Fold in the flour and lemon rind lightly. Add the fruit which is to be used, and lastly the milk. Pour the mixture into a paper-lined cake tin, measuring about six and a half inches across, and bake it in a moderately hot oven for about one and a half hours. Mixed Fruit Cake Foundation Cake Mixture, with the addition of one level breakfastcupful of sultanas, one level breakfastcupful of currants, five tablespoonfuls of chopped peel. Genoese Cake Mixture Ingredien ts— Four eggs. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of Three rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. flour. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Method.—Break the eggs into a basin, whisk them until frothy, add the sugar, whisk for five minutes, and then put the basin over a saucepan of boiling water on a slow fire. Continue whisking the eggs until the mixture looks whitish and is very thick and ropy. Take care the mixture does not get hot enough to begin to cook the eggs. Warm the butter slightly and sieve the flour. Add half the flour and half the butter at a time to the eggs, mixing each quantity in very lightly. Bake it in a moder- ately hot oven in shallow, round, or square tins, lined with greased paper, according to the thickness and shape the cake is needed—whether it is to be left whole, or used for Swiss roll, or cut out into fancy shapes, for “ Petit^ Fours,” and other varieties. It will probably take about half an hour to bake, but it will depend on the oven.CAKES AND BISCUITS 491 Gingerbread higredients— Two and three-quarter level break- fastcupfuls of flour. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One teacupful of golden syrup. One teacupful of Demerara sugar. Two heaped tablespoonfuls of chopped peel or glace ginger. Method.—Line a deep baking tin, such as is used for Yorkshire pudding, with greased paper. Melt the butter gently, add the syrup and sugar, and stir them now and then over a low fire until the sugar is dissolved. Let it cool a little. Sieve the flour, soda, and ground ginger into a basin. Add the peel and mix in the syrup and milk. Beat and add the eggs. Mix well, and pour the mixture into the tin. Shake the almonds split in halves over the top, and bake very slowly for about an hour to an hour and a half, or until cooked through when tested in the usual manner. Lift it out of the tin, peel off the paper, and when cold serve whole, or cut into square blocks. Note.—Bake the mixture in the usual round cake tin if wished. For a plain cake, use dripping instead of butter, one egg only, and no peel or almonds. Two eggs. Half a teacupful of milk. Half a level teaspoonful of car- bonate of soda. Three level teaspoonfuls of ground gingep About eight shelled almonds. Ginger Cake Fotmdation Cake Mixture—add to it four heaped table- spoonfuls of preserved ginger cut in dice, four tablespoonfuF- of the ginger syrup, and leave out the milk and lemon rind. Note.—Glace ginger can be*used, but then the milk will be needed. - Hard Gingerbread Ingredients— A teacupful of Demerara sugar. A teacupful of butter. A teacupful of golden syrup. A teacupful of milk. One level teaspoonful of ground ginger. Method.—Melt the butter in ; and syrup, and stir them over a One level teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. One saltspoonful of salt. About four breakfastcupfuls of flour. i saucepan, add to it the sugar gentle heat until the sugar isTHE COMPLETE COOK 492 quite dissolved. Mix the ginger and salt in a little flour, and dissolve the soda smoothly in the milk. Stir several spoonfuls of flour into the syrup smoothly, add the milk and the flour containing the ginger and ^ salt. Then continue to beat in spoonfuls of flour until the mixture is in a stiff dough which can be kneaded, then knead it well. Roll out portions of it at a time to one-third of an inch thick. Cut it into strips half an inch wide with a pastry cutter with a crimped edge. The length of the strips can vary to suit the baking tin. Bake in a moderately hot oven for about fifteen minutes. Note.—Dripping instead of butter could be used. It could be cut into round biscuits if more convenient. Chopped almonds sprinkled on top are excellent. Grandmother’s Pound Cake Ingredients— One breakfastcupful of butter. Five eggs. Two breakfastcupfuls of pastry Half a teaspoonful of powdered flour. mace. One and three-quarter breakfast- cupfuls of castor sugar. ^Method.—Cream the butter and sugar until they resemble thick cream ; add the mace. Break the eggs in one at a time and beat in each one thoroughly before adding the next. Add the flour very lightly. Turn the mixture at once into a prepared cake tin and bake it slowly for about one hour. The grain of the cake should be fine and close, not porous, as if carbonic acid gas had been introduced ; yet it must be soft, light, and velvety. This texture is obtained by the thorough creaming of the butter and sugar and by not overbeating the eggs. Griddle or Girdle Cakes Ingredients— Two breakfastcupfuls of flour. Two eggs. One level teaspoonful of carbonate Half a teaspoonful of salt. of soda. Barely a pint of sour milk, or cream. Method.—If there is not a proper girdle, such as is used in Scotland, a thick baking tin or frying pan can be used for these cakes, or any thick flat piece of iron, to lay right on the top of the stove. Make the mixture in a bowl with a lip to it, so that it can be more easily poured out. Mix and sieve together the flour, salt, and soda. Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs.493 CAKES AND BISCUITS Make a well in the flour, drop in the two yolks, add half the milk slowly, and beat the mixture well. Add the rest of the milk and the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Heat the girdle, rub it over with a very little piece of dripping, or suet. Pour a tablespoonful of the mixture on to the hot girdle in as round a form as possible. The mixture should hiss and sizzle as it touches the girdle. Bake as many cakes at a time as the girdle will hold. When the tops of the cakes are full of bubbles, turn them, and bake the other side until they stop puffing up, when they will be sufficiently cooked. Serve them as quickly as possible. Wipe the girdle with a piece of kitchen paper and re-heat and grease it for each batch of cakes to be cooked, and beat the mixture slightly. Turn the girdle, if possible, in order to cook the cakes evenly. The girdle should by rights have an iron handle over it. Ground Rice Cakes Ingredients— Three rounded tablespoonfuls of ground rice. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Two eggs. A few drops of vanilla. Half a level teaspoonful of balging powder. Two tablespoonfuls of milk. Method.—Sieve the rice, flour, and baking powder. Beat the butter and sugar to a soft cream. Beat the eggs in one at a time. Add the ground rice, vanilla, and milk lightly. Half fill some greased patty or queencake tins with the mixture, and bake in a moderately hot oven for about ten minutes. Harrow Ingredients— Three rounded teacupfuls of flour. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Five rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Cake Four eggs. Two lemons. Two level teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Three tablespoonfuls of milk. Method.—Line a cake tin with greased paper. Sieve the flour and baking powder. Beat the butter and sugar to a soft white cream. Beat in the eggs one at a time. Add the flour very lightly, the grated lemon rind, and lastly the milk. Put the mixture into the tin, and bake it in a moderately hot oven for about one hour. It should be a light golden colour.THE COMPLETE COOK 494 Henriettes Ingredients— One egg. One heaped saltspoonful of baking Half a teacupful of cream. powder. About one and three-quarter tea- Half a saltspoonful of powdered cupfuls of flour. cinnamon. One saltspoonful of salt. One teaspoonful of wine or brandy. Lard for frying. Method.—Put the yolk in a basin with the salt and cinnamon, stir the cream and brandy into it. Mix the baking powder with one tablespoonful of the flour. Add this smoothly to the yolk of egg. Add the white of egg beaten stiffly, and stir gently in enough flour to make the mixture into a light but not sticky dough. Roll this out as thin as a wafer, and cut it with a pastry jagger into squares or diamonds. Have the lard so hot that a very faint smoke is rising from it, and fry the shapes about four minutes or so. Drain them on paper and dust with castor sugar. Serve at once. Note.—Use less flour and make a thick batter instead of a dough, and force it out into the hot lard through a forcing bag fitted with a medium-sized pipe, making rings as it falls into the fat, or any other shape preferred. Use other flavour- ings in place of cinnamon, and if liked less rich, milk instead of cream. American Layer Cake Ingredients— Eight rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Five eggs. Two level teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Filling and icing as desired. Method.—Break the eggs into a basin, whisk them until well frothed. Add the sugar, and whisk for about five minutes. Put the basin over a saucepan filled with boiling water over a low fire, and continue to whisk the eggs until the mixture is quite a light colour, thick and ropy. It depends on the skill of the cook how long it will take. If the mixture seems getting too hot, take it off the saucepan, or the eggs will set. Warm the butter gently; it must not be hot. Sieve the flour and baking powder. Add half the flour and half the butter at a time, mix them in lightly, and add the remaining flour and butter. Divide the mixture into two lined round shallow sandwich tins, about seven and a half inches across, and bake them in a moderatelyCAKES AND BISCUITS 495 hot oven for about thirty to forty minutes, or until they feel spongy in the centre. Leave until cold, then cut each open, making four round cakes. If necessary, trim the tops level. Spread one side of each thickly with any filling. Build them up to make one cake, and pour over any icing to suit the filling, and decorate prettily. Fillings for Layer Cakes : Lemon Filling Ingredients— Two eggs. Four level tablespoonfuls of castor A breakfastcupful of water. sugar. Two lemons. Two well-rounded tablespoonfuls of cornflour. Method.—Put the water and sugar on to boil. Mix the cornflour smoothly and thinly with the strained lemon juice; if necessary, add a little drop of cold water. When the water boils, potir in the cornflour, stir it until it reboils, add the grated lemon rinds, and let all boil gently for about eight minutes. Beat up the eggs, draw the pan off the fire, mix them in, and re-heat the mixture to cook the eggs, but do not boil it. Pour it into a basin, and use when cold. It should be of a jelly-like consistency, spreading easily. Confectioners’ Custard Filling Ingredients— Half a pint of milk. Two yolks of eggs. Two well-rounded tablespoonfuls Castor sugar and vanilla to taste. of cornflour. Method.—Boil the milk. Mix the cornflour smoothly and thinly with a little cold water. Pour it into the boiling milk, stir over the fire until it boils, and cook it slowly for eight minutes. Add the beaten yolks, and re-heat the custard without boiling it; flavour to taste, and when set, it is ready to use. It should be thick and creamy like whipped cream. Nut Filling Ingredien ts— One teacupful of fresh or dried walnuts, or hazel nuts, or pine kernels, finely chopped. Half a teacupful of ground almonds. Three tablespoonfuls of whipped cream or confectioners’ custard, or the same of sieved apricot jam. One teaspoonful each of lemon juice, vanilla, and ratafia essence. Method.—Mix all thoroughly together, and spread on the cake.496 THE COMPLETE COOK Orange Filling Proceed as for Lemon Filling, using the rind and juice of one orange, instead of lemon; but one teaspoonful of lemon juice will be found an improvement. Pineapple Filling Ingredients— One teacupful of cream. Four tablespoonfuls of castor One teacupful of grated pine- sugar. apple. One teacupful of crushed and sieved ratafias, or macaroons. Method.—Whip the cream until it will nearly, but not quite, hang on to the whisk. Mix in very gently the ratafia crumbs, pineapple, and sugar, and use at once. This cream filling will not keep, so use confectioners’ custard if not for immediate use. Macaroons Ingredients— Three level teacupfuls of ground almonds. Two level breakfastcupfuls of castor sugar. One slightly rounded tablespoon- ful of rice flour. About six whites of eggs. Method.—Mix the almonds, sugar, and rice flour in a basin. Add the whites of eggs, and work the mixture with a wooden spoon for about ten minutes, or until it becomes quite white. It must be a soft mixture, but not so much so that it loses its shape when moulded. Add the essences, and put the mixture into a forcing bag with a large plain pipe. Lay the wafer paper on a baking sheet, force out the macaroons to about the size of half a crown, put a few thinly shredded almonds on the top of each, and bake them in a moderately hot oven for about twenty-five minutes. Lift them off the tin when cold, and break off the uneven edge of the wafer paper. Note.—If there is not a bag and pipe, shape the mixture the size of walnuts, place well apart, and flatten them down slightly. Nouille Biscuits Ingredients— Three and a half teacupfuls of flour. Two raw yolks of eggs. Half a teaspoonful of vanilla essence. Half a teaspoonful of ratafia essence. Six shelled almonds. Sheets of wafer paper. Half a level teaspoonful of salt. Cold water if needed.497 CAKES AND BISCUITS Method.—Sieve the flour and salt. Beat the yolks, put them in the centre of the flour. Work in as much of the flour as the yolks will take up, then add enough water to make a very stiff dough. Knead this for about ten minutes, until it feels as smooth as velvet. Roll it out as thin as a sheet of notepaper. Stamp it out in rounds the size of the top of a breakfastcup. Prick each biscuit several times, lay them on a floured baking tin, and bake them in a quick oven for about eight to ten minutes, or until crisp and a light yellowish brown. Pack in tins when cold. Pineapple Cake Foundation Cake Mixture. Add to it four heaped table- spoonfuls of preserved pineapple cut into dice; four tablespoonfuls of the pineapple syrup; leave out the milk and lemon rind. Note.—Glace pineapple can be used, but in that case the milk will be required. Queen Ingredients— Four rounded teaspoonfuls of butter. Five rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Cakes About two dozen glace cherries. Two lemon rinds. Three eggs. Half a level teaspoonful of baking powder. Method.—Well butter some small queen cake tins. Sieve the flour and baking powder through a wire sieve. Quarter the cherries. Grate the lemon rinds on to the sugar. Beat the butter and sugar to a soft white cream, add the eggs one by one, and beat well in. Stir the flour in very lightly. Add the cherries and half fill the tins with the mixture. Bake the cakes in a moderately hot oven for about fifteen minutes. Note.—Currants may be used instead of cherries, and patty tins if the others are not to hand. Ratafias Prepare a mixture as for Macaroons but only use four rounded tablespoonfuls of ground almonds, one level table- spoonful of rice flour, no vanilla or chopped almonds. The rounds should only be made the size of sixpence. 32498 THE COMPLETE COOK Rock Cakes Ingredients— Three rounded teacupfuls of flour. Four rounded tablespoonfuls each of butter and castor sugar. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of currants or sultanas. One piece of candied peel. Method.—Sieve the flour and baking powder. Rub in the butter lightly and finely. Add the sugar, cleaned fruit, chopped peel, and nutmeg. Mix all these to a stiff paste with the beaten eggs. Knead lightly with the hand, then if too dry to bind, add a little milk. If the mixture is too soft, or the oven slow, the cakes become flat. Put small rough heaps of the mixture on to a greased baking sheet, and bake them quickly for about fifteen to twenty minutes. This quantity will make about sixteen cakes. Note.—If plainer cakes are required, use one egg and drip- ping instead of butter. Shortbread Four rounded tablespoonfuls of One rounded tablespoonful of flour. castor sugar. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of One or two strips of candied peel, butter. Method.—Mix the flour and sugar in a basin. Cut the butter into it in small pieces. Rub it lightly into the flour. Then continue rubbing it in, using more pressure, until the butter begins to bind the flour. Turn it on to a board and rub and knead it, until it no longer crumbles, but is a soft pliable paste, capable of being moulded without cracking. The time depends on the warmth of the room, weather, and butter, also the skill of the cook. Use no moisture for this kind of short- bread. Roll it out about three-quarters of an inch thick, either into one large, or several smaller rounds, or ovals. Lift them on to a greased paper on a baking sheet. Crimp the edges. Tie round outside the edges a band of buttered stiff paper to prevent burning, and prick the surface of the shortbread all over right through. Put some design in cut peel on the top, pressing it level with the cake, and bake exceedingly slowly for about three-quarters of an hour. Dust it with castor sugar and leave until cold before moving it. Note.—The paste may be rolled more thinly and stamped out with cutters into Shortbread Biscuits., if liked. Two eggs. One teaspoonful of baking powder. Half a teaspoonful of grated nut- meg. Milk, if needed.499 CAKES AND BISCUITS American Short Cake Ingredients— Two breakfastcupfuls of flour. Half a level teaspoonful of salt. Half a level teaspoonful of sieved carbonate of soda. Two level teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. One teacupful of butter. One breakfastcupful of sweet or sour milk. Method.—Mix the flour, salt, cream of tartar, and carbonate of soda together. Sieve them twice. Rub in the butter with the tips of the Angers, lightly but thoroughly. Stir in the milk with a knife, using just enough to make the flour into a light, soft, but not sticky dough. Turn the dough on to a thickly floured board. Pat it out into a flat cake and roll it gently till it is half an inch thick. Then make the dough into large cakes, or stamp it out in rounds the size of the top of a tumbler. Place them close together on a baking tin, and bake in a quick oven for about ten to fifteen minutes. Tear them open,—never cut them, as it makes them heavy,—and serve immediately. Note.—The cakes may be spread inside with either butter, or jam, or with fresh fruits, mashed or sliced, sweetened to taste and mixed with cream. The cake is then named according to the fruit used, such as Strawberry Shortcake, Peach Shortcake, etc. If liked, four level teaspoonfuls of baking powder can be used instead of the cream of tartar and soda. Soda Cake Ingredients— Three and a half level breakfast- cupfuls of flour. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Eight rounded tablespoonfuls of Demerara sugar. Half a breakfastcupful of currants. Half a breakfastcupful of stoned raisins. Two eggs. One lemon. One breakfastcupful of milk. One level teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Method.—Sieve' the flour and soda into a basin. Rub in the butter finely. Add the sugar. Mix the clean currants, stoned and halved raisins and grated lemon rind, then add these to the flour. Beat the eggs until frothy and then add the milk. Mix well, pour the mixture into a tin lined with greased paper, and bake it in a moderate oven for about one and three-quarters to two hours.500 THE COMPLETE COOK Sponge Cake Ing7'edients— Four eggs. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of Four rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. fine flour. One grated lemon rind. Method.—Brush a mould or tin over evenly with clarified butter. Sieve half a tablespoonful of extra flour and t wo tablespoonfuls of extra castor sugar; put these into the mould, shake them all over it and toss out all of the mixture that will not stick to the butter. Warm the flour in the oven, sieve it, and grate the lemon rind on to it. Put the eggs into a basin, beat them until frothy, add the sugar, stand the basin over a pan of boiling water, and whisk them for about ten minutes, or until very thick and ropy. The water must not be so hot under the basin that the eggs begin to set. Lightly fold half the flour at a time into the eggs. When all is in, pour the mixture into the mould, sprinkle the surface with a little castor sugar, and bake the cake slowly for about one hour. Care is needed in turning it out. Note.—This mixture can be baked in the small sponge cake tins, preparing them in the same way. A band of buttered paper, tied round outside the mould or tin as if for a souffle, protects the edges from darkening. Swiss Roll {Plain) {Illustrated) higredients— Two eggs. About four tablespoonfuls of any Two rounded tablespoonfuls each stoneless jam. of castor sugar, butter, and flour. Two tablespoonfuls of milk. One rounded teaspoonful of baking- powder. Method.—Line a flat baking sheet with greased paper. Fit the corners neatly, trim the edges evenly, and let the paper stand up round inside the tin, to the depth of about half an inch. Cream the butter and sugar. Beat in the eggs one at a time. Add the sieved flour and baking powder very lightly, then the milk. Pour the mixture into the tin, spread it over evenly. Bake it quickly for about ten minutes, or until spongy when pressed, and a delicate brown colour. Have the jam warmed, and a sheet of paper on the board thickly dusted with castor sugar. Turn the cake right over, brown side down on to the paper, and peel the latter off quickly. . Spread the jam over evenly, place the two hands behind the sugared paper, and roll up the cake quickly and neatly. If time is lost, the cake cools.CAKES AND BISCUITS 501 becomes crisp at the edges, and will crack, not roll. The same thing happens if it is too slowly, or over baked. Swiss Roll {Rich) For this use the Genoese Cake Mixture. Bake and roll it as directed for Stviss Roll (Plain). Sultana Cake Foundation Cake Mixture, with the addition of one level breakfastcupful of sultanas and three tablespoonfuls of chopped peel. Walnut Wafers Ingredien ts— Two tablespoonfuls of butter. Four tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Eight tablespoonfuls of flour. Four tablespoonfuls of milk. Two tablespoonfuls of finely shelled and chopped walnuts. A few drops of lemon juice, or orange flower water. Method.—Cream the butter and sugar until quite soft. Stir in the milk very gradually, almost drop by drop, add the flour lightly, and the flavourings and walnuts. Very slightly grease a shallow baking tin. Spread some of the mixture very thinly on it and mark it into squares. Bake it in a moderate oven for about five minutes. Have ready the handle of a wooden spoon very slightly oiled, roll the wafers quickly round it so as to give them a curled appearance. This rolling should be done really at the oven door, so as to prevent the mixture cooling, as it then becomes too set to roll. Note.—Pine kernels, hazel nuts, or almonds can be used instead of walnuts, varying the name of the wafer. Wedding Cake Ingredients— Ten level breakfastcupfuls of flour. Four breakfastcupfuls packed solidly of butter. Four level breakfastcupfuls of castor sugar. Six level breakfastcupfuls of currants. One piece of citron peel. About five pieces of orange and lemon peel mixed. Four breakfastcupfuls of sultanas. Two breakfastcupfuls of chopped raisins. Two breakfastcupfuls of glace cherries. Two breakfastcupfuls of sweet almonds. One rounded tablespoonful of mixed spice. Twenty eggs. Half a pint of brandy. Four grated lemon rinds. One level teaspoonful of salt.502 THE COMPLETE COOK Method.—Proceed as directed for Rich Christmas Cake^ either baking it in one large tin, or in tins of varying sizes, if a three or two tier cake is required. For the large cake, tie a thick band of paper round outside the tin, as well as the usual inner layers. If the oven is liable to burn cakes underneath, put a shabby pastry or meringue board under the tin. About seven to eight hours will be needed to bake one cake, made of the whole quantity. If liked very dark, caramel can be added with the brandy.CHAPTER XXVIII 503 CAKE ICINGS How TO Ice Cakes Cut the top of the cake level, grate off any overbaked parts, and brush off all crumbs. Turn the cake over so that the bottom part becomes the top. Put the cake on a cake stand, a movable one, if possible, or a large dinner plate turned upside down. Divide the Almond Paste into three. Roll out one-third into a round that is just a very little smaller than the top of the cake; lay it on the cake and lightly roll it out until it fits the top. Make the rest of the paste in a strip as nearly the depth and circumference of the cake as possible. The thickness of the paste varies according to taste. If a large cake, it is easier to make two or three strips for the sides, smoothing them neatly together on the cake. Keep the upper edge of the cake sharp and straight, also the sides flat, not curving outwards. Let this almond icing dry overnight, as otherwise it is apt to discolour the white icing. Have the Royal Icing made, and spread a thin layer of it all over the top and sides of the cake. Use a wide bladed knife and keep turning the cake round. Now and then the knife should be dipped in very hot water,—this helps to smooth the icing, but it must not be made very wet. Let this first layer dry in a warm place. Put on a second layer of Royal Icing when the first is hard. Let the second be about a quarter of an inch thick, more or less, according to taste. This layer needs to be put on very evenly and smoothly, free from ridges, and great pains should be taken to have the upper edge sharp and straight, not rounded. Let the second layer remain until next day if possible, and then pour over the Boiled Icing. This last is not always used, but it gives a very superior finish to the cake. This sets quickly; the cake is then ready to be marked out in some design for piping. Slightly pressing down with fancy tin cutters is one way of marking the design; or pricking round a paper pattern; or very lightly tracing it on the sugarTHE COMPLETE COOK 504 with pencil. The remainder of the Royal Icing is put into a forcing bag, with a pipe screwed into it, the end of the bag is tightly twisted up and the icing firmly and evenly pressed out with the left hand, the right guiding the bag. ICINGS Almond Icing Ingredients— Six lightly filled level teacupfuls of ground almonds. One level breakfastcupful of castor sugar. Three level teacupfuls of sieved icing sugar. Two whole eggs. One tablespoonful of lemon juice. Vanilla, ratafia essence, and orange flower water to taste. Method.—Rub the icing sugar through a hair sieve, and the almonds and castor sugar through a wire sieve. Beat the eggs slightly together, add them and the strained lemon juice and a sufficient quantity of the essences to flavour the paste. Mix it stiffly, knead well and pound it in a mortar, or with the flat end of a rolling-pin in an enamel basin, and it is ready to use. Note.—If the icing is wanted very rich in colour, use three or four yolks only; if a very pale tint, about three whites of eggs whisked to a light froth, and no yolks. Sometimes more egg, lemon juice, or a little water is needed, if the almonds seem too dry. American Frosting Ingredients— Two loosely packed breakfast- Two whites of eggs. cupfuls of loaf sugar. One saltspoonful of cream of tartar. One teacupful of boiling water. Method.—Let the sugar dissolve in the water. Boil them until when a little of the syrup is dropped into cold water and immediately taken out and rolled between the fingers and thumb, it will form a small, very soft ball. Do not stir it. Have the lightly whisked whites in a basin. When the sugar is nearly ready add the cream of tartar. Test again, and if ready, pour a fine stream of the syrup on the whites of egg, whisking them well all the time. Continue stirring until the icing is thick and quite smooth. It hardens quickly, so must be poured over the cake while still liquid enough to coat it smoothly. Note.—This icing can be coloured and flavoured as desired.CAKE ICINGS 505 Boiled Icing Usually poured over to form the final coating after icing with Royal Icing. Ingredients— Six level teacupfuls of sieved icing One breakfastcupful of hot water. sugar. One tablespoonful of lemon juice. Method.—Put sugar and water in a saucepan and let the former dissolve. Then boil it to 229° if there is a saccharometer ; if not, until when the skimmer or a twist of wire is dipped into it and the sugar is blown through the hole it will form a small bubble on the other side. Skim well during the boiling, and just as it reaches the right degree, pour it into a large basin; add the lemon juice and beat the syrup, just as if it were a batter, until it is thick and white. It sets rapidly at the last, so be ready to pour it over the cake directly the right thickness is reached. Chocolate Butter Icing Prepare this as directed for Coffee Butter Icing, using one large tablespoonful of grated chocolate dissolved in one table- spoonful of hot milk, and then allowed to become cold in the place of coffee. Coffee Butter Icing Ingredients— One solidly packed teacupful of Strong coffee, or coffee essence to fresh butter. taste. Three level teacupfuls of sieved icing sugar. Method.—Beat the butter until it is like whipped cream. Rub the sugar through a hair sieve. Stir it gradually and smoothly into the butter, adding enough coffee to give the desired colour and flavour. It is then ready to use. Pink, or Green, or Mauve Butter Icing These are prepared in the same way as Coffee Butter Icing, using the desired colouring and some suitable liqueur or essence instead of coffee.5o6 THE COMPLETE COOK Chocolate Glace Icing Ingredients— Three level teacupfuls of sieved About four tablespoonfuls of water, icing sugar. A few drops of vanilla essence. Three sticks (an ounce each) of plain chocolate. Method.—Rub the sugar through a hair sieve. Chop the chocolate small. Put it into a saucepan with the water, and stir until smoothly melted and boiling. Allow the chocolate to cool a little, add the vanilla, gradually stir in the sugar, and let it dissolve smoothly. Do not heat it after adding the sugar, or the icing will crack and lose its glossy appearance. It must be thick enough to flow over and evenly coat the back of a wooden spoon. More water or sugar may have to be added, according to whether it is too stiff or thin. Coffee Glace Icing Ingredients— Three level teacupfuls of sieved Two teaspoonfuls of very strong icing sugar. coffee or coffee essence. About four tablespoonfuls of hot water. Method.—Put the water and coffee into a saucepan. Stir in enough sugar to form a soft paste. Heat the sugar very gently until dissolved—it must only get warm, not hot—add more water if needed until the icing will evenly coat the back of the wooden spoon. More or less coffee can be added instead of water, ac- cording to taste. Pour it over the cake before it begins to set. Lemon Glace Icing Use the same ingredients and method as for Orange GlacI Icing, substituting lemon instead of orange. Orange Glace Icing Ingredien ts— Three level teacupfuls of sieved One orange. icing sugar. Warm water, if needed. Method.—Wash and wipe the orange. Lightly grate the rind off the orange and put it into a basin, strain on to it the orange juice and let it soak for fifteen minutes. Then strain off the juice through fine muslin. Rub the icing sugar through \507 CAKE ICINGS a hair sieve, put it into a saucepan, add the orange juice and warm it gently until the sugar dissolves; do not make it hot, or it will not be glossy. If too stiff to pour over smoothly, add a little water. Pink or Green Glace Icing Prepare either, as directed for Coffee Glad Icing, using the desired colouring and a suitable liqueur or essence as flavouring, instead of the coffee. Jelly Cream Icing Ingredients— One gill of sweet jelly. Any colouring or flavouring de- Half a gill of cream. sired. Two teaspoonfuls of castor sugar. Method.—Put the cream and sugar into a basin. Warm the jelly until melted, stir it into the cream. Colour and flavour it as desired, stir gently until it is just beginning to set, then pour it over the cakes. Should it set too quickly, slightly rewarm it over warm water. Note.—If there is not any jelly, use instead four sheets of leaf gelatine melted in a gill of sherry, water, and lemon juice mixed. More sugar will be needed to sweeten it. If the sweet jelly is not very stiff, or the weather is very warm, dissolve in the jelly one or two extra sheets of gelatine. Royal Icing {^for Wedding Cakes, etc.') Ingredients— Six level teacupfuls of sieved icing One tablespoonful of lemon juice. sugar. About two whites of eggs. Method.—Sieve the sugar through a hair sieve. Beat the whites until slightly frothy. Make a well in the middle of the sugar, pour in the whites of eggs and mix them gradually into the sugar with a wooden spoon. Add the strained lemon juice slowly. It must be so stiff that any pattern made with it does not blur but remains clear and sharp. If too thin, work in a little extra sieved icing sugar; if too stiff, a little more white of egg or lemon juice. Beat the icing very thoroughly to whiten it, and it is ready to use. Note.—If it is not used at once, lay a piece of wet muslin or paper right down on it to prevent the surface becoming hard.CHAPTER XXIX 508 SWEETMEATS It has become very popular to prepare sweetmeats at home, and is comparatively easy, and, at anyrate at first, the utensils need not be elaborate. Appliances Needed— A sugar thermometer costs from . 5 One sugar scraper • • o A hair sieve • • i A wire fork • • o A wire ring for dipping „ • • o One palette knife • • i One spatula • .0 Marble slab • -7 A double saucepan • -3 One seamless steel pan to hold two and a half quarts costs from . . 4 One seamless steel pan to hold one quart costs from . . . .3 A double marzipan mould costs from i d. 6 8 o 3 3 o 8 6 6 11 II 9 If it is not possible to obtain these— For the sugar scraper substitute a long flexible thin knife. For the palette knife substitute a long flexible thin knife. For the spatula substitute a flat wooden spoon or strong paper knife. For the wire fork and ring substitute a firm piece of wire twisted to the required shape. For the double pan substitute a clean jam jar placed in an ordinary saucepan. For the marble slab substitute a large meat dish or the well- scoured movable top of a marble washing-strand.509 SWEETMEATS A Few Hints for Amateurs Stigars.—Use the best cane or icing sugars obtainable, and rub the latter invariably through a hair sieve. Glucose.—Is like clear white honey and is but a few pence per pound. Essences.—Should be specially powerful for confectionery. Colourings.—Use vegetable paste colourings usually, but liquids are also needed at times. Pans.—Must be kept only for sweet-making. Hands.—Never use highly scented soaps when washing these, as the flavour is apt to be imparted. A Piece of Sheet Iron or a thick baking tin is useful to place between a pan and the direct flame, as it lessens the chance of burning. Graming indicates that the dissolved sugar has re-formed again into crystals. The Thennoineter may burst if put at once into boiling syrup; it should first be placed in hot water. Marble Slabs.—Let these warm a little in cold weather before pouring on boiling sugar. Atmosphere.-—A damp wet day or steamy room will quite spoil the results when boiling sugar, or coating with chocolate. Overboiling or Graining.—Should this happen, add about half the water added at first, and reboil it to the desired degree. Toffee.—For this and similar sweets always use a pan much larger than is actually needed for the quantity to be boiled, as these varieties boil over very quickly. Water.—For testing boiled sugar, have the water as cold as possible, changing it frequently. Table of Degrees and Simple Tests for Sugar Boiling Small Thread'.'—215°; Or dip fingers in syrup, separate them, and note if a fine thread forms. "■Large Thread'.'—217°; Same as above, only a thicker thread forms. “ Small Pearl!'—220°; Large bubbles form on surface of syrup, and a strong thread forms between fingers. “ Large Pearl!'—222°; Large bubbles very clo.se together on syrup, and thread does not break when fingers are well separated.THE COMPLETE COOK 510 “ The Blow’.'—230°; Blow some syrup through a fish slice, and small bubbles form on the under side. “ The FeatheiT—232°; Same as above, but bubbles fly off. Small or Soft BallS—238°—240°; Drop some syrup into water, leave a second, and see if it will become like a ball of putty in the fingers. “ Large or Hard Ball’.’—247 “-25 2°; Same test as above, but the ball should be much firmer. “ Small Crack'.’—290°; Drop some syrup in cold water, when set it breaks, but sticks to the teeth when bitten. '''• Large Crack’.’—312°; Same test as above, but is hard and brittle, with no stickiness when bitten. “ CaranieL’—300°-350°; The sugar turns from a pale straw to a dark brown colour. Will burn very easily when near this degree. Fondant Cream Ingredients— Four lightly filled breakfastcupfuls One and a half gills of cold water. of loaf sugar. One small tablespoonful of glucose. Method.—Rinse out the pan or sugar boiler with cold water. Put in the sugar and water and let the sugar dissolve gently by the fire. Put on the lid and bring the syrup to boiling point; take off the lid, let it boil for five minutes, and add the glucose. Lower the thermometer gently into it and boil the syrup to 245° or a few degrees higher than “ soft ball.” Keep the syrup carefully skimmed and the sides of the pan brushed with a brush, dipped in cold water, but on no account stir it, or even move the thermometer, or the sugar may granulate and be spoilt. Sprinkle a slab or large dish with cold water, pour the boiled syrup on to this; sprinkle the surface of the sugar with a little cold water,—this will prevent a crust forming on it,—and leave it till cold enough to handle. If it is touched when it is very hot, it will become grained and rough in texture. Scrape it together with a palette knife dipped in cold water and knead backwards and forwards with the hand, until the fondant is white, creamy, and perfectly smooth. Leave it for twelve hours. It can then be flavoured and coloured, and, if liked, coated with coating fondant. A pretty effect is obtained by colouring the fondant cream a delicate pink and coating it with white coating fondant. Note.—It will keep for some time in an airtight tin.SWEETMEATS 511 Coating Fondant Ingredients— Two breakfastcupfuls of loaf One gill of water. sugar. A tiny pinch of cream of tartar Method.—Let the sugar dissolve in the water by the side of the fire. Add the cream of tartar, put the lid on the pan, and boil the syrup to 245°, that is, a few degrees below “large ball.” Be careful not to stir or disturb the syrup in any way, but wipe round the edge of the pan carefully with a brush dipped in cold water to prevent it graining at the edge. Place the pan in another pan containing boiling water, to keep the syrup hot while each fondant is coated. After dipping each sweet in the syrup, place it on a slightly oiled tin, put a thin coil of fondant on the top of each, with a fine forcer, or by dripping it from the wire ring, and leave them to set. When liked, a few drops of any colouring may be added to the syrup. Marzipan Ingredients— One andja half level breakfastcup- One gill of hot water. fuls of ground almonds. One egg. Two breakfastcupfuls of loaf Vanilla: lemon juice; orange sugar. flower water. Method.—Put the sugar and water into a pan by the fire and let the sugar dissolve slowly. Put the lid on the pan and bring the syrup to the boil. Uncover it, and boil to 240°, that is, “ soft ball.” Keep the syrup carefully skimmed, and occasion- ally brush round the sides of the pan with a brush dipped in cold water; this is to prevent the sugar granulating on the pan. As soon as the right degree is reached, draw the pan off the fire and stir in the almonds. Beat the egg slightly, and when the mixture has cooled a little, stir it in. Cook the marzipan over a slow heat until it leaves the sides of the pan quite clean. Turn the mixture on to a dry slab and knead it well, until it is nearly cold and quite smooth. When it is quite cold add the flavourings to taste, and, if desired, it may be coloured. Note.—When a particularly white mixture is desired use two whites in place of the whole egg. Marzipan Sandwiches Colour and flavour some marzipan in as many different ways as desired. Roll each piece out to exactly the same shape and512 THE COMPLETE COOK thickness, the latter should be about an eighth of an inch thick. Place these pieces one on the top of the other, arranging the colours as prettily as possible and brushing each layer with a little water before putting on another. Roll the pieces lightly together, trim the edges and cut into any pretty shapes, such as diamonds, cubes, crescents, etc. Note.—If preferred, the topmost layer can be brushed over with a little melted chocolate, before it is cut up and sprinkled with fine desiccated cocoanut, chopped pistachios, almonds, etc. To Melt Chocolate for Coating Purposes Purchase good coating chocolate, or, failing that, good plain chocolate. Grate or chop it finely, put it in a jar, place it in an upturned saucer in a saucepan containing a little hot water. Cover the jar, and keep the water hot but not boiling, until the chocolate is dissolved. Do not stir it. When the chocolate is dissolved, beat it for ten minutes. Rewarm it, again beat it, and it is ready for use. It should be kept warm over hot water while it is being used, and will require beating occasionally. Note.—Sweets coated with chocolate will never be successful if they are coated on a wet foggy day or in a hot steamy room in which saucepans, etc., are boiling. Chocolate Almonds Ingredients— Sweet almonds. Good coating chocolate. Method.—Shell the almonds and slightly brown them in the oven. Grate the chocolate, put it in a jar or cup, place this in a pan of boiling water, and let it melt gently (see Directions for Melting Chocolate). When the almonds are cold, dip them into the chocolate, then lay them on an oiled tin and leave them to harden. Chocolate Ginger or Pineapple Proceed in exactly the same way as for Chocolate Almonds but, of course, the ginger and pineapple must not be put in the oven, and will require cutting to a .convenient size and shape. Note.—Almost every variety of fruits, nuts, or sweetmeat mixtures may be coated in this manner.513 SWEETxMEATS Almond Hardbake Ingredien ts— Two level breakfastcupfuls of Demerara sugar. Four tablespoonfuls of butter. A pinch of cream of tartar. Method.—Shell the almonds, put them on a tin in a moderate oven till they are dry and of a pale biscuit colour. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the sugar and water, and let the sugar dissolve gently. Then add the cream of tartar, boil the syrup to “small ball,” or 238°. Stir in the almonds, and continue to boil until it reaches “large crack,” or 312°. Have ready an oiled tin, pour in the toffee, and leave it till cold. Store it in air-tight tins. One rounded breakfastcupful of sweet almonds. One gill of water. Chocolate Caramels Ingredients— Two breakfastcupfuls of loaf sugar. Four heaped tablespoonfuls of Half a pint of cream. grated chocolate. Half a pint of milk. One large tablespoonful of glucose. Vanilla essence. Method.—Put the sugar, milk, and cream in a saucepan on the fire, and heat them without stirring until the sugar has dissolved. Then add the glucose. Dissolve the chocolate gently in a little hot water, add it to the sugar, etc., with vanilla to taste. Place a trivet or strong sheet of iron under the saucepan for it not to come in direct contact with the flame, as the mixture easily burns. Boil it to nearly 290°, or “ small crack.” Pour it on to an oiled slab, keeping it the proper thickness with a bar-frame made for the purpose, or use a flat tin with sides to it. When nearly cold, mark the surface into squares and cut them with an oiled pair of scissors or knife. Wrap each caramel in a small piece of waxed paper. ocoanut Kisses Ingredie7its— Two breakfastcupfuls of loaf sugar. Four tablespoonfuls of desiccated Three-quarters of a gill of cold cocoanut. water. Raspberry essence and vanilla. Method.—Put the sugar and water into a pan by the fire, and let the sugar dissolve slovvly. Then put the lid on the pan and boil the syrup quickly to 240°, or slightly over “ small b^k” 33514 THE COMPLETE COOK Uncover the pan when it boils. Remove the pan from the fire and divide the syrup. To one half add vanilla to taste, and to the other a few drops of cochineal to colour it a delicate pink, and raspberry essence for flavour. Keep the two portions stirred briskly until the sugar begins to look cloudy, then stir in the cocoanut, equally divided into each basin. Mix well, and as it begins to set, form it into high rough heaps on a clean dry plate or slab and leave till set. A fork may be used to take out the mixture. Cocoanut Ice Proceed as for Cocoanut Kisses, but when the two coloured mixtures begin to get cloudy, pour one into a shallow box or proper bar-frame, which has been lined with oiled paper. Leave it until set, then pour on the other colour and leave it until it is quite hard. Lift it out of the tin, and cut it into bars with a sharp knife. Note.—While the first half of the mixture is setting in the prepared tin, place the pan or basin containing the other in a pan of hot water to keep it from setting. Everton Toffee Ingredients— Two level breakfastcupfuls of One large tablespoonful of golden Demerara sugar. syrup. Four slightly rounded tablespoon- One and a quarter gills of water, fuls of butter. Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the water, syrup, and sugar. When the sugar has dissolved, boil it steadily to 300°, or till a little of it, when allowed to set in cold water, is quite crisp and brittle. This is best tested by eating a piece. Pour it into buttered tins and leave until cold, then break it up and keep it in air-tight tins. Turkish Ingredients— Two breakfastcupfuls of best cane loaf sugar. One and a quarter pints of water. The juice of half a lemon. Delight One white of egg. Orange flower water. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of wheat starch. Method.—Put the sugar and one pint of the water into a pan by the fire, and let the sugar dissolve slowly; then boil it to a syrup. Add to it the strained juice of the lemon and theSWEETMEATS 515 whisked white of egg. Whisk this over the fire until it boils well, strain it through a clean tea-cloth. Mix the wheat starch smoothly with the gill of water, strain it into the boiling syrup, and boil until it becomes thick and ropy. Flavour it strongly with orange flower water. Pour the mixture on to an oiled plate; leave it for a minute or two, then turn it over on to a sugared plate. Wipe off any oil there may be on it. Cut it into blocks, dust it well with icing sugar, and leave it to dry. Pack the pieces in air-tight tins with a sheet of grease-proof paper between each layer. Note.—A few shelled and shredded almonds, or pistachio nuts, can be stirred into the mixture after it is cooked. Vanilla Sugar Ingredien ts— One breakfastcupful of loaf sugar. Six vanilla beans. Method.—Chop the beans very finely, pound them in a mortar with the sugar, and rub both through a coarse hair sieve. Repound what will not pass through the first time. When all is sieved, put it into a bottle, and cork it down tightly. Cinnamon Sugar Proceed as for Vanilla Sugar, substituting four sticks of cinnamon in the place of the vanilla beans. UNCOOKED SWEETMEATS Uncooked French Fondant Ingredients— Three level breakfastcupfuls of One tablespoonful of fruit syrup, or icing sugar. water flavoured with liqueur, or One white of egg. brandy, or essence of any kind. Method.—Sieve the sugar. Put the white of egg and the syrup or liqueur into a basin. With a wooden spoon gradually stir in enough of the sieved sugar to make the mixture stiff enough to be easily moulded in the fingers. Dust a slab with icing sugar, put on the fondant, and knead until it is quite smooth. Divide and colour the different portions as desired. If preferred, the mixture can be made without flavouring of any kind, and flavourings to suit the various colourings can be added afterwards. Should the fondant become too moist after adding5i6 THE COMPLETE COOK the flavourings and colourings, mix in a little more sieved icing sugar. Note.—If this fondant is to be coated with chocolate, shape it and let it stand for some hours before coating it. Almond Ingredients— Three-quarters of a breakfastcup- ful of ground almonds. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of icing sugar. Paste Two level tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Vanilla, lemon juice, and orange flower water. Method.—Sieve the sugars into a basin ; mix in the ground almonds. Add the strained juice of half a lemon, and about a saltspoonful of each of the flavourings. If the mixture is too dry, add more of the flavourings ; or if there is already sufficient of these, a little water. Knead it well until it is quite smooth, and it is ready for use. Almond Brochettes Ingredients— One breakfastcupful of almond Brochettes of different colours. paste. Castor sugar. MetJiod.—Roll out the paste to the same thickness as the brochettes, then with a plain cutter of the same size stamp out neat rounds of the paste. Take the brochettes off the straws on which they are bought, and instead, thread the straw first through a green brochette, then a round of almond paste, next a red brochette, and so on until the straw is full, arranging the colours prettily. Shake over some castor sugar. Note.—This is a most effective sweetmeat for dessert. Use marzipan if liked instead of the uncooked almond paste. Stuffed Cherries Ingredients— About a breakfastcupful of almond Castor sugar. paste to about three to four dozen glace cherries. Method.—Shape the paste into small balls. Make a slit in each cherry, insert a ball of almond paste; roll it lightly in the hand until it is well rounded. Roll it in sugar, and put it in a small paper sweetmeat case. Note.—If wished, use marzipan in place of almond paste; either of them may be variously coloured or left the natural tint.517 SWEETMEATS Stuffed Dates or French Plums Proceed as for Stuffed Cheri'ies. First stone the dates. Shape the paste like the stone, then insert it in its place. Note.—If liked, the paste may be coloured a pale pink or a delicate green. Muscatel and Valencia raisins may be stuffed in the same way, taking care to remove all pips. Orange, Lemon, and Ingredients— Two breakfastcupfuls of icing sugar. One orange. One lemon. Raspberry Creams Yellow colouring and cochineal. Raspberry essence. Tartaric acid. Three pistachio nuts. MetJwd.—Divide the sugar equally into three basins. Grate the orange rind into one and the lemon rind into another. Add a tiny pinch of tartaric acid to each basin. Strain enough orange and lemon juice into the respective basins to make the sugar into a stiff yet pliable paste. To the contents of the third basin add raspberry essence and water with a few drops of cochineal until the desired consistency is obtained. Dip the tip of a skewer into the yellow colouring, next into the orange mixture, then knead well until the whole lump is a uniform pretty yellow tint. Shape it into balls ; make them into oval shapes, and put a tiny strip of candied orange peel on each. Shape the lemon and rasp- berry creams in the same way. On the lemon put a tiny strip of candied lemon peel, and on the raspberry a shred of pistachio nut. Allow to dry for a short time in a warm place. Peppermint Creams Ingredients— About three level breakfastcupfuls One tablespoonful of water. of icing sugar. Concentrated essence of pepper- One white of egg. mint. Method.—Put the egg, water, and a few drops of the pepper- mint in a basin. Work into these enough sieved icing sugar to form a paste which can be easily moulded without being in the least sticky. Flavour the mixture pleasantly with peppermint. Roll it lightly out to the thickness of half an inch; stamp it out in round lozenges. Let them stand overnight, or until they feel dry, in a cool room.CHAPTER XXX 518 ICES How TO Make Ices Utensils needed— A freezing machine, or the old-fashioned but reliable pewter freezing pot. Homely substitute—a large milk-can, with a well- fitting lid. A freezing tub, with tap to draw off water. Homely sub- stitute—a zinc bath. Wooden spatula. Homely substitute—a strong, clean bone paper knife. Moulds must be of pewter. Freezing Mixture— Rough ice and coarse freezing salt, seven pounds of ice to one pound of salt. Chip the ice very small with an ice-pick or strong darning needle. Pack the ice and salt in layers in the freezing tub, packing it solidly together. Fit the pot in while packing so as to leave a space for it. How to Freeze Mixtures Too much sugar makes the mixture slow and hard to freeze ; too little sugar causes the ice to be too hard. Never put any mixture into the freezing pot until it is quite cold, or time and ice are wasted. Very great care is needed to wipe the lid of the freezing pot well round before taking it off, otherwise salt may get into the mixture. When the mixture is in the pot and the pot well closed and in the ice, turn it round and round, slowly at first, then more rapidly. After a few minutes’ rest wipe the lid round, take it off and scrape down any mixture frozen to the sides of the pot, and beat the mixture well until quite smooth. Use the spatula for this. Put on the lid, spin the can again, then scrape down and beat the mixture, and continue this until the whole of it is evenly frozen all through. It may be stifflyICES S19 frozen, or like a thick creamy mass, according to the way in which it is to be used. Keep the pot in the freezing mixture until the ice is needed. Cover the pot and ice all over with a piece of wet flannel, sacking, or old carpet. Drain off the water now and then, and if necessary pack in more ice and salt. This will depend on the length of time the freezing pot is to be kept in it. To Mould Ice Puddings See the mould is clean and dry. When the mixture has been frozen in the usual way, as directed above, put it into the mould and press and shake it solidly down. Cover all cracks, joints, lid opening, etc., in the mould with lard, pressing it firmly on (this is to prevent any salt oozing into the ice), and then wrap the mould up in a piece of greased paper. Bury it right down in the ice and salt, and freeze for about three hours. To Unnioidd Ice Puddings Take the mould out of the ice, remove the paper and all the lard. Dip the mould right into cold water for about half a minute, wipe round the lid, open the mould gently, and slip the ice on to the dish carefully. Usually curled or flat wafers, cut or left whole, are used to garnish the dish. Small ices are served on glass ice plates, or in cups, fancy ice cases, or cases made from the rinds and skins of fruit with the pulp scooped out, such as tangerine oranges, a fresh pineapple, etc. For sorbets and pu7iches the mixtures are only half frozen. They must be a smooth creamy mass, never firm enough to mould, and are served in fancy glasses, or cups, holding sufficient for one person. They are usually served just before the roast. Frozen Apricots Ingredients— A tin of apricots. One quart of water. Two breakfastcupfuls of sugar. Half a pint of cream. Method.—Cut the apricots into small pieces. Put the sugar and water into a pan, dissolve the sugar and boil it to a syrup, until it will form a thin thread between the finger and thumb. Put in the fruit, let the mixture cool, then partly freeze it. Whip and add the cream, and finish the freezing. Note.—If preferred, the cream may be omitted altogether. Peaches, pineapples, cherries, and strawberries are delicious done in this way, but vary the quantity of sugar according to the fruit.520 THE COMPLETE COOK Coffee Cream Ice Ingredients— Half a pint of very strong coffee. Quarter of a pint of cream. Half a pint of rich custard (see Three tablespoonfuls of brandy. Boiled Custard). One teacupful of loaf sugar. Method.—Mix the coffee, hot custard, and sugar. When cold, half freeze the mixture. Then add the cream, brandy, and complete the freezing. Note.—Leave out the brandy if preferred, and add a little essence of vanilla instead. Ice Pudding Ingredien ts— Three-quarters of a pint of rich sweetened custard. One glace apricot, orange, and pear. A dozen glace cherries. One tablespoonful of finely chopped pistachio nuts. One tablespoonful of finely chopped almonds. One tablespoonful of glace ginger in dice. Two teaspoonfuls of maraschino. Two teaspoonfuls of brandy. Half a pint of cream. Method.—When cold, strain the custard into the freezing pot and half freeze it. Cut the fruit into pieces, add these, the nuts, maraschino, brandy, and whipped cream to the mixture, and mix all well together and freeze until firm. Wet the ice mould, decorate it prettily with a few extra glac6 fruits and pistachios if there are any, and fill it up with the frozen mixture, pressing it well in. Seal the mould securely with lard, wrap it in greased paper, and pack it well round and over with the freezing mixture. Freeze it until required, or from four to six hours. Turn out carefully, and decorate with curled ice wafers and pieces of glace fruits. Lemon Water Ice Ingredien ts— One pint of water. One breakfastcupful of loaf sugar. One gill of lemon juice. The whites of two eggs. Method.—Wipe the lemons, then rub off the outer part of the peel with some of the lumps of sugar. Boil the sugar and water for ten minutes until it forms a thin thread between the finger and thumb. When the syrup is cold, add the strained lemon juice. Pour the mixture into the freezer and half freezeICES 521 it, then add the beaten whites of the eggs lightly to the mixture, and beat them in. Continue the freezing as usual. Orange Water Ice Proceed as for Lemon Water Ice, substituting orange rind and juice for lemon. Tangerines may be used if liked, and give an excellent flavour. Peach or Apricot Cream Ice Proceed as directed for Strawberry Cream Ice. Pineapple Cream Ice Ingredients— One tinned pineapple. Four tablespoonfuls of castor One lemon. sugar. Half a pint of cream. Method.—Cut out all the “ eyes ” from the pineapple, cut it into small pieces, pound it in a mortar, and rub it through a sieve. Add the sugar and strained lemon juice. When the sugar has dissolved, half freeze the mixture and stir in the whipped cream. Mix it well and freeze as usual. Note.—A fresh pineapple may be used if preferred, and the fruit grated instead of being sieved. Raspberry Cream Ice Proceed as directed for Strawberry Cream Ice. Roman Punch higredietits— Half a breakfastcupful of lemon Half a pint of champagne. juice. Four tablespoonfuls of maras- Two breakfastcupfuls of water. chino. One breakfastcupful of castor sugar. Method.—Boil the water, lemon juice, thinly pared rinds, and sugar together. Strain, and when cold put. them into the freezer and half freeze. Add the champagne and maraschino, and finish freezing. It should be frozen quickly to the consist- ency of whipped cream. Serve in small fancy glasses or cups.THE COMPLETE COOK 522 Strawberry Ingredients— About one pound of fresh straw- Cream Ice Half a pint of cream F our tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Haifa tablespoonful of lemon juice. Cochineal. berries, or a pound pot of jam sufficient for half a pint of the purde. Method.—Rub the fruit, or jam, through a hair sieve. Mix with it the lemon juice and castor sugar. Whip the cream, and stir it lightly in with a few drops of cochineal. Freeze it as usual. Strawberry or Raspberry Water Ice Proceed as directed for Lemon Water Ice, using a breakfast- cupful of raspberry or strawberry puree, instead of lemon juice. Cochineal will be needed to brighten the colour of the ice, and about one tablespoonful of lemon juice to freshen it. Ingredients— One quart of rich custard (see Vanilla to taste. Boiled Custard). Half a pint of whipped cream. Method.—Strain the cold custard into a jug and flavour it with vanilla. Put it into the freezer and half freeze it. Then add the cream, beat it well in, and continue the freezing until it is evenly frozen all through. Note.—If preferred, the cream may be omitted. Vanilla IceCHAPTER XXXI JAMS AND PICKLES Useful Hints on Jam Making 1. Use fresh, dry, sound, not over or under ripe fruit. 2. Good cane sugar is the most economical. 3. Use bright, clean, thick metal pans, either copper or enamel-lined iron. 4. Stir with wooden or silver-plated spoons, never with iron or tin. 5. It is generally safe to allow a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit unless otherwise directed. 6. The quantity of water depends on the juiciness of the fruit and the season. 7. Boil jams quickly, stir and skim well. 8. Boil them until the preserve sets in a jelly when some is cooled on a plate. 9. Empty the jam from the pan directly it is cooked into clean, dry, heated jars. 10. Tie the jars down at once, and store in a cool, dry place. Bottling Fruit Bottling fruit is to preserve it, either with or without sugar, by sealing it in air-tight jars and not cooking it sufficiently to destroy its natural flavour. Some authorities state that filling the jars with cold water and sealing immediately will keep fruit, but most kinds are improved by the addition of more or less sugar. Iviportant Points in Bottling Have the fruit perfect in shape and quality. The syrup, of water and sugar, boiled to “ the thread,” clear and boiling hot. Have the jars clean, hot, filled to overflowing, and sealed quickly and thoroughly. 5=3THE COMPLETE COOK 524 Have all utensils in order and to hand, to avoid delay. Use wide-mouthed jars—those with glass inner covers and screw metal tops are best—and keep them in hot water until needed for filling. A clamp is convenient, with which to hold the jar over the pan while filling it. Use a broad, shallow pan—an oval boiler answers well—put rings of stones in it, on which to stand the jars. Put the fruit into the jars. Stand them in the boiler, pack them round with hay, and pour in the boiling hot syrup. A cold spoon can be put into the jars to lessen the risk of cracking them. Generally one cup of sugar to one cup of water is used for the syrup for small juicy berries, and one cup of sugar to two cups of water for large fruit such as pears, plums, etc. For fruits which need cooking, boil the jars and their contents in the boiler for five minutes, or until the fruit is just soft, but not broken. Fasten the tops securely, giving them an extra screw down about every half-hour until the fruit is cold. It is best to keep the jars bottom upwards. Thick tinfoil can be used for jars of which the covers are lost. Proceed as directed for Crab Apple Jelly, using the ordinary sharp cooking apples. A few drops of cochineal will be needed to tint it prettily. Method.—Peel, quarter, and core the apples. Put them into the preserving pan with the sugar and about a teacupful of boiling water. Stew them until the fruit is tender, if necessary adding a little more water. Stalk and examine the blackberries carefully, add them to the apples, and boil steadily until the jam sets, when allowed to get cold. Remove all scum as it rises, and stir it constantly. Pour the jam into dry heated jars and cover securely. Note.—Blackberries may be used alone, but apple is a great improvement. Apple Jelly Blackberry and Apple Jam Ingredients— Four pounds of blackberries. Six sharp apples. Nine breakfastcupfuls of loaf sugar.525 JAMS AND PICKLES Blackberry Jelly Ingredients— Four pounds of blackberries. Four medium-sized apples. Half a pint of water. The juice of half a lemon. Two breakfastcupfuls of loaf sugar to each pint of juice. Method.—Peel, quarter, and core the apples, and stalk and carefully examine the blackberries. Put the apples, lemon juice, and water into the pan, boil until the apples are soft, then add the blackberries, and boil until they are soft. Strain off the juice through a fine hair sieve or tammy cloth, press the fruit very slightly, but do not rub it through. Rinse out the pan, measure the juice back into it, add sugar in the above proportion, and boil the jelly steadily until it will jelly firmly, when some is cooled on a plate. Pour it into dry heated jars and cover securely. Note.—If the blackberries are poor and “ bullety ” use double the number of apples and allow only one and a half breakfast- cupfuls of sugar. Prepare this in exactly the same manner as directed for Damson Cheese. Method.—Wipe the fruit and remove the stones as neatly as possible. Break up the sugar, put it in a pan with the currant or apple juice, let it dissolve slowly, and then boil it for five minutes. Add the cherries and the almonds shelled and cut in shreds, and boil the jam gently until the cherries are tender and the juice jellies when cold. Stir and skim it frequently during the boiling. Pour into heated jars, and cover. Bullace Cheese Cherry Jam Ingredien ts— Allow to each pound of fruit : Three teacupfuls of loaf sugar. One gill of red currant or apple juice. Two sweet almonds. Crab Apple Jelly Ingredients— Three pounds of crab apples (.Siberian crabs best). One lemon. Cold water. Three teacupfuls of sugar to each pint of juice.THE COMPLETE COOK 526 Method.—Wash the crab apples, remove their stalks, and halve them with a silver knife, but do not core or peel them. Put them into a pan with enough cold water to float them. They will probably take about three pints. Pare, the lemon thinly and add the peel to the apples. Boil the fruit gently until it is quite tender, but not in a mash. Strain off all juice through a fine hair sieve, tammy cloth, or jelly bag. Press the fruit very gently, but on no account squeeze the fruit, or the jelly will be cloudy. Rinse out the pan, measure the juice back into it, and add sugar in the given proportion. Boil the jelly quickly until some, when allowed to get cold, sets firmly on’'a plate. While it is boiling keep it well skimmed. Peel some of the pips and stir them into the jelly. Pour it into dry pots, tie them down securely, and keep in a cool place. Note.—If liked, the juice of the lemon may be added as well as the peel. Bottled Cranberries Ingredients— Cranberries. Cold water. Method.—Stalk and examine the berries, then wash them. Have ready some clean bottles. Fill them three-parts full with cranberries, then fill them up to the top with cold water. Cork tightly, and resin, or sealing-wax, the corks. Store in a cool, dry place. When using the fruit for tarts, the water should be used for juice, as it will be nicely flavoured with the cranberries. Bottled thus they keep for years. Cranberry Jelly Ingredients— Three pounds of the small British Two breakfastcupfuls of loaf sugar cranberries. to each pint of juice. Three pints of water. Method.—Wash and remove the hair-like stalks from the berries. Put them in a pan with the cold water. Boil them quickly until they are soft and broken. Strain off the juice through a fine hair sieve, press the fruit, but do not rub it through, or the clearness of the jelly will be spoilt. Rinse out the pan, measure the juice into it, and add the sugar in the given proportion. Boil until it jellies when allowed to cool. Pour into small jars, cover, and keep in a cool place.JAMS AND PICKLES 527 Black, White, and Red Currant Jelly Ingredients— Either black, white, or red cur- To each pint of juice allow two rants. breakfastcupfuls of loaf sugar. Method.—Remove all stalks from the currants and put them in a jar, cover the jar and place it in a pan with boiling water to come half-way up it. Let the water boil until all the juice is extracted from the fruit. Strain it off and measure the juice, and allow sugar in the above proportion. Put the juice and sugar into a preserving pan and boil them gently until some will “jelly” quickly when it is allowed to get cold. Pour into small, dry, heated jars, and tie down securely. Black Currant Jam Ingredients— To each pound of black currants Three teacupfuls of loaf sugar. allow : Method.—Remove all leaves and stalks and put the currants into the preserving pan, crush the sugar slightly and add it to the fruit. Put the pan at the side of the fire until the juice is drawn out and the sugar dissolved. Then bring the jam to boiling point and boil it gently from thirty to forty minutes, or until some jellies when cooled on a plate. Pour into jars, cover at once, and keep in a cool place. Note.—If liked, instead of all black, use a third of white or red currants ; in that case add a dozen extra lumps of sugar to each pound of fruit. Damson Cheese Ingredients— Damsons. Three teacupfuls of loaf sugar to each pint of pulp. Method.—Look over the fruit carefully, stalk and wash them and drain them well. Put them into a large jar, place it in a pan half full of boiling water. Cover it and let the water round, boil until the fruit in the jar is quite soft. Rub it through a fine wire sieve to remove the stones and skins. Measure the pulp and juice into the preserving pan and add sugar in the above proportion. BoiPfall together until some of it, when allowed to become cold, will set quickly and stiffly. It has to boil until it becomes very thick, so it requires constant stirring.THE COMPLETE COOK 528 When done, pour it into small, dry, heated jars, or fancy moulds. Cover them down and store in a cool place. Note.—This “ cheese ” improves greatly with keeping. A few kernels of the stones can be added if liked. Damson Jam Ingredients— Four pounds of damsons. Three teacupfuls of loaf sugar to each pound of fruit. Method.—Stalk and examine the fruit, then wash and dry it carefully. Put it into a preserving pan at the side of the fire until some of the juice is extracted. Bring it to boiling point. Crush the sugar slightly and add the required amount. Boil the jam for about half an hour, or until some of it stiffens quickly when allowed to get cold. It is a good plan to take out some of the stones while the jam is cooking, otherwise there will be a superfluity of them in the jam. If liked, some might be cracked and the kernels added. When done, pour the jam into dry, heated jars, cover securely, and store in a cool place. Gooseberry Jam higredients— Two breakfastcupfuls of loaf Each pound of fruit, sugar to And about half a gill of water. Method.—Top and tail the gooseberries. Break up the sugar slightly, put it into a preserving pan with the water, let it cook slowly until the sugar has dissolved, and bring it quickly to boiling point. Put in the fruit, and continue cooking quickly until some of it “jellies” when it is cooled on a plate. It must be kept well skimmed. Pour it into dry, heated jars, cover securely, and keep in a cool, dry place. Lemon Curd Ingredients— Four slightly rounded tablespoon- fuls of butter. Three level teacupfuls of castor sugar. Method.—Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the sugar and the lemon rinds and juice. Stir these over a fire until they are warm. Slightly beat the eggs and strain them into the butter, etc., and stir all over a slow fire until the mixture thickens and The grated rinds and juice of three lemons. Four eggs and two extra yolks.529 JAMS AND PICKLES resembles honey. It must not be allowed to boil, or it will be spoilt. Pour the mixture into clean dry jars, cover and store in a cool dry place. Note.—A double milk saucepan is the best to make this in, there is then no fear of its boiling. Marmalade Ingredients— Twenty-four Seville oranges. Cold water. Double their weight in loaf sugar. Six large lemons. Method.—Wash and rub the oranges well in cold water to clean them. Put them in a large pan with enough cold water to float them, and boil them until the rinds are soft enough to be easily pierced with a pin. Drain off the water, cut each orange into quarters and remove all pips, put them in a basin with a pint of cold water, and let them stand twelve hours. Put all the pulp from the oranges into a basin and mash it well. Scrape the empty skins quite clean and cut them into very fine shreds. Strain the water from the pips on to the sugar, also the lemon juice. Boil this syrup until it pours from the spoon like oil. Then add the pulp and rinds and boil them gently until some of the marmalade jellies when it is cooled on a plate. It will probably take about half an hour. Pour it into heated jars and tie down tightly. Brandied Peaches Ingredients— Three pounds of peaches (not Half a pint of water. over-ripe). Four breakfastcupfuls of loaf One and a half pints of brandy. sugar. Method.—Hh.& fruit must be perfectly sound. Halve the peaches, remove the skin and stones, taking care to keep the halves unbroken. Crack some of the stones and take out the kernels. Crush the sugar slightly, put it into a pan with the water and kernels and let it boil until it forms a good thread when tested between the finger and thumb. Skim it carefully, add the peaches, cover the pan closely, and cook the fruit until it is tender, but not broken. Add the brandy and bring the syrup again to boiling point, then remove the pan from the fire. Put the fruit into wide-necked bottles, fill them up with the hot syrup and cork and resin the bottles, or cover them with bladder. Store in a cool, dry place. Note.—Apricots may be treated in a similar manner. 34530 THE COMPLETE COOK Pot-Pourri of Fruits Ingredients— One pint of pale brandy. Mixed fruits. White sugar. Almonds. Method.—Put the brandy into a stone jar which will hold, or nearly hold, one and a half quarts. The jar must have a tight- fitting lid or cork. As the various summer fruits come into season, put them into the brandy with an equal quantity of sugar; thus a breakfastcupful of sugar to each one of fruit. Stir each day with a wooden spoon. Use strawberries, pineapple, raspberries, currants, blackberries, peaches, apricots, cherries, plums, grapes, etc. Plums, peaches, and suchlike varieties must be peeled, stoned, and cut each into eight pieces. Cherries must be stoned, grapes seeded, pineapple cut in dice, strawberries husked. As the seeds of small fruits harden with the brandy, it is better to mash them and use only the strained juice ; this applies to rasp- berries, blackberries, and currants. About a month after the last fruit is added the pot-pourri is ready for use. About an ounce of shelled and shredded sweet almonds adds considerably to the flavour. This makes a delicious variety of fruit salad. Preserved Plums Ingredients— To each pound of plums And half a pint of water. Allow two breakfastcupfuls of loaf sugar, Method.—Stalk the plums and prick each several times with a needle. Put the sugar and water into the pan'; when the sugar dissolves, bring it to boiling point and boil it until it will form a thread when tested between the finger and thumb. Lay the fruit in a pan, pour over the syrup and leave until next day. Then drain off the syrup, reboil, and again pour it over the fruit; repeat this on the third morning. Try the fruit; it should now be quite tender and perfect in shape ; if it is not tender it must be gently boiled until it is. Put a few plums into each bottle. Strain the syrup and reboil it until it forms a thread between the finger and thumb, and fill up the bottles with it. Cork tightly and cover with resin, wax, or bladder.JAMS AND TICKLES 531 Raspberry Jam Ingredients— Allow to each pound of fruit Two breakfastcupfuls of loaf sugar. Method.—Stalk and carefully examine the fruit, put it in a preserving pan, break it up slightly with a wooden spoon, and boil the fruit by itself for five minutes. Then crush the sugar slightly and add it. Boil the jam until it sets stiffly when it is tested on a plate; it will probably take about half an hour. Keep it well stirred and skimmed. Note.—If liked, a gill of red currant juice may be added for each pound of fruit; this should be added with the sugar. Rhubarb higredien ts— Si.K pounds of rhubarb, weighing after trimming. The rinds of three lemons. Jam Twelve breakfastcupfuls of loaf sugar. Six bitter almonds. Method.—Trim off the leaves and root end, and, if the rhu- barb seems at all stringy, peel it. Then weigh it and allow sugar accordingly. Cut it into one-inch lengths, put these into a preserving pan over a slow fire until the juice begins to flow. Add the sugar, shelled almonds, and grated lemon rinds The almonds should be slightly bruised with a rolling-pin. Cook the jam slowly until the sugar has dissolved, then quickly until some of it will set quickly when it is cooled on a plate. It should not be at all thin or watery. Keep it well skimmed and avoid as much as possible breaking up the pieces when stirring it. Put into clean dry jars and cover tightly. Note.—Half a level teaspoonful of ground ginger may be used instead of the lemon rind, if preferred. Rowan Jelly {Mountain Ash Berries) Ingredients— Ripe rowan berries. Two breakfastcupfuls of loaf sugar to each pint of juice. Method.—Remove all stalks from the berries and wash and drain them. Put them into a preserving pan with enough cold water to well float them. Let them simmer for about forty minutes, or until the water is red and the berries are beginning to break. Strain off the juice, but do not press the fruit in theTHE COMPLETE COOK 532 least. Measure it back into the pan and add sugar in the above proportion. Boil the jelly quickly until some of it sets quickly on a plate when cold. Skim it well. Pour it into small pots and tie down tightly. Note.—This is an excellent accompaniment to grouse, veni- son, and saddle of mutton. Strawberry Jam Ingredients— Allow to each pound of fruit Two breakfastcupfuls of loaf sugar. Method.—Break up the sugar slightly. Put about half a gill of water in the pan just to start the sugar melting, add the sugar, let it dissolve slowly, then bring it to boiling point and add the stalked fruit. Boil the jam gently, skim it well and take care when stirring it not to break up the fruit. When some of it sets when it is allowed to cool on a plate, pour it into dry, heated jars and cover down. Preserved Strawberries Ingredients— Three pounds of perfectly sound Loaf sugar. strawberries. Water. One pound of sharp apples. Method.—Cut the apples in pieces, but do not remove the peel, core, or pips. Put these pieces in a pan with just enough cold water to cover them. Boil the apples until soft and mash them with, a spoon. Strain off the juice through a fine hair sieve. If it is not clear strain it again through fine muslin. Pick over the strawberries, select the choicest berries, that is to say those that are perfect, firm, and of even size, and lay them aside. Press the remainder of the fruit to make juice, using a sieve and not mashing the fruit through. When the juice has dripped off, the rest of the pulped fruit can be used for common jam. Measure this juice and fruit and allow one gill of apple juice to each pint of strawberry juice. Then add one pound of loaf sugar to every pint of apple and strawberry juice to be used. Boil the juice and syrup sharply for about twenty min- utes, or until it jellies well when a little is cooled on a plate. Keep the syrup carefully skimmed. Meanwhile weigh the selected berries and add to them an equal amount of crushed loaf sugar. When the syrup jellies, add these berries and the sugar. Boil all carefully for a few minutes more. No exact time533 JAMS AND PICKLES can be given. The berries must not be raw or they will not keep, neither must they be allowed to shrivel. Try some of the preserve now and then on a plate, drawing the pan aside while testing it. When it sets when cold, pour it into glass jars, and when cold tie them down. This preserve is not intended to mould stiffly like fruit jellies; it is apt to fall in luscious masses, showing the imprisoned berries in clear red jelly. Tutti Frutti for Tarts Ingredients— Equal parts of stoned cherries, One pound of loaf sugar to each raspberries, red and black cur- pound of mixed fruit, rants, and large gooseberries. Method.—Mash the currants, strain off all the juice, and dissolve the necessary amount of sugar in it over the fire in a big bright pan. Add the other fruits after preparing them in the usual manner. Boil quickly until some will jelly when cooled on a plate. This can be bottled and is delicious for all kinds of tarts. PICKLES Pickled Ingredients— About four medium - sized beet- root. Allow to each quart of vinegar Two tablespoonfuls of black peppercorns. Beetroot Two teaspoonfuls of allspice. Two level teaspoonfuls of salt. Three bay leaves. Two shallots. One small stick of horseradish. Method.—Peel the shallots and carefully scrape the horse- radish. Put the vinegar into a pan with the shallots, horse- radish, salt, bay leaves, and spice, and let it boil until it is well flavoured with them. Then let it get cold. Wash the beetroot, taking care not to break the skin or any of the little rootlets, otherwise the colour will be spoilt. If there is plenty of time cook them in the oven, or if more convenient, put them into fast boiling water and boil them one and a half hours, or until they are nearly tender, but not quite. Then drain off the water, let them cool slightly and peel them. Cut them in slices about half an inch thick, or, if preferred, into large dice. Put these in dry jars, add a few peppercorns and allspice to each jar, and fill up with vinegar. Cork or tie the bottles down and store them in a cool place.THE COMPLETE COOK 534 Pickled Cabbage Ingredients— A firm red cabbage. Two tablespoonfuls of black Allow to each cjuart of vinegar peppercorns. Two teaspoonfuls of allspice. Method.—Well wash and trim the cabbage, cut it into fine shreds after removing all the stalk. Put the shreds into an earthenware pan, sprinkle them thinly with salt, cover and let them stand for two days. Boil the vinegar with the spice until it is well flavoured, then strain and let it cool. Drain off all liquid from the cabbage, put the latter into wide-necked bottles or jars, fill up with the vinegar. Cork and resin the bottles and keep in a cool dry place. Chutney Ingredients— One heaped breakfastcupful of raisins. One heaped breakfastcupful of sultanas. A dozen medium-sized sour apples. Two level breakfastcupfuls of Demerara sugar. Three small tablespoonfuls of salt. One level teaspoonful of cayenne. Three tablespoonfuls of mustard seed. Six breakfastcupfuls of vinegar. Three heads of garlic. Two or three chillies. Method.—Peel, core, and slice the apples, put them into a pan with half the vinegar, and boil them to a pulp. Put the rest of the vinegar into another pan with the sugar and boil until it is a clear syrup. When the apple pulp is cold, mix it with the vinegar .syrup. Meantime, stalk and clean the sultanas, stone and chop the raisins, and chop the garlic and chillies finely. Add these, with the salt, mustard seed, and cayenne, to the other ingredients. Boil all together for twenty minutes, stirring all the time. Pour the chutney into wide-necked bottles, cork them tightly, and in three weeks it may be used, but it improves with keeping. Lemon Pickle Ingredients— Small even-sized lemons. Allow one tablespoonful of mixed To each quart of vinegar spice. Method.—Peel the lemons very thinly, place them in layers with salt in a jar, and leave them for a week or ten days until they are quite soft. Put them into a jar with the required quantity of mixed spice tied up in a piece of muslin, pour overJAMS AND PICKLES 535 enough boiling vinegar to well cover them. When cold, cork the jar tightly, and either cover it with a piece of bladder, or resin it down. Keep from two to three weeks before using them. They should have a brownish, almost semi-transparent appearance, and the vinegar quite thick. Pickled Onions Ingi'edien is— Small silver pickling onions. Two teaspoonfuls of allspice. Allow to each quart of vinegar Two level teaspoonfuls of salt. Two tablespoonfuls of black Three bay leaves. peppercorns. Method.—Choose quite dry onions. Remove the two outer skins with a silver knife,—a steel one causes them to turn black. It is easier to peel them in a basin of cold water ; this removes a little of the strong essential oil, helps to whiten them, and saves much pain to the eyes. They must be dried lightly when taken from the water. Boil the vinegar with the spices until it is well flavoured, then let it get cold. Put the onions in wide- necked bottles or jars. Fill them up with vinegar, adding a little spice to each bottle. Cork, or tie down, and keep for a month, when they will be ready for use. Pickled Walnuts Ingredients— Young green walnuts. One tablespoonful of allspice. To each quart of vinegar allow One level teaspoonful of cloves. Two tablespoonfuls of black One level teaspoonful of salt. peppercorns. AIethod.—V\!\'pe the nuts in a cloth, then prick each all over with a darning needle. Put them into an earthenware jar and cover them with a strong cold brine, made by boiling half a pound of common salt in each quart of water required. Pour this over them and leave them for a week, turning them well each day. Then pour off this brine and replace it with fresh, and leave them for two more days. Then place the walnuts on trays and leave them in the sun until they are black; they should be turned occasionally. Pack them into wide-mouthed bottles, and boil sufficient vinegar to cover them, with the required amount of spice, until it is well flavoured. Leave it until cold, then strain it and fill up the bottles. Cork tightly and seal. They are best kept for at least three months before using them. The walnuts should be so young that they can be pierced right through with a needle.CHAPTER XXXII BEVERAGES American Fruit Drink Ingredients— A breakfastcupful each of rasp- The juice of two lemons. berries, currants, and straw- One breakfastcupful of icing sugar. berries. One quart of boiling water. Method.—Stalk and examine the fruit carefully. Put it into a basin and mash it with a fork to a pulp. Rub the sugar through a hair sieve, add it with the strained lemon juice to the fruit. Pour over the water and let it stand for twelve hours. Strain off the liquid into a jug, put it on ice for an hour, or longer, and it is ready to serve. Cherry Brandy Ingredients— Two pounds of Morello cherries. A dozen peach, apricot, or plum Three-quarters of a pound of kernels. sugar candy. Enough good brandy to cover the fruit. Method.—Carefully wipe the fruit, cut off all but an inch of their stalks and prick each with a coarse needle. Pound the candy and take out the string that is in the centre of each piece. Fill some wide-necked bottles three-parts full of layers of cherries, sugar candy, and kernels. Fill them up with brandy, cork them tightly, resin or wax the corks, and shake the bottles occasionally. Store them for at least three months before use. This brandy improves with keeping. A Cup of Chocolate higredients— One ounce of good plain choco- Half a pint of milk. late. ^ One teaspoonful of cream.537 BEVERAGES Method.—Cut the chocolate, if in a cake, into thin shavings. Mix these smoothly with a little cold milk. When the milk comes almost to boiling point, pour it on the chocolate, put it all back into a clean pan, and whisk it with a small egg-whisk, or chocolate “ muller,” until it boils. Serve at once, with a teaspoonful of lightly whipped cream on the top. Note.—If this is richer than is liked, use half milk and half water, or less chocolate. A Cup of Cocoa Ingredients— About one teaspoonful of cocoa. Half a pint of milk, or milk and water. Method.—Bring the milk almost to boiling point. Mix the cocoa smoothly with a little cold milk, pour on the hot milk and then stir it over the fire until it boils for about one minute. Sweeten to taste, and serve. Note.—The amount of cocoa required varies according to the maker, but instructions are usually given with each variety. Claret Cup Ingredients— One bottle of claret. Two bottles of soda water. Quarter of a bottle of sherry. One lemon. Sugar to taste. Two inches of cucumber. A sprig of verbena or borage. Ice. Method.—Put the wine and soda water into a jug, add a few strips of lemon rind, and the lemon cut in thin slices. Add the cucumber sliced, but not peeled, and sugar to taste. Add the verbena and a large lump of ice. Cover the jug and leave it for about an hour, then remove the verbena or borage, and lemon rind, add a few small pieces of ice, and serve. Note.—N\\&n in season, a few strawberries or raspberries may be added in place of the lemon. To Prepare Coffee Many prefer to roast and grind the coffee themselves, but nowadays when the arrangements for roasting are so complete, it is well for small families to buy coffee ready roasted, and to grind it as required, or to buy it in small quantities ready ground. The proportion of one-third Mocha, and two-thirds Java, is popular with most people. If chicory is liked, addTHE COMPLETE COOK 538 one tablespoonful of the best French kind, to eight tablespoon- fuls of ground coffee. Coffee pots of fireproof ware are usually most popular; they must be kept scrupulously clean, cleaning the spout as well as the pot. The cause of ill-flavoured coffee is frequently an unclean pot. To Roast Coffee Put about two tablespoonfuls of coffee berries into a saute pan, with a tiny piece of butter. Shake these over a slow fire until they are a good dark brown. The butter lubricates the berries, prevents the escape of much of the fragrance, and is quite absorbed before the roasting is done. If accidentally any berries become burnt, throw them away, otherwise they will spoil the flavour of all. Grind the berries as soon as they are roasted, and keep the powder in tins with tight-fitting lids. To Make the Coffee Ingredients— Allow one heaped tablespoonful of proportion slightly when several coffee to each breakfastcupful cups are required, of boiling water, reducing the Method.—Scald the pot, and place it in a saucepan containing boiling water. If it is a perculator, put the coffee powder into the upper part, and pour on the boiling water, a little at a time until the necessary quantity has been added. When all has run through, the coffee is ready. Or place the powder in a heated jug, or pot, pour on the boiling water, and let it stand for five minutes at the side of the stove; then pour three or four cupfuls backwards and forwards, and let it stand for five minutes to settle. Strain it into a hot coffee pot, and it is ready. Serve it in hot cups, with hot milk. To Serve Coffee Cream, scalded milk, and loaf sugar are essential accompani- ments to coffee. Put about one teaspoonful of cream and two of milk into each cup—these amounts must vary with the size of the cup—then fill up with coffee. Let each person add sugar according to taste. The milk should be slowly heated, but not boiled, as this spoils the flavour.541 BEVERAGES and let it stand to ferment two days. Then put it into a clean cask. When the hissing noise, caused by the active fermenta- tion, has ceased, plug the cask loosely ; in a few days the bung may be driven in tightly and the cask stood upright. Six months later, draw off the wine into a clean cask, taking care no sediment passes through. A month later, see if the wine draws off clear; if not, dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in a little of the wine and pour it in. About the month of March, the year after making the wine, bottle it. Lemonade Ingredients— Four lemons. About a dozen lumps of sugar. One quart of boiling water. Method.—Wipe the lemons, chip off the rinds in very thin flakes, place these in a jug, with the sugar. Remove all pith from the lemons, and slice them into the jug, taking care to remove all pips. Pour on the boiling water, cover the jug, and leave until the lemonade is cold. Then strain it off, and see that it is sweet enough. Add a few small pieces of ice and serve. Lemon Ingredients— One lemon. Two level teaspoonfuls of castor sugar. Method.—Half fill a tumbler with pieces of ice. Add to it the strained juice of the lemon, and the sugar. Fill up the glass with soda water. Mix all together and serve at once. Maitrank Ingredients— One bottle of Moselle, or Rhenish Ice. wine. Slices of orange, or a few straw- Four lumps of sugar. berries. A bunch of woodruff. Method.—Pour the wine into a basin, throw into it a hand- ful of washed woodruff leaves, let it stand for an hour, then add the sugar and a few pieces of ice. Pour it into tumblers, place a sprig of woodruff and either a slice of orange, or a strawberry, in each glass, and serve. Squash Soda water. Small piece of ice.542 THE COMPLETE COOK Oyster Cocktail Ingredients— About six small oysters. One or two teaspoonfuls of Sauce No. I or No. 2. Method.—Keep the oysters on ice until wanted, and have the glass thoroughly chilled before filling it. When ready to serve, beard the oysters and put them in the glass. Add one or two teaspoonfuls, according 1 No. I Ingredients— One teaspoonful of grated horse- radish. One teaspoonful of tomato catsup. One level saltspoonful of salt. Half a saltspoonful of cayenne. Half a teaspoonful of tobasco. Two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Method.—Mix all thoroughly to- gether. This is enough for six “ cocktails.” taste, of Sauce No. i or No. 2. No. 2 Ingredie7i ts— One tablespoonful of lemon juice. One tablespoonful of Worcester sauce. One tablespoonful of tomato cat- sup. Half a saltspoonful of paprika. One level saltspoonful of salt. Five drops of tobasco. Method.—Mix all well together. Rhubarb Wine Ingredients— Eight pounds of rhubarb. Two lemons. Four quarts of cold water. Three pieces of whole ginger. Seven breakfastcupfuls of loaf Three dried red chillies. sugar. Method.—Wash the rhubarb, cut off the root part and leaves. Cut it into half-inch lengths and put these into a large earthen- ware pan with cold water. Cover it, and let it stand for five days, stirring it twice a day. Strain the liquid off into a clean pan, and throw away the rhubarb. Add the sugar to the liquid and leave it for a day or two until the sugar has dissolved ; stir it frequently and pour it into a clean cask or stone jar. Add the rinds and the strained juice of the lemons, the chillies, and the ginger, after bruising it slightly with a rolling-pin. Cork it down tightly, look at it about once a week, and if the liquid has decreased with fermentation, fill up with more water. When it has stopped working, that is, fizzing and bubbling, strain out the lemon, ginger, etc. Colour it the tint of pale sherry, with burnt sugar. Put it back in the cask or jar for three months, then bottle and cork it tightly. In three months’ time it may be used, but the longer it is kept the better.BEVERAGES 543 Sloe Gin Ingredients— Four quarts of ripe sloes. A dozen sweet almonds. Four quarts of the best un- Four cloves. sweetened gin. One pound of sugar candy. Method.—Pick over the sloes and prick each one several times with a needle. Put them in a large stone jar ; they should half fill it. Add the cloves, candy coarsely pounded, and the shelled almonds. Fill up the jar with gin. Cork down tightly and shake the jar well every day for a month or more. Strain off the gin through fine muslin into clean dry bottles. Cork them tightly, resin the corks, and store in a cool dry place for two or three months. Note.—An excellent Wine may be made from the sloes after they have been used for the gin, by pouring two quarts of boiling water on to the strained sloes, adding six fresh almonds and a little more sugar candy. Let it stand for a month, then strain and bottle; it is a lovely colour and excellent flavour, though less strong than the gin. Tea Ingredients— Allow a teaspoonful of tea to reduce the proportion of tea each half-pint of water or when a large cpiantity is re- breakfastcupfuls required : but cjuired. Method.—Have the water freshly boiling, see the pot is quite clean, scald it, and put in the required quantity of tea. Pour on the w'ater, and let it stand for about three to five minutes in a warm place. Excellent pots are now sold containing strainers in which to put the tea. These can be withdrawn after the tea has “ stood ” long enough. If the tea is allowed to stand too long on the leaves, the fragrant aroma is wasted, and the tannin is extracted. Note.—A slice of lemon is a good substitute for milk in tea. Iced or Russian Tea Method.—Make tea as above. Strain it off the leaves and allow it to become cold. When ready to serve, put two lumps of sugar in a glass, fill it with broken ice, add a slice of lemon, and fill up the glass with cold tea.THE COMPLETE COOK 544 Mulled Wine Ingredients— Half a pint of port wine. Two cloves. Quarter of an inch of cinnamon. Nutmeg and sugar to taste. Method.—Put the wine into a bright pan with the cloves and cinnamon and, if liked, a gill of water. Boil these together for three minutes. Then take out the spice and add sugar and grated nutmeg to taste. Pour into hot glasses and serve very hot with rusks, small plain biscuits, or thin sippets of dry toast.CHAPTER XXXIII MISCELLANEOUS Ingredients- Baking Powder One slightly heaped teacupful of ground rice. Seven and a half level tablespoon- fuls of bi-carbonate of soda. Five level tablespoonfuls of tartaric acid. Five level tablespoonfuls of cream of tartar. ^Method.—Mix all well together. Crush out any lumps with a rolling-pin, pass the mixture four times through a fine sieve. Keep it in a tin with a close-fitting lid in a dry place. Rolled Bread and Butter Ingredients— A small new white or brown Butter. loaf. Method.—Have a very sharp knife and the butter soft enough to spread easily. Butter the bread, cut it into very thin slices, trim off the crusts. Roll up each piece as you would a pancake, press them slightly to keep them in shape. If the loaf is large, cut the slices into pieces about four inches long and three broad. Caramel Colouring Ingredien ts— One breakfastcupful of loaf sugar. One gill of water. Method.—Put the sugar with a teaspoon ful of the water into a shabby saucepan, let it melt, and boil until a very deep brown. Add the water. Boil it until a thick syrup, leave it until nearly cold, and bottle it. 35546 THE COMPLETE COOK Fried Crumbs for Game Ingredients— Two rounded tablespoonfuls of Two tablespoonfuls of white butter. crumbs. Method.—Melt the butter in a frying pan ; when it is hot shake in the crumbs. Turn them gently about until they are a bright golden brown, then drain off any butter. Spread the crumbs on a thick piece of kitchen paper before the fire, until they are dry and crisp. To Dry Herbs Gather each herb on a dry day just before it flowers. Dry them quickly near the fire. Strip off the leaves and dry them on tins in a slow oven, or in the plate rack, until they are crisp. Rub them through a fine wire sieve, so as to obtain a fine powder. Put each variety of herbs in a dry bottle, cork dov/n tightly, and store in a dry place. To Keep Ice Put the ice in a colander or sieve over a basin. Cover it with a thick piece of flannel, or sacking, wrung out in salt and water. See that the basin underneath is emptied now and then. To Prepare Lard Take the white fat, called sometimes, “ flare,” “ leaf,” or “ flead,” from the inside of the pig, and skin it carefully. Cut it into small pieces and put it into a jar without any water. Place this in a pan of boiling water and let the water boil until the fat is slowly melted. Then pour the fat gently from the sediment into bladders or jars. Keep it perfectly airtight, otherwise it becomes rancid. Maitre d’Hotel Butter Ingredients— One level tablespoonful of butter. One teaspoonful of lemon juice. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped Salt and cayenne. parsley. Method.—Wash and chop the parsley very finely, put all the ingredients on a plate and mix them with a knife until well blended. Shape it on the plate into a neat pat about a quarter of547 MISCELLANEOUS an inch thick. Let it become as cold as possible, then stamp it into rounds the size of a shilling, and use as desired. Note.—This butter is excellent with any grilled meat, poultry, game, or fish. Spiced Mustard for Cold Meat Ingredien ts— Two level breakfastcupfuls of mustard flour. Four small onions. One clove of garlic. Six bay leaves. One and a half pints of the best vinegar. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Quarter of a teaspoonful of powdered cloves. Quarter of a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Method.—Chop the onions, garlic, and bay leaves in large pieces. Put them into a covered earthenware jar, pour over the vinegar and let it cook in the oven, or on the stove, for ten minutes. Then strain off the vinegar. Mix the mustard to a smooth paste with the hot vinegar, stir in the sugar, cloves, and cinnamon. Put the mixture into wide-mouthed stoppered bottles and tie down securely. Oyster Stuffing for Baked Fish Ingredients— One dpzen oysters. Four tablespoonfuls of warmed Eighblevel tablespoonfuls of fresh butter. breadcrumbs. One egg. Salt: pepper. Method.—Beard the oysters and cut each in half, saving any liquor from them. Mix the oysters and crumbs with the beaten egg, strained oyster liquor, and butter. Season the mixture carefully and it is ready. Note.—Powdered biscuit crumbs may be used instead of bread; then unless a crumbly stuffing is desired, milk, or hot water, or fish stock must be used as well as the egg. Shrimps, shelled and coarsely chopped, make an excellent stuffing. Pepper Ingredients— Three tablespoonfuls each of dried bay leaves and thyme. Two tablespoonfuls each of dried marjoram and rosemary. Spice One and a half tablespoonfuls each of grated nutmeg, mace, and black pepper. Half a tablespoonful of Nepaul pepper.548 THE COMPLETE COOK Method.—Carefully remove all stalks and pick over the herbs. Put them in a’mortar with the grated nutmeg, mace, and peppers. Pound to a fine powder and rub it through a fine sieve. Put it into small dry bottles and cork down tightly. Note.—This is excellent to add to stuffings, stews, galantines, etc. Pulled Bread Ingredient— A new loaf. Method.—Pull out little rough pieces of the crumb with a fork, the rougher they are the better. Put these pieces on a tin in the oven until they are a delicate biscuit colour and quite crisp. Serve with the cheese or with soups. Note.—The dried pieces keep well in a tin. Boiled Rice for Curries, etc. Ingredients— To a teacupful of Patna rice allow Two teaspoonfuls of salt. about one and a half quarts of boiling water. Method.—Put the rice into a large coarse strainer and wash it well under the cold water tap, stirring the rice about until the water runs off perfectly clear. Unless this is done The rice grains stick together after boiling. When the water and salt boil fast, sprinkle in the rice, stir it briskly with a fork, and let it boil very fast for about twelve to twenty minutes, or until the grains are soft, but not broken. Add more boiling water, if needed. Test if the grains are cooked by eating a few. Directly they are soft, pour the rice into the strainer again. Pour some fresh boiling water over it to rinse it well. Spread the rice on a clean cloth, on a dish or a tin, and put it in the screen in front of the fire, or on the plate rack, to dry. Stir it now and then with a fork, and it is ready to serve.549 INDEX PRACTICAL INFORMATION PAGE Accompaniments for Various Dishes io8 Breakfast, Management of . 409 Chafing Dish, The 415 Cleaning Utensils. 7 Cookery, Principles and Rules of 52 Methods of . . . 60 Cooking Stoves 12 Closed Range . 13 Closed Range, Cleaning of 16 Closed Range, Causes of Failure 15 Open Range 12 Gas Stoves 17 Oil Stoves.... 19 Cooking Time Tables . 74 Temperatures . 77 Cooking Utensils . 6 Dampers, Daily use of . 14 Diet for Infants and Children 471 Dustbin^he Econon^ in the Kitchen 10 81 Failure, Common Causes of . Garnishing .... How to— 68 III Adapt .... 84 Bard..... lOI Beat 94 Blanch Nuts . 96 Blanch Meat and Vegetables 96 Boil a Pudding . 95 Bone Meat and Poultry 102 Ghop Mushrooms 99 Chop Parsley . 96 Chop Peel 104 Chop Suet. 95 Clarify Butter . 97 Clean Fruit 95 Coat Moulds with Jelly, etc. 98 Compile a Menu 106 Cream Butter and Sugar . 104 Cut, Fold, or Lift 94 Dry Herbs 546 Egg and Crumb. 97 Flute Cucumber 112 PAGE How to— Grease Moulds . 96 Keep Ice . 546 Keep Oysters Alive . 100 Lard lOI Mix .... 93 Open Oysters . 99 Parboil Foods . 98 Peel Tomatoes . 100 Pound Meat, etc. 98 Pound Nuts, etc. 97 Prepare Cake Tins . 104 Prepare Lard . 546 Prepare Lobster Coral 112 Prepare Meringue Board Scald Meat, etc. Scrape Horseradish . 102 Serve Foods III Sieve Purees, etc. 105 Skin Plaice Stir .... 100 93 Tammy Sauces . 100 Turn out Jellies and Creams 98 Use a Salamander 96 Whip Cream 96 Whisk Eggs Invalids, Cooking and Serving 97 Foods for 428 Hints on Foods for . Kitchen, The 430 Refuse, Disposal of . 10 Larder, The 2 Marketing Hints . 44 Measures, Table of 78 Miscellaneous Hints 114 Monthly Food Calendar 21 Price Lists . 33 Scraps, What to do with 82 Scullery, The 5 Storeroom, The . 3 Substitutes for 84 Weights, Household 80 When Things go Wrong 87550 THE COMPLETE COOK SOUPS Artichoke Soup . Asparagus Puree . Beetroot Soup Beef Broth in Cups with Eggs. Bone Soup . Bonne Femme Soup Brittany Broad Bean Puree Brussels Sprout Cabbage Soup (Scotch). Carrot Soup . Cauliflower Cream Soup Celery Soup, White Brown Clear Soup a la Jardiniere a la Julienne with Macaroni . with Vermicelli. with Spaghetti . with Italian Paste with Nouilles Paste . with Ravioli with Rice, etc. . a la Royale Cock-a-Leekie Soup Consomme aux QCufs Files a la Savoy Cucumber Cream Soup. Essex Soup . Gravy Soup . Hare Soup . Haricot Puree Soup, Brown . Household Soup . Kidney Soup Lancashire Soup . Leek Puree . Lentil Soup . Lobster Bisque Marmites a I’Allemande Mock Turtle Soup, Thick Mulligatawny Mutton Broth, No. i . Normandy Soup . Onion Puree. Ox Tail Soup, Thick Oyster Bisque Pea Soup Green Polish Soup . PAGE PAGE I3I Potage a la Reine . 153 I3I Potato Soup . 143 132 with Macaroni . 143 130 Pot-au-P'eu . 154 I3I Puree a la St. Germain . 138 146 Rice Cream Soup . 137 132 Scotch Broth 15s 133 Sheep’s Head Broth 156 133 Soups, Classification of 125 134 Spinach Puree 144 134 Stock .... 119 135 Brown 122 135 to clarify . 123 136 White 124 136 Second 124 126 Bone 124 126 Game 125 127 Fish .... I2S 127 Tomato Soup 144 127 Turkey Soup 157 127 Turtle Soup . 157 128 128 Vegetable Soup, White. I4S 129 129 Invalid Soups and Broths 146 Barley Cream Soup 433 128 Beef Tea . . . 434 130 Thick 434 137 Raw.... 435 138 with Claret Jelly 435 147 Jellied, No. i . . 436 147 Jellied, No. 2 . 436 139 with Malt Extract 436 139 with Oatmeal . 437 148 with White of Egg 437 148 with Yolk of Egg 437 149 with Vermicelli . 437 140 and Sago Broth. 438 140 Chicken Broth 438 158 Essence . 439 149 Soup 439 150 Egg and Broth Whip . 439 157 Fish Soup . 440 152 Lamb’s Head Broth 440 140 Milk Soup . 441 I4I Mutton Broth, No. 2 . 442 152 Tea . 442 159 Nourishing Broth'. 442 142 Oyster Cream Broth 443 142 Veal Broth, No. I 443 • 153 1 Veal Broth, No. 2 443INDEX 551 FISH PAGE Bloater Fritters 162 Mullet, Red, Grilled Bloaters to Grill . 162 Grey, Grilled, see Red “Mul- Brill, Broiled, see “ Turbot” 190 let” a la Normande, see “ Turbot 191 Oyster Croquettes. Cod a la Conant, see “ Halibut 175 Oyster Fritters Cod’s Head and Shoulders, Oyster Patties Steamed 163 Oysters Cooked in Shells Roe with Anchovy Sauce . 163 Smothered Roe, Fried 164 Oysters a la Demerara Steaks, Fried . 164 Fried, Egged, and Crumbed Codling, Baked and Stuffed, see Oysters on Ice “Haddock”. 174 Panned, with Celery . Crab, to Dress 165 Oysters, to Serve Raw Eels, Stewed 166 in Aspic . Fish Balls, American 167 Creighton . to Boil .... 166 Plaice au Gratin . Salted, Boiled . 167 etc., Fried Classification of 160 etc., Newhaven Style to Clean .... 161 Prawn Croquettes. to Coat without Eggs 167 Prawns, Scolloped Cake, A . 169 Salmon Fritters . Cakes .... 168 Souffles Cassolettes of, see “ Veal ” 216 a la St. Tames, see “ ' Sweet. Creamed, in Potato Border 169 breads”. Croquettes of . 177 Scollop Fritters . Cutlets .... 170 Scollops, Fried, see “ Oyst ers ” . to Fillet .... 174, 184 Shrimp Croquettes Fritters .... 186 Slips, Grilled Pie 170 Smelts a la Meuniere Potted .... 171 Stuffed Scollops .... 172 Sole au Gratin Souffle, Baked . 173 Newhaven Style Souffle, Steamed, see “ Meat 226 etc., k rOrley . to Skin .... 162, 185 Trout a la Meuniere Stewed in Milk. 172 Turbot, Broiled . Timbale of. Cooked . 227 a la Normande . Flounders, Grilled 188 Whitebait, Fried . Newhaven Style 185 Devilled . Haddock, Dried, Baked 173 Whiting, Baked and Stuffed, see Fritters .... 175 “ Haddock ” . Grilled .... 173 Whiting, Fried Newhaven Style 185 Fillets of . Rarebit .... 175 Stuffed and Baked 174 Halibut a la Conant 175 a la Joinville 176 Invalid Fish Dishes a la Normande, see “Turbot’ 191 Kedgeree .... 176 Fish Cakes . Lobster Croquettes 177 Custards . Cutlets . . 177 Moulds Fritters .... 178 Oyster Sandwiches Newburgh. 178 Scollops . Patties .... 183 Stewed Souffles .... 187 Toast PAGE 178 179 180 181 182 183 183 181 181 182 182 179 179 179 189 184 185 186 186 186 187 221 187 181 177 188 190 188 189 185 189 190 190 191 192 192 174 192 193 444 444 444 445 446 446 447THE COMPLETE COOK 552 FISH—(continued) PAGE PAGE Sole, Baked , 447 Whiting Souffles .... 448 Sandwiches, Hot 447 Steamed ..... 449 Stewed 448 MEAT Beef— Mutton— American, Spiced Cake 198 Kidney Toast .... 413 Collops 199 Leg of, Stuffed and Roasted 214 American, Corned 199 Cutlets en Papillotes . 211 Curried 201 Shoulder of. Stuffed . 214 Fillets of, a la Como . 200 Pork and Bacon— Fillets of, with Oysters 200 Fresh, Boiled .... 197 Galantine . 201 Salted, Boiled .... 198 Liver, to Cure . 209 Bacon, Breakfast .... 409 d la Mode. 202 to Fry 410 Marrow on Toast 413 to Toast 410 Olives 203 Rolled 410 Ox Kidney, Stewed . 412 Brawn ...... 410 Raw, Potted 204 Ham, Devilled .... 412 Smothered, or Pot-Roast 203 Veal— Steak, Grilled . 206 Calfs Brains Toast . 412 Steak and Mushroom Pie 205 Calfs Head, Maitre d’Hotel Steak and Kidney Pudding 204 Sauce 215 Steak, Stewed . 207 Veal a la Carmen .... 215 Steaks, Vienna . 207 Cassolettes of . 216 Tripe in Batter . 207 Spiced Cake, see “ Beef” . 198 Tripe a la Lyonnaise . 208 Curried ..... 201 Lamb— Fillets of, with Carrots 217 en Casserole 213 Olives, see “ Beef ” . 203 Chops, Grilled . 212 Patties, see “ Chicken ” 234 Cutlets, Fried . 210 Raw, Potted, see “Beef”. 204 Cutlets, en Papillotes 211 Ramekins of, see “ Chicken ” . 23s Shoulder of. Stuffed, see Quenelles ..... 217 “Mutton” 214 Sweetbreads, Fried , 219 Meat— Sweetbreads, to Prepare . 218 to Bake 104 Sweetbreads, Stewed 219 Fresh, Boiled . 196 Sweetbreads a la St. James 220 Salted, Boiled . 197 Cold Meat— Clear Gravy for. 196 Croquettes of . 221 Thick Gravy for 196 Hash of 222 to Roast . 104 Ham Mousses .... 221 Mutton— Melton Veal .... 227 en Casserole, see “ Lamb 214 Mince of 223 Chops, Grilled . 212 Mutton, Scolloped , 226 Chops en Papillotes . 212 Porcupine..... 224 Curried . 211 Potted 233 Cutlets, Chaudfroid of 210 Rissoles of ... . 224 Cutlets, Fried . 209 Roll of. Baked .... 224 Haricot 212 Savoury Rolls of . . . 225 Hot-Pot . 212 Souffle, Baked .... 226 Kidneys, Stewed 412 Timbale of ... . 227 Kidneys and Tomatoes 213553 INDEX M EAT—(continued) Invalid Meat Dishes Beef Balls, Raw . Sandwiches, Raw Chops, Neck, Grilled . Steamed .... PAGE Chops— PACE Stewed .... • 450 451 Cutlets, Egg and Crumbed . • 457 452 Gravy Toast.... . 452 449 Irish Stew .... . 452 450 1 Tripe, Stewed • 453 POULTRY Chicken a la Carmen, see “ Veal ” en Casserole .... Chaudfroid of . Crepinettes of . and Macaroni Cutlets Galantine ..... a la Marengo .... Medallions of . Patties Porcupine, see “Meat” Quenelles Ramekins..... Raw, Potted .... a la St. James, see “ Sweet- breads ” Duck, Braised, with Turnips Roast Fowl, Boiled .... Roast Goose, Roast and Stuffed Guinea-Fowl, Roast Pigeons a la Medicis Stewed with Spaghetti Poultry, Cassolettes of, see “Veal ” Croquettes of, see “ Meat” to Prepare .... Potted, see “Meat”. Rissoles of, see “ Meat” . Scollops of, see “Game” . 216 230 230 231 232 232 232 234 234 224 218 235 204 220 237 23s 23s 236 236 237 237 238 216 221 229 223 224 249 Poultry— Cooked, Souffle of, see “ Meat ” Cooked, Timbale of, see “ Meat ” Rabbit en Casserole a la Carmen, see “Veal” . h la Marengo, see “ Chicken ” . Quenelles ..... Potted, see “ Beef” . Roast ..... Spatchcock ..... Turkey, Boiled .... Chaudfroid of . and Macaroni Cutlets, see “Chicken” . . . . Galantine, see “ Chicken ” Legs of. Devilled 226 227 239 216 233 218 204 239 239 240 231 232 233 240 Invalid Dishes of Poultry Chicken and Barley Cream . . 435 Breast of. Steamed . . . 456 Custards ..... 454 Cutlets of, see “ Pheasant” . 457 Panada ..... 455 Raw, Mince of. . . . 454 Sandwiches .... 456 Stewed 456 Rabbit and Barley Cream, see “Chicken” .... 454 GAME Blackcock, Roast .... 244 Capercailzie, Roast . . . 242 Game, Cassolettes of, see “Veal ” . 216 Crepinettes of, see “ Chicken” . 231 Croquettes of, see “ Meat ” . 221 Hints on . . . . . 241 Potted, see “ Meat” . . . 223 Ramekins of, see “ Chicken ” . 231 Rissoles of, see “ Meat ” . . 224 Salmi of, see “ Grouse ” . . 250 Scollops of ... . 249 Cooked, Souffld of, see “ Meat ” 226, 250 Game— Spatchcock of, see “ Spatch- cock ” . . . . . 240 Timbale of, see “ Meat ” . . 227 Times Required for Roasting . 242 Grouse, Broiled .... 252 Roast 242 Roast, a la Rob Roy . . . 243 Salmi of . . . . . 250 Hare, Jugged . . . . 251 Roast 243 Larks, Roast .... 244 Leveret, Roast .... 244554 THE COMPLETE COOK GAME—{continued) PAGE Ortolans, Roast . 245 Partridge, Broiled. 252 Fricassee of 252 Pudding, see “Snipe ” 255 Roast 244 Pheasant, Boiled . and Barley Cream. “Chicken” . 252 , see 454 Cutlets of. 457 Mince of, Raw . 455 Panada 457 Roast d la St. James, see “ ' Sweet- 244 breads ”. 220 Plovers, Compote of 253 Roast 246 PAGE Ptarmigan, Roast . , 244 Quails, Broiled • 253 Chaudfroid of . • 254 Roast .... • 24s Ruffs and Reeves, Roast . 246 Snipe Pudding • 255 Roast .... • 24s Teal, Roast .... . 246 Venison, Hashed . • 25s Roast, Haunch of . 248 Wheatears, Roast. . 246 Widgeon, Roast . . 247 Wild Duck, Roast . 247 Woodcock, Roast. . 247 with Oyster Stuffing . . 247 VEGETABLES Artichoke Bottoms, Fried . 256 Haricot Beans a la Maitre d’Hotel 268 Globe, Boiled . • 257 Beans a la Tomatoes. 269 Jerusalem, Boiled ■ 257 Leeks, Boiled 269 Jerusalem, au Gratin . 258 Mock Scollop Pie 269 Jerusalem, with Egg Sauce, see Mushroom Croquettes . 270 “Celery” . 26s Devilled . 271 Jerusalem, Mashed . . 258 Grilled . 270 Asparagus, Boiled . 258 Stewed 271 Steamed .... • 259 Nettles on Toast . 271 a la Vinaigrette. . 259 Onions, Baked 271 Aubergines, Stuffed ■ 259 Boiled 272 Beans, Broad, Boiled . . 260 with Egg Sauce, see “ Celery” . 266 French, Boiled . . 260 Scolloped . 272 Beetroot, Boiled . . 261 Parsnips, Boiled . 272 Leaves, Boiled . . 261 Peas, Green, Boiled 273 Broccoli, Boiled . . 261 a la Frangaise . 273 Brussels Sprouts, Boiled . 261 a la Tartare 273 Sprouts Fritters , 262 Pease Pudding 274 Cabbage, Boiled . . 262 Potato Croquettes 276 a la Creme . 263 Potato Straws 277 Carrots, Boiled . 263 Ribbons . 277 Mashed .... . 263 Potatoes, Baked . 274 Young, Glazed . . 264 Baked in their Skins . 274 Cauliflower, Boiled . 264 Boiled 275 au Gratin .... . 264 Boiled in their Skins . 275 Celeriac, Boiled . . 265 New, Boiled 275 Celery Fritters . 265 Potatoes, Mashed 277 Stewed, with Egg Sauce . . 265 Saute 277 Colcannon .... . 266 Steamed . 278 Corn, Green, Boiled . 266 Stuffed 278 Green, Roasted . 266 a la Duchesse . 278 Cucumber, Cassolettes of . 267 a la Hollandaise 279 Dandelion Leaves, Stewed . . 267 Sweet, Roast 279 Endive, Stewed . . 268 Potatoes, New, Crumbed 276 Flageolets, Boiled . 268 Fried 276555 INDEX VEGETABLES—{continued) PAGE Salsify, Fritters .... 280 Savoys, Boiled .... 280 Scarlet Runners, Boiled . . 280 Seakale, Boiled .... 280 with Egg Sauce, see “Celery” . 266 Sorrel, Puree of . . . .281 Spinach, Boiled, with Poached Eggs 281 Tomatoes au Gratin . . . 281 PAGE Tomatoes, Stuffed Turnips, Boiled . Mashed Turnip Tops, to Boil Vegetable Marrow, Boiled Marrow, Steamed Vegetables, Cake of Cooked Vegetables, Remarks on 283 283 283 284 284 283 2c;6 SAUCES Sauces, Consistency of . Foundation, The Sauce, Anchovy .... Apple ..... Aspic Mayonnaise Bearnaise ..... BMhamel ..... Bigarade ..... Bread ..... Brown ..... Caper ..... Caper, Brown .... Cardinal ..... Celery ..... Chaudfroid, Brown . Chaudfroid, Green,Pink, orFawn Chaudfroid, White . Chocolate ..... Cucumber, Cold Cucumber, Hot. Curry Egg Espagnole .... Flemish Foam ..... German ..... Hanoverian . . . . Hard Hollandaise . . . . 286 285 286 287 287 287 289 289 289 290 290 290 291 291 291 291 292 292 292 29.1 293 294 294 294 294 295 29s Sauce, Horseradish, Cold Italian Lemon ■ Lobster Madeira . Maltre d’Hotel . Marmalade Mayonnaise Melted Butter, Plain . Melted Butter, Sweet Mint I . . , Mousseline Mustard Butter. Onion Orange, see “Lemon” Oyster Parsley and Butter . Piquante . Pistachio . Port Wine. Robert Shrimp, see “ Lobster ” Soubise Tartare Tomato Aspic . Tomato Vanilla White Wine 29s 296 296 296 296 296 297 297 297 297 298 298 298 298 296 299 299 299 299 300 300 296 300 301 301 301 302 302 302 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY Amber of Dried Fruits . • 304 Apple Tart . . 308 Apple Amber • 303 Whip .... • 308 Apples, Baked • 304 Apricot Amber . 304 Apple Cake, Dutch • 304 Dried, Pudding, see “Fig” . 320 Charlotte . • 305 Arrowroot Pudding . 316 Compote of • 305 Bananas, with Fruit Juice • 309 Dumplings • 306 Batter, No i. • 309 Meringued • 306 Batter, No 2. . 310 Mould ■ 307 Batter, No. 3 . 310 Apples, New York • 307 Bow Knots .... • 330THE COMPLETE COOK 556 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY—{continued) PAGE PAGE Bilberry Cakes or Pastry 311 Orange Pie, see “ Lemon” . . 325 Bread and Butter Pudding 311 Sponge ■ 325 Cabinet Pudding . 312 Pancakes, French. . 328 Chelsea Pudding . 312 Pastry, Remarks on . . . . 328 Cherry Roly-Poly. 313 Cases, to Cut . . . , • 329 Tartlets .... 313 Vol-au-vent, to Cut . 330 Chocolate Pudding 314 Chou.x . . . . . ■ 330 Tartlets .... 314 Flaky ■ 331 Christmas Pudding, No. i 315 Puff ■ 331 Christmas Pudding, No. 2 315 Puff, to Bake . . . . • 333 Coburg Pudding . 316 for Raised Pies . . . , , 248 Cornflour Pudding 316 Rough Puff . . . . 333 Creme Frete 317 Short Crust, No. i . • 333 Cupid’s Wells 330 Short Crust, No. 2 . 334 Custard, Baked . 317 Suet 334 Boiled .... 318 Pears, Stewed, with Rice Border , ■ 335 Caramel .... 319 Polonaise Cakes or Tarts 330 Varieties of . . . 319 Prune Pudding, see ‘ ‘ Fig ” . 320 Date Pudding, see “ Fig ” 320 Quinces, Baked . . . . 335 Denver Pudding . 320 Raisin Roly-Poly . . . . 336 Fig Pudding. 320 Rhubarb Fool . . . . 336 Figs, Stewed 321 Rice Pudding, Baked . 336 P'ritters, Apple 321 to Serve Cold . . . . 337 Apricot .... 321 Rice Croquettes . . . . 337 Orange .... 321 Sago Pudding . . . . 338 Banana .... 321 Cream . . . . . 339 Peaches .... 321 Sefton Puddings . . . . 338 Pineapple .... 321 Semolina Puddings 338 Italian .... 322 Sponge Cake Puddings. 339 Fruit Charlotte, see “Apple” 30s Strawberry Fool . . . . 336 Cups .... 322 Tapioca Cream . . . . 339 Pudding, Boiled 323 Treacle Sponge . . . . 340 Tapioca .... 340 Trifle, A Simple . . . . Tropical Snow . . . . 340 Gooseberry Amber, see “ Apple ’’ 303 341 Fool 323 Vermicelli Pudding 326 Ground Rice Pudding, see ‘‘Corn- Viennoise . ... . 341 flour” .... 317 Windsor Tartlets. . . . 342 Hasty Pudding 323 Yorkshire Pudding 342 Junket Coffee with Cream 324 Lemon Castles Pie 324 325 Invalid Puddings Sponge .... 325 Apple Cream . . . . 459 Macarbni Pudding, Baked . 326 Batter Pudding, Steamed 460 Pudding, Boiled 326 Cream and Rice . . . . 460 Meringues .... 326 Custard Shape . . . . 460 Lemon .... 327 Steamed . . . . . 461 Mincemeat .... 327 Invalid’s Trifle . . . . 461 Norwich Puddings 328 Nightingale Pudding 462 Orange Castles, see “ Lemon ” 324 Suet Pudding . . . . 462 SWEET SOUFFLES Apricot, Cold 344 1 Cerise 346 Beignets Souffles . 344 Chocolate . . . . . 346 Brown Bread 345 1 Custard, see ‘ ‘ Vanilla ” 350557 INDEX SWEET SOMYY-LES—{continued) Fruit, Cold, see “ Apricot ” Ginger, see “Pineapple” Milanaise Orange, Cold Pineapple Pistachio 345 347 346 347 347 348 Praline . . . . Rice, Baked or Steamed Semolina, Baked or Steamed Swiss , . . . . Vanilla PACK 348 349 349 350 350 JELLIES Aspic . 352 Orange Sippets • 357 Calfs Foot . 352 Polish Jelly .... • 357 Castile . 353 Port Wine .... • 358 Champagne . 354 Russian .... • 359 Claret . 354 Wine, Clear.... • 359 Dantzig 354 Lemon, Clear Macedoine of Fruits 355 355 Invalid Jellied Foods Maraschino . 355 Chicken Jelly . 458 Newport 356 Eggjelly .... • 458 Orange Baskets . 356 Milk Jelly .... • 458 Jelly. 357 Savoury Meat Jelly • 459 CREAMS Andermatt . 361 Pineapple Cream . • 365 Apricot 361 Prune, Gateau . 366 Bavaroise 362 Prunes and Cream Pudding . • 365 Charlotte Russe . 362 Raspberry .... • 367 Chocolate Cream . 363 Raspberry and Currant. • 367 Coffee Cream 363 Riz a I’Imperatrice • 366 Fig Cream, or Mould 364 Stone Cream • 367 Flavoured Creams 364 Strawberry .... • 367 Ginger Cream 365 Vanilla .... • 368 Norfolk Cream 365 Velvet . 368 Peach Cream 365 Wafer Charlotte . . 368 SAVOURIES Anchovy Aigrettes Puffs Straws Toast, No. I Toast, No. 2 Angels on Horseback . Bouchees a 1’Osborne . Cassolettes a la Cecil Caviare, Devilled . Chicken’s Livers, Devilled Croutes of Caviare Croutes of Smoked Haddock Croutes a la Louise a la St. George . • 370 • 370 • 371 • 371 • 371 • 372 • 372 ■ 372 • 373 • 373 • 374 • 374 • 374 • 375 Daventry Toast Fish Eclairs, see “ Sardines” Foie-Gras in Aspic, see “ Prawns Gherkin Croutons. Herring’s Roe Toast Indian Croutes Toast Lax Toast . Lobster, Devilled . Macaroni a I’Americaine Mackerel’s Roe Toast, see rings” . Nouilles, or Noodles Olives in Aspic, see “ Prawns ” 375 382 379 375 376 376 376 377 377 377 376 378 379THE^COMPLETE COOK 558 SAVOURIES— Olives a la Newport . . . 378 Stuffed 379 Oysters in Aspic, see “ Prawns ” . 379 a la St. Ermine.... 379 Plover’s Eggs in Aspic, see “Prawns” .... 379 Portuguese Toast .... 379 Prawn Croutes .... 380 Vrawns in Aspic .... 379 Prawns, Devilled, see “Shrimps” 384 Ravioli ii I’ltalienne . . . 380 Sardine Aigrettes, see “ Anchovy ” 370 Sardine Eclairs 382 Sardines a la Sterneau . Savouries of Cheese, see Section ” “ Cheese 383 Savoury Rice 381 Rice Croquettes 382 Scotch Toasts 383 Woodcock 383 Shrimps, Devilled 384 Tartines a la Conde 384 Turkish Fritters . 38s Yarmouth Straws . 38s Toast 385 heese Aigrettes . Biscuits, see “ Straws” . 386 Cheese Puffs • 390 • 391 Souffles, Baked. ■ 390 Creams, Cold . • 387 Straws • 391 Cutlets • 387 Cottage • 391 and Eggs . • 388 Golden Buck • 392 Fritters . . 388 Gruyerc Ramekins . • 392 Parfait • 389 Macaroni . • 393 Pudding . • 389. Savoury Biscuits . • 393 Puffer • 389 Welsh Rarebit ■ 394 SALADS Salad, American Nut . 395 Salad, Oyster or Lincoln Carrot .... 395 Potato .... Cauliflower 396 Potato and Tomato . Crab .... 396 Russian .... Egg 397 Salmon, or Mayonnaise of. Fish 397 Winter .... French .... 397 Dressing, Claret Fruit .... 397 Dressing, Whipped Cream German Cucumber . 396 Dressing, French Lobster, or Mayonnaise of. Nut and Celery 399 Dressing, a Good 399 SANDWICHES Beef and Potato . 404 Sorento . . . . Cheese and Nut . 404 Watercress . . . . Dresden .... 405 Ham . Lettuce and Sardine Mushroom . k la Royale . Salmon and Brown Bread Savoury Cream 405 405 406 406 407 406 407 Invalid Sandwiches Beef, Raw Chicken Oysters Sole, Hot 398 400 400 400 401 401 402 402 402 403 407 408 425 456 445 447INDEX 559 EGGS AND OMELETS PAGE Omelets PAGE Iggs, Use of 417 Omelets, Classification of Omelet-making, Chief Points of • 423 to Preserve 417 . 424 Boiled 418 Omelet, Cheese . • 424 Boiled, Hard . 418 Fish . 424 Curried 418 Game, see “ Kidney” ■ 425 Devilled, with Anchovy Toast , • 419 Ham, see “ Kidney ” • 425 en Coquilles • 419 Kidney .... • 425 tgg Cutlets . . 420 Lobster, see “ Fish ” • 424 Fritters . . 420 Mushroom, see “ Kidney ” • 425 Jggs, Fricasseed . . 421 Souffle .... • 425 Poached . . 421 Oyster, see “ Fish ” . . 424 Cggs, Ramekins of . 421 Poultry, see “ Kidney” • 425 Dggs, Savoury Scotch . 422 Rum .... . 426 . 422 Salmon, see “ Fish ” . ■ 424 Scrambled • 423 Savoury .... . 426 Steamed . • 423 Sweet .... Swiss .... Tomato, see “ Kidney ” . . 426 • 427 • 425 INVALID BEVERAGES, GRUELS, ETC. Arrowroot, A Cup of . Barley Gruel .... Water, Clear .... Water, Thick .... Black Currant Tea Boiled Flour and Milk . Brandy Cordial .... and Cream .... Caudle ...... Cinnamon and Egg Mixture . Syrup, see “ Cinnamon and Egg Mixture’’ . . . . Cornflour, A Cup of, see “ Arrow- root ” . Egg, Beaten with Wine. Nog 463 463 463 464 464 466 464 465 465 465 465 463 466 466 Flour, To Boil Gruel ..... Irish Moss Drink . Lemon Posset Linseed Tea.... Orangeade .... Prairie Oyster Sago Gruel .... Strengthening Egg Mixture . Suet Milk .... Toast Water. Whey White of Egg with Milk Wine Whey Wine Lemonade . Valuable Food (Albumen Water) 467 467 467 467 468 468 468 469 469 469 469 469 470 470 470 470 BREAD AND SCONES Bread, White . 475 Dough Cake . 478 . Wholemeal . 476 London Scones • 478 Fancy or Vienna • 477 Soda Scones • 479 Baking Powder. • 477 Yorkshire Tea-Cakes . • 479 CAKES AND BISCUITS Cakes, Flints on . . 481 Biscuits— Apricotines . 482 Shortbread, see “ Shortbread” • 498 Biscuits— Soda .... • 483 Baking Powder. . . . 482 Sour Milk . 483 Nouilles . . 496 Turin .... • 483THE COMPLETE COOK 56o CAKES AND BISCUIT?,—[continued) PAGE PACE Boston Wonders . 483 Cake, Grandmother’s Pound 492 Buns ..... 484 Cakes, Griddle, or Girdle 492 Cream .... 488 Ground Rice 493 Hot Cross 485 Cake, Harrow 493 Cakes— Mixed Fruit 490 American Layer 494 Pineapple . 497 Cake, American Short . 499 Cakes, Queen 497 Cherry .... 485 Rock 498 Chocolate .... 485 Cake, Soda . 499 Christmas, Rich 486 Sponge 500 Cocoanut .... 487 Sultana 501 Coffee .... 487 Wedding . 501 Cornflour .... 488 Cookies 488 Cakes, Easter 489 Iiclairs. 489 Cake Fillings— Gingerbread. 491 Coffee Butter 487 Hard 491 Confectioners’ Custard 495 Henriettes . 494 Lemon .... 495 Macaroons . 496 Nut 495 Nut Wafers, see “ Walnut” 501 Orange .... 496 Ratafias 497 Pineapple .... 496 Shortbread . 498 Cake, Foundation 490 Swiss Roll, Plain . 500 Genoese Mixture 490 Rich 501 Ginger .... 491 Walnut Wafers . 501 CAKE ICINGS Cakes, How to Ice 503 Glace Icings— Icing, Almond 504 Chocolate . 506 American Frosting . 504 Coffee 506 Boiled .... 505 Lemon 506 Butter Icings— Orange 506 Chocolate.... 505 Pink or Green . 507 Coffee . . . 505 Icing Jelly Cream . 507 Green, Mauve, Pink, etc. . 505 Royal 507 SWEETMEATS Sweetmeats, Appliances Needed for 508 Hints on . . . . . 509 Sugar Boiling, Degrees for . . 509 Simple Tests for . . . 509 Cooked Sweets— Almond Hard Bake . . -513 Chocolate, to Melt . . .512 Chocolate Almonds . . .512 Chocolate Caramels . . -513 Chocolate Ginger . . .512 Chocolate Pineapple . . .512 Coating Fondant . . • 5n Cocoanut Ice . . . • 5H Cocoanut Kisses . . -513 Everton Toffee . . . .514 Fondant Cream. . . .510 Cooked Sweets— Marzipan . Marzipan Sandwiches Turkish Delight Uncooked Sweets— Almond Brochettes . Almond Paste . Creams, Lemon Creams, Orange Creams, Peppermint . Creams, Raspberry . French Fondant Stuffed Cherries Stuffed Dates . Stuffed French Plums Stuffed Raisins . 511 511 514 516 516 517 517 517 517 515 516 517 517 517561 INDEX Ices, To Freeze . Freezing Mixture for Utensils Needed for Ice Pudding. To Mould. To Unmould . Cream Ices, Apricot Coffee Peach Pineapple. Raspberry. Strawberry ICES 518 518 518 520 519 519 521 520 521 521 521 522 Cream Ices, Vanilla Water Ices, Lemon Orange Raspberry. Strawberry Tangerine. Frozen Apricots . P'ruits, see “Apricots” Punches Roman Punch Sorbets PAGE 522 520 520 522 522 521 519 519 SI9 519 519 JAMS AND Jams Hints on Jam Making . 523 Bottling Fruit . 523 Apple Jelly . 524 Apricots, Brandied, see “Peaches” 529 Blackberry and Apple Jam . 524 Jelly. . . . 52s Bullace Cheese 525 Cherry Jam . 52s Crab Apple Jelly . 52s Cranberries, Bottled 526 Cranberry Jelly 526 Currant Jelly, Black, White, or Red 527 Black Jam 527 Damson Cheese . 527 Jam . . . . 528 Gooseberry Jam . 528 Lemon Curd 528 PICKLES Marmalade 529 Peaches, Brandied . . . 529 Plums, Preserved .... 53° Pot-Pourrie of Fruits . . . 530 Raspberry Jam .... 531 Rhubarb Jam .... 531 Rowan Jelly. .... 53^ Strawberries, Preserved . . 532 Strawberry Jam .... 532 Tutti Frutti for Tarts . . -533 Pickles Beetroot 533 Cabbage 534 Chutney 534 Lemons . . . . -534 Onions 535 Walnuts 535 BEVERAGES American Fruit Drink . • 536 Cafe au Lait • 539 Cherry Brandy • 536 Chocolate, A Cup of • 536 Claret Cup .... • 537 Cocoa, A Cup of . • 537 Coffee, To Make . • 538 To Prepare • 537 To Roast .... • 538 To Serve .... • 538 Coffee, Black • 539 Iced • 539 Viennese .... ■ 539 36 Elderberry Wine . • 539 Ginger Beer . • 540 Gooseberry Wine . ■ 540 Lemonade . • 541 Lemon Squash • 541 Maitrank • 541 Oyster Cocktail . . 542 Rhubarb Wine • 542 Sloe Gin • 543 Sloe Wine, see “ Gin ’’. • 543 Tea . • 543 Tea, Iced or Russian . • 543 Wine, Mulled • 544562 THE COMPLETE COOK MISCELLANEOUS PAGE Baking Powder 545 Bread and Butter, Rolled 545 Caramel Colouring 545 Cinnamon Sugar . 515 Croutons .... 113 Crumbs, Fried 546 Curled Celery 99 Fleurons .... 114 Glaze 121 Gravy, Clear, for Roasts 196 Thick, for Roasts 196 Herbs, To Dry . 546 Ice, To Keep 546 Lard, To Prepare. 546 Liver Farce, see “ Chaudfroid of Quails ”... 254 Maitre d’Hbtel Butter . PACE • 546 Mustard, Spiced . ■ 547 Oatmeal Porridge. • 414 Oyster Stuffing • 547 Parsley, Fried • 99 Paste for “ Devilled ” Dishes . 412 Pepper Spice • 547 Pickle for Meat . . 411 Pink Sugar .... • 113 Pulled Bread • 548 Rice for Curries . • 548 Sage and Onion Stuffing ■ . 236 Scouring Paste, A 9 Toast, Buttered . • 414 Dry . 414 Vanilla Sugar • 515 ( BERMOND8BT BAR^ t: i 4