EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK: and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. THORAX—No. 1. ANTERIOR VIEW OF THE THORACIC WALL, SHOWING THE POSITION OF BONY AND OTHER LANDMARKS IN THE MALE. The outlines of the clavicles and costal arches have been marked as they were to be made out by palpation, and the intercostal spaces are indicated by shading with oblique lines. Two lines have been drawn downwards vertically from the middle of the clavicles, and these lines are continuous with the mid-poupart lines on the abdominal wall. The transverse line extends between the lowest points of the costal arches as seen from the front. Above the manubrium sterni is a distinct hollow, the suprasternal fossa, between the sternal heads of the sterno-mastoid muscles. The subclavicular region is the depressed area, well seen on the right side, below the inner part of the clavicle. The mammary region, indefinite in the male, is limited externally by the anterior fold of the axilla. The nipple in this subject lies over the fourth costal arch, slightly outside the midclavicular line, but it often lies on the fourth space. The junction of the manubrium and body of the sternum is indicated by an angular projection, the angle of Ludovici, and corresponds to the junction of the second costal cartilage with the sternum. The infrasternal fossa between the seventh costal cartilages is well seen. ^ The angle between these cartilages is variable in size, but, on an average, is about 70°. The figures indicate— 1-7. Corresponding costal arches. 11. Suprasternal fossa. 8. The ensiform cartilage. . 12. Midclavicular line. 9. The anjde ofLudovici. 13. Subcostal plane. 10. Inner end of the clavicle.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK ; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX—No. 2. DISSECTION OF THE ANTERIOR THORACIC WALL. Skin and fasciae have been removed, and also, on the left side, the costo-sternal portion of the pectoralis major muscle, so as to expose the costal arches and the intercostal spaces. The fat in the suprasternal fossa has been removed, to show the depth of the fossa and its lateral boundaries. The infraclavicular hollow is seen to be due to the interval between the clavicular and costo- sternal parts of the pectoralis major, and the lower border of that muscle corresponds to the fifth costal arch. Below this muscle, on the right side, is a small portion of the aponeurosis of the abdominal muscles, and this has been removed on the left side so as to expose the rectus abdominis at its insertion into the fifth, sixth, and seventh costal cartilages. The fibres of the internal inter- costal muscles are seen shining through the anterior intercostal membrane, but only a small portion of the external intercostals can be seen, as they do not extend beyond the junction of the ribs and cartilages. Small anterior intercostal arteries and nerves can be seen emerging through apertures in the intercostal intervals of the left side. The figures indicate— 1-7. Corresponding costal arches. 10. Pectoralis major muscle. 8. Between sternal and clavicular heads of the sternomastoid muscle. 11. Rectus abdominis insertion. 9. Inner end of the clavicle. 12. Aponeurosis of abdominal muscles.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX—No. 3. WALL OF THORAX. The sterno-costal portions of the pectoralis major muscles have been removed, as well as the upper parts of the external oblique and rectus abdominis muscles, and the intercostal spaces opened up by the removal of the intercostal membrane and muscles and the triangularis sterni in each. The inner ends of the fifth and sixth costal cartilages of the left side have also been taken away, to show the relations of the pleural membrane and the internal mammary vessels. The pleural membranes are seen to be bulged forwards in the upper two spaces, and to be in relation to the internal mammary vessels from which they were separated by the triangularis sterni muscle. The membranes of the two sides are seen to be arranged differently, that of the left side sloping outwards from the lower part of the sternum, behind the fifth costal cartilage, while the right pleura passes down to a lower level. In the midclavicular line, however, the two membranes pass down- wards to practically the same level. The internal mammary vessels lie about half an inch external to the side of the sternum, and terminate in the sixth interspace. Two venae comites accompany each artery in the lower part of its course, but unite in the second interspace to form a single trunk. The 1-9. Corresponding costal arches. 14. 10. The angle of Ludovici. 15. 11. Pectoralis major muscle. 16. 12. Intercostal muscles. 17. 13. Rectus abdominis muscle. 18. es indicate— Diaphragm. External oblique muscle. Internal mammary artery giving off intercostal branches. Musculo-phrenic artery. Internal mammary artery and vein.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX—No. 4. THE PLEURAL MEMBRANES SEEN FROM THE FRONT. The anterior thoracic wall has been removed, leaving the parietal pleura in position. The limits of the two membranes are seen, below the first costal arch, to folloAv these lines:— The Right pleura, passing down behind the sternum along an oblique line from right to left, crosses the mesial plane at the lower part, and, slightly overlapping the corresponding membrane of the opposite side, it extends down to a point behind the junction of the body of the sternum with the ensiform cartilage. From this point it passes outwards behind the seventh costal cartilage. The Left pleura, on the other hand, deviates outwards from the middle of the sternum in the fourth interspace, leaving an interval in which the anterior surface of the pericardium is seen, and then passes out across the fifth interspace. The lateral line of reflection is practically the same on the two sides at and beyond the mid- clavicular line, where in this subject the lowest level is at the seventh chondro-sternal junction. It should be noted that this is one space higher than is usually said to be the case, and also that here the area of pericardium uncovered by pleura is smaller than usual, though the usual cause of diminution, emphysema of the lungs, is not present. The figures indicate— 1. Manubrium sterni. 4-9. Corresponding costal arches. 2. Xiphi-sternal junction. 10. Anterior surface of the pericardium. 3. Internal mammary vessels, cut across.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH : T. C. & E. C. JACK ; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C THORAX—No. 5. THE LUNGS IN RELATION TO THE CHEST WALL, SEEN FROM THE FRONT. The anterior chest-wall has been removed, and also the parietal pleural membrane lining it, leaving the lines of pleural reflection. The apparent interval between the lungs and the pericardium and diaphragm was occupied by a quantity of sub-pleural fatty tissue, which has been taken away. The anterior borders of the lungs come into apposition with one another behind the lower part of the manubrium sterni, and from that point the margin of the right lung passes vertically clown- wards as far as to the inner end of the seventh costal cartilage. The lower border then passes out- wards to a point in the midclavicular line behind the sixth costal arch. The anterior border of the left lung, on the other hand, deviates slightly outwards, and at the fourth costal cartilage, turns outwards from behind the sternum, and passes to the fifth interspace, where the margin becomes horizontal, and, in the midclavicular line, is at practically the same level as the right lung. The interval between the margins of the lungs and the lines of pleural reflection should be noted. A triangular area of pericardium is seen, uncovered by lung tissue, extending from the middle of the sternum between the fourth cartilage and the seventh, outwards and downwards towards the position of the apex-beat, and this is the area of superficial cardiac dulness. The figures indicate— 1. Manubrium sterni. 4-9. Corresponding costal arches. 2. Xiphi-sternal junction. 10. Pericardium. 3. Reflection of left pleura on to pericardium.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX—No. 6. PLEURAL CAVITY AND LOWER BORDER OF LUNG, VIEWED FROM THE RIGHT SIDE. The coverings of the chest wall have been removed from the lateral aspect, and the lower inter- costal spaces opened up, to show the line of pleural reflection and the lower margin of the lung. The mid-axillary line is shown by a white thread. The line of reflection of the pleural membrane from the chest-wall on to the diaphragm is seen to curve downwards, until, in the mid-axillary line, it crosses the tenth costal arch, and from this level it passes nearly horizontally backwards. The lower margin of the lung lies at a much higher level, an interval of four inches intervening between it and the lowest limit of the pleural cavity in the mid-axillary line. The condition seen here is that of complete expiration, and in that state the lower margin of the lung may be indicated on the surface by a line drawn horizontally round the body about 1J ins. below the nipple, crossing the mid-axillary line at the eighth costal arch. The amount of movement of this margin in respiration is said to be about 1-| ins., and therefore the position of this margin in full inspiration would be about 1J ins. lower down. The figures indicate— 1. Pectoralis major muscle (margin). 4. External oblique muscle (margin). 2. Serratus magnus ,, ,, 5—11. Corresponding costal arches. . 3. Latissimus dorsi „ „ 12. Diaphragm. The line from 3 to 10 indicates the mid-axillary line.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C, THORAX—No. 7. LOWER LATERAL LIMIT OF PLEURAL CAVITY AND LUNG, VIEWED FROM THE LEFT. The coverings of the lower part of the side of the chest have been removed, the intercostal spaces opened up, and the parietal pleura removed. The mid-axillary line is indicated by the line from 3 to 3. The pleural cavity is seen to extend, as on the right side, to the tenth costal arch in the mid-axillary LINE, at which level it is four inches lower than the margin of the lung, or two interspaces, practically a hand's breath. There is practically no difference between the lower limits of the pleural cavities of the two sides, and the difference between the lower margins of the lungs is so small as to be practically inappreciable. In the present subject, the limits are fairly typical, except for the fact that the pleura in the nipple line extends to the seventh costal arch, while it more usually extends to the junction of the eighth rib and cartilage at that level. This view and the former one illustrate the amount of space which may be filled by pleural effusions of different kinds. The figures indicate— 1. Pectoralis major muscle (margin). 4-11. Corresponding costal arches. 2. Serratus magnus „ „ 12. Diaphragm. 3. Latissimus dorsi ,, „ 13. External oblique muscle (margin). The line from 3 to 3 is in the position of the mid-axillary line.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX—No. 8. THE HEART AND PERICARDIUM WITH THE STERNUM AND LEFT LUNG IN POSITION. The right lung has been removed and portions of the fifth and sixth costal arches of the left side. The pericardium is seen to project about one inch to the right of the margin of the sternum, from the second interspace to the fifth; in the second interspace it covers the great vessels, and, lower down, the heart itself. The area of pericardium not covered by the left lung is seen to lie mainly below the fifth left costal arch, but it is often at a higher level. The lower end of the great fissure of the left lung is seen at the level of the sixth chondro- sternal junction, dividing the lung into an upper and a lower lobe. The figures indicate— 1-6. Corresponding costal arches. 7. Pericardium covering the right auricle. 8. Area of pericardium not covered by the left lung. 9. Incisura cardiaca. 10. Great fissure of left lung.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX—No. 9. PERICARDIUM, PHRENIC NERVES, AND THYMUS GLAND, SEEN FROM THE FRONT. TKe lungs have been removed, and the mediastinal pleura stripped from the surface of the pericardium.' The fibrous pericardium is a strong, conical sac, the base attached to the diaphragm, the apex being lost on the great vessels which enter and emerge from the heart. Occupying the middle mediastinum, it is in contact laterally with the mediastinal pleura, phrenic nerves and their accompanying vessels, and it is separated from the anterior chest-wall by the anterior margins of the lungs and pleural sacs, except over a triangular area previously indicated, and by the lower part of the thymus gland. The lower part of the thymus gland, which, in this specimen (adult male), is probably not larger than usual, is seen to extend downwards in front of the pericardium for some distance, in the form of two elongated processes. The pericardium is thrown into wrinkles, on account of the contracted state of the left ventricle. The phrenic nerves can be seen to adapt themselves closely to the outline of the pericardium, and, at a higher level, the right nerve lies on the side of the superior vena cava. The right cupola of the diaphragm is seen to rise to a slightly higher level than the left. The figures indicate— 1. Pericardium. 2-5. Corresponding costal arches. 6. Thymus gland. 7-8. The cupolae of the diaphragm. 9. The right phrenic nerve in apposition with the superior vena cava. 10. Left phrenic nerve lying on the side of the pericardium."THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX—No. 10. ANTERIOR SURFACE OF THE HEART IN TOPOGRAPHICAL RELATION TO THE CHEST-WALL. The lungs have been removed, and the sternum and ribs replaced. The pericardium has been removed from the front of the heart. The following lines indicate the outline of the heart as seen from the front:— (1) The lower border extends nearly horizontally from the sixth right costal cartilage, three- quarters of an inch from the right margin of the sternum to the apex beat in the fifth left interspace. (2) The upper border extends behind the sternum immediately above the third costal cartilages, extending beyond the sternal margin about an inch on the left side, and about half an inch on the right. (3) The right and left margins may be indicated by lines slightly convex outwards, joining the corresponding extremities of the other lines. The depth of different portions from the surface was as follows:—Measurements being taken in each case from the posterior aspect of the sternum or costal arch. The aorta is at a depth of one inch from the second right costal cartilage, the tip of the right auricle is one inch from the third right costal cartilage, the apex of the heart is at the same depth from the fifth left costal arch, and the root of the pulmonary artery is rather more than an inch from the sternum. The anterior surface of the heart and great vessels shows a curvature adapted to the curvature of the chest-wall, so that nearly all points on this surface lie at a depth of almost exactly one inch. A portion of the anterior auriculo-ventricular furrow is seen running obliquely across the heart, and the transverse width of the heart is in this case four inches. The figures indicate— 1-7. Corresponding costal arches. 11. Superior vena cava and right phrenic nerve. 8. Diaphragm. 12. Right auricular appendix. 9. Left ventricle, slightly above the apex. 13. Anterior auriculo-ventricular sulcus. 10. Pulmonary artery.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX—No. 11. INTERIOR OF THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE HEART, TO SHOW THE VALVES, ETC., IN POSITION. The anterior wall of both the right auricle and ventricle has been removed, leaving only the line of the auriculo-ventricular furrow. The auricle is seen to form the whole of the right margin of the heart, while the ventricle forms a considerable portion of the lower border, and the apex of the heart is formed by the left ventricle. The interventricular septum can be seen, obliquely situated, passing from in front backwards and to the right, and its convex surface projects into the cavity of the right ventricle. The common pericardial investment of the pulmonary artery and aorta can be seen at the upper part, where the serous layer is reflected on to the vessels. The figures Indicate 1-7. Corresponding costal arches. 8. Anterior interventricular furrow with a branch of the left coronary artery. 9. Musculi pectinati of auricle. 10. Right coronary artery in anterior auriculo-ventri- cular furrow. 11. Anterior papillary muscle. 12. Infundibular cusp of tricuspid valve. 13. Pulmonary valve.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. THORAX—No. 12. INTERIOR OF THE RIGHT AURICLE AND VENTRICLE IN TOPOGRAPHICAL RELATION TO THE CHEST-WALL. View from in front and slightly from the right side, to show the thoracic skeleton, and, at the same time, the parts Avhich lie under cover of it. The anterior auriculo-ventricular groove is seen to run from the middle of the sternum at the level of the third costal arch downwards and to the right, so that the cavity of the auricle lies almost entirely to the right of the sternum, while the ventricle lies behind the sternum and the inner end of the fifth right interspace. Looking at the heart from the front, it may be said that the right auricle lies to the right of the sternum, the right ventricle occupies the area behind the sternum, and the left ventricle that to the left of the sternum. The tip of the left auricular appendix is not seen here, but it usually appears on the left of the pulmonary artery. The pulmonary valve lies behind the third left chondro-sternal junction, and the right auriculo- ventricular orifice behind the sternum opposite the extremity of the fourth intercostal space of the right side. 1-7. Corresponding costal arches. 8. Anterior interventricular furrow, with branch of left coronary artery. 9. Musculi pectinati of auricle. The figures Indicate—- 10. Eight coronary artery. 1-1. Anterior papillary muscle of ventricle. 12. Infundibular cusp of tricuspid valve. 13. Pulmonary valve. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. THORAX—No. 13. INTERIOR OF THE VENTRICULAR CHAMBERS FROM THE FRONT. The anterior wall of both-the ventricles and of the right auricle has been removed, and also most of the interventricular septum, the infundibular cusp of the tricuspid valve, and the front of the right auriculo-ventricular ring. The pulmonary artery and the aorta have also been opened at their roots. This view illustrates clearly the wide interval which exists between the apertures leading to and from, the right ventricle and also the close nroximity to one another of the corresponding apertures of the left side. '* In the right auricle some of the musculi pectinati are seen, but the tip of the auricular appendix which projected.- in front of the root of the aorta, and has left an impression there, has been removed. In the right ventricle portions of the marginal and septal cusps are seen, and, in the left ventricle, the anterior or aortic cusp of the mitral valve, with the chordae tendineae and papillary muscle. The segments of the aortic and pulmonary valves are arranged in an anterior and posterior set in each, in the pulmonary one segment is placed posteriorly (6), and in the aortic two, both of which are seen. The figures indicate— 1. Pericardial reflection from pulmonary artery and 5. Interventricular septum, and cut chordae tendineae aorta. of septal cusp. 2. Where the superior vena cava enters the right 6. Posterior cusp of pulmonary valve. auricle, and the position of the pericardial re- 7. Anterior papillary muscle of left ventricle, flection from it. 8. Anterior (aortic) cusp of mitral valve. ~=a ovalis. - 9. Cusps of aortic valve. 1 cusp of tricuspid valve. = EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.G. JTHE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX—No. 15. THE' SUPERIOR APERTURE OF THE THORAX, AND STRUCTURES PASSING THROUGH IT, VIEWED FROM IN FRONT AND SLIGHTLY FROM ABOVE. The superior aperture of the thorax is bounded by the first dorsal vertebra, the first costal arches, and the manubrium sterni. The apices of the pleural membranes rise as high as to the neck of the first rib on each side. Between them is a narrow interval, in which numerous important structures are packed together. The oesophagus lies at the back, and to the left side. In front is the trachea, the innominate artery crossing in front of it behind the manubrium sterni, and the left innominate vein crossing in 'front of that. The left subclavian artery is seen occupying the groove in the apex of the left lung. The letters indicate— A. The 7th cervical vertebra. B. The 1st dorsal vertebra. C. The 2nd dorsal vertebra. The large 1 is placed on the first costal arch. The figures indicate— 1. Apex of pleura, covering the lung. 2. Innominate veins. 3. Innominate artery. 4. Right subclavian artery. 5. Left common carotid artery. 6. Left subclavian artery. 7. Trachea. 8. Oesophagus. 9. Bight vagus. " The left vagus is seen lying between the left common carotid and left subclavian arteries.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. 0. & E. C. JACK: and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX. LUNGS—No. 1. THE LUNGS, VIEWED FROM ABOVE AND IN FRONT. The lungs are conical in shape, and each presents an apex, base, and outer and inner surfaces, separated by anterior and posterior margins. The apex of each lung is seen projecting upwards above a constriction due to the first rib, and the anterior sharp margin in each begins below the level of this constriction. The outer surface is markedly indented by the costal arches, and the fissures are seen; the oblique fissure in the left and the transverse fissure in the right. The impressions due to vessels on the apex are well seen. The course of the internal mammary artery can be traced on outer surface of each lung as a distinct narrow groove, running vertically near the anterior margin. The figures indicate— In Both:— 5. Subclavian groove. 1. The apex. 2. Groove for the first rib. 3. Upper end of the anterior sharp margin. In the Right Lung (R.):— 6. Transverse fissure. 7. Groove for right innominate vein. In the Left Lung (L.):— 4. The oblique fissure.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX. LUNGS—No. 2. MEDIASTINAL SURFACE OF THE LEFT LUNG HARDENED IN SITU. This surface shows impressions due to the structures of the mediastinum with which it was in contact. In the front is a hollow, adapted to receive the heart and pericardium, deeper and more extensive in this lung than in the right. Above and behind it is the hilum with the divided bronchus, pulmonary artery and veins, and some lymphatic glands, surrounded by the reflection of the pleura, which is continued downwards as the ligamentum latum pulmonis. Arching over the hilum and passing downwards is a groove for the aortic arch and descending thoracic aorta (10, 8 and 5), from which a deep groove passes upwards towards the apex, for the subclavian artery. In front of this again is a groove for the innominate vein, short and wide, and the great fissure is seen intersecting the rounded posterior border. A small area in front of the ligamentum latum, near the lower margin, is in contact with the oesophagus. The figures indicate— 1. Pulmonary artery. 2. Pulmonary veins. 3. Bronchus. 4. Bronchial gland. 5. Groove for descending thoracic aorta. 6. Groove for heart and pericardium. 7. Ligamentum latum pulmonis. thoracic aorta. 9. Commencement of the fissure of the lung. 10. Groove for aortic arch. 11. Subclavian groove. 12. Groove for innominate vein. 8. Deep groove for commencement of descendingTHE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH : T. E. & E. C. JACK ; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX. lungs-no. 3. MEDIASTINAL SURFACE OF RIGHT LUNG. The inner surface of this lung shows in front a cardiac depression. Behind it is the hilum, which differs from that of the left side, since the right bronchus gives off, shortly after its com- mencement, an cparterial branch, which enters the lung separately from the main bronchus and at a higher level. It is accompanied by a branch of the right pulmonary artery. Above the. hilum is a curved groove for the vena azygos major, and at a still higher level are two vertical grooves, the anterior for the superior vena cava, the posterior, most distinct near the apex, for the innominate artery. The chief, or oblique, fissure is seen intersecting the lung. The surface for the oesophagus is not very distinct in this specimen. In front of the ligamentum latum, near the lower margin, is a wide groove for the inferior vena cava, passing into the cardiac hollow. 3. Main bronchus, and eparterial branch. 4. Bronchial glands. 5. Groove for the inferior vena cava. 6. Cardiac surface. 1. Pulmonary artery. 2. Pulmonary veins. The figures Indicate— 7. Groove for superior vena cava. 8. Groove for innominate artery (more distinct higher up). 9. Groove for vena azjrgos major. 10. Ligamentum latum pulmonis. 11. Surface for the oesophagus. 12. Great or oblique fissure.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. THORAX. HEART and PERICARDIUM—No. 1. TWO SPECIMENS VIEWED FROM IN FRONT. A. The heart, great vessels, and trachea have been removed from the body in one piece, and the front of the pericardium removed. i The characteristic, somewhat quadrilateral shape of the antero-superior surface of the heart, subdivided by the auriculo-ventricular and interventricular furrows, is well seen. This surface is composed of the ventricles mainly, but the right auricular appendix and the tip of the left auricular appendix also come into it. Above the heart itself, three great vessels lie nearly vertically side by side, the superior vena cava, the ascending aorta, and the pulmonary artery, flanked on either side by the auricular appendix. The prominence of the right ventricle from which the pulmonary artery springs is very distinct. B. The heart, enclosed in pericardium has been removed, with the aortic arch, and the thymus gland. The size of the thymus in this view (also from an adult) is noticeable. Pulmonary artery. Ligamentum arteriosum. Right auricular appendix. Anterior interventricular furrow. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. The figures indicate— In both Specimens .— 6. 1. Superior vena cava. . 2. Innominate artery. ~ 3. Left common carotid artery. 7. 4. Left subclavian artery. 8. 5. Ascending aorta. 9.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX. HEART and PERICARDIUM—No. 2. TWO SPECIMENS VIEWED FROM BEHIND AND SLIGHTLY FROM BELOW. In A:—The aortic arch, lies first in front of the trachea and then to the left of the trachea, of the oesophagus (9), thoracic duct, and left recurrent laryngeal nerve. The descending thoracic aorta, commencing at the lower border of the 4th dorsal vertebra, passes downwards and to the right, behind the root of the left lung and the oesophagus. The inferior surface of the heart, flattened in relation to the diaphragm, is separated from the antero- superior surface by the rounded left margin, and is traversed by the inferior interventricular furrow. The base of the heart covered by pericardium, lies in front of the descending thoracic aorta, the oesophagus, and the lower right pulmonary vein; the inferior vena cava (6) partly invested by pericardium (14) opens into its lower right angle, the superior into the tipper. The principal constituents of the right pulmonary root are the right bronchus (10) giving off its eparterial branch, the right pulmonary artery (7) and veins (S). In B :—The openings of the great vessels into the pericardium, which is grooved for the trachea (9) the right bronchus (10), and the oesophagus (11). When the heart is contracted, a tongue-shaped process of pericardium projects forwards from the apex. The figures indicate- A 9. Oesophagus. 1. Innominate artery. 10. Right bronchus. 3. Left subclavian artery. 11. Oesophagus, with plexus gulae. 4. Aorta. 12. Right and left aortic inter- 5. Right innominate vein passing costal arteries. into superior vena cava. 13. Left innominate vein. 6. Inferior vena cava, with peri- 14. Pericardium. cardium (14). 7. Right pulmonary artery. B 6. Right pulmonary veins. 1. innominate artery. 2. Left common carotid artery. 3. Left subclavian artery. 4. Aorta. 5. Superior vena cava receiving vena azygos major. 7. Right pulmonary artery. 8. Right pulmonary veins. 9. Groove lor trachea. 10. Groove for right bronchus. 11. Groove for oesophagusTHE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. THORAX. HEART and PERICARDIUM—No. 3. TWO SPECIMENS VIEWED FROM THE LEFT. The left-hand specimen (A.) shows the heart, from which the pericardium has been removed, with the great vessels, the trachea, and root of left lung. The aorta is seen to form an arch over the root of the lung, the aortic arch lying above, and the descending thoracic aorta behind. The left bronchus passes outwards from the bifurcation of the trachea, and joins the pulmonary vessels. The right-hand specimen (B.) consists of the heart, aorta, and pericardium, which have been removed in one mass, and it shows the impressions on the posterior aspect of the pericardium made by the structures with which it lay in immediate contact, especially by the left bronchus and by the oesophagus on the back near the lower margin. The redundancy of pericardium is well indicated by the wrinkles on its surface, and by the tail which projects from the region of the apex of the heart. The figures In both Specimens :— 1. Ascending aorta. 2. Aortic arch. 3. Left pulmonary artery. 4. Upper left pulmonary vein in the left specimen and lower vein in the right one. 5. Left bronchus and groove for it. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and ; indicate— IN A:— 6. Descending thoracic aorta behind the root of the left lung. 7. Left auricular appendix. 8. Formation of left innominate vein. 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. < | 3 O : _ u ; OS i CCS |THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX. HEART and PERICARDIUM—No. 4. TWO SPECIMENS, VIEWED FROM THE RIGHT SIDE. The specimens have been prepared as described in a previous view (Heart and Pericardium No. 1). The left-hand specimen shows the arrangement of the principal structures in the root of the right lung, and their relation to the superior vena cava, etc. The right bronchus gives off at an early stage, an eparterial branch, which is accompanied by a branch of the pulmonary artery, while the main bronchus passes onwards below the trunk of that artery. The order of structures from above downwards is therefore, eparterial bronchus, right pulmon- ary artery, main bronchus, pulmonary veins. The termination of the vena azygos major is seen passing above the root of the lung. Note also the reflection of .serous pericardium from the inferior vena cava. The right hand specimen is viewed more from in front than the other, and shows the unbroken fibrous pericardial bag, and also the moulding of the aortic arch. The figures indicate— In both Specimens:— In A:— 1. Superior vena cava. 6. Trachea. 2. Ascending aorta. 7. Eight vagus. 3. Eight pulmonary artery, where it gives off its 8. Descending thoracic aorta. first branch. IN B :— 4. Two right pulmonary veins. 9. Thymus gland. 5. Inferior vena cava.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and U HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX. HEART and PERICARDIUM—No. 5. VIEW FROM BELOW. This specimen was prepared by detaching the margin of the pericardium along its whole circumference from the diaphragm and then lifting the entire heart and pericardial bag away. This can easily be done, since the pericardium and diaphragm are only connected by areolar tissue over the greater part of their adjacent surfaces. The diaphragmatic surfaces of both heart and pericardium are applied to the diaphragm, and are nearly flat, and the outline of the heart, seen from this aspect, is triangular,—the apex in front and the base behind. The only orifice in this surface is that for the inferior vena cava, situated at the back and to the right side. The groove to the left side is for the oesophagus. The figures indicate— 1. Right margin of pericardial attachment. 2. Left margin of pericardial attachment. 3. Process of pericardium projecting forwards from the region of the apex of the heart. 4. Inferior vena cava.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK ; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. • THORAX. * HEART and PERICARDIUM—No. 6. INTERIOR OF RIGHT AURICLE AND VENTRICLE, SEEN FROM THE RIGHT. The pericardium has been removed from the front of the heart, and the right chambers opened by removing the anterior and lateral walls. The aorta and the superior vena cava, with the margins of their pericardial investment, are seen in the upper part, and the termination of the inferior vena cava in the lower. The sulcus terminalis is seen on the outer wall of the auricle, running from the front of the superior vena cava to the right of the inferior vena cava. In the interior of the auricle are seen the eustachian valve, the annulus ovalis surrounding the fossa ovalis, the aperture of the coronary sinus, and the foramina Thebesii. The tortuous right coronary lies in the auriculo-ventricular sulcus. In the right ventricle the two principal papillary muscles, anterior and posterior, are seen, and the chordae tendinae attaching them to the margins and ventricular aspects of the cusps. Some additional bands attach the valves to the lower part of the infundibulum, the smooth channel leading to the pulmonary artery. The figures indicate— 1. Line of pericardial reflection. 7. Marginal cusp of the tricuspid valve. 2. Appendix of right auricle with musculi pectinati. 8. Anterior papillary muscle. 3. Fossa ovalis surrounded by the annulus ovalis. 9. Anterior interventricular branch of the left 4. Eustachian valve. coronary artery in the anterior interventricular 5*. Orifice of the coronary sinus. furrow. 6. Right coronary artery. 10. Posterior papillary muscle.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX. HEART and PERICARDIUM—No. 7. INTERIOR OF THE LEFT AURICLE AND VENTRICLE, VIEWED FROM THE LEFT SIDE. The posterior wall of the auricle, and the anterior and left wall of the ventricle have been removed, and a portion of the base of the anterior papillary muscle cut away to expose the root of the posterior muscle. The septal wall of the auricle is exposed. The left coronary artery is seen lying in the auriculo- ventricular furrow, while the tip of the auricular appendix projects forwards in contact with the root.of the pulmonary artery. The wall of the ventricle is thick and the columnae corneae are large and strong. The anterior and posterior sets of papillary muscles are seen, with the chordae tendineae attaching them to the cusps of the mitral valve. These cusps are placed, one anterior and to the right, and the other posterior and to the left, the anterior lying in front and to the right of the auriculo-ventricular opening. The figures indicate— 1. Depression on the septal wall corresponding to the fossa ovalis 2. Auricular appendix. 3. Great cardiac vein. 4. Left coronary artery. 5. Anterior papillary muscle. 6. Chordae tendineae. 7. Posterior papillary muscle. 8. Septal wall of the ventricle. 9. Margo obtusus of the heart. 10. Pulmonary artery.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX. HEART and PERICARDIUM—No. 8. THE INTERIOR OF THE LEFT AURICLE SEEN FROM BEHIND. The heart and great vessels having been removed from the body, and the perioardium covering the posterior and left sides taken away, the posterior wall of the left auricle has been removed with the terminations of the pulmonary veins. The left auricle forms the greater part of the base of the heart. It is divided into an Atrium, with smooth wall and an Appendix (3). A portion of the wall of the atrium is formed by the interauricular septum, on which is a depression, bounded below by a crescentic margin, representing the aperture of the foramen ovale in the foetus. The Mitral orifice is placed in the front part of the floor of the chamber, and is smaller than the corresponding aperture of the right side. Above the auricle is the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, and the remains of the ductus arteriosus (8). Between the pulmonary artery and the aorta a double fold of serous pericardium is present and has been opened (5). The figures indicate— 1. Septal wall of the auricle. 6. Inferior vena cava. 2. Mitral orifice. 7. Great cardiac vein. 3. Auricular appendix. 8. Ligamentum arteriosum. 4. Bifurcation of the pulmonary artery. 9. Superior vena cava. 5. Cavity of serous pericardium.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T, C. & E. 0. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX. HEART and PERICARDIUM—No. 9. THE INTERIOR OF THE RIGHT AURICLE AND OF BOTH VENTRICLES VIEWED FROM THE FRONT. The anterior portion of the wall of the cone-shaped, or ventricular, part of the heart has been removed, the pulmonary artery and aorta opened up, and the front of the right auricle removed. The right auricular appendix projected in front of the root of the aorta and has left an impres- sion upon it. In the interior of the auricle the openings of the venae cavae, the fossa ovalis and the eustachian valve are (visible, and, in the right ventricle, portions of the marginal and septal cusps. In the left ventricle, the aortic cusp of the mitral valve is prominent. The shape and position of the cusps of the aortic and pulmonary valves is characteristic, one of them being posterior in the pulmonary artery and two anterior, while in the aorta one is anterior and two posterior. Both of the latter are shown, but the anterior has been removed. The figures Indicate— 1. Common pericardial investment of the pulmonary artery and aorta. 2. Above the orifice of the superior vena cava. 3. Above the orifice of the inferior yena cava, points to the fossa ovalis. 4. Septal cusp of the tricuspid valve. 5. Interventricular septum. 6. Semilunar valves of the pulmonary artery. 7. Anterior papillary muscle of the left ventricle. 8. Aortic cusp of the mitral valve. 9. Lies below and to the right of the aortic valve.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH : T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. ■> THORAX. HEART and PERICARDIUM—No 10. BACK WALL OF THE PERICARDIUM, TO SHOW THE OPENINGS FOR THE VESSELS. The anterior part of the pericardium has been taken away, and the heart removed by dividing the ascending aorta, the pulmonary artery just before its bifurcation, the superior and inferior venae cavae and the pulmonary veins just inside the pericardium. The internal serous layer of the pericardium is seen, lining the fibrous layer, and reflected from it upon the vessels which pierce the fibrous layer, on to the surface of the heart. The pulmonary artery and the aorta, however, are surrounded by a common tubular sheath. The pulmonary veins of each side entered the pericardial cavity by a single aperture. The reflection of the serous pericardium extending from the inferior vena cava to the right pulmonary venous opening is seen. Notice also the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, and its right branch passing outwards behind the ascending aorta. The groove on the left side where the pericardium passes on to the diaphragm was occupied by the great cardiac vein just before it formed the coronary sinus. The section of the aorta shows the bulging to the right, known as the great aortic sinus, which simulates the commencement of an aneurismal dilatation, but is probably a normal condition since it is present in the foetus. The figures indicate— 1. The Aorta. 4. Superior vena cava opening. 2. Opening of the left pulmonary veins. The aorta 5. Opening of right pulmonary veins. can be seen lying immediately behind. 6. Inferior vena cava opening. 3. Pulmonary artery, at its bifurcation. 7. Groove for the great cardiac vein.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX. HEART and PERICARDIUM—No. 11. THE AURICULAR AND VENTRICULAR PARTS OF THE HEART, SEPARATED FROM EACH OTHER. The ventricular portion, with the vessels springing from it, and the termination of the trachea, is viewed from behind and the right. The general shape of this part is conical, the auriculo- ventricular apertures open into the base of the cone and the pulmonary artery and aorta rise from it in front of them. The auricular portion has been lifted off, and turned back, and is viewed from below. The auricular portion is crescentic in outline, and the horns of the crescent embrace the origin of the great arteries, while the body of the crescent lies behind them. The natural arrange- ment would be restored by placing the 6 on the auricles on 6 on the ventricles, and 5 on 7. The relative size and position of the two auriculo-ventricular orifices is well seen, the right being much larger than the left. On the Auricular Part :- The figures indicate— On the Ventricular Part : 1. Superior vena cava. 2. Right auricular appendix. 3. Left auricular appendix. 4. Hollow of auricular crescent, which contains the aorta. 5. Cavity of left auricle. 6. Cavity of right auricle. 1. Aortic arch at its termination. 2. Trachea bifurcating. Pulmonary artery. Ascending aorta. Tricuspid orifice. Mitral valve.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX. HEART and PERICARDIUM—No. 12. THREE VIEWS OF SECTIONS THROUGH THE VENTRICULAR PORTION OF THE HEART. A and B are the two halves resulting from a coronal section, passing through the apex, B the front, and A the back part. The principal features shown are:—(1) The left ventricle forms the apical portion of the heart, and its cavity is long and narrow, while the right ventricular cavity is shallow and Avide ; (2) the thick- ness and direction of the interventricular septum, and the occurrence of a thin part, the pars membranacea, at its upper part; (3) the relative size of the auricular ventricular orifices, and the arrangement of the cusps of the valves guarding them ; (4) the aortic cusp of the mitral valve intervenes between the two openings into the left ventricle. B shows the aortic vestibule, a portion of the left ventricle immediately below the aortic orifice, where the wall is smooth, and is fibrous in character and not muscular. G is the inner half of a transverse horizontal section through the ventricles to show the relative thickness of the walls, and the shape and size of the ventricular chambers. The left is circular in outline, while the right is crescentic on account of the bulging of the septum to the right side. The figures indicate— In A. 1. The letterrests on the interventricular septum. 2. Front part of segments of mitral valve. 2. Posterior cusp of mitral valve. 3. Portion of tricuspid valve. 3. Septal cusp of tricuspid. In 0. 4. Rests on the septum,—the left ventricle lies In B. 1. Aortic valve, below which is the vestibule. to the right, the right on the left side.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH : T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX. MEDIASTINA—No. 1. INTERIOR OF THORAX, AFTER REMOVAL OF THE THYMUS GLAND, THE PERICARDIUM, AND ITS CONTENTS, ETC. In the Superior Mediastinum, the left innominate vein (1) formed behind the sternal end of the left clavicle, passes obliquely across to join the right innominate vein and form the superior vena cava behind the first right costal cartilage, receiving in its course the inferior thyroid, vertebral, internal mammary, first intercostal, and superior intercostal veins of the left side. The trachea passes downwards with a slight inclination to the right, and terminates at. the upper border of the 5th dorsal vertebra, by dividing into the two Bronchi, which pass to the roots of the lungs. The right bronchus, which is shorter, but larger and more vertical than the left one, is crossed in front by the right phrenic nerve and the superior vena cava, and the vena azygos major arches over it, while the aortic arch (5) with the left recurrent laryngeal nerve hooking round it, crosses over the left bronchus, and the descending thoracic aorta passes behind it. In the Posterior Mediastinum the oesophagus (9) with the plexus gulae on its wall, lies first co the right, then in front, and, lower down, to the left of the descending thoracic aorta. The anterior margins of the lungs overlap the hollow for the heart, the right being straight and the left notched, the mediastinal surface of the left lung presents a distinct depression for the heart and pericardium, while the corresponding surface of the right lung is less concave. The figures indicate— 1. Left innominate vein. 5. Aortic arch. 2. Formation of superior vena cava, and termination 6. Vena azygos major. of right internal mammary vein. 7. Left internal mammary artery. 3. Left internal mammary vein. 8. Right phrenic nerve. 4. Left subclavian artery, and left vagus nerve. 9. Oesophagus and plexus gulae.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX. MEDIASTINA.—No. 2. THE HEART BED, VIEWED FROM THE LEFT SIDE. The pleural membranes, heart and pericardium, and the left lung have been removed, and the aortic arch and its branches cut across. The mediastinum, occupying the interval between the two pleural membranes, is composed of a number of structures, and is divided into four parts. The pericardium and its contents occupy the middle mediastinum, while the anterior mediastinum lies in front of it, the posterior behind, and the superior above. This view illustrates the immediate relations of the pericardial sac on the right side and behind. The left superior intercostal vein is seen passing to join the left innominate vein, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve of the left side passing upwards between the trachea and the oesophagus. In the posterior mediastinum, the oesophagus is seen to lie at first to the right of the descend- ing thoracic aorta, and then to pass forwards in front of it at the level of the ninth dorsal vertebra. The figure 1. Upper part of trachea. 2. Formation of superior vena cava by the junction of the right and left innominate veins. 3. Left innominate vein. 4. Left superior intercostal vein. 5. Aortic arch cut across. 6. Vena azygos major, arching over right bronchus. indicate— 7. Eight lung. 8. Termination of the right phrenic nerve in the diaphragm. 9. Plexus gulae on wall of oesophagus. 10. Left superior intercostal artery. 11. Gangliated cord of sympathetic. 12. Great splanchnic nerve.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX. / MEDIASTINA.—No. 3. THE MEDIASTINAL PARTITION, VIEWED FROM THE RIGHT SIDE. The thoracic cavity having been opened, the lungs have been removed, and the mediastinal pleura stripped from the surface of the mediastinal partition. The relative size of the subdivisions of the mediastinum is brought out, as well as their shape. This view illustrates the structures which are in relation to the inner surface of the right lung, and should be studied with the view of that surface. (Lungs No. 2). The figures indicate— J, Termination of superior vena cava. 9. Right vagus nerve. 2. Formation of superior vena cava, joined in this 10. Eight bronchus. The eparterial bronchus lies specimen by an unusual mediastinal vein. above the figure and the main trunk below 3. Junction of right subclavian and right external it. jugular veins to form right innominate vein. 11. Main trunk of the right pulmonary artery. 6. Vena azygos major. • 12. Upper left pulmonary vein. 8. Right phrenic nerve passing down in front of the 13. Lower left pulmonary vein. root of the lung.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX. MEDIASTINA—No. 4. THE SUPERIOR MEDIASTINUM VIEWED FROM THE FRONT. The clavicles and first costal arches have been divided, and the manubrium sterni with the origins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles turned up, exposing the superior mediastinum. The upper part of the thymus gland is seen in the form of two lobes lying on the left innominate vein—the lower part of the gland which lay in front of the pericardium has been removed. The intimate relation of the innominate veins to the pleural membranes is well shown. The thymic and inferior thyroid veins are large and form a plexus. The attachments of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles to the back of the manubrium are seen, and, between the sterno-thyroids, the interclavicular ligament. The internal jugular veins become dilated just above their junction with the subclavian veins, forming the inferior jugular bulb. The figures indicate— 1. Internal mammary artery lying on the pleura. 7. Innominate artery. 2. Left innominate vein, with thymus gland resting 8. Right and left vagi, within the carotid on it. sheaths. 3. Eight innominate vein. 9. Mediastinal lymphatic glands. 4. Upper part of thymus gland (two lobes). 10. Inferior thyroid vein. 5. Isthmus of thyroid gland. 11. Sterno-thyroid muscle. 6. Left common carotid artery. 12. Sterno-hyoid muscle.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK: and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX. MEDIASTINA—No. 5. SUPERIOR MEDIASTINUM AND UPPER PORTIONS OF THE PLEURAL MEMBRANES VIEWED FROM THE FRONT. After exposure of the superior mediastinum, the thymus and lymphatic glands, the innominate veins, and the superior vena cava have been removed. The aortic arch and the branches rising from it are seen in their relation to the trachea and pleura. The root of the left common carotid artery is here united with the innominate artery, a fairly common variation from the normal arrangement. The vessels and nerves in relation to the pleura are "well seen, and especially the course of the phrenic and vagi nerves. The vagi sink backwards to reach the posterior aspect of the roots of the lungs, while the phrenics pass down on an anterior plane. The distended veins at the root of the neck are seen to be of formidable size. The figures indicate— 1. Upper limit of serous pericardium. 2. Aortic arch. 3. Innominate artery. 4. Left common carotid artery. 5. Left subclavian artery. 6. Right common carotid artery. 7. Right subclavian artery. 8. Internal jugular veins. 9. Subclavian veins, receiving external jugular and transversalis colli veins. 10. Pleura. 11. Right internal mammary artery and phrenic nerve. 12. Vagus nerves, the right giving off its recurrent laryngeal branch, and the left lower down, a cardiac branch. 13. Isthmus of thyroid gland. 14. Trachea. 15. Vena azygos major, opening into the superior vena cava.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. THORAX. MEDIASTINA—No. 6. THE AORTIC ARCH AND THE POSTERIOR MEDIASTINUM. The lungs, heart and pericardium, and the superficial structures of- the superior mediastinum have been removed, and also the lower part of the ascending aorta. The phrenic nerves are cut short, as their course has already been seen. This view illustrates especially the direction of the aortic arch, the course of the two vagi, the formation of the plexus gulae and the deep cardiac plexus, and the relations of the descending thoracic aorta and the oesophagus. The figures indicate— 1. Aortic arch. 2. Innominate artery, bifurcating into the right common carotid and right subclavian. 3. Left common carotid artery. 4. Left subclavian artery. 5. Vena azj^gos major arching over the root of the right lung. 6. Internal mammary arteries, crossed higher up by the phrenic nerves. 7. Eight vagus nerve at the point where it crosses the subclavian artery, and gives off the recurrent laryngeal branch. 8. Left vagus nerve crossing the aortic arch and giving off its recurrent laryngeal branch. 9. Left phrenic nerve at its upper part and at its termination in the diaphragm. 10. Right phrenic nerve at its upper part and termination. 11. Oesophagus and the plexus gulae on its wall. 12. Trachea.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON_J5L£L CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN—No. 1. OUTER SURFACE OF THE RIGHT CEREBRAL HEMISPHERE 10. Fissure of Kolando. The upper two labels are placed at the two genua. Ascending frontal or anterior central gyrus. The label is placed on the arm-centre. Ascending parietal or posterior central gyrus. The sulcus prascentralis inferior. The sulcus prsecentralis superior. Superior frontal gyrus. Superior frontal sulcus. Middle frontal gyrus. The two labels are on the upper and lower portions of the gyrus. Middle frontal sulcus. Inferior frontal sulcus. Inferior frontal gyrus. A. Basilar part. B. Triangular part. C. Orbital part. S. Fissure of Sylvius (posterior horizontal limb) 11. Superior temporal gyrus. 12. Parallel or superior temporal sulcus. 13. Middle temporal gyrus. 14. Inferior temporal sulcus. 15. Inferior temporal gyrus. 16. Supramarginal gyrus. 17. Angular gyrus. 18. Postparietal gyrus. 19. Sulcus postcentralis inferior. 20. Sulcus postcentralis superior 21. Ramus horizontalis. j 22. Ramus occipitalis. J 23. Sulcus occipitalis transversus. 24. Superior parietal lobule. 25. Arcus parieto-occipitalis. Intraparietal sulcus (of Turner).THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. EDINBURGH : T. C. & E. C. JACK; and CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN—No. 2. BASAL ASPECT OF THE BRAIN. The Cerebellum, the Pons Varolii, and the Medulla have been removed by cutting through he Mesencephalon. The cut surface of the latter is seen in the middle of the specimen. GYRI AND SULCI. L Calcarine fissure. 2. Isthmus of great limbic convolution. 3. Gyrus lingualis. 4. Collateral sulcus. 5. Hippocampal convolution (note the dentate fissure to its inner side). 6. Uncus (note the groove formed by the edge of the tentorium cerebelli close to the label). 7. Occipitotemporal gyrus. 8. Occipitotemporal sulcus. 9. Inferior temporal gyrus. 10. Groove for the right lateral blood-sinus on the occipital pole. 11. Olfactory sulcus, with gyrus rectus immediately to its inner side. 12. Internal orbital gyrus. 13. Anterior orbital gyrus. 14. Posterior orbital gyrus. 15.. External orbital gyrus. N.B.—Note the H-shaped orbital sulcus which separates these orbital gyri from each other. OTHER STRUCTURES. 16. Splenium of corpus callosum. 17. Pineal body. 18. In front of label is seen the under surface of the posterior commissure. 19. Cmsta of cms cerebri. 20. Substantia nigra. 21. Red nucleus in tegmentum of cms cerebri. 22. Tegmentum of crus cerebri. 23. Under surface of pulvinar of optic thalamus. 24. In front of label is seen the locus perforatus posticus. 25. Corpora albicantia or mammillaria. 26. Tuber cinereum. 27. Optic tract. 28. Optic chiasma, immediately behind which is the infundibulum. 29. Locus perforatus anticus. 30. Olfactory tract and olfactory bulb.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH : T. C. & E. C. JACK ; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN—No. 3. THE BASE OF THE BRAIN WITH THE SUPERFICIAL ORIGINS OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. The membranes and vessels have been removed from the base. The figures indicate— 1. Olfactory peduncle with its roots and the commencement of the olfactory bulb (imperfect). 2. Optic nerve, springing from the optic chiasma and optic tract. 3. Oculomotor nerve, arising from the crus cerebri. The corpora albicantia are distinct in front, in the interpeduncular space. 4. Trochlear nerve, winding round the outer side of the crus. 5. Trigeminal nerve, springing by two roots, one large, sensory, the other small, motor, from the pons Varolii. 6. Abducens nerve, arising in the interval between the pons and medulla. 7. Facial nerve. 8. Auditory nerve, rising close to the facial, at the posterior border of the pons. 9. and 10. Glosso pharyngeal and vagus nerves issuing from the side of the medulla, in the interval between the olive and the restiform body. 11. Spinal accessory nerve, arising by a series of rootlets from the side of the medulla and the upper cervical segments of the spinal cord. 12. Hypoglossal nerve, arising by numerous radicles from the front of the medulla oblongata, between the pyramid and the olive.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN—No. 4. SAGGITAL SECTION THROUGH THE ENTIRE BRAIN SLIGHTLY TO THE LEFT SIDE OF THE MESIAL PLANE. sen ; also the Third and Fourth The Convolutions and Fissures on the mesial surface of the cerebrum Ventricles of the brain and the parts in relation to them. 10. Marginal gyrus. Calloso-marginal sulcus. Callosal gyrus. Paracentral lobule. 17 Upper end of fissure of Rolando. 18 Callosal fissure. Precuneus. 19 Internal parieto-occipital fis- sure. Cuneus. Calcarine fissure. N.B.—The posterior cuneo-ling- ual gyrus is on the surface, breaking up the calcarine fis- 20, sure into two parts. ^ \ Lingual gyrus. 22, Genu of the corpus callosum. N. B.— The narrow part extend- ing backwards from this is the rostrum. <>g Body of corpus callosum. Spleniiim of corpus callosum. Septum lucidum. Body of fornix. 24. N.B. — The divided anterior pil- Glass Rods.—Anterior rod in lar of the fornix is seen immedi- ately in front of the upright rod. Velum interpositum. Anterior commissure—trans- versely divided. Lamina cinerea (lamina ter- minalis). N.B.—Immediately below this number is the optic recess of the third ventricle, and below that again the optic chiasma transversely divided. Optic nerve. Cavity of third ventricle. Middle commissure (below which is seen the sulcus of Monro on the lateral wall of the ventricle). Mesial surface of optic thala- mus (note the tasnia thalami running along the upper edge of this surface). Pineal body (note the pineal recess of the third ventricle 26. 31, 32. 33 31 the foramen of Monro; posterior rod in the carried back in a fissure-like manner into the stalk of the pineal body). Infundibulum of pituitary body. Tuber cinereum; immediately behind are the corpora mam- millaria. One of these bodies is divided ; note the central nucleus of grey matter and the surrounding capsule of white matter. Third or oculo-motor nerve. Cms cerebri (number immedi- ately below the red nucleus). Corpora quadrigemina. Substantia ferruginea (number in front of superior medullary velum). Pons Varolii (note pyramidal fibres passing down through it). Bulb or medulla (pin transfixes the inferior olivary nucleus). Fourth ventricle of the brain. Olfactory bulb, aqueduct of Sylvius.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN—No. 5. DISSECTION TO SHOW THE CORPORA GENICULATA, THE CONNECTIONS OF THE OPTIC TRACT, AND THE MIDDLE PEDUNCLE OF THE CEREBELLUM. The posterior part of the hemisphere has heen removed. 1. Orbital operculum. 15. Inferior quadrigeminal body. 2. Frontal operculum. KB.—The superior quadrigeminal body and 3. The frontal-parietal operculum. its brachium immediately above 14 4. The island of Eeil. 5. The anterior perforated spot. 16. Superior peduncle of the cerebellum. KB.—The lateral root of the olfactory tract 17. Crus cerebri. immediately in front. 18. Fourth or trochlear nerve. 6. Optic nerve. 19. Pons Varolii. 7. Third or oculo-motor nerve. 20. Middle peduncle of the cerebellum. 8. Optic tract. Trigeminal nerve. 9. Mesial root of optic tract. 21. 10. Lateral root of optic tract. 22. Auditory nerve. 11. Corpus geniculatum externum. 23. Facial nerve. 12. Section through pulvinar. 24. Flocculus. 13. Corpus geniculatum internum. 25. Vago-glossopharyngeal nerve. 14. Inferior brachium. 26. Olfactory bulb.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN—No. 6. DISSECTION OF THE CORPUS CALLOSUM. The upper parts of the hemispheres have been removed clown to the level of the corpus callosum, and the fibres of the corpus callosum traced outwards in different directions. 1. Genu of corpus callosum. 2. Body of corpus callosum. 3. Splenium of corpus callosum. 4. Stria longitudinalis mesialis. 5. Stria longitudinalis lateralis. 6. The bed or groove in which the cingulum lies. 7. Surface layer of the corpus callosum removed to show the transverse course pursued by the bundles of fibres of the corpus callosum. 8. Tapetum. 9. Forceps major. 10. The place where the callosal and corona radiata systems of fibres intersect.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY, EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN—No. 7. DISSECTION TO SHOW THE CINGULUM AND THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE FIBRES OF THE CORPUS CALLOSUM. On the left side the lateral ventricle has been opened by the removal of a portion of the corpus callosum. Rod IN FORAMEN OF MONRO. 1. Cingulum : on left side central portion removed ; 9. Hippocampus minor. on right side see the large contribution of fibres , . , . t , , . , .-iii m, - 10. Eminentia collaterals posterior, which it sends back into the occipital lone, this r is divided. U. Genu of corpus callosum. 2. Caudate nucleus. „ „ . . i2. bplenium oi corpus callosum. 3. Tsenia semicircularis. . n , i-i 13. Forceps maior. 4. beptum lucidum. r J 5. Optic thalamus. 14. Tapetum. 6. Choroid plexus. lg Transverse fibres issuing from body of fornix. 7. Fornix. 16. Intersection between callosal and corona radiata 8. Bulb of posterior horn formed by forceps major , , r i j systems of hbres. which comes from the splenium (12) of the corpus callosum. 17. Portion of the fasciculus longitudinalis superior.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BKAIN—No. 8. DISSECTION TO SHOW THE BODY OF THE FORNIX AND THE LATERAL VENTRICLES. The body of the corpus callosum has been removed, and the descending horn of the lateral ventricle opened up on the right side by removal of part of the right hemisphere. 1. Genu of corpus callosum. 13. Posterior pillar of fornix passing on to the hippo- 2. Body of the corpus callosum turned over to the campus major. left, so as to open up the lateral ventricles. 14. Bulb of posterior cornu. 3. Splenium of the corpus callosum. 15. Calcar avis or hippocampus minor. 4. Septum lucidum and fifth ventricle ; note the two 16. Eminentia collateralis posterior. layers of the septum lucidum. 17. Pes hippocampi. 5. Caudate nucleus. 18. Choroid plexus in descending horn of lateral 6. Vein of the corpus striatum joining the vein of ventricle. Galen in the velum interpositum. 19. Inferior longitudinal fasciculus. 7. Optic thalamus. . 20. Optic radiation. 8. Choroid plexus. 21. The foot or base of corona radiata, i.e. fibres of the 9. Body of fornix. internal capsule passing up to spread out in 10. AATiere fornix is attached to under surface of the corona radiata. corpus callosum. 22. Intersection of callosal and corona radiata systems 11. Fimbria of fornix. of fibres. 12. Anterior tubercle of optic thalamus. 23. Lenticular nucleus. Small Rods in the foramina of Monro which lead from the third ventricle into the lateral ventricles.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. EEAIN—No. 9. DISSECTION TO SHOW THE VELUM INTERPOSITUM AND THE CHOROID PLEXUSES OF THE LATERAL VENTRICLES. The greater part of the corpus callosum and the body of the fornix have been removed. On the right side the descending horn of the lateral ventricle is opened into; on the left side the fronto- parietal operculum has been removed, so as to display the island of Reil. 1. Genu of corpus callosum. 8. Taenia semicircularis. 2. The label is placed over the fifth ventricle—the 9. Splenium of corpus callosum. fissure-like space between the two laminae which 10. Inferior longitudinal fasciculus, form the septum lucidum, both of which are 11. Upper surface of temporal lobe, seen. 12. Island of Reil. 3. Anterior end of the body of the fornix. 13. Pes hippocampi. 4. Velum interpositum. 14. Posterior horn of lateral ventricle. 5. Vena magna Galeni. 15. Enlargement of choroid plexus in trigonum. 6. Choroid plexuses. ventriculi. 7. Caudate nucleus.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN—No. 10. TWO CORONAL SECTIONS THROUGH THE BRAIN. A. In a plane corresponding to the anterior end of the caudate nucleus. B. In a plane corresponding to the anterior part of the locus perforatus anticus. Lettering common to both specimens. 1. Corpus callosum. 2. Rostrum of corpus callosum. 3. Anterior horn of lateral ventricle. In A, note how the genu of corpus callosum forms the anterior boundary of this ventricle. 4. Caudate nucleus. 5. Septum lucidum. 6. Anterior end of the internal capsule. 7. Putamen of the lenticular nucleus. 8. External capsule, and immediately to the outer side of this the thin lamina of gray matter termed the claustrum.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY. EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN—No. 11. TWO TRANSVERSE SECTIONS THROUGH THE LEFT CEREBRUM; THE LOWER SURFACES OF THE SECTIONS ARE DISPLAYED. N.B.—The section on the right is taken at a lower plane than that on the left. 1. Corpus callosum. 2. Head of caudate nucleus. 3. Putamen of lenticular nucleus. 4. Globus pallidus of lenticular nucleus. 5. Optic thalamus. 6. ' Anterior limb of internal capsule. N.B.—Genu of internal capsule between the head of the caudate nucleus and the optic thalamus. 7. Posterior limb of internal capsule. 8. Claustrum (the thin white lamina between it and the lenticular nucleus is the external capsule). 9. Island of Eeil. 10. Temporal operculum. 11. Tail of caudate nucleus. 12. Fornix. 13. Splenium of corpus callosum. 14. Forceps major. 15. Optic radiation. 16. Tapetum. 17. Roof of posterior horn of lateral ventricle. 18. Internal capsule. 19. Anterior commissure. 20. Superior quadrigeminal body. 21. Inferior quadrigeminal body. 22. Section through corpus geniculatum internum. 23. Sub-thalamic region.THE EDINBURGH STEREOSCOPIC ATLAS OF ANATOMY, CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN—No. 12. PATHOLOGICAL SPECIMEN—HYDROCEPHALUS. Ventricles of the brain greatly distended by fluid. Foramina of Monro much expanded and fornix stretched. The septum lucidum has in great part disappeared, so that the fifth ventricle is thrown into the ventricular system, and the lateral ventricles are brought into direct communication with each other. Looking doAvn into the third ventricle, the infundibular recess in the floor is seen. 1. Anterior pillar of fornix. 2. Foramen of Monro. 3. Caudate nucleus. 4. Vein of corpus striatum. 5. Fornix (body). EDINBURGH: T. C. & E. C. JACK; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. 6. Choroid Plexus. 7. Optic thalamus. 8. Eminentia collateralis. 9. Calcar avis.Igh stereoscopic atlas of anatomy. CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. BRAIN—No. 13. DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN FROM ABOVE AND FROM BEHIND TO SHOW THE BRAIN-STEM AND THE SYSTEM OF VENTRICULAR CAVITIES. FROM Above, the cerebral hemispheres have been sliced away down to the level of the corpus callosum; the body of the corpus callosum has been turned over to the right, and the fornix and the velum interpositum have been removed. FROM Behind, the cerebellum and the posterior portions of the cerebral hemispheres have been removed, and the inferior cornua of the lateral ventricles exposed from below. A minute Rod is passed from the fourth ventricle into the central canal of the cord; another Rod traverses the aqueduct of Sylvius and passes from the fourth ventricle into the third ventricle. The four rounded eminences, termed the corpora quadrigemina, on the dorsal aspect of the mesencephalon are not lettered ; nor is the pineal body which lies between the upper pair of corpora quadrigemina. The areas on the floor of the fourth ventricle, and the clava, cuneate tubercle, and Rolandic tubercle on the back of the medulla oblongata are well seen, but are not lettered. Note on the medulla the thin lamina, termed the ligula, which is attached to the outer surface of the restiform body. 1. Corpus callosum, 2. Septum lucidum. 3. Fornix (divided). 4. Intraventricular part of upper surface of optic thalamus. 5. Groove on the upper surface of the thalamus which corresponds to the edge of the fornix. 6. Extraventricular part of upper surface of thalamus. 7. Pulvinar. 8. External geniculate body. 9. Taenia thalami. 10. Trigonum habenulae. 12. Inferior brachium passing from inferior quadrigeminal body. 13. Internal geniculate body. 14. Fourth or trochlear nerve. 15. Caudate nucleus. 16. Position of taenia semicircularis. Valve of Vieussens. 18. Superior cerebellar peduncle"! • 19. Middle cerebellar peduncle 1,2 20. Inferior cerebellar peduncle J V (restiform body) 21. Crus cerebri. 22. Eminentia teres. 23. Striae acusticse. 24. Vagoglossopharyngeal fascicles. EDINBURGH : T. C. & E. C. JACK ; and 34 HENRIETTA STREET, LONDON, W.C. *v m uli; </>2 ■ 3 2 § i cc - z . i