17 ordering the day’s meal, ten minutes every evening, while the work is still fresh in his mind, to remarks and praise or blame. In the house as in the kitchen, regularity of attention is the only way of obtaining order and cleanliness without undue expenditure of time. If your household consists of a cook and a boy, the cook will do nothing but attend to his kitchen and boil the water for the bath and filter. The boy has to do all the rest of the work, clean, serve at table, filter the water and cool the drinks. If he is the only one, he should not be too small a boy, for though they often appear more intelligent than the elder ones, they are really not strong enough to do all the work. A “ parade ” will always rather appeal to a boy and will be little trouble to yourself; the household tasks should be clearly defined and certain things should be inspected on regular days at regular times. For example, Monday might be reserved for the inspec- tion of the kitchen. Examine the shelves, meat boards and the insides of the saucepans, see that two out of the three kitchen cloths are washed clean, throw away any useless empty tins or bottles which the cook loves to accumulate in dark corners, and remove any of his garments which you may find lying about. On Tuesday the boy should take the filter to pieces and clean it as well as the sparklet bottles; on Wednesday he could clean out the pantry and any cupboard where glass or crockery is kept. On Thursday the boy should clean the verandah, scrubbing it if possible, be it only with sand and water, and the cook should parade his pans, boards and cloths. Friday and Saturday should be kept for cleaning out the rooms. Have everything moved clear away from the walls and all mats, table covers and curtains vigorously shaken. The lamps should be cleaned every day at the same time as they are filled, it will only take a moment when thus done regularly. The coolers must be emptied out every three days and scrubbed inside once a week.