HOfffiOPATSIC COOIERl3*>"z 8^ ADigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b22028572A MANUAL OF HOMOEOPATHIC COOKERY.0 '^'*'3 jvwr<^|vxx/o C%a^L^\^jXiUrv-\, ^ ijs aJ>4 cvk AnxJV 'vvvUxdLb o/tv*L 4&A^\|-\An& ( 4a£fcjv\x^ ^-Awj ^ixfc orKxxfc tx^joLjxh^ /) o^v^Ao OJJ^TULj A>AsJxh OO-vlL cl**- ‘t^YYV/ (vJCv^WYV/ <tfl« Vili A*l^<vCk5tvi .'ZZ'&Z A MANUAL OP HOMOEOPATHIC COOKERY, DESIGNED CHIEFLY FOR THE USE OF SUCH PERSONS AS ARE UNDER ®toatnwut. BY THE WIFE OF A HOMCEOPATHIC PHYSICIAN. “ Lo principal que hago es, assistir ft sus comidas y cenas, y dexarle comer de lo que me parece que le conviene, y ft quitarle lo que imagino que le ha de hazer daho, y ser nocivo al estomago.” Cervantes. From W. HEADLAND'S Homoeopathic Pharmacy, 15, .Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, Chemist, by Appointment, to the London Homoeopathic Hospital, the Hahnemann Hospital, and the London and Provincial Homoeopathic Dispensaries.#-LCcv HlSTO*: In A L msdjcal V</«R Afv' ■W. DAVY AND SON, WINTERS, 8, GILBERT STREET, OXTORD STREET.PREFACE. The rapid advance which has of late years been made hy Homoeopathy in this country demands the perfection of its machinery in all directions, and among other things the publication of a Cookery Book, constructed on the principles of homoeopathic dietetics, will, we think, be found to be not without its uses. It has hitherto been a reproach against the system, that when under it patients are deprived of the many little luxuries so grateful in the sick chamber. 'It has been imagined that Homoe- opathy can offer no cooling drinks to refresh the parched lips of the fevered patient,—that it has nothing tasty to present to the capricious palate of the dyspeptic,—that it deprives those labouringVI under some unimportant chronic affection, with unimpaired digestive powers, of all the pleasures of the table, and of many minor creature comforts to which they have been all their lives accustomed, and which have become almost indispensable to their existence. In fact, so great a bugbear has the homoeopathic diet become, that some are deterred from resorting to Homoeopathy for fear they should be absolutely starved,—others lest they should be compelled to forego all the pleasures afforded by the gastronomic art,—and others be- cause they think that no efficient substitute can be found for their much loved tea and coffee. That some of Hahnemann’s followers have in their dietetic rules exacted a ridiculous and injudicious abstemiousness, on the part of their patients, is not to be denied; hut that such a starvation system was not countenanced,but on the contrary practically and explicitly discouraged by the illustrious founder of Homoeopathy, will he evident from the following extract from his Organon: <c § 259. Owing to the necessary smallness of the dose in homoeopathic treatment it is easy to understand, that every thing that has any medi- cinal action must be excluded from the diet and regimen, in order that the minute dose he notvii disturbed or overpowered by the extraneous medicinal irritant. “ Note.—The dulcet notes of a distant flute, heard in the stillness of midnight, raise the heart to feelings of rapture, or melt it into holy fervour; but the same tones fall unnoticed on the inattentive ear, amid the rude and uncongenial din of busy day. “ § 200. With respect to patients suffering from chronic diseases, the careful investigation of such obstacles to the cure is so much the more necessary, as these diseases are generally aggra- vated by such injurious substances, as also by other deleterious errors of regimen which often escape notice. “Note.—To such patients we should strictly forbid coffee, tea, and infusions of herbs, beer prepared with medicinal vegetable substances prejudicial to the condition of the patient, fine liqueurs, as they are termed, prepared with medicinal spices, all kinds of punch, spiced choco- late, perfumes of many kinds, strong scented flowers in a room, powders and washes for the teeth composed of medicinal substances, perfumed sachets, highly seasoned dishes and sauces, seasoned pastry and ices, crude medi- cinal vegetables in soups, the leaves, roots, and stalks of vegetables possessing medicinal properties, old cheese and meats in a state of decomposition, or such as possess medi- cinal actions, (as the flesh and fat of pork, geese and ducks, very young veal and pickled meats,) as also every article of diet (even sugar and salt) in excess, spirituous liquors, over heated apartments, woollen garments next the skin (which are to be exchanged in warm weather,viii first for cotton, and then for linen articles of clothing) sedentary occupations in confined rooms, merely negative exercise (as riding, driving, swinging), excessive suckling of infants, lying long in bed, sitting up late at night, un- cleanliness, inordinate excitement, enervation from the perusal of meretricious romances, objects of anger, of irritation, of vexation, gambling, excessive exertion of mind or body, situations pregnant with malaria, damp rooms, excessive parsimony, See. All these things must as much as possible be shunned or removed, in order not to impede the cure or render it impossible. Some of my disciples unjustifiably forbid the use of many other indif- ferent articles, and thus increase unnecessarily the difficulties of the dietetic rules for patients. “ § 262. In acute diseases agaiu—except in cases of mental aberration—the delicate infallible sense of the awakened internal life-preserving property points to what is requisite so distinctly and accurately, that the physician need only enjoin the nurses and attendants not to oppose in any way this voice of nature, by refusing any refreshment the patient may take a fancy to, or by imprudently soliciting him to take what he does not desire. “ § 263. The patient suffering from acute disease does indeed generally long for refreshing substances and beverages, which afford mere tem- porary relief; they are however not actually medicinal, and there exists for them a kind of necessity. The trivial obstacle which the mode-IX rate gratification of this desire can oppose to the radical cure of the disease, will soon he sur- mounted, and completely counterbalanced by the power of the homcepathically chosen remedy, and the now liberated vital power, as also by the marked revival which follows it. “ Note.—It seldom happens that the patient desires any thing inimical to the action of the remedy. Thus in pure inflammatory diseases, where aconite is indispensable, whose action would be suspended by vegetable acids, the patient hardly ever desires any thing hut cold water.” From the above it will be seen, that the homoe- opathic rules for diet may be briefly summed up thus:— Patients under treatment are required to ab- stain only from such articles of food as possess medicinal properties, which may interfere with the action of the medicine, and such as experience has taught will disagree with them. The following receipts have been constructed and selected in strict conformity with the rules laid down by Hahnemann, and the most superfi- cial inspection of them will convince every one that there is no lack of dishes to please the most fastidious appetite, though at the same time there is no admixture of substances to create a false hunger, whose gratification is always attended byX disagreeable consequences,—that there is no fear of the magister artis, ingeniique largitor venter, suffering from inanition, that most agreeable beverages for the sick room can be prepared in strict conformity with the homoeopathic rules, and that there are not wanting pleasant, harmless yet efficient substitutes for the favourite beverages of the most determined partisans of Bohea and Mocha. I have forborne to swell the pages of this Manual with directions for plain boiling, roasting, &c., with which every cook and house-keeper is already familiar; nor have I deemed it essential to enter into elaborate details respecting the management of the house, marketing, carving, &c., which are to be found in all the ordinary cookery books, with one of which, it is to be supposed, all who stand in need of such instruc- tion are provided. The following Manual is not a mere compila- tion; although I have availed myself of the best authorities on the gastronomic art of the English, Scotch, French, and German cuisines, besides adding some dishes suitable for the English table, peculiar to Italy, Spain, Poland, and Sweden, a considerable number of original receipts will also be found, which are to be met with in no other treatise on cookery.XI The usefulness of this hook need not he con- fined to patients under homoeopathic treatment, for with it as a guide invalids of all classes may derive benefit, and persons in health may often preserve that most precious of gifts, by abstaining from the injudicious use of spices and stimulants, which serve but to excite an artificial appetite, giving rise to repletion and overloading the stomach, the injurious effects of which are only too well known. In conclusion I may observe, that though the following dishes are in strict accordance with homoeopathic principles, I would not thereby have it to be supposed, that they all may he par- taken of by all individuals, for almost every one has an idiosyncrasy of stomach, if I may so express myself, which causes certain substances, harmless in themselves, to disagree; thus milk cannot be borne by one, butter by another, eggs by a third, and so on. In the face of such pecu- liarities it is impossible to lay down any rules for diet which shall be universally applicable; expe- rience alone can teach every one what articles agree, what disagree with him, and his choice or rejection of viands must be made accordingly. The Authoress. London—April, 1846.Kran/ch. Bd. 1, p. 134.) GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. It may not be amiss to make some observations with respect to the articles of diet, which may be partaken of without interfering with the action of the homoeopathic remedy. SOUPS. Those prepared from beef, mutton, veal, fowl, not oleaginous fish, eggs, and indeed from any article to be found among those enumerated below may be partaken of, provided they are not sea- soned or flavored by the addition of medicinal substances. In the receipts which follow we have altogether excluded pepper and onions, as by some Homceopathists these articles are strongly objected to; but Hahnemann did not insist on their absolute rejection—he only recommends that they should be sparingly employed. (Chron.XIV FISH. Cocl, haddock, whiting, sole, flounder, turbot, trout, perch, carp, pike, and in fact all fishes in common use whose flesh is not of an oily nature, but no highly seasoned sauces, vinegar, or mustard must be eaten with them. A little plain mushroom ketchup, (such as we have given a receipt for,) soy, or plain butter sauce, may be sued. Salted and smoked fish should be avoided. With respect to shell jisli, oysters alone are admissible, and these only in very moderate quantities. BUTCHER MEAT. Fresh beef, mutton, veal, (not too young,) lamb, (sometimes,) tripe, kidney, sweetbread, brains, cow heel, calf’s, sheep’s, and lamb’s head, fresh tongue. We have not admitted salt or smoked meats among our receipts, though these may occasionally be partaken of. POULTRY. Fowl, chicken, turkey, pigeons, larks, or other small land birds. The fat of geese and ducks is considered to have a medicinal action; these birds must therefore be shunned.XV GAME. All kinds of venison, hare, rabbit, grouse, blackcock, partridge, woodcock, pheasant, snipe, and indeed land birds generally, that have not been long kept; but wild duck, widgeon, water and marine birds, must be avoided. VEGETABLES. Potatoes, turnips, carrots, parsnips, cauliflower, brocoli, seacale, vegetable marrow, Jerusalem artichokes, beans, peas, French beans, scarlet beans, cabbage, spinach, beetroot, Brussels sprouts, mushrooms. No raw vegetables should be used. FRUITS. Apples, pears, strawberries, raspberries, goose- berries, oranges, peaches, plums, apricots, pine apple, currants, grapes, cherries, melons, sweet almonds, chestnuts, filberts, raisins, figs, black- berries, and any of these fruits preserved. FARINACEOUS SUBSTANCES. All simple preparations of wheat, oats, barley, rye and maize flour, sago, tapioca, arrow-root, potato-flour, rice. Soft boiled eggs, milk, butter, and new cheese, may be partaken of in moderation.XVI BEVERAGES. The best of all beverages is water; but as many object to drinking this alone, it may be flavoured with sugar, orange juice, raspberry, strawberry, or currant jam, and in some cases by the addition of a little pure wine- To most individuals accus- tomed to its use light table beer, prepared without the addition of any drugs, may be allowed in moderation. For other permitted beverages we must refer the reader to those described under that head in the text of this work; but we may just observe, that though the employment of tea is altogether condemned by Hahnemann, most of his followers in this country find no bad effects to result from the use of a weak infusion of good black tea. There is no objection to the moderate use of water ices prepared from any of the fruits we have above enumerated. The propriety of partaking of cream ices is to say the least doubtful. One observation it is necessary to make before concluding these preliminary remarks; in no case should any thing be eaten or drunk which expe- rience shews will disagree with the stomach, or otherwise be productive of injurious consequences, and the attendant physician must always be referred to for particular directions relative to the diet in each individual case.A MANUAL OP HOMOEOPATHIC COOKERY. SOUPS. STRONG BEEF TEA. Take a pound of perfectly lean juicy beef; cut it in little squares, and put it into a wide-necked bottle, with a little salt; tie a piece of muslin over the mouth, and place it at the fire to stew for six hours; then remove the juice. When done the meat should be quite white and tasteless: serve it with toasted bread. BEEF TEA. Cut a pound of fleshy beef in thin slices ; simmer with a quart of water twenty minutes; after it has been boiled once and skimmed, season with a little salt, and serve with toasted bread. COLD BEEF TEA. Take a pound of beef; cut it very small, taking all the skin and fat away, put it into a jar, and pour a quart of boiling water on it; place the jar in a pan of boiling water, and set it on the fire. When cold, strain it through a muslin sieve. Bo SOUPS. TURKISH SOUP. Take some good gravy from a leg of beef; put in it some carrots, turnips, potatoes, peas, and parsnips, with a little salt ; stew all together, and when strained and cleared from the fat, set it on the fire; when it boils add half a pound of rice to three quarts of soup; beat the yolks of two eggs with a quarter of a pint of cream; stir it into the soup. OX TAIL SOUP. Two tails, if properly stewed, will make soup without any addition of meat: they must be cleaned and cut into pieces, and boiled very quietly for several hours in water; put in a crust of bread and a little salt. When tender the liquor must be strained and the fat removed ; thicken it with a little cream, and put in two table spoonfuls of ketchup ; serve up with the tails cut in pieces. Calves’ tails can be used instead of ox tails. BROWN OR GRAVY SOUP. Take a shin or piece of the rump of beef; cut it in pieces, separate the beef from the bones, put some butter in a pan, and lay the, meat and bones on it to brown ; take care that it does not burn. When thoroughly browned add a pint of cold water and some salt, let it stew quarter of an hour, and then put in sufficient water to make the quantity of soup desired, and let it boil slowly for four or five hours, then let it cool and skim it; then pass it through a sieve. Rice, maccaroni, vermicelli, or sago, may be served in it.SOUPS. 3 CHEAP SOUP. Take one pound of lean beef, cut into small pieces; add to it seven pints of water, one pint of whole or split peas, one pound of potatoes sliced, three ounces of rice, and a little salt; boil gently until it is reduced to four pints ; if considered too simple, add fried cabbage, or it may be pulped through a cullender and sent up with fried bread. A SIMPLE SOUP. Take three quarts of good broth ; cut into a stew pan two carrots, three or four turnips, and a little butter, salt, and gravy; stew until the vegetables become quite tender, so as to permit them to be rubbed through a sieve ; to this may be added a few spoonfuls of rice or pearl barley, boiled separately : add the whole together, and boil for quarter of an hour. GRAVY SOUP WITH RED CABBAGE. Cut a red cabbage after it is cleaned in quarters or half quarters, arrange it with a quarter of a pound of butter in an appropriate pan, and allow it to steam slowly ; then fill it up with good soup, and when sufficiently boiled season it with the necessary salt. MARROW BONE SOUP. Make a good gravy soup ; saw through the marrow bone, put it in the soup, and let it boil one hour; while this is doing put a pan on the fire with water, and as soon as it boils, put in a little salt and the juice of a ripe orange ; drop twelve or more eggs into this water, but only leave them in it until they swim on the top; put them as you take them out 15 24 SOUPS. into cold water, where let them only remain until they are all taken out of the hot water; cut off their rough edges, and put them into the tureen with the marrow bone. After mixing a little salt with the soup, pour it into the tureen, and add pieces of bread. PORTABLE SOUP. Break the bones of a shin of beef, a small knuckle of veal, and a couple of cow’s-heels ; put them into a soup pot that will hold four gallons of water; first cover the meat with water, and set it on the fire to heat gradually till it nearly boils: watch it and skim it carefully while any scum rises ; pour in a quart of cold water to make it throw up any scum that may remain, let it come to a boil again, and skim it with care; when no more scum rises, and the broth ap- pears clear, add the remainder of the water, and let it boil very gently for eight hours. Strain it through a hair sieve into a large brown stone pan, skim off all the grease, and set it where it will cool quickly. Next day pour it as quickly as possible into a three- gallon stew pan, taking care not to allow any of the settlings at the bottom of the pan to get into the stew pan, which is better than straining it. Let it boil as fast as possible in an uncovered stew pan, on a quick fire : pour it into a three-quart stew pan, and if any scum rises take it off with the skimmer. Now watch it all the time till it is reduced to the thickness of a very thick syrup. Take the utmost care it does not burn, for a moment’s inattention at this stage would lose all the previous labour, and spoil the soup. Take a little out in a spoon, and allow it to cool: if it sets into a strong jelly, it is done enough; if it does not, boil it a little longer, until it will jelly. Have ready some small preserveSOUPS. o pots; let them be quite dry, pour the soup into them, and let them stand until next day. Set a large flat bottomed stew pan, one third part filled with water, over a slow fire; place the pots of soup in this, taking care that the water does not reach the rim of any within two inches of the top ; let the pots stand uncovered in this water, over a slow fire, with- out boiling, for six or seven hours. This is the only way of bringing the soup to a proper thickness. It should, Avhen done, be the consistence of thick hard glue, and will remain good for many months, if kept in a cool dry place. SIPPETS. Cut some bread in thin slips; lay them on a very hot plate, and pour over them some good beef, mut- ton, or veal broth, and sprinkle a little salt. MUTTON BROTH. Take a scrag or thick end of a loin of mutton, and put it into a pot with cold water ; the propor- tions being a quart of water to a pound of meat: let it boil slowly three hours; skim off all the fat; add some turnips or carrots, with salt. The meat is taken out before serving. PALESTINE SOUP. Take the broth in which a neck of mutton has been boiled; put into a saucepan three or four sliced potatoes, and some Jerusalem artichokes, sufficient to make the soup of a proper thickness; boil the whole well together, and rub it through a fine sieve; addSOUPS. 6 salt, with a little cream or milk, for the soup should be quite white. This soup may be made without any potatoes. QUICK MADE BKOTH. Take a bone or two of a neck or loin of mutton: take off the fat and skin; set it in a pan with three quarters of a pint of water, the meat being first cut in pieces; let it boil quickly for half an hour; season with salt, skim it nicely, thicken it with sago or vermicelli. VEAL PALESTINE SOUP. Take a knuckle of veal about six pounds in weight; stew it well in a gallon of water; put in four pounds of Jerusalem artichokes. When per- fectly done, pass the soup through a sieve, and add some cream and salt. I calf’s feet broth. Boil two calf’s feet in three quarts of water ; let it boil until reduced to half the original quantity; strain the liquor, put it into a saucepan with a little salt and butter, let it get hot, add a quart of cream, and the yolk of an egg: serve with toasted bread. VEAL BROTH. Put a knuckle of veal in a gallon of water, with a little salt; let it simmer very gently until the liquor be reduced to two quarts; then take out the meat, and either serve it up with the mucilaginous parts in the soup, or with melted butter. Add to the soup either two ounces of rice or of vermicelli, put in only long enough to stew tender.7 SOUPS. MOCK TURTLE. Take a calfs-head with the skin on, cut it in half, and clean it well; then half boil it; take all the meat off in square bits, break the bones of the head, and boil them in some veal stock to add to the richness. Brown a little flour to thicken the soup (of which there should be from one head four quarts), give it one boil, skim it carefully, put in the meat, let it be- come quite tender, and add, about ten minutes before you serve it, a little salt, one tablespoonful of soy, and two of mushroom ketchup; serve up with force- meat balls. sheep’s head broth. Get a head with the skin on, have all the wool perfectly singed off, take out the eyes, and wash the head well inside, then rub it all over with a cloth ; have the trotters well cleaned; split the head, also the trotters, and remove the tendons, put them in water for a time; then place the head and trotters in a gallon of water and let it simmer for eight hours, add some pearl barley in time to let it be sufficiently done, also some carrots and turnips cut in neat pieces, grate a carrot into the soup, and add, if in season, some green peas, season with salt, be careful to skim off any fat that rises; before serving, the head and trotters are taken out of the soup, and placed on a dish, garnishing it with vegetables: it will look very black. KIDNEY SOUP. Cut one large beef kidney in pieces, put it in a gallon of water and let it boil two hours ; take out the kidney and strain the soup, replace the meat,8 SOUPS. season with salt and a tablespoonful of soy: if more soup is wished, add another kidney, or some clear stock drawn from beef. WHITE SOUP. Take two quarts of stock which has been made from a fowl, boil the crumbs of a roll in half a pint of milk, and add to the stock; beat the yolks of two or three hard boiled eggs in a mortar with a little salt, and add it to the soup: the meat of the fowl can also be beaten in a mortar and put in the soup. FOWL AND CARROT SOUP. Steep a fowl in hot water, take it out, wipe it well, and in lieu of a better stock, pass the water in which it was steeped through a cloth, put the fowl in again, add a couple of minced carrots, boil all well in a pot, and add a little salt and butter to taste. Then pass the soup through a hair sieve, enrich it with one or more yolks of eggs, put into the tureen a slice or two of bread, and lay the fowl thereon. Whilst the soup is boiling, cut down a few carrots, stew them in butter, add a handful of flour, and when it is ready pour the soup from the fowl upon it, mix together and pour it upon the fowl in the tureen. STUFFED FOWL OR PIGEON SOUP. The birds for this soup are prepared in the usual manner, only that they are stuffed with veal; the bones are taken out and the skin taken off before they are filled with the stuffing, then they are allowed to boil slowly in weak stock; while the soup is still boiling the fowl or pigeons are taken out and arranged in the tureen before the soup is poured in.9 SOUPS. FOWL AND GREEN PEAS SOUP. • Boil a fowl with a few carrots, shell some green peas ; those that are young and tender boil by them- selves with a little sugar, put the larger ones beside the fowl; when the fowl and green peas are sufficiently done, take out the fowl and pass the soup through a hair sieve; put the fowl along with the young peas into a fresh pan, add salt and butter, cut some small square bits of bread, and add them to the soup before serving. PIGEON SOUP. Take some gravy soup, boil in it the livers and gizzards of the pigeons for half an hour, then truss the birds as for boiling; dust them with flour, and brown them in a fryingpan with butter; mix a little flour and butter, and thicken the soup with it; then put in the pigeons, and let it stew gently half an hour. FIARE SOUP. Cut a large hare into pieces (an old one will do), put it into a jar with three or four quarts of water; put the jar into the oven and let it remain, being covered, until the hare is very well stewed, remove the fat and strain the soup ; some of the best bits of the meat can be put in the soup, the rest may be beat in a mortar and mixed with the soup ; add some salt, ketchup and soy, and serve it up with forcemeat balls. PARTRIDGE SOUP. Melt half a pound of butter in a large omelette pan, add to it a spoonful of crushed sugar, and stir over the fire until the butter and sugar commence toSOUPS. 10 brown; then put in a quarter of a peck of minced turnips, and stir on the fire until the turnips have parted with their moisture, then put on the cover and boil slowly, fill up afterwards with stock. In the meantime the partridges are to be roasted and cut in pieces, add them to the soup, and serve in a tureen. The quantity of stock should be proportioned to the company. BROWN FISH SOUP. Either cod, skate, haddock, whitings, or flounder may be used for making the stock, and it is best to fry the fish first when for brown soup, then allow it to stew until the stock is sufficiently strong; strain it, and season it with salt and ketchup ; a piece of toast may also be put in. BROWN FISH SOUP. Take some white fish, boil it in two quarts of water until all the strength is out of the bones and meat; strain it, and add to it a quart of good brown gravy taken from beef; thicken a little with flour, season with salt, and serve with fried bread in it. WHITE FISH SOUP. Take two good sized haddocks, cut them in pieces, boil them till the flesh comes from the bones, in a gallon of water; take out some of the nicest parts of the fish, mince it, and make it up with egg and bread crumbs into little balls; strain the soup, add half a pint of cream and a pint of new milk, boil it up, adding a little salt, thicken it with a little flour, and serve it with the balls in it.SOUPS. 11 RICE SOUP. Take about two quarts of fowl stock, in which put three ounces of rice ; let it boil until the rice swells, season it with a little salt, and add some pounded Teal or fowl, then let it boil up once. BARLEY BROTH. Take a breakfast cupful of pearl barley, boil it in a gallon of water gently for half an hour ; take then three pounds of lean beef or mutton, dress it with a little water in a separate stewpan, add to it some cut carrots and turnips, season with salt, and mix the barley and water with it; then let it boil two hours or even longer ; skim off the fat well. PEARL BARLEY SOUP. Cook some meat until it is sufficiently done, put some barley in good stock with some butter, and let it swell out; cut a carrot into fine slices and let it stew slowly in a pan with some butter ; then add the barley, and strain the fowl or veal soup through a sieve ; the meat that is not sufficiently done, allow to boil tender with the barley : if the soup be not thick enough, mix a spoonful of flour in butter and let it boil with the barley; season with salt and serve it. SAGO SOUP. Make a fine gravy soup quite clear and brown, add to it a little salt, and a sufficient quantity of sago to thicken it.SOUPS. 12 POTATO SOUP. Stew in a gallon of water the bones of a roast sirloin of beef. When reduced to two quarts, take out the bones, and add two pounds of potatoes peeled and cut in pieces: let it boil slowly for an hour; season with salt, and pulp it through a sieve. Before serving, a few pieces of well boiled potato may be added. POTATO SOUP WITHOUT MEAT. Take four large mealy potatoes, peel and cut them into small slices, boil them in three pints of water until tender, and then pulp them through a cullender; add a small piece of butter and a little salt, and just before the soup is served two spoonfuls of good cream. The soup should not be allowed to boil after the cream has been put into it. CARROT SOUP. After cleaning some carrots, boil them until they are quite tender, and pulp them through a sieve, together with some boiled rice or bread crumbs, also boiled tender, then add sufficient stock, and a little salt. WHITE TURNIP SOUP. Take six very clean white turnips, pare and slice them, stew them in a little butter till tender, add a little cream, and rub the whole through a sieve ; add a sufficient quantity of veal or mutton broth, the former is the best; allow the soup to become the thickness of good cream. PEAS SOUP. Steep two teacupfuls of white peas in cold water for some time, put them into a pan with sufficient water to cover them, when thoroughly boiled passSOUPS. 13 them through a hair sieve, and add them to some good stock; this soup will be the better for a few spoonfuls of rice boiled until tender, and the beaten yolks of one or two eggs ; the latter must only be heated in the soup, for if allowed to boil they will curdle ; serve up with fried bread. SPLIT PEAS SOUP. This soup can be made with merely the bones of roast beef, which break and put into a pan with about a gallon of water, put in a sufficient quantity of split peas to make the soup rather thick, add also two mashed carrots and two turnips, let it boil two hourp, but stir it often, in case it should burn; when the peas are quite soft pass the soup through a sieve, season it with salt, add a pint of water, and boil the soup up once: serve it with fried bread. VEGETABLE SOUP. Boil a quantity of yellow peas, haricots, or lentils, in water, till they are quite tender; press them gradually through a sieve with the water, working the mixture with a wooden spoon : it should be sufficiently liquid to bear boiling down. Cut some carrots, turnips, and spinach into fine strips, and throw them into boiling water for a few minutes to blanch them ; take them out with a strainer, mix them with the peas, and boil the whole gradually for at least two hours : the soup should be frequently stirred. Add a little salt before serving it. COMMON VEGETABLE SOUP. Three potatoes, three turnips, three parsnips, and three carrots, boiled in a gallon of water, with a handful of green peas, until reduced to nearly half the quantity: add a little salt, and some weak slock, if thought requisite.SOUPS. 14 SIMPLE HOTCH POTCII. Take any quantity of lambs’ chops; pare off the fat, lay them in a stew pan in this manner: a layer of chops at the bottom, covered with cut carrots, turnips, and green peas; then put on a layer of chops, and so on with the vegetables, until the whole are added : put sufficient water to cover the whole ; then let it stew gently several hours, when it will be quite thick. BERLIN MILK SOUP. Put about six table spoonfuls of flour in a frying pan upon a slow fire, stirring it about that it may not get lumpy. Boil three pints of milk with two or three lumps of sugar, and mix the flour with the milk, adding a pint of water: boil the whole together, and serve it up with bread cut into various shapes, and fried. It should be a pale brown colour. . MILK SOUP. Lay eight ounces of rice the whole night in water; strain off the water, and boil the rice with milk till it becomes very stiff; let it cool: mix with it five eggs, a quarter of a pound of butter, and two table spoonfuls of sugar; of this make balls about the size of the yolk of an egg; bake them of a fine yellow colour in a cool oven, lay them in a tureen, and pour over them a soup prepared by boiling a quart of milk with some sugar, and the yolks of five eggs. MILK SOUP WITH SAGO. Boil a quart of milk; pour it over two ounces of sago which has been boiled in water, sweeten the W’atcr the sago was done in, and add it to the milk;15 SOUPS. put it on the fire only to warm, not boil; and just before serving, add a pint of cream, and two well beaten eggs. MILK SOUP WITH RICE SPIAPE. Blanch half a pound of rice ; then let it swell out in milk, sweeten it with sugar; then take quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, pound, and mix with the rice; put this into a shape, and let it cool. Now boil about a quart of milk, seasoned with sugar, colour it yellow with eight yolks of eggs, turn out the shape into a tureen, and pour the milk on it. It may be served either hot or cold. SOUP A LA CARDINAL. Boil a fowl in water; add to it half a pound of blanched rice, four ounces of butter, and some carrots cut in slices ; season it with salt, let it boil two hours, mix well with it two ounces of butter; then skim it carefully, and serve it with the best parts of the fowl in it. FOWL SOUP WITH FORCED MEAT BALLS. Take as much stock as will be required; cut the meat off a raw fowl, and make a mince of any per- mitted kind of meat: beat the bones of the fowl in a mortar quite small; let them boil in the soup, and strain all through a hair sieve. Make with the minced meat and fowl some balls,* put them into the soup, and let it boil slowly again: add the necessary salt, and serve it. * In Germany these balls are generally made of paste, with the meat put inside, and are the size of a small orange.SOUPS. 16 SOUP WITH PASTE! Make a light dough of about one pound of flour, four yolks of eggs, three-quarters of a pound of butter, and a little milk; make a little ragout of some permitted meat, which season with orange juice. Cut the paste in small pieces, and fill each with the meat, covering it with the paste; dip them quickly into the yolk of an egg, and cut them neat with a paste wheel: bake in butter, and put them into a plain brown soup. FORCED ROLL SOUP. Make a plain soup; take little rolls about the size of a crown piece, cut off the top to form a cover, take out all the crumb, put in instead minced meat, re- place the top, and cement the edges with mixed flour and white of egg, so that in the baking the meat may not come out: then each roll must be covered with a brush dipped in a beat egg, and sprinkled over with flour and grated bread, then baked in plain butter. When served, put the rolls in the tureen, and pour the soup on them. SOUP WITH ITALIAN BALLS. Beat half a pound of butter to a cream, with six yolks, and one whole egg ; soak eight ounces of bread in milk, press it out, and add quarter of a pound of flour. Boil a fowl; cut the breast off, mince it quite fine, and mix it up with the other materials, and of this form small balls. When the soup is nearly done, put these balls into the soup, and let them boil well.17 SOUPS. SOUP WITH VIENNA BALLS. Beat twelve ounces of butter with two whole eggs and four yolks to a foam; add fine flour, and some salt to it; stir all slowly together, and try it in boiling water: if it is still too soft for balls, add some more flour, and spread the dough the thickness of a finger’s breadth upon a flat plate: a quarter of an hour before the soup is ready, boil some salt and water in a pan, cut four-cornered pieces from the dough, boil the balls five minutes, lift them with a draining spoon to allow the water to run away, then pour a good gravy soup on them. SOUP WITH EGGS. Prepare a strong soup ; mix a plateful of finely grated bread crumbs with six eggs, a little salt, a pint of milk, and three ounces of melted butter ; put this in a pan and allow it to bake an hour; then put it by spoonfuls into the soup. TOAST SOUP. Boil a quart of milk ; make three ounces of flour a light brown, mix it with the milk, add the yolk of an egg and a little sugar, toast bread and cut it in small squares, and pour the soup on them. I HOLSTEIN SOUP. Take half a pint of brown stock; allow it to boil up with a quart of fresh broth; put four ounces of butter in a pan, and in it fry one cupful of grits yellowish; add these, along with a plateful of tenderly cooked and very finely cut red cabbage, to the soup, let it still boil an hour, strain it through a hair sieve, and dilute it if necessary with more broth. cSOUPS. 18 SOUP A LA PROVENQALE. Put two quarts of green peas with quarter of a pound of butter in a pan, and fry them on a strong fire ; pound them then with some spoonfuls of broth in a mortar very fine, and strain through a hair sieve ; put them into a pan, add a quart of stock, put it on the fire, let it boil and settle until the fat and scum come to the top, skim it, and add half a pound of rice that has been boiled for a short time in good stock, or roll baked in clear butter, along with one ounce of sugar. CHOCOLATE SOUP. Pound down half a pound of chocolate;* boil it in a quart of milk, mix with it the yolks of four eggs, beat the whites to a snow; lay this on by spoonfuls, sprinkle it with sugar, and brown with a salamander. SOUP WITH EGG BALLS. Boil some stock along with a carrot ; put it through a fine sieve, and prepare the balls in the following way: beat quarter of a pound of butter to a cream, add six yolks and one whole egg, also quarter of a pound of fine flour; mix all well together, and take from it with a spoon pieces of the size of a walnut; put them into the boiling soup. The balls should be only lightly cooked. * Homoeopathic chocolate alone must be used. It can be had of any of the Homoeopathic chemists.FISH. 19 FISH. BROILED COD. Cut some slices of cod, put a little butter on them, place them in writing paper, and broil them a pretty brown ; serve with melted butter. FISH PUDDING. Take some boiled cod, shred it very fine, prepare some mashed potatoes, mix ten ounces of potatoes to six of the fish, add a little salt, put it neatly on a dish and brown it in the oven, serve it with melted butter. RIZZARD HADDOCKS. Take small haddocks, clean them, take out then- eyes, rub them with salt, and hang them upon a stick in a dry place, let them remain a few days when they will be ready for use; do them on the gridiron, and serve with cold butter for breakfast. DRIED HADDOCKS. Choose haddocks of two or three pounds weight, take out the gills, eyes, and entrails, and remove the blood from the backbone ; wipe them dry, and put some salt into the bodies and eyes ; lay them on a board all night, then hang them up in a dry place, and after three or four days they will be fit to eat; skin and rub them with egg, and strew crumbs over them, lay them before the fire, and baste with butter till brown enough; serve with egg sauce. Whitings can be done in this way. c 220 FISH. BAKED HADDOCKS. Put three nicely cleaned haddocks on a flat dish, with a border of mashed potatoes neatly marked, put a bit of butter and a little salt inside of each fish, glaze them with an egg, and place bits of butter over the fish, garnish the top with potato balls, bake it half an hour, and pour melted butter and a little ketchup over it. FISH AND SAUCE. Cut off the tails, fins, and heads of three haddocks, boil them in a little water to make stock, cut the haddocks in three pieces, mix the stock with a little salt and a cupful of ketchup, stew the fish in it; the sauce may be made richer by adding a little flour and butter to it. CROPPED HEADS. Parboil the roe of haddocks or cod, mix it with double its quantity of pounded hard biscuits, salt, and a beaten egg, stuff haddocks’ heads with this mixture, and fry them in beef dripping ; prepare a sauce of beef gravy and flour, with a teacupful of ketchup, add it to the heads ; let them simmer fifteen minutes. SOLE PIE. Take out the bones of two middling sized soles, cut them in pieces, put them on a dish with a layer of bearded oysters, then another of fish, season with salt, and cover it with mashed potatoes, brown it before the fire, and serve with melted butter and soy, or put in some gravy, the liquor of the oysters, and some cream, putting a crust on it, and baking in the oven.FISH. ■21 SOLE ROLLS. Take two or three soles, divide them from the back bone, and take off the head, fins, and tail ; sprinkle the inside with salt, roll them up tight from the tail end upwards, and fasten it with a small skewer ; if the soles are large put half a one in each roll; dip them into yolk of eggs, and cover them with bread crumbs ; do this twice and fry them a beautiful colour in lard. CUTLETS OF SOLES. Cut the soles, whether previously dressed or ra\y, into handsome pieces, and stew them gently in a little clear gravy ; add a little salt and a teaspoonful of soy; any white fish may be dressed in the same way. MACKAREL A LA MA1TRE DHOTEL. Clean your mackarel, split it, soak it for an hour or more in oil seasoned with salt, grill it, brush it over with the oil, and serve very hot. BAKED PIKE. Prepare the fish, let them dry for an hour, brush them over with an egg, cover one half with butter, the other with bread crumbs, and bake them in hot butter. Perch can be done the same way, and so can many other fish. FISH PIE. Three middling sized haddocks, mackarels, or soles, will make a pie: they may be stuffed with a little minced veal or fowl, with bread crumbs and salt; put them on a flat dish, with a neat border of potatoesFISH. 22 round them, spread butter over them, and sprinkle them with bread crumbs, put on the top balls of forcemeat, and pour some thick brown gravy over the whole after it is baked. RADGERIE. Boil a large cupful of rice; take a haddock or any white fish which has been boiled, mince it, and mix four hard boiled eggs with it, put a large piece of butter in a stewpan, put in the fish, eggs, and rice, let them get quite hot, season with salt, and serve it up neatly on a dish, with melted butter. A SUBSTITUTE FOR FORCED MEAT. Take three pounds of haddocks, skin and dry them, take the meat from the bone and pound it in a stone mortar, with one pound of chopped suet and quarter of a pound of butter; when quite smooth mix four whites and eight yolks of eggs, a tablespoonful of flour, a full half-pint of cream, and a little salt; this can be made into small balls, Avhich are boiled in water, or in a large pudding for three hours. * RISSOLE OF FISH. Pick from the bones and skin any kind of white fish which has been boiled, weigh it, and add one third of grated bread crumbs, a little cold melted butter, some salt, and two whites of eggs to bind it together; mix it well and make it into a flat oval shape, fry it on both sides, then stew it in some veal stock thickened with browned flour, and a little ketchup.23 FISH. CROQUETTES OF FISH. Take some dressed fish, separate it from the bones, mince a pound of it with a little salt, add an egg beaten, with a teacupful of flour, and one of milk, roll it into balls and brush the balls with egg, dredge with bread crumbs, fry them a nice colour, make gravy from the bones and tail stewed in a pint of water. FISH PATE. Raise a wall of mashed potatoes round a dish, divide some fish in flakes, and warm it with a little melted butter, brown the potatoes in the oven or before the fire, pour in the fish, and cover the top with egg sauce. FISH SCALLOPED. Flake some fish, and embed it in bread crumbs moistened with thin melted butter or cream, flavour with a very little ketchup ; cover the top thickly with bread crumbs, lay bits of butter over, and bake it either before the fire or in an oven. OYSTER PIE. As the oysters are opened separate them from the liquor, which strain; parboil the oysters after taking off the beards; do the same to a sweetbread, cut it in slices and put it in layers with the oysters in a deep dish, then put in half a teacupful of the liquor, and the same quantity of gravy; slices of bread should be placed between the oysters and the sweetbread; if no crust is put on, let bread be put at the top ; just before baking, add a teacupful of cream.FISH. 24 OYSTER PATTIES. Beard some oysters, let them stew a minute or two in cream, have pattypans covered with a light paste, place a bit of bread in each, put in two or three oysters on the top, sprinkle some sifted bread, and bake them in a quick oven. SCALLOPED OYSTERS. Beard the oysters and wash them in their liquor, then strain the liquor and pour it over a quantity of bread crumbs, lay the crumbs into scallops of china or tin, and put the oysters in layers with bread crumbs and butter between, cover the top with bread crumbs and butter, and bake them in an oven or before the fire. OYSTER FRITTERS. Beard the oysters, dip them into a thick batter made rich with egg, or into an omelette, and then in crumbs of bread; fry them. FRIED OYSTERS. Beard some oysters, have batter ready made of eggs and flour, dip them in it and fry them; they do for garnishing fish. ANOTHER. Simmer some oysters in their own liquor for five minutes, then strain and beard them, dip them in batter made of egg and flour, and fry them in lard a light brown ; they do for garnishing fish.MEAT. 25 OYSTER SAUSAGES. Take a pound of veal and a score of oysters, beard them; then pound the veal very finely in a mortar with a little suet, soak a piece of bread in the oyster liquor, pound, and add it with the oysters cut in pieces to the veal, beat up an egg to bind them together, and roll them into little lengths like sausages ; fry them in butter a delicate brown. MEAT. STEWED BEEF. Take a piece of the brisket or rump of beef, put some butter in the bottom of a stewpan, then put in the meat, and partially fry or brown it all over; then take it out and lay two or three skewers at the bottom of the pan, after which replace the meat, which will be prevented sticking to the pan by the skewers, next put in as much water as will half cover the meat, stew it slowly, keeping the pan covered till done ; then take out the meat and thicken the gravy with a little butter and flour; have some boiled carrots and turnips neatly cut, season the gravy with a little salt and ketchup, put the vegetables in it for a few minutes, and then arrange them all round the beef. BEEF STEWED WITH CARROTS. Take a small piece of juicy beef, cut some carrots in thin slices, add a spoonful of flour and four ounces of butter, let them stew well with the beef, put in some salt and some stock if necessary, serve with the carrots over the beef.MEAT. 2 6 BEEF STEWED WITH RAISINS. Boil two pounds of meat in a little good beef tea, cut the meat in pieces, then add half a pound of raisins, four ounces of butter, some browned flour, a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds cut in pieces, and allow all to stew some time. FRICASSEE OF BEEF. Cut some cold roast beef in thin slices, take off all the fat and skin, beat it up in a sauce made of some good broth thickened with flour and butter, add a little ketchup. BROILED BEEF. Cut some slices of cold beef, broil them over a clear fire, and serve them with fried eggs or scalloped potatoes and brown sauce. BEEF OLIVES. Cut a nice steak in pieces, flatten them with a roller, sprinkle them with flour, have some forcemeat made with the fat and lean of veal, and some bread crumbs, all beaten in a mortar and mixed with an egg, lay a little over each piece, and roll them up tightly, fastening with a skewer, dip them in the yolk of an egg, then in crumbs of bread, and fry them pale brown; serve with brown sauce. BEEFSTEAK WITH VEGETABLES. Cut the steak about two inches thick, dredge it with flour, and fry it in butter of a fine brown; lay it in a stewpan and pour water into the fryingpan, let it boil and add it to the steak, with some salt; slice some turnips and carrots, stew them, and garnish the steak with them.MEAT. 27 BEEFSTEAK PIE. Cut a tender beefsteak into pieces, put a layer of it in a deep dish, on it put half a dozen bearded oysters and some beef fat, repeat this until the dish be full, and pour into it half a pint of good gravy seasoned with some of the oyster liquor, a little ketchup and a tablespoonful of soy: put a crust on the top. BEEF AND MACARONI PIE. Swell some macaroni in milk, put a thick layer of it at the bottom of a pie dish, Avith some bits of butter, and sprinkle some scraped Gloucester cheese over it, then put in a beefsteak, and again some macaroni done as before, then beefsteak, and at the top macaroni Avith cheese uppermost, and bake in a slow oven. BEEFSTEAK DUMPLING. Take a nice juicy piece of beef, cut it in neat bits, which sprinkle some salt on and roll up tight, flour them a little, have a basin lined with plain suet paste, fill it with the rolls of beef, pour in a little ketchup, cover up the meat with paste, tie up the basin in a floured cloth, and boil it three hours. BEEF TONGUE A LA POLONAISE. Boil a fresh tongue in beef broth, skin it, then add a quarter of a pint of stewed apples, and some small raisins; let them stew with the tongue a little, and if the sauce gets too thick add some more stock. /MEAT. 28 BEEF TONGUE. Take a fresh tongue, divide it long ways, boil it tender, dip it in flour, and bake it in butter to a nice bright brown; then stew it in a thick brown sauce, and serve it with red currant jelly. GRILLED TONGUE. Have a fresh tongue well boiled, skin it and cut it in four pieces, the long way; dip it in melted butter, and then in bread crumbs, strew a little salt over it and grill it: serve it with some green vegetable. TONGUE IN CURRANT JUICE. Cut off the root of a fresh tongue, and split it down, but not quite to the end; put some butter into a stewpan, and fry the tongue in it; then add half a pint of currant juice or currant jelly, a little salt, and if the juice be fresh, some brown sugar, and stew the whole together for three hours. FRIED COW HEEL. Boil a cow’s heel tender, cut it into neat pieces, dip them in egg, roll them in bread crumbs, and fry them : serve with a good brown sauce. FRIED PALATES. Boil and peel the palates, split them in two, spread on them some good forcemeat made of pounded meat, and roll them up like an olive; dip them in batter made of flour, the yolks of eggs, and a spoonful of oil; fry them a nice brown. \29 MEAT. BAKED KIDNEYS. Take some calves kidneys, let them stew a while; then cut them in small bits, put with them as much bread crumbs, mix in eight yolks of eggs and quarter of a pound of butter, season with salt; put it in a deep dish with a border of paste, and bake it slowly for an hour. KIDNEY PUDDING. Split and soak a kidney, cut it in neat pieces, season with salt; line a basin with paste made of suet, flour, and hot milk; put in the kidney, cover it over with the paste, tie the basin in a cloth and boil it two hours. BEEF KIDNEY WITH RICE. Cut a kidney in small pieces, stew it, then mince it, and season it with salt; thicken the gravy with a little flour and butter, place the mince on a dish, pour the gravy over it, and put either a wall of rice or potatoes round it. BEEF KIDNEY. Cut the kidney into slices, season it with salt and a spoonful of ketchup, brown it in the fryingpan, add a little flour and water, and let it stew gently for some time. KIDNEY TOAST. Take a cold veal kidney, with a part of the fat, cut it into very small pieces, and pound the fat in a mortar with a little salt, bind altogether with the beaten whites of eggs; heap it upon toast, cover the whole with yolks beaten, dredge with bread crumbs, and bake in the oven.30 MEAT. BOILED TRIPE. Boil some tripe well, then cut it in pieces, and stew it in sauce made with a little veal stock, milk, butter, and flour. FRIED TRIPE. Boil the tripe completely, cut it in neat pieces, have a thick batter ready, made of eggs, milk, and flour; dip the tripe in it, and fry it. ROASTED TRIPE. Cut the tripe in square pieces ; make a forcemeat of bread crumbs and egg, spread it over the pieces of tripe, and roll them up tightly; fasten them upon a spit, flour and baste them well, and serve up with melted butter and slices of orange. MINCED COLLOPS. Mince a fleshy piece of beef, free of skin or gristle, very fine, season with salt; put it into a saucepan, with a little bit of butter and gravy, let it stew, and stir it from time to time to prevent it getting into lumps: serve with toasted bread to garnish it. MINCED COLLOPS. Take a pound of juicy beef, remove all skin or gristle from the meat, then add two ounces of beef suet, which mince with the meat very fine, add a little salt; flour the collops, melt a very little bit of butter in a stewpan, and stir in the collops, adding a very little water or gravy, sufficient to dress a pound.MEAT. 31 BEEF MARROW BONES. Cut them in short pieces, stop up the holes with a bit of bread or dough; boil them some hours, and serve the marrow bones, each enveloped in a napkin, with dry toast. BEEF PALATES. Simmer them in water several hours, till they will peel; then cut the palates into slices, or leave them whole, as you choose, and stew them in a rich gravy, till as tender as possible: before being served, season with a little salt and ketchup; if the gravy is drawn clear, boil it up once with a little flour and butter. The palates can also be served white, by boiling them in milk, and stewing them in fricassee sauce, adding cream, butter, flour, and a flavouring of mushroom. RISSOLES IN PASTE. Pound any kind of cold meat, thicken a little good gravy with cream or butter, add a little salt, and mix all together; then roll out some light paste, and cut it into pieces of four inches square, lay some of the meat on it, and fold it in a triangular shape, press the edges together, brush the paste over with the yolk of an egg, sprinkle vermicelli upon it, and fry them a light brown. CROQUETTES OF MEAT AND RICE. Wash six ounces of rice; put it into a stew pan with cold water, and after it has boiled for about a minute, strain it; then add twice the quantity of broth, and let it stew gently until the rice will break easily with a spoon. Should the liquor dry too much before the rice is soft enough, add a little more32 MEAT. broth; then work it with a spoonful of cream and two spoonfuls of parmesan cheese ; when a sufficient consistence, make the rice into the form of cups, and fill them with any kind of minced meat, well mixed with white sauce : close the end of the cups, and roll them into balls; then cover them with the following mixture : two spoonfuls of grated par- mesan cheese, with flour and bread crumbs, made to stick by rolling the balls in yolks of eggs; fry them in lard. STEWED VEAL. Take some veal cut for cutlets; stew it in some veal stock ; have some Brussels sprouts boiled, strain off the water, arrange them round the veal, on a dish: take the gravy in which the veal was stewed, strain it, thicken it with cream and flour, season with salt, and pour it over the meat. HARICOT OF VEAL. Shorten the bones of the best end of a loin of veal, either leave the meat whole or cut it into chops, brown it and stew it in good brown gravy, thickened with butter and flour; a little soy may be added, and when nearly ready, a quart of green peas. VEAL RISSOLES. Take a pound of veal; chop it very fine, with six ounces of suet, and soak two pounds of the crumb of a quartern loaf in milk for a quarter of an hour ; then press it dry, add a little salt, mix it with the meat. Beat up one or two eggs to moisten the mass, so that it may be rolled into balls without the addition of flour; fry them with some dry crumbs of bread, and serve with a good gravy.MEAT. 33 WHITE COLLOPS. Cut some veal into bits the size of half-a-crown, and not much thicker; butter the bottom of the stew pan, and lay the meat piece by piece upon it: having shaken a little flour upon the butter, set the pan on the fire, and toss it until the meat is white; then add half a pint of strong veal broth, and a quarter of a pint of cream ; toss the whole, and when simmered enough, let them just boil; add, if liked, the juice of an orange, some forcemeat balls, and either oysters or mushrooms ; the sauce may also be thickened with an egg. VEAL CUTLETS. Cut some veal into square pieces of about half an inch in thickness; beat it to make it eat the more tender, then fry them, covered with egg and bread crumbs: serve with nice thick gravy, and bread cut in different shapes and fried. Orange cut in slices may be used to garnish with. VEAL AND SWEETBREAD PIE. Cut the veal in pieces ; clean and blanch a sweet- bread, cut it into pieces, lay it with the veal in a deep dish, with the yolks of three hard boiled eggs and a pint of oysters, strain the oyster liquor and mix it up with a pint of milk or good gravy, pour it on the meat, and cover the dish with puff paste. SWEDISH DISH. Take two pounds of veal (either fresh or cold), mince it very fine, with half a pound of suet, a little salt, a teacupful of bread crumbs, and four eggs; mix all well together, place it neatly on a dish, bake it twenty minutes, and serve with a good brown sauce: if properly done it should cut quite smoothly. DMEAT. 34 FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. Cut a handsome piece from the fillet, lard it all over; half roast or fry it, put it into a stewpan with just enough water to cover it, let it stew gently until thoroughly done, boil the gravy down to a glaze, and cover the veal with it. FRICANDEL. Take three pounds of the best end of a loin of veal, chop fat and lean together, very fine; then soak a french roll in some milk, beat three eggs and a little salt, mix all well together, and make it up into the size and somewhat the shape of a chicken; rub it over with eggs and bread crumbs, fry till brown, pour off the fat, boil water in the pan, and stew the fricandel in this gravy: thicken the gravy with flour before it is served. DUTCH SWEETBREADS. Two pounds of lean veal and half a pound of suet beat in a mortar, a slice of bread soaked in milk, with a little salt, mix all well together, and make it into the shape of kidneys, which cover with egg and bread crumbs, and fry them light brown : serve them with gravy. VEAL STEWED WITH OYSTERS. Cut the veal into handsome pieces, put them into a jar with some dozen oysters and their liquor strained, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; put the jar into a kettle of water, and let it stew until tender: if the veal has been cooked, merely warm it up with the oysters, in white sauce made of veal stock and cream.MEAT. 35 calves’ feet en fricassee. Make some butter brown, boil it with some stock, and a few mushrooms, add two yolks of eggs, and arrange it over calves’ feet which have been cooked till tender. BARED CALVES’ FEET. When the feet are boiled tender, and the bones drawn out, put them in a gravy of eggs, milk, flour, butter, and sugar, or any other sauce. FRICASSEE OF CALVES’ FEET. Boil the feet in water until the bones will come out, let the meat get cold, and stuff it nicely with very fine forcemeat, make them into neat pieces ; then take some of the stock in which the feet were boiled, removing the fat, and straining the jelly when melted; make this into a thick white sauce with cream, warm up the calves’ feet in it. calves’ feet fried. Take calves’ feet which have been boiled until very tender, remove the bones, cut them into pieces, season with salt, dip them in batter, fry them, and sexwe up with a brown gravy. calves’ feet fricasseed. Soak two fine calves’ feet in cold water for six hours; then simmer in a sufficient quantity of milk to cover them, until the meat can easily be removed from the bones in nice pieces, sprinkle with crumbs of bread and salt, having previously dipped them in yolk of egg; fry them a beautiful colour, and serve in fricassee sauce. D 2MEAT. 3G POTTED HEAD. Take half a bullock’s head, clean it well, and soak it in warm water with a cow’s heel, for two or three hours, then boil it with the heel till tender; when done, cut them in small pieces; strain the liquor in which they were boiled, let it stand till cold, then take off the fat, and put it with the pieces into a stewpan, and let it boil half an hour, season it with salt, pour it into moulds, let it be quite cold ; then turn it out and serve it so. calf’s or lamb’s head. When thoroughly cleaned, the brains should be taken out, the head washed, soaked, blanched, and boiled; the brains well mixed with a little melted butter : brush the head over with the yolk of an egg, cover it with bread crumbs, and brown it before the fire: serve the melted butter and brains for sauce. calves’ ears stuffed. The hair being scalded off the ears, after they have been cut off close to the head, scald and clean them as well as possible; boil them quite tender, and blanch them in cold water: cut the gristle next the head, so as to allow the ears to stand upright. They may be boiled in white gravy instead of water, which will make them richer. When become cold, fill up the cavity with a fine stuffing, either of calf’s liver or cold chicken, with some bread soaked in gravy, an egv, and a little salt; rub an egg over the ears and stuffing, and fry a good brown, and serve with sauce.MEAT. 37 TIMBALE DE MACARONI. Soften the straight pipe macaroni by stewing it in a little milk and water or broth, until it will cut easily without breaking, but do not let it be too soft; then cut it into pieces half an inch long, and with great exactness, that all should be of the same size; butter a mould, stick the macaroni quite close together all over it, so as to look like honeycomb; then fill up the mould with a mince of stewed ox palates cut into small pieces, and small button mushrooms moistened in white sauce ; turn it out very carefully, and serve with thick white sauce and mushrooms. ROASTED SWEETBREADS. Parboil two large ones ; when cold, lard them and roast them in a dutch oven: for sauce, plain butter and mushroom ketchup. SWEETBREADS FRICASSEED BROWN. Cut them about the size of a walnut, flour and fry them of a fine brown; pour to them a good beef gravy, seasoned with salt, simmer till tender; thicken with flour and butter, and flavour with mushroom ketchup. SWEETBREADS STEWED WITH OYSTERS. Quarter the sweetbreads after they have been soaked and blanched, put them into a stewpan with a little veal gravy, and the liquor strained off two dozen oysters, adding a very little salt; then put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, stir it, andMEAT. 38 thicken it with flour, and when the sweetbreads are sufficiently stewed add them with the gravy; after a few minutes put in the oysters, let them stew until the oysters are heated through: just before serving add a wineglassful of cream. This will also make a good vol a vent. RISSOLES OF SWEETBREADS. After having prepared, boil two calves’ sweetbreads for an hour, or until they are quite tender: when cold, chop them flue, put into a stewpan a little minced veal, and a mushroom or two, or a spoonful of ketchup with a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut; shake the pan about to prevent it burning, dredge in some flour, then add a pint of broth, and half a pint of cream, keep stirring until it boils and thickens, strain it, and use a little of it to moisten the chopped sweetbreads; boil them three or four minutes, and when cold make them up into small balls, and roll in bread crumbs; then dip them in egg, and again roll them in bread crumbs, and put in a cold place until wanted; fry them in boiling lard: serve them up in a napkin, and the sauce in another dish. SWEETBREADS IN CASES. Blanch two sweetbreads, and simmer them in a strong beef gravy, till quite done; have ready two round pieces of white paper oiled, and on these lay the sweetbreads, sprinkle over them very fine raspings of bread, and a little salt; do them slowly on a gridiron, and serve in the cases.MEAT. 39 SWEETBREADS. Skin and blanch two sweetbreads, boil till quite tender; dry and brown with a salamander: put over a little glaze, and serve them with a good brown gravy, seasoned with mushroom ketchup. MUTTON PUDDING. Line a mould with mashed potatoes thickly, place in it some cold mutton cut in thin slices, pour in some gravy flavoured with ketchup, cover it with mashed potatoes and bake it. HARICOT OF MUTTON. Cut a loin of mutton into chops, pare all the fat off them, flour and fry them brown in a small quantity of butter; put them into a stewpan, cover them with gravy, allow them to stew until tender, then skim the fat off; put in some carrots and turnips ready blanched and cut into neat shapes, add a little salt, and let it stew gently for a quarter of an hour: serve the chops with the vegetables and gravy. CUTLETS HINDOSTANEE FASHION. Cut the chops from the neck of mutton, pare away all the fat and scrape the bone; then have some very fine mashed potatoes, wrap the cutlets in it, brush them over with yolk of egg, and fry them. They may also be fried in the same manner, dipped in batter.40 MEAT. MUTTON OR LAMB CHOPS. Cut the chops very nicely, pare off the fat, and fry them a fine brown; pile them up on the dish, with the bones meeting at the top, and place between each pieces of fried bread, cut in the shape of half a large pear; make a puree of vegetables, and lay it round in the bottom of the dish: peas or spinach with lamb, turnips or potatoes with mutton. MINCED MUTTON. Mince the meat very finely; make a very good gravy, season with salt, put the meat in it, and stew it ten minutes: serve it up with fried bread round the dish. MUTTON CUTLETS. Cut the back end of a neck of mutton into neat pieces, and cut each bone short; brush them with egg, and cover them with crumbs of bread, mash some potatoes with a little butter and cream; fry the cutlets and put them round the potatoes piled in the middle of the dish. MUTTON CUTLETS. Take cutlets from the neck of mutton, remove the fat, steep them in salad oil, drain them, and sprinkle them with the raspings of bread and a little salt: broil, toast, or fry them. MUTTON STEAKS WITH FRENCH BEANS. Having dressed french beans as usual, and simmered them with salt and a good piece of butter, add the yolk of an egg, and shake the pan over the fire for a minute or two; prepare a few mutton steaks, cover with egg and bread crumbs, and either boil or fry them: serve them on the beans.41 MEAT. COLLOPS. Cut some dressed meat in thin slices, beat them a little, fry them in butter for about two minutes, place them in a deep dish as they are fried, and cover them with gravy : serve with forcemeat balls. STEWED KIDNEYS. Divide sheep’s kidneys down the middle, have some browned butter, dust them over with flour, put them with the outside next the pan, brown them on both sides, pour off the greater part of the butter, put in a little warm water, thicken it with flour ; let it stew until the kidneys are tender, flavour with a teaspoonful of ketchup. MUTTON KIDNEYS. With a very sharp knife, cut in very thin slices some mutton kidneys; flour and fry them quite crisp, sprinkle a little salt, and serve with a good gravy, seasoned with small mushrooms. CROQUETTES OF BRAINS. Take either sheep’s or calf’s brains, blanch and beat them up with a little salt, a few crumbs of bread soaked in milk, and an egg well beaten; roll them into balls, and fry them. lamb’s head. Parboil the head, rub it over with yolks of eggs, cover it with crumbs of bread and clarified butter, and put it into a Dutch oven before the fire; mince the heart and the liver very finely, and stew them inMEAT. 42 a little good gravy; make some forcemeat balls and brain cakes, and fry them; place the mince in the dish -with the head upon it, and garnish with the balls and brain cakes. BRAIN CAKES ON SPINACH. Take calves’ brains, beat them with a few bread crumbs, fry them in small round cakes, in batter made of flour, milk and eggs; have some spinach nicely chopped and mixed with cream and a little salt, put it on a dish, and place the cakes on the top : serve with melted butter. KOOBBE. Make a dough as for bread, roll it out thick, put some fat slices of meat into it seasoned with salt, roll it up tight, and boil or bake it. POTATO RISSOLES. Mash some potatoes, add to them any kind of cold meat chopped finely, and a hard boiled egg also chopped; mix them up, together with a beaten egg, into balls, and fry them, or dip them in the yolk of an egg, and brown them before the fire. RICE CUTLETS. Boil a teacupful of rice in milk until quite soft; then pound it in a mortar with a little salt; pound also separately cold veal or chicken sufficient in quantity to fill a teacup, mix the meat and rice together, with the yolk of an egg; form them into cutlets, brush them over with yolk of egg, and fry: serve them with brown sauce, seasoned with a little ketchup.43 MEAT. DALMOYS, A TURKISH DISH. Take equal quantities of cold dressed veal, minced very fine, fat, and crumbs of bread, season it with salt, wet it with one or two eggs, according to the quantity, adding a little cold melted butter; make the mixture into balls of the shape of eggs, and roll them in as much boiled rice as they will take round them; stew them for an hour and a half in good gravy, seasoned with ketchup, and serve them up in it. SHAPE OF RICE WITH MEAT. Stew some rice, mix with it an egg and some stock, line a mould with it, and bake it: take the white portion of cold fowl, veal, or sweetbread, mince it very finely, add some thick white sauce and mushrooms, fill the mould and cover the top with poached eggs; cover it with glaze, and serve it up hot. STUFFED BREAD. Cut the top off a round roll, take the crumb out of it, mince some fresh or cold meat very fine; mix it with an egg, salt, and a little milk; spread some butter inside the roll and fill it with the mince; put the top on, spread some butter outside, and bake it in the oven.44 POULTRY. POULTRY. FRIED FOWL. Beat up two yolks of eggs, with butter; cut cold fowl into neat pieces, dip them in the egg and butter, then in bread crumbs, and fry them ; put them on a dish with some chopped spinach or peas round them. STEWED FOWL. Take an old fowl, boil it for three hours in two quarts of water; then add a quarter of a pound of rice, a little salt; take out the fowl, put it on a dish, and arrange the rice round it; pour on it some thick white sauce made from cream. CROQUETTES OF FOWL. Pound the white part of a fowl or some cold veal, in a mortar, add a little salt; beat up an egg, with a little flour and milk, into batter, and mix the pounded meat with it; roll it into balls the size and shape of eggs, and fry them. POTATO AND FOWL PUDDINGS. Take an equal quantity of the flour of roasted potatoes, and the meat of cold fowl, rabbit, hare, kc. well chopped and pounded: then mix it well with some butter and salt, moisten it with the yolks of egg, mix well, and then add the whites of the eggs well beaten; make it into balls, and brush them over with the yolk of an egg, and clarified butter; roll them in bread crumbs, and either broil or roast them : make a gravy of the bones of the fowl, to serve the balls in.45 POULTRY. FRITTERS OF FOWL. Take the remains of a cold fowl, bone it, cut it in neat pieces, and fry it in batter; make a little gravy from the bones, thicken it with cream and flour. FOWL CUTLETS. Cut up a fowl and bone it; make the legs, wings, breast, and merrythought into six cutlets, by flatten- ing them and giving them a good shape; then take the meat from the remainder of the fowl: pound it in a mortar with a little salt and a spoonful of gravy; brush the cutlets with an egg, lay on the minced meat, dredge fried crumbs on the top, and fry them a light brown: serve them either with or without gravy. FOWL WITH OYSTERS. Fill a fowl, either boned or plain, with oysters; if not boned a dozen will be sufficient. Put the fowl into a jar, and plunge the jar into water; let it stew for an hour and a half if a small fowl, and two hours if large. There will be nearly a pint of gravy found in the jar, skim and take off the fat, and convert it into a white sauce by the addition of a little butter and flour, eggs, or cream; add it to the oyster liquor, and warm in it a dozen bearded oysters. MINCED FOWL. Mince the white part of cold fowl or turkey very finely; then pound it in a mortar: put in some spoonfuls of cream, mixed with veal stock, and pass it through a sieve, adding a little salt ; warm the whole : serve it up with the legs grilled, and garnish with fried bread, or paste cut in shapes; or put a wall of rice or mashed potatoes round it.46 POULTRY. SOUFFLE OF MINCED FOWL. Pound very fine the white of cold fowl; mix with it a little cream, two ounces of butter, and some salt; put it in a pan, and stir it over the fire until warm; then add four eggs, well beaten, or more if there is a great quantity of meat; mix all lightly together, and put it into a dish, and let it remain in the oven until firm. This dish may be made of cold fillet of veal. AUSTRIAN BAKED FOWL. Clean and wash a small fowl, cut it into four parts, sprinkle on them some salt and meal, dip them into beat egg, cover them with batter, and fry them in lard of a yellowish brown colour: treat the liver and gizzard in the same manner; arrange all taste- fully on a dish, and serve. CHICKEN ALB. Parboil a fine plump chicken; cut the breast and merrythought off, take the meat from both, and mince it very fine with a double quantity of chicken or veal, add a little salt, and make it into a consis- tence with cream. Then put the mince into a stew- pan with a little bit of butter and half a pint of cream; let it remain on the fire ten minutes, stirring it carefully; lard the chicken, and put it into the oven for ten minutes, then add the minced meat, keeping it up in the form of a breast till it is high and round; flour it, and put it into the oven again for ten minutes: serve with cream sauce. friar’s chicken. Fry a half boiled chicken in butter, first cutting it in neat pieces; have a little stock made of the trim- mings or of veal, strain it, and add two eggs and some salt; serve the fried chicken in it.POULTRY. 47 MINCED TURKEY. Take some cold turkey, mince it ; make some sauce of milk thickened with flour, a little butter, and some salt; a few oysters can also be added: heat up all together; and if there is a leg, grill it, and place it on the top: garnish with toasted bread or fried potatoes. PIGEONS WITH PEAS. Put the pigeons into a stew pan with a little butter, just to stiffen them and give them a good colour; dredge them with flour, then moisten them with gravy, and make it into the consistence of sauce: when half done put in a quart of peas; stir them often. STEWED PIGEONS WITH MACARONI. Either stew the pigeons whole or cut in pieces, in a good gravy seasoned with salt, and a very little ketchup: when half done, put in some macaroni, and let it stew gently in a closed pan, till quite tender. Fowls may be done in the same way. ROASTED PIGEONS. Stuff the whole of the body of the pigeon with veal finely pounded, and mixed with a little salt and bread steeped in milk; then roast them. PIGEONS IN JELLY. Prepare three or four pigeons; stew them, and let them get cold, glaze them over; have a clear stock made from a knuckle of veal, so strong that it will cut; melt it, season it with salt, fill a deep mould half, let the jelly get cold; then place the pigeons with four yolks of eggs hard boiled on it, and pour in the rest of the jelly. Serve it cold.GAME. 48 GAME. TO STEW GAME. Brown some butter and flour; put the game into a stew pan with a very little water, and turn it frequently; when it begins to get dry put in some more water: when the birds are done take them out, and make the sauce by adding cream to clean out the pan ; this is best done by a small switch. If not a good colour, add some soy, and strain it through a sieve. MINCED VENISON. Mince some cold venison finely, season with salt, make it up into balls, with sufficient gravy to make them stick, dip them in batter, roll them in bread crumbs, and broil them: serve with brown sauce. STEWED VENISON. Cut some slices of cold venison, stew it in some of its own gravy, dredge some flour over it, and add a mixture of butter, ketchup, and red currant jelly : serve with square pieces of fried bread on it. HARE ROASTED IN BATTER. Take three or four eggs, a pint of milk, a couple of handfuls of flour; make them into batter, and when the hare is roasting baste it well, repeating the operation until the batter thickens and forms a coating all over the hare; this should be allowed to brown, but not to burn.49 SAUCES. HARE CAKES. Mince the best part of a hare with some firm mutton suet, season with salt, then pound it in a mortar, and make it up with raw eggs into small cakes; flour and fry them, or bake them. STEWED RABBIT. Take a nice fat rabbit, skin it and prepare it properly; then cut it in pieces, and stew it in milk thickened with flour and a little flour of rice ; season it with salt, when sufficiently done : serve it with a wall of mashed potatoes. PHEASANT, PARTRIDGE, SNIPE, WOODCOCK, LARKS, MOORFOWL, AND GROUSE, (not too long kept), may be cooked in the ordinary manner, care being taken that they be not served with any sauces containing forbidden ingredients. SAUCES. BROWN SAUCE. Brown a pound of beef in a stewpan, with a bit of butter; then add a pint of hot water; let it stew an hour: a piece of bread toasted hard and brown may be stewed in it; season with salt, and strain it. E50 SAUCES. MELTED BUTTER. Melt in a small pan two ounces of butter, with two teaspoonfuls of water ; thicken it with flour, keep stirring it, and be careful that it does not get like oil. MUSHROOM SAUCE. Take young fresh mushrooms, wash them in salt and water, then rinse them in fresh water; put them with a little butter and salt into a covered pan, and let them stew over a gentle fire for five minutes ; add to them two yolks of eggs, and sufficient white or brown gravy to make the sauce of a proper con- sistence. MUSHROOM SAUCE. Pick out the stems, and skin the mushrooms and the stems ; cut them in small pieces, and wash them : then put them in a saucepan with rather more water than will cover them ; let them stew till quite soft: stir in some butter, flour, and a little salt. WHITE SAUCE. Melt two ounces of butter with half a pint of milk, thicken it with flour, stir it over the fire, and add a very little salt. VELOUTE. Allow to boil any quantity of stock over a brisk fire; add to it the same quantity of boiling cream : let them boil together a few minutes, stirring all the time.51 SAUCES. BECHAMEL. Take some good stock made from veal, heat it, and add one or two spoonfuls of potato flour; mix it very well 'with the stock, and add some cream; ’ allow it to boil, stirring all the time. SAUCE FOR POULTRY. Melt some butter, and thicken it with flour; then chop a hard boiled egg, but not very fine, and mix with the butter. GRAVY SAUCE FOR POULTRY. Take a little veal gravy, or some that has been made from the trimmings of fowls; thicken it with a little butter and potato flour, and season with salt. BREAD SAUCE. Grate down crumb of bread ; put it in a saucepan on the fire, with as much milk as will make it a proper thickness, stir it till quite smooth, and season it with a little salt. LIVER SAUCE FOR FISH. Take the liver of the fish, and remove all the fibres and black parts; then pound it in a mortar: boil it up with melted butter and a little salt. BROWN SAUCE FOR FISH. Melt some butter, add the liver boiled and pounded, thicken with the yolk of an egg and flour, season with a teaspoonful of ketchup and one of soy. E 2SAUCES. 52 ROE SAUCE. Boil the roe soft, take away the filaments that hang about it, and bruise it, adding the yolk of an egg; stir it into melted butter seasoned with salt. SPINACH SAUCE. The stalks being removed, wash and drain the leaves, stew without water till they will beat to a mash : put in a good piece of butter and some milk; simmer it over the fire till the sauce be the consis- tence of thick melted butter; a little cream may be added. TURNIP SAUCE. Peel a turnip, boil it in water, then mash it; add to it a pint of clear gravy, and stew it slowly for ten minutes. WHITE TURNIP SAUCE. Take two small white turnips, peel and boil them, then mash them well, and mix a pint or more of milk to them; warm it up before serving. APPLE SAUCE. Pare, core, and slice some apples, put them into a stone jar, in a pan of water on the fire; when soft enough, beat them to a pulp; and, if liked, add a little sugar. CHESTNUT SAUCE. Boil eight chestnuts in water, shell them when hot, put two ounces of butter and the same quantity of sugar into a pan, and stir it over the fire until it becomes a bright brown ; bruise the chestnuts into it, and add a pint of veal stock.SAUCES. •33 MUSHROOM KETCHUP. Take the largest mushrooms, which are the juici- est; break them in pieces, put them into a jar with salt sufficient to extract the juice ; cover the jar, and set it by the fire: let it remain thus for twenty-four hours; strain off the juice, and put it into a stewpan, and let it boil ten minutes; then put it into bottles, and cork them well. ALMOND SAUCE. Mix a spoonful of flour in a pint of milk on the fire until it boils; then add half a quarter of a pound of blanched and pounded almonds, and a little sugar. CUSTARD SAUCE. Put a pint of cream into a saucepan, let it boil; mix in the yolk of two eggs, with some fine sifted sugar; put it into a basin, and pour it several times from one to another, to prevent it curdling. SWEET SAUCE. Brown two ounces of butter with the same quantity of sugar over the fire, mix in a table spoonful of flour, add two spoonfuls of water, let it boil, and then put in about two dozen of raisins and a dozen of blanched sweet almonds cut in little bits: add a glass of cream, and boil it half an hour.54 VEGETABLES. VEGETABLES. POTATOES A LA MAlTRE d’hoTEL. Mix with some beef gravy three ounces of butter,, let it get hot, then put in some sliced potatoes, stew them, and season with salt. MASHED POTATOES. Wash some potatoes, boil them with their skins on ; then skin and mash them with a little butter or milk, put them into a mould, and then brown them. PUREE OF POTATOES. Mash the potatoes, and mix them while quite hot with some fine white veal gravy, and thicken with butter or cream. The purde should be about the consistence of apple sauce. POTATO BALLS. Mash the potatoes very nicely, make them into balls, rub them over with the yolk of an egg, and put them into the oven or before the fire to brown. These balls may be varied by the introduction of a third part of grated meat. CARROTS A LA TURQUE. Boil fine slices of carrots; while they are doing prepare half a pound of rice in some gravy ; when it is swelled mix with it half a pound of butter and three eggs, season it with salt, and make a border55 VEGETABLES. with the rice round the dish; put the carrots inside, and spread any rice which is over on the top ; make it smooth, pour some gravy on it, and cover it with the yolk of an egg; then place some butter on it and sprinkle it with bread crumbs : let it bake an hour in the oven. N CARROTS A LA MAlTRE DHOTEL. Boil the carrots tender, put a piece of butter into a stewpan with a little flour; when it is browned add a little gravy; then put in the carrots and let them stew a little : turnips can be done the same way, only they do not require so much gravy. STEWED CARROTS. Half boil some carrots, scrape them nicely, and slice them into a stewpan; put in some gravy, a little salt, and some cream; let them simmer until quite tender, but not broken; before serving rub a very little flour with a bit of butter, and warm up with the carrots. PUREE OF TURNIPS. Cut some turnips in slices, put them with two or three ounces of butter into a stewpan, stir it, put in half a pint of broth, dredge with flour, and add, if required, some cream. SPINACH PUDDING. After the spinach has been washed and picked, chop it exceedingly fine; then mix with it half a pound of butter beat to a cream, with six yolks of eggs and two ounces of sugar, and a little salt; mix with the spinach a cupful of bread crumbs, andVEGETABLES. 56 the whites of the eggs; put all into a buttered cloth sprinkled with bread crumbs, and let it boil in water an hour; then press it through a sieve, beat it up, and place it neatly on a dish : serve it with melted butter, thickened with flour, and the yolk of an egg. BEIGNETS OF SPINACH. Take some Avashed and picked spinach ; mix the yolks of foui- eggs, some butter, and four ounces of sugar, with some bread crumbs; add this to the chopped spinach, form it into round cakes, and fry them in butter. EGGS WITH FOLIAGE. Pick, wash, and drain a bundle of spinach leaves, stew them nicely, chop some and mix with it a little butter and salt, put it on a dish, lay some poached or fried eggs on it, and arrange the rest of the spinach neatly round them. SPINACH STEWED WITH CREAM. Boil the spinach, chop it well, strain off the liquor, put it into a stewpan, with a piece of butter and a little salt, stir it well as it stews, adding by degrees as much cream as will make it a proper thickness: garnish with fried paste or bread. SPINACH WITH GRAVY. Prepare the spinach nicely, put it into boiling water, and when sufficiently tender to be squeezed, strain it in a cullender, put it into cold water for a few minutes; then put a small quantity in a towel and press it, so as to form balls ; lay these upon the board, chop them very fine, fry them with butter, and then add some strong gravy, and boil.VEGETABLES. 57 STEWED SPINACH. Peel the spinach very nicely, steam it in a saucepan without any water; then strain it from the liquor, chop it well, put it into a stewpan with a cupful of gravy and a piece of butter, stir it frequently, and let it stew for a quarter of an hour. CAULIFLOWER DONE WITH BREAD. After the cauliflowers have been washed, put them on a hair sieve and allow the water to run off; then put them in a pan, and place a good bit of butter between the flowers; sprinkle them with bread crumbs, and pour some good broth over them; add the necessary salt, and boil them till quite tender. CAULIFLOWER IN WHITE SAUCE. Half boil it; then cut it into handsome pieces and lay them in a stewpan, with a little broth seasoned with salt, let them simmer half an hour; have mixed some cream, butter and flour, which add to it. CAULIFLOWER WITH PARMESAN. Boil a cauliflower, drain it on a sieve, and cut the stalks so that it will stand upright on a dish; put it into a stewpan with a little white sauce, let it stew till done enough, then put it in the dish with the sauce round it, and sprinkle grated parmesan over it: brown it with a salamander.58 VEGETABLES. BROCOLI AND BUTTERED EGGS. Boil the brocoli; then put six well beaten eggs into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of butter and a little salt, stir it over the fire until the mixture is thick enough; toast a piece of bread to fit the inner part of the dish on which the brocoli is to be served, place it on the toast, and pour the sauce over it. PEAS WITH EGGS. Boil some green peas; add a little broth to them, and put them on a dish with fried eggs on the top. PEAS PUDDING. Take a quart of split peas, tie them in a cloth, leaving plenty of room for the peas to swell; boil till they are quite soft, which will take from two to three hours; take the pudding from the water and put it in a basin, bruise the peas well, mix in a bit of butter and a little salt; then put it into a mould, tie it up tightly and put it into the pan again, and let it boil half an hour; when served turn it out. PEAPODS STEWED. Take the sugar pea when young, pare off the outer edges of the pods, carefully removing the strings; then put them into good gravy, and thicken with a little butter and flour; and let them stew gently until quite tender. VEGETABLE MARROW Can be dressed in many ways, either plain, boiled, cut in slices and served upon toast with melted butter, or stewed in a good gravy, or mashed in the same way as turnips, or made into pur^e with cream.59 VEGETABLES. ✓ FRICASSEE OF PARSNIPS. Boil a few parsnips in milk until they are soft; then cut them lengthwise into bits two or three inches long, and simmer in a white sauce, made of two spoonfuls of broth and half a cupful of cream, a bit of butter, some flour and salt. MASHED PARSNIPS. Boil them tender, scrape, then mash them in a stewpan with a little cream, a good piece of butter, and some salt. SEA-CALE. Wash and prepare nicely sea-cale, boil it tender; toast a thin slice of bread, spread it with butter, lay the sea-cale on it, and pour a simple white sauce made with milk, one egg, and a little flour over it. FRENCH BEANS. Boil quite tender nicely cut french beans ; strain the water from them, and pour over them some sauce made of a little gravy thickened with brown flour and butter. STEWED BEETROOT. Bake the beetroot in an oven until it is quite tender, and when cold scrape off the outside coat; cut it into slices, then put it into a stewpan and cover it with gravy; stew it gently for half an hour, then thicken it with cream; the sauce can be made a brighter colour by pounding some slices in a mortar and extracting the juice.VEGETABLES. 60 ✓ PUREE OF CHESTNUTS. Boil the chestnuts, clear them well from the shells and skin; pound them in a mortar, mix them with a little fine white sauce, and pass them through a sieve ; then warm them up in a sufficient quantity of sauce to make them of a proper consistence. STEWED MUSHROOMS. Take some middling sized mushrooms, stew them well in a little clear brown gravy ; when done add a little ketchup to them. VEGETABLE TOAST. Take either turnips, carrots, potatoes, parsnips, or peas, chop them with a little salt; then mix up with the yolk of an egg, put it on the fire to thicken; then spread it upon toast, brush it over with a beaten egg, add bread crumbs or vermicelli, and fry or bake them. VEGETABLE RAGOUT. Cut cold potatoes in slices, also some cold carrots, turnips and cabbage; put them into a stewpan with a little butter, salt and broth, and stir them until they get quite hot. CALE CANNON. Boil three large potatoes, bruise them and mix them with as much chopped cabbage, put in a small bit of butter, salt, and some cream, beat all well together ; heat it and stir it over the fire, put it in a mould, and turn it out when sent to table.61 PASTRY. A VEGETABLE TOWER. Take a high mould which is larger at the bottom than the top, place at the top of the mould a layer of turnips, then one of carrots, next one of any green vegetable in season, and allowed; then put alternately pieces of carrot and turnips cut in square pieces round the side of the mould to the top, and fill it with potatoes; put the mould in a pan of water, and allow it to remain until the vegetables are done ; be sure to put the top of the mould downwards in the pan: serve the tower with brown gravy round it, or with white sauce. PASTRY. CRUST TO USE WITH MEAT. To one pound of flour put half a pound of butter and two eggs, mix them all well with warm water, and roll the paste rather thick ; line the dish except at the bottom, put in the meat and cover with the paste thick enough to bear long continuance in the oven. TRANSPARENT CRUST FOR TARTS. Beat an egg until it is quite thin ; have ready twelve ounces of the purest well-washed fresh butter, melt it without oiling; when cold mix the egg with it, and stir it into a pound of well dried flour: make the paste very thin, line the patty pans as quickly as possible, fill and cover them, and just before putting into the oven brush them over with water, and sift sugar on them : if baked in a moderate oven they will look clear.62 PASTRY. PUFF PASTE. Sift half a pound of the best flour, rub lightly into it a quarter of a pound of butter, mix it with cold water, roll it out: lay on it, in small pieces, part of another quarter of a pound of butter; fold the paste, roll it again, and add the remainder of the butter, strew lightly on it a little flour, and set it in a cold place. LIGHT PASTE. Beat the white of an egg into a strong froth, mix with it as much water as will make three quarters of a pound of flour into a stiff paste, roll it very thin, and lay upon it, at three several times, a quarter of a pound of butter. FINE TART PASTE. Mix half an ounce of sifted sugar with half a pound of flour, adding half a wineglass of boiling cream ; work two ounces of butter into it, roll it very thin, and when made into tarts, brush it over with white of egg. SHORT CRUST. Mix two ounces of sugar with a pound of flour, rub into it three ounces of butter; beat up the yolks of two eggs into a little cream, using sufficient to make the flour into paste, roll it out thin, and bake in a moderate oven. PLAIN TART PASTE. Beat eight ounces of butter with eight ounces of flour, mix it into a stiff paste, with as little water as possible; beat it well and roll it out thin.63 PASTRY. PUDDING CRUST. Four potatoes boiled, and well mixed with a pound of flour and a little very finely chopped suet, will make a good light pudding crust. CRUST FOR SWEETMEATS. Dry a pound of the finest flour, mix it with three ounces of refined sugar ; then work half a pound of fresh butter with the hand until it is a froth; put the flour into it by degrees, and work into it, well beaten and strained, the yolks of three and whites of two eggs; if too limber, put some flour and sugar to make it fit to roll: line your pattypans, fill them with preserve and cover them; a quarter of an hour will bake them; have ready some refined sugar beat up with the white of an egg till quite thick, ice them all over, set them in the oven to harden, and serve cold. VERY LIGHT PASTE. Mix the flour and water together, roll the paste out, and lay bits of butter upon it; then beat up the white of an egg, and brush it all over the paste before it is folded; repeat this when rolling out, and adding the butter each time, till the whole of the white of egg is used; it will make the paste rise and become very flaky. TART PASTE. Half a pound of sifted flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, two ounces of sifted sugar and two eggs beaten; mix them with cold water, and knead the paste well.PASTRY. 64 BRIOCHE PASTE. Take seven fresh eggs, two pounds of flour dried and warmed at the fire, and one pound of fresh butter; take half a pound of the flour, and poqr into the middle of it a dessert spoonful of yeast, which has been prepared by pouring water over it, stirring it, and allowing it to settle, then draining off the water; it is the sediment that must be employed; pour a little hot water over it, and mix the paste up with it, which forms the leaven; flour a pan, lay the leaven in it before the fire to rise, and slit it on the top ; as soon as the paste has risen proceed thus :— Make a hole in the middle of the remaining flour, put into it half a teaspoonful of salt and the same quantity of sugar, with a little water to melt them; cut the butter in pieces, and with the eggs work it all well together, and knead it thoroughly with leavened paste; then flour a towel, wrap the paste up in it, and put into a pan: it must be put in a moderately cold place. MEAT PATTIES. Take a pound of lean beef, half a pound of mutton, and a quarter of a pound of suet, mince it altogether with a little salt; take three eggs, mix them with a proportionate quantity of flour, and four spoonfuls of water, of which make a thick paste, spreading it with a rolling pin into a leaf; put some of the minced meat on the paste, making it into patties, and folding it over so that the meat cannot fall out when boiling; put them into hot water and boil them a quarter of an hour, drain them from the water, and serve them with melted butter poured over them.65 PASTRY. BEEF OR YEAL PATTIES. Shred under done dressed meat with a little fat, season with salt; make a plain paste, roll it thin, and cut it in the shape of apple puffs ; fill them with the mince, pinch the edges and fry them a nice brown : the paste should be made with a small quantity of butter, eggs, and milk. TURKEY PATTIES. Mince some of the white part of cold turkey, mix with it a little salt and a very little cream or butter; have pattypans covered with light paste, fill them and bake them. GAME PATTIES. Take cold roasted partridge or pheasant, mince it very fine, and then bruise it in a mortar; have tins lined with puff paste, fill them with meat, pour in some rich brown sauce, and cover it with pastry. RABBIT PIE. Prepare a rabbit as for stewing, cut it in pieces, put it in a pan with a little water or veal gravy; when half done put the meat into a pie dish, dredge some flour on it, add a pint of good cream and the gravy the rabbit was stewed in : one or two Jerusalem artichokes may be cut in slices, and placed in the pie ; cover the whole with a thick plain crust, and bake in a quick oven. PARTRIDGE PIE. Lay a veal cutlet in the bottom of a deep dish ; fill the partridges with forcemeat made of finely minced veal, bread crumbs and a little salt; stew F06 PASTRY. them for a short time in some good gravy; put the birds into the dish with their breasts downwards, pour the gravy in which they were stewed on them, and fill up the dish with forcemeat balls and hard boiled eggs; a spoonful of mushroom ketchup should be added just before the crust is put on; bake in the oven. calves’ feet pie. Clean and boil two calves’ feet till tender, mince the meat when cold with suet and pared apples, in the proportion of a third part apples and suet; mix dried currants, a little sugar, and a quarter of a pint of plum juice; put all in a deep dish and cover it with puff paste. HARE PIE; Cut down what remains of a roasted hare; put it in a deep dish with a very good brown sauce, thickened with butter, flour and soy; fill up the dish with force- meat balls, and cover it with a paste; then bake it. MEAT AND VEGETABLE PIE. Take either cold beef, veal or mutton, mince it very fine, and mix it with some bread crumbs; have a dish covered with paste, put some mince at the bottom, then put in a few bearded oysters, next the limbs of chicken, turkey, or rabbit boned; then put a layer of peas or spinach, some forcemeat balls, and a few small mushrooms, pour in some rich gravy, thicken with cream and flour; strew it over thickly with bread crumbs, and at the top an egg beat well; then bake in the oven.67 PASTRY. PIGEON PIE. Line the sides of a dish with paste, and put at the bottom either a beef steak or veal cutlet, dredge with flour; clean six young pigeons very nicely, pound a little of the white part of chicken, veal, or turkey very fine; mix four hard boiled yolks Of eggs with it, and a little butter; roll the forcemeat in flour and stuff the pigeons with it; place them in the dish with their breasts downwards, pour some good gravy over them, put on the crust, and stick the feet of the pigeon in the middle. VOL AO VENT OF CROQUETTES. Make croquettes the size of a pigeon’s egg, of veal and of calves’ brains, an equal number of each, fry them a pale gold colour; make a good white sauce and put in some very small mushrooms ; put all into the vol au vent when taken out of the oven. VOL AU VENT OF VEAL. Cut veal into thin pieces the size of half-a-crown, heat them, and fry them a pale brown; make some forcemeat and egg balls, fry the former, and put all into the vol au vent with a good brown gravy. A VOL AU VENT. The brioche paste is the best adapted for this purpose; bake it with a piece of bread to preserve the shape, or round a mould; pour in a mixture of boned chicken, sweetbreads cut in pieces, and cock’s combs, previously stewed in a thick white sauce; make a little of the paste into small balls or bean- shaped pieces, boil them in the gravy, and lay them on the top with leaves and flowers of the crust baked. r 2PASTRY. 68 RAMA REINS. Take any bits of puff paste that remain from covering pies, tarts, &c., and roll them out, sprinkle grated cheese over them, double them up, and again sprinkle cheese over them; then cut them into neat shapes and make them very hot: serve in a napkin. CHEESE PATTIES. Beat half a pound of cheese fine in a mortar; then add a quarter of a pound of butter, beat them well together, add five yolks and the white of an egg, continue beating until they are quite smooth; then put into tart pans lined with paste, and bake them. PATTY OF MACARONI. Cover a dish with brioche paste; then having stewed some macaroni in butter and water, or broth, strain it, cut it into pieces and lay it at the bottom of the dish; make up some forcemeat balls mixed with butter, grate some cheese over them and the macaroni; put in some fowl, game, veal, or ox palates cut in slices, on that put some blanched sweetbread cut in slices, and some mushrooms; stew all in a good sauce, put them in layers on the macaroni, fill up the dish with gravy, cover it with paste, and bake it. PRUNE TART. Stone some large prunes, put them in a deep dish with some brown sugar; the stones may be stewed in a very little water, that nothing may be lost of the flavour of the fruit; cover the dish with a light paste, and bake it.G9 PASTRY. APPLE PIE. Pare, core and quarter the apples, place them in a deep dish; boil the cores and parings in sugar and water; strain off the liquor, mix with a bit of fresh butter the size of a walnut, put a good paste over the dish and bake it: serve with a good custard or cream. SMALL PUFFS. Roll out puff paste of nearly half an inch thick, cut it into pieces of five inches wide, to have when doubled the form of squares or triangles ; place some raspberry jam on each, then double them up and pinch them close at the edges and bake them. AUSTRIAN PUFFS. Two ounces of finely pounded sweet almonds, the same of clarified butter and sifted sugar, two spoonfuls of flour, the yolks of two eggs, half a pint of cream and a very little orange jelly ; beat all well together; butter the pans, fill them only half full, and bake for half an hour in a slow oven. GERMAN PUFFS. Put half a pound of butter, with a breakfast cupful of milk, into a pan upon the fire, and when it boils add a cupful of flour; beat all well together, and when cold mix in six eggs, leaving out two whites; add some sugar with the eggs, and bake the puff in a moderately heated oven.70 PUDDINGS. FRENCH PUFFS. Take a pint of new milk, boil half, and mix the other half very smoothly with four heaped spoonfuls of fine flour; then add it to the boiling milk, and boil it until it is a stiff paste: when cold take the yolks of five eggs, the whites of two, a tablespoonful of sifted sugar, and beat the whole into a light batter in a marble mortar; then drop it from a spoon into boiling lard, fry of a light brown, and serve it up with sifted sugar over each : a little preserve can also be put on each. PUDDINGS. RICE PUDDING. Boil a cupful of rice in milk, allow it to be quite soft, then add some butter or finely minced suet; when cold, add to it four eggs and some sugar, also currants, and either bake or boil it. RICE PUDDING. Soak four ounces of rice in water half an hour, then tie it up in a cloth (leaving room for it to swell) with eight ounces of raisins ; boil it two hours, and then turn it out: pour over it melted butter with sugar in it.71 PUDDINGS. RICE PUDDING WITH FRUIT. Boil a teacupful of rice as you would for currie ; when cold, mix it with the same quantity of washed currants, one egg, an ounce of butter, and two ounces of sugar; tie it up in a floured cloth, and boil it forty-five minutes: serve with sweet sauce. BARED RICE PUDDING. Boil four ounces of rice in a pint of milk till soft, but not thoroughly boiled ; put it into a pudding dish with two ounces of currants and some sugar, pour over it three well beaten eggs, and bake it twenty minutes. RICE AND APPLE PUDDING. Cut some apples after they are pared and cored; put them in a pan with a little butter and sugar, then mix with them as much boiled rice, and a little milk or cream, and six eggs well beat; put all, after it has been well mixed, into a buttered shape, and bake it for an hour. RICE CAKE PUDDING. One pound of flour of rice, with three quarters of a pound of white sugar, and eight eggs, make into a cake, which cut in slices, and put preserves between, and when the dish is filled, pour a rich custard over it. YORKSHIRE PUDDING. Mix four ounces of flour very smoothly with a pint and a half of milk, four beat eggs, and a little salt; butter a shallow tin tray, pour the batter into it, and place it below a roast of meat; when browned on one side, turn it; when done, cut it in square pieces.72 PUDDINGS. POTATO PUDDING. Peel, boil, and mash some potatoes, with a little milk and salt; put it in a tin tray below a roast, so that the dripping will fall on it; brown it on both sides, and cut it in pieces. POTATO PUDDING. Take a quarter of a pound of boiled potatoes, rub them through a sieve, and mix with two ounces of butter for a long time; then add the yolks of two eggs, and one ounce of sugar; then make a plain border of paste, put the potatoes in the dish, and beat the whites of the eggs, which put on the top, and bake it an hour. POTATO PUDDTNG. Take eight ounces of boiled potatoes, two ounces of butter, two eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, one spoonful of orange juice, with sugar and salt; beat all to a froth, put it in a dish with a crust, if liked. POTATO PUDDING WITH SUET. To a pound of mashed potatoes, when hot, add four ounces of suet and two ounces of flour, a little salt, and as much milk as will give it the consistence of common suet pudding; put it into a dish, or roll it into dumplings, and bake a fine brown. BREAD AND FRUIT PUDDING. Cut some rolls in square pieces, soak them in milk; cut as much apples, stew them with sugar and butter for quarter of an hour, and then put in some raisins; beat four ounces of butter with four eggs to a froth, put the soaked bread into a buttered mould, and then fill it up with the fruit, kc. and bake it an hour and a half.73 PUDDINGS. BREAD PUDDINGS. Make crumbs of some stale bread, pour on them some boiling milk, cover it up, and let it remain so for ten minutes, to allow the bread to swell; then beat it up well with a bit of butter; beat up three or four eggs and a little sugar, stir all together; a little orange juice may be added, also some currants: this pudding can either be baked or boiled. BREAD PUDDING. Take half a pint of milk, which let nearly boil; then pour some of it on a teacupful of very fine bread crumbs; allow them to soak for some time, then pour in the remainder of the milk, and beat it up well with a fork; add two beat eggs, and a little sugar; butter and flour a mould, and put in the pudding: tie it up firmly with a cloth, and let it boil for twenty minutes. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING. Make a custard of an egg, and half a pint of milk, by boiling the milk with a little sugar, and beating up the egg in it, putting it on the fire to thicken; then butter slices of bread, and let them soak for an hour or two in this mixture; then lay them in a dish, sprinkling currants between each layer, and a little pounded sugar; on the top may be put some pre- serves, and pour over it another pint of milk beaten up with two eggs: bake for twenty minutes. SWEDISH APPLE PUDDING. Prepare apples as for sauce, sweeten them, add some butter ; take a mould, which butter, have a quantity of bread crumbs fried in butter, line the74 PUDDINGS. mould thickly with them; put into the apples when cold two eggs well beaten, put all in the shape, and cover it with bread crumbs; it must be baked two hours, and turned out when sent to table. APPLE PUDDING. Five yolks and three whites of eggs to be beaten separately, and mixed with three pounded rusks, on which pour a quarter of a pound of melted butter, the juice of an orange, and a little brown sugar; put this into a deep dish, and fill it up with pounded apples ; make a border of paste, and bake it. APPLE DUMPLINGS. Make a nice light paste for boiling, line a basin with it, fill it with apples which have been pared, cored, and cut in quarters; add some sugar and the juice of an orange; cover the apples with paste, tie up the basin in a cloth, and boil it two hours. APPLE CHARLOTTE. Rub a shape thickly with butter, then cut as many slices of white bread as will cover the bottom and line the sides; then cut apples in thin slices, and place them in layers, with sugar and butter between: in the meantime, soak enough of bread to cover the whole, lay a plate and a weight on the top to press the bread close to the apples : bake it slowly for three hours. COLLEGE PUDDINGS. Quarter of a pound of chopped suet, as much sifted sugar, bread crumbs, and currants; mix these all well together; make them up with as little flour as possible on the hand into small rolls; then fry them in lard : they do boiled also.PUDDINGS. 75 PLUM PUDDING. Chop one pound of suet very fine ; add one pound of brown sugar, one pound of the small raisins, one pound of currants; beat well eight eggs, and put in also a teaspoonful of salt, two ounces of sweet almonds (talcing care not to put in even one bitter one), cut the almonds in strips; put the pudding, when well mixed, in a buttered mould, and boil it twelve hours; two tablespoonfuls of flour are required to fix the pudding. OXFORD PUDDINGS. Take a quarter of a pound of grated biscuit, the same quantity of currants, the same of suet finely chopped, and a spoonful of sugar; mix them together: take the yolks of three eggs, and make up the pudding into balls : fry them a light colour in fresh butter. ECONOMICAL PUDDING. Half a pound of flour, half a pound of currants, half a pound of finely chopped suet, four ounces of treacle, with sufficient milk to mix it well together, but so as to be quite stiff; put it into a buttered mould, and boil it five hours. BAGATELLE PUDDING. Boil some tapioca in milk, put some of this, when well boiled, in a dish, then put a layer of preserves ; repeat this, then add one of thick custard, and at the top put some whipt cream : bake in the oven for a short time.PUDDINGS. 76 LIGHT FRUIT PUDDING. Beat four eggs, and mix four tablespoonfuls of flour with them, and a little milk and sugar; let it be a thick batter: spread it over a deep oval pudding dish to the very edge, fill the centre with ripe and juicy small fruit, quite fresh; damsons do best: put the dish in the oven; when done, slip it off the deep dish, and let it stand on a flat one with plenty of juice; if no fresh fruit is in season, preserved will do. FRUIT PUDDING. This pudding may either be made of apples pared and cut in pieces, green unripe gooseberries, currants, cherries, damsons, or bramble berries. The paste generally used for this pudding is made with beef suet finely chopped, and flour, in the proportion of four ounces of suet to a pound of flour; mix it into a dough with water and a little salt, then knead it and roll it out; place the fruit in it, gather up the edges, and tie it in a cloth, or put it in a mould with paste at the top, and tie it in a cloth and boil it. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. Stew green gooseberries till they will pulp through a sieve; add to them six ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar biscuit, pounded, four eggs well beat, and a little pounded sugar; bake in a deep dish, with a border of paste. CURRANT PUDDING. A pound of minced suet, a pound of bread crumbs or flour, three quarters of a pound of currants, a very little salt, and some sugar; beat in two eggs, and mix it with as much milk as will wet the whole; tie it in a cloth, and boil it three hours; serve it with sweet sauce.77 PUDDINGS. SAGO, OR TAPIOCA PUDDING. Steep a quarter of a pound of either sago or tapioca in a pint of milk; put it into a pudding dish with four well beat eggs and some sugar : bake it in the oven. SOUFFLE PUDDING. Take a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, half a pound of flour, and the same quantity of butter, the yolks of six eggs, and, if liked, a tablespoonful of orange juice; beat the whole together very smoothly; then beat the whites of the eggs to a strong froth, and add them to the rest; boil in a mould: it may also be baked; if so, the dish it is baked in must not be filled. EGG PUDDING. Mix two ounces of flour with two teacups of milk and a little butter; boil these things together until they are quite thick, stirring all the time ; when nearly cold, add three ounces of butter and sugar, with six yolks of eggs; beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, and mix them with the rest; boil or bake an hour in a buttered mould. EGG PUDDING. Beat up five or six eggs with half a pint of good cream and a couple of spoonfuls of flour; melt a little butter in a pan on the fire; when it is hot, pour in the mixture, let it brown on one side, turn it out in a dish, heat a little more butter in the pan, lay the pudding gently in on its other side; when this too is brown, serve it in a dish as quickly as possible. This may be eaten with sugar or jam.78 PUDDINGS. BAKED CUSTARD PUDDING. Beat up four eggs very well, put to them a pint of milk, and a very little sifted sugar; put all in a deep dish, and bake twenty minutes. This pudding may be served with preserves. EVE PUDDING. Half a pound of bread crumbs; half a pound of minced suet, half a pound of pared and cored apples, six ounces of lump sugar, the juice of an orange, and a very little salt; put it into a mould, and boil four hours. SPONGE PUDDING. The weight of four eggs (before they are broken) of flour, sugar, and butter; the sugar must be finely sifted and mixed with the flour; then the butter, which should be beat to a cream, put in; and lastly, the eggs ; the yolks and whites of them must be well beaten separately, and then mixed well with the rest of the things; put it into a mould, and bake about half an hour in a hot oven. This quantity is sufficient to fill six little cups, which require the same time to bake. MONTAGU PUDDING. Half a pound of suet chopped, four tablespoonfuls of flour, and four eggs, mixed into a batter with four tablespoonfuls of milk, add half a pound of stoned raisins, with a little sugar, and boil the whole four hours in a basin. TRANSPARENT PUDDING. Beat eight eggs very well, put them into a stew- pan with half a pound of sugar, and the same quantity of butter; set it on the fire, and keep stir- ring it till it thickens; then put it into a dish, and allow it to get cold: then place a border of puff paste round the dish, and bake it for a short time.PUDDINGS. 79 FLOPR PUDDING. Three tablespoonfuls of flour to a pint of boiled milk ; let it get cold ; beat up three eggs and a little butter, with sugar: mis all together, and bake it. A SWISS PUDDING. Put layers of bread crumbs and sliced apples, with sugar, till the dish is filled; let the last layer be of crumbs ; pour some melted butter over it, and bake it. OATMEAL PUDDING. Pour a quart of boiling milk over a pint of the finest oatmeal, let it soak all night: next day beat two eggs, put in a little salt with them, and mix them with the meal; put it into a buttered basin that will just hold it, cover it tight with a floured cloth, and boil it an hour and a half: serve it with cold butter and salt; when cold slice and boil it. QUICK PUDDINGS. Beat four eggs and strain them ; mix four ounces of flour very smoothly with a pint of milk, add it to the eggs, and strain it again, sweeten it ; butter some teacups, fill them three parts full, and put them into an oven for quarter of an hour. MADEIRA PUDDING. Have a tin cake mould of which the bottom will come out, butter it, and lay on it a piece of paste the size of the mould, cover the bottom with preserve of apricots; then lay another piece of paste, and cover this with red preserve, and so on in different layers with paste between, until the mould is full; great care must be taken when removing it from the mould, and it will take a long time to boil properly.PUDDINGS. 80 LIGHT PUDDING. Pare and core six large apples; fill the centre of them with orange juice and sugar, place them in a pie dish, and pour a very light batter over them; it should be made of eggs, flour, and milk: bake the pudding half an hour, then sprinkle sugar on it. BOHEMIAN PUDDINGS. Beat four yolks of eggs very well, and mix them with half a pound of flour; whip half a pint of cream, and add it to the flour and eggs ; then pour in three tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and a very little sifted sugar; add a little salt, and mix all well together; place it near the fire for quarter of an hour, that it may rise before you put it into the moulds (which should be such as are used for small minced pies); butter them to prevent the puddings from burning; when done, they should be of a light brown; the oven should not be very hot: they are served up hot, placing two together, with preserve between. PLAIN DUMPLINGS. Make a very stiff batter with flour, a little milk, three eggs, and salt; work this up into balls, roll them in flour, and boil them in water ; they may be made sweet with raisins or currants, and brown sugar, and served with sweet sauce. HARD DUMPLINGS. Take a quarter of a pound of finely minced suet; mix it with a pound of flour, add a little salt, and wet it with water to the consistency of dough ; divide it into small dumplings, and put them into boiling water, and boil hem half an hour.PUDDINGS. 81 ROLL PUDDING. Make a good boiling paste, roll it out, spread it thickly with jam, either black currants, damsons, or gooseberries, roll it up, and then roll it in a cloth, which tie at the ends, and boil it an hour or more: serve it with sweet sauce. BAKED SUET PUDDING. Boil a pint of milk; when cold, stir it into eight ounces of flour and six ounces of shred suet; add two eggs, and a teaspoonful of salt; if liked, eight ounces of stoned raisins can be added, but then the salt must not be put in. ROLLED PUDDING. Make a good paste, roll it out, and cover it equally over with currants or chopped raisins, and chopped apples, the latter making it very rich and moist; roll it up, tie it in a cloth, and boil it; serving it up, cut in pieces, with melted butter. This pudding may also be made with any kind of jam. TREACLE PUDDING. Make a plain paste for boiling; when rolled out thin, spread it thickly with treacle, and then sprinkle some currants on it; roll it up, put it in a cloth, and boil it an hour; serve it with melted butter. CHEESE PUDDING. Take two or three table spoonfuls of skim milk, two ounces of fresh English cheese, the size of a walnut of butter, one tablespoonful of cream ; cut G82 PUDDINGS. the cheese into thick pieces, put all into a pan, and keep stirring until it boils, and is quite smooth ; take the pan off the fire, and break an egg into it; stir it quickly, and put it into a dish; brown it before the fire. NAPIER PUDDING. Line a pudding dish with puff paste, and cover it with orange jelly; take six eggs, six ounces of sugar, and six ounces of butter; put this all in a pan, keep stirring it on a slow fire until it is all melted, then pour it over the orange jelly ; put a border of paste round, and bake till quite firm. When done, this pudding should be quite green; but if the eggs are not new laid it will not be so. DUTCH PUDDING. Melt half a pound of butter in a quarter of a pint of milk; let it stand till it is lukewarm, then strain it into a pound of flour; add four eggs well beaten, and two large spoonfuls of yeast; beat the whole very well together, and let it stand for an hour before the fire to rise; then beat into it two spoonfuls of brown sugar, and half a pound of currants; put it into a dish or tin well buttered, and when baked turn it out before sending to table. GLOUCESTER PUDDINGS. Weigh three eggs in the shell; take their weight in flour and in butter, also twelve sweet almonds, and five ounces of pounded sugar; beat all together for half an hour; put the mixture into pudding cups, filling the cups only half: bake them half an hour.PUDDINGS. S3 AMBER PUDDINGS. Put a pound of butter into a stewpan with three quarters of a pound of loaf sugar finely powdered; melt the butter, and mix it well; then add the yolks of fifteen eggs well beaten, and a little orange juice, to flavor it; line the dish with paste for turning out, and when filled with the above, lay the crust over, as if it were a pie, and bake it in a slow oven. A PORCUPINE PUDDING. Boil half a pint of rice in new milk until perfectly tender, and not too dry; then add six well beaten eggs, some sugar, and a little orange juice, mix well, and boil in a mould an hour and a half; turn it out on the dish, and stick it thick with sweet almonds cut in slips; serve with cream or custard. THE PORTLAND PUDDING. Beat up four eggs with a tablespoonful of sugar and one of flour very smoothly; then add a pound of raisins, and a pound of the fat of a cold loin of veal, or of suet finely chopped; butter a mould, put in the pudding, tie it tightly in a cloth, and let it boil five hours. STIELFORD PUDDING. Mix three quarters of a pound of currants or raisins, one pound of chopped suet, one pound of flour, six eggs, a little salt; all these things to be beat up in milk sufficient to wet it, and then boiled six hours.84 PUDDINGS. BISCUIT PUDDINGS. Mix together a quarter of a pound of bread crumbs with the same quantity of brown sugar and butter, five eggs, leaving out two whites, and a quarter of a pint of milk; put in small cups and bake twenty minutes. CABINET PUDDING. Ten penny sponge cakes or biscuits, six ounces of dried cherries or sultana raisins, six eggs with the whites of four; beat up the eggs with a little sugar; butter the mould very completely, and lay the cherries or raisins in a pattern round the top and the sides; break each cake into four pieces, and lay them close to the fruit to keep it from falling; then fill up the mould with the custard, tie a cloth over the top of the mould, put it into a stewpan with a little boiling water up to the top of the mould, and be careful that' the lid of the stewpan fits quite close to keep in the steam ; let it boil half an hour. VERMICELLI PUDDING. Simmer four ounces of vermicelli in a pint of new milk for ten minutes; then put in half a pint of cream, four ounces of sifted sugar, four ounces of warmed butter, and four yolks of eggs well beaten : bake it in a dish in the oven. ADELAIDE PUDDING. Break seven eggs into a deep pan, leaving out three of the whites; put ten ounces of loaf sugar in a pint of water, set it over the fire until the scum rises; pour it over the eggs, add the juice of an orange, whisk it for twenty minutes; shake in half a pound of flour, pour it into a tin, and put it into the oven immediately.SWEET DISHES, ETC. 85 MACARONI PUDDING. Soften some macaroni in a pint of milk, put it with the milk into a deep dish, sprinkle sifted sugar over it, and pour on it three well beaten eggs: bake it in the oven half an hour. BLACK-CAP PUDDING. Butter a mould and put into it a quarter of a pound of nicely picked and washed dried currants; then fill up the mould with a light batter made of three eggs, milk and flour, seasoned with sugar, and boil it half an hour. SWEET DISHES, &c. CHOCOLATE JELLY. Make a pint of good water chocolate, dissolve and strain an ounce of isinglass, add it to the chocolate, and put it into a shape; put it in a cool place until it stiffens. CUSTARD JELLY. Make a quart of thick custard, mix with it an ounce of dissolved isinglass ; put it into a shape, and when cold turn it out.SWEET DISHES, ETC. 86 ORANGE JELLY. Boil a cow’s heel in two quarts of water, till it is quite done, and the water reduced to a quart; strain it, add a little sifted sugar, the juice of four or five sweet oranges, and four whites of eggs; boil it up once, and strain it through a flannel bag into a shape, which put in a cold place. TAPIOCA JELLY. Soak some tapioca in water for some hours; then simmer it until it becomes clear; then season it with orange juice and sugar. BREAD JELLY. Take a penny roll, pare off the crust, and cut the crumb into slices; toast them on both sides a pale brown; put them into a quart of water, let it simmer gently over the fire until the liquid becomes a jelly; strain it through a thin cloth and flavour it with sugar and orange juice, or with a little broth and salt. FARINACEOUS JELLY. Tapioca, whole rice, pearl barley, and sago, of each two ounces; boil them in two quarts of water over a slow fire; stir while boiling; strain it through a sieve, and flavour it with sugar and orange juice. MILK JELLY. Boil two calves’ feet in two quarts of water, till the feet are well boiled and the water half reduced ; strain it, and when cold take off the fat and remove the jelly from the sediment; then put it into aSWEET DISHES, ETC. 87 saucepan with a little sugar and a quart of milk, add the whites of three eggs, let it boil a quarter of an hour, then strain it through a flannel bag. This jelly can be made of one cow’s heel as well. ARROWROOT JELLY. Stir into three ounces of arrowroot a quart of boiling milk, sweeten it with a little sifted sugar, put it in a shape; when cold turn it out, and ornament the top with red currant jelly. RED JELLY. Make about a quart of clear stock from a calf’s heel; mix with it a pint of red currant juice and two ounces of finely sifted sugar; boil all together for five minutes, strain a little of it into a shape; then place in the centre of the jelly which is in the shape a bunch of cherries or currants, pour the rest of the jelly in, and allow it to get quite cold before it is turned out. CHOCOLATE CREAM. Boil in a pint of good cream five squares of fine chocolate and two ounces of isinglass; when it is dissolved, beat up six yolks of eggs with a pint of cream; season -with sufficient sugar; add this to the chocolate and strain; stir on a gentle lire until it is thick enough, pour it into jelly or custard glasses, and set it aside to cool. CHOCOLATE CREAM. Pound a quarter of a pound of chocolate very fine; pour a pint of milk on it, and allow it to simmer on the fire; mix four ounces of butter with a little milk;88 SWEET DISHES, ETC. beat eight yolks of eggs and a half pound of sugar, and mix all well together; then add the whites of the eggs beat to a cream; put it in a porcelain shape and garnish when cold and turned out, with preserves. CHOCOLATE CREAM. Put into a quart of thick cream one ounce of plain chocolate, and a quarter of a pound of sugar; let it boil, stir it till quite smooth, let it cool; then add the whites of nine eggs whisked to a froth, and put it upon the top of the cream, which should be put into glasses. sultan’s cream. Mix a quarter of a pound of flour smooth with milk; beat along with this eight yolks of eggs, and a quarter of a pound of sugar; pour in half a pint of milk, put all into a pan and beat it with a whisk while on the fire, until it is just going to boil; then, whilst still beating, add the whites of the eggs; melt a quarter of a pound of sugar on a dish, put the hot cream in the middle of the dish, and with a wooden spoon draw the melted sugar in strings all over the cream. STRAWBERRY CREAM. Place either some fresh picked strawberries or strawberry preserve on a dish; then put a thick whipped cream in it, and if the fruit be fresh sweeten it with sifted sugar; on the top ornament it with sweet finger biscuits. Raspberries can be used instead of strawberries.SWEET DISHES, ETC. 89 SNOW CREAM. Stew the pulp of six apples ; beat them, and when cold mix them with the whites of six eggs, whisked to a strong froth ; add four ounces of sugar, whisk the whole together till it becomes stiff, and heap it on a glass dish. CREAM A LA MAZARIN. Rub four ounces of flour smooth in a little milk; bruise four ounces of sweet almonds quite fine and mix with the flour, also four ounces of sifted sugar and eight yolks of eggs, beat the whites to a froth, and mix with a quart of milk; stir all together in a pan on the fire; then put it in a porcelain shape; Avhen cold serve with sweet biscuits. BISCUIT CREAM. Whisk half a quart of cream well, season it with a little sugar; put in a dish some plain sweet biscuits, which may have some red currant jelly on them, and put the cream on them, ornamenting it with pieces of jelly neatly cut out. ORANGE CREAM. Put some simple sponge biscuits on a dish, cover them with sweet orange jelly, and on the top place a thick whipped cream. RED CREAM. Make a very strong jelly of isinglass ; when cold mix it with a double quantity of red currant juice, sweeten it with sifted sugar; then strain it into a shape.90 SWEET DISHES, ETC. RICE BLANC MANGER. Put a teacupful of ground rice into a little cold milk and leave it to swell; then add half a pint of milk and let it boil, stirring it the whole time; dip the mould in cold water and do not dry it; put in the rice and let it get quickly cold: serve it with cream and preserves. RASPBERRY CREAM. Mash the fruit gently and let it drain; then sprinkle a little sugar over it to produce more juice; then put the juice to some cream, sweeten it, and put it into a shape: raspberry jelly will do when the fresh fruit cannot he had. DEVONSHIRE CREAM. Let some new milk stand in a bowl for twelve hours; then place the bowl with the milk in it, into a pan with boiling water, but be careful that no water gets into the bowl; let it simmer for a few minutes, and when the milk begins to move, take the bowl out and let it remain in a cold place for twelve hours; then take off the thick part, which is the cream, and the milk can be used for any common pudding. SPINACH CREAM. Beat the yolks of eight eggs, sweeten them, and put them into a pint of thick cream and three quarters of a pint of milk, stir it well; then add a quarter of a pint of spinach-juice; set it all in a stewpan over a slow fire and stir it until it is very thick; put into a custard dish some soft biscuits and pour the mixture over them : serve it cold.SWEET DISHES, ETC. 91 CARSTORPHINE CREAM. Take two quarts of new milk, put it into a deep basin, set the basin inside a much larger one, and pour quite boiling water into it, taking care that no water gets into the milk; when the water gets cold change it until the milk seems to be quite thick, let the whey run off and squeeze the thick part dry: serve it with sifted sugar. RUSSIAN CREAM. Three whites of eggs to eight ounces of fine sifted sugar, the whites of the eggs to be first beat up alone, and then the sugar put in by degrees while beating: take five pieces of writing paper, on each with a spoon put an oval ring, an inch in thickness, of the prepared sugar and eggs; the largest ring should be made so as to go easily into the dish in which it will be sent to table, the other rings to decrease gradually so as just to rest on each other, when placed according to size on one another; place the papers with the rings in a slow oven; the rings must only be done to a very light brown, and should when cold be quite crisp, which chiefly depends on the eggs being well beat; when arranged on the dish fill the centre with whipped cream. ARROWROOT CREAM. Take a teaspoonful of arrowroot, mix it till quite smooth in a little cold milk; boil a pint of fresh milk with a lump of sugar, pour it boiling on the arrow- root, and stir it till it thickens: this may be put in a form, then allowed to cool, turned out, and served with cream.92 SWEET DISHES, ETC. IMITATION CREAM FOR TARTS. Beat the yolks of two new laid eggs with a pint of good new milk and two lumps of sugar; put it on a stove and stir it one way until it becomes as thick as common cream. STONE CREAM. Take half an ounce of isinglass, dissolve in a little water; then put one pint of good cream, sweeten it and boil it, let it get nearly cold, lay some apricot or raspberry jam on the bottom of a glass dish, and pour it over. MOCK CREAM. Mix half a tablespoonful of flour with a pint of new milk, let it simmer for five minutes; then beat up the yolk of an egg, stir it into the milk while boiling, and run it through a lawn sieve. BLANC MANGER. Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of isinglass in a very little milk, put in it a quarter of a pound of best sweet almonds; add, mixing it well with the isinglass, a quart of milk, let it boil, stir it until nearly cold, and then put it into a mould. ITALIAN CREAM. Whip a quart of very thick cream for twenty minutes, mix with it an ounce of isinglass which has been well dissolved in a little cream ; put in an ounce of finely sifted sugar, colour the cream a light pink with red currant juice, put it into a mould, and then put it in a very cold place.93 SWEET DISHES, ETC. MERINQUEL A LA cREME. Beat the yolks of eight eggs to a stiff froth, mix with it a spoonful of sugar and one of flour; sprinkle sifted sugar over paper, put the whip by spoonfuls on it, strew it with sugar, bake u slowly; have some cream whipped and coloured with raspberry juice, put the merinquel on a dish, and arrange the cream around it. MERINGUES. Whip the whites of four fresh eggs to a firm froth, and mix with them half a pound of fine sifted sugar; drop it on paper in the form of an egg, sift sugar over them, and bake in a slow oven; have some whipped cream, place some of it between each two meringues. „ A RICE A LA CREME EN GRENADE. Wash some rice; then pour a quart of milk on it, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a quarter of a pound of butter; allow it to swell, mix the yolks of four eggs with it; beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add them to the rice, which put in a shape that has been wet with milk ; small raisins may also be mixed with the rice; boil the shape in a pan with water; make a sauce of half a pint of boiled milk, two ounces of sugar, and four yolks of eggs; pour it over the shape when served. » A RICE FLUMMERY A LA CREME. Soak half a pound of ground rice in water, strain it, mix it with two ounces of butter and six ounces of sugar, pour in a pint or more of boiling milk; put it into a shape made wet with milk, let it swell and cool; mix four eggs with sugar, some milk and flour, boil it up once, and put it round the shape: the sauce should not be very thick.94 SWEET DISHES, ETC. MOCK ICE. Pass through a sieve a pint of raspberry juice, to which put a quart of thick cream, and an ounce of melted isinglass; mix them together and put it into a shape; let it get as cold as possible, and turn it out when sent to table. INDIAN TRIFLE. Boil a quart of new milk, thicken it with flour of rice, wet it with a little cold milk, and sweeten with white sugar; pour it into a dish, and when cold cut it into the shape of a star; take out the spare rice and fill the intervals with boiled custard; ornament it with spots of red currant jelly. CHARLOTTE RUSSE. Line a mould with soft sugar biscuits; then fill it with stiff whipped cream, and turn it out. MILK PORRIDGE. Boil a quart of new milk, stir into it either oat or barley meal until it be pretty thick; let it boil five minutes, and serve it with boiled milk or cold butter. CUSTARDS. Beat the yolks of four eggs very well, stir them into a pint of boiling milk, sweeten with sifted sugar, put the pan on a clear fire, keep stirring, and take it off just before it boils; let it cool a little, and then pour it into glasses.95 SWEET DISHES, ETC. STANDING CUSTARD. Make custard according to the above receipt, but while it is hot put in the white of the eggs, which must be well beat; then pour it into a mould, in which there should be placed a piece of thin muslin, which will make the shape take out better; steam it in a steamer for twenty minutes, and serve it quite cold, with or without preserves. BAKED SAGO. Pour on half a pound of sago some cold water, then strain it, and boil it in a pint of milk ; add then four ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, and four yolks of eggs ; mix all well together, with two ounces of raisins and two ounces of currants; put it on a buttered dish with a border of paste; beat up the whites of the eggs, which put on the top, and then bake it for an hour. RICE SHAPE. Wash half a pound of rice, drain it, and put it in a pan with a pint of milk and two ounces of butter; allow it to swell; when cold mix with it the yolks of six eggs, four ounces of butter, a little salt, and quarter of a pound of raisins ; add a cupful of cream and some sifted sugar; put all in a sha]pe, and boil it. EGG AND MILK. Beat up an egg very well in a cup, boil a pint of new milk and pour in into the cup, stirring all the time ; sweeten with sugar, and serve with toasted bread. This will do for breakfast, instead of tea or coffee.SWEET DISHES, ETC. 96 SAGO AND MILK. Boil half a teacupful of sago in two pints of milk ; let it be quite tender; put it into a cup, and serve with cold milk and sugar, or drain it, and press it into little cups, and serve it with cream and preserves. FLOATING ISLAND. Scald an apple before it is quite ripe; beat the whites of two eggs with sugar, and a spoonful of orange juice; mix in the apple, which must have been passed through a sieve ; beat all together, until there is a quantity of froth; serve it on raspberry cream, or the froth may be coloured with beetroot, raspberry or currant jelly, and set on a white cream. FRUMENTY. Boil a quart of wheat, and by degrees mix it with two quarts of new milk ; add four ounces of currants well washed; stir them and boil them well; beat the yolks of three eggs with two or three spoonfuls of milk, mix this to the wheat, allow it to warm, sweeten it with sugar, and serve either hot or cold, in a deep dish. SHAPE OF RICE. Put half a pound of Carolina rice into boiling milk, and let it boil an hour; then put in some butter, sugar, and the yolks of three eggs; beat the whites separately, mix them all well together; butter a mould thickly, and cover it with bread crumbs; put in the rice and allow it to bake an hour; some currants may be mixed with the rice at first : it should be served with custard, or with cream and preserve.SWEET DISHES, ETC. 97 CAKE TRIFLE. Take some sponge or rice cake, cut it in slices, place a third of it at the bottom of a dish; then put a layer of raspberry jam, another of cake; one again of jam, and one of cake; then pour over it some thick custard, made of a pint of milk and three eggs, and on the top put a little whipt cream. RICE BALLS. Pour upon half a pound of rice three pints of boiling milk, and boil it with a little sugar until quite tender; allow it to get cold, and then make it into balls: beat up two eggs, roll up the balls in it, and afterwards in grated crumbs of bread; fry them in lard, drain them on a piece of paper, and serve them up covered with sifted sugar. FRENCH FLUMMERY. Boil slowly two ounces of isinglass in a quart of cream fifteen minutes ; stir all the time, and sweeten it with loaf sugar and the juice of orange, which has been strained; then put the whole through a fine hair sieve into a mould: serve with baked pears round it. RICE PEARS. Boil some rice in milk, mix two eggs with it, and sweeten it, flavouring it with orange jelly; let it be quite thick, make it up into the form of pears, dip them in a little batter made of egg and flour, sprinkle sifted sugar on them, and do them a good brown in the oven; stick a bit of an almond in for a stalk: serve with custard. iiSWEET DISHES, ETC. f)8 PANADA. Cut a slice of stale bread in pieces, boil it in water gently, then mash it, and sweeten it with sugar; chicken broth may be used instead of water, and then the seasoning must be salt. BARLEY AND MILK. Boil three ounces of pearl barley in a quart of milk; add two ounces of currants, and if it is too thick add some more milk; the barley must be well boiled. Rice can be done in the same way. ARROWROOT. Have a pint of boiling milk, stir into it an ounce of arrowroot, and sweeten with sifted sugar. RICE PANCAKES. Boil half a pound of rice to a jelly, in a small quantity of water; when cold, mix it with a pint of cream, eight eggs, and a little salt; stir in eight ounces of butter just warmed, and add as much flour as will make the batter thick enough; fry in as little lard or dripping as possible. CREAM PANCAKES. Mix the yolks of two well beaten eggs with a pint of cream and two ounces of sifted sugar; rub the pan with butter, and fry the pancakes thin.SWEET DISHES, ETC. 99 FLOUR FRITTERS. Mix three ounces of flour with a teacupful of warm milk and a spoonful of yeast; let it rise before the fire for about an hour, then mix four eggs well beaten, and as much milk as will make the batter the usual thickness for pancakes, and fry them in the same way. PLAIN FRITTERS. Grate the crumb of a penny loaf, put it into a pint of milk over the fire, and beat it very smooth ; when cold add the yolks of five eggs, and three ounces of sifted sugar; fry them in lard, and serve with sweet sauce and preserves. ORANGE FRITTERS. Take off1 the rind of two oranges, remove all the white skin, cut the oranges in slices across, and take out the pips; dip the slices in batter, and fry them : serve with powdered sugar upon each fritter. CURD FRITTERS. Rub down in a mortar a quart of dried curd, with the yolks of eight and the whites of four well beaten eggs, two ounces of sifted sugar, and half a spoonful of flour; drop the batter into a frying pan, with a little butter or fine lard. ORANGE BUTTER. Boil six eggs hard, beat them in a mortar with two ounces of fine sugar, three ounces of butter, and two ounces of sweet almonds, beaten to a paste ; moisten with orange juice, and when all is mixed rub it through a cullender on a dish, and serve it between sweet biscuits. ii 2 t100 SWEET DISHES, ETC. ORANGE FOOL. Mix the juice of three oranges, three eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, and some sifted sugar; set it in a pan on the fire, but do not let it boil, allow it only to become thick; put it into a dish, and eat it cold. APPLE FOOL. Pare and core some apples, put them into a stone jar with some brown sugar, let it stew slowly; when done, serve with milk. If liked, some dried currants may be stewed with the apples. MILK PANADA. Boil a quart of milk, mix with it four ounces of either grated biscuits or bread, sweeten with sugar ; a few currants or raisins may be added. EGG PANADA. Melt quarter of a pound of fresh butter in a quart of water, and add to it half a pound of finely grated bread crumbs; beat up the yolks of four eggs with a little salt, mix them with the bread, put all into a pan, and warm. BISCUIT PANADA. Grate a quarter of a pound of water biscuits ; mix with them one ounce of sugar, and the juice of a sweet orange ; warm it in a pint of water.SWEET DISHES, ETC. 101 EGG SOUFFLE. Beat a pint of cream, or very good milk, with five eggs, for a quarter of an hour; butter a tin, pour in the milk, and place it in a moderately heated oven; when it rises, serve it immediately in the tin. It may be seasoned with orange juice, or eat with jam of various kinds. PAP SOUFFLE. With four tablespoonfuls of flour and as much milk as is requisite, make stiff pap; add before it is cold six ounces of butter, and beat it up well with six yolks of eggs ; add sufficient sugar, and the whites of eggs beat to a snow; put all into a buttered tin; bake in a cool oven; sprinkle with sugar, and serve. BREAD PANCAKES. Beat up four eggs ‘ very well, season with salt; cut some slices of roll about an inch thick, allow them to soak for an hour in the eggs, and then fry them ; serve them quite hot. BREAD OMELETTE. Mix four spoonfuls of flour smooth with milk; beat up eight eggs, add some salt, and mix it with a quart of milk; then cut a roll in slices and fry them in butter; put them on a dish with some raisins on them, and pour the mixture on them ; then bake them.102 SWEET DISHES, ETC. SARDINIAN OMELETTE. Beat the whites of eight eggs to a stiff froth, then beat them up with the yolks; add a little sugar; with this bake three or four omelettes at once; put them on a dish in the oven, in such a manner that one side only is browned; then take them out, strew them with sugar; bake now another portion in the same manner, lay them on the first, strew them with sugar, and go on thus until all the mixture is used. EGGS ON TOAST. Beat up four eggs, put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter, a little salt, and a spoonful of gravy ; let them get very hot; pour them on toasted bread, with a few mushrooms on the top. EGG ALB. Boil four eggs hard, remove the shells, and cut them across, preserving the whites in the form of cups ; mince the yolks very fine with cold meat, season with salt, and mix the mince with cream into a thick paste; fill the whites with it, cut a piece off' the round end to make them stand, and serve with a good white sauce. SWEET OMELETTE WITH PRESERVE. Beat up four eggs, add sugar; fry the omelette, lay it on a dish, spread preserve over it, and double it up: serve with sifted sugar on the top.103 SWEET DISHES, ETC. SWEET OMELETTE. Beat up very well three eggs, put them in the pan on the fire, and sprinkle sifted sugar over while frying ; place the omelette on a dish, cover it with sugar, then with a red hot shovel glaze it; cut the edges neatly, roll it up', and serve it. BROWNED EGGS. Butter a dish well, sprinkle it with salt, then break the eggs very carefully, so as not to disturb the yolks; melt a small quantity of butter, pour it gently over, with one or two spoonfuls of cream ; put the dish in the oven, and finish the eggs by covering them with a red hot shovel. / APPLE SOUFFLE. Prepare some apples as if for sauce ; sweeten them, beat them through a sieve, and put them into a tart dish; when cold, pour a rich custard over it, about two inches deep; whip the whites of the eggs of which the custard was made to a snow, and lay it in small rough pieces on the custard; sift fine sugar over, and put it into a moderate oven for a short time. This souffle can be made of gooseberries instead of apples. ✓ OMELETTE SOUFFLE. Break six eggs, separate the whites from the yolks, put four yolks into a small basin with four ounces of pounded sugar, and a few drops of orange juice; beat up this for five minutes to produce a soft sticky paste, after which beat up the six whites in a104 SWEET DISHES, ETC. basin (much larger than the other) until they are firm, then mix the whole together lightly; butter a silver or tinned copper dish, and pile the mixture as high as possible ; then put it over a not very hot fire, glaze it by sprinkling it over with sugar, and serve it up of a good colour; six or eight minutes is sufficient to cook it. This omelette can be made with orange or chocolate flavour, or even with fruit, strawberries especially; as soon as it is ready it should be eaten, because if it is allowed to stand it neither looks nor eats so well. EGGS. Break some eggs into a small tart dish, without injuring the yolks or laying one over the other; drop on them some melted butter, and lightly strew crumbs of bread ; put it into the oven until the whites set, and serve with a wreath of parsley round the edge. CHEESE SOUFFLE. Grate half a pound of cheese, mix the yolks of three eggs with a teacupful of cream and a little salt, beat the whites of the eggs very well, and add them just when going into the oven; bake twenty minutes. SOUFFLE. Take two ounces of potato flour ; mix it with half a pint of boiled cream, add a very little sugar, a piece of butter, and a little salt; break six eggs, add four only of the yolks beaten to a cream ; beat the six whites to a froth, and pour them gently onSWEET DISHES, ETC. 105 the other ingredients into a souffle dish: put it into an oven moderately warm, and when done powder a little sugar over it, and finish with a salamander. Souffles must be served up the moment they are ready, as they are liable to sink. / SOUFFLE POTATOES. Wash twelve moderate sized potatoes very well, and bake them thoroughly; then cut out a round piece of the skin about the size of a shilling, and scoop out the whole of the inside ; mash the potatoes very smoothly, rub them through a sieve ; add a piece of butter, a little salt, and half a pint of milk mixed with cream ; boil the whole ; whip the whites of three eggs until stiff, mix it on the fire with the potatoes, then fill up the skins; bake them in a quick oven, and serve up in a napkin. MAIZE CROQUETTES. Take a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, half a quarter of a pound of maize flour, the same quan- tity of ordinary flour, the same weight of fresh butter, and a squeeze of an orange; mix all well together until it is formed into a paste; roll this paste out very thin with a rolling pin; cut it into any shape you please; bake them in an oven moderately heated: serve them with pounded sugar. POMMES DAMOUR. Hollow out six apples ; put them on a dish, each on a piece of plain paper; fill them with thick cream, sprinkle sugar over them, and bake them slowly : garnish with sweet blanched almonds.SWEET DISHES, ETC. 106 CHARLOTTE OF APPLES. Butter a shape, line it with thin slices of bread without the crust, fill it with apples cut in slices after having been peeled and cored, mix with them three ounces of butter and the same quantity of sugar; mix some apricot jam with them; fill the shape, cover it with bread, and bake it half an hour. APPLES A LA TURQUE. Pare and cut some apples, put them in a pan with three ounces of butter, and the same quantity of sifted sugar ; allow them to stew gently; then boil half a pound of rice, with four yolks of eggs, four ounces of butter, six ounces of sugar, and a very little salt; butter a mould, and put an inch high of rice in it, then put as much of the apples, and go on so until the mould be full; then bake it an hour: serve it with thick custard. APPLE PODS. Make a good plain paste, cut it in oval pieces, lay stewed apples seasoned with sugar on them, and fold them lengthways; pinch the edges, and bake them. BAKED APPLES. Take a shape, butter it, pare some apples, cut them in thin slices, put a layer of them in the shape, then one of stewed plums; add sugar, and continue with the layers of fruit until the dish is full; bake it, and serve it with whipped cream round it.SWEET DISHES, ETC. 107 APPLES A LA HEINE. Put a border of paste round a dish ; mix a quarter of a pound of very finely bruised sweet almonds with half a pound of sugar and six yolks of eggs; butter the dish, put this on it; pare and core some apples, put on each a bit of butter, and on the top put the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth ; bake it half an hour. APPLE FRITTERS. Pare some apples, cut them in thin slices; have ready a batter made of two eggs, a little milk, and flour; dip the slices in this, and fry them in lard; serve with sifted sugar over them. APPLE FRITTERS. Beat two eggs, put them in a pint of milk, make this into a thick batter with flour; take some apples and cut them (after they have been pared) in thin round slices ; dip each slice in the batter, and fry them in boiling lard, over a quick fire. APPLE MERINGUES. Make a pyramid of apples stewed in sugar, beat the whites of two eggs with two ounces of sifted sugar, put in on the apples, and bake it two hours. BUTTERED APPLES. Peel the apples and remove the core without cutting them through, taking care not to break them ; cut slices of bread the circumference of the apples, butter a dish, put the bread on it, and place anSWEET DISHES, ETC. 108 apple on each piece of bread; fill the hole made by the removal of the core with white sugar, place a bit of butter the size of a walnut on each hole, put them into a gentle oven, and renew the sugar and butter several times ; they will require twenty minutes or half an hour: be very careful not to let the bread burn, or the apples lose their shape. APPLES IN THEIR DRESSING GOWNS. Roll out a paste made with butter very thin; cut it into square pieces about as large as the hand, touch each corner with beat egg, place a nice small apple in each piece of paste, fold up the ends over the apple, brush all over with beat egg, and bake slowly. RAMARKINS. Take two eggs, two spoonfuls of flour, two ounces of melted butter, and two ounces of grated cheese; mix all well together, and bake it in moulds or tartpans for a quarter of an hour. FRIED RAMARKINS. Grate half a pound of cheese and melt two ounces of butter; when the latter is getting cold mix it with the cheese, and the whites of three well beaten eggs; lay buttered papers on a fryingpan, put slices of bread upon it, and lay the cheese on the top ; set it on the fire for five minutes, then brown it with a salamander.109 SWEET DISHES, ETC. GRENADE OF PLUMS. Cut some fresh plums half through, take out the stones, strew sugar over them; beat together half a pint of cream and the yolks of eight eggs, mix this with the plums; have some plain fritters of batter, -place the fruit on the top, and cover them with fritters, and bake with sugar on them. BEIGNETS OF RICE. Put half a pound of rice in water; then drain it and boil the rice in milk with some sugar and butter ; let it get cold, and mix with it the yolks of four eggs, also a whole egg; then place the rice on the baking board in stripes, smooth them w'ith a knife dipt in egg, cover them with egg, bread crumbs and flour; then bake or fry them and sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them w ith a hot iron: the beignets may also be made round with apples or pears put in the centre. BEIGNETS DE RIZ. Cut in thin slices a small rice cake, fry them in butter, and serve with sugar sprinkled over them. CROQUETTES DE RIZ. Prepare rice as for a cake or pudding, with eggs and milk; make it up in small rolls with sugar, roll them in bread crumbs, fold them, and again roll them in the bread; then fry them nicely in lard. BAKED GRITS. Take half a pound of grits; which put in a pan with a pint of boiled milk, two ounces of sugar, and two ounces of butter; put it on the fire to swell,110 SWEET DISHES, ETC. and then beat three ounces of butter and five eggs to a stiff froth ; add to it four ounces of sugar; mix all together well, put it in a shape, and bake it an hour: serve with preserves. BAKED RICE. Mix half a pound of flour with a pint of milk, two ounces of butter, and three ounces of sugar; put it in a pan and boil it gently; mix in another pan a quarter of a pound of butter, the yolks of eight eggs, two ounces of sweet almonds, and two ounces of small raisins; the whites of the eggs beat to a froth, and all well mixed and put in a buttered mould ; then bake an hour and a half. PAIN BLANC. Take two round white rolls, cut them in slices, taking off the outside; put the crumb in milk with a beat egg and a little sugar, let it be well soaked; put it in a deep dish, cover it with preserved apples, plums, oranges, or cherries; on the top put a thick cream, on which sprinkle sugar, and then bake it. SNOW BALLS WITH ALMONDS. Make a paste with a pint and a half of milk, two ounces of butter, and half an ounce of sugar; this boil, and mix in three quarters of a pound of flour ; blanch and bruise two sweet almonds very fine, mix them with the paste, beat in it six whole eggs and two yolks, mix it very well; draw it out with a spoon on buttered paper, bending it in a serpentine form ; then bake it, and serve it with sifted sugar strewed over.Ill SWEET DISHES, ETC. CURRANT FRITTERS. Make a light batter of flour, one egg, and milk, sweeten with sugar; have some dried currants washed and mix with the batter; drop a spoonful in a pan with lard, fry them, and serve with sifted sugar and melted butter. BAKED PEARS. Pears which are not so good to eat raw can be used; choose ripe ones, and without paring them, lay them on tin plates and bake them in a slow oven ; when enough done flatten them with a spoon, put them on a dish with sifted sugar over them, and serve with cream. STEWED PEARS. Pare and cut in quarter some large pears, put them into water; pack them round a block tin stew- pan, and sprinkle as much sugar over as will make them rather sweet; just cover them with water; cover the stewpan, and allow them to stew three or four hours : the juice of an orange may be added. SPANISH TART. Pound a quantity of sugar equal to the weight of eight eggs extremely fine ; beat the whites of the eggs to a very firm froth, add the sugar by degrees whilst beating; spread this mixture on paper in oval shaped flat portions of equal size, and bake them in a very moderately heated oven, so that the outside becomes light yellow and the inside quite crisp : arrange them now on a dish with preserves of any kind between them, and cover the top with icing.SWEET DISHES, ETC. 112 IMPERIAL TART. Pound a quarter of a pound of sugar with an equal weight of blanched sweet almonds very finely; beat in a mortar the yolks of eight hard boiled eggs, with a quarter of a pound of butter, mix all well together in a bowl; then add two tablespoonfuls of flour, and mix well for a quarter of an hour; butter a shape, put into it the mixture, and bake slowly. ALMOND TARTLETS. Cover pattypans with light paste; boil a quart of cream with half a pound of sugar and eight whites of eggs, keep stirring, but allow it to boil until only a cupful is left; mix also the eight yolks of the eggs with a quarter of a pound of butter, and half a pound of sweet almonds peeled and beat very fine ; add this to the boiled things, and fill the tartlets with it; then bake them. ALMOND NUTS. Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds, bruise them in a mortar with a very little water; then mix with them two ounces of flour and three ounces of sifted sugar; put this in a pan on a slow fire for a short time; then take it out and knead it on a baking board, with two ounces of sugar and two ounces of flour; cut it then in little bits, which make up into the form of nuts; dry them in the oven on paper. MOUNTAIN OF ALMONDS. Take half a pound of sweet almonds, quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and six whites of eggs ; bruise the almonds very fine, and mix them with theSWEET DISHES, ETC. 113 whites of the eggs and sugar for a long time; stir in gradually half a pound more of sifted sugar, spread the mixture on a buttered tin and bake it; when baked cut it into long shaped pieces; arrange them in an upright cylindrical form on a dish, fastening them together by means of melted sugar; fill the centre of the cylinder with whipt cream, and with a wooden spoon make a net work of melted sugar over the whole. ALMOND TART. Take a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, which peel and bruise very fine in a mortar; mix them to a paste with the almonds; put all in a pan with the sugar, stir it till smooth ; then put it on a baking board and knead it with a quarter of a pound of flour, and roll it the thickness of an inch ; make it a neat shape, prick it, and bake it. SWEET MACAROONS. Take half a pound of sweet almonds, a pound of sugar, and the whites of six eggs; beat all well, and mix over the tire; spread it then on wafers, and sprinkle it with sugar before it is baked. FRUIT FINGERS. Roll out any bits of puff" paste left from covering a tart, spread preserve on each bit, and put them on the top of each other; glaze the last with the yolk of an egg; bake it, an d cut it in oblong pieces, and pile them on a dish. RICE PASTE. Boil two ounces of ground rice in a pint of milk till it becomes quite thick; before it is quite cold put in an egg beat up and one ounce of butter; put iSWEET DISHES, ETC. 114 some fresh fruit or preserve in a dish, and spread over it the paste; bake it twenty minutes, and serve it with some sifted sugar on the top. RICE PASTE ANOTHER WAY. Take two ounces of ground rice and some butter, work it like short crust, adding a little sugar to make it eat crisply, only using wheaten flour to roll it out with: more or less butter must be added, according to the richness required. ORANGE TARTLETS. Line small pattypans with puff paste, fill them with orange jelly : they can either be covered or not. GREEN APRICOT PIE. Take the stones out of the fruit; stew the apricots after they have been cut in pieces, in a very little water and sugar; when tender reduce and thicken the syrup; put it with the fruit in a dish, and cover it with puff paste. GRAPE PIES. Take very small grapes, clarify the sugar; line pattypans with light paste, put in the fruit with a little syrup, cover with paste and bake them. ORANGE TART. Squeeze the juice of a sweet orange upon some plainly stewed apples without water, add a very little sifted sugar; choose a very shallow dish, line it with puff paste, spread the fruit on it, cover it with paste; bake it and ice it if to be used cold.SWEET DISHES, ETC. 115 ICING FOR TARTS. Beat the yolk of an egg and some melted butter together, brush it over the tart, and sift sugar on it as you put it into the oven. ICING FOR TARTS. Beat up the white of an egg very well and put it over the paste; then put a quantity of sifted sugar over it. ICING FOR TARTS. Brush the paste over with cold water, and then put pounded sugar over it, and place it in the oven. KUGELHUPF. Melt half a pound of butter; mix with it four ounces of flour, five eggs, and half an ounce of sugar; add a spoonful and a half of yeast, mix it all together for three quarters of an hour, put it in a neat shape on buttered paper; then strew it over with bread crumbs, and bake it in a pretty hot oven. KUGELHUPF WITH ALMONDS. Mix with half a pound of melted butter, five eggs beat to a cream, also a quarter of a pound of bruised sweet almonds and some sifted sugar; add a little flour and a spoonful or more of yeast; let it stand to rise for a while after it has been well mixed; then put it into a shape aDd bake it for an hour; a quarter of a pound of small raisins can likewise be added.SWEET DISHES, ETC. 116 WAFERS. Half a pound of clarified butter with nine yolks of eggs beat to a froth, some sugar, and ten ounces of flour; the whites of the eggs very well beat, a spoonful and a half of good yeast, and a pint of cream, all exceedingly well mixed together ; allow it to stand two hours; then with wafer irons rubbed with butter bake them, and sprinkle with sugar. WAFERS WITHOUT YEAST. One pound of clarified butter rubbed to a cream, with fourteen yolks of eggs and one ounce of sifted sugar ; then add a pound of fine flour and half a quart of cream slowly; whip with a whisk the whites of the eggs well, mix all together ; the wafers are haked with the irons covered with butter; sprinkle the wafers over with sugar when they are done. VIENNA KRAPFELN. Put on a baking board, a pound of flour, four yolks of eggs, half a pound of melted butter and an ounce of sugar; knead these well with a little milk; roll it out to the thickness of an inch; cut this in round pieces and stick a cherry in the centre; put them in the oven with a little butter on them, and let them brown : if some yeast be mixed with the ingredients at first it will make the krapfeln lighter. TALLIANNI. Take three eggs and a little salt, and as much flour as will make a stiff paste, roll it out as thin as possible; lay a clean cloth on the table, spread theSWEET DISHES, ETC. 117 paste on it, and allow it to stand two hours; then fold it up and cut in strips, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, let it boil ten minutes; take out the tallianni, dry it, and put it into a dish with some gravy and butter. WELCH RABBIT. Cut slices of bread, toast and butter them; then cover them with slices of cheese, and put it in a cheese toaster before the fire. FONDUE. Grate four ounces of parmesan cheese, and beat it in a mortar to a paste; add a piece of butter and beat it well; stir in the yolks of six eggs, and a quarter of a pint of cream ; mix the whole together; then add slowly the whites of the eggs, separately beaten to a froth; pour the mixture into a deep dish, either of block tin or silver, fill it only three parts full, to admit of its rising, and keep stirring it for a few minutes; bake in the oven twenty minutes. FONDUE A LA PARISIENNE. Boil half a pint of milk with an ounce of butter and a little salt; then by degrees mix in a spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire for five minutes; then add the yolks of six eggs and the whites of two, well beaten; then put in the other four whites of the eggs beaten to a froth; the batter should be the thickness of good cream; make little paper trays, fill them three parts full, and bake them in a very slow oven twenty minutes.SWEET DISHES, ETC. 118 FRUIT FRITTERS. Take the stones out of some cherries and plums, stew them and sweeten them with sugar; then make half a pound of flour, half a pint of milk, and six eggs into eight or ten fritters; fry them, spread them with the fruit, and arrange them on a plate. POLISH TRIFLE. Peel four ounces of sweet almonds, and bruise them in a mortar, adding by degrees a pint and a half of milk; boil and strain it, boil it again with some sifted sugar and the juice of an orange; put some rusks on a dish and pour over them the half of this sauce ; beat the yolks of four eggs with the rest of the sauce, adding some chocolate, and put it on the dish; then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and lay it on the top. BAISERS. Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff foam, with two ounces of sugar and a little water; put this on buttered paper in drops the size of a nut, dry them in the oven; have the whites of two eggs beat up with sugar, and place some always between two of the kisses; make a thick custard of the yolks of the eggs, and arrange the kisses on the top. MACARONI WITH BREAD CRUMBS. Wash the macaroni; then simmer it in half milk and half broth, with a little salt; when quite tender take it out of the liquor and lay it on a dish; grateBREAD AND CAKES. 119 a quarter of a pound of cheese on the top, and cover the whole with grated bread crumbs; then pour some nicely melted butter over the crumbs, and brown it in the oven. MACARONI BROWNED. Boil the macaroni in milk until it is soft, adding salt for seasoning; when tender drain it, and lay it in concentric circles on a dish, placing small pieces of butter and grated cheese on every layer; put a good deal of grated cheese and butter on the top, and put it into the oven for a quarter of an hour; let it be brown on the top. PORRIDGE. Have a quart of water boiling in a pan, stir in by degrees oatmeal until it is thick, let it boil a while, adding a little salt; then pour it out into soup plates, and serve it quite hot with cream or milk: barley meal is made in the same way. BEE AD and CAKES. FRENCH BREAD. To two quarts of flour put a pint of milk, a little salt, two ounces of melted butter, and one ounce of German yeast; whisk the fluids together, and add two beat eggs; mix the flour with it, handling it as little as possible; let the dough rise, and mould the bread into rolls: bake on tins, in a quick oven.BREAD AND CAKES. 1-20 VIENNA ROLLS. Warm a pint of milk, with two ounces of butter; add a little salt ; put it into a basin and thicken it with flour, as for bread ; knead it very well, put in the size of a nut of German yeast which has been allowed to work as usual; set the basin before the fire for an hour, but let it be covered with a cloth ; then on the baking board roll it out rather thin, cut it into triangular pieces, which roll up, leaving the corner out; bend them at the ends to form a cres- cent, then bake a light brown, and do the tops over with white of egg. BATH CAKES. Roll half a pound of butter into a pound of flour, and add four beat eggs and a glassful of yeast; set it before the fire to rise; then put in four ounces of sifted sugar; roll out the paste into thin sheets, and stamp it out in rounds; bake on tins: they should rise very light. SALLY LUNNS. Make them as French bread, but dissolve some sugar in hot milk, and when made into buns, spread it over the top. ALMOND BREAD. Take little fresh baked rolls, take out the centre, and fill them with sweet almonds and sugar bruised fine, quarter of a pound of each, mixed with three yolks of eggs ; then put the whites of the eggs well beaten in, and bake them; they can be put in milk soup.BREAD AND CAKES. 121 FRENCH BISCUITS. Take the weight of three eggs of flour, and the weight of four eggs of sugar; mix the yolks of the eggs for half an hour with the sugar, then beat up the whites well, add them to the yolks, and put in the flour; put it into small shapes, strew sugar over them, and bake them slowly. SUGAR BISCUITS. Half a pound of sugar, the same quantity of flour, two whole eggs, and four yolks, should be beat together for half an hour ; put by small spoonfuls this mixture on buttered paper, then strew them thickly with fine sifted sugar, and bake them in a slow oven; these biscuits can be made of any shape. ALMOND BISCUITS. Take quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, which peel and bruise very finely, five eggs, quarter of a pound of sugar, and an ounce of flour, mix them well; spread it on buttered paper, then cut it in strips or squares, and bake it in a slow oven. RUSKS. Beat seven eggs well, and mix with half a pint of milk in which have been melted four ounces of butter; add to it quarter of a pint of yeast, and three ounces of sugar, and put them by degrees into as much flour as will make a very light paste, rather like a batter; let it rise before the fire for half anBREAD AND CAKES. 122 hour, then add a very little more flour to make it stiffer; work it well, and divide it into small loaves about five inches wide, and flatten them ; when baked and cold, slice them the thickness of rusks, and put them in the oven to brown a little. BISCUITS TO USE WITH PRESERVES. Take equal quantities of butter and flour, a little salt, and two eggs; knead the whole together into a paste, roll it out thin, and cut it in large rounds; mark them with the back of the knife in lines, so as to form diamonds; put them into the oven for quarter of an hour; take them out; beat up two eggs with a little cream and some salt, pour it over the cakes, and return them to the oven to bake for another quarter of an hour. PLAIN BISCUITS. Rub a pound of flour, six ounces of butter, and three large spoonfuls of yeast, and make it into a paste, with a sufficient quantity of new milk; cut the biscuits, and prick them with a fork. KRINGLES. Beat well the yolks of eight eggs, and whites of two, and mix with four ounces of butter just warmed; with this knead a pound of flour and four ounces of sugar to a paste ; roll into thick biscuits, prick them, and bake on tin plates. OAT CAKES. Have a basin with a pint of cold water in it, put in a very little salt, mix well with the water three handfuls of oatmeal, turn it on to the baking board,123 BREAD AND CAKES. knead it up with dry meal, and roll it out very thin into a round, which cut in four; have the girdle hot, put the cakes on it for a few minutes, then toast them before the fire; they are eaten with butter. ROTTEN CAKES. Take about the size of a walnut of butter, mix it well with a handful of oatmeal, knead it up with dry meal ; the less it is worked with the better; form it into a flat round shape with the hand, allowing it to be about half an inch thick; bake it on a girdle. These cakes should be crisp when properly done. LADIES’ KISSES Make a paste, as for biscuits, of six ounces of potato flour; beat this very well, spread it thinly on buttered paper, and bake for nearly twenty minutes; cut them out in small rounds, and glaze them with white or pink icing. ALMOND CAKE. Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds, cut them in four, put them on a tin in the oven to dry; mix the whites of two eggs and half a pound of sifted sugar well, put this under the almonds, and let it bake an hour; put it on wafers, and let it cool for three or four hours. ALMOND GARLANDS. Blanch and bruise half a pound of sweet almonds, mix them with half a pound of sugar and the whites of four eggs; place this in thick rings on wafers, and bake them in a slow oven.124 BREAD AND CAKES. QUEEN CAKES. Mix a pound of flower, the same of sifted sugar and washed currants ; beat up a pound of fresh butter well, then mix with it eight eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, and put in the other ingredients by degrees ; beat the whole an hour ; butter tins, fill them only half with the batter, sift a little sugar over them, and bake them. PLAIN QUEEN CAKES. Beat eight ounces of butter, and mix with two well beaten eggs; mix eight ounces of dried flour, and the same of sifted sugar; beat the whole together for half an hour; butter some tins, and bake twenty minutes. BARLEY SCONES. Have a pint of milk and the same quantity of water boiling in a pan ; put in by degrees, stirring all the time, barley meal, until it is pretty thick ; sprinkle some dry meal on the baking board, and turn out the dough on it; knead it as little as possible; roll it out thin, and cut it out in rounds, and imme- diately toast them on a hot girdle; they should be served quite hot, and eat with salt butter. COCOA NUT CHEESECAKES. Take two cocoa nuts, pare, wash, and wipe them dry, then grate them on the flat side that adheres to the shell: dissolve half a pound of white sugar in a little water over the fire; then add the cocoa nuts,BREAD AND CAKES. 125 and allow it just to boil up once; then beat the yolks of four eggs exceedingiy well, mix them with the cocoa nuts, and beat them all together for half an hour ; bake them in patty pans in a light crust, sifting sugar over them before they are put into the oven. SIMPLE RICE CAKE. Half a pound of ground rice and half a pound of fine sifted sugar mixed; beat six ounces of butter, and add it to the rice and sugar, also six eggs well beat; when all is well mixed put it into a shape, or in some little shapes, and bake half an hour. RICE CAKE. Take nine ounces of well dried flour, nine ounces of ground rice, twenty ounces of sifted sugar, and twelve eggs; beat the eggs and sugar well together; then add the flour and rice, beat it all together for half an hour; bake it in a tin twenty minutes. DIET CAKE. Boil a pound of loaf sugar in a pint of water, whisk it with eight eggs until cold; then stir in a pound of fine flour, and keep beating until it is put into the oven, which, if it be quick, will bake it in an hour. HONEY CAKE. Boil one pound of honey, then put it in a dish to cool; add three tablespoonfuls of sugar, the yolks of ten eggs and the whites of five to the honey; beat it for half an hour ; add half a pound of flour, and lastly the whites of five eggs, which beat up well; put it into a buttered mould, and heat in a hot oven: treacle may be used instead of honey.BREAD AND CAKES. 126 CHOCOLATE CAKES. Half a pound of finely sifted sugar, four whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, four ounces of chocolate; mix all together, and put it on a tin in pieces the size of half-a-crown ; bake in a moderate oven. LITTLE WHITE CAKES. Dry half a pound of flour, rub into it a very little pounded sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, and as much milk and water as to make a paste; roll it thin and cut it out in little rounds: bake fifteen minutes on tin. LITTLE SHORT CAKES. Rub into a pound of dry flour four ounces of butter, four ounces of white sugar, one egg, and a spoonful or two of thin cream to make it into a paste; add some currants, roll it out thin, and cut in rounds: bake twenty minutes. SWISS CAKES. Mix four ounces of fine flour, two ounces of sifted sugar, and half a pound of butter to a paste, with the white of an egg, and a sufficient quantity of milk ; roll it thin, cut into biscuits, and brush them over with the yolk of an agg, over which sift fine sugar: bake them on tins. A PLAIN CAKE. A pound and a half of flour, half a pound of butter, ditto of sugar, two spoonfuls of yeast, and if liked, a few currants.127 BREAD AND CAKES. VIENNA CAKE. One pound of flour, the same quantity of butter and of sifted loaf sugar, and the yolks of fourteen eggs, the whole to be beaten together for three quarters of an hour; then beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, mix one half of them in the paste, and keep beating until the whole is soft and light; cut pieces of paper the size and shape of the dish to be used, spread the paste upon them, put it into the oven, let it bake but not get brown; then spread with jam and jelly; pile up the cake, let it remain till quite cold, and then beat up the whites of the eggs with sugar and pour it over the cake; ornament it with beetroot juice; let it dry in the oven. MILK CAKES. Dry three pounds of flour, and rub into it one pound of sifted sugar, and one pound of butter; make it into a paste with three quarters of a pint of boiling new milk, roll very thin, and cut in rounds; prick them with a fork, and bake in a slow oven. PLUM CAKE. Beat a pound of butter to a cream, add a pound of sifted sugar, and a pound of flour, mix them very well; have eight eggs beaten, and put in also a pound of currants, mix all together for half an hour; put it into a buttered tin, and bake in a hot oven. CAKE WITH PRESERVES. Beat a pound of butter to a cream, add a pound of brown sugar, and beat it with the butter ten minutes; then put in eight eggs, and mix all very128 BREAD AND CAKES. smooth ; then pour in a pound of flour, and a pound of currant or raspberry jam, mix all very well, and put it in a shape; bake two hours. A DUTCH CAKE. Beat seven whites of eggs to a froth; mix the yolks one by one with a pound of flour, add sufficient lukewarm milk to make it the consistence of common paste; then add to it half a pound of melted butter, two teaspoonfuls of sugar and a little yeast; work id for half an hour, after which add the whites of the eggs; put it into a buttered mould, place it before the fire to rise a little, and put it in the oven to bake. LINCOLNSHIRE CAKE. Take a quartern of dough ready to make bread, mix well with it a pound of good lard; then add a pound of currants, a pound of brown sugar, and a little salt; this quantity will make two cakes, which bake in a hot oven : this cake should be kept a week or more before it is cut. LITTLE PLUM CAKES. Dry one pound of flour, mix it with six ounces of finely sifted sugar; beat six ounces of butter to a cream, and add to three well beaten eggs half a pound of currants washed and nicely dried, and the flour and sugar ; beat all for some time; then dredge flour on tin plates, and drop the batter on them the size of a walnut; if properly mixed it will be a stiff paste : bake in a brisk oven.129 BREAD AND CAKES. PLAIN SPONGE CAKE. Take half a pound of the finest flour, mix with it half a pound of finely sifted sugar, and four eggs beat very well, also a quarter of a pound of fresh butter beat to a cream; when these things are all well mixed together, put them into one buttered shape, or into little buttered tins, and bake in the oven for half an hour. SPONGE CAKE WITH PRESERVES. Bake a plain sponge cake in a round mould about six or eight inches in diameter, and afterwards cut it into slices; put between each layer of cake one of preserves, each of a different sort, with straw- berries at the top ; cover the whole cake with a thick icing of sugar, ornamented with red icing. ADELAIDE CAKE. Take half a pound of butter, beat it to a froth; then mix it with half a pound of currants, half a pound of sifted sugar, and half a pound of flour; put in four very well beaten eggs, mix all very well together; put it in a buttered tin and bake twenty minutes. LINTZ CAKE. Beat a quarter of a pound of fresh butter to a cream, put into it a quarter of a pound of very finely sifted sugar, mix it for twenty minutes; then add six ounces of sweet almonds pounded very fine, and two whole eggs ; beat up four eggs very well, mix with them a quarter of a pound of flour, add this to the other ingredients, and mix all well together; have a round tin lined with buttered paper, fill it half; then put wafer over it, spread it thickly with jam; then put in the rest of the dough; bake it in a cool oven, and ice it when cold.130 BREAD AND CAKES. ICING FOR CAKES. Beat up the white of an egg very well; have ready three ounces of sugar sifted as fine as possible, mix it by degrees with the white of egg with a spoon, cover the cake with it; put it in a cold place, and when quite firm it can be ornamented by taking some of the same mixture and colouring it to a light pink with beetroot juice, or red currant jelly: the pink icing is best put on in the following manner:— take a piece of writing paper and twist it in the form of a loaf of sugar, half fill it with the sugar and egg, leaving a small hole for the stuff to run through; make what figures you please with it. BALAS. A pound and a quarter of flour, a small teacupful of yeast, half a pint of warmed milk, one pound of butter, and four eggs; make a hole in the flour, and pour into it the milk, eggs and yeast, mix them all well together; beat the dough, adding the butter by degrees; let it stand for an hour to rise; then mix * with it half a pound of sifted sugar, and put it into buttered tins. SHORT BREAD. Mix half a pound of the best flour with half a pound of quite fresh butter, work it as little as possible; the butter should be melted before being mixed with the flour; sweeten with half an ounce of very finely sifted sugar, roll it out an inch in thick- ness, and put it into a flat buttered tin; bake in a quick oven till it is quite short.131 PRESERVES. SHORT BREAD. A pound and a half of flour, three quarters of a pound of brown sugar, and three quarters of a pound of butter; melt the butter in a pan, and then mix the flour and sugar with it; take it out of the pan and roll it out the thickness of half an inch; bake it in a moderate oven for half an hour. PRESERVES. ORANGE JAM. Take sweet oranges, sqeeze them, pass as much of the pulp as will go through a sieve ; to every quart of fruit put a pound of white sugar, and boil it twenty minutes. ORANGE JELLY. Squeeze the juice from some sweet oranges, strain it through a fine hair sieve, and to every pint of juice put a full pound of good loaf sugar, and a quarter of an ounce of dissolved isinglass; let it boil for twenty minutes. ORANGES IN SYRUP. Peel six or more sweet oranges, remove the white skin also ; place them on a dish, and pour some clear syrup, made from white sugar, over them. k 2132 PRESERVES. ICED ORANGES. Carefully remove the skin and all the pulp of the orange, separate it into four parts by the natural division without cutting, pass a thread through the strong filaments at the central portions of these divisions, tie it so as to form a ring to suspend it by; make small S shaped hooks of iron wire; melt sugar in a pan, dip the quarters of the orange one by one into the sugar, hang them up on a rod by means of the iron hooks; this should be done very quickly, in order not to let the sugar burn during the operation. COMPOSITION SWEETMEAT. Take two pottles of ripe red gooseberries, two of red raspberries, two of strawberries, and three of red currants; bruise' and mix them together in a deep dish, and to every pint of fruit put a pound of sugar beat fine; then boil it half an hour, stirring it all the time. STRAWBERRY OR RASPBERRY PRESERVE. A Pick the fruit and boil it with the proportion of three quarters of a pound of sifted sugar to every pound of fruit; some red currant juice may be put in; boil the whole half an hour; skim it carefully, and put it into jars. GOOSEBERRY CHEESE. Gather the rough red gooseberries when quite ripe ; bake them until they are a perfect mash, pass them through a hair sieve, then put them into a preserving pan and boil them gently; to every pound of gooseberries put three ounces ot sugar; they must boil several hours in order to obtain the proper thickness.PRESERVES. 133 DRIED GOOSEBERRIES. Put five pounds of gooseberries into a stewpan, and strew over them one pound of sugar; set them on a slow fire; when the syrup begins to come out, take them off; scald them in this way for two or three days, then take them out of the syrup, place them upon a sieve, and put them before the fire to dry; they may be dipped into powdered white sugar when taken out of the syrup, and thus candied. They should be kept in a tin box, with paper laid between them. GOOSEBERRIES DONE LIKE HOPS. Take very large green gooseberries, but not ripe ones, cut them across the top, and half way down, in four petals; remove the seeds without breaking the skins; then take fine long thorns, scrape them, and skewer the gooseberries one over the other, throwing them into water as they are strung; then put them into a preserving pan with an equal weight of white sugar; boil them until they grow clear, and put them into pots used for dessert. GOOSEBERRY WAFERS. Gather the gooseberries when ripe, put them into a jar in a pan of water; after they have boiled, strain them through a sieve, and to every pound of fruit add ,three quarters of a pound of sugar and the white of an egg beaten into a stiff froth; mix the whole well together, and spread it upon dishes thinly; dry it sufficiently in a cool oven, cut it into shapes, set them before the fire to harden a little. Damsons or plums can be done in the same way.134 PRESERVES. PRESERVED PEARS. Take two dozen pears, take off the skin, cut them in halves, soak them in boiling water for ten minutes, then pour clarified syrup on them, and boil them for a short time. Apples can be done in the same way, only they must be cored, and longer boiled. JARGANEL PEARS. Pare them very thin, and simmer them in thin syrup; let them lie a few days in it; make the syrup richer, and simmer them again; then strain them, and dry them in a cool oven, or in the sun: they are best kept in syrup, and dried again when wanted. APRICOT JELLY. Boil some ripe apricots until they will mash, add some syrup ; strain it through a coarse sieve, boil it up with some more sugar, skim it until it is clear. Nectarines can be done the same way. APRICOT JAM. Take some ripe apricots, pare them as thin as possible, cut them in quarters, and put away the stones ; put the fruit, with an equal quantity of finely sifted sugar, into an enamelled pan, and boil gently until sufficiently done. DAMSON CHEESE. Gather the damsons on a dry day, bake or boil them till they are quite done; let the juice pass through a fine sieve, and put to every pint of juice a pound of sifted sugar; fill little shapes with it; the remainder of the fruit, if boiled with some biown sugar, will do for common purposes.135 PRESERVES. CHERRY JAM. Stone four pounds of cherries, and put them in a preserving pan with two pounds of white sugar and a pint of currant juice; boil for twenty minutes. CHERRY JAM, FOR TARTS OR PUDDINGS. Take ten pounds of Kentish cherries; boil, and break them as they boil, then put in two pounds of lump sugar; when it has boiled some time add a pint of currant juice; take out the cherry stones, and let it boil up once. DRIED CHERRIES. For four pounds of stoned cherries allow one pound of sugar; dissolve it in a little water, and then boil it, and put in the fruit; skim the liquor two or three times; then take them off, let them remain a few days in the syrup, and boil it again; then pour it over the cherries; let them stand a day or two longer, then take them out, and dry them on a sieve in the sun or in a cool oven; put them in a tin box, keeping them separate with paper. ALMACK PRESERVE. Put into a pan four dozen split plums, two dozen apples, and two dozen pears, pared and cored; boil them without water ; when well blended together, and the stones taken out, stir in three pounds of sugar, and boil them an hour ; put it into wide shallow pots, and cut in slices for use.PRESERVES. 136 APPLE JELLY. Pare and core a peck of codlins; put them into a well tinned stewpan with sufficient water to cover them ; boil the whole to a pulp, and let it run through a flannel bag ; to every pint of juice put half a pound of loaf sugar; let it boil until it jellies; skim it, and put it into pots or moulds. August is the best time to make this jelly, when the codlins are full grown, but not turned. DRIED CURRANTS. Dissolve a sufficient quantity of gum Arabic in a basin of water to make it rather thick; have also a plateful of pounded sugar; dip bunches of ripe red currants into the gum water, and then roll them in the sugar; lay them separately on a dish to dry in the sun: they will not keep well. FRUIT LOZENGES FOR DESSERT. Take currants, cherries, or apricots, stoned; put them into a jar in a pan of water, scald them, and strain them through a sieve, and put to every pint of juice the same weight of finely sifted sugar, and the white of an egg ; beat all together until it becomes quite thick ; then put it upon buttered paper in a slow oven; let it remain there until it will quit the paper; then let it dry, and cut it in shapes.137 BEVERAGES. BEVERAGES. CHICKEN PANADA. Boil a chicken till about three parts done; take off the skin when cold, cut off the meat and pound it to a paste in a mortar, with a little of the water it was boiled in; season with a little salt, and make it thick by adding milk to it so that it can easily be drunk. RICE CAUDLE. Soak some Carolina rice in water an hour, strain it, and put two spoonfuls of it into a pint and half of milk; simmer till it will pulp through a sieve, then add a bit of sugar; if too thick add more milk, and serve with toast. WHITE CAUDLE. Mix two spoonfuls of finely ground oatmeal in a pint of water; two hours previous to using it pour off the water and boil it; then sweeten it. BARLEY WATER. Put two ounces of pearl barley with half an ounce of sifted sugar in a jug, pour on it a quart of boiling water, and let it stand two hours; then strain off the liquor; it may be flavoured with orange juice or currant jelly. ISINGLASS WATER. Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of isinglass in a little milk ; boil it with a pint of new milk until it is reduced to half a pint; season with sugar and orange juice.138 BEVERAGES. WHEY. Put a pint of quite new milk before the fire ; add half a spoonful of rennet; when the curd forms cut it, to allow the whey to escape ; then strain it through a very fine sieve. RASPBERRY OR CURRANT WATER. The juice of either raspberries or currants mixed with water, made very cold, and sweetened a little. ' BREAD WATER. Grate as fine as possible some stale bread, soak it in a little cream, sweeten it with sugar, and add sufficient water to make it easy to drink: it should stand an hour or two. BARLEY WATER WITH HONEY. if Boil in a quart of water a teacupful of pearl barley; strain it, and mix a tablespoonful of honey with it, adding, if liked, a little orange juice. APPLE WATER. Cut two apples in slices and pour a quart of boiling water on them; add a little sifted sugar, and let it stand some time; then strain it. WATER GRUEL. Put a large spoonful of oatmeal by degrees into a pint of water, and when smooth boil it; season with a little salt or sugar.139 BEVERAGES. TOAST AND WATER. Toast slowly a piece of bread ; let it be very brown but not black; plunge it into a little boiling water and fill up the jug with cold water; cover it up and let it become quite cold, and of' a bright brown. ORANGEADE. Squeeze and strain the juice of a large orange, put it into a pint of cold water, and if necessary add a little sifted sugar. ORGEAT. Beat two ounces of sweet almonds with a spoonful of orange juice, and pour on it a quart of milk and water; sweeten with sugar. SWEET BUTTER MILK. Milk a cow into a small churn and begin to churn the milk ten minutes after it has been drawn; continue churning until the flakes of butter swim about pretty thick, and the milk is thin and blue; strain through a sieve. COCOA* Take two ounces of cocoa nibs and put them in a coffee boiler (but which has never been used for making coffee) with two pints of water; allow it to simmer for eight hours by the side of the fire, and then pour it gently off for use, leaving the nibs in the boiler, to which, if another ounce is added, it will make other two pints, but it should not be used oftener than twice. * Prepared cocoa and chocolate, without any admixture of spices, are to be had of any of the Homoeopathic Chemists. From experience we can recommend those prepared and sold by Mr. Headland, Princes-street, Hanover-square, as very delicious beverages. By those however who dislike the prepared cocoa, that given in the text will often be relished.LOZENGES, ETC. HO HOMOEOPATHIC COFFEE. A very good substitute for coffee is made by roasting whole barley, wheat, rye, or maize, with a very little butter; grinding it, and preparing it like ordinary coffee. It has very much the taste of the real Mocha without its injurious effects. TREACLE POSSET. Boil a pint of milk and drop into it a tablespoonful of treacle; then let it boil three minutes: serve it quite hot. LOZENGES, &c. GUM LOZENGES.* To four parts of gum arabic add one part of starch and twelve parts of sugar, add sufficient water to dissolve it; put it by the side of the fire, and when completely dissolved pour it into a shallow dish; when hard cut it into neat lozenge shapes; they may be coloured and seasoned by the addition of beetroot juice, red currant jelly, or orange juice. JUJUBES. Dissolve four ounces of isinglass in as little water as possible; mix with it two ounces of extremely fine sifted sugar; a little orange or red currant jelly may be used to colour it; let it heat well in a jar by the fire ; then pour it on a slab, and when cold cut it in diamonds. * Mr. Headland, Homoeopathic Chemist, prepares a very agreeable lozenge, composed of perfectly unmedicinal sub- stances, which he calls “ Homoeopathic Cough Lozenges.”141 LOZENGES, ETC. SUGAR KISSES. Melt a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar over the fire; mix with it the juice of a sweet orange; let it boil, and then put it in drops on a slab; before they are cold stamp them with a common wafer stamp. BARLEY SUGAR. Clarify and boil some sugar, rub a small slab with oil, and when the sugar is ready pour it on it; cut it in slips, and then while hot twist it. ALMOND GLASS. Take a pound of sweet almonds, bruise them very fine after they have been peeled, mix them with two eggs and three quarters of a pound of sifted sugar; then mix it with other four eggs well; then spread it on wafers and cover it with sugar; then bake it on a flat tin slowly. ALMOND TABLET. Blanch and bruise half a pound of almonds fine, mix them with the whites of two eggs, six ounces of sugar, and with the whites of two more eggs ; spread it on buttered tin, and bake it a light brown; then cut it in long stripes. FRUIT LOZENGES. Boil a jar of black currant jelly until it is so thick that it will cut nicely; pour it on a buttered plate, cut it in small squares, and when cold take them off the plate and dip them in a little flour to prevent them sticking together when put into a box: red currant jelly can be used in this way.LOZENGES, ETC. 142 BLACK LOZENGES. Put half a pound of treacle in a pan with four ounces of butter, stir it till quite mixed and hot; then pour it on flat plates, let it cool a little, and cut it in neat square pieces. POMMADE. Take the marrow out of a beef bone, melt it with as much lard; then let it cool, and mix with it a sufficient quantity of salad oil to make it soft.* TOOTH POWDER.f Take a piece of bread, put it in a covered crucible, which put into a clear fire, and allow it to burn till the bread is perfectly reduced to charcoal; then powder it fine in a mortar. * A pommade similar to this is to be had of most of the Homoeopathic Chemists. •}■ Homoeopathic Tooth Powder is prepared and sold by most of the Chemists, but none of those we have tried is equal in point of simplicity or efficacy to that we have given.INDEX. Adelaide Cake „ Pudding Almack Preserve Almond Biscuits „ Bread „ Cake ,, Garlands „ Glass „ Mountain „ Nuts „ Sauce ,, Tablet „ Tart ,, Tartlets Amber Pudding Apple Charlotte „ Dumpling ,, Pool „ Fritters ,, Jelly „ Meringues „ Pie ,, Pods „ Pudding „ Sauce „ Souffle ,, Water Apples a la Reine • ,, it la Turque .... ,, Baked ........ „ in their Dressing Gowns Apricot Jam „ Jelly Arrowroot „ Cream » Jelly Bagatelle Fruit Pudding . Baisers PAGE. 118 Baked Fowl, Austrian .. 46 Baked Suet Pudding .... 81 Balas 130 Barley and Milk 95 ,, Scones 124 „ Sugar 141 „ Water 137 ,, ,, with Honey 138 Bath Cakes 120 Bechamel Sauce 51 Beef, Broiled 26 ,, Kidneys 29 ,, „ with Rice. ib. ,, Marrow Bones .... 31 ,, Minced Collops .. 30 ,, Olives 26 „ or Veal Pie 27 ,, Palates 31 „ Steak and Macaroni Pie 27 „ Steak Dumpling .. ib. ib. ,, „ with Vegeta- bles .... 26 „ Stewed 25 ,, ,, with Carrots ib. „ „ „ Raisins 26 „ Tea 1 ib. „ „ Strong ib. „ Tongue 28 „ „ & la Polonaise 27 „ „ Grilled .... 28 „ ,, in Currant Juice .... ib. Beetroot, Stewed 59 Beignets de Riz 109 ,, of Rice ib. PAGE. 129 84 135 121 120 123 ib. 141 112 ib. 53 141 113 112 83 74 ib. 100 107 136 107 69 106 74 52 103 138 107 106 ib. 108 134 ib. 98 91 87 75144 INDEX. TAGE. Beignets of Spinach .... 56 Biscuit Cream 89 „ Panada 100 „ Plain 122 ,, Pudding 84 Biscuits to use with Pre- serves 122 Black-cap Pudding .... 85 „ Lozenges 142 Blanc Manger 92 Bohemian Puddings .... 80 Brain Cakes on Spinach.. 42 Bread and Butter Pudding 73 „ and Fruit Pudding . 72 „ Jelly 86 ,, Omelette 101 „ Pancakes ib. „ Pudding 73 „ Puddings ib. ,, Sauce 51 „ Water 138 Brioche Paste 63 BrocoliandButteredEggs 58 Broth, Barley 11 „ Calves’ Feet .... 6 „ Mutton 5 „ Quick Made .... 6 „ Sheep’s Head .... 7 „ Veal 6 Brown Sauce 49 „ for Fish .. 51 Browned Eggs 103 Buttered Apples 107 Cabinet Pudding 84 Cake Trifle 97 Cakes, Little Plain .... 126 „ Short ib. „ White ib. ,, Very Plain ib. Cakes with Preserves.... 127 Cale Cannon 60 Calf’s Ears Stuffed .... 36 „ Feet Baked 35 Calf’s „ en Fricassee. ib. Calf’s Feet Fricasseed .. PAGE. 35 ,» Fried ib. 66 ,, or Lamb’s Head .. 36 Carrots it la Maitre d’Hotel 55 „ h la Turque .... 54 ,, Stewed 55 Carstorphine Cream .... 91 Cauliflower, done with Bread 57 Cauliflower inWhite Sauce ib. „ with Parmesan ib. Charlotte of Apples .... 106 ,, Russe 94 Cheese Fritters 99 „ Patties 68 „ Pudding 81 ,, Souffle 104 Cherries, Dried 135 Cherry Jam ib. „ ,, for Tarts or Puddings ib. Chestnut Sauce 52 Chicken Alb 46 ,, Panada 137 Chocolate Cakes 126 ,, Cream 87 ,, Jelly 85 Cocoa 139 Cocoanut Cheese Cakes.. 124 Cod, Broiled 19 Coffee, Homoeopathic. .. 140 College Puddings 74 Collops 41 Composition Sweetmeat.. 132 Cow Pleel, Fried 28 Cream a la Mazarin .... 89 „ Panada 98 „ Pancakes ib. Croquettes de ltiz 109 ,, of Brains .... 41 ,, of Fowl .... 44 ,, of Meat and Rice .... 31 Cropped Heads 20INDEX. 145 Crust for Sweetmeats.... Crust, Pudding „ Short „ to use with Meat.. „ Transparent Curd Fritters Currant Fritters ,, Pudding Currants, Dried Custard Jelly Custard Pudding, Baked . ,, Sauce „ Standing Custards Cutlets Hindostanee Fashion Dalmoys Damson Cheese Devonshire Cream Diet Cake Dumplings, Plain ,, Hard Dutch Cake „ Pudding ,, Sweetbreads Economical Pudding.... Egg Alb „ and Milk „ on Toast „ Panada „ Pudding „ Souffle Eggs „ with Foliage Eve Pudding Farinaceous Jelly Fish and Sauce „ Croquettes of Pate ,, Pie ,, Pudding ,, Rissoles of Fish Scalloped 23 Floating Island 96 Flour Fritters >99 „ Pudding 79 Fondue 5 la Parisienne .. 117 ,, of Cheese ib. Forcemeat, Substitute for 22 Fowl Cutlets 45 ,, Fried 44 „ Stewed ib. „ with Oysters 45 French Beans 59 „ Biscuits 121 ,, Bread 119 ,, Flummery 97 „ Puffs 70 Friar’s Chicken 46 Fricandeau of Veal .... 34 Fricandel ib. Fricassee of Beef 26 ,, Calves’ Feet 35 „ Parsnips .. 59 Fried Potatoes 54 Fritters of Fowl 45 ,, Plain 99 Fruit Fingers 113 „ Fritters 118 ,, Lozenges 141 „ „ for Dessert 136 „ Pudding 76 „ Pudding, Light .. ib. Frumenty 96 Game Patties 65 „ To Stew 48 Gloucester Puddings .... 82 Gooseberries done like Hops 133 Gooseberries, Dried .... ib. Gooseberry Cheese .... 132 ,, Pudding .... 76 „ Wafers 133 Grape Pies 114 Gravy Sauce for Poultry . 51 Green Apricot Pie 114 Grenade of Plums 109 A G 15. 63 ib. 62 61 ib. 99 111 76 136 85 78 53 95 94 39 43 134 90 125 80 ib. 128 82 34 75 102 95 102 100 77 101 104 56 78 86 20 23 ib. 21 19 22INDEX. 146 1>A(JE. Grits, Baked 10!) Gum Lozenges 140 Haddocks, Baked 20 ,, Dried 19 ,, Rizzard .... ib. Hare Cakes 48 „ Pie 66 „ Roasted in Batter.. 48 Haricot of Mutton 39 ,, Veal 32 Honey Cake 125 Icing for Cakes 130 „ Tarts 115 Imitation Cream for Tarts 92 Imperial Tart 112 Indian Trifle 94 Isinglass Water 137 Italian Cream 92 Jujubes 140 Kidney Pudding 29 ,, Toast ib. Kidneys, Baked ib. „ Stewed 41 Koobe 42 Kringles 122 Kugelhupf 115 „ with Almonds. ib. Ladies’ Kisses 123 Lamb’s Head 41 Light Pudding 80 Lincolnshire Cake 128 Lintz Cake 129 Liver Sauce for Fish.... 51 Macaroni, Browned .... 119 ,, Pudding .... 85 „ Timbale de .. 37 ,, with Bread Crumbs .. 118 Mackarel a la Maitre d’Hotel 21 Madeira Pudding PAGE. . 79 Maize Croquettes . 105 Mashed Parsnips ,. 59 Meat and Vegetable Pie. 66 Melted Butter 50 Meringues ,. 93 Merinquel a la Creme . ib. Milk Cakes .. 127 Milk Jelly 86 ,, Panada , . 100 „ Porridge 94 Minced Collops 30 ,, Fowl 45 Mock Cream .. 92 ,, Ice 94 Montagu Pudding .. 78 Mushroom Ketchup .. 53 „ Sauce .... 50 Mushrooms, Stewed .. .. 60 Mutton Cutlets 40 „ Kidneys .. 41 „ Minced 40 ,, or Lamb Chops, ,. ib. „ Pudding .. 39 ,, Steaks with French 40 Napier Pudding 82 Oat Cakes .. 122 Oatmeal Pudding .. .., 79 Omelette Souftlee ,. 103 Orange Butter 99 ,, Cream 89 „ Fool .. 100 ,, Fritters 99 „ Jam .. 131 ,> Jelly 86,131 ,, Tart- ,, Tartlets Orangeade .. 139 Oranges, Iced . . 132 „ in Syrup . . 131 Orgeat . . 139 Oxford Pudding 75 Oyster Fritters 24147 INDEX. Oyster Patties „ Sausages.. Oysters, Fried .. ,, Scalloped Pain Blanc ...... Palates, Fried.. .. Panada Pap Souffle Parsnips, Mashed Partridge Pie .. .. Paste, Fine Tart.. „ Light ,, Plain Tart „ Very Light Patties of Beef or Veal .. „ Macaroni .... ,, Meat Pears, Baked „ Jarganel „ Preserved „ Stewed Peas Pods, Stewed „ Pudding „ with Eggs Pigeon Pie Pigeons in Jelly „ Roasted ,, Stewed with Mac- aroni „ with Peas Pike, Baked Plum Cake ,, Cakes, Little .... „ Pudding Polish Trifle Pommes d'Amour Pommade Porcupine Pudding .... Porridge Portland Pudding „ Light. Potato and Fowl Pudding. Potato Balls PAGE. 54- „ Pudding 72 ,, Pudding with Suet ib. Potatoes a la Maitre d’Hotel .... 54 ,, Mashed ... ib. Potted Head 36 Prune Tart 68 Puff Paste 62 Puffs, Austrian 69 „ German ib. ,, Small ib. Puree of Chestnuts . . . . 60 „ Potatoes .. . 54 ,, Turnips .. . 55 Queen Cakes 124 ,, Plain . . • • ib. Quick Pudding 79 Rabbit Pie 65 „ Stewed 49 Radgerie 22 Ramarkins . 68, 108 ,, Fried ib. Raspberry Cream 90 „ or Currant Water 138 Red Cream 89 Red Jelly 87 Rice h la Creme en Grenade .... 93 ,, and Apple Pudding 71 ,, Baked 110 „ Balls 97 „ Blanc Manger .... 90 „ Cake 125 „ „ Pudding 71 ,, ,, Simple 125 ,, Caudle 137 ,, Cutlets 42 „ Flummery 5. la Creme 93 ,, Pancakes 98 ,, Paste 113, ,114 PAGE. 24 23 25 24 ib. 110 28 98 101 59 65 62 ib. ib. 63 ib. 65 68 64 111 134 ib. Ill 58 ib. ib. 67 47 ib. ib. ib. 21 127 128 75 1 IS 105 142 83 119 83 ib. 44INDEX. 148 Rice Pears „ Puddings „ ,, Baked .. „ „ with Fruit „ Shape 9 „ „ with Meat .. Rissoles in Paste ,, of Potato „ of Sweetbread .. „ of Veal Roe Sauce Roll Pudding Rolled Pudding Rotten Cakes Rusks Russian Cream Sago and Milk ,, Baked ,, or Tapioca Pudding Sally Lunns Sardinian Omelette .... Sauce for Poultry Seacale Shelford Pudding Shortbread Sippets Snowballs with Almonds Snow Cream Sole, Cutlet of ,> Pie „ Rolls Souffle „ of Minced Fowl .. „ of Potatoes „ of Pudding Soup, Berlin Milk ,, Brown Gravy .... „ Cardinal, a la .... ,, Carrot „ Cheap „ Chocolate „ Fish, Brown „ „ White ,, Forced Roll TAOE. Soup, Fowl and Carrot.. 8 Fowl and Green Peas 9 Fowl with Force- meat Balls .. 15 yy Gravy, with Red Cabbage .... 3 Hare 9 Holstein 17 Hotch Potch .... 14 yy Kidney 7 Marrow Bone .... 3 Milk 14 Milk with Rice Shape 15 »» „ with Sago .. 14 Mock Turtle .... 7 Ox Tail 2 Palestine 5 yy „ Veal.... 6 yy Partridge 9 yy Pearl Barley .... 11 yy Peas 12 yy Pigeon 9 Portable 4 Potato 12 „ without Meat ib. yy Provenyale, & la.. 18 yy Rice 11 yy Sago ib. yy Simple 3 yy Split Peas 13 Stuffed Fowl or Pigeon 8 Toast .. ; 17 Turkish 2 yy Vegetable 13 ,, Common ib. White 8 yy White Turnip .... 12 yy with Eggs with Egg Balls .. 17 IS with Italian Balls 16 with Paste ib. yy with Vienna Balls 17 l'ACIE. 97 70 71 ib. '5,90 43 31 42 38 32 52 81 ib. 123 121 91 96 95 77 120 102 51 59 83 130 5 110 89 21 20 21 104 46 105 77 14 2 15 12 3 18 10 ib. 16INDEX. 149 Spanish Tart PAGE. Ill Spinach Cream 90 ,, Pudding 55 „ Sauce 52 ,, Stewed 57 ,, ,, with Cream 56 „ with Gravy .... ib. Sponge Cake, Plain .... 129 Sponge Cake with Pre- serves ib. „ Pudding .. 78 Stone Cream 92 Strawberry Cream 88 „ or Raspberry Preserve .... 132 Stuffed Bread 43 Sugar Biscuits 121 ,, Kisses 141 Sultan’s Cream 8S Swedish Apple Pudding . 73 ,, Dish 33 Sweetbreads Fricasseed Brown 37 ,, in Cases .... 38 ,, Roasted .... 37 ,, Stewed with Oysters .... ib. Sweet Butter Milk 139 „ Macaroons 113 ,, Omelette 103 „ „ with Pre- serves 102 ,, Sauce 53 Swiss Cakes 126 „ Pudding 79 Tallianni 116 Tapioca Jelly 86 Toast and Water 139 Tooth Powder 142 1'AliE. Transparent Pudding.... 78 Treacle Posset 140 „ Pudding 81 Tripe, Boiled 30 „ Fried ib. „ Roasted ib. Turkey, Minced 47 „ Patties 65 Turnip Sauce 52 Veal and Sweetbread Pie 33 ,, Cutlets ib. „ Stewed 32 ,, Stewed with Oysters 34 Vegetable Marrow 58 „ Ragout CO „ Toast ib. ,, Tower 61 Veloute Sauce 50 Venison, Minced 48 ,, Stewed ib. Vermicelli Pudding .... 84 Vienna Cake 127 „ Krapfeln 116 „ Rolls 120 Vol-au-vent of Chicken.. 67 Croquettes ib. „ Veal .... ib. Wafers 116 ,, without yeast .... ib. Water Gruel 138 Welch Rabbit 117 Whey 138 White Caudle 137 ,, Collops 33 „ Sauce 50 ,, Turnip Sauce .... 52 Yorkshire Pudding .... 71Davy and bon, printers, 8, gilbert street, oxford street.%