THE TEACHING OF ANATOMY. HE anatomy and physiology of man, the doctrine of the *- structure of the machine and its function, constitute the groundwork upon which the specialized professional educa- tion of the medical course is based. We are fortunate at Columbia that in the framing of the four-year curriculum sufficient time has been devoted to the presentation of these subjects in the first two years of the course. The Depart- ment of Anatomy has additional grounds for congratulation in the fact that the wise and liberal administration of the Uni- versity and the generosity of the friends of the College of Physicians and' Surgeons have made it possible to construct an anatomical course for medical students in accordance with the demands of modern scientific progress. Among the special departments of the professional schools in our large universities, the one charged with the teaching of human anatomy to medical undergraduates has felt perhaps more than any other the broadening influences which have resulted from the biological advances of the last decade. Human morphologists, and especially the teachers of human anatomy, have for more than a century occupied a somewhat peculiar position in relation to their subject of study. Able and careful investigators have for generation after generation devoted themselves to the elucidation of the structure of the human body in its minutest details, and the results of their labors make man to-day morphologically the best known vertebrate. Nevertheless a glance at the current anatomical literature will convince that even to-day, with modern methods of investigation and broader generalized views of vertebrate structure and development, our knowledge of man's anatomy is receiving constant and important additions. Revision of the field, however carefully it may appear to be gleaned, results in addition to our morphological knowledge of our own species. To the teacher of human anatomy the best and most productive method of imparting this accrued knowledge becomes a question of vital interest and importance.