2 [June Columbia University Bulletin At the very outset it becomes asparent that lasting knowl- edge is only to be acquired by direct personal study and ex- amination of the object itself. Charts, drawings, and models, schematic or natural, and even photographs, however val- uable they may be when used as accessory means of illustra- tion, fail absolutely in replacing the actual structure for pur- poses of study and instruction. In developing the anatomical course at Columbia this cardinal principle of sound anatom- ical teaching has formed the basis upon which the details of the course have been built. The College of Physicians and Surgeons was the first medical school to abandon, in 1889, the system—universally in vogue at that time—of confining didactic instruction in anatomy to lectures to large audiences, and to substitute teaching by demonstration of the actual object to small sections of the class. In no other way can the sys- tematic instruction be made what it should be—a commentary on and aid to the practical work of the individual student, in the only place in which he actually learns his anatomy, the dissect- ing room. Since that day we have steadily progressed along the lines then laid pown. When we began, the anatomical in- struction at the College consisted of three didactic lectures a week, and dissection was voluntary and not regulated. To- day twenty-four hours a week are given to section-teaching in addition to the lectures. Through the generosity of the Vanderbilt family, the dissecting room has been enlarged to nearly twice its original size, and affords space for over five hundred students working at the same time. The quantity and quality of the practical work done by each student is carefully supervised and regulated, and the department is en- abled to exact the test of a rigid annual practical examination on the cadaver from every candidate for the degree. With this material increase in the time devoted to anatomical in- struction, and with the enlarged facilities for thorough prac- tical work, the best method of utilizing these opportunities be- comes a question of serious importance. Early in the constructive period of the present anatomical course the value of employing comparative anatomy as an