[June 8 Columbia University Bulletin a live interest imparted to them, if they can be made to de- monstrate man's relationship to other vertebrates, to accentuate facts in human evolution, and to illustrate the unity of plan in vertebrate structure. But beyond the direct and practical connection between the study of human and comparative anatomy, a broader purpose is achieved by combining them in the medical course. Only a few years ago many facts in comparative anatomy, evolu- tion, and heredity were the scientific property of only a limited number of special investigators. To-day the bio- logical advances of the last ten years have extended to in- clude a much wider circle. The educational influence of universities and scientific institutions, by well planned mu- seum exhibitions, by public lecture courses, and in many other ways, has reached beyond the immediate group of special students. In his relation to the community at large the physician is still preeminently the man of science. He should, as a matter of liberal scientific education, possess a general knowledge, founded on his university course, of the more important structural relations of man to the remaining vertebrates, such as will enable him to express an intelligent opinion on questions of general morphology. It is quite evident that the institution must command the requisite material for illustration in order to carry out the sys- tem above outlined. The progress of the last eight years in this respect has been gratifying. The morphological museum began its development in 1890 in one of the small rooms in the cellar of the south wing. Columbia to-day possesses an equipment which, while it still falls far short of the ultimate design, yet is unequalled in the beauty and clearness of the preparations, and in the complete character of the series most extensively used in the courses of instruction. The first and second floors of the new anatomical building are designed to be the permanent home of the museum, and provide ample floor and gallery space. It is the confident hope of the department that here the future growth of the collection will be as rapid and healthy as it has been in the past under less