9 1898] The Teaching of Anatomy favorable surroundings. Unfortunately, however, it was found necessary at the time the anatomical building was erected to leave out the equipment, and the department is to-day in urgent need of cases for the two floors. The old cases inherited from the pathological museum are over- crowded and have to be used merely for storage. The mu- seum loses one of its most important educational features in not being accessible for purposes of serious study in its pres- ent condition. It is not possible to carry out the systematic serial exhibition which is the fundamental principle in the application of the collection to the instruction of the student. Moreover, even for the simple purposes of storage the avail- able shelf room has been exhausted, and large numbers of very valuable preparations are of necessity left entirely un- protected, subject to unavoidable deterioration by dust and breakage. The department earnestly hopes that this neces- sary portion of the equipment may soon be completed. With all the advances in extent and methods of anatomical instruction which the last few years have brought to us, there still remain projected improvements which we trust the future will realize. It is very true that a state of complete satisfaction with results already achieved is an unhealthy symptom ; there will always be motion in some direction, either in advance or retrograde. A notable requisite to the rounding out of the morphological instruction of the curric- ulum is a systematic course in practical vertebrate embry- ology, equally important in the purely scientific and in the practical respect. The growing importance of the subject cannot be overlooked. A thorough knowledge of the de- velopment of the human body is not only an immense ad- vantage in the study of the normal adult anatomy and physi- ology of man, but embryology is connected closely and in a practical sense with nearly all the great clinical departments of instruction; midwifery, pathology, surgery, and medicine all deal with the normal processes of development and with the results of abnormal deviations from the usual course. It is unquestionably of great importance to afford our students