7 1898] The Teaching of Anatomy bearings by contrast with the corresponding structures of the lower vertebrates. A series designed to teach the evolution of a complicated human organ, through successive stages, from the simple and rudimentary form found in the lower vertebrates, attracts the student's attention and interest from the outset. He is offered actual facts and preparations, not dry statements or schematic drawings; and the knowledge cannot fail to be more readily acquired and more thoroughly assimilated. " Seeing is be- lieving," in anatomy perhaps more than elsewhere. Con- versely, many structures appear obscure and ill-defined in human anatomy on account of regressional modification or degeneration during evolution. Their significance and the reason for their existence can be made clear only by direct reference to and comparison with the corresponding parts in forms in which they are fully developed and physiologically active. The nomenclature of anthropotomy contains many terms which the student accepts, without ever clearly recog- nizing the reasons for the distinctions which they imply, un- less the corresponding structures in other forms are brought before him, in which at a glance the correctness and signifi- cance of the names used appears. A " globus major" and " minor " with an intermediate " body " might readily be con- sidered almost uncalled for divisions of the human epididymis, and yet certain important structural features of the organ re- late to the distinction thus made. A moment's study, on the other hand, of the corresponding parts in a marsupial will place the entire arrangement of the duct in an absolutely clear light, and will abundantly justify the descriptive terminology of human anatomy. Again, the whole subject of variation from the accepted normal type in human anatomy depends for its rational ex- planation upon comparative and developmental illustration. Nothing is more difficult or unsatisfactory than the acquisition of knowledge in the form of dry statistics, and considered b}r themselves the variations in anatomy are little else. On the other hand, a flood of light is shed on these conditions and