6 Columbia University Bulletin [June troduction of the above outlined instruction is naturally closely associated with the distribution of the topics in a two- year course in Human Anatomy. The opportunities afforded by the new curriculum enabled us to solve the problem in as nearly satisfactory a manner as seems possible. One of the greatest advantages was obtained in the complete pedagogic separation of elementary and advanced students. The first- year student does not attend any lectures in anatomy. Dur- ing this year the instruction consists in practical demonstra- tions to small sections of the class, dealing with the entire anatomy of the extremities and with the bones, joints, mus- cles, and blood-vessels of the head and neck, including also part of the peripheral nervous system of this region. In di- rect connection with the demonstrations extensive practical work in the dissecting room is required. The first-year stu- dent also attends a series of demonstrations constituting the " preliminary visceral course," designed to afford that general information regarding the body cavities and their contents which is requisite to the correct appreciation of the concur- rent instruction offered by the departments of physiology and histology. In the second year, the laboratory work continuing, the student attends demonstrations to sections of the class in the anatomy of the central nervous system, organs of special sense, and cranial nerves. The entire second-year class at- tends three lectures a week on the anatomy of the body cavi- ties and viscera. The preparations illustrating these lectures are, in the afternoon of the lecture-days, demonstrated again separately to sections of the class, enabling each student to study and inspect the same closely. In this way an oppor- tunity is given to make the anatomical lecture what it should strive to be, not an attempt to teach anatomy at long range to several hundred men at once, but an occasion for presenting the broad morphological principles upon which the animal or- gans, apparatus, and systems are constructed. Here the sig- nificance and importance of the structural peculiarities of man can be accentuated, illustrated, and explained in all their