Columbia University Bulletin [June 4 magnet. And yet, to a certain degree, it is equally faulty to begin at the outset of the medical course with the structure of a highly developed and specialized vertebrate like man. The logical alternative is an introductory study of the sim- pler morphological conditions presented by the lower ver- tebrates—in other words, a comparative anatomical course. For this, however, conducted systematically, the time avail- able in the medical curriculum does not suffice. If all our students came to us with a preliminary biological training in the anatomy of the lower vertebrates, the question would be a simple one. As it stands, however, we are forced to adopt a middle course—to utilize to the fullest possible extent the aid which comparative anatomy so clearly affords in explain- ing the often complicated structural conditions encountered in human anatomy. The question is sometimes asked, by graduates of ten years' standing or more, "What practical use is comparative anatomy to the medical student ?" The answer is far more readily given by demonstration than in words, and yet a single example may be cited. The anatom- ical nightmare, which without doubt every medical graduate vividly recalls, is the human peritoneum or lining membrane of the abdominal cavity. Taken by itself, it is appalling in its detail and complexity. The text-books teem with minute descriptions and representations of it. Its divisions appear, as red and blue lines, in all manner of possible and impossible sections of the body. Its surgical and pathological impor- tance render it a dangerous thing to neglect, but a correct knowledge of its extent and ramifications is difficult to obtain even by the most careful study of the cadaver. And yet, with all its complexity in adult man, the arrangement of the membrane is surprisingly simple and evident in many of the lower vertebrates, presenting permanently in these forms the simpler conditions which characterize the human membrane only during certain of its temporary embryonal stages. An hour's study of the intestinal tract of a carnivore or mar- supial, and the comparison of the same with the conditions found in the human subject, will do more towards putting