The Teaching of Anatomy 1898] 5 matters clear in the student's mind than months of work with text-book and cadaver. It is in this sense that comparative anatomy can be used to the greatest advantage in the teaching of human anatomy. It is teaching by comparison with selected vertebrate types, not instruction in systematic zoology, which will produce the best results. For the purposes of the medical student of hu- man anatomy the zoological status of the forms which help him to appreciate complicated and difficult structural details is a matter of secondary consideration. He may find what he requires in representatives of any one or of several of the vertebrate classes. In dealing with certain broad subdivisions of the subject, and as an introduction to the study of special systems and organs, such as the circulatory, respiratory and uro-genital tracts, portions of the digestive system and its ap- pendages, etc., it is of distinct value to consider the phylogeny of the structures under discussion in a serial manner, pro- ceeding systematically from the lowest vertebrates to man. In no other satisfactory manner can we demonstrate the posi- tion of the organ or complex in the entire animal economy, and the physiological value of the whole and of its parts, re- vealed so clearly and evidently by the morphological modifi- cations encountered in the various groups. In this portion of our work we use frequently, with great satisfaction, photographic projections of the actual prepara- tions, when a series of considerable length is to be brought before the class and the individual groups connected in trac- ing an organ through successive stages to the highest degree of development or reduction. In this manner it is possible to offer a bird's-eye view of the subject, reserving a limited number of selected forms for the subsequent detailed demon- strations. We are exceedingly fortunate at the college in being able to avail ourselves of the services of Dr. Learn- ing, and the educational departments are greatly indebted to his skillful and scientific management of the department of photography. The question as to the proper time and place for the in-