8 introduced into the Sac itself; the scoope was then passed along* the fino;er, and the operator soon succeeded in separating the calculus from its attachment, and turning' it out of the bladder. Ca?e 11. G. H. aetat four, troubled for twelve months past, with fre- quent and painful micturition. Pain chiefly referred to glans peuis— Calculus distinctly felt—general health good. Operation.—The lateral operation was performed in this case also. The stone was extracted without any difficulty. Both cases have since being doing well. DIGESTION. From Dr, Jas. Johnson's work on " Indigestiony 3rc." " This process, taken in its most general and most proper sense, may be defined * the conversion of dead into living matter.' At all events, it is the conversion of dead animal and vegetable substances, into an animalized fluid, qualified to enter into the current of the circulation, and there become part and parcel of the living machine. No other fluid, not even milk from the living udder, can be poured into the blood-vessels, without the risk of life, and, therefore, we are authorised to conclude, that the chyle is a vitalized fluid like the blood itself. * * * The food is masticated by the teeth, and is then propelled into the stomach, incorporated with a quantity of saliva. In the stomach, this mass is applied to the internal surface of the organ, and layer after layer is there converted into chyme, by the gastic secretion, or some vital power of which we are ignorant, and moved forward to the pyloric orifice, through which it is gradually propelled into the duodenum. It requires from two to four or five hours for the completion of the diges- tion in the stomach, and sometimes longer than this when the powers of the organ are weak, or the materials difficult of solution. * * In an hour, an hour and a half, or two hours, then the stomach begins to evacuate the digested aliment through the pylorus into the duodenum. In the duodenum the chyme mixes with the bile, and pancreatic secre- tion ; the fluid then becomes more animalized, and as it passes along the intestines, the chyle, or milky nutriment, is taken up by the lacteal vessels, and cari-ied into the torrent of the circulation, by means of the thoracic duct. The foecal remains passing along the colon, take a shape and figure in the rectum, and are generally evacuated next morning." We are sure we owe no apology to our readers for presenting them with the above concise and beautiful sketch of the healthy digestive process; though it may not be new to many of them, yet it will bear a second perusal.—Editors. TO CORRESPONDENTS. " Boxiana'* was received. It gives an account of what we consider a very disgraceful scene—the late game at Jisty-cuffs in the Operating Theatre, Infirmary. Our opinion is that Glasgow Green would have aflforded to the two Gents, in question, a much more suitable ^Aea^rc for the varied display of their attainments in that branch of science, with which they favoured the spectators. We have received a communication from the keeper of our Zoological Gardens, stating that he has been under the necessity of closing his interesting exhibition for this season, as some of the animals have un- fortunately become rabid, and the remainder are exhibiting symptoms of that direful and affecting malady—" Scalpel"-phobia. A continuance of " L. B k's" favours is requested. " Pedestrian us" in our next, his letter arrived too late for insertion &i our present number. GLASGOW:_PRINTED BY RICHARDSON, HUTCHISON, & Co. To whom all Communications, Post-paid^ are to be addressed.