6 scene of our adventures, the nioht was gloomy, the sky was completely overspread with threatening clouds, and every thint^ seemed to corre- spond with our deeds. I cannot tell how far we raii»ht have travelled when our leader suddenly stopped a gunshot's distance from a low stone wall, one was left in the gi}?, and the other three, of whom I was one, proceeded over the wall with the utmost caution, and crept in silence towards a newly made grave, which one of my friends had duly recon- noitred in the day-time, and we immediately set to work to accomplish the main object of our journey; my duty was to see that the watch did not stir, and it was not certainly a very heavy duty, for^hey were both lying asleep before the fire; the other two dug with such zeal and assi- duity, that they were not long in reaching the coffin, and also with such dexterity and quickness as not to awaken the sleepers whom I was sta- tioned to observe; some noise, however, was made in taking the lid off the coffin, by which one of tlie watches was roused from his slumber, but the only action which followed thereupon, was first shaking himself, then shaking the ashes out of his pipe, and lastly, shaking his neighbour who was still enjoying his snooze ; both of them seemed to be in a state of great mistitication, and evinced no signs of pursuit till we reached the wall with our booty, and were hoisting it over with some exertion and a little noise, when a shot was fired, and wisely considering that " he who fights and runs away, may live to fight another day," took to our heels with might and main, dropping our game into some of those rank weeds with which church-yards abound—another shot fol- lowed, which added wings to our flight; and it was not till we had driven about half a mile from the scene of our labours, that we began to think of the inglorious consummation to which our journey would come if we were driven from our point by such " varlets vile," as a brace of lazy watchmen. We resolved therefore, (our courage being marvellously increased, subsequently to a vigorous pull at the brandy bottle) to return on foot and see what was going on. The worthy causes of our discomfiture seemed to us to have thought they had done mighty well in making us run, for they had nearly regained the posi- tion in which we had first found them. Once more then, we got hold of our prize, which they had either not searched for, or else had failed to find, and subjecting our shoulders alternately to our burthen we at length deposited it safely in the bottom of our conveyance; but our troubles did not end here. To he continued in our next. FOR THE SCALPEL. A LEAF FROM THE JOURNAL OF A QUONDAM STUDENT. The tale that 1 unfold to day- No fiction is, bat from the records pure Of truth has been obtained. Rinaldo—the Visionary. * * * The old clock of the College had just tolled the hour of mid- night, as restless and feverish I arose from my studies, and throwing open the window I looked forth on the deserted streets. It was a lovely night; I thought within myself that I had never seen such brilliancy of moonlight; there was not one little cloud in all the expanse of the fir- mament ; millions of millions of stars were visible, but their splendours were dimmed in the broad effulgence of the queen of heaven; not a sound broke on the stillness of the night, all seemed hushed and quiet as the dead, save that in a distant part of the city a solitary light twinkled from a window, indicating, it might be the presence of some midnight revellers, or mayiiap, of sorrowing friends sssembled around the bed of some departing spirit.