eye, after this obstruction to his visual organs is removed, he looks about and sees one stude—oh, 1 was 2foino^ to say student—one g-enius poking his opposite neighbour's head with a stick, who turns round, and his ear is anointed with the juice of " citras aurantiuni" while on the other side he feels from some unknown hand a merciless tug at his hair. Look at that corner, there sit the choice blades—those are the fellows for a row—that chap who is so assiduously distributing oranges from the pockets of his rough pea jacket, is enjoining all around him to eat the inside, and to bestow " the cortex" upon the class at large, and most scrupulously do they obey his injunctions—some are sucking the juice, and others are exerting the flexor and extensor muscles, of the right superior extremity, in flinging the pulp with no little force at their opposite neighbours pericraniuras. All this time the distributor him- self, and another Imp beside him are doing the thing in a wholesale style, entire fruits replete with citric acid, which burst on the faces of sundry, ejecting their juice into the eyes of those around, whereby the pupil contracts, the " orbicularis palpebrarum" closes, an effusion of lachrymose takes place ; the "orbicularis oris" opens, and by the lan- guage of the sufferers you are made to understand that they desire to accelerate the departure of their tormentors even unto Tophet. Multitudes of contusions are suffered—Ecchymoses are given—the operation of " nasal phlebotomy,"* is performed to perfection. Thus they continue till the end of the hour; when out they rush—overwhelm poor H h, put out the gas—run shrieking, howling, yelling, and making the most diabolical riot imaginable; the door at the foot of the stair is shut, and the row redoubles, till, burning with shame for the conduct of his pupils, the lecturer himself comes out and restores order with the greatest difficulty. Now, I would ask a question, " What do you come to coHege for ?" If you come to study for a degree, most assuredly this is not the way to get it; and if you don't want to study, then why " dog-like" do you hinder those who would study ? Do you know what you lose ? The lectures of a first-rate anatomist—a splendid operator and lithotomist— and last, but not least, your own time !! We have supposed the pre- sence of a foreigner who returns home, and diligently reports that he never saw so disorderly and blackguardly a set in his life I In another class all is not as it should be; what means these empty bottles ? on this is labelled " caryophyllse"—on that " cassiae cortex" —on another " myristicse"—on a fourth " piper cubebse" all these passed through my hands a few minutes back replete, but lo! they have yqt turned vozci?/ Ah! how savoury some breaths smell of nassia, cinna- mon, cloves, mace, nutmeg, and allspice. Gentlemen, no longer lower yourselves by stealing what you can get for a few pence, I said " Gen- tlemen," but I feel assured that *' Gentlemen'' did not so spice them- selves ; and were I in the chair of Materia Medica, I should take care along Avith the spices, the delinquents should swallow a little nicotine, veratrine, or some such excellent cure for liquorish theft! Medecillus. to the editors of the scalpel. Observing in your Prospectus, that Satire was a weapon intended to be employed in the Reform of abuses, and in the correction of improper manners, I beg your insertion of a few remarks, which, though not very satirical, will, no doubt, be accounted of rather a caustic nature. My object will be satisfactorily accomplished, if the lapis infernalis of Nasal phlebotomy" is a popular remedy fm T^ersondii affront; not much practised however, in Surgery, because the physician is liable to a similar oneration from the hand of the patient, whereby the disease is aggi-avated.