smells beyond endurance, that I really began to fear that a dissecting No. I.] WEDNESDAY, 24th FEBRUARY. [Price id, TO OUR READERS. Drspite of every obstacle, our little bark is now fairly launched upon the ocean of public opinion. Tempests, no doubt, will assail us—and rocks and shoals betimes, may threaten our destruction—but our vessel is stoutly built—our crew hardy and vigorous—and we bear with us the best wishes of numerous and hearty friends. We hope then, that braving" every danger, we may finish our first cruise in safety, have reason to exclaim with Prospero, " Your breath has filled our sails I" That is " a consummation most devoutly to be wishedand to eflffict it we will exert our every energy. A statement of our principles we have already laid before our Svib- scribers. We have, however, just one observation to oflfer for the benefit of those Gentlemen, who have objected to the introduction of what they have been pleased to call "personal reflections." It would have been as well had they reserved the eructations of their censure, until after mature consideration of the real nature of such reflections as may from time to time appear in our sheets—as also the object of their insertion. A great man was of opinion, that " the dri/ way of writing is neither instructive nor pleasing." He strongly recommends such reflections and hints that " nothing relating to the conduct of life, or the springs of action in mankind, can be found useless"'—his maxim was " Homo sum, hnmanum nihil a me alienum puto." THE MEDICAL STUDENT. He who hath bent him o'er the dead.—Gaiour. I CAME to town at the usual time, and after taking lodgings, and going through all the etcetera of a first arrival, I went to join the Annual Surgical and Anatomical classes, and to procure a ticket for the dis- secting room. Desirous as I was to make myself master of the healing art, I had never entered into a dissecting room, and as one naturally feels a little tremor in his first approach to a place which is so much maledicted, I begged a friend to whom the study was not new, to introduce me into this penetralia of Anatomy. My friend was one of those sage individuals who reckon surprise the worst of all evils, and therefore, duly warned me of all the various annoyances, with which ray senses were to be assailed; besides, it seemed he had a kind of turn for the horrible, in description, for he talked so much of sights and