No. II.] WEDNESDAY, 2d MARCH. [Price \d. TO OUR READERS. '* What ! in the name of common sense, are you about to commence another long-winded speech about yourselves," we think we hear some one say. Cease your g-rumbling", (ientle Sir, we are merely al)Out to give our instrument a preparatory sharpening rub or two. Firstly, We wish it to be distinctly understood, that it was never our intention to crush worms or to hilljiies. Secondly, We recommend to certain individuals the study of the words," Honi soit qui mal' y pense." Thirdly, We have done. THE MEDICAL STUDENT.—continued from our last. The general insipidity seemed, indeed, to be a little dispelled when a new comer was observed to enter, and as they were social enough, and glad to obtain any accession to their forces, 1 was soon placed on easy terms with them; any conversation that passed was chiefly about the difl&- culty of obtaining subjects for dissection, which, although some of them were dissecting at the time, they appeared to deplore with remarkable fervor. This was my first introduction to a dissecting room, and the idea I was led to form of it was much more favourable than that which I had anticipated. After some time I became considerably interested in the study, and made the above-mentioned place my principal resort and habitat during the day-time, where I was always to be found unless during class-hours. My anatomical pursuits were soon, however, in- terrupted from sheer want of humai materials on which to operate, yet i still frequented the rooms in the daily hope that something would be procured. After continuing some weeks without supply, I observed two or three students retired more than once into a corner where they appeared to hold a sort of consultation. As I had by this time obtained a kind of dissecting notoriety, I was accosted by one of them and re- quested to take a part in a resurrectionary enterprize. After some hesitation, and after weighing on the one hand the personal risk 1 should encounter, and the apparent inhumanity of the thing; and on the other hand the chance of amusement, and the benefit which would accrue to the interest of science! I consented to bear a part in the expedition. In the bestov/al of places of trust and of importance it is usual, as all are aware, to put certain interrogatories to the person who is about to enjoy them, of course, in my appointment to so weighty an office, I could not miss a due share of questioning, it related chiefly to my ability to sustain a beating, and the answers appeared to the examiners quite satisfactory. Well then, no time was to be lost, and so we resolved to set out that very night; we hired a light jaunting car looking vehicle, into which two of us got, and drove out towards a certain village of barbarous and unpoetical name, which we shall not more particularly mention; while the other two had gone forward on foot with various implements for the occasion, and were duly overtaken by their more expedite companions. By and by we approached the