4' these observations shall tend to subdue the unhealthy granulations K of levity, foppery, and hair, which unadorn a well-known student in our dissecting- room. We assemble there to pursue our Anatomical knowledge by dissection; but who ever saw a " Scalpel" in his hand ? instead, he clutches a hug-e Merchaum or a, three inch cuttie^ from the noisome recesses of which, belch forth clouds of suffocating- smoke, more annoying and offensive to us, who are uncontaminated by the noxious and abominable weed, than the concentrated effluvia of half-a- dozen " Mesh Tubs."" On the Trong-ate too, he is equally conspicuous by his glazed Tile and Shepherd's plaid, the right of wearing which his southern tongue belies, shewing of his handsome foot and imperial tuft before the Ladies, who, indeed, must form a very poor opinion of the staidness, sobriety, and general conduct of the genus medicus if they reg-ard this Gentleman as a true specimen. 1 could enlarge, but, verbum sat—1 hope he will appreciate the leniency of these few remarks, designed solely for his good*—amend his manners—attend to his Pharmacopaeia and his " scalpel"—make decent his facial appear- ance, as far as it is under his control, and leave capillary attraction to " Whisker'd Pandoors" and to " Fierce Hussars." Hoping-, Mr. Editor, that success will attend the " Scalpel,*' 1 remain, &c. &c. Anti-Puppy. NATURAL HISTORY.—visit to our zoological gardens. " Walk in, Ladies and Gentlemen, w^alk in, we have got here a splendid collection of rare and beautiful specimens of animated nature. Please observe that larg-e cage, marked No. L Its inhabitant is one of the tribe of moon-faced apes. It presents the usual characteristics. This individual's character may be stated in three words : it is very snappish—very dull—and very stupid. No. II. is a very nimble little animal—it has rather a " stage struck " appearance. We pass on to No. III. This is one of the finest of the Baboon species in this country. Our keeper has made it quite a pet—he calls it Micky Mill-un. The bump marked * amativeness ' is largely developed.f But we have now g-ot to this apartment, which contains a very fine specimen of the Onegar^ or Wild Ass, presented by Mr. Drymore, to whose fellow feeling and brotherly regard, this much misrepresented class of animals owe much. It presents the usual quantum of dulness and stolidity. f To be Continued. J Where Wdc that Gent. g"oino^ last night with his Laplanders dress, and Glazed Tile? " He was up to no good," we fear. We will have a sharp *' look out." Holy Saint Francis ! where on earth was the little Gentleman, with the little hat, going with the little Lady ? (Query)—To a tripe shop ? TO MEDICAL STUDENTS. We have been informed that the operation of Lithotomy, will be per- formed in the Royal Infirmary on Thursday next, the 25th Instant, an account of which will appear in our next. There are two other cases of stone in the bladder, at present in the House. *" And for fun."—Prm^er's Devil. t See " An account of the Craniology of Baboons, &c, by Frederick Dolt, F. R. S." GLASGOW:—PRINTED BY RICHARDSON, HUTCHISON, & Co. AND SOLD BY CHARLES DEWAR, BOOKSELLER, opposite the COI-LEGE.