2 room would prove no faint resemblance to the infernal regions. The next day he was to initiate me into the mysteries, and expecting to find some agreement between the place and his description, I took the pre- caution of furnishing myself with snuff-box and cigars ; I soon found, however, that my friend's m«mory had been considerably assisted by imagieation, in framing a description of this notable place, yet the whole affair seemed well enough fitted for the purpose it was intended to serve. Lest investigation should be made into its contents, the first door through which I passed was furnished with a couple of peep holes to reconnoitre invaders, it was defended by a warden with a copper nose, little red eyes, small teeth, short neck, to be brief, exceeding fierce, and bears a wondrous resemblance to a bull dog. We went along a short dark passage, and before my amusement at the appearance of the sentry had time to subside, my friend exclaimed, here is the place ! Step in first, exclaimed I, at the same time taking out my box and inhaling a hearty pinch, which I had hardly done when I found myself shoved in. Judge of my surprise when I found a large clean well lighted room, having a well washed leaden floor. The furniture of the place consisted of a decent assortment of three-legged stools, by no means, however, of the Isosceles description, and of several low tables, supporting sundry remnants of decayed humanity, over which the modesty! (?) of the students or porter had flung cloths of green baize; these, with a few amputating knives and dissecting instruments, which the uninitiated might have mistaken for a Burking apparatus; and some adhesive plaster for the use of any student who might cut his finger, which the phantasy of terror might easily convert into a salvo for the mouth of some unhappy victim, constituted the useful furniture of the place, and then by way of ornament there were skulls, spines, leg and arm bones hanging every where on the wall, forming a most respectable anatomical armoury. Here grinned a skull—here hung an arm—here swung a leg in a menacing posture, as if al)Out to kick the intruder. The favourable account which has been given of the room cannot, however, be extended to its inmates. They consisted mostly of persons of that ill-favoured description which is generally attributed to medical students. Whatever might be the cause of this, it certainly did not arise from hard application to th^ study of anatomy; most of them to be sure, had on little black glazed gowns, by way, we presume, of indicating what they should have been at; but this seemed to be all the use of the gowns, for the most of them were sitting round a blazing fire, some singing, some smoking, others making the jest and laugh to circulate, and a still larger class doing absolutely nothing; notwith- standing, there were some few who were engaged in reading or ex- plaining the bones to their less enlightened neighbours. f To be continued. J TO THE EDITORS OF THE SCALPF.L. A dog once lay on some hay in a stable, a hungry cow came to partake of it, and the dog would neither eat himself, nor permit the cow to partake of it. See fable of the " dog in the manger.'''* This fable is every day brought to my mind when \ look around me and see the conduct of sundry wiseacres who neither attend to the lec- tures themselves, nor do they let others attend ! It is at all times unpleasant to animadvert—and more particularly when I find I have to do so upon ray fellow students' conduct; but it !s forced upon inc. What would a student from the Parisian schools say were he to enter our classes ?^ Perhaps the first thing that might ttract his attention, would be a piece of chewed paper smack overliis