7 1 had not remained lonof at the window, when suddenly the loud peals of the alarm bells of the city broke on the stillness that had reig-ned around, sounding" as if it had been a message from above, summoning^ sinners to their long and last account! I listened more attentively, and ever and anon I could hear a noise as if the shouting of soiiie distant multitude; speedily the sound came nearer and nearer, and now I could hear the apalling- cry—" Fire ! fire I" in a moment I was on the street, and hurryinir to the quarter whence the alarm proceeded. Numbers of the inhabitants had arisen, and half- dressed were running- in that direction; others roused by the alarm were staring- at the tvindows, " while the sound of the fire engine ratt- ling- along- the streets, seemed like the dead cart of the plag-ue come to hurry away the corpse of the deceased for interment in the church- yard." I still hurried on till I reached the street in which Mr. P 's house was situated—the fire was at the end of the street—I redoubled my speed—when. Merciful Heaven ! what a sight met my eyes I The house that contained ^er was enveloped in the devouring flames! Though many long years have passed since that fatal night, every incident that I beheld is engraven on my withered heart in characters never to be erased ; for a moment 1 stood motionless with horror—but it was only for a moment, for frantic with desperation I rushed into the house ; I reached with the greatest difl&culty the first lobby—there the smoke and flames were dense and overwhelming—I leaped forward and fell headlong—memory can recall no further recollection; there are indeed, at times, faint visions of roofless and blackened walls, and of bruised and mangled bodies borne from the smoking ruins—but all is dim and obscure. Alas ! never more did I behold that lovely form—never did I hear again that laugh of joyous gracefulnesss. It was long, long, ere 1 was restored to the full enjoyment of an unclouded reason, and the societv of mv fellow-men. * * * * ^ L. B K. ROYAL INFIRMARY.—Operation of Lithotomy. 25th Feb.—This day the above operation was performed upon two patients. The following is a short histv'ry of the cases:— Case I. R. D. setat. 12, admitted 21st instant. Since infancy he has been subject to frequent and painful micturition—urine suddenly stop- ping whilst in full stream, until about three years ago, since which time it has not suffered the usual interruption;—pain confined to the hypo- gastric region—always most severe after bodily exertion—no pain along the course of urethra. On introducing a sound, a large stone is detected, firmly adhering to the interior part of the fundus of the bladder, above the symphisis pubis; which situation it retains, independent of position of body, or distension of bladder—general health good. This boy's case was very unfavourable for operation; according to report, he was sounded when only nine months old, and stone detected; since that time no notice had been taken of the disease, until the week previous to his admission, when he was sounded a second time, and a calculus of large size, and evidently encysted, was felt in the above described situ- ation. The only circumstances in his favour are his age, and state of his general health. Operation —The Theatre was crowded long before the hour. The lateral operation was performed by Dr. M*Farlane, with his usual dex- terity and presence of mind. His situation was a trying one, and by no means enviable. The patient was on the table upwards of half an hour, during which time, several ineff"ectual attempts were made to extract the stone, by grasping a portion that projected beyond the Sac. This portion was at length broken olF, when the point of the finger could be