THE FISTULA IN ANO. I49 in thefe circumftances is worfe than the firft; and that his remedy proves a moft afflicting <3ifeafeE. Prejudice s In the Memoirs of the French Academy, is a cafe of this kind, related by Mr. Faget. The patient had an abfcefs on each fide of the redtum ; which, before Mr. Faget faw it, had been opened without meddling with the gut. The two abfeefies communicated by a hollow or finus under] the os coccygis; the depth in all the upper part is defcribed to be about two inches, but in the perineum the fkin only was fe- parated; that is, the hollow was quite fuperficial. After five months attendance, during which time the redtum was never divided, the patient was brought to Paris; where in a confu- tation between the Meflieurs Faget and Boudon, it was agreed, that the only method of obtaining a cure, muft be by extirpat- ing, or cutting away the whole extremity of the inteftine, as deep as it was laid bare; which operation is thus defcribed — '** Je percai d'abord le redtum de droit a gauche, avec un gros 4i ftilet; avec lequel je fis 1'anfe. Je commencai a couper le *f lambeau de peau qui tenoitau coccyx, & je continual toutle " long d'attache des mufcles releveurs jufqu' a la parte moyen- " ne du perinee, ou il y avoit beaucoup de durete, & de callo- " fitez, que j'emportai; je panfai la playe avec un gros bour~ " donnet, & des lambeaux de linge trempes dans l'eau alumi- " neufe, le tout foutenu par plufieurs comprefics & un bandage " convenable," &c. Mr. Faget fays, that the patient was fix months longer in getting well. To which I mufl take the li- berty of adding, that he was much more fortunate than fome whom I have feen under the fame treatment. The relator, in the reft of the memoir, endeavours to explain the method by which the new anus became capable of executing the office of the old one ; and very juftly feems to wonder, why the furgeon, who firft had the care of the patient, and who firft opened the abfeefles, did not divide the redtum in each of them. Mr. Faget's furprife, and his cenfurc on the operator, are I- 3 certainly