OF THE LOWER LIMBS. 497 grew rapidly worfe, and (he was obliged to take to her bed. The thigh was now drawn up to the pelvis, the knee titrned in- ward, and the appearance was as if the head of the femur was diflocated; the parts furrounding the hip were turgid and enlarged, exquifitely painful to the touch, and on the fmalleft motion; blifters, embrocations, fomentations, &c. were tried in vain. The pain was now become almoft inceflant, the dif- eafe continued to inereafe, and bore the appearance of matter forming in the joint, and we did not doubt but that a caries of the bone would be the confequence, probably attended with an exoftofis. Though this was not a cafe in which Mr. Pott recom- mended an iflue, I was determined to give her the chance of one: a cauftic was accordingly applied below andpofterior to the great trochanter. She did not appear to be much ferved by it at firft, though we remarked that her pain was not fo vio- lent: in about fix weeks (he feemed to have recovered fome be- nefit, and though the limb was ftill contracted (he could ftraighten it better. I now found that the iflue had been neglected and nearly fuffered to-clofe. I recommended it to be enlarged, which was done the beginning of September: in about a week after, when the fuppuration was fairly eftablithed, Ihe began to grow better, the joint became unlocked, and in a few weeks flic had loft the pain of the hip, and was able to flraighten the thigh and leg perfectly; foon after ihe walked acrofs the room without help, only complaining of a little tendernefs in the joint, and in no great length of time afterward was perfectly recovered. — I do not mean to fpeak with prefumption or cer- tainty ; but, as no other method had been of the leaft fervice to her, as Ihe appeared to receive fome advantage from the firft application of the cauftic, and got perfectly well after the re- petition of it, we may reafonably infer that they were the principal caufes which produced the alteration and confequent cure. In thofe cafes in which Mr. Pott fucceeded a much longer time elapfed before the effect was produced. Mr. Pott alfo ufed cauilics in fcrophulous fwellings of the joint of the knee where there was fufpicion of beginning caries; they Vol. III. K k were