496 ON THE PALSY jnedy which it recommends; and, from fome cafes which oc- curred, had collected fucH obfervations as appeared to me to contain incontrovertible evidence of the efficacy of the cauftics in curvatures of the fpine : but their utility is now fo generally admitted, that it is not neceflary to fwell this work with them. 1 fhall therefore confine myfelf to remark that, in the latter part of Mr. Pott's life, he had applied the fame method of cure to other difeafes; particularly in ftrumous affeclions of the joint of. the hip, he had been feveral times fuccefsful in preventing an ihcreafe of caries, by means of an ulcer being eftabliftied in the neighbourhood of it. Iri thofe deplorable cafes, where one hip is let down below the other, where the parts are flabby, the glutsei mufcles lofe their firmnefs, the buttock its figure and convexity, and the leg is lengthened, he found that the prbgrefs of the difeafe may frequently be flop- ped, and the parts reftored to their natural firmnefs and figure, by making an iflue juft below the great trochanter. Mr. Pott remarked that the time when the change will take place, and the reftoration be complete, is indefinite: it may take place in a few weeks or months; or, as was obferved with regard to the effecl of cauftics in difeafes of the fpine; it may require a much longer time. Inlhort, every thing relative to the com- plaint is uncertain except the ultimate cure, which will rarely fail to reward our perfeverance. When the thigh was retraced, and accompanied with a tonfiderable fwelling, Mr. Pott was not fanguine in his prog- noses of recovery, but fpoke bfmoft applications as ineffica- cious Yet, even in thefe cafes, I have known the cauftics appli- ed with great apparent advantage. I will take the liberty to defcribe the outlines of a cafe which I faw the latter end of laft fommcr. I was defired by Mr. Berry to vifit a girl about eighteen years of age. She complained of pain in her knee, leading up toward the hip; (he could not ftraightcn her thigh, which was drawn up toward the pelvis, and with great difficulty fhe could walk acrofs the room : fhe had been deified, and had ufed variety of remedies, by the advice of fome gentlemen of eminence in the profeflion, to no purpofe ;-thc complaint grew