XXIX ANALYSIS. ARTICLE III. Properties of the System of the Dermis. Sect. I.—Properties of Tissue.—Are considerably developed.—Some- times less so than may at first appear.—Phenomena attending exten- sibility and contractility ... 819—822 Sect. II.— Vital Properties v - 822—827 Properties of Animal Life.—Sensibility.—Of touch.—Of feeling.— Its characters What distinguishes it from our other senses.—Seat of cutaneous sensibility.—Mode.—Pain peculiar to the skin.—Influence of habit upon this sensibility.—Divers reflections— Diminution of cu- taneous sensibility - - - 827 Properties of Organic Life.—These properties are especially com- posed of organic sensibility and insensible contractility. Phenomena over which they preside.—A division of cutaneous diseases.—Stimulus of cutaneous organic sensibility .—Sensible organic contractility is rather obscure - 827—837 Sympathies - - - 837—843 Passive Sympathies.—Divers instances and remarks on the sympa- thies of heat.—General remarks on the sensations of heat and cold.— Influence of sympathies over perspiration - 843 Active Sympathies.—Sympathies are referrable to each of the classes of cutaneous affections above described,—Divers instances.—General remarks - - - - 843—848 Character of the Vital Properties.—First Characteristic. Cutaneous Vitality varies in each Region.—Varieties in the animal sensibility.— Varieties in the organic properties - 848—855 Second Characteristic.—Intermittent in one respect, continuous in another.—The vitality peculiar to the skin is intermittent in the asso- ciated functions.—Its continuity in the organic functions 855—856 Third Characteristic.—Influence of the Sex - 856—858 Fourth Characteristic.—Influence of Temperament 85S—859 ARTICLE IV. Development of the Dermoidal System. Sect. I.—State of this System m the Foetus.—A slimy substance in the early stage.—Certain wrinkles not present in the foetus.—Laxity of texture.—State of the vital properties of the skin in the foetus.—Its functions at that age - . _ 859—860 Sect* —State of the System of the Dermis during Growth.-