XX ANALYSIS. Mucous Corium. —Its actual thickness.—Mucous nature of the membrane ot the Car.—Pathological consequenoes.—Softness of the mucous tissue. The effects of air, water, caloric, acids, and of the gastric juices on this tissue - - 502—506 Mucous Papillae.—Their varieties in respect to forms.—Their nervous nature.—Proofs of this nervous nature.—Their influence in the sen- sibility of mucous organs - . - 506—516 Sect. II.—Parts in common - - 517 Of the Mucous Glands and of the Fluids they separate.—Where situated. —Forms.—Volume.—Texture - 517—519 Mucous Fluids.—Physical properties.—The effects of divers agents.— Their functions.—Parts wherein they abound, and those wherein they are scarce.—Admit of being increased by every irritation directed upon their excretory*; organs.—Consequences. —Remarks on the ex- citement of mucous membranes in diseases.—Uses of the mucous mem- branes in respect to the habitual evacuation of their fluids.—General remarks on secreted fluids.—Singular sensation arising from the stagnation of mucous fluids upon their respective surfaces 519—530 Blood-vessels—Yary in their proportions.—Superficially situate.— Consequence.—Redness of the mucous system.—Loses it in numerous instances. — Experiments on the state of the mucous vessels, either during the distention or contraction of their hollow organs.— Further experiments on the influence the divers cases may bear upon the colouration of the mucous system.—Its redness accounted for.— The colouring substance viewed in a combined state or free 531—543 Exlialants.—Is exhalation effected in the mucous system ?— Pulmonary exhalations.—The greatest part of pulmonary perspiration proceeds from the dissolution of the mucous juices.—Other mucous exhalations. —Hemorrhage - - 543—545 Absorbents.—Proofs oT’ mucous absorption.—Irregularity -in this ab- sorption.—This irregularity accounted for - 545—548 Nerves.—Those of the brain.—Those of the ganglia—Their respective distribution over this system - - 548 ARTICLE III. Properties of the Mucous St/stem. Sect. I.—Properties of the Tissue.—Less than might have been supposed at a first glance.—Real however.—Their varieties.—The mucouslubes