/'MORBID ANATOMY.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21299675THE MORBID ANATOMY OF SOME OF THE MOST IMPORTANT PARTS OF THE HUMAN BODY. BY MATTHEW BAILLIE, M. D. F. R. S. L. AND E. PHYSICIAN EXTRAORDINARY TO THE KING, FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS IV LONDON, AND HONORARY FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS IN EDINBURGH. THE FOURTH EDITION, CORRECTED. LONDON: PRINTED BY W. BULMER AND CO. CLEVELAND-ROW; FOR G. AND W. NICOL, PALL-MALL; AND J. JOHNSON AND CO. ST. PAUl's CHURCHYARD. 181^.TO DAVID PITCAIRN, M.D. F. R. S. ^c. AS A TESTIMONY OF HIGH ESTEEM FOR HIS CHARACTER, AND OF GRATITUDE FOR MANY KIND OFFICES, V- THIS WORK IS INSCRIBED, BY His FAITHFUL FRIEND AND SERVANT, MATTHEW BAILLIE. London, ^ Nov. 20, 1807.•JtPREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION. I Some diseases consist only in morbid ac- tions, but do not produce any change in the structure of parts : these do not admit of anatomical inquiry after death. There are other diseases, however, where altera- tions in the structure take place, and these become the proper subjects of anatomical examination. The object of this work is to explain, more minutely than has hitherto been done, the changes of structure arising from mor- bid actions in some of the most important parts of the human body. This, I hope, will be attended with some advantages to the general science of medi- cine, and ultimately to its practice. It isIV PREFACE TO THE very much to be regretted that the know- ledge of morbid structure does not lead with certainty to the knowledge of morbid actions, although the one is the effect of the other; yet surely it lays the most solid foundation for prosecuting such inquiries with success. In proportion, therefore, as \We shall become acquainted with the changes produced in the structure of parts from diseased actions, we shall be more likely to make some progress towards a knowledge of the actions themselves, al- though it must be very slowly. The sub- ject in itself is extremely difficult, because morbid actions are going on in the minute parts of an animal body excluded from observation; but still the examination of morbid structure is one of the most pro- bable means of throwing light upon it. A second advantage arising from the more attentive examination of morbidriRST edition; ^ structure is, that we shall be able to dis- tinguish between changes which may have . some considerable resemblance to each other, and which have been generally con- founded. This will ultimately lead to a more attentive observation of symptoms * while morbid actions are taking place, and be the means of distinguishing diseases witii greater accuracy. When this has been done, it may, perhaps, produce a successful enquiry after the most proper method of treatment* Another advantage arising from a more attentive observation of morbid structure is, that we shall be better fitted to detect diseased alterations in the organization of parts which are but little, or not at all known. This will lay the foundation of our inquiry into the diseases themselves, so that we shall add to our knowledge ofvl PREFACE TO THE the pathology of the body, and perhaps also to our knowledge of remedies. A fourth advantage still from observing attentivelv morbid siructure is, that theo- ries taken up hastily about diseases will be occasionally corrected. The human mind is prone to form opinions upon every subject which is presented to it, but from a natural indolence is frequently averse to inquire into the circumstances which can alone form a sufficient ground for them. This is the most general cause of false opinions, which have not only pervaded medicine, but almost every other branch of know- ledge. When, however, the mind shall be obliged to observe facts which cannot be reconciled with such opinions, it will be evident that the opinions are ill founded, and they will be laid aside. We grant, it does hot always happen that men ar€tifiST EDiTioisr. vii induced to give up their opinions, or even to think them wrong, upon observing facts which do not agree with them, but surely it is the best means of" producing this effect; and whatever change may be wrought on the individuals themselves, the world will be convinced, who have fewer prejudices to combat. A person who previously had attended very accurately to symptoms, but was un- acquainted with the disease, when he comes to examine the body after death, and finds some of the appearances that are described in this Treatise, will acquire a knowledge of the whole disease. He will be able to guide himself on such knowledge in similar cases, and also to inform others. It may, perhaps, too, lead him to a proper method of treatment. When a person has become well ac- quainted with diseased appearances, hevia PREFACE TO THE will be better able to make his remarks, in examining dead bodies, so as to judge more accurately how far the symptoms and the appearances agree with each other; he will be able also to give a more distinct account oF what he has observed, so that his data will become a more accurate ground of reasoning for others. The natural structure of the different parts of the human body has been very minutely examined, so that anatomy may be said to have arrived at a high pitch of perfection; but our knowledge of the changes of structure produced by disease, which may be called the Morbid Anatomy, is still very imperfect. Such changes have commonly been observed only in their more obvious appearances, and very sel- dom with much minuteness or accu'acy of discrimination. Any works explaining morbid structureFIRST EDITIO\^- ix which I have seen, are very different in their plan from the present: they either consist of cases containing an account of diseases and dissections collected together in periodical publications, without any natural connection among each other: or consist of very l^trge collections of cases, arranged according to some order. In some of these periodical works, the diseas- ed structure has been frequently explained with a sufficient degree of accuracy, but in all the larger works it has been often de- scribed too generally. The descriptions tod of the principal diseased appearances, have been sometimes obscured, by taking notice of smaller collateral circumslances, which had no connection with them or the diseases from whence they arose. Both of these faults too frecjuently occur, even in the stupendous work of Morgagni de Causis et Sedibus Moiborum,.upon which, whenX PREFACE TO THE considered in all its parts, it would be diffi- cult to bestow too high praise. Besides, the bulk of these very large collections prevents them from being generally in the possession of practitioners, and also renders them more difficult to consult. In the present work it is proposed not to give cases; but simply an account of the morbid changes of structure which take place in the thoracic and abdominal viscera, in the organs of generation in both sexes, and in the brain. This will be done accord- ing to a local arrangement, very much in the same manner as if we were describing natural structure, and will be accompanied with observations upon morbid actions which may occasionally arise. My situa- tion has given me more than the ordinary opportunities of examining morbid struc- ture. Dr. Hunter's collection contains a very large number of preparations exhibit-'^RST EDITION. Xl ing morbid appearances, which I can have recourse to at any time for examination. Being physician to a large hospital, and engaged in teaching anatomy, I have also very frequent opportunities of examining diseases in dead bodies. This work will therefore chiefly contain an account of the morbid appearances which I have seen my- self; but I shall also take advantage of what has been observed by others. It is intended to comprehend an account of the most common, as well as many of the very rare appearances of disease in the vital and more important parts of the human body. From the nature of this undertaking it is evident, that it must be progressive: some appearances of disease will be observed in future, with which we are at present totally unacquainted, and others which we know very little of now, will afterwards be known perfectly.xli PREFACE TO THE Although I have ventured to lay this work before the Public, yet I am very sen- sible of its imperfections. Some appear- ances are described which I have only had an opportunity of seeing once, and which, therefore, may be supposed to be described less fully and exactly than if I had been able to make repeated examinations. There are others which I have seen long before I. ■ had formed any idea of this undertaking, and which I may be supposed to have ob- served less accurately than if I had had a particular object in view. There are others still, which I have only had an opportunity of examining in preparations. In some of these, certain appearances may be supposed to be lost, which might have been observed had they been examined recently after death. All of these are sources of inaccu- racy, which may be said in some degree to be unavoidable. I have endeavoured,IIRST EDITIOI^. Xiii however, to be accurate; and if the Pubhc should approve of my plan, I shall be very careful, by the addition of new materials, and by repeated observations, to render this publication more perfect.PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. A SECOND Edition of this Treatise is now offered to the Public. It is considerably enlarged, and I hope more correct than the former. The additions are principally de- rived from what I have remarked myself; but they are also taken from the observa- tions of others, and more especially from those of Dr. Soemmerring, Professor of Medicine in the University of Mayence, one of the most distinguished anatomists in Germany. He was pleased to think so favourably of my attempt to improve the knowledge of diseased appearances in the human body, as to translate the first Edition of the Morbid Anatomy into theXVI PREFACE TO THE German language, and to add to it many new Cases, and copious Notes. It has given me the most sincere satisfaction, to find that our observations and opinions coincide. so much with those of each other. Had the plan of my work been different, I might have derived much more assistance froni the valuable labours of Professor Soem- merring, but many of the additions which he has made do not strictly fall within it* To the Morbid Appearances I have at- tempted to subjoin the Symptoms connect- ed with them. This part of the undertak- ing is attended with many difficulties, and I feel very sensibly, how much the execu- tion of it stands in need of the kind indul- gence of the public. If this work shall ever come to anotlier Edition, I hope to be able to render the account of symptoms less imperfect. The difficulties which attend an attemptSECOND EblTiojj". XV11 to ascertain the symptoms of diseases, are derived from various sources. The same symptoms are not uniformly connected with the same changes of morbid structure in the body.—In many cases too the symp- toms are nearly the same, where the mor- bid changes of structure are very dififerent. This is particularly exemplified in diseases of the brain, and of the heart.—Patients often explain very imperfectly their feel- ings, partly from the natural deficiency of language, and partly from being misled by preconceived opinions about the nature of their complaints.—Medical men also,in ex- amining into the symptoms of diseases,some- times put their questions inaccurately, and not unfrequently mislead patients into a false description, from some opinion about the disease which they have too hastily adopted. All of these are formidable dif- ficulties, which obstruct the progress of our bXviil PREFACE TO THE knowledge of the symptoms of diseases; but the accumulated observations of many individuals will probably, at length, in a great measure overcome them. In describing the symptoms of diseases, I have not entered into a minute detail. This belongs properly to the plan of a wri- ter, who proposes to take a full view of any particular disease. I have mentioned those symptoms only which are most constant, and most strongly characteristic of the dis- eases to which they belong. Many diseased appearances are described in this work, to which there are added no corresponding symptoms; and this depends upon different causes. The first is, that there are many morbid changes of structure in the body, the corresponding symptoms of which are not ascertained. The second is, that many nloTbid changes of structure are produced by causes which disturb the constitution soSECOND EDITION'. XiX lifefck, as to be attended with smyptoms too slightly marked for observation. The third and last is, that the symptoms be- longing to some diseased appearances, fall so immediately under the cognizance of the eye, or of the touch, as to be included in a description of the diseased appearances themselves, and to render any further ac- count of them superfluous. The account of symptoms is placed at the end of each chapter, after the descrip- tion of the diseased appearances, that the anatomical part of the work may not be in« terrupted. In a very few instances, how- ever, the account of the symptoms has not been separated from the anatomical de- scription of the morbid appearances, viz. where so little of the symptoms was known as not to admit of a distinct account being given of them. Besides an account of morbid appear-XX PRErACE, ke. ances, a few cases of mal formation arc blended in this work. They do not strictly fall within its plan; I have, therefore, added only a few, which are important, and which have almost all occurred to my own observation. London, Nov. 20, 1797. fADVERTISEMENT TO THE THIRD EDITION For the last seven years I have been so much engaged in the practical duties of my profession, as only to have had occa- sional opportunities of inspecting dead bodies. I have, therefore, scarcely been able to make any additions to this work, but I have made such corrections of it, as more reflection and experience have sug- gested to me, and I hope it will be found to be considerably improved. The Second Edition of this Treatise was translated at Paris about three years ago hy Dr. Ferrall into the French language. The translation is made with great fidelity; but as it is neither accompanied with notes,Xxii ADVERTISEMENT, fcc. nor with the addition of any new cases, I have not been able to derive advantage from it in preparing this Third Edition for the press, London, f'eb. 1, 18Q7,) CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. PAGE Diseased Appearances of pericar- dium - - - 1 hifammation of the pericardium.—Ad- hesions of the pericardium to the heart. —Dropsy of the pericairlium.—Scro: fidous tumours in the pericardium.— The pericardium almost dry.—The pericardium cartilagimus and bony.— The pericardium wa?iting.—Symp- toms. CHAPTER IT. Diseased Appearances of the Heart 19 Inflammation of the heart.—White spot upon the surface of the heart.—Poly- pus.—Aneurysm of the heart.—Aneu- rysm of the arch of the aorta.—Ossi- fication of the corollary arteries.— 'XXiv CONTENTS. fAGlf, Ossification of the semilunar valves.-^ semilunar valves thick and opaque.—, Rupture of the valves.—Valves be- tween the auricles and the ventricles ossified.—The same valves thick and opaque.—Rupture of the heart.— Blood in the pericardiufny without a rupture of the heart.—Mal-formations of the heart.—Heart enlarged.—-Hy- datids adhering to the heart.—A por- tion of the heart bony or earthy.— Symptoms. CHAPTER III. Diseased Appearances in the cavity of the Thorax - r 50 Infia?nmation.—Adhesions in the cavity of the thorax.—Empyema.—Hydro^ thorax.—The pleura almost djy.—Os- sification of the pleura.—Symptoms. CHAPTER IV, Diseased Appearances of the Lungs. 6^ Jnflam mation .-^A bscesses. — Tu bercles.CONTENTS. ^Soft pulpy tubercle.—Water accu- mulated in the Substatice of the lungs. —Lungs distended with air.-r-Air^ cells of the lungs enlarged.—Air-vesi" cles attached to the edge of the lungs, —Lungs changed into a substance like liver.—Lungs co?iverted into bone.—r' A solid tumour compressifig the lungs. —Earthy concretions in the lungs.— Hydatids.—^Symptoms. CHAPTER V. Diseased Appearances of the Thyroid Gland, the Larynx, and the parts contained in the Posterior Mediasr- iinum - - - Inflammation of the thyroid gland.—^ Bronchocele Scirrhus of the thyroid gland.—The thyroid gland converted into bone.—Larynx.—TJie cartilages of the larynx converted ijito bone.—^ Ulcers in the cavity of the larynx.— Diseased appearances of the partsxxvi CONTENTS. contained in the posterior mediastinum, —Diseased appearances of the trachea, —Injiammation of the itmer ?nembrane of the trachea.—Appearances of the trachea in the croup.—Polypus.— Trachea scirrhous.—Rings of the tra- chea ossified.— IJlcer of the trachea. Diseased appearances of the cesopha- gus.—Spasmodic stricture of the ceso- phagus.—Stricture from the pucker- tng of the inner membrane of the cesophagus.—Stricture attended with ulcer.—(Esophagus cartilaginous. — Fungus in the pharynx.—Scrofulous swelling in thepharynx.'-' Pouchform- ed at the lower end of the pharynx.— The descending aorta aneurys?nal.— The vena azygos varicose.—The vena azygos ruptured.—The thoracic duct varicose.—Thoracic duct obstructed.— Thoracic duct ruptured.—Absorbent glands scrofulous.^Absorbent glands scirrhous.—Absorbent glands bony.— Diseased -appearances of the a?iterior* CONl^tJTS. XXVU PAGE of the thymus gland.^Symptaim. CHAPTER VL Diseased appearances within the Cavity of the Abdomen . 124, Ascites.—Inflammation of the perito- naum.—Adhesions in the cavity of the abdomen.—Scrofulous tummrs adher- ing to the peritonaeum.—Cancerous tumours adhering to the peritoncemn. Cartilagijious excrescences growing from the peritondeim.—Steatomatous tumours adhering to the peritoneum. Hydatids in the abdomen.—Air in the cavity of the abdomen..—Symp- toms, CHAPTEK Vn. Diseased Appearances of the Stomach 141 Inflammation.—Appearances in hydro- phobia.— IJleers of the stomach.— Scirrlnis-and cancer of the stomach.—XXviii CONTENTS. Circumscribed scirrhous tumours in the stojnach—Pouch formed in the sto- mach.—Stomach much contracted. Stomach distended with air.—Part of the stomach dissolved by the gastric juice.—Fatty tumours in the stomach, —Calculi in the stomach.—Morbid papilla observed in the stomach.—■ Small-pox pustules said to be in the stomach,—Symptoms. CHAPTER VIII. Diseased Appearances in the Intestines 159 Inflammation.—Intus-susceptio. -r Rup- tures. —Hernia congenita.—Scirrhus and cancer of the intestines.—Diseased change of the intestines in dysentery.— Thickened folds of the innermembrane of the great intestines.—Piles.—Fis- iulce in ano.—The rectum terminating in a cul-de-sac.— The rectum terminat- ing in the bladder.—Worms.—Lum- hricus teres.— Taenia solium.—TcsniaCONTENTS. lata.—Ascans,—Trichuris.—Air ac- cumulated in the intestines.—Bony matter in the intestines.—Projecti?ig ri?igjormed in the cavity of the jejunum ^Calculous matter in the intestines.—' Small-pox pustules said to be in the in- testines.—Mesentery injiamed.—Me- senteric glands scrofulous.—Mesen- teric glands cancerous.— Mesenteric glands earthy or bony —Symptoms. CHAPTER IX. Diseased Appearances of the Liver l7flammatio7i of the membrane of the liver.—Adhesions.—Coats of the liver converted into cartilage.—Inflamma- tioti of the substance of the liver. —Commo7i tubercle of the liver.— Large white tubercle of the liver.— Soft brozvn tubercles of the liver.— Scrofulous tubercles of the liver.— Liver flaccid, zvith reddish tumours. —Liver very soft in its substance.— Liver very hard in its substance.—■^^■^ CONTENTS. tr 7 -7 VAGI Hydatids.—Cysts in the liver contain- . ing an earthy matter.—Rupture of the liver.—Worms said to be in the liver. —Symptoms. CHAPTER X. Diseased Appearance sin the Gall bladder 241 Injlatmnation of its coats.—Adhesions.—< Ulcers in the gall-bladder.—Coats of the gall-hladdder thickened, and hard tubercles formed in them.—Coats of the gall-bladder bony.—Dilatation of the biliary ducts.—Obliteration of the biliary ducts.—A preternatural canal of communication between the gall- bladder and the stomach—Gall-stones. —Bile.—Gall-bladder (Hstendedwith lile.—Hydatids in the gall-bladder. — The bladder zvanting.—Symptoms. CHAPTER XL Diseased Appearances of the Spleen 259 Inflammation of the coals of the spleen.CONTENTS. XXXi PAGE —Adhesions.— Liflammation of the substance of the spleen.—The spleen extremely soft.—The spleen very hard. —Tubercles in the spleen.—Coats of the spleen cartilaginous.—Spleeii very - • large.—Hydatids in the spleen.—. Stony concretions in the spleen.— The spleen ruptured^'—Several small spleens.—Spleen said to be wanting. —Synipioms. CHAPTER XII. Diseased Appearances of the Pancreas 271 Abscesses of the pancreas.—Pancreas hard —CalciilioftheparLcreas.—Pan- creas zvanting.—Symptoms. CHAPTER XIII. Diseased Appearances of the Kidneys and the Renal Capsules 277 Capsule of the kidneys inflamed.—Ab-^ scesses of the kidneys.^ScrofulousCONTENTS. xxxu tubercles in the kidneys.—Kidney scir- rhous.—Stale of the kidneys in diabetes. —Kidneys very soft.—Hydatids of the kidneys.—Calculi of the kidneys. — Kidneys earthy and bony.—Origi- nal varieties in the kidneys.—Diseased appearances of the renal capsules.— —Abscess in the renal capsules.— Renal capsules scrofulous Symptoms. CHAPTER XIV. Diseased Appearances of the Bladder Inflammation of the peritonceal covering. —Itiflammalion of the inner mem- brane.— Ulcers.—Scirrhus and can- cer.—Fungous excrescences.—Poly- pus of the bladder.—Elongations of the inner membrane—Cysts commu- nicating with the bladder.—Muscu- lar coat thickened.— The bladder di- vided into two chambers.—Calculi,— Bladder distended.— Bladder con- tracted.—The anterior part of theCONTENTS. xxxiii PAGE bladder wanting.— The bladder and the recttm communicating from mal- formation.—Part of the bladder in a hernial sack.—Syniptoms. CHAPTER XV. Diseased Appearances of the Vesicidce Seminal es 328 Vesiculce seminales inflamed,—Vesicidce seminales scrofzdous.—Ducts of the vesiculis seminales termijiating in a ad-de-sac.— Vesiculce seminales very small.—One of the vesicula seminales wanting.—Vesiculce seminales scir- rhous.—Symptoms. CHAPTER XVr. Diseased Appearances of the Prostate Gland gg?^ Abscess in the prostate gland.—Scrofula of the prostate gland.— Scirrhus of the prostate gland.—Calcidi in the- ducts cXXXiV CONTENTS. PACK of the prostate gland.—-Ducts of the prostate gland enlarged.—The pro^ state gland preternaturally small.— Symptojns. CHAPTER XVII. Diseased Appearances of the Urethra 34,2 Abscesses.—Fistulas.—Stone in the ca- vity of the membranous part of the urethra.—Cowper's glands seldom observed to be diseased.—Inner mem- brane of the urethra iiflamed. — Ul-^ cers in the urethra.—Stricture.'—Ca- runcle - A layer of earthy matter in the urethra*—Preternatural orifice of the urethra.—Symptoms, CHAPTER XVIII. Diseased Appearances of the Testicles and the Spermatic Chord 352 Hydrocele.^ Hydatids.—Loose cartila- ges in the tunica vaginalis testis.—CONTENTS. XXXV PAGE Adhesions.—Testicle inflamed.—Ab- scesses of the testicle.—Testicle scro- fulous.—Testicle enlarged and pulpy. —Scirrhus and cancer of the testicle. — Testicle cartilaginous. — Testicle bony.—A cyst adheri}2g to a testicle containing a vena medinensis.— The epidydimis ending in a cul-de-sac—' Stricture of the vas deferens.—Testi- cles very small and zuasted.—Sper- matic chord scirrhous.—Veins of the spermatic chord varicose. — Water ac- cumulated in the cellular membrane of the spermatic chord.—A sack contain- ing water formed in the spermatic chord.—Symptoms, CHAPTER XIX. Diseased Appearances in the Female Organs 37a Inflammation of the uterus.—Malig- nant ulcer of the uterus.—Scirrhous enlargement of the uterus,—TuberclesS:XXVi CONTENTS. oj the uterus.—Polypus.—The inver- sion of the uterus.—Prolapsus uteri, —Stiicture in the cavity of the uterus. The OS uteri contracted and closed up.— Uterus bony.— The uterus chan- gedinto an earthy substance.—A bony mass in the cavity of the uterus.— Stones in the cavity of the uterus.—^ Dead foetus i?i the uterus converted itito an earthy mass.^Water in the cavity of the uterus.—Hydatids in the uterus.—Rupture of the uterus.— Two uteri.—Natural varieties in the uterus.—Syinptoms. CHAPTER XX. Diseased Appearances of the Ovaria Infiamniaiion of the peritonaal covering of the ovaria.—Infammation of the substance of the ovaria.—Scirrhus of the ovaria.—Ovaria enlarged and changed into a pulpy substance.—- Ovaria scrofulous.—Dropsy of theCONTENTS. ^ixvH PAGE cvaria.—The ovaria chav^rM i-iio ^ fatty substance with hair and teeth.— A fcstits in the ovarium.—Shrinking of the -ovaria.—One ovarium or b&th 7vanti?ig.—Symptoms. CHAPTER XXL Diseased appearances of the Fallopian Tubes 408 Infiarn'maiion of the Fallopian tubes.— Adhesions.—Dropsy of the Fallopian tubes.—The Fallopian tubes termi?iat- ing in a cul-de-sac.—An ovmn iii the Fallopian tube.—A hard tumour gronving from a Fallopian tube- Diseased appearances of the round ligaments. CHAPTER XXII. Diseased Appearances of the Fagina 41 j InJIammaiion of the vagifia.—Adhesion of the sides of the vagina,— Ulcers inXXXViii CONTENTS. •PAGR the vagina—Scirrhous tumours in the vagina.—Inversion of the vagina.— The vagina very short.—The vagina zvidened.—The vagina very narrow^ ■—Symptoms. CHAPTER XXIII. Diseased and Preternatural Appear^ ances of the external Parts 425 The hymen imperforated.—The clitoris enlarged.—The nympht^ enlarged.— —The external labia growing to^ getber. CHAPTER XXIV. Diseased Appearances of the Brain a7id its Membranes 4,30 Inflammation of the dura mater.—■ Scro- fulous tumours connected with the dura mater,—Spongy tumours grow- ing from the dura mater.—Bo?iy mat" ter formed in the dura mater.—VeryCONTENTS. xxxk strong adhesion of the dura mater to the cranium.—Diseased appearances of the tufiica arachnoides.— Feins of the pia mater turgid xvith blood.—The pia mater inflamed.—Scrofulous tu- mours adhering to the pia mater.— Air in the vessels of the pia mater.— Hydatids.—A part of the^pia mater bony.—Diseased appea?'ances in the substance of the brain.—Infamma^ tion.— Abscesses.— Gajigrene.— The brain very soft.—The bj'aiti very firm.—A white firm substance formed in the brain.—Encysted tumours and Hydatids.—Bony tumours pressing upon the brain.—Bony ridgesirritating the brain.—Hydrocephalus.—Water on the surface of the brain^ or between its membranes.—Blood effused or ex- Iravasated.—Cavities in the brain con- taining a serous fluid.—A?ieurysm of the internal carotid arteries on the side of the sella turcica.—Little bags in the plexus choroides.—Round tumoursCONTENT?, adkering to the plexus choraides.— Earthy matter in the pi?ieal gland.— Pineal gland said to be scirrhous}.— Boater in the pineal gland.—Diseased appearances of the pituitary gland.— Diseased appearances of the nerves.—^ Mal'formatioms of the brain,—!^yfnprMORBID ANATOMY, S^c CHAPTER I. DISEASED APrEARANCES OF THE PERICARDIUM. Inflammation of the Pericardium. Th e pericardium, or the membrane which surrounds the heart like a bag, and is re- flected upon its surface, giving it a smooth external covering, is liable to inflammation. This is not a very common disease, although it happens sufficiently often to afford fre- quent opportunities of examining its effects after death. The disease, from its nature, cannot be confined to any particular periods BI [2 ] of life; yet from what 1 have seen, I should believe that it takes place more commonly when the body has been for some time in its adult state, than either in childhood or advanced age. In inflammation of the pericardium, the membrane is frequently thicker than in its natural state, and is also a little more pulpy. This change depends upon additional mat- ter being thrown into the membrane by the increased action of the small vessels which are distributed upon it. It is also crowded with a very unusual number of minute vessels, which contain florid blood. Upon the inside of the pericardium there is a layer of a yellowish pulpy matter, which commonly does not adhere firmly to it, but may be easily separated. It ge- nerally extends over the whole of its inner surface, and varies a good deal in its thick- ness. In some instances it is as thin as a wafer, and in others as thick as a half-crown. In this matter, which is lining the pericar- dium, there is frequently to be seen a slight[3 ] red appearance, from small blood vessels which are ramifying through it: but these are most distinctly detected by filling them with the fine injection. They are some- times numerous, and maybe clearly traced passing from the pericardium into the pulpy matter; in which I have also seen small spots of florid blood. These newly formed vessels afibrd a very convincing proof of this extravasated matter possessing a living principle; for one cannot imagine that blood vessels would shoot into, and form a number of new branches in, a sub- stance which is dead.* Upon its inner surface, this matter very frequently throws out little irregular laminated processes, giv- ing the appearance of a lace-work, and junctions are often formed between that portion of it lining the pericardium, which is reflected like a bag, and that other por- tion lying upon the pericardium, which is the immediate covering of the heart. This * This is an argument used by Mr. IJunler, in sup- port of the living principle of the blood. 1[ 4 ] matter has a very close resemblance, both in colour and structure, to the coa^ulable lymph of the blood, and is probably no- thing else than this substance separated from the blood by a particular action of the small vessels of the pericardium. At the same time that this layer of pulpy matter is thrown out upon the inner surface of the pericardium, there is accumulated in its cavity mdre or less of a brownish or y el- lowish fluid. There is sometimes only a few ounces of it; at other times more than <i pint. In it are floating loose slneds of the pulpy matter formerly decribed, and there is also occasionally some mixture of pus. This fluid resembles in its properties the serum of the blood, and has commonly been considered as the serum. Inflammation of the pericardium some- times advances to form pus, although rare- ly. Of this I have seen one instance. The ]:>ericardium was much thickened, was in- flamed, and lined wilh coagulable lymj)h ; but there was no sign of ulceration in any[ 5 ] part of it. This last circumstance will be more particularly taken notice of, when we come to speak of the diseased appearances of the pleura. The pericardium in this case, contained more than a quart of common pus. When that part of the pericardium is inflamed which forms the immediate co- vering of the heart, the muscular substance of the latter is occasionally inflamed to some depth. When the pericardium, or any other membrane lining a circumscribed cavity, is inflamed, and a layer of coagulable lymph is formed upon its surface, there is a peculiar disposition given to the coagulable lymph by the action of the small vessels which pour it out. This peculiar disposi- tion is its tendency to immediate coagula- tion. As soon as the coagulable lymph is thrown out upon an inflamed surface, one must suppose that it immediately coagu- lates. If it did not immediately coagulate, but remained for some time fluid, as in the spontaneous separation of the constituentC 6 ] parts of the blood in a bason after common bleeding, then the coagulable lymph would foi ma small cake at the bottom of the serum, easily moveable from one part of the cavity to another, and would not form a layer adhe- nno to thesurfaceof the inflamed membrane. The serum is generally in a much larger quantity, than could take place in conse- quence of its mere spontaneous separation from the coagulable lymph which is spread upon thesurface of the inflamed membrane. The blood vessels, therefore, which are distributed in the layer of the coagulable lymph, would seem to pour out some quantity of serum. While the inflamma- tion is receding, and the coagulable lymph is changing into adhesions, the serum is ge- nerally taken up from the cavity; and this effect must be supposed to be produced by the action of absorbent vessels. The mem- brane of adhesions must therefore have absorbent vessels belonging to it, which have probably been formed by the elon- gation or growth of the absorbents of the «C ' ] inflamed membrane, shooting into the co- agulable lymph. Besides serum, we have mentioned that pus is sometimes found in an inflamed cir- cumscribed cavity. When this is the case, it seems extremely probable that the small arteries, distributed in the layer of the co- agulable lymph, have poured out the pus. This, 1 believe, has not hitherto been thought of; but it is difficult to conceive under these circumstances any other source from whence the pus is derived. If the pus be supposed to be formed by the arte- ries which ramify in the inflamed mem- brane itself, then it must transude through a layer of coagulable lymph, which often is of considerable thickness, before it accu- mulates in the cavity. This, however, is not likely; and as arteries pass from the original membrane into the layer of the co- agulable ]ymph,it becomes more reasonable to suppose that pus is formed by the arte- ries distributed in the coagulable lymph, than in the original membrane itself.[ 8 ] Adhesions of the Pericardium to the Heart. In opening dead bodies, adhesions of the pericardium to the heart, are not uncom- monly found. The adhesion is sometimes at different spots; at other times is extend- ed over the whole surface. It either con- sists of a thin membrane, or of a more solid matter. When it is a thin membrane, it re- sembles exactly the common cellular mem- brane of the body ; and when the matter is solid, it differs only a little from the coa- gulable lymph of the blood, recently thrown out upon an inflamed surface. Whether the adhesion be in the one way or the other, the matter of the adhesion is in bot h cases capable of being rendered vas- cular by injection. The adhesion too is in both cases formed from the pulpy matter lormerly explained, for I have oftener than once had an opportunity of tracing its gra- dual changes into each. Such adhesions are to be considered as the consequence ofC 9 ] inflammation, and shew that an inflamma- tion of the pericardium may be survived. They connect the pericardium in different cases, more closely or loosely to the surface of the heart; and where the connection is close, the inflammation has probably been more recent; where it is loose, the inflam- mation has probably been of older date, so that time has been given for the adhesions to be elongated by the motion of the heart. Dropsy of the Pericardium. This disease is not uncommon, and I be- lieve is most frequent at an advanced period of life. I have seen it, however, in persons considerably under the age of thirty: and it probably also happens occasionally in childhood. I have seen oftener than once both anasarca and ascites in children under twelve years old, which is as improbable as the accumulation of water in the pericar- dium. Water is sometimes found accumu- lated in the pericardium, while there is none in any other cavity; but generally it[ 10] is accompanied with the accumulation of water in the other cavities of the thorax. This water varies a good deal in quan- tity, amounting in some cases hardly to two ounces, and in others to more than a pint. Although the quantity be large which may happen to be accumulated, yet the pericardium is never very much stretched ; but it always appears as if it could contain a greater quantity. It is probable, therefore, that the pericardium may really grow so as to keep pace with * the accumulation; and this would seem to be necessary, in order that the heart may have room for dilating its several cavities. The fluid, which is accumulated, is of a brown colour, having a darker or lighter shade in different cases, and resembles in its properties the serum of the blood. If the person should happen at the same time to have jaundice, then the fluid has a yel- low tinge from the bile. It has, howevc,;', frequently a yellowish colour, like the serum, without there being any reason toi: 11 ] suppose that bile has been circulating with the blood. Scrofulous Tumours in the Pericardium. I had once an opportunity of seeing two or three scrofulous tumours, growing within the cavity of the pericardium, one of which was nearly as large as a walnut. They consisted of a white soft matter, somewhat resembling curd or new cheese. The peri- cardium is a very unusual part of the body to be attacked by scrofula, and therefore this must be considered as a very rare appearance of disease. The Pericardium almost dry, I have twice found (and it has been seen much oftener by ah anatomist,* whose authority is of great weight) the pericar- dium so changed as to resemble a common ox's bladder in some degree dried; or like a common pericardium which had been for some time exposed to the air. As the thorax • Mr. Hunter.C >2 ] ^nd abdomen were entire in both cases, no opening whatever having been made into either, this effect could not arise from evaporation. Were this capable of taking place, the appearance here noticed, would be very usual in examining dead bodies, and the internal parts generally would be affected by the influence of the same cause. It must be considered therefore as the effect of a process which was going on during life. The cause of this appearance is either a defect in the action of the exhalent vessels of the pericardium, so that the fluid which naturally lubricates this part, is not secreted in the proper quantity: or it is an increased action of the absorbent vessels of the peri- cardium, by which the lubricating fluid is taken up in larger proportion than it is deposited by the exhalent arteries.[ 13 ] The Pericardium cartilaginous^ and bony. A portion of the pericardium has in some instances been observed to be converted in- to cartilage,* and in others into bone,-f- but both of these changes are very uncommon. I had an opportunity lately of examining an instance of the latter sort, in which the ossific process had spread over a consider- able portion of the pericardium. A carti- laginous state of the pericardium has not fallen under my own observation. The Pericardium wanting, A few instances have occurred, in which the pericardium has been wanting, from a defect in the original formation. When this deficiency takes place, the heart ap- pears perfectly bare and distinct to the eye-, upon removing the sternum and the carti- • See Morgagni de Causis et Sedibus Morborum, Epist. XXtl. Art. 10. t See Bonetus, Tom. I. p. 583.C H ] laginous extremities of the ribs. The ex- ternal surface of the different cavities and blood vessels of the heart is seen as dis- tinctly as when the pericardium is laid open in the natural structure of these parts. A close and uniform adhesion of the peri- cardium to the heart has sometimes been mistaken for this malformation, but they are very different from each other. When there is a close adhesion of the pericardium to the heart, the external surfiice of the dif- ferent cavities and blood vessels of this or- gan does not come into view,upon removing the sternum and a part of the ribs. The whole of this appearance is as completely hid as in the healthy structure. It is only when the adhesion is removed by dissection that the external surface of the heart and blood vessels comes into view. When there is an adhesion of the pericardium to the heart, this membrane adheres at the same time closely to the tendinous part of the diaphragm; but when there is an original want of the pericardium, the heart liesC 15 ] loose in the cavity of the chest, having no connection whatever with the diaphragm, and is covered by the pleura, Uke the lungs. I have had an opportunity of seeing once an example of a want of the pericardium, and have described it in the Medical and Chi- rurgical Transactions.* SYMPTOMS. The symptoms attending inflammation of the pericardium, cannot be distinguished in practice from inflammation of the substance of the heart. Whenever the iuflammation of the pericardium is violent, the muscular substance of the heart is inflamed to some depth, and therefore the inflammations of both parts are often blended together. The symptoms, which have been observed, are the general affection of the system known by the name of Symptomatic Fever; pain in * See page 91, Vol. I.[ 16 ] the region of the heart; most commonly, but not constantly, palpitations, and an ir- regular pulse; cough; difficulty of breath- ing ; and sometimes syncope. The symptoms attending adhesions of the pericardium to the heart are not so clearly marked as to be well distinguished in practice. When the adhesions are partial and long, so that the heart can enjoy a free play within the pericardium, probably little or no inconvenience is felt. But when the adhesions are close, and extend gene- rally over the surface of the heart, the fol- lowing symptoms have been observed, viz. a sense of oppression, and sometimes of pain in the situation of the heart; a pulse often irregular and intermittent; difficulty of breathing, and sometimes a dry cough.[" ] When water is accumulated in the peri- cardium, the symptoms are found to re- semble very much those belonging to hy- drothorax, and have not been clearly dis- tinguished from them by authors. These symptoms will be afterwards mentioned when we come to hydrothorax. It may perhaps serve as some imperfect ground of distinction between the two diseases, that the feeling of oppression is more accurately confined to the situation of the heart, and the heart is more disturbed in its functions, in dropsy of the pericardium, than in hydro* thorax. It ought at the same time to be remaiked, that the two diseases are often blended; in which case, these grounds of distinction cannot be applied. The case of scrofulous tumours growing upon the inside of the pericardium, which 1 have described, was combined with tu- bercles of the lungs; and the person died with the common symptoms of pulmonary C[ «8 ] consumption. Nothing occurred which led to any suspicion of a disease in the pericar- dium. It seems to me reasonable to sup- pose, that when scrofulous tumours grow in the pericardium, there will hardly be any inconvenience felt while they are small; but when they enlarge very much in size, they will necessarily prevent the full dila- tation of the heart, and disturb its functions. This, however, will probably be very diffi- cult to be distinguished from the disturb- ance produced by other causes, which must in the same manner impede the free action of the heart; as, for instance, the accumu- lation of water in the pericardium. The symptoms produced by a defect of the lubricating fluid in the pericardium are at present unknown.CHAP. II. dist;ased appearances of the heart. Injlammalion of the Heart. In'plammation of the substance of the heart is a rare disease, and is most com- monly connected with an inflammation of the pericardium. When the pericardium covering its surface is inflamed, the inflam- mation sometimes passes a little way into the substance of the heart. That part of it becomes much more crowded with small vessels tlian in its natural state, and there are sometimes to be seen in it a few spots of extravasated blood. The substance of the heart may however be inflamed, without inflammation of the pericardium. I recol- lect an instance of this sort, where no marks of inflammation could be observed in that membrane, but where there was a little more water than usual in its cavity.C 20 ] Authors have mentioned cases of ab- scesses and ulcers* of the heart, but these I am persuachd are extremely rare. It hap- pens still more rarely that the heart be- comes mortified, although this diseased state of it has also been observed.t While Spot upon the Surjace of the Heart. In opening dead bodies there is very often to be seen upon the surface of the heart, a white opaque spot like a thicken- ing of the pericardium. This is sometimes not broader than a sixpence; at other limes as broad as a crown-piece. It is most commonly on the surface of the riglit ven- tricle, and is rarely to be seen either on the surface of the left ventricle, or of the aitri- cles, although it is occasionally on both It consists of an adventitious membrane, formed on a portion of the pericardium which covers the heart, and may easily be * Vid. Moigagni, Eplst, XXV. Artie. 17. Vicf. Bonet. Tom. I. |>. 849; also Lieutaud, Tain. H. p. 27. t Vid. Lieutaud, Tom II. p. .'33.[ 21 ] dissected off, so as to leave the pericardium entire. It is an appearance, 1 believe; of no consequence whatever, and is so very com- mon, that it can hardly be considered as a disease. Polypus. This has been considered by the older anatomists, as a very common and a very fatal disease. By many of the moderns it has been rejected as a disease altogether. It consists of a mass of coagulable lymph, whicli fills up some of the large cavities of the heart, particularly the ventricles, and extends into the neighbouring large vessels. The coagulable lymph is of a yellowish white colour, sometimes of a very yellow colour, and has considerable firmness. It fills up the cavity completely, or nearly so, in which it is found; and in the ventricles it shoots out processes among the fasciculi of the muscular fibres. From this circumstance probably, it has derived its name. It also extends into thclarger arteries which arise[ 22 ] from the ventricles, and is ofien moulded to the shape of the semi-lunar valves at their origin. The examples of this appear- ance which it has occun ed to me to ol)scrve, have been chiefly in preparations, and had imdoubtedly taken place after death. In order that the circulation may be carried on, it is necessary that the cavities of the heart be free for the transmission of blood ; and if any one of its cavities should be plugged up, the circulation would necessarily be stopped altogether. A polypus, however, plugs up the cavity of the heart in which it is formed so entirely, as to prevent the circulation. It may be said, perhaps, that polypi are formed gradually, and that the circulation is carried on for some time, although very imperfectly. In almost all polypi, however, when examined, there is the same sort of appearance throughout their whole substance; which shews that the whole coagulum had been formed at the same time. These circumstances seem to contradict very strongly the opinion,L 23 ] tliat polypi are commonly formed during life. When polypi are formed, I believe that the coagulation of the blood does not take place very quickly after death. They are without any admixture of the red glo- bules of blood, and therefore the blood has been sufficiently long in coagulalin<j^ to al- low the globules to separate from the other parts, in consequence of their greater spe- cific jjravitv* The ordinary coagulations of the blood, which commonly do not fill uj) very fully the cavities of the heart (although instances occasionally occur of this sort) take place pretty soon after death, because the red * In some instances, a coagulum of blood has been found, of a laminated texture, in such parts of the heart as are most remote from the direct current of the circulation. This laminated texture shews that the coagulation had taken place during life, and in a gra- dual manner. Two cases of this kind have been ob- served by Mr. Brodie, who, although young, is already well known to the public, as an excellent anatomist and physiologist. Such cases, however, are to be considered as different from the coagulations, which have been generally called polypi, and which fill up entirely one or more of the large cavities of the heart.[ 24 ] panicles of the blood are generally arrested in the coagulum. It may be worth while to remark, that there is sorrietimes found a portion of a coagulum in one of the ven- tricles of a yellow colour, and with an oily appearance, so as to resemble exactly fat. There is, however, no admixture of oil in it, and it possesses all the ordinary properties of the coagulable lymph. The yellow colour of a coagulum sometimes, depends on a portion of the bile having circulated with the blood during life, as in cases of jaundice; but it takes place also when liiere is no reason to supjiose that bile- is mixed with the blood. Arimrijsm of the Heart. It sometimes happens, although I believe very rarely, that the heart becomes aneu- rysmal. This disease consists in a part of it being dilated into a pouch, which is com- monly more or less filled with coagulated blood. Of this disease I have only seen oneI 25 ] instance. The apex of the left ventricle was dilated into a pouch large enough to contain a small orange, was much thinner than in the healthy structure, and was lined with a thick white opaque membrane. There was hardly contained in it.any coa- gulated blood; but the quantity of the coagulated blood, in an aneurysm, depends commonly on the size of the bag. This disease most probably arose from the muscular structure at the apex of the ventricle having become weaker than in any other part, so that when the ventricle contracted upon the blood, it was pushed agaiijst the weakened part, which was not fully able to resist its impetus, and therefore was gradually dilated. Had the strength of the apex of the left ventricle been in due proportion to that of the other parts, it would seem impossible that the aneu- rysmal swelling should ever have taken place.[26] Aneurysm of the Jrch of the Aorta. The most frequent situation of aneurysm within the cavity of the thorax, is at the arch of the aorta. In this disease the arcli of the aorta is much enlarged beyond its usual size, sometimes forming an unil'orm tumour; at other times smaller aneurysmal swelhngs which rise out of the larger one. This enlargement of the artery, if very considerable, is more or less filled with coagulated blood, which is disposed in concentric laminae. The coats of the di- lated artery are nearly of the same thick- ness with those in its natural state; and therefore in proportion as the swelling in- creases, new matter must be deposited in the coats of the artery. This new matter would seem to be deposited with a view to prevent the artery from being so soon rup- tured as it would be otherwise, and is formed by the action of the vasa vasorum. A portion of the new matter may perhapsC 2' ] also be formed by the sirall vessels of the parts immediately in contact with the artery. The coats of the artery, both at the place where the aneurysm is formed, and near it, are considerably altered from their natm-al structure; They are more readily divisible into different layers, than where the artery is sound, and have often formed in them spots of bony matter. These spots are frequently of a yellov/ish colour, and are foiined either in the internal nien:ibrane of the artery, or immediately behind it. The coats of the artery in tiie neighbour- hood of the aneurysm, are often found to be very irregular in their texture, being in some places transparent and thin, in others thick and opaque; and there is sometimes the appearance of a double in- ternal membrane. The same sort of struc- ture is also to be found in the coats of the aneurysm itself. The arteries near an aneurysm are diseased to a greater or less extent in different persons; but I do not[58 ] recollect one instance in which they were totally free from disease. The disease sometimes ends fatally, by the enlarged artery bursting, and the blood escaping into the cavity of the pericardium; but it very often has a further progress; the swelling of the aneurysm gradually in- creases, till at length it presses against the sternum, and the cartilaginous extremities of some of the ribs. This pressure occa- sions a portion of the sternum and of the ribs to be absorbed, and ihe tumour is thereby perceived externally. Tiie absorp- tion of the sternum and ribs goes on very gradually, and is not accompanied with the formation of pus. The tumour gradu- ally increases in size, till perhaps it is as large as a child's head at birth; a part of the skin becomes in some measure dead, and cracks from distention at the highest point of the tumour; a portion of the coa- gulated blood is forced out by the impetus of the circulation, and the person, in ge- neral, is cut oil" instantaneously. The bloodC 20 ] sometimes oozes out slowly, and the person sinks gradually under its loss. Aneurysms at the arch of the aorta, as well as in every other part of the arterial system, arise from the coats of the artery being previously diseased, which are there- by unable to resist sufficiently the impetus of blood that strikes against them. This is obvious, both from the diseased structure of the coats of an aneurysm itself, and ol the artery in its neighbourhood. I have also found very frequently diseas- ed appearances in the arch of the aorta, which had not advanced far enouiih to produce aneurysm. These consist in little white opaque spots being formed in the inner membrane of the artery, and its coats are in such cases more easily separable from each other than in the healthy state. The reason why aneurysms take place more frequently in the arch of the aorta, than in any other part of the arterial sys- tem, is its curvature, which exposes it to the full impetus of the blood propelled by[30 J the strength of the left ventricle. Aneu- rysms hardly ever happen in the pulmo- nary artery, because there is no arch formed by the pulmonary artery, and the blood readily passes by two large branches into the substance of the lungs. Aneurysms in the arch of the aorta, as well as in every other part of the arterial system, happen much more rarely in wo- men than in men. This arises from two causes. The one is, that women, from their sedentary life and temperance, are less liable to an increased impetus of the blood, occasioned by excited circulation; the other is, that the arteries in this sex appear to be less liable to these diseased alterations of structure, which predispose to aneurysm. ^[ 31 ] Ossificalion of the Coronary Arteries of the Heart. The coronary arteries are occasionally ossified in a greater or less degree. This state of them is, I believe, generally ac- companied with ossified portions of the aorta at its origin, and sometimes with ossi- ficalion of the semi-lunar valves. Ossification of the Semi-lunar Valves. The three semi-lunar valves at the ori- gin of the aorta, or of the pulmonary artery^ are often found diseased. The disease very commonly consists in the deposition of a bony or earthy matter, and would seem to be formed by a morbid action of some very minute vessels which are distributed through the substance of the valves. These vessels are so small, as not to contain, in their natural state, the red globules of the blood.Semi-lunar Valves thick and opaque. It frequently happens that the semi-lunar valves are considerably thickened, and of an opaque white colour; in this case, the coats of the artery in the neighbourhood, I believe, are commonly thickened and diseased. Rupture of the Valves. There is a preparation in Dr. Hunter's collection, shewing one of the semi-lunar valves to have become thickened, and to have been ruptured to a considerable ex- tent. It is very rare that such an occur- rence happens, and in the present instance the rupture was so large, that I believe it must have proved almost immediately fatal.C 33 ] Falves between the Auricles and the Ventricles ossified. The valvular apparatus between the au- ricles and ventricles, is liable to the forma- tion of bony and earthy matter in it, in the same manner as the valves which are situ- ated at the origin of the two large arteries, but by no means so frequently. What this depends upon, it is very difficult to deter- mine. These valves may perhaps be con- sidered as belonging more to the venal than the arterial system, and it is certain that ossification takes place very seldom in veins, although very often in arteries. The same Valves thick and opaque. The valvular apparatus between the au- ricles and ventricles is also occasionally thickened, having lost all its transparency, and having an opaque white colour. The chordae tendinese likewise become thicker than natural; and the internal membrane lining the ventricles is frequently at the D[34] same time a good deal thickened, appear- ing like a firm white membrane. Under such circumstances the heart is often found to be considerably enlarged beyond its usual size. I have also seen the valvular "apparatus between the auricle and the ventricle, in a state of inflammation, and covered with a layer of coagulable lymph: but this 1 be- lieve to be very uncommon. Rupture of the Heart, It sometimes happens, and I believe chiefly in those who are advanced in life, that the heart at some part becomes thin- ner, and upon any great exertion bursts. The blood escapes into the cavity of the pericardium, and the person is instantly destroyed. Of this accident I have seen one instance onlyi hut have heard from the best autho- rity of another. They both happened to men; and I mention this circumstance, be- cause men appear to be more subject to[ 35 ] diseases of the heart and blood vessels thaa v/omen. It is probable that persons dying from this cause have, on account of the suddenness of their death, been supposed to die of apoplexy. J^lood in the Pericardium, without a Rupture of the Heart. Cases have occurred, although very rare- ly, in which a large quantity of blood has been accumulated in the cavity of the peri- cardium, but where no rupture could be discovered after the most diligent search, either in the heart itself, or hi any of its vessels. This appears very wonderful, and not at all what any person would expect a priori. Upon the supposition of there being no rupture, two conjectures only have oc- curred to me about the manner in which such an effect has taken place, and they are both attended with considerable dif- ficulty. The one is, that the vessels upon the surface of the heart, may have lost a part[36 ] of the compactness of their texture, so that the blood may have escaped through their coats by transudation. The other is, that blood may have been thrown out by the extremities of the small vessels opening upon the surface, of that portion chiefly of the pericardium which forms the imme- diate covering of the heart, from their orifices having been to a very uncommon degree relaxed.* Malformations of the Heart. It also happens, although I believe very rarely, that a heart is so imperfectly formed as to allow of life being continued for some length of time, in a very uncomfortable .state, but to be ultimately the cause of death. There are two cases of this sort de- scribed by the late Dr. Hunter.f and there is one specimen of this malformation pre- served in his collection. The malformation * See Med. Observations, Vol. 4. p. 330. ' Memoirs of Med. Society, Vol. .1. p. 238. f Vid. Medical Observations, Vol. 6. p. C'Jl.C 57] preserved in the collection, consists in the right ventricle oftbe heart being ex! remely small, and the pul-nonary artery being very small also which arises from it. At its origin from the right ventricle it is com- pletely impervious. The ductus arteriosus is open, but forms likewise a small canal, and terminates in the left branch of the pulmonary artery. The right auricle is larger than it naturally is, from the frequent accumulation of blood in it; and the com- munication between the two auricles, by means of the foramen ovale, is much larger than usual. The child in whom this mal- formation was found, had its skin of a very dark colour, and had very laborious respi- ration, with violent action of the heart. It lived only thirteen days. In another case related by Dr. Hunter, the pulmonary artery was very small, es- pecially at its origin, and there was a defi- ciency in the septum cordis, at the basis of the heart, large enough to allow a small[S8] thumb to pass through it. The person in whom titis mal'ormation of the heart was found, lived about thirteen years. He never had a fresh complexion, but it was always dark, or tending to black. He was often seized with fits, especially when there was any hurry upon his spirits, or there had been any brisk motion of his body. It is obvious that in these deviations frOm the natural structure, a small quantity of blood can pass through the lungs to receive the benefit of respiration, and that this will be more or less according to the degree of the deviation. The blood will from this cause be of a dark colour, as it is well known that it receives the florid hue from the influence of the air upon it in the lungs. Hence the colour of the skin must be ne- cessarily dark, and this will be increased when the blood is accumulated more than usual in the veins. It is natural to think that in such structures of the heart, the circulation will be carried on with much more difficulty when it is excited beyond[39 ] its usual standard. This may even be sup- posed to be increased to such a degree as to produce fits, which happened in one of the cases. There is an example also in Dr. Hunter's collection of a heart from a child, which had a hole in the septum ventriculorum at the basis of the heart, large enough to allow a goose quill readily to pass through it. The child was still-born at six months, and the hole in the septum evidently arose from original malformation. This too is de- scribed by Dr. Hunter, in the sixth volume of the Medical Observations. An instance somewhat similar to this has been pub- lished by Dr. Pulteney, in the third volume of the Medical Transactions; the person to whom this monstrosity belonged, lived to near fourteen years of age. A very singular malformation of the heart, in a child about two months old, came some time ago into my possession,[40] which I shall describe in this place. The aorta in this heart arose out of the right ventricle, and the puhiionary artery out of the left. There was no communication between the one vessel and the other, ex- cept through the small remains of the duc- tus arteriosus, which was just large enough o admit a crow quill. The foramen ovale was a little more closed than in a child newly born." The heart was of the com- mon size for a child of two months old, and, except for the circumstances which have been stated, had nothing remarkable in its structure. In this child a florid blood must have been always circulating between the lungs and the left side of the heart, except for the admixture of the dark blood which passed through the small communi- cation of the foramen ovale; and a dark blood must have been always circulating between the right side of the heart and the general mass of the body, except for the very small quantity of florid blood which passed into the aorta by the remains of theI 41 J ductus arteriosus. Life must, therefore have been supported for a very coiisicierable length of time with hardly any florid blood distributed over the body. I regret ex- tremely that I have only been able to collect a very imperfect account of the child when alive. The child had a most unusually livid skin, which arose from the very small proportion of the florid blood in the general circulation. The surface of the child's body felt colder than that of a child pro- perly formed and in good health; the res- piration was na;ural. When any similar malformation shall occur, it could be wished that the heat of the surface of the body, and of the internal parts, were mea- sured accurately by a thermometer. The heat of the internal parts will be most con- veniently measured by putting a small, thermometer into the rectum.* * This very singular malformation of the heart was given lo nie by Dr. Wullaslon, of St. Edmundsbury, who look much trouble in endeavouring to collecL inl'or- niation about the child, but wilhouL tiie desired success.[ 42 ] Heart enlarged. The heart is sometimes found very much enlarged in its size, but without any appa- rent disease in its structure. The muscular parietes are generally as thin and sometimes even thinner than in a heart of the common size. Its cavities are filled with blood, partly fluid, and partly concreted into a loose coagulum. Hydatids adhering to the Heart. Hydatids* have occasionally been found adhering to the heart; but I have not met myself with any instances of this sort. They do not appear to be of the same kind in every part of the body; but their nature will be explained particularly, when I come to describe the diseased appearances of the liver and kidneys * See Morgagni, Epist. XXV. Art. 15.[43] J Portion of the Heart bomj, or earthij. A portion of the heart has been observed to be converted into bone * Earthy matter has also been found deposited in the mus- cular substance of the heart.i- Neither of these appearances has come under my own observation, and they are to be looked upon as very uncommon. SYMPTOMS. The symptoms which attend inflamma- tion of the heart are very much the same with those which belong to inflammation of the pericardium, viz. symptomatic fever; pain in the situation of the heart; palpita- tions; an irregular pulse; cough; difficulty of breathing; and often syncope. It would seem probable that the last symptom is ♦ See Morgagni, Epist. XXVII. Art. l6. See also Medical Comraunicatioiiii, Vol, l. p. 228. t See JBonetus, Tom. 1. p. 820, atid p. 825.I 44 ^ principally connected with inflammation of the substance of the heart, and perhaps it may not be found in a pure inflammation of the pericardium. The two diseases, how- ever, are very commonly blendedj.ogether. The symptoms which attend aneurysm of the heart, are similar to those which be- long to aneurysm of the arch of the aorta. The chief symptom which attends aneu- rysm of the arch of the aorta, in an early stage of the disease, is a strong pulsation in the chest. The pulsation is commonly at the same time visible to the eye, when the chest is exposed to view. We are not to conclude, however, from this symptom only, that there is certainly an aneurysm. I have felt the same kind of pulsation in other cases; as for instance, where the pe- ricardium was found strongly to adhere to the heart; where there was a slight inflam-[«] matlon upon the surface of the heart, with a little more water than usual in the peri- cardium ; and where a morbid enlargement had taken place in the heart without any aneurysmal swelling. But when an aneu- rysm of the arch of the aorta has advanced to a large size, a tumour begins to be formed externally, accompanied with a strong pul- sation. This I believe belongs only to aneurysm, and becomes the most decided characteristic of this disease. The pulse at the wrist in aneurysm of the arch of the aorta is sometimes irregular; but often no irregularity can be felt in it. There is ge- nerally more or less of pain in the aneurys- mal tumour, or in some other part of the chest. Difficulty of breathing upon taking exercise also commonlv attends this disease, which is increased in proportion as the disease advances. Ossification of the coronary arteries would seem to produce, or to be intimately con-t4G2 nected with the symptoms which constitute angina pectoris. These consist of a pain which shoots from the middle of the sternum across the left hreast, and passes down the left arm, to near the elbow, sometimes even to the wrist oFihd left hand. In a few cases the pain has been known to shoot across the right breast as well las the left, and to pass down the right arm,^ither to near the elbow or the wrist. It is excited by walk- ing, more especially up an ascent, and by any considerable emotion of the mind.* The symptoms which are produced by a diseased alteration in the structure of the valves of the heart, are not so distinct as to be clearly discriminated in practice; They consist of difficulty of breathing; of frequent palpitations; of a weak and often an irre- gular pulse; and in some cases there has been observed a disposition to fainting. No * See an excellent treatise upon ibis subject by Dr. Parry.C 4? ] observations have yet been made by which practitioners may be led to conjecture what set of valves is diseased. The symptom^ which have been noticed as attending a gradual effusion of blood into the pericardiun^^re a great degree of faint- ness; difficulty df breathing; much anxiety and oppression; a dull pain, and a sense of weight behind the sternum. To these a cold clammy sweat has been observed to succeed, and to spread over the body. When the heart is much enlarged, the dis- ease is attended with palpitations. These may not only be felt by the hand, when applied to the left side, but may often be perceived by the eye, even when the chest is covered with the ordinary clothing. In one or two instances, I have known the pulse at the wrist to beat with an unusualC ^8 ] degree oF vigour, but much more commonly the pulse is feeble and irregular. The muscular parictes of the heart being gene- rally thin in proportion tothcenlarged size of its cavities, the heart ha§ little power to propel an increased quantity pf blood into the more distant branclfBjpf the arterial system. At times there Is mucii difficulty of breathing; and there is a purplish hue of the cheeks and lips. This colour is more deep in its tinge at one time than another, according as the blood has been transmitted with more or less difficulty through the lungs. The causes which produce a mor- bid growth of the heart are but little known; one of them would seem to be rheumatism attacking this organ.* The symptoms produced by the forma- tion of hydatids, in the cavity of the peri- cardium are not distinctly known; but they cannot be supposed to dilFer much from * Dr. Pitcairn has observed this in several cases.i:«] those of water in the pericardium. In a case related by Morgagni, the patient was subject to fainting. Wiien a part of the heart is converted into an earthy matter or bone, no morbid symptoms whatever have, in some cases, been observed; and in others there has been palpitation of the heart, with difficulty of breathing. ECHAPTER III. DISEASED APPEARANCES IN THE CAVITY OF THE THORAX. Inflammation. The pleura, or the membrane which lines the cavity of the thorax, is very subject to inflammation. This may take place at any period of life, but it is more frequent at the tige when the body is just arrived at the adult state, and all its actions are carried on with vigour, than either in childhood or in advanced age. The pleura appears to be more liable to inflammation than any mem- brane lining those cavities which have no external opening; as the peritonaeum, the tunica vaginalis testis, and some others. This may arise from the following causes - The branches of the intercostal vessels, which are very numerous, piercing through the substance of the intercostal muscles, communicate a good deal by anastomosis,[ 51 ] ^viLh the external vessels on the sides of the chest. Hence whatever may act upon these external vessels so as to excite con- traction in them, may be supposed capable of producing an accumulation of blood, as well as an increased action in the inner branches of the intefcostals, many of which are distributed upon the pleura. Many of the inhabitants of this country, from their mode of dress, have their chests much ex- posed to the influence of a cold and very uijcertain climate, and hence the blood is frequently thrown inwards into the small vessels ramifying upon the pleura. For these reasons probably the pleura is more liable to inflammation than other mem- branes investing cavities which have no external opening. This is so much the case, that one can hardly examine the chest of any person who has arrived at the^dult state, without perceiving more or less the traces of a present or former inflammation. When the pleura is inflamed, it becomes thicker than it is naturally, and in some[ degree pulpy. There are also interspersed through it a great number of very small vessels containing florid blood, and a layer of coagulable lymph is at the same time thrown out upon its surface. This layer is sometimes very thin, and at other times of considerable thickness. It is either smooth upon its surface, or it throws out many small flocculi, which exhibit the appearance of a rich lace-work. A serous fluid is also poured into the cavity of the thorax, in wiiich are floating many small broken lamii.ae of the coagulable lymph ; and there is occasionally some mixture of pus. The coagulable lymph covering the pleura which forms the external membrane of the lungs, frequently adheres to that which covers the pleura that is reflected on the inside of the parietes of the chest, either in small portions, or by extended surfaces. Upon such occasions I have somctinies been able to trace the gradual change of the udnesion, from the state of[ 53 ] coagulable lymph to that of cellular memr. brane. This coagulable lymph may be shewn to be vascular by injection, as we^ have already mentioned in the inflamma- tion of the pericardium. When the pleura is inflamed which covers the lungs, the substance of the latter is frequently in- flamed to some depth, Adhesions in the Cavity of the Thorax. Adhesions are often found between that portion of the pleura which covers the lungs, and that other portion of it which lines the ribs, the intercostal spaces, and the convex surface of the diaphragm, while there is no sign whatever of present in- flammation. These adhesions are often partial, and then they are most commonly to be found at the upper and posterior part of the chest; but they are sometimes ex- tended over the whole cavity. They either connect the parts together closely, in which case they often consist of a Hrm thick menj- brane; or they connect them loosely, andC54 J then they consist of a soft spongy mem- brane, which exactly resembles the com- mon cellular membrane of the body. Such adhesions are the consequence of inflamma- tion, and are perhnps the most common morbid appearance to be found in dead bodies. Empyema. Pus is not unfrequently accumulated in the cavity of the chest, forming the disease called empyema. This may either arise from the blood vessels of the pleura being in such a state of inflammation as to ibrm pus, or from the bursting of some abscess in the lungs, so as to evacuate its pus into the cavity of the thorax. When pus is formed by an inflamed state of the pleura, there is no occasion for ulceration to take place. The pleura is found entire, but is covered with a layer of the coagulable lymph. This fact has been long ago ascer- tained by the late Dr. Hunter. The for- mation of the pus depends on a certainr 55 ] state of action in the vessels of the pleura, or moi'e probably of the layer of the cpa- gulable lymph which covers it. The pus may either occupy the whole of one of the cavities of the chest, or may be confined to a part of it by adhesions taking place be- tween the lungs and the pleura, which in- vests the ribs and the intercostal spaces. When pus is evacuated into the cavity of the chest by the bursting of an abscess in the lungs, it is almost always confined within certain limits by adhesions. In cases of empyema, for the most part, there is not any particular appearance of the chest observable on the outside: there is some- times however a fullness to be perceived externally on the side where the matter is accumulated, and even occasionally an evi- dent swelling between two of the ribs, as of matter pointing. Ulceration has also been known to take place in one or more of the intercostal spaces, so that the matter has been evacuated externally. There is an example in Dr. Hunter's collection,C 56 ) where the matter had been evacuated from the chest by a good many openings in the intercostal spaces. Hydrothorax. A watery fluid is not uncommonly found in one or both cavities of the chest, form- ing the disease called hydrothorax. It is often attended with the accumulation of water in other parts of the body, especially in the pericardium, and the cellular mem- brane of the lower extremities. The fluid in hydrothorax is commonly of a brown or yellowish colour, but occasionally has a reddish colour, arising from the mixture of the red globules of blood. It resembles in its properties the serum. It is found to vary a good deal in quantity in different cases, sometimes amounting only to a few ounces, and at other times to several quarts. When it is accumulated in very large quan- tity in either side of the chest, that side appears to be fuller to the eye externally; and when the cavity is laid open afterC S7 ] death, the lungs on that side are found more or less compressed. I have seen a lung so compressed from this cause, as not to be larger than the closed fist. Water is likewise found in the cavity of the chest where there are considerable ad- hesions. This shews that a good deal of inflammation had formerly taken place, which had probably, by throwing out a considerable quantity of serum, laid the foundation of the hydrothorax.* The Pleura almost dry. In opening into the cavity of the chest, there is commonly found a good deal of moisture upon the surface of the pleura. This is intended to lubricate the surface of the cavity of the chest, for the more easy motion of the lungs within it. Sometimes, however, I have seen the moisture in very small quantity, so that the pleura might * This circumstance is illustrated in several instances by Mr. Cruikshank, in his '1 realise upon the Absor- bent System. See 2d edition, p. ii6.[ 58 J almost be said to be dry. This was occa- sioned either by a deficiency in the action of the exhalent arteries of the pleura, or by an increased action of its absorbents. Ossification of the Pleura. It sometimes happens, although I believe rarely, that a portion of the pleura is con- verted into bone. This consists of a thin plate, and sometimes extends over a consi- derable surface of the pleura. In all the cases which I have seen, the bony matter seemed to me to be exactly like ordinary bone. I have never seen it form a thick irregular knob, but always a thin plate. The cause which first excites this diseased process it is very difficult to determine; but there can be no doubt that the bone is formed by the small vessels of the pleura, which secrete bony matter from the blood. This process is not peculiar to the pleura, but takes place in almost every part of the body: I believe, however, that it is more common in the pleura, than in any other159 J similar membrane. In the cases which I have observed, this process seemed not to have been attended with much inconve- Dience. There was no inflammation found in the pleura surrounding the bone, nor in the substance of the lungs under it. It is reasonable to think, however, if the bone were to grow irregularly, so as to form sharp processes, that it might excite in- flammation, and lay the foundation of a fatal disease,* SYMPTOMS. The symptoms which attend inflamma- tion of the pleura are very well ascertained. There is more or less of symptomatic fever; an acute pain in some part of the chest, • A case is mentioned by Dr Sopminerririff, where a part of the Jungs was found inflamed and suppurated under an ossification of the pieu a. See Soemmer. Germ. Translat. of the Morbid Anatomy, p. 43.more commonly in the side, which is in- creased upon inspiration; a great difficulty in lying upon the diseased side; difficult respiration ; a cough, which at first is dry, but is afterwards accompanied with a se- cretion and expectoration of mucus from the inner membrane of the trachea and its branches. There would often seem to be slight de* grees of inflammation in the pleura, where the symptoms above stated do not exist at all, or are so obscurely marked as to be altogether overlooked. In examining the chest of adults after death, it rarely happens that adhesions are not discovered in some part of it, uniting the surface of the lungs to the pleura which lines the pa- rietes of the chest. The marked symptoms of pleurisy, however, are by no means so frequent. It seems, therefore, probable, that slight inflammations may attack the pleura, sufficient however to throw out coagulable lymph, which is afterwards changed into adhesions, and yet that per-[ 61 ] sons thus affected shall not be sensible of any disease in the chest. If this supposi- tion be not granted, then coagulable lymph may be thrown out upon the surface of the pleura, and adhesions be formed without inflammation : but this conjecture is not so probable as the other. Where adhesions in the chest are long, so as not to impede the free motion of the lungs, respiration is not sensibly affected by them. But where the adhesions are short, tying as it were the lungs closely to the parietes of the chest, and more especially if they be extended over every part of the cavity, then respiration is difficult, and ac- companied with a cough, but there are np symptoms of fever.[6^] Empyema may be distinguished with a good deal of certainty, after inflammation of the pleura or of the lungs, by rigors having taken place, by a remission of the pain, by the cough and difficulty of breath- ing continuing, and by the person being able to lie more easily upon the diseased side than the other. There is sometimes a very evident enlargement of the side where the matter is accumulated. When water is accumulated in the chest, it can generally be sufficiently distinguished in practice by the following symptoms. There is great difficulty of breathing, and commonly the patient cannot rest in bed unless the head and the upper part of the trunk be more or less elevated from the horizontal posture. The sleep is often suddenly interrupted by alarms and disa- greeable dreams; the urine is in very small quantity, and there is commonly anasarca of the legs. The pulse is generally, butC 63 ] not always, irregular. There is a paleness in the countenance, with a purple hue of the lips and of the cheeks, if the latter should happen to have any tinge remaining. This effect is produced by the lungs being incapable of sufficiently expanding them- selves to receive the quantity of air which is necessary for giving the usual florid co- lour to the blood in the branches of the pulmonary artery. When ossification of the pleura is of small extent, respiration cannot be affected by it; but when it is large, it must produce difficulty of breathing, either by preventing the full expansion of the lungs, or the free motion of the ribs, according to its ^situa- tion : Some instances are known of respi- ration being injured from this cause. Where the ossification has produced in-« flammation of the pleura and lungs, symp- toms of inflammation will take place as above described, but probably in some cases[ 64 ] there may be peculiar symptoms, depend- ing chiefly on the different irritabihty of different constitutions. In one case there were paroxysms of convulsive difficulty of breathing, paipitation of the heart, a quick irregular pulse, and a distressing sense of instant suffocation.* » See Mr. Weldon's Observations in Surgery, p. 75 and 76.C 65 ] CHAP. IV. DISEASED APPEARANCES OF THE LUNGS. Inflammation^ Ij^tlammation of the substance of the. lungs, I believe, seldom takes place without some similar affection of the pleura; at least in the instances which I have seen, this has been most frequently the case. . When a portion of the lungs is inflamed, its spongy structure appears much redder than usual, the colour being chiefly florid, but partly of a darker hue. This arises from a great number of the small vessels distributed upon the cells of the lungs, being so enlarged as to admit the red glo- bules of the blood. There is also an ex- travasation of the coagulable lymph into the substance of the lungs, and sometimes of blood. The extravasated blood has been said upon some occasions to be in very larg^ F[66] quantity; but this has never fallen under my own observation. That portion of the lungs which is in- flamed becomes considerably heavier than in the natural state, from the accumulation of blood in its vessels, and the extravasation of the coagulable lymph ; it therefore com- monly sinks in water. It feels like a solid substance when pressed by tlie fingers, and there is no crackling of air as in the healthy structure. This how^ever will be more or less marked, according to the degree of the inflammation. The; pleura coveringthe inflamed portion of the lungs is also commonly affected with inflammation; it is crowded with fine red vessels, and has generally lying upon it a layer of coagulable lymph. This inflamed state of the lungs is to be distinguished from blood accumulated in some part of them after death in conse- quence of gravitation. Froni the body ly- ing in the horizontal posture after death, biocd is often accumulated at the posterior »C 6? ] F 2, part of the lungs, giving them there a deeper colour, and rendering them heavier. In this case there will be found no crowd of fine vessels filled with blood, nor any other mark of inflammation of the pleura. Where blood too is accumulated in any part of a lung after death, from gravitation, it is always of a dark colour; but where blood is accumulated from inflammation, the inflamed part will appear, in a great measure, florid. Abscesses. It is very common to find abscesses in the lungs. These sometimes consist of small cavities containing pus, and at other times the cavities are very large, so that the greater part of the substance of the lungs has been destroyed. These cavities sometimes communicate only wdth branches of the trachea, which are destroyed in the progress of the ulceration; at other times they open into the cavity of tlie chest, emptying their contents there, and formingC 68 3 tli€ disease whigh is calWd empyema. VVhen abscesses are deeply seated in the substance of the lungs, the pleura is com- monly not affected; but when abscesses are formed near the surface, it is almost constantly inflamed. The lungs round the boundaries of an abscess, when it has arisen from common inflammation, are more solid in their texture, in consequence of coagula- ble lymph being thrown out during the progress of the inflammation. When the abscesses are scrofulous, the texture of the lungs in the neighbourhood is sometimes not firmer than usual, but presents the common natural appearance. This I be- lieve to be principally the case when the abscesses are small, and placed at a consi- derable distance from each other. When a portion of the lungs is crowded wi^h tu- bercles, and some of these are converted into abscesses, the intermediate substance of the lungs is often of a very solid texture. When blood vessels are traced into an ab- scess of the lungs, I have found them, uponC 69 ] examination, very much contracted, just before they reach the abscess, so that the opening of their extremities Fias been closed up entirely. On such occasions it will re- quire a probe to be pushed with a good deal of force,^ in order to open again their extremities. In these contracted vessels the blood is coagulated, as it is under simi- lar circumstances in olher parts of the body.* This change in the blood vessels is, no doubt, with a view to prevent large haemorrhages from taking place, which would be almost immediately fatal. Tubercles. There is no morbid appearance so com- mon in the lungs as that of tubercles. These consist of rounded hi m white bodies, inter- spersed through their substance. They arc, probably, formed in the cellular structure, which connects the air cells of the lunjis together, and are not a morbid alfection of glands, as has been frequently imagined. « See Dr. Stark's Worlo, p. 28.C '0 J There is no glandular structure in the cel- lular connectin<; membrane of the lungs; and on the inside of the branches of the trachea, where there are follicles, tubercles have never been seen. They arc at first very small, being not larger than the heads of very small pins, and in this case are fre- quently accumulated in small clusters; The smaller tubercles of a cluster probably grow together, and form one larger tuber- cle. The most ordinary size of tubercles is about that of a garden pea, but they are subject in this respect to much variety. They adhere pretty closely to the substance of the lungs, have no peculiar covering or Cfipsule, and have little or no vascularity. \^"hcn cut into, they are found to consist of a white smooth substance, having a firm texture, and often contain in part a thick curdly pus. When a tubercle is almost entirely changed into pus, it appears like a white capsule, in which the pus is lodged. When several tubercles of considerable size aie grown together, so as to form a[ 71 ] pretty large tiibercuLitcd mass, pas is very generaliy found upon cntling into it. I'he pus is frequently thick and curdly; but when in considerable quantity, it is thin- ner, and resembles very mudi the pus from a common sore, hi cutting into the sub- stance of the lungs, a number of abscesses is sometimes found, from pretty large tu- bercles having advanced to a state of sup- puration. In tlie interstices between these tubercles, the lungs are frequently of a harder, firmer texture, with the cells in a great measure obliterated. The texture of the lungs on many occasions, however, round the boundaries of an abscess, is per- fectly natural. I have sometimes seen a number of small abscesses interspersed through the lungs, each of which was not larger than a pea. The pus in these is rather thicker than what arises from common inflammation, and resembles scrofulous pus. It is proba- ble that these abscesses have been produced by a number of small scattered tubercles[ 72 ] taking on the process of suppuration. The lungs immediately surrounding these ab- scesses are often of a perfectly healthy structure, none of the cells being closed up by adhesions. When tubercles are converted into ab- scesses, pthisis pulmonalis is produced, one of the most destructive diseases in this island. Tubercles are sometimes found in the lungs of children at a very early age, viz. two or three years old; but ihey most frequently occur a short time before the completion of the growth. They are apt, likewise, to be formed at rather an advan- ced age. In cutting into the lungs, a considerable portion of their structure sometimes ap- pears to be changed into a whitish soft matter, somewhat intermediate between a solid and a fluid, like a scrofulous gland just beginning to suppurate. This appear- ance 1 believe is produced by scrofulous matter being deposited in the cellular sub- stance of a certain portion of the lungs,[ 73 ] and advancing towards suppuration. It seems to he the same matter with that of the tubercle, but ouly diffused unirornily over a considerable portion of the lungs, while the tubercle is circumscribed. Soft pulpy Tubercle. I have seen another sort of tu!)ercle in the lungs, which I l^elieve to be very rai^. It consists of a soft tumour, formed of a light brown, smooth substance. This is not contained in any proper capsule, but adheres immediately to the common struc- ture of the lungs. In cutting through se- veral of these tumours 1 did not find any of them in a state of suppuration. They were commonly as large as a gooseberry, and were chitfly placed upon the surface of the lungs; some, however, were scat- tered through their substance, of a sn)aller size. These arc very different in their appearance from the common tubercle last described.I HI Water accumulated in the Suhstanu af (he Lungs. The structure of the lungs may be said to consist of air cells, and the common cel- lular membrane of the body. In this cel- lular membrane there is always some moisture, which is necessary for the easy motion of one part of the lungs upon ano- ther in their contraction and dilatation. There is a considerable difference in the quantity of this moisture in different per- sons, as may be seen by cutting into the substance of the lungs; for under such cir- cumstances there will always ooze out from the cut surface more or less of an aqueous fluid mixed with globules of air. Some- dmes, however, the quantity is so large that it amounts to a disease, forming what may be called anasarca of the lungs. It has not occurred to me to see any well marked example of this disease, but it has ♦r" ] been observed by others.* It is hardly necessary to mention, that in proportion to the accumulation of the water the air ceils must be necessarily compressed, so that a sufficient quantity of air cannot be admitted into the lungs for producing the due degree of influence upon the blood. Lungs distended -with Air. In opening into the chest, it is not un- usual to find that the lungs do not collapse, but that they fill up the cavity completely on each side of the heart. When examined, jheir cells appear full of air, so that a prodigious number of small white vesicles are seen upon the surface of the lungs im- inediately under the pleura; The branches of the trachea are often at the same time i good deal filled with a mucous fluid. * See Dr. Soemmerring's German translation of the Morbid Anatomy, p. 4.j.[ 76] Air Cells of the Lungs enlargtd. The lungs are sometimes, although I be- lieve very rarely, formed into pretty large cells, so as to resemble somewhat the lungs of an amphibious animal. Of this I have now seen three instances. The enlarge- ment of the cells cannot well be supposed to arise from any other cause, than the air being not allowed the common free egress From the lungs, and therefore accumulating in them. It is not improbable also, that this accumulation may sometimes break down two or three contiguous cells into one, and thereby form a cell of a very large size. Air Vesicles attached to the Edge of the Lungs. Vesicles containing air have occasionally been seen attached to the edge of the Jungs. They do not communicate, how- ever, with the structure of this organ, but[ 77 ] are complete in themselves. Upon the first view, it might be thought probable that they were merely some of the air cellg enlarged ; but as they do not communicate with any of the air cells, this opinion is not well founded. It is most likely that thev are a morbid structure, formed in the same manner as the air vesicles attached to the intestines and mesentery of some quadrupeds, and that the very minute blood vessels which ramify upon the ve- sicles, have the power of secreting the air.* Lungs changed into a substance like Liver, 7 The lungs are sometimes converted into a solid substance very much resembling the liver. It has nearly the same solidity, and the same general appearance. I have only seen an example 9f this change in * pieparation, and I am inclined to believe that it had I)cen produced by a wide ♦ See Hunter's Animal Eccrnomy, p. IGJ^.[ '8 ] extended iiiflcimmation, in which a large quantity of coagulable lymph had been exlravasated into the substance of the lungs. The extravasation would necessa- rily render the textnrc of the lungs very solid; and the history of the symptoms which have been observed to attend simi- lar morbid changes, supports this opinion. The symptoms are those which are pro- duced by an inflammation of the lungs. Lungs converted into Bone. Part of the lungs is occasionally con- verted into a bony substance; but this is a very rare disease. The small vessels ra- mifying through the substance of the lungs under such circumstances separate bony matter from the blood. In the only in- stance which I have known of this com- plaint, the process would appear to have been rapid. There was great diffi ulty of breathing before the person died, but this difiBiculty had been only for a very fewC 79 ] weeks. E'Jtch of ihe lungs was undergoing tlic same change of slructure, which had made considerable progress. In the par- ticular case to which I allude, there had been a very strong disposition to form bone in the constitution. A very large bony tumour had been formed round one of the knees of this person; and very soon after the knee and leg were removed by ampu- tation, the difficulty of breathing began, which was occasioned by a part of the lungs being converted into bone. In this case there was a transference of the disease from an external to an internal part, simi- lar to the translation of gout or iheumatism. A solid Tumour compressing the Lungs. I have also seen a tumour as large as an orange, attached to the lungs on one side by a loose membranous connection, and in some degree compressing them; this tu- mour consisted of a porous substance, which resembled neither the structure of what is commonly understood to be a[ 80 ] scirrhous nor that of a scrofulous tumour, but had an appearance somewhat pecuUar to itself. Ear thy Concrelions in the Lungs. Earthy concretions have occasionally been found in the lungs, although it is a rare appearance of disease. These are often small, but sometimes form masses of a con- siderable size.* Even a considerable por- tion of the lungs has been known to be changed into an earthy substance.t Hydatids. Hydatids are also sometimes formed in the lungs, and are many of them brought up by coughing. They are of the same sort with the hydatids formed in the liver, the nature of which we shall endeavour to explain afterwards. ♦ Vid.Morgagni, Epist.XVII. Arl. 19. Epist. XV. Art. 25. t Vid. Morgagni, Epist. XXII. Art. 15.[ 81 ] SYMPTOMS. In inflammation of the substance of the kings, the symptoms correspond a good deal with those of pleurisy. Indeed inflam- mation of the lungs is almost constantly attended with inflammation of the pleura, so that it is difficult to discriminate between them in practice. But it is of little conse- quence to be able to do this, as the means of cure are the same in both diseases. When the inflammation of the lungs is pure, the pleura being not aSected, the pain in the chest has been observed to be more ob- tuse than in pleurisy, and the pulse to be less hard. The respiration is very difficult, and the veins of the neck are sometimes observed to be distended with blood, the face to be tumid, and there is a purplish hue of the lips and cheeks. These effects arise from the venal blood being transmitted with difficulty through the inflamed lungs. This is occasioned by an extravasation of G[ the coagulable lymph into a considerable part of their substance, which both pre- vents the lungs from sufficiently expanding themselves, and compresses many air cells, so that the proper quantity of air is not admitted into the lungs for producing the full change of colour upon the blood. When inflammation of the lungs termi- nates in suppuration, it may be known by rigors, by a diminution of the pain in the chest, and by an expectoration of pus. When tubercles are forming in the lungs, but have not advanced to suppuration, rtffy are attended with a slight cough, with occasional difficulty of breathing, with the feeling of slight pains in some part of the chest, and with a pulse somewhat accele- rated. These are symptoms which com- monly usher in phthisis pulmonalis, and are freqnendy overlooked, both by the pa- tients themselves and their friends. When the tubercles have begun to suppurate, andC 83 ] abscesses to be formed, then there is an expectoration of a thick pus, which is oc- casionally tinged with blood, emaciation, debility, and that peculiar affection of the system which is known by the name of hec- tic fever. The symptoms attending the large brown tubercle are unknown to me. When the cells of the lungs are much enlarged in their size, persons have been remarked to have been long subject to dif- ficulty of breathing; but I believe no symptom is at present known, by which this disease may be discriminated from some others incident to the chest. In some cases in which the lungs have been converted into a substance J ike the liver, symptoms have been observed similar[ 84 ] to those which attend inflamr^iation o/ t}|p lungs. I am inclined to believp tl^at this appearance of the lungs is produced by an extensive extravasation of coagulable lymph into their substance, during an at- tack of inflammation. When earthy concretions are formed in the lungs, persons are more or less subject to dilEculty of breathing, and a cough. Oc- casionally some of these concretions are coughed up, which circumstance becomes the discriminating mark of this disease. Without it, this disease could not be dis- tinguished from several others which attack the chest. When hydatids are formed in the lungs, they produce a cough, difficulty of breath- ing, and some frequency of the pulse. Tiiey are occasionally forced up by a violent fit of coughing; and this circumstance only can discriminate the disease in the living body.I C 85 J CHAP. V. DISEASED APPEARANCES OF THE THYROID GLAND, THE LARYNX, AND THE PARTS CONTAINED IN THE POSTERIOR MEDIA- STINUM. Before we describe the diseased appear- ances of the parts which are contained in the posterior mediastinum, we shall take notice of the morbid changes to which the thyroid gland and the larynx are liable. These are so closely connected with the trachea, that a description of their morbid changes could not be introduced so pro- perly in any other place. Injlammalion of the Thijroid Gland. The thyroid gland is sometimes attacked with common inflammation, but this hap- peris rareiy. There are no peculiar causes[ 86 ] acting upon it (o produce inflammation, and it would seem to be as little liable to be alfcctcd with this disease, as any gland in the body. When the thyroid gland is inflamed, it exhibits the common appear- ances which take place in the inflammatioii of the substance of other parts. Its blood vessels are enlarged in their size, and the number of branches which are capable of containing the red globules of blood is in- creased. Hence it appears much more vascular than in a natural state. It is in- creased in its bulk, and feels considerably firmer to the touch than when healthy; and these effects are produced partly by the in- creased quantity of blood which is circu- lating through it, and partly by the extra- vasation of coagulable lymph, and perhaps of blood, into its substance. Broiichocele. The morbid change of structure to which the thyroid gland is most liable, is that[ 87 J swelling of it called bronchocele. This is apt to take place in different individuals of the same fcimily, and women are more liable to be affected with it than men. It is more prevalent in some districts of countries than in others, and those where it is most prevalent are mountainous. The swelling of the thyroid gland in bronchocele often increases to a very large size, and sometimes grows irregularly,form- ing projecting tumours upon the anterior part of the neck. This irregularity of growth is more common in that part of Savoy, where the disease is endemial, than in Great Britain. When a section is made of the thyroid gland affected with this disease, it is found to consist of a number of cells which con- tain a transparent viscid fluid. These cells vary in their size in different parts of the same gland, and in different swellings of the same kind in different individuals. Some of them are so large as to be able to contain a small pea, but most of them are of a smaller[ 8S ] size. The viscid fluid, when the gland has been preserved for some time in spirits, is changed into a transparent jelly. From this account of the morbid change of structure which takes place in bronchocele, it seems not unreasonable to suppose that the swell- ing depends upon a vitiated and increased secretion in tbe oland. The secretion be- ing in large quantity, gradually distends the cells, increasing thereby their capacity, and this enlargement of the cells forms the general swelling of the gland. Scirrhiis of the Tliijroid Gland. The thyroid gland sometimes becomes scirrhous, but is not so liable to this disease as some other glands of the body. When it is affected by this disease, it becomes en- larged in its size, but not to any consider- able degree, and is hard to the feeling. When a section is made of it, it is found to consist of a solid substance, with very little of that cellular structure which is so strong- ly marked in bronchocde.[ 89 ] This gland is apt to become swelled and hard when ulcers are formed at the upper end of the oesophagus. This eflPect is some- times produced by the ulcer of the oesopha- gus spreading to the thyroid gland. The same change, however* has been observed to take place where the ulcer liad not reached so far, and where the gland was entire. This might lead to the opinion, that some ducts of communication exist between the thyroid gland and the upper part of the oesophagus. These ducts have been supposed by several anatomists, but their existence has never yet been demon- strated. 'The Thyroid Gland converted into Bone. The thyroid gland, or a part of it, fs oc- cafsionally changed in old people into a bony mass, but this disease is of rare occur- rence. It is comfiionly, I believe, a disease of no consequence; but it is reasonable to think, that th6 bony mass by an ir^egulai-[ 90] growth might in some instances so irritate the larynx, or the upper part of the trachea, as to produce inflammation and ulceration of these parts, and to prove ultimately fatal. Larynx,—The Cartilages of the Larijux converted into Bone. The cartilages of the larynx sometimes become bony, either at the middle or a more advanced period of life. When the disposition to form bony matter in the la- rynx is not very strong, portions of the thyroid cartilage only are converted into bone; but when the disposition is powerful, then all the cartilages are changed into a bony substance. When this is the case, they become liable to any changes which might take place in ordinary bone. Ac- cordingly, some of these cartilages so changed into bone have been known to exfoliate, and to be thrown out by a violent fit of coughing or vomiting. Dr. Hunter had an opportunity of knowing an instanceC 91 ] where the cricoid cartilage, being converted into bone, was separated by exfoliation, and afterwards coughed up. It is not to be understood from what has been said, that the cartilages of the larynx, when changed into bone, are more liable to become dead and exfoliate than the common bones of the body. The instances in which they have been known to exfoliate are, I believe, extremely rare. Ulcers in the Cavilij of the Larynx. The inner membrane of the larynx is very apt to be inflamed, and this generally accompanies the inflammation of the inner membrane of the trachea, as we shall have occasion to mention afterwards. Sometimes, however, an inflammation shall take place which is confined to the cavity of the la- rynx, and it shall occasionally advance to suppuration. Of this I have known several instances. Suppuration is most apt to take place in tliesacculi hiryngis: and the ulcers which I have yeen there, are sometimesC 95 ] attended with a scrofulous thickening of the surrounding parts. Diseased Appearances of the Parts contained in the Posterior Mediastinum. By the posterior mediastinum, is meant that space which Hes between the laminae of the pleura, that pass from the root of the lungs to each side of the spine. The space is of considerable size, and contains a por- tion of the trachea arteria, of the oesopha- gus, of ihe thoracic dtict, of the descending aorta, and the vena azygos, besides some absorbent glands. Diseased Appeararices of the Trachea, The inner membrane of the trachea xi iiot uncdrtimonly inflamed to a gfccitef- 6t less degree. In this state it is crowded with minute florid vessels, which give it a ge- neral appearance oi vascularity. When theie is no inflammation, it appears in th6 dead body a white ptilpy membrane, ai^d there are rardy to be seen any i!"ed vessekC aa ] ramifying in it. While the inner membrane is inflamed, the secretion from its glands is very much increased, and therefore its ca- vity is found a gaod deal filled with a mu- cous fluid; even pus is sometimes formed, and both fluids are mixed with globules of air. This is the state of the trachea in a very violent catarrh, and also, in some cases where there are scrofulous abscesses of the lungs: the same appearances are also ob- servable in the inner membrane of the larynx. Appearances of the Trachea in the Croup. When the inner membrane of the trachea is inflamed, it is sometimes lined with a layer of a yellowish pulpy matter. This does not adhere firmly, to the inner mem- brane, but maj^ be easily separated. It ex- tends from the upper part of the cavity of the larynx, into the small branches of the trachea, which are distributed through the substance of the lungs. There is at the same time a good deal of mucus in the[ 94 ] Irachea and its branches, together wiLh a mixture of pus. This is the appearance of the inside of the trachea, in patients who have died from the croup. Polypus. The trachea and its branches are some- times lined with a layer of a yellowish or whitish matter, forming a sort of tube, which is applied to the itmer surface loosely. It has not occurred to me to sec any instance of it in the dead bodies which I have examined: but I have seen several examples of it in preparations. The inner membrane of the trachea seems to be per- fectly natural, and the layer of adventitious membrane resembles exactly the coagula- ble lymph w^hich is thrown out in other parts of the body ; I have therefore no doubt of its being that substance. Since this disease (which is called polypus) lasts for a long time, and is not attended with symptoms of inflammation, it appears pro- bable that the vessels of the inner mem-[ 95 ] brane of the trachea possess a power of se- parating the coagulable lymph from the blood, and that this disease consists in a peculiar action of these vessels. The trachea is sometimes filled with a solid substance, of the same kind with what we have described. Of this I have only seen one instance, and it occurs, I believe, much more rarely than the other. The tubular substances which are thrown out from the trachea in coughing, and which constitute the most ordinary form of poly-: pus, were considered formerly, by some anatomists of distinguished reputation, as blood vessels. It is singular that they should have j)aid so little attention to the appearance of these tubular substances as to have mistaken them for blood vessels; and it is still more singular, that it should never have occurred to their reflection, that blood vessels of such a size could not be coughed up, without a very large quantity of blood passing along with them. A more modern opinion about the nature[ 96 ] of these tubular substances has been, that they consist of dried mucus. This, although more plausible than the former, is equally ill Ibunded. The mucus which is secreted by the inner membrane of the trachea, is exactly of the same kind with that secreted by the inner membrane of the nose. Every person is acquainted with the appearance of the mucus of the nose when dried. The mucus of the trachea, when dried, would have the same appearance. The tubular substances coughed up in polypus of the trachea, present an appearance to the eye very different, and (as has been already noticed) look exactly like the coagulable lymph. The influence of the air in drying the mucus would seem to extend but a little way from the external surface of the body, for the mucus is fluid even in the posterior nostrils.C 97 ] Trachea scirrhous. The trachea I have seen narrowed in its diameter for two or three inches, thickened in its substance, and the inner membrane has been raised into a number of little hard tubercles. This state of the trachea was accompanied with a scirrhous affection of some absorbent glands, which closely ad- hered to it; and it appeared to me that the disease in the glands had spread, so as to affect the trachea. Rings of the Trachea ossified. ^ The cartilaginous rings of the trachea occasionally become ossified. When the ossification is inconsiderable, the function of the trachea will hardly be affected by it; but where the rings are entirely ossified, theflexibility of the trachea must be much lessened, and its cavity will not admit of being so much contracted as in the healthy state, by the action of the muscular fibres, which form a part ef its structure. In H .the v/hole intestinal canal; but 1 believe [98] consequence of this the mucus whicii is occasionally accumulated will not be so readily expelled by coughing, and proba- bly the air will not be thrown out in so small a column, nor with so much mo- mentum. Ulcers of the Trachea. The trachea is doubtless liable to the process of ulceration, from causes acting immediately upon itself; but in the in- stances which I have seen, the ulceration has been connected with ulceration of the cesophagus. As the oesophagus is more li- able to this disease, it is probable that in such cases the ulceration has begun in the oesophagus, and spread to the trachea. Diseased Appearances of the (Esophagus, The oesophagus is frequently lined with a layer of the coagulable lymph, which is continued from the cavity of the mouth. This, it is said, sometimes extends overH '2, [ 9'i ] this appearance to be extremely rare, and it commonly terminates at the lower end of the oesophagus. The inner membrane of the month is much more vascular than in its natural state, shewing a deep red colour ; but in examinations after death the appearance of greater redness is sometimes scarcely observable in the oesophagus. This disease is known under the name of aphthae, and is much more often to be ob- served in the living than the dead body. ^asmodic Stridut e of the (Esophagus. The oesophagus is liable to stricture, produced by the contraction of its muscu- lar hbres at some particular part. This disease is most common in women whose constitutions are delicate, and nmch sub- ject to nervous influence. When sucii a disease is examined in the dead body, the (Esophagus is found to be more or less con- tracted in some part of it, and it feels harder than usual, as happens to all mus- cles in a contracted state. There is no[ Joo ] appearance of diseased structure usually combined with it. 1 can suppose, how- ever, that this contraction might lay the foundation of a permanent, and even a fatal disease. The muscular fibres of the oesophagus might so press on the inner, membrane, as to excite inflammation in it,, which might advance to suppuration, and would most probably terminate fatally. Stricture from the Puckering of the inner Membrane of the (Esophagus, I once saw a very unusual stricture of the oesophagus. It consisted in its inner membrane being puckered together, so as to form a narrowness of the canal at a par- ticular part, which would hardly allow a common garden pea to pass. There was no appearance, however, of diseased struc- ture in the inner membrane which was so contracted, and the muscular part, of the oesophagus surrounding it was perfectly sound. I know that this disease was very slow in its progress,.for the person in whom[ 101 ] it took place had been for many years af- fected with a difficulty of swallowing, and could only swallow substances of an ex- tremely small size. Stricture attended with Ulcer. The most common appearance of dis- ease in the oesophagus, is that of an ulcer in its cavity. Ulcers of the oesophagus are sometimes of a common nature, but most frequently they arc attended with a scir- rhous affection. When they arise from common inflammation, the structure of the oesophagus immediately surrounding the ulcer is but little thickened, and there is the appearance of the usual erosion in ul- cers. When the ulcer is of a scirrhous nature the oesophagus in the neighbour- hood is very much thickened, and is very hard in its texture. When this texture is examined, it either consists of an hard, uniformly fleshy substance, or this is a little intersected by membranes, or it is gristly. Under such circumstances the canal of the[102 J ccsopljagus is always more or less narrow- ed, and in some cases is almost wholly ob- literated. It is worthy of remark, that these ulcers happen most frequently, either immediately under the pharynx, or near the cardia. Any substance capable of irritating the inner membrane of the oesophagus, by having sharp hard projections, will doubt- less be more likely to affect the oesophagus, where it first enters into it. In an oesopha- gus, therefore, predisj)osed to scirrhus, such an accident may prove an exciting cause, and the disease will more frequently take place at its upper end. At the cardia too, there Is a peculiar arrangement of the muscular fibres, which are capable of act- ing in some degree like a sphincter, and which probably produce on many occasions a narrowness of the canal there. This will render the oesophagus at the cardia more liable to be injured by the passage of any hard substance, and may ultimately lay the foundation of a scirrhous ulcer. This is the[ 103 ] account which the late Dr. Hunter used to give of the frequent situation of ulcers at the upper and lower extnsmities of the oesophagus, and it seems to have great weight. It h'ippens, however, most com- monly that ulcers of the oesophagus arise spontaneously, or in other words, iVom causes within itself which we cannot ascer- tain. When an ulcer takes place at the upper end of the oesophagus, it is apt to spread into the substance of the thyroid gland. In this case the gland becomes hard, enlarged, and ulcerated : but in some instances it has been known to enlarge, where the ulcer of the oesophagus had not spread so far as to reach it. (Esophagus carlilagiiious. A portion of the oesophagus has been ob- served by some anatomists to be converted into cartilage, and to have its diameter at • that part very much diminished in size.* * Vid. Bonet. Tom 11. p. 32.[ 104 ] This was probably only a sLrong example of the gristly texture above described. Fungus in the Pharynx. I have seen an instance of a fungus arising on the inside of the pharynx and the upper end of the oesophagus, which is to be con- sidered as a rare disease. When cut into it appeared to have a fibrous structure, disposed in some measure at right angles to the inner membrane upon which it was formed, and was ulcerated on its surface. Scrofulous Swelling in the Pharynx. It has occurred to me likewise to see a scrofulous swelling at the lower end of the pharynx and the beginning of the oesopha- gus. When cut irito it appeared to consist of • the same kind of matter as a scrofulous ab- sorbent gland. It grew upon that side of the pharynx which is next the larynx, and the patient for this reason had not only lost almost entirely the power of swallowing I[ 105 ] but was not able to speak except in the smallest whisper. Pouch formed at the lower end of thePhanjnx. The pharynx, at its lower extremity, has been known to be dilated into a pouch of a considerable size, which passed behind the oesophagus. This may be supposed to be very rare, but there is an instance of it preserved in Dr. Hunter's collection. The pouch in this case began to be formed in consequence of a cherry-stone having rested there for some time, which had made a kind of bed for itself. It remained in that situation for three days, and then was brought up by a violent fit of coughing. A part of the food always rested afterwards in the cavity made by the cherry-stone, by which it was gradually enlarged. At length, in the course of about five years, the cavity- was enlarged into a bag of considerable size, sufficient to contain several ounces of fluid. This bag passed down a good way behind the oesophagus, and the oesophagus[ 106 ] necessarily acquired a valvular communi- cation with it. In proportion as the bai^^en- larged, this valvular communication would become more and more com[)lete, till at length every kind of food must have rested in the bag, and could not pass into the oesophagus. In this way the person was destroyed. The lower end of the pharynx is, perhaps, the only part of the canal where such an accident can happen. The pha- rynx is not contracted gradually, so as to lose itself insensibly in the oesophagus, but contracts itself rather suddenly at the lower end. Hence a little recess is formed, in Avhich an extraneous body may occasionally rest. This would be most apt to happen at the posterior part; so that if the recess should be enlarged into a cavity, it would generally pass behind the oesophagus. The particulars of this singular case have been published in the Medical Observations,* • See ihe Medical Observations, Vol. III. p. 85.[ .07 ] 7 he descending Aorta. There is hardly any other disease of the descending aorta within the posterior me- diastinum, than aneurysm. This consists in the aorta being a good deal enlarged beyond its natural size, in its coats being irregularly thickened, and more readily divisible into layers than in a healthy state. Little thin laminae of bonv matter are also frequently deposited behind the inner mem- brane. This appearance of disease, has been formerly explained more particularly. It is rare that this part of the aorta becomes aneurysmal, unless there be a general aneu- rysmal affection over the arterial system. The Vena Azijgos varicose. The vena azygos is very seldom diseased. I have seen it, however, varicose, and verv much enlarged. This change in it took place from particular circumstances. A considerable portion of the vena cava infe- rior had become obliterated; in conse-L i08 ] quence of this, the usual vena azygos, together with an uncommon one on the left side, were the only channels through which the blood could return by a circuit- ous route to the heart; they were there- fore necessarily, from the impetus of the blood, much enlarged in size, and for the same reason likewise varicose. This case r have more particularly described in the Medical and Chirurgical Transactions * Vena Jzygos ruptured. The vena azygos has been known to be ruptured, when very much distended with blood. + Such a case has not come under my own observation, and 1 believe it to be very uncommon. The Thoracic Duct varicose. The thoracic duct also is subject to very few diseases. I have never seen any other * See p. 125, 8cc. Vol. I. t Vid. Morgagni, Epist. XXVl. Art. 29.[ 109 ] except that of its being very much enlarged andvarcose. In the instance to which I allude, it was very nearly as large as the usual size of the subclavian vein, but nothing could be detected in the neighbouring parts, capable of accounting for this appearance. There was no obstruction at the entrance of the thoracic duct into the venal system, which might naturally have been expected. This diseased appearance of the thoracic duct has already been taken notice of by Mr. Cruikshank in his Treatise on the Absor- bent System. ❖ Thoracic Duct obstructed. The thoracic duct has been known to be obstructed by an earthy matter deposited in its cavity, -f It does not necessarily hap- pen when the thoracic duct is at some part obstructed, that chyle is prevented from • See Second edition, p. 607 j and ia it is represented in an engraviug, Plate V. 1" Vid. Lieutaud, Tom. II, p. 93.[110] entering into the system of blood vessels. The thoracic duct sotnetimcs sends ofl one or more considerable brandies, which unite again with the principal trunk. Jf under such circumstances an obstruction should take place in a part of the principal trunk, between the origin and termination of those branches, no bad effect would follow ; one or more of these branches would be- come enlaro;ed, and convev the chvle in Its fill! quantity to the blood. Thoracic Duct ruptured. The thoracic duct has also been known to be ruptured ; although this is exceed- ingly rare. Jbsorbent Glands scrofulous. The absorbent glands in the posterior mediastinum, as well as in every other part of the body, are liable to several diseases. The most common morbid affection is scro- fula. In this case they are frequently a ^ood deal enlarged, and sometimes feel aC I'l ] little softer to the loucli thnn in their heahhy structure. When cut into, they sometimes exhibit very much the natural appearance; but it is more common to find that some of them contain a white, soft cheesy matter, mixed with a thick pus: this is the most decided mark of scrofulous affection. When the absorbent glands in this situation are very much enlarged, they necessarily produce some difficulty of breathing, both by p ressing on the lungs ' and the trachea. They may occasion also . some difficulty of swallowing. Absorbent Glands scirrhous. I have seen the absorbent glands in the neighbourhood of the trachea affected with scirrhus, although it is a rare disease in them. They were much enlarged and very hard to, the touch. When cut into they exhibited a hard texture, somewhat inter- sected by membrane, so as to resemble what is called scirrhus in other parts of the body, The trachea in contact with[112] these glands was also affected. In this case the thyroid gland was scirrhous, and it is probable that the disease spread from the thyroid to the absorbent glands, and so to the trachea. Absorbeiii Glands bony. The absorbent glands near the trachea are sometimes converted into a bony or earthy matter; and I think that this dis- ease is more common in the absorbent glands at the root of the trachea, than in any other part of the body. These glands when so diseased, by pressing against the trachea or oesophagus, occasionally pro- duce ulcers in them. The Anterior Mediastinum. By the anterior mediastinum is meant the space inclosed between the laminae of the pleura, which pass from the sternum to the pericardium; it contains little else than cellular membrane, with perhaps aC lis ] small portion of fat; and in the younger subject the thymus gland. It is seldom found with any diseased ap- pearance in it. Abscesses are occasionally formed there, but rarely. Water too is sometimes found in the cells of its cellular membrane. I have also seen air accu- mulated in these cells. Fat is occasionally deposited in the me- diastinum in considerable quantity. When the quantity is very large, it has been known to disturb the functions both of the heart and lungs. Diseased Appearances of the Thymus Gland. The thymus gland is subject to few dis- eases, and is only of temporary existence; few instances therefore of morbid structure have been observed in it. It would seem to be very little disposed to common inflammation; therefore ab- scesses have occurred in it very rarely, and have been but little noticed by authors. 1[ 114 ] It is more liable to be enlarged in its size, and to become hard in its texture. It once occurred to myself to observe an instance of this sort, but I had not an opportunity of examining it very minutely. ' Small calculi have been said to be oc- casionally formed in the thymus gland.* SYMPTOMS. Inflammation of the thyroid gland may be known by an increase of its size and firmness, by a pain felt in it, which is in- creased upon pressure, and which is proba- bly also increased during the act of swal- lowing. It may be distinguished from some other swellings of this gland, as for instance from bronchocelcj by its rapid progress, by the feeling of pain, and by its not increasing to a very large size. It is worth while to remark, that practi- tioners ought to be particularly cautious to * See Dr. Soemmcrring's German Translation, p. 61.C 115 ] prevent inflammation of the thyroid gland from advancing to suppuration. If it should suppurate, and the pus be evacuated exter- nallv there will be a scar in the neck: and if it should point internally, it will probably , makes its way into the cavity of the larynx, or the trachea, and suffocate the patient. There is a preparation in^Dr. Hunter's col- lection, shewing this fatal termination of inflammation in the thyroid gland. Every means should be attempted (o make the in- flammation terminate in resolution. When inflammation of the substance of any part terminates in resolution, the blood vessels gradually return to their natural mode of action, and their natural size: the deej) seated absorbents are at the same time ex- cited to an increased exertion, so as to re- move the blood and the coagulable lymph which had been extravasated during the in- flammation. This is one of the chief uses of the absorbent vessels which are distributed through the substance of parts.* * In the reduction of some of the deeper seated parts of the body from a state of enlargcmeni to their natural I 2[ 116 ] Bronchoccle may be distinguished from other swellings of the thyroid gland, by its slow growth, by the size at which it is ca- pable of arriving, by its want of pain, by its commonly occurring at an early period .of life, by the sensation it yields to the touch, which is that of more or less fii mness, but not of great hardness, and by the health being unaffected by it. size, there is a strong proof of a consent or syiiipalliy existing between the superficial and deeper seated ab- sorbent vessels. When, for instance, a swelled tesiicle is reduced to i.ts natural size by rubbing mercurial •oint- ment upon the surface of the scrotum which covers it, it cannot be supposed that any part of the ointment comes in contact with the absorlvnt vessels belonging to the substame of the tesiicle; yet these absorbenls are excited to an increased action by the application ot the ointment, atid the testicle is at length reduced to its natural size. • This effect would seem only capable of being explained upon the principle of a consent or sym- pathy existing between the absorbents of the scrotum and the abse;bents of the substance of the tesiicle, by which, u hen the former nre stimulated, the latter are roused to an increased action.[117] Schirrhus of the thyroid gland may be distinguished from other swellings of it, by its great hardness, by occasional darting pains in the gland, and by this affection being most apt to occur in persons of an advanced age. The swelling likewise in scinhus of the thyroid gland is seldom so large as* in bronchocele. Ossification in the thyroid gland can only^ be ascertained by an accurate examination of the part affected. If the ossification be upon the surface of the gland, the bony matter will be distinctly felt under the J^in ; but if it should be deeply seated, it will be felt more obscurely, so as to leave the nature of the disease in some doubt. Wheia, however, it has made further pro- gress, it w:iil become perfectly distinct. When the cartilages of the larynx are convened into bone, the voice has been[118] remarked to become hoarse, or sometimes to be changed into a whisper. This may be easily explained by the cartilages of the larynx having lost their flexibility, and therefore being rendered incapable of those finer motions which it is reasonable to ima- gine must have considerable influence upon the voice. In the cases which I have had an opportunity of examining, the ligaments which join the cartilages together were natural in their structure; had they been changed into bone, all the motions of the larynx would have been lost. It would then have been useless as the chief histru- ment of voice; but what would be the exact effect of such a change upon various sounds transmitted through the trachea and the larynx, it is extremely difficult to deter- mine. In some instances where the carti- lages of the larynx have been converted into bone, there has occurred a total inabi- lity of swallowing, which destroyed the pa- tients. Upon examination after death, no disease was observable either in the pha-C 119 ] rynx or the oesophagus. How this should happen it is very difficult to explain, but it has been observed by Dr. Robertson, the Physician of Greenwich Hospital. When ulcers have taken place in the ca- vity of the larynx, there is a fixed pain in the situation of this organ, difficulty of breathing, and the patient can only speak in a whisper. This state of the larynx is accompanied with more or less of symptQ- matic fever. The symptoms which attend catarrh are too generally known to require being men- tioned. When there is a sense of soreness in this disease, passing down the middle of the chest, it arises from a considerable in- flammation of the inner membrane of the trachea. This inflammation soon goes off", but the increased secretion from the glands of the trachea often remains for a good while afterwards.C ISO ] The inflammation of the inner membrane of the trachea, which is sometimes to be found in consumptive patients, continues for a much' longer time than in catarrh, and may be said to be chronic. The symptoms of the croup are, symp- tomatic fever, difficuhy of breathing, a wheezing or croaking noise in inspiration, a hoarse voice, and a sort of ringing sound during coughing : portions of a whitish membrane and pus are at the same time occasionally coughed up. It may perhaps be reasonable to suppose that the whitish mem- brane is formed by some peculiar action of the blood vessels of the inner surface of the larynx and the trachea, which is superadded to inflammation. In common inflammation of the inner surface of the larynx and tra- chea, there is merely an increased secretion of mucus, or sometimes of pus; but in the croup an adventitious membrane is always formed. This gives some probability to theC 121 ] supposition which we have made; and it may perhaps serve to explain why ihe croup is so rarely cured by the means which are known to remove common inflammation. The symptoms which attend a polypus of the trachea are, difficulty of breathing, a dry cough, and a frequent pulse, but with- out any signs of inflammation. These, how- ever, would not enable physicians to dis- criminate this disease from several others, if portions of the polypus were not fre- quently coughed up. The disease is apt to continue for a great length of time. The symptoms attending spasmodic stric- ture of the oesophagus characterize suffi- ciently the nature of the disease. The dif- ficulty of swallowing is not constant, but occasional. It comes on and goes oft" sud- denly, and these changes are frequent. There is no emaciation of the body, and[ 122 ] the person generally seems to be in good health. The stricture of the oesophagus which depends upon a puckering of the inner membrane, is slow in its progress. It may continue for a great many years, and the person seems to be in good health, except for the difficulty of swallowing. The diffi- culty is constant, which will distinguish it from a mere spasmodic contraction of the muscular fibres of the oesophagus. The symptoms which belong to a stric- ture of the oesophagus depending on a scir- rhous thickening and ulcer, distinguish it sufficiently from the other two diseases. The difficulty of swallowing is small at first, and gradually becomes worse, but is con- stant. When the disease has made consider- able progresSjthe food is frequently rejected, and along with it occasionally there passes[ 123 J up some pus. The pulse at first is natural, but in the ad vHiiced stages of the complaint is IVequent; and towards its termination the body becomes extremely emaciated. The parts in the neighbourhood of the disease are irritated to an increased secretion, which often produces a cough or hawking. Al- though hardly any nourishment, towards the end of this disease, can be got into the stomach, yet the feeling of hunger is de- scribed as not being distressing. Where there is a fungus or a scrofulous j.umour in the oesophagus, the symptoms correspond, I believe, very much with those of the scirrhous stricture of the oesophagus just described.[ ] CHAP. vr. l^rSEASED APPEARANCES WITHIN THE CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. Ascites. Ascites, or dropsy of the cavity of the abdomen, is a very frequent disease, and is not confined to any sex or age. I have seen several instances of it in children under ten years old ; but it is much more common at the middle, and the more advanced periods of life. It is also more common in the male than the female sex- When water is accumulated in a large quantity in the ca- vity of the abdomen, the superficial veins of the belly are generally a good deal dis- tended with blood ; this probably arises from the pressure of the water upon the deeper seated veins; but it is sometimes hardly observable, even when the accumu- lation of the water is very considerable. The[ 125 ] skin at the navel is also often protruded, yielding easily to pressure ; but this is not universally the case. On many occasions the protrusion can hardly be seen though the water be accumulated in large quantity. In opening into the cavity of the abdomen, there is to be seen a larger or less quantity of an aqueous fluid, generally of a iDrownish colour, but its colour varies according to" circumstances. When there is a scirrhous liver accompanying the dropsy, the water is commonly ofa yellowish or greenish co- lour. This arises from a mixture of the bile with the water, and under such circum- stances there is almost always a jaundiced colour of the skin. I have seen the water ascites of a chocolate or colFee colour ; but this appearance is rare. In a case of this kind which I examined more particularly, the water was thicker than that of ascites usually is; but it had the common proper- ties, as far as could be known from the ap- plication of heat and of acids. When none of the viscera of the abdomen are diseased[ ^26 ] the water in ascites resembles the scrum of the blood in its colour, as well as in its other properties. While water is accumulated in the cavity of the abdomen, the intestinal canal is fre- quently foundto be somewhat in a con- tracted state ; but often too this is not ob- servable. In many cases of ascites the liver is diseased, being hard and tuberculated, as we shall explain particularly when treating of the diseases of the liver. In some cases too, the spleen has been found to be en- larged and hard. Ascites is not necessarily connected with the accumulation of water anv where else 0 in the body; but it frequently happens that it is accompanied with the accumulation of water in the chest, and under the skin, particularly of the lower extremities. Inflammation of the PeriloncBum. The peritonieum is not uncommonly in- flamed, although it is by no means so liable to this disease as the pleura. There is a[ ] cause of inflammation in it peculiar to wo- men, which depends on a certain state of the womb after parturition; but there is also a variet)' of causes producing it, which are equally applicable to both sexes, so that it is frequently found in men, and also in women who have not been pregnant. When inflammation has taken place in the peritonaeum, several appearances are ob- servable in opening the body. The perito- nasum is thicker than in its natural state, more pulpy, and less transparent; and it is crowded with a number of very small ves- sels, containing a florid blood. When a portion of the inflamed peritonccum is sepa- rated from the abdominal muscles, there is commonly no appearance whatever of the inflammation having spread into the mus- cles ; but where the peritonaeum covers the intestinal canal, the inflammation is some- times found to have penetrated not "only into the muscular coat of the intestines, but even into the villous membrane. The reason of this difference probably is, that the perito-[ 128 ] nasum is less connected with the abdominal muscles than with the intestinal canal, so that the inflammation passes less readily from the peritonaeum to the former than to tlie latter part. Inflammation of the peritonaeum is some- times slight and partial; at other times is great, and spread over the whole membrane. When it is slight, and aflPects that part of the peritonaeum which is connected with the intestinal canah it often forms broad sur- faces of inflammation, which run like bands along the.course of the intestines, and are bounded by the contact of different por- tions of the intestines among themselves. In this case the coats of the intestines are not thicker than usual, the inflammation being slight, and confined to the peritonaeum it- self Where the inflammation is great, the intestines are much thicker, and more massy. This evidently arises from the greater accumulation of blood in the small blood vessels, as well as from the extrava- sation of fluids into the substance of the[ 129 ] intestines, in consequence of the strong inflammatory action of the vessels. The mesentery and mesocolon are much thicker than in their natural state, and there is also a remarkable change in the omentum. It is frequently as thick as a person's hand, and lies as a circumscribed mass along the great curvature of the stomach. The prin- cipal cause of this change in these parts, is the extravasation of the coagulable lymph into the cellular membrane between the la- miuseof the peritonaeum which form them. In many places there is thrown out a layer of a yellowish pulpy matter, gluing diSerent portions of the viscera together. This layer is sometimes thin ; at other times is of considerable thickness, and ap- pears to be the coagulable lymph of the blood. There is also a considerable quan- tity of a brownish fluid in the cavity of the abdomen resembling the serum, which is mixed with small shreds of the coagulable lymph, and sometimes with pus, giving it a turbid appearance. The quantity of tlie K[ 150 ] coagulable lymph, and of the fluid, is sometimes large, in proportion to the de- gree of the inflammation. In some in- stances, instead of serum a large quantity of pus is found. Air too is sometimes ac- cumulated in the stomach and the intesti- nal canal, which had been formed in the progress of the disease. At other times this air is wanting. The accumulation of air is most common when tlie inflavnma- tion is slight, and passes in bands along the surface of the intestines. Adhesions in the Cavity of the Abdomen. When there has been inflammation of the peritonaeum either generally or parti- ally, sufficient to have thrown out coagula- ble 1) mph,and the patient has survived the disease, the coagulable lymph is changed into a fine transparent membrane, which is the membrane of adhesions. The time which is occupied in the change of the coagulable lymph into the membrane of adhesions, is not very long; for I have had[ '31 J several opportunities of tracing the gradual progress of the change from the one into the other, while the inflammation appeared to have been recent. This membrane con- sists of a cellular substance, similar to the general cellular membrane of the body, and has a moderate share of vascularity. It does not naturally shew many vessels large enough to admit the red globules of the blood ; but it shews its vascularity upon slight degrees of inflammation, or when its vessels have been filled with the fine in- jection. This membrane is capable of elongating gradually by the motion of the viscera upon themselves, so as ultimately to be attended with very little inconve- nience. I have very often had an oppor- tunity of observing these adhesions, either joining all the viscera of the abdomen more or less together, or joining some particular viscera to each other. K2[ ] Scrofulous Masses adhering to the Perilo- naum. I have several times had an opportunity^ of observing a white soft granulated mat- ter adhering universally behind the peri- tonaeum. In some places it formed a mass of considerable thickness; in others, it was scattered in single small masses. In one ease I recollect that it formed a sub- stance as thick as my hand, between the peritonaeum and the abdominal muscles, while it was scattered in small separate portions in the mesentery and the perito- naeum, covering the intestinal canal. The omentum I have sometimes seen changed into a cake of this substance. The matter itself appears to be scrofulous, for it resem- bles exactly the structure of a scrofulous ab- sorbent gland before pus is actually formed. I am not at all certain how far this appear- ance of disease should have been classed along with those of the peritonaeum : it does not take place (at least in the cases[ i33 ] which I have seen) in the peritonaeum it- self, but behind it, yet at the same time adhering to it. It appears, however, upon the whole, to be placed here with more propriety than it could have been any where else. Cancerous Tumours adhering to the Perito- neum, I have also seen some small cancerous tumours growing from the peritonaeum. These were extremely hard, of a white co- lour, and resembled exactly in their struc- ture the cancerous masses which are formed in the stomach. What puts the appearance I allude to beyond doubt, is, that in the same body I found a cancerous tumour of the stomach. The cancerous tumours of the peritonaeum were not at all connected with this other, but were in that part of the membrane which lines the recti abdo- minis muscles, nearly opposite to the re-, gion of the stomach.Cartilaginous Excrescences growing from the PeriLonccum, In one case I have seen a great many cartilaginous excrescences growing from the peritonaeum. They were of a small size, viz. most ol them not larger than a garden j3ea, and grew from every part of the membrane. They were a little softer than the cartilages which cover the extre- mities of the bones, but had the truestruc- ture of cartilage. Steatomatous Tumours adiierins, ta the Peri- tona'um. Steatomatous tumours have also been ob- served adhering to the peritonaeum ; but these are of verv rare occurrence.* Hydatids in the Abdomen. Hydatids have occasionally been found to occupy a portion, or even the whole, of the cavity of the abdomen. In such cases * See Soemmerring's Germ. Translat. D. 70.[ 155 ] they are connected with ibe viscera, and chiefly with the Hver or the spleen. They may, however, be attached to any viscus or to any part of the peritonaeum. This appearance of disease is uncommon. . Air in the Cavily of the Abdomen. Air has been said to be occasionally ac- cumulated in the cavity of the abdomen, while little or none is contained iii the in- testines. * This I believe to be a very rare occurrence. Air is not unfrequently accu- mulated in considerable quantity in the in- testinal canal, while there is none at all in the cavity of the abdomen. When a large quantity of air is accumulated in the bowels, they become g,reatly distended, and their coats proportionably thin. By the bowels lying in close contact with the peri- tonaeum which lines the muscular parietes of the abdomen, there is the same feeling of distension when the hand is pressed against the surface of the belly, and the same quick * Vid. Lieulaudj Tom. I. p. 432.[ 13G ] reaction upon removing the hand, as il' the cavity of the belly itself had been filled with air. This has probably given rise to the opinion, that the air is often contained in the cavity of the belly. I can believe, how- ever, that air may on some occasions be accumulated in the cavity of the belly, but this is very uncommon. A part of the in- testine when very much distended with air may burst, and a portion of the air may escape into the cavity of the belly ; or the small arteries of the peritonaeum may se- crete air in the same manner as it appears to be formed by the inner membrane of the stomach and the intestines. SYMPTOMS. The symptoms which belong to ascites are almost too well known to require being mentioned. There is commonly a distinct feeling of fluctuation upon applying one hand to the belly, and striking it with the[ 137 ] other; the urine is in snnall quantity, and of a deep colour: there is thirst, often some feehng of heat, and a pulse more frequent than in health. The breathing is likewise difficult when the water is accumulated in very large quantity. The symptoms attending inflammation of the peritonaeum are a pain in the abdo- men, together with some swelling there, and a great sense of soreness to the touch. The bowels are often costive, the pulse is fre- quent and hard, and the other circum- stances of symptomatic fever are strongly marked. When the inflammation is slight, I have known the pain to be very inconsi- derable, and the pulse to be little increased in its frequency, so that inflammation of the peritonaeum had not been suspected. Upon examination, however, of the body after death, no other diseased appearance than a slight inflammation of the perito- n?eum was discoverable.[ 158 ] Inhere are no symptoms which mark the existence of adhesions in the abdomen; and they seem to be attended with no in- conveiiience to the Rnjciions which are carried on in that cavity. The symptoms which belong to scrofu- lous and scirrhous tumours of the perito- iiasum are unknown to me. I know of no symptoms produced by cartilaginous excrescences growing from the peritonaeum. It is probable that they are generally not observable, or not capable of being discriminated. A'Vhen hydatids are accumulated in large quantity in the abdomen, it will require some attention to distinguish this disease from ascites. It maybe distinguished,how- ever, in the following manner. In the case of hydatids, the feeling of fluctuation upon striking the belly with the hand will eitherC 139 ] lake place very indistinctly, or not at all ; whereas in ascites attended with no extraor- dinary symptoms, it is always distinct. The swelling in ascites is always uniform, but in an accumulation of hydatids it will be more or less unequal. In hydatids it will be found, upon enquiry into the history of the case, that the swelHng lirst began in some deteruiined place, whereas in ascites there is a gradual swelling of the whole belly. It vvill be more difficult to distinguish an accumulation of hydatids from a dropsy of the ovarium than from ascites. The dis- tinction between the two diseases would seem only capable of being determined by an accurate enquiry into the history of the case. In dropsy of the ovarium the swell- ing is first perceived on the side of the lower part of the belly, and gradually in- creases upwards, so as to occupy a great part of the cavity of the abdomen. As hy- datids most commonly grow from the liver, the swelling in this case will generally be first sensible at the upper part of the belly,[ '40 ] and spread downwards. Hytadids, how* ever, maybe formed in any part of the ab- domen, and therefore were they to begin to be formed at the side of the lower part of the belly, it seems hardly possible to distinguish the one disease from the other.C HI 3 CHAPTER VII. DISEASED APPEARANCES OF THE STOMACIt. Inflammation. It sometimes happens, although not very frequently (unless poisons have been swal- lowed) that inflammation takes place in the stomach, and.spreads over a very con- siderable portion of its inner membrane, or perhaps the whole of it. It is much more common for inflammation to occupy a smaller portion of the stomach. In such cases the inflammation is generally not very violent. The stomach upon the out- side, at the inflamed part, shews a greater number of small vessels than usual, but is commonly not much crowded with them. On opening into the stomach, it is found to be a little thicker at the inflamed part, the inner membrane is very red from theC ] number of small florid vessels, and there are frequently spots of extravasated blood. It does not ollen occur that a common in- flammation of the stomach proceeds to form pus, or to terminate in gangrene. When arsenic has been, swallowed (which is the poison most frequently ta- ken) the stomach is affected with a most intense degree of inflammation. Its sub- stance becomes thicker, and there is a very great degree of redness in the inner mem- brane, arising partly from the very great number of minute vessels, and partly from extravasated blood. Portions of the inner membrane are sometimes destroyed, from the violent action that has taken place in consequence of the immediate application of the poison. I have also seen a thin layer of coagulable lymph thrown out upon a portion of the inner surface of the stomach. Most commonly too, some part of the ar- senic is to be seen in the form of a white powder, lying upon different portions of the inner membrane. I have been informed,i H3 ] that ill two cases where arsenic had been swallowed, and had destroyed the persons by producing violent inflammation of the stomach, ulcers were found upon examina- tion after death, at the lower end of the rectum. These persons had never com- plained of any disease in the rectum pre- viously to swallowing the arsenic, and were apparendy in good health. This circum- stance is very extraordinary, but it is stated from good authority ; and it is well worth enquiry, how far the rectum is commonly affected by swallowing arsenic. Appearances in Hydrophobia, On opening the bodies of persons who have died from hydrophobia, the inner membrane of the stomach is frequently found inflamed at the cardiu, and its great end. The inner membrane of the pharynx and the oesophagus is also inflamed. The membrane is not thickened by the inflam- mation, but the inflanjmation spreads as in erysipelas, shewing in some places a dis-[ 144 ] tinct line of boundary. This inflammation I believe is commonly not violent. Ulcers in the Stomach. Opportunities occasionally offer them- selves of observing ulcers of the stomach. These sometimes resemble common ulcers in any other part of thebody,but frequently they have a peculiar appearance. Many of them are scarcely surrounded with any in- flammation, have not irregular eroded edges as ulcers have generally, and are not attended with any particular diseased al-^ teration in the structure of the stomach in the neighbourhood. They appear very much as if, some little time before, a part had been cut out from the stomach with a knife, and the edges had healed, so as to present an uniform smooth boundary round the excavation which had been made. These ulcers sometimes destroy only a portion of the inner coat of the sto- mach at some one part, but occasionally ihey destroy a portion of all the coats, form-c :f ing a hole in the stomach. When a por- tion of all the coats is destroyed, there is sometimes a thin appearance of the sto- mach surrounding the hole, which has a smooth surface, and depends on the pro- gress of the ulceration. At other times, the stomach is a little thickened round the hole; and at other times still, it seems to have the common natural structure. Scirrhiis and Cancer of ihe Stomach. This affection o{ the stomach is not very uncommon- towards an advanced period of life, and I think is more frequently met with in men than in women. This may probahly depend upon the greater intem- perance in the one sex than in the other. Scirrhus sometimes extends over ahuost every part of the slomach, but most com- monly it attacks one part. The part which is affected with schirrus has sometimes no very distinct limit between it and the sound structure of the stomach, but most com- monly the h'mit is very well marked. L[ 146 ] When scirrlius attacks a portion of the stomach only, it is generally towards the pylorus. The principal reason of this pro- bably is, that there is more of glandular structure in that part of the stomach than in any other; and it would appear that glandular parts of the body are more liable to be affected with schirrus than other parts. When the whole stomach, or a portion of it, is scirrhous, it is much thicker than usual, as well as much harder in its texture. When the diseased part is cut into, the ori- ginal structure of the stomach is frequently marked with sufiRcient distinctness, but very much altered from the natural ap- pearance. The peritonseal covering of the stomach is many times thicker than it ought to be, and has almost a gristly hard- ness. The muscular part is also very much thickened, and is intersected by nu- merous memranous septa These mem- branous septa are, probably, nothing else than the cellular membrane interveningf '47 J between the fasciculi of the muscular fibres, thickened from disease. The inner membrane is also extremely thick and hard, and not unfrequently somewhat tu- berculated or irregularly elevated to^vards the cavity of the stomach. It frequently happens that this thick- ened mass is ulcerated upon its surface, and then a stomach is said to be cancerous. Sometimes the inner membrane of the stomach throws out a process which ter- minates in a great many smaller processes, and produces what has been commonly called a fungous appearance. It also happens that the stomach at some part loses entirely all vestige of its natural structure, and is changed into a very hard mass, of a v/hitish colour, with some ap- pearance of membrane intersecting it: or it is converted into a gristly substance, like cartilage somewhat softened. The absor- bent glands in the neighbourhood are at the same time commonly enlarged, and have a very hard white structure.C l-iS ] Circumscribed scirrhous Tumours in the Stomach. I have seen several instances of a scir- rhous tumour being formed in the stomach about the size of a wahiut, while every other part of it was healthy. This tumour has most frequently a small depression near the middle of its surface. While it remains free from irritation, the functions of the stomach are probably very little affected by it; when, however, it is irri- tated, it must occasion very considerable disorder in the functions of the stomach, and may perhaps lay the foundation of a fatal disease. Pouch formed in the Stomach. A part of the stomach is occasionally formed into a pouch by mechanical means, although very rarely. I have seen one in- stance of a pouch being so formed, in which five halfpence had been lodged. The coats[ 149 ] of the stomach were thinner at that part, but were not inflamed or ulcerated. The halfpence had remained there for some considerable time, forming a pouch by their pressure, but had not irritated the stomach in such a manner to produce in- flammation or ulceration. Slridure at the Pylorus. The orifice of the stomach may be al- most, or perhaps entirely, shut up by a permanent contraction of its muscular fibres, either at the cardia or pylorus. This is likely, however, to occur oftenest at the pylorus, because the fibres at this end of the stomach are more circular in their direction, and possess a stronger con- tractile power. Less contraction too, at the pylorus, will produce an obstruction in the canal, than at the cardia. I have seen one instance of this contraction at the pylorus, which, even there, is a very rare disease. The contraction was so great as hardly to admit a common goose quill toC J50 ] pass from the stomach into the duodenum, and it had prevented a number of plumb stones from passing, which were therefore detained in the stomach. Slomach much contracted, or much enlarged' The stomacli is sometimes found so con- tracted through the whole of its extent as not to be larger than a portion of the small intestine; and sometimes it is enlarged to much more than its ordinary size. Neither of these appearances is to be considered as arising from disease. They depend en- tirely on the muscular fibres of the stomach being in a state of contraction or relaxation at the time of death. It happens, I think, more frequently that the stomach is dilated than contracted. Stomach distended with Air. The stomach is very commonly found, in a dead body, flaccid and almost empty; but not unhequently it is found more or less distended with air: this air may haveC 151 ] been formed after cleiitli, but it is often formed during life. Wi'en this is the case we may suppose it to he produced by a new chemical arranoement of the contents of the stomach ; but it also frequently hap- piens that air is separated from the blood in the blood vessels of the stomach, and poured by the small exhalants into its cavity. This has been more particularly taken notice of by Mr. Hunter, in his Essay Upon Digestion,* and by myself, in a paper which is published in the Medical and Ghirurgical Transactions.■}■ Part of the Stomach dissolved by the Gastric Juice, In looking upon the coats of the stomach ii its great end, a small portion of them there appears frequently to be thinner, tnore transparent, and feels somewhat more pulpy than is usual; but these appearances ^ * See Mr. Hunter's Observations on certain parts of the animal economy, p. 164.• t See case of emphysema, p. 202.[ ] are seldom very strongly marked. They arise from ihe gastric juice resting on that part of the stomach in greater quantity than on any other, and dissolving a small por- tion of its coats. This is therefore not to be considered as the consequence of a dis- ease, but as a natural effect, depending upon the action of the gastric juice, on the coats of the stomach after death. When the gastric juice has been inconsiderable quantity, and of an active nature, the sto- mach has been dissolved quite through its substance at the great end, and its contents have been effused into the general cavity of the abdomen. In such cases the neigh- bouring viscera are also partially dissolved. The instances, however, of so powerful a solution are rare, and have almost only occurred in persons who while in good health had died suddenly from accident. If the powers of the stomach were little impaired by diseases, this appearance of the stomach after death would be very common. As, however, they are very[153] much injured by most diseases, and by many totally destroyed, this appearance very seldom takes place. The true expla- nation of these appearances was first given by Mr. Hunter, and published at the re- quest of Sir John Pringle, in the Philoso- phical Transactions.'^ Fatly Tumours in the Stomach. Tumours, consisting of a fatty substance, have been sometimes found in the stomach, but they are to be considered as a very rare appearance of disease. Ruysch relates that he has seen a tumour from the stomach of a man which contained hair, together with some dentes molares; and that he has pre- served this in his collection.t Calculi in the Stomach. Calculi with different appearances have been described as being occasionally found * See Pliilosoph. Transact. Vol. 62, p. 447. t Vid. Ruysch, Tom. 2. Adversar. Anatomic'or. Decad. Tert.• [ i^* ] in the stomach. They have never come under my own observaiiun, and are to be reckoned very uncommon.* Most ol these calcuU have been (ound upon examination to be biliary, and had been conveyed from V the duodenum into the stomach by an an- tiperistaltic motion of this part of the small intestines. Morbid Papilla observed in the Stomach* Papill3e and pustules, somewhat resem- bling the small-pox, have also been de- scribed as being formed on the inner mem- brane of the stomach, but these are exceed- ingly rare.t Small-pox Pustules said to be in the Sto- mach. Even true small-pox pustules have been said to be found ui the stomach of persons who died from this disease.^ In later * Vid. Lieulaud, Tom. I. p. 17. + Vid. Lieutaud, Tom. I. p. 23. J Vid. Lieutaud, Tom. I. p. 371.[ «55 ] dissections, however, this appearance has not been observed, and I am disposed tO believe, where it has been thought to exist, that some mistake has been made. SYMPTOMS. In inflammation of the stomach, the fol- lowing symptoms are observed to take place: viz. pain in the epigastric region, which is increased when any thing has been swallowed, vomiting, often hickup, symptomatic fever, with a small, frequent, and hard pulse, and a feeling of great debility. When a person has been poisoned by arsenic, the following symptoms have commonly been observed, viz. vomiting, severe griping pains, purguig of a wat6ry or viscid matter, souietimes of blood, 'a sense of coldness, especially in the extre-[ 156 ] mitics, a cold sweat, paleness of the coun- tenance, often faintness and languor, and sometimes convulsions. Hydrophobia is sufficiently characterized by the horror which the patient expresses at the sight of any fluid that is offered to him, by the great difficulty experienced in swallowing, and by the strong alienation of mind which often accompanies this dreadful disease. I have reason to believe that ulcers of the stomach are often slow in their pro- gress. They are attended with pain, or an uneasy feeling in the stomach, and what is swallowed is frequently rejected by vomit- ing. This state continues for a considera- ble length of time, and is very little relieved by medicine; which may serve as some ground of distinction between this com-[ 157 ] plaint and a temporary deranged action of the stomach. Cancer of the stomach is attended with a sense of pain in that organ, which varies a good deal in its degree in different indi-. viduals. What is swallowed is commonly rejected by vomiting, and there is fre- quently thrown up a dark coloured fluid, which has generally been compared to cof- fee grounds, The patient becomes at length emaciated, and the countenance sallow ; the pulse at the beginning of this dreadful complaint is natural, but towards the close of it is frequent, and this is accompanied with the usual symptoms of hectic fever. Where the person is much emaciated, and the cancerous swelling is situated near the pylorus or along a part of the great curva- ture of tlie stomach, it may be felt, if its bulk be considerable, by a careful exami- nation with the hand in the living body.C '58 ] The accumulation of air in the stomach, is accnmpanit'd with an unpleasant feeling of distention there, and a swelling may be felt externally in the epigastric region ; wind passes up by the oesophagus, and there are occasional pains in the stomach produced by a spasmodic contraction of some part of its muscular coat.C 159 ] CHAP. VIII. DISEASED APPEARANCES IN THE INTESTINES. Injlammation. The intestinal canal is subject to inflam- mation from a variety of causes, and there- fore we have frequent opportunities of ob- serving its effects after death. When a portion ol" intestine is inflamed, there is spread upon its outer surface a number of small vessels, many of which contain florid blood. When the intestine is cut into^ so as to exhibit its inner membrane, this ap- pears highly vascular from the small ves- sels of the villi being loaded with blood, and a few spots of extravasated blood are frequently to be seen in it. In inflammation of the intestines, the peritonaeum is often very little, or not at all affected. When, however, the iiiflamination is very great, the peritonaeum is also inflamed, and co- veied wi;l> a layer of coagulable lymph. Ir ] have likewise seen, in violent inflammation, scattered portions of coagulable lynii)li thrown out upon the surface of the villous membrane: this however is verv uncom- mon. The intestine is at the same time much more thick and massy than in a healthy state, and its colour is sometimes very dark from a large quantity of black extravasated blood. This state of the in- . testing has often been mistaken for morti- fication. It very commonly happens that inflam- mation of the intestines advances to sup- puration and ulceration. This takes place where the inflammation is confined princi- pally to the inner membrane of the intes- tines. The ulcer is formed upon the inner surface ; and 1 do not recollect to have seen one instance where the ulcer had be- gun upon tlie outer surface of the intestines and had spread inwards. Ulceration, how- ever, does not appear to be so common in the small as in the great intestines. When it takes place either in the one or the otherC 161 ] intestine, it is attended with considerable variety in its appearance: the edges of the ulcer have sometimes considerable thick- ness : and sometitnes they are not thicker than the healthy structure of the intestine; the edges and general cavity of the ulcer are sometimes ragged and at other times they are smooth, as if a portion had been cut out from the intestine with a knife. Sometimes through a considerable length of the intestine (especially if it be the great one) the inner membrane hangs in tattered shreds, occasioned by the great ravage of the ulceration. I have also seen a considerable portion of the intestine com- pletely stripped of its inner membrane, from the extent of this process, and its muscular coat appeared as distinct as if the inner membrane had been very care- fully dissected off. In the follicular glands, which are gathered together in little oval groups, I think ulceration occurs more frequently than in the other parts of the intestine. M[ m 3 When ulceration advances very actively, it sometimes eats through the coats of th& intestine entirely. When this is the case, a portion of the contents of the intestine occasionally passes into the general cavity of the abdomen, producing inflammation there. This, however, does not very often happen ; most commonly that portion of the gut where the ulcer is situated, ad- heres by inflammation to some other por- tion, or to a neighbouring viscus, and a communication is formed between the one and the other. I have seen communications formed in this manner between the rectum and the bladder in a male, and between the rectum and the vagina in a female. I have even seen a communication formed between the kidney and a portion of the intestine from this cause, by which the pus produced in the kidney was evacuated through the intestine. Such communica- tions are the means of preserving life (al- though in a very uncomfortable state,) for a much longer time than it could be, wereL 163 ] the matter to pass into the general cavity of the belly. It would there produce peri- tonaeal inflammation, which would soon destroy. The inner membrane of the in- testines is more disposed to become ulcer- ated, than the inner membrane of any other canal which has an external opening. Thus ulcers are very rare in the inner membrane of the trachea or the urethra, but very common in the inner membrane both of the great and the small intestines. It is difficult to assign a satisfactory reason for this difference. It probably, however, depends upon the different structures and functions of these parts. There is a good deal of resemblance between the structure of the inner membrane of the trachea and the urethra. The secretion of the one, likewise, is not very different from that of the other. The inner membrane of the intestines has a structure and secretion pe- culiar to itself. It is probable that upon these circumstances depends its greater disposition to ulcerate; but it is very[ 164 ] difficult to explain how this should be the case. Inflammation of the intestines sometimes, although rarely, advances to mortification. When this is the case, the mortified part is of a dark livid colour, and has lost its tenacity ; it-is in this state very easily torn through, or the fingers will pass through it as through a rotten pear. The want of the natural tenacity, when attended with the change of colour which we have mentioned, is the only sure criterion of a part being mortified, in examinations after death. A portion of intestine may be of a very dark colour, and yet may not be mortified. This darkness of colour may be occasioned by a large quantity of blood extravasated during a high degree of inflammation, where the principle of life is maintained in full vigour. Thus, wc see blood effused into the cellular membrane under the skin, producing a very dark appearance, yet the parts are quite alive. It has often happened too, that a very dark portion of intestine[ 165 ] has been returned in tlie operation of the bubonocele, and yet the parts have recovered their natural functions. This could never have happened if the black portion of the intestine had really been mortified. Under such circumstances, the mortified part would have separated from the living, and the function of the gut must have been destroyed. When a portion of gut has been for some time mortified, a considerable quantity of air is formed, which is accu- mulated in its cavity. This is a part of the natural process which takes place in all dead animal substances. I have known an instance where a large portion of the great intestine (viz. above a yard of it), had lost • its living principle, and was expelled through the anus. The person lived about three weeks afterwards.* • See Medical and Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. 2. p. 144.[ 166 ] Intus-Susceplio. This is not a very uncommon disease, and is frequently fatal. It consists in a por- tion of gut passing for some leiigth within another portion, and dragging along with it a part of the mesentery. The portion of gut which is ' received into the other, is in a contracted state, and is sometimes of con- siderahle length. It usually happens that an upper portion of intestine falls into a lower; but the contrary likewise occurs, although rarely. Intus-susceptio may take place in any part of the intestinal canal, but it happens most frequently in the small intestines, and where the ileum ter- minates in the colon. In this last situation, it appears to me to happen more frequently than anywhere else. This, perhaps, de- pends on the great difference in size be- tween these two portions of intestine. In opening bodies, particularly of infants, an intus-susceptio is not unfrequently founds which had been attended with no mischief:C 16' ] the parts appear perfectly free from inflam- mation, and they would probably have been easily disentangled from each other by their natural peristaltic motion. At other times, however, so large a portion of the gut passes within another portion of it that it cannot be disentangled, which may produce violent inflammation, arid the pas- sage of the intestines is obstructed, without any possibility of its being set free. This is the fatal state of the disease. Ruptures, A portion of the viscera of the abdomen frequently passes out of that cavity, being lodged in a bag of elongated peritonaeum; and this disease is called a rupture. It hap- pens most commonl)' from some sudden and violent concussion of the body, where the weaker parts of the parietes of the abdo- I'nen give way. I once thought, and it is I believe the general opinion, that ruptures occur more frequently in fat than in Jean people; but from some conversation which/ [ 168 ] I have had with persons whose Hne of life leads them to give particular attention to this disease, I anm disposed to think that this opinion is ill founded. Ruptures are found to be as frequent in persons who are not cor- pulent, as in those who are.* There is hardly any viscus which has not at some time or other, been found in the sack of a rupture, but most frequently it is either a portion of the omentum, or of the intestines, or of both. The bag formed by the peritonicum m.ay be thrust out almost at any part of the belly; but this happens most frequently at the ring of the extenial oblique muscle, under Paupart's ligament, and at the navel: it also sometimes takes place at other parts of the abdomen. There is another situation where a rupture has been known to happen, although very rarely, viz. through an opening in the dia- phragm into the thorax. The opinion * The umbilical rupture should be considered as aa exception to this remark, for it is much more common in fat people than those of a spare habit.[ iC9 ] which would most obviously be formed about this is, that a portion of the dia- phragm had burst, and a part of the intes- tines had protruded into the opening made in the diaphragm. I am persuaded, how- ever, that this opinion will almost always be ill founded. It happens sometimes, but very seldom, that children are born with a hole in the diaphragm, which is a malform- ation or monstrosity in this part of the body. When the hole is large, a considerable por- tion of the abdominal viscera passes into the thorax, and so impedes the functions of the heart and lungs, that children under these circumstances perish immediately after birth. When the hole in the diaphragm is small, it lays the foundation of the hernia or rupture which we have just described, and which may be called, by way of dis- tinction, the diaphragmatic hernia.* • A case of this kind has occurred lo Dr. Clarke, and has been published by him in the 2d volume of the Me- dical and Chirurgical Transactions, p. 118. He has been so obliging as to give me the preparation which illustrates this hernia,[ 170 ] It is well known that the most usual situation of" a rupture in the male, is at the ring of the external oblique muscle; and this arises probably from the larger size of that opening in the male than in the fe- male. The most usual situation of a rup- ture in the female is known also to be either under Paupart's ligament, or at the navel. The reason of the frequency of the first si- tuation, is the particular shape of the pelvis in the female, by which there is a larger empty space under Paupart's ligament, than in the male, so that the viscera in that part are less firmly supported. The reason why the second situation of a rupture oc- curs often in the female, is, probably, fre- quent child-bearing. During pregnancy, at its advanced period, the navel opens, or trives way, and where pregnancies have been frequent, it probably never recovers its original strength. The omentum is more commonly found in the sack of a rupture than any of the viscera. This perhaps arises from its being[1 a loose mass, not tied down to any particu- lar situation, and therefore it readily passes into any cavity which communicates with the ahdomen. When it has once fallen down, it has no means of pulling itself out, like a portion of intestine, which is another reason why it is so often found in a rupture. When it has remained long in a sack, it forms a pretty compact mass, sometimes having no connection with, but at other times adhering to the inner surface of the sack. There is frequently no inflammation produced in the omentum while in this si- tuation, but occasionally violent inflamma- tion takes place, which may even advance to mortification. A portion of gut is very often lodged in the sack of a rupture, either by itself, or along with a portion of the omentum. The portion of gut is sometimes very small, but sometimes it is very considerable. Very often the functions of the intestines go on properly in this situation, but oecasioually[I?2J violent inflammation is produced, inter- rupting their function, and often termina- ting fatally. This inflammation is produced by the gut being strongly pressed at the narrowest part of the sack, viz. at that part where the sack immediately passes out of the cavity of the abdomen. This inflam- mation exhibits the different appearances, upon dissection, which we have so often related. The gut too, is frequently found mortified : this is shewn by its dark colour, by its want of proper tenacity, and by the air which is formed within it. When the inflammation of the gut in a sack has not been very violent, and has terminated by resolution, it frequently leaves adhesions behind it, connecting the gut with the inner surface of the sack. It is perhaps possible too, that adhesions may be formed by long close contact, without inflammation. When the sack of a rupture has not been of Jong standing, it consists of a thin, firm, white, opaque, membrane; this is a pro- 1[173] truded part of the peritonteum, somewhat thickened by pressure.* When the sack has been of long standing, it is often very thick, and evidently consists of a number of layers. The sack upon the inside has a very smooth surface, and the membrane which forms this surface can be readily traced into the peritonaeum, lining the ca- vitv of the abdomen ; the outer surface of the sack is more rough and coarse in its texture. The sack, where it passes out of the cavity of the abdomen, has frequently a narrow neck, or aperture, and is dis- tended below into a bag of considerable size. At other times, the communication between the sack and the cavity of the ab- domen, is by a larger opening. Hernia Congenita. In bubonocele the sack is usually quite • In some cases of umbilical hernia, Dr. Marshall has observed no distinct appearance of peritonseal sack. This must have arisen from the peritonaeum having burst, in consequence of distension, and its ruptured edges being lost by adhesion in the neighbouring parts.C "4 ] distinct from the sack of the tunica vagi- nalis testis. Sometimes, however, there is no separation between them, and the con- tents of the rupture are immediately in con- tact with the body of the testicle : this kind of rupture is called the hernia congenita. It was formerly supposed to arise from a portion of the sack of the rupture and of the tunica vaginalis having giving way, so that the contents of the rupture fell into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis testis, and came in contact with the testicle. Upon a little reflection, it might have been per- ceived that this could hardly take place; though the true account of this appearance was not known till it was explained by Dr. Hunter. Baron Halier discovered, that till about the eighth month the testicles do not descend into the scrotum, but are siLuaied in the cavity of the abdomen under the kid- neys. When they descend into the scro- tum, the peritonseura that covers th&m i«j necessarily drawn down along v iih them through the ring of the external oblique[ ] muscle; it then forms a bag, the upper extremity oi' which communicates with the cavity of the abdomen. Baron Haller had also observed, that in infants a portion of intestine sometimes falls down into this bag after the testicle, or along with it, produc- ing what he called the hernia congenita. The commiuiication between the bag and the abdomen is commonly closed, some- times a little before, and sometimes soon after birth. It appears, however, that if it be prevented from closing at the usual time, it does not close afterwards, but re-? mains open through life. Hence, if any portion of an intestine, or of the omentum, falls into the elongated sack of the perito- naeum, it must be in contact with the tes- ticle. When Dr. Hunter became acquainted with the observations of Baron Haller upon the descent of the testicles, he saw at once that the species of rupture sometimes to be met with in adults, where a portion of in- testine or omentum is in contact with the testicle, might be easily explained. . His[ "6 ] explanation corresponded with that which we have just given, and has been univer- sally adopted by anatomists and surgeons. Scin hus and Cancer of Ike Intestines, Scirrhus is a disease which takes place much more commonly in the great than in the small intestines, but the latter are occasionally affected by it. I have seen a scirrhous tumour, and a cancerous ulcer in the duodenum. In the great intestines, at an advanced period of life, scirrhus is not uncommon: every portion of this intestine is not equally liable to be affected by it, but it is to be found much more frequently at the sigmoid flexure of the colon, or in the rectum, than any where else, which perhaps may depend on the following cir- cumstances. There is certainly more of glandular structure in the inner membrane of the great intestines towards its lower ex- tremity, than in any other part of it, and this sort of structure has a greater ten- dency to be affected with scirrhus, than the[ 177 ] ordinary structures of the body: the gut, too, is narrower at the sigmoid flexure than at any other part, and therefore will be more liable to be injured by the passage of hard bodies; these by their irritation, may excite the disease of scirrhus in a part which was predisposed to it. The scirrhus sometimes extends over a considerable length of the gut, viz. several inches; but generally it is more circum- scribed. It exhibits the same appearances of structure which were described when speaking of scirrhus of the stomach. The peritonjeal, muscular, and internal coats are much thicker and harder than in a na^ tural state. The muscular too is subdivided by membranous septa, and the internal coat is sometimes formed into hard irregu- lar folds. It often happens that the surface of the inner membrane is ulcerated, pro- ducing cancer. Every vestige of the natural structure is occasionally lost, and the gut appears changed into a gristly substance. When scirrhus affects the gut, the passage N[ 178 ] at that part is always narrowed, and some- times so much so as to be almost entirely obstructed. The obliteration, or stricture, would sometimes appear to be greater than in proportion to the thickness of the sides of the diseased gut: this most probably depends upon the contraction of the mus- cular fibres of the gut, which, although diseased, have not altogether lost their natural action. Where the passage is very much obstructed, the gut is much enlarged iiiimediately above the obstruction, from the accumulation of the contents in that part of the intestine. While this disease is going on in a portion of the intestine, adhesions are formed between it and the neighbouring viscera, and the ulceration sometimes spreads from the one to the other. The diseased Change of the Intestines in Dysentery. The inner membrane of the great intes- tines 1 have seen a good deal thickened,C '79 ] and formed into small irregular tubercles' some of which were of a white, and others of a yellowish colour; the peritonaeal and muscular coats were also thicker and harder than in a natural state. In some places too the inner membrane appeared abraded, and the tubercles were sometimes fissured upon the surface, so as to resemble a little common warts. This is not a frequent appearance of disease, but it has generally been found to take place in very severe dysenteries, such as those which occasion- ally arise in camps. In the common cases of dysentery, which take place during the autumnal season in this countrv, the mor- bid appearance just described is not found ; at least no instance of it has fallen under my observation. When such cases prove fatal, a number of ulcers are discovered, by examination after death, in the inner mem- brane of the great and sometimes of the small intestines.[ 180] Thickened Folds of the Inner Membrane of the great Intestines. I have also seen the internal membrane of the great intestines formed into broad thick folds, in which a considerable quan- tity of blood was accumulated; these folds were perfectly independent of the state of the contraction in the muscular coat, and were very different in their appearance from the irregular puckering which is often seen in the inner membrane of the great intestines. When these folds were exa- mined, they were found to consist of an accumulation of cellular membrane, with the inner coat of the gut reflected over it. Upon the inner surface of the great in- testine, about two inches above the anus, little processes soqoetimes grow from the internal membrane: they generally sur- round the gut at short distances from each other, so as to form a sort of circle.C '81 I Piles. Piles, and fistulae in ano, are diseases which are extremely common, but which hardly ever become an object of examina- tion after death; they have therefore not been so commonly introduced into ac- counts of morbid appearances, as others which much more rarely occur. Piles are Soft tumours commonly situated round the verge of the anus, sometimes of a regulaf ly bullDous, and sometimes of an irregular form. They are covered with a very ten- der skin, which partly consists of the fine skin immediately round the anus on the outside, and partly of the inner membrane of the gut. The tumours are generally entire, but they have occasionally small openings through which a considerable quantity of blood is sometimes poured j they consist commonly of the veins round' the verge of the anus, much enlarged from the accumulation of blood. These veins are branches of the internal iliac vein, but-[ 182 ] they communicate largely with the lower branches of the mesaraica minor; The same sort of tumours are also fre- quently found within the cavity of the rectum, forming what have been called, the internal piles; and these are occasioned by the enlargement of some of the branches of the mesaraica minor. Piles are a much more frequent disease in persons who are advanced in life, than in those who are young. They aiise from repeated, and long continued impediments to the return of the blood from the lower part of the rectum, and there has been much more opportunity for these impediments to act in old, than in young persons. They are also more common in women than in men. This may arise from several causes: the uterus during pregnancy must occasion a great impediment to the return of the blood from the rectum; this is so much the case, that women who have been frequently pregnant seldom escape piles. Women too are more apt to allow of an accumula-[ 3 tioii of the proper contents of the rectum, than men, wliich will produce some im- pedunenL to the return of the blood from this part. Fistula in Ann. Fistulas in ano are narrow canals at the lower end of the rectum, and are distin- guished by the following circumstances: they have callous edges, a smooth internal surface, and possess the power of secreting pus.* A disease of this sort may consist of one canal, opening by a very small aper- ture externally, at the side of the anus; or this canal may be divided into several branches. The canal, besides opening ex- ternally, has very commonly a small open- ing into the gut itself: and sometimes there is a small opening into the gut, without there being any externally on the side of the anus. It is much more common, how- • Mr. Hunler has observed, in Iiis lectures on Sur- gery, that fistulae have a smooth internal surface, like a secrciing surface, as^ for instance, the urethra.[ <84 ] ever, to find only an external opening oF the canal; or, to find both an external opening, and another into the gut, The Rectum ierminating in a Cul-de sac. It is a species of monstrous formation, not very uncommon, that the rectum does not terminate in the anus, but in a cul-de- sac, without reaching the exlerual surface. Sometimes the extremity of the gut lies near the external surface, but more com- monly it is at some distance from il. In these cases there is usually the appearance of an anus, but the oj)ening is more con- tracted than in the natural structure. It seldom happens that this malformation can be effectually remedied by a chirurgical operation. The opening which is made into the extremity of the gut has generally such a disposition to close, that the benefit which might naturally be expected from an operation is frustrated. A few cases however have occurred in which the oper- ation has been successful.[ 185 ] The Rectum Icrminaling in the Bladder. 1 have also seen the rectum terminate in the bladder, from an original error in the formation, so that there was no other ex- ternal opening to the rectum than by the urethra: this was in a child at birth: the malformation was of such a kind, as neither to admit of a remedy by an, nor to allow of life being continued. The rectum has also been known to ter- minate in the vagina, from a defect in the original formation; but this is very un- common. Worms. Worms are formed in the intestines of man, as well as of many other classes of animals; but not so frequently in the for- mer as in the latter. In most quadrupeds and hshes it is extremely common to find a number of worms upon opening their intestines. The worms which are found in the[ 186 ] human subject, may be reduced to three general classes, viz. the kimbricus teres; taenia; and ascaris, Lumbricus Teres. The lumbricus teres, or round worm, is much more commonly found in the intes- tines of children, than in those of persons full grown, or advanced in life: it is very usually met with in the first, but rarely in the two last. The lumbricus teres is known to differ from the common earth worm,but practitioners in this country have made little inquiry into the circumstances upon which this difference depends. The two species of worms, if attentively examined, will be found to differ a good deal from each other in their external appearance. The lumbricus teres is more pointed at both extremities, than the common earth worm. The mouth of the lumbricus teres consists of three rounded projections, with an intermediate cavity; the mouth of the earth worm consists of a small longitudinal[ IS? ] fissure, situaled on the under surface of a small rounded head. Upon the under sur- face too o!" this worm there is a large semi- lunar fold of skin, into which the head retreats, or out of which it is elongated, which is entirely wanting in the lumbricus. teres. The anus of the lumbricus teres opens upon the under surface of the worm, a little way from its posterior extremity, by a transverse curved fissure; the anus of the earth worm opens by an oval aper- ture at the very extremity of the worm. The outer covering or skin in the lumbricus teres is less fleshy, and less strongly marked by transverse rugae, than in the earth worm. In the latter there is often to be seen a broad yellowish band, surrounding the body of the worm; but in the lumbricus teres, this is entirely wanting. On each side of the lumbricus teres there is a longi- tudinal line very well marked; in the earth worm there are three longitudinal lines upon the upper half of its surface, but these are so faintly marked, as to be hardly ob-C 188 J Servable. The lumbricus teres lias nothing . corresponding to feet; whereas the earth worm has on its under surface, but more strongly marked towards it posterior ex- tremity, a quadruple row of processes on ; 6ach side, very sensible both to the eye, and the finger, which manifestly serve the purposes of feet in the locomotion of the animal. The internal structure of these two spe- cies of worms is also extremely different. In the lumbricus teres, there is an intes- tinal canal, nearly usiform and smooth in its appearance, which passes from one ex- tremity of the worm to the other. Near the head of this worm, the canal is nar- rower than it is any where else, and some- what distinct iti its limits: this may be considered as the oesophagus. In the earth worm, there is a large and complex sto- mach, consisting of two cavities; and the intestinal canal in the latter is likewise larger, and more formed into sacculi, than in the former. The parts subservient to[ 189 ] generation in these two species of worms differ very much from each oiher; in the lumbiicus teres there is a distinction of sex, the parts of generation being different in the male and in the female; in the com- mon eai th worm the organs of generation are the same in each individual, as this worm is hermaphrodite. The appearance too of the organs of generation is extremely different at first sight in the one species of animal, and in the other. There is an oval mass situated at the anterior extremity of the earth worm resembling a good deaf the medullary matter of the brain; in the lumbricus teres this substance is wanting.* These are the principal differences between the one species of animal and the other, which are obvious upon a very moderate attention to each. Many other differences would, doubtless, be found by a person who • What this substance is I Ho not know^ and I haVQ only metiiioned its resemblance to the medullary mat- ter of the brain, in order to give a clearer description •f it[ J90 ] might choose to prosecute their anatomy , minutely. The Tsnia which is most commonly found in the human intestines, is of two kinds, viz. the taenia solium, and the taenia lata. TcEnia Solium. This taenia is frequently bred in the in- testines of the inhabitants of Germany, and occasionally, but rarely, in those of the in- habitants of Great Britain. It consists of a great many distinct portions, which are connected together so as to put on a jointed appearance ; these joints are commonly of a very white colour, but are occasionally brownish, which depends on a fluid of this colour that is found in their vessels. The worm is usually very long, extending often many yards, and seldom passes entire from the bowels. This circumstance has pre- vented the extremities of the taenia from being often seen.[ 191 ] The head of this taenia is somewhat of a square form, with a narrowed projection forwards; in the middle of this projecting part, there is a distinct circular aperture, around the edge of which grow curved sharp processes. Near the angles of the squaie edge of the liead, are situated four round projecting apertures, at equal dis- tances from each other: this head is placed upon a narrow jointed portion of the worm, ofc(msiderable lenoth, and which ";raduallv spreads itself into the broader joints, of which the body of the worm is composed. The bodv of the taenia consists of thin, flat, pretty long joints, on one edge of which there is a projection, with a very obvious aperture. In the same worm some of these joints appear considerably longer than others, which probably depends on one joint being contracted, while another is relaxed.. The apertures which we have jusi ifcniioued are generally placed on the opposiie ' ^ of the contiguous joints; but this is not uuiibrmly the case;.they are[ 192 ] sometimes placed on the same edges of two, or even several contiguous joints. When these joints are examined attentively, there are frequently seen, in each of them, ves- sels filled with a brownish fluid, and dis- posed in an arborescent form. Around the edges of each joint, there is also a distinct serpentine canal.* The last joint of a tae- nia resembles very much a common joint rounded off at its extremity, and without any aperture. Tmiia Lata* The taenia lata is bred very commonly in the intestines of the inhabitants of Swit- zerland, but very rarely in those of the inhabitants of Great Britain. The joints of which it is composed are short and broad, and the aperture is not upon the edge of each joint, as in the solium, but in the middle of its flattened surface. Round * This, as well as the vessels disposed in an arbo- rescent form, is very distinctly seen injected in some preparations which have been made, tnd given to me bjr an ingenious surgeon, Mr. Carl»il«»C 195 ] these apertures are short radiated vessels. The head is of an oval shape, and so small that its minute structure is not visible to the naked eye. Its tail terminates in two aarrow processes, one of which is longer than the other. Other taeniae have occasionally been found in the human intestines, but they occur very rarely, and have not fallen under my own observation. Ascaris. The ascaris is a very small worm, which is often found at the lower end of the rec- tum in children, and even more frequently in adults than is commonly imagined. It is white in its colour, and about half an inch in length; at the extremity where its head is placed, it is a little narrowed, and at the other extremity it terminates in a long, very fine, transparent process. These worms are more or less surrounded vtith mucds^, which is secreted in increased quan- tity by th^^glands in the inner membrane O[ ] of the rectum, from the irritation occa- sioned by the worms. Trichuris. This worm has been occasionally found in the great intestines of man, and more especially the coecum. It resembles a good deal the ascaris, but is considerably larger, and has a very long transparent tail. To their heads is attached a process or horn, which they can protrude or retract. There is nothing in the economy of ani- mals more obscure than the origin of intes- tinal worms; were they found to live out of the bodies of living animals, one might readily suppose that their ovula were taken into the body along with the food and drink, and there gradually evolved into animals. This, however, is not the case; hthey do not seem capable of living for any length of time in any situation, except within a living animal body, which ap- pears to be the proper place for their growth and residence. We might therefore be[ 195 ] led to another supposition, viz. that In- testinal worms are really formed from the matter contained in the intestines, which previously had no regular organization; but this idea is widely different from all analogy in the production of animals, where there has been any satisfactory op- portunity of examining this production. The origin, therefore, of such animals is a subject of much obscurity, and probably will not soon have any satisfactory light thrown upon it. Air accumulated in the Intestines. It is not uBusual to find air accumulated in the intestinal canal, in greater or less quantity; this air is sometimes, but not constantly, accompanied with a slight in- flammation of the peiitonasum. In such cases the blood vessels, creeping upon the intestines, are sotnetimes filled with air, but frequently they are without il. Air is often let loose into the intestines after[ 196 ]i death by putrefaction; but that which wc wish particularly to consider here, has been formed during life. There are only two ways in which we can well conceive air to be formed in the intestines: the one is, some new arrange- ment in the contents of the intestines, by which air is extricated: the other is, the formation of air in the blood vessels of the intestines, and which air is afterwards poured out by the extremities of the ex- halant arteries into the cavity of the intes- tines. That the blood vessels of an animal body have this power there can be no doubt; and I own I am inclined to think that this is a mode not unfrequent by which air is accumulated in the intestines. This air probably differs somewhat at different times: in several trials which I have made, it never shewed signs of containing any proportion of inflammable air, but always a very sensible proportion of fixed air. It requires, however, to be examined by[ 195^ ] some person well acquainted with chemi- cal experimeiils, in order that its ingre- dients may be exactly ascertained. Bony Matter formed in the Intestines. These are the most common appearances of diseased, or preternatural structure in the intestines : but I have likewise had an opportunity of observing others, which are of rarer occurrence. In one or two in- stances, I have seen a sort of bony matter, formed upon the surface of the inner membrane of the gut; I have even seen an adhesion between two portions of intestine converted into bone. It would appear, that almost every part of the body is occa- sionally subject to this process. It may not improperly be considered, as a natu- ral process misplaced. An adhesion being once formed, has the same power (as far as we know) of running into different pro- cesses, as the cellular membrane, which makes a part of the original structure. It may therefore form bone, as readily as[ 198 3 cellular membrane, or some other mem- branes of the body, which have a resem- bl ance to the membrane of adhesions, as the pleura, and the peritonaeum. Projecting Ring formed in the Cavity of the Jejunum. I have seen one of the valvulae conni- ventes much larger than usual, and passing round on the inside of the jtjunum, like a broad ring, l^^^c canal of the gut was ne- cessarily much narrowed at this ring, but no mischief had arisen hom it. This mal- formation, however, might have laid the foundation of fatal mischief. Some sub- stance too large to pass, might have rested on the ring, and produced there inflamma- tion, ulceration, and ultimately death. Calculous Matter in the Intestines, Calculous matter has sometimes been known to be accumulated in some part of the cavity of the intestinal canal, especially in the great intestine; but this has notI [ 199 ] come under my own observation, and, at least in the human subject, is a very rare occurrence.* Small-pox Pustules said to be in the Intestines. Small-pox pustules have been said to be sometimes found in the intestines of per- sons who had died from this disease.-f- How far this may have occasionally taken place, I will not pretend to say, but late dissections, upon the best authority, have not confirmed this fact. Diseased Appearances of the Mesentery,— Mesentery inflamed. The mesentery is often found in a state of inflammation; although I believe this hardly ever takes place, unless when the I peritonaeum generally is inflamed. When I the mesentery is inflamed, it becomes much * Vid. Lieutaud, Tom. I. p. 77, 78. + Vid. Lieataud, Tom, I. p. S71.C 3oa ] thicker, and more massy, than in its natu- ral s'ate; the large blood vessels which pass between its laminje and the absorbent glands, are also very much obscured. These different appearances depend upon the quantity of the coagulable lymph which is thrown out, during the inflam- matory action: The peritonaeum which forms the laminae of the mesentery is crowded with small blood vessels, and is covered more or less with a layer of the coagulable lymph. A small quantity of pus is sometimes found on the surface of the inflamed mesentery, and even abscesses have been observed between its laminae; but this last appearance is very rare. It very seldom happens, that the mesen- tery is found to be gangrenous, unless dif- ferent portions of the intestinal canal be in the same state. When the intestines are mortified, portions of the mesentery are sometimes found in the same condition. The appearances exhibited in mortification[ 201 ] are the same when it affects the mesentery, as in any other part, and they have heen already described. Mesenteric Glands scrofulous. The absorbent glands of the mesentery are frequently found to be scrofulous, and this is more apt to take place in children, than in persons of a more advanced age. When affected with this disease, the glands exhibit different appearances, according to its progress: they are enlarged in their size, and are often somewhat softer to the touch, than in a natural state. When cut into, they sometimes shew very much the natural structure; but more frequently they are changed, in part, into a white, soft, curdly matter, and this is not uncom- monly mixed with pus. Mesenteric Glands cancerous. W'hen a portion of the intestinal canal becomes cancerous, some of the absorbent glands in the mesentery generally become[ ] stlTected with the same disease: this is in consequence of the matter of cancer being conveyed to those glands by absorbent ves- sels. The glands become enlarged in size, and are changed into hard masses exhibit- ing a scirrhous, or a cancerous structure. Mesenteric Glands earthy or bony. The absorbent glands of the mesentery are sometimes filled with an earthy, or bony matter; but this is to be considered as a rare occurrence.* The absorbent glands at the root of the lungs, are more liable to be affected with this disease. Hydatids have also been occasionally found adhering to the mesentery. Tumours, likewise, consisting of a fatty matter, have been seen attached to the me- sentery; but these I believe to be very uncommon. * Vid. Med. Transactions, Vol. I. p. 361.[ m ] SYiVIPTOMS. Inflammation of the intestines is cha- racterized by the following symptoms, viz. an acute pain in the abdomen, vomiting, obstinate costiveness, symptomatic fever, •with a frequent, small and hard pulse. The pulse, however, is sometimes less af- fected than might have been supposed, from the violence of the inflammation. The symptoms attending intus-susceptio are similar to those which belong to inflam- mation of the intestines, and indeed this disease is not unfrequently accompanied "with inflammation. It is however more likely to prove fatal than simple inflamma- tion of the bowels, as it does not admit of any substantial benefit from medicine. When there is a rupture without any strangulation of the intestine, the following[ 204 ] symptoms take place, viz. a pale swelling at the part affected, a slight pain occasion- ally felt in the swelling itself, and spread somewhat over the region of the belly, the swelling pushed out by coughing, a disap- pearance of the swelling upon pressure, or upon the person continuing for a consider- able length of time in a horizontal posture. When a rupture is large and of long stand- ing, it will often be incapable of being re- duced by pressure, even when there is no strangulation. When strangulation takes place, the same symptoms arise which belong to inflamma- tion of the bowels, for the strangulation pro- duces inflammation. These consist of a pain in the swelling, which is diS'used over the abdomen, sickness, vomiting, obstinate cos- tiveness, heat, commonly a frequent,small, and a hard pulse: and towards the fatal conclusion of the disease there is hickup, with a foetid yellow matter thrown out by the mouth. The sickness I have heard de- scribed, as being infinitely more distressingC ] than the ordinary sickness of a deranged stomach; the pulse is sometimes, in such a case, not increased in frequency beyond the standard of health : and yet the inflamma- tion of the bowel has been discovered after- wards by the operation to be very^grcat. This is an important practical observation, because it shews that the degree of inflam- mation is not to be judged of from the pulse, and teaches that the operation should not be delayed, after the proper efforts for reducing the rupture have failed, because the pulse may happen to be little or not at all accelerated. When a considerable quantity of pus is formed in consequence of an ulcer in the bowels, it is known by the pus being eva- icuated by stool, which is frequently a little tinged with blood. Severe pains are fre- tquently felt in the bowels, and there is a {propensity to go often to stool. The pulse iis often at first not more frequent than in[ 206 ] health, but is afterwards a good deal acce- lerated. The appetite for food is com- monly not much impaired. When the great intestine is attacked with scirrhus, the disease has commonly made some progress, before it is much attended to by the patient. At first there is but little pain in the part affected, and the patient only observes that he is costive, or that the stools pass with some difficulty. When the disease is more advanced, a considerable pain is felt, more especially in passing a stool, and there are occasional sympathetic pains about the os sacrum and hips. When the stools are examined, they are commonly found to be narrow, to be more or less flat- tened, and they are sometimes besmeared with mucus, pus, and blood. The pulse at the beginning of this disease is natural, but towards its close becoipes accelerated. In advanced stages of the disease, the coun- tenance is sallow, the strength is much[ 507 ] impaired, the body is much emaciated, and the constitution at length altogether sinks. When an ulcer of the rectum has spread to the bladder, it is known by air often es- caping along with the urine, and from the urine being sometimes more or less mixed with faeces. Severe pain is occasionally felt in the lower part of the belly. The pulse is sometimes accelerated, and some- times not more frequent than in health. In dysentery, griping pains are felt in the abdomen, which often arise to a considera- ble degree of sev'erity. The bowels are irritated to frequent evacuation, and ge- nerally discharge mucus tinged with blood, but sometimes white lumps, membranous films, pus, and at intervals scybala. Tenes- mus accompanies tVie evacuation of the bowels; and there is more or less of fever connected with this complaint.[ m ] The symptoms attending piles are swell- ings at the verge of the anus, or in the rec- tum immediately above it, pain felt at the anus during the passage of the faeces, fre- quently an evacuation of blood, and occa- sional feelings of irritation in the parts ajFected. This disease is often preceded by other affections, such as giddiness of the head, difficulty of breathing, colicky pains, and pains in the loins. The symptoms which attend the round worm of the intestines are a swelled belly, emaciated extremities, an offensive breath, and a deranged appetite. The appetite i^ often greater than in health, but sometimes it is much less. The stools are slimy; and the patient frequently picks his nose, and during sleep grinds his teeth. Persons afflicted with the lienia, complain of a gnawing uneasy t&eling in the region[ 209 J of the stomach, which is removed, or dimi- nished by eating. Their appetite is com- monlvsomewhatvoracious,but occasionally it is less than natural. They have com- monly an itching at the nose, often nausea, cohcky pains, and sometimes giddiness. Some have a cough, and others occasional convulsions. When ascarides are lodged in the rectum, there is an uneasy feeling there, and a vio- lent itching at the anus. There is also a sense of heat in the parts, with occasional tenesmus and mucous stools. The mucus is sometimes mixed with blood, and along with it some living ascarides are often discharged.* When air is accumulated in a moderate quantity in the bowels, it is known tp exist by some fulness of the abdomen, and by • See Med. Trans, of the College, Vol. I. p. 46. P[ ] the air shifting frequently its situation. This is sometimes attended with a kind of gurgh'ng noise, and forms swellings in par- ticular parts of the belly. A quantity of air is sometimes expelled by the mouth and the rectum. There is generally at the same time costiveness, and occasional colicky pains. When air is accumulated in very large quantity, then it forms a very serious dis- ease called tympanitis. Of this I have seen two or three instances. The belly is ex- tremely swelled, with a very tense feeling, and there is a quick reaction of the parts after removing the pressure of the fingers Trom the belly, exactly similar to what takes place in a common ox's bladder, dis- tended with air. When the belly in tym- panitis is struck with the fingers, there is exactly the same sound as when a bladder is struck in the same way, that is distended with air, but this sound never takes place upon striking with the fingers the belly in ascites. There is no sense of fluctuation[211 ] in tympanitis, but in ascites this is com-^ monly distinct. There is often difficulty of breathing, which is produced by the accu- mulation of the air pushing up the dia- phragm, and impeding its free motion. There are severe colicky pains, and quanti- ties of air are frequently expelled both upwards and downwards with a loud noise. The bowels are costive, and there is a dif- ficulty in making water, which is probably occasioned by the accumulation of air in the rectum. The symptoms of an inflamed mesentery cannot be separated from those which be- long to inflammation of the peritonaeum generally; and these symptoms have been already described. The symptoms which attend the enlarge- ment of the mesenteric glands from scro- fula correspond very much, in the most[ ] striking circumstances, with the symptoms which are produced by the common round worm of the intestines. In both diseases there is a tumid belly, and emaciated extre- mities. They are chiefly to be distinguished by worms not being discovered in the one disease, notwithstanding the use of strong purgatives, while they pass off from the bowels in the other. The startings, and the grinding of the teeth, may perhaps also form some ground of distinction between the two diseases: they occur very commonly in worms, but I believe rarely where the glands of the mesentery are scrofulous, Some dis- crimination likewise between the two dis- eases, may sometimes be derived from exa- mining strictly into the nature of the consti- tution. If decided marks of scrofula shew themselves in an external part of the body, they will lead a practitioner more satisfacto- rily to the opinion, that the mesentericglands are also affected with the same disease.[ ^15 3 CHAP. IX. DISEASED APPEARANCES OF THE LIVER. Inflammation of the Membrane of the Liver. The external membrane of the liver is not uncommonly found in a state of in- flammation. This may take place when the perito- naeum generally over the cavity of the ab- domen is inflamed, or the inflammation may be confined to the membrane of the liver itself. When it is confined to the mem- brane of the liver, it is not frequently ex- tended over the whole of it, but more com- monly takes place in that part which covers the anterior, or convex part of the liver. I have also seen inflammation, or at least its efiects, not unfrequently on that side of the liver, which is in contact with the sto- mach and the duodenum.[ 214 ] When inflammation takes place in the membrane of the liver, it exhibits exactly the same appearances, which have been de- scribed when speaking of the inflannnation of the peritonaeum, of which it is a part. It is crowded with a great number of very mi- nute Vessels, which contain florid blood, and is thicker than in its natural state. There is also thrown out upon its surface, a layer ofcoagulable lymph: this layer is thicker on some occasions than others, and often glues the liver, more or less completely to the neighbouring parts. Some quantity of serous fluid is at the same time thrown out. Jdhesions. It is more common to see adhesions form- ed, which are the consequence of a previous inflammation in the membrane of the liver, than to see the membrane in an actual state of iijflarnmaiion. These adhesions are formed from the coagulable lymj)h of the blood which undergoes a gradual progiess of change, as we have formerly described.C ^^r> ] They consist very commonly of a thin, transparent membrane, which joins the sur- face of the liver to the neighbouring parts. This junction may eitlier be general, over one extended surface of the liver, or it may consist of a number of processes of adhe- sion : the adhesion is sometimes by a mem- brane of considerable length ; and some- times the adhesion is very close, the surface of the liver being immediately applied to the neighbouring parts. The surface of the liver, where these adhesions are most com- monly found, is the anterior, by which it is joined to the peritonaeum lining the muscles at the upper part of the cavity of the ab- domen. When an abscess is formed in the sub- stance of the liver, and points externally, these adhesions are of great use in prevent- ing the pus from escaping into the general cavity of the abdomen. Adhesions are also frequently found connecting the posterior surface of the liver to the stomach, and the duodenum; and these may also be useful im[ 516 ] abscesses of the liver, near its posterior sur- face, by preventing the matter from passing into the general cavity of the abdomen, and conducting it either into the stomach, or the upper part oft he intestinal canal. Coats of the Liver converted into Cartilage, A part of the coats of the liver is some- times changed into cartilage. Of this I have seen a few instances; but it occurs much more rarely in the liver than in the spleen. The cartilage is smooth and thin, and very soft in its texture. Inflammation of the Substance of the Liver. It does not often happen, in this country, that the substance of the liver is found in • an actual state of inflammation. Where its membrane is inflamed, the substance is sometimes inflamed which lies immediately under it; but it rarely happens that the general mass of the liver is inflamed. In " ,!!.:> .'I ll' J < ' .> ' - l( I. ^ J ' ' warmer countries, the substance of the liver is much more liable to inflammation thar^[ ] in Great Britain. When the liver is gene- rally inflamed through its substance, it is a good deal enlarged in size, and of a, purple colour.* It is also harder to the touch, than in its healthy state. Its outer membrane is sometimes affected by the in- flammatioQ, and sometimes it is not. It is attended occasionally with a jaundiced co- lour of skin, arising from the bile not getting readily into the ductus communis choledo- chus, on accaunt of the pressure of the in- flamed liver on the pori biliarii. When this iuflammatipn has continued for some time, abscesses are formed, and then the active state of the inflammation very much sub- sides. These abscesses are sometimes of large size, so as even to contain some pints of pus. Sometimes ^he whple of the liy.^r is almost converted into a bag containing * May not the purple colour arise from the accumu.- lation of blood in the branches of the vena port jiruui As this vein performs the office of an artery in the liver, is it not probable, that its small branches take dtf the same actions as the small branches of an artery dul"--, ing inflammation ?[ ^18 ] pus. When inflammations of the liver have been of considerable standing, they are not uncommonly attended with ascites, and the water is of a yellow, or green colour, being tinged by the bile. The Jiverhas sometimes been said to have been in a state of mortification * This how- ever occurs very rarely, and has never fallen under my own observation. Common Tubercle of the Liver. One of the most common diseases in the liver (and perhaps the most common, except the adhesions, which we have lately de- scribed), is the formation of tubercles in its substance. This disease is hardly ever met with in very young persons, but frequently takes place in persons of middle or advanced age: it is likewise more common in men than women. This seems to depend upon the habit of drinking being more common, in the one sex than in the other; for this disease is most frequently found in hard • Vid. Morgagni Epist. XXXIV. Art. 25.C ] drinkers, although we cannot see any ne- cessary connection between that mode of life and ihis particular disease in the liver. It happens, however, very commonly, that we can see little connection between cause and effect in changes which are going on in every other part of the body. The tubercles which are formed in this disease occupy generally the whole mass of the liver, are placed very near each other, and are of a rounded shape. They give an ajipearance every where of irregu- larity to its surface. When cut into, they are found to consist of a brownish or yel- lowish white solid matter. They arc some- times of a very small size, so as not to be larger than the heads of large pins; but most frequently they are as large as small hazel nuts, and many of them are some- times larger. When the liver is thus tu- berculated, it feels much harder to the touch than natural, and not uncommonly its lower edge is bent a little forward. Its[ no ] size, however, is generally not larger than in a healthy state, and I think it is often smaller. If a section of the liver be made in this state, its vessels seem to have a sjpallev diameter than they have naturally. It very frequently happens that in this state the liver is of a yellow colour, arising from the bile accumulated in its substance; and there is alsQ,A^i^Xei" jn the cavity of the ab- domen, whiQh is yellow from the mixture of bile. The gall-bladder is generally much contracted, and of a white colour, from its being empty. The bile, from the pressure of th^ hard liver upon the pori biliarii, does not reach the ductus hepaticus, and therefore cannot pass into the gall- bladder. Xhe colour of the skin in such ^ases is jaundiced, and it remains perma- nanently so, as it depends on a state of liver not liable to change. This is the common appearai^pe of; what, is generally called a scirrhous, lijSfei;: byt it bears only a remote reseniblance to scirrhus, as it shev/s itself *C 221 ] in other parts of the body. I should th^ffe- fore be disposed to consider it as a peculiar disease affectincf this viscus. Large white Tubercle of the Liver. Hard white masses are sometinies formed in the liver. They are often as large as a chesnut; but I have seen them both a good deal larger and smaller than this size. They are to be found near the surface of the liver in greater number, than near the middle of its substance: two or three frequently lie contiguous to each other, with a considera-^ ble portion of the liver, in a healthy state, interposed between them and a cluster of similar tubercles-. They consist of a very firm, opaque, white substance, and are ge-- nerally somewhat depressed, or hollow, upon their outer surface. The liver in this disease is frequently a good deal enlarged beyond its natural size. These tubercles appear to be first formed round the blood vessels of the liver, as is seen in making sections of a liver in this[ ] state. While the hver is under such cir- cumstances of disease, there is sometimes water in the cavity of the abdomen, and at other times none; the liver is sometimes tinged in its colour, from the accumulation of bile, and sometimes the colour of its sub- stance between the tubercles is perfectly natural. The kind of tubercle which w.e have now described, is much more rare than the other, and resembles more the ordinary appear- ance of scirrhus in other parts of the body. In one or two instances of it, however, I have observed a thick sort of pus, resem- bling very much the pus from a scrofulous sore; and therefore I am rather disposed to think that this tubercle may be of a scro- fulous nature. Soft brown Tubercles of the Liver* I have also seen in the liver a number of soft tumours, about the size of a walnut: they were principally situated at the sur- face of the liver, and consisted of a smooth,[ 223 ] soft, brownish matter. This is a very rare appearance of disease: such tumours would by many be considered as scrofulous, but there is no strong evidence in support of this opinion; and there is certainly no re- semblance between this sort of tumour and either a scrofulous tubercle of the lungs, or a scrofulous absorbent gland. About its real nature nothing satisfactory is ascer* tained. Scrofulous Tubercles of the Liver. Tubercles are occasionally found in the liver, which bear a strong resemblance to the tubercles of the lungs; but this is a very rare appearance of disease. They have the same size, the same structure, and the same feeling to the touch, but are a little browner in their colour. In the only instance which I have seen of this disease, the tubercles were generally dispersed through the substance of the liver at pretty regular distances, and did not render the surface of the liver irregular, as in the[ 2^4 ] cdmifiBH sort of tubercle. From their ap- pearatlce and structure I cannot hesitate to consider them as scrofulous. Liver Jlaccidj with reddish Tumours. I have likewise seen the liver much more flaccid in its substance than is natural, with reddish tumours, of considerable size, iritefs'persed through it, which contained a thick sort of pus. I am inclined to con- sider this liver as scrofulous, because it was found in a person whose general con- stitution had strong marks of scrofula, and in whom also were found many scrofulous absorbent glands on examining the body. Liver very soft in its Substance. The liver is not unusually found much more flaccid in its substance than natural without any other appearance of disease. It feels upon such occasions nearly as soft as the spleen, and is commonly of a leaden colour. This change must arise from a process which takes place through its[ 225 ] whole substance, and seems to be what Mr. Hunter has called the interstitial absorption. By this process is meant, the absorbents removing insensibly the very minute parts out of the general mass of any structure in an animal body without ulceration. This state of liver is very rarely, if ever, found in a very young person, and is most common in persons who are advanced in life. Liver very hard in its Substance, There is a very contrary state of the liver, not at all unusual, viz. where it is much harder than natural, and when cut into, exhibits no peculiar structure. Upon the surface of these livers, there is not un- commonly a thready appearance of mem- brane, disposed somewhat in a radiated form, and the lower edge is bent a little forwards. This I believe to be the first step in the progress towards the formation of the common tuberculated liver. I have sometimes seen small tubercles formed[ 226 ] upon a part of the surface of such a liver, which were exactly ol tlie common sort. From this appearance, it is probable, that additional matter is deposited in the in- terstices, through the general mass of the liver, rendering it much harder, and that this matter, together, perhaps, with part of the ordinary structure of the liver, is con- verted into tubercles. This hardened state of the liver is sometimes accompanied with a beginning ascites, and sometimes is with- out it. Hydatids. There is no gland in the human body in which hydatids are so frequently found as the liver, except the kidneys, where they are still more common.* Hydatids of the liver are usually found in a cyst, which is frequently of considerable size, and is * Although the hydatids of the liver, and the kidnej, have got the same name, yet most frequently they dif- fer from each other. Hydatids, however, occasionally occur in the kidneys, which are precisely of the same kind with those of the liver.[ 2,0,1 ] formed of very firm materials, so as to give to the touch almost the feeling of cartilage. This cyst, when cut into, is obviously la- minated, and is much thicker in one liver than another. In some livers, it is not thicker than a shilling, and in others, it is near a quarter of an inch in thickness. The laminae which compose it are formed of a white matter, and on the inside there is a lining of a pulpy substance, like the coa- gulable lymph. The cavity of the cyst I have seen, in one instance, subdivided by a partition of this pulpy substance. In a cyst may be found one hydatid, or a greater number of them. They lie loose in the ca- vity, swimming in a fluid ; or some of them are attached to the side of the cyst. They consist each of a round bag, which is com- posed of a white, semi opaque, pulpy mat- ter, and contains a fluid capable of coagu- lation. Although the common colour of hydatids be white, yet 1 have occasionally seen some of a light amber colour; The bag of the hydatid consists of two laminas,[ 228 ] and possesses a good deal of contractile power. In one hydatid this coat, or bag, is much thicker and more opaque than in another, and even in the same hydatid different parts of it will often differ in thickness. On the inside of an hydatid, smaller ones are sometimes found, which are commonly not larger than the heads of pins, but sometimes they are even larger in their size than a gooseberry. These are attached to the larger hydatid, eitlier at scattered irregular distances, or so as to form small clusters; and they are also found floatiiio; loose in the liquor of the larger hydatids. Hydatids of the liver are often found unconnected with each other; but sometimes thev have been said to inclose each other in a series, like pill- boxes. The most common situation of hydatids o( the liver, is in its substance, and inclosed in a cyst; but they are occasionally attached to the outer suiface of the liver, hanging from it, and occupying more or less of the general cavity of the abdomen.[ 229 ] The origin and real nature of these hy- datids are not fully : scertained , it is ex- tremely prubablc, however, that they are a sort of imperfect animalcules. There is no doubt, that the hydatids in the livers of sheep are animalcules: they have been often seen to move when taken out of the liver, and put into warm water; and they retain this power of motion, for a good many hours after a shetep has been killed. The analogy is great between hydatids in the liver of sheep, and in that of the human subject. In both they are contained in strong cysts, and iu both they consist of the same white pulpy matter. There is undoubtedly some difference between them in simplicity of organization ; the hydatid in the human liver being a simple uniform bag, and the hydatid in that of the sheep having a neck and mouth appended to the bag. This difference need be no consider- able objection to the opinion above stated. Life may be attached to the most simple form of organization. In proof of this,C 530 ] hydatids have been found in the brains of sheep, resembling almost exactly those in the human liver, and which have been seen to move, and therefore are certainly known to be animalcules. The hydatids of the human liver indeed, have not as far as I know, been found to move when taken out of the body and put into warm water; had this ever happened, no uncertainty would remain. It is not difficult to see a good reason why there will hardly occur any proper opportunity of making this ex- periment. Hydatids are not very often found in the liver: and the body is allowed to remain for so long a time after death before it is examined, that the hydatids must have lost their living principle, even if they were animalcules. The probabi- lity of their being animalcules, however, is very strong; and it appears even more difficult to account for their production according to the common theory of gene- ration, than for that of intestinal worms. We do not get rid of the difficulty byC 251 ] asserting that hydatids in the human liver are not living animals, because in sheep they are certainly such, where the difficulty of accounting for their production is pre- cisely the same. If any person should wish to consider hydatids more minutely, he will find an excellent account of them published by Dr. John Hunter in the Medical and Chirugical Transactions.* Cysts in the Liver containing an earthy Matter, Cysts are occasionally formed in the liver, containing an earthy matter. The cysts are composed of a kind of cartilagi- nous substance mixed with bone. The earthy substance contained in the cyst is soft, smooth, and of a brownish white colour. It is mixed with soft films resem- bling a good deal in their appearance the coats of an hydatid. • See Medical and Chirugical Transactions, p. 34.[ 235 ] Rupture of the Liver. The liver is more liable to be ruptured by external violence than any other gland of the body, which probably arises from two causes: the one is, that in thin persons the liver, more especially when large, lies near the surface of the body, and therefore may be readily affected by a strong external pressure. The other is, that the liver con- sists of a structure, the parts of which are more easily separated from each other by pressure, than those of almost any other organ or structure in the body. Thus, if the thumb or the finger be pressed against the liver with a good deal of force, the liver gives way much in the same manner as a rotten pear would do, although not so readily. In this trial the effect does not depend upon the liver being softened by putrefaction, because it will take place in the liver of a person immediately after death. It depends upon the peculiar structure of the liver, and therefore mayC 253 ] take place in the liver of a person who i aUve, as well as of one who is dead. If the same degree of pressure be applied to a muscle, or many glands of the body, they are not ruptured, but recover them- selves after the pressure has been re- moved. When ruptures have taken place in the liver, they have happened from some strong pressure applied to the upper part of the abdomen ; as for instance, from the wheel of a carriage passing over that part of the body. Little pain has been felt from such an injury; which is a proof among many others of the liver not pos- sessing much sensibility ; and some of the persons to whom this accident has happened have continued to live after it for several days. Worms said lo be in the Liver Worms* have been said to be found in cysts of the liver, as well as in the biliary ducts. Instances of this sort are extremely • Vid. LieutaucI, Tom. I p. 194.[ 554 J rare, and have not come under my own observation. SYMPTOMS. When the coats of the liver are inflamed, more especially upon its convex surface, l^he symptoms correspond a good deal with t)iQ§e of pleurisy, in which the inflamma- tion has attacked the lower part of the pleura upon the right side. There is acute pain in the part affected, difficulty of breathing, cough, and symptomatic fever. The two affections may however be in general distinguished froni each other by the following circumstances. Where the coats of the liver are inflamed the pain will be less increased upon deep inspiration than where the pleura at the lower part of the right side of the chest is inflamed. In in-' flammation of the coats of the liver there will be a considerable increase of pain upon pressure immediately under the[ 235 3 margin of the ribs on the right side, which will not take place in inflammation of the pleura. I am not acquainted with any symptoms which attend adhesions of the liver to the neighbouring parts. When the substance of the liver is in- flamed, there is an obtuse pain in the right hypochondrium, and a pain is often felt at the top of the right shoulder. The patient can lie most easily on the side affected. There is more or less of symptomatic fever, sometimes a dry cough, sometimes hickup, sometimes vomiting, and occasionally a yellow colour of the skin and eyes. Inflam- mation of the substance of the liver some- times takes place so very slowly, that it is hardly attended with any pain, and the constitution is not at all or verv little af- fected with symptoms of fever. On such occasions an inflammation of the liver is[ 236 ] not suspected till an abscess has actually been formed, and ijegins to make its pro- gress outwards. I know of no peculiar symptoms by which the liver can be ascertained, in the living body, to be studded with tubercles. When, however, there is pain or an uneasy feeling in the region of the liver, together with a jaundiced colour of the skin, which continues permanent, and water is at the same time accumulated in the cavity of the abdomen; there remains little doubt of the liver being tuberculated. When the parietesof the abdomen are thin, and water is accumulated in small quantity in that cavity, the tubercles at the lower edge of the liver can sometimes be dis- tinctly felt by the lingers,upon an attentive examination.[ 237 ] The symptoms which belong to the large white tubercle of the liver, I cannot dis- tin^uish from those of the common tuber- cle. Sometimes, however, when the per- son is thin and the tubercles are near the lower edge of the liver, they can be distin- guished by an external examination. I be- lieve that the large white tubercle is not so often attended with jaundice and ascites as the other. The symptoms which belong to the other tubercles of the liver, are unknown to me. I am disposed to think that there are none which may be called discriminative. When the liver is becoming hard in its substance, the exact state of it cannot be determined in the living body, unless the person be so thin that the liver can be dis- tinctly fell upon examination. This, how- ever, will frequently be very difficult, and on many occasions impossible; because the liver, when hard, is commonly not[ 238 ] increased in its size, and the parietes of the abdomen are of considerable thickness. If there be some sense of uneasiness in the region of the liver, along with a sallow countenance, this disease may be suspected. It has sometimes happened, however, that the liver has been discovered to be hard, upon an examination after death, when no symptoms had been observed during life, which led to an opinion of this disease having taken place. There are no symptoms which charac- terize, particularly, the formation of hyda- tids in the liver, and this disease can only be guessed at in the living body. It ap- pears from the history of some cases of this kind, that a pain is felt in the right hypo- chondrium ; but this may arise from many other causes. In two cases which have come to my knowledge, the symptoms were similar to those which attend an attack of gall-stones.[ 239 ] There was a violent spasmodic pain near the pit of the stomach, frequent vomiting, and jaundice, with a pulse not accelerated. These attacks occurred frequently in both cases after considerable intervals of tolera- bly good health. When hydatids are confined within the substance of the liver, I do not see how it is possible that their existence should be ascertained but when they are formed on the outer surface of the liver, near its lower edge, their existence may in some degree be ascertained by examination, more es- pecially if the person be thin. When, however, the parietes of the abdomen are thick, and the hydatids, or their cysts are not distinct, but lie in contact with each other, making an irregular tumour, it will hardly be possible to form an accurate opinion by an examination. If the tumour be formed gradually, and the general health be little affected, it is probable that it consists of hydatids. An accurate atten- tion to the feeling, which the tumour yields[ 240 ] upon pressure, or upon striking it gently with the hand, may also assist in forming a probable conjecture about its nature. Where the tumour consists of hydatids, it will generally feel to a certain degree soft; and if the hydatids should be very large, there will probably be an obscure sense of fluctuation upon striking the tumour with one hand, while the other is applied to the opposite side of it. If moreover, the tu- mour should occupy a great part of the cavity of the abdomen, and can be clearly traced from the liver, as the source of its growth, there can be little doubt of the existence of hydatids, under these circum- stances. I[ ] CHAPTER X. DISEASED APPEARANCES IN THE GALL- BLADDER. Injlammation of its Coats. The coals of the gall-bladder are very rarely inflamed, without inflammation of the membrane which covers the posterior surface of the liver. When inflammation attacks this membrane, it naturally spreads over the outer coat of the gall-bladder, which is a continuation of it, and may affect Uie other coats of the gall bladder* if it should have arisen to a violent degree. Inflammation, however, of the outer coat of the gall-bladder will not commonly be attended with inflammation of the others, because it is not closely applied to them, there being interposed a considerable quan- tity of cellular membrane. The appear- ances of inflammation in the coats of the R[ 242 ] gall-bladder, are similar to what take place ill the iiinafnmatfori of the stomacli or in- testines. These have been ah^eady fully described, and need not be repeated. Adhesions. It is a very common appearance, upon dissection, to find the gall bladder con- nected by adhesions, either to the small end of the stomach, or the beginning of the duodenum. These are the consequence of a previous inflamqriation in the outer coat of the gall-bladder, and resemble exactly the adhesions which we have already de- scribed. Ulcers in the Gall- Bladder. It is rare that infliimmalion of the gall- bladder advances to ulceration: llie accu- mulation of gall-stones in it, as far as I have observed, rarely produces this effect.* * I have myself only seen one instance of inflam- mation and ulceration of the gall-bladder produced by gall-stones. Dr. Soemnierring, however, has seen a good many instances of ulcers in the inner surface of the gall-bladder, from liie irritation of gall-stones.[ 243 ] Ulceration of the gall-bladder, however, occasionally takes place, and I believe al- most ahvavs begins in the inner membrane. Of this I have known two cases. In the one case, several ulcers were found in the inner membrane of the gall-bladder, while the other coats were not afifected; and in the other there was one ulcer, which had destroyed a part of all the coats. Caais of ike Gall-bladder thickened^ and hard Tubercles formed in iheni, I have only had an opportunity once of observing this change in the gall-bladder. Its coats were above a quarter of an inch thick, 'ttnd were studded with tubtrcles of a considerable size, and very firm,in their texture. The liver to which this gall blad- der belonged was alfectc<l with the same disease.- Coals of the Gall-bladder bonij. I have likewise seen the coats of the gall- bladder very much thickened, and con-[ 2U ] verted in many parts into a sort of bony substance; but this is to be considered as a very rare appearance of disease. Diseased slate of the Biliary Duels.—Their Dilatation. The most common diseased appearance of the biliary ducts, is their dilatation. The ductus hepaticus, ductus cysticus, and duc- tus communis choiedoclius, are sometimes dilated to an almost incredible size. I have seen the ductus hepaticus and choledochus so much dilated as to be nearly an inch in the transverse diameter. These dilatations of the biliary ducts take place in conse- quence of the passage of gall-stoniss ; and it is astonishing how large gall-stones some- times are, which have been known to pass into the duodenum. This ought to afford a strong ground of comfort to persons who are labouring under this complaint.[ 24^ ] Oblileralion of the Bilianj Duds. An obliteraLion of any of the biliary ducts happens very rarely, but instances of this disease have been discovered, and they may be traced to the following causes. One cause is a violent inflammation, which has taken place in the inner surface of some of the biliary ducts, and has terminated in an adhesion of its sides. This may be sup- posed to arise most commonly from the irritation of a rough -gall-stone, in its pas- sage towards the duodenum. A similar adhesion has been known to take place in other canals of the body, in consequence of violent inflammation there, as, for instance, in the vagina. Another cause, which may act upon the lower extremity of the ductus communis choledochus, obliterating its ca- vity at that part, is a violent inflammation of the duodenum at the entrance of the duct; the extremity of the duct being in- volved in the inflammation, may have its canal obliterated. To this may be added.[ 246 ] as a third cause of obliteration, a scirrlious, or any other enlargement of the round head of the pancreas, which may so press upon the lower extremity of the ductus communis choledochus, as to annihilate its cavity. It has only occurred to myself to have seen an instance of obliteration in the ductus cystlcus; but Dr. Storer of Notting- ham, whose ability and industry in his profession are well known, has favoured me with an account of two cases of oblit- eration at the end of the ductus communis choledochus. A preternatural Canal of Communication be- tween the Gail-Bladder and the Stomach. It may not be improper to take notice here, that I have once seen an immediate communication, by a short canal, between the gall-bladder and the small end of the stomach. This lusus naturae is very rare, and but a few instances of it have been recorded.[ 247 ] Gall-slones. It is not an uncommon appearance oF dis- ease fn examiniiig dead bodies, to find gall- stones, either in the gall-biadder, or in some of the biliary duets. The gall-bladder is sonietimes much enlarged in its sizC, and ftill of them'. In this case its coats are often a good d6al tiftickened, which' arises partly from the pressure against the gall-bladder, in consequence of the accumulation of the ^ones, and partly from t!ie efforts of the cbi^iractil'd power of the gall-bladder to ex- {Vel them . The number of stones accumu- lated in the gall-bladder is sometimes very great; above a thousand have been taken dot of one gall-bladder, which' ai'e preserved fri Dr. Hunter's collection. When there is a'solitary gall-stone in the gall-bladder, it is'occasionally very large; I have known 2ki instance of one which was fully the size (if a'frdn's egg. When tliere is but one gall- HtShQ dilher in the gall-bladder, or in the biliafy ducts, it is generally of an oval shape;[ m 3 when there is a considerable number, they acquire by rubbing upon each other, in a small space, a great many sides and angles. There is great variety in the external appearance of gall-stones with respect to colour: some are whitish, others are black; they are also of a yellowish, a greenish, a light brown, a dark brown, and a reddish- brown colour. These are the principal varieties in colour,but there are many other smaller differences which it is very difficult to express in words. Gall-stones differ also very much in the stale of their surface, some being very smooth, and others a good deal roughened. When cut or broken, gall-stones are commonly found to consist of concentric laminae upon the outside, and in the centre» of a radiated structure. The laminated part bears sometimes a great proportion to the other, and sometimes the contrary happens. The laminated and radiated structures are sometimes compact, and sometimes consist of a more loose matter.C ] It likewise ocasionally happens that both the himinated and the radiated structures arevery obscure, and the gall-stone appears a good deal like an uniform solid mass. The laminated part on the outside very frequently consists of a different sub- stance in appearance, from the radiated structure in the centre; and it is not unusual to find the structure in the centre to consist of shining white crystallizations, which have a good deal the look of mica or spermaceti. Gall-stones being very different both in their outward appearance and their inter- nal structure from each other, we are natu- rally led to suppose that they may also differ in their chemical properties. Upon this subject I can only speak very gene- rally; but such trials as I have made incline me to this opinion. Very few gall- stones yield a bitter taste, which shews that commonly they do not consist of inspissated bile; but in some I have found the tasto intensely bitter. Almost all of them/[ 250 ] liielt in the flame of a candle; but I have met wrfch one sort of a very black colour, ^Vhich (Iit] not melt, biit burnt exactly like a cinder.^ AH the ^aril-stones which I have examined dissolve i'rt the nitrous acid. They are se- parated into a fine black p6wder when put into the vitriolic acid', espeeiall'y if exposed to a sand heat. Bf th'e mai*ine acid they are not acted upcMi af all' in the common Ileal; of the atmosphere; and are tiven but little affected by it when exposed to a sand heat for a conisideraW^ imh^. Most of the gair^st?6ti6s which I have examined, are ^ithei' riot V0ry soluble in oil (if turpentine in tho CKitiiriion heat of the atmosphere, or the pi<6d6ss^ goes 6h vety slowly: one sort I ha\^d fGfind to be in this heat altogether insoluble. Whert' put into * Dr. Soemnierring considers these as inspissated bile, and m'enlions, that they havfe uo regoihr form, hfrve a'bitter taste, and are sduble in water. In some trials vyhich T made they did not dissolve in distilled water^. eillier cold or hot'; but ihej are-bitie'r to thfe'tasld, and without any regiUlar shape; o>r appeaVance of crystulir- zation.[ 251 ] this oil, and exposed to a sand heat, they are nmuch more readily acted upon. Some are converted into a kind of oil, which sinks to the bottom of the oil of turpentine; others are partly soluble, tinging the oil of turpentine of a brownish colour, and are partly separated into a powder. Most gall-stones appear not to be readily afiected by spirit of wine in the common heat of the atmosphere, but are either partly or entirely soluble in it in a boiling heat.* Such are the general results from a good many trials of my own, but I should rest upon them with little confidence, if they did not in a great measure correspond with those of the experiments of others who ^re * When some biliary calculi are exposed to spirit of wine in a boiling stale, white flaky crystals are soota formed upon its cooling. When they are exposed to gpirit of wine in the common heat of the atmosphere, it is some weeks before crystals begin to be formed, and they appear to be more pointed in their shape than the former. These crystal* were, 1 believe, first observed by M. Poulletier de la Salle. See El^mens d'Histoire Isaturelle et de Chimie, par M. de Fourcroy, Torn. IV. p. 354.[ 552 ] more conversant than myself both with the scientific and practical part of chemistry. Gall-stones according to the experiments of Gren, consist of a substance possessing the properties of wax and of lymph.* A gall-stone, consisting of a chocolate co- loured substance on the outside and of white radiated lamelliE upon the inside, was found by Dr. Saunders to consist of a resinous matter, with a small proportion of earth,, apparently the calcareous, and some mineral and volatile alkali.t The gall-stones which Dr. Powell exa- mined were found to consist of resinous matter, carbon, and an animal substance resembling dried mucus.This subject seems still to be imperfectly known, and to require further investigation. * See Johnson's Animal Chemistry, VoJ. 2, p. 3.55. f See Dr. Saunders's Treatise on the Liver, p. 119. first edition. ; X See Dr. Powell's Observations on the Bile and iti Diseases.C 253 ] Bile. The bile in the gall-bhidder is found to differ in,different bodies; but this is too common to arise from disease, and must depend on natural circumstances. It is sometimes of a green, at other times of a brownish yellow, or a purer yellow colour. The brownish yellow colour is the most common. It is always more or less viscid, and the variety in this respect is consider- able : in man it generally appears a good deal more viscid than in most other classes of animals. In one case, I have seen it as ropy as the mucus which is commonly coughed up from the trachea. I recollect also another case, where the bile in the gall-bladder resembled exactly the white of a raw egg. This kind of substance is ascertained to form one of the constituent parts of the bile, and in the present instance it would seem that the other parts were wanting. Such an effect may be supposed to have depended upon a very imperfect[ 254 ] action of the secretory structure ofthe liver. The liver was not sound, being studded with scrofulous tubercles, and the ab- sorbent glands of the mesentery were affected with the same disease. In opening dead bodies, the bile is almost always found to have transuded in small quantity through the coats of the gall- bladder, so as to tinge the neighbouring parts, especially the small end of the sto- mach, and the beginning of the duodenum. This is to be considered as a natural eflfect, which has taken place after death, and not as a diseased appearance. The coats of the gall-bladder, in consequence of death, have lost that compactness by which they were formerly able to confine the bile ; it there- fore transudes in small quantity, and tinges the neighbouring parts. Call-bladder distended -with Bile. The gall-bladder is sometimes distended with bile so as to be of nearly twice its usual size; at other times, there is no l>ik[ 255 ] at all in its cavity, and under such circum- stances it is white in its colour, and con- tracted into very small size. Hydatids in the Cail-bladdert The oallTbiadder h^s been known to be distended to an immense size, and to contain hydatids;* but tiiis state of it is to be considered as pxtremely uncommon. 7he Gall-bladder wanling. The gall-bladder has also been known to be wanling from a defect in the original formation.t It has never occurred to me, to see an example of this kind of mon^ strosity ; but it may be the more readily believed sometimes to happen, as the gall- bladder does not serve any necessary pur- pose in the body. There are many classes of animals which are naturally without a gall-bladder. * See Medical Communications, Vol. I. p. 101. t See Dr. Soemmerring's Germ. Translat. p. 150.[ 556 ] SYMPTOMS. Inflammation of the coats of the gall- bladder is not known to be distinguished by any peculiar symptoms. They are pro- bably much the same with the symptoms which attend inflammation of the mem- branous covering of the liver. An obliteration either of the hepatic duct or of the ductus communis choledo- chus, must produce a jaundice which is permanent, because it depends upon a cause not liable to change. This -svill be ex- tremely difficult to distinguish, in practice, from jaundice produced by a hardened, or tuberculated state of the liver, for this cause of jaundice may likewise be said to be generally permanent. When the ductus cysticus only is obliterated, there will be no jaundice, and little inconvenience will probably be felt, unless the bile confined[ 557 ] in the gall-bladder should at length irritate its coats. In this case inflammation may be excited, which may advance to suppm- ation. I have seen an ulcer of the gall- bladder, which appeared to be produced by this cause. While gall stones remain in the gall- bladder, and no attempt is made towards their passing through the ductus cysticus, and ductus communis choledochus, very little incovenience is commonly produced by them. It frequently happens that gall- stones are found in the gall-bladder after death, where there was not the least suspi- cion of their existence during life. When they pass through the ducts, more especi- ally if they be large in their size, a most excruciating pain is commonly felt about the pit of the stomach : patients in this case . express a much stronger feeling of pain, than during a violent inflammation even in the most sensible parts of the body. They S[ 258 ] often cry oul, ah'd writhe or twist their body into various postures. Wlien the pulse is felt dbring this exquisite pain, it is sometimes found to be accelerated in a very trifling degree, but generally it is not more frequent than in health, and some- times it is even slower. There is languor, sickness, and vomiting; and the skin be- comes ill the progress of the disease more or less of a yellow coiour.C 559 ] CHAP. XI. DISEASED APPEARANCES OF THE SPLEEN. Injlarnniation of the Coals of the Spleen. The coats of the spleen are liable to in- flammation; but this rarely takes place un- less the peritonseum in the neighbourhood be also affected. The proper capsule ol" the spleen is so intimately connected with the peritonaeum which is reflected over it, that it must necessarily partake of any inflam- mation affecting that portion of the mem- brane. When inflammation attacks the coats of the spleen, it exhibits exactly the same appearances vvhiich have been so of- ten described. They become much more crowded with florid blood vessels than in a natural state, are somewhat thicker, and throw out a layer of coagulable lymph upon their surface.[ 260 ] * Vid. Lieutaud, Tom. I. p. 22. Adhesions. It is more common, however, to find ad- hesions formed between the spleen and the neighbouring parts, than to find its coats in an actual state of inflammation. These adhesions consist of a white transparent men^brane of more or less firmness, and generally connect tlie broad surface of the spleen, more or less closely to the dia- phragm. They often connect also the spleen to the great end of the stomach, and a part of the transverse arch of the colon. Iiijlammation of the Substance of the Spleen. It is very rare to find the substance of the spleen either in a state of inflammation or suppuration; but such cases have occa- sionally been observed and related by au- thors.* Instances also have been related where the spleen had been observed to beC 261 J * Vid. LieataucI, Tom. I. p. 223. mortified ;* but this is probably much more rare than the former. The Spleen extremely soft. There is an appearance of the spleen which is very common, and which perhaps is hardly to be considered as a disease, but it is a very obvious deviation from its healthy structure. The appearance to which I allude is an extreme softness of the spleen, so that when its capsule is broken (which under such circumstances is very tender) the substance of the spleen seems to consist of little else than a very soft, brownish-red mucus, intermixed with a spongy fibrous texture. This appear- ance of the spleen is hardly ever to be ob- served at a very early period of life, but is very common in middle and more advan- ced age. I believe that such a state of the spleen is not marked by any peculiar feel- ings, so as to make the persons conscious of any disease taking place, and is probably[ 56^ ] of very little consequence in the general economy of the animal. Still, however, it is not a state into which the spleen natu- rally degenerates in the gradual decay of the body. The Spleen very hard. 7'he spleen is sometimes much harder than natural, and at the same time is ge- nerally a good deal enlarged. It will oc- casionally he enlarged to five or six times its natural size, and it then forms a tumour, very capable of being distinguished by an examination in the living body. When cut into, the natural structure seems to be preserved, except that it is much more compact, the parts being much more closely applied together. This state of the spleen is generally con- sidered as scirrhous; but its structure is not similar to scirrhus in other parts of the body; and its real nature is probably at present not fully understood. When the spleen is in this state, water is sometimes[ 265 ] accumulated in the cavity of the abdo- merj. Tubercles in the Spleen. The spleen is sometimes, although rarely, studded in its substajiice with small tubercles, very similar to the scrofulous tubercles of the lungs. In one instance I have seen sqme of these in a state of sup- puration, and the pus was thick and curdlj^, like scrofulous pus. Coats of the Spleen cartilaginous. The coats of the spleen are sometimes converted into cartilage; and this disease may be considered in a great measure as peculiar to the spleen. It is, at least, much more common in this viscus than in aAy other. The cartilage is generally to be found on the convex surface of the spleen, and extends over more or less of it, in different cases. It is much thicker in one case than another: in some being no thicker than a[ 264 ] shilling, and in others being four times as thick. It is generally formed in a smooth layer, but occasionally it is somewhat irre- gular. I have also seen, in some instances, small spots of cartilage over the whole sur- face of the spleen. It would appear that ossifications* are sometimes to be found in this cartilage, but in the cases which have come under my own examination, bony matter was not to be observed. The car- tilage into which the coats of the spleen are changed, is in general a good deal softer than that which covers the extremities of bones. This diseased process, it is natural to think, is slow in its progress, can hardly produce any impediment to the functions of the spleen, and is probably not marked by any peculiar feelings to the patient. Spleen very large. The spleen is sometimes found to be * Morgagni has seen ossification of a part of the capsule of the spleen. Vid. Epist. X. Art. 19. Epist. XIV. Art. 23.C 565 ] t Vid. Lieutaud, Tom. I. p. 231. much larger in its size than natural, but with a structure perfectly healthy; and this more commonly happens to the spleen than to any other viscus. Although it may be looked upon as a monstrous growth of the spleen, rather than a disease, yet it may produce inconvenience by its pres- sure, and by altering in some degree the situation of the neighbouring viscera; Hydatids in the Spleen. Hydatids are occasionally formed in the spleen,* which are of the same kind with those of the liver; but they are much more common in the latter viscus, than in the former. Stony Concretions in the Spleen. Stony concretions-f have been seen occa- sionally in the spleen; but such cases are very rare, and have not fallen under my own observation. • Vid. Morgagni Epist. XXXVIII. Art. 34.i 266 ] The Spleen ruptured. The spleen has been known sometimes to be ruptured, in consequence of external pressure upoji that side of the body where it is situated. When the spleen is of the common size, an accident of this kind can very rarely take place, because it is well defended by the ribs of the left side; but when the spleen is very large, so that a part of it passes below the margin of the ribs into the cavity of the flank, such an ^ccidept ipay y^ry readily happen. Several small Spleens. There is a variety in the natural forma- tion of the spleen, which I believe does not take place in that of any other gJand in the body. It consists in ;^ever^l small spleens bein^ formed besides the cQmmon one. TJ;iey vary ,in t,heir si^e in diflerent ir;- stances, but I have seen sQi;^e ,qf tjtien,! as large as a walnut. They are situated in the omentum, ji^qar the gre^t ^^id ,of l,her 267 ] • Vid. Lieutaud, Tom. I. p. 2;34. stomach, are supplied with blood vessels from the splenic artery and vein, and have exactly the same structure as a common spleen. It will probably make no dif- ference with regard to the use of the spleen, whether it be entirely formed of one mass, or v.hether it consists of several distinct parts. Spleen said to be wanting. The spleen has been said to be occa- sionally wanting, as a defect in the natural formation, but this too is very uncommon.* We know that an animal is capable not only of existing, but also of enjoying good health without a spleen. The spleen has been cut out, by way of experiment, from some quadrupeds, and they did not ap- pear to suffer any inconvenience from the want of it. The human spleen has even been removed in a few instances, and the persons have not only recovered, but have enjoyed afterwards good health. It does[ 268 ] tiot appear, therefore, very wonderful that a body should be formed without a spleen, and carry on its vital functions without any obvious imperfection. SYMPTOMS. When inflammation attacks the coats of the spleen, it is attended with the same symptoms as an inflammation of that por- tion of the peritonaeum, which lies in the left hypocliondrium. There is pain in that region, which is more or less acute accord- ing to the degree of the inflammation; and this pain is increased upon' pressure. If the inflammation be considerable, it is accompanied with symptomatic fever. The symptoms which have been de- scribed as belonging to inflammation of the substance of the spleen, are a fullness and[ ^69 ] sense of pain in the left hypochondniim. The pain is increased upon pressure, and there is more or less of symptomatic fever. In two cases of inflamed spleen, examined by the lateDr. Hunter, where the inflamma- tion had advanced to suppuration, the pa- tients could not define accurately the seat of their pain, but the pain seemed to travel a good deal over the general cavity of the abdomen. An enlarged and hardened state of the spleen is not suspected or known, till the disease has made a considerable progress, so that the spleen is capable of being felt externally. It is commonly attended with no pain, and will even bear a pretty strong pressure, without any painftil sensation. It may be distinguished when the spleen has arrived at a considerable size, by the situa- tion and the general shape of the tumour. The anterior edge of the spleen can gene- rally be felt distinctly by the hand appliedC 270 ] to the surface of the abdomen, under the margin of the ribs upon the left side; and the edge is sometimes distinguished by this examination to be notched. This state of the spleen is often at length attended with dropsy. There are no peculiar symptoms which characlbrize the formation of hydatids in the spleen. A pain has been remarked to be felt, in such cases, in the left hypochon- drium ; but this also belongs to many other complaints. When a swelling begins in the situation of the spleen, and spreads very slowly into the cavity of the abdomen, be- ing somewhat soft to the feeling, and per- haps giving some obscure sense of fluctua- tion, the disease may then be reasonably supposed to depend on the formation of hydatids in this organ.CHAP. XII. DISEASED APPEARANCES OF THE PANCREAS. The pancreas is subject to very Few dis- eases. It seldom happens, upon examining dead bodies, that it exhibits any other than the healthy structure. Abscess of the Pancreas. Inflammation is very little apt to affect the pancreas. It has only occurred to me to see one instance of an abscess formed in it. It was a good deal enlarged in its size, and contained a considerable quantity of thin pus. Pancreas hard. It is not very uncommon to find the pancreas much harder than m its naturarl state, and at the same time it is thicker and shorter than usual. There is, ^howeveF,[ 27^ ] little appearance to the eye of its structure being altered. This I believe to be the beginning of a process, by which the pan- creas becomes tmly scirrhous. It very sel- dom in this state shews, in any part, the real scirrhous structure. But I have seen this to be the case, which renders it very probable, that the one is the beginning of a changp into the other. When the pan- creas in any part assumes the scirrhous structure, that part loses entirely its natural appearance, and is converted into a hard uniform, white mass, intersected by mem- brane, like scirrhus in other parts of the body. In some cases it has been observed, in this state, to be considerably enlarged. Calculi of the Pancreas. Calculi are occasionally formed in the ducts of the pancreas. Of this I have known only one instance. The calculi were about the size of the kernel of a hazel nut, with a very irregular surface, and of a white colour. These stones dissolved in[ 573 ] marine acid with the extraction of a large quantity of carbonic gas, and are found to consist of carbonated lime.* It is not im- probable, that calculi formed in the pan- creas may differ somewhat from each other, as we find to happen in other calculi which are formed in the body; but as this is a very rare disease in the pancreas, it must be a long time before this point can be fully ascertained. Pancreas wanting. The pancreas has been said to be en- tirely wanting, as a defect in the original formation.-f- SYiMPTOMS. I have only had one opportunity of see- ing an abscess in the pancreas. It was in ♦ See Dr. Pemberton's Treatise upon the Abdominal Viscera, p. 92. t Vid. Lieulaud, Tom. I. p. 247.[ 274 ] a young man, a little beyond the age of twenty. He did not conriplain of any fixed pain in the situation of the pancreas, but had a good deal of pain in different parts of the abdomen. This seemed to be con- nected with spasmodic contractions of the intestinal canal, which inclosed portions of wind, and also with spasms of the abdomi- iial muscles. There was sickness and dis- tension of the stomach more especially after eating, and the food likewise sometimes occasioned a sense of weight in that organ. He had a disposition to purging; made but little water; and became at length dropsical. His pulse was commonly about eighty.* In some cases which are related in books, I find that patients with abscesses in the pancreas have commonly complained of pain in the back and loins, but they seem to have had no peculiar symptoms. * For the account of the symptoms in the above case, I am indebted to Dr. Wm. Heberden.C 275 ] When the pancreas becomes harder than in its healthy state, it is often, I believe, not attended with any painful sensations to the patient which are strongly marked. But it sometimes happens, although rarely, that the pancreas becomes much enlarged in its size, as well as hard in its structure, under- going those changes which belong to scir- rhus. In such cases, a long continued pain has been remarked to exist in the epigastric region, and the stomach has been afiPected with sickness. In one instance, of which I have heard an account, besides the symp- toms already mentioned, there was a pain in the hips, and a sense of numbness in one thigh and leg. I am not acquainted with the symptoms which are produced by the formation of cal- culi in the pancreas. If the calculi should happen to be smooth, and few in number, they would probably occasion little pain or inconvenience. But if they should be rough[ 276 ] Upon their surface and numerous, they would probably produce a good deal of irritation and pain in the pancreas ; but it is not likely thai we should be able to guess at the cause of the irritation, unless some of the calculi, having passed into the duo- denum, should be evacuated by vomiting, or by stool.C 277 ] CHAP. XIII. DISEASED APPEARANCES OF THE KIDNEYS, AND THE REjSIAL CAPSULES. Capsule of the Kidneys injlamed. I DO not recollect to have seen the proper capsule of the kidney inflamed, and I am disposed to consider it as a rare morbid ap- pearance. The reason, probably, why it seldom occurs, is that the peritonaeum re- flected over the surface of the kidney has a very loose connection with it, there being interposed between them a considerable quantity of cellular membrane and fat. It seems very likely that the principal reason why the capsules of some other glands in the abdomen are so frequently inflamed, is their close connection with the peritonseum; which membrane, from circumstances it is perhaps difficult to ascertain, is very liable to inflammation. When the capsule of the[ ^78 ] kidneys is inflamed, the same appearances of inflammation will take place, which have been so often noted. Abscesses of the Kidneys. When the substance of the kidneys is in- flamed, it frequently advances to suppura- tion, arid perhaps there is no considerable gland in the body so liable to form abscesses as the kidneys. In some cases which I have seen, the abscesses have appeared to be of a common nature; but in the greater num- ber of cases, they have been scrofulous. When a kidney is attacked with scrofula, and the disease has advanced to suppura- tion, it exhibits different appearances, ac- cording to the progress it has made. Some- times there are only one or two circum- scrihed abscesses, containing a curdly pus, without any thing being particularly ob- servable in the inner surface of the ab- scesses. Frequently, however, the inner surface of the abscesses is lined ivith a pulpy matter. These abscesses generally firstC 279 ] destroy the mamillary portion of the kid- ney ; and when they advance very far, they destroy almost the whole structure of the kichiey, converting it into capsules which surround a number ojf imperfect cavities that are lined with this pulpy substance. The capsule into which a kidney is changed by the progress of this disease, is on some occasions thicker than on others, frequently of considerable hardness, and seems sometimes to be slightly laminated. When a kidney is so affected, it is not un- common for the pelvis and ureter to par- take of the disease, and a calculus is some- times found either in the abscess, or in the pelvis of the ureter.^ Scrofulous Tubercles in the Kidneys. It is not unusual (as we have stated above) * In such cases, it is very probable that the calculus is flie immediate cause of the oilier disease, the consti- tution being at the same time disiiosed to it. By the irritation of the calculus, inflammation and suppuration are produced in the kidney, and these partake of the nature of the Constitution.[ ^80 ] for scrofulous abscesses to take place in the kidneys, but it occurs very rarely that scrofulous tubercles are formed in them. I have seen, however, an instance of this kind, and the tubercles resembled most exactly the common tubercles of the lungs. None of them were in a state of suppura- tion. Kidney scirrhous. The kidney I have once seen converted into a firm, uniform substance, somewhat intersected by membrane, in which the na- tural structure of this gland was entirely lost. The kidney was at the same time very much enlarged in size. This alteration of structure I should call scirrhus, because it exactly resembles scirrhus in other parts of the body: it occurs very rarely in the kidneys. Stale of I he Kidneys in Diabetes. Opportunities do not frequenily occur of examining the state of the kidneys inC 281 ] diabetes. I have once, however, been able to make this examination in a satisfactory manner, where a person had been long affected with diabetes, and had been a patient under my care in St. George's Hos- pital. In both kidneys the superficial veins were much fuller of blood than usual, form- ing upon their surface a most beautiful network of vessels. The whole substance of the kidnevs was much more vascular than in a healthy state, approaching a good deal in appearance to what takes place in inflammation. In both of them there was a very small quantity of a whitish fluid, somewhat resembling pus: but there was no appearance of ulceration whatever. The artery, the vein, the lymphatic vessels, and the nerves of both kidneys were in their natural state. The liver, at the same time, I examined with care, because it has been thought by some to be the chief source of disease in dLbetic patients, but it was per- fectly sound. The stomach and intestines were also examined with attention, but no[ m ] ;3jdfAe^ir.ances occurred in them which are m>i y<2ry coinmoii. Kidneijs very soft. I have also seen the substance of the Jcidney converted into a soft loose mass, resembling almost exactly the appearance of common spunge. On the surface there were many round interstitial cavities scat- tered at irregular distances ; and when the substance of the kidney was cut into, it exhibited the same spongy structure. The blood vessels of the kidney were seen rami- fying very distinctly through the spongy mass. There was no appearance of pus in the kidney, nor was there the most distant resemblance between this process, and the elfects produced by suppuration. It was a process of a peculiar kind, by which a con- siderable portion of the kidney was re- moved by the action, probably, of absor- bent vessels, and it seemed to act much more on the cortical than the tubular part of it. I am not at ail exaggerating the[ ^83 ] effect of this diseased process when I say, that the kidney was rendered fully as soft as a common sponge. When shaken in water, the parts all separated from each other, somewhat like the unravelling of the shaggy vessels of the placenta. Such an appearance of kidney, but in a much smaller degree, has fallen two or three times under my observation: Hydatids of the Kidneys, The formation of hydatids is not an un- common disease in the kidneys. There are sometimes one or two considerable hydatids on the surface of the kidney, lying between its substance and capsule; at other times, they are more numerous. These hydatids do not appear to be of the same nature with the hydatids of the liver : they are not inclosed in firm cysts ; their coats are also thinner, and less pulpy; and not un» commonly ihey are almost as tliin as any membrane of the body. I do not recollect to have seen any instance of small hydatidsC 284 J of tills sort attached to the coats of lartrer hydaiids in the kidney, as may be fre- quently observed in the liver. It is there- fore probable, that the hydatids which are commonly found in the kidney, depend on a diseased alteration of the structure of this organ, and are not distinct organized simple animals. Sometimes, however, the true hydatid is formed in the kidneys, having exactly the same nature with that which grows in the liver. It has occurred to me to be able to examine particularly a case of this kind after death, and I shall describe at some length what came under my observation. The right kidney, in a soldier, was con- verted into a bag capable of containing at least three pints of fluid, and only a very small part of the kidney at the low^er end retained its natural structure. The bag was of considerable thickness, was obscurely la- minated, and had a cartilaginous hardness upon its inner surface. It was full of hy- datids, which differed very much from[ 285 ] each other in then- size, some of them being as large as a small orange, and others not larger than the head of a pin. Some of the small hydatids were lodged in little cavities formed in the inner surfcice of the bag. Their coats were in general easily separable into two laminae, and varied a good deal in thickness in different hydatids: This difference made one hvdatid look opaque, while another was transparent. Even in the same hydatid there was often a difference in the opacity, or transparency of its coat at different parts. Sojne hxdatids had, adhering to their inner surface, a clus- ter of small hydatids, which looked like small pearls; others.had hydatids even of a considerable size floating loose in their cavity ; and others contained only a fluid. The fluid in many was, transparent, but in some hydatids it resembled whey. Some of the small hydatids had frequently been pas* scd along with the urine, when the person was alive. It required an increased exertion oUheii.uscularpuwer of the bladder todrive[ 586 ] them through the urethra, and the bladder, by this exertion, acquired a stronger mus- cular coat, as in other cases of obstruction to the free passage of the urine. Calculi of the Kidneijs. The formation of calculi is not peculiar to the kidneys, but it is a more frequent disease in them than in any other part of the body. Small granules of stone are sometimes found in the tubular portion of the kidneys ; but it is more common to find a calculus of considerable size lodged either in some part of the substance of the kidney, or in the pelvis of the ureter. The last situation is by much the most frequent. When a stone in its situation is so large as not to be capable of passing through the ureter, it is afterwards gradu- ally increased in size, from the contact of the urine. In its growth, it necessarily follows the branches of the pelvis, which are called infundJbuia, and is therefore of an arborescent form. Such calculi vary in •[ ^8^ ] their colour and surface; they are some- times of a light brown, sometimes of a dark bromi, and sometimes of a white colour. They are also sometimes smooth, and some- times a little roughened on their surface. Of the nature of urinary calculi we shall speak afterwards, when we come to ta^ce notice of the diseased appearances of the bladder. When a stone in the pelvis of the ureter has increased to a very consider- able size, it almost entirely prevents the urine from passing into the ureter. The urine is therefore accumulated in the pelvis above the stone, and hence enlarges the pelvis very much, as well as the cavity in the kidney itself. From the pressure too of the urine behind the stone, the pelvis of the ureter, besides being enlarged, is thrust oYit from the substance of the kidney. If the interruption to the passage of the urine from the kidney arises from some obstruc- tion in the lower extremity of the uret(;r, or at tlie neck of the bladder, or in any part of the urethra, not only the pelvis of[ 288 ] the ureter is then enlarged, but the ureter itself. I have seen the ureters ofboth kidneys enlarged from this cause to twice or thrice their natural size. Whatever be the nature of the obstruc- tion, if the pelvis of the ureter be very much enlarged from the accumulation of the urine, the cavity of the kidney is at the same time enlarged. As this i)rocess ad- vances, the substance of the kidney be- comes more and more compressed, is gra- dually absorbed, and its cavity becomes enlarged in proportion. The substance of the kidney is, at length, in a great measure lost, and is converted into a capsule, con- taining a great many cells, which com- municate with each other. The capsule is sometimes very thin, and the whole mass a great deal larger than the natural size of a healthy kidney. It is worthy of remark, that the urine is secreted even when the natural structure of the kidney is almost entirely lost. This is seen both in the de* rangement of the kidneys now under con-[ 589 ] siderailon, and when they are converted into a mass of hydatids. It would appear from this fact, that a very small portioa of the natural structure of the kidneys is capable of separating very nearly the or- dinary quantity of the urine. Kidneys earthy and bony. The kidneys have been said to be con- verted into an earthy substance.* A kid- ney has also been known to become ossi- fied.-f- Such appearances have never come under my own observation, and I am per- suaded are extremely rare. Original Varieties in the Kidneys. The kidneys are subject to a good deal of variety in their natural circumstances, from original formation. The two kidneys are sometimes found to be joined together: they are sometimes situated before the lumbar vertebrae, and soiuetimes on the * Vid. Lieutnud Tom I. p. 282. t See Medical Communications. Vol, I. p, 416. u[ 290 ] sides of" the pelvis. They are occasionally very small in their size, and the kidney on one side is sometimes wanting; when this is the case, the other kidney is larger than the ordinary size. It is very difficult to assign a satisfactory reason why there should be such variety in the kidneys; but we can see that there is little disadvantage to the animal functions produced by this variety. The kidneys are not large in their size, and therefore may be changed in their situation without any sensible inconve- nience. As their function is independent of relative situation, it must be precisely the same where ever the kidneys are placed When the kidneys are small, the secre- tion of the urine may be very nearly in the common quantity, from a greater activity in carrying on their function; or such persons may be disposed to sweat more than usual, to counterbalance ihe deficiency of the urine. We know very well that[ ] the secretions of the sweat and the urine are vicarious. When a kidney is want- ing, the other being of a large size is probably capable of doing the office of two kidneys. Diseased Jppearances of the Renal Capsules, The renal capsules are scarcely ever found diseased. The dark coloured sub- stance in their centre, which naturally has some consistence, is occasionally very soft, so as almost to be fluid. This is probably what is meant by authors, when they say that they have found in the cavity of the renal capsules a fluid like ink, Their de- scription may be considered as being a little exaggerated Abscess in Lhe Renal Capsules. The renal capsules are very seldom at- tacked with inflaramaiion, and therefore abscesses have very rarely occurred in them. There is much variety in the dif- ferent parts of the body, with regard to[ 292 ] their susceptibility of being excited to in- flammation. A few cases of abscesses in the renal capsules are related by authors. Renal Capsule scrofulous. It has occurred to me to see only one instance of scrofula in the renal capsules. In this case, the renal capsule affected by it was very much enlarged in its size, be- ing nearly as large as a kidney, and was changed into the same kind of white matter, which is observable in a scrofulous absor- bent gland. The renal capsules have also been ob- served to be changed into a cartilaginous substance, but this morbid appearance oc- curs very rarely.* Little granules of stone have been found in the substance of the renal capsules.+ * See Soemmerring's German Translation, p. 170. t Vid. Lieutaud, Tom. I. p. 286.[ 293 ] SYMPTOMS. Wlien tlie kidneys are inflamed, more or less pain is fell in the situation of these glands, and the pain commonly shoots along the course of the ureters. There is a sense of numbness in the thigh, and in the male there is often a retraction of the tes- ticle, or a feeling of pain in it. When one kidney is affected, these symptoms are only felt upon that side. The urine is voided frequently, and is sometimes of a pale, but more commonly of a deep red colour. The stomach sympathizes with this state of the kidneys, for it is aJfected with sick- ness and vomiting: the bowels are at the same time often costive, and subject to colicky pains. These sensations are ac- companied with more or less of sympto- matic fever. When pus is formed by the progress of the inflammation, it may be known by its being mixed with the urine, and this will 4.[ 294 ] be more distinclly marked in proportion to the quantity of the pus. The symptoms which belong to a scir- rhous state of the kidneys are unknown to me, and I do not find that they are dis- tinctly marked by authors. There would seem to be no particular symptoms which belong to the formation of hydatids in the kidneys. Pain is com- monly felt in the loins during their for- mation; there has been remarked to be symptomatic fever, nausea, and vomiting; but these symptoms belong also to some other diseases. This disease, therefore, can only be ascertained by hydatids passing oc- casionally through the urethra along wit' the urine. In such cases, there must some- times be a difficulty in making water, from ah) datid interrupting the passage of the 1[ S95 ] urine, either at the neck of the bladder, or in some part of the urethra. The symptoms which are produced by calcuh' irritating the kidneys correspond very much with the symptoms attending the inflammation of these organs. The irritation from calcuH, however, may be distinguished from siinple inflammation of the kidneys, by these additional symptoms, viz. by red crystals being often deposited, from the urine as soon as it is voided, by blood being sometimes mixed with the urine, and by the pain of the loins being much increased upon any jolting motion of the body. Diabetes is distinguished by the urine being much increased beyond the natural quantity, by its being more or less sweet to the taste, and of a colour somewhatC ] resembling whey. There is great thirst, and a voracious appetite for food. The pulse is also somewhat quicker than na- tural, and the body becomes at length much emaciated.[ -97 ] CHAPTER XIV. DISEASED APPEARANCES OF THE BLADDEPv. Inflammation of the PeritoncBal Covering. That portion of the peritonaeum, which covers a part of the bladder, is not very often inflamed by itself, but it partakes of the inflammation which extends over this membrane generally. The appearances ac- companying its inflammation -have been already described. Inflammation of the pe- ritonseal covering of the bladder does not frequently extend to its muscular coat. The peritonaeum and the muscular coat of the bladder are but loosely connected together, as a considerable quantity of cellular mem- brane is interposed between them. This loose connection is necessary, in order that the peritonaeum may be accommodated to different states of distension of the bladder,[ 298 ] and it has also the effect of preventing in- flammation from spreading readily from the perilonaeal covering of the bladder to its muscular coat. W'hen the inflammation subsides, adhesions are frequently left be- hind, connecting the bladder more or less to the neighbouring parts; in a female, to the uterus, and in a male to the rectum. Injlammalion oj the inner Membrane, The inner membrane of the bladder is occasionally inflamed. When this hap- pens, the inflanmiation is sometimes ex- tended over the whole cavity, or is some- times confined to a particular portion of it. The portion which is most frequently in- flamed is that near the neck of the bladder. This may arise from two causes; the one is, that in this situation, or near it, some obstruction is frequently found to the pas- sage of the urine, which may produce irri- tation, and bring on more or less of inflam- mation ; the other is, that inflammations of the urethra occasionally extend some way[ 299 ] wilbin the cavity of the bladder, and even sometimes over the whole of it. It is well known that the inner membrane of the bladder, in the dead body, hardly shews vessels which are large enough to carry red blood in its natural state; but when it is inflamed, it is crowded with a prodigious number of extremely fine blood vessels, and there may be sometimes seen small spots of extravasated blood. When the inflammation is in a high degree, the mus- cular coat of the jjladder may be affected; but as this is only loosely attached to the inner membrane, the inflammation will not very readily pass from the one to the other. Ulcers. Inflammation of the inner membrane of the bladder advances sometimes to the for- mation of pus, and abscesses and ulcers are occasionally produced. I'hese, when the inflammation has been of the common sort, exhibit the ordinary appealances which[ soo ] have often been mentioned. They some- times advance so far as to destroy a portion of the bladder entirely, and to form com- munications between it and the neighbour- ing parts; as with the general cavity of the abdomen, with the rectum in the male, and the vagina in the female. When the communication is formed with the general cavity of the abdomen, the urine escapes into it, producing there general peritonasai inflammation, of which I recollect a very striking example. When the communica- tion is formed with the vagina or the rec- tum, the urine will escape by these passages, producing in them more or less of irritation and inflammation. When abscesses take place in the blad- der, they are produced more frequently from local violence, than from a previous spontaneous inflammation. One of the most common causes of violence is the incision of the bladder in the operation of lithotomy. When the part has been veryC 301 ] much irritated in the operation, or the constitution is such that it is excited to violent action by the common degree of irritation, an ulcer is formed at the lips of the wound, and spreads more or less into the cavity of the bladder. It sometimes happens, although 1 believe very rarely, that the whole of the inner membrane of the bladder is destroyed by ulceration, and its muscular fibres appear as bare as if they had been nicely dissected. In the case where I recollect this process to have taken place most completely, the bladder was almost filled with a scrofulous pus. There was a curdly white matter mixed with pus, which had exactly the same appearance with that formed by the suppuration of a scrofulous absorbent gland. Scinhus and Cancer. From the contiguity of the bladder to parts which are very liable to scirrhus or cancer, it sometimes partakes of this[ 302 ] disease; but I do not think that it is often se]>arately affected by it. The disease on some occasions spreads to the bladder from the rectum, and on others From the uterus; under such circumstances the bladder be- comes very*thick and hard, and exhibits the ordinary cancerous structure. Com-* niunications too are ".enerallv formed either with the rectum, the uterus, or the vagina. Fungous Excrescences. Sometimes fungous excrescences arise from the inner surflice of the bladder, either in one mass, or in separate portions. Upon examination they are found to consist of a loose fibrous structure. When they are situated a little behind the neck of the bladder, which is not uncommonly the case, they must produce a considerable ob- struction to the passage of the urine. A stronger action will, theref )re5 be required in the bladder to expel the urine, and its muscular coat will be consequently thick- ened. Accordingly it is often found thick-[ 505 ] ened, and it is not improbable that even where the situation of the fungus may not obstruct the passage of die urine into the urethra, its presence may still irritate the bladder, so as to excite it to more frequent and stronger actions than in a natural state, and the muscular coat may become thereby more or less thickened. Polypus of the Bladder. A polypus sometimes grows from the inner surface of the bladder; but this mor- bid appearance occurs very rarely. I have only seen one example of it, and in this instance it filled up the greater part of the cavity of the bladder. It was very irre- gular in its shape, consisting of various projecting masses, and seemed pretty Hnn in its texture. Elongations of the inner Membrane. I have also known the inner membrane of the bladder elongated in some parts, so as to form irregular processes. These whenC 304 ] cut into, were found to consist of a consi- siderable quantity of cellular membrane, intermixed with a liule fat. The process producing such an appearance was pro- bably a slow one, and was probably also not attended with pain. If these elonga- tions were to be situated at a distance from the neck of the bladder, they would proba- bly not produce any inconvenience; but if situated near the neck of the bladder, they might occasion extreme difficuliy in mak- ing water, and even lay the foundation of a fatal disease. Cysts communicaling with the Bladder. Cysts are sometimes found connected very intimately with the bladder, and com- municating with its cavity. These in some instances have been observed to be of a large size, being perhaps half as large as the usual size of the bladder itself There is some difficulty in explaining the manner in which they are formed. If we suppose them to be lormed in the cellular mem-[ 505 ] brane, upon the outside of the bladder, it is extremely difficult to explain how they should communicate with its cavity, unless by ulceration, which does not take place. If we suppose them to be pouches from the bladder itself, it is still difficult, in some instances, to explain why they should be formed at all, and why they should arrive at so large a size. The latter supposition, however, seems to be the most reasonable, and I am persuaded it will apply to the greater number of cases where such cysts exist. Muscular Coat thickened. One of the most ordinary changes in the bladder, from its natural structure, is the great thickening of its muscular coat. In a natural state, the muscular coat of the bladder (when it is moderately distended) consists of thin layers of muscular fibres, running in difiPerent directions. These are probably, altogether, not more than the eighth of an inch in thickness. The mus- X[ 306 J cular coat of the bladder, however, is oc- casionally found at least half an inch thick. This arises from an additional quantity of muscle being formed in consequence of ex- traordinary efforts being necessary in the bladder. These efforts take place when there is any considerable difficulty in mak- ing water, as happens when the prostate gland is a good deal enlarged, when there is a stone in the bladder, or when there are Strictures in the urethra. It is usual, there- fore, to fiiid this thickening of the muscu- lar coat of the bladder when there is any of these diseases. When the bladder is thickened, the fasciculi of which its mus- cular Coat is Composed become much larger; but never, or at least very seldom, acquire the full red colour which muscles of the same size have in other parts of the body* This IS a deviation from the general plan of nature with regard to the increase of muscles from exercise. When muscles are enlarged in size from exercise, they also become of a deep red colour; There is no[ 307 ] other ifistaiice in the body, as far as I recollect, of a muscle being so much en- larged beyond its natural size, in conse- quence of increased exertion, as the mus- cular coat of the bladder. Between the fasciculi of the muscular fibres, little pouches are formed by the in- ner membrane. This arises from the pres- sure of the urine agajnst the inner mem- brane of the bladder, which is impelled by the strong powers of the muscular coat. These pouches are often large enough to admit the end of the finger, and contain occasionally small calculi. The bladder in this state admits of very little distension, so that it is capable of containing little water: hence the inclination to make water is frequent, and fre(juent efforts of the mus- cular coat are required, which increase more and more its thickness. It is much more conmion to find this appearance of the bladder in the male than in the female, because in the latter there are fewer causes to produce it: since in that sex there is a[ 308 ] want of the prostate gland altogether, and the urethra being short and wide, obstruc- tions seldom take place in it. When the muscular coat of the bladder has been thickened, I believe that it has been some- times mistaken for scirrhus. The Bladder divided into two Chambers* THe urinary bladder has sometimes been observed to be divided into two chambers, which communicate with each other; but this has happened very rarely. I have not had an opportunity myself of examining this singular disease, but I have received an account of such a case from Dr. Ash, which had many years ago fallen under his observation. The u])per chamber of the bladder in this case was generally much distended with urine, so that a round tumour could be easily distinguished by the touch above the pubes. When a cathe- ter was introduced into the bladder, a few ounces only of urine came away, and the tumour above the pubes remained the sam«[ 309 ] . as before. When the palienl stcoJ up, a quart of water sometimes passed away in- voluntarily, the tumour very much sub- sided, and the complaint was relieved for the time. After the death of the patient, the bladder was found upon examination to be divided into two chambers by a firm membranous substance, and the aperture of commAmication was almost obliterated. There seem to me to be only two ways in which a division of the bladder into two chambers can happen. The one is by a morbid growth of" the inner membrane^ forming a ridge at some particular part, and at length by a continuation of this process, making a septum more or less com- plete in the bladder. I have seen the cavity of the oesophagus very much nar- rowed at one part by a permanent ridge being formed in its inner membrane. Some- thing of the same kind I have also seen in a part of the small intestines. We may therefore leadily admit the possibiliiy ofC sio ] a similar process taking place in the inner membrane of the bladder. Another way in which the bladder may be supposed capable of being divided into two chambers, is by a very strong contrac- tion of its transverse muscular fibres at some particular part. This will be analo- gous to the hour-glass contraction of the uterus which is known occasionally to take place. When a complaint of the bladder depending upon its being divided into two chambers has been temporary, it is reason- able to suppose that it lias arisen from the last cause; when it has been permanent, it is more likely to have arisen from the first. Calculi. « Calculi are not uncommonly found in the bladder, and are confined in their form- ation to no particular period of life. They are formed in very young children, and also in persons of middle and advancedC 311 ] age. This disease is not so frequently met with in the female as in the male, which may depend on two causes; the one is, that there is not so strong a tendency to their formation in that sex ; and the other cause is, that stones escape through the urethra in women, which would be de- tained in the bladder of men, and lay the foundation there of lar2;er calculi. The stones which are found in the blad- der, are either originally formed in the Icidneys, and pass through the ureters into the bladder, or they are first formed in the bladder itself. When the latter circum- stance takes place, the earthy matter is sometimes first deposited round some ex- traneous body, which becomes the nucleus of the calculus, but most frequently no nucleus whatever is to be observed. The nuclei which I have seen, have been small portions of lead (probably broken off from a leaden bougie) small nails, and littb masses of hair. In short, any extraneous body which may happen to be introduced[312] ' into the bladder, may become a nucleus. It is natural to think that such nuclei are more common in the calculi found in the bladder of women than of men, because their urethra is wider and shorter, so that an extraneous bodv can be much more easily introduced into their bladder. The calculi of the bladder either lie loose in it, or are confined to some fixed situation from particular circumstances. When they are of a small size, they are sometimes lodged in pouches, or sacculi, formed by the protrusion of the inner mem- brane of the bladder between the fasciculi of its muscular fibres. A calculus also is oc- casionally attached to an excrescence of the bladder, so as to be kept in a fixed situation. There is frequently one calculus only in the bladder at a time, and then it is usually of an oval form ; but there are often more, and the calculi by rubbing upon each other ij;^ a narrow space acquire flat sides and angles. Calculi have sometimes a smooth uniform surface, but most frequently the[513] surface is granulated. These granules are commonly placed very near each other over the whole surface of the calculus, giving it a certain degree of roughness. They are, however, occasionally gathered into clusters on particular parts of the sur- face of a calculus. These granules are some- times of a smaller, and sometimes of a larger size, and in different calculi are more or less elevated. Some calculi have an irregular porous structure upon the surface, instead of being granulated. Calculi when divided by the saw, or broken, exhibit most commonly a lami- nated structure. These laminae are dis- posed in concentric curves, and are applied together with more or less compactness: in some calculi the laminze adhere tosether very slightly. They differ in their thick- ness in different calculi: and the laminated structure sometimes pervades uniformly the whole mass of the calculus; while at? other limes different portions of it are in- terrupted by a coarse porous texture. In[314] some calculi no laminated structure what-, ever is observable, but it is entirely porous. The colour of calculi varies considera- bly. They are most frequently of a brown colour, which is sometimes of a lighter, and sometimes of a darker shade- They are also sometimes of a white, and often of a yellowish colour. It is remarkable, that different portions of the same calculus are frequently of a different colour. Some laminae, for instance, are ])erfectly white, while the other laminae are brown. In this sort of mixture, I have most commonly found the while laminae on the oulside, and the brown laminae in the middle; and I do not recollect seeing one instance of laminae of different colours, disposed in alternate strata. The specific gravity of urinary calculi differs very considerably, as they differ a good deal in their compactness; but they are in general nearly twice the specific gra- vity of water. It is only within a few years that the[ 315 ] chemical analysis of urinary calculi has been ascertained with sufficient accuracy, and they have been found to consist of six species very different,from each other. The first species is more common than the others, and consists of a particular acid called lithic acid, mixed with some gela> tinous matter, and in some instances with a very small proportion of lime. Its texture is partly laminated and partly porous. Its colour is brown, varying a good deal in the depth of its shade, and sometimes with a very slight yellowish tinge. The chem- ical properties of this species of urinary calculi were first ascertained by Scheeie and Bergman. The second species consists of crystals which are formed by the combination of phosphoric acid with magnesia and ammo- nia : these are mixed with some phospho- rated lime, and generally som.e lithic acid. It is of a white colour, is more irregular in its shape thdn some of the other species, and consists partly of a laminated and[516] partly of a porous structure. It is fusible by the blow-pipe, and therefore has com- monly been called the fusible calculus. The third species consists of the acid of sugar and acid of phosphorus united with lime; together generally with some lithic acid in the interstices. This species is knotted on its outer surface somewhat like a mulberry, and from this circumstance it has commonly been called the mulberry calculus. It is of a dark brown colour, and consists of an irregularly laminated struc- ture. The laminae of which it is compose^ often vary in their colour, some [of them being dark, and others of a white colour. The white laminae are commonly towards the outer part of the calculus, although its colour be dark. The fourth species consists entirely of phosphorated lime, and has been called the bone-earlh calculus. It is of a light brown colour, and its laminae slightly adhere to each other. For an accurate analysis of these three last species of uri-[ 517 ] nary calculi, we are chiefly indebted to Dr. Wm. Hyde VVolIaston. The fifth species consists of carbonat of lime, mixed with a little animal matter and water, and was discovered lately by Mr. Crumpton,* A sixth species of calculus has lately been discovered by Dr. VVm. Hyde W6I- laston. He has only met with two instances of it, and therefore it must be considered as being very rare. It resembles the cal- culus containing the triple phosphate of magnesia: its substance is not distinctly laminated, but rather appears like a mass confusedly crystallized. This species of calculus readily unites with acids and al- kalies, contains a small proportion of oxy- gen, and appears to be anoxyd of a peculiar kind. Dr. Wollaston has given it the name of the cystic oxyd.-)" The matter of calculus in the bladdder • See Thompson's Syslem of Chemistry, Vol. 4, page G? 1. t See Philosophical Tiansaclions, Part 2, 1810.[318] is generally formed in to one or more circum- scribed masses, yet it sometimes happens that the whole bladder is hlled with a sub- stance like mortar. OF this I recollect one striking example; the earthy matter in this case could not be entirely removed from the bladder, but a great many small irre- gular portions still adhered to the sides of its cavity. I believe that this matter was of the same nature with the common cal- culus, because it exhibited the same affini- ties with the common acids. Within the last three years 1 have met with another instance in which the matter of calculus put on the appearance and consistence of mortar, but was in small quantity. It was connected with a chronic inflammation of the inner membrane of the bladder, and processes of coagulable lymph attached to the inner membrane were encrusted with the calculous matter. This disease had continued for many years, and was com- bined with stricture of the urethra.[ 319 ] Bladder distended. In opening dead bodies, the bladder is occasionally found to be very much dis- tended, and to occupy the lower part of the cavity of the abdomen. This might arise from some accidental circumstance of the water being accumulated, while the muscular coat of the bladder still possessed its proper powers; or the muscular coat of the bladder may have been paralytic, and therefore not capable of expelling the ^'ater. I do not think it is possible to dis- rrimiuate between these two different cases by any examination after death, but they can always be ascertained by a careful iu- €pairy into their history. Bladder contracted. The bladder is also found contracted to such a degree as hardly to liave any cavity. This is sometimes not to be considered as a disease, but simply as having arisen from[ 320 ] a very strong action of the muscular coat of the bladder previously to death. Not unfrequently when the inner mem- brane of the bladder has been long in an irritable state, the muscular part of it from the habit of contracting upon small quantities of urine, loses the power of being distended, and remains more or less per- manently contracted. The anterior Fart of the Bladder wanling. The anterior part of the bladder is occa- sionally wanting, and instead of it there is a very soft vascular flesh, situated ex- ternally at the lower part of the abdomen. This soft vascular flesh is usually formed into irregular projecting masses, and in the living body is covered with a thick ropy mucus. The two ureters open somewhere upon this vascular flesh, distilling gradu- ally the urine upon its surface, which the mucus is intended to protect against the stimulus of that fluid. When there is such a formation of the bladder, I believe thatC 321 ] there is always a deficiency of the bone at the symphysis pubis, and also a monstrous formation of some of the organs of genera- tion. This species of monstrosity I have described at large in the Medical and Chi- rurgical Transactions.* T/ie Bladder and the Redum communicating from original Malformation. Another kind of monstrous formation in the bladder occasionally happens, viz. that at its depending part theie is a com- munication between it and the rectum, the latter being continued into the former. Of this I have seen one instance; and it has been already taken notice of, when treat- mg of the diseased and praeternatural ap- pearances of the intestines. Hernia of the Bladder. The bladder, or a portion of it, has been known to protrude as a hernia through the abdominal ring, or under Paupart's liga- * See Medical and Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. I. p. 189. Y[ 3^2 ] ment. As the anterior part of the bladder, which has no peritoniEal covering, pro- trudes first, the hernia is not contained in a hernial sack. If the hernia is large, the bladder drags down a portion of perito- naeum, forming a true hernial sack above it, but still the bladder is on the ouiside of the sack.* SYMPTOMS. In inflammation of the bladder, a pain is felt in the perinaeum, or above the piibes, accompanied with a fulness, or a swelling there. There are frequent at- tempts to make water, which is evacuated in small quantity and with great pain; or there is,a total retention of the urine, with a strong desire to void it. The rectum is aflected from its connection with the blad- der, and is exciied to tenesmus. The sto- mach likewise takes a part in the disease, being affected with sickness and vomiting. * See Pott on J?uptures, p. 0,2,6,r 523 ] In some cases there is delirium. When pus has been formed in consequence of the inflammation, it is known by being mixed with the urine which is evacuated. When the bladder has become affected by an ulcer spreading to it from the neighbouring parts, it may be suspected by the pain and difficulty which occur in making water. When the ulcer has made further progress, and a communication has thereby taken place between the bladder and the uterus, or between the bladder and the vagina, or between the bladder and the rectum, it may be distinguished by the urine passing either through the vagina or the anus, attended with pain and irrita- tion, or by air, or by faeculent matter occa- sionally passing through the urethra When two chambers are just beginning to be formed in the bladder, very little in- convenience is probably felt, because the communication between them at this time[ 324 J IS very large. Under such circumstances it seems harcIJy possible to detect the na- ture of the disease in the living body; but when the disease has made a consider- able progress, and the communication be- tween the two chambers has become very narrow, it may be ascertained, or at least conjectured about with great probability, from the following circumstances. There will then be a considerable circumscribed tumour above the pubes in the situation of the bladder when distended, much less urine will be made than the natural quan- tity, and the tumour will not be sensibly lessened by it; or if a catheter be intro- duced, little urine will be evacuated, and the tumour above the pubes will still remain the same. But it will occasionally happen, by some particular altitude of the body, that the urine will pass from the upper chamber of tHe bladder into the lower, and from this it will be evacuated by the urethra; under such circumstances there will be a much larger quantity of[ 325 ] urine made than usual, the tumour above the pubes will disappear, and the patient will receive immediate relief, which will continue till there is another accumulation of urine. The existence of fungous excrescences from the inner surface of the bladder may probably be ascertained in some instances during life by the introduction of a cathe- ter, but in general we cannot be certain of the real nature of the disease till the parts are examined after death. When the ex- crescence is situated near the neck of the bladder, there will be more or less diffi- culty of voiding the urine. In other in- stances the patient makes water at short intervals; and often feels the desire, and strains in order to make water when there is little or none in the bladder. The urine k frequently tinged with blood. But these symptoms are common to this and other diseases, and the symptoms alone do not therefore furnish us with any certain[ 326 ] marks by which the disease may be dis- tinguished. The symptoms which belong to a poly- pus formed in the bladd er, are unknown to me ; but they are probably much the same with those which attend fungous excrescences in the bladder. The symptoms which attend calculi in the bladder are well knov/n. There is an uneasy sensation at the orifice of the ure- thra after making water, or after exercise. When the calculus is large, a dull pain is generally felt at the neck of the bladder. The attempts to make water are frequent, and it often passes drop by drop, or the stream is suddenly interrupted. The urine deposits a large proportion of a mucous sediment, which is produced by the mu- cous glands at the neck of the bladder being irritated by the calculus to an in- creased secretion. The urine is also occa-[ 5i?7 ] sionally tinged with blood, from some small blood vessels being ruptured by a rough part of the stone, and this is most apt to happen after some jolting motion. There is tenesmus, in consequence of the connection of the rectum with the bladder, and the sympathy which has been esta- blished between their respective functions. When the calculous matter is soft, re- sembling mortar, there is great pain and difficulty in making water, which is voided frequently, and in small quantity ; por- tions of this matter are occasionally dis- charged along with the urine, and gene- rally mixed wth a ropy mucus tinged with blood.[ 328 ] CHAP. XV. DISEASED APPEARANCES OF THE VESICUL^ SEMINALES. The diseased appearances of the vesicnlae seminales are but little known, because from their situation these bodies cannot be seen without a good deal of dissection; whereas many of the viscera come imme- diately into view, when the cavity in which they arc lodged is simply laid open: dis- eased appearances, however, have been occasionally observed in the vesicnlae se- minales. Vesiculce Seminales inflamed. It has never occurred to me to observe the vesiculae seminales inflamed by them- selves, although they are, doubtless, liable to this disease, like other parts of the body. I have seen them, however, involved in the natural consequences of inflammation[ 359 ] with the surrounding parts. Thus I have seen the posterior surface of the bladder, the vesiculae seminales, and a portion of the rectum adhering with unusual firmness together, in the same manner as other parts of the body do after inflammation. Some few instances, however, have occurred, in which so great an inflammation had been excited in the vesiculse seminales, as to ter- minate in suppuration.* Vesicula Seminales scrofulous. The vesiculae seminales are also affected with scrofula. I recollect to have seen one of the vesiculae seminales filled with trua scrofulous matter, the distinguishing cha* racteristic of which has been often men- tioned. Ducts of the Vesiculce Seminales terminating in a Cul-de-sac. The ducts of the vesiculae seminales open naturally by two distinct orifices into the • See Soemmerring's German Translation^ p. 194.[ 330 ] cavity of the prostate gland, but they are occasionally wanting, and the vesiculae se- minales terminate in a cul-de-sac. The vasa deferentia are at the same time with- out their natural termination, for they end in the cul-de-sac of the vesiculae seminales. This is a species of monstrosity which is very rare, but it is of great consequence, because it prevents the semen from passing into the urethra, and frustrates one of the most important functions in the animal economy. An instance of this sort of mal- formation is preserved in Dr. Hunter's col- lection. Vesiculce Seminales very small. The vesiculae seminales differ a good deal in their size in different adult bodies, and indeed it is very common for the one to be considerably smaller than the other; but I have oftener than once seen both of them so small that they must have been very little able to fulfil the intentions for which they were formed.C 331 ] One of the P'esiculce Seminales waniing. One of the vesiculae seminales is occa- sionally wanting altogether. Under such circumstances I believe that the extremity of the vas deferens upon that side is gene- rally enlarged and tortuous, becoming a sort of substitute for it. This was at least the case in the instance which I have seen of this mode of formation. The extremity of the vas deferens has at all times a struc- ture similar to that of the vesiculae semi- nales, and renders therefore this conjecture very probable. Vesiculce Seminales scirrhous. The vesiculae seminales have also been observed to be scirrhous ; but this is very uncommon.* Small stones have also been seen in the vesiculae seminales, but they have not • See Morgagni Epist. XLVf. Art. 5.[ 332, ] * See Soemmerriog's Germ. Tvanslat. p. 193. fallen under my own observation; and they are ol" very rare occurrence.* SYMPTOMS. The symptoms which attend diseases of the vesiculae seminales, have not been at- tempted to be discriminated by authors, and must, from circumstances, be very difficult to ascertain It has only occurred to myself to observe some diseased changes of them in the dead body; and I have had no opportunity of tracing the symptoms which accompany these changes during life.[ 333 ] CHAP. XVL DISEASED APPEARANCES OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. Abscess in the Prostate Gland. Th E prostate gland is not often found in a state of common inflammation. I have seen, however, an abscess in it, without any uncommon thickening and enlarge- ment of the gland, and where the pus ap- peared to be of the common.sort. This must be considered as being a common abscess, and must have been preceded by the ordinary sort of inflammation. Scrofula of the Prostate Gland. The prostate gland is sometimes scrofu- lous. I have seen, in cutting into it, pre- cisely the same white curdly matter, which is formed in a scrofulous absorbent gland. In squeezing it also, I have forced out from its ducts a scrofulous pus.C 334 ] Scirrhus of the Prostate Gland. The most common disease of the pros- tate gland is a scirrhous enlargement of it. The prostate gland, it is well known, is naturally about the size of a large chesnut, but when it is affected with scirrhus, it is often enlarged to the size of the fist. In this enlarged state when cut into it exhibits a very firm, whitish, or brown substance, with membranous septa running through it in various directions, which are often very strongly marked. This is the com- mon appearance of scirrhus in other parts of the body. When the prostate gland is a good deal enlarged, its cavity becomes deeper from the growth of its sides, and the posterior extremity forms a considera- ble projection into the cavity of the blad- der, which interrupts the passage of the urine into the urethra.* According to the * Mr. Home has lately discovered that this posterior projection is owing to the enlargement of a small sepa- rate lobule of the prostate gland^ not hitherto known.[ 335 ] degree of this projection, the urine is passed with greater or less difficulty, as well as an instrument for drawing it off. When the projection is very great, it has sometimes been found impossible to pass an instru- ment over the projection, and an artificial passage has been made through it acci- dentally, by which the urine has been eva- cuated. Under such circumstances the gland has been known not to be irritated by the violence used in making this new passage, and life has been prolonged for a greater length of time than it would have been otherwise. Still, however, the in- strument ought to be made to pass over the projection, if possible; and we should never run the risk, by injuring the gland, of bring- ing on immediately fatal consequences. Sometimes in the progress of the en- largement the prostate gland grows irre- gularly, and a winding passage is formed through it, by an alteration in the shape of its cavity. This increases the difficulty to the patient of making water, and to the[ 336 ] surgeon of introducing an instrument. When the prostate gland is enlarged, its internal surface is sonDetirnes ulcerated, but commonly it is not.* Fistulous communi- cations are sometimes formed between an enlarged prostate gland and the rectum. It is obvious too, from what has been mentioned, that in an enlarged state of the prostate gland, the difficulty of making water must be very great. This difficulty excites extraordinary and very frequent effiarts in the bladder to overcome it. Its muscular coat becomes consequently much stronger and thicker, than in the natural state. A prostate gland, therefore, is never found enlarged to any considerable degree, without the bladder having undergone this change in its muscular coat. This disease * Although I have given the name of scirrhus to this affection of the prostate gland from its hardness, and the similarity of its structure to that of scirrhus in some other glands, yet it would seem to be essentially different from it. This disease has little or no disposi- tion to run into ulceration, and it is capable of subsid- ing, which would not be the case if it was a true scir- rhus.[ S37 ] is hardly ever to be found in a young person, but is not at all uncommon at aa, advanced period of life. Calculi in the Ducts of the Prostate Gland. There is another disease of the prostate gland, which occasionally takes place, al- though it is by means so frequent as the former, viz. a formation of small calculi, which are lodged in its ducts. They are usually of the size of a small pea, and those which I have seen have been of a lighter or a darker brown colour. They have been found by Dr. Wm. Hyde Wollaston to consist of phosporated lime in the state of jpeutralization. Ducts of the Prostate Gland enlarged. The prostate gland is sometimes seen with its cavity very much widened, and its ducts enlarged. In the natural state of the gland, the orifices of its ducts can hardly be seen, but they sometimes are so much enlarged, as to be capable of admiring a Z[ 338 ] crow quill. When the ducts are so en- larged, there is always a great obstruction to the passage of the urine through the urethra, arising most commonly from stric- ture there. The urine, either passing in very small quantity, or being entirely pre- vented from passing, is accumulated in the cavity of the prostate gland and the bladder. The effect of this accumulation is, that the cavity of the prostate gland is widened, and the ducts very much en- larged. The bladder too, from making extraordinary elForts to overcome the ob- struction, has its muscular coat gradually thickened, and often to a very considerable degree. Attending, therefore, this state of the prostate gland there is a thickened bladder, and an obstructed urethra. The Prostate Gland preternaiurallij small* I have also seen the prostate gland of an extremely small size, so that it could hardly be considered as being fit for its office. It was attended with a monstrous formation[ S39 ] of the urinary bladder and some of the organs of generation, and has been particu- larly described by me in the Medical and Chirurgical Transactions.* SYMPTOMS. The symptoms which attend inflamma- tion of the prostate gland have been little taken notice of by authors. It is reasonable to think, that there will be a sense of pain more or less acute at the neck of the blad- der, with much difficulty in making water, and probably tenesmus. This disease may be distinguished from a scirrhous enlarge- ment of the prostate gland, by its quick progress, and by the pain which is felt in it. When the prostate gland is affected with scrofula, little inconvenience is probably felt in an early state of the complaint; but * See page 194. Vol. I.[ 340 ] if the gland should increase very consi- derably in its size, those symptoms must necessarily arise which depend upon its enlargement, and which are just about to be mentioned. When the prostate gland becomes en- larged from scirrhus, there is a difficulty in voiding the urine, and a small quantity only is discharged at a time, so that the bladder is kept always nearly full. There is sometimes a total inability to evacuate the urine. In some cases the faeces are passed with difficulty, and when the operation is over, there is still a feeling of something more to be discharged. The straining which attends the evacuation of the urine and the fasces not unfrequently forces out mucus, which had been secreted by the gland. A bougie or catheter is either passed into the bladder with difficulty, or on some occasions is not capable of being passed at all.[ S4l ] Calculi occur so rarely in the prostate gland, that their symptoms have been little taken notice of by authors. When the cal- culi are very small, so as to be confined en- tirely within the ducts of the prostate gland, it is probable that little inconvenience is produced by them. When they are larger, and form a projection into the cavity of the prostate gland, there must necessarily be difficulty in voiding the urine, and there* will be the same feeling when a sound or catheter is attempted to be passed into the bladder, as if an urinary calculus had got fixed or impacted in the neck of the bladder.[ 342 ] CHAPTER XVII. DISEASED APPEARANCES OP THE URETHRA. Jbs cesses. Abscesses are occasionally formed in the membranous part of the urethra. These -may arise from an inflammation, produced by some latent cause, as abscesses are form- ed in any other part of the body; but they happen most frequently from an obstruc- tion to the passage of urine through the urethra. This obstruction is produced ge- nerally by a stricture in some part of this canal, and most frequently it is at or near the bulb of the corpus spongiosum urethrae. The urine being forced by the efforts of the bladder behind the stricture, irritates that part, producing inflammation and sup- puration ; the abscess breaks externally, and the urine is evacuated by this opening. While it remains in the state of an abscess,[ 343 ] it is not at all different from any common abscess which may communicate with the bladder. Fistulce, While the obstruction in, the urethra continues, the opening made by the break- ing of the abscess is not disposed to heal up, but a fistulous orifice is gradually form- ed. This is surrounded with parts some- what thickened and hard, as fistulas are generally. The most common situation for these fistulous openings is behind the scrotum, because the most common situa- tion of the stricture is at or near the bulb of the corpus spongiosum urethras. Not uncommonly there are more than one of these openings, leading to short canals which run in different directions. Slone in the Cavity of the membranous Part of the Urethra. The cavity of the membranous part of the urethra I have seen distended into a[ 344 ] bag large enough to contain a hen's egg. This bag was occasioned by a huge stone having lodged there. The stone had pro- bably been driven into the cavity of the membranous part of the urethra, by the stream of urine from the bladder, but was too large to pass by the same means th rough the whole length of the urethra; it there- fore stuck in that situation, and was gra- dually increased to the size which we have described, by the contact of the urine, simi- lar to the growth of a stone in the pelvis of the ureters. Cowpers Glands seldom observed la be diseased. I do not recollect to have seen Cowper s glands diseased, which are situated near this part of the urethra. They are doubt- less liable to changes from disease, like other parts of the body; but they are small, and difficult of access, so that they have very seldom become an object of exami- nation.C 545 ] MoFCTasni mentions one of ihem bein^ converted into a ligamentous substance;* and the excretory duct of one in another instance being obliterated.-f Inner Membrane of the Urethra inflamed. The inner membrane of the urethra is very liable to be inflamed, particularly at its anterior extremity, and the inflamma- tion occasionally spreads over the whole extent of the canal. This exhibits no ap- pearance different from the inflammation of membranes lining secretory canals which open exteraally. The membrane is much more crowded with small blood vessels than in a natural state, and there is an in- creased secretion of the glands which open upon it. The inflammation is often not con- fined to the inner membrane of the urethra, but spreads into the substance of the cor- pus spongiosum, affecting both its cellular structure and its glands. Under these cir- * See Morgagni, Epist. XLIV. Art. S. t See Morgagni, Epist. XLIV. Art. 12.[ 346 ] cumstances, the corpus spongiosum is en- larged and harder from the extravasation of the coagulable lymph into its cells, and is more vascular than in a natural state. The glands being increased in size from the inflammation, become sensible to the touch, like very small rounded tubercles. Ulcers in the Urethra. Ulcers are also seen occasionally in lay- ing open the urethra, but these are not fre- quent. This canal when inflamed has little disposition to ulcerate, as happens also to some other canals in the body, as for ex- ample the trachea. Stricture. The most ordinary diseased appearance of the urethra is stricture. This consists in a part of the canal being narrowed, or per- haps altogether obliterated. It may take place in any part of the canal, but it is most frequent at or near the bulb of the cor- pus spongiosum urethiae. This stricture[ 547 ] Sometimes consists simply of an approxima-' tion of the opposite sides of the canal, soi as to form a line of obstruction; at other times, the canal is narrowed for some length. The inner membrane at the stric- ture, sometimes exhibits the natural ap- pearance; sometimes it is a little thickened,> and occasionally its surface is abraded or ulcerated. These two last effects are generally produced by bougies; and some-j times false passages have been made into the corpus spongiosum urethrae in conse- quence of employing too much violence in the use of this instrument. There is often more than one stricture in the same urethra. It sometimes happens too that the stricture is more on one side of the canal than the other, so that the passage there is crooked. Caruncle. A small fleshy excresence sometimes grows in the urethra. This is called a ca- runcle, and used formerly to be considered as the most common cause of obstruction in this canal J but since dissections of deadC 348 ] bodies have become more frequent, it ha* been found in reality to be very rare. Enlargement of the mucous Glands of the Urethra. Not unfrequently one of the small mu- cous glands of the urethra becomes enlarged and hard from inflammation, making a tumour of the size of a pea, or bigger, which projects towards the canal of the urethra, and narrows its diameter. This is usually the consequence of gonorrhoea, but it may arise from inflammation brought on by the improper use of bougies, or in any other way. A layer of earthy Matter in the Urethra. I have known one instance of a thin layer of earthy matter extending from the bladder through the whole length of the urethra. Preternatural Orifice of the Urethra. The urethra sometimes does not open at the projecting extremity of the glans penis,[ S49 ] but under it, where the fraenum is natu- rally situated; and in such cases there is no fraenum. It consists of a small rounded opening, much less than the natural ter- mination in the glans. I have known an instance in this structure of parts, of a canal being formed besides the urethra, about two inches in length, which termi- nated at one extremity in a cul-de-sac, and at the other opened on the glans, where the urethra commonly does. How far this variety may be frequent, I cannot pretend to determine. This deviation in the struc- ture is not to be considered as a disease, but simply as a malformation of parts, and is not attended with any material inconve- nience, as far as I know. There are some other diseased appear- ances of the penis, such as ulcers, phy- moses, paraphymoses, kc. These are ex- ternal, are very well known, and do not properly fall within my plan; I shall therefore omit them entirely.[ 350 ] SYMPTOMS. The symptoms which attend the inflam- mation of the inner membrane of the urethra, are too well known to require being mentioned. In stricture of the urethra there is diffi- culty in making water, which is greater or less, according to the degree of the stric- ture; the stream of urine is small, some- times forked, sometimes scattered, and sometimes the urine passes away in drops only. There is frequently also an increased secretion of mucus from the urethra, re- sembling a gleet. Various other symp- toms may take place, in consequence of the parts in the neighbourhood of the stric- ture being affected ; and even the consti- tution is sometimes much disturbed by this local irritation, exhibiting very different symptoms in different individuals.' [ 351 ] When the urethra is obstructed by the growth of a caruncle, no symptoms are known by which it may be distinguished from a case of common stricture.C 5S2 ] CHAP. XVIII. DISEASED APPEARANCES OF THE TESTICLES, AND THE SPERMATIC CHORD. Hydrocele, Hydrocele, or a collection of water in the tunica vaginalis testis, is a verv com- mon disease, and is confined to no particu- lar period of life. It is not unfrequent in very young children, and in them most commonly disappears without any chirur- gical treatment. The bag in which the water is accumulated is of a pyramidical shape, and approaches more or less towards the ring of the abdominal muscle, accord- ing to the degree of accumulation. It sometimes extends almost to the ring itself. The bag is also more or less thick in dif- ferent cases: it is often scarcely thicker than the tunica vaginalis in its natural state; sometimes, when the accumulation[ 353 ] is large, it is three or four times as thick, and is obviously laminated. In such cases too the testicle is a good deal compressed, and has sometimes been known to waste in consequence of this compression. The fluid which is accumulated is of a yellow- ish, a greenish, or brown colour, and re- sembles in its properties the serum of the blood. This disease, in persons who are advanced in life, is frequently combined with a scirrhous state of the testicle, which will be afterwards particularly described. In almost all cases of hydrocele the water is contained in one bag, but in a few in- stances it has been known to be contained in several cysts. Of this I recollect a re- markable example which occurred a few years ago. This variety is probably pro- duced by repeated partial inflammations on the inner surface of the tunica vaginalis, and occasioning adhesions, which put on the appearance of cysts.[ 354 ] Hydatids. Hydatids have sometimes been found in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis testis, either loose or adhering; they are, I be- lieve, not very uncommon, but I have had no favourable opportunity of examining them accurately. Loose Cartilages in the Tunica Vaginalis Testis. Small cartilages are sometimes found loose in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis testis, as in some of the joints in the body, more especially the knee joint. They do not however occur in the former so fre- quently as in the latter. They must once have been attached to some part of the inner surface of the tunica vaginalis testis, 'by very small processes or peduncles, and by the motion of this tunic upon the tes- ticle they must have been separated. They afterwards continue to Iie.ioose in the ca- vity of the tunica vaginalis testis, and are,[ 355 ] I believe, attended with no inconvenience* An example of this kind has been seen by myself, and it has not unfrequently been observed by others. Adhesions, The tunica vaginalis is frequently found adhering to the surface of the testicle. The adhesion is sometimes extended over the whole surface, but frequently consists only of scattered processes of membrane. The adhesions are sometimes fine, but some- times they have considerable thickness, and connect the tunica vaginalis to the body of the testicle more or less closely in different cases. They are produced by some previous inflammation in the tunica vaginalis testis, as adhesions are formed after inflammation in the cavity of the chest, or the belly. Testicle in/lamed. The substaq/ce of the testicle itself is very frequently inflamed, but this dise^ise is[ S56 ] commonly removed by art, and hardly ever becomes an object of examination after death. It exhibits, however, precisely the same appearances as the inflammation of the substance of other parts, and therefore does not require to be particularly de- scribed. When the testicle is inflamed, the vas deferens sometimes partakes of the in- flammation, its coats becoming considera- bly thickened, and in some instances the veins of the spermatic chord becoming varicose.* After the inflammation of the testicle has subsided, it is not unusual for a hardness and fullness of the epididymis to remain for a considerable length of time, or even through life. This depends on the matter which had been extravasated dur- ing the inflammation not being afterwards entirely absorbed. Abscesses of the Testicle. Abscesses too are occasionally formed in the testicles, from the progress of common * See Mr. Hunter on the Venereal Disease, p, 54.[ 357 ] inflammation, and are attended with the same circumstances as abscesses in other parts. Testicle scrofulous. The testicle is sometimes completely changed from its natural structure, and converted into a truly scrofulous mass. Upon such occasions it is generally enlarg- ed, and when cut into shews a white, or yellowish-white, curdly substance, which is sometimes more or less mixed with pus. Testicle enlarged and pulpy. The testicle is sometimes much enlarged, and converted into an uniform, pulpy mat- ter, in which its natural structure is en- tirely lost. This sort of change has been sometimes mistaken for scirrhus, but it is very different from what is called scirrhus in other parts of the body, and what is also found in the testicle itself.* * This pulpy testicle seems lo be of the same nature with the fungus hgcmatodes of the testicle, which has[ 358 ] Scirrhus and Cancer of the Testicle. The testicle is also found much enlarged, and chanjred into a hard mass, which is generally more or less intersected by mem- brane. In this there is no vestige of the natural structure, but cells are frequently observable in it containing a sanious fluid, and sometimes there is a mixture of car- tilage. This state of the testicle I consi- der as the true scirrhus, and according to the progress of the disease, the epidydi- mis and the spermatic chord are more or less, or not at all, affected. This disease not unfrequently advances to form a foul deep ulcer with thickened edges, or throws out a fungus, and then it is called the true cancer of the testicle. Testicle cartilaginous. The testicle I have seen much enlarged late]}' been so well (kscribed by an ingenious young surgeon, Mr. James Wardrop. See his Treatise on the Fungus Hsemalodes, p. 125.[ 359 ] and changed into a mass of cartilage. There was also, in the case to which I allude, an ulcer near the centre of the cartilage, and in some places an imperfect appearance of cysts or cells. The cartilage did not seem different in any essential pro- perty from common cartilage, but was a little softer. This I consider as depending upon the same general diseased process with the scirrhus just described, for some- times both structures are blended together in the same testicle. Testicle bony. The testicle is sometimes converted into bone, A few instances only of this disease have fallen under my observation, and in them the bony process had not extended over the whole substance of the testicle, but had affected it partially. A Cyst adhering to a Testicle containing a Vena Medinensis. I have seen a testicle with a small firm[ 360 ] cyst adhering to it, which contained a worm of that sort called vena medinensis. This is a worm of considerable length, with a smooth surface, and an uniform appearance; at the posterior extremity it terminates in a slender hook-like process, and at the ante- rior, there is a rounded opening or mouth. This testicle had probably belonged to a man who had visited some of those climates in which the vena medinensis is found, and ■who had brought it over with him to this country. The Epididymis ending in a Cul-de-sac. The testicles have sometimes this sort of mal-formation, that the epididymis does not terminate in a vas deferens, but in a cul-de-sac. In these cases it is evident that the semen cannot be evacuated by the urethra, and that ihe person must therefore ""be incapable of procreation, hi Dr. Hun- ter's collection, a preparation of this sort is preserved; and Mr. Hunter has given a[ 361 ] representation of it in his book upon the Animal Economy.* Sliiclure of ihe Vas Deferens, I have also seen a portion of the canal of the vas deferens obliterated by stricture. This had not been an original fault, but was the effect of a diseased process, similar, probably, to that which produces stricture in the urethra, and must have prevented the semen of one of the testicles from reach- ing the cavity of the prostate gland. Testicles very small, and wasted. The testicles are sometimes exceedingly small m their size. I have known one case, in a person of middle age, where each of them was not larger than the extremity of the Hngerof an adult. This, as appeared from its history, arose from a fault in the original formation, and was attended with * See page 47, plate V.[ 362 J a total want of the natural propensities. It is much more common for a testicle to waste either spontaneously, or in conse- quence of a previous inflammation, or compression, so as gradually to disappear entirely.* When this takes place in one testicle only, the natural powers are pre- served ; but when it takes place in both, they must be altogether lost. Sometimes one testicle, and sometimes both, remain in the cavity of the abdomen through life, so that a person appears to have only one testicle, or to be without them altogether. The testicle or testicles I believe, are in these cases of a small size; and Mr. Hunter suspects that they are by no means so perfect as v/hen they descend into the scrotum.-f * See Hunter on the Venereal Disease, p. 209. + See Mr. Hunter's Observations on certain Parts of the Animal Economy, p. 18..[ 363 ] Diseased Appearafices of the Spermatic Chord. Spermatic Chord scirrhous. The spermatic chord is also liable to dis- eased alterations of structure: one of the most common is that of its becoming scir- rhous. This I believe to be very rarely, if at all, an original disease of the chord, but always, or almost always, spreads to it from the testicle. In the early state of a scirrhous testicle the spermatic chord is perfectly sound; but when the disease has existed for a considerable time, and does not remain stationary, the chord becomes at length affected. Under such circum- stances it is changed into a hard mass, ex- hibiting the same appearance of structure as the testicle itself. During the last stage the disease advances to the loins, so as to affect the absorbent glands there.[ ^64 ] Vtins of the Spermatic Chord varicose. A disease of the spermatic chord which is not uncommon, is an enlargement of its veins. The veins of the spermatic chord are numerous, and support a very long co- lumn of blood. This last circumstance, added to some impediments which occa- sionally take place to the return of the blood, renders the veins frequently en- larged. This enlargement varies very much in different cases, arising from the degree and the continuance of the impedi- ment. When the enlargement of the veins is very considerable, they also become va- ricose, and the spermatic chord is changed into a bulky mass, soft to the feeling, and capable of being readily diminished upon pressure. In this state of the spermatic chord, the testicle is sometimes wasted. Water accumulated in the Cellular Membrane of the Spermatic Chord, Water has sometimes been known to be[ 365 ] accumulated in the cells of the cellular membrane, which envelopes the vessels of the spermatic chord. The cellular mem- brane of this part of the body is in consi- derable quantity, and when water is accu- mulated in its cells, a large swelling is formed in the situation of the spermatic chord, which is readily diminished upon pressure. When pressure is used, the swelling is diminished, not only by a part of the water being forced into the cells of the chord within the abdominal ring, but also by its being forced into the cellular membrane under the skin of the lower part of the belly. Many pints have been known to be accumulated in these cells. It has never occurred to myself to see this disease, and therefore I have had no opportunity of examining the nature of the fluid; but I presume it is of the same sort with what is usually found in anasarca.[ 366 ] A Sack conlaining fVater formed in the SpermaLic Chord. A sack has also been known to be formed in the spermatic chord, consisting of a firm white membrane, and containing a fluid, which most probably is of a serous nature. Both of these cases have been particularly described by Mr. Pott, in his treatise upon Hydrocele.* SYMPTOMS. The existence of hydrocele in the living body, may be determined by the shape of the tumour, which is in some degree pyra- midal, by the resistance which it gives upon pressure, by the want of pain in it, and by the health being not affected by it. Where the tunica vaginalis is thin, and the swelling * For the first case, see Pott on Hydrocele, p. 39. For the second, see Pott on Hydrocele, p. 57.[ 367 ] is placed between the eye and a lighted candle, it will appear transparent. Where the tunica vaginalis, however, is thick, the transparency will be lost, and the tumour to the feeling will be harder, and less com- pressible. But still it will not have the same degree of hjirdness a« a scirrhous testicle, and will want some, other chai:a.€- teristic marks which belong^ tp. th.q lattjer ease. The formation of hydatids an the tunica vaginalis testis is attended with symptoms which correspond very much with those of hydrocele.; and this case can only be dis- tinctly known by laying open the sack. An inflamed testicle may be distinguish- ed from a scirrhous one in the living bodv, by a slight attention to the appearances, and to the history of the case. The pro- gress of the disease, in an inflamed testicle, is commonly rapid, and ih^e skin pf the[ 368 ] scrotum immediately covering it has usu- ally a blush of inflammation; but in a scir- rhous testicle, the progress of the disease is slow, and the skin of the scrotum retains its natural colour, unless it be really af- fected by the disease. The surface of the tumour in an inflamed testicle is uniform and smooth, but in a scirrhous testicle is often irregular. When a testicle is scrofulous or pulpy, it may be distinguished from a scirrhous testicle by its greater softness, by the little pain which is felt in it, and by the absence of some symptoms which generally attend scirrhus of this gland, and which are just about to be mentioned. A scirrhous testicle may be ascertained in the living body, by its great hardness, and by the pain that is often felt in it, Avhich darts along the spermatic chord to[ 569 ] the loins. Its progress is commoDly slow? the spermatic chord becomes ultimately diseased, and the'general health at length much impaired. When it throws out a fungus, or forms an ill-conditioned ulcer, these become additional external marks of the nature of the disease. The encysted tumour of the sperma!t?c chord, containing water, resembles, in i6m6 appearances, liydrocele. It may, however, be distinguished from it by the testicle being felt separate and entire under the tumour, which in hydrocele is never the ease. Bb[ 370 ] CHAP. XIX. DISEASED APPEARANCES IN THE FEMALE ORGANS. Inflamm&lion of the Uterus. W HEN the uterus becomes inflamed, it takes place almost always under the same circumstances, viz. very soon after partu- rition. The inflammation is sometimes confined to the uterus itself, or its appen- dages, but the peritonaeum in the neigh- bourhood is most commonly affected, and frequently over its whole extent. The uterus when inflamed, exhibits the same appearances as the inflammation of the substance of other parts, and these are principally observable in its body or fun- dus. The inflammation is frequently found to creep along the appendages of the ute- rus, especially the Fallopian tubes and[371] ovaria. It often advances to suppuration, and the pus is generally found in the large veins of the womb.* When the perito- naeum is also affected by inflammation, it exhibits the same appearances which we' formerly described, when treating of the inflammation of this membrane; but the extravasated fluid, and the coagulable lymph, are frequently in a large propor- tion to the degree of the inflammation.-f- Malignant Ulcer of the Uterus, It is not unusual for an ulcer to be formed in the uterus, of a very malignant nature. This is most apt to happen in women at the middle period of life, or at a more ad- . vanced age; but it sometimes happens in women who may still be said to be young.' The ulcer generally begins in the cervix uteri, and the uterus is at the same time * See Dr. Clarke's Essays, p. 69 and 70. f Dr. Clarke, who has examined a great many wo- men that have died after parturition with inflammation of the peritonaeum, has observed this particularly. See Dr. Clarke's Essays, p. Ia6.C ] somewhat harder and larger than in the natural state. It does not, however, grow to any considerable size. The ulcer spreads from the cervix to the fundus uteri, and it is not unusual to see the greater part of the fundus destroyed by it, the rest being changed into a tattered ulcerated mass. The ulceration is not always confined in its boundaries to the uterus, but sometimes spreads into the neighbouring parts, as the vagina, the bladder, and the rectum, mak- ing communications between them, and producing dreadful havock. This disease of the uterus is generally considered as cancer, but it differs in some of its appear- • ances from what is acknowledged to be the true cancer in other parts of the body.* » * This diseased change I formerly confounded with the scirrhous enlargement of the uterus, considering them as varieties of the. same disease, and therefore blending their description together ; but in consequence of the accurate observations of Dr. Adams, in his Essay upon Morbid Poisons, I have thought it proper to sepa- rate them. I[ 373 ] Scirrhous Enlargement of the Uterus- It sometimes happens, although not very often, that the uterus enlarges in its size, and becomes much harder than in its na- tural state. This change corresponds very much to that of scirrhus in other parts of the body, and commonly extends over the whole of the uterus. It is difficult to say to what size the uterus may at length arrive, in the progress of this disease, but I have seen it, in one case, as large as the gravid uterus at the sixth month. If a transverse section be made of the uterus in this state, it is found to consist of a hard substance, intersected by pretty thick membranes. Ulceration is sometimes discovered upon its inner surface, but I believe it is generally wanting. Tubercles are occasionally form- ed in this state of the uterus, being, as it were, imbedded in its substance, and they have a structure very much resembling that of the uterus itself"[ 3U ] Tubercles of the Uterus. Hard tubercles often grow from the ute- rus, which are either imbedded in its sub- stance, or arise from its outer surface. They vary a good deal in their size, viz. from that of a hazel nut to more than the size of the fist. They are irregular in their shape, but are commonly rounded, and are often in some degree knotted. These when cut into, exhibit a hard whitish substance, intersected by membranous septa, which are commonly very thick and strong. They seem to have little disposition to ulceration, for they are very rarely found affected by this jirocess. The uterus in this state of disease, is generally of the natural size, and possesses the healthy structure, but occa- sionally it is much enlarged. A mass of the same kind is sometimes found in the cavity of the uterus, and often grows to a very large size. I have seen it a good deal larger than a child's head at birth. This mass when cut into, exhibits[ 575 3 precisely the same appearances as those we have so lately described. It is remarkable, that such masses within the cavity of the uterus commonly do not adhere in any part closely to it, but are connected with it loosely, by the intervention of cellular mem- brane, and small blood vessels, so that they can be very easily peeled off, without in- juring the structure of the uterus. The uterus itself is more or less enlarged ac- cording to the bulk of the mass it contains, but it appears to be perfectly healthy in its structure. Polypus, Polypus forms a very common disease of the uterus, and may take place almost at any period of life; it is more frequent, however, at middle or advanced age, and rarely happens in persons who are young. By a polypus is meant a diseased mass, which adheres to some part of the cavity of the uterus, by a sort of neck or narrower portion. It is of different kinds: the mostE ] common kinid i§ hard, and consists of a sub- stance, divided by ihick membranous septa. When cut into, it shews precisely the same structure as the tubercle of the uterus just described; so that a person looking upon a section of the one and the other, out of the body, could not at all distinguish be^ tween them. This sort of polypus varies very much in its size, some being no^ larger than a walnut, and others being larger than a child's head. It adheres by a narrower portion or neck, which varies a great deal in its size, and in its proportipri to the body of the polypus. The largest polypus I ever saw was suspended by a neck hardly thicker than the thumb ; and I have seen a polypus, less than the fist, ad- hering by a neck fully as thick as the wrist. The place of adhesion also differs consi- derably. It is most commonly at the fun- dus uteri, but it may take place in any other part; and I l^ave seen a small polypus adhering just on the inner part of the lip of the OS uteri. When a polypus is of any[ 377 ] considerable size, there is generally one only; but I have occasionally seen on the inside of the uterus, two or three small po- lypi, and in some instances, several polypi have been known to grow from the uterus in succession. Another sort of polypus takes place in the uterus, which consists of an irregular, bloody substance, with a number of tattered processes hanging from it. This when cut into exhibits two diflPerent appearances of structure: the one appearance is that pf a spongy mass, consisting of laminae, with srnall interstitial cavities between then); the other is th^t pf a very loose texture, copsisting of large irregular cavities. It is very obvious, that in proportion as a poly- pus grows, the cavity of the uterus must be enlarged, and the same change must take place in the vagina, when a polypus protrudes from the uterus ipto this can^I. Tht Inversion of the Uterus. The ipversion of the uterus occasionally[ 378 ] takes place, and principally from two causes, viz. from the weight of a polypus, or from violent pulling, in attempts to remove the placenta. When the inversion is incomplete, the fundus uteri forms a tumour within its cavity; there is at the same time an appearance of fissure upon the outside of the uterus, where the fundus usually is; and the Fallopian tubes, the round ligaments, and the ligaments of the ovaria, are drawn inwards at both edges of the fissure. The uterus, particularly after labour, is sometimes inverted entirely, the inner surface being exposed, and the fundus uteri forming a large tumour within the vagina, and in some cases even on the outside of the labia. Prolapsus Uteri. The uterus sometimes leaves its natural situation and falls downwards, so as either to get to the external parts, or out of the body entirely. This is most apt to happen when women have a large pelvis, and[ 379 ] where the soft parts have been very much relaxed by repeated and severe labours. This disease is called prolapsus uteri, and will be explained more particularly when we come to treat of the diseases of the vagina. It is much more frequent than the other disease called the inversio uteri. Stricture in the Cavity of the Uterus, A stricture is, sometimes formed within the cavity of the uterus, so that its cavity at one part is obliterated entirely. This I believe almost always to take place at one part, viz. where the cavity of the fundus uteri terminates, and that of the cervix be- gins, for in this place the cavity of the uterus is narrowest. As the sides of the cavity round this place lie very near each other, and form naturally a small aperture, it is probable that some slight inflamma- tion may unite the parts together, and shut up the aperture; or the parts may gradually approach each other without this cause, as in strictures of the urethra.The Os Uteri contracted, and closed up. The OS uteri has been found to be so con- tracted, as to have its passage in a great measure obliterated;* and it has even been known to be closed up, by the growth of an adventitious membrane.-f Uterus bony. The substance of the utextis is sometimes more or less converted into bone. This arises from a particular morbid action of its blood vessels, by which they secrete from the blood bony matter, and it is a very rare disease. The Uterus changed into an earthy Sub- stance. The uterus has also been known to be converted into an earthy substance. J It is probably of the same kind with the earth * Vid. Morgagni, Epist. LXVII. Art. 11. t Vid. Morgagni, Epist. XLVI. Art. 17. X Vid. Lieutaud, Torn. I, p. 323.* Vid. Lieutaud, Tom. I. p. 339. t ]' of bones; and this disease probably differs only from the former, in there being a less proportion of animal gluten, to combine the earthy particles together. A bonij Mass in the Cavity of the Uterus, In the cavity of the uterus a bony mass is sometimes fbund. When this is the case, I suspect that the hard fleshy tubercle with" in the cavity of the uterus, such as we' lately described, has been converted into bone. This at least had taken place in the only instance which I have known of this disease (for a great part of the tubercle still remained unchanged) and I think it very probable, that such a change most fre- quently happens, where these bony tuinours are found. Stones in the Cavity of the Uterus. Stones* have sometimes been found in Xhe cavity of the uterus. These are de- scribed by authors as varying in their ap-[ 385 ] pearance, some being of a dark, and others of a light colour. About their nature they are silent, and I can say nothing of it from my own knowledge, as it has never occur- red to me to see an instance of this disease. Such concretions are probably formed from matter thrown out by the small arteries which open upon the internal surface of the uterus, and are in some degree analo- gous to the concretions which are formed in some glands of the body. Dead Foetus in the Uterus converted into an earthy Mass. It has also been known to happen, that a dead foetus has remained for a long time in the cavity of the uterus, and has there been gradually changed into an earthy mass preserving the shape of the child.* Water in the Cavity of the Uterus. Water has sometimes been known to be accumulated in the cavity of the uterus in * See Cheselden's Anatomy of the Bones, plate[ 383 ] very large quantity.* In some cases fifty, sixty, or even a hundred pints, have been said to be accumulated* This water is sometimes bloody in its appearance, and sometimes of a yellowish colour. Of its nature I cannot speak particularly, as I hav» never seen an instance of this disease. I think it probable, however, that the water . accumulated in the cavity of the uterus, resembles in its properties the serum; and that it is poured out by the small curling arteries of the uterus. In cases where water is really accumulated in the cavity of the uterus, one must suppose a stricture of the cervix, otherwise the water would escape gradually into the vagina, as it is formed. I am disposed to believe, however, that where water has been said to be accumulated in the cavity of the uterus, it has frequently been really in one or more large hydatids formed in that cavity."f ♦ Vid. Lieutaud, Tom. I. p. 319, p- 333. f Dr. Denman has had an opportunity of observing a case, where water was accumulated in one large hy- datid of the uterus.C 3S4 ] * Vid. Lieutaud, Tom. I. p. 335. Hydatids in the Uterus* Large masses of hydatids* have also been found in the cavity of the uterus. Whether these be commonly of the same kind with what occasionally grow in the placenta, or like those in the other parts of the body, I cannot determine, as it has not occurred to ine to see an example of this disease. The hydatids of the placenta are a good deal different from those of the liver, kidneys, and some other parts of the body. They consist of vesicles of a round or oval shape, with a narrow stalk to each, by which they adhere on the outside of one another. Some of these hydatids are as large as a walnut, and others as small as a pin's head; A large hydatid .has generally a number of small hydatids adhering to it by narroW processes. Gf their real nature nothing is known, but they are probably animals of a very simple structure. In the same quadru- ped different species of hydatids will some-.C 3Si ] times occur, and therefore the same thing ittay take place in the humari subject. I be- lieve that the hydatids said to be found iri the uterus, have not uncommonly beert only hydatids of the placenta, which bad • been retained there. Rapture of the Uterus. These are the various diseased appear- ances which are well ascertained to take place in the uterus. I have to add, that the womb is not unfrequently ruptured, which is rather to be considered as an accident than a disease. This, perhaps, never takes place but in the pregnant uterus, and at the time of delivery. It may arise either from too violent an action of the muscular fibres of the uterus upon the child, or upon the hand of an accoucheur, who may for some reason or other have introduced it into its cavity. The ruptures which I have seen have been commonly in the side of the womb, and of considerable extent. The pe- ritoneum covering the womb sometimes C c[ 386 ] remains whole, and there is a large mass of black coagulated blood lying between it and the uterus, where the rupture has taken place. This black appearance is occasion- ally mistaken for mortification. Two Uteri. It has sometimes happened, although very rarely, that two uteri have been form- ed in the same person instead of one. In this case there is but one ovarium and one Fallopian tube to each. The vagina is at the same time divided by a septum into two canals, each of which conducts to its proper uterus. In the case which is de- scribed in the Philosophical Transactions,* a communication was formed at one part through the septum; but how far this gene- rally takes place in such a kind of mon- strosity I cannot determine. JVatural Vamtles in the Uterus. The uterus varies a good deal in its size * See, Philosoph. Transact. Vol. LXIV. p. 474.[ 387 ] in different persons, in some being fully twice as large as it is in others. It differs also soniwehat in the thickness of its sub- stance. There is some difference too in its situation, being often placed nearer one side of the pelvis than the other. All of these are to be considered as varieties in the na- tural formation, and not as disease. SYMPTOMS. In inflammation of the uterus, there is a sense of pain and tension in the hypogastric region, and the pain is increased upon pres- sure there, or upon touching the os uteri. The stomach is affected with vomiting, and the bowels are sometimes costive, and some- times disposed to looseness. The whole constitution is roused into action, exhibit- ing those symptoms which have been called fever, and the pulse has commonly a great degree of frequency. When the perito-[ 388 ] iiaeum is inflamed over the general surface of the abdomen, or to a considerable extent, there is a general swelling of that cavity, with pain and extreme tenderness upon pressure, and the feverish symptoms are increased. In the malignant ulcer of the uterus there is a sense of pain in the hypogastric region, which is often very violent. At the same time there is commonly felt a dull pain round the hips and down the thighs. Mucus, pus, and blood are frequently dis- charged by the vagina, and the quantity of blood is sometimes very large. The pulse at the beginning of this dreadful dis- ease is natural, and the general health is but little impaired, but when it is far advanced, the pulse becomes quick, the countenance sallow, and the body emaciated. If in the progress of the disease a com- munication should be formed between the vagina and the urinary bladder, the urine[ 389 ] will then pass ofF by the vagina. Some of the glands of the groin, in advanced stages of the disease, often become hard and en- larged in their size. In the scirrhous enlargement of the ute- rus, there are few symptoms to characterize it till the disease has made considerable progress. There is pain in the hypogastric region and round the hips, which is more or less acute in different cases; but this is common to it with several other diseases. When the disease, however, is a good deal advanced, it may be ascertained by an ex- amination by the vagina. The os tincae will then feel enlarged and hard, and there will be an unusual sense of weight against the finger from the increased size of the uterus. A tumour may at the same time be dis- tinctly felt above the pubes. This disease is commonly attended with mucous dis'- charges from the vagina, and profuse dis- charges of blood at the monthly periods.[ 390 ] The pulse is generally natural, and the health not much impaired. When tubercles are formed in the uterus, and the uterus remains of its natural size, ^there are, 1 believe, no symptoms M'hich particularly characterize this disease. But when the uterus is at the same time much .enlarged, the symptoms are the same with those which belong to the common state of a scirrhous uterus, as above described. The symptoms which attend a polypus of the uterus, are mucous and occasional bloody discharges by the vagina, with fre- quent pains round the hips. When it has made considerable progress in its growth, it may be ascertained by an examination by the vagina. Even without this examina- tion, it may be distinguished from an ulcer of the uterus, by attention to the history of its progress, and by the general health being[ 391 ] much less affected in this case than when an ulcer has been formed. The glands of the groin are, I believe, never affected from a polypus, but are often tainted by absorp- tion, in advanced stages of the ulcerated uterus. When there is a part of the fundus uteri inverted, forming a tumour in the cavity of the uterus, there are no symptoms by which it can be sufficieutly distinguished in the living bod v. It is attended with a profuse haemorrhage, and if the patient should sur- vive, the menstrual flux is in very large quantity, together with very copious mu- cous discharges in the intermediate times. When the inversion is complete, it can be ascertained by an examination of the tu- mour, but is not distinguished by any pe- culiar symptoms. The attempts which have 6een made to return the uterus to its na- tural situation, have almost always been unsuccessful.[ S92 ] Prolaps,iis uteri can always be ascertained by an examination, and the exact circum- stances attending this case cannot be ascer- tained without it, There are no symptoms by wiiich dropsy of the uterus can be distinguished from some other conditions of this organ, and therefore it is only known in consequence of the evacuation of the water, by the vagma. There will of course be more or less en- largement of the uterus, and fullness of the hypogastric region, in proportion to the ac- cumulation of the water, and this will sub- side when the water is evacuated. Th^ existence of hydatids in the uterus is not distinguished by anj^ characteristic symptoms, and is only known in conse- quence of their expulsion, by the contrac- tile power of this viscus. This generally[ 393 ] lakes place, and is attended with pains re- sembling very much the pains of labour. A rupture of the uterus can only be fully ascertained by an examination. It is attended with pain, with a sense of some- thing having given way in the belly, and with almost an immediate vomiting of a chocolate-coloured matter. The uterus gives up its natural efforts for the expul- sion of the child) so that the labour pains cease; the child is retracted, and generally escapes, either wholly, or in part, into the cavity of the abdomen.[ 394 ] CHAPTER XX. DISEASED APPEARANCES OF THE OVARIA. Inflammation of the Peritoneal Covering of the Ovaria. The portion of the peritonaeum which covers the ovaria I believe is seldom in- flamed, unless where the inflammation has spread to it from the uterus, or where it has attacked this membrane generally. It is not unusual, however, for it to be in- flamed under both of these circumstances; and it shews the same appearances as the inflammation of the peritonaeum covering any other part. Adhesions too are fre- quently found, joining the ovaria to the neighbouring parts, which had been the consequence of such an inflammation. Inflammation of the Substance of the Ovaria. Where the uterus has been inflamed to a considerable degree, as after parturition,[ 395 ] the substance of the ovaria has also been occasionally attacked by the inflammation spreading to it. The ovaria are then en- larged, are harder than in a natural state, and are highly vascular; very commonly pus is found to have been formed. Scirrhus of the Ovaria. Scirrhus is a disease which sometimes attacks the ovaria, although seldom in com- parison of its attacking the uterus. Under such circumstances the ovaria become en- larged, and are converted into a whitish hard mass, which is more or less inter- sected with membranous septa. These scirrhous masses have sometimes a dispo- sition to be converted into bone; and in this way most frequently, I believe, the ovaria become bony. The bony substance into which they are converted has sometimes a greater admixture of earth than the natural bones of the body.[ 396 ] Ovaria enlarged and changed into a pulpy Substance. The ovaria are sometimes very much en- larged, and converted into a pulpy matter of a smooth uniform texture. Cells are often formed in a part of this substance, which contain a fluid. Ovaria scrofulous. The ovaria are sometimes changed into a true scrofulous matter, intermixed with cells. Dropsy of the Ovaria, The most common disease of the ovaria is dropsy. The whole substance of an ovarium is sometimes converted into a capsule containing a fluid. The-capsule is frequently of a large size: it consists of a white firm membrane, and contains an aqueous fluid, capable of being partly co- agulated. When the substance of the ovaria is[ 397 ] destroyed, and they become dropsical, it is very common for them to be converted into a number of cells, which communicate with each other by considerable openings, and to be prodigiously enlarged. An ovarium in this case may be so increased in size as to occupy almost the whole cavity of the abdomen. The ovaria are also sometimes converted into a congeries of cysts, which have no communication with each other. These vary a good deal in their size, some being not larger than a hazel nut, and others as large as an orange. Their coats are sometimes thin, sometimes of consider- able thickness, and consist of a compact, white, laminated membrane. They con- tain either a serous fluid, with which I have seen some slimy matter mixed, or a thick ropy fluid, or a kind of jelly. This jelly is sometimes so tough that it can be drawn out to a considerable length, and when it breaks, it passes back with a great deal of elasic force; DiSerent cysts in the same ovarium will sometimes contain difiereat[ 39S ] sorts of fluid, a circumstance which one would not expect a priori. These cysts, I believe, have been occa- sionally confounded with hydatids, to which they bear some resemblance. They are however really very diflferent They have much firmer and less pulpy coats than hydatids; they contain a different kind of fluid, and they are differently connected among themselves. Hydatids either lie un- connected with each other, or a large hy- datid incloses a number of smaller ones; or smaller hydatids adhere to the coats of those which are larger. Cysts of the ova- rium adhere to each other laterally by pretty broad surfaces; do not inclose each other; and appear to have no power ana- logous to generation as hydatids have, by which smaller cysts are formed, that are attached to those of a larger size. It ap- pears not improbable, that these cysts are formed by a gradual enlargement of the small vesicles which make a part of the natural structure of the ovaria.[ 399 ] The Ovaria changed into a fatlij Substance with Hair and Teeth. The ovaria are sometimes converted into a fatty substance, intermixed with long hair and teeth, which is surrounded by a capsule consisting of a white strong mem- brane. The hairs are most of them loose in the fatty substance, but many of them also adhere on the inside of the capsule. Teeth too are formed, but are generally incomplete, the fangs being wanting. These sometimes arise immediately from the inner membrane of the capsule, and are some- times connected with an irregular mass of bone. Such productions have been com- monly considered as very imperfect ova, in consequence of impregnation; but there is good reason to believe that they can take place without any intercourse between the sexes. I have described a case, which has been published in the Philosophical Transactions, where it was hardly possible[ 400 ] that impregnation could have happened* The girl in whonn this change of the ova- rium was found, could not f rom all appear- ances have been more than twelve or thir- teen years old; the hymen was perfect; and the uterus had not received that in- crease of bulk which is usual at puberty. The other marks of puberty were also wanting. From these circumstances I should judge the womb to have been incapable of the stimulus of impregnation. A tumour, consisting of teeth and hair, was preserved by the celebrated Ruysch* in his collection, which he says was found in a man's sto- mach. If this be true (which there seems to be no reason to doubt), it puts my conjecture beyond dispute. This produc- tion could not possibly, under such cir- cumstances, have any connexion with impregnation ; and if it occurs without it in one part of the body, there can be no good reason why it may not a!so take • Vid. Ruysch, Tom. II. Adverser. Anatomicor. Decad. tert.[ ^01 ] place without impregnation in another part. These productions are much more frequent in the ovaria than any where else, probably because the process which forms them bears some analogy to gene- ration, in which the ovaria are materially concerned. I must still therefore, what- ever objections have been made to it, retain my former opinion. These masses in the ovaria are commonly about the size of a large orange.* * I have very lately met with the same kind of fatty substance intermixed with hair, and the body of one tootii covered with enamel, in the ovarium of a young woman about eighteen years of age. In this case the uterus was rather less than its usual size in the adult when unimpregnated, and there was no membrana decidua whatever formed in its cavity. It appeared, therefore, to be undergoing no change similar to what happens when there is an ovum growing in the ova- rium or the Fallopian tube. The hymen too was perfect, the edge of the membrane being quite sound and natural, and ihe aperture in it bemg remarkably small. 1 hese circumstances do not amount to de- monstrative evidence, but still must be considered as a very strong confirmation of the truth of the opinion above stated. I have been informed by Mr. Colnian, that a dead Dd[ 402 ] A Foetus in the Ovarium. A foetus is sometimes found in the ova- rium. Tliis seldom arrives at the full size, gelding was some time ago examined, in which a cyst was found a little under the right kidney, containing a fatty matter, hair, and some teeth. This fully esta- blishes the truth of the opinion above stated. The particulars discovered by dissection are very curious, and are so clearly stated by Mr. Colman,that X shall take the liberty of subjoining the account of them in his own words: " A bay gelding, seven years old, belonging to the Royal Horse Artillery at Woolwich, was attacked with ^ contagioys and incurable disease, (viz. glanders) in ^oLspquence of which I recommended that the horse should be destroyed. After the morbid parts concerned in this disease had been examined, Mr. Percivall, Vete- rinary Surgeon to the Most Honourable Board of Ord- nance, (whose attention to anatomy and his profession in general deserves the highest encomiums) accidentally opened the cavity of the abdomen, and discovered a tumour about the size of a horse's testicle, of an oblong form, a little below the right kidney, and loosely at- tached, by a long slender neck, to the peritonaeum. Mr. Percivall removed this tumour without supposing that the contents were peculiar, but as the inner parts felt as if they were of a bony nature, a longitudinal section was made with a saw completely through its substance. It now appeared that the outer cyst of the tumour[ 403 ] but its formation as far as it goes is com- monly perfect. When this happens, all vestige of the ovarium is lost, and instead of it there is a bag of some firmness con- contained two small molar horse-teelh, and one incisor tooth, with a portion of bone attached to this tooth resembling the jaw. The remainder of the tumour was ccfmposed of about-two thirds of fat and one-third of hair of a black colour contained in a separate cyst. The molar teeth, which were fortunately divided by the saw longitudinally near the centre, had the same arrange- ment of enamel and bony matter as natural horse's teeth. Two very small blood vessels were observed going from the neck of the tumour into its substance, but they were not attended to, till the section had been made. As the history of the animal from its birth could not be procured, it cannot be ascertained whether both tes- ticles had previously been removed. It is possible that one testicle might have remained in the abdomen, and the form, situation, and size of the tumour, rather favour this supposition. But whether blood vessels were formed from the neighbouring parts to produce this pecuHar organization, or whether the teeth and hair were pro- duced by the spermatic vessels, the process is equally curious and inexplicable. This phoenrimenon, however, fully establishes the opinion of Dr. Baillie, that whea teeth and hair and fat are found in the ovaria, impreg- nation is not necessary to their formation, aud therefore it is highly probable, that in no instance it has been the cause of these extraordinary productions in the ovaria."[ 404 ] taming the foetus; to this bag, upon the inside, is attached a placenta, and a part of the chorion. The bag can be ascertained to be ilie ovarium, by tracing upon it the Fal- lopian tube and the spermatic vessels, from their origin to their termination. The ute- rus in such cases is considerably larger than when unimpregnated, and in its cavity there is formed the membrana decidua. r This shews that the uterus takes on the same changes, although imperfectly, which it does in the ordinary circumstances of pregnancy. The spermatic vessels are also enlarged, in order to supply a sufficient quantity of blood to the ovum which is growing in the ovarium. Shrinking of the Ovaria. The ovaria commonly shrink towards old age, and are changed in their structure. They are diminished to half their natural size, are somewhat tubcrculated on their surface, and are hard. When cut into, the vesicles, which make a part of their[ 405 ] natural structure, are found to be filled with a while solid matter. One Ovarium or both wajiting. An ovarium on one side has been known to be wanting; but this is extremely rare. An example of this kind is preserved in Dr. Hunter's collection. Some instances have been recorded, in which no vestige* of an ovarium could be observed on either side. SYMPTOMS. As the ovaria are very seldom inflamed, unless when inflamm-ation has at the same time attacked the uterus; it is not known whether there be any particular symptoms which characterize inflammation of the ovaria. Inflammation of the ovaria cannot at present be distinguished, by its symp- toms, from inflammation of the uterus.[ 406 J A scirrhous state of the ovaria, is with difficulty determined in the Uving body. When a scirrhous ovarium has increased to a large size, and hes upon the side of the pelvis, and the person is at the same time of a spare habit, it may in some measure be ascertained by an accurate examination of the tumour through the parietes of the abdomen. The tumour will feel much harder than where an ovarium is enlarged by dropsy, or filled with cysts. When the ovarium is not capable of being accurately examined, the opinion about the existence of this disease must rest much more upon probable evidence than upon any clear proof. Dropsy of the ovarium cannot be ascer- tained in a very early stage of this disease. But when it has made considerable pro- gress, so as to have formed a swelling at the lower part of the belly, it may com- monly be accertained by an accurate exa-[ ^07 ] mination, and attention to the history of its growth. The tumour is generally on one side of the abdomen more than the other, according as the right or left ova- rium is affected. There is often an inequa- lity in the surface of the swelling, and an obscure kind of fluctuation is felt upon striking with the hand the parietes of the abdomen, which cover the swelling. The health is commonly very little affected by this disease, and it is slow in its progress, so that life will often be continued with tolerable comfort under it for many years. The quantity of the urine is sometimes little diminished below what is usual in health, and the absorbents of the ovarium are hardly capable of being excited to a vigorous action by medicine. There have been few instances, therefore, of a dropsy of the ovarium being cured.( [ 403 ] CHAP. XXI. DISEASED APPEARANCES OF THE FALLOPIAN TUBES. Inflammation of the Fallopian Tubes. W HEN the uterus is inflamed to a con- siderable degree, the inflammation oRen spreads along the Fallopian tubes: they become, in this case, highly vascular, and when cut open, sometimes contain blood in their cavities. The inflammation may even advance to suppuration, when their cavities are loaded with pus. Adhesions. When the peritonaeum generally, or some part of it, in the neighbourhood of the Fallopian tubes, is inflamed, the external covering of these tubes, which is a conti- nuation of the peritonaeum, also partakes of[ 409 ] the inflammation. This, when it subsides, generally terminates in adhesions of the Fallopian tubes to the contiguous parts. It is not unusual to find the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tubes adhering to the ovaria; or when the previous in- flammation has been considerable, to find the fimbriated appearance entirely lost, and the body of the Fallopian tube appa- rendy terminating on the surface of the ovarium. Under such circumstances there is no aperture towards this end of the Fal- lopian tubes, and it has lost its power of conveying the ovum from the ovarium to the uterus. The very small aperture by which the Fallopian tube communicates with the ca- vity of the uterus, is sometimes oMiterated, but not so often as the aperture of that ex- tremity next to the ovarium. Dropsy of the Fallopian Tubes. When the Fallopian tube has its aper- tures closed at both extremities, it is some-C -"o ] times dilated into a considerable tortuous cavity. This when laid open appears occasionally subdivided by small partial septa, and contains an aqueous fluid, which is capable of being partly coagulated. This fluid is undoubtedly supplied by the secretion of the small arteries belonging to the inner membrane of the Fallopian tube, which is naturally very vascular. It may be called dropsy of the Fallopian tube. 7he Fallopian Ttuhes terminating in a Cul- de-sac. The Fallopian tubes I have seen with- out any aperture or fimbriated extremity, from a defect in the original formation, and terminating in a cul-de-sac. Under such circumstances they were incapable of per- ' forming their office as subservient to ge- neration*[ 411 ] An Ovum in the Fallopian Tube, The Fallopian tube is sometimes dilated into a bag containing an ovum. This arises from the ovum being stopped in its pro- gress from the ovarium to the uterus. When it is so stopped, it does not die but is gradually evolved, as if it had been lodged in the cavity of the uterus. This, among many others, is a proof that the uterus is not the only organ which is fitted to evolve an ovum, b^t that other parts of the body can perform this office. While the ovum is enlarging, the Fallopian tube is more and more dilated, forming a thin bag round the ovum. The blood vessels passing to the ovarium and the Fallopian tube where the ovum is contained, are gradually enlarged, in proportion to the increase of the ovum, in order to supply it with a sufficient quantity of blood. While this process is going on in the Fallopian tube, the uterus, increases in bulk so as to be fully twice its natural size, and becomes[ 41^ ] more vascular. The cavity of its fun- dus is also lined with a membrana deci- dua, and the cervix uteri is plugged up with jelly. The uterus therefore under- goes a variety of changes, exactly similar to those which take place in natural preg- nancy. The ovum sometimes makes con- siderable progress in the Fallopian tube, and has been known to advance even to the full period of gestation; but more com- monly it dies at an early period. In the course of the evolution of the avum, the Fallopian tube has been known to rupture, and the person to die from internal haemor- rhage. A very clear and accurate account of such a case has been published by Dr. Clarke, in the Medical and Ghirurgical Transactions.* Hard Tumour growing from a Fallopian Tube, I have seen a hard round tumour grow- ing from the outer surface of one of the * See page 261, Vol. 2[413] Fallopian lubes. This when cut into ex- hibited precisely the same appearance of structure as the tubercle which grows from the surface of the uterus, viz. it consisted of a hard white substance, which was in- tersected by strong membranous septa. This, however, I believe to be a very rare appearance of disease. Diseased Appearances of the round Liga- ments. The round ligaments partake of the in- flammation of the uterus, when it is con- siderable, and has spread to its appendages. They are also, doubtless, subject to other diseases, but these are very rare, and have not fallen under my own observation, nor do I know of their having been particularly taken notice of by authors.[ -114 ] SYMPTOMS. The symptoms which attend the dif- ferent morbid changes of the Fallopian tubes are at present not known; and they must, from the circumstances belonging to them, be very difficult to ascertain.[ ] CHAP. XXIL DSEASED APPEARANCES OP THE VAGINA. Jnjlanimation of the Vagina. The internal surface of the vagina, near the outward opening, is frequently in^- flamed, especially from the application of the venereal poison, but this hardly ever becomes the subject of examination after death. Adhesion of the Sides of the Vagina. A very violent inflammation has some- times been known to take place in the va- gina, which has terminated in the mutual adhesion of the sides of the cavity. This adhesion is sometimes extended over a great part of the cavity, but I believe is often more confined, producing a stricture in some one part.C 416 ] Ulcers of the Vagina. Ulcerations are not unusual in the va- gina. They sometimes appear like spots of the internal surface, removed as it were by a knife, and sometimes there is a foul ragged ulcer. When this last is the case in any considerable degree, the ulcer has commonly not originated in the vagina, but has spread to it from the womb. When the ulcer spreads very much, communi- cations are often made with the neighbour- ing parts, producing a most miserable state of existence. Thus communications are sometimes formed between the vagina and the rectum, or the vagina and the bladder. Scirrhous Tumours in the Vagina, Scirrhous tumours occasionally arise in the vagina itself (although, I believe, rarely) when the utems is unaffected. When cut into, they exhibit the usual scirrhous struc- ture which has been often described.[ ] Inversion of the Vagina, One of the most common diseases of the vagina is its inversion, or prolapsus: this is more apt to happen where the natural for- mation of the pelvis is large, where the external opening at-the vulva is wide, and where the parts are generally relaxed. The prolapsus is more or less in different cases; in some the uterus does not pass out at the external parts, and in others the inversion of the vagina is complete, at the extremity of which is situated the os uteri. The pro- 'trusion has then different shapes; it some- times forms a large rounded mass, and sometimes it is narrower and more elon- gated, extending, perhaps, five inches from the surface of the body. When this last has been the case, it has been sometimes mis- taken for that species of monstrous forma- tion called hermaphrodite. We may h?re take an opportunity of mentioning, that al- tlix)ugh in.sQine of the common quadrupeds Ee[ US ] a real iRTniaplirodile structure has occa- sionally been lound, yet it has hardly ever occurred in the human subject.* When the vagina has been lon^ subject to inver- sion, its inner surface becomes in many parts harder; it is apt to be occasionally inflamed from external irritation, which not uncommonly advances to ulceration. * Although the examples of what have been called herraaphioditcs in the human species have, when strictly examined, been hitherto found to belong to the male or the female sex; jet Dr. Storer of Nottingham has favoured me with an account of a person so strongly marked as a hermaphrodite, that no doubt can, I think, be reasonably entertained of this being the case. The person to whom this singular monstrosity belongs, is still alive, and has been carefully examined by Dr. Storer and other medical gentlemen, very able to judge concerning it; I shall therefore take the liberty of in- serting here, the account which Dr. Storer was so obliging as to send me. The person bears a woman's name, and wears the apparel of a woman. She has a remarkable masculine look, with plain features, but no beard. She had never menstruated; and on this account she was desired by the lady with whom she lived as servant, to become an out patient at the Nottingham Hospital. At this time she was twenty-four years of age, and had not been sen- sible of any bad health, but only came to the hospital in order to comply with the wishes of her mistress.[ 419 ] In inversion of the vagina and prolapsus of the uterus, if the cavity of the pelvis be examined, the fundus only of the uterus can be seen with its appendages very im- perfectly, or the whole of the uterus is hid entirely: the bladder then appears to be in contact with the rectum. In this state of tlie uterus and its appendages, I have known adhesions formed between them and the neighbouring parts. These must have ren- dered the reduction of the uterus and the vagina to their natural situation very Various iwedicines were tried without effect, which led to the suspicion of the hymen being imperforated, and tiie menstrual blood having accumulated behind it. She was, therefore, examined by Mr. Wright, one of the surgeons to the hospital, and by Dr. Storer. The vagina was found to terminate in a cul-de-sac, two inches from the external surface of the labia. The head of the clitoris, and the external orifice of the meatus urinee, appeared as in the natural structure of a female, but there were no uymphae. The labia were more pendulous than usual, and contained each of them a body resembling a testicle of a moderate size, wilh its chord. The mamm£e resembled those of a woman. The person had no desire or partiality whatever fqr either aex.[ 450 ] difficult, and, perhaps, till the adhesions were a good deal elongated, impossible. The Vagina very short. The vagina is sometimes very short. I have seen it, not more than half its natural length. This is an original defect in the formation of the part, and can only be ascertained by an examination. The Vagina widened. The vagina is sometimes very much stretched or widened by large tumours which are lodged in it: these are chiefly polypi; and when they have been removed by art, the vagina, if it has not been for a long time stretched, recovers nearly its natural size. The Vagina very narrow. The vagina has occasionally been found to be very much contracted with regard to[ 421 ] its transverse diameter, from a defect in the original formation. This, however, occurs very rarely, and may in some degree be remedied by art. SYMPTOxMS. The symptoms which attend inflamma- tion of the inner merabrarie of (he vagina, and the labia, are too well known to require any description. An adhesion of the sides of the vagina can only be distinctly known by an exami- nation. It may, however, be strongly sus- pected where there has been a previous violent inflammation of the vagina, and since that period there has been no men- strual discharge, together with an unfit ness for the usual intercourse between the[ 422 ] sexes. When the adhesion has extended over a considerable part of the vagina, it is hardly possible by an operation to separate the adhering surfaces, and to restore the original canal. I have known attempts of this kind to fail in the most skilful hands; and it requires much nicety of manage- ment to avoid making an opening into the bladder or the rectum. Where the extent of the adhesion is small, it is very capable of being remedied by an operation, except perhaps very near the internal extremity of the vagina. As it is impossible, when the adhesion is complete, to kuow^apriori, whether it be of large or of small extent, it is almost always proper to attempt an operation; but this should only be done by a surgeon who is dextrous in the ma- nagement of the knifo, and with extreme caution. Where there is merely a narrow line of adhesion, this may probably be dis- covered by the accumulation of the men- strual blood behind it; and it is possible that this accumulation may at length break[ 423 ] through the adhesion, and render an opera- tion unnecessary. It would be absurd how- ever, to put off an operation which under such circumstances must be very shght, for the very uncertain chance of this effect taking place. Ulcers in the vagina can only be de- termi^aed with accuracy by an examina- tion of that passage in the Hving body. They are attended with more or less pain, and with a discharge of pus; but both of these symptoms belong also to inflamma- tion of the vagina, without any ulceration whatever. An inversion of the vagina is attended with a sense of bearing down (as jDatients commonly express it), and a tumour passes outwaids through the vulva, more espe- cially in an erect posture. The exa«tC 424 ] circumstances of the disease can only be ascertained by an examination in the living body. The existence of tumours growing in the vagina can only be accurately ascertained by an attentive examination.[ 425 ] CHAP. XXIII. DISEASED ANX) PRETERNATURAL APPEAR- ANCES OF THE EXTERNAL PARTS. The Hymen imperforated. The hymen is sometimes found without a perforation in it, so that the vagina is com- pletely shut up at its external extremity. This is an original mal-form.ation, which is frequently not discovered till the age of puberty, when the menstrual blood is ac- cumulated behind it. It is of little conse- quence, as it can be easily remedied by a slight operation. The Clitoris enlarged. An enlarged clitoris is also a natural de- formity, less common than the other, but a more unfortunate one. At birth, the cli- toris in such a case is often larger than the penis of a male child of the same age. It[ ] has a well formed prepuce and glans, to- gether with a fissure at its extremity, so as to resemble almost exactly the external ap- pearance of the male organs. These cases have given rise to a mistake, with regard to the sex, and females have been often baptized for males. On most occasions, however, where there is an enlarged clito- ris, the sex may be determined by the fol- lowing circumstances. The labia are well formed, and when handled, no round bodies are felt in them, like the testicles. The fissure at the extremity of the glans docs not lead to any canal of the urethra; but under the glans, and at the posterior ex- tremity of the fissure, there is an opening which leads immediately to the bladder. I should believe, that by putting a small straight probe into this orifice, and passing it into the bladder, it could be at once de- termined, on most occasions, whether the child was male or female.* If the child • Supposing the child to be a female, the probe will pass readily through a short straight canal; but sup-[ 427 ] should live to grow up, the clitoris en- larges, but not in the same proportion as the penis would do. Such cases have been often mistaken for hermaphrodites. The Kijmphce enlarged* The nymphae are not uncommonly en- larged beyond their natural size. This sometimes happens to one only, and some- times to both. When the nymphae are very much enlarged, they pass considera- bly beyond the surface of the body, and have the same sort of covering with the labia, losing by their exposure the fine, vascular, sensible covering of the natural nymphae. This is a monstrous formation of no great consequence, unless the enlarge- ment be excessive, and even then the nymphae can be extirpated by art. posing it to be a male, the probe will neither pass in a straight direction, nor without some degree of curva- ture being given to its shape, and the caual will b© found to be of a considerable length.[ ] The exlernal Labia growing together. The two external labia are sometimes united together by a fine line of junction, at the upper end of which are situated the meatus urinas, and the glans of the clitoris. This sort of monstrous formation is not at all common, and is very easily remedied. When the external labia are separated by a slight operation, all the parts behind are found perfect: The two labia are sometimes joined to- gether by a continuation of the common skin, so that the appearance of labia is lost entirely. This defect may also be reme- died by art, and the parts within will be found to be well formed. The external parts, particularly the in- side of the nymphae, and the vestibulum, are subject to inflammation and ulcers from common causes, and especially from the application of the venereal J^oison. These diseases, although they are very oftea the![ '429 ] subject of solicitude during life, yet are seldom examined after death, and there- fore we shall omit them here altogether. It is unnecessary to subjoin any account of symptoms to this chapter.[ 430 3 CHAPTER XXIV. DISEASED APPEARANCES OF THE BRAIN AND ITS MEMBRANES. Injlammation of Ihe Dura Maler, 1 HE dura mater is sometimes found in a state of inflammation. Wiien this is the case, many extremely fine vessels filled with florid blood, are seen in the inflamed por- tion of it, which pass between the dura mater and the cranium. These fine vessels are seldom so crowded as in most other parts of the body when inflamed, which arises from the nature of the membrane itself. In its natural state there are few blood vessels ramifying through it; and therefore when it is inflamed, it does not appear so much crow^ded with vessels as other parts do which are naturally moreC 431 ] vascular. Still, however, a person well acquaiiiled with the natural appearance of the dura mater, would be as much struck with the difference of its appearance when inflamed, as he would be with that of any other part of the body. The dura mater during a state of inflam- mation sometimes forms a layer of coagu- lable lymph, which adheres to its inner surface like an adventitious membrane; but this is very uncommon. When the dura mater is inflamed, ad- hesions are sometimes formed between it and the other membranes of the brain, so that for a considerable extent they adhere together; but this appearance of disease is also very rare. The reason why dis- eased adhes ions between the membranes of the brain are rare, depends, probably, upon coagulable lymph being seldom thrown out upon their surface when they are in- flamed. This may be considered as a kind of peculiarity belonging to the membranes of the brain, for they bear some analogy to[ *i32 ] the membranes which line the circumscrib- ed cavities of the body, and these last ;most commonly throw out coagulable lymph upon their surface during inflammation. It i-s not unusual when the dura tnater has been inflamed, especially in conse- quence of some external violence, for sup- puration to take place, and pus to be found covering a portion of the membrane. The dura mater is likewise sometimes eroded by ulceration, but this is by no means frequent; it is more common in vio- lent injuries of the head, for.a portion of it to become mortified. Scrofulous Tumours connectedwilh Lhe.Dura Mater. Scrofulous tumours are sometimes form- ed, which are connected with the dura mater, but this happens very rarely. jThese resemble precisely the structure, of ,a scro- fulous = absorbent gland, and occasionally liaere is. fouud in them a curdly: pus.C 433 ] Spongij Tumours growing Jrom the Dura Mater* Spongy tumours also grow from the dura mater, but they are very uncommon. Such tumours, as far as I have had an oppor- tunity of examining them, are pulpy to the touch, and of a distinct fihrous struc- ture* Bony Matter formed in the Dura Mater. One of the most common diseased ap- pearances of the dura mater, is the forma- tion of bony laminas in some part of it. These are generally very small, being not larger than the nai! of a finger, but they are also occasionally of a much larger size. They are thin, and frequently very irregu- lar in their edge. They are not to be found indifferently in every part of the dura ma- ter, but are almost always adhering at the superior longitudinal sinus, or its falciform process. In some of them the proportion Ff[ ^34 ] of the ear th to the anirnal part is larger thiiii in common bone. There is often one of these ossifications only; but sometimes there are more of them. The falciform process has been said to be occasionally found almost entirely converted into hone; but this last appear- ance is very rare. Very strong Adhesion oj the Dura Mater to the Cranium. There is at all times a strong adhesion between the dura mater and the inside of the cranium. This adhesion is principally formed by small blood vessels which pass from the one to the other, and likewise by a close application of the fibrous structure of the membrane to the bone, hi a natural state, however, the dura mater can be per- fectly separated from the cranium; yet it sometimes happens that the adhesion is so strong,"as to render it impossible to separate the two completely. The dura mater in such an attempt is torn in different parts[ 435 ] into two laminre, one of which adheres to the bone and the other lies upon the pia mater. Whether this preternatural strength of adhesion arises from a previous state of inflammation in the dura mater, or from some other cause, I cannot determine; but it is not at all an uncommon appearance. Diseased Appearances of the Tunica Arach^ noides. Diseased appearances of structure are very rare in the turiica arachnoides. and have almost been entirely overlooked by writers. The only diseased appearance of this coat which I have observed, is that of its becoming a good deal thicker than it is naturally, so as to be a tolerably firm mem- brane. In this, as well as in its natural state, no blood vessels are to be seen rami- fying upon it; or at least they are ex- tremely few. It is also separated at some distance from the pia mater, by a serous fluid being interposed between the one and the other..[ 4>G ] piseased Appearances of the Pia Matar.-^ Veins of the Pia Maltr turgid with Blood. The most common diseased appearance of the pia mater is that oF its veins being turgid with blood. This depends upon some impediment to the I'ree return of the blood from the head towards the heart, which may arise from a variety of causes; and is very dilfcrent from an inflamed state of th-e pia mater. The smaller branches of its arleiies, filled with a florid blood, are not more numerous in this state than is natural, but its veins are much more dis* tended with a dark blood. The Pia Maier inflamed. When the pia mater is inflamed, it is upon the whole more ditBcuIt to distinguish this condition of it from its natural state than in any other membrane of the body. This depends upon the great number of very small vessels which naturally ramify upon it. In inflammation of the pia mater,C 437 ] Ihese small vessels are much more nume- rous than in its natural state, are filled will! a florid blood, and form by their anasto- mosis a beautiful net work. It does not frequently occur, when the pia mater is in- flamed, that it becomes so uniformly red as to shew no interstices between its vessels, a circumstance which happens in the in- flammation of some other membranes. The processes arising from the under surface of the pia mater are more crowded with ves- sels than usual, and there is a stronger ad- hesion between them and the substance of the braii^. It very rarely.happens that any layer of coagulable lymph is formed in the inflam^- mation of the pia mater which is so very conrunon in inflammation of the pleura and the peritonaeum. When the pia mater is inflamed to a high degree, pus is com- monly formed; 1 have seen it effused over the whole u])per surface of the brain, in consequence of an inflammation of the pia mater.[ 438 ] Close adhesions, over a large extent of surface, have been seen between the jjia and dura mater, which are probably the conse- quence of inflammation; but these are very rare, and have not fallen under my own observation. Scrofulous Tumours adhering lo the Pia Mater. I have seen a number of scrofulous tumours adhering to the inside of the pia mater. They exhibited the true scrofulous structure, which has been often explained, and are very uncommon. Air in the Vessels of the Pia Mater, It is not unusual to fuid some of the ves- sels of ihe pia mater filled with air. This may be generated by putrefaction, but it is also sometimes seen when no process of this kind apjicars to have taken place. Under such circumstances, it is probable that air is extricated bv some new ariangement in the constituent parts of the blood.[ 439 ] Hydatids* Little cysts*containing water (which arc generally called hydatids), have been seen adhering to the pia mater; but this is a very rare appearance of disease. j4 Part of Ihe Pia Mater bonij. It occasionally happens, although I be- lieve very seldom, that a portion of the pia mater is converted into bone. It has not occurred to me to observe such a change of structure in this membrane, but Dr. Soem- merring mentions that a specimen of. this disease is preserved in his collection. Diseased Appearances in the Substance of the Brain.—Inflammation. The substance of the brain, under which I include both the cerebrum and cerebel- lum, is liable to inflammation, although it is not very common, M'hen no external in- jury has been applied to the head. When • Vid. Lieutaiicl, Tom. II. p. 145.[ A40 ] inflammation takes place, it is rarely ex tended over any large portion of the brain, but it is rather confined to one or more dis- tinct parts of it. In this state of disease the inflamed portion becomes of a red colour, although this is seldom very intense. When cut into, the colour is found to arise from a great many small vessels, which are filled with blood. If the inflamed portion be upon the surface of the brain, the mem- branes in the neighbourhood are also com- monly inflamed. The part which is in- flamed has no peculiar hardness, but yields nearly the same sensation to the touch, as it would do in a healthy slate. Abscesses. Inflammation of the brain frequently advances to suppuration, and abscesses are formed in it. When these are of a large size, the weight of the pus breaks down the structure of the neighbouring parts, and they look simply as if they had been (destroyed, or very much injured by theC 3 pressure. When the abscesses are small, there is an ulcerated appearance of the ca- vity in which the pus is contained. Gangrene. Portions of the brain occasionally be- come gangrenous, especially after violent injuries of the head; but I believe this ap- pearance of disease is extremely rare, where an inflammation of the brain has taken place from any other cause. I have met, however, with one instance of this; a por- tion of the brain at the inflamed part was of a verv dark brown colour, and as soft as the most rotten pear. The Brain very soft. It is extremely common, when the braiii is examined in a person who has been dead for several days, to find such a softness of its substance, that it can hardly admit of being cut so as to leave a smooth surface, and the smallest pressure of the fingers breaks it down into a pultaccous mass.[ ] The brain, however, will sometimes retain, for several days the firmness and resistance which it had during life; yet this is by no means common. Neither of these appear- ances is to be considered as produced by disease. Sometimes, however, a part of the me- dullary substance of the brain becomes morbidly soft, and loses its natural texture, acquiring nearly the consistence of a cus- tard. Dr. John Hunter, physician to the army, has observed this in the medulla of the hemispheres of the brain, near the lateral ventricles. He has met with this appearance in cases of fatuity, where the persons were advanced in life, and also combined with effusions of blood in apo- plexy. The Brain very firm. The brain is sometimes found to be con- .siderably firmer than in its healthy state, .to be tougher, and to have a greater degree .of elasticity than usual; it will bear to beI 413 ] pulled out with some force, and will readily re-act so as to restore itself, or when pressed will recover its former shape. Under such circumstances the ventricles are sometimes found to be enlarged in size, and full of water. The brain has even been said to become so hard and dry as to be friable between the hngers; and the medullary substance, in these cases, is represented as being much lighter than in a natural state. It is probable, however, that these accounts are a good deal exaggerated. It has been remarked that in such cases the cerebellum is very often unaffected. A while Jirm Substance Jormed in the Brain. It is not very unusal to see a white sub- stance formed in the brain of an uniform smooth texture, and possessing a considera- ble degree of iiardness. The brain adheres to this substance, and round its edge ap- pears oficn moi e vascular than usual. The substance is scrofulous in its nature, for 1 have had an opportunity of seeing itt 444 ] converted into a scrofulous pus. More thah one of these substances are frequently formed in the brain at a time. It is also not unusual to find rounded masses of the same sort of substance, lying as it were imbedded in the brain, or in its interstices; some of these I have seen as large as a walnut. When such tumours are formed, it happens frequently that there is an increased quantity of water in the la- teral ventricles of the brain. Encysted Tumours and Hydaiids. Encysted tumours containing a serous fluid* have sometimes been found in the substance of the brain; but they have never come under my own observation, . and are very uncommon. In one instance I have been informed from good authority, that hydatids were accumulated in the lateral ventricles of the brain, but this is still a more uncommon appearance of disease than the other. They • Vid. Lieutaud, Tom. II. p. m, 195.[ 445 ]' seemed to be of the same nature with hy- datids of the liver.* Bonij Tumours pressing upon the Brain. Bony tumours are sometimes formed in the cranium, which press upon a part of the brain. They most commonly consist of an irregular mass, which is formed of bony processes, with a fleshy substance filling up the intersiices between them. Of this sort of tumour there are several examples in Dr. Hunter's collection. It has sometimes happened, but very rarely, that all the bones of the cranium have become extremely thickened, and have encroached, by their growth, upon the cavity which contains the brain* Of this there is a remarkable specimen in Mr. Hunter's collection, where the bones of the cranium are at least three times as thick as ♦This case was communicated to me by Mr. Burnall, who attended the patient, and examined the appear- ances after death.[ 446 2 in the natural state. They arc also, in the case to which I alhicJc, much more spongy than usual in their texture. A nodule of a substance having the ap- pearance of ivory, has also been known to be formed in the bones of the cranium, and to protrude considerably into its cavity. This too occurs very rarely, but a speci- men of it is preserved in Mr. Hunter's collection.* Whatever may be the variety in the morbid processes which produce these changes of structure in the bones of the cranium, their effects upon the func- tions of the brain must be nearly the same, as they form a permanent cause of com- pression. Bony Ridges irrHaling the Brain. Upon the inner surface of the basis of the * This nodule of ivory is formed in one of the orbiti, and I am nol sure whether it may not be the eye con- verted into this substance. The nodule is of considera- ble size, and projects some way into the cavity of the craniata behind the orbit.C ] cranium there is always some irregularity; This consists in numerous ridges and small eminences with depressed surfaces interrfi'^ posed between them. It happens occasion- ally that there is a morbid growth of these eminences and ridges, forming sharp spi- cula and sharp edges of bone. These run into the brain, and irritate very violently the nervous system. Hydrocephalus, One of the most common appearances of disease in the brain, is the accumulation of water in its ventricles ;* this generally takes place when a child is very young, and even sometimes before birth. The water is ac- cumulated in greater or less quantity in different cases. It sometimes amounts only •Mr. H ome has known an instance where water was accumulated in large quantity in the third ventricle, and had forced its way between the fine laininas of the. medullary substance which compose the septum luci- duni, without escaping into either of the lateral ven- tricles. This may be said to be a new situation of hydrocephalus, and is of very rare occurrence.[ us ] to a few ounces, and occasionally to many pints. When the quantity of water is very considerable, the fornix is raised at its anterior extremity in consequence of its accunuilation, and an immediate opening of communication is thereby formed be- tween the lateral ventricles.* From this cause too a part of the water passes very readily into the third ventricle, and from thence into the fourth. The whaler is of a purer colour, and more limpid, than what * A distinguished author has, in a late publication, insisted very strongly upon the existence of an immedi- ate communicntion bf '.ween the two lateral ventricles of the brain^ and has expressed great surprise that it has been denied by several teachers of anatomy in London. Without entering into any dispute about this matter, \vhich in itself is of no great importance, 1 shall briefly raention what appears to me to be the real state of the circumstances. The fornix at its anterior extremity lies loose upon a pari of the lhalami nervoruiii opticorum, and there is a small chink on each side of the fornix leading obliquely downwards from the lateral ventricles to the anterior extremity of the third ventricle. While the fornix is allowed to remain in its natural situation, there seems to me to be no immediate communication between the lateral ventricles. But when the fornix h elevated (which may be very easily done) then the la- teral ventricles communicate directly with each other;[ 449 ] IS found in dropsy of the thorax or abdo* men. It appears, however, to be generally of the same nature with the water that is accumulated in both of those large cavities* In some trials which I have made, it partly coagulated upon the application of the common acids, exactly like the water in hydrothorax and ascites, or like the serum of the blood. But there is much variety in the quantity of the coagulable matter. In some instances the water in hydroce- phalus contains a small proportion of coa- gulable matter, and in others it is almost entirely free from it. When water is accumulated in the ven- tricles to a very large quantity, the sub- stance of the brain, especially upon the sides and at the upper surface, is so thin, and the communication is more or less according to the degree of the elevation. It may be said, that the lateral ventricles still communicate together by means of the third ventricle. This, however, is not properly an im- mediate communication between the two lateral ven- tricles, unless any two cavities which communicate with a third, may be properly said to communicate directly or immediately with each other.[ 450 ] as almost (o appear to be a sort of pulpy bag, containing a fluid. The scull too upon such occasions is very much enlarged in size, and altered in its shape. The cranium is exceedingly large in proportion to thfe size of the face, llie projections are very considerable at the centres of ossification, from whence the frontal, parietal, and oc- cipital bones were originally formed, and the membranous divisions between these several bones are very wide. When the ^calp is removed, so as to give an oppor- tunity of looking immediately upon the cranium, the bones are found to be very "thin, often not thicker fhan a shilling, and "there are frequently broad spots of mem- bi'ane in the bone. The reason of this last appearance is, that ossification takes place "in tnany points of the membrane in sUcIi cases in order to make a quicker progress, - but the water accumulates too rapidly for ' it, so that spots of membrane are left not converted into bone. When such appear- ances take place in hydrocephalus, theC «i ] disease has been of long continuance, occa- sionally for some years. JValer upon the Surface of the Brain, and helween its Membranes* Water is also sometimes formed under the pia mater, and upon the surface of the brain, but very rarely in any considerable quantity. There is, generally, at the same time a greater quantity than natural in the ventricles. Water is likewise found in small quantity between the dura and pia mater. It is related by authors, that water has been formed occasionally between the dura mater and the cranium.* From the nature of the adhesion between the cranium and this membrane one would not easily be led to suspect an accumulation of water between them, and such cases are at least to be con- sidered as very uncommon. * Vid. Lieutaud, Tom. II. p. 229, 2S0.Blood effused or extravasaled. Blood is frequently found eflPused within the cavity of the cranium in various situa- tions. It may cither be poured out by the rupture of some vessel in the substance of the brain itself, or into some of the ven- tricles. It is frequently effused upon the surface of the brain, or upon some of its membranes. This is most apt to happen where the effusion is in consequence of ex- ternal violence. The quantity of blood which is effused from the rupture of vessels in the brain is frequently very considerable. It is com- monly found in a coagulated state, and the texture of the brain in the neighbourhood is often very much hurt from the pressure. Blood is not equally liable to be effused into every part of the substance of the brain.. Where an effusion has taken place without external injury, it is almost con- stantly found in the medullary part of one of the hemispheres, and often near theC 453 ] lateral ventricles, so that a quantity of blood has at the same time escaped into one or both of these cavities. It sometimes happens that the brain is very soft in its consistence at the place of this effusion, a remark which has been made by Dr. John Hunter. When blood is extravasated within the cavity of the cranium from some external injury, the vascular system is usually sound, except for the rupture which may have happened. But when extravasation happens within the cavity of the cranium, without external injury, the vascular sys- tem of the brain is almost always diseased. Il is very common in examining the brains of persons who aie considerably advanced in life, to find the trunks of the internal carotid arteries upon the side of the sella turcica very much diseased, and thh dis- ease extends frequently more or less into the small branches. The disease consists in a bony or earthy matter being depo- sited in the coats of the arteries, by which[ 454 ]' they lose a part of their cohtractllc and disL^nsile powers, as well as of their tena- city. The same sort of diseased structure is likewise found in the basiiary artery and its branches. The vessels of the brain tinder such cir^. cuinstances of disease, are much more lia- ble to be ruptured than in a healthy state. Whenever blood is accumulated in unusual quantity, or the circulation is going, on in them with unusual vigour, they are liable to this accident, and accordingly in either of these states, extravasations of blood fre- quently happen. Were the internal caro- tid arteries and the basiiary artery not subject to the diseased alteration of struc- ture which we have described, effusions of blood within the cavity of the cranium, where there has been no previous external injury, would probably be much more rare.E 455 ]! Cavities bt ike Brain containitig a serous. Fluid. ■ Cavities contaiaiing a seyous fluicl are sometimes observed in tke substance o£ the brain. Tliey almost constantly occur in the medullary part of the hemispheres, and the substance of the brain immedi- ately surrounding these cavities is tough and smooth, so as to resemble a membrane. They would appear to be the remains of the cavities formed by extravasated blood, in cases of apoplexy, where the patients have not been cut off immediately, but have lived afterwards for some months or years. The extravasated blood would seem in such cases to have been dissolved, and taken up by absorption; but the in- jury is not repaired, and a cavity remains afterwards, filled with a serous fluid.* t I had an opportunity of observing, lately, a wel| marked case of this sort, in a person who bad h^d se- veral attacks of apoplexy, and at lengih was cut off by one of them. Dr. John Hunter has observed a good[ 456 ] Aneurysm of the internal Carotid Arteries on the Side of the Sella Turcica, The internal carotid arteries are very apt in persons of an advanced age, to be- come ossified, and the same morbid change may be traced along their branches. It occurs, however, very rarely that they arc distended at any part into an aneurysmal sack, like the arteries in some other parts of the body. I have been informed of arj instance of this kind, where both the in- ternal carotid arteries, on the side of the sella turcia, were distended into a little aneurysm.* One of these aneurysms was about the size of a cherry, and the other was somewhat smaller. It is remarkable that in the only two instances which have come to my knowledge, of aneurysms be- inany instances of it, and a case occurred some years ago to Mr. Wilson, lecturer on anatomy, whose accu- racy is well known, where the cavity which remained was of a very large size. ♦ I owe my acquaintance with this case to Dr. Blane.[ 457 ] ing formed in the arteries of the head and brain, there has been an aneurysm in both arteries in the same situation, and at the same time. I once met with an aneurysm in each of the carotid arteries at the origiiir of the internal carotids, and in the case just described, there was an aneurysm in each of the two internal carotid arteries upon the side of the sella turcica. Diseased Appearances of the Plexus Cho- roides.—Little Bags in the Plexus Cho' roides. The most common diseased appearance of the plexus choroides is that of little round transparent bags, which adhere to it, and which have commonly been called hydatids. They are generally more trans- parent in their coats than hydatids, arc commonly about the size of a garden pea, but sometimes, they have been seen as large as a gooseberry. From several ex- aminations which I have made of them, they would seem to be formed by a disteu*[ 458: ] sion of the vein which; runs ukwig i^h^ edge, of the plexus choroides. I have been able to distend thetn fully with aiif» by making an opening into tbis vein, and in- flating air into it tbirough a sinaU blow- pipe. Round Tumours adhering^ io the Flexiis Choroides. Tumours sometimes adhere to the plexus choroides. They are small in their size, of a round shape, and occur but rarely. They seem to be of the same kind with the round tumours which are sometimes found im* bedded in the brain, and I believe are scrofulous. Diseased Appearances of the Pineal Gland,— Earthy Matter in the Pineal Gland. A little earthy matter is almost con-* stantly found in the pineal gland. It is sometimes in very small quantity, but not unfrequenily the quantity is very consider- able. The particles of the. earth do notC ] adhere strongly together, but are easily separable by pressure between the ftngem The existence of a small quantity of earth is so common in the pineal gland, that it. cannot well be considered as a disease. I think, however, that in some instances I have found this gland without any depo- sition of earthy matter. Pineal Gland said to be scirrhous. The pineal gland has been mentioned by authors as being sometimes scirrhous. I have felt it on some occasions a little firmer than on others; but it has never occurred to me to observe that alteration of structure in it, which could be properly called scirrhous, and I believe it to be a very rare disease. Water in the Pineal Gland. The pineal gland has been found to be very much distended with a limpid water;* but this too is very uncommon. • Vid. Morgagni, Epist. LXII. Art. 15,[ 460 ] Diseased Appearances of the Pituitary Gland. This gland is very little liable to be af- fected by disease. It has only occurred to me to observe in it one morbid change. It was, in that case, enlarged to twice its natural size, and vr'as converted into a substance, possessing an obscurely fibrous structure. Diseased Appearances of the JVerves. It rarely happens that any of the nerves within the cavity of the cranium appear diseased. I have, however, sometimes seen a nerve a good deal smaller in its size than it ought to be, softer in its texture, and of a less opaque colour; this I recollect to have been particularly the case with one of the optic nerves in a person who was blind of one eye.* * I have seen an instance of a considerable tumour being formed in a nerve. The tumour was very solid in its texture, of a yellowish white colour, and larger in its size than a goose's egg. The nerve seemed to be in some measure lost in the tumour, and in one pail of it[ 461 ] The nerves vary a good deal In their size in different persons, as a part of their original formation, without there being any disease whatever. Mal-fonnations of the Brain. These are the principal dise?ised changes which take place in the brain and its ap- pendages. I have just to add, that the brain is subject to great variety from ori- ginal monstrous formation. A great part of what is usually called the cerebrum is sometimes wanting, while the cerebellum, and the medulla spinalis are entire; some- times there is hardly any vestige of either the cerebrum or cerebellum, and the me- dulla spinalis is very much diminished in size: at other times there is a total want of the brain, and there is no appearance of the medulla spinalis. In this case, one should expect a want of nerves through u fibrous structure could be observed pretty distinctly^ similar to that of a nerve. This swelling occurred in one of the axillary nerves, and was extirpated by Mr, Home, at St. George's Hospital.C ] tlie whole body. It is, however, not so; aaerves are found distributed in the com- mrni way, through the hmbs, and the dorsal nerves can be seen arisijDg from a mem- brane somewhat resembling the duramater in the canal behind the vertebrze. When there is a total want of braiai, it sometimes happens that there is a medulla spinalis, which, however, is of a very small size. In cases of deficiency in the brain, the cranium is nearly upon a level with the two €yes, and there is often upon the scalp a soft spongy excrescence. 'I'his is gene- rally divided into distinct protuberant masses, and is covered with a fine skin, capable of being rendered very vascular by injection. When cut into the spongy excrescence consists of pretty large cells, which are filled with a sort of grumous matter. There is also frequently, instead of this excrescence, a bag growing from the skni of the scalp, and passing downwards so as to cover more or less of the back of the[ 463 3 trunk. This bag sometimes consists of a fine membrane, witli little strength; and sometimes it is rather thick, with consider- able firmness. It sometimes communicates with the cavity of the cranium by a con- siderable opening; and sometimes the communication is verV small. It is filled with an aqueous fluid, and in some in- stances there is also in it a portion af the brain. SYMPTOMS. Inflammation of the dura mater is not distinguished by arty peculiar symptoms. The symptoms which belong to it, are the same with those which attend inflammation of the other membranes, and even differ but little from the symptoms v/hich take place in inflammation of the brain itself. The symptoms are, pain in the head, deli- rium, symptomatic fever, and sometimes convulsive motions.[ 464 ] When tumours have deen found adher- ing to the dura mater, or the other mem- branes of the brain, a long continued pain in the head has commonly been remarked, somelimes delirium, sometimes convul- sions, and sometimes, it has been said, the ordinary symptoms of apoplexy. Where bony matter has been formed in the dura mater, with sharp processes grow- ing from it, convulsive motions have very commonly occurred in various parts of the body, often a continued pain in the head, and sometimes delirium. In cases where the veins of the pia mater have been found turgid with blood, stupor has very frequently occurred, sometimes delirium, and sometimes, it has been said, even apoplexy in its perfect form. The symptoms of inflammation in the[ 465 ] pia mater, are the same with those which attend inflammation of the dura mater, , and they have been already noticed. In inflammation of the substance of the brain, tliere is pain in the head, deUrium, symptomatic fever, and sometimes coma. Where an abscess lias been formed in the brain, pain, delirium, and coma, have been remarked, sometimes a paralysis of a part of the body, and sometimes convulsions. Tbe last symptom has been observed most (leqnently to occur when the abscess has been formed in the tuberculum annulare or ill the medulla oblongata, or in the neighbourhood of these structures, so that the pus could affect them by its pressure. The brain has sometimes been found more firm and ela.stic than is natural in cases of mania. I have been informed, H h[ 466 ] however, lately, from the best authority, that this state of brain is not common in maniacs; and that in them it is generally not more firm, noi- more elastic, than in people whose minds have always beei:^ sound. The symptoms which have been ob- served to attend the formation of solid, or encysted tumours in the brain, are a per- manent pain in the head, which is occa- sionally very violent, sometimes delirium, sometimes convulsions, and sometimes, it has been said, the common symptoms of apoplexy. It is worthy of remark here, that when tumours of any kind press upon the thalami nervprum opticorum, or the optic nerves themselves, within the cra- nium, vision generally becomes impaired in various ways;* and that when tumours * I have known one case in which the optic nerves at their junction were pressed by a tumour as large as a gooseberry, and yet the pupils were not dilated, nor the eyesight impaired; till \/ithia a day or two of th*'[ ^67 ] press upon the tuberculum annulare, or the medulla oblongata, convulsions are very apt to occur. In the case where hydatids were accu- mulated in the lateral ventricles, the per- son had been subject for a long time to pain in his head, which was often violent, and towards the close of the disease, had several convulsion fitSj in one of which he expired. Neither his sight nor hearing were impaired. The symptoms of hydrocephalus, are a pain in the head, stupor, convulsive mo- tions, picking of the nose, grinding of the teelh during sleep, occasional flushings of the face, a motion of the head occasion- ally upon the pillow from one side to the other, occasional sighing, and towards the latter end of the disease, a dilatation of the pupils and squinting. The stomach is person's death. There was only a very violent pain in the fore part of the head.[ 468 ] commonly affected wiili sickness, and the bowels are v/ith dilficiiUy acted ujoon by purgative medicines. In the beginning of this disease, the pulse is frequent but re- gular; when the disease has made a fur- ther progress, it is slow and irregular; and towards the latter end of the disease, it be* comes again more regular and I'requent. When the progress of the disease has been very gradual, and the patient has conti- nued to live for some months, or even years, the functions of the brain have been found in many instances, to be less impaired than might have been expected, till near its close. Where blood has been effused upon any of the membranes of the brain, the patient is more or less in a comatose state, accord- ing to the degree of the effusion, or the different susceptibility of the brain in dif- ferent individuals to be affected by pres.[ 469 ] sure. Innumerable instances sljew, that the brain will liave its functions impaired in verv difTerent dL'<j;rees, from the same apparent degree of injury. When blood is effused into the substance of the brain, apoplexy is produced, which is attended with the following symptoins, viz. coma; often stertorous breathing; a paralysis, commonly of one half of the body; and often convulsive motions. The pulse is slow, full, and generally very strong. When the patient is not cut off at once, but lives for some time after the at- tack, the hemiphlegia, which is almost constantly an effect of this disease, is gene- rally upon the opposite side of the body from that of the brain, in which the effu- sion of blood has taken place. This would seem to shew, that the right side of the body derives its nervous influence from the left side of the brain, and the left side of the body its nervous influence from the right side of the biain. In a fevv instances,L ^*70 ] however, the hemiphlegia has occurred on the same side of the body with the eElu- sion.* * Dr. John Hunter has made some very accurate dissections relative to apoplexy, and its consequences, which formed the subject of the Gulstonian lectures, read by him, 1796, before the College of Physicians. By these lectures, I have been enabled to give a more satisfactory account of the appearances connected with this disease, than I should have been otherwise. riN IS. London : Printed by "W. Bulmer and Co. Cleveland-row, St. James's.KINGS College LONDON Library 200999847 4 III II II KING'S COLLEGE LONDON