1^9 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. trapezio-deltoid sector are; first, that in ■which it does not ex- tend below the anterior edge of the girdle; secondly, that in which it extends beyond the edge of the girdle and its septum down to the humerus or forearm; thirdly, that in which it is divided transversely, in part or the whole of its width, into two distinct muscles by ossification extending from the edge of the scapular part of the girdle into the septum which traverses it and by ossification arising independently over the coracoidal part of the girdle. The portion of the tra'pezius which, in Cryptobranch, is inserted into the anterior edge of the scapula is, in Mammals, continued, beyond that edge, which grows up as the spine, into the scapular portion of the deltoid; and the portion which, in Cryptobranch, is inserted into the coracoid is, in Mammals, continued, beyond the coracoidal septum, or the clavicle which may form in it, on into the clavicular portion of the deltoid. These two portions of the deltoid are not unfre- quently separate. The sector in the hind limb, corresponding to the trapezio- deltoid, is recognisable as a distinct element only behind the pelvic girdle, where it forms the sartorius and the tensor vaginae femoris. These are usually cut off from the external oblique part of the ventral muscle lying in front of them, which, or part of it, may be supposed to correspond to the trapezius, by the edge of the ilium; and they thus answer, serially, to the scapular portion of the deltoid. The sartorius is sometimes (Unau and Ai), like the deltoid, inserted into the pre-axial edge of the first bone of the limb; but, usually, it runs into the second bone. In other vords, the sartorius usually continues its course on to the tibia, but is occasionally arrested at the femurwhereas the deltoid, or part of it, occasionally (Orycte- instead of in the superficial part of the stratum, as seen in Ps. PaUasii, and also in Carnivora, where the rudimentary clavicle is found in the deeper part of the septum between the trapezius and the deltoid. It has not unfrequently connections with the muscles of the subjacent stratum—the subclavius and the sterno- and omo-hyoids. It is extended between two cartilage bones, of which one (the sternum) is in a deep level. According to Gregenbaur, it is not without claim to a cartilaginous origin itself at one part; and it has a cartilaginous epiphysis. In short, it appears to afford an example of remarkable blending of the superficial membranous and the deeper cartilaginous ossifications, the former preponderating from a very early period, and in some instances, probably, constituting the only basis of the bone. ^ Tho sartorius sometimes (Hippopotamus) runs down the middle of the dorsal aspect of the thigh, over the patella, and is lost there. In the Heron it