** ^ -I' 62 UROMASTIX SPINIPES. answering to Poupart’s ligament, between the pubic and the iliac spines. This tendinous arch is, behind, continued into the tissue covering the muscles of the thigh. One of these, answei-ing apparently to the sartorim, takes origin from it and passes down over the inner side of the fore part of the knee. A muscle, which appears to be the quadratus lumborum, is attached to the anterior and deeper surface of this archh The septa in the rectus abdominis are very wide; and the intervening muscular bundles extend somewhat irregularly into them, reminding us of the septa and muscular fibres in the hinder part of the Tadpole’s tail (see p. 112). Towards the lateral region of the abdomen the muscular fibres encroach more upon the septa, and finally obliterate them and, acquiring an oblique direction, foi’m the obliquus externus, which is thus seen to be continuous with the rectus. It covers the lateral region of the abdomen. Radiating from the pubic spine, deeper than the rectus, inwards and forwards, is a large thick pyramidalis, resembling that muscle in Bats and Marsupials. Its fibres meet those of the corresponding muscle of the opposite side, the hindmost being nearly transvei*se; and the foremost, directed forwards and inwards, extend about one- third of the distance to the sternum. Laterally, it is continuous with a delicate sheet the fibres of which are directed forwards and inwards and constitute the internal oblique®. The dissection of the submaxillary region, in relation especially to the morphology of the digastHcus, is very interesting. A broad muscle—a hyo-mental—is continued forwards from the hyoid. It very soon divides. The outer portion is inserted into the side of the mandible, just in front of the masseter, and i-epresents evidently the anterior portion of the digastricus. The inner portion is continued forwards to the mental part of the mandible, and represents the genio-hyoid. Deeper than these is the genio-hyo-glossus. The sterno- hyoid is easily sejoai’ated into two layers. Both are connected, behind, with the episternum and clavicle in a deeper level than the stemo-mastoid, and, in front, with the hyoid. The superficial of the two layers is in the plane of the digastric and genio-hyoid, which appear, therefore, to be a continuation of it, though the con- nection is broken by the hyoid taking the place of the inscription between them. The subcutaneous muscle of the neck [subcutaneus colli) is in two sheets. The superficial is composed of transverse fibres (transversalis 1 This connection of the sartorius and the quadra tus lumborum with the tendi- nous arch, and so with one another, may be associated with the fact that the sartorius in Orycteropus (Journ. of Anat. ii. 311) extends over the iliacus and the quadratus lumborum as far as the ribs. 2 There is no diaphragm; but the deep pigmentary stain of the lining membrane of the visceral cavity terminates in a line nearly corresponding in position with the line of attachment of the mammalian diaphragm; and, in the upper or dorsal part of the visceral cavity, in this line, a fold of the membrane projects as a mesentery to the oviducts. The hinder layer of this fold is deeply stained like the rest of the abdominal portion. The anterior layer is less deeply stained and, so, resembles the thoracic portion.