104 MUSCLES OF THE GLASS-SNAKE. t *»' scapula; thirdly, of a narrower longer bundle from tlie mesial’ part of the third rib to the hinder edge of the coracoid near the sternum and to the sternum. It passes on also over the coracoid to the clavicle. Fourthly, a long thin band is attached to the coracoid. It runs nearly straight backwards over about a dozen ribs and, finally, blends with the intercostals. Of these, the first two appear to belong to the ‘ serratus ’ group, and. the last two to the ‘ costo-coracoid ’ group. The absence of a limb precludes the opportunity of ascertaining whether the nerves to the limb pass, as they usually do, between the two groups\ The levator scapulae is a continuation of this plane onwards from the anterior edge of the upper part of the scapula, beneath the trapezius, to the transverse process of the first cervical vertebrjB. A sterno-hyoideus profundus (Fiirbringer) passes from the anterior edge of the sternum to the hyoid. It is not distinctly continuous with any of the preceding. It is interrupted by the clavicle; and the hinder part of it is called episterno-clavi- cidaris by Fiirbringer. A few fibres passing from the sternum to the coracoid constitute a sterno-coracoideus. Sterno-costalis {triangidaris sterni) radiates, from a tendinous attachment to the hinder surface of the sternum, upon the deeper surface of several of the foremost ribs: it is in the stratum of the transversalis. There is no trace of diaphragm. Scaleni are continuations forwards of the muscles between and upon the ribs to the cervical transverse processes. One slip reaches the lateral part of the occipital. Latissimus dorsi {trapezius of Fiirbringer) is small and thin, arising from the spines of five or six vertebrae behind the girdle. It is in the same plane with the trapezius but does not reach it. Its fibres converge; and the flat muscle formed by them passes over the dorsal surface of the scapula, lying upon the scapular cartilage but deriving no fibres from it, and is inserted into the hinder edge of the clavicle. Near the scapula it is joined by a bundle from the rectus abdominis, which is a serial continuation of the bundles passing, from the lateral part of the rectus, to the ribs near the vertebra3. 1 Nos. 2 and 3 are described by iUidinger as Fcctoralis minor, by Fiirbringer as sterno-costo scapularis.