28 THE CRYPTOBRANCH. lower fibres have a slight inclination upwards, crossing behind the upper. Tarso-metatarsales (Fig. 12) are a series of short thick mus- cles passing from the under surface of the distal row of tarsal bones to the under surface of the metatarsals near the base. Each, like the flexors of the digits, divides into three, but the lateral portions are rather more prolonged upon the metatarsals than are the middle portions. In digit I. the middle portion is wanting, and the laterals are very delicate In digit v. the di- vision into three parts is scarcely to be made out. Metacarpo-phalangei (Fig. 12) arise from the under surface of the metacarpals near the insertion of the middle portions of the tarso-metatarsals, and in some instances are continuous with them. They are present in all the digits, and are inserted into the bases of the proximal phalanges, close to, and blended with, the tendons of the flexor digitorum longiis inserted at the same parts. Phalangei (Fig. 12) are present only in digits HI. and IV. (the digits with three phalanges). They arise from the under surface of the proximal phalanges, and are inserted into the bases of the second phalanges blending with the parts of the tendons of the flexor digitorum sublimis which are attached here. There is a slight thickening In the tendons as they pass under the joints suggestive of a sesamoid body. In higher animals the phalangei are absent, and the interossei (p. 30), the tarso-metatarsales, and the metatarso-phalangei are blended in the short flexors and interossei. Adductor minimi digiti is a piece of the flexor mass extend- ing from the lower end of the fibula to the fibular side of the tarsus and the base of met. V. Dorsal Muscles of Leg and Foot. The muscles on the dorsal aspect of the leg and foot form a supinato-extensor mass corresponding antagonistically with the pronato-flexor mass on the plantar aspect, and, like it, consist- ing of a superficial and a deep stratum. There is however a less amount of muscular substance, and less complexity in its disposition and subdivision.