118 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. to meet their several requirements, which vary in different ani- mals, and which lead to almost infinite diversities in the dispo- sition of the several parts of the muscle. The ventral muscle, and this is important, not unfrequently over- laps the dorsal muscle. Such is described by Muller to be the case in Bdellostoma^; and superficial fibres or sti’ata of it are often pro- longed into the tissue over the dorsal muscle, so reaching the dor-sal spines, or ai’e continued as distinct muscles to this region (see pp. 13, 72, and Fig. 24). This occurs especially towards the fore part of the trunk, aud is exemplified particularly in Snakes (Fig. 44); and this extension contributes to the formation of the superficial muscles of the neck, throat and face, as well as to those of the limb-girdle and limb. While the superficial strata of the ventral muscle thus overlap the dorsal muscle, and reach to the dorsal median line, the deeper strata, as represented by the intercostals and the ribs, are commonly, to some extent, overlapped by it; so that the lateral margin of the dorsal muscle is received between the layers of the ventral muscle. In the simplest condition, as in the ordinary teleostean fish, the ventral muscle does not undergo much change in its dif- ferent parts. The two fascial ha3mal plates, as has just been shewn, which line the apposed sides of the ventral muscle, in some parts of the tail coalesce beneath the hsemal spines, and form a median osseo-membranous septum, extending from the hsemal spines to the skin. At other parts they are sepa- rated by the caudal or anal fins. At the foremost part of the tail they are also separated; and the commencement of the visceral space exists between them, but walled off from the hsemal space by the hsemal arches still bridging over the latter. Further forward the separation is greater, the osseous hsemal arches disappear, the hsemal and visceral cavities are laid into one, or are divided only by membrane. The ventral muscles of the two sides are pushed asunder; and the separated mem- branous hsemal plates which line them are named the fascia transversalis. Ossifications in the inner parts of the transverse septa which pass from the fascia transversalis, through the late- ral muscle, to the external fascia and the skin, form the ribs. 1 Abhandl. der A lead. Berlin, 1834, s. 245. It may be observed also that in Bdellostoma {l.c, p. 246<) the superficial fibres of the ventral muscle, in the interval between the head and the hinder opening of the gills, cross the median line and are continued from either side upon the sm-face of the ventral muscle of the opposite side, where they are lost in the superficial fascia. This, however, is quite exceptional.