77 MUSCLES OF LEPIDOSIREN. A suspensorium; while the portion which, in Cryptohranch and many others, arises from the dorsal fascia and the cervical spines is probably represented, in Lepidosiren, by some of the fibres of the levator operculi and of the supra-branchial (tra- pezius) muscles. One or two points deserve attention here. First, the mode in which the superficial and the deep strata of the dorsal and of the ven- tral muscle are blended, rendering it difficult or impossible to say where the one begins and the other ends, or to refer precisely the respective muscles to the one or the other. This blending seems, on the whole, to result from an extension of the ventral upon the dorsal stratum; and we find the same thing often occurring, behind the fore limb, in the spreading of the latissimus dorsi towards, or to, the verte- bral spines. Secondly, the superficial and the deep strata, ventral and dorsal, are blended respectively in the ventral and dorsal muscles be- hind ; both strata may contribute to the formation of the same muscle, as we shall presently find in the case of the temporal muscle. Thirdly, the superficial pre- and supra-branchial stratum which we have been considering as a derivative chiefly from the ventral muscle, presents itself in Lepidosiren in a simple, but from its connections very sug- gestive form, warranting, I think, the view I have taken that it is the representative, not only of the trapezius and sterno-mastoid, but of the numerous other muscles segmented in different ways in different animals, and passing upon the shoulder, the neck, the branchial apparatus and the jaw, so as to meet their vai-ied requirements. Fourthly, it is interesting to note, in connection with the relation of the superficial strata of the lateral muscle in other parts and other animals to the so-called membrane bones, that the superhcial stratum of the dorsal muscle is in Lepidosiren blended with the periosteum of the membrane bones of the upper and anterior regions of the skull. Further, some of these bones partially enclose the eye and form the orbit, from which, or its periosteum, the muscles of the eye arise. The ocular muscles in Lepidosiren surround the optic nerve. They may be clearly distinguished as four recti muscles of which the external is the largest; they are distinctly traceable to the peri- osteum in which, as just said, the dorsal stratum ends; and they are thus brought into continuity with the superficial stratum of the dorsal muscle and shewn to be derivatives from, or prolongations of, this part of the great lateral muscle. The reflection of the superficial stratum brings into view the DEEP DORSAL STRATUM which is thick and composed of fibres passing forwards to the skull. A partially segmented conical portion of it, commencing about the third vertebra, and expanding as it advances forwards, forms the temporal muscle (Fig. 25, T). It passes over the suspensorium, filling