176 MUSCLES IN VERTEDRATE ANIMALS. the muscular mass becomes absorbed by the ele\ ator of the heel, and iu the fore limb it becomes absorbed in the flexoi-s of the digits. Not only does the superficial flexor of the digits in the fore limb absorb nearly all the elements of the middle sector, and push the palmaris 1. (the representative of the middle or superficial part of the gastrocnemius, including the caudo- pedal) nearly or quite out of the field; but it not unfrequently happens that it in turn gives place, in great measure, to the deep flexor. Thus it may be reduced (Hatteria), much like its homologue in the hind limb of Man, to a mere thin muscle, arising near the wrist from a ligament extended between the os pisiforme and the os naviculare, or (Unau) it may be a mere slip from the deep flexor, or it may (Phoca) be im- perfectly segmented from the palmaris^. As a prelude to further analysing and reducing the pro- nato-flexor masses and entering upon the consideration of their deeper strata, we must remember the numerous skeletal moveable parts in the distal region of each limb, and must conceive an unsegmented chaotic muscular mass passing from above downwards, and dropping fibres upon and deriving ^ In Carnivora, where it is usually small and often imperfectly segmented from the 2)al»utris, the superficial fibres of its tendons commonly blend with the palmar fascia and pass into the pads and tlie skin ; and the deeper fibres fonn the perforated tendons to the phalanges. In the hind limbs of a Dog and of a Cat some of these fibres to the pad were derived from the pro/, and passed between the tendons of the Jl. subl. Delicate muscular slips also passed from the deep to the superficial flexor tendons in the sole of these animals. In Jerboa the Jlcx. subl. passes to the three middle digits only; the other digits (i and v) receiving delicate muscular superficial flexors from the supernumerary car- pal ossicle which is present in that animal. These, like the same muscular Hatteria, remind us of the usual disposition of the Jl. subl. in the hind limb. In Guinea Pig the superficial flexor sends the greater part of its tendon to join the Jl. prof. The superficial flexor to digit v. is formed on the radial side by a tendon from Ji. pro/, and on the ulnar side by a small muscle arising from the palmar fascia. In short, the varieties in the segmentation of these muscles are very numerous. In the Heron and some other birds, the Ji. cl. s. is little more than a tendon passing, from the int. condyle and the cuneiform bone, to the fascia and the proximal irhalanx (it passes to the second phalanx in the Swan). In the Jackdaw it is a muscular slip from the Jle.vor carpi ulnaris. In the Rook it is a separate small muscle arising by a tendon from the int. condyle and passing partly into the //. c. u. and partly to the proximal phalanx of the digit. See varieties iu disposition and relations between the deep and superficial strata, Journ. Anat. iv. 4J. In Manis the superficial flexor passes to the pollex and is continuous above with the latissimus dorsi.