99 MUSCLES OF THE CERATODUS. £ Fig. 36. The pelvis and fin with part of the lateral muscle. P, the prepnbic cartilage. Gl., the dorsal muscle from pelvis to fin, and Gl.', the accession to it from the ventral muscle. The latter has been divided and reflected to shew PL, the plantar muscle firom the pelvis to the fin, and PL', the accession to it from the caudal part of the ventral muscle. Fig. 37. Dissection of the deeper muscles in the under-surface of the throat. V, the ventral, or brachio-cephalic part of the ventral muscle. S. F., su^^erficial fascia passing over C, the coracoid to S, the symphysis of the mandible. C.s.s., cervicalis superficialis superior inserted into, S. o., the sub-operculum. S. o. c., the sub- opercular cartilage. C. h., the cerato-hyal, and M, the mandible. C. II., the coraco-hyoid inserted into G. h., the glosso hyal, and B. h., the basi-hyal. G. c., the genio-coracoid of the right side. G.c ., the genio-coracoid of the left side turned back in its middle and hinder part. C. Br., coraco-brachial. Fig. 38 shews the connection of the fore part of the ventral or brachio-cephalic muscular mass, and its septa with the coracoid. C. C., the coracoid cartilage. C, the epicoracoid bone. The muscular fibres have been left near the middle line, but dissected away more laterally to shew the septa which here slant, from the surface, back- wards and inwards. The foremost septum is continued into the coracoid. The next has the peculiar rib-bone, R, projecting into it. It is continued into that bone. G.Br., the coraco-brachial muscle extending from the girdle, beneath the joint with the fin, upon the ventral surface of the fin. S. Br., scapulo-brachial muscle extending fi’om the girdle, above the joint with the fin, upon the dorsal surface of the fin. NOTES ON THE MUSCLES OF THE GLASS-SNAKE. Pseudopus Pallasii h The hind-limb is a mere slight scaly projection from the margin of the ventral articular plate, where the latter is being rounded off to form the anterior wall of the cloaca. The pelvic girdle is attached, above, to the transverse process of one vertebral ^ This animal was dissected for me by Mr Anningsori. ® The ilium extends a little above the transverse process; and the inner : side of the ilium is applied upon the extremity of the transverse process (the i second behind the last rib); a ball and socket is formed, the round end of the 11 transverse process being received in a shallow socket in the ilium ; and there is a synovial cavity with a thick surrounding capsule. The arrangement permits \' the lower ends of the two pelvic bones to swing backwards and forwards upon an I axis traversing the transverse processes of the two sides. This movement is 7—2 1