MUSCLES IN VERTEBIIATE ANIMALS. 1 See my Obs. on the Limbs of Vertebrate Animals, p. 16. 14() variation in the muscles passing between this part of the body and the pelvis and hind limb. The second great feature of difference is the difference in the rotation of the two limbs; the dorsal surface of the thigh and knee being directed forwards, while that of the arm and elbow is directed backwards\ In the hind limb the leg and foot are involved in the same rotation as the thigh and knee. But the forearm and hand undergo a rotation in a different direction to that of the arm by means of the proation of the radius; so that the dorsal surface of the hand is directed the same way as the dorsal surface of the foot. The effect of these rotations is that the radial—or pre-axial—edge of the humerus looks outwards, and the tibial—or pre-axial—edge of the femur looks inwards. This leads to a difference in the insertion of some of the otherwise homologous muscles at the upper ends of the two bones, for instance, the radial tubercle of the hume- rus presenting on the outer side of the limb, receives the mus- cles from the dorsal aspect of the scapula and exceeds the ulnar tubercle in size; whereas the fibular tubercle of the femur rises into strong relief beneath the dorsum of the ilium, and receives the muscles which arise from that surface and exceeds the tibial tubercle in size. I may observe that such a variation in the locality of the inser- tion of corresponding tendons in the two limbs, and indeed in the same limb in different animals, is by no means uncommon. It is seen in the instances of the extensor muscles of the leg and forearm, in the extensores carpi radiales, the biceps brachii, latissimus dorsi, &c. Too much importance has, I think, been attached to the insertion of a muscle as a guide to its homology : and the statement that the inser- tion is more to be depended upon, in this respect, than the origin is scarcely supported by observation. We have already (p. 139) traced the ventro-appendicular muscles from the ventral muscle to the limbs, and pointed out their serial homological relations. It remains to follow them upon the limbs. Normally, or primitively, they spread, as in Lepidosiren, and less distinctly in Ceratodus, over the whole surface of each limb, forming an outermost muscular cover- ing of the limb; and they are still seen to expand upon the dis- tal segments in many even of the higher animals, especially in