123 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. and posterior surfaces of both those diaphragms and reaches and is continued upon the alimentary tnbe^. From the anterior surface of the levator ani it is reflected upon the rectum and tlie bladder; and from the posterior surface it is continued to the integuments of the anus and the superficial fascia of the perineum. The part of the internal fascia behind the gathering-in of the levator ani forms the true pelvic fascia lininof the obturator muscle; and it is stretched beneath the pubes as the triangular ligament. The part of the internal fascia in front of the diaphragm lines the intercostals and the ribs and is gathered in, in front of the first rib, as the precardiac diaphragm, or the deep cervical fascia, between the thoracic and the cervical regions. The internal fascia is also continued upon the inner surface of the cremasteric projection of the transversalis muscle, forming what is called the fascia propria of the spermatic cord. Just in front of the pubes, in Man and some other animals, the internal fascia is separated from the transver- salis muscle which there passes with the internal oblique in front of the rectus. The MIDDLE—the internal oblique—STRATUM is the most persistently intra-skeletal of the three strata of the ventral muscle; and the intermuscular septa traversing it are, in many places, solidified by conversion into cartilage and bone. Thus, the ribs and sternum, the limb-girdles and the hyoid are deve- loped in it, and chiefly in its inner layers, though they may, and occasionally do, the limb-girdles more particularly, grow through the other strata and come into contact with the fascia transver- salis, on the one side, and with the skin, or the fascia superfici- alis, on the other. In the abdomen this stratum forms the internal oblique, the quadratus lumborum‘\ the rectus^ and the pyramidalis^. The ^ In Fishes these diaphragms are chiefly formed, so far as they are repre- sented at all, by the fascia alone. The sheet passing upon the bowel near the anus represented in Lepidosiren (Fig. 23) is the only representative of the pelvic diaphragm. The post-cardiac diaphragm is wanting in Saurians as well as Ophidians (Stannius, 105). In some birds, as Apteryx, it is well developed in its crural, or vertebral, and costal parts, but is deficient in front, where the heart projects through it. 2 This muscle is Carefully described by Carus, Beitrage zur vergleichend. Muskellehre, Zeitschrift fur Zoologie, III. He regards it as part of the ventro- lateral system; he says it is absent in Birds, but present in Chelonians, Ophi-