26 THE CRYPTOBRANCH. close proximity with the tarsus. As it expands beneath the distal row of tarsal cartilages to reach the digits on the tibial side, it crosses the insertion of the pronator pedis into those cartilages, and itself acquires a connection with the cartilages, sending some fibres to them and deriving some fibres from them, and some of its fibres are here blended with those of the pronator pedis. In Menopoma (Fig. 13) the interruption by the projecting tarsal cartilage is more complete than in Cryptobranch; so that the long band descending the leg is inserted there, or nearly so, and short muscles to the digits take their origin there. It seems not impro- bable that the flexor profundus is compounded of detachments from short flexor muscles arising from the tarsus with a detachment from the pronator pedis inserted into the tarsus ; and may it not be that the fibrous mass, or sesamoid ossicle so commonly found in the tendon of this flexor and in its homologue of the fore limb, is a representative of the skeletal structure which in these animals in- tervenes between the upper and the lower parts of the muscle, and which becomes detached with the muscular fibres when the continuity of the two parts of the muscle is established ? Further, are not sesamoid ossicles in other parts similar detach- ments from the bones near which they lie? Each of its five digital bundles subdivides into three, a middle and somewhat superficial part which is inserted into the base of the proximal phalanx, and two lateral parts which are attached to the sides of the metacarpal. The subdivision, which passes to the fibular side of met. V. is thin; and the division which passes to the pollex subdivides only into two, one to the middle and the other to the fibular side of the proxi- mal phalanx. This muscle represents in the main that portion of the flexor digitorum which we usually call the flexor longus digitorum. I say in the main, because the representatives of the two parts of this stratum, which I have designated pronator pedis and flexor profundus digitorum, are, in other animals, variously blended to make up the flexor hallucis, flexor longus digitorum, and the accessorius. The arrangement of each of the divisions of the flexor suhl. digitorum resembles generally that of the divisions of the flexor profundus digitorum just described. Each (Fig. 11, n) sub- divides into three, of which the two lateral pass to the sides of the approximated ends of the metacarpal bone and the proxi-