18 THE CRYPTOBRANCH. internal oblique to the ribs, the ventral mesial line, the pre- pubic cartilage, and the sternum. Mesially, beneath the vertebral bodies, the muscle is sepa- rated from that of the opposite side by an interval in which lie longitudinal subvertebral vessels. Branches from these ves- sels pass transversely between the several vertebral bodies and the subvertebral rectus supplying both, and are continued as ‘intercostal’ and ‘lumbar’ vessels in company with the nerves, behind the intermuscular septa, between the transversalis and internal oblique. There can, I think, be little doubt that the cmm of the diaphragm in Mammals are formed by the lumbar parts of the mhvertebral rectus bending downwards on the sides of the aorta and encircling it, and that the lateral parts of the diaphragm are in like manner formed by the inflection of the lateral parts—the depressores costa/rum and transversalis parts—of the same sheet. A series of muscular fibres extending forwards to the head in the plane of, and taking the same antero-posterior direction as, those of the external and internal oblique near tlie vertebral column and forming a continuation of them, constitute the scaleni and the recti laterales. They pass between the trans- verse processes, between the ribs and between the intermuscular septa, and are separated from the rectus capitis (the anterior part of the subvertebral rectus) by the emerging nerves. MUSCLES OF THE HIND LIMB. The muscles of the hind limb are, in accordance with the chief movements of the several parts of the limb, an'anged in two series, one upon the plantar and the other upon the dorsal aspect of the limb; and in the furrows between the two, along the anterior or tibial and the posterior or fibular edges, are contained the chief blood-vessels and nerves of the limb. This at least is the case in the thigh; in the leg and foot they lie more near the middle of the dorsal and plantar aspects of the limb between the superficial and the deep strata of the muscles.