MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 115 the hjBmal plate in which, in the tail, the lateral muscle is developed becomes, in the abdomen, more expanded than it does in the Tadpole, and forms, at any rate, the ventro-lateral (K L., Fig. 31) portion of the body-wall. It is not improbable that the part in which, in the tail, the anal sub-caudal fin is developed is continued forwards into the abdomen as the mesio- ventral {M. V., Fig. 31) portion of the body-wall. Of this, how- ever, I cannot be sure, the two parts (V. L. and M. L.) being, as we might expect from their development in one continuous hgemal plate, blended into one ‘lateral’ muscleb There can, however, be little doubt that, as pointed out by me, in a paper “ on the Homology of the Mesial and Lateral Fins of Fishes,” in this Journal, Vol. v., the ventral and pectoral fins and their muscles are formed from the same serial elements as the sub- caudal or anal fins and their muscles. I will now consider, briefly, The Dorsal Muscles of the Trunk, that is, the muscles situated above the lateral septum. These, though numerous, in accordance with the number of the vertebrae that require to be moved upon one another, do not present much variety or much interest in different animals. In the-Fish the dorsal mass from which they are derived indi- cates a division into an upper or ‘mesio-dorsal’ and a lower or ‘ latero-dorsaF part. This division corresponds on the whole with that into the spinalis and longissimus dorsi and the sacro- lumbalis parts in higher animals. Such incipient longitudinal segmentation is less marked in Cryptobranch, Perennibranch, and Lepidosiren, than it usually is in Fishes. It is seen again in the Salamanders. The dorsal muscles may be arranged, as follows, in two divisions: First, those in which the fibres retain the primary antero- posterior direction and pass between corresponding parts of con- tiguous or distant vertebrae. Those connected with contiguous ^ Supposing this view to be correct, the sternal ribs and the sternum would be serial representatives, not of the hasmal processes but, of the osseous ele- ments of the subcaudal fin—the fin ray-bones—of the Fish. 8—2