45 NERVES OF HEAD. * are attached to the suspensory ligament of the hyoid and the suspensory cartilage of the jaw. ^ The close connection of these parts—angle of jaw and its suspen- sorial cartilage—with the coi’nu of the hyoid and its suspensorial ligament, together with the insertion of the digastric into the angle of the jaw and the hyoid cornu, are interesting and important in relation to the remarkable course of the digastric to the hyoid and to the jaw, in ourselves. Depressor Mandioulce arises two inches behind the head from the fascial tissue, near the middle line, beneath the subcu- taneous colli, between it and the constrictor faucium, forms a band about half an inch broad, the fibres of which converge to be inserted tendinous into the extremity of the jaw close to the preceding. THE NERVES OF THE HEAD (Fig. 20). The tough areolar tissue of the animal and the numerous -accompanying veins rendered the dissection of the nerves difficult. For an account of the nerves in the cranial cavity, I may refer to Figure 22 and the description of it. The Optic passes from the skull by a separate foramen, through the orbit, to the eye. Mr Anningson, in careful dis- section of both orbits, could not discover the third, fourth, or sixth nerves in the orbit. The third and fourth were however found in the cranial cavity very small, and are represented in Fig. 22. Schmidt, Goddard, and van der Hoeven state that the sixth is a branch from the fifth in the orbit. This we did not find. The three divisions of the fifth nerve are quite distinct. The first, or ophthalmic division, and the second, or SUPRA- M AX ILL ARY, escape from the skull by a common hole, though separated by a fibrous band. The ophthalmic is a large.nerve, crosses above the optic, gives a supra-or'hital branch, which passes to the integuments above the eye, and which, on its way, supplies nerves {ciliary) to the eye. Soon after entering the orbit, the ophthalmic de- taches a large branch which runs beneath the eye, and at the