24) THE CRYPTOBRANCH. fascial tissue in addition to the muscles above enumerated ; and this is an extension of or is continuous with the hinder portion of the external oblique between the ala of the ilium and the spine of the pubes. Plantar Muscles of Leg and Foot. Below the knee the plantar aspect of the limb is occupied by a broad thick pronato-flexor mass, extending from the femur to the ends of the toes, and with some difficulty distinguishable into parts—strata and sectors. It arises from the plantar sur- face of the fibular side of the limb, namely, from the fibular condyle of the femur, from the fibula in its -whole length and the fibular side of the tarsus, being continuous with the abduc- tor minini digiti. Superficially, it is blended with the caudo- pedal, extends over the sole and divides into five tendons, which pass to the.terminal phalanges of the five digits. De- tachments from the deeper surfaces of these tendons pass to the first and second phalanges; and still deeper parts of the muscle are inserted into, as well as arise from, the proximal and distal row of tarsal bones and the metatarsals. The chief direction of the fibres is from the fibular towards the tibial side of the limb as well as downwards. Near the surface the fibres are nearly vertical and have, in the main, a flexor action. Traced more deeply they are, for the most part, more oblique; and the deepest of all are transverse and act simply as pronators. The mass is partially divided into a superficial and a DEEP STRATUM, with the chief nerves of the back of the lea- and sole running between them. The two strata are however blended together above and still more below. The superficial stratum (Figs. 10 and 11), which is the part blended with the caudo-pedal, extends from the fibular condyle and the fibula to the ends of the digits. Its fibres have in the main a vertical direction, and exercise in the main a flexor function. It corresponds apparently with the gastro- cnemius, soleus and plantar fascia, and with the plantains and flexor brevis digitorum (the last two should be regarded as one, forming a flexor sublimis digitorum^). I will recur to the dis- 1 The terms 'sublimis' ami ‘profundus’ are greatly to bo preferred to ‘ brevis' aud ‘ longus’ in designating these flexor muscles of the digits; because,