MUSCLESi-IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 163 sacral vertebras. It lies beneath the gluteus max. bearing, at the origin, a relation to it similar to that of the teres major to the lat. d.; and the gluteal vessels and nerves pass between its anterior edge and the ilium, just as the posterior branches of the subscapular vessels and nerves pass between the anterior edge of the teres major and the scapulab Tlius the deep or girdle portion of the ventro-appendicular muscle in each limb divides itself more or less distinctly into sectors coiTespond- ing generally with, and often to some extent blended with, the sectors of the superficial stratum of the same muscle. The coraco-humerals in the fore limb, and the adductors in the hind limb, lie beneath, and are often respectively blended with, 'pectorals and the gracilis. The dorsalis scapidce, presents similar relations to the trapezio-deltoid, and the teres 'major to the latissimus dorsi; and the same may be said, though less markedly, respecting the I’elations of the other correspond- ing muscles in the hind limb, viz., of the deep glutei with the ohlv- quits, sartorius, and tensor vagince femoris, and of the pyriformis with the gluteus maximus. The Flexors and Extensors of the Forearm and Leo are in each instance formed, first, by intrinsic muscles, that is, muscles arising from the humerus and femur; secondly, by extensions of the deep ventro-appendicular stratum, that is, by muscles arising from the girdle; and, thirdly, by extensions of the superficial ventro-appendicular stratum; and the muscles from these three sources are more or less blended. In the simple limbs of Fishes they form only one unbroken layer. Some amount of segmentation takes place in most other animals; but, owing to the simple nature of the movements they effect, the complications and varieties in these muscles are not very great or numerous. The intrinsic flexors are represented by the hracliialis anticus^ ^ See reasons, in Journal of Anat. v. 85, for regarding the teres major and the pyriformis to be serially homologous. * In Hippopotamus the brack, ant. is wanting, the space on the outer side of the humerus from which it usually arises being occupied by the siqi. longus which is large, and acts as simply a flexor. It might almost be described as brack, ant. inserted into the lower two-thirds of the radius instead of, as usual, into tho ulna. Tho blending of the elements of these two into one is remarkable. The muscle winds round the back of tho humerus to the inner side, and has a broacl^ 11—2