MUSCLEa IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. .m 153 of it which represents the semitendinosus, thus giving rise to, or causing the persistence of, an inscription which I have (p. 19) supposed to represent the inscription found in that muscle in Man and some Mammals\ The only trace of serial homologue in the fore limb to the caudo-crural would be fibres of the hinder portion of the pectoral, or fibres of the oblique or rectus, joining the biceps brachii. But none of them so coalesce with that muscle as to cause an inscription in it. Both the caudo-pedal and the caudo-crural lose the trans- verse inscriptions where tliey separate from the ventral muscle in the tail; but there is in the retiring angle between the tail and the hind limb in Saurians a thick transverse fascial band, which I suppose to be an inscription between the caudal and the crural parts of these ventral, or ventro-appendicular, muscles, and which seems to correspond, antagonistically, with Poupart’s ligament, and so, serio-antagonistically, with the clavicle. Still deeper, and belonging to a deeper plane, is the caudo- femoral, which is usually present in ovipara above Fishes, and is sometimes designated agitator caudce. It is inserted into the femur, and is, in varying degrees, blended with the deep muscles of the thigh—the adductors and the semimembranosus —and sometimes with the origin of the flexors of the foot and toes, affording an interesting example of the prolongation of the deeper strata of the ventral muscle to the distal parts of the liihb. d'he caudal derivations, which form so important an element in the muscular system of the hind limb of Urodelans and some Reptiles, are present, though less strongly developed, in Birds, and are not uncommonly met with in Mammals. Thus the semitendinosus sometimes derives its chief origin from the sacrum. In the Otter and Racoon, the caudo-crural is more distinctly represented by a muscular slip derived partly from the spinous and partly from the transverse processes of the caudal vertebrae. It joins the hinder surface of the semitendi- nosus, and is prolonged with the posterior fibres of that muscle ' In some large-tailed Mammals (Cyclothurus and Manis) the semitendino/ms retains the caudal as well as the pelvic factors. I have not, however, found the inscription in any of these.