MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 130 In the abdomen the stratum is chiefly represented by the external oblique which extends upon the exterior of the thorax, and the fibres of which often blend with the fibrous tissue over the dorsal muscle. Anteriorly, it is continued, or its superficial fibres are continued, with a variable amount of interruption, into a ‘superficial brachio-cephalic’ sheet which extends to the face and head, which is distorted by encountering the fore limb and its girdle, and the fibres of which converge upon the limb, as though, like the skin, they had been pushed before it as it grew out from its girdle. Hence, opposite the limb, the fibres are directed transversely, from the ventral and dorsal mesial lines, upon the limb; whereas, before and behind, they have a more oblique or antero-posterior direction. As it advances towards the fore limb the inferior, or ventral, part of the superficial bracliio-cephalic sheet resolves itself into the pectoralis major, the fibres of which converge upon the ra- dial edge of the humerus, inclining to the plantar aspect; the superior, or dorsal, part of the sheet resolves itself into the latis- simus dorsi, the fibres of which converge upon the ulnar side of the humerus, and are often, to some extent, blended with the muscles on the dorsal aspect of the limb. I say, to some ex- tent, because the prolongations upon the middle and distal segments of the limb of both the inferior and superior parts of the sheet show an inclination to the plantar aspect, which is a consequence of the position and flexures of the limb. The two—pectoralis and lat d.—may (Lepidosiren, p. 71) be united and pass as a continuous sheet upon the radial and ulnar mar- gins and upon the intermediate, plantar or axillary, that is, the posterior aspect, of the shoulder and limb. More commonly they are separated by the axillary interval; or, connecting axil- cle, and contains therefore the elements of aU the muscles covering the under part and sides of the neck, and passing between the thorax, hyoid and jayr.^ It represents, in short, the whole of the brachio-cephalic stratum of Lepidosiren and Dog-fish,—the cervicalis profundus, that is, as well as the cervicahs super- ficiaUs and it includes therefore the factors of the sterno-mastoid and trape- zius the platysma, constrictor faucium, &c. A continuation of it backwards would represent the pectorals and latissimus dorsi as well as the serratus. Though its hinder edge seems to be marked off from the oblique, yet its con- nection and the connection of the oblique with the rectus, and the fact that the oblique’bundles cease where this more continuous expansion begins, shew that it is a serial continuation of them, of the parts of them more especially which extend upon the dorsal muscles.