103 MUSCLES OF THE GLASS-SNAKE. »■ over the cervical spines and running, forwards and downwards, to the side of the angle of the lower jaw. A little in front of the clavicle these two muscles are blended in a transverse inscription about two lines in length. This is supposed to be a representative of the acromion by Rudinger. It extends also through the subjacent stratum. The next plane, partially interrupted by attachment to the sternum and clavicle, is continued forwards. Its more mesial portion runs under the clavicle, beneath the throat, to the hyoid and lower jaw as superficial sterno-hyoid (Furbringer) and genio- hyoid, hyo-mental, and mylo-hyoid. The more lateral part—ster- no-cleido-mastoid—a flat band slightly connected on its deeper surface with the clavicle \ runs to the back of the suspensorium (squamous or mastoid). It is superficially interrupted or di- vided into two—an anterior and a posterior part—by the in- scription above mentioned. More laterally still,, that is, above the sterno-mastoid and rather on a deeper level than it, arising from the anterior edge of the upper, and scapular part of the clavicle, and on the same level with fibres of the sterno-hyoid and continuous with it, is a muscle which is called by Furbringer a part of the sterno-mastoid, but which appears to me more properly to be called trapezius. It passes forwards to be inserted into the back of the suspensorium, immediately behind the sterno- mastoid, with which it is more closely connected near the skull than it is near the girdle. These constitute the superficial brachio-cephalic STRATUM; those next described constituting the deep brachio-cephalic stratum. The thii’d, or deepest plane of the ventral muscle passing to the girdle, consists, first, of a broad muscle passing from the first rib, in nearly its whole length, to the hinder edge of the deeper surface of the scapula; secondly, of a broad bundle from the mesial part of the second rib to the hinder edge of the ^ It is rather remarkable that the clavicle in its upper or scapular part is in, that is interrupts, this plane. Whereas in its lower or sternal part it lies I beneath it, and interrupts the deepest plane of the brachio-cephalic mass. The : superficial sterno-hyoid muscle passes quite superficially with regard to the clavicle, -with the exception of a few of its lateral fibres which are continuous with the trapezius, and which are attached to the clavicle; whereas the deep sterno-hyoid is interrupted by the clavicle.