170 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. on the whole fewer and less than might have been anticipated. As a general rule each mass is divisible into a superficial and a deep stratum; and the superficial stratum is divisible into three sectors—two lateral and a median—though the division is by no means equally complete in all instances, that is to say, in some animals, as Cryptobranch, the segmentation is much less advanced than in others. It is usually less distinct in the pronator-flexor mass of the hind limb than in the several other masses. There is considerable variation in the extent to which the several masses are blended with the muscles of the \ upper segments of the limbs and with the extensions of the ventral muscles—the ventro-appendicular muscles—upon the limbs. The blending of the muscles of the upper segments is more observable on the palmar and plantar than on the dorsal aspects, because the dorsal projections of the elbow and knee commonly interrupt the continuity between the muscles above and below those joints. Pronato-flexor Masses. The superficial stratum of these in Cryptobranch is very imper- fectly segmented from the deep strata in both limbs; and in the hind limb it shows very little trace of division into sectors. In that limb it is a simple scarcely segmented mass extending from the fibular condyle and the fibular side of the limb upon the tarsus and digits. Superficially, it is continuous, through the medium of the caudo-pedal, with the superficial prolonga- tion of the ventral muscle. This connection is in Lizards main- tained only by a delicate tendon, and in higher animals does not exist; but the extensions of the gluteus and biceps axQ often sub- stituted for it. The deeper (caudo-crural and caudo-femoral) prolongations of the ventral muscle are directed chiefly to the tibial side of the limb and do not commonly connect themselves with the pronato-flexor mass. Such a connection is however, as already mentioned, established in some Lizards by the descend- ing tendon from the caudo-femoral running into the sesamoid above the fibula, from which the flexors of the foot and toes in part arise; and in some Birds there is a similar connection of the same muscle with the inner head of the gastrocnemius