98 MUSCLES OF THE CERATODUS. (serratus), which is a continuation of this stratum, to the under- surface of the scapula. A little more anteriorly and near the middle line the brachio-cephalic is inserted into the coracoid cartilage and the epicoracoid septum which quite interrupt it. In front of the coracoid it is continued as a thick muscle, but without septa, to the hyoid forming a coraco-hyoid, the repre- • ^ sentative apparently of the sterno-hyoid. The middle part is inserted into the base of the cone-shaped glosso-hyal by a flat tendon which passes beneath the basi-hyal. The fibres of its ^ lateral part, which are situated in rather a deeper level, are I inserted into the basi-hyal. j I 5 DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES OF CERATODUS : (PI. VII.). I Fig. 34. A side-view of the animal, shewing D, the dorsal, and ■- F, the ventral muscle, and the lateral septum between them. P, the styliform prepubic cartilage turned out of its median sheath, and inclined upon the left side of the ventral muscle. G, ^ cornua of pelvic cartilage. Gl., doi’sal-fin muscle passing from the I pelvis, upon the dorsal surface of the ventral fin. Gl.', accession to , dorsal-fin muscle from latei’al mxiscle. A, the anus. S. F., the J supeidicial fascia reflected from the outer-surface of the ventral B muscle. It joins (P) the transversalis fascia coming from the inner- surface of the ventral muscle. The two united are continued upon the bowel. 0., opercular bone. S. 0., sub opei’cular bone. C. s. s., cervicalis superficialis superior muscle (its supra-branchial portion) passing over gill-cover. G. Br., coraco-brachial mass passing upon the ventral aspect of the fin. S. Br., scapulo-brachial muscle passing upon the dorsal aspect of the fin. Fig. 35. A piece of the lateral muscle with one of the myotoraes dissected out to shew the sclerotome, or intermuscular septum, I. M., passing inwards and forwai’ds above and below the lateral septum to F, the fin-ray bone, and R, the rib, in which it terminates, as well as in the side of the body of the vertebra between them. R, a rib in front. The transversalis fascia is seen between the two ribs with an outer coating of tendinous fibres which slant, from above downwards (ventrally) and forwards, in a direction that is diflerent from those of the muscular fibres above them, and con-esponding with that usual in internal intercostals or depressores costarum. The cut ends of the fibres of the ventral muscular bundles are seen in front of the gap; whereas the dorsal fibres have been cleared away in the corresponding situation, and the undei'-surface of the septum next adjacent has been there exposed.