MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 148 rudimentary (Snakes), state of the- limbs, they are not seg- mented from the palmar and plantar portions of the sheet, and are not themselves longitudinally or sectorially cleft. In the fore limb there are usually two sectors of the dorsal division; one—the trapezius—converging from the dorsal a.spect of the head and of the front of the trunk, and the other—the la- tissimus dorsi—converging from behind, upon the limb. The tra- pezius sector in branchiate animals (pp. 71, 86) is interrupted and devoted to the gill apparatus, and scarcely reaches the limb. In some animals, devoid of gills (Cryptobranch), it does not extend beyond the anterior edge of the scapular and the cora- coid parts of the girdle. In others (certain Mammals) it runs on to the radial tubercle of the humerus, or to the radius, or even (Otter^) to the ulna, joining the flexors of the forearm. It usually presents an inscription as it passes over the shoulder. This inscription is the superficial part of the septum in which the girdle is formed; and, in Mammals, the anterior edge of the scapular part of the girdle, called the ‘spine’, commonly grows through the septum, so occupying the inscription, and bisecting the upper or supra-scapular part of the muscle, trans- versely, into posterior, or deltoid, and anterior, or trapezius parts. In the lower, or coracoidal, part of the septum the case is somewhat different. Sometimes the inscription {i.e. the remnant of the septum in the muscle) remains, and marks the division into trapezius and deltoid parts. Sometimes it is nearly obliterated. Sometimes it becomes ossified into a ‘cla- vicle’ or ‘ epi-coracoid’ (p. 128), the ossification being (many Carnivora) confined to the deeper tract of it and limited in extent, or extending through the thickness of the muscle, and ranging, from the acromial end of the spine of the scapula, to the sternum‘t The most important varieties, therefore, in this > In an Otter the foremost fibres of the trapezius, continued as deltoid with an intervening inscription, and accompanied by some fibres of the pectoralis, descended in front of the brachial s anticus to the ulna. 2 In Lizards the clavicle extends along the anterior edge of the scapula to its base. In Ai it is attached to the coracoid. In Fishes it is large, closely applied upon the coracoid, and meets its fellow in the middle line; but it is not certain that ossification ever extends from the coracoid into it. It seems in this respect to bear to the coracoid somewhat similar relations to those which the supra-, or better epi-, scapular bones (Parker’s supra-clavicles) bear to the scapula. I have spoken of the clavicle as an ossification in one of the muscular septa of the brachio-cephalic stratum, corresponding with the epicostals. But it should be added that it is situated at a deeper level than they, in the deeper