]^SCIAL INVESTMENT. 5 It is worth while to remark that the intervals or channels between the diverging laminae of the longitudinal septa are oc- cupied by fat, and serve as recesses for the passage of blood- vessels, which are thus arranged in four longitudinal trunks or systems—a ' dorsal,’ a ‘ ventral’ and two ‘ lateral,’ The interval in the ventral septum is thicker than in the other parts, and the fat-mass occupying it is larger and extends in upon the stunted or bifurcated haemal spines. A transverse system of blood-vessels lies upon the transverse septa; and the several transverse vessels being connected with the four longitudinal trunks form communicadions between them, and discharge their blood into them. In addition to the four fat-masses disposed with the longitu- dinal series of vessels are four deep fat-masses lying beneath the four lateral muscles, and lying therefore above and beneath the transverse processes and lateral septa. The nerves, as they pass from between the vertebrae transversely to the muscles, cross superficially with regard to these deep fat-masses. The several fat-masses serve the purpose of giving size and lightness to the tail, making it a large and, by reason of the muscles, powerful propelling organ. Each attains its maximum thickness near the middle of the tail and diminishes towards the tip. The caudal muscles therefore consist of a ‘dorsal’ and ‘ven- tral’ muscle on each side, passing from behind forwards, and transversely segmented by the membranous septa and the verte- bral processes running into it. The several parts, muscular and other, of the animal above the level of the lateral septa present but little variety in differ- ent regions of the tail, or indeed in the different regions of the animal. Accordingly the dorsal muscle extends in the simple form I have described along the whole length of the tail and indeed onwards through the abdominal and thoracic regions to the head. The parts of the animal beneath the level of the lateral septa, on the contrary, undergo various and extensive modifications in consequence of the presence of the limbs and the abdominal thoracic and cervical viscera, which are all placed in the ventral division, that is in the division of the animal beneath the plane