MUSCLES ^IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 131 lary bands, may remain as a result of imperfect segmentation b The term ‘acliselbogen’ has been applied to them. The term ‘axillary’ is that by which I will designate them. The costo-alaris {costo-anconeus) of the Bird is an interesting example of one of these ‘axillary’ muscles, being segmented from both the pectoral and the lutissimus dorsi, and passing from the ribs, between the two, near to the serratus, along the inner side of the arm, to or near the inner condyle of the humerus. In the Swan I found part of it elastic, where it occupied the hinder fold of the axilla, and traced it along the ulnar margin of the wing, and in the retiring angle beneath the carpus, to the skin and tissue binding the skit\ to the ulnar phalanges. Thus it presents interesting antagonistic homo- logical affinities to the tensor jjUcce alaris; and by its near relation to the serratus on the deeper side, and by its blending with the cutaneous muscles and the skin on the superficial side, it is an interesting relic of the primitive union of the several strata. The relation of this brachial, or hinder part, of the superficial brachio-cephalic sheet to the rest of the external oblique stratum varies a good deal. In many animals, for instance, the pectoral is a continuation of the whole thickness of the external oblique, or of the whole or great part of the rectus. In Cryptobranch it is almost entirely derived from these. In others, it is a superficial stratum only of the oblique, extending perhaps to the pubes. In others again it arises from the outer surface of the aponeurosis of the oblique; and in Hatteria it appears to arise from between its layers®. In Man it is iisually continuous with the obliqiie by means of only a few muscular fibres. In the Hippopotamus it is largely continuous with the subcutaneous muscle over the oblique ; whereas in Birds its origin is so confined to the sternum and the clavicle that we should little have thought of regarding it as an extension of the abdominal stratum, had our attention been limited to its anatomy in them. In like manner the latissimus dorsi is, in some, confined to the neural spine.s, in others extends upon the ilium; and, not unfrequently, it derives origin from the hinder ribs, where it may (Seal) meet, and be united with, the pectox’al. In the Porpoise its origin is confined to the 5th, 6th and 7th ribs®. ^ A good illustration of these axillary muscles was presented this winter by a female subject in the dissecting-room of this University. A slip from the lower edge of the pectoralis, and another from the anterior edge of the latissimus dorsi in each arm, ran through the axillary space and, meeting, were inserted together into the fascia covering the coraco-brachialis. These connecting bands are commonly large in Carnivora. They are usually formed by an extension of the latissimus dorsi, or parts of it, beneath the axilla, to the pectoral muscle and the pectoral ridge of the humerus; while another part of the lat. d. runs along the inner side of the triceps to the inner condyle forming the dorsi-epitrochlien. * Phil. Tram. 1867, p. 609. In Pteropus, Journ. Anat. in. 300, it is in three separate parts, an abdominal, a sternal, and a clavicular. ® The variation in the mode in which cleavage of strata may take place is illustrated by the fact, that in Birds and Reptiles the lat. d. usually overlaps the 9—2