164 MUSCLES IN VERTEBEATE ANIMALS. in the fore limb, and by the short portion of the hiceps —the femoro-fibular—in the hind limb. The latter is sometimes inserted low down in the leg (Cryptobranch and Cyclothurus)’. In other cases it meets and blends with the hicep>s flexor cruris, and is called the ‘short’ or ‘femoral head of the biceps.’ It is not unfrequently wanting. Both these are usually in- serted into the post-axial bones of the limb—the ulna and fibula. The intrinsic dorsal or extensor muscles are repre- sented by the parts of the triceps and of the quadriceps which arise from the humerus and the femur. They, in the fore limb, usually converge to the ulna and, in the hind limb, to the tibia. The deep ventro-appendicular flexor—the flexor derived from the girdle—in the fore limb is the hiceps, which presents variable degrees of continuity with, and segmentation from, the brachialis anticus, and which is further brought into continuity with the intrinsic series by means of muscular derivations from the humerus in the Bird, and not uncommonly, in other animals, including Man in whom they occur as a variety. These are generally from the ulnar side of the humerus; while the hrachi- alis anticus extends chiefly from the radial side, between the deltoid and the triceps. The coracoid origin of the hiceps and its relation to the coraco-humeral muscles have been already (p. 155) described. Those relations were found to be very close in Cryptobranch (p. 83), and they shew the hiceps to be an inter- mediate between the coraco-humerals and the hrachialis anticus, continuous with either or both, and uniting them into one group, which extends from the coracoid, along the ulnar and palmar surface of the humerus, to the radius and ulna^. When the coracoid reaches to the sternum the origin of the hiceps is broad, expanding, fan-like, as it ascends; and sometimes origin beneath the inner tubercle. It thus dwarfs both of the humeral origins of the triceps. It is supplied by the radial neiwe. 1 Journ. Anat. vi. 22 and iv. 56. 2 They are all usually supphed by one nerve—the musculo-cutaneous—which is the homologue of the coracoid nerve of Reptiles, and the serial homologue of the obturator nerve. The brachialis anticus is sometimes (Pteropus) found to be in direct continuity with the coraco-humeral. In Seine the biceps de- rives two factors from the humerus, which occupy the position of the brachialis anticus. They are so named by Eiidinger, see p. 35, and Journ. Anat. ii. 301, III. 303, IV. 37.