MUSCLES OF THE CERATODUS. 95 s manner as the muscles of the median fin of the body and tail are segmented from the adjacent parts of the lateral muscle, but less distinctly. Towards the extremity of the fin the distinction between the two sets becomes less marked; and, at last, the middle set of fibres are continued without interruption to the edge of the fin (Fig. 34). This similarity in the construction of this almost uniquely bipinnate fin or paddle and in the arrangement of its muscles, to the construction of the tail and to the arrangement of the muscles of the tail, is highly interesting. It is strongly confirmatory of the view I have formed, from the dissection of this animal and Lepidosiren, that the muscles of the mesial fin are derivations from the lateral muscles, present- ing varying degrees of continuity with, or segmentation and separation from, them. The muscle on the dorsal surface of the fin is not derived entirely from the girdle. It receives a direct accession from the lateral muscle in the form of fibres which converge, from several of the segments of the lateral muscle, upon the fin, and which blend in one of the septa of the fin-muscle (Fig. 34, G'l.). Of these fibres the foremost, running parallel or nearly so with those of the lateral muscle, are continued uninterruptedly into them. The hinder fibres, crossing that muscle more at an angle, are segmented from it, lie upon its surface, and are with- out difiiculty dissected from it, affording, like the corresponding muscle in the Dog-fish (p. 88, Fig. 30), another illustration of gradual segmentation in consequence of increasing difference of direction. The accession to the dorsal fin-nruscle represents not uncertainly the sheet of the ventral muscle extending upon the dorsal aspect of the coiTesponding limb in higher animals, which may be partially or wholly interrupted by the ilium growing through it, and which becomes more or less segmented into sartorius, tensor vaginae femoris, and gluteus. The part of the muscle derived from the pelvis repre- sents the deeper glutei, &c. In like manner the muscle on the ventral aspect of the fin is not derived altogether from the plantar and internal or mesial portion of the sub-pelvic mass just described. It is joined by bundles of fibres from the deep surface of the hinder or ischi- atic part of the pelvis; and, moreover, some of the fibres from