now copious literature of the subject so much as I could have wished. ON THE DISPOSITION OF MUSCLES IN VERTE- BRATE ANIMALS. The locomotory system of a vertebrate animal consists, funda- mentally, of a successional series of alternating transverse skeletal and muscular planes which extend nearly through the outer wall of the animal. I say nearly through, for in and around the axial line, and in the immediate mesial plane, this alternation does not exist. The skeletal elements here form a continuous structure composed, in the axial line, during the early fcetal state, and persistently in the Lancelet, of a simple cartilaginous notochordal streak, but usually, at a later period, of cartilaginous or osseous pieces articulated directly together or connected by ligamentous material. This vertebral column extends throughout the whole length of the animal; and cartilaginous or osseous processes run out from it, or in con- nection with it, more or less transve7’sely, and serve as levers to aid the muscles besides fulfilling other purposes. It is obvious, however, that these processes must, in proportion to their length and unyielding character, limit the range of movement of the axial pieces upon one another and so lessen the flexibility of the animal. Accordingly, in the circumfer- ential regions, especially in the directions in which move- ment is most required, the skeletal parts are not osseous or even cartilaginous, but are membranous and composed of fibrous plates extending from the axial osseous or cartilaginous stmctures to the skin. This may be the case throughout the whole of the muscular stratum as in the Lancelet, where the membranous septa extend from the skin down to the noto- chordal sheath and blend with it. The muscular planes occupy the intervals between the osseous processes and between the fibrous plates, the latter being continuous with the osseous axial pieces and their processes. ^ The anatomical points mentioned in this paper, unless otherwise specified, are all from notes, published in the Journ. of Anat., or in manuscript, of dissec- tions made by Mr Anningson or myself. I have not been able to investigate the