MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. ■119 The latter thus correspond serially, or nearly so, to the haemal spines, split and pressed asunder, and to the sides of the haemal arches. If an interval is left between the ribs and the trans- versalis fascia, in wdiich muscle is developed, it constitutes the transversalis muscle, or it may constitute the levatores, or, more commonly, the depressores costarum, according to its position and when this muscular sheet extends beneath the bodies of the vertebrae it constitutes the siihvertehral rectus (p. 11). The mesiab edges of the ventral muscles, inferior]y, are se- parated and covered by fascia transversalis continued round each into the external fascia. Behind, there is an interval be- tween the contiguous edges of the ventral muscle, thus covered by fascia, which permits the passage of the alimentary tube to the anus. A layer of the fascia (Fig. 23, G) accompanies the tube and binds it to the skin; and some muscular fibres may be developed around it forming a sphincter. In front of the anus the pelvic bones lie between the fascia transversalis and the ventral muscle, or in the substance of the de.eper layers of the ventral muscle, in the same plane, that is, as the ribs. The fins project between the mesial edges of the ventral muscle; but marginal portions, or (Bream) a larger amount of the deep stratum, of that muscle are attached to the pelvic bones, constituting a ^retractor’ or ^protractor;’ and more superficial portions constitute what are sometimes called ‘carinales’ muscles. In some Fishes (Ceratodus) portions of the ventral muscle extend upon both surfaces of the fin. The pectoral fin projects at a more lateral point; and the ventral muscle is attached more largely to its girdle which, like the pelvic bones, occupies the same relative position, with reference to the thickness of the abdominal wall, as the ribs. From it the ventral muscle is continued forwards to the hyoid and the head. ^ In the Bream, Dace, and some other Fish, there is a sheet of muscular fibres passing from the vertebrae forwards and downwards internal to the ribs, that is, taking a direction corresponding to the internal intercostals and sub- costals of mammals, and to the internal intercostals, depressores costarum and transversaUs of Gryptobranch. In Ceratodus (p. 92) I have described tendinous fibres taking the same direction. Some are attached to the ribs nearest to their point of origin, others to more distant ribs. The nerves are external to this sheet. Towards the fore part of the body of the Dace fibrous bands take the place of these subcostals.