MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 133 0- latei'al line; and it commonly extends, in a muscular form, be- yond the lateral line, to the dorsal median line. Anteriorly, it is connected with the whole circumference of the skull, and sends superficial prolongations over it. It is well exhibited in Lepidosiren (Figs. 24 and 26), Dog-fish (Figs. 28 and 29), and Ceratodus (Figs. 34 and 37), and I have named the ventral part of it, lying beneath the level of the gills, cervicalis super- Jicialis inferior (G. s. ^.), and the dorsal part of it, lying above the level of the gills, cervicalis superficialis superior {C. s. s.). These two parts are, however, continuous upon and above the gill-cover; and the superior or dorsal portion {C. s. s.) seems rather to be an extension from the inferior or ventral portion (C. s. i.), just as the ventral and dorsal portions of the post- brachial part of the same stratum are often continuous, and the latter seems to be an extension from the former. In animals like those just mentioned, where there are gills with the attendant opercular structures, the cervicalis superficialis is but a thin expansion, and does not present any distinct segmentation beyond that—often not very dis- tinct, into levatores, depressores, &c, arcuum—which is requisite for the movements of the branchial apparatus. Where, how- ever, the gills are abortive it acquires increased thickness and is stratified and segmented, A superficial layer forms the suhcutaneus colli or platys- ma which covers the neck and is prolonged forwards upon the face and head, where it blends with and is continued into the facial muscles, the auricular muscles and the occipito- frontalis. It is prolonged backwards upon the thorax and fore limb to an indefinite extent, blending with the hrachio- lateral and, like it, finding its way to the osseous structures of the limb. As in the case of the brachio-lateral, portions of it may blend with, or supplant, segments of the subjacent' layer. In some instances it is continuous with the trapezius; and in Pteropus it takes the place of the cervical portion of that muscle*. A remarkable detachment from between its dorsal and its ventral ^ Macalister finds that the muscle, which thus in Bats supplants the cervical part of the trapezim, is supplied not by the spinal accessory, but by cervical, nerves and the seventh nerve.