67 MUSCLES OF LEPIDOSIREN. enclosed in the interval between the superficial and deep fascial lainince of the two sides, in the same manner as the dorsal, ventral and lateral fat masses in Cryptobranch (p. 5). There is however this difference, that the fat masses in Cryptobranch occupy continuous channels which are not broken or subdivided by the transverse septa extending into or across them; whereas the channel for the mesial fin of Lepidosiren is, in the line of each fin-ray, interrupted by the transverse septa of the lateral muscles of the two sides, extending through and transversely subdividing the fin-muscles and joining and blending with the fin-ray. The same disposition is observable in other fishes and is illustrated by Ceratodus (see p. 93). In the case of the pectoral and ventral fins the fascia is continued beneath the skin upon the muscular covering of the fins. The INTERNAL or 'TRANSVERSALis’ FASCIA, lining the abdo- minal space and closely applied to the ribs, is distinct and strong. It is particularly strong in the region corresponding with that of the depressores costarum of other animals. A thin layer of it bends inwards upon the oesophagus, behind the peri- cardium, forming a rudimentary post-cardiac diaphragm. The fascia itself, or the greater part of the thickness of it, passes upon and is closely connected with the pericardium, and is, with the pericardium, attached strongly to the hinder and inner surface of the coracoid arch inferiorly. Superiorly it is thinner, and is accompanied upon the front of the pericardium by a distinct detachment of fibres from the internal surface of the ventral muscle, which thus forms a precardiac or post-branchial musculo-fascial diaphragm. Internally, the transversalis fascia is, in the greater part of its extent, in contact with the peri- toneum. Externally, it lines the ventral muscle and is con- nected with the external fascia by the intermuscular septa passing obliquely between them. Inferiorly, it passes beneath the edge of the ventral muscle and blends, as just stated, with the external fascia. Behind the pelvis it forms a sheath upon the bowel passing to the anus. (Eig. 23, G.) The Ventral Muscle presents nothing remarkable in the tail. In the abdominal region, in about the middle third of the space between the lateral septum and the ventral mesial line 5—2