MUSCLES OF THE SMOOTH DOG-FISH. 84 verted angles formed by the ventral septa. It has a defined edge and is easily separated from the lateral portion, there being a distinct, though delicate, layer of areolar tissue between the two. This at least is true as regards the muscular fibres, which in both portions are throughout directed antero-posteriorly. The intermuscular septa are, however, continuous and hold the two portions in close relation with each other; and behind, near the ventral fin, the two are blended in the common ventral muscle. In the drawing the middle portion is shown partially reflected; and the subjacent lateral portion is seen in shade. The median portion, which corresponds with the brachio- cephalic portion of the lateral muscle, superficial 'and deep, of Lepidosiren (p. 70), increases in breadth and distinctness as it advances forwards, and is inserted into nearly the whole length of the shoulder-girdle and into the fin. A little behind the fin it gives off a superficial stratum, which, however, is much less segmented from the deep stratum than is the corresponding structure in Lepidosiren. The upper portion of this stratum, representing the latissimus dorsi {L. d), is inserted into the scapular part of the girdle, and expands upon the dorsal surface of the root of the fin reaching to its anterior edge. Upon the fin it lies upon, and to some extent blends with, the proper muscle *of the fin. In the drawing it is represented as partly reflected from the fin-muscle. The lower portion of the stratum, representing the pectoralis (P), is inserted into the coracoid part of the girdle, and extends slightly upon the under or ven- tral surface of the fin, becoming, in some measure, blended with the proper muscle of the fin. An intermediate or axillary por- tion of the stratum forms a furrow, in which the edge of the fin is received. It is inserted into the girdle and into the fin, be- hind the joint of the fin with the girdle. I may here remark that the upper or scapular end of the girdle is prolonged into a pointed process, which runs over the lateral septum and projects in between the fibres of the dorsal muscle, where it terminates in a ligament which is lost in one of the transverse septa, not far from the lateral septum. I do not, however, find that any of the fibres of the dorsal muscle are inserted directly into the scapula. Before reaching the lateral septum and the dorsal muscle