102 MUSCLES OF THE GLASS-SNAKE. . ^ ' beneath the ilium and to terminate in a tendon which runs on into the abdominal muscles; so that though the ilium lies deep it does not lie quite so deep as it does in Snakes, the ventral muscle being partially inserted into it and even partially travelling beneath it. When the layer of the abdominahmuscle travelling over the ilium is divided, a muscle is seen passing from the outer sur- face of the ilium upon the upper limb-bone. It is a repre- sentative of the deep glutei. We do not discover any part sufficiently distinct to deserve the name rectus femoris; though such a muscle is described by Flirbringer. The transversalis stratum of the abdominal muscles is repre- sented by a sheet of muscular fibres passing from the sides of the bodies of the vertebrte, forwards and laterally, upon the under surface of the ribs, so forming depressores costarum. Some of these are traceable beneath three or four of the ribs. They decrease in thickness as they extend laterally; and they are scarcely traceable beneath the mesial parts of the ribs. The 'nerves lie between them, on the one side, and the ribs and the more superficial strata, on the other side. There is no sub- vertehral rectus. The rectus capitis is strong, arising from the anterior five or six vertebrae, also from the side of the haemal spines of the three foremost vertebrae, and is inserted into the lateral part of the occipital. It encroaches upon the region usually occupied by the longus colli. These two muscles are however, as before shewn (p. 17), segments from one sub- vertebral mass. Brachio-Cephalic Muscles. Near the girdle the components of the rectus abdominis muscle radiate and separate into planes. The most superficial passes over the sternum and girdle, beneath the throat, over the lower jaw and side of the neck, and is lost in the tissue upon the back of the neck and head, thus constituting the suh- cutaneus colli. Next beneath this, and crossing the direction of its fibres, is a tolerably defined muscle, the depressor mandibidce (cervici submaxillaris of Fiirbringcr), arising from the fibrous tissue