THE CRYPTOBRANCH. 52 This connection with the sciatic is interesting in relation to the fact that the correspondent of the obturator nerve in the fore limb— the perforator of the coracoid or musculo-cutaneous—supplies in part or wholly the flexors of the forearm. The second nerve (h) sends a branch to unite with the third and fourth (c and d) in forming the sciatic and then descends, over the brim of the pelvis upon the iliacus muscle, as the ANTERIOR CRURAL nerve. It supplies the internal rectus, the iliacus and the pectineus. A long branch from it (internal saphenous) takes a deep course between th.Q pectineus and the feniur to the tibial side of the limb, where it emerges between the gracilis and internal rectus and descends on the tibial side of the knee and leg. The deeper course down the thigh than in ourselves of the saphe- nous nerve is consequent on the extension of the pectineus down- wards nearly to the knee (p. 20), so that the nerve has to pass under it to reach its wonted place of emergence. The third and fourth nerves (c and d) pass from the spinal column, the one in front and the other behind the level of the ilium, unite and are joined by a branch from the second nerve {h) to form the sciatic, which emerging between the ischio- femoral and the gluteus or pyriformis, gives off several branches to the surrounding muscles, dorsal and plantar—to the pyri- formis, glutei, gluteo-rectus and biceps, to the caudo-femoral, caudo-crural and caudo-pedal, and to the hinder part of the fiexor cruris (semitendinosus and semimembranosus). It gives off also the musculo-spiral or peroneal nerve (Fig. 10), which descends in the thigh under cover of the biceps, supplying it and passing above or in front of it at the knee, then runs beneath the peroneus, between it and the fibula, to join a large branch from the anterior tibial and supply the peronei and the extensor digitorum longus. It descends on the front of the leg beneath the ext. digitorum superficial to the extensor hallucis and on the fibular side of the extensor brevis, and sends nerves to the fibular side of digit V. to the apposed sides of digits IV. and V., and ends in a nerve which joins the branch of the anterior tibial in the interval between digits III. and IV.