THE CRYPTOBRANCH. 46 * margin of the orbit joins a long branch from the third division of the fifth. The resultant trunk passes through an infra-or- bital hole, and is the infra-orhital nerve. Many small branches are given off by both nerves before they unite. The ophthalmic also, immediately after crossing the optic, gives a branch (nasal) to the nose. The SUPRA-MAXILLARY, or second division of the fifth, runs along the floor of the orbit beneath the optic nerve and divides into branches, which pass inwards to the nose and forwards to the maxilla. The INFKA-MAXILLARY, or third division of the fifth, emerges through a large hole at the front of the base of the suspensorial projection for the jaw, between the temporal and masseter muscles, and gives branches to both. Its dentary branch runs outwards beneath the masseter muscle, between it and the muscle arising from the front of the suspensorium which it supplies, then dips down to the lower jaw, and enters it by two branches through two foramina. A branch of tlie infra- maxillary runs forwards over the temporal muscle, on the outer side of the eye, gives off numerous branches upon the upper jaw, and joining a branch of the ophthalmic, as above described, forms the infra-orbital. A branch passes backwards beneath the masseter where it comes into contact with the seventh nerve, communicates with it, runs outwards with it, and turns forward along the outer side of the ramus of the lower jaw. The SEVENTH nerve emerges from the skull in the retiring angle between the suspensorium and the occiput, and divides into two chief branches. One of these pierces the digastric muscle, supplies it, the depressor mandibulae, the subcutaneus colli, and the constrictor faucium. The other chief branch passes beneath the digastric upon the suspensorium and along it, communicates with the branch of the fifth which has come beneath the masseter to this point, passes over the ramus of the lower jaw, and runs along beneath it supplying the mylo- hyoid and the subcutaneus colli, and reaching the interman- dibular muscle. A branch also passes along the side of the lower jaw in company with the branch of the third division of the fifth. The Vagus on its first appearance in the neck is large, and