MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 162 the humerus, and the fibular tubercle and edge of the femur, are turned into the position most favourable for their re- ception \ In the fore limb the scapulo-humeral mass is, in most of the lower animals, represented by a single muscle, diflFused upon the dorsal surface of the fin in Fishes, but in Urodelans and Keptiles converging into a tendon implanted into the radial edge or tubercle of the humerus and called dorsalis scapulce. This in higher animals is commonly segmented into infra- spinatus, teres minor, and teres major. It is probable that some of its superficial elements, which in certain cases apply themselves to the last-named muscles, in other cases apply them- selves to and contribute to the formation of the deltoid. Hence we find the latter muscle occasionally (Phoca) encroaching upon the territory of these muscles and dwarfing them. The infra- spinatus and teres minor are sub-deltoid segments. But the teres major may rather be regarded as a sub-latissimus dorsi segment, forasmuch as it applies itself often to the under-surface of that muscle. At the same time it is more steadily con- nected than the lat. d. with the ulnar ridge of the humerus^ Both the teres major and the supra-spinatus sometimes (Pig) extend over the respective margins of the scapula upon the under-surface, and derive fibres which usually appertain to the subscapular is. The teres major does so more particularly; and its relation to this territory is also shewn by the fact that it and the hinder part of the subscapularis muscle are some- times supplied by the same subscapular nerve. The ilio-femoral mass forms the deep gluteus which is some- times one muscle, but is often segmented into the gluteus medius and minimus and the j:)yriformis. The last is, in many instances, continuous with the gluteus medius. It commonly extends upon the under-surface of the ilium and upon the 1 This I think is the real explanation of that difference in the insertion of those corresponding muscles in the two limbs which has caused so much difficulty in determining their homological relations. Tthe view is confirmed by the obser- vation that the muscles arising from the dorsum of the scapula are not strictly tenacious of their connection with the radial tubercle ; some of them at least in Birds and Lizards passing to the ulnar tubercle, or the ulnar edge of the humerus. In Seine it passes to the ulnar side of the humerus, quite separate from the lat. d. In Manis it is very large, blended with the lat. d. at its origin, and accompanies it to the inner condyle of humerus, the olecranon and the forearm.