MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 187 ^ r elements of the deep stratum arising from the carpus or tarsus, and the radius and ulna, or the tibia and fibula, as well as the elements of the still deeper—the interosseal—stratum, are con- tinued to the distal phalanges. When factors of the superficial extensor are continued on- wards with prolongations of the deep stratum to the terminal phalanges, they are usually derived from the marginal parts of its digital tendons, the middle part of each tendon being inserted into the more proximal phalanx. Also when the tendons of the superficial extensor reach to the terminal pha- langes, without such prolongations of the deep stratum, it is still their marginal parts that do so. Thus in the lateral or fibular digit of the Swan’s foot the extensor tendon passes over the fii*st phalanx without being attached to it. It then divides into three; of which the middle is inserted into the second phalanx, and the two lateral components pass onwards. The tendon resulting from their union is, in like manner, again subdivided; the middle portion being inserted into the third phalanx, and the two lateral portions running onwards and meeting to be inserted into the fourth phalanx. This disposition is the reverse of that of the antagonistic tendons on the flexor aspect. In their case (as mentioned at p. 180), the deeper and more prolonged tendon occupies the middle position, and continues its course in that position onwards to the terminal phalanx, while the superficial tendon is inserted into one, or commonly both margins of a more proximal phalanx. Also when the superficial and deep flexor are fused into one, and that one subdivides to supply the several phalanges, it is usually the middle part which is the more prolonged; and it never receives any marginal additions from the deeper strata. The interossei in the simple limbs of some of the lower animals, as Cryptobranch, are mere bands passing across between the metacarpals or metatarsals, drawing the digits together and an- tagonising the abductors of the marginal digits. In higher animals, where the metacarpals and metatarsals admit of very little move- ment to and from onfs another, the transverse direction of the in- terossei is changed for a course more parallel with the digits; and they extend upon the phalanges and, in many instances, blend