MUSCLES OF HIND LIMB. 23 S' externally, being separated from the former by the origin of the internal rectus and from the ischio-femoral by the sciatic nerve. It moreover extends a little upon the internal surface of the ilium, and still further upon the adjacent internal surface of the ischium, where it reaches behind the pectineus as far as the middle line. It is inserted into the fibular side of the middle of the Unea aspera, close to the caudo-femoral and the femoro- fibular and close to the adductors, which are inserted into the tibial side of that line. Its attachment extends also from the linea aspera upon the fibular side of the plantar surface of the femur. Its origin from the ilium extends on either side of, or rather, in front and behind the origin of the gluteo-rectus and biceps: and the part in front of those muscles, lying upon the front of the hip and the ilium, appears to correspond with the iliacus internus, while the part lying behind those muscles and Ipng upon the back of the hip and the ilium appears to corre- spond with the lesser glutei and the pyriformis. It must be remarked that the ilium is chiefly occupied by the attachments of the caudal and abdominal muscles—the internal oblique more particularly—and little space is left for the glutei. They are accordingly almost abortive. The gluteus maximus is absent, unless it is, as I have supposed probable, blended in the part of the ilio-crural section which I call gluteo-rectus; and the other glutei are very small; and in order to gain sufficient space for attach- ment they extend upon the inner surface of the ilium, and still more upon that of the ischium, thus spreading beyond their proper- area and encroaching upon the territory appertaining to the plantar mirscles, more particularly occupying the ground from which the internal obturator usually arises. This, at least, I suppose to be the case. It must however be stated that the muscles immediately surrounding a ball-and-socket joint in such an animal as the Crypto- branch somewhat resemble the capsule of the joint itself in the mode in which they invest it, and in the imperfection of their seg- mentation ; so that the division into separate muscles is rather ar- bitrary, and the nomenclature proportionately uncertain. It will have been remarked that the deeper parts of the extensor cruris, viz. the vasti and crureus, which are such con- stant elements in higher animals, do not exist in the Crypto- branch, and the lower space of the femur usually devoted to their origin is occupied by the insertion of the pectineus, while the upper part does not give attachment to any muscle. The dorsal aspect of the thigh is covered by areolar or