MUSCLSS IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 156 of the humerus immediately above the level of the j)&ctorali8 major and also extend beneath that muscle. These constitute a superficial or pre-axial division. Secondly, those which lie beneath the hiceps and pass to the ulnar tubercle and ulnar side of the humerus. These constitute a deep or post-axial division. The superficial division comprises the epicoraco-humeral and the precoraco-humeral, and probably the supra-spinatus, the levator humeri and the pectoralis minor. All these, with the exception of the last, which I will consider separately, may, I think, be regarded as parts of one muscle which occupies, essentially, the precoracoid process and might be called the precoraco-humeral muscle. It may spread upon the edge of the coracoid on the one side, and be segmented, so forming an epicoraco-humeral; and it may spread upon the supra- spinal space of the scapula on the other side, so forming a supra-spinatus. In Cryptobranch (p 52), where the precora- coid processes are large, the ptrecoraco-humeral muscle is well developed; and the epicoraco-humeral, in the same plane with and scarcely segmented from it, spreads over the edge of the coracoid ; but there is no supra-spinatus. In Meno- branch the latter muscle is present, in addition to the other two ; but its edge is continuous with that of the precoraco- humeral. In the Seine the precoraco-humeral and the supra- spinatus are large and separate; but there is no epicoraco- humeral extension of them over the broad origin of the hiceps. In the Crocodile the precoraco-humeral is large, arising from the precoracoid process—from the outer surface and the anterior edge, and also from the deeper surface of that process—much as the pectineus often arises from the corresponding surfaces of the pubes. It is nearly on a level with pectoralis on the one side, and the deltoid on the other, and is inserted between them. The supra-spinatus is small, lies partly beneath it, and is imperfectly segmented from it. There is no distinct epicoraco-humeral, the surface of the coracoid, internal to the origin of the hiceps, being closely covered by the pectoralis which derives some fibres from its edge, from the place, that is, where the epicoraco- humeral usually arises. In the Bird the procoracoid process does not run out distinctly. It is bent down with the coracoid