184 MUSCLES'IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. The deep strata of the supinato-extensor masses correspond generally with those of the pronato-flexor masses. They pass from the fibula and the tarsus, or the ulna and the carpus (in the fore limb from the humerus also), inwards and down- wards, to the tibial or the radial side of the foot or the hand, and to the digits. They are frequently in some degree blended, above and below, with the several sectors of the superficial stratum. In the hind limb the most persistent part of the stratum is the lowest part—the extensor hrevis, or rather profundus digit- orum—which may arise from the tarsus, or the fibula, or both. Its tendons blend with those of the extensor sublimis, passing to their under-surface and margins, or frequently to their outer margins only. When (Ai and Lizards) the ext. suhl. does not ex- tend upon the digits, the ext.pr. takes its place, constituting the chief or sole extensor of the digits. It is in the digits some- times blended with the interossei. It is, not unfrequently, united with the peroneal tendons which passing upon the digits form the ext. secundiLs; or the peroneal sector may supply digit v. to the exclusion of the ext. prof.; or that digit may be omitted by both. In Cryptobranch (p. 29, Fig. 15), a small portion of this deep stratum, a small muscle, that is, passing from the fibula, continuous with the extensor profundus and inserted into the tibial side of the metatarsus, is a supinator pedis, which corresponds with the supinator rnanHs. In Unau and Ai this portion extends higher and forms part of the tibialis anticus^. In most Mammals this highest part of the deep supinato-extensor stratum is not implanted with the tibialis ant, into the tarsus. It does not, therefore, form a supinator pedis, but it runs on to the hallux, forming the exten- sor hallucis, and standing in the place of a division of the exteiu- sor digitoruni sublimis. Thus the hallux derives two tendons from the deep stratum, one from the ext. dig. prof, and one from a higher part of the stratum; instead of, as in the case of the adjacent digits, having one tendon from each stratum. In the fore limb the disposition is often, in some respects, 1 Journ. Anat., iv. 66. A lower segmented portion in these animals mns from the extremity of the fibula to the internal cuneiform bone. The still lower segment, arising from the tarsus, forms the ext. dig. prof.