136 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. muscles are developed in different animals, to which the names cervici suhmaxillaris, depressor mandibulce, niylo-hyoideus and genio-hyoideus are given. These vary a good deal; and the first two are absent in higher animals. I have said that they are found between the two layers; but the genio-hyoid, which lies near the middle line, is perhaps rather to be regarded as segmented from the deeper surface of the superficial layer. The most remarkable member of this series is the anterior belly of the digastric. It lies in a more superficial plane than any, yet is continued, through the medium of a tendon or inscription, into the pos- terior belly which runs, in company with the stylo-hyoid, be- neath the sterno-mastoid, to a deeply situated spot of the tem- poral bone, just behind the styloid process.—The peculiar confor- mation and disposition of this muscle in Man, and the inscrip- tion which in many lower animals is substituted for the tendon between its two muscular portions, have excited much attention and been the cause of many surmises. I believe the real explanation of it to be that it is composed of two muscles or muscular portions derived from the two strata of the brachio-cephalic muscle. The hinder portion is, together with the stylo-hyoid, a derivative from the deep stratum, which it will be remembered is an extension of the middle or internal oblique stratum of the ventral muscle; and tlie anterior portion is a derivative from the fibres of the cervi- calis superficialis layer, which lies next above the suhcutaneus colli. It is. an instance of a portion of a deep stratum re- taining continuity through the medium of a septum with a portion of a superficial stratum. The septal remnant, which is a remnant of the hyoidean, or sub-hyoidean, septum (the septum, that is, in which the hyoid is formed), is the tendon of connection between the two portions and the band which holds them to the hyoidh 1 It may be obserred, as affording some confirmation of the relation de- scribed in the text between the anterior belly of the digastiic and the mylo-byoid, that they are both supplied by the mylo-hyoid branch of the 5th nerve; whereas the posterior beUy of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid are both supplied by the 7th nerve. I do not however attach much importance to this. In this derivation of the digastric from the elements of deep and superficial strata, we are reminded of the same thing in the cervico-humeral just mentioned, and in the costo-alaris (p. 131).