50 THE CRYPTOBRANCH. having reached its deeper surface and communicated "with the radial and with the posterior interosseous from the median, runs along the dorsal surface of the ulna, then over the carpus, supplies the small muscles in that situation upon the carpus and metacarpus, and is distributed to the ulnar side of digit V. and the apposed sides of digits IV. and V. The main trunk of the fifth spinal nerve continues its course as the MEDIAN on the inner side of the arm. It passes over the upper surface of the humeral portion of the coraco-hrachialis longus, between it and the coraco-hrachialis hrevis, keeps be- neath the bicipital portion of the former muscle, and passes over the elbow between the tendon of the biceps, which is inserted into the radius and the portion of the coraco-hrachialis longus which is inserted into the ulna. At the elbow it divides into two trunks, an anterior ulnar and a median, both of which disappear beneath the mass of flexor muscles arising from the inner condyle. The ULNAR trunk (Figs. 18 and 19) takes its course through the flexor mass on the forearm, between the superficial stratum arising from the condyle and the ulna and the deeper stratum arising from the ulna and supplies both strata. One of its nerves passes to the flexor dig. suhl. through the pro- nator teres, or proximal part of the condyloid stratum, just as the median in man passes between the condyloid and the ulnar origin of that muscle. Its terminal branch travels down between the flexor suhl. dig. and the flexor prof, and, partly, also under cover of the flexor carpi ulnaris, supplying tliem in its course to the wrist. It runs over the carpus, supplies the ulnar side of dig. v., dips down between the muscles to dig. v. and, like the external plantar nerve in the hind limb, curls in beneath \h.Q flexor profundus dig., and passes across towards the radial side of the limb, between that muscle and the meta- carpo-phalangei, supplying the latter. At the interval, be- tween digits V. and iv., it sends down a branch which supplies the apposed sides of those digits, and at the intervals between rv. and III. and between ill. and ii., it communicates with the branches of the median which are passing to supply the apposed sides of IV. and III. and ill. and ii. The MEDIAN (Fig. 19) trunk takes a still deeper course be-