2 THE CRYPTOBRANCH. must abide by and beware of the evils of the tendency. I ex- press these thoughts because they have been present with me throughout the investigation of the Cryptobranch. FASCIAL INVESTMENT. The muscles of the trunk, tail, and limbs, are covered by an investment of fascia or tough areolar tissue, which is connected with the transverse intermuscular septa of the trunk and tail more closely than with the muscles, and from the deeper strata of which processes pass between the muscles, and are attached to the bones. One of these processes (Fig. 1) forming a sheet or lamina on either side, near the mesial line above, dips down- wards, covering the edge of the dorsal muscle, and meets its fellow of the opposite side along the line of the spinous processes of the vertebrae to which the two are attached. They thus en- close a triangular interval between them and the superficial stratum, which is continued across the middle line; and this interval contains fat, and affords a convenient passage for blood- vessels. A similar disposition exists along the ventral mesial line and along the lateral lines in the tail, as we shall find presently. Superficially it is connected with the skin and with the muscular fibres passing from point to point of the skin; and, which is very important to remark, it is closely connected with the trapezius, latissimus dor si and the fore part of the pectoralis, as well as with the suhcutaiieus colli, the depressor mandibulce, and the constrictor faucium. I say closely connected, because the fibres of these muscles are interwoven with and so take origin from it, and in this respect differ from most or all of the other muscles of the trunk and limbs. In front the fascial in- vestment is continued dorsally, over the head to the margins of the upper jaw; and, ventrally, it is attached to the margin of the lower jaw. The interior of the trunk is lined by a similar investment (fascia transversalis), somewhat more compact, though thinner than that on the exterior, which is connected with the trans- verse septa extending through the inner layer of the abdominal muscles. It is continued forwards to and along the base of the skull above, and, beneath, over (deeper than and attached