182 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. entire sector is continued to the carpus; neither do they take place in the corresponding sector {tibialis anticus^), in the hind limb of Mammals and Birds. The outer or fibular and ulnar sector—the j^eronei and ex- tensor carpi ulnaris—usually pass over the ankle or wrist, and each is inserted into the outer side of the metatarsus or meta- carpus. They often detach, in each limb, tendons to the ext. dig., which cross beneath the tendons of that muscle, and run along their outer sides to the terminal phalanges. Sometimes they appear to form a group intermediate between the ext. suh- limis and the ext. profundus digitorum^. In the foot a further division not unfrequently takes place. One of the segments 308). In Phoca it is inserted into Mets. i. and ii.; tins variation having rela- tion to the large size of the pollex in that animal. ^ In a Dog, however, I found a slip given off from the fibular side of the tib. ant. joining a slip from the ext. prof, [brevis) dig. and inserted into Met. ii. There was also another slip from the e.vt. pro f, inserted into Met. in. In the Pig the tibialis ant. is very small; and the ext. dig. sends tendons to Mets. ii. and III. and to the int. cimeiform as well as upon the digits. In the Hippopotamus the arrangement is peculiar. The tib. ant. has extensive origin from the upper end of the tibia, the capsule of the joint and the patella, nearly encirchng the ext. dig., to which it sends a slip. It is inserted into the inner side of the internal cuneiform bone and into Met. ii. The ext. dig. subli- mis [longus) arises by a strong tendon from the fore part of the ext. condyle and, after appearing from beneath the superficial part of the tib. ant., divides into a superficial and a deep portion. The former, passing in front of the annular ligament, expands into the tough tissue beneath the skin of the dorsum of the tarsus, and acquires an attachment to the bones on both sides of the tarsus. The deeper portion, passing under the annular ligament, divides into two ten- dons : one, connected closely mth the preceding in the leg, is inserted into the cuneiform bones and Mets. ii, and iii.; the other divides into four tendons to the terminal phalanges of the four toes. The portions of this muscle which are inserted into the tarsus and metatarsus, passing both above and beneath the annular ligament, are described by Gratiolet as appertaining to the tibialis ant.; but they arise from the femoral condyle with the ext. dig. The peroneus brevis is not inserted into the metatarsus, but divides into two tendons which join the fibular side of the tendons of the ext. subl. to digits iv. and v. The deep layer in Hippopotamus consists of an ext. hallucis, arising from the fibula, per- forating the tarsal insertion of ext. dig. stibl., and lost upon the second phalanx of dig. II. (there are three phalanges to this digit): also of an ext. ptrofundxis (brevis) arising from the os calcis and dividing to the four digits. Thus, digit II. has three extensors,—ext. subl., ext. prof., and ext. hallucis,—a combination, that is, of the extensors which are usually distributed to digits i. and ii. The extensor digitorum in the fore limb sends off a slip corresponding with the superficial part of ext. dig. pedis; but it is lost in the tissue beneath the annular ligament instead of passing over it. There is no deep (short) extensor of the digits. The extensor carpi radialis presents a striking resemblance to the metatarsal division of the deep portion of ext. dig. subl. of the foot above described. It is large, connected on the one side with the ext. dig. and on the other with the sup. r. 1. It is inserted by a broad tendon into the bases of Mets. iii. and iv. See description of extensor secundus andsupuiator manils in footnote on p. 185. I have described this group as extensor secundus digitorum. Journ. Anat., II. 307.