ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. 13 » where more independent action, not only of the several strata, but of the several parts of each stratum, may be presumed to take place, the stratification is more complete, and the septa have in great measure disappeared. Still even in them the sub- abdominal rectus retains commonly more or less of the original septal and unstratified type. The persistence of these characters in it contrasting so markedly with the alterations which have been wrought in the more lateral muscles, and the consequent complete separation of the one from the other, mask the natural relations of the several abdominal muscles, and make us over- look the fact that they are all derivatives from one simple antero-posteriorly disposed muscular mass. Description of the Abdominal Muscles. The obliquus externus (Figs. 2, 3, 5, 7) may be described as arising from the extremities and outer surfaces of the ribs from the second to that just in front of the pelvis, inclusive, by digitations, of which the foremost are very distinct. Further backwards the digitations are less distinct, and the muscular fibres arise partly from the lateral septum as well as appa- rently, to some extent, from the fascial tissue covering the dorsal muscles; this however is not quite clear. Joined by a more superficial portion from the ventral surface of the thorax^, it extends over the side of the abdomen to the middle line and the edge of the prepubic shield and cornu. The fibres, for the most' part oblique, are near the middle line antero-posteriorly disposed, blended with, or constituting the superficial layer of the rectus. The hinder part of the muscle, dorsally, is not very defined, being partly attached to the ilium and partly lost in fascial tissue: ventrally it is attached to the edge of the prepubic shield and cornu superficial to the pyramida- Us: and it is strongly attached to the spinous or marsupial tubercle which projects forwards from the hinder part of the edge of the prepubic shield. It is also continued into the gracilis, which arises from the under surface of the prepubic shield and pubes; and it is attached to the ala of the ilium, while some of the fibres passing over it are lost in fascial tissue; and between the ilium and the gracilis or pubes it is ^ This is the pectoral muscle, see p. 32.