138 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. level witli the mylo-hvoid and the genio-h}'oid and, partly, is con- tinued on into the lateral edge of the hyo-mental. The digaHtric {D') arises, by a tendon, from near the extremity of the same process as the stylo-hyoid, jTiSses internal to the stylo-hyoid, expands into a belly which, about on a level with the hyoid, is interrupted by a transverse insci'iption*. In front of this (/)) it runs ])arallel, and on the same level, with the hyomental and is inserted, behind the hyo- mental, and continuously with it, into the lower edge of the body of the jaw, midway between the symphysis and the angle. The facial arteiy {F. A.) jiasses, as usual, beneath the stylo-hyoid and digastric, and nms along the outer and posterior side of tlie digas- tric, over the side of the jaw, between the digastric and the filjres of the masseter which are ciirling round the anterior border of the pro- tuberance to be inserted into its inner side and edge. The points shown by this dissection are, first, the connection of the suhcutaneus colli with, and its termination at, the hyoidean septum. Secondly, the presence of a h^m-mental muscle superficial to the mylo-hyoid, extending from the hyoidean septum to the symphysis of the jaw, and the continuity of some of the fibres of the stglo-glossus with it. Thirdly, the position of the anterior belly of the digasti'ic (Z>), in front of the inscription, on a level with, and on the side of, a part of the same stratum with the hyo-mental, and, indeed, continuous with that muscle, and forming a lateral portion of it. It is clear that the inscription in the digastric is a ])art of the sub-hyoidean septum, and that the hinder, deejjer, belly (D') of the digastric is, by the medium of this inscrijdion, continued into the lateral pai’t of the hyo-mental, which forms the anterior belly; just as some of the fibi’es of the stylo hyoid are continued into the middle part of the same muscle. In Man the lateral portion of this hvo- inental is absent; and it is the median portion which forms the anterior belly of the digastric. Hence the insertion of the digastric is near the symphysis of the jaw. The shifting insertion of the digastric into the jaw is thus ex])lained by the circumstance that its anterior belly may be formed by different ])arts of the hyo-mental in different animals; and the inscription, usually observable, even when the muscle is sti’aight, indicates the line of connection of the portion of the deep, or masto hyoid, and the superficial, or hyo-mental sti-ata which combine to make up the muscle. The hyo-mental portion, anterior to the inscription, or remnant of the sub-hyoidean septum, is a part of the superficial brachio-cephalic stratum ; and the masto- hyoid portion, behind the inscription, is a derivative from the deep brachio-cephalic stratum. 1 Gratiolet, whose account corresponds in other respects with that in the text, observes that the muscular fibres are not interrupted by any tendinous in- scription. It is, however, quite distinct in the young (3 days old) animal from which my description is taken. In the Cat (Fig. 47), as in many others, the digastric is a straight muscle, slightly constricted and crossed by a distinct inscription where it passes the hyoid, with which it is unconnected. Then it expands to be inserted into the whole’ of the inner surface of the body of the mandible between the symphysis and the masseter. There is no hyo-mental.