MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 185 clifFerent. The upper part of the stratum commonly preponde- rates over the lower, and often extends up to the outer condyle of the humerus. Passing from this point upon the upper part of the radius it constitutes the supinator radii brevis^. Lower doAvn, passing from the ulna to the radial edge of the carpus or metacai-pus, it forms (Cryptobranch, Fig. 17) the sujnnator manHs, commonly called ext. ossis met. pollicis. Lower still, as in the hind limb, it passes in one or two portions upon the pollex, which take the place of a division of the ext. digit, siibl. Still lower, it may send tendons to digit ii. and perhaps to other digits, so forming an extensor profundus'^. These tendons join the outer or ulnar sides of the tendons of the ext. suhl. Towards the ulnar side of the hand these tendons are usually absent; and their place is sometimes supplied by offsets from the ulnar sector of the superficial stratum above- described, forming an extensor secundus; in the same way that the tendons of the ext. profundus in the hind limb are sometimes supplanted by offsets [extensor secundus) from the peroneal sector®. It is evident, in short, that the muscles in the fore limbs of Mammals, which we are in the habit of designating ex- tensores pollicis, indicis, &c., are really elements of the extensor profundus; and they correspond with the extensor profundus of the foot, but take their origin from a higher point of the ^ This is absent in Rabbit, Pig and some others. It has a sesamoid bone near its origin in Manis. 2 In Hatteria the muscle is described by Dr Giintber {Phil. Trans., 1867, p. 614) as composed of fibres “ arising from the distal half of the ulna and spreading over the bones of the carpus to which, they are attached: the fibres nearest the radial margin are coUected into a tendon which is inserted into the metacarpal bone of the thumb.” It is covered by an extensor communis dig.; and an extension of it to the phalanges of the digits would have constituted an extensor profundus (brevis) dig. corresponding Pearly with the ordinary ext. pr. (br.) dig. pedis. ^ In the Hippopotamus an extensor secundus in the fore limb arises from the ulna and passes to the ulnar sides of the terminal phalanges of digits iv. and v., joining the sides of the tendons of the ext. subl. and precisely correspond- ing with the distribution of the peroneus brevis in that animal. The deep stratum in the Hippopotamus is concentrated into one muscle, the supinator manus (ext. poll.) which is small, arises from the ulna, and passes between the ext. dig. and the ext. c. r., then, over the latter, to the rudimentary trapezium into which it is inserted. In appearance and position, in its upper part, it resembles what I have described in this animal (footnote, p. 182) as the ext. Imllucis; but its insertion is different, and it passes over, instead of per- forating, the ext. c. r. It corresponds precisely with the supinator pedis of the Cryptobranch above mentioned.