THE CRYPTOBRANCH. 30 (2) Extensor hrevis digitorum arises from the dorsal surface of the tarsus, more particularly on the fibular side, and is in- serted into the under surface of the extensor tendons as they pass over the digits. A slip detaches itself from the tibial side of this muscle and joins the supinator pedis. Interossei metacarpales occupy the proximal parts of the intervals between the metacarpals, passing nearly transversely between the adjacent sides of the several bones. Their free edges are defined and curved or semilunar, the fibres descending a little along tbe sides of the metacarpals, but they do not reach the phalanges. MUSCLES OF THE FORE LIMB. The fibro-cellular or fascial tissue which covers the dorsal muscles and extends upon the ventral muscles and upon the head is thicker over the dorsal muscles than elsewhere, and is especially thick near the head. It here furnishes attachment or origin to muscles passing upon the scapula and the throat. There are four muscular sheets thus arising placed beneath one another and distinct from each other. The most superficial {suhcutaneus colli, Fig. 5, S. c. C.), the thinnest and least defined, is a cutaneous muscle the representative of the pannicuhis car- nosus and the platysma myoides. Behind, it reaches as far as the latissimus dorsi. Anteriorly and ventrally it meets its fellow in the middle line, and is attached along the inner side of the edge of the lower jaw. Near the angle of the jaw its deeper surface is joined by the fibres of the myo-hyoid radiat- ing above it. Under the suhcutaneus colli is the depressor man- dihuloe and then the constrictor faucium. The deepest is the trapezius (Fig. 6, Tr), which arises from the fascia covering the dorsal muscle opposite the sca- pula and as far forward as the skull, also from the occipital bone above the insertion of the dorsal muscle, and round the side of that insertion from the lateral part of the occipital. This last part of its origin is very deep, reaching with the lateral septum to the base of the skull, and probably represents the cervico- humeral of certain mammals. The fibres converge to be in-