10 THE CRYPTOBRANCH. SO zigzag as in the fish, or quite so much so as represented by van der Hoeven. Viewed from the interior of the trunk they are seen to be directed from the mesial line, on either side, over the several intervertebral substances, obliquely backwards and outwards, upon the bodies of the vertebrae and over the ribs, in a direction corresponding with that of the transverse septa on the corresponding part of the exterior. Indeed the}'- are a continuation of them through the thickness of the animal. They are easily traced down to the ribs, and the ribs appear to be the result of ossification occurring in them, beneath the plane of the lateral septum, that is, in the ventral parts of them. Be- yond the extremities of the ribs the direction is rather suddenly changed, becoming more transverse; and towards the middle line they are, as on the exterior, quite transverse. (Fig. 4.) Direction of the Muscular Fibres. In the DORSAL series (above the lateral septum) the direc- tion of the muscular fibres is parallel with the axis of the ani- mal. As in the tail, they simply pass between the transverse intermuscular septa and between the vertebral processes, and show no distinct indications of grouping into distinct bundles or muscles. They are moreover not interrupted by the presence of the limb-girdles. They require therefore no special de- scription. In the VENTRAL series (beneath the lateral septum) however the case is different. The intermuscular septa preserve their serial order, that is, follow one another in regular succession, as in the dorsal series, and are continued through the entire thick- ness of the muscular wall of the abdomen, and the muscular fibres pass from septum to septum, being limited to the inter- vals between the septa; but the muscular wall is expanded to cover the abdominal cavity and accommodate the viscera, and it is interrupted, or partially interrupted, by the limb-girdles; moreover, the direction which the muscular fibres take between the septa varies in different parts of the abdominal wall, and at different depths of the same part. The difference in direction at different depths causes a more or less distinct division into planes; and the difference in direction at different parts of the