THE CRYPTOBRANCH. 36 front or behind. The fibres converge and are blended with the upper part of the scapular origin of the triceps. Through the medium of it some are connected with the hinder margin of the scapula near the glenoid cavity; but it has no direct attach- ment to the scapula, and we cannot trace any of its fibres to the humerus. In these animals, in Keptiles and Birds, the lat. d. overlaps the trapezius; the reverse being the case in mammals. Dorsalis scapidce (Fig. 17, D. s.) arises from the outer ex- panded surface of the supra-scapula. It is a long trumpet- shaped muscle, and is inserted into the radial side of the radial tubercle of the humerus beneath the insertion of the pi'e- coraco-hrachial. This is in Cryptobranch the only muscle, with the exception of the few fibres of the suhscap>ularis above mentioned, parsing from the scapida to the humerus. In Meuobranch there is in addition a muscle, blended Muth the deeper part of the precorAco-brachial, which represents the suprascapular. The dorsalis scapulce must represent, in the main, the infrasjnnalus. Its superficial part, probably, be- comes in other animals developed so as to contribute to the scapular part of the deltoid, and its hinder part is segmented as the teres minor. The clavicular part of the deltoid corresponds probably, to some extent, with the superficial fibres of the precoi'aco-brachial. Thus the 'clavicular and scapular parts of the deltoid come into relation with the trapezius, which is, in Urodelans, inserted into both precoracoid and scapula. They overlie the supra- and infraspinatus and teres minor muscles, and have insertion corresponding with that of the pre- coraco-hrachial and dorsalis scapulae. The two parts are not uncom- monly separate. The few fibres of the suhscapularis constitute the only appearance of muscle upon the whole of the large extent of the concave under surfa'ce of the coracoids and scapula, so that the surface is free to play upon the convex outer sui’face of the ventral mu.scle on which it lies. Triceps arises by a tendon from the posterior edge of the scapula, immediately behind the joint and in close connection with the capsule, which indeed it strengthens by expanding upon it. It soon becomes muscular and is joined by the latissimus dorsi. A second head arises from the radial side of the humerus at the base of the tubercle, and a third from the hinder and ulnar aspect of the humerus. These all unite; and the muscle is inserted into the olecranon, being joined by the coraco-olecranalis.