MUSCLES OF THE GLASS-SNAKE. 100 Beneath, it is free in the abdominal wall, i. e., not connected with that of the opposite side. The small osseous limb marks, by its point of connection with the pelvis, the division between the iliac and the pubischiatic, or ischiatic, parts of the pelvis. The rectus abdominis is a more distinct and continuous sheath than in the Snakes I have seen. It is joined by the successive bundles of the ohliquus externus abdominis passing from the ribs into its upper or abdominal surface. Traced back it is quite interrupted by, or inserted into, the pubischiatic bone; and the hindmost division, or bundle of the external oblique muscle is inserted with it, and above it, i.e. deeper than it, into the same bone. Examined more carefully the rectus abdominis (Jongissimus abdominis of Fiirbringer^) is found to be composed, first, of bundles directed, forwards and outwards into it, from the extremity of the ribs and the costal cartilages, the hindmost of the bundles being attached to the mesial part of the pelvic bone (they resemble detached portions of external intercostal muscles) ; secondly, of bundles passing backwards and down- wards, into it from the ribs nearer the vertebrae. These two sets of bundles lie in the same oblique lines; and they are confluent in the substance of the rectus. That muscle may therefore be said to be formed, either of bundles passing from the ribs near the vertebrae into it, travelling for a distance in it, and then leaving it to be attached to the free ends of the ribs and the costal cartilages; or, it may be described as being formed of fibres which take the opposite direction, that is, arising from the free ends of the ribs, joining it, and then leaving it to be inserted into the ribs near the vertebrse^ o These bundles run chiefly into the deeper surface of the restricted by a fibrous band connecting the ilium with the transverse process next in fi-ont of it, the transverse process that is next behind the last rib. In an articulated skeleton in the Cambridge Museum the ilium is connected directly with the transverse processes of two vertebrae. The limb consists of one longer bone next the pelvis, carrying a smaller bone, a mere nodule, upon its end. These bones should scarcely be named tibia and femur. They are as much representatives of the other hmb-bones as of these two. ^ Die Knocken und Muskeln der Extremitdten der schlangenahnlichenSauricm, von Max Fiirbringer. Leipzig, 1870. 2 This is the case also in Snakes; though in them the bvmdles are finer and run more into the scutes, and form a less distinct antero-posterior muscle.