MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 166 The intrinsic extensors are represented by the parts of the triceps extensor hrachii and the quadriceios extensor cruris, which arise from the humerus and femur, and which are very constant (except in Cryptobranch) and are subject to but little variety. The deep ventro-appendicular, or girdle, element is furnished by the scapular origin of the tiiceps, and by the rectus femoris or iliac origin of the quadriceps. Both these are connected with the dorsal surface of the girdles near the joints with the limbs; but the rotation of the fore limb usually directs the origin of the triceps to the hinder edge of the scapula, and the rotation of the hind limb directs the rectus fenions to the anterior edge of the ilium\ The superficial ventro-appendicular element is furnished in the fore limb by the latissimus dorsi, which in Cryptobranch is quite lost in the triceps and, in other animals, is partly blended with it; though, in Man and some Mammals, it passes to the humerus and has no connection with the triceps^. In the hind limb this element head of the gastrocnemius; just as the sesamoid behind the external condyle is a • meeting-point in Lizards between the tendon of the caudo-femoral and the outer head of the gastrocnemius. Some of the fibres of the tendon of the adductor magnus in ourselves are continued into the internal lateral ligament, and so reach the tibia. In Ai and Manis some fibres of the semimemhranosus join the add. m. above the knee. In the Jerboa the two mirscles are inseparably united, and are inserted by a con- tinuous tendon into the femur, the tibia, and the side of the knee. In the Rabbit the adductor is inserted into the tibia, as well as into the femur. In the Hippopotamus the seuiimembr. continues in union with the adductor as far as the knee. ^ In Bats the rotation of the hind limb is the reverse of what is usual ; and in Pteropus I found the rectus arising from behind the acetabulum. Journ. Anat., III. 312. The triceps in Manis extends in conjunction with the supinator longus, upon the dorsum of the scapula and to the siiine, lying over the teres and supra- spinatus: and, in Batrachians and Reptiles, the triceps derives an origin, be- hind, from the coracoid, as, in the same animals, the quadriceps derives an origin in front from the pubes. In Seine the long portion of the triceps divides, one part passing external to the teres major upon the dorsum of the scapula, and the other upon the under surface of the shoulder-joint and the coracoid. In Phoca {Joxim. Anat., ii. 302) a portion of the triceps (dorsi-epitrochlien), blended above with the scapular origin, and arising from the angle of the scapula, passes by the olecranon, along the ulnar side of the paddle, to the 5th digit. It forms a sort of intermediate between the triceps, the teres major, the latissimus dorsi, and the costa alaris of Birds, linking them aU together and being linked by the two last to the ventral muscle. For the parallel between the relations of the triceps to the radial nerve and those of the biceps flexor cruris to the peroneal nerve, see p. 53. 2 The mode in which the lat. d. blends with the triceps in Cryptobranch e.\plaius its varied relations with that muscle—its passing in some instances on one side and in some on the other side of the scapular origin for instance-— the fact being that its fibres are in some animals diffused in the triceps; in