160 MUSCLES IN VERTEBUATE ANIMALS. The view just given of the morphological relations of the ilxacus internus derives perhaps .some confirmation from the fact that in the Hippopotamus, and other artio-dactyles and .some other animals, there is an extension into the pelvis of one of the superficial muscles of the thigh—the ilio-jirHibien of Cuvier. At least near the knee this muscle lies in the plane of the sartorius and the gracilis and .seems, in some instances, to belong to the one, and in some, to the other of these two. In a Hippopotamus* the muscle I am alluding to was, near the knee, joined with the gracilis. Ascending, it diverged from it and divided into two portions. Of these, one was inserted'into the inner edge of the brim of tlu^ pelvis, blending there with the lower part of the psoas parvus. The other portion expanded over the iliacus internus: the middle pai-t of this was lost in the fascia covering that mu.scle; and the lateral pai ts, separating fork-like, appi'oached and blended with the psoas parvus neai’ its origin, on the one side, and with the outer fibres of the iliacus int. on the other side®. The pectineus was not distinctly segmented from the adductors in the Hippopotamus. A remarkable derivation from this series of muscles, and apparently from the pectineus, is tlie internal rectus of Saurians and Birds. In the Cryptobranch we noticed the pectineus extending over the dorsal surface and fibular side of the femur; and the internal rectus would seem to be an extension of the lowest part of tins, over the knee, beneath the quadriceps, into continuity with the flexors of the digits, an extension similar to that of a portion of the peroneus—the p. longus—over the ankle, through the sole, to the metacarpal of the hallux, or to that of the tibialis anticus, in Unau, over the inner side of the foot, into the flexor of the digits. The deep, or post-axial division of the pubischio-femoral mass, which is inserted into the flbular edge of the femur and the fibular trochanter, is segmented into the quadratus femoris, the gemelli, and the obturator externus and internus. The ^ Fig. 48 represents the muscles of the foi-e and upper part of the thigh and of the front of the pelvis, in a young Hippopotamus. II. i., iliacus in- ternus.—Ps. p., psoas parvus.—Ps. m., psoas magnus.—N, the anterior crural nerve.—I. p. t., ilio-pretibien.—Ad. 1., adductor longus.—Gr., gracilis.—On the right side, the gracilis and ilio-pr4tibien have been removed, bringing into view more fully the psoas magnus, the iliacus internus and the adductor longus, also shewing (Ad. m.), the adductor magnus passing to the tibia, and (S. t.) the semitendinosus.—S. the sartorius. This extension upon the iliacus is described by Gratiolet in his Meinoire, p. 287, as the Sartorius. There is, however, a muscular baud passing from the ant. spine of the ilium over the front of the patella, which appears to represent the sartoritis and the tensor vag. femoris; occasionally the gracilis itself extends over the pectineus, and so comes into relation with the ilio-prctihien above, as this muscle comes into relation with the gracilis below.