MUSCLES OF HEAD. 43 * MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. (Figs. 5 and 20.) I have already (p. 30) described the suhcutaneus colli. Beneath it is the depressor mandibulce, presently to be noticed. Next lies the constrictor faucium, which arises from the fascial tissue between the depressor mandibulce and the trapezius. Narrow at first, it radiates out beneath the neck and the hinder part of the broad interval between the mandibular rami and meets its fellow of the opposite side at the middle line. The Mylo-hyoid arises from the hinder extremity of the cornu of the hyoid and the ligament^ which connects the hyoid cornu with the suspensory apparatus of the jaw, as well as from the suspensory (glenoid) cartilage where it projects behind between the mastoid and the pterygoid bones, but not from the angle of the jaw itself, being separated from it by the insertion of the digastric. It passes forwards and radiates on the deeper surface of the subcutaneous muscle, and in con- nection with it is inserted into the inner part of the ramus of the lower jaw. Genio-hranchial, a long muscle, passes from the hinder part of the posterior branchial cartilage to the hinder surface of the lower jaw, at a’little distance from the middle line. Branchio-hyoid, a thick muscle, arises from the hinder part of the posterior branchial cartilage, its origin being by tendi- nous fibres from the deeper surface of the cartilage and by numerous muscular fibres which almost entirely enclose the cartilage; it arises also from the hinder part of the anterior branchial cartilage, and runs forwards to be. inserted into the approximated parts of the basis and cornu of the hyoid. Intei'mandihular consists of fibres passing transversely across the middle line from one side of the lower jaw to the other beneath it. Temporal is a large muscle arising by a broad tendon from the frontal and parietal bones, near the middle line of the skull, and by a thick portion running backwards in the groove ^ In the hack of that ligament there is a distinct though small piece of carti- lage ^tylo-hyal) between the extremity of the cornu (cerato-hyal) of the hyoid and the mastoid part of the suspensorial cartilage. Hyrtl found no cartilage in this ligament, though he mentions one as present in Menopoma.