178 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. to the hallux; or it may form part, and even the greater part, of the tendons to the other toes\ The elements of the 2^’>'onator mamls become disposed of in much the same way as those of the pronator pedis; but they rarely contribute an 'accessorius^' origin from the carpus, corresponding with the accessoHus muscle in the foot. They become, however, more closely blended with the flexor pro- fundus digitorum above, than do their homologues in the leg; that is to say, the ulnar origin of the fl. dig. does not retain its individuality so much as does the fibular origin in the hind limb; and when a flexor longus pollicis is segmented it is so from the radial side®. In this arrangement of the parts in the fore limb of higher animals we note more deviation than in the hind limb from the primitive simple condition. In the hind limb the pronato-flexor fibres chiefly take an oblique direction, from the fibular side downwards and inwards, and combine the movement of pronation with that of flexion. In the construc- tion of the fore limb provision is made that each of those movements should take place in a greater range and each more independently of the other than the hind limb. For this purpose the muscular fibres are arranged into two more distinct sets, a pronator set passing to the radius and a flexor set passing to the digits; and the latter take a more vertical ^ It is not an uncommon arrangement, in Monkeys especially, for the tibial flexor to pass chiefly to digits in. and iv., the fibular flexor passing chiefly to the other digits; and the lumbricales then commonly arise from both. In Proboscis Monkey the Jl. passes to digits ii. and v., and the Jibularis to i., in., and iv.; and, which is very unusual, the two muscles are not blended in any part of their course but are quite distinct. 2 In some Saurians (Seine) a muscle arises from the cuneiform bone and passes to the deeper surface of the tendon of fi. d. s., representing the acces- sorim. 2 In the wild Cat the Jl. prof, is large, dwarfs the Jl. sublimis and derives origin from the internal condyle, the ulna and the radius ; and each of the ten- dons, traced upwards, acquires fibres from the several origins, the tendon to the poUex acquiring as many fibres from the condyloid and ulnar as from the radial origin. In the Dog the radial portion passes chiefly into the tendon to the pol- lex, the ulnar portion chiefly into the tendon to digit v., and the condyloid por- tion chiefly into the other three tendons. It is seldom, however, that the radial portion to the pollex is so completely segmented as in Man. Such varieties are very significant with reference to the mode of develop- ment and the homological relations of muscles. They shew great diversity iu the arrangement and blending of corresponding embryological germs without any obvious purpose, a tendency to variety within the range permitted by the high controlling forces which ensure the requisite subservience to utility.