142 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. tho bones just mentioned. It will be understood that the stratifica- tion is no necessary accompaniment of the visceral region. It does not usually take place there in Fishes; and in higher animals it is often obscure or imperfect in certain parts, rendering it difficult or impossible to decide with certainty from which of the strata a given muscle is derived. Muscles of the Limbs. It has already been shewn that limb-girdles are, like the ribs and costal cartilages, formed in the transverse intermuscular septa of the ventral muscle, and in that part of the thickness of the septa which is in the plane of the middle or internal oblique stratum. They sometimes grow through the outer stratum and project subcutaneously; and the pelvic bone in Snakes lies, beneath the internal stratum, in juxta-position with the fascia transversalis. Essentially, however, they belong to the middle stratum; and the muscles passing from them upon the limbs may be regarded as derivatives from this stratum, as serially homologous, that is, with the muscles passing from septum to septum, or from costa to costa, in front and behind them. It has also been shewn that the external stratum—the stratum of the external oblique muscle—is prolonged upon the limbs in the form of a more or less complete funnel-like invest- ment of each limb. This is seen in its simplest condition in the Snakes that are possessed of claws. It is also well seen in Lepi- dosiren, where it consists of a simple sheath, interrupted, it is true, in front, by the branchial opening, yet surrounded by and extending along the fin; and different forms of it are exhibited in different animals. There are, therefore, derivatives of the two outer strata of the ventral muscle, at any rate, contributing, and largely, to the muscular basis of the limbs. A limb is usually composed of a series of cartilaginous or osseous pieces serially arranged and moveable upon one another, of which the fin of Lepidosiren is one of the simplest examples ; and the instance of the paddle of Ceratodus has shewn that the muscular fibres pass from piece to piece, indeed that the muscu- lar tissue of the limb is, in the primitive form, segmented into transverse planes corresponding with the axial cartilaginous, or