158 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. The deeper, post-axial, or sub bicipital, coraco-humerals arise from the coracoid beneath the biceps, as best seen in Rep- tiles. They may be traced, in these animals, taking origin from the under and hinder surface of the coracoid and spread- ing upon the under surface of the scapula, where a portion of them forms the suhscapularis. In Mammals, this muscle is quite segmented from the others'. They are inserted into the ulnar edge of the humerus; it is inserted into the ulnar tubercle. The one next below the suhscajmlar—the coraco-br.- medius—is generally present and is inserted into the middle of the shaft. The passage through it of the external cutaneous or rnusculo-cutaneous nerve indicates a tendency to division; and in several Mammals (Rabbit, Proboscis Monkey and Jerboa) the upper segment is inserted separately into the ulnar tubercle, forming a superior coraco-hrachial. In Amphibians, Reptiles, and Monotremes there is commonly a third segment, an inferior coraco-hrachial, which extends to the ulnar condyle; and the brachial artery with the median nerve passes between it and the middle coraco-hrachial. The PUBISCHIO-FEMORALS are less variable in number and size than their homologues just described, owing to the greater uniformity of the pubic and ischiatic bones in comparison with the coracoids. Like the coraco-humerals, they arrange themselves into superficial or pre-axial and deep or post-axial divisions, which pass, respectively, to the tibial and fibular edges of the femur; but the two are not so separated at their origin by the intervention of the prolonged portion which forms the flexor of the leg, as the two divisions of the coraco-humerals are separated by the prolonged portion of them which forms the biceps flexor of the forearm. the scapula than to the humerus in the instances in which there is no clavicle, or when it extends beyond that bone. The pectoralis minor would seem to he conducted as it were to the thorax in Mammals by the costo-coracoid ligament which usually separates it, above, from the subclavius, and which may be, as suggested by Gegenbaur, a remnant or representative of the extension of the coracoid to the stermun in ovipara. In Pteropus [Journ. Anat. in. 301) a deep portion of the pectoral, which may be the pect. minor, arises from the clavicle. In the Rabbit, besides being connected with both tubercles of the humerus, it spreads over the supra-spinatvs, and is inserted along the whole length of the spine of the scapula. 1 In the Dog the subscapularis is partly blended with the supra-spinatm, and in the Mole with the teres major.