14 THE CRYPTOBRANCH. continued into the fascial tissue, which spreads over the dorsal aspect of the thigh, knee and leg. A deeper portion extends from between the anterior edge of the ilium and the pubic spine as a fibrous process, which acquires close connection with the hip-joint. (Fig. 2. e, o'.) If it is traced in the opposite direction, it may be described as radiating from the sides of the prepubic cartilage and the pubes, anteriorly and dorsally. The fibres nearest the middle line run forwards as rectus, having a slight connection with the sternum, and are continued beneath, i.e. superficial to the coracoid of the same side, forming the superficial thoracic portion men- tioned above. Some of these are lost upon the fascial tissue of the coracoid; but the greater number diverge laterally and are attached to the humerus, contributing largely to the formation of the pectoralis major. The fibres of the oblique situated more laterally than these take a deeper course, above the coracoid, and are attached to the extremities of the ribs as far forward as the second. Thus the fore or under part of the scapular arch (the hinder portion of the coracoid) projects back between the ‘ recto-pectoi'alis’ and the ‘ ohliquus' divisions of the oblique muscle. The fibres of the oblique arising still more laterally, are directed with increasing obliquity upwards to the ribs, the lateral septum, and the dorsal fascia, and backwards to the ala of the ilium and the fascial tissue of the thigh. It will be understood that this, which we call a single muscle, is composed of successional series of fibres or myotomes passing from rib to rib and from transverse line to transverse line, the transverse lines being continuous with the ribs. Obliquus internus. (Figs. 2, 4, 5, 7.) If the fibres of the external oblique are cut through, the subjacent stratum of fibres taking a different direction, viz. from behind forwards and iwwards and constituting the obliquus internus, is disclosed without difficulty, forasmuch as the change in direction takes place abruptly. The internal oblique is more massive than the external oblique, and more obviously a continuation of the iliac part of the caudal ventral muscle. Indeed that muscle, or great part of it, is continued forwards into the internal oblique, the ala of the ilium, which constitutes the notable line of demarcation