MUSCLES OF THE CERATODUS. 96 the lower edge of the ventral muscle passing forwards from the tail {PV. Fig. 36) are reflected into it. This accession to the plantar fin-muscle from the caudal part of the ventral muscle may be regarded as representing the caudo-aj)pen- dicular series of Urodelans which are variously segmented into caudo- pedal, caudo-crural and caudo-femoral. The disposition of muscles upon the pectoral fin, which is also a bipinnate paddle, resembles closely that of the muscles upon the ventral fin, except that they are formed altogether by fibres passing from the girdle, there being no accessions from the lateral muscle, no correspondents, that is, with the latissi- mus dorsi and pectoralis. The fibres that arise from the sca- pular part of the girdle—the part above the joint with the fin— form a ‘ scapulo-brachial’ muscle, which passes upon the dorsal aspect of the fin; and the fibres that arise from the coracoid part of the girdle—the part beneath the joint with the fin— form a ‘ coraco-brachial’ muscle which passes upon the ventral aspect of the fin. Brachio-Cephalic Muscles. Traced forwards the ventral muscle does not give off, as in Le- pidosiren, a superficial brachio-cephalic muscular stratum; though the superficial fascia, which represents it, is continued forwards over the girdle to the jaw. A representative of the cervical or cephalic portion {cervicalis superjicialis) of this muscular stratum is, however, found in front of the pectoral limb-girdle in the fonn of a muscular layer composed of fibres or bundles passing transversely, or in a slightly curvilinear manner, over the gill- cover (Fig. 34, G. s.). Traced upwards these fibres do not reach the lateral septum, but are attached to the girdle (the scapular part of it) above the fin, to the supra-scapula, and the back- wardly projecting cartilaginous occipital angle of the cranium. Anteriorly, they encounter and are attached to the opercular and sub-opercular bones, the hinder ends of which project into and interrupt the layer, and to the lower jaw. Interiorly, they extend beneath the throat, and are lost in the extension of the superficial fascia. By this means only they acquire connection