168 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. Seems in many cases to be segmented from the gluteus, much in the same manner as the dorsi-eiaitrochlien is segmented from the latissimus dorsi. Portions of the triceps, at the lower part of the arm, are not unfrequently segmented on one or both sides, constituting the anconeus externus and internus. A similar segmentation does not take place in the case of the quadriceps. A sesamoid is very often developed in the lower end of the quad- riceps and occasionally (Pteropus) in the lower end of the triceps. In the Wombat and a few other Marsupials the usual tibial sesamoid— the patella—is absent and a sesamoid—the fabella—is found upon the upper end of the fibula. We may connect this with the relation just described between the biceps and the quadriceps. The fabella can scai'cely be regarded as the homologue of the patella, being connected with a dilFerent bone and a different part of the dorsal muscle. It presents more claim to be the serial homologue of the sesamoid in the triceps, situated above the olecranon which is the homologue of the large process growing from the upj.er ])art of the fibula in Mono- tremes. The connection of the fabella with an outlying portion only of the dorsal femoral muscle, whereas the supra-olecranou sesamoid is connected with the middle portion of the dorsal humeral muscle, is exj)lained by the fact that the greater part of the femoral muscle is directed upon the tibia, whereas the greater part of the humeral muscle is directed upon the ulna. The insertion of the triceps into the ulna while the quadriceps is inserted into the tibia has caused, in the mind of some anatomists, an unwillingness to admit the serial homological relation of the two nuiscles. The force of this objection, however, diminishes as we learn more of the manner in which the points of insertion as well as of the origin of muscles are liable to variation and to wander from one bone to another. « To sum up as thus far traced. The dorsal extension of the ventral muscle upon the hind limb gives rise to the gluteus magnus, the tensor vaginae femoris and the sartorius, to the rectus femoris and the long part of the biceps, to the pyriformis and the glutei. The like extension upon the fore limb gives rise to the latissimus dorsi and the trapezio-deltoid, the long head of the quadriceps with the dorsi-epitrochlien, to the teres major and minor and the infraspinatus. The plantar exten- sion of the ventral muscle upon the hind limb gives rise to the gracilis and the adductors, including the iliacus internus on the one side and the obturators, gemelli and quadratus femoris on the other, together with the semitendinosus and semimembranosus.