186 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. limb. The uppermost of the group—the extensor ossis metar- carpi pollicis—being inserted into the radial side of the carpus, and sometimes of the metacarpus, is better designated supinator maniXs or carpi. It, in conjunction with the true extensores pollicis on the one side, and the extensores carpi radiates with the supinatores radii on the other, constitute the radial sec- tors, deep and superficial, of the supinato-extensor mass; and they correspond with the tibial sectors of the same mass in the hind limb which is resolved, in different animals, into extensores hallucis, supinator pedis or tarsi and tibialis anticus. The chief difference consists in the freer segmentation of the mass in the fore limb, in accordance with the freer movements of the several parts. Thus in Mammals the extensores carpi radiates, the supinatores radii, and the supinator man4,s have their homolo- gous elements, so far as they are developed in the hind limb, all blended in the tibialis anticus, from which the extensor hallucis is, in some instances, barely segmented. Another dif- ference in the disposition of the stratum in the two limbs of most Mammals consists in the attachment of the fibres of a con- siderable part of the stratum in the hind limb to the tarsus— the origin, that is, of the ext. prof, from the os calcis. A similar disposition is, however, met with in the fore limbs of many Reptiles and in some Mammals ^ Usually (though not in so primitive a form as that of the Cryptobranch, p. 41) the elements of the deep extensor stratum, like the elements of the deep flexor stratum, are continued upon the phalanges farther than those of the superficial stratum. Thus, as already seen, the superficial extensor in Menobranch, Lizards and Ai stops at the metacarpus. In the Bird’s wing it is inserted into the first phalanges^ In Mammals the greater part of. it is inserted into the second phalanges; whereas the 1 Journal of Anatomy, tv. 47. 2 In Birds there are commonly only two rows of phalanges in the wing. In the Swan, where there are three rows, the superficial extensor is still inserted into the first row; and the deep extensor, which arises by two portions (a super- ficial and a deep) from the radius, is chiefly inserted into the second row and sends on a delicate slip to the third. This is the case also with the interossci.^ In the Bird’s foot, on the contrary, the superficial extensor reaches the termi- nal phalanges; the deep extensor, when present, joins, as in Cryptobranch, the deep surface of the superficial extensor; and the intcrossei are inserted into the proximal phalanges.