128 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. of the ventral muscle encounters the pelvis and is interrupted by ith Its continuations backwards from the pelvis constitute the ilio- and ischio-caudales^, the deep spliincter-ani, the erector- penis, compressor-urethrce and transversus-perinei, besides the extensions upon the hind limb around the hip-joint to be sub- sequently mentioned. I pass now to the disposition of the EXTERNAL STRATUM of the VENTRAL MUSCLE vvhich has the external oblique muscle of the abdomen as its most steady representative, and which I, therefore, sometimes call the external oblique STRATUM. As already stated, it is the stratum in w'hich the ossifications, not preceded by cartilage, most frequently occur. The ‘membrane bones’ thus formed are commonly in the situation of the septa, and, therefore, overlie the ‘cartilage bones’ formed in the septa of the middle stratum. Some- times they are blended with them, the two being ossified toge- ther, or the one may serve as a substitute for the other. Thus the epicostals^ the episternum^ and the epicoracoid, or clavicle, ^ It must not be forgotten, that the rudimentaiy pelvic bones of Ophidians lie, or rather project upwards, internal to the transversalis. Perhaps they originate in the internal oblique stratum, and grow through the transversahs, just as in many animals the ilium presents through the external oblique stratum, and as in the Dog-fish, the scapula pushes its way into the dorsal muscle (Fig. 28). In Pseudopus P., the ihum, though deep, is not quite so deep as in Snakes, a considerable part of the ventral muscle is inserted into, or interrupted, by it, and a distinct strip of the muscle passes beneath it (p. 101). “ The ischio-caudal, and the ilio-caudal are, to some extent, serially homo- logous, respectively, with the costo-coracoid, and the costo-scapular {serratm m.); and the nerves to the hind limb pass between them, as do the nerves to the fore limb between the last-named muscles. The shoulder-girdle, like the pelvic girdle, varies in the depth at which it is placed, and also remarkably in the size of its coracoidal part, and in its connection with the rest of the skeleton above and below. In Fishes the coracoid part is imbedded in the deep stratum of the ventral muscle; but in Cryptobranch, the coracoid, notwithstanding its size, has little direct connection with the ventral muscle, the deep layers of which pass clear of it and above it. In Birds and Reptiles its connection with the deep ventral stratum is re- established by the costo-coracoid muscles. In Mammals the connection is chiefly, through the medium of the pectoj'alis minor, mth a deep layer of the pectoral or superficial stratum of the ventral muscle. ^ In Hatteria the epicostals are more numerous than the costals, occupying not only the lines over them, but the interspaces between those lines: see Uiin- ther, Phil. Tram. 1867, p. 608, whose description I have in most points verified. * I much prefer the old term, ‘ episternum ’ to that of ‘interclavicle’, proposed by Mr Parker; because it expresses not only its position, but its nature as a bone formed in the membranous tissue upon the sternum, at the same time that it refers it to the same series as the epicostals and the clavicle.—It will be per- ceived that, for the same reason, I use the term ‘ epicoracoid’ to designate, not the cartilage or cartilages lying between the coracoid and the sternum, but the