MUSCLES, IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 165 (Owl) it shews a tendency to divide into two—an outer, or glenoid, and an inner, or coracoid part. The division is com- plete in most Mammals; and the coracoid part forms the more superficial element of the muscle. Where the coracoid is very short, however (Manis), the division may disappear. The biceps is inserted into either or both of the hones of the forearm. In the hind limb the flexor derived from the girdle, omitting for the present the consideration of the biceps to which I will revert, may, as in Cryptobranch, be blended, in its whole length, with the adductor mass ; and it is often united with it to some extent. It however has rarely, or never, any connec- tion with the femoro-fibular muscle (the short portion of the biceps). It is in most animals divided, in its whole length, into two. Of these the seinitendinosus is usually the more free from the adductors \ is the more superficial, is inserted lower down on the tibia, and is the representative of the cora- coid part of the biceps brachii. The other—the semimembra- nosus—is the deeper, represents the glenoid part of the biceps brachii, and is more connected with the adductors, presenting every degree of cohesion to them. It has also, as have the adductors, varied relations with the caudo-femoral which some- times (some Birds—blends with it, sometimes (Cryptobranch) runs to the femur quite separate from it, and sometimes (Sau- .rians) sends a long tendon, separate from the semimembranosus, down to the back of the fibular side of the tibia, or to the fibula, or to a sesamoid just above the fibula, from which the flexors of the foot and digits arise ^ It retains a connection with the gracilis in Pteropus. In Seal the semi- tcndinosus and semimembranosus remain one muscle, as their serial homologue the biceps brachii sometimes does in Mammals. - In the Owl the semimembranosus and adductor are one muscle, which is joined by the caudo-femoral, and is partly continuous with the gastrocnemius. In the Swan the caudo-femoral joins the adductor, which is separate from the semimembranosus and is inserted into the linea aspera only. In the Gull the caudo-femoral is inserted into the femur unconnected with either the semi- membr. or the adductor, which are separate; and the latter is partly continuous with the gastrocnemius. ® In the Dog the semimembranosus, arising from the tuber ischii, divides into two nearly equal portions. Of these one is inserted as usual into the tibia; and the other is inserted into the inner side of the lower part of the femur in the locality usually occupied by the adductor magnus. It is there blended with a tendon derived from the add. longus, and some fibres are inserted into the sesamoid of the inner head of the gastrocnemius. So that the sesamoid behind the internal condyle is a meeting-point between the adductors and the inner