MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 177 fibres from tbe several skeletal parts after the manner which is suggested by the anatomy of the limbs in Fishes and in Cryptobranch. In the Cryptobranch, segmentation has gone to a certain extent. Take the hind limb. First, the superficial fibres pa^.s the farthest, extending from the femur, indeed from the tail, to the terminal phalanges, and they form a superficial stra- tum; still this stratum is very imperfectly separated from the deeper portion of the mass. Secondly (Figs. 9 and 11), a band is segmented from the deep part of the mass and is directed upon the bases of the digits, forming a flexor 'pro- fundus digitorum. Thirdly (Fig. 12), several small deep bundles are segmented, passing from one skeletal part to another near by, so constituting ‘ intrinsic ’ muscles^iarso- metatarsales, metatarso-phalangei, phalangei and intermetatar- sales or interossei. The residuum of the mass constitutes what I have called the pronator pedis (Fig. 10). And there is a similar arrangement in the fore limb. In higher animals the proximal skeletal parts move less upon one another; and the flexor profiindus grows at the expense of the other components of the deep stratum first mentioned, the germs of which are either absorbed or dwarfed by it, except those of the interossei. The pronator pedis also in part blends with it, the tarsal portion of its origin forming the accessorivF, and the fibular portion of it forming the flexor hallucis. This last joins the deeper surface of the flexor profundus, and may be destined, as its name implies, chiefly ^ In Proboscis Monkey the accessorius is united with the ti'bial flexor {flexor ■prof.) only. The union of the two strata is sometimes (Unau) retained by the blend- ing of the accessorius with the soUus, and also by a slip in the same animal from the tibialis posticus to the flexor sublimis. In Orycteropus also the tib. post, sends a slip to the plantar fascia; and in Unau it sends a sHp to the superficial flexor tendon of digit iv. In Phoca the tibialis posticus retains its connection with the elements of the short flexor muscles of digit i. I have already (footnote on p. 176) mentioned slips from the deep to the superficial flexor of the digits; and, in Phoca, Otter and Racoon, slips pass from the accessorius to the superficial flexor tendons or to the plantaris fascia. In the Rabbit the tibialis posticus curls over the inner side of the scaphoid bone and tenninates in the extensor tendon of digit ii., thus contrasting with the termination of the tibialis anticus in the flexor digitorum which we have marked in Unau, Journ. Anat. iv. 66. 12