15 ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. s between the two, not being seen on the exterior or the interior, and being, as before said, apparently an ossification in the thick- ness of the intermuscular septum. The internal oblique may be described therefore as arising from the upper part of the ala of the ilium, from the iliac part of the caudal ventral muscle passing above and beneath the ala of the ilium, and from the several ribs, as far forwards as the fourth, in a deeper plane than the external oblique. Its origin does not however extend so far forwards by two ribs as that of the external oblique. The fibres are, in the lateral part of the animal, directed obliquely from behind for- wards and inwards, or mesially between the intermuscular septa; but near the ventral mesial line they take a more antero-posterior direction, constituting the deep stratum of the rectus. The hindmost fibres in this manner join or con- tribute to the rectus, in front of the prepubic cartilage and cornu, and are therefore not attached directly to the pubes. Anteriorly it is continued beneath the abdomen and thorax into the neck passing above, that is deeper than, the coracoid to the branchial cartilages and the hyoid. Its mesial part— the part forming the deeper stratum of the rectus—when passing above the coracoid comes into contact with and is attached to the deeper plate of the sternum^, the edge of the plate being received among its fibres; and between this point and the hyoid apparatus, it forms the sterno-hyoid. As it travels forward in the neck it is joined, near the hyoid, by a narrow muscle from the anterior edge of the scapula, which is the omo-hyoid. (Fig. 5, o. h.) Or, the relations of the omo-hyoid to the internal oblique may be more clearly expressed by stating that as the latter muscle proceeds backwards from the hyoid a portion is detached to, or acquires an attachment to, the fore part of the scapula and forms the omo-hyoid. The hinder and inferior margin of the internal oblique pass- ^ The sternum (Fig. 5) is a very rudimentary structure, consisting of a broad heart-shaped plate of cartilage, with the rounded apex directed forwards; and it is deeply notched or cleft on either side anteriorly for the reception of the edges of the large coracoids. So deeply is it cleft that it might be regarded as consisting of two plates, a superficial and a deeper, blended in the middle hne and behind. It is the deeper plate which is involved at its margin in the mtemal oblique. The clefts on the two sides are not quite in the same plane, that of the left side extending a little beneath that on the right side. This permits the edge of the left coracoid to pass superficially to or beneath the right.