MUSCLES OF FORE LIMB. Oq 2. Precoraco-hrachial (Fig. 17, P. c. b.), arises from the whole of tlie outer surface of the precoracoid cartilage, with the excep- tion of tlie marginal part. It lies in the same plane with the eptcoraco-hunieml, indeed is almost continuous with it, and is inserted, in close connection with it and with the pectoral, into the radial side of the uppermost part of the radial tubercle of the humerus \ 3. Coraco-brachiaUs longus (Figs. 17 and 18, C. b. 1.) is the largest of the muscles arising from the coracoid. It arises from the hinder edge of the coracoid and divides into two portions. Of these, the larger and inner or lower division is inserted into the ulnar edge of the humerus for a quarter of an inch above the internal condyle: the other division, being nearly as laro-e, is partly inserted into the side of the long tendon of the biceps, while a bundle of its fibres is continued on over the elbow, and is inserted into the ulna near the joint. This last-described division must represent the short or coracoid ongin of tlie biceps in Man. There is no trace of it in Menobranch Axolotl or Newt. The muscle in them though large is confined to the humerus in its insertion. 4. Coraco-brachiaUs brevis (Fig. 17, 0. b. hr.) arises from the coracoid close to the shoulder-joint, between the precedino- nmscle and the joint, and also from the external surface of the hinder part of the coracoid near the joint. It passes beneath the biceps to the ulnar side of the humerus near, the shoulder- joint, and to the base of the ulnar side of the radial tubercle of the humerus beneath the coraco-brachialis superficialis. It cor- responds with the ordinary mammalian coraco-brachial. between these last two; while the ulnar tinues its course behind both. ’ anil MenobrftTif.li „ by in his description of Menopoma as the same fVi i PP- ^^5 and 460, though he regards it lations of ibo cpicoraco-humeral in the Echidna. The re* cientlv clear f ■ mammalian subclavius do not appear to be suflfi. arSrlrtie ° application of that name to it; and it In Menobrnnei P.^®°c^?'C°^^lyatber than from the epicoracoid part of the girdle, under surface is V^ summit of the radial tubercle, and its U..I animal though^aW ““ 3