NERVES OF LEPIDOSIREN. 82 is the axilla. Tr.^ trapezius. O' and O*', inferior and superior opercu- lar bones. L. o., levator operculi. D. m., depressor mandibulse. Fig. 25. Similar view to the preceding in which the superficial dorsal layer (D. D.) and the temporal fascia have been divided longi- tudinally and reflected upwards and downwards exposing {T) the temporal muscle. M, the masseter with the branches of the third division of the fifth nerve emei’ging from between it and the temporal muscle. U. a. o., retractor anguli oris, arising from the suspensorium. frontal bone. Fm., premaxillary bone. F. n'., fronto-nasal branch of the supra-maxillary division of the fifth nerve; i. o'., infra-orbital branch; n, nasal branch of infra-maxillary; I, labial, and m, man- dibular branches of the infra-maxillary. Fig. 26. Deep dissection of throat showing dispo.sition of ventral muscle. The superficial stratum {S. c.) of lighter colour has been partly divided on the left side and reflected towards the jaw, where, on its under surface M. h., the mylo-hyoid, is seen attached to the jaw and the hyoid, and also forming (D) the anterior part of the digastric. C. h.y coraco-brachial. N, nerve passing to the venti'al aspect of the fin. P, pectoral. M. m., mucous membrane reflected fi’om hyoid and rudimentary tongue upon superflcial stratum of ventral muscle. S. c. and G. h., the two layers of the superflcial stratum of ventral muscle. G. jx, cervicalis profundus, or deep stratum of ventral muscle between (C) the coracoid and the hyoid. li, thick rib-like bone exposed by dividing pai’t of deep stratum of ventral muscle. Fig. 27. Eight side of skull of Lepidosiren, fi’om which the muscles have been cleared away to show the nerves. The optic is not shewn. Ophth., the ophthalmic of the fifth •,/. n., its fronto-nasal branch; n, its nasal branch; and i. o. its infra-orbital branch. S. m., the supra-maxillary division; t, its temporal or muscular branch; f.n.y its fronto-nasal branch; i. o'., its infra-orbital branch. I. m., the infx’a-maxillary division; n, its nasal branch; b, its buccal branch; m, its large mandibular branch giving off (1) labial branches to outer side of mandible. 7', the branch of the seventh accompanying the mandibular branch of the fifth; 7", the branch of the seventh to the depressor mandibulse (Z>. m.), which is continued beneath the mylo-hyoid and curls beneath the jaw reappearing (7'") to supply the lip. Sq., the squamous bone. JS. o., the supra-opercular bone. I. o., the infra-opercular bone. C. h., the coraco-hyoid muscle. D. m., the depressor mandibulse. L, the external lateral ligament of the jaw.