MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 152 in Man, tlie connection is with the fascia covering the quadri- ceps. Like the latissimus d. it is, in addition, often inserted into the post-axial line of the femur ; but it does not follow its homologue by occasionally passing, between the divisions of the extensor muscle, to the pre-axial line. It sometimes ranges along the margin of the ilium to unite with the tensor v. f and the sartorius, so obliterating the division between the two sectors; and on the limb it often reaches the fibular malleolus and side of the foot. Before concluding the account of the ventro-appendicular muscles, it is necessary to mention certain derivatives from the ventral muscle of the tail which belong to this series, some of wliich are not represented in the fore limb. Of these, the first and most superficial is that which I named Caudo-pedal in the description of the Cryptobranch. It occupies an intermediate position between the gluteus and the gracilis, and descends along the plantar surface of the limb to the distal parts, blending with the flexors of the digits. In Fishes it is not distinctly represented ; and in animals above Keptiles it is lost or represented only by fascial tissue in its upper part. Its lower part in these animals is probably repre- sented by the plantar fascia, or the superficial layers of the plantar fascia, and, perhaps, by the superficial layers of the tendo-Achillis and by some fibres of the gastrocnemius. In the fore limb of Birds it seems to be serially represented by the costo-alaris, or its superficial fibres, which, as I have before said, is the antagonistic homologue of the cervico-alaris {tensor p'Acce aJaris). Such antagonistic homologue to the caudo- pedal in the hind limb we do not find. It would be represented by fibres from the external oblique, between the sartorius and the gracilis, passing down to the distal region of the limbb Beneath, and connected with, the caudo-pedal is the caudo- crural of Cryptobranch, which fuses with the adducto-flexor mass passing to the leg, and more particularly with that part 1 In Crocodiles a large muscle passes from the hindmost projecting point of tho ilium, and at the ham its tendon is, partly, connected -with the deeper muscles and, partly, extends superficially down to the foot. A segment of it internallv joins the (/radlu. Externally, it is in contact with the biccj)s and tt'o-re.ctxts. I suppose it is the lepresentative of tho caudo-pedal, stai'ting from tho ilium as a fixed basis instead of from the caudal vertebruj. ..