97 MUSCLES OF THE CERATODUS. with the rest of the ventral muscle. They take chiefly a trans- verse direction, and bear close resemblance to the corresponding cei'vicalis superficiaKs of Lepidosiren and Dog-fish. The re- flection of it, as in Fig. 37, shews it to be inserted strongly into the cerato-hyoid cartilage {C. Ed), also into the jaw near its angle, as well as into the opercular bones, and into the body of the jaw (df) between the angle and the symphysis. There are not any fibres running forwards from the hyoid to the symphysis and corresponding to those which in Lepidosiren (p. 73) I have supposed to represent the anterior belly of the digastric. This muscle is mentioned, and partly described by Giinther, p. 525. Lying beneath the outer or posterior half of the suboperculum, closely united with and projecting beyond it, so coming into relation with the fibres of the muscle just described, is a remarkable plate of cartilage, represented at S. o. c. Fig. 37, which is not mentioned by Giinthei*. It is quite separate from all the cartilages of the skull, and is connected only with the suboperculum, though lying near the hinder edge of the cerato-hyoid cartilage. There is not any similar cartilage under the operculum; for the small cartilage described as pre-operculum by Giinther is quite separate from the operculum. Beneath the cervicalis superficialis, near the middle line, is the muscle which I have described in Lepidosiren (p. 71, and Dog-fish, p. 85), as the deep layer of the cervicalis superficialis. In this animal it is more separate from the remainder of the cervicalis sup. than it is in Lepidosiren; and it constitutes a distinct genio-coracoid {O.c. Fig. 37). It is flat, riband-like, and attached behind to half-an-inch of the anterior edge of the coracoid cartilage, and of the epicoracoid-bone (p. 106), near the middle line. It extends, forwards, to the under-surface of the hinder edge of the mandible near the symphysis. It passes, beneath the hyoid, and is not connected with it; still its fore- part may, and probably does, represent the genio-hyoid of other animals or the hyo-mental (p. 137). The DEEP LAYER OF THE BRACHIO-CEPHALIC EXTENSION is disposed much as in Lepidosiren. It first, in its lateral part, encounters the peculiar bone, or first rib, which appears to be formed in the lateral part of one of its septa. From the ante- rior and outer surface of this bone is given off a thick muscle 7