MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS, 179 course; indeed, they scarcely shew any indication of crossing from the ulnar towards the radial side. The deepest part of the pronator man.'&s mass becomes the pronator quadratus which, below, may (Seine) extend upon the carpus and, above, may reach and blend with the pronator teres. The elements of the tarso-metatarsals (or carpo-metacar- pals), the metatarso- (or metacarpo-) phalangeals and the phalangeals follow those of the pronator pedis (or mantis) in uniting with, or retaining their union with, the flexor pro- fundus. Advancing forwards, however, they often separate from it, and, attaching themselves to the sides of the phalan- ges, form the lumbricales from their lateral parts and the reti- nacula from their middle parts. The phalangeals are probably included in the latter, but occasionally remain separate and often disappear. Hence the lumbricales are commonly found chiefly upon the deep surface of the angles between the tendons of flex prof, and are often nearly or quite continuous with the accessorius. In the cases of the lateral digits, i. and v., their elements remain in part or wholly upon the metatarsals and form the short flexors. For this reason the lumbricales are not usually present on the tendons to these digits, or one only is present, lying upon the tibial (or radial) side of the tendon to digit V. More rarely there is one on the flbular (or ulnar) side of the tendon to digit i\ To put it in another way, the lumbricales and retinacula may be regarded as parts of the common flexor mass, which, instead of becoming segmented into metatarso-phalangeals and phalangeals, retain their connection with the flexor ten- dons and are separated with them from the tarsus and metatar- sus; but they are not detached from the phalanges to which they accordingly pass from the flexor tendons. Their connec- ^ In some animals (Seine) the lumbricales pass from both sides of the several tendons of the Jl. prof, to both sides of the digits. In the foot of Pteropus there are eight lumbricales—one on the fihular side of the hallux, one on the tibial side of digit v., and one on eaeh side of eaeh of the other digits. Usually, in Mammals, they arise only from the approximated sides of the tendons (or, as commonly described, from the clefts between the tendons); and the fibres, in- stead of following the two sides of the several tendons and forming eight muscles as in Pteropus, are combined into four (the two in each cleft fusing into one) which pass to the tibial (or radial) side of the four outer digits. 12—2