129 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. are formed, respectively, over the costals, the sternum and the coracoid, and the lower jaw is formed over Meckel’s cartilage. We have seen that this stratum is, in Fishes, closely connected with the skin by the transverse and longitudinal septa passing through the compact intervening external fascia. A superficial layer of the stratum is often, more or less com- pletely, segmented from the rest, and, retaining its connection with the skin, or with the superficial fascia or both, constitutes cutaneous or subcutaneous muscles to which the names paw- nicle, platysma myoides, &c. are given. They may retain their original connection not only with the rest of the external ven- tral stratum, but also with the deeper strata, and with the car- tilage bones. Thus they, in some instances, are united to the ribs and the sternum, the vertebral spines and the limb-bones. They often correspond, and are more or less blended, with the several divisions of the rest of the stratum, and will therefore be best considered in relation with them. They commonly ex- tend over the lateral septum, spreading upon the dorsal muscle, and reaching the dorsal mesial line. This also we shall find to be the case with the rest of the stratum. Or, which is much the same thing, the components of this external stratum of the ventral part of the lateral muscle are confluent with superficial dorsal fibres, and form one stratum with them; so that it might be called the ‘ external ventro-dorsal’, or, better, the ‘ ex- ternal lateral’ stratum, that is, the external stratum of the entire lateral muscle b See Diamond Snake (Fig. 44)''^. ' membrane bone, or clavicle, formed upon it, and often in close connection with it. ^ This extension of the external stratum of the ventral part of the lateral muscle, over the lateral line and over the dorsal part of the muscle, to the ver- tebral spines is due, j)erhaps, to the expansion of the visceral cavity, laterally and upwards, as seen in the section of the Tadpole (Figs. 42 and 43). =* _ Description of Fig. 44, PI. ix.—The Diamond Snake. Dissection of the fore part of a Diamond Snake.—The pin is inserted into the fore part of the oerato-hyoid cartilage which is seen running back among the muscles. The drawing shews the bundles of the external oblique arising partly from the lateral septum, and partly from the fascial tissue on the surface of the dorsal muscle and passing,' -downwards and backwards, into the antero-pos- teriorly directed fibres of (r.) the rectus abdominis. Traced forwards, the rectus m seen giving off the bundles of the external oblique. Anteriorly, it expands into a muscular sheet, in the middle of the thickness of which the hyoid is in- volved. This runs forwards to the lower jaw, covers the under part and sides of the throat, expands upon the side of the head and neck, and extends over the dorsal muscle to the cervical spines. A set of its bundles more distinct than the others runs to the angle of the mouth, constituting a retractor oris. This expansion is a continuation of the entire thickness of the ventral mus- 9