64; UROMASTIX SPINIPES. the arm • and the conjoined tendon is inserted into the radius and ulna, The^eicor suhlimis digitorvm is a short flat muscle arising from the lower end of the ulna. It divides into five parts, one to each digit. Each part is, superficially, continued into a sheath which covers the deep flexor and the palmar aspect of the digit; and, more deeply, it gives rise to the usual perforated tendons which embrace and nearly encircle the deep flexor tendon on their way to their insertion. These tendons are inserted, two in number, in digit i. into the firnt phalanx, and in digit ii. into the second phalanx. In digit iii. a single tendon passes, on the ulnar side of the deep flexor, to the ulnar side of the second phalanx and two tendons pass in the usual manner to the third phalanx. In digit iv., one tendon passes to the ulnar side of the second phalanx j a second tendon passes to the ulnar side of the third phalanx, and a third to the radial side of the fourth phalanx. In digit v., two tendons pass, in the usual manner, to the second phalanx. The muscular belly in the fore arm, which usually appertains to the Jiex. subl., in this instance terminates in a tendon which joins the ulnar margin of the deep flexor. The flexor 'profundus is arranged much as usual. Its tendon in the palm is broad and thick, with the ossicle commonly found there; and it bears a sheet of muscular fibres, which divides into lumbricaXes, upon both its surfaces. The superficial lumhricales are thi’ee, one to each of the middle three digits. That to digit ii. passes on the radial side, and unites with the tendons of the flexor suhlimis close to their insertion. That to digit iii, jjasses on both sides of the digit and gives off two tendons, of which one bleuds with the single tendon of the flexor suhlimis on the ulnar side ; and the other, passing on the radial side, blends with the radial one of the two distal tendons of the flexor suhlimis near its insertion. That to digit iv. passes on the ulnar side of the digit to join the proximal ulnar tendon of the flexor suhlimis. The deep lumhricales are also three, and pass to the bases of the proximal phalanges of the middle three digits. The two lateral digits (i. and v.) have each a short flexor arising from the cai-pus and passing to the base of the first phalanx. These evidently are parts of the same series as the deep lumbi’icales. But they have remained attached to the carpus, and become separated from the flexor tendon ; whereas the deep lumhricales have separated from the carpus and remained attached to the flexor tendon. A connecting link is fui'iiished by a small accessorius, a thin flat muscle, which arises from the ulnar side of the carpus and is inserted into the deep surface of the flexor tendon close to, and almost continuous with, the deep lumbricales. The vnterossei are eight, one on the ulnar side of digit i,, one on the radial side of digit v., and one on each side of each of the other digits; there being no abductors of digits i. and v. They run along the sides of the digits; and their margins are connected with the margins.of the extensor tendons. These last are derived from the short extensor muscles which cover the metacarpus; the oi'dinary extensor stopping, as usukl in Samians, at the metacarpals.