81 NERVES OF LEPIDOSIREN. »■ branclnsc, nearly parallel to the preceding, and enters and is distri- buted in the deep stratum of the ventral muscle between the coracoid and the hyoid. The Pneumo-gastric passes backwards to the lungs and along the oesophagus. The Lateral nerve is the largest division of the vagus. It sends a branch upwards, behind the suspensorium to the deep part of the dorsal muscle. Tt then runs directly back- wards upon the dorsal surface of the peculiar bone (the large first rib) and the other ribs, and the lateral septum, continuing its course immediately beneath, or in the deepest part of the substance of, the dorsal muscle. DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES. PI. V. Fig. 23. The part of the animal in the neighbourhood of the ventral fins. The skin and the fascia have been removed to shew the dorsal and ventral muscles with the lateral septum between them. The fibres of the ventral muscle, midway between the lateral septum and the mesial line, are oblique from before downwards and back- wai’ds. Those of the subjacent stratum (exposed at A by dividing the superficial stratum along the interval between two of the transverse septa and reflecting it forwards and backwards) are, in the same region, oblique from before backwards and upwards. B, the edge of the fascia seen to split at the base of the dorsal fin. G, the muscles of the dorsal fin thickest in the neighbourhood of the trans- verse septa, and these overlying the ray-bones. D, the pelvic carti- lage with its anterior styliform process lying in a fascial sheath, and its ascending lateral horn. E, ventral muscle continued in front and behind upon the fin. F, nerves converging upon the dorsal aspect of the fin. G, lower part of the intestine ensheathed by the fascia transversalis and tei'minating in the cloaca which is on the left of the mesial line. (It is usually on one side or the other in this animal, as observed by Peters, Muller's Areliiv, 1845, p. 9. It was on the left side in Owen’s specimen.) The muscles on the anal fin resemble those on the dorsal fin. Fig. 24. Superficial layer of muscles on left side of fore part of body, fin and head. D, superficial stratum of dorsal muscle con- tinued into temporal fascia which is continuous with frontal bone {F). This fascia has been cut away in fx’ont where it was attached to (iV) the nasal bone, {Pm.) the premaxillary bone, {N. c.) the nasal carti- lage.s, (M) the maxillary bone, (Be.) the dentary part of the lower jaw, and {An.) the angular part of the lower jaw. T., temporal muscle. E. a. 0., retractor anguli oris. L. d., latissimus dorsi. P, pectoral. Sp. hr., supra-branchial, or cervicalis superficialis, portion of ventral muscle. Behind the last is the slit-like branchial opening, which is bounded behind by the coracoid with the fibres of the ventral muscle passing to its edge and the coraco-brachial fibres {C. hr.) running from its edge upon the fin. Between the latissimus dorsi and the pectoral 6