88 MUSCLES OF THE SMOOTH DOG-FISH. muscular coat of that tube and forming a diaphragm between the branchial and pericardial chambers. Some of the fibres also pass from the oesophagus to the vertebral column. The muscular coat of the oesophagus is further augmented. by a small muscle on either side which extends, from the base of the skull and the foremost vertebrae, upon the upper flat ends of the branchial cartilages and upon the oesophagus. A second or post-cardiac diaphragm is formed by a layer of the fascia transversalis reflected from the hinder edge of the girdle upon the oesophagus. It is not accompanied by any muscular fibres. Ventral Fin (Fig. 80). The dorsal muscle {Gl.) of the ventral fin is broad and square-shaped, and in part continuous with the superficial strata of the ventral muscle, whereas, behind, it overlies the ventral muscle and is easily dissected from it. It thus affords a good example of transition from continuity with the lateral muscle to superposition with regard to it. As it descends upon the fin it blends with the proper muscles of the fin and extends also upon the clasper. It repre- sents the gluteus m-aximus, together, probably, with the sartorius and tensor vagince femoris (see also Ceratodus, p. 95). I do not trace any of the fibres of the caudal part of the ventral muscle into the back of this fin-muscle or into the back of the fin or the clasper. The caudal muscle is, however, largely inserted into the pelvis behind, as is the ventral abdominal muscle in front. Near the mesial line the pelvis quite interrupts the ventral muscle, cutting off the caudal from the abdominal part, and lying in contact with the visceral cavity. More laterally, however, the pelvic cartilage is imbedded in the ventral muscle, the fibres of which are continued, on both its superficial and deep surfaces, from the caudal to the abdominal region. The following description of three transverse sections of the animal, together with the drawings (Figs. 31, 32 and 33) and the accounts of them at p. 90, shew the relations of the lateral muscles to the septa, to the vertebrae and their processes and to the median fins. A transve^rse section of the animal through the anterior