MUSCLES OF FOKE LIMB. 41 X c. r.). The upper and deep part, which might be regarded as ap- pertaining to the deep stratum, represents the supinator hrevis and the part lying between these two, and inserted into the radius nearer the wrist, represents the supinator radii longus (Fig. 17). The middle sector {extensor digitoruin sublimis) arises from the humerus, superficially to the radial sector. Passing down the forearm and over the carpus, and receiving upon its under surface fibres from the extensor digitorum hrevis, it divides to the four digits, passing to the terminal phalangesh The ulnar sector {extensor carpi ulnaris) arises on the ulnar side of the other sectors, is inserted into nearly the whole of the shaft of the ulna, and a portion runs on to the ulnar side of the carpus. The greater proportion of the fibres therefore pass from the humerus to the ulna instead of, as in most higher animals, from the ulna to the carpus. A similar deviation from the disposition in higher animals also is presented to a still greater extent by the corre- sponding stratum in the hind limb, the fibres of which pass largely from the femur to the tibia and fibula, instead of as in Man all passing from the leg to the foot. The DEEP STRATUM is absent from the upper region of the forearm, except the part of it blended with and forming the deeper portion of the radial sector just described as represent- ing the supinator hrevis. The uppermost part of the deep stratum, with that excep- tion, arises from the dorsal surface of the lower end of the ulna, and crossing over the back of the radius and the carpus and the extensor carpi radialis, is inserted into the radial side of the base of met. ii. It rej)resents the extensor poll, primus. It may be best called ‘ Supinator man4,s' (Fig. 17, Sup. m). This is a better term than that of '■rotator carpi’ which I applied to the same muscle {Journal of Anat. iv. 48). It is one of the most constant muscles in the forearm, is the serial homologue of the muscle which I have called supinator pp.dis (p. 29), and, like it, is in the same plane with and in a higher level than the extensor brevis and often connected with it. ^ In Menobranoh and in Sauriana it stops, like its homologue in the hind limb of those animals and of A'i, at the metacarpus, being inserted there in three portions; and small muscles arising from the metacarpus, close to its insertions; constitute the only extensors of the digits, and pass to the terminal phahinges.