35 MUSCLES OF FORE LIMB. external surface of the coracoid, between the epicoraco-brachial {jpect. minor) and the short coraco-brachial, as a fan-shaped muscle, the fibres of which pass across the short coraco-brachial and soon converge into a long tendon, which runs down beneath the pectoral. Having passed the pectoral it receives the fibres of the long coraco-brachial, passes over the elbow-joint, and is inserted into the palmar surface of the upper end of the radius close to the joint. It is supplied by the nerve which perfo- rates the scapula and which supplies also the superficial coraco- brachial. I find the biceps corresponding with the above and distinct from the hrachialis anticus in Menobranch, Newt, and Axolotl. In the Newt the long thin tendon is more closely related to the hrachialis anticus, but does not seem to derive muscular fibres from it. As above mentioned, it does not in any of these animals derive fibres from the coraco-brachialis longus. The Bracliialis anticus arises from the radial side of the radial tubercle of the humerus, close, but on the opposite side of the tubercle, to the insertion of the pectoral, and beneath the insertion of the dorsalis scapuloi''. It passes along the shaft of the humerus, deiiving no fibres from it, passes over the elbow superficial to the biceps tendon, and is inserted about equally into the radius and ulna. Its foremost fibres are inserted into the ulnar side of the radius at a short distance from the joint, nearly in the situation corresponding with the middle of the insertion of the supinator longus in ourselves. Its hinder half, passing between this radial insertion and the insertion of the biceps, is attached to the adjacent palmar surface of the ulna. On the Dorsal Aspect of the Girdle and Akm. The trap)ezius already described, (p. 30). Latissimus dorsi arises from the fascial tissue over the dor- sal muscle, extending, forwards, nearly to the head, overlying the hinder part of the trapezius and, backwards, half way to the pelvis. It is a thin muscle and its edge is not very defined in ^ I may observe that neither in this nor in the hind limb is the surface for attachment of muscles increased by intermuscular septa extending from the sides of the humerus and femur. 3—2