^’C MUSCLES OF LEPIDOSIREN. Fascial Investment. The EXTERNAL or SUBCUTANEOUS FASCIA Covering the late- J ral muscle is not, as in Cryptobranch, loose, permitting move- ment of the skin upon the muscle, but, as in Fishes though not quite in the same degi’ee, compact and closely united with the derma on the one side and with the intermuscular septa on the other. It is separated from the skin by a thin stratum of pig- mentary areolar tissue; and its union with the intermuscular septa is still more close. Hence it is with difficulty dissected off as a continuous sheet. Forasmuch as all, or nearly all, the fibres of the lateral muscle terminate in and arise from the ; septa, they are, through the medium of the septa, brought into ■ relation with one another, with the vertebral system on the one ' side, and with the dermal system on the other. This is an important point; and the continuity.of the parts or layers of . the outer wall of an animal body thus established must be borne in mind in considering the relations of the muscles, and , their subdivisions, to one another and to the dermal and verte- bral systems. ' Along each edge (upper and lower) of the animal, in the forepart, where the mesial fin is absent, the fascia of either ■ side blends with that of the opposite side and is intimately united with the cutis externally. The median sheet resulting from the blending dips between the lateral muscles of the two sides. The upper one impinges upon and unites with the dorsal spines and other vertebral elements; and the lower blends with the haemal spines or with the fascia transversalis. In the region of the mesial fin (dorsal, caudal, subcaudal and anal, for they are continuous) the disposition is somewhat different, i At the base of the fin the fascia on each side divides into two : laminae (Fig. 2-3 B). Of these one, superficial or subcutaneous, i accompanies the derma upon the fin and is lost with it on the | delicate horny fibres of the fin. The other lamina, retaining its ^ connection with the lateral muscle, passes over the edge of that ■ muscle, between it and the fin covered by'its fin-muscle, and so | reaches the neural or haemal .spines and the fin-rays resting i upon them. It here becomes blended with those spines as well •; as with the intermuscular septa which are here passing into the spines and fin-rays. Thus the fin with its muscles is