MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 125 tlie internal intercostals with the transversalis stratum,—The levatores costarum which, like the external intercostals, are overlapped by the dorsal muscle, may also be ranged as mem- bers of the middle ventral stratum \ The rectus is usually continued forwards on the external surface of the sternum and costal cartilages, not unfrequently as far as the first costal cartilage, constituting a rectus thoracis. Other longitudinal muscles are sometimes (Ai, Cyclethurus. Otter, &c.) developed, lying also beneath (superficial to) the ribs, more laterally than the rectus, and constituting what ma}’- be designated recti thoracis laterales^, to distinguish them from, and mark their relation to, the rectus thoracis. These muscles approach or alternate with extensions of the scaleni back- wards. The rectus may (Cyclothurus and Otter) be crossed superficially by a sterno-costal muscle passing from the sternum, obliquely forwards and outwards, to the ribs and approaching the scaleni. All these belong to the middle or internal stratum of the ventral muscle and are merely illustrations of varying cleavage and segmentation in accordance with varying direc- tion of fibres. From the ribs the middle stratum is continued forwards laterally to the cervical transverse processes as scaleni. These are separated from the rectus capitis and longus colli of the internal stratum (p. 121) by the cervical nerves. As just hinted, they often extend upon the exterior of the ribs, meeting the recti th. later ales and the sterno-costales^. Anterior to the scaleni is the rectus capitis lateralis. Nearer the mesial line, interiorly, the middle stratum is continued forwards to the hyoidthyroid, ^ In Snakes, these last are much developed and extend over a greater range than in other animals, for the purpose of assisting in progression j and there is commonly to be found a series of internal levatores costarum, situated external to the outer part of the depressores, crossing those muscles and appearing in the interval between them and the transversalis. Their position would indicate them to belong to the internal stratum; but the nerves which lie external to the depressors and the transversalis, pass internal to the levators. It may he added that the nerves in these animals do not confine themselves to the intercostal spaces opposite which they escape from the vertebral canal, but, in some instances, cross over one or more ribs, passing between the ribs and the trans- versalis. ® One of these has been so named by Macalister, in his description of Ai, Annals and Mag. of Nat. Hist., June 1869. ^ In the Green Monkey the scalenus is continued into the rectus. * The inscriptions in the ventral muscle running forward to the hyoid.