121 MUSCLES IN VEETEBRATE ANIMALS. tube. It remains so in the Leech. In the Eai'thworm the transverse septa still connect the visceral tube and its muscles with the dermal sheet and its muscles. In higher animals the visceral cavity inter- rupts the septa; and they are restricted to the dermo-muscular layer, except near the oral and anal apertures, and in the situation of the diaphragm or diaphragms, where the inner layer or layers of the dermo-muscular sheet bend in towai’ds and come into contact with the visceral sheet of the animal. In the Fish the dermo-muscular sheet is, for the most part, in one undivided plane, with the septa extending throughout it and connecting the skin with the fascia transversalis. In Batrachians the muscular part is more separate from the skin on the one side, and the fascia transversalis on the other; and the stratification of the muscular part into the three planes above-mentioned is commencing. We will first take the innermost—the TRANSVERSALIS—■ STRATUivi of the ventral muscle, the stratum that lies internal to or beneath the osseous skeleton, or between the innermost parts of the skeleton, and internal to the chief nervous and vascular trunks. In most Fishes (though not in all, p. 119) it is absent, or partial or rudimentary, being represented by tendinous or fascial structures and scarcely distinguishable from the fascia transversalis. It may enter with that fascia into the for- mation of the post-cardiac diaphragm; and it is sometimes (Dog-fish) a main constituent of the pre-cardiac diaphragm. In Cryptobranch we have found it very extensively disposed beneath the ribs and the rest of the wall of the abdominal cavity, form- ing the depressores costarum and the transversalis muscle. It also lies, beneath the vertebral column, from the pelvis to the head, forming the subvertebral rectus; and there is no dia- phragm. In higher animals it seldom is present as a continu- ous sheet in this last situation; but portions of it remain, form- ing the longiis colli, the rectus capitis anticus, the crura of the diaphragm and the retractor ani. On the interior of the lateral parts of the abdomen and thorax it is usually present in animals above Fishes, forming the transversalis muscle and the depres- sores costarum^, also the internal intercostals and the triangida- ris sterni^ with the suhcostals. It is continued, with more ^ These last are strongly developed in Snakes, and are quite segmented from the transversalis with an interval between them and it, in which the levatores costarum appear. * The triangularis sterni and the transversalis are sometimes continuous in Man, as remarked by Stannius, Eosenmliller and Meckel.