89 MUSCLES OF FORE LIMB. X' The position of the muscle on the same level with the next portion of the deep Inver indicates, as does the passage of the large branch of the median behind it, that it is a segment from the deep stratum rather than a third and hinder stratum which one might at first be disposed to regard it, and which view the position of its correspond- ent in the hind limb rather favour’s. By the connection of the muscle with tire lower part oi i\\e pronator teres a continuity between the two muscles and between the two strata is established above. It is not so lai’ge, does not descend so low as its correspondent in the hind limb, and it is not placed behind the plane of the deep flexor stra- tum as the pronator tibiae is in that limb. The difference in the last particular is caused by the greater size of the pronator tibice as well of the deep flexor stratum in the hind limb, so that the one comes to overlie the other. 2. The largest portion of the deep stratum, which I will call ‘pronator manus’ (Figs. 18 and 19, Pr. m.), arises from the radial side of the palmar surface of the ulna, beneath the pre- ceding, and from the middle carpal cartilages. Its superficial fibres run into the radial part of the under surface of the flexor SLiblimis, just as the fibres from the ulnar origin of that muscle run into the ulnar part of its under surface. Its deeper fibres are inserted into the distal radial carpal bone and the base of the metacarpal of ll. and III. 3. The flexor 2rrofundiis digitorum (Figs. 18 and 19) is a flat band arising from the upper part of the palmar surface of the ulna between the pronator quadratus and the flexor carpi ulnaris. Like the corresponding band in the hind limb, it is completely segmented from the other muscles, and descends vertically. It passes deep, is connected with the distal carpal cartilage near the base of digit iv. detaching some fibres to the cartilage, and acquiring some from it; indeed the cartilage pro- jects up through the muscle. The muscle now spreads out fan-like, and sends a division to each of the four digits. Each division is inserted chiefly into the base of the proximal phalanx, and a lateral detachment passes to one or both sides of the metacarpal. The division which passes to digit ii. encounters another distal carpal cartilage, which also projects up through it, some of the muscular fibres passing to the cartilage and some passing from it. This trumpet-like muscle does not, as in the hinder limb to so great an extent, curl beneath the level of the pronator portion of the stratum (the pronator manids),