THE MUSCLES OF CERATODUS. (Plate VII. Figs. 31 to 38'). Lateral and Mesial Fin-Muscles. The lateral muscle presents tlie usual general piscine charac- ters. There is, however, none of the superficial, soft, coloured stratum often found over and near the lateral septuml The ventral intermuscular septa simply slant from the lateral septum backwards and downwards to the ventral line. Traced inwards they pass obliquely forwards to the ribs, or to the transversalis fascia in the trunk, and in the tail to the hsemal spines and the median septum. Near the pectoral girdle the direction of their slant is reversed. The dorsal intermuscular strata, at first, slant backwards and upwards from the lateral septum; then they curve forwards to the line at which the dorsal fin-muscles impinge upon the lateral muscle. Here the direction is again suddenly changed; and they slant backwards and upwards, through the fin-muscle, with a greater obliquity than they present near the lateral septum. The septa in the muscle extending upon the side of the dorsal median fin are distinctly continuations of the septa of the lateral muscle, though their direction is somewhat different. The same disposition is ob- served throughout the tail; except that as they are traced back- wards the curves of the septa disappear; and in the hinder part of the tail the septa extend as straight lines, obliquely backwards and upwards, through the dorsal part of the lateral muscle and onwards, with merely an increase of obliquity, through the fin- muscle. In like manner the septa of the ventral part of the lateral muscle, behind the anus, merely acquire an increased slant backwards when they traverse the muscle upon the sides of the median fin. Near the lateral septum the fibres of the lateral muscle, ventral and dorsal, take an antero-posterior direction, a direc- 1 For the opportunity of dissecting this animal I am indebted to the kind- ness of Prof. Flower, of the Royal College of Surgeons. It was dissected for me by Mr Anningson. The anatomy of Ceratodus, with the exception of the muscles, has been fuUy described by Dr Gunther, in an admirable paper contained in i the Phil. Trans, of the Roy. Soc. for 1871. ® This was also absent in Lepidosiren and Ceratodus. See obs. p. 106.