THE CRYPTOBRANCH. 22 The middle sector (Fig. 2, Gl. 2) arises from the outer sur- face of the ilium, half an inch from the hip-joint, and descends as a broad strap-like muscle over the thigh and over the middle of the knee, superficial to the inner sector and the origin of the dorsal leg-muscles from the femur. It does not acquire any attachment to the upper end of the tibia, being separated from it and from the knee by the dorsal muscles of the leg, extending up to the femur; but it expands over those muscles and sends a process deeper, between the tibialis anticus and the extensor digitormi, which is attached to the lower end of the tibia and expands upon the ankle. I name this part of the ilio-crural stratum, ‘gluteo rectus’ believing it to represent the gluteus maocimus (if there is any representative of that muscle in Urodelans) and the rectus femoris of mammals. The outer sector (Fig. 2, B) arises from the ilium just beneath the preceding, and so close to it that it may almost be said to arise by a common tendon with it; it descends along the fibular side of the thigh and terminates in a broad tendon which, insinuating itself between the peroneus muscle and the fibula, is inserted into the upper third of the shaft of that bone. The peroneal nerve (Fig. 10, P) crossing beneath it, runs along its upper edge to the dorsum of the leg. The relation of the nerve, as well as the insertion of the muscle, indicate this outer or ilio-fibular sector to be the biceps flexor cruris; and it affords an example, not uncommon, of a muscle which belongs to the dorsal or extensor series becoming, by virtue of its position upon the side of a joint, an adjunct in its action to the plantar or flexor group. It is accompanied, in the distal part of its course, by a distinct spindle-shaped muscle (Fig. 10, P,/), which arises, by a tendon, from the plantar aspect of the femur, just beneath the insertion of the tendon of the caudo-femoral, and is inserted tendinous into the middle third of the shaft of the fibula beneath the tendon of the biceps. This femoro-fibular muscle appears to represent the short or femoral origin of the biceps. The DEEPER or ILIO-FEMORAL stratum of the DORSAL mass covers the iliac part of the hip-joint. It arises from the outer and anterior surface of the ilium near the joint, between the pecti7ieus anteriorly and internally and the ischio-femoixil posteriorly and