ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. 17 A- fibres of the transversalis end in a tendinous sheet which is con- tinued above (deeper than) the rectus, to join its fellow in the middle line. Anteriorly the transversalis takes origin from the ribs as far forwards as the internal oblique; and it forms a thin sheet passing above the coracoids and the sternum. It is sepa- rated from the coracoids by the internal oblique ; but it comes into contact with the deeper surface of the sternum near the mesial line. A space is here left uncovered in consequence of the fibres of the internal oblique being limited to the margin of the deeper plate of the sternum, and the transversalis accord- ingly is attached here. In front of this it blends with the internal oblique or is lost in areolar tissue. Towards the hinder part of the abdomen it is inserted into the upper surface of the prepubic cartilage and cornu in a manner corresponding with its attachment to the upper surface of the sternum; and it is traceable within the pelvis in company with the deepest stratum of the internal oblique into connection with the caudal muscle. Where the fibres of this deepest or transversalis stratum of the abdominal muscles lie beneath the ribs passing from rib to rib, directly or through the medium of the intermuscular septa in which the ribs lie, and passing from the sides of the vertebral bodies to the ribs, they constitute a series of depres- sores costarum (Fig. 4, D, G); and where they lie beneath the bodies of the vertebrae they constitute what I have called a siibvertehral rectus. In the former situation (where they form the depressores costarum) they slant from behind forwards and outwards like the fibres of the internal oblique; but in the latter situation (where they form the suhvertebral rectus) they take a more antero-posterior direction. The suhvertebral rectus is continued forwards beneath the bodies of the cervical ver- tebrae and is attached to the skull, so constituting a longus colli and rectus capitis. It will be understood that there is no line of demarcation between these several muscles, the whole— transversalis, depressores costarum, suhvertebral rectus, longus colli, rectus capitis—being one continuous sheet of muscular fibres, with transverse septa or inscriptions, extending beneath the vertebral column, forwards, as far as the head, backwards, into the caudal muscles, and continued laterally beneath the 2