134 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. portions, blended with a similar detachment from the deeper layer (from the ‘ contiguous edges of the ]-)ectoral and trapezio-deltoid), forms the tensor 'plicm alaris, bettei’ called cervico-alaris. This, partly composed of elastic tissue, extends along the radial edge of the wing in Bats and Birds, and reaches the skin and subcutaneous tissue of the radial digits. It is thus (as mentioned p. 131) the antagonistic homologue of the costo-edaris. The deeper layer of the cervicalis su2)erficialis developes into the aterno-cleido-mastoid and the tra]jezius, the former representing the ventral, or sub-branchial, part of the layer, and the latter representing the dorsal, or supra-branchial parth They are very regular muscles, but vary in their range of attachment at both ends. The sterno-cleido-mastoid is sometimes confined to the sternum and then is called sterno-mastoid. Sometimes it is inserted, by a narrow tendon only, into the mastoid, instead of by a broad musculo-tendi- nous tennination as in Man^. Sometimes’ the portion con- nected with the clavicle is separate, forming a cleido-occipital. The trapezius, instead of the extensive origin from skull, cervical and dorsal spines, overlapping the latissimus dorsi, which it has in Man, may (Pteropus and Birds) have much more limited origin. It may, in the absence of the clavicle, be inserted (Cryptobranch) into the anterior edge of the scapula and the precoracoid or (Ai) the coracoid; or it may be conti- nued as trapezio-deltoid to the humerus®. When this last occurs, there is usually an inscription remaining between the trapezius and the deltoid, in the deeper part of which a rudimentary clavicle is often present in Carnivora. From beneath the trapezius the rhomboids^ are segmented, ^ The interval between the two in Racoon is partly bridged over by fibres passing from the trapezius to the sterno-mastoid, reminding us of the epi- branchial fibres connecting the superior and inferior cervicales parts in Lepi- dosirou and Dog-fish. 2 In a Fawn I found it extending over the lower jaw to the orbital edge of the maxilla, occupying that part of the area of the superficial layer. In Crocodile it passes beneath the trapezius to the transverse process of the 4th cervical ver- tebra, where it comes into contact with the middle ventral stratum represented by the levator scapulce. 3 In Manis it extends over the biceps and brachial vessels to the internal condyle of the humerus. * The rhomboid in Owl and Kite extends from all the lumbar and dorsal spines to the hinder edge of the scapula, dwarfing the trapezius. In Apteryx it is said by Owen to be wanting. It is present in the Crocodile, but I have not met with it in any lower animal; sometimes it blends with the latissimus dorsi. Journ. Anat. iv. 33.