MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 135 also apparently the serrati postici, as well as the masto-hume~ ral and masto-scapular. Though the last two might perhaps he said to be segmented from the deep surface of the sterno- mastoid, yet they usually blend below with the trapezius or deltoid, or pass to the scapula or humerus. Also another muscle is segmented from the trapezius, which I have in former papers named cervico-hiimeral, and which is an in- teresting reminder of the fact that in Lepidosiren (p. 72) and Dog-fish (p. 86) some of the deeper fibres of the layer are traceable to the latei'al septum and, beneath it, to the lateral parts of the vertebrae.; for the cervico-humeral arises, not like the trapezius from the vertebral spines, but from the transverse processes of the atlas or other cervical verte- brae, near to the levator scapulce, or even (Hedgehog) from the fore part of the ring of the atlas, or (Guinea Pig and Rabbit) from the basi-occipital. It descends upon the shoulder to the clavicle, acromion, or humerus, or blends with the trapezius or deltoid. Thus, though it is associated with the levator scapulcB in its origin, it is associated with the trapezius in the latter part of its course; and it is evidently a repre- sentative, in Mammals, of those fibres of the stratum which, in Lepidosiren, detach themselves from the rest of the stra- tum and bend in, deeply, to the sides of the vertebra. In the Hippopotamus the cervico-humeral arises by a round tendon from the back of the exoccipital, behind the digas- tric and stylo-hyoid, joins the trapezius, forming its fore part, and runs on to the deltoid ridge of the humerus. It is not separated from the deltoidal, or lower, part by any inscription. It is joined by the omo-hyoid which loses itself in this muscle. It is called masto-humeral by Gratiolet. A separate large por- tion arises by a strong tendon from the under surface of the transverse process of the atlas and spreads upon the dorsum of the scapula. The trapezius passes over the large trans- verse process of • this vertebra without deriving any fibres from it. Between the two layers of the cervical part of the super- ficial brachio-cephalic stratum, just described—the superficial layer which is forming the suheutaneus colli, and the deeper layer which forms the sterno-mastoid and trapezius—other