MUSCLES OF TRUNK. s 11 abdominal wall causes a more or less distinct division into sectors. Near tlie exterior the muscular fibres are directed, between the transverse intermuscular septa, from before backwards, and ventrally towards the linea alba. This disposition distinguishes them from those of the subjacent layer which take a different direction, and gives rise to a stratum constituting an ‘ ohliquus externm' muscle. The obliquity is most marked near the lateral septum. At a distance from that it gradually diminishes, and near the mesial line the fibres acquire an antero-posterior or straight direction, and constitute a superficial layer of the * rectm abdominis! In the stratum next subjacent the fibres are directed from before backwards, and dorsally towards the lateral septum, and thus is constituted an ^ohliquus internus! The obliquity is here also more marked near the lateral septum diminishing towards the mesial line; and the fibres here acquiring an antero-pos- terior or straight direction constitute a deeper layer of the ‘ rectus! The ‘ rectus abdominis' is therefore simply the resultant of the altered direction of the fibres of the internal and external oblique, and consists of two layers which may, to some extent, be separated from each other, and which are continuous respec- tively with the external and internal oblique muscles\ (Fig. 7.) In the deepest stratum of all the muscular fibres with their intermuscular septa extend, under the surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, as far as the middle line. In this situation they are directed antero-posteriorly or straight, and constitute what may be designated a ‘ suhvertebral rectus^! More laterally, where they lie beneath the ribs and are connected, by means ^ It would be more strictly correct to say that the obliqui are the resultant of an altered direction of the fibres of the rectus, and the two layers which they form are consequent on the difference in the direction which their fibres re- spectively take in their variation from the antero-posterior course of those of the rectus. This fusion of the external and internal oblique muscles with the rectus, which I have indicated diagrammatically in Fig. 7, was pointed out by Mr Mivart in his description of the Menopoma, Proc. Zool. Soc., April 22, 1869, p. 258, as well as in that of the Iguana, Proc. Zool. Soc., 1867, p. 770. * This muscle is described as rectus trunci internus by Schmidt, Goddard, and van der Hoeven ; but they do not mention its connection with the transver- salis. By Mivart it is regarded, in Menopoma (Proc, Zool. Soc., April 22, 1862, p. 260), as part of the retrahens costarum.