85 MUSCLES OF THE SMOOTH DOG-FISH. s- the scapula lies upon the upper part of the ventral muscle—^the latero-ventral muscle—and its lower edge is connected with one of the transverse septa of this muscle. Moreover, some of the fibres of the muscle pass into its under surface, constituting a serratiLS. These are continuous with fibres of the same muscle farther forward, which pass, from a deep level of the lateral septT\pi, backwards to the under surface of the scapula, and are inserted there, constituting a levator scapulce. Reverting to the pectoral part of the mesio-lateral muscle, which I have described as being inserted into the coracoid, I should add that the more superficial fibres (Fig. 29) are inserted not into the coracoid but into the transverse septum Ipng be- tween the coracoid and the skin (the coracoid is developed in the deeper part of this septum, which may therefore be called the ‘ coracoidaT septum). Through the medium of this septum it is continued onwards into a superficial cervical muscle, which may be called ‘ cervicalis superjicialis inferior! This last is a thin muscle without septa; and its fibres radiate forwards and outwards. Anteriorly, they pass superficially to the hyoid, ac- quiring reinforcements of fibres from the mesial line, and are attached to the lower margin of the mandible and also to the hyoid near the angle of the mandible. Posteriorly, they ex- pand, to some extent, upon the fin, as well as are continuous with the pectoral. Laterally, they pass beneath the branchial chamber, are connected slightly with the branchial cartilages, and extend into the gill-covers between the branchial openings. Antero-laterally, between the foremost gill-opening and the jaw, they pass over the fore part of the branchial chamber. Here, as well as between the several branchial openings, they are continued upon the dorsum of the animal as far as the lateral septum, forming what may be called the ‘ cervicalis su- perficialis superior! This superior muscle is quite as strongly marked as that on the under surface of the throat and branchial chamber. It may be described as arising on the dorsum of the animal and extending downwards to meet the inferior muscle. Taking this view of it, we find it to arise from the projecting upper and back part of the skul], from the anterior edge of the scapular part of the shoulder-girdle near the fin and, slightly, from the