Ill MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. inscriptions in the rectus abdominis, biventer cervicis, digastric and omo-hyoid, by occasional inscriptions in the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid, by the clavicle or the inscription which, in carnivora and some others, is substituted for it between the trapezius and the deltoid, and by Poupart’s ligament. The fibres in these animals retain their simple antero- posterior du'ection between the successive skeletal septa in the instances of the interspinales and intertransversales and in the recti-abdonvinis, though in the last some of the septa have been obliterated. In the semispinales the fibres run obliquely be- tween the successive skeletal structures and also in the inter- costales. In these last, the direction of the obliquity varying at two parts of the depth between the successive ribs, two strata are formed resembling the two strata of external and internal oblique between the successive ribs and septa in the abdomen of Cryptobranch (p. 10). These and other variations will, how- ever, be mentioned as we proceed. Reverting to the plan of the construction of the locomotory system of a vertebrate animal, we have found it to consist of a series of transverse, alternating, skeletal and muscular planes or discs, traversed by an antero-posterior axial line, the whole being enclosed in an external fascial sheet which is also part of the skeletal system and which lies beneath the skin. A trans- verse section shews that each disc is in two lateral halves applied, as it were, upon the axial line which is formed by the notochord or the vertebral bodies. Each half constitutes one side of the animal. Owing to the obliquity with which the planes or discs slant from the axial line, a transverse section passes through both the muscular and the skeletal planes and shews their relative disposition. Such a section indicates the locomotory system of an animal to consist on each side of a fascial, or skeletal, tube enclosing a muscular C3dinder, which last is traversed hy transverse or oblique, fascial or skeletal planes. The approximated sides of the skeletal tubes are flattened against each other, above and below the axial line; and becoming fused here in great part of their extent they form mesial septa passing, dorsally and ventrally, from the axial line. This is well illustrated by the section of the tail of a Tad-