MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 171 through the medium of the semimemhranosus. In Manis the inner head of the gastrocnemius derives fibres from the adduc- tor magmis; and we know that this muscle is sometimes inti- mately connected with the caudo-femoral in the animals in which the latter is present. Moreover, the rectus internets in Birds and Lizards is continued over the condyles of the femur into the fibular origin of the superficial flexor of the digits, affording a good illustration of the manner in which, from the primitive unstratified unsegmented homogeneous envelope of the limb-skeleton, special forms are evolved. Continuing the investigation of this superficial stratum of the pronato-flexor mass in the hind limb, in the which, as just said, the caudo-pedal is blended, we find it in the lower animals where the foot is in a plane with the leg extending, for the most part, to the digits. As the heel grows out, however, the superficial pronato-flexor stratum becomes concentrated upon and more or less interrupted by it. The 'plantar fascia, which represents the pedal part of the caudo-pedal, may thus become isolated—cut off by the projecting os calcis—from the crural fascia and from the superficial layers of the tendo-Achillis and gastrocnemius, which appear to represent the crural part of the caudo-pedal. The pedal part of the flexor suhlimis digitorum may become, in like manner, cut off from the crural part, the former acquiring the name of flexor brevis and the latter that of p>lantaris. The rest of the stratum, uniting itself with the caudo-pedal and inserted into the os calcis, forms the tendo-Achillis Avith the gastrocnemius and soleus. The degree however of this calcareal interruption of the superficial pronato- flexor stratum varies. The tendo-Achillis is sometimes continued into the plantar fascia; and the continuity of ih.& flexor suhlimis digitorum from the femur to the digits, as well as its connection with the plantar fascia, is very frequenth In ourselves the principle of concentration of force upon the heel is carried to the utmost. The pedal and crural parts of the stratum are quite isolated from one another by the os calcis ; and addi- ^ In Phoca (Journ. Anat. ii. 314). Tho elements of the flexor suhlimis are derived from the plantaris, the gracilis, the flexor profundus and the tibialis postieux. In Unau also it derives a factor from the tibialis posticus. These are interesting remnants of tho primitive common basis from which tho several muscles wore segmented.