MUSCLES OF LEPIDOSIREN. 73' » The most ventral or mesial portion of the superficial brachio- cephalic stratum, separating a little from the portion last described, passes beneath the floor of the mouth and is inserted along the inner and lower edge of the circle of the lower jaw, also strongly to the cornu of the hyoid^ near the angle of the jaw, and less strongly along the upper edge of the cornu, and to the suboperculum. Here it is blended with the subopercular fibres of the last described (sterno-cleido-mastoid) portion. This portion of the stratum (Fig. 26, M. h. and 8. c.) represents the mylo-hyoid with part of the subcutaneus colli or platysma. The transverse septa cease on a level with the angles of the jaw; and the fibres in front of that take a more transverse direction, are less closely connected with the skin, and are less stained with pigment than in the hinder regions of the stratum. The stratum is here, for a short distance, in two layers (Fig. 26, 8. c. and G. h). In the deeper of these, which is a more direct con- tinuation of the superficial stratum of the ventral muscle, the fibres have an antero-posterior direction. It is inserted near the symphysis of the jaw only; and just behind the symphysis it is in immediate contact with the mucous membrane of the mouth, which is reflected upon it from the rudimentary hyoid and tongue and then passes from it to the symphysis. In the superficial layer (/S', c.) the muscular fibres are more transverse, and are inserted into the ramus of the jaw and the cornu of the hyoid as well as into the symphysis. It is this superficial layer which more distinctly represents the mylo-hyoid and the subcutaneus colli, while the deeper layer [G. h.) may represent, in part, the genio-hyoid^; but the two layers are blended in front, near the symphysis, as well as behind at their junction with the septum of the ventral muscle from which they both spriug. It should be added that some of the fibres of the superficial layer, lying between those which I call subcutaneus colli and those which I call mylo-hyoid, radiate from, as well as are inserted into, the angle of the jaw and the adjacent cornu of the hyoid ; and the fibres passing from the latter point, beneath the body of the jaw, to the symphysis form a hyo-mental (p. 137) and appear to represent the anterior belly of the digastric (Fig. 26, D). ^ The cerato-hyoid. There is no basi-hyoid. * They are so named by Owen in the description of Figs. 4, 5, and 6.