161 MUSCLE^ IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. obturator internus appears to result from an extension of the mass round the posterior edge of the ischium upon its internal surface, resembling the extension which we not unfre- quentlj find of the upon the internal surface of the pubes; and the two divisions of the pubischio-femoral mass may thus meet on the internal surface of the pubischium. Tills extension of the obt. int. corresponds serially with the extension of the coraco-humeral mass upon the posterior and inner surface of the coracoid, a prolongation of which (p. 158) beneath the scapula forms the suhscapulans and corresponds with the prolongation of the obt. int. beneath the ilium. Instead of saying that the obturator internus is formed by an extension of the pubischio-femoral mass round the edge of the ischium upon its internal surface, it would be more correct to say that the fibres of the ventral muscle developed upon the inner surface of the pubischium blend posteriorly with, and so form an extension of, those on the outer surface. We sometimes find that they take a different direction, and blend with the muscles in front of the pubis- chium. Thus in Saurians they join the members of the pre-axial division and, uniting with the pectineus and iliacus internus, create an extension of those muscles in that direction. Again in Birds they take a third course and, converging to the fore part of the obturator foramen, run forwards, through it, to the fibular condyle. This remark is applicable to other instances in .which I speak ’ of an extension of a given muscle over any particular territory. That extension is commonly efiected by the fibres which belong to and are developed in the territory mentioned blending with the muscle which is extended over it. Accordingly, it will be commonly found that the nerve-supply to the so extended part of the muscle is derived from the sources which appertain to the region which it covers. I do not therefore attribute much impor'tance to the fact of the internal obtu- rator muscle being associated in its nerve-supply with the gemelli and quadratus, while the external obturator muscle is in the same way rather associated with the adductors and the gracilis. The SCAPULO-HUMERAL and ILIO-FEMORAL muscles are, respectively, situated upon the dorsum of the scapula and of the ilium, and are, in the main, ’inserted into that surface of the proximal part of the limb, in each case, which is directed dor- sally. This, in the primitive piscine condition of the limb (see Dog-fish and Ceratodus), is the dorsal surface. In most higher animals, however, the radial tubercle and edge of 11