MUSCLES OF THE SMOOTH DOG-FISH,. 89 dorsal fin (Fig. 81) shows the lateral septum {L.s) passing from the laterally projecting margins of the body of the vertebra, quite on a level with its lower surface which is flat- tened or slightly concave. It first takes a sweep downwards, then ascends to the part where it appears on the surface. Beneath it, the ventral muscle is extended over the abdo- minal cavity and presents one thick oblique septum {G) indi- cating the commencement of the medio-ventral part of the muscle (if. V.). Above the lateral septum septa radiate from the middle of the neural arch about the position of the articu- lating processes. There is no neural spine, or a very short one. The median neural septum is continued, from the summit of the neural arch, to the cartilage of the fin, and there splits into the septa (A. A.) which separate the fin-muscles, on the two sides, from the lateral muscles. These last-mentioned septa resemble the other septa of the lateral muscle, though they are rather thicker; and their relations indicate the fin- muscle to be a segment of the lateral muscle. The cartilagi- nous fin-ray extends far beyond the fin-muscle into the fins; and its extremity is embraced by the horny subcutaneous fibres of the fin, which pass on either side of it. In a section (Fig. 32) through the posterior dorsal fin and the anal fin the lateral septum is seen passing from the side of the haemal canal, at a point below the body of the vertebra, about corresponding with the point, above, from which a septum passes from the side of the neural canal, a point, that is, answer- ing to the articulating processes. The neural spine is some- what pronounced, as is also the haemal. The cartilaginous rays extend into the haemal as well as into the dorsal fin. In a section (Fig. 33) through the caudal fin the relations of the lateral septum to the haemal canal correspond with those in the section just described. The neural and haemal spines, especially the latter, are much more prolonged, extending quite to the bases of the respective fins; and the horny fila- ments of the fins embrace their ends, much as, in the dorsal fin, they embrace the free ends of the cartilaginous rays. These rays are here absent, and there are no fin-muscles. Thus the neural and haemal spines are reciprocal with re- gard to the cartilaginous rays. When these are developed