40 THE CRYPTOBRANCH. because that portion is in the fore limb smaller, not arising from the ulnar part of the cai’pus; and the trumpet-like part of the flexor 'profundus digitorum is more on the same level with it, and lies on its ulnar and distal sides. Still the portion to digits II. and Hi. does, as in the hind limb, curl beneath the superficial fibres of the pronator maniJs which pass into the under surface of the flexor suhlimis going to those digits. The short muscles resemble those in the hind limb (p. 28). Carpo-metacarpales pass from the distal row of the carpals, each to the sides and middle part of its metacarpal. The middle are shorter than the lateral fibres, to give space for the Metacarp)o-phalangei which pass from the middle of the palmar surface of the metacarpals to the bases of the proximal phalanges. Phalangeus is present only in digit iv. passing from the proximal to the second phalanx. Dorsal Muscles of Forearm and Foot. On the dorsal aspect of the forearm and hand the muscles form a ‘ supinato-extensor’ mass, corresponding, serially, with the ‘supinato-extensor’ mass in the leg and foot, and, antago- nistically, with the ‘pronato-flexor’ mass in the leg and foot, and in the forearm and hand. Like those, they are partially divisible into a superficial and a deep stratum. The SUPERFICIAL STRATUM arising from the dorsal surface of the radial condyle and the adjacent part of the humerus, prepon- derates over the deep stratum more than is the case on the palmar aspect. It is in three sectors, a ‘ radial,’ an ‘ ulnar,’ and an ‘intermediate.’ The radial sector representing the supinator longiis and hrevis and the extensores carpi radiates is the largest. It arises from nearly the whole of the part of the humerus mentioned, and is inserted into the whole of the dorsal surface of the radius. A portion of its fore part extends over the wrist-joint and car- pus, and is inserted into the ulnar side of the base of met. ii. representing the extensor carpi radialis longioP (Fig. 17, Ext. 1 In Menobranch it runs on to the radial carpal bone, but not to the meta- carpus.