THE CRYPTOBRANCH. 6 of the transverse vertebral processes and the transverse or late- ral septa connected with those processes. The effect of these modifications is seen in the fore part of the ventral muscle of the tail. Behind and in the greater part of its extent it, like the dorsal muscle, is simple. Anteriorly, however, it is more or less interrupted and broken up by the proximity of the pelvis and hind limb. The upper portion of it encounters the ilium, which is deve- loped in the middle of the thickness of one of the transverse septa; and the middle stratum of this portion of the muscle is interrupted by or inserted into it and constitutes the ilio- caudal muscle. The superficial stratum is continued forwards over the ilium, and being expanded, together with the rest of this part of the animal for the accommodation of the viscera, contributes to the formation of a layer of the abdominal muscles. The deepest stratum is continued forwards beneath the ilium, is similarly expanded, and joins the deepest stratum of the abdo- minal muscles. The undermost part of the ventral muscle, the part lying next to the ventral fat-mass, becomes separated from the re- mainder as it approaches the pelvis and hind limb, loses the transverse inscriptions, and divides into three. Of these one— ^ ischio-cmidalis’—situated nearest the middle line and the most superficial, arises from the extremities of the haemal spines and is inserted into the hindermost margin of the ischium^; a second division—‘ cattdo-cruralis’—arises a little more late- rally from the haemal spines and arches and loses itself in the superficial stratum of the hinder part of a broad muscle (Figs. 8 and 9), which is passing from the pelvic shield to the hind limb. It cuts this muscle nearly at right angles, and being inserted tendinous into it produces a tendinous inscription in it. A portion, however, of the caudo-crural does not lose itself in the broad muscle just mentioned, but is continued on along the hinder aspect of the thigh and leg into the musculo-tendinous 1 It arises rather from the side of the ends of the hromal processes, being separated from the muscle of the opposite side by the fat-mass which lies upon (beneath) the middle parts of the extremities of the haemal processes. The intervals between the haemal spines are occupied by short antero-posterior ‘ interspinous ’ muscles, which form part of the ventral muscle, and the mar- ginal fibres of which are continued into the ischio-caudalis.