MUSCLES OF LEPIDOSIREN. 78 up the lateral concavity of the skull. It is covered by the superficial stratum (the temporal fascia), as well as by the overhanging cranial bones into which that stratum is inserted. It derives a large accession of fibres from these structures which form its covering, as well as from the parts of the skull upon which it lies. It constitutes the hinder wall of the orbital space; and its fibres converge to be inserted into the coronoid process of the mandible, which is well developed, rising up behind the dentary plates that cover the forepart of the edge of the jaw. The lai’ge size and extensive attachments of this muscle correspond with the thickness of the mandible, with the secure mode in which it is articulated with the skull and with the strong dentary plates which it carries. Its relation to the dorsal muscle, foreshadowed in Crypto- branch (PI. IV. Fig. 20), and clearly made out in Lepidosiren, is of gi'eat interest as establishing the direct continuity of the muscles of the jaw with the lateral muscle. The under surface of the temporal muscle, at and in front of the suspensorium, is confiuent with the masseter. The division between the two is, however, indicated by the passage of the branches of the third division of the 5th nerve; and the latter muscle, though really a continuation of the temporal, may be described as arising from the forepart of the suspensorium and the inner surface of the temporal fascia; and it is inserted into the outer side of the coronoid process, beneath the temporal muscle, and into the outer side of the jaw near the coronoid. Muscular fibres, arising from the forepart of the coronoid process, and partly continuous with those of the temporal muscle, radiate forwards upon the mucous membrane of the mouth, beneath the retractor anguli oris, and constitute a buccinator. A stout retractor anguli oris (Figs. and 25, R. a. o.) arises from the extremity of the suspensorium and the adjacent inner surface of the temporal fascia, also by a strong tendon from the outer side of the mandible in front of the angle. It is lost in the tough tissue about the angle of the mouth. It appears to represent in part the depressor anguli oris and perhaps the Zygomatici.