MUSCLES OF FORE LIMB. 31 sertecl into the anterior edge of the scapula, the upper edge of the precoracoid, and the retiring angle between the scapula and the precoracoid. Levator scapulce (Fig. 6, L. sc.) is a long narrow muscle arising by a delicate tendon from the base of the skull close to the insertion of the subvertebral rectus, indeed looking like a derivation from it, and inserted into the middle of the outer surface of the suprascapula above the origin of the dorsalis scapidcB. It arises from the skull in this animal and the other TJrodelans probably, because of the proximity of the scapula to the head. It is a very definite muscle in them, and attached only to and near the angle of the scapula. In Saurians, where the clavicle reaches this angle, the muscle creeps upon it forming a levator claviculce; and rudiments of the same are sometimes met with in Man and other mammals. « Serratus magnus (Fig. 4, S.) arises by two bundles from the fore parts of the ends of the second and third ribs, the two fore- most origins of the external oblique being from the hinder parts of the ends of those ribs. It is inserted into the under surface of the upper and also of the anterior part of the supra-scapula. The omo-hyoid (Fig. 5, 0. h.) passes from the anterior edge of the scapula beneath the trapezius to the side of the ventral muscle advancing forwards to the hyoid, with which it is blended \ These are the four muscles which pass from the trunk to the scapula. The muscles of the fore limb, like those of the hind limb, maybe classed as flexor or ‘palmar,’ and extensor or ‘dorsal;’ .and, after the manner of the hind limb, of those which pass from the shoulder-girdle to the limb, the palmar muscles take their origin from the coracoids, or subglenoid part of the girdle, and the dorsal muscles arise from the scapular or supraglenoid part of the girdle. Here, however, as in the hind limb, the muscles are not bound within rigid barriers, functional or terri- torial, but may be found to stray or glide more or less across their _' In Menobranch the long precoracoid cartilage lies upon the omo-hyoid, and this muscle as it passes back beneath it divides into two, one portion going over the anterior, and the other over the posterior, edge of the base of the precoracoid to its outer surface, where they are inserted.