MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIJIALS, 114 abdomen; and they are the result of a want of adhesion of the mesial laminae which form that fringe. In the Fish the cloacal fissure, or separation, of the mesial laminae, usually extends deeper into the region of the haemal spines, which are, accord- ingly, bifurcate and arch transversely over this part of the visceral cavity instead of, as in the tail, occupying a median position, and each pair being fused into a single process. In front of the cloacal region, and through the rest of the visceral cavity, with occasional exceptions near the head, the separation of the mesial laminae extends down to the vertebrae, splitting the haemal arches of the two sides quite asunder, and laying the haemal canal open to the visceral cavity. Towards the fore part of the visceral cavity the mesial laminae and the haemal arches are pressed so far upwards upon the vertebral bodies that the arches come to occupy the place of ribs. The wall of the visceral cavity is thus formed by the sepa- rated and expanded haemal plates, and not merely by those parts of the plates upon which, in the tail, the lateral muscle is formed, but by those parts also which form the membranous haemal fringe in the Tadpole’s tail, and in which the subcaudal or anal fin is formed in the Fish. In the Tadpole it is chiefly this latter, membranous, fringe-like part which becomes ex- panded; for the laterah muscle (the ventral portion of it) is continued, without much alteration, from the tail, forwards, through the abdomen \ as represented in Figs. 40, 42 and 43. These figures further shew the manner in which the membra- nous part is spread out and is reflected upon the sides of the lateral muscles, so as to give greater space for the contents of the visceral cavity; and they shew the mode in which the development of the abdominal muscles is commencing in the thickness of the wall by broken serial rows of muscular fibres with intervening sej)tal lines, upon which the muscular trans- formation gradually encroaches, in the same manner as the development of the lateral muscle is progressing at the end of the tail (Fig. 39). Further, in Fig. 40, an extension from the sides of the lateral muscle is seen to be proceeding into the hinder part of the abdominal wall. In the Fish, the part of ^ It is reduced and becomes the q^iadratus hmborum in the JFrog.