47 SPINAL NERVES. s immediately gives off branches to the hrancJuo-hyoid muscle and probably to the other branchial muscles (though these Avere not made out), small branches to the digastric and depressor mandibidce, the constrictor faucium, and a large branch to the trapezius, also a long lateral nerye, which runs backwards along the lateral septum, in company with the lateral vessels, continuing its course to the tail without, apparently, giving off any branches. Having arrived at the tail, it gives off branches and communicates Avith the other nerves. The branches above mentioned correspond Avith branches in oui’- selves from the 7th and 9th, and Avith the .spinal accessory. The office of the lateral nerve is probably to harmonize and produce simultaneous action of the several segments of the lateral muscle. It differs in the Cryptobranch from the same nerve m the Fish in that its distribution is limited to the lateral muscle of the tail, Avhich indicates that the simultaneous powerful contraction of the parts of the lateral muscle in this animal are confined to or take place chiefly in the tail. THE SPINAL NERVES. Tlie several spinal nerves, emerging through the neural foramina behind the transverse vertebral processes, cross above (dorsally, with regard to) the deep lateral vessels Avhich traverse the holes in the roots of the transverse pro- cesses, and lie above the lateral septum. They supply the several segments of the trunk-muscles, taking their course behind the respective fibrous septa or inscriptions, and in addi- tion send nerve-trunks to the limbs. Each nerve, immediately after its emergence from the vertebral foramen, above the lateral septum, divides into a posterior or dorsal, and an anterior or VENTRAL SPINAL nerve (Fig. 21). The former divides into branches, Avhich are directed upwards and outwards, in front and behind the articulating processes, to the dorsal muscles and the skin. The cutaneous branch (Fig. 21, G.) runs in front of the articulating processes outwards with a slight in- clination upwards, behind the rib and the transverse septum passing dorsally from it, to the skin. The muscular branches radiate into the surrounding dorsal muscle. The anterior SPINAL or VENTRAL nerves (y) pass through the lateral septum