MUSCLES OF THE CERATODUS, 94 into the hinder of which two intermuscular septa converging are inserted. Behind, the pelvis terminates in a semilunar edge, with a condyloid projection on either side for the articu- lation of the paddle-like finh The styliform process is enclosed in a sheath of the blended fascite, as in Lepidosiren. The cornua lie in the lateral muscle, the fibres of which are attached to their anterior and posterior surfaces. The under surface of the pelvis is covered, on each side, by a thick muscular mass, the fibres of which are parallel with those of the lateral muscle, though they are separated from them by a cleft. This mass is divided into two nearly equal portions—a median or 'plantar’and a lateral or ‘dorsal;’ and the line of division between them corresponds with, and is a conti- nuation of, the line of the inferior edge of the fin. The dorsal or lateral portion {Gl. Fig. 84) passes upon the dorsal or outer surface of the fin; and the plantar portion passes upon the ven- tral or inner surface of the fin nearly to its extremity I Each, in its course upon the pelvis and upon the fin, is marked by transverse inscriptions, like those of the caudal lateral muscle. These inscriptions are transverse upon the proximal thick part of the fin; but, on the more distal part of the fin, they be- come oblique, slanting from the middle or axial line of the fin, backwards and outwards towards the margin of the fin. They correspond with and overlie the lines of division of the axial cartilage of the fin into pieces; and they extend over the rays which pass, in a penniform manner, from those lines. They do not extend between the pieces of the axial cartilage so far as the margin of the fin, but only about half-way from the axis to the margin. In the intervals between them the muscular fibres are directed longitudinally, parallel, that is, with the axis of the fin. In the more marginal parts of the fin the muscular fibres slant off obliquely, from the middle longitudinal set, which fomi the proper muscle of the fin, towards the margin; and the two sets are to some extent segmented from each other, in the same ^ Gimther, I, c. p. 535 and figures. In Cj^tobranch the prepubic cartilage is not continuous with the pelvic cartilage, as in Ceratodus and Lepidosiren, but jointed to it by fibrous tissue. It is also less cylindrical and small, and bifur- cates anteriorly into two flat unsymmetrical horns. 2 I use the words ‘plantar’ and ‘ dorsal’ in reference to those portions of the fin-muscle, to indicate their correspondence with the respective groups of muscles passing to the hind limb in higher animals.