NERVES OF LEPIDOSIREN. 79 CEREBRAL NERVES. (Fig. 27, also Fig. 25.) I subjoin a short account of the cerebral nerves of Lepidosiren, dissected by Mr Anningson. The Optic nerve emerges from a small foramen in the forepart of the side of the skull beneath the frontal bone. It is accompanied and surrounded by the four recti muscles. Special nerves to these muscles (the third, fourth, and sixth) were not found. The FIFTH nerve passes, in three divisions, through three foramina situated in the cartilage forming the anterior wall of the skull beneath the edge of the squamous bone. The uppermost or ophthalmic division {Ophth.') passes, deep, along the inner wall of the orbit, crosses over the optic nerve, gives off ciliary and oculo-motor nerves, and divides into three branches at least. One {fronto-nasal, f. n.) is joined by a branch from the supi’a-maxillary, and is distributed upon the inner side of the nasal pi’ocess of the skull, upon the surface of that process, and upon the adjacent part of the head. A second branch (oiasal, n.) traverses the inner wall of the orbit to the nasal cavity. A third branch reaches the floor of the orbit and unites with a branch of the supra-maxillary to form the infra-orhital nerve {i. o.) which is distributed in the upper lip. The SUPRA-MAXILLARY division (S. m.) gives off three chief branches, a ‘fronto-nasal,’ an ‘ inffa-orbital ’ and a ‘ muscular.’ The fronto-nasal (f n.') pierces the upper part of the temporal muscle (Fig. 25 f. n'.), and runs upon its surface, beneath the temporal fascia and beneath the edge of the fronto-nasal process. There it joins the fronto-nasal branch of the ophthalmic division. The second or infra-orhital branch (i. o'.) runs beneath the maxilla just in front of the orbit and joins the infra-orbital branch of the ophthalmic. The third, or muscular^ branch (i.) passes into and is lost in the temporal and masseter muscles, and appears to be the only nerve to those muscles; at least no bi’anches could be traced into them from the next division. The INFRA-MAXILLARY division escapes from the skull in two branches separated by membrane but traversing one foramen. One of these gives off a nasal nerve [n.) which pierces the temporal muscle and mns beneath the temporal fascia (Fig. 25 n'.), passes to the nose, partly joins the nasal branch of the ophthalmic and is partly distributed to the cheek. This branch gives off a buccal nerve (Figs. 25 and 27 5.) which is also distributed to the cheek. The other, or mandibulai’, branch {m.) of this division is the larger of the two. It inclines downwards and forwards, passes over the upper edge of the mandible, between its coronoid and articular parts, runs beneath the strong external ligament of the joint and between the temporal and masseter muscles. Having gained the outer surface of the jaw it divides into three nerves. Two of these (Figs. 25 and 27 1.) are labial 1 This muscular branch, as -well as the infra-orhital, is in Cryptobranch de- rived from the infra-maxillary (p. 46).