137 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. The dissection of the Hippopotamns’ (Figs. 45 and 46) affords an interesting illnsti’ation and confirmation of these views. The subcu- taneus colli {S. c.) under the neck is of great thicknes?, as is tlie case with the subcutaneous muscles on the iinder surface of the body generally; and it appears atfii’st sight to terminate in front in a thick defined border extending, on either side, upon the middle of the large mandibular protuV»erance into which the masseter (d/.) is in- serted. The nnascle at and near this border is further thickened by transverse fibres crossing from one side of the face, over the mandibu- lar protuberance, to the other side. Close examination, however, sliews that the anterior border is not so defined as at fii'st sight appears; for the edge is connected by fibrous tissue, which is the sub- hyoidean septum*, with deeper-lying muscle, a broad, thick hyo-men- tal {A. M.), which passes forwards, from the se|jtum just mentioned, to the mandible on the side of the bulging symphysis. By means of this septum the hyo-inental is continuous, behind, with the super- ficial fibres of the sterno-hyoid {St. II.) which is a large thick muscle, on its deeper surface, with the basi-hyoid bone, and, on its superficial surface, with the edge of the suhcutaneus colli^. Above it, and deeper than it, is the mylohyoid {M. II.) Above this is {G. H.) the genio- hyoid, and deeper still is the geniohyo-glossus. These are disposed as they usually are in Mammals. The stylohyoid arises, tendinous, from the outer side of the tooth-like exoccipital process, soon expands into a muscular belly which is, partly, inserted into the hyoid, on a 1 Description of Figures of the Hippopotamus and the Cat (PI. ix.). Figs. 45 and 46. Dissections of the muscles beneath the floor of the mouth of a Hippopotamus which died three days after birth.—I.M., the inferior maxilla, with its large submental protuberance uncovered.—L, the upper lip.— /S', c., suhcutaneus colh.—M, Masseter.—H. M., hyo-mental entire- on the left side, but divided on the right side, and, in Fig. 46, reflected.—D., anterior part of digastric running parallel with, and blended near the jaw with, the hyo- mental.—M. H., mylo-hyoid divided and partially removed to expose G. H., the geuio-hyoid.—F.A., the facial artery.—In Fig. 46, the suhcutaneus colli has been removed, exposing the hinder part (D') of the digastric, also S.H., the stylo-hyoid which is seen to be continuous with the hyo-mental.—St. M., sterno- mastoid. Fig. 47.—Similar dissection in Cat. S. c., the suhcutaneus colli, or platysma, has been divided and pulled aside to shew [D and D') the anterior and posterior parts of the digastric, with the inscription between them which is the sub- hyoideau septum. The anterior part of the digastric is seen to occupy the posi- tion occupied by the hyo-mental, as well as by the anterior part of the digastric, in the Hippopotamus.—M. H., the mylo-hyoid.—St. H., sterno-hyoid. 2 It is called by Gratiolet, decherches sur VAnatomie de VHippopotame, p. 246, the raphe-sous-liyoldien. In the Flying Squirrel Macalister found that the digastric had two separate bellies and a central round tendon which was continued across, from side to side above the hyoid bone, as an arch from which the anterior bellies arose. This tendinous arch was the sub-hyoidean septum. I have met with a similar arrangement in the body of a man, in the University dissecting-room, this winter. ® Gratiolet (p. 299) describes it as le second faisceau of the digastric. It is in the plane of the digastric ; its mandibular insertion is blended with the inser- tion of the digastric, and it occupies the place of the anterior belly of that muscle in Man. A hyo-mental is present in some Bats, according to Macalister..