38 THE CRYPTOBRAXCH. mass. It terminates over the carpus in a broad tendon, which is joined by a portion of the deep stratum, and divides into four tendons to the four' terminal phalanges. The disposition of the tendons corresponds almost precisely with that of its homologue in the hind limb (p. 26). Each subdivides into three, two lateral and a middle, the two lateral pass to the sides of the approximated ends of the metacarpal and the proximal phalanx, while the middle portion passes on to the second or terminal phalanx. In digit IV., which has three phalanges, the middle portion again subdivides into two, of which the deeper is attached to the base of the second phalanx, while the superficial runs on to the terminal phalanx. Flexor carpi ulnaris (Fig. 18, FI. c. ui) arises from the inner condyle in conjunction with the flexor digitorum, and is inserted along the lower two-thirds of the ulna and into the proximal ulnar carpal bone; and some of its fibres are continued into the abductor minimi digiti which extends along the side of the metacarpus to the ulnar side of digit v. The DEEP STRATUM arises from the plantar surface of the ulna commencing a little below the elbow-joint, also from the cartilages forming the middle or radial part of the carpus, but not those quite on the radial side. The fibres pass partly into the under surface of the radial part of the flexor suhlimis digi- iorum and, partly, to the metacarpal and to the distal carpal bone on the radial side, also to the ulnar edge of the radius. More accurately described the arrangement of the compo- nents of this stratum is as follows in three parts—Pronator radii quadratics, Pi'onaior maniXs, and Flexor profundus digi- torum. 1. Pronator radii quadratics (Fig. 18, Pr. q.) arises from the upper part of the palmar surface of the ulna near the radial edge, and is inserted along the ulnar edge of the radius, its uppermost fibres blending at their insertion with the deepest fibres of the superficial layer {pronator teres). The upper fibres have some obliquity downwards from the ulna to the radius, the lower fibres are more transverse, and rather .behind the upper. ^ Of the four digits in this limb digit rv. only has three phalanges, the rcmaing digits ii. iii. and v. having each but two phalanges.