16 THE CRYPTOBRANCH. ing from the ilium to form the deeper stratum of the rectus, is tolerably defined; and there is an interval between it and the retiring angle of the pubes and prepubic shield, which is occupied by the Pyramidalis. (Fig. 2. Py.) The fibres of this muscle, arising from the anterior edge of the pubic shield and the tubercle or spine^ which bounds that edge laterally, pass forwards and inwards to the edge of the prepubic cartilage and cornu, and some of them are continued further forwards, blend- ing with the edge of the rectus. It lies between the external oblique and the transversalis, its outer margin being parallel with, though at a short distance from, the inner margin of the internal oblique. Its fibres take the same direction as those of the internal oblique and are in the same plane with them and appear to belong to the same series. In the Axolotl this is proved to be the case by the continuity between the two, that is, by the absence of the interval which separates them in the Cryptobranch. The Transversalis (Fig. 4) is connected with the ribs and the transverse intermuscular septa in a still deeper plane. Near the vertebral column the direction of its fibres is nearly antero- posterior, and they are with difficulty distinguished from those of the internal oblique; still the division between the two is marked by the passage of the nerves. More externally their slant first resembles then exceeds that of the fibres of the internal oblique (from behind forwards and inwards), and finally they become almost transverse. At about an inch and half from the mesial line, at a part that is corresponding with the formation of the rectus in the manner I have described, the muscular 1 The relation of the muscles shows this lateral prepubic tubercle to be the homologue of the spine of the pubes in man, and of the marsupial bone in mar- supials. I have dissected the muscles of this part carefully in the Wombat, Par- acyon, and Echidna, and find that the external oblique fibres forming the outer- columns of the external ring are inserted into the outer edge of the marsupial hone, whereas the fibres forming the internal column pass across to the base of the marsupial bone of the opposite side and interlace with the corresponding fibres of the opposite side. The pyramidalis muscle, which is large in most of these animals, arises from the inner edge of the marsupial bone, and extends forwards and inwards in front of the rectus and behind the external oblique to the middle line, becoming blended with the rectus posteriorly so as not to be easily distinguished from it. In these animals, with the exception of the Wom- bat the internal oblique has no connection with the marsupial bone and the pyramidalis, but passes deeper than they, and deeper than the rectus. In the Wombat a few of the hindmost fibres of the intei-nal obhque are connected with the marsupial bone.