SPINAL NERVES. 49 t muscles on the dorsum of the scapula, corresponding with the course, behind the iliinn, which is usually taken by the gluteal nerves in their passage to the muscles on the dorsum of the ilium. The same nerve supplies the triceps, and perforating the long and the outer heads of that muscle descends, as the MUSCULO- SPIRAL or RADIAL, between them and the humerus, then be- tween the triceps and the brachialis anticus, and then between the latter and the extensor muscles arising from the outer condyle. It supplies those muscles, and divides into two branches (Fig. 17), of which one perforates the extensor mass of muscles, becomes superficial, and runs along the radial edge of the forearm and the radial side of digit ii. (digit i. is missing): the other branch crosses deeply, between the extensor mass and the radius, to the back of the forearm, where it communicates with a posterior interosseous branch from the median and with the posterior ulnar branch of the median (the branch that is of the median which has descended through the triceps). It then descends the back of the forearm, under the extensor muscles, perforates the supinator manHs, and divides, supplying the apposed sides of digits il. and III., also the apposed sides of digits III. and iv. (Fig. 17). The course and disposition of this nerve corresponds closely with those usually presented by the radial in higher animals, even to the share it takes in supplying the digits. It is derived from the middle of the brachial plexus in connection with the circumflex and subsca- pular, and is distributed exclusively to the muscles upon the dorsal aspect of the limb. The fifth spinal nerve is connected by a commissural branch with the fourth, and receives the greater part of the sixth, that nerve merely sending off, besides, a cutaneous branch. It passes between the origins of the external oblique, from the 3rd and 4th ribs, and supplies branches to the pectoralis and coraco- hrachialis longus and probably brachialis anticus, though the branch was not traced to that muscle. High in the arm it sends a long nerve (posterior ulnar, or, better, inferior musculo-spinal) which, turning outwards to the back of the arm, perforates the short or ulnar origin of the triceps and descends through the triceps to the radial side of the olecranon. This nerve (Fig. 17) then pierces the extensor carpi uhiaris, and 4