92 MUSCLES OF THE CERATODUS. tion that is parallel with the direction of the septum and of the axis of the animal. As they become more distant from the septum they acquire a slant; the fibres of the ventral muscle inclining a little downwards and backwards and those of the dorsal muscle a little upwards and backwards. Near the ventral mesial line the direction of the fibres is again antero-posterior; but near the dorsal mesial line the fibres still retain a slight obliquity. Dissected from without inwards the fibres of the deeper parts of the ventral muscle are found to preserve much the same direction as do those near the exterior; that is, no difference is traceable which would indicate an incipient divi- sion into external and internal oblique, such as was observed in Lepidosiren (p. 68) and more markedly in Cryptobranch (p. 11). We notice that as they approach the interior they become intermingled Avith an increasing number of threads of fibrous tissue which take the place of the muscular fibres. In some places a tolerably distinct stratum of these, pass- ing from rib to rib or septum to septum, lies upon the trans- versalis fascia. There are no muscular fibres beneath the level of the ribs to represent a transversalis muscle. This de- creasing proportion of muscular fibres towards the interior of the abdominal wall is interesting as an indication that the development of its muscular tissue become less active as we approach the interior (see obs. on the Tadpole, p. 113). The intermuscular septal planes being continued into the muscle of the median fin, it follows that the muscular planes are likewise so continued, and that the fin-muscle is an extension of the lateral muscle. There are, however, some distinguishing points. First, the direction of the fibres is different. The fibres of the fin-muscle are nearly parallel with the fin-rays, that is, have a much more vertical course than those of the dorsal muscle; and the change in direction takes place suddenly, the fibres of the fin-muscle impinging upon those of the dorsal muscle at an angle which approaches to a right angle. Hence the one set are segmented from the other; and a layer of the superficial fascia, as described in Lepidosiren, and shewn in Fig. 31 of Dog-fish, passes between them, covers the edge of the lateral muscle, and meets its fellow in the mesial line, or comes into relation with the fin-bones and the vertebral spines; while