MUSCLES OF HIND LIMB. 29 s- The SUPERFICIAL STRATUM arises by one broad tendon from the dorsal surface of the fibular condyle of the femur. It soon di^ddes into three parts or sectors—a ‘ tibial/ a ‘ fibular,’ and an ‘ intennediate.’ The tibial sector—tibialis anticus (Fig. 15, T. a.)—is in- serted along nearly the whole of the fore part of the tibia. Its more superficial fibres extend over the ankle, and are inserted into the dorsal surface of the proximal tarsal bone on the tibial side. The deeper fibres of the intermediate sector—extensor longus digitorum (Fig. 15, K d.)—are united to and inserted with those of the preceding into the tibia. The more superficial portion divides over the ankle into five broad tendons which reach the terminal phalanges of the five digits, and send down detach- ments from their deeper surface to the proximal phalanges. Moreover at each notch between the divisions into the five ten- dons a process passes into the interval between the subjacent metacai*pals, and bifurcating extends a short distance along their contiguous sides and is inserted into them, so that traction of the muscle has the effect of approximating the digits. A delicate detachment (Fig. 15, E. d'.) from the fibular side of the muscle in close apposition to a similar detachment from the fibular sector, forming a peroneus tertius, is inserted into the proximal tarsal bone on the fibular side. The outer or fibular sector—-peroneus—is inserted into the fibula in nearly its whole length, with the exception of the slip just mentioned, which contributes to form the peroneus ter- tiiis. This muscle is therefore, in the Cryptobranch, derived from both the peroneus and the extensor digitorum. Some few of the fibres of the peroneus, it should be added, extend over the end of the fibula, and are continuous with the fibres of the abductor minimi digiti. The DEEP STRATUM exists as a separate layer only at the lower part of the leg and on the foot. It consists of two parts. (1) Supinator pedis (Fig. 15, S.p.), a narrow band which arises from the dorsal surface of the lower end of the fibula, and crosses the ankle and tarsus obliquely to the base of the tibial side of the metatarsal bone of digit ii. (Digit i. is absent in the hind limb.)