UROMASTIX SPINIPES. 63 s colli), passing from the mesial dorsal to the mesial ventral line. The deeper sheet is composed of oblique fibres, passing from the dorsal line, mesially and forwards, and constituting a cervici-submaxillaris. Anteriorly and superiorly, a thickening of the latter, composed of fibres passing from the back of the skull to the angle of the jaw, behind the masseter, forms a depressor mandibulce, which is thus se]>arated from the diyastricus by the masseter. Anteriorly and interiorly, in the submaxillary region, it, blended with the trans- versalis colli, or superficial sheet, passes superficially to the hyoid and the origins of the digastric and genio-hyoid. It then sends a very delicate fascial or cellular sheet, superficial to the digastric, and is continued, superficial to the genio-hyoid, to the mental part of the mandible. But the main portion of it extends, deeper than the digastric, between it and the genio-hyoid, to the inner surface of the mandible, along the side of which it is implanted, above the digastric, so constituting the mylo-hyoid. The digastric accordingly passes through a ring-like or oval aperture in the suhcutaneus colli, where the latter dips between the genio-hyoid and the digastric to form the mylo-hyoid. A delicate muscle arises from the mastoid part of the skull behind the quadrate bone, and beneath the sterno-mastoid. It passes mesially and foi'wards, and is lost in the deeper surface of the subcu- taneus colli beneath the hyoid. This would seem to represent the hinder portion of the digastric^. There is not any direct continuity between the temporal muscle and the dorsal muscles of the neck. The latter, as they advance forwards, divide into two planes. Those in the superficial plane are inserted into the hinder edge of the overarching posterior horn of the parietal bone; and those of the deeper plane are inserted into the hinder edge of the exoccipital. The temporal muscle, extending backwards beneath the parietal, arises from the whole of the under surface of its posterior horn, and so comes into close relation with the dorsal muscles; but it is covered and separated from them by a membranous layer. Foee Limb. The biceps brachii arises in two distinct portions from the coracoid; one, tendinous, from near the proximal part, the other, muscular, more laterally from the anterior part. They evidently correspond with the coracoid and glenoid origins in man. The more lateral origin is biventral, being at first muscular, then becoming tendinous where it passes under the pectoral, and being again muscular, lower down, before it joins the median portion. The brachialis anticus, which is large, arising from the front of the lower part of the humerus, joins the biceps at the lower part of ^ In the Frog (Rana mugiens) this hinder part of the digastric is continued into the hinder edge of the thick mylo-hyoid; and some of its fibres are traceable forwards, upon the deeper surface of that muscle, towards the mental part of the mandible. In this animal the thick mylo-hyoid, which is limited to the sub- maxiUary region, and is free from the hyoid cartilage, engrosses the suhcutaneus colli and the hyo-mental including the fore part of the digastric. The genio- byoid is distinct and deeper.