MUSCLES OF LEPIDOSIREN. 72 they arch over the branchial opening and radiate into the fascial tissue covering the dorsal muscle (Fig. 24, Tr.). Here the hindmost fibres, bending backwards, are inserted into the upper and anterior surface of the scapula above the fin; and some pass on into the fin. These returning fibres therefore meet the fibres of the latissimus dorsi advancing to the same part. They—so much of this part of the stratum as lies above the branchiae—appear to represent the trapezius^', while the fibres lying below and upon the branchiae, and advancing for- wards to the skull, may be regarded as representing the sterno- cleido-mastoid'\ Dissecting away the fibres which radiate upon the dorsal muscle, I find some beneath them, running below the level of the lateral septum and inserted into the supra-scapular bone, which is here deeply seated, also into the ligament which connects that bone with the scapula^ The dipping down of the deeper fibres of this layer, which I sup- pose to represent the trapezius and sterno-mastoid among other muscles, towards the cervical transverse processes accords with the disposition of the cervico-lmmeral muscle in many mammals, and affords an explanation of that which has seemed to be an aberrant feature of this muscle, viz., that in its upper part it is in close rela- tion with the levator scapula} and might be thought to belong to it; whereas, below, it is in close relation with the trapezius and claims even more distinctly to appertain to it. It is further interesting to remark that in the Crocodile the sterno-mastoid runs to the cervical transverse processes; and a deep band of the trapezius does the earned with the lower jaw and the operculum rather than with the hyoid; and its oper- cular relations are confirmed by the disposition of the corresponding bone in Ceratodus. This is described as suboperculum by Gunther in his excellent paper on the Ceratodus, Phil, Trans. 1871, p. 525. 1 It is named levator scapula by Owen, but is too superficially placed for that muscle. 2 These, at least, are the muscles which they chiefly represent. There are, however, other muscles in different animals which must be derived by segmen- tation from the same som'ce, such as the constrictor faucium, depressor mandi- bulce, levator arcxium, subcutaneus colli, from the superficial sm’face, and, more deeply, the rhomboids, masto-scapular, cervico-humeral, &c. “ This bone is quite distinct, as described by Peters. For further account of fibres, similar to those above mentioned, see description of Dog-fish (p. 86). 4 In the Dog-fish (p. 86) all the fibres pass beneath the lateral septum, and none expand upon the dorsal muscle. In that animal the several gill-openings cause a greater separation between the upper and lower parts of the muscle than is caused by the single transverse slit-hke opening in Lepidosiren, and I have accordingly named the part above the giU-openings cervicalis supcrjicialis superior, and the part below them cervicalis supcrjicialis inferior.