,1 w C8 MUSCLES OF LEPIDOSIREN. * (Fig. 23), the fibres of the outer stratum present a slight hut distinct obliquity, from before backwards and dowjiwards (to- wards the mesial line), as they pass between the several septa. This disposition to the formation of an ohliquus externus muscle is most marked in the middle of the space indicated. It dimi- nishes above and below; and in the third of the muscle next the lateral septum, as well as in the third next the mesial line, the fibres &re‘recti.' The removal of the superficial—rexternal oblique —stratum shews an obliquity, to a like degree, but in a different direction, in the subjacent stratum. (Fig. 23 A.) The fibres there pass from before backwards and upwards (towards the late- ral septum) and form an ohliquus intemus. In this instance also the oblique direction disappears in the upper and lower thirds of the muscle. The fibres there run antero-posteriorly, and the tendency to division into planes is lost. This gentle effort, as it were, at the formation of oblique muscles is an interesting corroboration of the remarks made (p. 11) with reference to the cleavage of these muscles in Cryptobranch, exhibiting as it does a still lower grade of stratification than we found in that animal. (See also Ceratodus, p. 92.) There is no ap- pearance of a third or transversalis stratum; and there are no muscular fibres in a deeper plane than the ribs. This is also the case in most Fishes, though in some (Bream and Dace) there is a thin muscular layer beneath the level of the ribs; and the nerves ]ie upon its outer surface. In describing the external fascia, I have mentioned that a superficial layer of it is continued upon the exterior of the mesial fin and that another layer passes beneath it; so that the rays and muscles of the fin are enclosed between the two layers and are separated from the lateral muscle by the deeper of them; also that the intermuscular septa are continued into the fin and blend with the rays, so causing a transverse segmenta- tion of the fin. The fin-muscles are contained in the fascial partitions thus made, and consist of a layer of fibres parallel with the fin-rays, resting with one end upon the lateral muscle, or rather upon the fascia which separates them from it, and with the other end expanded upon the fin. The greater number of the fibres arise from and lie along the lines of the septa and the rays, as shewn in Fig. 23, where the alternating thicker and p thinner parts of the muscle thus produced are well displayed, and j,;