55 SPIRAL NERVES. it be said, the musculo-spiral in the hind limb detaching- itself from the main trunks carries with it the dorsal nerves of the fibular digits. In ourselves the dorsal nerve of the ulnar digits the ‘INFERIOR musculo-spiral’as it maybe called—keeps company with the ULNAR NERVE to the middle of the forearm, and the dorsal nerves of the fibular digits (the external saphenous) is derived partly from the musculo-spiral or peroneal, and partly from the pop- liteal. The chief differences from the corresponding nerves in Man, in addition to those just mentioned, are (1) the deeper position of the digital branches in the palm and sole beneath, instead of superficial to, the flexor tendons. In the fore limb the branches to the ulnar digits are derived from the deep palmar branch of the ulnar instead of from a superficial branch; and those of the radial digits come from the INTEROSSEOUS which (in Cryptobranch) forms the main trunk of the MEDIAN, instead of coming off near the elbow by a branch which separates from the interosseous upon the flexor profundus, and the size of which causes it to be regarded as the main trunk. (2) In the hind limb the external popliteal is, in Cryptobranch, like the ulnar, continued to the digits; whereas in Man the course of the nerves to the fibular digits is not along the fibula, with the nerve which accom- panies the peroneal artery, and which is the representative of the ULNAR nerve, but with the posterior tibial, which is the representa- tive of the MEDIAN, till they reach the foot, where they separate, and form the external plantar nerve. An interesting feature in the nerves of this animal and its allies as compared with those of higher animals is the simple structure of the BRACHIAL and crural plexuses, which may be associated with the imperfect segmentation and specialization of the action of the limb-muscles. The office of these plexuses, we may conclude, is to ensure that harmony and those nice balancing modifications in the degi-ee of action of the muscles—the opponents as well the co-opera- tives—upon which the adjustment and proper direction of the move- ments of the limbs depend. This, it may be inferred, is effected by such an arrangement of bundles in the plexuses that a certain number of the filaments of any nerve presiding over one muscle, or set of muscles, are distributed among the nerves destined to each of the other muscles or sets of muscles; so that an impression transmitted to one muscle or set of muscles is in duly ordered degree communicated to each of the other muscles. Where, consequently, the muscles are numerous, the interchanging branches between the nerves requisite for this purpose will be numerous and form a complicated plexus; and where the muscles are few the plexus will be proportionately simple. The same object may be attained by intercommunicating filaments between the nerves in the distal parts of the limb, or by two or more passing to the same muscle. Thus the ninth and the cervical nerves intercommunicate before supplying the omo-hyoid in ourselves, while the slerno-mastoid and tra/peziv^ are each supplied by