MUSCLES IN VERTEBEATE ANIMALS. 127 c derivations from this layer, which pass to the girdle beneath the glenoid oavity, are the sterno- or costo-coracoids. When the coracoid is abortive, the costo-clavicular, called subclavius, may take the place of the costo-coracoid^; and when both coracoid and clavicle are abortive, the member or members of the group may pass to the under surface of the scapula, constituting the costo- or sterno-scapulars'^. Thus, spreading beyond their usual limits, these may come into close relation with the serratus group. Or the serratus, extending lower down than usual, may come into close relation with the costo-coracoids. Still the two groups—-the costo-scapular and the costo-coracoid or costo-clavicular—are, I believe, always separated by the nerves to the limb passing between them. These two groups of muscles passing, respectively, to the scapular and to the coracoid or the clavicular parts of the shoulder-girdle, together with the muscles passing forwards to the hyoid, tongue and jaw, constitute that which I have desig- nated (pp. 74, 97) the DEEP BRACHIO-CEPHALIC STRATUM of the VENTRAL MUSCLE. In animals (Snakes and Uro- delans), in which the inferior wall of the thorax is not closed in by the sternum and the costal cartilages, the middle, or cepha- lic, part of the stratum may be continued onwards, uninter- ruptedly, to the hyoid and the mandible, but it is not seg- mented from the superficial stratum (Fig. 44 and description); or (Fishes, Figs. 26 and 88) it may be interrupted by the cora- coids extending athwart the middle line and uniting with one another, and may then be segmented from the superficial stratum. Traced backwards from the abdomen, the middle stratum the humerus. In the Pig it passes over the anterior edge of the scapula to the upper edge, and is connected by fibrous tissue Avith the radial tubercle of the humerus and the deltoid muscles. ^ These two do not coexist, when the coracoid is large, the muscle passes from the sternum or rib to it, and forms a sterno- or costo-coracoid. When the coracoid is short the muscle, if present, passes from the rib, or the first or (Orycteropus) second costal cartilage and perhaps the sternum, to the clavicle constituting the subclavius. It may, as it does in Orycteropus and Seine, extend on to the scapula. In the Porpoise the subclavius passes from the first rib, near the sternum, to the coracoid; and the pect. minor passes from the second rib to the humerus. Stannius, “Beschriehung der Muskeln des TUmmlers.” Muller's Archiv, 1849, s. 14 and 16, calls the former of these minor, and the latter costo-humeralis. * The stemo-scapular may coexist with the subclavius. Thus Macalister found the subclavius quite separate from the sterno-scapular and inserted into the clavicle. In such case the muscle is divided into two.