53 NERVES OF HIND LIMB. 3 The PERONEAL or MUSCULO-SPiRAL nei’ve answers to the radial or MUSCULO-SPIRAL of the foi’e limb, and not at all to the ulnar, though its name might seem to imply the conti-ary. The differences between the musculo-spirals in the two limbs, that is between the peroneal and the radial, are dependent chiefly or entirely upon the difference in the direction of the rotation in the two limbs causing a variation in the direction best adapted for the nerve-course. This is probably the reason that the peroneal does not traverse the whole thickness of the quadriceps^ but only that part segmented from it which becomes the biceps. Indeed where the rotation of the limb is com- plete, as in Man, the nerve does not traverse even the biceps., as it does in these lower animals, but only gets under cover of it or keeps along its hinder edge. For the same reason the nerves to the quad- riceps pass in front of the pelvis as anterior crural, while those to the triceps pass behind the shoulder-girdle bound up in the radial. The SCIATIC nerve (Fig. 10) then divides into two, which in the left limb pass on the two sides of the femoro-Jihular, and are joined by a connecting trunk beyond it, so as to encircle the muscle. (In the right thigh the sciatic trunk passes on the tibial side of the femoro-fibular and divides subsequently.) The outer division (external popliteal) supplies the/emoro- Jihular, sends a (sURAL) branch to the stratum of the flexor mass arising from the fibular condyle, passes between the condyloid and fibular part of the superficial stratum, descends between the two strata along the fibular edge of the flexor pro- fundus digitorum (Fig. 11) between it and the origin of the flexor suhlimis from the fibula. It passes beneath the tarsus, curls over (deeper than) the flexor profundus, and then runs across the metatarsus as far as digit li. between the flexor-pro- fundus and the metatarso-phalangei. In its course it supplies the fibular portion of the flexor suhlimis, the whole of the deep flexor stratum {tibialis posticus, flexor profundus, flexor-hallucis and accessorius), the small muscles in the sole, the fibular side of digit V., the apposed sides of IV. and V. Between digits HI. and IV. and between ii. and III. it joins branches from the POSTERIOR TIBIAL, and the combined nerves supply the apposed surfaces of these digits. The inner division (internal popliteal. Fig. 10) in the left limb pierces the caudo-femoral close to its attachment to the femur (in the right limb it passes on the fibular side of this tendon going between it and the femoro-flhular). It gives off