MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 175 such of them as ai’e present, viz., the popliteus and the tibialis posticus, are situated in a deep level, nearly in the same level with the pronator tibice quadratus with which indeed the popliteus is sometimes merged. That is to say, the radial sector, though chiefly in a superficial level, is continued into a deej) level tlirough the medium of certain fibres of the pronator teres and through the tendon of the flexor carqn radialis; whereas the tibial sector, composed of the popliteus and the tibialis posticus, lies throughout in a deep level. Indeed, the gi’eatest and most essential features of difference with regal’d to this region in the two limbs is caused by the fact that the flexor carpi radialis, which in the hand lies in as deep a level as does the tibialis posticus in the foot and evidently corresjionds with it, becomes in the forearm part of the superficial stratum and is attached to the condyle of the humerus; whereas the tibialis posticus continues its deep course in the leg and does not reach the femur at all. The plane of segmentation of the two muscles, which is the same in the hand and foot, differs in the forearm and leg. So that, although the two tendons might be regarded as serially homologous, the two muscles can scarcely be .said to be so. Properly viewed, however, they furnish a good illustration of the way in which certain nearly corresponding muscles in the two limbs (and the remark applies to muscles of the same limb in various animals) are difierently segmented from the parent mass. They afford further evidence that homological rale is not so rigidly followed in development as we may be disposed to think, and that we must not be too severe in our attempts to institute homo- logical comparison. The variation that occurs in the division of the strata and in the amount and disposition of the fibres attaching themselves to either stra- tum, is also shewn by the fact that in the lower animals the fibres of the radial and ulnar sectors are in great part inserted into the radius and ulna, so becoming flexors of the forearm upon the arm; and superficial prolongations only of them pass on to the carpus; whereas in higher animals the ulnar sector arising partly from the ulna is con- tinued in its entirety to the cai’pus, and the radial sector divides into two parts, of which one—the pronator teres—is inserted into the radius, and the other—the flexor carpi radialis—is continued to the carpus. The differences in the two limbs evidently have relation to the nece.ssity that exists in higher animals for moving the foot forcibly as a whole for the purpose of driving the body onwards. This is accomplish- ed by throwing the whole or the greater part of the strength of the superficial stratum of the pronato-flexor mass, including the elements of the caudo-pedal, upon the projecting lever furnished by the os calcis, and by applying a portion of the deeper stratum of the mass {tibialis posticus)to the same end as well as to the pi’onation of the limb; whereas in the fore limb the whole of the deep stratum, except the pronator quadratus and a considerable part of the superficial stratum, is avail- able for the movements of the digits, and so subserves more directly to prehension and the requirements of the will. In the hind limb