X' 103 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. Tliis arrangement is found most distinct in the simplest parts of the lower vertebrates, as throughout the Lancelet and in the caudal region of Fishes and Urodelans. The struc- ture of that region, with its longitudinal divisions caused by the dorsal, neural and lateral septa, and its transverse divisions caused by the transverse septa, has been described in the Cryptobranch (p. 3)h The transverse skeletal planes, membranous, cartilaginous and osseous, are sometimes called ‘ sclerotomes ’ and the trans- 1 I should observe that the angular spaces left between the longitudinal divi- sions are not always, as in Cryptobrahch, occupied by fat. In the Fish the dorsal and ventral furrows are often partly occupied by the dorsal and anal fins (see pp. 68, 89); and the lateral furrows ai’e commonly occupied by muscular fibres which bear the transverse septa, but which are more closely connected with the skin, and peel off with it more easily than the rest of the lateral muscle. These fibres are more vascular than ordinary muscular fibres; and in a piece which I examined from a Dace they contained more oil than the other mus- cles. Stannius (Ilandhuch der Zootoviie, ii. 112) says that they, in addition, present microscopically the appearance of tissue in process of conversion into muscle. I did not find that to be the case. With the exception of the excess of oil, they presented the usual microscopical characters of striped muscle. Stannius (ii. 93) uses the terms ‘epaxonisch’ and ‘ hypaxonisch’ to indicate the muscles above and below the axial vertebral line. Huxley (The Anatomy of Vertebrate Animals) uses the terms ‘ episkeletal’ and ‘ hyposkeletal’ to indicate the muscles situated respectively above and below the endoskeleton, and developed from above and beneath the proto vertebra?. Strictly speaking, however, all the muscles are interskeletal; forasmuch as the intermuscular septa extend, from the transversalis fascia to the skin, through the entn-e thickness of the muscular layer which appears to be primarily and essentially one, and which is, for aught we know, all developed from the same embryonic protovertebral stratum; and the skeletal tissues undergo chondrification and ossification in certain parts only and in certain planes. . The parts in which these changes take place are chiefly in and near the axial line. The plane in which chondrification and ossification occur is almost exclusively the middle one; and ossification without chondrifi- cation—i. e. from membrane—is most frequent in the superficial muscular plane; though it may take place much deeper, as in the instances of the para- sphenoid, or sub-basal, bone and the vomer. I am not here speaking of the epi- dermal, or superficial dermal, tissues which may also be changed into horny matter, cartilage or bone. The ossifications in this epidermal layer are as dis- tinct from those in the outer, or subcutaneous, muscular plane as these are from the chondrifications and ossifications in the middle muscular plane, or more so; and I do not think this distinction has been quite sufficiently kept in mind. It must not be forgotten that the ‘cartilaginous,’ the ‘membranous,’ and the ‘ epi- dermal’ ossifications may be blended, and that the two former are particularly liable to be so. Indeed, those that begin in cartilage are usually enlarged by the addition of membrane bone. Histologically, there is perhaps no essential difference between the two. It is, I think, far better to reserve the prefix ‘ epi’ to designate the bones— membrane bones—which are formed, usually, though as above mentioned not always, in the superficial muscular or subcutaneous strata, and thereby distin- guish them from the subjacent cartilage bones with which they are often closely related. Thus the ‘ epistemals ’ and the ‘epicostals’ are indicated to be bones found in the tissue overlying the sternum and the costa?; and the ‘ epicoracoids ’ are bones or bony plates formed over, or upon, perhaps blended ^vith, the coracoids.