124 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. complete segmentation of the quadr. 1. from the stratum, above, and of the rectus and pyramidalis, beneath, is due to the sud- den alteration in the direction of their fibres from that of the fibres of the internal oblique. The relations of this muscle to both are nearly the same, a layer of it being continued upon the superficial, and another layer upon the deep surface of each; and these layers, forming sheaths for the rectus and quadr. 1., are in contact, and more or less blended, with the superficial (external oblique) and deep (transversalis) strata of the ventral muscle. In the thorax the middle stratum forms the series of exter- nal intercostals. The direction of the slant of the intercostal muscles might indicate the external layer to belong rather to the superficial, or external oblique stratum and the internal intercostals to belong to this middle stratum. But, as we have already found, the fibres in different parts of the same stratum are disposed in very variable directions; and the relations to the intercostal nerves and blood-vessels are stronger grounds for classing the external intercostals with the internal oblique and dians, Saiirians and Batrachians; that in Man it sometimes passes to the body of the 11th dorsal vert, and to the 11th rib, in the Buffalo to the 4th hinder dorsal vert, and ribs. In some animals, as Hyrax (see Meckel), it advances still further forwards. In Cryptobranch its representative is not segmented from the rest of the ventral muscle, but, like that of the rectus, is continuous with it. In Pseudopus Pallasii it is distinctly a serial correspondent and extension of the intercostals passing from the hindmost rib to the ihac bone (p. 101). ^ The relations of the rectus to the several strata of the ventral muscle vary a good deal. Primitively, as in Lepidosiren and most Fishes, it is continuous, and on a level, with the whole thickness of the ventral muscle. In Cryptobranch it is so with the middle and external strata only, while the internal stratum passes above it. In Snakes a deep part of it seems to be represented by thickening of the intercostal fibres near the extremities of the ribs. Some of these thickened bimdles pass from rib to rib, and some from one rib to another at a greater distance. And in them, and more clearly in Pseudopus P. (p. 100), it, or the chief part of it, Res on a plane superficial even to the external stratum the fibres of which pass into its deeper surface. In Mammals it is completely segmented from all the strata, and hes in the greater part of its comse between the layers of the middle stratum. Miiller, Abhandl. der Berlin. Akad. 1834, p. 345, and Tab. I, describes and represents the rectus as distinct from, and covered superficially by, the obliqui in Bdellostoma. This is, however, unusual in Fishes. * The pyramidalis appears to have special relations to the marsupial bone, and to the spine and crest of the pubes, which are the representatives of that bone • and its presence as an independent muscle is probably to be associated with the tendency to the presence of this as an independent bone (foot-note on p. 16). Functionally, it seems to assist in strengthening the suprapubic region of the abdominal wall; and it is well developed in animals (female Pteropus, Journal Anat. iii. 301, and Pseudopus P., on page 101) in which, in consequence of an interval between the pubic bones, the recti muscles diverge and leave this part of the abdomen comparatively imsupported.