MUSCLES OF LEPIDOSIREN. 75 t band which is continued round the anterior part of the hyoid, near the middle line, and is inserted into the dense tissue there, in the place of a glosso-hyal, which causes a median elevation in the floor of the mouth, behind the symphysis of the jaw, and constitutes a rudimentary tongue. The more lateral fibres, curling beneath the coracoid, are folded over the median part of the muscle between the coracoid and the hyoid, o-ivins' a thick rounded edge to the muscle in this situation, and are inserted into the upper surface of the middle of the hyoid. The result of this disposition is a thick strong coraco- or ventro- hyoid, a representative of the sterno-hyoid, which serves power- fully to draw the hyoid backward, deepening the cavity of the mouth and raising the gill-cover. To some extent, therefore, it acts antagonistically to the superficial stratum, part of the office of which is to compress the opercular apparatus. It is disencumbered from other muscles by complete segmentation, and by an investment of loose areolar tissue, so as to be enabled to act freely and fully upon the hyoid. The pharyngeal muscles of higher animals are represented, or partly represented, by a delicate layer of fibres—a Kyo- pharyngeus—passing backwards from the hyoid, on either side of the mesial line, and radiating upon the mucous membrane of the pharynx. They meet and blend with a similar layer of fibres pass- ing forwards from the coracoid and, in like manner, radiating upon the pharynx and the under-surface of the branchial chamber. These sub-mucous layers, specially segmented from the deep surface of the ventral muscle, resemble and are derived in the same manner as the subcutaneous layers which are specially segmented from its superficial surface, and which constitute the platysma and the panniculus carnosus of Mammals. A short strong fan-shaped muscle—stylo-hyoid—radiates from inner surface of the hyoid \ near its upper end, to the under surface of the back part of the suspensorium, behind the auditory capsule, where it has a broad insertion. 1 The hyoid (cerato-hyoid) rests upon the auditory cartilage, and is con- nected with the base of the skull hy a tough ligament, and with the inner side of the angle of the jaw hy a strong stylo-, or better, hyo-maxillary ligament.