MUSCLES OF TRUNK. s- 9 the visceral cavity would occupy appears to be that occupied by tlie ventral or subhEeraal fat-mass. If this view is correct tlie visceral wall represents a stratum superficial to that of the hsejnal wall; and the htemapophyses, instead of being in the same plane and correspond- ing with the lower parts of the visceral wall, or, instead of being expanded to the level of those parts—the pelvis, linea alba, sternum and sternal ribs, shoulder-girdle, and hyoid apparatus—are rudimentary or abortive in the visceral region. The representatives of them are to be sought in the fibrous structure covering the aorta and its branches, and lining the crura of the diaphragm, not in the subvis- ceral part of the wall of the viceral cavity. THE MUSCLES OF THE TEUNK. The muscles of the trunk may clearly he regarded as, in part at least, formed by an extension of the caudal muscles forwards. Like these they are divided by a ‘lateral septum’ into a ‘dorsal’ and a ‘ventral’ series; and the former present very little difference from those in the tail. The septum is continued from the extremity of the tail forwards, beneath the latissimus dorsi and the muscles passing from the dorsum of the head and spine to the scapula and over the neck, as far as the head. The fibrous sheet which forms it slants from the ex- terior somewhat upwards to the upper surface of the ribs and transverse processes, so that the dorsal series of muscles overlaps the ventral to a slight extent: and owing to the greater ex- pansion of the inferior or ventral part of the trunk, in com- parison with that of the upper or dorsal part, the lateral septum is here situated nearer to the dorsal than to the ventral edge of the animal. The TRANSVERSE SEPTA, a serial continuation of those in the tail, are directed from the median line above, at first very ob- liquely outwards and backwards through the inner part of the dorsal muscles; gradually, as they pass over the ribs they be- come less oblique, describing a curve with the convexity back- wards, and near the lateral septum they are almost transverse. Beneath the lateral septum they are continued wiuh slight ob- liquity backwards, and then again become transverse, thus forming in the ventral region a gentle curve with the con- vexity backwards, like that which is seen in the dorsal and in the ventral muscle of the tail. The direction therefore is not