MUSCLES OF LEPIDOSIKEN. 7l s- the upper part of the first cartilage of the fin, whicli may be regarded as representing the upper or humeral segment of the forelimb of higher animals. Some of the fibres also blend with the other muscles of the fin. This portion of the stratum represents, therefore, the latissimus dorsi. The next portion (P) of the stratum, a little more ventrally situated, is attached to the under-surface of the fin and its first cartilage, and to the anterior edge of the shoulder-girdle (the coracoid) beneath the fin. The coracoid is here covered by an extension of the mucous membrane of the branchial chamber, and contributes to form the wall of the branchial passage, and of the slit-like branchial opening; and the mucous membrane extends a short distance upon the surface of the muscle which accordingly contributes, with the coracoid, to form the hinder wall of the passage leading to the branchial chamber. This portion of the stratum corresponds with the pectoralis major. It is really continuous with the latissimus dorsi: but the fibres establishing the continuity between the two, and attached to the girdle and the fin in the immediate neighbourhood of the glenoid cavity, form a very thin sheet; and an axillary interval is easily made between the pectoral and the latissimus dorsi portions of the stratum. Still more ventrally or mesially, the fibres of the superficial brachio-cephalic stratum pass onwards and form a superficial cervical muscle (cervicalis superjicialis). The lateral fibres run beneath and in front of the branchial opening; and, covered by the skin externally and lined by the mucous membrane inter- nally, they form the margin of the gill cover and the anterior wall of the passage leading to the branchial chamber. They (Fig. 24, Sp. br.) moreover spread out over the branchial cham- ber and, in front, come into contact with and are attached to the opercular bones^ and the side of the skull; while, above, ^ There are distinctly two opercular bones as represented by Peters. _ One, the inferior or suboperculum, situated behind the angle of the mandible, is tri- angular, with its apex directed forwards and continued into a narrow tendon which is attached to the inner surface of the lower part of the dentary bone, about the middle ; and it blends there with the fibres of the mylo-hyoid muscle. The other, the superior bone or operculuvi, is smaller, more elongated, and extends up between the preceding and the hinder surface of the suspensorium. Owen (p. 336) mentions only the superior. Huxley, Anatomy of Vertebrate Animals, p. 170, mentions the superior as operculum and the inferior as a ‘ branchiostegal ray’ carried upon the hyoidean arch. It is however connected