116 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. vertebrae are commonly designated in accordance with the parts of the vertebrae between which they pass. Thus they are called ‘ Interspinales,’ ^ Intertransversales,’ and ‘ Interobliqui’ or ‘ In- teraccessorii.’ The foremost of them is the Rectus capitis pos- ticus minor. They are developed in proportion to the mobility of the parts between which they pass, that is, they are most developed in the neck and loins, and least in the back. In the back the intertransversales and interspinales are sometimes merely ligamentous. In the more superficial members of this series the fibres sometimes leap over one or more segments to a distant point. This is caused by the superficial fusion of two or more septa, owing to the non-development of muscular fibres between them, or by the superficial obliteration of one or more septa from the extension of muscle-development through them, producing, in the one case, an elongation of septum or tendon, and, in the other, an elongation of muscle. In this manner are formed the spinalis dorsi and spinalis colli and the several parts of the erectores spince. The last, it may be observed, often overlap, to some extent, and are connected with the ventral parts of the skeleton,, viz., the iliac bones and the ribs, parts, that is, which lie beneath the lateral line. The second division includes the muscles in which the fibres have an oblique direction and pass between non-corresponding parts of contiguous or distant vertebrae, for instance, from transverse process to spine, or from spinous process to trans- verse process. The obliquity is therefore in two directions, giving rise to two sets, the fibres of which cross one another. In the one set the fibres pass from spinous processes outwards and forwards to the transverse processes; and in the other set, which is on the whole in a deeper plane, the fibres pass from the transverse processes mwards and forwards to the spinous processes. The more superficial, spino-transverse or outwardly directed, set comprises the ohliquus capitis inferior, and the splenius capitis and colli. The deeper, transverso-spinous or inwardly directed, set comprises the ohliquus capitis superior, the compleocus with the biventer, the semispinalis colli and dorsi, the multifidus and rotatores spince. The dissections of Cryptobranch (Fig. 20) and of Lepidosiren (Fig. 25) show conclusively that the temporal muscle is a pro-