110 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. the remaining deeper portion may he more or less completely segmented from each other. It is a very common thing for the muscular fibres to miss, that is, to pass over or under, one or more septa, as in the ca.se of the erector spine and the subcostals. In these instances, and others of the like kind, the muscular fibres are continued through, or are ankylosed through, the septal tissue which has disappeared as such, owing to the embryonic tissue of the intermuscular septa undergoing the same histological change as the muscular parts. See p. 113. A muscular plane, or any part of it, may also he divided longitudinally into portions or sectors by cleavages similar to that by which itself was separated from the strata above or beneath it. Thus from the simple primary, transversely segmented, late- ral muscle, on either side of the animal, the various muscular forms may be elicited. Moreover the differences in the muscu- lar systems of different animals, and in different though serially homologous parts of the same animal, may in great measure be explained by variations in the number of the strata or of the sectors, or by variations in the depths at which the several strata have been detached, or in the points at which the several sectors have been separated. Hence, although general corre- spondence may be indicated, precise homology must not be too closely pressed. The processes which I have mentioned may be recapitulated as follows: 1, varieties in the inclination and direction of the septa; 2, prolongation of the angles of the septa caused by increased inclination and flexure ; S, separation of the thus prolonged septa with their appended muscular fibres, indivi- dually or in groups, into independent muscles; 4, variation in the direction of the muscular fibres; 5, cleavage into planes and into sectors reaching to various depths ; 6, fusion or anky- losis of the muscular segments by the establishment of conti- nuity through the septa. In the three highest orders of vertebrates, if we exclude the vertebral processes, the ribs, the hyoid and the limb-girdles, which are ossifications in the deeper parts of the septa, and the tendons of the dorsal muscles, which are modifications of the septa, the intermuscular septa are represented only, or chiefly, by the