MUSCLES OF THE SMOOTH DOG-FISH. 86 dorsal surface of the fin, where it represents the trapezius and meets the latissimus dorsi, also from the lateral septum be- tween the shoulder-girdle and the skull. In the last situation the fibres are traceable down, beneath the septum, to the lateral parts of the vertebrae and to the fibres of the deep portion of the ventral muscle passing forwards to the skull. The fibres descend forwards and outwards, over the branchial chamber and the gill covers, and are continuous with the ascending fibres of the cervicalis superficialis inferior. They pass over and are slightly connected with the branchial car- tilages in the same manner as the fibres of the last-named muscle are related to these cartilages beneath. The points of difference between the superficial hrachio-cephalic stratum in this animal and in Lepidosiren (p. 70) are slight, and are caused partly by the difference in the gill openings. The segmenta- tion from the deeper part of the stratum behind the girdle is less distinct in the Dog-fish j and the stratum in front of the girdle does not, in this animal, expand over the dorsal muscle as it does in Lepidosiren. There is fui’ther not that distinctly segmented deeper layer of the superhcial stratum in or near the mesial line which I have called ‘genio-hyoid’ in Lepidosiren (p. 73). The cei'vicalis super- ficialis inferior I suppose to represent, as in Lepidosiren, the in- ferior part of the subcutaneus colli, the sterno-clcido-mastoideus, the mylo-liyoideus, the anterior belly of the digastricus and the genio- hyoideus; while the cervicalis superficialis superior represents the superior part of the subcutaneus colli, the depressor mandihvlce, the levator arcuum, the trapezius with the cervico-humerals and rhom- boids. Beneath the cervicalis superficialis sup., which has been partly cut away in Fig. 28, is seen a strong muscle {Levator scapidoi) arising from the lateral septum and from the sides of the vertebrae beneath it. The fibres pass backwards and downwards to be inserted into the under surface of the scapula where they meet the fibres of the lateral muscle, which I have called serratus, coming forwards to the same cartilage. The division and reflection of the cei'vicalis superf. inf. from the middle line, as represented, on the right side in Fig. 29, brings into view the continuation of the deeper layer of the ventral muscle, which may be called cervicalis prof undus {G. pf from the fore part of the coracoid to the hyoid and the glossal cartilage. It constitutes a thick well-defined muscle,