V ^ *1 70 MUSCLES OF LEPIDOSIREN. muscle, which converge from before and from behind and blend with them. There is no line of demarcation between the fibres derived from the pelvis and those derived from the ventral muscle. Some of the latter proceed from the next adjacent septa before and behind; and some are derived from more distant septa. As represented in Fig. 23, the lowest and hind- most of the ventral fibres passing upon the fin are segmented from the rest of the ventral muscle and are uninterrupted by septa for a greater distance than those situated higher up. Between the converging bundles from before and behind is seen an interval {F) in which the nerves run, from beneath the edge of the ventral muscle, over the outer edge of the pelvis and the acetabular joint, upon the fin. As it approaches the forepart of the animal, the ventral muscle (and this will be found to be the case also with the dorsal muscle) gives off a superficial stratum which is thin and partly membranous (Figs. 24 and 26). Its disposition is as follows: it separates from the deeper stratum of the ventral muscle a little behind the level of the pectoral fin, at one of the septa, and is thenceforward connected with the deep stratum only by loose areolar tissue; so that it is easily dissected away. This is especially the case near the middle line. It retains the transverse septa and, advancing forwards, expands as a con- tinuous sheet upon the shoulder-girdle and the hinder aspect of the base of the fin. It is also continued forwards upon the lower jaw, the gill cover and the opercular bones; and it spreads in this direction upon the surface of the dorsal muscle, becoming blended with the fascia of that muscle and so reaching the dorsal median line. It may be called the superficial BRACHIO-CEPHALIC STRATUM of the ventral muscle, to distin- guish it from the deeper stratum of the same muscle which also passes to the limb-girdle, limb and head, and which may be called the deep brachio-cephalic stratum. The upper portion (A. d) of this superficial brachio-cephalic stratum the portion, that is, nearest to the lateral septum,—a little in front of the line of separation from the deep stratum, is inserted into the upper, or scapular, part of the shoulder- girdle, which forms a conical projection above the fin, and into