THE CRYPTOBRANCIT. 44? internal to the suspensory apparatus (the squamous bone and the ridge in the parietal upon which it abuts) to the dorsal spines of the three foremost vertebrae, from which it arises by means of a strong tendon. It forms a thick mass, bounding the orbit behind, and filling up the wide pterygoid fossa on the side of the skull, but not deriving many fibres from the bones there. The fibres converge to be inserted into the upper surface of the lower jaw, and particularly the inner or ‘surangular’ part of it, a little in front of the articulation with skull. Some of the fibres arising from the pterygoid probably represent the external pterygoid muscle. Masseter, a thick muscle, arises tendinous from along the upper surface of the bone (‘squamous,’ as it appears to me), forming the upper part of the suspensorium, and descends to be inserted into the outer surface of the lower jaw, for an inch in front of the joint.—A considerable mass of muscle arises from the anterior surface of the suspensorium and is inserted into the upper surface of the jaw between the temporal and the mastoid. It is partly separated from the masseter by areolar tissue, in which branches of the third division of the fifth pass outwards to the side of the head and to the lower jaw. Its fibres are, however, blended to some extent with those of the masseter and of the temporal; and I cannot tell whether it should be regarded as appertaining more particularly to either, or to both, or as constituting a distinct pterygoid muscle. Digastric, a strong muscle, arises from the retiring angle between the suspensorium and the back of the skull behind, near the auricular opening, and from the edges of the squamous, the mastoid, the parietal and exoccipital as well as the cartilage which they there surround. At its origin it is between the origin of the masseter from the squamous bone and the inser- tion of the dorsal muscle of the trunk into the exoccqDital (Fig. 20). It lies on the groove of the mastoid along the back of the suspensorium, and is inserted into the hinder part of the angle of the lower jaw, just above the depressor maxillse; but a distinct and strong bundle of its fibres passes on tendinous behind the jaw along the hinder surface of the suspensory liga- ment of the hyoid to the cornu of the hyoid. It is here over- lapped by the inylo-hyoid, or those fibres rather of it which