MUSCLES OF HIND LIMB. 25 M- position of its divisions in the digits after describing the flexor ’profundiis. The DEEP STRATUM is disposed in an interesting manner. Its fibres are more oblique and have more of a pronator function than those of the superficial stratum. It is composed, flrst and chiefly, of a mass of fibres (Fig. 11, Pr. p) derived, slightly, from the fibular condyle of the femur in conjunction with those of the superficial stratum, but, chiefly, from the fibula and the fibular part of the tarsus—the two fibular tarsal bones—and slightly from the adjacent tarsal bones. They are directed downwards and inwards to the distal row of tarsal bones, to the metatarsal of digit I. and slightly to the metatarsals of il. and III., and also join the deeper surface of those divisions of the superficial stratum which pass to the flexor tendons of digits I. IT. and TIL This mass may be called ‘pronator pedis'^: it appears to combine the representatives of the tibialis posticus and those portions of the flexor digitorum profundus which we call the flexor longus poUicis and the accessorius. A second part of the deep stratum (Fig. 11, FI. pr.) still lying beneath the nerves is a long, thin muscle, quite separate in its upper part, which arises from the upper end of the fibula, descends upon the main mass of the deep stratum (the pro- nator pedis), the fibres of which cross obliquely from the fibula beneath it. Having reached the tarsus it expands, trumpet- like, beneath it and divides into five muscular bundles to the five digits. I have said that it lies, in the leg and in the proximal part of the tarsus, superficial to the pronator pedis; but its insertion into the digits is deeper; and in order to reach this deeper plane it, or rather the part of it destined to digits I. II. and III., curls round the fibular edge of the part of the pronator p>edis passing to the flexor suhlimis, so as to come into in conjunction witli the plantaris, which is really the upper or crural part of it, the Jlexor suhlimis {brevis usually termed in man) is quite as long or longer than the Jlexor profundus; and the relation of i\ie Jlexor suhlimis to ihe plantaris —a cardinal point in the anatomy of the muscles of the leg illustrated in most mammals—is ignored or rather concealed by the term ‘ hrevis ’ of human anatomists. ^ I call the rduscle ‘ pronator pedis ’ to facilitate subsequent descriptions, and because the name indicates an important part of its function ; but even in this animal it has a flexor action, especially the fibres of it joining the Jlexor suh- limis, and its representatives in the higher animals, in which pronation and supination of the foot do not take place, have a flexor action only.