87 MUSCLES OF THE SMOOTH DOG-FISH. like its homologue in Lepidosireu, and presents transverse septa corresponding in number and position with the branchial cartilages. At its origin this muscle, like the cerv. super/., is connected with the coracoidal septum as well as with the coracoid; and it extends, with the septum for some little dis- tance upon the ventral aspect of the fin. The proper muscle of the fin also derives origin from the septum as well as from the coracoid. The septum therefore brings into relation and gives origin to the cervicalis sup. inf. and the cervicalis prof. in front, and to the pectoral, ventral, and fin muscle behind, linking them all together and to the coracoid k The fin-muscle upon each surface is, in consequence of the different direction of its fibres, like the muscle upon the median fins (see pp. 69, 92), in great measure segmented from the extensions of the lateral muscle which spread upon the fin. We have traced the superficial stratum of the ventral muscle {cervicalis superficialis), over the shoulder-girdle and over the superficial branchial cartilages, and the deep stratum {cervicalis profundvbs) forwards from the coracoid to the hyoid. The deepest stratum of the ventral muscle passes from the deep surface of the girdle upon the deep branchial cartilagesk Su- periorly, beside the bodies of the vertebrae, it is continued from one cartilage to another, and from the uppermost cartilage to the base of the skull, forming a continuous series of alter- nating cartilages and muscles, like the ribs and the intercostals. Furthermore some of the fibres are reflected from the hindmost branchial cartilage upon the oesophagus, contributing to the ^ The course of the nerves to the fin accords vdth the disposition of the muscles, as compared with those of Lepidosiren and of higher animals. They all pass behind the girdle, except one which penetrates the edge of the girdle imme- diately behind the point of articulation of the fin. They traverse the ventral muscle in a line behind this point, having above them the part of the ventral muscle attached to the scapula which I have designated serratus, and having be- neath them the part of the ventral muscle attached to the coracoid, and forming a deeper stratum than the pectoral, which represents the costo-coracoid. ^ The deep branchial cartilages, five in number, commence above, that is beneath the vertebral bodies, by flattened, slightly curved ends, in close contact with the mucous membrane of the pharynx. At the level of the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae they suddenly thicken and turn downwards, running round, in contact with the pharynx, to the median line, where they coalesce with those of the opposite side. The superficial branchial cartilages are nearly subcutaneous, separated from the skin by the fibres of the superficial cervical muscles only. At their upper or vertebral ends they are connected by fibrous tissue with the deep cartilages ; and their lower ends expand and imderhe the deep cartilages which are also expanded.