MUSCLES OF LEPIDOSIREN. 76 Dorsal Muscle. The superficial stratum of the dorsal muscle, separating in the same manner and nearly at the same part of the animal as that of the ventral muscle, soon becomes in great part membranous, passes over the side of the head, and is attached to the end of the suspensorium just above the glenoid cavity, to the lower jaw a little in front of its angle, to the tooth-like hinder projection of the maxillary bone and to the edges of the pre- maxillary and frontal bones It represents the temporal fascia; and muscular fibres are attached to or detached from both its surfaces. Those which are connected with its superficial surface are continued into, or are more or less connected with, the superficial stratum of the ventral muscle. It is thus connected with the muscles already described as representatives of the trapezius and sterno-mastoid; also with the two following muscles situated in front of those last-mentioned and, like them, appertaining rather to the superficial ventral stratum; though their description is more conveniently given here. These two muscles are superficial and thin, and lie upon the extension of the dorsal fascia to the suspensorium and mandible. They are separated from one another only by a fascial line from which the fibres of both arise; so that they might be regarded as one. The hinder of the two, which I will call levator operculi (Fig. 24, L. o), radiates, from the angle of the mandible and the fascial line just alluded to, backwards upon the superior opercular bone and the interval between the two opercular bones where it blends with the pre-branchial (sterno-cleido-mastoid) part {Sp. hr.) of the ventral muscle. The anterior of the two muscles (Fig. 24, D. m.) is also attached to the angle of the mandible, to the fascial line and to the suspensorium. Its fibres are directed more forwards upon the dorsal fascia. Its position is not unlike that of the masseter; but the masseter is represented by another muscle. On the whole, it rather corresponds with the depressor mandibulce, or with that portion of it which, in some animals, arises from the 1 Muller (s. 245 and Tab. vi.) describes in Bdellostoma a similar extension of the dorsal muscle forwards over the side of the head to the tentacles. It was connected by a ligament with the hyoid and the upper part of the skull.