1.54 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. to the inner side of the heel. The caudo-femoral is also repre- sented in the Otter by a thin muscle, arising from the trans- verse processes of the caudal vertebrse, passing internal to the sciatic nerve, and into the middle third of the linea aspera, between the gluteus and the adductors and distinct from both. The pyriformis and quadratus femoris muscles are both present in this animal. In the Rat a caudo-femoral muscle passes from the sacrum, beneath the gluteus, to the internal condyle and the post-condyloid bone, between the addr. m. and the semimembra- nosus. It lies near to, and in the same plane with, the ischio- caudal. The antagonistic homologues of the two {caudo-femoral and ischio-caudal) are probably the psoas magnus with its neighbour the psoas parvus. The Muscles passing from the Limb-Girdles to the Limbs may be regarded as extensions of the deeper strata of the ventral muscle—as deep ventro-appendicular muscles—foras- much as the girdles are ossifications in tlie deeper level of the ventral inter-muscular septa. They share the surface of the girdles with the fibres of the ventral muscle which pass back- wards or forwards to the adjacent trunk segments. Hence the extent of their attachment to the girdles varies inversely with the extent of attachment of the direct fibres of the ventral muscle. Where the latter are numerous, as on the ilium of Cryptobranch, the muscles passing from the bone to the limb are few. Where, on the contrary, the range covered by the direct ventral fibres is small, as in the pubischium of Cryptobranch, the size of the muscles passing to the limb is considerable. In like manner the extent of their attachment to the first segment of the limb reciprocates with that of the origin of the muscles passing to the second segment. Thus, in Cryptobranch, the pectineus engrosses the whole of the dorsal surface of the femur; whereas in most animals that surface is occupied by the extensor of the leg, and the pectineus is compressed within narrow limits. It may be inferred that the corresponding embryonic factors arc, in some instances, employed in the