MFSCLE^ IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 159 Tlie superficial, or pre-axial, division of the pubischio-femo- rals comprises muscles arising from the os pubis (which is proba- bly the representative of the precoracoid), and from part of the surface of the ischium (which is probably the representative of the coracoid). Owing to the large relative size and fixity of the bones from which they arise, and the heavier work which usually devolves upon the hind limb, they are ordinarily larger and more numerous than their correspondent the precoraco- humeral with its appendages, the supra-spinatus and the epi- coraco-humeralis, in the fore limb. The pectineus is perhaps the most constant segment or muscle of the division, and it answers in many respects, serially, to the precoraco-humeral. It arises from the os pubis, and not unfrequently extends, over the anterior edge, upon the deep surface of the bone, much as the precoraco-humeral in Croco- dile extends, over the anterior edge of the precoracoid, upon its deep surface. We have found the pectineus in Cryptobranch spreading over the dorsal surface of the femur, even to its fibular side. Usually, however, its insertion is limited to the upper part of the tibial line of the femur (the tibial edge of linea aspera). Where the ala, or anterior edge of the ilium, grows. into prominence, an extension of this pubischio-femoral division spreads upon and occupies the anterior, or deeper, surface of the ala., constituting the iliacus internus^, in the same way that an extension of the superficial coraco-humerals spreads upon the anterior surface of the spine of the scapula, and constitutes the sup>ra-spinatus. Behind the pectineus lies the adductor mass, which is variously segmented in different animals and which is perforated by a vessel that in some animals becomes the main vessel of the leg and foot. It sometimes (Hippopotamus, Fig. 48, and others) extends upon the tibial side of the leg; and, we shall find presently, it often has intimate relations with the flexors of the leg^ ^ In Saurians the iliacus int. ranges, like the pectineus in Cryptobranch, but to less extent, over the dorsal surface of the femur, approaching the fibular side. In Mammals it is restricted to the tibial side. * The adductor mass not unfrequently extends across the popliteal surface of the femur to the fibular line of the linea aspera; and a considerable part of it is probably derived from factors which, in the fore limb, range themselves with the post-axial division of the coraco-brachials.