MUSCLES OF LEPIDOSIREN. 65 Hind Limb. The internal rectus femoris joins the inner part of the quadriceps near the knee, lying external to the so/rtorius. The caudo-pedal passes down between the two heads of the gastrocnemius, and blends with their tendon superficially. This tendon is broad, attached to the sides of the tarsus and continued into the flexor suhlimis digitorum. The two heads of the gastrocnenius, arising from the two condyles of the femur, are quite distinct. The fl. prof. dig. arises from tlie outer condyle of the femur ; so do the peronei. The per. 1. is not continued into the sole, but is attached to the fibular side of the tarsus and is blended with the tendon of the gastrocnemius. Neither of the flexor tendons are therefore, above, continued into the internal rectus. The tibialis anticus covers the inner side of the tibia. The tibialis posticus arises, exclusively, from the fibula. The disposition of flex. subl. and prof, digitorum, of the lumbricales, supei’ficial and deep, of the accessorius and the interossei, closely resembles that in the fore limb. THE MUSCLES OP LEPIDOSIEEN ANNECTENS, WITH THE CRANIAL NERVES. (PI. V. figs. 23 to 27.) The muscular system of Lepidosiren presents \ as might be expected, many interesting features of an intermediate condi- tion between that of the Fish and that of the Urodelan. The great lateral muscle, as in those animals, is divided by a lateral septum passing, from before backwards, nearly mid- way between the dorsal and the ventral edges, into an upper or ‘ dorsal’ and a lower or ' ventral’ muscle. Each of these is also subdivided into myotomes by transverse fascial inscriptions or ‘ intermuscular septa’ which are more simply disposed than in most Fishes, forasmuch as they run from the lateral septum, in nearly straight lines or with a slight anterior curve, upwards and downwards, to the dorsal and ventral edges. Traced, from the external fascia, into the substance of the dorsal muscle the septa pass, in oblique planes, forwards and inwards to the dorsal spines and the fin-rays; and those in the ventral muscle pass also obliquely forwards and inwards, to the ribs, haemal spines, and fin-rays, where these exist, or to the internal surface of the ventral cavity and there blend with the internal or transver- salis fascia. ^ The specimen of Lepidosiren Annectens from which these notes were ' taken was nineteen inches in length. It was dissected chiefly by Mr Anningson, 1 partly by myself.