122 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS.' or less interruption, within the pelvis and is then gathered in around the bowel as a pelvic diaphragm, or levator ani, some of its fibres being reflected into, and some continued into, the muscular coat of the bowel. In some instances—Pseudopus P. (p. 101), Cryptobranch (p. 17) and others—a part of it is con- tinued on into the subcaudal muscles. In Mammals a stratum is inflected from the ribs, or gathered in like the levator ani, upon the alimentary tube, forming the lateral portions of the post- cardiac dia'phragm which, in continuity with a remnant of the J subvertebral portion (the crura), constitutes a septum shutting off the thoracic from the abdominal regions, but with apertures, \ like those in the pelvic diaphragm, for the passage of the oeso- phagus and the vascular and neural trunks. The psoas magnus j and parvus also appear to be derivatives from this stratum \ | as well as some fibres of the cremaster. f It will be evident that the direction of the fibres of this i stratum varies much in different parts of its extent, being antero- J posterior where it lies under the vertebral column, oblique where it lies under or between the ribs, transverse where it forms the abdominal wall, and converging where it is inflected upon the viscera; and in proportion to the diversity in the direction of their fibres the several parts are segmented from a each other. I In Cryptobranch it is throughout, or nearly, traversed by I septa, and is so held in continuity with the transversalis fascia, > on the one side, and the rest of the ventral muscle and the com- i ponents of the osseo-cartilaginous skeleton on the other. In higher animals, however, the septa for the most part disappear ,1 in its substance and upon its surfaces. They still abide forming | the lines of separation between the digitations of the transver- | salts muscle and the diaphragm, as well as between the mem- 4 bers of the internal intercostal series, blended in the latter situation with the costal periosteum or perichondrium. The internal or transversalis fascia is in contact with the greater part of the extent of the internal surface of the trans- versalis stratum and is gathered in with it to form the levator ani and the post-cardiac diaphragm. Thus it lies upon the anterior » In the Guinea Pig the psoas parvus passes with the ps. magnus and the iliacus over the pubes to the lesser trochanter of the femui’.