19 MIT^LES OF HIND LIMB. Plantar Muscles of Thtgh. Ill tlie thigh the plantar mass arises from both surfaces— the upper or abdominal and the inferior surfaces—of the under or sub-costal parts of the broad pelvic shield, that is, from the region of the pelvis situated on the ventral or plantar side of the hip-joint, and consisting of the ischium and the pubes. The mass is continued anteriorly into the ohliquo-rectus muscle of the abdomen, and posteriorly is connected with the caudo- ■crural muscle. It thus intervenes between and connects (or may be regarded as an extension of) the mesial portions of the ventral muscles of the abdomen and the tail. It is divided into two STRATA. Of these the SUPERFICIAL is a large, broad, unsegmented, and thick mass. It arises from near the mesial line of the large pelvic shield in nearly its whole length, from the insertion of the ischio-caudal, behind, to the external oblique, with which it is blended, in front. The greater part of it (all of it except the fibres presently to be mentioned as joining the caudo-pedaJ) is inserte(J into the upper two-thirds of the anterior (tibial) edge of the tibia in- cliuing to the plantar aspect. It is the great flexor and ad- ductor muscle of the leg, and corresponds with the gracilis, semitendinosus and semimembranosus. About one-third from its origin it is joined nearly at right angles by the fibres of the cmido-crural (p. 6, Fig. 8), which, or the greater number of them, terminate, tendinous, in its hinder and superficial part, causing a tendinous inscription in it. The hinder part in which the can do-crural thus terminates appears to correspond with the semite'adinosus, the anterior superfi- cial part being referable to the gracilis and the deeper part to the scmirmmbramosus; and I cannot but suspect that the inscription thus formed may afford a more probable explanation than has yet been given of the remarkable inscription in the semitendinosus of man. If it be so it is a curious illustration of how far back in the animal series we may search for the explanation of peculiarities in the human frame, and, further, of the fact that minor features may appear or reappear and be the only trace of those conditions in the general plan of development which seem to have been their cause \ for I need scarcely say that of the caudo-crural muscle itself there is no trace in man. A bundle of the fibres of the hinder part of the muscular mass we are considering, unmarked by an inscription, joins a 2—2