MUSCLES, IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 147 the hind limb. But they are often reduced, in their course down the limb, to fasciae or areolar fibres, and often are arrested by insertion into a projecting process of bone at some higher point; or they blend with, and are lost in, the subjacent strata. To take first the ‘palmar’ and ‘plantar’, that is, the ‘ven- tral’ divisions of the ventro-appendicular muscle, which we call, respectively, pectoralis and gracilis. Each extends along the pre-axial edge of its limb, inclining to the palmar, or the plan- tar, surface. Each reaches sometimes to the distal segment, but is usually interrupted or lost earlier; and each blends in variable degrees with the subjacent muscles. The pectoralis is commonly arrested at the radial tubercle of the humerus; but, sometimes (Orycteropus), part of it accompanies the biceps to the radius, or (Otter and Wild Cat), together with some fibres of the trapezio-deltoid, accompanies the brachialis anticus to the ulna, or (Seal) expands into the fascia of the forearm and so reaches the hand. It is, in some instances, free from the subjacent muscles, and in others is blended with the coraco- brachials, or is connected with them by means of the pectoralis minor (see p. 156). The gracilis is rarely, if ever, arrested at so early a point as the pectoral. It is commonly inserted into the tibia, occasionally (Pteropus) blending with the semitendinosus, and, now and then (Unau and Ai), joining the biceps flexor cruris and acquiring an attachment to the fibula. It often extends down the inner side of the tibia, over the ankle and foot, spread- ing upon the dorsal and plantar surfaces of the foot (Seal). It is in some instances free from the subjacent adductors; in others (Cryptobranch) it is scarcely segmented from them. The ‘dorsal’ divisions of the ventro-appendicular muscle have often a wider range than the ‘ventral’ both in their con- nection with the trunk and in the area of the limbs which they cover; and they are commonly sectorially segmented in some degree. The dorsal surface, as seen most distinctly in the fore limb of Dog-fish (Figs. 28 and 30) and in the hind limb of Ceratodus (Fig. 34), and the post-axial edge of the limb, may be regarded as their legitimate destination; but they not unfre- quently spread, over both the pre-axial and the post-axial edges, upon the ventral surface of the limbs. They are, consequently, attached to various points. In the cylindrical (Lepidosiren), or 10—2