MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 117 longation of the dorsal muscle forwards from the neck, beside the cranial neural arches, over the suspensorium, to the lower jaw, and that the temporal fascia is the continuation of the fascial aponeurosis of the dorsal muscle. They render it pro- bable that the masseter and external 'pterygoid, and also the ocular muscles, are an extension of the same series. According to this view the temporal ridge which, in most vertebrates, shuts off the masticatory muscles from the rest of the dorsal system, may be regarded as an ossification of, or an ossification extending into, a transverse intermuscular septum, an ossifica- tion, that is, in the superficial stratum of the dorsal muscle passing upon the head. The liga'nientum nuchce and the interspinous ligaments, as well as the ligamentous bands tying the skin to the several spinous processes, are modifications of the longitudinal median septum which I have already (pp. 66, 112) described. The modifications of the dorsal muscle in the tail do not require any special description. It may be sufficient to remark that in cases where the pelvis is absent or rudimentary, as in the Porpoise, the portion of it called erector spince is continued uninterruptedly from the lumbar to the caudal region. The Ventral Muscle is subject to much greater modifications in the different regions of its course than is the dorsal. In the hinder part of the tail it much resembles the dorsal muscle of the same part; but, an- teriorly, the symmetry between the muscles above and below the lateral line is destroyed by the expansion of the ventral muscle over the visceral cavity, by the formation of the limb- girdles in its substance, and by its relation to the limbs. Tra- velling forwards it first comes into relation with the openings of the alimentary, urinary, and genital organs, and detaches muscles to them. It then encounters the pelvis and hind limb, which, more or less, interrupt and make demands upon it. Next it is expanded, and the direction of its fibres is modified, by the visceral cavity. Then the shoulder-girdle and fore- limb, the branchial and hyoidean apparatus, the larynx and pharynx, the lower jaw and the face necessitate modification.s