MUSCL^iS IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 181 tlian in the pronato-flexor masses. In some of the lower ani- mals the three sectors arise from the humerus, or the femur, and are inserted by their deeper fibres into the hones of the middle segment of the limb; while their superficial fibres pass on to the distal segments. Owing, however, as before men- tioned, to the convexity of the elbow and knee-joints in this direction, they are more cut off from continuity with the mus- cles above than are the antagonistic pronato-flexor masses. Indeed, in the hind limb, the connection of the supinato-exten- sor muscles with the femur is commonly reduced to a single tendon. In ourselves it is lost altogether, and the fibres are all directed from the leg-bones downwards, instead of passing, in part, from the femur to the leg-bones. Traced downwards the middle sector of the supinato-exten- sor mass varies but little in either limb. It commouly extends upon the digits, forming the extensor digitorum suhlimis {com- munis), and sometimes reaches to the terminal phalanges. Not unfrequently it does not pass upon digit I. Sometimes it fails to reach digit V.; and in some instances (A’i, Lizards, and Meno- branch) it extends no farther than the metatarsus or meta- carpus. The inner—tibia! or radial—sector is, in Batrachians, partly inserted, into the tibia or radius, and partly runs on to the inner side of the distal segment. In the fore limb it sometimes (Saurians) reaches no farther than the lower end of the radius. Commonly, in Mammals, a segment only of it is inserted into the inner edge of the radius, constituting the supinator radii longus, which may extend to the inner edge of the pollex, or may spread upon the palmar. surface of the forearm \ Other segments, passing close to the carpus and inserted into the me- tacarpals, constitute the extensores carpi radiates {longior and hrevior) These divisions do not take place in Birds, where the ^ This muscle is often so disposed as to afford an example of a muscle belonging to the extensor group acquiring, from its position, a flexor action. It is absent in the Rat, Rabbit, Hedgehog, Mole, some Ruminants and others. In Hippopotamus, qs.already said (footnote on p. 163), it is very large, its origin extending high on the humerus, in the space, external to the deltoid, which is usually occupied by the brachialis anticus; and it acts as a flexor of the fore- arm. * Where there is only one of these it commonly passes to Met. in. (Journ. Anat. IV. 45). The second tendon is inserted into Met. ii. The insertion of these radial carpal extensors may reach to Mfets. iv. and v, {Journ, Anat. .lu.