57 * DESCKIPTION OF FIGURES. Tliey are all representations of dissections of the Ciyptobrancli unless it is otherwise specified. Fig. 1. Transverse section througli tail. F., fascial investment covering the part, ensheathing the ventral and dorsal lateral muscles and sending down laminte to tlie vertebral processes. F./., dorsal fat-mass in triangular space between fascial laminse on either side descending to dorsal spines and superficial lamina passing across. V./., and L.f., ventral and lateral fat-masses similarly situated. S. l.f., supra-lateral fat-mass with posterior spinal nerve curling from beneath it. The infra-lateral fat-mass is similarly situated. Fig. 2. Muscles of the left side of the tail, hinder part of abdomen, and dorsal aspect of left thigh. D., dorsal muscle of tail. V., ventral muscle of tail. The lateral septum is seen between these two. I. C-, The iliac part of ventral muscle (Ilio-caudal) passing over the ilium (I.) and continued into the internal oblique (I. 0.). E. 0., external oblique which has been pai-tly divided and reflected up- wards and downwards to expose the internal oblique and transversa- ls. E. 0'., the part of external oblique attached to the spine of the pubes and extending upon the hip between gracilis and (Feet.) pectineus. T?'., transversalis exposed by reflection of ex- ternal oblique and removal of part of internal oblique. Py., pyramid- alis. II., iliacus. Gl. r., gluteo-rectus. E. biceps. F. i., rectus internus. T. a., tibialis anticus. Ext. d., extensor digitorum. P., peroneus. Fig. 3. Right side of hinder part of abdomen, of tail and right hind limb shewing the caudal muscles and the extension of the ex- ternal oblique into the fascial tissue on the dorsum of the thigh. 7)., dorsal muscle of tail. I. c., ilio-caudal. C-f-, caudo-femoral. G.cr., caudo-crural. Isch. c., ischio-caudal. E. 0., external oblique reflected from around the ilium to show its connection with the ilium (p. 13). E. 0^., external oblique of the left side inserted into the edge and hoim of the prepubic cartilage. Fig. 4. Interior view of the muscles on the left side of the under surface of the back of the abdomen with the neryes of the brachial plexus. V., V., right .sides of the bodies of the vertebrae uncovered. I. v. inter-vertebral substances. S. v. R., sub-vertebral rectus. D. C., depressores costarum. Tr., transversalis. I. 0., in- ternal oblique seen in shadow through the hole cut in the transversa- lis. R., Nerve lying between transversalis and internal oblique. In the upper part of the drawing are two separate portions of the internal oblique which arise from the fourth and fifth ribs. G., coracoid. P. G., pre-coracoid. S., serratus. Tr., trapezius. Z. N, levator scapulae. G./., constrictor faucium. V., Vagus nerve.