167 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS, is furnislied by the gluteus maximus, which, in Birds, is blended with the quadriceps, and which, in Cryptobranch and other Batrachians, does not exist as an element distinct from the rectus''. In Mammals it partly expands into the fascia over- lying the quadriceps, and partly is inserted into the fibular line of the femur. Sometimes it extends upon the outer side of the leg to the ankle and foot. I have shewn (p. 22) that in Cryptobranch the long, or chief, portion of the biceps flexor cruris is a derivative from the gluteo-rechos, that is, from the blended, or unsegmented, super- ficial and deep ventro-appendicular extensions upon the dorsum of the limb; and that it inclines upon the lateral surface and plantar aspect of the limb, so as to acquire a flexor action. It often shews traces of this its origin. It retains its con- nection with the ilium in Lizards and Birds, being overlapped by the gluteo-rectus in the latter. In Mammals also it is often continued upon the ilium through the sacro-sciatic ligament. Not unfrequently it has more direct connection with that bone; and in some it extends, in close relation with the ghoteus, upon the caudal vertebr^E^ The inclination of this segment from the dorsal to the plantar aspect of the limb, and at the same time from an extensor to a flexor function, is probably due to the direction of the rotation of the limb. Accordingly, there is an absence of any distinct representative of it in Bats; and the nearest approach to the formation of a similar muscle in the fore limb is presented by the dorsi-epitrochlien—by such a one especially as we find in the Seal (see foot-note, p. 166). It some they converge to and penetrate it at one point, in some at another; and in some they converge to, and pass on one side of it. ^ In Birds there is no distinct rectus femoris; that is to say, this part of the quadriceps is not segmented from the gluteus or, as it might he called, gluteo- rectus. This is also the case in Urodelans (p. 22) and is paralleled by the im- perfect segmentation of the latissimus dorsi from the scapular origin of the triceps in these animals (p. 36). “ In Orycteropus and Otter, the hiceps arises from the ilium, Rio-saoral liga- ment and sacrum. In a -wild Cat it was joined near the middle hy a slip from the caudal vertebrae just behind the gluteus. In a tame Cat this slip, broad at its origin, was continued by a thin tendon which passed between the vastus externus and the hiceps to the fascia on the outer side of the knee. In the Rabbit the chief origin of the biceps is from the sacral and caudal vertebrae; and it ex- pands over the fibula and outer side of the leg, as far as the heel, without being inserted into the fibula. In Hippopotamus its disposition resembles that in the Rabbit; but it is more blended with the gluteus and has an insertion into the fibula. In Seal it roaches to and blends with the extensor tendons on the dorsum of the foot.