MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 12G tongue, jaw and pharynx as sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid, as hyo-glossus and genio-hyo-glossus, and as hyo- and thyro- pharyngeus, or middle and inferior constrictors of the pharynx. These come into relation with muscles ascendinof to, or de- scending from, the skull, which probably also belong to the same stratum, viz. stylo-glossus, stylo-liyoideus with the hinder portion of the digastricus^, stylo-phctryngeus, superior constrictor of the pharynx, as well as the faucial and palatal muscles. From the outer surface of "the middle stratum muscles are detached to the shoulder-girdle. Those passing to the part of the girdle above the glenoid cavity (the scapular part) con- stitute the costo-scapular or serratus group. They consist of one or more muscles attached to the ribs, interdigitating and sometimes connected by continuity of fibres with the external oblique, so as to present strong claims to be regarded as part of the same stratum with it; but in their course they are deep ; and they are inserted into the deeper surface of the margin of the scapula, on one or two sides, between the suh-scapulans and the other muscles which are inserted into, or near, the margin of the scapula. Anteriorly, this group is prolonged into the neck as the levator scapulce which is not unfrequently conti- nuous with the serratus, and as the omohyoid‘s. The muscular prepent in Lepidosiren and others, are not unfrequently represented by one inscription near the middle of the sterno-hyoid. This inscription is continued into the omohyoid with which the sterno-hyoid is sometimes continuous ; and it is usually persistent in the latter muscle, in Man, where it makes a bend towards the clavicle, Stannius speaks of an extension of the rectus to the tongue in Triton. 1 In the Porpoise this part of the digastric only is present passing from the hinder part of the temporal to the hyoid. It is called occipito-hyoid by Rapp, Die Cetaceen Zoologisch-anatomisch dargestellt, s. 132, and by Stannius, Muller’s Archiv. 1849, s. 7, but is regarded by Stannius as the posterior belly of the digastric. For account of the anterior part see page 136. 2 The omohyoid may be, as in Phoca, continuous with the sterno-hyoid, forming a broad muscle inserted into the sternum, the ulnar tubercle of the humerus and a fascial band between the two. It may, as in Seine, be attached to the clavicle as well as to the scapula; and the sterno-hyoid is in that animal attached to the interclavicle, or episternum. Tendinous traces of the clavi- cular attachment bend it towards the clavicle in Man, and are, partly or entirely, the cause of the persistence of the inscription or interruption in its muscular fibres. Though in the same plane with the levator scapula, it is separated from it by the situation of the branchial opening, which also separates the members of the superficial brachio-cephalic stratum (the sterno-mastoid and trapezius) that overlie this region. In the Hippopotamus it passes from the side of the basi-hyal and the sub-hyoidean septum to the under sm-face of the occipito- humeral part of the trapezius which it joins at an angle, and is united to it by an inscription. The foremost fibres run on without any definite inscription to