MUSCLES OF THE GLASS-SNAKE. 101 P lateral part of the rectus. Its more mesial part is formed, wholly or nearly, of antero-posteriorly directed fibres^. Behind the pubischiatic bone is a continuation of the series of external oblique muscular fibres, backwards, to the cloaca and into the caudal muscle on the side of the cloaca, so con- stituting an ischio-cloacalis and an ischio-coccygeus. These, it will be understood, are separated from the rectus and the obliquus by the pelvic bone. Radiatinsr forwards and inwards to the middle line from O the median extremity of the pubischiatic bone is a pyramidalis. It is quite distinct, though thin ; and it is broad. It lies along the inner side of the rectus; and the pyramidales of the two sides occupy the space on the ventral surface of the abdo- men which is left uncovered by the recti diverging as they pass backwards to the pubischiatic bones®. This muscle is not described by Fiirbringer. The gracilis passes from the pubischiatic bone, where it is partially continuous with the rectus abdominis, into the inner or plantar side of the limb, and is attached to both the bones of the limb. Beneath the gracilis some deeper fibres, passing from the pubischiatic bone to the upper limb-bone, represent the adductors. The deeper stratum of the abdominal muscle, the stratum, that is, beneath the level of the obliquus externus and the rectus, which extends more laterally than the}q and in which the ribs are situated, and which therefore corresponds with the obliquus internus, if traced backwards is found to pass, in great measure, superficial to the ilium, into the ventral caudal muscle. Some fibres are, however, inserted into the ilium; and a tole- rably distinct part of it passes, from the hindmost rib, to the ilium, constituting a quadratus lumborum and representing serially the intercostals. If this internal oblique stratum is traced forwards, from the tail, a larger number of its fibres are found to be inserted into the hinder edge of the ilium, constituting an ! ilio-caudal; and one distinct bundle of fibres is found to pass I , ^ These might be described as a third set. They are, however, probably i continuous indirectly with the others. ’ See similar disposition in Pteropus, Journ. Anat. in. 301.