151 MUSCLES, IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. ceps, it Is inserted into the ulnar edge of the humerus, sending often a dorsi-epitrochlien down to the ulnar condyle, or (Cyclo- thurus) extending along the fascia of the forearm to the ulnar side of the carpus^ or (Manis) running into the flexor suhlimis digitorum, or (Rabbit) into the flexor cai'pi ulnaris. Tliis muscle thus affords a very interesting illustration of the vai’ying points at which a ventro-appendicular muscle becomes arrested in different animals, and the varying muscles of the deeper strata with which it becomes blended or, rather, with which it retains its connection. It is worthy of remark that the fibres of this muscle, and also of the pectoi’al and, though less frequently, those of the deltoid, often cross one another in a remarkable manner; those which arise most pos- teriorly passing behind the others to an insertion in front of them, so causing a sort of twisting or folding-in of the lower edge and, some- times, leading to a cleavage in the plane of the muscle. I have befoi’e called attention to this point (p. IQ’^fmdiJournalof Anat.iy.?>b). The corresponding sector in the hind limb—the gluteus maximus—has relations as varying as those of the latissimus dorsi. Its connection with the ventral muscle is well exempli- fied in Dog-fish (Fig. 30), and Ceratodus (Fig. 34), as well as the mode in which, in a primitive condition, it extends upon the limb, and blends with the proper muscles of the limb^. From these animals upwards the connection with the ventral muscle rarely reappears®. Thenceforwards its chief attachment is to the ilium (which appears through the ventral muscle like the spine of the scapula) and to the neural spines and arches of the caudal vertebrse. In the lower animals it is often, as we have seen in Cryptobranch, so united with the extensor cruris as to be with difficulty distinguished from it; and in Birds it blends with that muscle in the thigh. The same connection exists, to a gveater or less extent, in Mammals; though sometimes, as 1 Repregentiug the costo-alaris of the Bird (p. 131). It is not quite correct to speak of the muscle referred to in these animals as the gluteus sector only; forasmuch as it represents, rather, the entire un- divided dorsal portion of the ventro-appendicular sheet. In Mammals also it is often undivided. In anom’ous Batrachians and Saurians, this dorsal portion is a not dis- tinctly segmented muscle. * In Manis the dorsal portion of the ventro-appendicular muscle is largely developed, blending above with the external oblique and reaching to the lumbar spines, and belowr extending over the buttock and the fore and outer parts of the knee and thigh.