20 THE CRYPTOBRANCH. similar bundle from the caudo-ci'ural, which is to some extent marked by an inscription, and they together form the caudo- pedal (Figs. 3 and 10). This runs down the back of the leg and expands into the fascia of the leg and sole, reaching to the extremity of the digits. There is thus one continuous muscle extending from the middle of the tail to the ends of the digits, deriving occasional fibres in its course from the pelvis, and, as we shall find, from the femur, the leg-bones, and the tarsus. The DEEPER STRATUM of the plantar mass is in three parts. A middle part arises beneath (deeper than) the preceding from the under surface of the pelvic shield. It is large, covers the obturator hole, and receives the nerve emerging from that hole. It is inserted into the tibial side and middle line {linea aspera) of the plantar surface of the femur and into a line passing from the linea aspera to the tibial condyle. It repre- sents the adductors and the external obturator. A hinder— ischio-femoral—part arising from the hinder edge of the ischium is inserted rather above and behind the preceding into the pro- jection on the fibular side of the upper end of the femur. It represents the quadratus feinoris, the gemelli, and the internal obturator. It is separated from the contiguous edge of the dorsal muscular mass, or the ilio-femoral portion of it, by the sciatic nerve, which lies between them, as it passes from the in- terior of the pelvis. An anterior—supra-pubic—portion repre- senting the pectineus (Fig. 2, Pect.) arises from the whole of the upper or abdominal surface of the pubes, behind the pubic spine and the pyramidalis, not therefore from the prepubic car- tilage. It here extends as far as the middle line, meeting its fellow of the opposite side. It is a large muscle, passes over the anterior edge of the pubes and the inner part of the hip- joint, and is inserted into the linea aspera and tibial side of the plantar surface of the femur in conjunction with the mid- dle portion. Moreover, it expands over the dorsal surface of the lower third of the femur, immediately above the knee-joint. It here extends round the fibular side of the femur, as far as the plantar or popliteal surface, and therefore nearly embraces the lower part of the shaft of the femur. Where it passes over the fore part of the pubes it is separated from the middle, or adductor, portion of its stratum by a prolongation of the tendon