157 MUSCLi;S IN VERTEHriATE ANIMALS. to the sternum, forming an acute angle with the sternum ; and the precoraco humeral muscle follows it, together with the epicoraco-kumeral factors. These, or some of them, extend upon the steimum and form the levator humeri or pectoralis tertius^, as it is sometimes called. In Mammals the sujma-spinatus and the pectoralis minor are the representatives of this division. The fibres of the epicoraco-humeral part of this superficial, pre-axial, or supra-bicipital, division of the coraco-humerals lie immediately beneath the pectoralis major in its whole course. I have remarked that in Cryptobranch its superficial fibres are blended with the under surface of the pectoral, and that in Crocodile the fibres that correspond with it form part of the origin of the pectoral. It thus, to some extent, occupies the place of the pectoralis minor; and if we suppose it continued upon the under surface of the pectoral, and in variable degrees segmented from that muscle, it would quite correspond with the ordinary mammalian p>6ctoralis minor, the proper insertion of which appears to be the radial ridge or tubercle of the humerus. It is, however, in Man and some animals, arrested wholly, or (Rat), partially, at the coracoid and is often quite segmented from the pectoralis major. Thus, I conceive the pectoralis minor to be formed from factors of the pectoralis major, which, or some of which, represent the epicoraco-hume- ral of Urodelans. Reptiles and Monotremes, and that it also in part represents, indeed is the nearest representative of, the levator humeri of Birds*. ’ Also the secundus when both are present, 2 This view is in accordance with the fact that the levator humeri sometimes absorbs the sxipra-spinatus, or derives an accession of fibres from the upper surface of the scapula, as well as with the occasional passage in Man, as noted by Macalister, Wood and others, of the pectoralis minor over the coracoid process beneath the coraco-acromial ligament where it has been found to blend with the supra-spinatus, or with the capsule of the joint, or to pass diinctly to the head of the humerus. It harmonizes also with the close relation of the supra-spinatius to the tendon of the biceps, a relation corresponding with that of the epicoraco-humeral to the biceps in IJrodelans and Reptiles. It however is not quite in accordance with the view of Prof. Eolleston, Trans. Linn. So'c. xxvi. 609, that the subclavius is the homologue of the levator humeri. 1 have before (p. 127) given reasons for thinking that the subclavius is an extension of the middle stratum of the ventral muscle and is the serial homo- logue of the costo-coracoid muscle. It lies in front of, or above, the costo- coraco-clavicular ligament; and when it is prolonged beyond the range of the clavicle, it usually expands upon the supra-sjnnatus or the dorsum of the scapula, forming the sterna- or sterno-costo-scapularis, as it does in Hippo- potamus and some other animals. Sometimes, however (Pig), it reaches the radial tubercle of the humerus; but its destination is rather to the dorsum of