MUSCLES OF FOEE LIMB. 37 s- Palmar Muscles of FoREAiai and Hand', On the palmar aspect of the forearm the muscles form, as on the plantar aspect of the leg, a pronato-flexor mass, which is partially divided into two strata. The SUPERFICIAL STRATUM (Fig. 18) is in three sectors, A radial sector rejiresenting the Pronator teres and the Flexor carpi radialis, large and thick, passes from the anterior or pal- mar part of the ulnar condyle, commencing close to the joint and extending a little way up the humerus above the con<jyle, crosses the forearm obliquely, and is inserted into an oblique line on the radius, which passes across its palmar surface from the ulnar to the radial edge, and into the radial edge as far as the wrist, also into the radial side of the two radial cartilages . of the wrist. The upper edge of its insertion is immediately below that of the hrachialis anticus. The deepest portion of the muscle, arising from the condyle close to the joint and pass- ing to the ulnar edge of the radius, that is, to the upper part of the oblique line just mentioned, is in close contact with the pronator quadratus and at its insertion is blended with it, but is separated from it nearer the origin by the nerve (ulnar nerve) passing from the median nerve to the ulnar side of the forearm. This deepest portion of the muscle, which obviously corresponds with the ulnar origin of the pronator teres in man, is slightly separated from the rest by the branch of the median to the jiexor digitorum sublimis^ (see Fig, 18). Flexor digitorum suhlimis (Fig. 18, FI. d. s.) forms the middle sector. It arises from the inner j>art of the ulnar condyle of the humerus, covering the preceding sector at this part. It soon lies on the same plane with it, occupies the middle of the forearm and receives an .accession in the form of a portion arising by a flat tendon from the middle of the ulna (Fig. 19, FI. d. s.) on the radial side of the flexor carpi ulnaris. The fibres of this portion join the under surface of the ulnar side of the general- ^ I apply the term ‘ hand ’ to the distal segment of the fore limb simply for the convenience of distinguishing it from the distal segment of the hind limb. ® In the Seine this portion, similarly related to the nerve and arising from the condyle beneath the rest of the muscle, is quite separate in its -whole length, forming a pronator intermedins, and, serially, corresponding precisely with the - popliteus in ourselves.