140 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS, into the gracilis, which is, manifestly, a serial repetition of the pectoralis, and which, like that muscle, is chiefly attached to the pre-axial edge of the limb. Dorsally, it is continued into the gluteus maximus, which is the serial repetition of the latissimus dorsi, and which, like that muscle, is attached to the post-axial edge of the limb and blends with the dorsal muscle (the quad- riceps) on the first segment of the limb. Both these muscles {gracilis and gluteus) incline to the plantar surface of the middle and distal segments of the limb, as do the pectoralis and latis- simus dorsi in the fore limb, and for the same reason. The middle part of the external oblique layer is continued into the tensor vagince femoris and the sartoriiis, which are the representatives of the deltoid muscle, and which are cut off, wholly or in part, from the ohl. ext. by the ala of the ilium, as the deltoid is wholly or in part cut off from the trapezius by the spine of the scapula. The opposed edges of the sartoriiis and the gracilis^ are not commonly so approximated to each other as are those of the deltoid and qiectoralis. In the interval between them, as well as upon them, the oblique muscle is con- tinued into the fascia of the thigh; and the thickening called ‘ Poupart’s ligament’ at the crural arch, where the oblique passes into the femoral fascia, is probably a remnant of the pelvic septum; and an ossification in it would form the serial homologue of the clavicle^ These muscles and fasciae are sometimes covered by an extension of the brachio-lateral muscle (p. 132), which may (Pteropus) acquire an attachment to the femur; just as in investment carried upon the fore limb of higher animals and segmented into pectoralis, latissivms dorsi, and trapezio-deltoid. Commonly the interruption of the components of the stratum by the pelvic girdle is greater than that by the shoulder-girdle. Thus the gracilis is often quite separated from the rest of the ventral muscle; though in some animals, as Cryptobranch, its continuity with the caudal and abdominal parts of'the stratum is sufficiently clear : whereas the licctoralis is usually to some extent, and often very extensively, continuous with the external oblique, or the rectus, or both. So, the sartoriiis and Unsor vaginm femoris are rarely (they are in Ai) continuous with the external oblique; though the deltoid often is continuous with the trapezius. 1 In the Rabbit the sartorius, arising from Poupart’s ligament, is con- tinuous with the gracilis.—In Ai, Manis, Pig, and others, the sartorius and tensor v. f. are continuous with the gluteus; and in Pig the biceps also is con- tinuous with them. 2 Probably the marsupial bone, formed from cartilage in the deeper part of this septum, corresponds with the sternal end of the clavicle, which, its epiphy- sial nucleus at any rate, is formed in cartilage.