MUSCLES OF LEPIDOSIREN. 69 * the thicker parts are seen to be in or near the lines of the septa of the lateral muscle and of the fin-rays. Now, the septa are disposed with regard to the fibres in the same way as they are with regard to the lateral muscle; and they connect the divisions of the fin-muscle with one another, and with the lateral muscle, much in the same way that they connect the several divisions of the lateral muscle itself. The chief difference consists in the direction of the fibres of the fin-muscle, which is at right angles, or nearly so, to that of the fibres of the lateral muscle. This causes the one series to be segmented from the other; and the action of the two being distinct leads to their being further separated by the fascial layer passing be- tween them. At the forepart of the dorsal fin the fibres of the fin-muscle extend a short distance, on either side, upon the surface of the lateral muscle between the two layers of fascia. They do this more widely in some Fishes, becoming thus sub- cutaneously expanded upon the dorsal muscle; and they are still more segmented from it^. The relations of the ventral muscle to the ventral-fin are simple and interesting. The chief part of the muscular fibres of the fin are derived from the slanting postero-lateral edge of the pelvis®, above and below the acetabulum, and indeed all round the joint. These (Fig. 23 E) descend upon the whole circumfe- rence of the fin, ensheathing it and blending with the fascial tissue beneath the skin and with the fibrous perichondrial tissue which invests and unites the series of cartilaginous pieces that iform the cylindrical tapering skeleton of the fin. To these iare superadded fibres from the adjacent part of the ventral ^ See, further, the description of the relation of the fin-muscles to the 1 lateral muscle in Ceratodus (p. 92). ® The pelvis is of somewhat diamond shape. The posterior angle is pro- I longed slightly into an obtusely pointed process. The anterior angle runs for- iwards as a smooth styliform process, an inch and a half long, and occupies a {channel in the fascia formed in the same manner as the channel for the mesial :fin above described, a circumstance which is not a little confirmatory of the • view I have expressed [Journ. of Anat. v. 59) respecting the serial homologous re- 1 lations of the mesial and lateral fins. The lateral angles of the diamond run cout into hom-like processes, and are connected with or continued into the t transverse septa of the lateral muscles on the two sides. Near the hinder part of the cartilage, on either side, is the articular facet for the first cartilage of the ; fin. See Fig. 23. In Owen’s Memoir, Linn. Trans, xviii. Tab. 23, as well as in the Anat. Vert. y-_Fig. 47, the pelvis is represented and described with the styliform process i directed backwards.