MUSCLES IN VERTEBKATE ANIMALS. 107 s- verse muscular planes between them ‘myotomes.’ Very rarely, however, are the planes truly transverse. They commonly slant with more or less obliquity, backwards or forwards, from the axial line towards the circumference. An additional and more perplexing element of confusion is imported by the membranous or fibrous portions of the sclerotomes—the intermuscular septa as they are called—not preserving a uni- form direction, but slanting first one way then another, first backwards and then forwards, or vice versa, as they are traced from the upper or dorsal edge of the animal. Thus they acquire a more or less waving or zigzag line; and their superficial margins come to deviate considerably from the lines of their deeper ma,rgins and the lines of the osseous vertebral processes to which they are attached. Moreover the several curves or angles so formed may be produced to a great length. Especially is this the case near the mesial line, above—in the ‘mesio-dorsal’ part of the lateral muscle. Here the angles of the septa are often prolonged to a con- siderable distance; and in some Fishes (Bream and Dog-fish) they are, near the surface, thickened into tendons with the muscular fibres on the two sides of each passing obliquely between it and the adjacent septa, which has the effect of allowing the traction of a large number of muscular fibres to be brought to bear upon a given point or points (p. 8.3, Fig. 28). Where this occurs the intermuscular septa cease to run directly into the skin or to retain their close con- nection with it; for'the cutaneous terminal filaments become converted into loose areolar tissue. Hence the tendinous septa as well as the intervening muscular planes, near the dorsal median line, in the Fishes above mentioned and in others, are allowed to glide with greater freedom beneath the skin than are the more lateral and ventral muscles, which are bound to the skin by the intermuscular septa running from the axial osseous structures into it. A further change consists in the isolation of the pro- longed and tendinous superficial parts of the septa from one another, and, to a greater or less extent, from their muscular contingents, as well as from the deeper and the superficial structures; so that they run alone to their destinations and