MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE AMIMALS. 143 e osseous, segments, thus resembling the disposition of the muscles in the trunk, and more particularly in the tail, of simply con- structed animals. But, as we have found in the trunk, the muscular fibres, the superficial fibres more particularly, are often not confined to their particular segments. They commonly break through the intervening barriers, or intermuscular septa, and range on to more distant segments, blending with the muscles of those segments. Hence the muscles of any division of a limb consist, usually, of three layers. First, and deepest, are the fibres of the segment itself, the ‘intrinsic’ fibres ; of these the proximal series are the bundles passing from the girdle to the first segment of the limb : secondly, the fibres derived from distal segments, the ‘ extrinsic’ fibres; and thirdly, and most superficially, the fibres derived from the ventral muscle, the superficial ‘ventro-appendicular’ fibres. The components of these three layers are blended together in a variety of ways, render- ing it often difficult or impossible to distinguish to which layer they appertain. In the simplest condition, as that of Lepidosiren, the carti- laginous or osseous pieces of the limb are joined to one another by simple tissue, and are moveable in any direction; and the muscular fibres are uniformly disposed around the joints, the deepest, or ‘ intrinsic’, fibres forming a sort of circular capsule, and being blended on the exterior with the ‘extrinsic’ and the ‘ventro-appendicular’ fibres. When movements in particular directions are required, the conformation and structure of the joint is proportionately modified, and the muscular fibres are arranged and segmented, more or less distinctly, into bundles or muscles to effect the object. In the case of the proximal joint of the limb—that of the first cartilage or bone with the girdle—the movement is, on the whole, circumductory or in any direction ; and the muscles are disposed around the joint in a nearly circular manner. Usually, however, even here, certain movements take place more frequently or more freely than others; and the muscular fibres are accordingly arranged in groups, or muscles, having more or less independent action. In the distal parts of the limb the movements are commonly much more restricted, are limited indeed, nearly or quite, to one plane, which is, speaking generally, the same for all the joints