THE CRYPTOBRANCH. 82 frontier lines into other districts, and sometimes pass from an extensor to a flexor office. On the Palmar Aspect of the Girdle and Arm. The pectoral (Fig. 5, P.) is derived almost entirely from the superficial stratum of the obliquo-rectus of the abdomen, and is continuous with it. Where the fibres diverge from O the trunk-muscle and take their independent course over the coracoid and to the humerus, they lose the tendinous inscrip- tions, i.e. in the last four inches of their course. A few fibres are derived from the sternum; and as the muscle passes over the hinder part of the coracoid it acquires some addition from muscular fibres which arise from the coracoid. It is inserted into the radial edge of the radial tubercle near the upper end of the humerus, none of the fibres extending beyond this tubercle. Its anterior edge is continuous with fascial tissue superficial to the precoracoid and extending over the neck^ The coracoid and precoracoid cartilages in this animal are very large and form a considerable part of the glenoid cup ; and the muscles arising from them are numerous, almost surround the head of humerus, and are difficult of interpretation. They arise chiefly from the outer surface or the edge, and are as follows. 1. A broad thin muscle, arising from the outer surface of the sternal or epicoracoid edge of the coracoid superficial to the biceps. It crosses the muscular fibres of the biceps superficially and transversely and converges to be inserted into the summit of the upper part of the radial tubercle of the humerus, just above the pectoral. It may be called epicoraco-humerdl (Fig. 17)^ Some of its superficial fibres are blended with those of the under surface of the pectoral, and it is not improbably the representative of the pectoralis minor of mammals. • ^ This is the fascial investment already spoken of (p. 2) as covering the body. Schmidt, Goddard, and van der Hoeven, speak of the connection of the pectoral with the sternum and coracoid, but do not mention its relation to the external oblique, or to the fascial tissue. ® It corresponds, I think, with that, described under this name in the Echidna, by Mivart. Trans. Linn. Soc. xxv. 383.