48 THE CRYPTOBRANCH. SO as to come into contact with the suhvertehral rectus and its yjrolongations, and take their course behind the several ribs and the transverse intermuscular septa, and supply the ventral muscles, the skin and the limbs. The first cervical nerve (suboccipital)’ passes through a foramen in the atlas direct to the foremost portion of the suh- vertehral rectus and the adjacent dorsal muscle. The second cervical nerve passes to the next portion of the suhvertehral rectus, and a branch traversing that muscle reaches the 3rd nerve and so enters into the formation of the brachial plexus. The BRACHIAL PLEXUS (Fig. 4) is formed by branches from the 3rd, 4th, oth and 6th spinal nerves, with that just men- tioned from the 2nd. The third cervical nerve, joined by the branch from the second, divides into four. No. 1 joins the fourth spinal nerve. No. 2 passes in front of the precoracoid and is lost apparently in the areolar tissue and skin of that region. No. 3 traverses the coracoid hole and supplies the coraco-hrachialis superji- cialis, the fticeps, and perhaps the coraco-hrachialis hrevis. No. 4 supplies the omo-hyoid. Its branches coiTespond with some of those which in man pass from the upper pai’t of the cervical j)lexus, and fonn the external CUTANEOUS or MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS mass; and they correspond serially with the OBTURATOR nerve in the hind limb. The branch to the omo-hyoid is to be associated with the absence of a hypoglo.ssul nerve: at least we could not discover that nerve in the dissection of the neck or in the interior of the skull. The fourth spinal nerve crosses behind the origin of the ex- ternal oblique from the second rib, is connected with the third and fifth nerves by commissural trunks, and gives off scapular branches, which pass beneath the scapula (subscapULar) also to the latissimus dorsi, dorsalis scapulce and precoraco-hrachial muscles, and a cutaneous branch (circumflex) to the outer side of the arm. The nerves to the last two muscles might be designated supra- scapular because they supply the muscles [dorsalis scapulm and 2}recoraco-h'rachial) which must, in part any rate, answer to the muscles {xv^ra- and sujjTa-spuriatxis^, which aie, in oiii selves, supplied • by the siipra-scapular nerve. It is interesting to observe the nerves in this animal taking a course, behind the scapula to supply tlie