MUSCLES OF HIND LIMB. 27 # mal phalanx, while the middle portion passes on to the second or terminal phalanx. That at least is the case in digits i, ii. and V., which have only two phalanges. In digits III. and iv., which have three phalanges, the middle portion again sub- divides into three, of which the lateral parts are attached to the sides of the penultimate phalanges, while the middle parts go onwards to be inserted into the terminal phalanges. So that digits I. II. and V. have the same complement of muscles as III. and iv., but the second tripartite division does not take place in them. There are in the individual digits some exceptions to this arrangement which should be mentioned. Thus, in digit I. the tendon sends only one offset to the middle of the proximal phalanx, and then passes on to the terminal phalanx. In ill. the penultimate phalanx is treated like the proximal in i. re- ceiving only one offset to its middle from the tendon on its way to the terminal phalanx. In V. the tendon detaches the usual lateral offsets to the approximated ends of the metacarpal and the proximal phalanx, and subsequently detaches an offset to the middle of the same phalanx before its insertion into the base of the terminal phalanx. These points are deserving of special notice, because the lateral offsets are probably the representatives of the lumhricales, and the median offsets are probably the representatives of the retinacula not unfrequently found in Mammals, and usually observable in connec- tion with flexor tendons of the toes in Birds. The third part of the deep steatum (Fig. 14, Pr. t.) lies be- neath, deeper than, the others, and is separate from them and composed of fibres still more obliquely, indeed almost trans- versely, directed. They form a square muscle, passing from the shaft of the fibula across the interosseous space to the shaft of the tibia. It may be called ‘pronator tibice.' The upper fibres^ have a slight inclination from the fibula downwards, while the ^ Some of the uppermost fibres are attached quite to the top of the fibula. In Seine the upper part, slightly separate from the rest, arises by a tendon from a sesamoid behind the knee common to it with the descending tendon of the caudo-femoral and the two strata of the fiexor mass; and through the medium of this sesamoid and the fibrous bands that unite it with the condyle, the upper part of the pronator tihice derives its origin from the fibular condyle, and corre- sponds with the poplitcus of mammals.