12 THE CEYPTOBRANCH. of the intermuscular septa, with the ribs, they acquire a slant from beliind outwards as well as forwards, and constitute a series of ‘ depressores costarum.’ More laterally still the obliquity increases to an almost transverse direction. This pa^t of the stratum is the ‘ transi^ersalis abdominis.' I’owards the linea alba it degenerates into a fascial layer, which is continued above (on the deeper aspect of) the rectus abdominis to join its fellow in the middle line. The nerve-trunks lie in the chief part of their course behind the intermuscular septa, between the internal and the middle muscular planes, i.e. between the subvertehral rectus, the depres- sores costarum and the transversalis, on the one side, and the internal oblique on the other. (Fig. 4.) It will thus be perceived that the muscular fibres lying nearest to the mesial plane of the animal, ventral as well as dorsal, are directed antero-posteriorly, corresponding with the axis of the trunk, and constitute so many pairs of ‘recti,' ‘supra- vertebral,’ ‘sub-vertebral,’ and ‘sub-abdominal;’ whereas the fibres more laterally situated are oblique, and constitute obliqui and transversi. This accords with the directions in which the muscular forces are required to operate in the mesial and lateral planes. It will be perceived further that the. several abdominal mus- cles are essentially one, transversely segmented, muscular mass, that the stratification or segmentation into planes is simply the result of the variation in the direction of the fibres at different depths, and that the recti differ from the obliqui and transversi only in the circumstance that this variation in direction at dif- ferent depths has not occurred in and near the mesial plane of the animal where they are situated. In the Fish where the variation in direction does not commonly take place at any part, not being required by the form and movements of the animal, the ‘rectus' character pervades the whole of the ventral muscular system of the trunk, and there are no obliqui and transversi. Lastly, the stratification, even in the lateral parts of the Cryptobranch and other Urodelans is incomplete, intermediate between the condition of the Fish and that of the higher verte- brates, forasmuch as it affects only the muscular fibres, and does not extend to the intermuscular septa. In Biids and Mammals,