188 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. with the extensor tendons. Their proper complement, when thus arranged, is one on each side of each digit; and their action, as flexors, extensors, adductors or abductors, depends upon the part of the phalanges or their tendons to which they are attached. The resultant of their combined action, especially in the simple transverse mode of disposition, is to approxi- mate the other digits to the middle one. Practically, however, they are usually so arranged and co-ordinated that they effect lateral inclination .of the phalanges in both directions.. Those which incline the other digits towards the middle one are com- monly .situated near to the plantar or the palmar aspect, and are associated in action with the flexor muscles of the digits, even though they may be blended with the extensor tendons; and those which incline the digits from the middle one are situated nearer to the dorsal aspect, and are associated in their action with the extensor muscles. In many animals the lateral incli- nation of the phalanges is very slight, being limited to slight separation of the digits in extension and approximation during flexion. The interossei in them grow towards the palmar or plantar aspect, appear all to be associated with the flexors of the digits, and are sometimes aided by an additional, or second, series developed beneath, i.e. superficial to, them\ 1 The interossei in the hind limb of the Hippopotamus are one on the plantar surface to each side of each digit. They arise from the heads of the metatarsals and the sheath of the peroneus L, and pass to the sides of the sesamoid bodies and the sides of the first phalanges.. In addition to th.ese eight are two, larger and more superficial than the others, arising from the sheath of the peroneus, and passing to the apposed sides of digits ii. andv., adducting those two to each other strongly. There are no dorsal interossei. In the fore hmb the arrangement is the same; viz. the eight small muscles lying close upon the metacarpals and the two larger muscles, adductors of digits n. and v., arising from the middle of the carpus. There are, besides, two abduc- tors of II. and V., the one arising from the scaphoid and the other from the pisi- form bone. These are barely represented in the hind limb by small muscles passing from the cuboid and the internal cuneiform bones. The two adductors in both limbs resemble the palmar interossei of Man. There is in each limb only one lumbricalis. It arises from the supei-ficial surface of the Jlexor profiindus before the division to the digits, and runs to the preaxial side of the fourth digit.