MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 180 tion with the extensor tendons in Man and some Mammals is a reminder of the blending of antagonistic muscles into a common sheath which we have found, as illustrated by Lepi- dosiren, to be one of the features of the primitive limb\ Not only does the flexor profundus thus absorb or retain annexed to it these various elements of the deep stratum of the pronato-flexor mass; it also, in most animals above the Sala- manders, retains its connection with the terminal middle portion of each digital division of the superficial stratum, or superficial flexor,, so passing on to the terminal phalanx; while the lateral portions of the superficial flexor tendons, dis- connecting themselves from the middle terminal portion, stop at a preceding phalanx. In this way the deep flexor comes to perforate the superficial flexor, which splits, allowing it to pass I Here I may observe that the ordinary mode of disposition of ten- dons passing along the digits is that each tendon approaching a joint divides into three. Of these the lateral parts are attached to the phalanx immediately on the distal side of the joint; and the middle part I’uns onwards to the next joint, where a similar pi'ocess is re- peated, This is best seen in the digits of Birds and Reptiles where there are more than two phalanges, and is well illustrated in the Plate of the Whale’s fin by Prof, Struthers {Journal Anat. vi. PI. VII.). It is seen also, according to the view just given, to be exem- plified in the usual arrangement of the tendons of the supei’ficial and deep flexors of the digits; these being regarded, as they may be in each digit, to be segments of one flexor prolongation upon the digit. This flexor prolongation first detaches from its sides the lumhriccdes to the first phalanx, runs on, and in like manner detaches the slips oi t\\e flexor suhlimis io the second phalanx, repeating the same process according to the number of phalanges, and finally reaches the termi- nal phalanx, * The Supinato-Extensor Masses. The division of the superficial stratum of this mass, in each limb, into three sectors is more generally found to be distinct 1 In Pteropas {Journ. Anat. m. 306) the lumbricales lie in their whole length along the tendons of the.^. prof.; and one of these tendons is, for a space, inter- rupted by muscular fibres. 2 This continuation of parts of the deep flexor stratum mto a superficial region is of like kind to that which has been just mentioned in the instance of the flexor carpi radialis passing from a deep level at the wrist to a superficial level in the forearm.