183 MUSCLES IN VERTEBIUTE ANIMALS. (tlie 'pei'oneus t&ti,ius) runs to the dorsal surface of the metatar- sus and sends offsets to the extensor digitorum, which form the ext. secundus group just referred to*; while two segments run, one {peroneus brevis) behind the malleolus to the outer or fibu- lar side of the tarsus, and the other [peroneus longus) is pro- longed over the fibular edge of the tarsus, beneath its plantar surface, to the metatarsals, often as far as that of the hallux. The two last-mentioned segments thus acquire a flexor action. The course of the peroneus longus from the extensor aspect, over the fibular edge, upon the plantar aspect, to the inner side of the foot is paralleled (as suggested, p. 160) by that of the internal 7'ectus of Birds and Saurians^ Nothing distinctly answering to this plantar extension of the peroneus longus is found in the fore limb. In it the whole of the sector passes upon the dorsal aspect, or the ulnar edge of the carpus or the metacarpus. It does, however, sometimes incline to the palmar aspect®. The abductor minimi digiti is segmented from the lower end of this sector and constitutes a continuation of it upon the ulnar, or the fibular, side of the distal part of the limb; and, in like manner, the abductor pollicis or hallucis is a continua- tion, more or less distinctly segmented, of the radial or the tibial sector upon the pollex or the hallux. The foregoing observations shew that each of the three sectors of the superficial sheet of the supinato-extensor mass, in either limb, may be imperfectly segmented from the others, and that - each may extend upon the digits, or may be, partly or wholly, arrested at a more proximal point of the distal segment of the limb. ^ The extensor secundus is formed by the peroneus brevis in Hippopotamus. 2 In Birds the peroneus 1. takes a more superficial course. Its origin ex- tends over the tibialis anticus, meeting the tibial origin of the gastrocnemius ; and its tendon forms part of the flexor sublimis digitorum, and also joins the sesamoid body through which the tendons of fl. dig. pass. In some animals it takes origin from the femur as weU as from the fibula. ^ In Birds the ulnar segment of the extensor carpi ulnaris, arising from the back of the ulna and supplied by the radial nerve, is inserted into the meta- carpal (rv.) and is so placed as to exert a distantly flexor action, thus resembling the peroneus brevis. This is very decided in the Swan and the Elite. In the Hippopotamus the ext. c. u., which is composed chiefly of tendon or fascia with a few muscular fibres, approaches the palmar- aspect of the ulnar side of the fore- arm, and is inserted into the large pisiform bone, with the flexor carpi ulnaris, so as to combine -with it in flexing the cai*pus. See divisions of ext. c. u. resembling those of peroneus. Journ. Anat. IV. 45.