MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 109 t The Cryptobranch (p. 10) and the Lepidosiren (p. 68) offer ex- amples of the cleavage being confined to the muscular elements without involving the septa. When the cleavage involves the septa these may remain (p. 70), Commonly they disappear, more or less completely, throughout the thickness of the muscu- lar substance. A continuity, or ankylosis of the muscular fibres of the several compartments is thus established; and all trace of the primary, transversely segmented, myotomic arrangement is obliterated h Even without an alteration in the direction of the muscu- lar fibres a cleavage into superficial and deeper planes may take place; and it may take place completely or partially. Thus a superficial stratum of muscular fibres, having the same or a different direction from those beneath them, may be quite severed from the deeper strata. It may retain here and there connection with the skin only, so forming, as is the case with portions of the pannicle, a purely ‘cutaneous’ or as commonly designated ‘subcutaneous’ muscle ; or it may retain, at one or more places, a connection with the deeper strata of the muscle or, through remnants of the transverse septa, with the osseous skeleton. Thus it may be, as nume- rous varieties of the pannicle shew, a ‘musculo-cutaneous’ or ‘osseo-cutaneous’ muscle®. Lastly, a given layer may be severed from the deeper strata in a part only of its length, and may retain a connection, through the septa, which as already mentioned are equivalent to tendons, at both ends, either with the subjacent muscle or with the subjacent skeleton; wit- ness some of the dorsal muscles, the muscles passing to the girdles, and many others. That is to say, a superficial or cuta- neous stratum may be segmented more or less completely from the rest of the muscular system; and various strata of major of Cyclotlmrus {Joum. Anat. iv, 25), and still better in that of the Wild Cat, in which there are no less than four layers. ^ This is exemplified even in the Myxinoid fish Bdellostoma; and the con- trast between the absence of inscriptions, or ‘ ligamenta intermuscularia,’ in the oblique muscles, and their presence in the straight muscles, is weU shewn in Tab. I. accompanying MUUer’s well-known paper, Abhandl. Berlin. Akad. 1834. * InPteropus {Journ.Anat. iii. 299), the cutaneous muscles are connected with the skull, the sternum, the coracoid, the pelvis, and the femur, thus presenting unusually numerous and good examples of ‘osseo-cutaneous’ muscles. They are also remarkably well developed and have several osseous connections in the Hedgehog.