150 MUSCi.ES IN VEKTEBKATE ANIMALS. ropiis) continues its course on to the nnlius, but usually is ar- rested at the huraeins. The course of the tensor v. f. into the fascia does not distinctly correspond with anything in the fore limb. It is present only in Mammals, and is often wanting in them. The sartorius may (Rabbit) extend, along Poupart’s ligament, to the gracilis, as the deltoid often extends, along the clavicle, to meet the pectoral. This is, however, rare; and the intermediate space between the two muscles in the retiring angle of the bend of the groin, where there is no ‘point d’ap- pui’ for muscular action, is usually occupied by fascia. That fascia is, accordingly, the serial representative of the clavicular portions of the pectoral, deltoid, and trapezius, Poupart’s liga- ment being the serial septal representative of the clavicle. The posterior sector of the dorsal portion of the ventro- appendicular muscle in the fore limb—the latissimus dorsi—is, like the pectoral, a very general appurtenance to the fore limb in animals above Fishes. Even in Fishes it is sometimes (Dog- fish, Fig. 28) represented by a thin stratum segmented from the ventral muscle and passing upon the dorsum of the fin, the pectoral being in like manner segmented and passing upon the palmar surface of the fin. In Lepidosiren (Fig. 24) we have seen the latissimus dorsi and the pectoralis travelling forwards as a continuous sheet constituting the hinder part of the super- ficial brachio-cephalic stratum. In this animal the latissimus dorsi is attached to the scapular part of the girdle in addition t3 passing upon the fin; and in Dog-fish it is bai’ely segmented from the deeper {seimatus) part of the stratum which is also at- tached to the scapula. In Man, and some other animals, it still retains the scapular connection; and, as before (p. 130) re- marked, it often retains its connection with the pectoral by axillary bundles passing from it to that muscle. It is traceable to variable points in the limb. In Lepidosiren its fibres run on with others to the extremity of the fin. In Urodelans it is blended with the triceps; and more or less of this union is often found in Mammals. In Saurians and Birds it passes, between the scapular and humeral origins of the triceps, to the radial ('(Ige of the humerus. In Mammals, passing internal to the tri- is more Beparate from the (jluU’us than in most BirilB, and some of its fibres are traceable into the ijastrocnemlun.