MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 112 pole (Fig. 41) \ ill wliich tlie fascial walls on either side, ascend- ing and descending from the notochord and enclosing the neural and haemal canals, meet and so form the dorsal and haemal septa. These run peripherally into the upper and lower mem- branous edges of the tail, where they are joined by the fascial layers from the exterior of the lateral muscle. Thus each mem- branous edge of the tail is composed, essentially, of four sheets —the two mesial sheets which are blended together and form the septum, neural or haemal, and the two external, or lateral, sheets which are derived from the superficial covering, or fascia, of the lateral muscle. It is interesting to observe that at the 1 The specimens of Pseudis Tadpole, from which the drawings were made, were kindly sent me by Mr Mivart. Description of Figures of the Pseudis Tadpole (PI. VIII.). Fig. 39.—Side view of the animal, shewing the lateral muscle of the tail. This at the hinder part is in interrupted fragments, which are serially arranged in rows with wide septa between the rows. Further forwards the muscular fibres are more developed, filling in the rows and diminishing the intervals between them. A pin (0) is placed in the cloacal opening; another, above J5, is m the branchial opening. Above, and in front of the branchial opening, is the eye. The small hind limb is seen on the hinder wall of the visceral cavity, or rather in the furrow between it and the tail, above L. Fig. 40.—The visceral cavity laid open in a specimen more advanced where the cavity is more elongated. The transversely marked ventral portions of the lateral muscle are seen extending, from the tail, along the sides of the bodies of the vertebrffi, and projecting into the visceral cavity, with an interval between them leading down to the hasmal passage which has ceased to be a covered canal, and is merely a channel. The wall of the visceral cavity has been turned back ; and the commencing development of its muscle is shewn, in iso- lated tracts, by fine muscular fibres arranged in rows between broad, white (sep- tal) lines. Fig. 41.—A transverse section at about the middle of the tail. The large central circle is the notochord, with a small neural canal above and a small hajmal canal below.—D. F,, the dorsal, or neural, membranous fringe.—V. F., the ventral, or haemal, membranous fringe. The neural septum extends from the notochord up the middle of the one, and the haemal septum down the mid- dle of the other. The sides of both are formed by extensions of the membrane covering the lateral muscle. The base of each, between the mesial septum and the external membrane, is occupied by soft succulent tissue which is separated from the lateral muscle by an offset from the external enveloping membrane. Fig, 42.—A section through the animal, made at the back part of the vis- ceral cavity, and seen from in front. D. F., the dorsal fringe with the neural septum descending, through its middle, to the neural canal and the notochord. Beneath the latter is the hromal passage at the bottom of a deep channel be- tween the lateral muscles of the two sides, or, rather, between the plates of the hferaal septum, which have not coalesced, and which separate the hfemal chan- nel from the lateral muscles. Beneath this channel is, C, the cloacal tube. A is the wide posterior cul-de-sac of the abdominal waU, with the muscular fibres beginning to be developed in rows between the paler lines, which indicate the future septa. Fig. 43. A section farther forwards. A, the abdominal, or visceral, wall ascends, is reflected, higher on the sides of the lateral muscle, reaching to the dorsal part of that muscle. The heemal channel is wider and forma part of the visceral cavity.