FASCIAL INVESTMENT. * 3 to) the branchial cartilages and the hyoid, to the inferior max- illa. Behind it forms a thick fascial stratum inside the pelvis, with which it is connected; and it is continued, between the caudal ventral muscles on the two sides, to the haemal spines of the caudal vertebrae, where it blends with the mesial ventral process of the external fascial investment\ Though thus described as an external and internal invest- ment, these fascial strata are parts of one fibrous system con- tinuous at the oral and anal ends of the animal, and connected with each other along the length of the animal by intervening septa—fibrous, cartilaginous, and osseous—which, though histo- logically varying, are members of the same system, and in the interspaces between which lie the muscles with their blood- vessels and nerves. In Fishes and in the Lepidosiren the external fascial invest- ment is, especially at the sides of the body, scarcely developed as a separate stratum, and the transverse intermuscular septa pass through it into the skin and bind the skin with its ap- pendages closely to the lateral muscle. Near the upper and lower edges and immediately over the lateral septum it is more free and more easily detached; and there is frequently subcu- taneous muscle present at these parts. FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF TAIL. The tail is the simplest part of a vertebrate animal. It con- sists merely of axially disposed bony pieces or vertebrae which are moveable upon one another, of the muscles which move them, of the nerves which excite and regulate the movements, and of the vessels which carry the nutritive materials to and fro. In Urodelans, as in Fishes, the movements of the bony pieces are restricted, or nearly so, to one plane—a vertical move- ment in a horizontal plane—and the disposition of the muscles is very simple. The muscles, indeed, composed of longitudinal parallel fibres, are arranged as in the Fish in two flat masses, one on either side of the tail, which may be named after their homologues in the Fish, the ‘great lateral muscles.’ They are ^ These fascial investments, external and internal, are described by Schmidt, Goddard, and van der Hoeven, though not quite in same manner as above. 1—2