80 NERVES OF LEPIDOSIREN. branches supplying the integuments on the exterior of the jaw and lip; and the third penetrates the jaw between the dentary and the articu- lar parts. The SEVENTH nerve travei’ses a hole in the cartilage on the under surface of the skull, near the forepart of the suspensorium, in front of the origin of the stylo-hyoid muscle. It runs outwards between that muscle and the skull, gives off branches to the stylo-hyoid and to the muscles upon the opercular bones. One large branch (7') passes forwards between the suspensorial cartilage and the squamous bone, meets the labial branch of the infra-maxillary, accompanies it over the edge and upon the outer surface of the mandible, and blends with one of the branches of it going to the lower lip. Another large branch (7") passes beneath the suspensorium, supplies the de- pressor mandibulse, perforates the strong stylo-maxillary ligament, and runs external to the ligament connecting the inferior opercular bone with the mandible. It continues its course under the shelter of the dentai'y bone, close to the mucous membrane, between it and the mylo-hyoid. Finally (7"'), it pierces the mylo hyoid, cux'ls over the edge of the jaw, and blends with the lower of the two infra-maxillary branches to the lip. Peters represents this as the third division of the 5th. Its foramen is in front of the usual position. Still it is quite beneath the skull; its branches are distributed much in the same manner as those of the seventh nerve in Cryptobranch (p. 46), and the three divisions of the 5th are qirite distinct in Lepidosiren. The blending of the branches of the several divisions of the fifth with one another, and of the branches of the infra-maxillary division •with those of the seventh—their imperfect isolation—is of much interest, in connection with the want of isolation of the oculo-motor nerves in these animals. It is also interesting in relation to the union which in ourselves is established between the supra- and infra-maxillaries and the seventh through the medium of the corda typani and other petro- sal nerves. The object, whatever it may be; which is attained by the blending of the branches in these animals is in ourselves effected, apparently in part, through the medium of the sphenopalatine and otic ganglions. It is remarkable that the supra-maxillary supplies the chief if not all the branches to the temjioral and masseter muscles. The upper portion of the infra-maxillary, though passing through the same fora- men with the rest of that division, corresponds with branches of the supra-maxillary division in other animals. The EIGHTH nerve or Vagus emerges from a hole in the side of the skull behind the suspensorium, the auditory cartilage being between it and the seventh nerve. It immediately breaks into • branches. Of these some pass to and supply the bi-anchiie and some pass to the pharynx. One of the branchial nerves (that to the 5th branchia) runs along the branchial arch to near the middle, passes ^ between the pericardium and the coracoid, penetrates the ventral ,*■ muscle and runs backwards, beneath the skin, near the venti*al I mesial line. A coraco-hyoid nerve runs downwards, behind the ;