MUSCLES OF HIND LIMB, 21 t- of the external oblique which extends from the spine of the pubes, along the anterior margin of the pubes, to the hip-jointh Dorsal Muscles of Thigh. The dorsal muscular mass is, above, connected with the supra-coxal part of the pelvis, i.e. with the ilium. Below, it is partly connected with the femur and partly extends upon the leg. This causes a division, as in the plantar mass, into a superficial or ILIO-CRURAL and a deep or ILIO-FEMORAL STRATUM. The SUPERFICIAL STRATUM is divided into three long bands or sectors. The inner (Fig. 2, R, i), arising by a flat tendon from the pelvis over the hip-joint, external to the pectineus, descends over the anterior or tibial part of the knee close to the joint, and passing beneath the origin of the tibialis anticus from the femur is inserted into the dorsal surface of the head of the tibia, close to the knee. I name this rectus femoris inter- nus, and judge that it corresponds with the so-named muscle in Birds. It has no distinct representative in mammals, though its insertion nearly resembles that of the sartorius. It acts as an extensor of the leg. ^ This is not the ligamentum teres. Indeed, I do not And so distinct a re- presentative of that ligament either in the hip or the shoulder as figured and described by Hyrtl (Tab. v. fig. 3, and Tab. vi. fig. 1). In the femur and the humerus the cartilage forms a broad horse-shoe belt over the somewhat flattened upper end of each; and into the concavity of the crescent on either side, which is thus left uncovered by cartilage, the capsule of the joint ascends higher than at other pai-ts of the circumference of the bone. The fibrous tissue of the cap- sule is also rather thick at these parts and so forms ridges, as it were, projecting into the joint, and passiug from the head of the bone upwards and downwards, to the ihum and to the ischimn in the case of the hip, and to the scapula and to the coracoid in the case of the shoulder. Suppose the ends of the cartilage horse-shoe to be prolonged in either instance and to meet forming a cfrcle, enclosing a central dimple, and cutting off from the rest of the capsule the pro- jecting portion of it inserted into that dimple, a veritable ligamentum teres would be formed. This might take place either ^bove or below. It does so below, towards the ischium, commonly in the hip; and in the shoulder, a pro- jection of the capsule forming the gleno-humeral ligament towards the upper or scapular side presents an approach to the same thing, and is a reminder of the parts in the Cryptobranch. In the Journ. of Anat. iv. 23, I have called atten- tion to a recess and dimple in the astragalus of Unau and of Ai. They are similar to these in the humerus and femur of Cryptobranch ; and mth these are associated in each animal a similar approach to the formation of a ligamentum teres from a part of the posterior peroneo-tarsal ligament which ascends into the recess and dimple. If this is, as I believe, the true explanation of the ligamentum teres, we must regard that ligament as merely a detached portion of the capsule of the joint, and not, as has been suggested, the representative of a tendon or other structure.