120 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. The median third or half of the ventral muscle is not un- frequently distinguished from the remainder in Fishes by the mere transverse direction of its septa. In some, as the Dog- fish (Fig. 28), it is segmented from the remainder, in great part of its extent, and overlaps it. In Mammals also it is separate, as rectus, and is enclosed in a sheath formed by prolongations of the lateral portions of the ventral muscle, or their tendons, to the mesial line. Its continuity with the lateral parts of the ventral muscle has been shewn in Cryptobranch (p. 11), and in Lepidosiren (p. 68). In Cryptobranch, however, it must be observed that while the more superficial or oblique strata of the ventral muscle are continued into the rectus, the deepest or transversalis stratum, separating itself from the others, passes upon the deeper surface of the rectus to the middle line; and in Mammals the rectus is ensheathed by tendinous exten.sions from the deep, or peritoneal, and the superficial, or cutaneous, divisions of the ventral muscle which pass, upon its peritoneal and cutaneous surfaces, to the middle line. Though we are in the habit of thus referring the walls of the sheath of the rectus to the expansions of the lateral parts of thd ventral muscle, we may, with equal right, assume them to be deep and super- ficial strata of the median part of the ventral muscle, that is, derivations from the rectus itself. And as, on the one hand, they retain their continuity with the lateral parts of the muscle, so, on the other hand, do they retain their connections with the rectus, or middle stratum of the same, through the transverse inscriptions which extend from it into them. As already intimated the ventral muscle is disposed in three chief planes or strata which are in variable degi-ees distinguishable in dift’erent animals and in difterent parts of the same animal. Of these, the middle—or internal oblique—plane is that in the septa of which the pieces of the true or cartilage skeleton are for the most part developed: the external—or external oblique—stratum is connected with the external fascia and the skin, and is that m which the pieces of the dermal or membrane skeleton are for the most part developed: and the internal—or transversalis—plane is connected with the inter- nal or transversalis fascia and the viscera, much in the same way as the external plane is connected with the external fascia and the skin. The connection with the viscera, however, is in great part interrupted by the formation of the visceral cavity. Primarily all the planes are continuous or, rather, form one plane from the skin to the visceral