54 THE CRYPTOBRANCH. a long branch which descends, gives filaments to the lower part of the flexor cruris {semitendinosus and semimembranosus), per- forates it, and runs down on the tibial side of the leg and foot, accompanying the internal saphenous towards, and probably upon, the tibial side of the hallux. The latter part of its course corresponds with that of the superficial branch of the radial nerve upon the radial edge of the forearm. The next branches from the internal popliteal, in conjunction with branches from the external popliteal, supply both strata of the flexor mass. The nerve (Figs. 10 and 11) passes deeply beneath (in front of) the flexor mass and the 'pronator tibice or popliteus which it supplies, gives off the Anterior tibial, descends as POSTERIOR TIBIAL behind the tarsus and metatarsus, and divides into two branches, which, joined by branches from the external popliteal, supply the intervals between digits i. and ll. and Ii. and III.; also, probably, the deep muscles on the tibial side of the sole. The ANTERIOR TIBIAL nerve supplies the tibialis anticus, descends over the ankle and tarsus, and divides into two nerves ; one passes superficially to the extensor hallucis over the tarsus towards, and we believed to, the interval between and the ap- posed sides of digits I. and ll.; the other passed beneath the extensor hallucis, supplying it, and divides into nerves to the apposed sides of digits ii. and HI. and of ill. and iv., these nerves being joined by the terminal branches from the peroneal. The similarity in the coui’se and disposition of the external and INTERNAL POPLITEAL nerves and their plantar branches with the course and disposition of the ulnar and median nerve and their palmar branches is what might have been anticipated from the similarity of the muscles in the corresponding parts of the leg and forearm. Dorsally the supply of the tibial digits, wholly or partly, by the anterior tibial derivation from the posterior tibial nerve in this and other animals, would scarcely have been expected from anything in the construction of the hind limb. The anterior tibial nerve is in the fore limb represented in Cryptobranch by the branch of the median passing dorsally to join the radial and inferior musculo-spiral. The fibular digits are supplied by the musculo-spiral (peroneal) of the sciatic and the ulnar digits by the inferior musculo-spiral branch of the median: the only difference being that the nerves to the outer digits in the fore limb keep company with the main nerves of the limb (median or median and ulnar) longer than their correspondents in the hind limb keep company with the sciatic. Or,