MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 141 the fore limb the subcutaneous muscle dips down to and is united to the humerus. Behind the limb the external stratum is continued upon the tail and there blends with the middle stratum. Its superficial or subcutaneous layer forms the external sphincter ani. In some animals (Hedgehog) it is firmly inserted into the caudal vertebree. The following is a review of the serial or successional homological relations of the parts of the external stratum of the ventral muscle thus far discussed. The gluteus max. is serially homologous with the latissimus dorsi. The tensor vag.f.., the sartorius, the femoral fascia and part of the obi. ext.., with the deltoid and trapezius; Poupart’s ligament representing the clavicle, and the ala of the ilium represent- ing the spine of the scapula. The gracilis with the pectoo'alis major. The middle part of the external oblique and the superficial fibres of the rectus with the sterno-cleido-mastoid, and (between the sterno-mas- toids) with the mylo-hyoid, the anterior belly of the digastric, the hyo-mental and the supeificial fibres of the sterno-hyoid. The rhom- boids and serrati postici have no homological representatives; and there are no structures in the tibial and fibular bordei’S of the hind limb sufficiently segmented to compare with the tensor plicae alaris and the costo-alaris) though the sartorius or some of its fibres nearly corresponds with the former, and the caudo-pedal with the latter. The external sphincter ani may be said to be serially homologous with the orbicularis oris; but the subcutaneous muscles generally do not admit of homological comparison. The relations of the ventral muscles to the alimentary tube are therefore as follows:—The internal stratum is gathered round, con- tinued into and reflected upon it as levator and retractor ani and is gathered roimd it as post- and sometimes as pre-cardiac diaphragm. The middle stratum forms the internal sphincter ani, and is continued into the tongue as genio-hyo-glossus and hyo-glossus, and is continued upon the pharynx as thyro- and hyo-pharyngei or constrictores. The external stratum forms, by its superficial layer, the orbicularis oris and other circnm-oral muscles, and the sphincter ani externus. The disposition of the ventral muscle in these three-, oblique and ti-ansverse, planes is a visceral feature, is co-extensive, that is, with the visceral region or nearly so. It extends from the anus to the head, but not behind the anus, even in Bdellostoma, Snakes and other limbless animals. When the limb-girdles are present, either with or without the limbs, the planes are broken up by and partially lost on them; and when they are nob present the planes are blended in the caudal muscles. In the Porpoise the recti, and with them the obliqui interni and the transversi, divo’ge and pass, on the sides of the bones supposed to be rudimentary pelvic bones, to the transverse vertebral processes in which they terminate about on a level with the vent; while the obi. extemi terminate in a defined edge a little in front of