MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 139 It is worth while to remark that the hyo-mental in the Hippopo- tamus is, together with the antei ior belly of the digastric, supplied by the mylo-hyoid branch of the fifth nerve which runs between them and the mylo-hyoid muscle. In the limbless Saurians (Pseudopas, P.) the rectus abdomi- nis, which forms the median part of the superficial stratum of the ventral muscle in the abdomen, is not separated from the cervical (sterno-mastoid) part by an intermediate, thoracic, trans- versely disposed (pectorolis) part, but is continued directly on into it, or with only some interruption of the deeper fibres by the clavicle. In Snakes the foremost bundles of the external oblique muscle arise from the mastoid process, and run back- wards towards the ventral scutes, beneath which they form a superficial rectus. Thus they represent the sterno-mastoid muscle in the same manner as do the corresponding fibres in Pseudopus P. For a short distance near the head the ohliquus is overlaid by a superficial, thin muscular sheet extending from the cervical spines to the mandible and the scutes immediately behind it. This is described as being divided into cervici suh- maxillaris and depressor mandibulce; and it corresponds evi- dently with part of the cervicalis superjicialis of Lepidosiren and Dog-fish. But it is not interrupted by branchial openings; and it is not segmented from the subjacent layers of the ventral muscle, at least it does not present a stratification from them; although such separation may be indicated by the presence of the hyoid in the thickness of the sheet (see Fig. 44 and description^). Traced backwards the superficial (external oblique) stratum of the ventral muscle is continued upon the hind limb, with more or less interruption by the limb-girdle ; and it ensheaths the femoral segment much in the same manner as the humeral segment of the fore limb is ensheathed by a projection of the anterior prolongation of the stratumVentrally, it is continued ^ Some of the fibres of this—the cervici suhmaxillaris—part of the stratum are described by Prof. E. d’Alton (Beschriebung des Muskelsystems eines Python bivittatus, Muller's Archiv, 1834, s. 355) as attaching themselves to the hyoid, forming a ‘Nackenzungenbeinmuskel.’ He also describes a ‘ RLlck- wartszieher’ of the hyoid running obliquely and superficially from the cervical spine to the hyoid. Some fibres of the cervici- or masto-submaxillaris attaching themselves to the quadrate, he calls ‘ Zuriickzieher’ of that bone. It is an extension of these upon the mandible which forms the depressor mandibxilce. * In certain Snakes the ventral muscles form a funnel-shaped process in- vesting the base of the claw, which is the counterpart of the funnel-shaped