174 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. digitorum which, as already shewn, are the upper and lower parts of the fl. s. dig. jyedis. In the hind limb, the last-named muscle becomes, in higher animals, almost pushed out of the field, being reduced to the slender plantaris by the increasing gastrocnemius. But in the fore limb its homologue is in the ascendant and absorbs a great part of the fibres of the stratum at the expense of the flexor carjn idnaris and also of the palmaris I, which latter dwindles or disappears. The tibial sector of the superficial stratum in the hind limb shares the fate of the other parts of the stratum; indeed it is altogether absorbed by the heel-muscle. In the fore limb the correspond- ing sector is large, is partly inserted along the radius, forming the pronator radii teres, and partly into the carpus or meta- carpus, forming the flexor carpi radialis. Thus, granting that the idantaris is represented by the flexor digitorum sublimis, the elements of the stratum which, in the hind limb, are made to converge into the tendo-Achillis are, in the fore limb, divided into the palmaris longus, the flexor carpi ulnaris and the flexor carpi radialis with part of the pronator teres. More- over the palmaris 1., instead of being interrupted at the carpus, is continued into the palmar fascia; just as the homologous part of the stratum in the hind limb is continued into the plantar fascia in those animals in wliich the tarsus i-etains its primary simple, fiat, carpus- like form. I have before (pp. 37, 38) pointed out evidences of the continuity of the upper f^ronator teres)^ part of the radial sector of the super- ficial stratum with the deepest [pronator quadratus')^oxt of the deejier stratum; and the lower or flexor carpi radialis part of the sector is, in most animals above Urodelans, sepai’ate from the pronator teres and takes a deep course in the hand^ Now we find in the hind limb that the whole of the representatives of this sector—the representa- tives, that is, of the pronator teres and the flexor carpi radialis—or into a second muscle below the wrist; thus closely simulating the plantaris and Jl. d. s. in the ordinary mammalian hind foot. ^ The ulnar origin of the pronator teres in Man (also in the Chimpanzee and Rabbit) is an interesting remnant of this continuity. In the Bird (Kite) the muscle is in two distinct parts, both arising from the humerus. Some of the branches of the median nerve pass between, some above and some below, the two parts. The branches passing between them are distributed to the Ji. c. u. and the^. dig. pr. and represent, therefore, part of the ulnar nerve. See dispo- sition of the muscle and its relation to nerves in the Cryptobranch, p. 37, ^ In the Bird the flexor carpi radialis, like its serial homologue—the tibialis posticus—lies deep in its whole course. It arises from the ulna only and not from the humerus. See varieties of insertion into scaphoid and mets. i., ii., and III. Joxirn. Anat., iv. 42. In Phoca it is inserted into the scaphoid and Met. i. with a slip to Met. n.; in the Pig into Met. in.; in the Proboscis Monkey into Mets. II. and in.