THE MUSCLES OF THE SMOOTH DOG-FISH {Mustelus levis). (PL VI., Figs; 28 to 33). Figure 28 represents the dorsal aspect of the fore part of the animal, and shews the obliquity of the transverse septa in the upper half (il/. D.) of the dorsal muscle, the mesio-dorsal muscle as it is sometimes called. In the lower or latero-clorsal half {L. D.) of the dorsal muscle, the septa form a series of gentle curves with anterior convexity; but in the upper half they are projected forwards into angles, which increase to ex- treme acuteness as the muscle approaches the head, more so than could be represented in the drawing. The upper lines of the angles are the more oblique and larger, running twice as far backwards as the lower lines or more. There are also a few return septa near the dorsal edge; and the angles formed by these, with the upper lines just mentioned, are prolonged back- wards into extremely fine points which are lost in the mesial septum. The pointed extremities of the several angles formed by the union of the septa are thicker than the rest of the septa and show a gradual transition into tendons, some of which are fully developed and run along as distinct delicate tendons for considerable distances without any accompanying muscular fi- bres; and they are inserted into the median dorsal septum or into the vertebral processes lying in or near the septum. These prolonged tendinous apices of the converged and united septa closely resemble the delicate tendons of the dorsal muscle so remarkably developed in Snakes, and are obviously the repre- sentatives of them, rendering it clear that the tendons and the septa are homologous structures. The muscular fibres situated between the very oblique septa do not retain their antero-posterior direction, but run with some obliquity in a penniform manner. Turning attention to the ventral muscle, a broad median portion—the medio-ventral portion (M. V.), of paler colour than the rest of the lateral muscle, is seen to overlap the more la- teral—the latero-ventral—portion, covering it as far as the in- 6—2