108 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. admit of traction without hindrance. This is effected by tlie conversion of the surrounding connecting structures into loose tissue, as just mentioned in the case of their isolation from the skin. Such a condition we find developed to perfection in the numerous delicate muscles and tendons which lie along the sides of the dorsal spinous processes of Snakes. Thus, by comparatively simple stages of transition, the elongated longitudinal dorsal muscles are brought into rela- tion with, or reduced from, the simple primary transverse muscular strata; and it is to be remarked that while this change takes place, usually in some degree and in many instances to the extent I have mentioned, in the upper or ‘ mesio-dorsal’ part of the lateral muscle, the transverse dis- position is commonly maintained through the visceral region, at any rate in the opposite and lowest, or ‘mesio-ventraT part of the same muscle. Witness the transverse direction of the septa when they are persistent in the rectits abdominis and in its extensions into the neck and the tail. So much for the variations in the fibrous plates or septa of the skeletal structure. Then, with regard to the muscles be- tween them. These, in the simple condition, occupy the in- tervals between the septa and are composed throughout of fibres passing, antero-posteriorly, from one septum to another. Through the medium of the septa the fibres of one compart- ment are connected with those of the adjacent compartment, and also with the subcutaneous fascia and the skin, as well as with the osseous structures of the skeleton and the inter- nal or transversal is fascia. I have already mentioned that where the septa are very oblique the muscular fibres between them usually take an oblique direction also. Sometimes the fibres at one part of the thickness of the lateral muscle take an oblique direction different from those at another depth. This alone is sufficient to cause a cleavage into planes; and the cleavage usually extends through the septa as well as between the muscular fibres, so causing tlie separation of one or more superimposed muscular sheets which are thus rendered capable of moving upon one another 1 The cleavage of a muscle into two planes, in consequence of a difference in the direction of its superficial and deep fibres, is well illustrated in the pectoralis