113 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. extremity of the tail (Fig. 39), as well as along its upper and lower edges, the membranous sheets alone exist, the muscular fibres being absent; so that the mesial and external membra- nous plates are in contact. A little in front of the extremity of the tail the muscular fibres begin to appear, in patches, separa- ting the external from the mesial plates. The patches are in broken rows; still they succeed one another in serial order. Gra- dually, as they are traced forwards, the rows are filled up and the membranous interspaces between them become reduced to the narrow intermuscular septa; while the muscles, increasing in thickness, acquire the semicircular or ovoid form which is seen on either side of the median line in a transverse section (Fig. 41). It is thus perceived that the membranous, or intermus- cular, element is the first formed, that the muscular fibres are produced, or added in it, that the intermuscular septa and fascial sheets are remnants of it, and that these give way, in greater or less degree, before the force of muscular development. Usually, in other animals, ossification takes place, to a greater or less extent, around the notochord, giving rise to the bodies of the vertebrae, and extends into the ascending and descending mesial laminae, forming the neural and haemal arches and spines. In Fishes (Figs. 31, 32 and 33) it also often extends into these laminae, where they stretch, like the mem- branous fringe of the Tadpole’s tail, beyond the confines of the lateral muscle. Thus are formed the fin-ray bones, which, like the septa, are double, actually or potentially; and muscular fibres are formed upon them. These have the same relations to the membranous laminae, and the same segmentation, as the fibres of the lateral muscles, and are, indeed, extensions of them, though they take a different direction, and are, con- sequently, segmented from them (p. 69). In front of the tail, in the visceral region, the mesial haemal laminae are kept apart; and the visceral cavity is formed between them. In other words, they are spread out over it, and form the fascia transversalis. This separation of them may, in the hindmost region of the visceral area, be con- fined to the marginal part of the haemal septum: thus, in Fig. 39 of the Tadpole, the cloacal tube and aperture are seen to lie at the junction of the membranous caudal fringe with the 8