muscles IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 144- of the limb. They all admit cf flexion towards the palmar or plantar or ventral aspect, and of extension towards the dorsal aspect. Supposing the limbs stretched, as in their primitive condition, horizontally in straight lines and at right angles, from the trunk, then all the joints admit of flexion towards the ventral surface of the trunk and of extension to the horizontal line. At the wrist and ankle the extensor move- ment may, in some animals, be carried beyond that line (in Man the foot has come to be placed at a right angle with the leg); and the same is the case at the joints with the girdles where, as just said, other movements are also permitted. In all the joints, however, except that with the girdle, the movement is nearly restricted to the plane indicated. Hence the muscles are arranged in two sets, one upon the ‘flexor’ or ‘ventral’ aspect, which may also be called ‘palmar’ in the fore limb and ‘plan- tar’ in the hind limb, and the other set upon the ‘extensor’ or ‘ dorsal ’ aspect; and there is, speaking generally, a corre- sponding arrangement of the nerves. It must not, however, be supposed that the arrangement is rigidly adhered to. Marginal portions of the ventral series occasionally (witness the lumhncales) stay upon the dorsal aspect and serve as extensors; and more frequently marginal portions of the dorsal series incline over the sides and upon the ventral aspect and serve as flexors, and perhaps become united with the flexors. That there is a similarity, a general homological correspond- ence, between the muscles of the fore and of the hind limbs, as well as between the limbs of different animals, is self-evident. Their outer sheets are projections of serially homologous portions of the ventral muscle carried upon similar outgrowths from serially homologous ossifications in the ventral intermuscular septab The dorsal muscles of one limb and in one animal correspond, though not unexceptionably, with the dorsal muscles of the 1 The septa in which the corresponding limh-girdles are formed are not, numerically, the same in the different orders of vertebrates. The scapular girdle, for instance, in the Fish is developed in a septum close to the head; whereas in the Bird it occupies a septum far removed from the head. So, the position of the pelvic girdle, though presenting a steady relation to the hinder part of the visceral cavity and the termination of the alimentary canal, varies greatly in its distance from the scapular girdle, owing to the variation in the number of intervening muscular and intermuscular planes in different animals.