93 MUSCLES OF THE CEKATODUS. £■ the other, or outer, layer is continued upon the surface of the fin-muscle and the fin. The fin-muscle and fin are continued in a channel between the two fascial layers just mentioned, and are transversely segmented by septa crossing the channel and continuous with the transverse septa of the lateral muscle. The fin-ray bones are ossifications in the meeting-points of the septa of the two sides in the median line; just as the spinous processes and ribs are ossifications in the median or other parts of the transverse septa of the lateral muscle. The fin-muscle is accordingly divided into bundles, which correspond in num- ber with the interspinous and fin-ray bones; and each bundle is inclosed in a fascial sheath which separates it from the adjacent bundles as well as from the lateral muscle.' Each bundle also is composed of fibres ininning parallel with the fin- ray and springing from the surrounding sheath, chiefly from the basal part of the sheath which rests upon the lateral muscle, but partly from the septa which separate them from the fibres of contignious bundles. The superficial or external fascia is unusually thick. It is connected by areolar tissue with the derma on the one side- face, and with the septa of the lateral muscle on the other; these connecting it, as in Lepidosiren and Cryptobranch, with the fibres of the lateral muscle and with the deep, or internal, or transversalis fascia. It is also continuous with the transversalis fascia along the ventral edge of the animal; and, in the abdo- minal region, the blended fasciae of the two sides are united in the median line, forming a median septum. Behind the pelvis the blended superficial and deep fasciae on the one side are separated from those of the other by the bowel passing between them to the anus; and a sheath formed by them is continued upon it (see also Fig. 23, G). Muscles of Pelvic and Pectoral Fins. The cartilaginous pelvis, with its smooth anterior, or pre- pubic, styliform cartilage and its lateral cornua, resembles that of Lepidosiren (p. 69 and Fig. 23); but the cornua are shorter, and each is forked (Fig. 34 C), terminating in two blunt prongs,