132 MUSCLES IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. All this hinder, post-brachial, portion of the external stra- tum of the lateral muscle may be covered by a superficial, or subcutaneous, layer, which varies much in thickness, and which may be connected with one or all of the divisions of the stra- tum, sometimes reciprocating with them in size and thickness, as in *the Hippopotamus. Like them it converges upon the arm; and, accompanying the pectoral more particularly, it may be lost in that muscle, or it may be inserted into the humerus or the coracoid. It is often a muscle of such size, and of so powerful action upon the arm, and radiates from the arm so widely upon the flank, that I have* described and named it as h'achio-lateral. Sometimes it, or part of it, lies upon and is closely united with the latissimus dorsi; or it may be (Hatteria) continuous with its lower edge. Sometimes (Manis) it is diflicult to separate from the skin on the one side and the external oblique on the other *. As mentioned above, it forms part of the costo-alaris of the Bird. Traced forwards into the pre-brachial or cervical region the SUPERFICIAL BRACHIO-CEPHALIC STRATUM, which we are Con- sidering, is, after a certain interruption caused, partly, by the shoulder-girdle, and, partly, by segmentation from alteration of the direction of its fibres, continued as a superficial cervical sheet —cervicalis superficialis. It covers the neck, from the shoulder- Sfirdle to the skull, and from the ventral median line to the trapezius, the reverse being the case in Mammals. In the Rabbit the two mus- cles are continuous. ^ Joum. Anat. iv. 27. 2 The superficial, cutaneous layer is weU developed in the Porpoise, where it spreads upon the fins, under the abdomen, and under the sheath of the penis; and in the female it passes beneath the mammary gland, detaching fibres which encircle the lower dilated part of the duct, so as to compress it during suckling. It attains its maximum in the Hedgehog, being connected with the frontal and occipital bones, the lower jaw, sternum and humerus, and the dorsal and caudal spines, and forms a thick sphincter around the body beneath the line where the bristles terminate. In the Guinea Pig both pectoral and trapezim are continuous with the pan- nicle. In the Pig, and many Animals, the brachio-lateral part extends over the thigh. In the Hippopotamus it is very largely developed, forming a thick mass over the abdominal muscles, which are almost dwarfed or supplanted by it, though quite distinct from it; it extends over the thigh and the knee; and it is also continued into the pectoral. In Snakes the continuity of strata is manifested and maintained by the bundles of the oblique abdominal muscles passing from the ribs directly into the ventral scutes, which are thus enabled to act as organs of locomotion. Some of the bundles running horizontally for a distance, from scute to scute, constitute (pp. 125, 139) a superficial or subcutaneous rectus.