MUSCLEa IN VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 155 buikling up of the one series of muscles and, in other in- stances, of the other series. These muscles surround the joint of the first limh-segment with the girdle in a more or less circular, or capsular, manner. Usually, however, they are arranged in two divisions, or groups, in each limb. The one group passes from the outer, or posterior, surface of the girdle, beneath the joint, to the ventral or under surface of the limb, constituting a palmar or coraco-humeral series in the fore limb and a plantar or pubischio-femoral series in the hind limb. The other group passes from the outer, or hinder, surface of the girdle, above the joint, to the dorsal surface of the limb, constituting a doi'sal or scapulo-humeral series in the fore limb, and a dorsal or ilio-feraoral series in the hind limbh These groups do not adhere strictly to their resjDective limits. They sometimes extend from the outer surface, over the margins, upon the inner surface of the girdles; and they sometimes extend from the area of the girdle beneath the joint to the part above it, and vice vers'i. Moreover, in accordance with the difference in the rotation in the two limbs, the insertion of corresponding muscles may be on the one— the pre-axial or radial—side in one limb, and on the opposite— the post-axial or fibular—side in the other limb. It not unfre- quently is found, in the case of each of the several groups, that it is imperfectly segmented from the superficial ventro-appendi- cular stratum on the one surface, and from the muscles which pass on to the next segment of the limb on the other surface. In animals above Fishes the coraco-humerals, or, as they are more generally called, CORACO-BRACHIALS, are commonlj^ divided into segments which vary in number and size with the number and size of the coracoid processes; and they are some- times absent when these processes are abortive, as in Mole, Cyclothuras and Seal. They arrange themselves in two di- visions. First, those which lie superficially with regard to the biceps hrachii muscle and which pass to the radial tubercle ^ These are seen in their simplest form in Ceratoclns (Fig. 34), where the coraco-brachial and the scapulo-brachial muscles are seen extending from the respective parts of the girdle upon the ventral and dorsal surfaces of the pec- toral hii. The arrangements are similar in the hinder tin; and there are addi- tions from the ventral muscle.