•74 MUSCLES OF LEPIDOSIREN. The DEEP BRA.CHIO-CEPHALIC STRATUM of the VENTRAL MUSCLE (Fig. 26, D. V.), the part that is beneath the whole of the superficial stratum just described, is far thicker than it and is marked by septa in its whole length. In its course it en- counters three bones in succession; each of which is in the line of one of its septa and is involved in it. The first of these bones (Fig. 26, B) is a stout cylindrical elongated bone, articulated by a broad trochlear surface with the cartilage of the base of the skull just behind the opening for the vagus nerve, and nmning down into the substance of the lateral muscle. This bone in form, position and relation to a septum, resembles a rib; and it probably is to be regarded as a rib, although it is much larger than any of the succeeding ribs. This view is confirmed by the fact that a short thick muscle here separates itself from the rest of the deep stratum of the ventral muscle and passes from the bone in question to the under surface of the scapular part of the shoulder-girdle, representing pretty clearly the serratus^. The nerve to the fin takes its course beneath the edge of this muscle, between it and the muscles attached to the coracoid, holding therefore the same relation to it as the brachial nerves in other animals do to the serratus. This deep stratum of the ventral muscle next comes into contact with the coracoid which is connected with one of its septa, much in the same manner as the ribs are connected with the septa of the ventral muscle, that is to say, the coracoid is an ossification in the deepest part of the septum. Many of the muscular fibres are inserted into it, representing the costo- and stemo-coracoids (the ribs and costal cartilages being represented by the septa behind the coracoid). The greater portion of the fibres, however, run beneath, superficial to, the coracoid on to the hyoid, constituting a deep cervical {cei'vicalis iwofundus) muscle (0. p)- Some of these are inserted, tendinous, into the hyoid near the middle line. Some terminate in a tendinous 1 I am glad to find that the view I have formed of this peculiar hone from its muscular relations in Lepidosiren is confirmed by Gunther, in his description of the corresponding bone in Ceratodus, Phil. Trans. 1871, p. 529. Various views have been entertained of it, the last being that by Mr Parker {Shoulder- (lirdle and Sternum, p. 21, and PI. ii. Fig. 1), who regards it as a ‘phar5-ngo- branchiaP bone, and a small cartilage attached to its middle as a ‘ small unos- sified second pharyngo-branchial.’