108 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. | aftcvwiinls glosso-plm- ryugeal and its brandies. Dissection of the nerves in the neck : of spinal accessory of glosso- phiu-yngeal; of vagus; pharyngeal Ijlexus, cardiac offsets, and recur- rent : of hypo- glossal ; of sympa- thetic iu part. Eighth nerve Next follow the glosso-pharyngeal nerve through the fore part of the foramen, and take away any bone that overhangs it. This nerve presents two ganglia as it passes from the slcuU (fig. 26) : one (jugular), wliich is scarcely to be perceived, near the upper part of the tube of membrane containing it; the other, much larger (petrous), is situate at the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. From the lower one, seek the small nerve of Jacobson, which enters an aperture in the crest of bone between the jugular foramen and the carotid canal ; and another filament of communication with the ganglion of the sympathetic. Sometimes the dissector will be able to find a filament fi-om the lower ganglion to join the auricu- lar branch of the pneumo-gastric ; and another to end in the upper ganglion of the pneumo-gastric nerve. Beloio the foramen of exit from the skull, the cranial nerves have been greatly denuded by the dissection of the internal carotid (fig. 25) ; but the intercommunications of the vagus, hypo-glossal, sympathetic, and fii-st two spinal ners^es near the skull, are to be traced out more completely. The larger part of the spinal accessory has been sufficiently laid bare already ; but its small piece i(6 to be traced to the vagus, close to the skull, and onwards by the side of that trunk. The chief part of the glosso-pharyngeal has been also dissected ; but the offsets on the carotid, and others to join the pharyngeal branch of the vagus and the pharyngeal plexus are to be displayed. On the pneumo-gastnc trunk the student should define an enlarge- ment close to the skull (ganglion of the trunk), to which the hypo- glossal nerve is intimately united. From the ganglion proceed two branches (pharyngeal and laryngeal), which are to be traced to the parts indicated by their names, especially the first wliich enters the pharyngeal plexus. The task of disentangling the ramifications of the branch of the vagus, and those of the glosso-phai-jaigeal and symjiathetic in the plexus, is by no means easy, in consequence of the dense tissue in which they are contained. Two or more cardiac offsets of the vagus, one at the upper and another at the lower part of the neck, may be recognised readily. Lastly the dissector may prepare more fully the recurrent branch coursing up beneath the lower end of the common carotid : by removing the fat aroimd it, offsets may be seen entering the chest and the windpipe. Only the first, or the deep part of the hypo-glossal ner^'e remains to be made ready for learning ; its communications with the vagus, sympathetic, and the spinal nerves are to be shown. A dissection for the sympathetic will be given farther on (p. 114) ; but its large ganglion near the skull (upper cervical) should be defined, and the branches from it to the pharyngeal plexus should be pursued beneath the carotid artery. The three cranial nerves, glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory, which constitute the eighth nerve of Willis, leave the cranium by the foramen jugulare (p. 19). Outside the skull the nen^es take different directions to their destination ; thus the glosso-pharyngeal is inclined inwaaxls to the tongue and pharynx ;