SEMINAL TUBES OF TESTIS. 325 vessels, so that they may be readily drawn out of the testis for some distance : their length is said by Lauth to be two feet and a quarter. Ending, size and structure. Within the lobes of the testis some tubes end in distinct closed extremities ; but the rest communicate, forming loops or arches. The diameter of the tubules varies from ■jif„th to xso^^ of i"^'^- '•'•''"^ ^"-^^ °f ^^^^ tubule is formed of a thin translucent membrane, but it has considerable strength. Lining the interior in the child is a nucleated granular ci^ithelium, with polygonal cells; but in the adult the tube is filled by cells of the spermatic corpuscles in different stages of development. On the exterior is a plexus of bloodvessels. Names from the arrangement of the tubes. To different parts of the seminal tubes, the following names have been applied. Where the tubules are collected into masses, they form the lobes of the testis. As they enter the fibrous mediastinum they Fig. 167 * become straight, and are named tubuli recti. Com- municating in the medias- tinum, they produce the rete testis. And, lastly, as they leave the upper end of the gland they are convoluted, and are called coni vasculosi, or vasa effierentia. The lohes of the testis (fig. 167, a) are formed by bundles of the seminiferal tubes, and are situate in the intervals between the processes of the tunica albuginea : their num- ber is^differently stated :—according to one authority (Beixes) they are 250 ; but according to another (Krause) 400 or more. They are conical in form, with the base of each at the circumference, and the apex at the mediastinum testis ; and those in the centre of the testicle arc the largest. Each is made up of one, two or more tortuous semmal tubules ; and the minute tubes in one lobe are united with those in the neighbouring lobes. Towards the apex of each lobe tiie tubules become less bent, and are united together; and the tubuli of the several lobes arc further joined at the same spot into larger canals —the tubuli recti. TuhuH recti (fig. 1G7, c). The seminal tubes uniting together • Vertical and horizontal sections of tiic testis to show the an-an^oment of lobes, c. Tubuh recti, d. Mediastinum testis, e. liete testis f Yisl mis ^. \as deferens. I. \as aberrans. n. Rete testis, cut. o Finer septa, i). Epididymis, cut across, r. Mediastinum, cut aJross. length. Communi- cutioiis; size; structure; Tubes cliiinye their name. Tlicy form the lobes: number, shape, tnlws in them, :uul aiTaiige- meiit. Tubes next