DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 494 Thickness: disposition at pylorus. On the snr- fncc are pits or alveoli; their size, shape, and appear- ance. The texture made up of tubules; The thickness of the mucous membrane is greatest near the pylorus ; and at that spot it forms a fold, opposite the musculai- ring, which assists m closing the opening. If this membrane and Its submucous layer are removed fi-om the pyloric part of the stomach, the ring of muscular fibres (spliincter of the pylorus) will be more perfectly seen. ' Microscopic structure of the mucous memhrane. With the aid of a lens, the surface of the mucous membrane, when well washed may be seen to be covered by shallow depressions or alveoli (fig 146) which measure from ^th to ^th of an inch across. Generally hexagonal or polygonal in outline, the hollows become larger and more elongated towards the small end of the stomach • and near the pylorus the margins of the alveoli project, and become irre- gular. In the bottom of each depression are the apertures of minute tubes. By means of a thin section under the microscope the membrane may be observed to be composed almost altogether of minute Fig. 147.t vertical tubes, which lie side by side, and project into the submucous tissue. Measuring fi-om gSg-th to -^-^th. of an inch in length, the tubes are closed at the deep end ; but they open on the surface of dee^end- stomach both in the alveoli (fig. 146) and in the interalveolar spaces. They ai-e formed of a homogeneous membrane, and are for the most part straight, but towards the pylorus they increase in length, and are somewhat sacculated at the deep extremity ; some are divided into two or more pieces (fig. 147). ephhelfum • -^^ cardiac extremity of the stomach the tubes are lined at the * Alveolar depressions of the mucous membrane of the stomach, magnified 32 diameters, with the minute tubes opening into them. (Spi-ott Boyd.) + Enlarged representation of the tubes of the stomach, a. Gastric tube from the pyloric end lined, throughout, by columnar epithelium (Kolliker). 6. Gastric tube from the cardiac end, with a columnar epithelium lining near the mouth, and flattened nucleated granular cells beyond (Thomson).