223 SURFACES OF CEREBELLUM. of the base of the skull, beneath the tentorium cerebelli. Like the cerebrum, it is incompletely divided into two hemispheres ;—the division being marked by a'wide median groove along the under surface, and by a notch at the posterior border which receives the falx cerebelli. , „ . • i •„ Upper Surface. On the upper aspect the cerebellum is raised in the centre (fig. 68), but sloped towards tlie circumference. Tliere is not any median sulcus on this surface; and the halves are umted by a central constricted part,—the superior vermiform process. Separating the upper from the under surface, at the circumference, is the horizontal fissure, which is wide in front, and extends back- wards fi-om the pons Varolii to the middle line of the cerebellum. The UNDER SURFACE is convex, being received into the fossae of Fig. 66.* position of ceioliellum. Division into two. No groove on tlic. upper surface ; lialves joined. Horizontal Ilssure. A lioUow below, the base of the skull, and is di-\dded into hemispheres (fig. 66) by a median hollow (vallecula). The central fissure, or the vallecula, is wider at the middle than at which is either the anterior or the posterior end, and receives the medulla ^anty and oblongata. In the bottom of the fissure is a mass named inferior contains vermiform process (fig. 66, c to e), which corresponds with the vermiform central part connecting the halves of the cerebellum on the upper i""^*^^^" surface. The two vermiform processes constitute the general com- missure of the halves of the cerebellum. Constituents of the vermiform process. In the inferior vermiform Constituents process are the following eminences, which may be easily separated 'vermi- form pro- * Under part of the cerebellum, seen from behind, the medulla oblongata, h being cut away in greater part. a. Pons Varolii, h. Medulla oblongata, cut through, c to e. Inferior vermiform process, consisting of ;—c. Uvula, d. Pyramid, e. Commissural lamina). Lobes of each half of the cerebellum on the under surface. /. Subpedun- cular. g. Amygdaloid, h. Biventral. i. Slender, k. Posterior. 3. Tliird nerve attached to the crus cerebri. 5. Two roots of the fifth nerve attached to the side of the pons Varolii.