DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. 320 Extension. Metacariml bones joined by bases by side union and by their heads. Carpal and metacarpal joint: that of the thumb. Motion. Bending. Extending. Lateral motion and bones moves backwards, and renders prominent the posterior liga- ment. This motion is also brought into play in full bending of the wrist. Extension. The backward movement is freer than flexion. As the lower carpal row moves towards the palm, its progress is checked by the anterior ligament of the joint, and by the strong flexor tendons. Union of the Metacahpal Bones. The metacarpal bones of the fom- fingers arc connected at their bases by the following liga- ments :—A superficial dorsal (fig. 95) and palmar fasciculus of fibres passes transversely fi-om one bone to the next ; and the bands in the palm are the strongest P'S- 95.* (fig. 92). Besides, there is a short interosseous ligament between the contiguous rough surfaces of the bones. Lateral union. Where the metacarpal bones touch they are covered by cartilage ; and the articular surfaces are furnished with prolongations of the syno^aal membrane serving for their articulation with the carpus. At their anterior ends the same four metacarpal bones are connected by the deep transverse %ameHi, which was seen in the dissection of the hand (p. 299). Union of the Metacar- pal AND Carpal Bones. The metacarpal bones of the fingers are articulated with the carpal bones after one plan ; but the bone of the thumb has a separate joint. The metacarpal hone of the thumb articulates with the os trape- zium ; and the ends of the bones are incased in a separate capsular ligament (fig. 92, ^). The joint is furnished with a synovial mem- brane which is simple in its arrangement. The thumb-joint possesses angular movement in opposite direc- tions, with opposition and circumduction, thus :— Flexion and extension. When the joint is flexed the metacarjDal bone is brought into the palm of the hand, without the ball of the thumb being turned to the tips of the fingers. Extension of the joint is very free, and by it the metacarpal bone is removed from the palm towards the outer border of the forearm. Abduction and adduction. By these movements the metacarpal bone is placed in contact with, or removed from the fore finger. * Posterior ligaments of the wrist, and carpal and metacarpal bones (Bourgery and Jacob). 1. Posterior radio-carpal. 2. Carpo-metacariJal joint of the thumb.—3, 3. Transverse bands between the bases of the metacarpal bones.