605 ANATOMY OF SUPERFICIAL TARTS. At the knee the outline of tlie several bones entering into the Bony ^^^^ formation of the joint may be traced with ease. In fi-ont ot the „f knee, joint, when it is half-bent, the rounded prominent patella may be patella, perceived ; this bone is firmly fixed whilst the limb is kept in the same position, but is moved with great fi-eedom when the jomt is extended, so as to relax the muscles inserted into it. On each side Condyles^^ of the patella is the projection of the condyle of the femur, but that on the inner side is the largest. If the fingers arc passed along the sides of the patella whilst the joint is half bent, they will be conducted to the tuberosities of the head of the tibia, and to a shght hollow between it and the femur. Behuid the joint is a shght depression over the situation of the ham or popliteal space ; and on its sides are firm boundaries, which are formed by the tendons (hamstrings) of the flexor muscles of the leg. Dissection. "With the position of the limb the same as before Dissection. directed, the student begins the dissection with the examination of the subcutaneous fatty tissue -svith its nerves and vessels. At first the intearumeut is to be reflected only from the hollow on Take up 11 -r. ,!T , m • l^ skin at the the front of the thigh close below Poupart s ligament. To raise the top of the skin over it, an incision about four inches in length, and only skin t'"o'l'- deep, is to be made fi-om the pubes along the inner border of the thigh. At the lower end of the first incision, another cut is to be directed outwards across the front of the limb to the outer aspect; and at the upper end the knife is to be carried along the line of Poupart's ligament as far as the crest of the hip bone. The piece of skin included by these incisions is to be raised and turned out- wards, without taking with it the subcutaneous fat. The subcutaneous fatty tissue, or the superficial fascia, forms a Superficial general investment for the limb, and is constructed of a network ' of areolar tissue, with fat or adipose substance amongst the meshes, iiow As a part of the common covering of the body, it is continuous with that of the neighbouring regions, consequently it may be followed inwards to the scrotum or the labium according to the sex, and upwards on the abdomen. Its thickness vaiies in different bodies, owing to the quantity Thickness, of fat in it ; and at the upper part of the thigh it is divisible into ^'""^^ > two strata (superficial and deep) by some cutaneous vessels and iJito two*^^'^ inguinal glands. The superficial of the two layers is apparent after ^.g^g*^^^' the removal of the skin, but its connections will be made more evident by the following dissection. Dissection. To reflect the superficial stratum of the fascia, in- To raise tiic cisions similar to those in the skin are to be employed, though the ^"rotuia"^ transverse one is not to reach so low on the thigh by a couple of inches; and the separation from the subjacent structures is to be begun below, where the large saphenous vein, and a condensed or membranous appearance on the under surface, will mark the depth of the stratum. This layer of the fat may be thrown upwards readily by a few touches of the knife, along the middle line of the limb ; but where vessels and glands arc not found, viz., along the