SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF UEETHEA. 427 fibres are directed outwards, cunnng around the convexity of the origin at m-ethra, and give rise to a thin muscle, which has the following ^^^'^'^^ insertion:—Tiie most posterior fibres are lost on the front of the triangular ligament. The anterior fibres, Avhich are the longest and best marked, are inserted into the penis on its outer aspect, insertion by before the erector ; and, according to Kobelt,** they send a ten- P^''*''*- dinous expansion over the dorsal vessels of the penis. Whilst the middle or interA'ening fibres turn round the urethra, surrounding it for two inches, and join their fellows by a tendon. The ejaculator muscle covers the bulb and the urethra for three inches in front of the triangular ligament.f If the muscle be cut through on the right side, and turned ofE the urethra, the junction with its fellow above that tube Avill be apparent. Action. The two halves, acting as one muscle, can diminish the use, urethra, and,eject forcibly its contents. During the flow of fluid in micturition the fibres are relaxed, but they come into use at the end of the process, when the passage has to be cleared. The action voluntary . . 1 , • .1 • • J' .1 andinvolun- is mvoluntary m the emission oi the semen. tary. The TKiVNSVERSALIS PERINiEI (fig. 130, ^) is a small thin muscle, Transversa- which lies across the perinseum opposite the base of the triangular ^'^ penuasi. ligament. Arising from the inner surface of the pubic arch near Origin, the ischial tuberosity, it is inserted into the central point of the ^g^'^raf perinteum with the muscle of the opposite side, and with the point, sphincter ani and the ejaculator urinas. Behind this muscle the superficial fascia bends down to join the triangular ligament. Sometimes there is a second small fleshy slip, anterior to the Accessory transversaUs, which has been named transversalis alter; this throws saJirs!^*^* itself into the ejaculator muscle. Action. From the direction of the fibres the muscle will draw Use. backwards the central point of the perina^um, and help to fix it pre- paratory to the contraction of the ejaculator. The three muscles above described, when separated fi- om each ti'iangular other by the dissection, limit a triangular space, of which the ejacu- tween the lator uimse forms the inner boundary, the erector penis the outer ^li^^ ■ side, and the transversaUs perinsei muscle the base. In the area " of this interval is the triangular ligament of the urethi-a, with the superficial perinc^al vessels and nerves. Should the loiif e the knife enter the posterior part of this space during the deeper incisions S'^iltho-"'" m the lateral operation of lithotomy, it will divide the transverse ^°^^y- muscle and artery, and probably the superficial perinseal vessels and nen'es. Dissection (fig. 131). For the display of the triangular ligament Dissection the muscles and the crus penis, which are superficial to it, are to ifgameT^"" * Die Miinnlichen und Weibliclien Wollust-Organe, von G. L. Kobelt 1844. ' + Some of the deeper fibres which immediately surround the bulb, have been descnbed as a separate stratum by Kobelt. These arc separated from the superficial layer by thin areolar tissue, and join the corresponding part of the other muscle by a small tendon above the urethra. The name com- prcssor hemisphanum hulbi has been proposed for it by that anatomist