DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 120 Bloocl- vcssoIm, superior, inferior, and sonie- times lowest thyroid. Veins. Superior. Inferior, form a plexus on trachea. Trachea lies in neck and thorax. Size. Form. Cervical part is amongst muscles and vessels. CEsoiihagus occupies neck and thorax. Length. Position in neclc and connec- tions. areolar tissue unite togetlier the vesicles into small irregular masses or lobules ol; the size of the little finger nail. The arteries of the thyroid body are two on each side—superior and inferior thyroid. The branches of the external carotids (superior thyroid) ramify chiefly on the anterior aspect; while those from> the subclavians (inferior thyroid) pierce the under surface of the mass. A very fi-ee communication is established between all the vessels ; and in the substance of the thyroid body the arteries form a capillary network around the vesicles. Occasionally there is a third thyroid branch {art. thyroid, ima} which arises fi-om the innominate artery in the tliorax, and ascend- ing in fi-ont of the trachea assists in supplying the thyroid body. The veins are large and numerous ; they are superior, middle, and inferior thyroid on each side. The first two enter the internal jugular vein (p. 75). The inferior thyroid vein issues fi'om th& lower part of tha thyroid body, and descends on the trachea,—the two fomiing a plexus on that tube beneath the stemo-thjToid muscles ; it enters finally the innominate vein of its own side. The TRACHEA, or air tube, is continued fi-om the larynx to the thorax, and ends by dividing into two tubes (bronclii), one for each lung. It occupies the middle line of the body, and extends com- monly fi-om the fifth cervical to the fourth dorsal vertebra, measur- ing about four inches and a half m length, and nearly one in breadth. The front of the trachea is roimded in consequence of the- existence of firm cartilaginous bands in the anterior wall ; but at the posterior aspect the cartilages are absent, and the tube is flat and muscular. The cervical part of the trachea is very moveable, and has th& following relative position to the surrounding parts. Covering it in fi'ont are the small muscles reaching from the sternum to the hyoid bone, with the deep cervical fascia : beneath those muscles is the inferior thyroid plexus of veins ; and near the larynx is the isthmus: of the thyroid body. Behind the tube is the oesophagus, with the recm-rent nerves. On each side are the common carotid arteiy and the thyroid body. The structure of the trachea is described in Section XVII. The ossoPHAGUS, or gullet, reaches from the pharjTix to the stomach. It commences, hke the trachea, opposite the fifth cei-vical vertebra, and ends opposite the tenth dorsal vertebra. The tube reaches through part of the neck, and through the whole of the thorax; and occupies the middle line of the body. In length it measures about nine inches. In the neck its position is behind the trachea till near the thorax where it projects to the left side of the air tube, and touches the thyroid body and the thoracic duct. Behind the oesophagus is the longus colli muscle. On each side is the common carotid arteiy, the proximity of the left being greatest because of the projection of the oesophagus towards the same side. The structure of the asophagus will be examined in the dissec- tion of the thorax.