134 DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. the general and special cliaracters of the different gi-oups of teeth ; and the structure of them must be referred to in some treatise on the anatomy of the textures. Section XIII. Directions. Dissection. Cut tlii'ongli the bone witli saw. Situation of nose. Division into two. Form. Openings. Roof. DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. To obtain a view of the interior of the nose, it will be necessary to make a vertical longitudinal section through the nasal cavity. Whilst the student is examining the boundaries of the nose he will derive advantage from the use of a vertical section of a dried nasal ca^aty. Dissection. Before sawing the bone, the loose part of the lower jaw on the right side should be taken away; fm-ther, the tongue, hyoid bone, and lai-jmx, all united, may be detached from tlae opposite half of the lower jaw, and laid aside till the dissector is ready to use them. On the right side of the middle line saw through the fi'ontal and nasal bones, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and part of the body of the sphenoid bone, without letting the saw descend into the nasal cavity. Next the roof of the mouth is to be turned upwards, and the soft parts are to be divided on the right of the median line opposite the cut in the roof of the nose. The saw is then to be carried through the floor of the nose and the body of the sphenoid bone in such a line as to join the incision above. The piece of the skull is now separated into two parts, right and left; the right half will seiwe for the examination of the meatuses, and the left will shoAV the septum nasi, after the mucous membrane has been removed. The CAVITY OF THE NOSE is placed in the centre of the bones of the face, being situate above the mouth, below the cranium, and between the orbits. This space is divided into two halves—nasal fossfE,—by a vertical partition. Each fossa is larger below than above ; and is flattened in form, so that the measm-ement from before back or above down exceeds much that fi-om wthin out. It communicates with both tlie face and the phar;yTix by apertures named nares ; and has also apertures of commimication with the sinuses m the surrounding bones, viz. fi-ontal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and superior maxillary. The student has to examine in each fossa a roof and floor, an inner and outer wall, and an anterior and posterior opening. The roof is somewhat arched, and is formed by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone in the centre ; by the frontal and nasal bones, and the cartilages in fi-ont; and by the body of the sphenoid, the sphenoidal spongy bone, and the os palati, at the posterior part. In the dried skull many apertures exist in it; most are in the