DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 668 Exteviuil NiipllCllOUS <iiuls oil the foot; branches to the leg. Brandies of the liopliteal; coinmiini- catiiig <aiid cuta- neous. Termination of small sciatic. TeiTuination of internal cutaneous. Take away the fat. Deep fascia. Continua- tion. and attach- ments. Take away ihe fascia. Muscles in .superficial layer. Gastrocne- mius arises by two lieads from the femur. off lateral cutaneous offsets, and some of these turn over the tibia to the anterior aspect. The extdiud saphenous nerve (fig. 205,*) is a branch of the internal popliteal (p. 655). Perforating the deep fascia about the middle of tlie leg, it is continued Avith the external saphenous vein below the outer ankle, and is distributed to the outer side of the foot and little toe. As soon as the nerve enters the fat it is joined by the communicating branch of the external popliteal; and near the heel it gives large and long branches to the integuments. Cutaneous nerves of the external popliteal. One branch cf the external popliteal trunk, viz. communicating pteroneal (fig. 205, joins thte external saphenous nerve about the middle of the leg: but not uncommonly this branch extends as a distinct nerve as far as the heel. One or two other small cutaneous offsets of the external popliteal terminate over the fore part and outer side of the leg in the upper half. The small sciatic nei-ve (fig. 205, ^) perforates the fascia near the popliteal space, and reaches to about the middle of the leg with the external saphenous vein : it ramifies in the integuments, and joins the external saphenous nen^e. Offset of the internal cutaneous (fig. 205, The inner branch of the internal cutaneous of the thigh (p. 609), extends to the middle of the leg, and communicates with the internal saphenous nerve. Dissection. The deep fascia will be seen by removing the fat. The superficial vessels and nerves may be either cwt or turned aside. The special or deep fascia on the posterior aspect of the leg cpvers the muscles, and sends a thick process between the deep and super- ficial layers. Above, it is continuous with the investing membrane of the thigh, and receives offsets from the tendons about the knee ; and below, it joins the two annular ligaments (p. 690). Externally it is continued uninterruptedly fi'om the one aspect of the limb to the other, but internally it is fixed to the edge of the tibia. Veins are transmitted through it from the deep to the superficial vessels. Dissection. The fascia is to be divided along the centre of the leg as far as the heel, and is to be taken fi'om the surface of the gastrocnemius muscle. By fixing with a stitch the inner cut head of the gastrocnemius, the fibres of the muscle will be more easily cleaned. Superficial Layer of Muscles. In the calf of the leg there are thi-ee muscles, gastrocnemius, soleus, and plantaris, which extend the ankle. The two first are large, giving rise to the prominence on the surface, and end below by a common tendon ; but the last, in- considerable in size, is chiefly tendinous. The Gastrocnemius (fig. 205, ^), the most superficial muscle, is tendinous along the middle, and has above two distinct pieces or heads, which connect it with the condyles of the femur. The inner head of origin is attached by a large tendon to an impression at the posterior aspect of- the inner condyle, behind the insertion of the adductor magnus ; and by fleshy fibres to the line above the condyle.