DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 440 Inguinal glaiuls: ducts ontov aljdomen. Dissection of coverings of penis. Tegumcn- tary cover- ing of penis is thin, and witliout fat fonns prepuce and fraenum. Sebaceous glands. Teguments in scrotum. Muscular natm-e of fascia. Dissection of vessels and nerves. Suspensory ligament of iDenis; attacli- monts; contains vessels and nerves. Source of vessels and uerves. The rjlands of the (jroin are three or four in number, and lie along the line of Poupart's ligament. They are placed between the strata of the supei-ficial fascia ; and receive lymphatics fi-om the abdominal wall, from the upper and outer portion of the thigh, and fi-oni the superficial parts of the genital organs. Their efferent ducts pass downwards to the saphenous opening m the thigh to enter the abdomen. Dissection. After the examination of the superficial fat with its vessels and nerves the student may prepare the cutaneous coverings of the penis and scrotum. The skin may be di^^ded along the dorsum of the penis, and thrown to each side ; and the skin of the scrotum is to be reflected on the left side by means of a vertical incision. Cutaneous coverings of the x)enis and scrotum. The penis is at- tached to the fi-ont of the pubes by a suspensory hgament, and is provided with a tegumentaiy covering contmuous with that of the abdomen, but it loses the fat and acquires special characters. Aroimd the end of the penis it forms the loose sheath of the prepuce in the following way :—When the skin has reached the extremity, it is reflected backwards as far as the base of the glans, constituting thus a sheath with two layers—the x>repuce; it is afterwards continued over the gians, and joins the mucous mem- brane of the urethra at the orifice on the surface. At the mider j)art of the gians, and behind the aperture of the urethra, the integument forms a small triangular fold, fra^num j^roiputii. Where the skin covers the gians, it is inseparably imited with that part, is very thin and sensitive, being provided mth papilte, and assumes in some cases the characters of a mucous membrane. Behind the glans are some sebaceous follicles—glandules odoriferm. In the scrotum the superficial fascia becomes thin, and of a reddish colour. The prolongation around the testicle on one side is separate from that on the other side; and the two pouches, coming in contact in the middle line, form the septum scroti. The subcutaneous layer in the scrotum, penis, and fi-ont of the perinteum, contains involuntary muscular fibres, to which the corrugation of the skin is owing. Tliis contractile structure is named the dartoid tissue. Dissection. By remo\ing all the fatty tissue fi-om the root of the penis and the front of the symphysis pubis, the suspensory ligament will be defined. And the dorsal arteries and nerves, with the dorsal vein of the penis, which will be partly laid bare, are to be followed forwards in the teguments. The suspensory ligament of the penis is a band of fibrous tissue, of a triangular form, which is attached by its apes to the front of the symphysis pubis near the lower part. Widening below, it is fixed to the upper surface of the body of the penis, and is pro- longed on it for some distance. In the ligament are contained the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis. Dorsal vessels and nerves. The arteries and nerves on the dorsum of the penis are the terminal parts of the pudic trunks of both