DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 144 Olio to sep- tum nasi; ptcrygo- palatiue branch; viilinn branch. Other nasal arteries. Veins; alveolar lilexus. Facial nerve. Dissection of nerve in the bone, and its genu ; are distributed on the spoiigj' bones, and the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and supply offsets to the posterior ethmoidal cells. One long branch, artery of the septum (art. naso palatina), runs on the parti- tion between the nasal fossa) to the incisor foramen, through which it anastomoses with the superior palatine in the roof of the mouth ; this branch accompanies tlie naso-palatine nerve, and covers the septum with numerous ramifications. The 2^i<ii'y(lo-palatine is a very small branch which, passing back- wards through the canal of the same name, is distributed to the lining membrane of the i^haiynx. The vidian or pteryrjoid hranch is contained in the vidian canal with the nen-'e of the same name, and ends on the mucous mem- brane of the Eustacliian tube and the upper part of the pharynx. Some small 7iasal arteries are furnished to the roof of the nasal fossa by the posterior ethmoidal branch of the ophthalmic (p. 46). Also the anteror etlimoidal (internal nasal, p. 46), enters the cavity witli the nasal nerve, and ramifies in the lining membrane of the fore part of the nasal chamber as low as the vestibule ; a branch passes to the face between the os nasi and the cartilage, -with its nerve. Other offsets fi-om the facial arteiy supply the nose near the nostril. Veins. The veins accompanjang the termmal branches of the in- ternal maxillary artery unite in the spheno-maxillary fossa in the alveolar plexus. Into this A^enoiis intercommunication offsets are received fi'om the pterj^goid plexus and the infi-aorbital vem; and fi-om it a large trunk (anterior internal maxillary) is directed forwards below the malar bone to join the facial vein (p. 28). Beneath the mucous membrane of the nose the veins have a plexi- form arrangement, as before said. Facial nerve in the temporal bone (fig. 35). This nei-ve winds through the petrous part of the temporal bone ; and it is followed with difficulty in consequence of the extreme density of the bone, and the absence of marks on the surface to indicate its position. To render this dissection easier, the student should be provided with a temporal bone, in which the course of the facial nerve and the cavity of the tjnnpanum are displayed. Dissection. The examination of the nerve is to be begun at the stylo-mastoid foramen, and to be carried forwai'ds fifom that pomt. With this ^dew, the side of the skull should be saw through ver- tically between the meatus externus and the anterior border of the mastoid process, so as to open the posterior end of the aqueduct of Fallopius. The ners'-e will be then seen entering deeply into the substance of the temporal bone ; and it can be followed by cuttmg away with the bone forceps all the bone projecting above it. In this last step the cavity of the tympanum will be more or less opened, and the chain of bones in it laid bare. The nerve is to be traced omvards along the inner side of the tympanum, till it becomes enlarged, and bends suddenly inwards to the meatus auditorius intcrnus. The surrounding bone is to be removed from that enlargement so as to allow of the petrosal nerves