157 INTERXAL LARYNGEAL MUSCLES. ThjTO-ary- teiioideu.s. Action. Rotating tlie arytanioid cartilage by ^-"^g 7!^^^. , projection on the outer side of the base, it replaces the cartilage after this has been everted by the crico-arytsenoideus posticus, rt may also approach the one vocal cord to the other, and so narrow the glottis. The THYKO-ARYT/ENOIDEUS jroscLE (fig. 41) extends from the thyroid to the arytenoid cartilage ; it is tliick below, but thin and expanded above. The muscle anses from the thyroid cartilage near the middle line, for about the lower half of the depth, and from the crico-thyroid liga- ment. The fibres arc di- rected backwards with dif- ferent inclinations ; — The external,'', ascend somewhat and are inserted into the upper part of the outer sur- face of the arytasnoid carti- lage, and blend with tlie depressor of the epiglottis. The internal and lower fibres, ^, are transverse, and form a thick bimdle, which is in- serted into the fore part of the base of that cartilage, and into the outer surface. By its outer surface the muscle is in contact with the thyroid cartilage ; and the inner surface rests on the vocal cords, and on the ventricle of the larynx and the pouch. Action. It moves forward the aiytajnoid cartilage towards the Use on oonl. thyroid, and relaxes the vocal cord. By a thin band of fibres along the upper edge the rima glottidis can be narrowed, and the vocal cord put into tlie vocalizing position. The DEPKESSOK OF THE EPIGLOTTIS (fig. 41, ' thyro-arytaeno- Depressor oi cpiglottideus) is a thin muscular layer by the side of the upper epiglottis; opening of the larynx. Its fibres arise posteriorly from the front of origin, the arytaenoid cartilage, some being continuous below with fibres of the arytajnoid and thyro-arytasnoid muscles ; and anteriorly by a narrow slip from the thyroid cartilage near the middle line. From those attachments the fibres turn upwards with very diflEerent * View of the internal muscles of the larynx. 1. Crico-thyroideus detached. 2. Crico-arytiEnoideus posticus. 3. Crico-arytsenoideus lateralis. 4. Thyro- arytaenoideus, superficial part. 5. Depressor of the epiglottis. 6. Thyro- hyoideus, cut. 8. Deep or transverse jjart of thyro-arytsenoideus. Some iiiires ascend to tip, otliei-s to base of arji;ffinoi(l cartilage. Connec- tions.