334 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Form. Surfaces aucl borders. Size and weight. Situation in the chest; its axis, oblique, placed al- most hori- zontally. Only some parts touch the waU. Limits of base and apex of upper margin, lower border. Latere,! limits. The heai-t is double. Grooves, circular and longitu dinal; how placed, Form. When the heart is distended; its form is conical, but it is rather flattened from before backwards. Its surfaces, and borders have the following differences :—the anterior surface is slightly convex, whilst the posterior is nearly flat; the left border is thick and round, but the right is tMn, sharp, and less firm. Size. The size varies greatly, and in general the heart of the woman is smaller than that of the man. ■ Its average weight is from ten to twelve ounces in the male, and fi-om eight to ten in the female. The measurements may be said to be about four inches and tln-ee quarters in length, three inches and a half in width, and two inches and a half in thickness. Position and Direction. The heart lies beneath the lower two-thirds of the sternum, and projects on each side, but more on the left than the right. Its axis is not parallel to, but is inclined obHquely across that of the body ; and its position is almost horizontal with the base directed backwards and to the right, and the apex foi-wards and to the left side. The left margin of the viscus is undermost, whilst the right is foremost. In consequence of the direction of the heart in the thorax, only some parts can be near, or in contact with the parietes :—thus the right half and the apex will correspond with the thoracic wall, though mostly with lung intervening, whilst the base is directed away from the sternum and the costal cartilages : and the left half will be undermost and deep in the cavity. Limits (fig. 98). The limits of the whole heart are the following: the base is opposite the spinal column, and corresponds with four dorsal vertebrae (5th to 8th). The apex strikes the wall of the thorax during life just below the fifth rib, near the junction with the cartilage. The upper limit would be shown by a line across the sternum on a level with the upper edge of the third costal cartilage. And the lower limit would be marked by a line over the junction of the sternum Avith the xiphoid cartilage, drawn from the articulations of the sixth and seventh cartilages of the right side to the spot where the apex touches. Its lateral limits are the following. On the right it projects from one to one inch and a half beyond the middle line of the sternum, and its increase in this direction is constantly varying with the degree of distension of the right half of the heart. On the left side the apex projects three inches to three inches and a half from the centre of the breast bone. Component parts. The heart is a double organ, and is made up of two similar halves. In each half are two hollow portions, an auricle and a ventricle : these on the same side communicate, and are provided with vessels for the entrance and exit of the blood. On the surface are grooves indicatory of this composition. Thus, passing circularly round the heart nearer the base than the apex, is a groove which cuts ofE the thin auricular from the fleshy ventricular part. A longitudinal sulcus on each surface marks the situation of a median partition between the ventricles: this sulcus does not occupy