STRUCTUEE OF VAGINA. 58T the opening of the vagina, have been described as the semi-hulhs by Taylor {hulbi vestibuli, Kobelt, fig. 184, a). These are elongated bundles of plexiform veins, enclosed in fibrous membrane ; they are about an inch in length from above down, and are situate one on each side of the vestibule, where they are covered on the outer side by the constrictor vaginas (a). At the upper end each is pointed, and communicates with the vessels of the clitoris : and at the lower roimded extremity it joins the venous plexus of the vagina. These bodies would answer to the divided bulb of the corpus spongiosum urethne in the male, each lateral half being thrust aside Fig. 184.* connec- tions ; they corre- spond witli tlie bulb of the male. n the female towards the eras clitoridis by the large aperture of the vagina. The muscular layer is outside the erectile structure and consists of longitudinal fibres. Some reach all along the vagina ; others, and these are the strongest, only as far upwards as the recto-vesical fascia, to which they are attached on each side. Above they end in the superficial layer of the uterus, and in the subperitoneal fibrous tissue ; and below in the subdermic tissue. The mucous membrane is continued through the lower aperture to join the integument on the labia majora, and through the os uteri, at the opposite end, to the interior of the uterus. Many muciparous glands and follices open on the surface, but these are in greatest abundance at the upper part. Conical and filiform papillas exist on the membrane ; and a laminar epithelium gives a covering to it. Bloodvessels and nerves. The ai'teries are derived fi'om the vaginal, uterine, and vesical branches of the internal iliac (p. 5G3). The veins form a plexus around the A^agina, as well as in the genital organs, and open into the internal iliac vein. For a description of the nerves, see page 568. Muscular stratiua. Mucous membrane of the vagina. Arteries. Veins are plexiform. Nerves. * Venous plexuses of the genital organs, and opening of the vagina (Kobcit). A. Sphincter vagimE muscle, b. Clitoris, c. Nymphas. a. Semi-bulbs or bulbi vestibuli. b. Venous plexus continuous with veins of the clitoris (pars intermedia, Kobelt). c. Dorsal vein of the clitoris.