CUTANEOUS NEEVES OF THIGH. 606 anterior branches. Middle cutaneous reaches the knee. Occasionally this branch is of large size, and takes the place of unusual the external cutaneous nerve on the outer side of the limb. The external cutaneous nerve (p. 542) ramifies on the outer aspect External of the limb (fig. 190, ^). At first it is contained in a prominent '^"'^"eoiiB, ridge of the fascia lata on the outer margin of the thigh, where it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The posterior branch subdivides into two or three others, which l'°^"°'"> arch backwards to supply the integuments of the outer side of the thigh as low as the middle. The anterior branch appears on the fascia lata about four inches from Poupart's liga- ment and is continued to the knee below the other; it distributes branches late- rally, but those towards the posterior sur- face are the most numerous, and the largest in size. Middle cutaneous (fig. 190, The nerve of the centre of the thigh is a cutaneous offset of the anterior crural (p. 542), and divides into two branches. It is trans- mitted through the fascia lata about three inches from Poupart's ligament, and its branches are continued to the knee. In the fat tliis nerve is united with the genito- crural and internal cutaneous nerv'^es. Internal cutaneous. Derived from the an- terior crural trunk, this nerve is furnished to all the inner side of the thigh. It is divided into two branches (anterior and inner), which perforate the fascia in sepa- rate places. The anterior branch becomes cutaneous in the lower third of the thigh, in the line of the inner intermuscular septum (fig. 190, ^), along which it is continued to the knee. This branch is distributed in the lower third of the thigh, as well as over the patella and the inner side of the knee- joint, and is united with the patellar branch of the internal saphe- nous nerve. The inner^ branch (fig. 205, ») perforates the fascia inside the loiee the inner behind the internal saphenous nerve, with which it commmiicates • '"^ ^^''^ it furnishes offsets over the knee, and to the upper half of the leg on the inner surface. Other small offsets of the nerve supply the umer side of the thiffh o^'er small ^ ' twigs to tlie 2 M?,?,n'''T °o °* 1- External cutaneous. i. ,> I cutaneous. 3. Internal cutaneous. 4. Internal saphenous 5 Patellar branch 01 saphenous. 6. Genito-crural. 7. Ilio-incuinal 8 'tH„ hypogastric on the beUy. b"'"^i. o. uio- Intemal cutaneous: the anterior l)ranch extends to knee: