Ill PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. those uniting it with other nerves, and those distributed to parts cLiec</«f/ Iranclm (fig. 26) aiise from the ganglia of the root to unite and trunk of the vagus. ^ . o From the ganglion of the root. The auncular hranch is the chief oflEset, and crosses the jugular fossa to enter an apertm-e near the root of the styloid process : it traverses the substance of the temporal bone, and reaches the outer ear, on which it is distributed. Its fai-ther course vnW be described with the anatomy of the ear. » One or two short filaments unite this ganglion with the spinal vrith signal accessoiy nerve ; and a branch of the sympathetic nerve in the neck symj)',!- enters it. Occasionally there is an oiiset, ('") to join the lower «'etic, (petrosal) ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Fro7n the ganglion of the trunh. Communicating filaments connect with ninth, it with tlie hypo-glossal nei-ve. Other branches pass between it thetlcs'siiinal and the upper ganglion of the sympathetic, and between it and the nerves, loop of the first two cervical nei-ves. Branches for Distribution (fig. 25). The cenncal branches arise Branches to from the inner side of the nerve, and are directed inwards, to '^"i^i^'y supply the pharynx, the larynx, and the heart. a. The pharyngeal hranch (fig. 26, ^^) is an offset fi-om the upper pharynx part of the ganglion of the trunk, and terminates in the pharynx. The nerve is dii-ected inwards over the internal carotid artery and join (fig. 25, ^), and joins the branches of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve on that vessel. Finally it com'ses to the side of the middle con- sti-ictor muscle, and communicates with branches of the glosso- pharyngeal, superior laiyngeal, and sympathetic nei-ves, to form the pharyngeal plexus. From the plexus branches are fm'nislied to the and phai-jm- constrictors, and palato-glossus and pharyngeus, and to the pliaryn- Plexus, geal mucous membrane between the tongue and the hyoid bone. h. The superior laryngeal nerve (fig. 26, ''') is much larger than Upper the preceding branch, and comes from the middle of the ganglion ia™Jfx *° of the trunk. From this point it inclmes obliquely inwards be- neath the internal carotid artery (fig. 25,"), and reaches the larynx opposite the interval between the hyoid bone and the thjToid car- tilage. The nerve then perforates the thjro-hyoid membrane, and is distributed to the mucous lining of the larynx. (See "Larynx.") to supply In the neck it furnishes branches to the thyroid body, and the fol- ' "'"^ leaving offset to one laryngeal muscle and the pharjmx :— The external laryngeal branch (fig. 25, ^) arises beneath the a branch internal carotid artery, and runs below the superior laryngeal nerve lar^x'' to the side of the larynx. Here it gives offsets to the pharyngeal plexus; and it is continued beneath the sterno-thyroideus to the crico-thyroid muscle and the inferior constrictor. Near its origin to crico-thy tills branch communicates with the superficial cardiac branch of the ' uaV""- sympathetic nerve. ^ »aiyiix. c. Cardiac branches. Some small cardiac nerves spring fr-om the ]}ranches to pneumo-gastric at the upper part of the neck, and join cardiac ""^ '""''■'^» branches of the sympathetic. At the lower part of the neck, on Ito''''*^ each side, there is a single cardiac nerve :—the right one enters the