DISSECTION OF UPPER LIMB. 822 Interosseous ligainouts, metacarpal, and carpal. Dissection of linger joints. Metacarpal Isones and phalanges: latera igament, anterior ligament. posterior. Synovial sac. Joint of thumb. Kind of motion. Extending. Bending. Interosseous ligaments. The interosseous ligaments between the bases of the metacarpal bones may be demonstrated by detaching one bone from anotlier. There are also strong fibrous pieces be- tween all the carpal bones in the second row; and slight ones are described as present on each side of the os semilunare in the first row. Fig. 96.* Dissection. For the examination of the joint between the head of the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the finger, it will be requisite to clear away tendons and the tendinous expansion around it. A lateral ligament on each side, and an anterior thick band are to be defined. One of the joints may be opened to see the articular siu-faces. The same dissection may be made for the articulations between the phalanges of the finger. Union of Metacarpal Bone and First Phalanx (fig. 96). In this joint the isonvex head of the metacarpal bone is received into the glenoid fossa of the phalanx, and the two are retained in contact by the extensor and flexor tendons, and by the following ligaments :— The lateral ligament (d) is the same on both sides of the joint. Each is triangular in foim; it is attached by its upper end to the tubercule on the side of the head of the metacarpal bone, and below it is inserted into the phalanx and the anterior ligament. The anterior ligament (h) is a longitudinal band, which is fixed firmly to the phalanx, but loosely to the metacarpal bone. It is fibro- cartilaginous in texture, and is grooved for the flexor tendon : to its sides the lateral ligaments are united. Covering the upper part of the joint is the extensor tendon ; this takes the place of a dorsal ligament, and sends down an expansion on each side, which serves as a capsule to the articulation. The synovial membrane of the joint is a simple sac. In the articulation of the thumb two sesamoid bones are connected with the anterior hgament, and receive most of the fibres of the lateral ligaments. Movements. Motion in fom- opposite directions, and circumduction, exist in these condyloid joints. Extension and flexion. The phalanx moves backwards in extension, so as to give an angle with the metacarpal bone. The anterior liga- ment and the flexor tendons are stretched, and control the move- ment. In flexion the phalanx glides forwards under the head of the metacarpal bone, and leaves this exposed to form the knuckle when the finger is shut. The lateral ligaments and the extensor tendon are put on the stretch as the joint is bent.