503 STRUCTURE OF THE COLON. Ileo-ccBCal valve (fig. 1.03). Tliis valve is situate at the entrance situation of of the ileum into the cfi>cum. It is composed of two pieces, each = with a different inclination, which project into the interior of the j.^'lt?"®*'''''' ciccum, and bound a narrow, nearly transverse aperture of com- nuinication between the two differently-sized portions of tlic alimen- tary canal. The upper piece of the valve, ileo-colic (e), projects horizontally On?,'Jeo. into the largo intestine, opposite the junction of the ileum with the ^°' colon. And the lower piece, ileo-cacal (/), which is the larger of the otlier the two, has a vertical direction between the ileum and the cajcum. iieo-ciecai; At each extremity of the opening the pieces of the valve are blended ^^^^^^^^^^ together ; and the resulting prominence Qi) extends transversely tlie ends, on each side of the intestine, forming the frccna or retinacula of the and form Irajna. valve. ' The size of the opening is altered by the distension of the Opening in intestine ; for when the retinacula of the valve are stretched the '''"^ margins of the aperture are approximated, and may be made to touch. Each piece of the valve is fomied by circular muscular fibres of Tiie valve a the intestuial tube, covered by mucous membrane ; as if the ileum J," ^i""fvau"' was thrust obliquely through the wall of the cascum, after being of tiie gut. deprived of its peritoneal coat and the layer of longitudinal fibres. This construction is easily seen on a fresh specimen by dividing the peritoneum and the longitudinal fibres, and gently drawing out the ileum fi'om the cascum. The opening of the appendix into the ca3cum (d) is placed below Appendix- that of the ileum. The mucous membrane partly closes the aperture, "i"^"** and acts as a valve. Folds or ridges are directed transversely in the interior of the gut. Ridges in and correspond with depressions on the outer surface : these folds '• result from the doubling of the wall of the intestine, and the largest iiow enclose vessels. Structure of the Colon. The coats of the large are similar to Four strata those of the small intestine, viz., serous, muscular, fibrous, and "t the giu! mucous. Serous coat. The peritoneum does not clothe the large intestine, Serous c-oat throughout, in the same degi-ee. It covers the front of the cascum, thehfte.'-"" and the fi-ont and sides of the ascending and descending colon ; but tine, in neither does it reach commonly the posterior aspect (p. 475). The transverse colon is incased like the stomach, and has intei-vals along the borders, where the transverse mcso-colon and the great omentum are attached. The muscular coat is formed by longitudinal and circular fibres, Two layers as in the small intestine. of fleshy The longitudinal fibres may be traced as a thin layer over the "oTh^udinni surface, but most are collected into three longitudinal bands, about inthree'"" a quarter of an inch in width. On the vermiform appendix the fibres form a uniform layer; but they are continued thence into Sa'^i out the bands on the ciccum and colon : on the rectum they are dif- nin'P"iii>: fused over the surface. When the bands arc divided the intestine '"""^'