219 COEPORA QUADRIGEMINA. base, and extending forwards, one along the inner side of each thalamus, end by joining the crura of the fornix. At the base of the gland is a band of transverse whitefibres which unites it with the posterior commissure. This body is of a red colour and vascular, and encloses two or Structui-e. more cells contaming a thick fluid, with amyloid bodies, and a calcareous material (brain sand) consisting of particles of phosphate and carbonate of lime, and phosphate of magnesia and ammonia.'* In its substance are large pale nucleated cells. The corpora quadric/emina (fig. 68) are four small bodies, which Conjora are arranged in pairs, right and left, and are separated by a median gemina. groove. Each pair is situate on the upper aspect of the cerebral peduncle of the same side. The anterior eminence (h, nates) is somewhat larger than the posterior, from which it is separated by a slight depression ; it is oblong from before backwards, and sends forwards a white band to join the optic tract and thalamus. The posterior eminence (i, testis) is rounder in form and whiter in colour than the preceding : it has also a lateral white band wliich is directed beneath the corpus geniculatum internum, and blends with the peduncular fibres in the thalamus opticus. These bodies are small masses of gray substance enveloped by ^j*™^,'^^ white, and are placed on the band of the fillet which forms the roof bands, of the aqueduct of Sylvius. The processes (brachia) to the optic thalamus are accessory parts to the peduncular fibres of the cere- bram (p. 220). Fillet of the olivary body. If the upjier margin of the cerebellum qj^^* °^q(J be pulled aside, a white band, about a quarter of an inch in width, will be seen to issue fi-om the transverse fibres of the pons, and to bend upwards over the peduncle of the cerebellum to the corpora quadiigemina (fig. 65, *). This is the upper or commissural piece of the fillet (p. 127), which Passes lie- passes beneath the corpora quadrigemina, and joins with the similar pok quacU-i- band of the opposite side over the Sylvian aqueduct. gemina. Structurk of the Cerebrum. In each cerebral hemisphere three Three sets of principal sets of constituent fibres are recognised, viz., diverging, cerebrum, transverse, and longitudinal. The former are in part derived from the spinal cord ; while the two latter, joining distant pieces of the cerebrum, are considered to be only connecting or commissural in their office. Peduncular or diverging fibres (fig. 56). In the crus cerebri two Fibres of bundles of longitudinal fibres are collected; there these are con- to"the°'lemi nected with gray matter, and are derived fi-om the medulla oblongata spiiere. (p. 200). Dissection. A complete systematic view of the diverging fibres Dissection cannot be now obtained on the imperfect brain. At this stage the them Tliese particles are referred to by Kollilcer, as pathological products ; and the concentrically arranged masses amongst them are said to be incrustations of nbnn coagula.