DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. 152 its posterior libres. Consti'ictor in the tongue, how ends. Intiinsic muscles. First show inferior, tlien sxipe- rior lin- gualis, tlien traus- versalis. Trace the nerves. Traiisver- salis is liori- zontal. Attacli- ruents. Fibres. Use. Upper lin- gualis. Origin. Fibres. in the submucous tissue. In tlie tongue the fibres spread like the rays of a fan from apex to base, and are collected into bundles as they pass through the transversalis. The most posterior fibres end on the hyo-gloBsal membrane and the hyoid bone ; and a slip is prolonged to them, beneath the hyo-glossus, from the upper con- strictor of the pharynx. A vertical section at a future stage will show the radiation of its fibres. The 2^Jiaryngeo-glossus (glosso-phaiyngeus), or the fibres of the upper constrictor attached to the side of the tongue, passes amongst fibres of the hyo-glossus, and is continued with the transverse muscle to the septum. The intrinsic muscles (fig. 38) are three in number in each half of the tongue, viz., transversaUs, with a superior and an inferior lingualis. Dissection. To complete the preparation of the inferior lingualis on the right side, the fibres of the stylo-glossus covering it in fi-ont, and those of the genio-hyo-glossus over it behind, are to be cut tlirough. The superior lingualis (fig. 37,-*^) may be shown, on the left side, by taking the tloin mucous mem- brane from the upper surface from tip to base. The transversalis (fig. 38,°) may be laid bare on the right side, by cutting away on the upper sur- face the stratum of the extrinsic muscles ah-eady seen ; and by removing on the lower surface, the inferior lingualis and the genio-hyo-glossus.* The nerves of the tongue are to be dissected on the left half as well as the part will admit; but a recent specimen would be required to follow them satisfactorily. The transversalis muscle (fig. 38, forms a horizontal layer in the substance of the tongue fi-om base to apex. The fibres are attached internally to the side of the septum, and are directed thence outwards, the posterior being somewhat curved, to their insertion into the side of the tongue. Its fibres are collected into flattened bundles, so as to allow the passage between them of the ascending fibres of the genio-hyo- glossus. Action. By the contraction of the fibres of the two muscles the tongue is made narrower and rounder, and is increased in length. The superior lingualis (fig. 37, ^, noto-glossus of Zaglas) is a very thin layer of oblique and longitudinal fibres close beneath the sub- mucous tissue on the dorsum of the tongue. Its fibres arise fi-om the fi-tenum epiglottidis, and from the fibrous tissue along the middle line ; fi'om this attachment they are directed obliquely out- * Intrinsic muscles of tte tongue. A. Geuio-liyo-glossus. b. Septum hngua;, c. Transversalis. D. Inferior lingualis (Zaglas).