STRUCTURE OF LIVER. oil the proper secreting substance, and can be seen either on the exterior of the liver, on a cut surface, or b}' means of a rent hi the mass. As thus observed, these bodies are about the size of a pin's head, and measure from ^\th to -^\t\i of an inch in diameter. Closely massed together they possess a dark central point ; and there are indications of lines of separation between them, though they connnunicate by vessels. By means of transverse and ver- tical sections of the lobules, their form will appear flattened on the exterior, but many sided in the interior of the liver. They are clustered around the smallest didsions of the hepatic vein, to wliich each is connected by a small twig issuing from the centre, sonrething like the union of the stalk with the body of a small fruit. To study the minute structure of the lobules, a microscope will be necessary ; and the different vessels 6f the liver should be niinutel}'^ injected. Constituents of the lobules. Each lobule is composed of minute hepatic cells, which are arranged web-liko amongst the ducts and A'cssels ; and it is i^rovided with a capillary netAvork of vessels, and with a plexus of the bile duct. Cells of the lobules. The hepatic or biliary cells (fig. 157, a) form the chief part of the lobule; they are irregular in form, being roimded or many sided, and pos- sess a bright nucleus, or even more than one. In size thev size nnd aiJiieanmce; form. Position to veins. Fis. 157.* A lobule is a distinct t'laud. Biliary cells of the lobule, form size, and contents; vary from -^o^^^^ to ^th of an inch. They are of a yelloAV- ish colour, and enclose granular particles, together with fat and yellow colouring matter. These nucleated cells adhere together by their surfaces so as to form rows radiating from tl>e centre, with spaces (b) between them for the bloodvessels and ducts. The cells are concerned in the secretion of the bile. Vessels of the lobule (fig. 158, b). The smallest branches of the venaportce, after uniting in a circle around the lobule, where they are named interlobular (a), enter its substance, and form therein a network of capillaries (c) near the circumference. A small branch of the heixitic rein (d) occupies the centre of the lobule ; its radicles communicate with the portal network, and it issues from the base of the lobule as tlic intralobular vein. _ The rculicles of the bile duct (fig. 158, a) begin within the lobule ni a fine mtralobular plexus of ducts {g) between tlie hepatic ■ * ^,"|'^,"ified representation of tlie liepatic cells with their arran"ement ni the lobule, a. Cells, b. Intercelhilar space (Hcnle). "^'^''^noement aiTaUi^e- iiient. Its vessels, viz. vena porta', hepatic vein, and bile duct: