DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 22 Use. Elevator of wing of nose. Use. Dilator of iiosti'il; anterior and posterior parts. Use. Depressor of wing. Use. Four mus- cles of eye- lids. Fig. 5.' hone. The filJi-es are directed inAvarda, spreading out at the same time, and end in an aponeurosis, wliicli covers the cartiLnginouf* part of tlie nose, and joins the tendon of the opposite muscle. Tliis muscle is partly concealed by the next—the common elevator of the ala of the nose and the upper lip. Action. It stretches the skin over the cartilaginous part of the nose. The LEVATOE LABTi surERiORis ALiEQUE NASI (fig. 5, ^) is placed by the side of the nose, and arises fi'oni the top of the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone, internal to the attachment of the orbicularis. As the fibres descend from the inner part of the orbit, the most internal are attached by a nan-ow slip to the wing of the nose, wliilst the rest are blended mferiorly with the orbicularis oiis. Near its origin the muscle is partly con- cealed by the orbicularis palpebrarum, but in the rest of its extent it is subcutaneous- Its outer border joins the elevator of the upper lip. Actio7i. As the name expresses, it can raise the upper lip, and draw outwards the wing of the nose, dilating the aperture ; but when the mouth is shut it can enlarge the' nostril independently of the lip. Dilatator Naris. In the dense tissue on the outer side of the nostril are a few muscular fibres, both at the fore and back part of that aperture (fig. 5, and ^), to wliich the above name has been given by Theile : they are seldom -v-isible Avithout a lens. The anterior slip, passes fi-om the cartilage of the aperture to the integmnent of the margin of the nostril; and the posterior,arising from the upper jawbone and the small sesamoid cartilages, ends also in the integuments of the nostril. Action. The fibres enlarge the nasal opening by raismg and everting the outer edge. The DEPRESSOR ALvE NASI (fig. 5,") will be seen if the upper lip is everted, and the mucous membrane is removed fz-om the side of the fi-tenum of the Hp. It arises below the nose fi-om a depression of the upper jawbone above the roots of the second incisor and canine teeth ; and ascends to be inserted into the septum nasi and the posterior part of the ala of the nose. Action. By drawing down imd turnmg in the edge of the dilated nostril, it restores the apertm-e to its usual size. Muscles of the Eyelids. The muscles of the eyelids and eye- brow ai-e four in number, viz. orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator * Muscles of the nose. 1. Pyramidalis nasi. 2. Common elevator of the nose and lip. 3. Compressor naris. 4 and 5. Tlie two slips of the dilatator naris. 6. Depressor alai nasi. 7. Orbicukuis oris, attached to the septum nasi.