DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 580 that sends in processes: fibres form sti-atft. One septal piece, ■wliicli is imperfect; how formed; and nume- rous bands and cords to form a net- work. In the cords some mus- cular fibres. Fig. 181.* Vessels. Source of the arteries; termination in dilated veins, and from half a line to a line in thickness. Along the middle of the penis a septal process is sent inwards from it; and numerous other finer threads,—the trabeculjB of the spongy structure, are connected with its inner surface. It is formed of white shining fibres which are disposed in two layers, outer and inner. The outer stratum (fig. 180, b) is formed of longitudinal fibres with close meshes. The inner stratum (fig. 180, a) consists of circular fibres, with a like plexiform disposition ; and the circular fibres of each cavernous body meeting in the middle line give rise to the septum penis. Both strata are in- separably united by communicating bundles. The septal process (fig. 181) is placed vertically along the body of the penis, and is thicker and more perfect behind than in front. Near the junction of the crura this partition divides the enclosed cavity into two ; but as it reaches forwards it becomes less strong, and is pierced by elongated apertures, which give it the appearance of a comb, from which the name septum peciiniforme is derived. Through the intei-vals in the septum the vessels in the corpora cavernosa communicate. It is fonned by the circular fibres of the fibrous case. The cavernous or trabecular structure is a net- work of fine tlu-eads, which fills the interior of the corpora cavernosa. Its processes are thinner towards the centre than at the circumference ; and the areolar spaces are larger in the middle and at the fore part of the contained ca^dty, than at the circumference or in the crura of the penis. In addition to white fibrous tissue, the trabeculse contain elastic fibres, and unstriated muscular fibres (Miiller). The spongy structure may be demonstrated by sections of the penis, after it has been distended with air and dried. Bloodvessels. The bloodvessels of the penis are large in size, and serve to nourish as well as to minister to the function of the organ. Having entered the cavernous mass, they ramify in the trabecular structure. The arteries of the corpora cavernosa are ofi'sets of the pudic : the chief branch (art. corp. cavemosi, p. 431) enters at the crus, and runs foi-wards through the middle of the cavernous structure, distributing offsets ; and the rest, coming from the dorsal artery (p. 441), pierce the fibrous case along the dorsum of the penis. In the interior they divide into branches, which ramify in the trabeculte (fig 182, a), becoming finer, until they terminate in very minute branches, which open into the veins in the mtertrabecular * Pectiniform septum of the penis, a. Apertures in the partition, h. Separate fibrous processes like the teeth of a comb, which are formed by the cu'cular fibres.