555 CONNECTIONS OF UEETIIRA. concavity to tbc pubes. Thence to its termination the urethra is applied to the penis ; and whilst this body remains pendent the canal fonns a second bend with the concavity downwards, but if tlie penis is raised the tube makes but one curve. The canal is divided into three parts,—prostatic, membranous, and spongy. division. The prostatic ^wr< (i) is contained in the prostate gland, and Prostatic, receives its name from that circumstance. Its length is about one inch and a quarter, and in the erect posture of the body it is inclined downwards to the trianguhu- perinjcal ligament. Its con- nections are the same as those of the gland (p. 553). The membranous part (c), about tlu-ee quarters of an inch long, Membra- inten'cncs between the apex of the prostate and the front of the ' perinatal triangular ligament. It slants downwards in the erect posture to the fore jDart of the triangular ligament; and as the bulb of the next portion of the urethral tube is directed backwards below it, the under surface measures only half an inch. This division of the urethra is the weakest; but it is supported by the triangular ligament (n). SuiTounding it are the muscular ronnec- fibres of the constrictor urethras ; and close below it are Cowper's glands with the rectum. The sponcjy part (d) is so named from its being surrounded by a Spongy, cellulo-vascular structure. It is applied to and assists to form the body of tlie penis, and terminates anteriorly in the orifice named meatus urinarius in the end of the glans. It is the longest part of the urethra, and measures about six inches. At its commencement this di\nsion of the excretory canal is covered for two inches by the ejaculator urinai muscle (fig. 130). The cui-ve of the urethra is the fix:ed bend at the inner extremity. Fixed curve which lies below the pubes. It extends from the bladder to an °^ "'''^""'•■^ ■ inch and a half in fi-ont of the triangular ligament, and consists of extent, the prostatic and membranous portions, with a fourth of the spongy part. Its convexity, which is turned downwards, is greatest at the where front of the triangular ligament in the erect posture of the body: feieatest. and from this point it curves up and back to the bladder, and up anteriorly to the penis. It is siUTotmded by voluntary and involuntary muscular fibres : Voluntaiy tlius, behind the ligament, by the involuntary muscular tissue of f"ntl"y'°" the prostate ; within tlie ligament by the voluntary constrictor muscles sur- uretlira?, with a thin involuntary layer inside that muscle ; and '"""'^ before the ligament by the voluntary ejaculator urinaj. Its size is smallest where the tube pierces the perinatal liga- Size, ment (n), and Hes between the layers ; and is largest in the nriddle of the prostate. Dissection. The tegumentary covering of the penis may be re- Dissection, moved, to see the components of that body ; and after its removal the spongy part of the urethra will be better seen. The teguments should be replaced after the penis has been learnt. The I'KNis is attached to the fore part of the pelvis, and liangs consti- in front of the scrotum. It is constructed of two firm fibrous bodies (fig. 172, e) named corpora cavernosa, which are filled with the'penlLf