741 BOUNDARIES OF TYMPANUM. Inner parts of the ear. The internal constituents of tlic organ internal set of hearing are enclosed within the temporal bone, and consist of two large spaces,—tympanum and labyrinth, with theii- accessory bodies. The TYMPANUM, or drum of the ear (fig. 236,d), is a hollow inter- Tympanum, posed between the meatus auditorius and the labyrinth. It commu- nicates with the pharynx by a tube (e Eustachian), through which the air has access ; and it is traversed by a chain of small bones, with which special muscles and ligaments are connected. Minute vessels and nerves are contained in the space. Dissection. The tympanic cavity should be examined in both a dried and a recent bone. On the dry temporal bone, after removing most of the squamous ^V'sn^ in portion by means of a vertical cut of the saw through the root of bone, the zygoma and the Glaserian fissure, the tympanum will be brought into view by cutting away with the bone forceps some of the upper surface of the petrous portion, and the anterior part of the meatus auditorius. In the recent bone prepare the dissection as above, but without a^id in the 1 • • • 1 , • , 1 1 T i ■ recent bone, domg m]ury to the membrana tympani, the chorda tympani nerve, and the chain of bones with its muscles. Form. The cavity of the tympanum has the form of a slice of a Form and small cork, about a quarter of an inch tliick, the outer and inner boundaries being flattened and the circumference circular. Its size is greater across the space, than from without inwards ; in the former dimensions, du-ection it measures about half an inch, but in the latter not more than a quarter of an inch. The inner boundary (fig. 237) is of greater extent than the outer, inner wall and on it the following objects are to be noticed. Occupying nearly by promon- the whole surface is the large projection of the promontory (a) ; toryand its this is pointed posteriorly, and is marked by two or three minute grooves (d) which lodge the nerves in the anastomosis of Jacobson. Above and below the narrowed end of the promontory is a large aperture; both lead into the labyrinth. The upper opening (6) semicircular in shape, with the convexity g®^^*''* placed upwards, is named fenestra ovalis: into it the inner bone (stapes) of the osseous chain is fixed. The lower aperture (c),— fenestra rotunda, is rather triangular in shape, and leads into the and fenestra cochlea ; it is situate within a hollow, which is somewhat semi-ellip- rotunda, tical in form. In the recent state it is closed by a thin membrane, the secondai-y membrane of the tympanum. The outer boundary of the cavity is formed by the membrana On outer tjTnpani (fig. 236, c), and the surrounding bone. Above and in J'^euibrani front of the membrane, is the Glaserian or glenoid fissure, which is tympanT'^ occupied in the fresh condition by the long process of one of the ?S.n fe^ur,, small bones (malleus) ; by a small muscle, the laxator tympani ; and by tympanic vessels. Crossing the membrane towards the upper part is the chorda tympani nerve, which issues also through the Glaserian fissure. The circumference of the tympanum is circular, and is rough and circum- ference ;