DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 20 Sympathetic forms carotid plexus. caveriiouK plexus; Tinion witli cranial nerves. Bistiibii- tioii. Tliree petro- sal nen'cs. Two seen in base of skull. Directions for preser- ving parts. The terminal branches of the carotid will be seen in the dissec- tion of the base of the brain (p. 182). Sympathetic Nervk. Around the carotid arteiy is a prolongation of the sympathetic nen'c of the neck, which forms the following plexuses :— Tlie carotid plextis is situate on the outer side of the vessel, at its entrance into the cavernous sinus, and commimicates Avith the sixth nerve and the Gasserian ganglion. The small cavernous plexus is placed below the bend of the artery which is close to the anterior clinoid process, and is connected with that oifset of the upper cei-vical ganglion which courses along the inner side of the carotid artery. Filaments from the plexus unite with the third, fourth, and ophthalmic ner^^es. One filament is also furnished to the lenticular ganglion in the orbit, either sepa- rately from, or in conjunction with the nasal nerve. After forming those plexuses, the nei"ves suiTound the trunk o£ the carotid, and are lost chiefly in the cerebral membrane named pia mater : but some ascend on the cerebral and ophthalmic branches of that vessel, and one offset is said to enter the eyeball with the central artery of the retina. Petrosal nerves (fig. 35). Beneath the Gasserian ganglion is the large superficial loetrosal nerve (fig. 35, ^) entering the liiatus Fallopii to join the facial nerve. External to this is occasionally seen another smo\\petrosal nerve (fig. 35, ^) (external superficial), which springs fi'om the sympathetic on the lai'ge meningeal arteiy, and enters the bone to join the facial ners'^e. A third, the small petrosal nerve (fig. 35, ^), is contained in the substance of the temporal bone. The source, and the destination of those three small nerves will be afterwards learnt. It will sufiice now for the student to note the two first, and to see that they are kept moist and fit for examination at a future time. Directions. Now the base of the skull has been completed a preservative fluid or salt should be applied, and the flaps of the teguments should be stitched together over all. Section III. DISSECTIOJT OF THE FACE. Directions. Directions. The left side of the face may be used for learning the muscles and vessels, and the right side is to be reserved for the nerves. Position Position. The previous position of the head for the examination of body. q£ ^j^g i^j^gg p£ ^1^3 ^^iji require to be changed :—the head is to be lowered, and the side of the face to be dissected is to be put upwards and fixed with hooks. Dissection. Dissection., As a preparatory step, the muscular fibres of the apertures may be made slightly tense by inserting a small quantity