SUBCLAVIAN VEIN. "^^ body it divides into branches which ramify in the under surface, and conununicate with the superior thyroid, and its fellow, tormnig a A'ery free anastomosis between those vessels. Near the larynx a lunjngeal branch is distributed to that tube, and other offsets are furnished to the trachea. _ The ascending cemcal branch of the thyroid is directed upwards ing cervical between the scalenus and rectus capitis anticus major, and ends m branch, branches to those muscles and the posterior triangle of the neck. Some small spinal offsets are conveyed along the spinal nei-ves to the cord and its membranes. The veins corresponding with the branches of the thyroid axis Ven^^cor-^^ have the following destination :—those with the suprascapular and to arteries" ti-ansverse cervical arteries open into the external jugular vein. But the inferior thyroid vein, beginning in the thyroid body, descends in fi-ont of the trachea, beneath the muscles covering this tube, to the mnoniinate vein. The supenor intercostal artery &r\B<is fvom the posterior pai't of f„"ie^4°ta^ the subclavian, and bends downwards over the neck of the first rib : branch, its distribution to the first two intercostal spaces will be seen in the thorax (p. 363). Aiismg in common with this branch is the deep cervical artery '^^^l^^^^Xu (art. profunda cervicis). Analogous to the dorsal branch of an intercostal arteiy (Quain), it passes backwards between the trans- A'^erse process of the last cervical vertebra and the first rib, lying intei-nal to the two hinder scaleni muscles and the fleshy slips con- tinued upwards from the erector spinse, to end beneath the com- plexus muscle at the posterior part of the neck. A spinal branch (Quain) is frequently given from the second part of the arteiy ; its offsets are continued into the spinal canal through the intei-vertebral foramina. The SUBCLAVI^VN VEIN has not the same limits as the companion Sui)cla\'ian arteiy, reacliing only from the lower edge of the first rib to the inner border of the anterior scalenus. It is a contmuation of the axillaiy vein, and ends by joining the internal jugular in the inno- minate trunk. Its course is arched below the level of the arteiy, from which it is separated by the scalenus. Branches. The anterior and external jugular join the subcla^dan its bi"anches • vein outside the scalenus, and the vertebral vein enters it inside that muscle. Into the angle of union of the subclavian and jugular veins the right lymphatic duct opens (fig. 27, ") ; and at the like opening of spot, on the left side, the large lymphatic or thoracic duct ends JiiJyt's""'^'*' (fig. 27, *). The highest pair of valves in the subclavian trunk is valves, placed outside the opening of the external jugular vein.* It should be borne in mind that not unfrequently the vem is as Position liigh in the neck as the third part of its companion artery ; and that '""^ the vein has been seen twice with the arteiy beneath the anterior scalenus. • See a paper on tlio Valves in the Veins of the Neck in the Edin Med Journal of Nov., 1856, by Dr. Struthers.