DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 678 The FLKXOR BREVis DiGiTORUM (fig. 208, ^, flexor perforatuB) arises posteriorly by a pointed process from the inner part of the larger tubercle of the os calcis, and from the plantar fascia and the septa. About the centre of the foot the muscle ends in four small tendons, which are directed forwards over the tendons of the long flexor, and entering the sheaths of the four smaller toes, are inserted into the middle phalanges. In the sheath of the toe the tendon of this muscle lies at first, (in this position of the foot) on the long flexor ; opposite the centre of the metatarsal phalanx it is slit for the passage of the other, and is attached by two processes to the sides of the middle phalanx. The short flexor of the toes is contained in a sheath of the plantar fascia, and occupies" the middle of the foot. It conceals the tendon of the long flexor of the toes, the accessory muscle, and the external plantar vessels and nerve. Aciion. It bends the nearest phalangeal jomt of the four smaller toes, like the flexor sublimis in the upper limb, and approximates the toes at same time. The ABDUCTOR MINIMI DiGiTi (fig. 208, ^) has a wide origin behind from the small outer tubercle of the os calcis, from the fi'ont of the inner tubercle, and from the plantar fascia and the external inter- muscular septum. It ends anteriorly in a tendon which is inserted into the outer side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the little toe. The muscle lies along the outer border of the foot, and conceals the flexor accessorius, and the tendon of the peroneus longus. On its inner side are the external plantar vessels and nerve. Sometimes a part of the muscle is fixed into the projection of the fifth meta- tarsal bone. Action. Though it can abduct the little toe from the others, as the name signifies, its chief use is to bend the metatarso-phalangeal joint. Dissection. To bring into view the second layer of muscles and the plantar vclsscIs and nerves, the muscles alreadjr examined must be reflected (fig. 209). Cut through the flexor brevis at the os calcis, and as it is raised, notice a branch of nen^e and artery to it. Dividing the abductor minimi digiti near its origin, and turning it to the outer side of the foot, seek its nerve and vessel close to the calcaneum. The abductor poUicis can be drawn aside if it is necessary, but it may remain uncut till afterwards. Next the internal plantar vessels and nerve are to be followed forwards to their termination, and backwards to their origin ; and the external plantar vessels and nerve, the tendons of the long flexors of the toes, the accessory muscle, and the small lumbricales, should be freed from fat. Two plantar The PLANTAR ARTERIES (fig. 209) are the terminal branches of artenes; posterior tibial trunk, and supply digital offsets to the toes. iTuter.'"''^ They are two in number, and are named external and internal from their relative position in the sole of the foot. Of the two the external is the larger, and forms the plantar arch of arteries. Flexor brevis digi- torvunj divides into tendons for four toes. Insertion. Connec- tions. Use on the phalangeal joints. Ahdxictor of the little toe. Origin and insertion. Is atTside of the foot. Use as ahductor and flexor. Dissect the next mus- cular layer, and plantar vessels and nerves.