189 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. Finally this fasciculus throws itself into the pneunio-gastric nerve outside the skull. (See p. 112.) The spinal part is firm and round, like the third or the si.xth : nerve, but only a small piece of it can be seen. It arises by a number of fine filaments from the lateral column of the spinal cord neai- the lateral fissure, as low as the sixth cervical nerve. As the nerve ascends along the side of the cord it lies between the liga- mentum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, with the upper of which it may be connected ; and it finally enters the skull by the foramen magnum. All three neives converge below the cms cerebelli, and rest on a all converge small lobe of the cerebellum (fiocculus). From that spot they are " ^^'^ ^ directed outwards to the foramen jugulare (p. 19). The fibrils of the nerves pierce the medulla ; and each nerve, except the spinal part of the eleventh, takes origin fi-om a special deposit of gray matter at the back of the medulla oblongata, and near the lower angle of the fourth ventricle (p. 229). Beep orif/in. The fjlosso-pharynijeal penetrates as far as the vagus nucleus, Ceeii origin where it ends in fibrils -n hich enter that deijosit. glosso- The -vwjus nerve arises in a special nucleus (p. 229) ; but some fibrils pass P''■''5'"*''^'' through the hypoglossal nucleus. of tlie The accessory part of the spinal accessory nerve is transmitted to a special ^'^'i^^^ '■ nucleus below that of the vagus ; and some fibres decussate across the middle of accessory line with their fellows. The roots of the spinal part of the nerve, piercing the lateral column of the and spinal, cord, pass thi-ough a collection of cells to the anterior cornu of the crescent (Clarke). Tlie NINTH or HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE of Willis (twelfth nerve, S(5m- Nintii nerve, men-ing'') is placed on the fi-ont of the medulla oblongata, and arises by a series of filaments fi-om the sulcus between the pyra- midal and olivary bodies, in a line with the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. The filaments of origin unite into two bundles, which pierce Origin from separately the dura mater, and do not blend together till they are '"^^^^^^a- outside the cranial cavity. Deep origin. The filaments of the nerve can be traced through the corpus n ■ • olivare to a nucleus below the level of the fourth ventricle, and in front of the Sfmirth canal of the cord ; hut some bend inwards to decussate with the nerve of the ventricle, opposite side (Clarke). Section III. MEDULLA OBLONGATA AND PONS VAROLIL The medulla oblongata and the pons are interposed between the spinal cord and the brain proper. Directions. On a single brain the student may learn nearly all Directions the anatomy of the medulla and pons ; but if he can procure one hardened specimen of the medulla oblongata and pons united