481 VISCERAL PLEXUSES OF SYMPATHETIC. between the mesenteric vessels. From the upper part of the aortic plexus an offset is to be followed along the spermatic artery ; this may be done, on the left side, where the vessel is partly laid bare. By detaching the peritoneum from the front of the sacrum, and hypogastric following downwards, over the iliac arteries, the nerves fi-om the P^'^'''^''- aortic plexus and the lumbar ganglia, the dissector will arrive at the hypogastric plexus, opposite the top of the sacrum. The superior mesenteric plexus is a large bundle of nerves, and is Superior ' " 111 cs cii tc v\ c distributed to the same extent of the intestinal tube as the mesenteric piexus artery. The nerA'^es surround closely the artery with a sheath, but is on artciy near the intestine some of them leave the vessels, and divide and communicate before entering the gut. Branches. The offsets form ggponj^ry plexuses around the arterial branches, intestinal nerves to the plexuses, small intestine ; and an ileo-colic, a right coHc, and a middle colic plexus to the large intestine. The aortic plexus is the network of nei-ves covering the aorta Aortic below the superior mesenteric artery ; it is stronger on the sides derfvSl'* than the front of the aorta, in consequence of its recelAang acces- from solar: sory branches fi-om the lumbar ganglia, especially the left. Above, the plexus derives an offset, on each side of the aorta, from the solar and renal plexuses. It ends inferiorly, on each side, in branches offsets, which cross the common iliac artery, and enter the hypogastric plexus of the peMs. From it offsets are furnished to the spermatic and inferior mesenteric arteries. The spermatic plexus, formed by roots from both the aortic and Spermatic the renal plexus, runs on the spermatic artery to the testicle ; in the Pi''^^ • cord it joins other filaments on the vas deferens. In the female, the nei-ves on the ovarian (spermatic) artery are in female, furnished to the ovary and the uterus. The inferior mesenteric plexus supplies the part of the intestinal inferior tube to which its artery is distributed. Tliis plexus is furnished piex^"?"'' from the left side of the aortic plexus ; and the nerves composing it are whiter and larger than in either of the preceding plexuses of the sympathetic. Near the intestine (sigmoid flexure) the branching nerves join of the nerves and the union of contiguous twigs are well marked, ^e^sse^s^- Branches. Its offsets (plexuses) are named from the arteries they secondaiy accompany, viz., left colic, sigmoid, and superior hajmorrhoidal : P^^'"*^^^- they ramify on those vessels, and have a like distribution. The hypogastric plexus, or the large prevertebral centre for the Hj'pogasti- supply of sympathetic nerves to the viscera of the pelvis, is situate ^^^^"^^ '• in front of the upper part of the sacrum. It is developed more on situation, the sides than in the centre; and the nerves, which are large and flat, have a plexiform arrangement, but without any intermixed ganglionic masses. By its upper part it receives the nerves on the aorta, and is joined receives by some filaments from one or two of the upper sacral ganglia. P^"^^"^ Infenorly the plexus ends in two portions, right and left, the last and ends in pemg the largest: each is continued forwards by the side of the mternal iliac artery to the pelvic plexus of the same side, and to the ' """^ viscera. nc i'lscera. I I