rig. 177. Coats of the bladder. STRUCTURE OF URINARY BL.iDDER. 573 flattened from before backwards; but out o^/]- ^^y.,fJ^^,,Xd circular than when in its natural pos.t.on, and it bscs that aiched form by which it adapts itself in distension to the curve oi the ^1f this viseus is moderately dilated, it measures about five inches Dhnen«ionB. in length, and three inches across (Huschke). Its capacity is greati; influenced by the age and sex and by the habits ot the Sidividual. Ordinarily the bladder holds about a pmt without in- convenience during life, though it can contain much more when distended. As a general rule it is larger in the female than in the male. Structure. A muscular and a mucous coat, with an iuter- venuig fibrous layer, exist in the wall of the bladder : at certain parts the peritoneum may be also enumerated as a constituent of the wall. The vessels and nen-es are large. The imperfect covering of pei-itcmeiim has been described (p. 550). The muscular coat is formed of tain layers of unstriated muscular fibres, viz. an exter- nal or longitudinal, a middle or circular, and an internal or submucous. The longitudinal fibres (fig. 177, ^) form a continuous covering, with the usual plexi- form disposition of the mus- cular bundles, and extend from apex to base. Above, some are connected with the nraclius, and the subperito- neal fibrous tissue. Below, the posterior and lateral fibres enter the prostate; whilst the anterior are attached to the fascia covering the prostate, but a fasciculus on each side is united to the back of the pubes through the anterior true ligament of the bladder. On the front and back of the bladder the muscular layer is stronger, and its fibres more vertical than on the sides. Sometimes this outer Peritoneal. JIusoular lias three strata. Kxternal or longitudinal attach- ments : * Muscular fibres of the bladder, prostate, and uretlira. 1. External or longitudinal fibres of the bladder. 2. Circular fibres of the middle coat. 3. Submucous layer. 4. Muscular layer around the urethra, .f). Circular fibres of the prostate and urethra continuous with tlic circular of the bladder. 6, 7. Septum of the corpus spongiosum. 8. Cor^ius spongiosum. 9. Corpus caver- nosum. 10. Ureter.