675 INTEENAL ANNULAR LIGAMENT. and tlie inner malleolus. Whilst beneath the annular ligament, extent, or somewhat higher than it, the nerve divides into the internal and external plantar branches of the foot. ^ connec- Its connections with surrounding muscles are the same as those of the artery ; but its position to the vessel changes, for it lies on the inner side above the origin of the peroneal offset, but thence to the ^^^^j^^^ termination, on the outer side. Its branches are muscular and '^^'^ cutaneous. Muscular branches enter the deep flexors, and arise either sepa- the^.Jeep'^ *" rately along the trunk, or together from the upper end of the flexors, nerve. There is an offset for each of the muscles except the popli- teus ; but the branch of the tibialis is the largest, and that for the flexor polhcis lies on the peroneal artery. A cutaneous nerve of the so^e of the foot (&g. 207,") begins above ^f'^^hefoot. the OS calcis, and piercing the internal annular ligament as two or more pieces, ends in the integuments of the inner and under parts of the heel: this nerve will be followed to its termination in the dissection of the foot (fig. 208). The internal annular liqanient stretches between the heel and the ^ annular inner ankle, and serves to confine the tendons of the deep layer of ligament: muscles of the foot and toes. Attached by a pointed piece to the internal malleolus, the fibres diverge, and are inserted into the os calcis. One border (upper) is continuous with the fascia of the leg; and the opposite gives attachment to the abductor poUicis muscle of the foot. Beneath it are sheaths for the tendons. The innermost incloses ^^^^^ '■ the tibiahs posticus, lodged in a groove in the malleolus. Imme- diately behind this is another space for the flexor digitorum. And posSion. about three quarters of an inch nearer the os calcis is the flexor pollicis, resting in a groove in the astragalus. Each sheath is lined by a synovial membrane. Between the tendons of the two flexors of the digits are placed the tibial vessels and nerve. Section Y. sole of the foot, Position. The foot is to be placed over a block of moderate Position of thickness with the sole towards the dissector ; and the part is to be made tense by fixing the heel with hooks, and by separating, and fastening apart the toes. ' Dissection. The skin is to be raised as two flaps, inner and outer ^aiaetlie by means of one incision along the centre of the sole from the heel to the front ; and by another across the foot at the root of the toes. Afterwards the skiu is to be removed from each toe, and the digital vessels and nerves on the sides are to be dissected out at the same time. X X 2