754 DISSECTION OF THE EAE. iliffcrs on two sur- faces ; denticulate structiu-e. Sulcus spiralis. Mem- branous part: width and extent. Is glassy looking, with trans- verse lines. Spiral ligament. Scales of tlie coch- lear tube. Position, extent; joined above, separate below. They differ in extent and size: opening in lower. Lining membrane, and con- tents. Subdivision of scala by, Membrane of Keissner. each other at the axis. The surface of the lamina which is turned to the lower of the two cochlear passages (st) is most pierced by apertures. The opposite surface is covered in the outer fifth of its extent by a border or limbus of fibrous structure (a), wliich ends in wedge-shaped teeth near the margin of the bony plate, (denticulate lamina, Bowman). Between the teeth and the underlying bone is a channel (b), lined by flat epithelium, wliich is called sulcus spiralis : its edges are named vestibular (a) and tympanic (c). The membranous part of the septum (membrana basilaris, fig. 245, m b) reaches fi-om the lower edge (c) of the lamina sphalis to the groove in the outer wall of the cochlear tube. Its width varies :— near the base of the cochlea it forms half of the partition across the tube, but at the apex, where the lamina spirahs is wanting, it con- structs the septum altogether. This membrane is firm and stiif, and possesses fine radiatmg lines, which cause it to spUt in shi-eds. At its outer attachment there is a fibrous band ligamentum spirale, KoUiker) fixing it to the bone. Scalce of the cochlea (fig. 244). The tube of the cochlea is diAdded by the septum into two primary passages, of which one is the scala tympani (st) and the other scala vestibuli (sv) ; but the latter is rendered smaller by two canals being cut off from it by mem- branes. These passages are placed one above another, the scala vestibuli (sv) being nearest the apex of the cochlea. Above they communi- cate tlirough the aperture named helico-trema (/). Below they end differently, as the names express :—the scala vestibuli opens into the front of the vestibule (fig. 242, g) ; but the scala tympani is shut out from the vestibular cavity by the lamina spiralis of the septum cochlcEe, and is closed below by the membrane of the fenestra ro- tunda, though in the dry bone it opens into the tympanum. Each has certain peculiarities. The vestibular scala extends into the apex of the cochlea ; whilst the tympanic scala is lai-gest near the base. Connected with the last is the small aqueduct of the cochlea, which begins close to a ridge near the lower end of the scala, and opens at the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The seal SB are clothed with a thin fibrous membrane, continuous with that in the vestibule : in the scala tympani it helps to close the fenestra rotunda, forming the inner layer of the secondary membrane of the tympanum, and joms the fibrous process in the aqueduct of the cochlea. The fluid of the vestibular space fills both scalae. Smaller pabtitions of the cochlea (fig. 245). Two thm mem- branes are prolonged fi-om the septum to the outer Avall, across the vestibular scala. One is called membrane of Reissner, and the other membrane of Corti. The membrane of Beissner (>), which is easily torn, is prolonged obliquely from the upper surface of the septum cochlear, where the