599 SYMrHYSIS PUBIS, obturator muscles. Brandies of the obturator vessels and nerve perforate it. , Pubic Articulation (fig. 189, «) (symphysis pubis). The oval Unmn^nt^^ pubic surfaces of the hip bones are united by cartilage, and by fibres in front of, and above the bones : they are also connected by a strong subpubic ligament. The anterior imhic ligament (fig. 189, o) is very strong and is Anterior formed of different layers of fibres. The superficial are oblique, • and cross one another, joining with the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen ; but the deeper fibres are transverse between the surfaces of the bones. Cartilage cells are mixed with some of the deepest fibres. There is not any strong posterior band ; but the periosteum is ^gj^,"}"'*^^ thickened by a few scattered fibres, which are in contact with the articular cartilage. The superior ligamentous fibxes fill the interval between the bones Upper band, above the cartilage. Tlie suhpuhic ligament (fig. 189, d, ligam, arcuatum) is a sti'ong ^jg^jf'i'g,','^^'' triangularly-shaped band below the symphysis, and occupies the upper part of the pubic arch. The apex of the ligament touches the articular cartilage, and the base, contained within the triangular perinieal ligament, is turned towards the membranous portion of the urethra. Dissection. The cartilage will be best seen by a transverse section Cartilage, of the pubes, Avhich will show the disposition of the anterior liga- ''o^^'^oen. ment of the articulation, and the thickness of the cai'tilage, with its toothed mode of insertion into the bone ; but when another oppor- tunity offers, a vertical section may be made. Cartilage (fig. 189, c). The cartilage is firmly fixed to the ridged Disposition bony surfaces in the symphysis : it is wider above than below, and ^ysfg*^^^"' is generally as thick again before as behind. Variations in its size depend on the shape of the bones. Towards the posterior part of the cartilage there is a narrow Hollow fissure with uneven walls ; and a fibrous structure with large inter- '• spersed compound cells is to be recognised in the wall. It extends variations usually the whole depth of the cartilage and thi-ough a half or a third of the thickness: it is said to increase in pregnancy. In some bodies it reaches through the cartilage so as to divide this into two collateral pieces. Movement. As the bones are not in contact in the pubic sym- physis, but are imited by an intermediate cartilage, the motion is Motion usually very slight. The kind of movement of the hip bone is =' inward and outward, so as to increase or diminish the pelvic iiip-i^one rnvitv moved in ^^'^^^•^y- and out: When the pubic cartilage is divided into two by a larger central space than usual, gi-eater freedom of motion is present in the sym- when physis ; and in pregnancy the looseness of the innominate bone is sometimes so great as to interfere seriously with locomotion. Sgnaiuy.