149 STRUCTURE OF THE TONGUE. ceding sot, amongst which they arc scattered. Ihey are wider a mostly at the free end than at the pai-t fixed to the tongue, and project sides; beyond the other set; they ai-e situate mostly at the tip and sides of the tongue. They are covered with small simple papilla3. The circumvallate or caliciforin are fewer in number and larger,caUcifonn, than the others, and are placed at the junction of the two anterior with the posterior third of the tongue : their number varies fi-om eight to ten. These papilh^ extend across the tongue in a line form; resembling the letter V with the point turned backwards. Each papilla consists of a central truncated stem of a conical form, which ^ is surrounded by a fold of the mucous membrane ; its wider end or base projects above the surface, whilst the apex is attached to the tongue. Both the papilla and the surrounding fold are fur- nished with smaller secondary papilla). Minute simple papilke exist beliind the caliciform kmd, and on othev^^ the under surface of the fi-ee portion of the tongue ; but they are l"'^" not ohsei-ved till the epithelium is removed. Taste buds. Around each circumvallate papilla is a circle of Taste buds, small peculiar bodies, which are covered by the epithelium : each is hke a small carafe in shape, the base resting on the corium. They are formed of elongated epithelium-like cells, of which the gustative central, resembling olfactorial cells, are supposed to be connected with the ner^'-e of taste. A small collection of similar bodies occupies the back of the tongue, on each side, just in fi-ont of the anterior pillar of the fauces. Structure of the PcqnllcB. The simple papillaj are constructed Uke structure those of the sldn, viz. of a projecting cone of membrane, which is J^jf^^^^jj"*' covered by epithelium, and filled with a loop of capillaries, and a nerve. The other compouiid'forms of the papilloj may be said to be pro- of cnm- duced by outgrowths from the simple kind. Thus smaller papillary i'"""^^'- eminences spring fi-om the common cone of limiting membrane ; and each has its separate investment of epithelium, by which the brush-like appearance on the surface is produced. From the plexus of capillaiy A'-essels in the interior of the cone a looped offset is furnished to each smaller papillaiy projection. The central nerve sends offsets to the different subdivisions of the papilla, on some of which end-bulbs may be recognised. Structure. The tongue consists of two symmetrical halves rarts found separated by a fibrous layer in the middle line. Each half is made up of muscular fibres with interspersed fat; and entering it ai'e the lingual vessels and nerv'-es. The tongue is enveloped by the mucous membrane ; and a special fibrous layer attaches it to the hyoid bone. Dissection. To define the septum, and the membrane attaching the l,^.i■ma tongue to the hyoid bone, the tongue is to be placed on its dorsum ; si'i'tw"; and, the remains of the right mylo- and genio-hyoideus having been removed, the genio-hyo-glossi muscles are to be cleaned, and drawn from one another along the middle line. After separating those muscles, except for an inch in front, and cutting across their inter-