512 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEx\. use of tlie vessels. Vessels in tlie livei-. Capsule of Glisson. Vena jiortio occupies ]iortal canals. cells (Cln-zonszczewsky); they leave the lobule at tlie circumference branches (/" '''' interlobula; From the an-anffement of tlic vessels, it appears that the portil vein conducts the blood from which bile is secreted ; that the hena k- yem carries away the superfluous blood ; and that the secreted bile IS received by the plexus of the biliary duct Vkssei s oxr THE LiVEK. Two sets of bloodvessels ramify in the liver :_One enters the transverse fissure, and is directed transversely m spaces (portal canals) where it is enveloped by areolar tissue. The other set (hepatic veins) run from the anterior to the poste- rior border of the liver without a like sheath. The ramifications of these diiferent vessels are to be followed in the liver. The cajjsule of Glis- son is a layer of areolar tissue, which envelops the vessels and the ducts in the transverse fissure. In this sheath the vessels ramifj'-, and in it are minutely divided before their termination in the lo- bules. If a transverse section is made of a portal canal, the ves- sels' will retract some- what into the loose suiTomiding- tissue. The ve)2a poricE rami- fies in the liver like an arteiy ; and the blood circulates through it in the same manner, viz., fi-om tmnk to branches. After entering the transverse fissure the A'ein divides into large branches ; these lie in the portal canals or spaces, with offsets of the hepatic artery, the hepatic duct, and the nerves and lymphatics (fig. 159, r). Tiie * A. Two lobules of tbe liver showing the plexus of ducts in the interior, near the circumference (Kieman) ; recent inquiries demonstrate the existence of a plexus throughout the lobule, g. Intralobular plexus. /. Interlobular ducts, c. Small branches of the hepatic dues. B. Lobules of an injected liver to show the arrangement of the veins, a. Smallest branches of the vena porta; ending in the interlobular veins, h. c. Plexus of portal veins within the lobule, d. Intra-Iobuhir commencement of the hepatic vein joining the plexus of the portal vein.