557 LIGA:srENTS OF UTERUS. sexes, ho may make the following special dissection of the viscera of the female pelvis. Dissection. On taking away the rccto-vcsical fascia and much "^^^ fat, the viscera will come into view. To maintain the position of of tliefemale the uterus, raise it up with a piece of string passed through the upper Pei^'"^ i-nd. The reflections of the peritoneum on the viscera are to be l)reser\-ed ; and a piece of cotton wool is to be placed between the rectum and the uterus. The obliterated cord of the internal iliac artery is to be followed vessels, on the bladder ; and the ureter is to be traced forwards by the side of the uterus to the blAdder. Aftenvards the urethra, the vagina, is"'"^^ and the rectum are to be cleaned and separated a little from one ^ another at the anterior part of the pelvis ; but the arteries on the rectum arc to be preserved. The peritoneum gives a partial covering to the viscera, as in the Kefio'^tioiis male pelvis. Investing the upper part of the rectum, and forming toneum. behind it the meso-rectum, the membrane is continued to the pos- terior aspect of the vagina, and the back of the uterus. It covers the posterior, and most of the anterior surface of the uterus, and can be traced to the bladder without again touchmg the vagina : on each side of the uterus it forms a wide fold (broad ligament), which attaches that viscus to the wall of the abdomen. As the peritoneum is followed upwards it may be observed to cover the posterior surface of the bladder, and the lateral surface behind the position of the obliterated hypogastric artery. In the pelvis the serous membrane forms the following ligaments for the uterus and bladder. The Irocul ligament of the uterus (fig. 173) passes from the side Broad liga- of the uterus to the wall of the abdomen, and supports that organ. ute'nis° By its position across the pelvis, it di^ddes the cavity into an anterior and a posterior space : in the former are placed the bladder, urethra, which is and vagina ; in the latter the upper part of the rectum, and the j^Jo tlu-ee^^ small intestine when it reaches the pelvis. parts. Each ligament shows traces of a subdivision into three pieces, corresponchng with the bodies contained between its two layers. Thus there is a posterior piece belonging to the ovaiy and its liga- ment, l; an anterior, near the upper edge, which is appropriated to the round ligament, N ; and a middle piece, the highest of all, sur- rounds the Fallopian tube, M. Anterior awl -posterior ligaments of the uterus. As the peritoneum Anterior is reflected from the rectum to the uterus, and from the uterus to J,'!"***" the Ijladder, it forms two anterior and two posterior folds or liga- uterus, ments. The anterior or vesico-uterine pair is smaller than the pos- terior or recto-uterine. The recto-uterine pouch corresponds with the recto-vcsical in the Recto- male. On each side it is bounded by the obliterated hypogastric \^ovw\x arteiy : and below, it reaches beyond the uterus, so as to touch the back of the vagina. T\\e false ligaments of the hladder are the same as in tlic male I'K'i;- and are five in number, viz., two posterior, two lateral, and a superior:' Sder.'