no DISSECTION OF THE NECK. and the tongue. Vagus nerve in foramen juguliu-e, and in the neck, the tonsil, d. The toimlUlic branches supply the tonsil and the arches of the soft palate. On the former tliey end in a kind of plexus-circulus tonsillaris. e. Lingual hranches. The terminal branches of the nerve supply the root and posterior part of the tongue, as well as the lateral surface. The distribution of these is described with the tongue (Section 15). ^ The PNEUMO-GASTRic NERVE (fig. 26, ^ vagus nen^e) is the largest of the cranial nei-ves in the neck, and escapes through the jugular foramen in the same sheatli of dura mater as the spinal acces- sory. In the aperture of exit it has a distinct ganglion (gang, of the root), to which the smaller part of the spinal accessory nerve is connected. When the nei-ve has left the foramen, it receives the small part of the spinal accessory, and swells into a ganglion neai-ly an inch long (gang, of the trunk). Here the nerve lies betAveen the internal carotid artery and jugular vein, and communicates Avith several nerA'-es. To reach the thorax, the vagus descends almost A^ertically (fig. 25, ^) betAveen the internal jugular vein and the internal and common carotid arteries ; and enters that caAnty, on the right side, by crossing over the sub- claAaan artery, but beneath the innominate vein. Ganglia. The ganglion of the root (gang, superius, fig. 26, ^), is of a gi-eyish colour, and in texture is like the ganglion on the large root of the fifth nerA'^e. Small branches in the foramen jugulare come fi'om this ganglion. The ganglion of the trunh (gang, infe- rius), (^) is cylindrical in form, is reddish in colour, and is nearly an inch m length ; it communicates Avith the hypoglossal, spinal, and sympathetic nei-ves. All the intrinsic fibres of the trunk of the nerve are smTounded by the ganglionic substance, but those denA'ed fi'om the spinal accessoiy nerve Q^) pass OA^er the ganglion AAithout being inclosed in it. Branches The hranches of the pneumo-gastric nerve may be arranged into conrses to the tliorax. One gan- glion in foramen, anotlier below. * Diagram of the eighth nerve. 1. Grlosso-pharyngeal trunk. 2. Vagus. 3. Spinal accessory. 4. Jugular ganglion. 5. Petrosal ganglion. 6. Jacob- son's nerve. 7. Auricular branch. 8. Root ganglion of vagus. 9. Trunk ganglion of vagus. 10. Branch joining the petrosal and upper ganglion of the vagus. 11. Small part of spinal accessory. 12. Chief part of spinal accessory. 13. Pharyngeal branch of vagus. 14. Superior laryngeal branch of vagus.