550 DISSECTION OF THE TELVIS. Section II. Contents of the pelvis. Outline of their jjosl- tion. Take away fascia, ami clean ves- sels. The se\'oral viscera are to be cleaned. Clean pro- state unci vesicula. The peri- toneum <!over.s jiartly the rectum ; and partly tlie hladdei', leaving front and lower ]iart uncovered. roucli he- tween the i-ei;tuni and bladde : CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA IN THE MALE, Directions. It the student dissects a female pelvis, he will find the description of it at paj^e 556. Contents and position (fig. 172). The Adscera in the cavitj' of the male pelvis are, the lower end of the large intestine (rectum) ; the bladder with its excretory tube—the urethra; together with some generative organs. These have the following relative situation :— The rectum Qc) is behind all, and takes a curved course, with the convexity backwards, along the front of the sacrum and coccyx. The bladder (a) is placed in the concavity of the rectum, its neck being surrounded by the prostate gland {h) ; and' the urethra {d) curves forwards from it above the intestine^ Beneath the bladder —between it and the rectum—are the little seminal sacs (</) witli the vasa deferentia, /. Some of these organs are partly surrounded by the peritoneum. Dissection. All the recto-vesical [fascia, except the anterior ti-ue ligament of the bladder, may be taken from the prostate and rectum. The obliterated (hypogastric) cord from the internal iliac arteiy sliould be followed forwards along the bladder from the back of the pelvis ; and the branches of the same artery to the bladder should be cleaned. When the fat has been cleared fi-om the rectum without injuring its arteries, the pouch of the peritoneum, in which tow has been jslaced, will be brought into A^iew, with the ureter (/i) passing to the bladder across its side. The bladder below the peritoneum is to be cleaned; and the vas deferens (/), which lies on the lateral aspect of the viscus is to be followed down to the seminal sac. Take away with care the remains of tlie sheath of the vesicula semiualis, defining at the same time the vas deferens inside the latter. The peritoneum does not envelop the viscera in the pelvis so com- pletely as in the upper part of the abdomen. After surrounding the upper portion of the rectum, and fixing it by a process—meso- rectum, the membrane clothes the back of the bladder, projecting for some Avay between this viscus and the rectum, where it forms the recto-vesical pouch : on each side the serous membrane is ar- rested by the obhterated hypogastric artery, and gives rise to a fold, the posterior ligament of the bladder. It covers the posterior sur- face, and each lateral region of the bladder as far forwards as the obliterated hypogastric ; but at that cord it is reflected to the wall of the pelvis and abdomen. All the anterior surface of the bladder is therefore uncovered by peritoneum ; and when the bladder is distended it rises above the pubes, so as to allow of its being punctured in front without injury to the serous membrane. The recto-vesical pouch is wide behind, where it corresponds with the interval between the iliac ai-teries, and is narrow in fi'ont