DISSECTION OP THE PELVIS. 588 Lymphatics. _ The lymphatics accompany the bloodvessels to the glands by the side of tlie internal iliac artery. JimUi^oiw to '^f BartJwlin. Outside the vagina, near the lower end, are CowpS ° two small yellowish glandular bodies, one on each side, which represent Cowper's glands in the male. Each is about as large as a small bean ; and its duct is directed forwards to open on the mner aspect of the nympha of the same side. The duct resembles- that of Cowper's gland in its structure (p. 430). THE UTERUS. uterus. Form; dimensions. Upper end. Tlie lower end is .small; has an opening. Neck. Body: sides and attached Xiarts. Open the uterus. Its tiiick- ness. The uterus or womb is formed chiefly of unstriated muscular fibres. Its ofiice is to receive the ovum, and to retain for a fixed period the developing fetus. This viscus in the virgin state is somewhat pear-shaped, the body being flattened (fig. 185), and possesses inferiorly a rounded narrow neck. Before impregnation the uterus measures about three inches in length, two in breadth at the upper part, and an inch in greatest thiclcness. Its weight varies from an ounce to an ounce and a half. But after gestation its size and volume exceed always the measure- ments here given. The upper end is convex, and is covered by peritoneum : the term fundus is applied to the part of the organ above the attachment of the Fallopian tubes (e). The lower end is small and rounded, and in it is a transverse aperture of communication between the uterus and the vagina, named os iiteri (os tincm) : its margins or lips (labia) are smooth, and anterior and posterior in situation, but the hinder one is the longest. Towards the lower part the uterus is constricted, and this diminished portion is called the neck (6) of the uterus (cervix uteri) ; it is surrounded by the vagina, and is covered by this tube to a greater extent behind than in front. The neck is about half an mch in length, and gradually tapers towards the extremity. The hody (a) of the uterus is more convex posteriorly than ante- riorly, and decreases in size down to the neck. It is covered on both aspects by the peritoneum, except inferiorly in front (about half an inch), where it is connected to the bladder. To each side, which is straight, the parts contained in the broad fold of the peritoneum are attached (fig. 173) :—viz., the Fallopian tube at the top (ii); the round ligament (n), rather below and before it; and the ovary (l), and its ligament below and behind the others. Dissection. To examine the interior of the uterus, a cut is to be made along the anterior wall from the fundus to the os uteri; and then some of the thick wall is to be removed on each side of the middle line to show the contained cavity. The tUchness of the uterine wall is greatest opposite the iniddle of the body. It is greater at the centre than at the extremities of the fmidus (fig. 185), the wall becoming thinner towards the attach- ment of the Fallopian tubes.