DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. 288 Origin. Insertion. Parts around it. Use on Angers and wrist. How fingers are bent. Long flexor of tlimnb. Origin. Insertion. Parts above and beneatli it. Use. Pronator quadratus is deep in position. Use. Anterior in- terosseous artery. from the anterior and inner surfaces of the ulna for three-fourths of the length of the hone ; from the inner half of the interosseous ligament for the same distance ; and from an aponeurosis common to the muscle and the flexor carpi ulnaris. The muscle has a thick fleshy belly, and ends in tendons which, united together, pass beneath the annular ligament, and are inserted into the last phalanges of the fingers. The cutaneous surface of the muscle is in contact with the ulnar nerve and vessels, the superficial flexor of the fingers, and the flexor carpi ulnaris. The deep surface rests on the ulna and the pronator quadratus muscle. The outer border touches the flexor pollicis longus and the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve ; and the inner is connected by aponeurosis to the posterior margin of the ulna. Action. The muscle bends the last joints of the fingers, and the wrist ; but it does not act on the last phalanx till after the second has been moved by the flexor sublimis. The fingers are approximated and the joints bent in the following order :—firstly, the articulation between the metacarpal and the middle phalanx is flexed, secondly, the last phalangeal joint, and thirdly the metacarpo-phalangeal. The FLEXOR LONGUS POLLICIS (fig. 81, ^) arises from the hollowed anterior surface of the radius, as low as the pronator quadratus ; from the outer part of the interosseous membrane ; and by a round distinct slip fi-om the coronoid process of the ulna, internal to the attachment of the brachialis anticus. The fleshy fibres descend to a tendon, which is continued beneath the annular ligament, and is inserted into the last phalanx of the thumb. On the cutaneous surface of the muscle is the flexor sublimis, with the radial vessels for a short distance inferiorly. The muscle lies on the radius and the pronator quadratus. To the inner side is the flexor profundus digitorum. Action. It bends both joints of the thumb, but firstly the distal or ungual. After the phalanges are drawn downwards the muscle flexes the wrist. The PEONATOR QUADRATUS (fig. 81, ^) is a flat muscle, and lies on the lower fourth of the bones of the forearm. It ai-ises from the anterior and inner surfaces of the ulna, where it is somewhat widened, and is inserted into the fore part of the radius for about two inches. The anterior surface is covered by the tendons of the flexor muscles of the fingers, and by the radial vessels ; and the posterior surface rests on the radius and ulna with the intervening membrane, and on the interosseous vessels and nerve. Along its lower border is the arch formed by the anterior carpal arteries. Action. The end of the radius is moved forwards over the ulna by this muscle, and the hand is pronated. The anterior interosseous artery (fig. 81, e) is continued on the front of the interosseous membrane, between the two flexors or in the fibres of the flexor digitorum, till it reaches an aperture beneath