673 POSTERIOR TIBIAL VESSELS. joint, Tlic toes resting on the ground, it will aid the muscles of andflxed: the calf in raising the heel in the progression of the body. In standing, the muscle can raise the inner border of the foot in standing, with the tibialis anticus, so as to throw the weight o£ the body on the outer edge. As the body rises from stooping, the tibialis draws back the bones in rising up. of the leg, with the soleus. The aponeurosis covering the tibialis is attached laterally to the bones, but has a defined border inferiorly over the muscle. By one an aponeu- surface it gives origin to the,flexors of the toes, and by the other to the tibialis. The rosTERiOR tibial artery (fig. 207, e) is one of the branches Posterior resulting from the bifurcation of the popliteal trunk (p. 652). The ai-tery, vessel extends from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to extent, the lower edge of the internal annular ligament, where it ends in two plantar branches for the sole of the foot. At its origin the artery lies midway between the tibia and fibula, course, but as it approaches the lower part of the leg it gradually inclines inwards ; and at its termination it is placed below the tibia, internal to the centre of the hollow between the heel and the inner ankle. As far as the middle (in length) of the leg the vessel is concealed i^g^^e"^^"^' by two muscles of the calf, viz., gastrocnemius and soleus ; but upper and below that spot, as it lies between the tendo Achillis and the inner ^'^'"^''^ • edge of the tibia, it is covered only by the teguments and the deep fascia. At its termination it is placed beneath the annular ligament. For its upper half the trunk lies over the tibialis posticus, but ^g^tMt' afterwards on the flexor digitorum, and on the lower end of the tibia and the ankle-joint. On the outer side is the flexor poUicis. Between the heel and the ankle, the artery is placed between the Beneath tendons of the common flexor of the digits and special flexor of the ug^ent. great toe. Venae comites closely surround the vessel. The posterior tibial Veins, nerve is at first internal to the artery ; but at the distance of one Nerve, inch and a half it crosses to the outer side, and retains that position throughout. This artery supplies branches to the muscles and the tibia, and a Branches, large peroneal trunk to the outer side of the leg. a. Muscular Iranches enter the deep layer of muscles, and the Muscular, soleus; and an offset from the branch to the soleus pierces the attach- ment of that muscle to the tibia, and ascends to the knee-joint. 6. A nutritious artery of the shaft of the tibia is uncertain in its Nutritious place of origin : penetrating the tibialis, it enters the canal on the *° posterior surface of the bone, and ramifies in the interior. c. A communicating branch (/) arises opposite the lower end of Communi- the tibia, and passes outwards beneath the flexor pollicis, to unite in an arch with a corresponding offset of the peroneal artery. d. Articular branches arise from the artery opposite the ankle- Articular joint, and enter the articulation. hranches. e. Cutaneous offsets appear through the fascia in the lower half Cutaneous