692 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. and great too; it crosses the vessels. Use on great too; on tibia. Extensor longus arises from fibula; inserted into four outer toes: arrange- ment of the tendons on the toes. Connections of the muscle. Use on toes, and anlde, on the tibia. Peroneus tertius. Origin. Insertion. Use on ankle, to the surface through a sheath in the lower piece of the annular liga- ment, and continues over the tarsus to be inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. The anterior tibial vessels lie on the inner side of the muscle as low as the sheath in the ligament, but afterwards on the outer side of its tendon, so that they arc crossed by it beneath the ligament. Action. It straightens the great toe by extending the phalangeal joints, and afterwards bends the ankle. When the foot is fixed on the gi-ound and the tibia slants back- wards, the muscle can draw forwards that bone. The EXTENSOE LONGUS DiGiTORUM (fig. 213, ^) is fleshy in the leg, and tendinous on the foot, Hke the tibial muscle. Its origin is from the head and three fourths of the narrow part of the inner surface of the fibula ; from the external tuberosity of the tibia, and about an inch (above) of the interosseous membrane ; and from the fascia of the leg and the intermuscular septum on each side. The tendon enters its sheath in the annular ligament with the peroneus tertius, and divides into four pieces. Below the ligament these slips are continued to the four outer toes, and are inserted into the middle and ungual phalanges :— On the metatarsal phalanx the tendons of the long and short extensor join with prolongations from the interossei and lumbricales to form an aponeurosis ; but a tendon from the short extensor is not united to the expansion on the little toe. At the further end of this phalanx the aponeurosis is-divided into three pai-ts—a central and two lateral ; the central piece is inserted into the base of the middle phalanx, wliile the lateral miite at the front of the middle, and are fixed into the ungual phalanx. In the leg the muscle is placed between the peronei on the one side, and the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius pollicis on the other. It lies on the fibula, the lower end of the tibia, and the ankle joint. On the foot the tendons rest on the extensor brevis digitorum ; and the vessels and nei-ve are internal to them. Action. The muscle extends the joints of the four outer toes from root to tip, as in the fingers ; and still acting, bends the ankle joint. If the tibia is inclined back, as when the foot reaches the ground in walking, it will be moved forwards by this and the other muscles, on the front of the leg. The peroneus tertius is situate below the extensor longus digi- torum, from which it is seldom separate. It arises from the lower fom-th of the narrow part of the inner surface of the fibula, from the lower end of the interosseous ligament, and fi-om the inter- muscular septum between it and the peroneus brevis muscle. And it is inserted into the tarsal end (upper surface) of the metatarsal bone of the httle toe. This muscle has the same connections in the leg as the lower part, of the long extensor, and is contained in the same space in the annular ligament. Action. The muscle assists the tibialis in bending the ankle, and I