DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 274 and of inner head. Direction of the llbres. Insertion. Connections of the muscle. Use when iilna free. Two inter- muscular septa. An inner and outer. Dissection of vessels and nerve. Trace branches. Superior profunda artery lies behind the hiune- rus. humerus above the spiral groove, extending from the root of the large tuberosity to that groove. The inner head, c, fleshy and wide, arises from the posterior surface of the humerus below the spiral groove, reaching laterally to the intermuscular septa, and gradually tapering upwards as far as the insertion of the teres major (Theile). From the dilferent heads the fibres are directed with varying degrees of inchnation to a wide common tendon at the elbow. Inferiorly the muscle is inserted into the end of the olecranon pro- cess of the ulna, and gives an expansion to the aponeurosis of the forearm. Between the tip of the olecranon and the tendon is a small bursa. The triceps is superficial, except at the upper part where it is overlapped by the deltoid muscle. It lies on the humerus, and conceals the musculo-spiral nerve, the superior profunda vessels, and the articulation of the elbow. On the sides the muscle is united to the intermuscular septa ; and the lower fibres are con- tinuous externally with the anconeus—a muscle of the forearm. Action. All the pieces of the triceps combining in their action will bring the ulna into a line with the humerus, and extend the elbow-joint. As the long head passes the shoulder it can depress the raised humerus, and adduct the bone to the thorax. The intermuscular septa are fibrous processes continuous with the investing aponeurosis of the arm, which are fixed to the ridges leading to the condyles of the humerus: they intervene between the muscles on the front and back of the limb, and give attach- ment to fleshy fibres. The internal is the strongest, and reaches as high as the coraco- brachialis muscle, from which it receives some tendinous fibres. The brachialis anticus is attached to it in front, and the triceps behind ; and the ulnar nerve, and the inferior profunda and anas- tomotic vessels pierce it. The external septum is tliinner, and ceases at the deltoid muscle. Behind it is the triceps ; and in front are the brachiahs anticus, and the muscles of the forearm (supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior) arising above the condyle of the humerus : it is pierced by the musculo-spiral nerve and the accompanjdng vessels. Dissection. To follow the superior profunda vessels and the mus- culo-spiral nerve, the middle head of the triceps should be cut across over them, and the fatty tissue should be removed. The trunks of the artery and nerve are to be afterwards followed below the outer head of the triceps to the front of the humerus. To trace out the branches of the nerve and arteiy, wliich de- scend to the olecranon and the anconeus muscle, the triceps is to be divided along the line of union of the outer with the middle head ; and the veins are to be cut away. The superior profunda branch of the brachial artery (p. 270) turns to the back of the humerus between the inner and outer heads of the triceps ; in this position it supplies branches to the triceps and deltoid muscles, and is continued onwards in the groove in the bone