179 MEMBRANES OF BRAIN. the cerebrum there is a large space between it and the centre of the hollow be- brain. Still more posteriorly, between the hemispheres of the little brain, there is an interval, similar to that at the under surface of ^pote the cerebrum. ti i The subarachnoid space or the interval between the arachnoid ^^.^f^j^JJ^j'f membrane and the pia mater, is larger in one spot than anotlier ; space, and it contains more or less fluid, which has been named cerehro- sjniial. The space is largest at the under surface of the great brain, about its middle, and in the fissure between the hemispheres of it and the cerebellum. Under the arachnoid, at the front of the fissure yj^Wch^opens between the halves of the cerebellum, is the aperture of the fourth° ventricle, by which that cavity communicates with the subarachnoid space. The PIA MATER closely invests the brain, and dips into the fissures, Pia ma as well as into the sulci between the convolutions and laminaj. Besides covering the exterior of the brain, it sends processes into semis pieces tlie interior to supply vessels to the walls of the enclosed space : thus, one penetrates into the cerebnmi below the corpus caJlosum, and is named velum interpositum ; and two vascular fr-inges, which project into the fourth ventricle, are known as the choroid plexuses of that ca\'ity. This membrane is a network of vessels, and is constructed of it is a net- the minute ramifications of the arteries and veins entering into, or tiood- issuing from the cerebral substance ; whilst the intervals between vessels, the vessels are closed by fine areolar tissue, so as to form a con- tinuous thin layer. From the under surface of the membrane proceed numerous fine vessels for the nutrition of the brain. Vessels and nerves. The arachnoid membrane has but few vessels. Vessels and wliilst the pia mater is composed almost entirely of vessels. The me'mbranes. pia mater is largely supplied by oflEsets of some cranial nerves, and by branches of the sympathetic which acccompany the vessels at the base of the brain (p. 20). Bochdalek has described branches to the arachnoid from some cranial nerves. Subdivisions of the ENCErHALON. Before the description of the arteries is given, the chief subdivisions of the encephalon may be shortly noticed. The cranial or encephalic mass of the nervous system (fig. 59) Outline of consists of cerebrum or great brain, cerebellum or small brain, Zassf pons, and medulla oblongata. Each of these parts has the follow- ing situation and subdivisions :— The medulla oblongata, or the upper end of the spinal cord (fig. Upper part 59, a), lies in the groove between the halves of the small brain, coS'"'"^ and is divided into two symmetrical parts by a median fissure. To it several of the cranial nerves are united. Tlie pons Varolii (fig. 59, d) is situate in front of the medulla Pons Varolii oblongata, and is marked along the middle by a groove, which indicates its separation into halves. Anterier to it are two large and its processes (crura cerebri,/) connecting it to the great brain; on each cnu'i." side It is united to the small brain by a similar white mass (crus cerebelh) ; and behind it is the enlarged upper end of the cord. K 2