502 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. more fixed; Hot coilod ; saoculatml witli bniul.s, not in the rectum. Apijend- ages. Take pieces of the Inrgi! intestine. Dclinition of cieciim; lengtli and widtli: receives ileum and appendix. Venniforni appendix; attacli- nient: dimensions. It is hollow. Fig. 153.* Dry the cajcum, ojien it to .see the valve. also free from convolution, except in the left iliac fossa, where it forms the sigmoid flexure. Instead of being a smooth cylindrical tube, the colon is sacculated, and is marked by three longitudinal muscular bands, which alternate with as many rows of dilatations ; but at the lower end of the largo intestine (rectum), the surface is smooth, and the longitudinal bands disappear. Attached to the surface, especially along the transverse colon, are separate pieces of peritoneum containing fat,—the appendices epiploic*. Dissection. For the purpose of examining the large intestine the student should cut off and blow up the cfccum, with part of the ileum entering it; he should prepare in a similar way a piece of the ti-ansverse colon, and a piece of the sigmoid flexure (about four inches of each). The areolar tissue and the fat are to be removed with care from each, after it has been inflated. The CiECUM, or the head of the colon (fig. 153, a, caput crecum coli) is the rounded end of the large intestine which projects, in the form of a pouch, below the junc- tion of the ileum with it. It mea- sures about two inches and a half in length, and though gradually nar- rowing infeiiorly, the caacum is the widest jDart of the colon,—hence the name caput coli. At its inner side it is joined by the small intestine (i) ; and still lower there is a small wonn- like j)rojection (c)—the vermiform appendix. Appendix vermiformis (fig. 153, c). This little convoluted tube is attached to the lower and hinder jiart of the cascum, of which it was a con- tinuation in the embryo at one period. From three to six inches in length, the appendix is rather larger than a goose-quill, and is connected to the inner side of the caecum by a fold of peritoneum. Its hollow has an aper- ture of communication Avith the in- testine (d). In structure it resembles the rest of the colon. Dissection. To examine the interior of the ca3cum, and the valve between it and the small intestine, the specimen should be dried, and the following cuts should be made in it:—One oval piece is to be taken from the ileum near its termination ; another fi-om the side of the ciucum, opposite the entrance of the small intestine. * Interior of a cajcum dried and laid open. a. Crecum. I. Small intestine. c. Vermiform appendix, and d, its aperture, e. Ileo-colic piece of the valve at the junction of the small intestine. /. Ileo-crecal piece of the valve. (/. Retinaculiim of the valve on each side.