38 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. it sends downwards branches to join tlie auriculo-temporal portion of the inferior maxiUary nerve ; and in front of the ear it gives lias throo some lilaments to the tragus of the pinna. Three sets of terminal braiicLs. hranches, temporal, malar, and infra-orbital, are derived from the temporo-facial piece. Temiioiiil The temporal hranches ascend obliquely over the zygomatic arch tosuie'of *° orbicular muscle, the corrugator supercilii, and the head. anterior belly of the occipito-frontalis; they are united with offsets of the supra-orbital nerve ("). The attrahens aurem muscle receives a branch from this set ; and a junction takes place above the zygoma with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary ner^'^e Mniiir The malar hranches are directed to the outer angle of the orbit, to'eyeiicin. fii'S distributed to the orbicularis muscle. In the eyelids com- munications take place with the palpebral filaments of the fifth nerve ; and near the outer part of the orbit, with the small sub- cutaneous malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve Branches The infra-orhital hranches are larger than the rest, and are and^molitii^ furnishcd to the muscles and the integument between the eye and mouth. Close to the orbit, and beneath the elevator of the upper lip, a remarkable communication—infra-orhital plexus^ is formed between these nerves and the infi'a-orbital branches of the superior masillaiy (^'). After crossing the branches of the fifth nen'^e, some small offsets of the facial nerve pass inwards to the side of the nose, and others upwards to the inner angle of the orbit, to supply the muscles, and to join the nasal (") and infi-a-trochlear (^) branches of the ophthalmic nerve. ' Lower part The CERVico-FAClAL is smaller than the other trunk, and distri- of the trunk j^^^gg nerves to the lower part of the face and the upper part of the neck. Its highest branches join the lowest offsets of the temporo- facial nerve, and thus complete the network on the face. This three sets of trunk, wMlst in the parotid, gives twigs to the gland, and is united branches. ^^^-^j^ great auricular nerve. The terminal branches distributed fi-om it are, buccal, supra-maxillary, and infra-maxillary. Buccal to The huccal hranches pass forwards towards the angle of the comer of mouth, giving offsets to the buccinator muscle, and terminate in the orbicularis oris. On the buccinator they join the branch of the inferior maxillary nerve to that muscle. Htipi,"- The supra-maxillary hranches course imvards above the base of Sveen^ the lower jaw to the middle line of the chin, and supply the nunlthm.d muscles and the integument between the chin and mouth. In their com-se to the middle line the branches of the facial join beneath the depressor anguU oris offsets of the labial branch of the inferior dental nei-ve ("). The infra-maxillary hranches lie below the jaw, and are dis- maxii'lary tributcd to the upper part of the neck. The anatomy of these to neck. jiei^ygg be given with the dissection of the anterior triangle of the neck (p. 59).