DISSECTION OF THE LEG. (304 direction. Connections with parts around. Position of veins and nerve. Brandies. Muscular. Cutaneous. Recurrent. Jfalleolar; inner and outer. Articular. Dorsal artery, extent and course. Connec- tions. Position of veins and nerve. Varieties in dorsal arter)-. membrane, and over the tibia to the foot. A Hne from tlic inner side of the head of the fibula to the centre of the ankle will mark the position of the vessel. For a short distance (about two inches) the artery lies between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum ; after\vard» it is placed between the tibial muscle and the extensor proprius poUicis till near the lower end, where the last muscle becomes superficial, and crosses to the inner side. The vessel rests on the interosseous membrane in two thirds of its extent, being overlapped by the fleshy belhes of the contiguous muscles, so that it is at some depth from the surface; but it is placed in front of the tibia and the ankle jomt in the lower tliird, and is comparatively superficial between the tendons of the muscles. Venae comites entwine around the arteiy, covering it veiy closely with cross branches on the upper "part. The anterior tibial nerve approaches the tibial vessels about the middle third of the leg, and continues Avith them, crossing once or twice : at the lower end of the artery the nerve lies on the outer side. Branches. In the leg the anterior tibial artery furnishes mostly muscular offsets, but near the knee and ankle the following named branches take origin. a. Cutaneous branches arise at intei-vals ; and the largest accom- panies the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and supplies the contiguous muscles. b. A recurrent branch arises as soon as the trmik appears above the interosseous membrane, and ascends in the tibialis anticus to the knee joint: on the joint it anastomoses with the other articular arteries. c. Malleolar arteries (internal and external) spring near the ankle joint, and are distributed over the ends of the tibia and fibula. The internal is the least regular in size and origin ; the external anasto- moses with the anterior peroneal artery (p. 674). d. Some small articular branches are supplied fi-om the lower end of the arteiy to the ankle joint. The DORSAL AETERY of the foot is the continuation of the anterior tibial, and extends from the fi-ont of the ankle joint to the posterior part of the first interosseous space : at this interval it passes dow- wards between the heads of the interosseous muscle, to end in the sole (p. 686). The arteiy is supported by the inner row of the tarsus, viz., the astragalus, and the scaphoid and cuneiform bones ; and it is covered by the integuments and the deep fascia, and by the inner piece of the extensor brevis muscle. The tendon of the extensor poUicis lies on the inner side, and that of the extensor longus digitorum on the outer, but neither is near the vessel. The veins have the same position with respect to the artery as in the leg ; and the nerve is external to it. Peculiarities. On the dorsum of the foot the artery is often removed farther outwards than the line from the centre of the ankle to tlie back of the first interosseous space. Further, the place of the artery may be taken by a large anterior peroneal branch.