469 CONNECTIONS OF INTESTINES. The upper border is connected to the Hvcr by a process of pen- Borders, tonciun, the small omentum ; and the lower border gives attachment to another peritoneal fold, the great omentum or epiploon, which floats freely over the intestine. The form and the connections of the stomach with the sur- Cm^f^onn rounding parts will vary with the size. For when the viscus is empty it is flattened, its surfaces looking forwards and back-sion. wards, and its borders upwards and downwards ; but when dis- tended, it becomes somewhat circular, and makes a rotatory movement, so as to bring forwards the border usually lowest, and to turn upwards tliat surface which is directed forwards at other times. • The position and connections of the stomach may be altered by ^JteraUons variations in the size of any of the surrounding organs, or by the from dis- accumulation of fluid in the chest, or in the belly. The stomach easj), may be dragged down likewise by the great omentum entering a H^^X^"" hernia ; or it may be forced down towards the pehas by the pressure of tight stays. In these different changes in position, the right end moves more than the left, because it is attached only by peritoneum to the parts around. The small intestine (intestinum tenue) reaches fi-om the stomach Small intes- to the right iliac region, where it ends in the large intestine. It is divided into three parts, duodenum (twelve fingers' length), jejunum, f^^^^^^ and ileum : of the last two, the former receives its name from its sions. empty condition, and the latter ffom its numerous coils. The duodenum (fig. 140, I) cannot be satisfactorily seen at present, Duodenum, and it will be examined afterwards (p. 483). The jejunum and ileum (fig. 141) begin on the left side of the ^^Jj^^^^. second lumbar vertebra, without any distinct mark of separation from the duodenum. Two fifths belong to the jejunum, and the remain- ing three fifths to the ileum. This part of the intestinal tube forms many convolutions in the situation, umbilical, hypogastric, lumbar and iliac regions of the abdomen ; and it descends oftentimes, but more frequently in the female, into the cavity of the pelvis. In front of the convolutions is the great omentum. Beyond the duodenum the intestine is fixed posteriorly to the spine by a process of peritoneum named the mesentery, which contains the vessels and nerves. Surrounding the jejunum and ileum is the large intestine or colon ; but on the left side of the body the colon is concealed by the small intestine. The large intestine or the colon (fig. 140), is sacculated, and is Large intes- more fixed than the jejunum and ileum. It begins in the right iliac d^tin- region in a rounded part or head (caput ca3cum coli), and ascends Siiisii*!d. to the Hver through the right iliac, lumbar, and hypochondriac regions. Crossing then the abdomen below the stomach, it reaches the left hypochondriac region ; and it lies in this transverse part of its course between the epigastric and umbilical regions, or altogether in the latter. Finally, it descends, on the left side, through the and extent, regions con-csponding with those it occupied on the right, and forms a remarkable bend (sigmoid flexure) in the left iliac fossa ; then