305 DEEP EXTENSOR MUSCLES. Fig. 88.' Action. Commonly it acts on the ulna, and assists the triceps in extending the elbow. Dissection (fig. 88). For the display of the deep muscles at the back of the forearm, and the poste- rior interosseous vessels and nerve, three of the superficial muscles, viz. extensor communis, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris, are to be detached from their origin and turned aside ; in this proceeding tlie small branches of the nerve and artery entering the muscles may be divided. The loose tissue and fat are then to be removed from the muscles, and the ramifications of the artery and nerve ; and a slender part of the nerve, which sinks beneath the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb about the middle of the forearm, should be traced beyond the wrist. The separation of the muscles should be made carefully, because the highest two of the thumb are not always very distinct from each other. Deep layer of muscles (fig 88). In this layer there are five small muscles, viz. one supinator of the forearm, and four special extensor muscles of the thmnb and fore- finger. The highest muscle, sur- rounding partly the upper end of the radius, is the supinator brevis, D. Below this are the three muscles of the thumb in the following order:—the extensor of the meta- carpal bone, E, the extensor of the first, F, and that of the second phalanx, g. On the ulna the indi- cator muscle, H, is placed. The EXTENSOR OSSIS METACARPI POLLicis, E, is the largest and high- est of the extensor muscles of the thumb, and is sometimes united with the supinator brevis. It Use. Dissection of deep layer of musoleH, and interos- seoiis vesseLs and nerve. Five mus- cles in tlie deep layer viz. Extensor metiicarj)! pollicis. * Dissection of the deep layer of muscles, and the vessels and nerve on the back of the forearm. (Illustrations of dissections.) Muscles: A. Supinator longus. B. and o. Radial extensors of the carpus, cut. d. Supinator brevis. K. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. p. Extensor primi internodii. o. Ex- X