DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 592 Shedding of au ovum; and corpus luteum. Artery; nerves. Appendage to ovary: situation, form. structure, nous ; it contains the minute ovum, together with molecular gi-anules. When the Graafian vesicle is matured it bursts on the surface of the ovary, and the contained ovum escapes into the Fallopian tube. After the shedding of the ovum the raptured vesicle gives origin to a yellow substance, corpus luteum, which finally changes into a cicatrix (6). Bloodvessels and nerves. The ovarian artery pierces the ovary at the anterior or attached border, and its branches run in zigzag lines through the stroma, to which and the Graafian vesicles they are distributed. The veins begin in the vesicles and the texture of the ovary, and after escaping fi-om its substance, form a plexus ^pam- piniform) within the fold of the broad ligament. The nerves are derived fi-om the sympathetic on the ovarian and uterine vessels. Appendage to the ovary (fig. 185, k Parovarium, Organ of Eosen- miiller). On holding up the broad Hgament of the uterus to the light, a collection of small tortuous tubules will be seen between the ovary and the Fallopian tube. This is the remnant of the upper part of the Wolffian body of the fetus ; it is about one inch broad, with its base to the Fallopian tube, and apex to the attached border of the ovary. The small tubes are from twelve to twenty in number ; at the wider end they are joined more or less perfectly by a tube crossing the rest, which is prolonged sometimes a short way into the broad ligament. Each tube is a closed fibrous capsule with a clear fluid within, and a lining of epithelium. Fallopian Tubes (fig. 185, e). Two in number, one on each side, they convey the ova from the ovaries to the uterus, and correspond in their ofiice with the vasa deferentia in the male. Each is about four inches in length : cord-hke at the inner end, where it is attached to the upper part of the uterus, it increases in size towards the outer end, and terminates in a wide extremity (/), like the mouth of a trumpet. This dilated end is fringed, and the pieces are c&W&d. fimlrio}. When the fimbriated end is floated out in water, one of the processes {g) may be seen to be connected with the outer end of the ovarjr. In the centre of the fimbria is a gi-oove leading to the orifice of the Fallopian tube. On opening the tube with care, the size of the contained space, and its small aperture into the uterus can be observed. Its canal varies in size at different spots :—the narrowest part is at the orifice into the uterus (ostium uterinum), where it scarcely gives passage to a fine bristle ; towards the outer end it increases a little, hut it is rather diminished in diameter at the outer aperture (ostium abdominale). Structure. This excretory tube has the same structure as the uteras with which it is connected, viz., a muscular layer covered externally by peritoneum, and lined by mucous membrane. The muscular coat is formed of an external or longitudinal, and an internal or circular layer ; both these are continuous withsunilar strata in the wall of the uterus. Hucous coat The mucous membrane forms some longitudinal folds, particularly Fallopian tulses. Length, and form: it is dilated externally, and fimhri- ated: size of the tube is least at the ends. A muscular stnicture: fibres pro- longed from utenis.