593 BLADDER AND UllETHRA IX FEMALE. at the outer eiuL At the inner extremity of the canal it is continued into the mucous hning of the uterus, but at the outer end it joins i^^^ontinu- the peritoneum. A cohunnar and ciliated epithelium covers tlie peritoneum. surface, as in the uterus, and is said by Henle to be detected on the outer surface of the fimbria!. The bloodvessels and nerves are furnished from those supplied to Vesselii. the ovary and uterus. THE BLADDER, URETHRA, AND RECTUM. Bladder. The peculiarities in the fonn and size of the female ^^^^j^JJ.^ bladder have been detailed in the description of the connections of the viscera of the female pelvis (p. 560). For a notice of its struc- ture, the anatomy of the male bladder is to be referred to (p. 573). Dissection. To prepare the bladder, distend it with air, and remove Preparation the peritoneal covering and the loose tissue from the muscular fibres. ° ' ' After the external anatomy of the bladder and urethra has been open it. learnt, they are to be slit open along the upper part. Urethr-v. The length and the connections of the excretoiy tube Length rr^n Uretln-a. are given m page ooU. The average diameter of the urethra is rather more than a quarter Size; of an inch, and the canal is enlarged and funnel-shaped towards the neck of the bladder: near the external aperture is a hollow in the floor. In consequence of not being surrounded by resistant j^^^^'™ ^'^ structures, the female m-ethra is much more dilatable than the dilated. coiTesponding passage in the male. Structure.-liike the urethra of the male, it consists of a mucous Tube like coat, which is enveloped by a plexus of bloodvessels, and by mus- ,uaie."^ ' cular fibre. The viuscular layer extends the whole length of the urethi-a. Its gQ^^^Qj!";',. fibres are circular, coiTesponding with those in the prostatic en- cuiariibres. largement of the other sex, and continuous behind with the middle, layer of the bladder. In the perinatal ligament this stratum is covered by the constrictor urethrte as in the male (p. 435). The mucous coat is pale except near the outer orifice. It is Mucous marked by longitudinal folds ; and one of these, in the floor of the canal, resembles the median crest in the male m-ethra (p. 576). tio^or^;^'"^ Around the outer orifice are some mucous follicles ; and towards follicles and the inner end are tubular mucous glands, whose apertures are gi""'ls, arranged in lines between the folds of the membrane. A laminar epithelium is spread over the sm-face, and beneath it are deeper epithelium, conical cells as in the bladder. A submucous stratum of longitudinal elastic and muscular tissues S"bniueous lies close beneath the mucous membrane, as in the male. tissue. Dissection. The rectum may be prepared for examination by dis- Preparation tending it with tow, and by removing the peritoneal covering and the areolar tissue from its surface. Rectu-M. The structure of the rectum is similar in the two sexes ; Rectum like: and the student may use the description in the Section on the viscera \^alo"^ of the male pelvis (p. 572). Q Q