449 SHEATH OF EECTUS MUSCLE. Fig. 137. The muscle is contained in an aponeurotic sheath except above nas^cross and below ; and its fibres are interrupted at intervals by irregular tendinous lines—the inscriptiones tenduiea). • „ tt«« on Action. It will draw down the thorax and the nbs or raise the iJs^on pelvis, according as its fixed point maybe above or below. J3esicles ^^^-^^^^^^ imparting movement to the trunk, it will diminish the cavity of the thorax, and compress the viscera. Sheath of the rectus, D. This sheath is derived from the splitting its sheath, of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique at the outer edge of the ^^^^^^^^^ muscle. One piece passes before and the other under the rectus; and the two unite at the inner border so as to enclose it in a sheath. Inseparably blended with the stratum in front of the rectus is the aponeurosis of the external oblique ; and joined in a similar man- ner with that behind, is the aponeurosis of the transversalis. The sheath is deficient beliind, both at the up- per and lower end of the muscle. Above, the muscle rests on the ribs, without the intervention of the sheath which is fixed to the margin of the thorax. Below, mid- way between the umbi- licus and the pubes, the internal oblique ceases to split, and passes alto- gether in front of the rectus, with the other aponeuroses, is wanting inferiorily the muscle transversalis, and a white semilunar line (the fold of Douglas) may be sometimes seen, when the outer edge of the rectus is raised, marking the cessation. The Unece transversal (fig. 137), on the sm-face of the abdomen Linem are caused by tendinous intersections of the rectus. They are trausverso?, usually three in number, and have the following position ; one is deficient above and below. At the spot where the sheath contact with the fascia is m are throe or more. opposite the umbilicus, another at the ensiform cartilage, and the situation Rectus muscle of the abdomen, dissected on the right side, and in its sheath on the left. Close to the pelvis the pyraraidalia is exposed. A. Rectus. B. Internal oblique. 0. Poupart's ligament, d. Sheath of the rectus. a a