552 DISSECTIOX OF THE I'ELYIS. Extent of tlie voctuin. luiigtli, and divi- sions. First piece jnost covered by lJuritoneuni. Middle piece covered in front. Last piece is uncovered, connections witli ]iarts around : sometimes dilated. Bladder is in ])elvis when empty, to the abdominal wall, along the remains of the obliterated liyno- gastric vessels. The RKCTUM, or the lower part ol; the great intestine (fig. 172, Z;) extends from the articulation between tlie sacrum and the left hi]» bone to the anus, and is kept in place by the peritoneum, the recto- vesical fascia, and the levatores ani. The intestine is about eight inches long, and has a winding course, for it follows the curve of tlie sacrum and coccyx : it is divided into three parts—upper, middle, and lower. The U2)2)er jwrtion, longer than the otliers, extends obliquely from the sacro-iliac articulation to the centre of the third piece of the sacrum. Surrounded almost entirely by the peritoneum, it lies against the sacnnn, and on the pyriformis muscle and sacral plexus of the left side. In contact with it, are branches of tlie left internal iliac artery, and the left ureter. In some bodies tlie intestine is much curved to the right side.* The middle jnece Hes beneath the bl; dder, and reaches to the tip of the coccyx : it is about three inches is length, and is covered by peritoneum on the front and sides above, but only in front below. Ilestuig on it is the triangular part of the bladder, Avith the back of the prostate and the vesiculte seminales and vasa deferentia ; and beneatli it are the sacrum and coccj's. On each side is the coccygeus muscle. The loioer part is about an inch and a half long, and is curved from the tip of the coccyx to the anus : at lirst it is dilated, but at the anus it is contracted. This end of the intestine is without peritoneal covering, and is supported by the triangular ligament of the urethra, and by the levatores ani muscles. Above the extremity of the rectum (in this position of the l)ody) are the fore part of the prostate, the membranous part of the urethra, and the bulb of the corpus spongiosum urethrte ; but as the gut recedes fi'om the urethra there is an angular interval left, between them. The levatores ani muscles descend on its sides, and unite beneath it, supporting it in a sling ; and the sphincter muscles surround the aperture. Sometimes the end of the intestine within the anus is very much enlarged, especially in women and old men; and in that condition m the male it rises up on each side of the prostate. The UEINARY BLADDER (vesica urinaiia) is situate in the fore part of the pelvis (fig. 172, a), and is the receptacle for the fluid secreted by the kidnej's. When the bladder is contracted it is flattened, and of a triangular form, and Hes against the anterior wall of the pelvis ; but when * It is not uncommon to see the rectum on the right side of the sacrum. In the dis.sectiDg-room of University College in one Winter (1854—1855) I saw three examples of the rectum in that situation. In two bodies the lower end of the left colon crossed the .spine at the top of the sacrum, and the rectum descended through the pelvis, on the right of the middle line, to the end of the coccy.x. In the third the large intestine crossed the spine twice, once at. the top of the sacrum, and again about the middle of that bone.