DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 344 position and form. Is guarded by tlireo sigmoid valves. Sinus of Valsalva. Use. Position of apertures, of arteries and auricles; and from ■before l)ack. Structure of the heart. Directions. Fibrous bands form rings around auri- culo-ventri- cular and arterial openings. To the last the sigmoid valves, and middle coat of the artery are fixed. smaller than that of the pulmonary arteiy, and measures about three quarters of an inch in diameter. It is situate opposite the inner end of the third left intercostal space. In its interior are three semilunar or sigmoid valves^ which are larger and stronger than the corresponding parts in the pulmonary artery, but have a like structure and attachment. The projection in the centre of each valve, viz. the corpus Arantii, is better marked. Opposite each valve the coat of the aorta is bulged as in the pul- monary artery, though in a greater degree, and presents a little hollow on the inner side, named sinus of Valsalva. The apertures of the coronary arteries are placed behind two of the valves. Like the valves in the pulmonary artery these meet in the middle line to stop the blood passing back into the ventricle, and combine with them in causing the second sound of the heart. Position of the ventricular apertures. Two openings have been seen in each ventricle,—one of the auricle of its own side of the heart, and one of an artery. The apertures of the arteiies (aorta and pulmonary) are nearest the septum ; and as the two vessels were originally formed from one tube, they are close together, but the pulmonary artery is the more anterior of the two. The aperture of communication with each am'icle is nearer the circumference of the heai-t, and is posterior to the artery issuing from the fore part of the ventricle. The position of the openings to one another fi'om before backwards has been before refen-ed to ;—viz., the right is partly before the left auriculo-ventricular ; and the opening of the pulmonary aiteiy is anterior to that of the aorta, and rather higher than it. Structure. The heart is composed of strata of muscular fibres, and of certain fibrous rings with a fibro-cartilage. The structure may be studied in the heart of the sheep or ox, in which the fibres have been hardened and the connective tissue des- troyed by boiling, so as to allow of the fibres being separated. The description of the structure of the heart may be omitted by the student till a suitable preparation of the fibres can be made. The fibrous stmcture forms rings around the auriculo-ventricular and arterial orifices, and is prolonged into the valves connected with those openings. The auriculo-ventricular rings give attachment to the framework of fibrous tissue in the tricuspid and mitral valves. They are dis- tinct from the bands encircling the mouths of the arteries, except at the front of the left auriculo-ventricular openmg, where the auricular and arterial circles blend. Aj^ arterial ring surrounds each large artery (aorta and pulmonary), fixing those vessels, and giving attachment to some muscular fibres. It is a circular band, with three notches in the mai-gin towards the artery ; these are filled by corresponding projections of the artery, and give attachment internally to the sigmoid valves along then- semilunar edges. The artery is connected with the band of fibrous tissue in the following manner :—Its middle coat presents thi-ee projections.