433 SUEFACE MARKING IN FEMALE. tlio urethra tlu-ougli the left lateral lobe of the prostate, above the level of the ejaculatory duct. Parts to he avoided. In the first incisions in the ischio-rectal fossa, Pa^s to be the rectum may be cut if the knife is turned inwards across the rJctum/"" intestine, instead of being kept parallel with it; and if the gut is not held out of the Avay with the fore finger of the left hand. The pudic pudic vessels on the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa may be vessels, wounded near the anterior part of the hollow, where they approach the margin of the triangulai- ligament ; but, posteriorly, they are securely lodged inside the projection of the tuber ischii. Whilst making the deeper incisions to reach the staff, the artery of arten- of the bulb lies immediately in fi-ont of the knife, and will be woimded if the uacisions are made too far forwards ; but the vessel must almost necessarily be cut, when it arises farther back than usual, and crosses the fi-ont of the ischio-rectal fossa ia its course to the bulb of the uretlu-a. In the last stage of the operation the neck of the bladder should lecto-vesical not be mcised to a gi-eater extent than is necessary for the extraction ^^scia, of the stone, lest the recto-vesical fascia separating the perinasum from the pelvis should be divided, and the abdominal cavity opened, andacces- Too large an incision through the prostate may wound also an unusual a^^jy,^^'^^*' accessory pudic artery on the side of that body. Directions. When the dissection of the perinEeum is completed. Directions, the flaps of skin are to be fastened together, after salt has been used, and the limbs are to be put down for the examination of the abdomen. Section II. PEEIN^UM OF THE FEMALE. The perinasum in the female ditfers fi-om that in the male more perintcum in the external form than the internal anatomy. On the surface it °^ female has special parts distinguishing it, viz., the aperture of the vagina, special and the vulva with the labia. iiarts. Surfoxe marJdng. In the middle line, there are the two apertures Along of the anus and vulva, wliich are separated from one another by an "pg^'ulgs intei-val of about an inch. The anus is situate rather farther back anus and than in the male. And the vulva with the labia majora on the sides is placed in tlie situation of the scrotum of the other sex. Within tlie vulva at the upper part, is the clitoris, and two small Parts witliin membranous folds, labia minora, extend downwards from it. Below the clitoris is tlie small aperture of the urethra ; and still lower down is the vagina, whose opening is sometimes partly closed by a thin Xiiece of membrane, the hymen. Dee2) boundaries. The deep boundaries of the perina^um are alike Boundaries in both sexes; l)ut in the female the outlet of the pelvis is larger fUkein than in the male. bothsuxcs. 3? P