520 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. and unite into one. Nerves. Al)Sorl)ents. Ureter; office; length. Size varies. CoiU'se, and connec- tions. Sometimes double. Ureter dilated near tlie kiibiey, has calices, which embrace pyramids. Two coats in ureter, muscular and mucous Epithelium many layers. The calicos also two coats. tlic pyramids ; and the larger trunks then accompany the arteries to the sinus of the kidney. Finally all are united into one trunk, which opens into the vena cava. Nerves. The ramifications of the sympathetic nerve may be traced to the smaller branches of the artery. The ahsorhents are superficial and deep :—^The deep absorbents are supposed to begin in a plexus between the urine tubes. Both unite at the hilum of the kidney, and join the lumbar glands. The UEETER is the tube by which the fluid secreted in the kidney is conveyed to the bladder. Between its origin and termination the canal measures from sixteen to eighteen inches in length. Its size corresponds commonly with that of a large quill. Near the kidney it is dilated into a funnel-sliapcd part, named x>elvis; and near the bladder it is again somewhat enlarged, though the lower aperture by which it terminates is the narrowest part of the tube. Its relative anatomy must be studied afterwards, when the body is in a suitable position. In its course from the one viscus to the other, the ureter is close beneath the peritoneum, and is directed obliquely downwards and inwards along the posterior wall of the abdomen as far as the pelvis; here it changes its direction, and becomes almost horizontal. At first the ureter is placed over the psoas, inclining on the right side towards the inferior vena cava ; and about the middle of the muscle it is crossed by the spermatic vessels. Lower down it lies over the common or the external iliac arterj^, being beneath the sigmoid flexure on the left side, and the end of the ileum on the right side. Lastly, it lies below the level of the obhterated hypo- gastric artery (p. 553). Sometimes the ureter is divided into two for a certain distance. Part in the kidney (fig. 161, h). Near the kidney the ureter is dilated into a pouch called pelvis. It begins in the kidney by a set of cup-shaped tubes, named calices or infundibula, which vary in number from seven to tliiileen. Each cup-shaped j^rocess embraces the rounded end of a pjn-amidal mass, and receives the urine fi-om the apertures in that projection ; sometimes a calj^ surrounds two or more masses. The several calices are united together to form two or tlu-ee larger tubes ; and these are finally blended in the ureter. Structure. Besides an external fibrous layer, the ureter possesses a muscular and a mucous coat. The muscular covering is composed of an external or longitudinal, ■ and of an internal or circular stratum. The mucous coat is thrown into longitudinal folds durmg the contracted state of the ureter. Its epithelium consists of layers of cells of different shapes ; thus, at the fi-ee surface they are squarish, at the attached surface rounded, whilst in the intermediate strata thej'' are cylindrical (Kolliker). The calices resemble the rest of the duct in having a fibrous, a muscular, and a mucous coat. Around the base of the pyramid the calyx is continuous with the enveloping tunic of the kidney ; and