CAVITY OF THE PELVIS TiiK cavity of the pelvis is ca part of tlic general abdominal space ^^''^"^j^jjl^" (p. 466), and is situate below the brim of the true pelvis. tiou. Boundaries. The space is sm-roundcd by the firm bony ring of Boundaries, the pelvic bones : it is bounded behind by tlie sacrum and coccyx, Behiml and with the pyriformis muscles and the sacro-sciatic ligaments ; and ''^foro. laterally and in front, by the innominate bones covered by the obturator muscles. Inferiorly, or towards the perinteum, the ca^^ty is limited by the Below, fascia reflected from the wall to the viscera, and by the levatores ;mi and coccygei muscles : only in this last direction, where the bounding structures are moveable, can alterations be made in the size of the space. Contents. In the pelvis are contained the lu'uiary bladder, the Coutents. lower end of the large intestine or the rectum, and some of the generative organs, according to the sex. All the viscera possess vessels, nerves, and lymphatics ; and the serous membrane is reflected over them. Section I. PELVIC FASCIA AND MUSCLES OF THE OUTLET. On the wall of the pelvis is a thin fascia (pelvic), which extends Outline of from the brim to the outlet, and covers the obturator muscle. th'e pelvS."'" Dissection. To brmg into view the pelvic fascia, the internal iliac steps to de- vessels, and the psoas (if this has not been removed in the dissec- ''!"^ t'le pel- tion of the lumbar plexus), are to be taken away on the left side of the body. The obturator vessels and nerve are to be cut through in the on the same side ; and the peritoneum being detached from the i"^'"**' Avail of the pelvis, the fascia will be seeii on scraping away with the handle of the scalpel a large quantity of fat. By this proceed- ing the membrane is dissected in its upper half, or as low as the situation of a piece of fascia (recto-vesical) which is attached to it, and is directed inwards to the viscera. To display the lower half, the student must raise the outlet of the pelvis; and, should the perineum be midissected, the fat must be and the taken from the ischio-rectal holloAv. The lower part of the pelvic i>"iw^'um, N N