685 FEMALE GENITAL ORGANS. Further, it possesses a portion of corpus spongiosum, but this corpus structure is Hmited to the glans clitoridis (c). spongiosum, ;ruciure is niiuieu giui^o ^...y.. v-^- ,., • , „ „„*:i„ Structure. The outer fibrous casing and the septum are aliJce in tissue. Fig. 183.* both penis and clitoris ; and in the interior of the clitoris is an erectile tissue, like that in the male organ (p. 680). The bloodvessels of the corpus cavernosum are like those of the penis ; and the glans receives the ending of the dorsal artery (p. 441). The nymplice (fig. 184, ^ labia minora) are two folds of mucous L^-bia mi- membrane, which descend fi-om the end of the clitoris, one on each nora de- ' „ „ , . , J • 1 -ii scend from side of the onfice of the vagina ; they are continuous above with prepuce, the preputial covering of the glans, and extend down about one inch and a half. The inner sm-face is continuous with the lining of the vestibular space and vagina, and the outer, with the exter- nal labium. Bloodvessels are contained in each fold. Vestibule and orifice of the urethra. Within the nymphiE, between vestibule, the clitoris above and the vagina below, is an interval, about one inch and a half deep, which is called the vestibule. In the middle opening of line of the vestibular space is the round orifice of the urethra, which lu'etiu-a. is placed in a median eminence about one inch below the clitoris, and near the aperture of the vagina. Orifice of the vagina (fig. 184), and the hymen. The aperture of Aperture of the vagina is close below the meatus urinarius, and varies much in '^'o vagiua. size. In the child, and in the virgin, it is partly closed below by a thin semilunar fold of mucous membrane, named the hymen. After the destruction of that membrane small irregularly-shaped projec- Hpnen and tions, cai'unculce myrtiformes, exist around the opening of the vagina, carunculse. * Representation of the clitoris, a. Cms, and h, body of the corpus cavernosum. c. Glans clitoridis. The lower figure shows the structui'e on a vertical section ; the same letters refer to like parts.