563 BRANCHES OF INTEEXAL ILIAC. tioii with the lumbar arteries, and form a cliain of anastomoses by tlic side of the apcrtiu-es in the sacrum. These arteries supply the iji-anclics. pyrifoi-mis and cocoygeus muscles, and anastomose with each otiicr, as well as with the middle sacral. A small sxnnal branch enters each aperture in the sacrum. The fjluteal artery (fig. 174, m) is a short thick trunk, which Giutoal appears to be the continuation o£ the posterior division of the internal iliac. Its destination is to the gluteal muscles on the dorsum of the hip bone ; and it is transmitted from the pelvis above the pyriformis muscle, with its accompanying vein, and the superior gluteal nerve. In the pelvis the artery gives small hranches sm&u^^ to the contiguous muscles, viz., iliacus, pyriformis, and obturator, and a nutritious artery to the hip bone. 15. The branches of the anterior portion of the internal iliac arteiy Branches oi {iiib6i lor are the following :— part. The vesical arteries, superior and inferior, are distributed to the Vesical coats of the bladder. ' "^'^' The iipper, three or four in number, arise at interv-als from the upper, partly obliterated Jij^pogastric trunk ; the lowest of these is some- times called middle vesical branch. Offsets are furnished fi-om midille, those branches to the body and upper part of the bladder. The loiver artery arises from the internal iliac in common with a and lower, branch to the rectum, or with one to the vagina in the female. It is distributed to the base of the bladder, the vesiculo3 seminales, and the prostate. A small oifset fi-om this artery, or from the upper vesical, is furnished to the vas deferens. The hranch to the rectum (middle hasmorrhoidal) is commonly with an supplied by the inferior vesical. It is spent on the anterior and 'I'ectuin? ^'"^ lower part of the rectum, and on the vagina in the female, and anastomoses with the hasmorrhoidal arteries. The obturator artery (fig. 174, h). This branch is directed forwards Obtiu-ator below the brim of the pelvis to the aperture in the top of the enm-ses thyroid foramen : passing through that opening it ends in two '"•ro?« branches, which ramify on the membrane closing the thyroid fora- ^ men, and lie beneath the muscle in that situation. In the pelvis Offsets in the artery has its companion nerve above, and vein below it ; and i"^'^'"' it gives origin to the following small branches. Iliac branch : this small offset enters the iliac fossa to supply the branch, bone and the iliacus muscle ; it anastomoses with the ilio-lumbar artery. pubic branch (fig. 139,/) ascends on the posterior aspect of imhic the pubes, and communicates with the corresponding branch of the opposite side, and with an offset from the epigastric artery. Sometimes the obturator may take origin fi-om the external iUac artciy. The sciatic artery (fig. 174, n) is the next largest branch to the Sciatic gluteal, and is continued over the pyriformis muscle and the sacral ■""'"^ plexus to the sacro-sciatic notch, where it issues between the iuUiopelvis, pyriformis and the coccygeus muscles. External to the pelvis it divides into branches beneath the gluteus maximus, and is distri- and outside c 0 2