26i LIGAMENTS OF CLAVICLE. piece : it is connected inferiorly to the inner border of the caracoid process along the hinder half ; and superiorly to the line on the under surface of the clavicle which extends outwards from the tubercle before mentioned. The two pieces of the ligament are in apposition posteriorly, but are separated by an interval in front. Use. Both pieces of the hgament support the scapula in a state Useo/"g''- of rest. They serve also to restrain the rotatory movements of Fig. 75.' that bone ; thus when the acromion is rotated down, the motion is checked by the trapezoid band ; and Avhen upwards, by the conoid piece. AcromiO'Clavicular articulation. The articular sm-faces of the clavicle and acromion process of the scapula are connected together by a cajpsule formed of strong fibres. Some of the fibres are thicker above and below, and are considered to constitute a superior find an inferior ligament. An interarticular fihro-cartilage generally exists at the upper part of the joint ; but sometimes it forms a complete interarticular septum. If the fibro-cartilage is perfect, there are two synovial membranes present in the joint ; if it is imperfect, there is only one. The joint should be opened to see the cartilage and the synovial membrane. Movements. In this articulation there are limited fore and back, and up and down movements of the scapula. Besides, there is a gliding movement of the acromion on the clavicle in rotation of the scapula. For instance, when the acro- mion is depressed, its articular surface moves from above down at the fore part of the joint, and fi-om below up at the back. When Joint with acromion. Capsule. Fibro-carti- lage, and synovial sac. Movements in rotation of scapula. * Ligaments of the clavicle and scapula, and of the shoulder joint (altered from Bourgery and Jacob). 1. Conoid ligament. 2. Trapezoid ligament. 3. Anterior ligament of the scapula. 4. Posterior scapular ligament. 6. Capsule of the shoulder joint. 6. Tendon of the long head of the biceps entering the joint. 7. Tendon of the subscapularis muscle. 8. Coraco- humeral ligament.