383 TRAPEZIUS MUSCLE. and lastly from the inner third of the superior transverse ridge of the occipital bone. From this origin the fibres are du-ected out- wards converging to the shoulder, and are inserted mto the outer insertion, tliird of the claAncle, at its posterior aspect; into the posterior border of the acromion ; and into the upper edge of the spme of the scapula as fai- as an inch from the root of that process, as well as into a rough impression on the surface of the spme near the hinder part. Tlie muscle is subcutaneous. At the outer side the lowest tleshy Connec- fibres end in a small triangular tendon, wliich glides over the smooth surface of the root of the spine of the scapula. The an- terior border bounds behind the posterior triangular space of the neck. By its insertion the trapezius corresponds with the origin of the deltoid muscle. Action. If all the fibres of the muscle act, the scapula gliding on Use: the ribs is moved upwards and towards the spinal column ; but the moveable, upper fibres can assist other muscles in elevatkig, and the lower fibres will help in depressing that bone. When the scapula is prevented from gliding on the ribs, the trap 6- in rotation zius imparts a rotatory movement to it, and raises the acromion. of bone. Dissection. The fibres of the trapezius are to be divided near the Trace spinal scapula, over the situation of the spinal accessory nerve, so that accessory, the ramifications of that nerve in the muscle, and its junction with the branches of the cendcal plexus may be obseiwed. A small artery to the trapezius (art. superficialis colH) accornpanies the nerve. The spinal accessory cranial nerve (p. 112) having crossed the pos- Spinal terior triangle of the neck, passes beneath the trapezius, and forms nervefin^ a plexiform union with branches of the tliird and fourth nerves of trapezius, the cer^acal plexus. The nerve is distributed nearly to the lower border of the muscle. Dissection. To see the parts covered by the trapezius, the pieces Dissection of the divided muscle are to be thi-own inwards and outwards. t° reflect tl'tl'DGZlUS * The dissector of the neck should now clean the splenius, and define the things beneath the clavicle, viz. the posterior belly of the parts in the omo-hyoid muscle with the suprascapular nerve and vessels ; the transverse cervical vessels ; and the small branches of nerves to the levator anguli scapulas and rhomboid muscles. If the trapezius be detached along the middle line, the ligamentum nuchas, fi-om which it takes origin, will be brought into Adew. ^ ** The dissector of the upper limb should clean the fibres of the clean the rhomboidei and levator anguli scapuUy muscles, which are fixed to scapular the base of the scapula ; and whilst this is being done, the scapula '"^'^'^ is to be drawn away from the trunk to make tense the fleshy fibres. Parts covered by the trapezius. The trapezius conceals in the Parts neck the splenius, a small part of the complexus, and the levator covered by anguli scapulas ; in the dorsal region it covers the following muscles, —the rhomboidei, the erector spinte, and the latissimus dorsi. Near the insertion it lies over the supraspinatus muscle. The lirjamentum nucha} is a narrow fibrous band, wliich extends Ligamen- tum nuchre.