303 EXTENSORS OF DIGITS. the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of the meta- insertion, carpal bone of the index finger. Along its outer border lies the radial nerve. j t. i Action. The long extensor straightens first the wrist, and bends ^^^^ next the elbow joint. If the hand is fixed in climbing, it will act on the humerus hke and fixed. the long supinator. . * The EXTENSOR CAnn radialis brevior, c, is attached to the outer f^^^P^^l^^^ condyle of the humerus by a tendon common to it and the three following muscles, viz. common extensor of the fingers, extensor Origin, of the little finger and ulnar extensor of the wrist: it takes origin also fi-om the capsular ligament of the elbow joint. The tendon Insertion, of the muscle is closely connected with the preceding, and after passing with it through the same compartment of the annular ligament, is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. Concealed on the outer side by the two preceding muscles, this Parts extensor rests on the radius and two of the muscles attached to around it. it, that is to say, on the supinator brevis, and the pronator teres. Along the ulnar side is the comlnon extensor of the fingers ; and the extensors of the thumb come between it and the digital ex- tensor. Both radial extensors of the carpus have usually a bursa at the insertion. Action. This muscle resembles its fellow in extending the wrist, Use on but difEers from it in extending the bent elbow. "'"^ Acting with the long extensor of the wrist it will move the hand and radius, in the act of supination. The EXTENSOR COMMUNIS DIGITORUM, D, is Single at its origin, but Common GxtGnsor is divided inferiorly into four tendons. It arises from the common muscle, tendon, from aponem-otic septa between it and the muscles around, origin, and from the aponeurosis of the limb. Near the lower part of the forearm the muscle ends in three tendons, which pass through a compartment of the annular ligament with the indicator muscle ; below the ligament, the most internal tendon divides into two, and all four are directed along the back of the hand to their insertion into the last two phalanges of the fingers. On the back of the fingers the tendons have the following insertion arrangement. On the dorsum of the first phalanx each forms an 'i"ja°am^es expansion with the tendons of the lumbricales and interossei ° muscles (fig. 82). At the front of that phalanx it divides into three parts (fig. 87, n) :—the central one is fixed into the base of the second phalanx, whilst the lateral pieces unite, and are inserted into the base of the last phalanx. Opposite the first two articula- munia digitorum, E. Extensor minimi digiti. f. Extensor carpi ulnaris. o. Anconeus, h. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. r. Extensor primi inter*- nodii. J. Extensor secundi intemodii pollicis. k. Posterior annular ligament. L. Bands uniting the tendons of the common extensor on the back of the hand. N. Insertion of the common extensor into the last two phalanges. Arteries ': a. Posterior interosseous. 1. Radial. 2. Posterior carpal arch. 6. Meta- carpal branch. 4. Dorsal branches of thumb and forefinger.