659 BRANCHES OF PROFUNDA ARTERY. Adductor magnus muscle (fig. 201, At its posterior aspect Po^terio^r^ the large adductor is altogether fleshy, even at the opening for the adductor femoral artery ; and the fibres from the pubic arch appear to form magnus. a part almost distinct fi-om those connected with the tuberosity of the hip bone. In contact vnth this surface are the hamstring muscles and the great sciatic nerve. Ending of the perforating arteries (fig. 201, c, d, e). These branches of the profunda appear through the adductor magnus close to the (,^,^,.3^ j.^ femur, and are directed out through the short head of the biceps vasti, and the outer intermuscular septum to the vasti muscles ; but as the first branch is placed higher than the attachment of the biceps, it pierces the gluteus maximus in its course. In the vasti they and ending; anastomose together, and with the descending branches of the external circumflex arter3^ Muscular branches are furnished by the perforating arteries to offsets to the heads of the biceps ; and a cutaneous offset is given by each theTkin? to the teguments of the outer side of the thigh, along the line of the outer intermuscular septum. Anastomoticbranchesoftheprofunda(fig. 201,/) pierce the adductor Anastomotic magnus internal to the preceding, and at some distance from the • femur (p. 635). Three or four in number, the highest appears number and about five inches from the pelvis, and the rest in a line at intervals of about two inches from one another : they are distributed to the hamstring muscles, especially the semimembranosus, and communi- cate below with offsets of the popliteal trunk. The HIP JOINT (fig. 202). This articulation is a ball and socket Hip joint, joint, the head of the femur being received into the acetabulum of fg^^g^. the innominate bone. Connecting the bones are the following jjgj^.' ligaments :—one to deepen the receiving cavity, which is named ments. cotyloid ; another between the articular surfaces of the bones,— the interarticular ; and a capsule around all. Dissection. The muscles are to be taken away from the back of Lay bare the hip joint, and the areolar tissue is to be removed fr-om the upper tehind^^^^ and lower attachments of the capsular ligament. Next, the front of the joint should be cleaned with the body and in frout, turned over for a short time, if this change in position does not interfere with the other dissections. In the capsule itself the student has to define a wide thick part define its in front, and a transverse band near the neck of the femur behind. Tlie capsular ligament (fig. 202) is a thick fibrous case, which is capsule strong enough to check the movements of the joint. Its upper ^* margin is attached to the circumference of the acetabulum at a short Attacli- distance from the edge, as well as to a transverse ligamentous band over the notch at the inner side of the cavity. Its lower margin is inserted in front into the anterior intertrochanteric line ''"'^ (fig. 202) ; behind, by a very thin piece, into the neck of the femur about a finger's breadth from the small trochanter and the posterior intertrochanteric line (fig. 203) ; and above, into the neck, near the great trochanter. The capsule differs much in strength, and in the arrangement of the fibres at tlie fore and hinder surfaces. tr TT 2