255 SUBSCAPULARIS MUSCLE. triceps (tig. 79, a), and to some fibres of tlie teres major, G ; these attachments will be ascertained in the progress of the dissection. Tiie base of the bone has many muscles inserted into it (fig. 74). Between the superior angle and the spine is the levator anguli scapuhe, ii. Opposite the spine the rhomboideus minor, J, is fixed. And between the spine and the inferior angle the rhomboideus major, ic, is attached : the upper fibres of this muscle end often m an aponeurotic arch, mid are connected in- Pig- 73. directly to the bone by means of an expan- sion from it. Internal to those muscles, and inserted into all the base of the scapula, is the serratus magnus muscle (fig. 73, d). On the hiner surface l of the upper and lower angles of the scapula the fibres of the serra- tus magnus are col- lected. On the outer surface of the inferior angle lies the teres major (fig. 74, d) which ■will be subsequently seen. The insertion of the small pectoral muscle into the fore part of the upper surface of the coracoid process may be ascertained at this stage of the dissection (fig. 73, f). Dissection. By the separation of the serratus from the sub- scapularis a thin fascia comes into view, wliich belongs to the last muscle, and is fixed to the bone around its margins : after it has been obsers-ed, it may be removed. The subscapularis muscle is to be followed forwards to its in- sertion into the humerus. Next, the axillary vessels, and nerves, and the offsets of these to the muscles, should be well cleaned. The SUBSCAPULARIS MUSCLE (fig. 73, a) occupies the under surface of the scapula, and is concealed by that bone when the limb is in its natural position. The muscle arises from the concave surface on the ventral aspect of the scapula, except at the angles, and this attachment reaches forwards nearly to the neck ; it is miited also to into the base ; into the angles of tlie bone ; into cora- coid process. Dissection and fascia. of sub-" scapularis. Subscapu- laris mis the hollow of scapula ; * View of the subscapularis and the surrounding muscles. The other muscles fixed into the base of the scapula are shown in fig. 74. A. Sub- scapularis. B. Teres major, o. Latissimus dorsi. n, Serratus magnus. E. Omo-Lyoideu.s. p. Pectoralis minor, o. Biceps, h. Coraco-brachialia. a. Supra-scapular artery. 1. Supra-scapular nerve passing through tha notch.