DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 650 Sacro-sciatic ligaments. Attach- ments of the large one. Form; gives a pro- longation. Small ligament attach- ments. They give rise to two notches: small, witli contents: large, and parts pass- ing through it. hip joint in stooping, instnad of extending it and raising the trunk like the other external rotator muscles. The SACRo-sciATic LIGAMENTS pass from the innominate bone to the sacrum and the coccyx ; they are two in number, and are named lai'ge and small. The large or _postow hgament (fig. 199, ^) is attached internally to the posterior end of the hip bone, and to the side of the sacrum and coccyx ; and externally it is inserted into an impression on the inner and anterior part of the iscliial tuberosity, sending up- wards a prolongation along the pubic arch. It is wide next the sacrum, but is contracted towards the middle, and is expanded again at the tuberosity. On the cutaneous surface are the branches of the sacral nerves ; and the gluteus maximus conceals and takes origin from it. Branches of the gluteal and sciatic arteries per- forate it. The small ligament will be seen on dividing the other near the hip bone. At the sacrum and coccyx it is united with the large band, but at the opposite end it is inserted into the ischial spine. It is less strong than the superficial hgament, by wliich it is con- cealed ; and it i-ests on the coccygeus muscle. By their attachments these ligaments convert the large sacro- sciatic notch of the dried pelvis into two apertm-es or foramina. Between their insertion into the spine and tuberosity of the inno- minate bone, is the small sacro-sciatic foramen, which contains the internal obturator muscle with its nerve and vessels, and the pudic vessels and nei-ve. And above the smaller ligament is the large sacro-sciatic foramen, which gives passage to the jDyriformis muscle, with the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve above it, and the sciatic and pudic vessels and the sacral plexus below it. Section III. Directions. Position. Take the skin from over the ham. Seek the THE BACK OF THE THIGH. Directions. The ham or the popliteal space may be taken after the buttock, in order that it may be seen in a less disturbed state than if it was dissected after the examination of the muscles at the back of the thigh. When this space has been learnt the student will return to the dissection of the thigh. Position. The limb is to remain in the same position as in the dissection of the buttock. Dissection (fig. 200). To remove the skin fi-om the popliteal region let an incision be made behind the knee for the distance of six inches above, and four inches below the jomt. At each ex- tremify of the longitudinal cut make a transverse incision, and raise the skin in two flaps, the one being turned outwai'ds and the other inwards. In the fat are some small cutaneous nerves and vessels, viz., one