441 EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. sides (p. 431). The vein accompanying the arteries enters the pelvis tlirough the triangular pcrinfcal ligament. The dorsal artery, one on each side, pierces the suspensory liga- artery of ment, and extends forwards to the glans, where it ends m many i.enis. branches for that structure: in its course the vessel supplie.s the integuments and the body of the penis. It may be derived from the accessory pudic (p. 432). „ . The (Jorsal vein is a single trunk, and commences by numerous Dorsal^vcMu branches from the glans penis and tlie prepuce. It runs backwards prostatic by the side of. the artery, through the suspensory ligament, and the plexus. triangular ligament of the urethra, to join the prostatic plexus of veins. The vein receives branches fi-om the erectile structure and the teguments of the penis. Each dorsal nerve talces the same course as the artery, and ends "^^"^^ like it in numerous branches to the glans penis. It furnishes a large branch to the corpus cavemosum penis, and other ofEsets to the ijiteguments of the dorsum, sides, and prepuce of the penis. In the female these vessels are much smaller than in the male ; J^^^^flf/"^ they occupy the upper surface of the clitoris—the organ that repre- sents the penis. Dissection of the muscles. The surface of the external muscle of J^^I^T'^^^^ the abdominal wall (fig. 133) is now to be fi-eed fi-om fascia on oblique both sides of the body. It is not advisable to begin cleaning this muscle in fi-ont, because Precautions, there it has a thin aponeurosis, which is taken away too readily with the fat. Beginning the dissection at the posterior part, the student is to carry the Icnife obliquely upwards and downwards in the direction of the fibres. The thin aponeurosis before referred to is in fi-ont of a line extended upwards fi-om the anterior end of the iliac crest; and as the dissector approaches that spot, he must be careful not to injure the tendon, more particularly above, where it lies on the margin of the ribs, and is veiy indistinct. On the right side the external abdominal ring, c, may be defined, [['{JjjQ^^j'Jj^ ^ to show the cord passing through it; and on the left side a thin kug. fascia (mtercolumnar), Avhich is connected witli the margin of that opening, is to be preserv'^ed. Lastly the free border of the external oblique should be made evident between the last rib and the iliac crest. Muscles of the abdominal wall. On the side of the abdomen On the side are three large flat muscles, Avhich are named fi-om their position fl^it muscles to one another, and from the direction of their fibres. The most superficial nmscle is the external oblique ; the underlying one, the internal oblique ; and the deepest, 'the transversalis. Along the middle line are placed other muscles which have a ver- wlioscapo- tical direction. In front lie the rectus and pyramidalis, and behind juca«fthree is the quadratus lumborimi: these are encased by sheaths derived vertical, from the aponeuroses of the lateral muscles. The EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 133, ^) is fleshy on the side, Kxternal and aponeurotic on the fore part of the abdomen. It arises by fleshy processes from the eiglit lower ribs; the five highest pieces origin from ril)s.