ARTICULATIONS OF CARPUS. 319 and the greater number of whose fibres are transverse, has a corre- sponding attachment on the dorsal aspect of the same bones Of the lateral ligaments the external (/.) is the best marked, and and utei^al extends between the os trapezium and the scaphoid bone ; tne internal ligament (0 reaches between the cuneiform and unciform bones. . t j. . ^■ Dissection: After the di^nsion of the lateral and posterior ligaments, Dissection. the one row of bones may be separated far enough from the other, to allow a sight of the articular surfaces. Articular surfaces. The first row of carpal bones (except pisiform) Svuface^f forms internally an arch with the scaphoid (a), semilunar {V) and ^ contact, cuneiform bone (c), whose hollow is turned towards the second ; and externally a prominence with the scaphoid (a), which is received into a concavity in the other row. In the second row Pig- ^4. the OS magnum (</) and os uncif orme (A)present a con- dyloid projection, which is received into the arch before mentioned ; but the two outer bones (trapezium and trapezoid, e and /) are much below the level of the others, and form a slight hollow for the reception of the outer part of the sca- phoid bone. One synovial membrane serves for the articulation of all the carpal bones, ex- cept the pisiform with the cuneiform. Lining the joint between the two rows of the carpus, the membrane sends upwards and downwards prolongations be- tween the individual bones. The offsets upwards are two, and they sometimes join the synovial membrane of the wrist joint; but the offsets in the opposite direction are three, and may be continued and some to all, or only to some of the articulations between the four inner metacarpals metacarpal with their carpal bones. Movements. The transverse carpal joint is partly condyloid, but Kind of only forward and backward motion is permitted. All lateral and m^*''"^- circumductory movement is an-ested, if the rows are closely applied together, by the scaphoid striking against the os magnum on the one side, and tlie cuneiform against the unciform on the other. Flexion. As the hand is brought forwards the loAver row of carpal Flexion. One synovial membrane for the carpal bones, * Articulations of one carpal bone with another, and of the two rows with each other. The joint between the two rows is opened behind, a. Scaphoid bone. 6. Semilunar, c. Cuneiform, d. Dorsal transverse bands between those bones, e. Trapezium bone. /. Trapezoid, g. Os Magnum, h. Unci- form, i. Dorsal transverse bands joining the bones, k. External lateral ligament of the intercarpal joint. I. Internal lateral, p. Anterior ligament. i