347 YENTEICULAR FIBRES OF HEART. ContinnUi, of the fibres. With a piece of muscle rolled into a cone, j^brescon- as before said, the hbres of the different layers would be necessarily continuous at the apex ; but in the heai-t they are united at apex and base. Thus the outermost layer is continuous at the apex and atapexand base with tlie innermost, the fibres being curved in at the tip and out at the base. In like manner the fibres of the second layer are united with those of the sixth; and the third stratum with the fifth. From the three outer layers, fibres are continued to the The^com-^ right ventricle at the back of the heart, forming the ' common |,e,,i„a. fibres." Each of the tlu-ee outer layers consists of two sets of fibres, Sp^^^ which occupy the front and back of the ventricle. By the turning «>ree^outer inwards of the two bundles on opposite sides of the apex, the wall is prevented from having a slanting side, like a piece of paper rolled into a cone. And by the turning outwards of two sets of fibres (anterior and posterior) at the base of the ventricle from each inner layer, the sides of the auriculo-ventricular opening are Course iu made level like those of the apex. Many of the fibres of the outer layers are attached to the fibrous ring around the aorta. The fibres of the fourth layer are contmued into the septum ven- J^^y^^^'*^'^ triculorum. Dissection. To display the layers and fibres of the right ventricle. To show ^ , , ji n X, i composition gi-eat care -\vill be needed because of the thinness o± the waJl; but of right veu- the same number of layers exists in this, as on the other side of the ^ricle. heart. Make a vertical cut along the anterior aspect from the root of the pulmonary artery to the apex of the ventricle ; and reflect the several layers forwards and backwards fi-om that incision. As the three outer are raised let them be traced on the one hand into the part of the septum detached from the left ventricle ; and on the other into the left ventricle through the continuity of the " common fibres" behind. The RIGHT VENTRICLE possesses seven layers in its wall, like the Number of left, though they are much thinner. They are arranged as in the ^y®'^- other A'entricle into thi-ee external, three internal, and a fourth or intermediate. In like manner the wall decreases fi-om the centre Thiclcness. towards the base and apex ; but at the tip it is thicker than the apex of the left half of the heart (Pettigi-ew). Directions of tlie fibres. In this as in the other ventricle, the fibres Direction of of the three outer layers run down fi-om the base to the fore part fu ttoee of the septum and the apex of the heart : the outer being most outer, vertical. In the fourth stratum the fibres have a transverse direc- central, tion, as in the corresponding layer of the left ventricle. And in and three the tliree inner layers they are directed upwards fi-om the apex to "^"^^^ layers, the base of the ventricle across the fibres of the three outer strata, the deepest being the most vertical. Continuity of the fibres. The fibres are not distinct from those of Derivation the left ventricle, but are derived in the three outer layers from the j'^ip in " common fibres " and the septum, and fi-om the auriculo-ventriculai- opening. They are then continued forwards to the front of the