DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 340 Cavity of right ventricle. Apex. Base and its opeuiugs. Anterior and posterior wall. Interior of the cavity is uneven: on it there are tliree sets of fleshy columns. Opening from the auricle; position; form and ;size; is guarded Toj the tri- cuspid valve: the pieces. Structure of valve: the septum ventriculorum. A flap is thus formed, like the letter V, di£ the anterior part of the ventricle. In the examination of the cavity of the right ventricle, both the flap and the apex of the heart should be raised with hooks or string, so that the space may be looked into from below. The CAVITY OF THE RIGHT VENTRICLE (fig. 100) is triangular in form, and has the base turned upwards to the auricle of the same side. On a cross section the cavity would appear semilunar in shape fi-om before back, with the septum between the ventricles convex towards the cavity. The apex of the cavity reaches the right border of the heart at a short distance fi-om the tip. The base of the ventricle is sloped, and is perforated by two apertures ; one of these, on the right, leading into the auricle, is the right auriculo-ventricular opening (c) ; the other on the left, and much higher, is the mouth of the pul- monary artery (g). The part of the cavity communicating with the pulmonary artery is funnel-shaped, and is named infimdibulum or conus arteriosus. The anterior wall, or the loose part of the ventricle, is compara- tively thin, and forms most of the anterior surface of the ventricular portion of the heart. The posterior wall corresponds with the sep- tum between the ventricles, and is much thicker. Over the greater part of the cavity the surface is iiTegular, and is marked by projecting fleshy bands of muscular fibres, the columnos carnece; but near the aperture of the pulmonary artery the wall becomes smooth. The fleshy columns are of various sizes, and of three different kinds. Some form merely a prominence in the ven- tricle, as on the septum. Others are attached at each end, but free in the middle (trabeculse carneas). And a thhd set, which are fewer in number and much the largest, project into the cavity, and form rounded bundles, named musculi papillares ; these give attachment by their free ends to the little tendinous cords of the valve of the auriculo-ventricular opening. The auriculo-ventricular orifice (c) is situate in the base of the ventricle, and is opposite the centre of the sternum, between the third costal cartilages. It is slightly larger than the corresponding aperture of the left side of the heart. It is oval fi-om side to side, its shape being maintained by a strong fibrous band around it; and it measures one inch and a quarter in diameter. Prolonged from the chcumference of the opening is a thin mem- branous valve, which projects into the cavity of the ventricle. Near its attachment to the heart the valve is imdivided, but it presents three chief points at its lower margin, and is named tricusjnd; to the lower margin are attached small tendinous cords (chorda3 ten- dineas), which unite it to the muscular bundles of the ventricle. Its three shps or tongues are thus placed :—one touches the fi-ont of the ventricle ; another is in contact with the posterior wall ; and the remaining slip, the largest and most moveable, is interposed between the apertures into the amicle and pulmonary artery. The tricuspid valve is constructed by the linmg membrane of the