19 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. nen'e consists of two trunks, facial and auditory, and both enter nerve ims the meatus auditorius intenius. In the bottom of the meatus i'^'^^- they separate ; the facial nerve courses through the aqueduct of Fallopius to the face, and the auditory nerve is distributed to the internal ear. Eighth Nerve (fig. 4, Three trunks are combmed in the Eighth eighth cranial nerve of Willis, viz. glosso-pharjoigeal, pneumo- tliree'pai-ts; gastric, and spinal accessoiy. All three pass through the central ■compartment of the foramen jugulare, but all are not contained in one tube of the membranes of the brain. The glosso-pharyn- «'e>'-r^«;g^ o-eal nci-ve is external to the other two, being separated from them fommeu hy the inferior petrosal sinus, and has distinct sheaths of the dura jugulare- mater and the arachnoid membrane ; but the pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory ners'-es are inclosed in the same tube of the dura mater, only the sheaths of the arachnoid intervening between them. The NINTH NEHVE (fig. 4,'"') is the motor nen-e of the tongue, and Ninth nerve, •consists of two small pieces, which pierce separately the dura , mater opposite the anterior condyloid foramen ; these imite after passing through that aperture. Dissection. The dissector may now return to the exammation of Dissection the trunk of the carotid artery as it winds through the cavernous °' -:inus. On the opposite side of the head, yiz. that on which the nerves of sympa- in the Avail of the cavernous smus are untouched, an attempt may uses'° l)e made to find two small plexuses of the sympathetic on the carotid artery, though in an injected body this dissection is scarcely possible. One of these (cavernous) is near the root of the anterior clinoid cavernous in-ocess ; and to bring it into view it Avill be necessary to cut off that piece of bone, and to dissect out with care the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth nerves, looking for filaments between them and the plexus. Another plexus (carotid), joining the fifth and sixth carotid, nerves, suiTOunds the artery as this enters the sinus. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY appears in the base of the skull internal at the apex of the petrous part of the temporal bone. In its artery^ ascent to the brain the A'-essel lies in the space of the caA^ernous sinus, along the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, and makes two remarkable bends, so as to look like the letter S rechned. At first the artery ascends to the posterior clinoid process ; it is tlien winds <lirected forwards to the root of the ajiterior process of the same cavernous name ; and lastly it turns upAvards internal to this last point of sinus, ^lone, perforates the dura mater bounding the sinus, and divides uito cerebral arteries at the base of the brain. In this course the artery is enveloped by nerves derived fi-om the sympathetic in the neck (p. 115). The branches of the artery here are few. In the sinus there are nmneiies to some small arteries (arteriaj receptaculi) for the supply of the dura mater and the bone, the nerves, and the pituitary body ; and at the anterior clinoid process the ophthalmic branch arises. c 2