711 LIGAMENTS OF TARSAL BONES. When the pressure of the leg is removed the astragalus is carried ^nd ^^en up and out by the tightened ligaments and muscles, and the arch removed, of the foot is restored. Astragalus with the scaphoid bone.- The head of the astragalus Astragalus is received into the hollow of the scaphoid bone, and is united to it ^jJiioid by a dorsal ligament ; but the place of plantjar and external lateral iJ^^e. ligaments is supplied by strong bands between the os calcis and the scaphoid bone, which will be noticed below. Tlic dorsal or astragalo-scaphoid ligament (fig. 221, d) is attached Dorsal to the astragalus close to the articulation, and to the dorsal surface ™''' • of the scaphoid bone : its attachments vfiW be better seen when it is cut through. Dissection. The external ligament of the articulation maj'- be seen To lay bare on the dorsum of the foot in the hollow between the os calcis and j'^^eJfts the scaphoid bone. Supposing the tendon of the tibialis posticus removed, the inferior ligament will be defined in the sole of the foot by cutting some fibro-cai-tilaginous substance fi'om it. The inferior ligament (fig. 223, c, calcaneo-scaphoid) is attached Inferior behind to the fore part of the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis, ^'"^ and in fi'ont, to the hollow on the under surface of the scaphoid bone. In the upright posture of the body the tendon of the tibialis posticus is beneath it in the sole of the foot; and on it the head of the astragalus rests. The external calcaneo-scaphoid (fig. 221, e) is placed outside the external head of the astragalus, and serves as a lateral ligament to the as- ligament, tragalo-scaphoid articulation ; it is about thi-ee quarters of an inch deep. Behind, it is fixed to the upper part of the os calcis, between the articular surfaces for the cuboid bone and astragalus ; and in front it is inserted into the outer side of the os scaphoides. A synovial membrane serves for this articulation, and sends back Synovial a prolongation to the joint between the front of the os calcis and the astragalus. Articular surfaces. The head of the astragalus has two articular Surfaces of faces ; a smaller, below, for the os calcis ; and a larger one, elon- gated transversely and larger externally than internally, for the sca- phoid bone. The scaphoid bone is hollowed, and is widest exter- nally. Movement. The scaphoid moves down and in over the transversely Movement: elongated head of the astragalus, or up and out in the opposite direction. As the bone is forced downwards, the upper and external liga- ^^({faent ments of the joint are made tight; and when the scaphoid is moved ^""^"^ ^' in the opposite way the strong inferior ligament is put on the stretch. The OS calcis with the cuboid bone. The ligaments in this '^'^'^'^ articulation are plantar and dorsal, the former being much the W™y°''^ strongest; and there is also an internal band. The dorsal ligament (fig. 221, g, superior calcaneo-cuboid) is a dorsal, rather thin fasciculus of fibres, which is attached near to the con- tiguous ends of the os calcis and the cuboid bone ; it is sometimes