658 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. the biceps as far as tlie popliteal space. As the tendon turns for- wards to its insertion, an expansion is continued from it to the fascia of the leg ; and it is attached, with the gracilis, below the level of the tubercle of the tibia, the two being separated from the tendon of the sartorius by a bursa (p. 622). Use on Action. If the leg is moveable the muscle bends the knee ; and i^nee continuing to contract, rotates inwards the tibia. Supposing the j^nts'f Icnee-joint straight but the hip-joint bent, the femur can be depressed, and the hip extended by this and the other hamstrings, on the Should the limbs be fixed on the ground, the muscle will assist pelvis. in balancing the pelvis, or in erecting the trunk from a stooping posture. Semimem- The SEMIMEMBRANOSUS muscle (fig. 201, ^) is tendinous at both TCachesfrom name is given from the membraniform appearance of pelns to the upper tendon. The muscle is attached above to the highest tibia. impression on the back of the tuber ischii, above and external to the semitendinosus and biceps ; and it is inserted below into the inner and hinder part of the head of the tibia. Parts • The muscle is thick and fleshy inferiorly, where it bounds the around it. popliteal space. On it lies the semitendinosus, which is lodged in a hollow in the upper tendon ; and beneath it is the adductor mag- nus. Along the outer border lie the great sciatic, and internal popliteal nerves. Between its tendon and the iimer head of the gastrocnemius is a large bursa. The insertion of the muscle Avill be dissected with the Imee-joint (p. 699). Use on Action. This hamstring is united with the preceding in its action, for it bends the knee and rotates in the tibia ; and with the knee and hip straight it will limit flexion of the hip, or extend this joint after the joints, femur has been carried forwards. When the foot rests on the ground, the semimembranosus acts altogether on the pelvis. Great sciatic The GREAT SCIATIC NERVE (fig. 201, ^) lies on the adductor mag- nerve in nus muscle below the buttock, and diAndes into the two popliteal the thigh j^gj.^gg g^Q^^ ^Yie middle of the thigh, though its point of bifurca- tion may be earned upwards as far as the pelvis. In this extent the nerve lies along the outer border of the semimembranosus, and is crossed by the long head of the biceps, supplies Branches. Near the buttock it supplies large branches to the muscles. flexor muscles, and a small one to the adductor magnus. Small Small sciatic nerve (fig. 201, 0- Between the gluteus maximus soteticin jjj^^ ^jjg jjj^j^ ^ijig small nerve is close beneath the fascia ; but it ^ ^' becomes cutaneous below the knee, and accompanies the external saphenous vein for a short distance, cutaneous Small cutaneous filaments pierce the fascia ; a,nd the largest of offsets. these arises near the popliteal space. Detach Dissection. To see the posterior surface of the adductor magnus, t'le^iiam- branches of the perforating and anastomotic arteries, the ^ hamstring muscles must be detached from the hip bone and thrown- down ; and the branches of arteries and nerves they receive are to be dissected out with care. All the parts are to be cleaned. on pelvis.