DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 508 follow left piece of vena portie. Colour ami cunsistuucu; weight; iiionsiive- iiieiits. Form ami divisions. Ujipci' surface smooth; undev surface irregular. Anterior l)oriler tliin andnotclied, posterior tliicker, and also notclied. Extremities. Lobes on nnder surface are live, viz.: left, right; last sul)- Uivided into Knuarc, duct. Tlio several vessels and tlic ducts are then to be defined, and the gall-bladder to be cleaned. On following outwards the left branch of the vena portai to the longitudinal or antero-posterior fissure, it will be found united anteriorly with the round ligament (c) or the remains of the umbilical vein, and posteriorly with the thin fibrous remnant of the ductus venosus (fZ). The liver is of a red-browai colour and firm consistence ; and weighs commonly in the adult from three to four pounds (fifty to sixty ounces). Transversely the gland measures from ten to twelve inches ; from front to back l^etween six and seven inches : and in thiclmess, at the right end, about tln-ee inches, but this last measure- ment varies with the spot examined. In shape the liver is somewhat square. It has many named parts, viz., two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities : and the under surface is further marked by lobes and fossae, and by fissures which contain vessels. The connections and the ligaments of the liver are described at p. 471 and p. 476. Surfaces. On the upper aspect the liver is convex: extending fi-om fi-ont to back is the suspensory ligament, which divides the upper surface into two unequal parts, of which the right is the larger. The under surface is rendered irregular by lobes, fissures, and fossas : in contact with it is the gall-bladder ; and a longi- tudinal sulcus divides it into a right and a left lobe. Borders. The anterior border is thin, and is marked by two notches : one is opposite the longitudinal sulcus on the inider surface before alluded to, and the other is over the large end of the gall-bladder. The posterior border is much thicker at the right than at the left end ; and where it is thickened it touches the right kidney and the diaphragm. Opposite the vertebral column is a hollow in this border ; and the vena cava is partly imbedded in it on the right of the spine. Extremities. The right extremity is thick and rounded; and the left is thin and flattened. Lobes. On the under surface the liver is divided primarily into two lobes, a right and a left, by the antero-posterior or longitudinal fissure ; and occupying the right lobe are tbi-ee others, viz. the square, the Spigelian, and the caudate lobe. The left lobe, B, is smaller and thinner than the right, and there is a slight depression inferiorly where it touches the stomach. The right lobe, A, forms the gi-eater pai't of the liver, and is separated fi-om the left by the longitudinal fissure on the one aspect, and by the suspensory ligament on the other. To it the gall-bladder is attached below ; and the foUowmg lobes are pro- jections on its under surface :— The square lobe, c, (lobulus quadratus), is situate between the gall-bladder and the longitudinal fissure. It reaches anteriorly to the margin of the liver, and posteriorly to the fissure (transverse) by which the vessels enter the interior of the viscus.