671 DEEP LAYER OF MUSCLES. Popliteus arises within knee-joint. Inserted into tibia. Parts around it. the great toe resting on the fibula, and that of the other toes on the tibia. And the tibialis covers the interosseous membrane. With .jestinatioii. the exception of the popliteus, all enter the sole of the foot; and have a fleshy part parallel to the bones of the leg, and a tendinous part beneath the tarsus. The POPLITEUS (fig. 207 -'^) arises by tendon, -within the capsule of the knee-joint, from the front of an ob- long depression on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur; and external to the capsule of the joint, some fleshy fibres arise fi-om the posterior ligament. The tendon gives rise to fibres, which are inserted into the tibia above the oblique' line on the posterior sm-face. The muscle rests on the tibia, and is covered by a fascia derived in great part from the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle : on it lie the popliteal vessels and nerve, and the gastrocnemius and plantaiis. Along the upper border are the lower arti- cular vessels and ner^'^e of the inner side of the knee; and the lower border corresponds with the attaclunent of the soleus on the tibia. The origin ■svill be seen with the dissection of the ligaments of the loiee-joint. Action. The leg being fi-ee, the muscle bends the knee-joint, and then rotates inwards the tibia. The foot resting on the ground, it will support the knee. According to the A-iew of Theile, it retracts the external semi- lunar fibro-cai-tilage. The FLEXOR LONGUS POLLICIS (fig. 207, ^) arises below the soleus from the lower half or two thirds of the posterior surface of the fibula ; from the intermuscular septum be tween it and the peronei muscles ; and from the aponeurosis over * Deep dissection of the back of the leg (inustrations of Dissections). M^isdes: A Pophteus. b. Outer and o, inner part of soleus, cut. d. Tibialis posticus. E. FIexor__di^torum. f. Flexor poUicis. g. Peroneus loDgus. H. Peroneus brevis. i. Tendo Achillis. Arteries: a. Popliteal 6. Inferior internal, and c, inferior external articular. ^. Anterior tibial" c. Postenor tibial, and £ Its communicating branch to peroneal n Peroneni .artery, h, Continuation of peroneal to outer side of the foot iVeryc^ • 1 Internal popliteal. 2. Muscular branch of posterior tibial. 3. Posterior tibial. 4. Cutaneous plantar. •■■uow-jior 9h Use with tibia free, and fixed. Flexor longus pollicis is attached to fibula.