613 VESSELS AXD DUCT OF LIVER. division is repeated again and again until the last brandies of the vein (interlohular, fig. 158, b) penetrate between the lobules ; there they unite, and end in tlie interior as before explained. In the portal canals the ofEsets of the vena porUn are joined by small vaginal and surface veins, which convey blood fi-om branches of the hepatic artery. The hepatic artery (fig. 159, c), whilst surrounded by the capsule, furnishes vaginal branches, which ramify in the sheath, giving it a red appearance in a well-injected liver ; and supply twigs to the coats of the vena portro and biliary ducts, and to the areolar Fig- tissue: fi-omthe vaginal branches a few offsets (capsular) are given to the coat of the liver. Finally the arteiy ends in fine interlo- bular branches, fi'om which off- sets enter the lobule, and convey blood into the network between tiie branches of the vena portaj and hepatic vein (Chrzonszczew- sky). The hepatic vein (venae cavse hepaticffi) begins by a plexus in the interior of each lobule (fig. 158, fZ), and its smallest radicle issues fi'om the base of the lobule as the intralobular vein ; these are received into the sublohular branches, which anastomose together, and unite into larger vessels. Finally, uniting with neighbouring branches to produce larger trunks, the hepatic veins are directed fi'om before backwards to the vena cava inferior, into which they open by large orifices. The vente cavaj hepaticas may be said to be without a sheath, except in the larger trunks : so that when they are cut across the ends remain patent, in conse- quence of their close connection with the liver stnicture. Hepatic duct (fig. 158, e). The duct commences in the biliarj^ plexus within the lobules. On leaving the lobules the radicles communicate by the interlobular branches (/) ; and the smaller ducts soon unite into larger vaginal branches (fZ), which lie in the portal canals with the other vessels. Lastly, the ducts are collected into aright and a left trunk (fig, 15G, e), and leave the liver at the transverse fissure. ■[• and supplies raucbes; receives vaginal brandies. Hepatic artery nourishes the vessels, and joins veua porta;: ending in lobules. Hepatic veins with- out a sheath begin in the lobules. and end in tlie vena cava. Bile duct, bcginuinij, branches. * Vessels in a portiil canal, and tlie lobules of the liver (Kiernan). I. Lobules of the liver, p. Brancii of the vena portre, -vvith a, a, vaginal branches •which supply interlobular offset.s. c. Hepatic artery, d. Hepatic duct. *, i. Openings of the interlobular branches of the portal vein. t Aberrant ducts exist between the pieces of the peritoneum in the left lateral ligament of the liver, and in the pons bridging over the vena porta; and vena cava ; they anatomose together, and arc accompanied by branches of the vessels of the liver, viz., vena portsc, hepatic artery, and hepatic vein. L I,