DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 714 Union of thu scaphoid bone to the cunei fonu : sjniOAial sac. To the cu- Jjoicl bone: synovial sac. Union of the cuneiform bones one with another, and with the cuboid bone: synovial sac. Common synovial sac. Surfaces of bones. Motion in inversion Articulations of tuk scaphoid bone. The scaphoid bone articu- lates in front with the thi-ee cuneiform bones, and laterally with the OS cuboides. In the articulation with tlie cuneiform hones (fig. 221) there are three longitudinal dorsal ligaments (i, Jc, I), one to each bone; but the innermost is the strongest and widest, and extends round the mside of the articulation into the sole of the foot (fig. 223, e). The place of plantar bands is supplied by processes of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. A synovial membrane (common of the tarsus) lines tlie articu- lation, and sends forwards prolongations between the cuneifonn bones. In the articulation with the os cuboides there is a dorsal obhque band of fibres (fig. 221, h) between the contiguous surfaces of the bones ; a. plantar transverse band (fig. 223, rf), which is concealed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus ; and a strong interosseous ligament. When the bones touch the surfaces are tipped wth cartilage, and are furnished with a prolongation fi-om the common synovial membrane of the tarsus. Articulations of the cuneiform bones. These bones are united to one another by cross bands ; and the external one articulates vnih. the OS cuboides after a similar manner. The tliree cuneiform hones are connected together by short trans- verse dorsal bands (fig. 221, n) between the upper surfaces. Similar plantar ligaments are Avanting, except one between the two inner- most (fig. 223,/). There are also interosseous ligaments between the contiguous surfaces of the bones. Laterally there are articular surfaces between the bones, with oflisets of the common synovial membrane. Where the external cuneiform touches the cuboid bone the sur- faces are covered with cartilage. A dorsal ligament (fig. 221, n) passes transversely between the two ; and a plantar hgament (fig. 223, takes a similar direction. Between the bones there is also an interosseous ligament. This joint is furnished either with a distinct synovial sac, or with a prolongation of the common tarsal syno^dal membrane. The synovial membrane of the articulations of the cuneiform bones is common to many of the bones of the tarsus. Placed between the scaphoid and the three cuneiforms it sends one pro- longation forwards between the inner and middle cuneiform to the joints with the second and third metatarsal bones ; another, out- wards, to the articulation of the scaphoid with the cuboid bone ; and sometimes a third to the joint between the external cuneiform and the os cuboides. Articular surfaces. On the scaphoid are three articular faces, the inner being rounded, and the other two flattened. The tlu-ee cunei- forms unite in a shallow elliptical hollow, which is most excavated internally. Movement. The cuneiform bones glide up and out on the scaphoid