674 DISSECTION OP THE LEG. of the leg ; the largest of those pierces tlie annular ligament, and acoompanies the cutaneous plantar nerve to the sole of the foot. Peculiarities. If the posteiior tihial arlery is smaller than usual, or absent, its deficiencies in the foot will be supplied by a large communicating branch from the peroneal artery, which is directed inwards at the lower end of the tibia, and either joins the small tibial vessel, or runs alone to the sole of the foot. The PERONEAL ARTERY (fig. 207, g) is often as large as the pos- terior tibial, and arises from that vessel about one inch and a half from the beginning. It takes the fibula as its guide, and lying close to that bone in the fibres of the flexor pollicis, reaches the lower part of the interosseous membrane. At this spot it sends forwards a branch to the front of the leg (anterior peroneal) ; and it is directed onwards over the articulation between the tibia and fibula to the outer side of the heel (/t), where it terminates in branches, which anastomose with offsets of the posterior tibial, and with the tarsal and external plantar arteiies. Two companion veins surround the artery : and the nerve to the flexor pollicis lies on it generally. Branches. Besides the anterior peroneal, it furnishes muscular, nutritious, and communicating offsets. a. Muscular branches are distributed to the soleus, tibialis posticus, and flexor pollicis; and some turn round the fibula to the peronei muscles, lying in grooves in the bone. h. The nutritious artery is smaller than that to the tibia, and i& transmitted tkrough the tibialis posticus to the aperture about the middle of the fibula. c. The anterior peroneal branch passes forwards through an open- ing in the lower end of the interosseous membrane, and is continued to the dorsum and outer part of the foot ; on the fi'ont of the leg and foot it anastomoses with the external malleolar and tarsal branches of the anterior tibial artery. d. A communicating offset near the ankle joins in an arch with a similar branch of the posterior tibial. Sometimes there is a second arch between the same vessels. Peculiarities. The anterior branch of the peroneal may take the place of the anterior tibial artery on the dorsum of the foot. A compensating principle may be observed amongst the arteries of the foot as in those of the hand, by which the deficiency in one is supplied by an en- larged offset of another. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL ^lEiNS begin on the inner side of the foot by the union of the plantar : they ascend, one at each side of the artery, and unite with the anterior tibial at the lower border of the popliteus to form the large popliteal vein. They receive the peroneal veins, and branches corresponding with the offsets of the artery : branches connect them with the saphenous veins. ^ The POSTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE (fig. 207, ^) a Continuation of the tibial ne'rve, internal popliteal (p. 654), reaches, like the artery, fi-om the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the interval between the os calcis Size of tibial changes. Pcronual arteii' is contained in flexor pollicis. Termina- tion. Veins and nerve. Branches. Muscular. Nutritious to fibula. Anterior peroneal to front of foot. Communi- cating. SulDstitu- tions. Posterior tibial veins Posterior