70 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Vertebral nrteiy in tlie neck. SiiifUI branches. Vertebriil vein, and bi-anclies. Internal manmiary artery iu tlie ueck. Thyroid axis tlivides into three. Suijra- scapiilar branch. Transverse cer\acal branch. Offsets. Size and ending vaiy Inferior tliyroid branch The vertehral arto'y is generally the first and largest brancli of the subclavian, and aiises from the upper and posterior part. Ascending between the contiguous borders of the scalenus and longus colli muscles, this branch enters the aperture in the lateral mass of the sixth cer^'ical vertebra, and is continued upwards to the skull through the foramina in the other cervical vertebrfc. Before the artery enters its aperture it is partly concealed by the internal jugular vein, and passes beneath the thyroid artery ; it is accompanied by branches of the sympathetic nei-ve, and supplies, small muscular offsets. Its course and distribution will be givert afterwards. The vertehral vein issu6s with its accompanying arteiy, to whicli it is superficial in the neck, and is directed over the subclavian artery to join the subclavian vein ; it receives the deep cei-vicalvein^ and the hranch that accompanies the ascending cervical artery. The internal mammary irancJi leaves the lower part of the sub- clavian artery, and coursing downwards beneath the clavicle, sub- clavius, and the right innominate vein, enters the thorax between the first rib and the bag of the pleura. As the artery disappeara in the chest, it is crossed (superficially) by the phrenic nerve. The vessel is distributed to the walls of the chest and abdomen ; and its anatomy will be learnt with the cUssection of those parts. Thyroid axis. Tliis is a short thick trunk (fig. 16) wliich arises fi-om the fi-ont of the arteiy near the anterior scalenus muscle, and soon di-^ddes into three branches—one to the thyroid body, and two> over the scapula. The suprascapular hrancli com'ses outwards across the lower part of the neck, behind the clavicle and subclavius muscle, to the superior costa of the scapula ; and entering the supraspinal fossa is distributed on the dorsum of that bone. The connections of this artery are more fully seen m the dissection of the Back (p. 387). The transverse cervical hrcmch, usually larger than the preceding, takes a similar direction, though higher in the neck, and ends beneath the border of the trapezius muscle in the superficial cervical and posterior scapular ai-teries. (" Dissection ov the Back.") In its course outwards through the space containing the thkd part of the subclavian artery, tins branch crosses the anterior scalenus, tho phrenic nerve, and the brachial plexus. Some small offsets are supplied by it to the posterior triangular space of the neck. Though the transverse cer^dcal artery supplies ordinarily the posterior scapular branch, there are many bodies in which it is toa small to give origin to so large an offset. In such mstances tho diminished artery ends in the trapezius muscle ; whilst the posterior scapular branch arises separately fi'om the tliird, or even the second part of the subclavian artery (fig. 16). The inferior thyroid branch is the largest offset of the thyroid axis. Directed inwards with a flexuous com-se to the thyroid body, the branch passes beneath the common carotid artery and the accompanying vein and nen^es, and in front of the longus colli muscle and the rccun-ent nerve. At the lower part of the thyroid