205 OUTER CEREBRAL CONVOLUTIONS. fourtli, or angular. Three occi- pital convo- li.itioiis; preceding, is interposed between the intraparietal sulcus, / P, and the Sylvian fissure (outer end). Variable in shape it joins, below, the ascending parietal convolution C) ; it may communicate above with the parietal lobule, and behind with the foUowng. The angular convolution ("), veiy complicated and not well defined, is placed at the extremity of the hinder limb of the Sylvian fissure, and is composed of two or three pieces. Above it is the parietal lobule ; and below, the temporo-sphenoidal lobe which it joins. In fi'ont lies the supra-marginal convolu- tion ; and beliind, the occipital lobe, with which it blends by the small annectant gyrus (Z>). c. The occipital convolutions (fig. 60) are small and very much divided, so that their outline is uncertain. They are three in number, lying one above another, and separated by sulci, something like the frontal gyri at the opposite end of the hemisphere. The upper (^"), forming part of the margin of the longitudinal fissure, receives an annectant gyrus from the parietal lobule. The middle ("), crossing outwards the hemisphere, has two annectant gyri to other convolutions; one (&) joining- it above to the angular convolution, and another (c) passing to the middle temporo-sphenoidal convolution. The inferior Q'^) occupies the tip of the hemisphere between the and lower, upper and under surfaces. At the inner end it is continuous with the upper gjTus ; and at the outer end with the inferior temporo- sphenoidal convolution (^) by an annectant gyrus (J). d. The temjjoro-sphenoidal convolutions (fig. 60), tlu-ee in number run from above down, and are separated from one another by two sul upjier. middle. CI. The superior (') bounds posteriorly the horizontal limb of the Sylvian fissure. At the upper end it is connected by a gyrus with the angular convolution. Tlie middle (®) is separated from the first by the parallel sulcu„ (P). Above, it blends commonly with the angular convolution, and * View of the orbital lobule and the central lobe.—(7. Island of Reil or median lobe. 0. Olfactory sulcus 2. Internal; 3, posterior ; and 6, external orbital convolution, 17. Marginal convolution of the hemisphere Tliree tem- poro-sphe- iioidal eon- volutious : upper. S middle.