DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 376 and form of discs. Unites vertebite, admits movement. makes column convex, and adds to the lengtli. Several ligaments of the vertebral processes. Articular have capsule and sac. Motion and degree. How pro- cesses act. Ligaments of arches. Attach- ments. Structure. between the upper and middle dorsal vertebraj; and where the spinal column is arched forwards, as in the loins and neck, they are deepest at the anteiior edge, being wedge-shaped. The tli'innest piece is situate between the second and third .cervical A^ertebraj, and the thickest between the fifth lumbar and the sacrum. Use. The intei-vertebral substance unites together the vertebrajso firmly as to prevent displacement of those bones without rupture of it. By means of the central elastic part the revolving motion of one bone on another is produced ; and the degree of the movement is limited by the circumferential laminar portion. Through its wedge-shaped form the disc is chiefly instrumental in giving rise to the convexity of the spinal column in the loins and neck ; and through its elasticity it moderates the effect of jars or shocks transmitted from bone to bone. The depth of its several pieces amounts to about a fourth of the length of the moveable part of the spinal column; but as it yields under pressure, the height of the body will be shorter from half an inch to an inch in the course of the day, according to the fatigue undergone. Ligaments of the Neural Arch and Processes. The several processes of the vertebras have special uniting ligaments :—thus the articular processes are joined by a capsule and a synovial membrane ; the neural arches are connected by yellow ligaments ; the spinous processes have one band along the tip and another between them ; and the transverse processes are jDrovided with intervening bands of fibres. Ligaments of Articular processes. Between the articulating pro- cesses there is a moveable joint, in which the bones are covered with cartilage, and are suiTOunded by a loose capsular ligament of scattered fibres, enclosing a synovial membrane. In the cervical part of the spine the capsular ligaments are looser than in the dorsal or lumbar region. Movement. With flattened articular surfaces is combined a gliding of one bone upon another. This movement is least limited in the neck, the loins, and the lower dorsal vertebrje. By the difference in the shape of the articulating processes, the kind of motion in the spine is determined ; and by their aiTange- ment the degree is limited, and the vertebrae are partlj^ maintained in situ. In dislocation of the spinal colunm they are generally broken before a vertebra can be dislodged from its imbricated position. Ligaments of the arches. The ligamenta suhjlava (fig. 114, ^) so named from their colour, are situate between the neural arches of the vertebras, and close the spinal canal behind. Between each pair of arches are two ligaments, one for each half of the ai-ch, which approach one another along the middle line, and reach on each side from the root of the spinous process to the pedicle of the arch. Each consists of elastic yellow tissue. It is attached above to the inner surface of the one neural arch, but below to the upper border and outer surface of the other.