DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 852 Left sub- clavian artery. Course and connections in the thorax. Veins of the heart are:— Superior cava; formed by innominate veins; ends in heart. Connec- tions. Its branches. Innominate veins are right and left. Eight, an inch and a half long : left, twice as long and oblique in direction. Tlieir branches. In the neck the connections of the vessels of opposite sides are not the same (p. 118). The LEFT SUBCLAVIAN ARTEKY (d) ascends to the neclc through the upper aperture of the thorax. Bej'ond the first rib the vessels of opposite sides are alike (p. 117). Tlie trunk is directed almost vertically from the arch of the aorta to the mner margin of the first rib. In the thorax the vessel lies deeply, resting at first on the oesophagus, and afterwards on the vertebral column and the longus colli muscle. It is invested by the left pleural bag in all its extent. On its^nner side is the trachea, and near the upper opening of the thorax the oesophagus with the thoracic duct is inside it. Somewhat anterior to the level of the artery, though running in the same direction, are some of the cardiac nerves. Veins of the Heart (fig. 105.) In addition to the cardiac veins (p. 336) there are the superior and inferior cava, and the pulmonary veins :—the former are the great systemic vessels which return impure blood to the right auricle ; and the latter convey pure blood fi-om the lungs into the left auricle. The SUPERIOR or descending cava (/) results from the union of the right and left iimominate veins, and brings to the heart the blood of the head and neck, upper limbs, and thorax. Its origin is placed on the right side of the sternum, opposite the interval between the cartilages of the first two ribs. From that spot the large vein descends to the pericardium, perforates the fibrous layer of that bag about one inch and a half above the heart, and ends in the right auricle. On its outer surface the vein is covered by the pleura, and the phi-enic nerve is in contact with it. To the inner side is the ascending part of the arch of the aorta. Behind the vein is the root of the right lung. When the cava is about to perforate the pericardium it is joined by the large azygos vein of the thorax (k) ; and higher up it receives small veins from the pericardium, and the parts in the mediastinal space. The innominate veins are united inferiorly in the trunk of the descending cava. They are two in number, right and left; and each is formed near the inner end of the clavicle, by the union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins. The trunks differ in length and direction, and in their connections with the surrounding objects. The right vein (h) is about one inch and a half long, and descends vertically, on the right side of the innominate arteiy, to its junction with the vein of the opposite side. On the outer surface the pleura covers it, and along it the phrenic nerve is placed. The left vein (g) is twice as long as the right, and is directed obliquely downwards above the level of the arch of the aorta. It crosses behind the sternum, and the remains of the thymus gland ; and it lies on the three large branches of the aortic arch, as well as on the several nerves descending over the arch. The iranches of the veins are neai-ly ahke on the two sides. Each