182 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. transverse to the pons, and inferior cerebellar. Superior cerebellar ; olfsets. Posterior cerebral artery; branches to base of brain. Choroid branch. Part of brain sup- plied by vertebral arteries. Internal carotid ends in cerebral arteries. Branches. Anterior cerebral and a. The transverse arteries of the pone are four or six small twigs, which are named from their direction, and are distributed to the substance of the pons. One of them (") gives an oh'set (audi,tory) to the internal ear along the auditory nerve. b. Eesembling this set of branches is tiic following artery, the inferior cerebellar (anterior) : this arises from the basilar trunk, and extends to the fore part of the under surface of the cerebellum, on which it is distributed. c. The superior cerebellar artei'y is derived from the basilar so near the termination as to be often described as one of the final branches of that vessel. Its destination is to the upper surface of the small brain, to which it is directed backwards over the third nerve and the crus cerebri, but parallel with the fourth nerve. On the upper sm-f ace of the cerebellum the artery spreads its ramifica- tions, wliich anastomose with the vessel of the opposite side, and with the inferior cerebellar artery. Some twigs of this vessel enter the piece of the pia mater (velum interpositum), wliich projects beliind into the interior of the cerebrum. d. The posterior cerebral artery (') takes on each side a backward course, similar to that of the preceding artery, but separated from it by the third nen^e. The vessel is then applied to the inner sm-face of the cerebrum, and divides into many branches : some of these supply the under part, whilst others tm-n upwards on both the outer and inner surfaces of the back of the hemisphere, and anastomose with the other cerebral arteries. Near its origin it is joined by the posterior communicating arteiy of the carotid ; and its branches to the brain are the foUowuig:— Numerous small long branches leave it close to its origin, and enter the base of the brain between the crura cerebri (posterior perforated spot). A small clioroid arteiy (posterior) supplies the fold of pia mater which projects into the cerebi-um : this small branch is transmitted between the crus and hemisphere of the cerebrum to the velum intei-positum and the choroid plexus. From the foregoing examination of the offsets of the vertebral arteries and the basilar trank, it appears that about half the en- cephalon—viz. the medulla oblongata, the pons, the cerebellum, and the posterior third of the cerebrum—receives its blood through branches of the subclavian arteries. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY Q) terminates in branches for the remaining part of the cerebrum. The vessel emerges from the cavernous sinus (p. 19) inside the anterior clinoid process, and di^ndes at the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius into cerebral and commmiicating arteries. At the base of the brain the carotid lies between the second and third nerves, but nearest the former. Branches. In the skull the carotid gives off the ophthalmic offset, before it ceases in the following terminal branches to the cerebrum. a. The anterior cerebral arterrj (*) supplies the inner part of the cerebral hemisphere. It is directed forwards to the median fissure