523 CHARACTERS OF TESTIS. riff. 166. and lines scrotum. Its visceral part, upper part, and inflate it. The sac and the spermatic cord are then ;X cleaned; and the vessels of the latter are to be followed to tlieir entrance into the testicle. The tunica vaoincdis (fig. IGG, .7) is a serous bag, which is con T^n,.a.^ tinuous in the fetus with the peritoneal lining of the abdomen but becomes subsequently a distinct sac through the obhteration of the part connecting the two (p. 452). i . „„^w It invests the testicle after the manner of other serous membranes, partly ^^^^ for the testicle is placed behind it, so as to be partly enveloped by testidc it. The sac, however, is larger than is necessary for covering the testicle, and projects some distance above it. Like other serous membranes, it has an ex- ternal rough, and an internal secerning smooth surface ; and Hke them it has a A-isceral and a parietal part. To examine its disposition the sac should be opened. The visceral layer (tunica vaginalis testis) covers the testicle, except posteriorly Avhere the vessels lie. On the outer side it extends farther back than on the inner, and forms a pouch between the testis and the arched body (epididymis) on this aspect of the organ. The parietal part of the sac (tunic, vagin. scroti) is more extensive than the piece covering the testicle, and lines the contiguous layer of the scrotum. Foim and jiosition of the testis (iig. IGG). The testicle is oval in shape, with a smooth surface, and is flattened on the sides. The anterior margin is convex ; and the pos- terior, wliich is flattened, is pierced by the spermatic A'-essels and nerves. Stretching like an arch along the outer side is the epididymis (h). Attached to the upper end of the testis is a small body (c) two or three lines in length, (corpus Mor- gagni,) which is the remains of the upper end of the fetal duct of Miiller ; and occasionally other smaller projections of the tmiica vaginalis are connected with the top of the epididymis. The testis is suspended obliquely, so that the upjjer part is directed Suspemled fonvards and somewhat outwards, and the lower end backwards and rather inwards. Size and vmald. The length of the testis is an inch and a half or Dimensions, two inches ; from before backwards it measures rather more than an inch, and from side to side rather less than an inch. Its weight and weiglit. * The testis with the tunica vaginalis laid open. a. Tosticlc. h. Head of the epididymis, c. Corpus Morgagni. d. Parietal part of the tunica vaginalis. ('. Vessels of the spermatic cord. /. Yas deferens. and parietal. Testicle oval. Marsius. Corpus Morgagni.