271 NERVES OF THE AEM. destination is to the pahn of the hand; and :t accompame he brachial artery to the forearm. Beginning on the outer s de of the artery, the nerve crosses over or under it about th<^ m^^^^'^ "J arm and is pLaced on the inner side a httle above the elbow, it ,^^^„^^^y does not give any branch in the arm ; but there may be a fasciculus teucU. connecting it with the musculo-cutaneous ner^^e. Its connections with muscles are the same as those of the artery. Ulnamei-ve The ulnar nerve C), derived fi-om the inner cord of the brachial Ulna. ne.-ve plexus, ends at the inner side of the hand. In the arm the nerve lies at first close to the inner side of the axillary, and then of the brachial artery as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis ; lea^'ing now the blood-vessel, it is directed inwards through the inner intermuscular septum to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle, being surrounded by the muscular fibres of the triceps. There is not any branch from the nerve till it reaches the elbow joint. The internal cutaneous ("^) is a tegumentary nerve of the forearm, to wliich it is prolonged like the others. Arising from the inner cord* of the plexus, it is at first superficial to the humeral artery as far as the middle of the arm, where it divides into two branches that perforate the investing fascia and reach the forearm (p. 266). Near the axilla it furnishes a small cutaneous offset to the integu- ments of the arm. The small internal cutaneous nerve Q nerve of Wrisberg) arises with the preceding. Concealed at first by the axillaiy vein, it is directed inwards beneath (but sometimes through) that vein, and is without Ijranch as far as the elbow. Internal cutaneous nerve be- neath the fascia. Nerve of Wrisbei-g partly * Muscles, and deep vessels and nerves of the a,x-m. (Illustrations of Dis- sections.) Muscles: A. Pectoralis major, b. Biceps, o. Coraco-brachialis. D. and E. Latissimus and tei es. f. Long head of the triceps, a. Inner head of triceps. H. Brachialis anticus. Nerves : 1. Median. 2. Internal cutaneous. 3. Nerve of Wrisberg. 4. Ulnar. 5. Muscular to the triceps ; and 6, iuterual cutaneous from the musculo-spiral.