INTERNAL OR DIRECT HERNIA. 459 within out, on a director placed beneath it. With the view of avoiding the surrounding vessels, the cut is directed upwards on the front and mid-part of the hernia. Other designalions. This kind of hernia has other names applied Te.™« ;^Pj,^ to it sometimes by surgeons, according as it has passed certain juguinal points in the wall of the abdomen. If the intestine remains in the inguinal canal, tlie term bubonocele is applied to the swelling ; but jiosition. if it has extended into the scrotum, the appellation scrotal rupture, or oscheocele, is given to the tumour. Varieties of the external hernia. There are two varieties (con- Two^^.^^. genital and infantile), of the oblique inguinal hernia, which are distinguished by the condition of the peritoneal covering. Congenital hernia. This kind is found for the most part in the infant and the child, though it may occur in the adult male. In it the tube of peritoneum, which accompanies the testicle fi'om the how con- abdomen in the fetus, remaining unclosed, the intestine descends = into a sac already formed for its reception. As it takes the course of the inguinal canal, it will possess the coverings coverings before enumerated for the external hernia ; and it passes and course, at the first to the bottom of the scrotum, instead of being an-ested at the top of the testis. With care it may be distinguished, whilst it is of moderate size, Diagnosis, by its position in front of the testicle. For the seat, cause, and division of the stricture, refer to what is stricture, before stated for external hernia. Infantile hernia is much rarer than congenital, and cannot be Infantile distinguished from the common external hernia during life. It was first recognised in the young child, and received its name from that circumstance ; but, like the congenital, it may be met with in the adult. Its chief differential character is derived from the state of the peritoneum. The peritoneum has the following condition :—the tube of that How con- membrane passing with the testicle in the fetus, is closed only at the internal abdommal ring, instead of being obliterated from that point down to the testicle, so that a large serous sac will be situate in front of the spermatic cord, and may occupy the inguinal canal. With tliis state of the peritoneum, should an external hernia with its coverings descend along the cord in the usual way, it will pass behind the unobliterated sac, like a viscus in a serous membrane. In this way there will be two sacs ; an anterior (the tunica vagi- nalis), containing serum, and a posterior enclosing the intestine. The infantile hernia is first recognised during an operation by How known the knife opening the tunica vaginalis. The operator then proceeds '""'^ ^•''^t'^^- to lay bare the neck of the hinder or hernial sac, and to treat the stricture of it as before described (p. 458). The Internal or Direct Inguinal Hernia escapes on the inner internal side of the epigastric artery, and has a straight course through the abdominal parietes. Its situation and coverings, and the seat of stricture, will be better understood after the examination of tho part of the abdominal wall through which it passes.