533 ABDOMINAL AOUTA AND BKANCHES. the inner border of the psoas the gangliatecl cord of the sympathetic is to be sought, along with a cliain of himbar lymphatic glands ; and somewhat below the pelvic part of the muscle the obturator nerve may be recognised. External to the psoas is the quadratus lumbornm, and crossing it near the last ril) is the last dorsal neri^e, with an artery. In the hollow of the hip-bone is the iliacus muscle and iliacus. which unites below with the large psoas. The AiiDOMiNAL ACUTA (fig. 169, b) cxtcnds from the last dorsal Rxtent^f vertebra to the left side of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the common iliac arteries. Its commencement is between the pillars of the diaphragm, and its termination is placed on the left side of the umbilicus, and nearly on a level with the highest point of the crest of the hip-bone. The chief connections of the vessel with surrounding parts haA^e Conncc- been before referred to (p. 482), but some deep vessels in relation with it come now into view. As the aorta lies on the spine it rests on the left lumbar veins, which end in the inferior cava. And ^^J^^^'g}^*""' between it and the right crus of the diaplu-agm lie the vena azygos major, and the thoracic duct. Along the sides of the vessel are the lumbar Ipnphatic glands, from w^iich large vessels run beneath it to end in the beginning of the thoracic duct. The branches of the aorta are numerous, and arise in the following Place of order :—First, are the diaphragmatic arteries, two in number, which i]'i4^'J"],es; leave the sides of the vessel immediately it appears in the abdomen. Close to the tendinous ring of the diaphragm, the single trunk of the cceliac axis arises from the front; and about a quarter of an inch lower down, also on the fi-ont, the trunk of the superior mesen- teric arteiy begins. Half an inch lower the renal arteries, right and left, take origin from the sides of the aorta. On the lateral part of the vessel, close above each renal, is the sniall capsular branch; and below the renal is the spermatic artery. From the fi"ont of the arterial trunk, one or two inches above the bifurcation, springs the inferior mesenteric artery; and from the angle of division the small middle sacral artery runs downwards. Four small lumbar branches on each side come from the posterior aspect of the vessel, opposite the bodies of the lumbar vertebrfe. The branches may be classified into two sets—one to the viscera their classi- of the abdomen (visceral), and another to the abdominal wall (parietal). The visceral brandies are cocliac axis, superior and inferior mcsen- Some teric, renal, capsular, and spermatic. This set has been examined, branches, except the renal, capsular, and spermatic. The renal arteries (fig. 1G9, c) leave the aorta nearly at a right Renal angle, and are directed outwards, one on each side. Near the kidney cacli divides into four or five branches, which enter the renal sub- stance between the vein and the ureter. Each artery lies beneath is beneath its vein ; common iliac vein, and ;•, external iliac (this letter is put on the left artery instead of the ve(7i just below it). «. Ureter. iVcrvcs ; 1. rhrcnic. 2. Ilio hypogastric. 3. Ilio-ingiiinal. 4. P]xtcrnal cutaneous of the thigh. 5 and 6. Genito-crural. 7. Anterior crural.