752 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. and recent buiie. Fonn and situation : size ; resembles a snail-sliell in some respects. A central pillar or axis : for displaying the vestibule ; or this section may be made on an- other temporal bone in which the semicircular canals are not laid bare. For the like dissection in the recent state, a softened bone should be used. The cochlea (fig. 244) is conical in form, and is placed almost horizoiitally in front of the vestibular space. The base of tliis body is turned to the meatus auditorius internus, and is perforated by small apertm-es ; whilst the apex is directed to the inner wall of the tympanum, opposite the canal for the tensor tympani muscle. Its length is about a quarter of an inch, and its width at the base is about the same. Eesembling a spiral shell, the cochlea consists of a tube wound round a central part or axis ; but it differs from the shell in ha^^ng its tube subdivided by a partition. The axis or modiolus (fig. 244, a) is the central stem which sup- ports the windings of the spu-al tube. Conical m shape, its size Fig. 244.* is conical.; and porous. A spiral tube closed at one end forms 2J tiuns; measure- ment ; coils. diminishes rapidly towards the last half turn of the tube, but it enlarges at the tip of the cochlea, forming a second small cone (i), which is bent. The axis is perforated by canals as far as the con- tracted part in the last half turn, and the central one is larger than the others ; these transmit vessels and nerves in the fi-esh state. The spiral tube forms two turns and a half around the stem, and terminates above in a closed extremity named the cupola. When measured along the outer side, it is about one inch and a half long. Its diameter at the beginning is about one tenth of an inch, but it diminishes gradually to half that size towards the opposite end. Of the coils that the tube makes, the first is much the largest ; this projects towards the tympanum, and gives rise to the eminence of the promontory on the inner wall of that cavity. The second turn is included within the first coil. The last half turn bends * Section through the cochlea (Breschet). a. Infundibulum or enlarged upper end of the axis. d. Membrane of Corti. e. Membrane of Reissner, trema. s.t. Scala tympani. s.v. Scala vestibuli. Axis with its canals, h. c. Septum of the cochlea. /. Hiatus or helico-