521 SUPRAKENAL BODY. at the apex the mucous hning is prolonged into the uriniferal tubes through the small openings. • i i ' . i Vessels. The arteries are numerous but small, and are furnished \esBeiH. by the renal, spermatic, internal iliac, and inferior vesical. The veins correspond with the arteries. The lymphatics are received into those of the kidney. Ljanphatics. THE SUPRARENAL BODY. Tliis small body, whose use is unknowii, has received its name j^^^^^J,™' from its position to the kidney. Its vessels and nen'es are numerous, ^.^ ^^^^^ but it is not provided with any excretory duct. One on each side, it is situate on the upper end, and the fore Situation, part of the kidney ; and without care it may be removed with the sm-rounding fat, which it resembles. Its colour is a brownish yellow. It is hke a cocked hat in form, with the upper part convex, and the Form and base or lower part hollowed, where it touches the Iddney. colour. Li the adult it measures about one inch and a half in depth, and Size ami '\vt;i"'Ut. rather less in width ; and its weight is between one and two drachms, but the left is commonly larger than the right. Areolar tissue attaches the suprai'enal body to the kidney; and Connec- large vessels and nerves retain it in place. The connections with the surrounding parts are the same as those of the upper end of the Iddney. Thus it rests on the diaphragm on both sides ; whilst above the right is the liver, and above the left the pancreas and the spleen. On the inner side of the right capsule is the vena cava, Avith part' of the solar plexus ; and internal to the left is the aorta, with the same plexus of nerves. Structure (fig. 165). A perpendicular section shows the suprarenal Two body to be formed of a firm or external (cortical) layer, and of an stractuL: internal (medullary) soft and dark material. With the microscope ea.th has ' this body may be seen to consist of cells, which are lodged in spaces formed by a stroma of areolar tissue, with vessels and nerves. ' ^ The whole is surrounded by a thin Jihrous capsule (a), which sends SiuTounded processes into the interior, and along the bloodvessels. ca^,siUe The cortical part, yellowish in colour and striated, makes about cortiJi two thirds of the thickness of the whole body. Its stroma of areolar v^-t. tissue (a) forms a thin surface layer, and is connected internally Thickness: with processes or septa, which are so arranged as to build up spaces fm-mf"" elongated from without inwards, and arranged vertically around the •'^1'^°''^ centre ; but near the surface there are smaller oval spaces, some of f them crossing the deeper and larger. The spaces or loculi (h) are for masses filled by colunniar masses of cells, but slight force readily removes of celis. these from their containing hollows. The central or medullary portion (c) is rather red in colour, or it Medullary may be dark brown or black from the presence of blood. About i'*""*^- half as thick as the cortical part, it possesses internally small round Tiiiekuess. or oval spaces, on a section, which arc vein trunks cut across. The areolar tissue of its stroma is very fine, and forms a network with Spaces in it.