213 FLOOR OF LATERAL VENTRICLE. ing the body of the fornix, is continued as a distinct piece to the uncinate convohition. . j j. m • The/omme«. of Monro is tlie interval beneath the anterior end of Th« aj^e,^- the fornix, which opens on each side by a sht between the edge of Uitemi the fornix and the optic thalamus. In it the plexus choroides lies ; ^« and through it the lateral ventricles communicate with one another, and with the third ventricle. Floor of the L.\teral Ventuiclk.—The student may leave un- f^^^^^^^^. touched, for the present, the membrane (velum interpositum) ^ on tricle is ^ which the fornix rests ; and proceed to examine, on the right side, the different bodies which have been enumerated as constituting the floor of the lateral ventricle. The corims striatum (superior ganglion of the cerebrum) (fig. 63, f^H^e v.ody €,) is the large gray body in the fi-ont of the lateral ventricle. It is placed opposite the island of Reil in the fissure of Sylvius ; and it has received its name fi-oin the striated appearance of a vertical section. Dissection. To see the composition of the corpus striatum, the Diijscction student should slice off the upper and outer part until certain white ^^l^ fibres crossing it obliquely fi-om within outwards are reached. The knife should then be carried through these intersecting white fibres until another mass of gray substance, similar to the first, is arrived at. The striate body is a pyriform mass of gray matter of consider- its form, able thickness, which is surromided by the wliite substance of the hemisphere, except where it projects into the lateral ventricle. Its and position is oblique with respect to the middle line of the brain, foi-1'°^'*''°'^ • the anterior end is near the septum of the ventricles, while the is diyided • 1 1 Ti J! ii • two postenor is external to the optic thalamus. By means or the m- parts by cision in the corpus striatum, white fibres can be seen to be directed fibres, tlu-ough it in such a way as to divide the gray matter into two por- tions, one being situate in the ventricle (intra-ventricular) above the white fibres ; and the other outside the ventricular space (extra- ventricular), below those fibres. The intra-ventricular piece (nucleus caudatus) is shaped like s One part kite, and projects into the floor of the ventricle. The end, directed "entiicle, forwards, is large and rounded ; whilst the opposite end is thin and pointed, and is continued backwards, outside the optic thalamus, to the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Numerous veins cover this part of the corpus striatum. The extra-ventricular part (nucleus lenticularis) will be better the other seen afterwards, by sections made fi-om the outer side or fi-om cavity.*^ ''^ below. It is oval in form, but does not reach so far back as the other, and is bounded inferiorly by a white capsule ; through it the anterior commissure of the brain passes very obliquely, as a subsequent dissection will show (p. 217). The trnnia semicircular is (lig. 63, /) is a thin and narrow white xrenla semi- band of longitudinal fibres, which lies between the corpus striatimi ^iruuiaris and the optic thalamus. In fi-ont this band becomes broader and joins the pillar of the fornix ; and behind it is continued, along