359 STRUCTURE OF LUNG. noise known as crepitation. If the lung contains serum, a frothy red fluid will run out when it is cut. The texture of the lung is very elastic ; this elasticity causing the «!].JeU.sti- organ to diminish greatly when the thorax is opened, and to expel air that may be blown mto it. The specific gravity of the lung varies with the conditions of speais^c dilatation and collapse, or of infiltration with fluid. When the pulmonary substance is free from fluid, and filled with air, it floats in water; but when it is quite deprived of air it is slightly heavier than water, and sinks in that fluid. The weight of the lung is l^'^^^fg'l influenced greatly by the quantity of foreign material contained m its texture ; ordinarily it ranges fi-om eighteen to twenty one ounces, and the right lung is about two ounces heavier than the left. In the male the lungs are larger, and slightly heavier than in the female. Dissection. By tracing the large branches of the bronchi, and the Follow blood*vessels and nerves into the lung, the mode of branching of the vessels into air tube will be apparent; and by inflating a part of the Imig, the the lung, cellular sti'ucture may be seen. But the arrangement of the small air cells about their tube, and the disposition of the different vessels, cannot be ascertained without fine injections and a micro- scope. Structure of the Lung. The spongy pulmonary tissue consists ^^^gjg^g^^^ of minute recesses or cells, in which the smallest branches of the of the lung, air tube terminate ; and the mass of the lung is formed by the collection of those cells into small groups or lobules, and by the aggregation of the lobules into larger masses or lobes. Each lobule is distinct from its fellows, and is furnished with its air tube and nerves, and with its set of vessels concerned in the fimction and nutrition. The portions of the lung are united by a serous covering, pro- Covering longed continuously over the surface ; and by a subserous layer of hTyers!'^*™^ areolar tissue wliich penetrates into the interior, subdividing it into pieces. These several parts are examined more in detail below. Serous and subserous coverings. The casmg derived fi'om the plem-a Serous is thin and transparent, and forms an entire capsule for the lung, ''"'^'^''^S except at the root where the vessels enter. The subserous areolar layer contains fibres of elastic tissue, and not only covers the sur- '^'^^ areolar • 1 ./ tissue face, but extends inwards, establishing the division of the mass into lobules : where it separates the lobules it is named interlobular tissue, and is free firom fat. Bronchial branches in the lung. When a bronchus is followed into Brandies of the pulmonary structure it is found to divide generally in a binaiy lu tlie*lun'g, order, and to diminish in size at each subdivision, until one terminal offset appertains to a lobule. In the lobule the tube has a diameter till they end "oV -So inch. When this last degree of diminution is reached, the tube gives origin to the air cells. The larger bronchial branches have the same composition as the pifference trachea, but they are round in the lung, instead of being semi- In torn! elliptical as in the trachea. The smallest branches want some of