473 REFLECTIONS OF PERITONEUM. Vertical circle from above doiimwarch. From the under surface of circle from the liver the peritoneum may be followed along the hepatic vessels, above aown. one piece before and the other behind them to the upper border of the stomach, the two foiining the small omentum. At the stomach the two pieces disunite, one passing before, and the other behmd it; but beyond that viscus they are applied to each other to form the forms great omentum or epiploon. After descending in contact to the lower part of the abdomen they bend backwards, separating to enclose the transverse colon like the stomach; and they are then continued to the spine, giving rise to the transverse meso-colon. At the attachment of the transverse meso-colon to the abdominal wall, the two companion pieces part from each other,—one passing upwards, the other downwards.* The ascending piece is continued in front of the pancreas and the the ascend- pillars of the diaplu-agm, and 'blends with the peritoneum on the layer, imder surface of the liver. The descending piece or layer may be followed from the trans- descending verse meso-colon over the duodenum and the great vessels on io^'pelvis?''* the spine (aorta and cava), till it meets with the artery to the small intestine, along which it is continued to form the mesen- tery, as before explained in tracing the peritoneum in a circular direction. From the root of the mesenteric artery the peritoneum descends in the pelvic to the pelvis, and covers partly the viscera in that cavity. For '^*'^^ty> instance, surrounding the upper part of the rectum, it attaches this to the abdominal wall by the meso-rectum : next, it is continued forwards between the rectum and the bladder in the male, or between the rectum and the uterus in the female, where it forms a pouch. Tlience it passes fi-om the pelvis over the back and sides of the bladder. Lastly, the serous membrane is continued to the inguinal region, on the front where it presents the foss^ before alluded to (p. 462) ; and it can be traced upwards on the wall of the abdomen, and over the dia- phragm and upper surface of the liver, to the under surface of this viscus. Folds of the Peritoneum. After tracing the continuity of the Chief folds serous sac over the viscera, the student is to learn the chief pro- peritoneum, cesses or folds of the membrane in connection with the alimentary tube. The pieces of the peritoneum fixing the liver will be examined afterwards ; and the processes of the viscera of the pelvis will be seen wth the dissection of that cavity. Folds on the stomach. The processes connected with the stomach On the are named omenta. They are three in number:—one, small omen- ommi'te': turn, is attached to the upper curve ; another, great omentum, to the lower curve; and the third, splenic omentum, is fixed to the great end of the viscus. * Sometimes the two pieces ascend over the ti-ansverse colon, being sh'glitly attached to it and the transverse meso-colon, as high as the pancreas before they separate. In that case the descending layer would form a distinct mesentery for the transverse colon, like that for the small intestine.