184 DISSECTION OF THE BEAIN. extonml and internal. External of cereboUuni. Dissection. Care to be taken in removing pia mater. The external veins of tlie upper surface are collected into the superior longitudinal sinus (p. 10); and those of the lateral and under parts enter the sinuses in the base of the skull, especially the lateral sinus. The deep veins of the interior of the cerebrum join the veins of Galen, and reach the straight sinus. The veins of the cerebellum end difEerently above and below. On the upper surface they are received by the veins of Galen and the straight sinus ; and on the lower surface they terminate in the occipital and lateral sinuses. Dissection. The pia mater and the vessels are now to be stripped from the brain, and the origin of the cranial nei-ves is to be defined with great care. Over the chief part of the cerebnim, the pons, and the medulla, the pia mater can be detached with tolerable facility by using two pairs of forceps ; but on the cerebellum the membrane adheres so closely as to require much care in removing it without tearing the substance of the brain. In clearing out the fissure between the halves of the cerebellum on the under surface, the membrane bounding the opening of the fourth ventricle (p. 230) will probably be taken away : therefore the position, size, and limits of that opening between the back of the medulla oblongata and the cerebellum should be now noted. When the surface has been cleaned, the brain is to be replaced in the spirit, but it is to be turned over occasionally, so that all the parts may be hardened. Section II. ORIOm OF THE CRANIAL NERVE. Origin The cranial nen'-es take origin fi-om the encephalon, with one ex- ception (spinal accessory), and pass from it through apertures m the skull. is apparent The origin of a nerve is not determined by the place at which it and real. appears on the surface, for fibres or roots may be traced deeply into the brain substance. Each nerve has therefore a superficial or appa- rent, and a deep or real origin in the encephalon. With respect to the superficial attachment there cannot be anj'- doubt; but there is much diflEerence of opinion concerning the deep Real enters origin, in consequence of the difiiculty of tracing the roots. When gmy matter, ^j^g poots are followed into the encephalon, they enter masses of gi-ay substance, which are looked upon as ganglia of origin, j^iassiflca- The cranial nerves may be regarded either as nine or twelve pairs, or twelve according to the mode of classifying them.* pairs. * Those anatomists, wlio take the smaller niuuber after the example of Willis, include in one nerve all the trunks contained in the same aperture of the skull; as in the case of the eighth nerve, which consists of three trunks in the foramen jugulai'e. But those "n'ho are disposed with Sommerring to