100 DISSECTION OF MAXILLARY NERVE. Section VITI. SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE AND VESSELS. Learn right orbit. Dissection of riglit orbit. Directions. Directions. The student may examine next tlie right orbit, and the remaining trunk, superior maxillaiy, of tlie fifth nei-ve. Supposing the right orbit to be untouched, the student may vaiy liis former examination of the left cavity (p. 39) by dissecting it fi'om the outer side. Dissection. For this puipose divide tlie margin of the orbit with a saw through the supra-orbital notch ; and the roof with a chisel back to the sphenoidal fissure. Cut also with a chisel (fi-om the inside) along the middle fossa of the base of the skull from the sphenoidal fissure in front to the foramen spinosum behind, and outside the line of the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale. The side of the skull is next to be sawn vertical^ in front of the petrous part of the temporal bone, so that the incision shall end at the posterior extremity of the cut made in the base. Afterwards the otiter wall of the orbit is to be sawn horizontally into the spheno-maxillaiy fissure. The piece of bone forming part of the cranium and orbit is now loose, and is to be removed with the temporal muscle. If the piece of the roof of the orbit, which is left, should interfere with the sight of the contents of the cavity, let it he taken away with a bone-forceps. The description of the left orbit (p. 40) Avill serve in a general way for the right cavity. The superior maxillary di-^asion of the fifth nerve, in its course to the face, occupies successively the skull, the spheno-maxillary fossa, and the infra-orbital canal. The beginning of the nerve in the cranium has been already demonstrated (p. 17). Dissection. In the spheno-maxillary fossa the ners^e can be partly fossa'*'""'''' seen by the dissection already made for the orbit, and its exposm-e here will be completed by removing the fat, and cutting away some of the wing of the sphenoid bone, so as to leaA'-e only an osseous ring round the nerve at its exit from the skull. In the fossa the student seeks the following offsets,—the orbital braiich entering the cavity of the orbit: branches to Meckel's ganglion which descend in the fossa ; and a dental branch along the back of the upper jaw. To follow onwards the nerve in the floor of the orbit, the con- tents of tlie cavity having been taken away, the bony canal in which it lies must be opened to the face. Near the front of the orbit the anterior dental branch is to be traced downwards for Infra-orbital some distance in the bone. The infraorbital vessels are prepared vessels. ^-^^^i the nei-ve. Upper max- The SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE (fig. 24) commences m the bas- iiiary nerve ^^^..^^^ ganglion (p. 18), and leaves the cranium by the foramen Superior maxillary nerve. Dissection In floor of tlie orbit.