EXTERNAL LIGAMENTS OF KNEE. 699 through. If there is a second external lateral band present, it is not concealed by the aponeurosis. The external lateral ligament (fig. 214, -) is round and cord-like. ,^xternal - It is attached to the outer condyle of the femur below the tendon iwent is of the gastrocnemius, and descends vertically between two pieces sniaU: of the tendon of the biceps to a depression on the upper and outer part of the head of the fibula. Beneath the ligament are the tendon of the popliteus, and the external lower articular, vessels and nerve. A second fasciculus is sometimes present behind the other, but it is not attached to the femur; it is connected above with the gastrocnemius, and below with the posterior prominence of the head of the fibula. The tendon of the Uceps is inserted by two pieces into the points j^. on the head of the fibula ; and fi-om the anterior of these there is dividecl!''^ a prolongation to the head of the tibia. The external lateral liga- ment passes between the pieces into which tlie tendon is split. The tendon of the popliteus may be followed by dividing the posterior ligament. It arises from the fore part of the oblong teus.j depression on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur. In its course to the outside of the joint, it crosses the external semilunar fibro-cartilage and the upper tibio-peroneal ai-ti- culation. When the joint is bent, the tendon lies in the hollow on the condyle ; but slips out of that groove when the limb is extended. The tendon of the adductor magnus is inserted into a tubercle on and of the internal condyle of the femur, above the attaclunent of the fnaJmus."^ internal lateral ligament. The internal lateral ligament (fig. 215, ^) is attached to the con- Interaal dyle of the femur, where it blends with the capsule ; but becoming j^en?-^'^''" thicker below, and separate from the rest of the capsule, it is fixed attaoh- for about an inch into the inner surface of the tibia, below the "i^nts; level of the ligamentum patellte. The tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus muscles is joined by lie over the ligament; and the tendon of the semimembranosus, ten™u"V and the internal lower articular vessels and nerve are beneath it. To the posterior edge some fibres of the tendon of the semimem- branosus are added. Tlie tendo7i of the semimembranosus muscle is inserted beneath Insertion the internal lateral ligament into an impression at the back of the mcmbrano' inner tuberosity of the head of the tibia : between it and the bone sis.'^ is a synovial bursa. The tendon sends some fibres to the internal lateral ligament, a prolongation to join the fascia on the popliteus muscle, and another to the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. The posterior ligament (ligament of Winslow), wide and mem- Posterior branous, covers the back of the joint between the two lateral, and lig^inient. is joined by fibres from the tendon of the semimembranosus, which are directed across the joint to the outer side. It is fixed below to Two sets'of the head of the tibia behind the articular surface, and above to the " femur, but by strongest fibres opposite the intercondyloid notch. Numerous apertures exist in it for the passage of the vessels and