DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 490 Semilunar ganglia: situation; fom. Several oUsets of the plexus. Plexus to tlic dia- pliragm lias a ganglion on right side. Suprarenal uerves. Eenal Ijlexus joms spermatic. Coeliac plexus divides like the artery, into coro- nary, splenic, and hepatic the last has secondary plexuses, viz.: pyloric. gastro- e]iiploic, and duodenal: cystic. The semilunar ganglia, one on each side, are tlie largest in the body, and each is joined at the upper end by the great splanchnic nerve. Each is situate at the outer part of the plexus, close to the suprarenal body, and on the pillar of the diapliragm : the ganglion on the right side is beneath the vena cava. Irregular in shape, the mass is oval, or divided into smaller ganglia : from its outer side neri'es are directed to the Iddney and the suprarenal capsule. Offsets of the jjlexiis. The nerves supplied to the viscera form plexuses around the vessels ; thus there are coeUac, mesenteric, renal, spermatic, diaphragmatic, &c. Diaphragmatic xilexus. This plexus comes fi-om the upper end of the semilunar ganglion, but it soon leaves the artery to enter the substance of the diaphragm : a communication takes place between the phi-enic nerve of the cervical plexus (p. 73) and these branches of the sympathetic. On the right side is a small ganglion where the plexus is joined by the spinal nerve ; and from it filaments ai-e supplied to the vena cava and the suprarenal body : this ganglion is absent on the left side. (Swan.) The suprarenal newes are very large and numerous, in comparison with the size of the viscus supphed, and are directed outwards to the suprarenal body. One of the splancluiic nerves communicates with this plexus. The o-enal plexus is derived fi-om the semilunar ganglion and outer side of the plexus, and is joined by the smallest splanchnic nerve. The nerves suiTound the renal artery, having small ganglia on them, and enter the kidney with the vessels. An offset is given from the renal to the spermatic plexus (p. 481). The cceliac plexus is a direct continuation of the plexus around its artery : it is joined by the small splanchnic nei-ve on each side, and by au offset from the right pneumo-gastric neni^e. The plexus divides like the artery into thi-ee offsets—coronary, splenic, and hepatic. a. The coronary 2il€xus accompanies the vessel of the same name to the upper border of the stomach, where it ends : it communicates with the left vagus nerve. h. The splenic plexus f m-nishes ners'-es to the pancreas, and to the stomach along the left gastro-epiploic artery : and it is joined by an offset from the right pneumo-gastric nei-ve. c. The hepatic plexus is continued on the vena portse, the hepatic artery, and the bile duct into the Ever, and ramifies on those vessels : in the small omentum the plexus is joined by offsets fi-om the left vagus. The following secondary plexuses are furnished ai-oimd the branches of the hepatic artery, and have the same name and dis- tribution as the vessels : A pyloric plexus is distiibuted along the upper border of the stomach. Two other -ple^nse?,—gastro-epiploic (right) and pancreatico-duo- clenal, correspond in distribution with the branches of each artery. A cystic plexus ramifies in the coats of the gaU bladder with the artery.