DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 42 Nftsal, aftov wards. Dissectiiiii. Elevator of upper eyeliu attjiclied to tarsal car- tilage. Connec- tions. Use. Upper rec- tus iiiiiscle. Origin. Iiisertiun. Position to other parts. Use. Upper obliiiuc muscle enters a loop. In.sertioii. Connec- tiuns. Pulley of the imiHcIe. the gland it sends downwards one or two small filaments (") to join the temporo-malai- or orhital hranch of the superior maxillary nerve. Occasionally it has a communicating filament hehind with the fourth nei-ve. The nasal nerve is not visihle at this stage of the dissection : it will he noticed afterwards in p. 43. Dissection. Divide the frontal nei-ve about its middle, and throw the ends forwards and backwards : by raising the posterior piece of the nerve, the separate origin of the nasal hranch from the ophthalmic trunk will appear. The lachrymal nerve may remain uncut. The LEVATOR rALPKBR;E SUPERIORIS (fig. 10, B) is the most superficial muscle, and is attached posteriorly to the roof of the orbit in fi-ont of the.optic foramen. The muscle widens in front, and bends downwards in the eyelid to be inserted by a wide tendon into the front of the tarsal cartilage. By one surface the muscle is in contact with the fi-ontal nen'-e and the periosteum ; and by the other with the superior rectus muscle. If it is cut across about the centre a small branch of the third nei-ve will be seen entering the posterior half at the under surface. Action. The lid-cartilage is made to glide upwards over the ball by this muscle, so that the upper edge is directed back and the lower forwards, the teguments of the lid being drawn inwards at the same time. If the eyeball is directed down, the movement of the lid is less free, because the conjunctiva is put on the stretch. The RECTUS SUPERIOR ("fig. 10, ^) is the upper of four muscles that lie around the globe of the eye. It arises fi-om the upper part of the optic foramen, and is connected with the other recti muscles around the optic nerve. In fi-ont the fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted, like the other recti, into the sclerotic coat of the eyeball about a quarter of an inch behind the ti-ans- parent cornea. The under surface of the muscle is in contact Avith the globe of the eye, and with some vessels and nerves to be afterwaixls seen ; the other surface is covered by the preceding muscle. The action of the muscle will be given with the other recti (p. 47). The SUPERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 10, ^) is tliin and narrow, and passes through a fibrous loop at the inner angle of the orbit before reaching the eyeball. The muscle arises beliind fi-om the inner part of the optic foramen, and ends anteriorly in a rounded tendon, which, after passing through the loop referred to (fig. 11) is reflected backwards and outwards between the superior rectus and the globe of the eye, and is inserted into the sclerotic coat beliind the middle of the ball. The fourth nerve is supplied to the orbital surface of the muscle, and the nasal nerve lies below it. The thin insertion of the muscle Hes between the superior and the external rectus, and near the tendon of the inferior oblique. The imlley, or trochlea (fig. H), is a fibro-cartilaginous ring