CARPO-METACAEPAL JOINTS. 321 Opposition. In this movement the ball of tlie thumb is turned opposition, towards the tip of each finger by a half circuniductory motion of the metacarpal bone; and in picking up a pin the joints of the thumb, and the two last joints of the fingers will be bent. The metacarpal bones of the fingers receive longitudinal bands J°^^J«„°'gg^g from the carpal bones on both aspects, thus :— The dorsal ligaments (fig. 95) are two to each, except to the bone ' of the little finger. The bands of the metacarpal bone of the fore finger come from the os trapezium and os trapezoides; those of the tliird metacarpal are attached to the os magnum and os trapezoides ; the bone of the ring finger receives its bands from the os magnum and OS unciforme ; and to the fifth metacarpal bone there is but one ligament from the imciform. The palmar ligaments (fig. 92) are weaker and less constant than ^"^^jP*'™*'" the dorsal. There is one to each metacarpal bone, except that of the Httle finger. These ligaments may be oblique in direction ; and a band may be divided between two, as in the case of the ligament attached to the os trapezium and the second and thii'd metacarpals. Sometimes one or more may be wanting. On the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the middle digit is Lateral a longitudinal lateral band, which is attached behind to the os ^^"'^' magnum and unciforme, and before to the rough ulnar side of the base of the above mentioned bone. Sometimes this band isolates the articulation of the last two metacarpals with the unciform bone from the remaining carpo-metacarpal joint; but more frequently it is divided into two parts, and does not form a complete partition. This band may be seen by opening behind the articulation be- '^"^ ^^en. tween the unciform and the last two metacarpal bones ; and by cutting through the transverse ligaments joining the' third and fourth metacarpals so as to allow their separation. Movement. Scarcely any appreciable antero-posterior movement Gliding exists in the articulations of the bases of the metacarpal bones of ° the fore and middle fingers ; but in the ring and little fingers the motion is greater, with slight abduction and adduction. Dissection. The articulating surfaces of the bones in the carpo- Dissection, metacarpal articulation may be seen by cutting through the rest of the ligaments on the posterior aspect of the hand. Articular surfaces. The metacarpal bone of the fore finger presents Articulai- a hollowed articular surface, which receives the prominence of the OS trapezoides, and articulates laterally with the os trapezium and OS magnum. The middle finger metacarpal articulates with the os and contact magnum. The metacarpal bone of the ring finger touches the unciform bone and the os magnum. And the little finger bone is opposed to the os unciforme. Synovial membranes. Usually two sj^novial membranes are inter- Synovial posed between the carpal and metacarpal bones, viz. a separate one for the bone of the thumb, and offsets of the common carpal or throe, synovial sac (p. 319) for the others. Sometimes there is a distinct synovial sac for the articulation of the os unciforme with the two inner metacarpals.