DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 442 Insertion into pelvis and linea alba. Apononrosis covers front of the beUv: disposition above and below. Connec- tions. Lines on the aponeu- rosis : apertures in it: Abdominal ring. Use of both muscles, cting from elvis, and thorax. alteniatmg- witli Hiniihir parts of the serratus magnns and the lowest tliree witli digitations of the latissimus clorsi muscle From the attacliniciit to the rihs the iibres are directed over the side of the abdomen in the following manner :—the lower ones descend almost vertically to be inserted into the anterior half or more of the iliac crest, at tlie outer margin : and the upper and middle fibres are continued forwards obliquely to the tendon or aponeurosis on the front of the belly. The aimmLrosis occupies the anterior part of the abdomen in front of a line from the eighth rib to the fore point of the crista ilii; and it is rather narrower about Fig. 133.* the centre, than either above or below. Along the middle line this expansion ends in the linea alba —the common point of union of the aponeurosis of opposite sides. Above, it is thin, and is continued on the thorax to the pectoralis major and the ribs. Below, its fibres are sti'onger and more sepa- rate than above, and are directed obliquely downwards and inwards to the pelvis :—some of them are fixed to the front of the pubes ; and the rest are collected into a firm band B (Poupart's hgament) between the pubic spine and the iliac crest. Connections. The muscle is sub- cutaneous. Its posterior border is unattached between the last rib and the iliac crest, but is overlaid commonly by the edge of the latissimus dorsi, except a small Ijiece below. Appearing tlu'ough the aponeurosis, external to the linea alba, is a white line, the linea semilunaris, marking the outer edge of the rectus muscle (fig. 137) ; and crossing between the two are three or four whitish marks, the lineffi transversii?. Numerous small apertures in the tendon transmit cutaneous vessels and nerves ; and near the pubes is the large opening of the external abdominal ring, c, which gives passage to the cord in the male, and the "i-ound ligament in the female. Action. Both muscles taking their fixed point at the pelvis will bend the trunk forwards as in stooping ; but supposing the spine fixed they will draw down the ribs. If they act from the thorax they will elevate the pelvis. * Dissection of the first lateral muscle in the wall of the belly, a. Extenial oblique. B. Pouijart's ligament, c. External abdoniiual ring. d. Gimbernat's igament.