135 SPONGY BONES AND MEATUSES. ethmoid bone for the branches of the olfactory nerve with vessels, and one for the nasal nen^e and vessels ; in the front of the body of the sphenoid is the opening of its sinus. The floor is slightly hollowed fi-om side to side, and ni it are Floor, the palate and superior maxillary bones—their palate processes. Near the front m the dry skull is the incisor foramen leading to the anterior palatine fossa. The inner boundary (septum nasi) is partly osseous and partly cartilaginous. The osseous part is constructed by the vomer, by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, and l)y those parts of the V^'^^^^^ fi-ontal and nasal with wliich this last bone articulates. The irregu- lar space in front in the prepared skull is filled in the recent state Pjy^j^Jy^^!'''*'- by the triangular cartilage of the septum, which forms part of the partition between the nostrils, and supports the cartilages of the anterior aperture. Fixed between the vomer, the ethmoid plate, and the nasal bones, tliis cartilage rests anteriorly on the median ridge between the superior maxillae, and projects even between the carti- lages of each nostril. The septum nasi is commonly bent to one side. The outer lowulary has the greatest extent and the most irregular surface. Six bones enter into its formation, and they come in the following order from before backwai-ds :—the nasal and superior maxillary : the small os unguis with the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone : and posteriorly the ascending part of the palate bone, with the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone : of these, the |j°™?^[,o^eg nasal, imgual, and ethmoidal reach only about half way from roof to floor, whilst the others extend the whole depth. Altogether in front of the bones, the lateral cartilages may be said to construct part of this boimdary. On this wall are tlu-ee convoluted osseous pieces, named spongy or turbinate bones (fig. 31), which project into the cavity :—the two g^^g^^^f upper (') and (-), are processes of the ethmoid, but the lower one (^), spongy is a separate bone—the inferior spongy. The spongy bones are con- ' fined to a certain portion of the outer wall, and their extent would be limited by a line continued nearly vertically upwai'ds to the roof of the cavity fi'om both the fi'ont and back of the hard palate. Between each turbinate bone and the wall of the nose is a longitu- presents dinal hollow or meatus; and into these hollows the nasal duct and the sinuses of the surrounding bones open. The meatuses are the spaces arched over by the spongy bones; and Meatuses, as the bones are limited to a certain part of the outer wall, so are the spaces beneath them. The ujyper one (fig. 31,") is the smallest and straightest of the Upper thi-ee meatuses, and occupies the posterior half of the space included "leat^is- by the vertical lines before mentioned. Into it the posterior eth- moidal sinuses open at the front ; and at its posterior end, in the dried bone, is the spheno-palatinc foramen by which ners'es and vessels enter the nose. The middle meatus (fig. 31,') is longer than the precedmg ; it is Middle curved upwards in front, and reaches all across the space referred