8. DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. palpebral brunch. Temporal iiervos ; of superior maxillary; of inferior maxillary, its auricular branch; and of facial nerve. Posterior auricular nerve has occipital branch, and auii- cular. Great anri- oular nerve. Great occipi till nerve: junctions. Small occi- pital nerve integument. Branches are given from it to the orbicularis and corrugator supercilii, and some pulpehral twigs enter the eyelid. The superficial temporal nerves are derived from the second and third trunks of the fifth nerve, and fi-om the facial nerve. The temporal branch of the sibperior maxillary nerve (second trunk of the fifth) is usually a slender twig (fig. 2, '"), which perforates the temporal aponeurosis about a finger's breadth above the zygomatic arch. When cutaneous, the nerve is distributed on the temple, and communicates with the facial nei-ve, also some- times with the next. The auriculo-temporal hranch (fig. 2, d) of the inferior maxillary nerve (tliird trunk of the fifth) lies near the ear, and accompanies the temporal artery to the top of the head. As soon as the nerve emerges fi-om beneath the parotid gland, it divides into two terminal branches :—The more posterior is the smaller of the two, and supplies the attrahens am'em muscle and the integument above the ear. The other branch ascends vertically in the teguments to the top of the head. The nerve also furnishes an auricular branch (upper) to the antei-ior part of the ear above the auditory meatus. The temporal branches of the facial nerve are directed upwards over the zygomatic arch and the temporal aponeurosis to the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle : they will be described with the dissection of the trunk of the facial nerve. The posterior auricular nerve (fig. 2, ■*) lies behind the ear with the artery of the same name. It arises from the facial nerve close to the stylo-mastoid foramen, and ascends m fi-ont of the mastoid process. Soon after the nerve becomes superficial it communicates with the great auricular nerve, and divides into an occipital and an auricular branch, which are distributed as their names express :— The occipital hranch is long and slender, and ends in the posterior belly of the occipito-fi-ontahs muscle. It hes near the occipital bone, enveloped in dense fibrous structm-e, and furnishes ofEsets to the integuments. The auricular hranch ascends to the back of the ear, suppling the retrahent muscle and the posterior surface of the pmna. The great auricular nerve of the cervical plexus (fig. 2, ^) is seen to some extent at the lower part of the ear, but its anatomy will be afterwards given with the description of the cervical plexus. The great occipital (fig 2, ^) is the largest cutaneous nerve at the back of the head, and is recognised by its proximity to the occipital artery. Springing fi'om the posterior primary branch of the second cervical nerve, it perforates the muscles of the back of the neck, and divides on the occiput into numerous large oflisets ; these spread over the posterior part of the occipito-fi-ontalis muscle, ending mostly in the integument. As soon as the nerve pierces the trapezius, it is joined by an offset from the third cervical nei-ve ; and on the back of the head it communicates with the small occipital nerve. The small occipital nerve of the cervical plexus (fig. 2, *) lies midway between the ear and the preceding nerve, and is continued