74 DISSECTION OF TUE NECK. IBranches to recti. 13rmu;lics to otlier nerves. Brandies to muscles. Branehe.s joining spinal ac- cessory. Common carotid artery. Origin. Course. Situation. Pai-ts cover- ing it. beneath it, and on its sides. Position of veins; Muscular hrcmches are furnished to the anterior recti muscles; they ni-ise fronTiire loop between tlie first two nerves, and from the trunks of the other nerves close to the intei-\'ertebrai foramina. Some connecting hranches from the loop between the first two nerves inuie'with the sympathetic and some cranial nerves near the base of the skull : these will be aftenvards described. External or Postkrior Seriks. Muscular hranches are supplied fi-om the second nerve to the sterno-mastoideus ; from the third nerve to the levator anguli scapuhe ; and fi-om the third and fourth nerves to the trapezius. Further, some small branches enter the substance of the middle scalenus. Connectincj hranches with the sjnnal accessory nerve exist in three places. First, in the sterno-mastoid muscle ; next, in the posterior triangular space ; and lastly, beneath the trapezius. The union with the branches distributed to the trapezius has the appearance of a plexus. The COMMON CAROTID ARTERY is the leading vessel for the supply of blood to the neck and head (fig. 16, The origin of the vessel differs on opposite sides of the body, beginning at the lower part of the neck on the right side, and in the thorax on the left side. The riglit vessel commences opposite the stemo-claAacular articu- lation in the bifurcation of the innomhiate arterj', and ends at the upper border of the thyroid cartilage by dividmg into external and internal carotids. The coiu-se of the arteiy is along the side of the trachea and larjmx, gradually diverging fi-om the vessel on the opposite side in consequence of the m creasing size of the larynx ; and its position will be marked by a line fi-om the sterno- cla-vicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. Contained in a sheath of cenncal fascia with the internal jugular vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve, the carotid artei-y has the following connections with the surrounding parts :—As high as the cricoid cartilage the vessel is deeply placed, and is con- cealed by the common coverings of the skin, platysma, and fascia? ; and by the muscles at the lower part of the neck, viz., sterno- mastoid (sternal origin), stemo-hyoid, omo-hyoid, and sterno- thyroid. But above the cricoid cartilage to its termmation the artery is less deep, being covered only by the sterno-mastoid with the common investments of the neck. The vessel rests mostly on the longus colli muscle, but close to its ending on the rectus capitis anticus major. To the inner side of the carotid He the trachea and larynx, the oesophagus and pharynx, and the thyroid body, the last overhanging the vessel by the side of the lai-jmx. Along the outer side of the carotid sheath is a chain of lymphatic glands. Veins. The large internal jugular lies on the outer side and close to the carotid at the upper end, but separated fi-om it below by an interval of about half an inch : on the left side the vein is over the artery below, as will be afterwards seen. One or two