25 MUSCLES OF MOUTH. adjacent muscles. In the upper lip it is attached, on each side of the middle line, by one slip (naso-labial) to the back of the septum of the nose (fig. 6, ') ; and by a thin stratum to the outer surface of the upper jaw, opposite the canine tooth, and external to the depressor of the wing of the nose. In the lower lip it is fixed on n^f^^.^on^ eacii side into the mferior jawbone, opposite the canme tooth, ^^^^^^^ external to the levator labii inferioris muscle. To see these attach- ments the lip must be everted, and the mucous membrane carefully raised. The inner margin of the muscle is fi-ee, and bounds the aperture Conncc- of the mouth; while the outer edge blends with the different muscles that elevate or depress the lips and the angle of the mouth. Beneath the orbicularis in each lip is the coronary arteiy, with the mucous membrane and the labial glands. Action. Both parts of the muscle contracting, the lips are pressed '^1^^''^°^ together and projected forwards, and the aperture of the mouth is diminished transversely by the approximation of the corners towards each other. The inner fibres acting alone will turn inwards the red part of inner alone, the lip, and diminish the width of the buccal opening. The outer fibres press the lips against the dental arches, the fi-ee Outer alone edges being protruded and somewhat everted. At the same time the centre part of the nose is depressed and the chin raised by means of the fleshy slips connected with those parts. The LEVATOR LABii surERiORis (fig. 6, extends vertically from Elevator of the lower margin of the orbit to the orbicularis oris. It arises ivom ^^^^'^ ^1'- , the upper maxillary and malar bones above the infra-orbital fora- men, and blends inferiorly with the orbicularis oris. Near the orbit the muscle is overlapped by the orbiculazis palpebrarum, but below that spot it is subcutaneous. By its inner side it joins the connnon Connec- olevator of the ala of the nose and upper lip ; and to its outer side lie the zygomatic muscles, the small one joining it. Beneath it are the infra-orbital vessels and nerve. Actio7i. By the action of this muscle the upper lip is raised, and Use. the skin of the cheek is bulged below the eye. The DEPRESSOR LABII INFERIORIS (fig. 6, is Opposite the elevator Depressor of of the upper lip, and has much yellow fat mixed with its fibres. ''f The muscle has a wide origin from a depression on the front of the lower jaw, reaching backwards fi-om near the symphysis to a little licyond the hole for the labial vessels and nerve ; ascending thence it is united with the orbicularis in the lower lip. Its inner border is in the joins in the lip the muscle of the opposite side ; and its outer is °^ overlapped below by the dejDressor anguli oris. ' Action. If one muscle contracts, the half of the lip of the same use. side is depressed and everted ; but by the use of both muscles, the whole lip is lowered and turned outwards, and rendered tense at the centre. The LEVATOR LABII INFERIORIS (levator menti) is a small muscle levator on the side of tlie fn-pnum of the lower lip, which is opposite the depressor of the ala of the nose in the upper lip. When the lip