DISSECTION OP THE BRAIN. 19* Nucleus and transverse coniiuissiire. Fillet, composi- tion. Restiform body entere cei'c- bclluni. Pyramid l-iasses to cerebrum. Decussation of medulla. Mr. Clarke's view of the tleuussation. Commis- sui'al fibres. Superficial set; Tjeginning and ending. Fibrfe arci- •formes. Deep set; lieginning, and ending. Baplid. Situation, and use. Oray matter of the me- dulla. The nucleus is the yellowish wliite substance filling the capsule ; and fi-om it and the capsule issue transverse fibres, which unite the olivary bodies across the middle line (fig. 68, g) : this uniting band is close below the anterior median fissure. The fillet is a narrow band of fibres, which ascends from the olivary body to the cerebrum (fig. 57). It is formed both by longi- tudinal fibres of the lateral tract which diverge to enclose the corpus olivare, and by fibres derived from the sac. 'i^he restiform body (fig. 54,^) is continuous inferiorly with the posterior column of the cord. Superiorly it bends outwards to the cerebellum without entering the pons. The posterior pyramid runs below into the posterior median column of the cord, and is directed above along the floor of the fourth ventricle, joining the fibres of the lateral tract of the same side. The decussation of the medulla oblongata (pjTamids, fig. 56, b) occupies the anterior groove of the oblong medulla, at the distance of three quarters of an inch fr-om the pons. It is about a quarter of an inch in length, and is constructed by the crossing of three or four bundles of fibres from each side. In this intercommunication the fibres are derived, according to Mr. Clarke, from all the constituent parts of the half of the spinal cord of the opposite side, except from the anterior column ; but the chief portion of the decussation is formed by the fibres from the opposite lateral column, blended with ofEsets from the contiguous gray substance of the crescent (p. 413). Arched or commissural fibres of the medulla. In each half of the medulla oblongata are fine transverse fibres, both on the exterior and in its substance. At the middle line the fibres of opposite sides unite, and give rise to a commissure between the halves (raphe). The superficial transverse fibres (fig. 58, s, and fig. 54), more marked in some bodies, issue from the nucleus in the restiform body (Clarke), and advance over the surface of the olivary and pjTamidal bodies to the anterior fissure, where they enter the half of the medulla of the same, and of the opposite side. Below the olivary body they form oftentimes a distinct band, the fibro} arciformes (fig. 54). The deejy transverse fibres (fig. 58, h) are to be seen with the microscope on thm hardened transverse sections ; they begin behind in nuclei of the posterior pja-amid and restiform body (Clarke), and penetrate between the longitudinal fibres, and thi-ough the corpus oHvare, as they reach forwards to enter the raphe in the middle line. The ra2}he (fig. 58, h and g), in which the arched fibres meet, occupies the middle Ime of the medulla above the decussation of the pyramids, and sei-ves as the commissure between the halves of the medulla and the olivary bodies. Gray matter of the medulla oblongata. In the medulla oblongata there are the remains of the gray matter of the spinal cord ; and some special deposits. Cross sections of the part when hardened would be requii'ed to see them.