509 LOBES AND FISSURES OF LIVER. Tlte Spigelian lobe, d, lies behind the transverse fissure, and spigelian, forms a roundish projection on the surface. Oil its left side is the lonrntudinal tissure ; and on its right, the vena cava inferior The caudate lobe, K, is a slight, elongated eminence which is -.date directed fi-om the Spigelian lobe beliind the transverse fissure, so as to form the posterior boundaiy of that sulcus. Where the lissure terminates this projection subsides in the right bbe. Fissures. Extending horizontally half across the right part oi Tinee^^^ ^ the liver between the Spigelian and caudate lobes on the one hand, and the square lobe on the other, is the transverse or j^ortal fissure. Fig. 156.* It is situate nearer the posterior than the anterior border, and con- portal or tains the vessels, nerves, ducts, and lymphatics of the liver. At the left end it is united at a right angle with the longitudinal fissure. The longitudinal fissure, F, extends fi'om the front to the back of longitudi- the liver, between the right and left lobes. In it anterior to the "''^' transverse fissure lies the remnant of the umbilical vein (c), which is called roimd hgament, and is oftentimes arched over by a piece of the hepatic substance (ponshepatis). In it behind that fissure is contained a small obliterated cord (f/), the remams of the vessel named ductus venosus in the fetus. The groove for the vena cava is placed on the right side of the one for tlie Spigelian lobe, and is frequently bridged over by the liver. If the '^'^"'^ cava (a) be opened, two large and some smaller hepatic veins will be observed entering it. Fossa:. On the under surface of the right lobe are tlu-ee deprcs- Fossr> beneath. * Under surface of tlie liver, a. Right, and B, left lobe. c. Quadrate lobe. D. Spigelian, and K, caudate lobe. i'. Longitudinal fi.ssure. o. Gall- bladder, a. Vena cava. /j. Vena porta?, c. Round ligament, d. Obliterated ductus venosus. c. Common hepatic duct. /. Cystic duct. g. Commoa bile duct. h. Hepatic artery.