455 INGUINAL HERNIA. As the vessel extends backwards it gives lateral ofEsets, which «^i.ai««to. supply tlie neighbouring muscles, and communicate on the one side with the ilio-lumbar, and on the other with the gluteal artery. The circumflex iliac vein is formed by the junction of two col- Circumflex lateral branches, and crosses the external iliac artery nearly an mch above Poupart's ligament, to open into the external iliac vein. Section II. HERNIA OF THE ABDOMEN. The lower part of the abdominal wall, which has been reserved ^"g^""^^ on the left side of the body, should be now dissected for inguinal hernia. Dissection. The teguments and the aponeurosis of the external ^j^^^^^^^^^ oblique having been thro-vvn down in the previous examination of left groin, the wall of the abdomen, the necessary dissection of the inguinal region syWI be completed by raising the internal oblique muscle as in fig. 138. To raise the obhque muscle, let one incision be made across the ?^eflect ^ ' , inner fleshy fibres fi'om the iliac crest towards the linea alba : and after oblique. the depth of the muscle has been ascertained by the layer of areolar and fatty tissue beneath it, let the lowest fibres be carefully cut tlu-ough at their attachment to Poupart's ligament. By elevating the muscle cautiously, the student will be able to separate it from the subjacent transversalis, so that it may be turned upwards on the abdomen. The separation of the two muscles just mentioned is sometimes difficult in consequence of their fibres being blended together, but a branch of the circumflex iliac arteiy marks their intermuscular interval. The cremaster muscle is next to be divided along the cord, and Cut the to be reflected to the sides. Let the dissector then clean the surface of the transversalis muscle, without displacmg its lower arched Clean sub- border ; and trace with cai-e the conjoined tendon of it and the internal obhque to show the exact extent outwards. The fascia transversalis and the spermatic cord should be likewise nicely cleaned. Crossing the interval apparent below the border of the trans- siw the versalis muscle, are the epigastric vessels, which lie close to the vSs"'^ inner side of the internal abdominal opening, but beneath the fascia transversalis. A small piece of the fascia may be cut out to show the vessels. Inguinal Hernia. A protrusion of intestine through the lower Situation of portion of the abdominal wall near Poupart's ligament (answering ilemia?^ to the inguinal region), is named an inguinal hernia. The escape Predis- of the intestine in this region is predisposed to by the deficiencies ]j°f'*'°u in the muscular strata, by the passage of the spermatic cordthi-ough ^'^ ^ ^' the abdorrn'nal parietes, and by the existence of fossre on the inner surface of the wall.