610 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. ( Internal sapliouous passes to ' the leg: a liraneh on patella forms a plexus. Clean tlie fascia lata, and define saphenous opening. Fascia lata surrounds limb: strength varies: ilio-tibial' band. Apertures in it. Processes between the musclesi Connected with bone at upper part of thigh : and appecar by the side of the saplienous vein. One or two come into view near the top of the vein, and reach as far as the middle of the tliigh ; and one, larger in size than the rest, becomes cutaneous where the others cease, and extends as far as the knee. The internal saplienous (fig. 190,"), a branch of the anterior crural, is continued to the foot, but only a small part of it is noAv visible. The nerve pierces the fascia on the inner side of the knee ; and after communicating with the inner branch of the internal cutaneous, gives forwai-ds some offsets over the knee joint. Finally it accom- panies the saphenous vein to the leg and foot. Its patellar branch (fig. 190, appears on the inner side of the loiee above the preceding, and is soon joined by the internal cuta- neous nerve. It ends in many branches over the patella ; these communicate with offsets fi-om the middle and external cutaneous nerves, and form on interlacement—plexus p)aiellce—over the joint. Dissection. Let the fat and the inguinal glands be now removed from the sm-face of the fascia lata, the cutaneous nerves being- thrown aside to be traced afterwards to their- trunks. At the upper part of the thigh the student is to define the saphe- nous opening in the fascia lata by detaching the superficial fascia. The inner side is easily shoA\Ti. But the outer border is blended with the superficial fascia and with the subjacent crural sheath ; and it is only after the uniting fibrous bands are broken or cut tlirough that its semilimar edge comes into view. The fascia lata is the deep aponeurosis of the thigh. It surrounds the limb with a fii'm sheath, and sends inwards septa between the different muscles. This membranous investment is of a bluish white colour, but in fat bodies is sometimes so slight as to be taken away with the subcutaneous fat. It is much stronger on the outer than the inner aspect of the limb, where it receives the insertion of the tensor vaginse femoris, and most of the gluteus maximus muscle. This thickened part (iUo-tibial band) is attached above to the hip-bone and below to the bones of the leg, and helps the extensor muscle to keep the knee- joint straight in standing. Numerous apertures exist in the fascia for the transmission of the cutaneous nerves and vessels ; and the largest hole is near Poupart's ligament, to permit the passage of the internal saphenous vein. Processes prolonged from the under surface form septa between, and fibrous sheaths around the several muscles. Two of the pro- cesses are larger than the rest, and are named outer and inner mter- muscular septa of the thigh : they are fixed to the femur, so as ta limit on the sides the extensor of the knee. The position of these partitions is marked by white lines on the surface. At the top of the thigh the fascia is fixed to the prominent borders of the pelvis. Thus it is connected externally with the iliac crest, and internally with the pubes and the pubic arch. In the middle line behind it is joined to the lower end of the sacrum and coccyx ; and in front, to Poupart's ligament between the pubes and the ihac crest. Behind the knee-joint the fascia passes miinterruptedly to