LIGAMENTS OF THE EIB. 371 the rib, and on the other to the fibre cartilage between the vertebras. In the joints of the first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, where the head is not in contact with the intervertebral substance, the hgament is absent. Synovial sacs. There are two sacs in the articulation, one on eacli ^vith^_^^ side of the interarticular ligament. In the three jomts before men- g^'""/"^ tioned (1st, 11th, and 12th) there is but one sac. Movements. In the costo-vertebral articulation there is a gliding Kind of of the rib up and down, and forwards and backwards. The move- movement; ment of the head is more limited in the first seven ribs which are fixed to the sternum than in the others ; and is greatest in the last degree, two, in consequence of the ribs being free anteriorly, and not fixed beliind by a joint to the transverse process. During the increase and decrease of the chest the body of the Motion of rib is rotated out and in, around a line subtending the arc of the "b-body. circle of which its fore part is a segment. The degree of motion is greatest in the longest ribs. Ligaments of the Neck and Tubercle. Three ligaments (costo- Ligaments ti'ansverse) pass fi-om the neck and tubercle of the rib to two trans- ° verse "processes. And there is a synovial sac between the rib and its transverse process. The anterior costo-transverse ligament (fig. 108, *) is larger and longer than the others. It ascends from the upper edge of the neck verse, to the transverse process of the upper of the two vertebrje -ndth which the head articulates : it is wanting to the first rib. Between this hgament and the vertebra the posterior branches of the inter- costal vessels and dorsal nerve pass ; and externally it is joined by the fibrous membrane between the strata of the intercostal muscles. TheposteiHor costo-transverse (fig. 115, ^) is placed at the posterior posterior aspect of the rib. It is a short band of fibres between the rough verse, part of the tubercle and the tip of the transverse process of the lower of the two vertebra touched by the rib head. This band is longest in the lowest two ribs. The middle or interosseous costo-transverse is placed horizontally middle between the neck of the rib and the transverse process with which ver: the tubercle articulates. It will be best seen by sawing horizontally through the rib and the transverse process. Its fibres are mixed with reddish areolar tissue. In the last two ribs the interosseous costo-transverse blends in in the two one band with the posterior costo-transverse ligament. last ribs. Synovial sac. If the posterior ligament is divided, a synovial mem- Synovial hrane will be exposed in the joint between the tubercle of the rib and the transverse process. In the lowest pair pf ribs, which do not touch transverse pro- ,^,,6^6 cesses, the synovial sac is absent. absent. Movement. In the motion of the rib, the bone glides upwards and Motion, downwards on the articular facet of the transverse process ; and the degree will be limited by the surrounding costo-transverse ligaments. B B 2 costo-trans- erse.