DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 126 Objects to lae noted. Seven aper- tures, viz., Posterior naris. Eustachian tube : cartilagi- nous part has a wide opening; is a bent piece of cartilage. Mucous membrane covers and lines it. Fauces. bone ; from that spot it diminishes both upwards and downwards, but much more rapidly in the latter than in the former direction! Through the part of the passage above the mouth the air moves in respiration ; Avhilst through that below the mouth both air and food are transmitted—the air passing to the aperture of the wind-pipe, and the food to the oesophagus. In it the following objects are to be noticed. At the top are situate the posterior apertures, g, of the nasal ca-^aty, which are separated by the septum nasi ; and below them hangs the soft palate, partly closing the cavity of the mouth. By the side of each nasal aperture is the trumpet-shaped end of the Eustachian tube, F. Below the soft palate, the opening into the mouth—^isthmus faucium, H, is to be recognised ; and on each side of this is the tonsil, K, which is placed in a hollow between two prominences named pillars of the soft palate,—the one, i, proceeding from the soft palate to the side of the tongue, and the other, l, from the palate to the side of the pharynx. Next in order, below the mouth, comes the aperture of the larjux, N ; and close in front of it is the epiglottis, or the valve which assists to close that opening during deglutition. Lowest of all is the opening, o, fi'om the pharynx into the cesojphagus. The apertures into the pharynx are seven in number, and have the following position and boundaries :— The posterior openings of the nasal fossce, G, are oval inform, and measure about an inch from above doAvn, but only half an inch across. Each is consti-ucted in the dried skull by the sphenoid and palate bones above, and by the palate below ; by the vomer inside, and by the internal pterygoid plate outside. It is Kned by mucous membrane. The Eustachian tube, f, is a canal, partly osseous, partly cartila- ginous, by which the tympanic cavity of the ear communicates with the external air. If the mucous membrane be removed from the tube on the right side, the cartilaginous part appears to be nearly an inch long. It is narrow superiorly, where it is fixed to the margms of a groove between the petrous part of the temporal and the sphenoid bone : but it increases in width as it is du-ected downwards to the phaiynx, and ends by a wide aperture inside the internal pterygoid plate, on a level with the inferior meatus. Its opening in the pharynx is oval in form ; and the inner side, Avhich is larger than the outer, projects forwards, giving rise to a trumpet-shaped mouth. This part of the tube is constructed by a triangular piece of car- tilage, whose margins are bent downwards so as to enclose a narrow space ; but at the under aspect the cartilage is deficient, and the wall is formed by fibrous membrane. Closely united to the pteiy- goid plate, the tube is covered by the mucous membrane ; and through it the mucous lining of the cavity of the tympanum is continuous with that of the pharj^nx. The space included between the root of the tongue and the arches