715 LIGAMENTS OF TARSUS WITE METATARSUS. Fig. 224.' in inversion of the foot, and down and in in eversion ; and the inner ^P'J^^^''''- one nioves more than the others in consequence of the shape of the articular surfaces, and the attachment to it of the tibialis anticus. ^^^^ When the bones pass down the dorsal ligaments are made tight: ligameuts, and as they rise the interrosseous and transverse plantar bands will keep them united. • • t • In standing and in progression these bones are separated some- f"pi^o!" what from each other with diminution of the arch of the foot, and gression. stretcliing of the transverse ligaments which connect them. Articulation of the metatarsal bones. The bases of the four U"'"" J'f the ineta- outer metatarsal bones are connected together by dorsal, plantar, tarsus by and interrosseous ligaments ; and where their lateral parts touch, they are covered with cartilage, and have oifsets of a synovial sac. The dorsal ligaments (fig. 224) are small transverse bands fi'om the base of one metatai'sal bone to the nest. The plantar ligaments (fig. 222) are similar to the dorsal. The interosseous ligaments are shoit, transverse fibres between the conti- guous rough lateral surfaces : they may be afterwards seen by forcibly separating the bones. Lateral union. The four outer bones touch one another laterally ; the second metatarsal lies against the internal and external cuneiforms ; and the fourth is in contact internally with the outer cunei- fonn. Those articulating sm-faces are covered with cartilage ; and are provided with synovial membrane, which is de- rived from the sacs se^^dng for the articulation of the same four metatarsal with the tarsal bones. The metatarsal bone of the great toe, like that of the thumb not united to the others at its base by any intervening bands. The digital ends of the five metatarsal bones are united by the f^*^™^ transverse metatarsal ligament,- this has been described in page 686. Tarsal with metatarsal bones. These articulations resemble the Taijsus'^"^ like parts m the hand, as there is a separate joint for the great toe, and a common one for the four outer metatarsals Articulation of the great toe. The articular ends of the bones are Joint of incased by capsule, and are provided with an upper and a Zort^er longitudvial hand to give strength to the joint: the lower band is ^^r^iute placed between prolongations from the tendons of the tibialis''"'"''''^ anticus and peroneus longus. A simple mjnovial membrane senses for the articulation. dorsal, jilantar, aud interos- seous liga- ments. Lateral imion: sjiiovial sacs. jg Great toe separate. synovial sac. * Dorsal ligaments uniting the tarsus to the metatarsus, and the metatai-sal bones to each other behind (Bourgery).