MOVEMENTS OF THE HEAD. 175 Between the lateral bands is a central odontoid ligament, which With a cen- connects tlie tip of the odontoid process to the margin ot the basilar process of the occipital bone. Union of the atlas loith the axis. The transverse hgament oi tho To^r.x odon- atlas (fig. 49, is a flat, strong, arched band belnnd the odontoid there is a process, which is attached on each side to a tubercle below the inner part of the articular process. This ligament is widest in the tmn^vme centre ; and at this spot it has a band of longitudinal fibres con- nected with the upper and lower margins (fig. 49), so as to produce j;amed cm- a cruciform appearance : the upper band is inserted into the basilar " ' process, and the lower, into the body of the second vertebra. Its surface towards the cord is concealed by the occipito-axoid ligament. This ligament fixes the odontoid process of the second vertebra against the body of the atlas, confining it in a ring (fig. 50). When the transverse and check ligaments have been cut through, '^^^^J^J^ the tip of the odontoid process will be seen to have two cartilaginous ' Fig. 50.* surfaces; one in fi'ont where it touches the atlas, the other at the opposite aspect, where it is in contact with the transverse ligament. Two synovial membranes facilitate the movements of the odontoid and two process, one serving for the joint between this piece of bone and the membranes. atlas ; and the other for the joint between it and the transverse ligament. Union of the articular surfaces. The articular surfaces of the Capsule and occipital bone and atlas are surrounded by a capsular ligament of scattered fibres, which is strongest externally and in front. When the joint is opened, the condyle of the occipital bone will be seen to look somewhat outwards, and the hollowed surface of the atlas inwards. A synovial membrane is present on each side. synovial sac The articular surfaces of the first two vertebra) are enclosed on to articular each side by a capsule (fig. 46, ''), which is stronger in fi-ont than surfaces, beliind. On opening the joint the surfaces of the bones may be perceived to be almost horizontal. On each side there is a separate loose synovial membrane. Movements of the head. The head can be bent forwards and Movements backwards: turned fi-om side to side—rotation; and inclined towards ,1 1 1 1 K1I1Q,3 01 • the shoulder. * First vertebra with the odontoid process removed from the socket formed by the bone and the transverse ligament. 1. Transverse ligament with its offsets cut. 2. Socket for the odontoid luoccss.