DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGIOX. Dissection, to detncli Jiiylo-liyoiil. To see deep muscles saw the jaw. fasten tongue. and cut mucous membrane. Define nerves, and vessels Parts be- neatli mylo- hyoidcus Dissection. To bring into view the muscles beneath the mylo- hyoid, and to trace the A^essels and nerves to the substance of the tongne (as in fig. 23), the student should first divide the facial vessels on the jaw, and remove them with the superficial part of the submaxillary gland ; but he should be careful to leave the deep part of the gland which turns beneath the mylo-hyoideus, because the small submaxillary ganglion is in contact with it. Next he should cut through the small branches of vessels and nerve on the surface of the mylo-hyoideus ; and detacliing that muscle from the jaw and its fellow, should throw it down to the OS hyoides, but without injuring the genio-hyoid muscle beneath it. Afterwards the bone is to be sawn through on the right of, but close to the muscles attached to the symphysis, the soft parts covering the jaw having been previously cut. The loose side of the jaw (for the ramus of the bone has been sawn before) is to be raised to see the parts beneath, and it may be fastened up out of the way with a stitch ; but it should not be detached fi'om the mucous membrane of the mouth. The apex of the tongue is to be now pulled well out of the mouth over the upper teeth, and fastened with a stitch to the septum of the nose, whilst the left half of the jaw is to be drawn down forcibly with hooks. The scalpel should be then passed from below ujDwards between the sawn surfaces of the bone, for the purpose of dividing a strong band of the mucous membrane of the mouth ; and it should be carried onwards along the middle line of the tongue to the tip. By means of a stitch the os hyoides may be fastened down, to make tight the muscular fibres. All the fat and areolar tissue are to be removed, and in doing tlais the student is to take care of the Whartonian duct ; of the hypo-glossal nerve and its branches, which lie on the hyo-glossus muscle, and especially of its small offset ascending to the stjdo-glossus muscle ; also of the gustatoiy nerve nearer the jaw. Between the gustatoiy nei-ve and the deep part of the submaxillaiy gland the dissector should seek the small submaxillary ganglion (smaller than a pin's head), with its offsets ; and should endeavour to separate from the trunk of the gustatory the small chorda tympani nerve (p. 92), and to define the offset from it to the submaxillary ganglion. At the hinder border of the hyo-glossus clean the Ungual vessels, the stylo-hyoid 'ligament, and the glosso-pharyngeal nei-ve, all passing beneath that muscle ; and at the anterior border find the issuing ranine vessels wliich, with the gustatory and hypo-glossal nerves, are to be traced on the under surface of the tongue to the tip. Parts beneath mylo-hyoideus (fig. 23). The relative position of the objects brought into view by the "steps of the previous dissection is now apparent :—Extending from the cornu of the hyoid bone to the side of the tongue is the hyo-glossus muscle, whose fibres are crossed superiorly by those of the stylo-glossus.