315 EADIO-ULNAR JOINTS. inwards towards the ulna, though a few on the posterior surface have an opposite direction. Superiorly the membrane is wanting for a considerable space, and through the interval the postenor inter- osseous vessels pass backwards. Some small apertures exist in it for the passage of vessels; and the largest of these C) is about two inches from the lower end, thi-ough which the anterior interosseous artery turns to the back of the wist. The membrane gives at- tachment to the deep muscles. The round ligament (fig. 90, ") is a slender band above the inter- this is defi- cient above. osseous membrane, whose fibres By round ligament. The lower end after. Kind of motion of radius, pronation have a direction opposite to those of the membrane. By one end it is fixed to the front of the coro- noid process, and by the other to the radius below the tubercle. The hgament divides into two the space above the interosseous mem- brane. Oftentimes this band is not to be recognised. The lower radio-ulnar articula- tion cannot be well seen till after the examination of the wrist joint (p. 317). Movement of the radius. The radius moves forwards and back- wards around the vdna. The forward motion, directing the palm of the hand towards the ground, is called pronation ; and the backward movement, by which the palm of the hand is placed up, is named supination. In pronation the upper end of the bone rotates within the band of the orbicular ligament without shifting its position to the ulna. The lower end, on the contrary, moves over the ulna from the outer to the inner side, describing half a circle ; and the shaft crosses obliquely that of the ulna. In supination the lower end of the radius tui'ns backwards over the ulna ; the shafts come to be placed side by side, the radius being external ; and the upper end rotates from within out in its circular band. In these movements the radius revolves round a line, internal to the shaft, which is prolonged upwards through the neck and head of the bone, and downwards through the centre of a circle of which the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna is a segment (Ward). The upper end of the bone is kept in place by the orbicular liga- ment ; the lower end by the triangular fibro-cartilage ; and the shafts are united by the interosseous ligament, which is tightened in supi- nation, and is relaxed in pronation. In fracture of either bone the movements cease ; in the one case in fraeture * View of the orbicular ligament (a) of the radius, which retains the upper end of the bone against the ulna. supination; motion around an axis; use of liga- ments ;