DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 7G vliuOi nve joined by 41 tuiuloii. Position to otlier jiarts. "Die muscle Jjounds a. •containing slauds. Use. Stylo- liyoideus. Origin. Insertion. .Surrounds digastric. vtendon. Use. Ninth nerv( in the aii- 'terior tri- .iiugle. Branches : to hyoid muscles is joined pliysis of the lower jaw. From these attachments the fibres are directed to the intervening tendon, wliich is surrounded by fibres of the stylo-hyoideus, and is united by an aponeurotic expansion to its fellow, and to the body and part of the great comu of the os hyoides. The arch formed by the digastric is superficial, except at the outer end, where it is beneath the sterno-mastoid and splenius muscles. The posterior belly covers the carotid vessels and the accompanying veins and nerves ; and is placed across the anterior triangular space of the neck in the position of a line fi'om the mastoid process to a little above the hyoid bone. Along its lower border lie the oc- cipital artery and the hypoglossal nerve ; the former passing back- wards, the latter forwards. The anterior belly rests on the mylo- hyoid muscle. The muscle forms the lower boundaiy of a space between it, the jaw, and the base of the;'skull, M^hich is subdivided into two by the stylo-maxillary ligament. In the posterior portion ai-e contained the parotid gland, ("'), and the vessels and nerves in connection Avith it (p. 29) ; in the anterior, are the submaxillary gland, ("), with the facial and submental vessels, and deeper still, the muscles between the chin and the hyoid bone. Action. The lower jaw being moveable, the muscle depresses that bone and opens the mouth. If the jaw is fixed, the two belhes act- ing will elevate the hyoid bone. It is supposed that the posterior belly may assist in moving back the head when the jaw is fixed. The STYLO-HYOiD MUSCLE is thin and slender, and has the same position as the posterior belly of the digastric. It anses fi-om the outer surface of the styloid process, near the base, and is inserted into the body of the os hyoides. The muscle has the same connections as the posterior belly of the digastric ; and its fleshy fibres are usually perforated by the tendon of that muscle. In some bodies the stylo-hyoideus is absent. Action. This muscle elevates the os hyoides preparatory to swai- lowuig ; and checks, with the posterior belly of the digastric, the too forward movement of that bone by the other elevators. The HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE (ninth cranial) appears in the anterior triangle at the lower edge of the digastric muscle, where it hooks round the occipital artery ; it is then directed fonvards to the tongue below that muscle, and disappears in front beneath the mylo-hyoideus. In this course the nen^e passes over the two carotids ; and near the comu of the os hyoides it crosses also the lingual ai-tery, so as to become liigher than the vessel. From this pai-t arise the descendens noni branch, and a small muscular ofliset to the thyro-hyoideus. + i 4= The descending branch (ram. descend, noni) leaves the tmnkot the hypoglossal on the outer side of the carotid artery, and de- scends on the fi-ont of (sometimes in) the sheath of the vessel to about the middle of the neck, where it is joined by tie communi-