294 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. third, fourth, fifth. On the sides of the fingers : lateral ofl'sets. Dissection of the deep tendons. Divide ligament, open slieaths. Synovial sac suiTounds tendons. Superficial flexor in the hand. Insertion. SUt for the deep flexor. Dissection. Tendons of deep flexor The third is directed to the radial side of tlie index finger, and gives a branch to the most external lumbrical muscle. The fourth furnishes a nerve to the second lumbrical muscle, and divides to supply the contiguous sides of tlie fore and middle fingers. The fifth, like the fourth, is distributed by two branches to the opposed sides of the middle and ring fingers : it communicates with a branch of the ulnar nerve. On the fingers. On the sides of the fingers the nen^es are super- ficial to the arteries, and reach to the last phalanx, where they end in filaments for the ball, and the pulp beneath the nail. In their course forwards the nerves supply chiefly tegumentary branches : one of these is directed backwards by the side of the metacarpal phalanx, and after uniting with the digital nerve on the back of the finger (p. 278), is continued to the dorsmn of the last phalanx. Dissection. The tendons of the flexor muscles may be followed next to their termination. To expose them the ulnar artery should be cut through below the origin of the profunda branch; and the small superficial volar branch (of the radial) having been di\aded, the palmar arch is to be thrown towards the fingers. The ulnar and median nerves are also to be cut below the annular ligament, and turned forwards. A longitudinal incision is to be made thi-ough the centre of the annular ligament, without injuring the small muscles that arise from it, and the pieces of the ligament are to be thrown to the sides. Finally the sheaths of the fingers may be opened for the purpose of observing the insertion of the tendons. Flexor tkndons. Beneath the annular ligament the tendons of the deep and superficial flexors are surrounded by a large and loose synovial membrane, which projects upwards into the forearm and downwards into the hand, and sends an ofliset into the digital sheath of the thumb and that of the little finger.* Flexor suhlimis. The tendons of the flexor sublimis are superficial to those of the deep flexor beneath the ligament; and all four are nearly on the same level, instead of being amanged in pairs as in the forearm. After crossing the palm of the hand they enter the sheath of the fingers (fig. 82, e) ; and each is inserted by two processes into the margins of the middle phalanx, about the centre. When first entering the digital sheath, the tendon of the flexor sublimis conceals that of the flexor profundus ; but near the front of the first phalanx it is split for the passage of the tendon of the latter muscle. Dissection. To see the tendons of the deep flexor and the lum- brical muscles, the flexor sul^imis must be cut through above the wrist, and thrown towards the fingers. Afterwards the areolar tissue should be taken away. Flexor profundus. At the lower border of the annular ligament the tendinous mass of the flexor profundus is divided into four * Theile refers the notice of this fact to M. Maslieurat-Lag^mard, in No. 18 of the " Gazette Meclicale," for 1839.