DISSECTION OP THE BEAIK 220 in the corpus sti'iatum and optic thalamus. Pibres of peduucle diverge 111 coipus striatuui and thaUimu.s : their acces- sory bauds. lu the hemi- sphere they extend to convolu- tions. Fibres not reaching throughout. cliicf purpose is to show the passage of the radiating fibres from tlic cms through tlie two cerebral gangha. To ti-acc the diverging fibres onwards beyond the crus cerebri, and tln-ough the corpus striatum, the nucleus caudatus of this body should be scraped away (fig. G5) ; and the dissection should be made on tlie left side on which tlie stiiate body and the optic thalamus remain uncut. In this proceeding the pecten of Eeil comes into view, viz., white fibres with intcrvem'ng gray matter in the corpus striatum, giving the appearance of the teeth of a comb. On taking away completely the prolonged part of the nucleus caudatus, others of the same set of fibres will be seen issuing fi-om the outer side of the optic thalamus, and radiating to the posterior and inferior lobes. After tracing those fibres, the upper part of the optic thalamus may be taken away at the posterior end, to denude the accessoiy bundles to the peduncular fibres, fi*om the corpora quadrigemina and the superior peduncle of the cerebellum (fig. 65, : the last band lies beneath the corpora quadrigemina. Their arrangement (fig. 65,''). Some of the diverging fibres radiate fi'om the pedimcle of the cerebrum to the sm-face of the hemi- sphere, passing in their course through the two cerebral ganglia (optic thalamus (") and corpus striatum (^) ), and they form a conically-shaped bundle, whose apex is below and base above. The fibres forming the fi'ee or fasciculated surface (crust) of the peduncle (fig. 56) pass through the striate body. The fibres on the opposite aspect, which form the tegmentum (fig. 57, rf), are trans- mitted through the mider part of the optic thalamus, and through the corpus striatum, reaching as far forwards as, but much farther back than those of the crust. In the thalamus and the corpus striatum the fibres are greatly increased in number. The upper or sensory set receive also acces- sory bundles in the crus cerebri (p. 200) fi-om the superior peduncle of the cerebellum (fig. 65, ^) ; and in the thalamus from the pair of the corpora quadrigemina, and the corpora geniculata of the same side. On escaping from the striate body and the thalamus the fibres decussate with the converging fibres of the corpus callosum, and radiate thence into the anterior, middle, and posterior parts of the cerebral hemisphere, forming the corona radiata. In the hemi- sphere the fibres are continued to the convolutions : their expansion in the hemisphere resembles a fan bent down in fi-ont and behmd, formmg thus a layer which is concave on the mider side. Their extent. All the fibres of the peduncle do not reach the surface of the brain, for some end in the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus, especially in the former. And some of the fibres in the commlutions begin in the ganglionic bodies above mentioned, and extend to the surface of the hemisphere.'' Thus, ni addition * According to some authors none of the fibres of the peduncle reach farther tlian the corpus striatum and the optic thivlamus.