JIUSCLES OF THE ARM. 207 And to keep in place the vessels and nerves at the upper part of the limb these should be tied together with string m their natural position to one another, and fastened to the coracoid ^ p'oSo«. The limb is still to lie on the baek, but the scapula is i;osiUonof to be raised by means of a small block ; and the bladebone is to be fixed in such a position as to render tense the muscles, ilie inner surface of the arm is to be placed towards the dissectoi-. Dmection. The aponeurosis is to be reflected from the front of 7„~ the arm by an incision along the centre, like that through the integuments ; and it is to be removed on the outer side as far as the outer condyloid ridge of the humerus, but on the inner side rather farther back than the corresponding line, so as to lay bare part of the triceps muscle. In raising the fascia the Imife must be and vessels, carried m the direction of the fibres of the biceps muscle ; and to prevent the displacement of the brachial artery and its nerves, fasten them here and there with stitches. In front of the elbow is a hollow containing the brachial vessels : ^^'^11^°'''' the artery should be followed into it, to show its ending in the radial and ulnar trunks. Muscles on the Fkont of the Arm. There are only three Position of muscles on the front of the arm. The one along the centre of the ^^^^^l^^ limb is the biceps ; and that along its inner side, reaching about half way down, is the coraco-brachialis. The brachialis anticus lies beneath the biceps. Some muscles of the forearm are connected to the inner and outer condyles of the humerus, and to the ridge above the outer condyle. The BICEPS MUSCLE (fig. 78, ^) forms the prominence observable Biceps Las on the fi-ont of the arm. It is wider at the middle than at either 2^^'^°^^^^"'^ end ; and the upper end consists of tAvo tendinous pieces of dif- ferent lengths, which are attached to the scapula. The short head Origin from arises fi-om the apex of the coracoid process in common with the "capula. coraco-brachialis muscle (fig. 73) ; and the long head is attached to the upper part of the glenoid caA'ity of the scapula, Avithin the capsule of the shoulder joint (fig. 89). Muscular fibres spring from each tendinous head, and blend about the middle of the arm in a fleshy belly, Avliich is somewhat flattened fi-om before back. In- insertion feriorly the biceps ends in a tendon, and is inserted into the tubercle "^t" radius, of the radius. The muscle is superficial except at the extremities. At the upper Parts coA-er- part it is concealed by the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles ; and at the lower end the tendon dips into the holloAv in front of the elboAv, haAnng previously given an offset to the fascia of the arm. Beneath the biceps are the brachialis anticus muscle, the and beneath musculo-cutaneous nei-ve, and the upper part of the humerus. Its inner border is the guide to the brachial artery below the middle of ?"guki'e°to'^'^ the humerus, but above that spot the coraco-brachialis muscle inter- artery, venes between them. The connection of the long head of the biceps with the shoulder joint, and the insertion of the muscle into the radius, Avill be afterwards learnt.