733 STRTJCTURE OF RETINA. Fig. 232. and gray in colour from the absence of tlie white substance of Schwann, radiate in bundles from the end of the optic trunk, and communicate together to construct a thin web at the inner aspect of the nervous layer ; this delicate network with lengthened meshes diminishes in strength as it is followed forwards. Outside the nerve fibres is a stratum of molecular material (/), with large pale pyriform and roundish nucleated nerve cells {g) ■with oifsets : this layer begins at the entrance of the optic nerve, and becomes thinner as it extends forwards. Around the optic nen'e the cells are arranged in a layer one deep, but over the yellow spot they are about six or eight deep ; near the ora serrata they ai-e scattered in clusters. An offset from each cell is supposed to join internally the nerve fibres; and other offsets are prolonged ex- ternally into the molecular material (/) and seem lost in it. The outer or columnar stratum {}) (Jacob's membrane) consists of two different elements—rods and cones, which are arranged with their ends inwards and outwards. The rods (a) are elongated solid and grooved particles, which are pointed at the irmer end, and are more numerous than the other ele- ments ; from their inner ends fine threads (rod-fibres) are prolonged through the outer set of granules (c), and are there connected with elhp- tical transversely striated bodies. The co7ies (b) are shaped like a flask with a long neck, and have the larger end turned inwards : they do not project so far out as the rods. When viewed on the outer surface, they form large isolated an inner of altered nerve fibres; and an outer of molecules and nerve cells. Outer layer has special parts. Rods, ■with fibres. Cones, form, * Magnified vertical section of the retina (altered from KolHker)—1. Columnar layer ■with rods, a. and cones, b. 2. Granular layer with outer, c, and inner granules, e, and intermediate non-granular part, d. 3. Nervous layer with g, nerve cells, and h, nerve fibres : outside the cells is a finely granular part, /, and inside the fibres a limiting layer, i, formed by fibres of Miiller. On the left of the vertical section is an ideal plan of the connection of the several parts. Thus the nerve cell, g, unites internally with nerve fibres, and externally with the inner granular layer; and the inner granular layer is further joined by a thread (fibre of Miiller) to the outer granular layer. k. Microscopic appearance of the outer surface of the retina over the yellow spot, where there are only cones. I. Appearance of the retina near the yellow spot—a single circle of rods surrounding each cone ; appearance of the middle of the retina, a large number of the rods surrounding each cone. In all three figures the larger rings represent the cones, and the smaller ones the rods seen endwise.