439 CUTANEOUS VESSELS AND NERVES. rectus muscle, and increasing in size from above clown, supply tlie antcmr integuments on the side of the belly ; tliey furnish offsets to the digitations of tlie external oblique muscle. The lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve is larger than Last dorsal the rest, and does not divide Mice the others. After piercing the fibres of the external oblique muscle, it is directed over the iliac crest to the surface of the gluteal region (p. 638). The anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen pierce the sheath of ^^j'^jj^^^^^ the rectus : in the integuments they bend outwards towards the nerves of lateral cutaneous nerves. The number, and the situation of these intercostal, small nerves, ai-e very uncertain. The il'io-hypogastric nerve is distribnted by two pieces : one passes llio-hypo- over the crista ilii (iliac branch), the other ramifies on the lower f^'^ar"^ part of the abdomen (hypogastric branch) :— plexus: (a) The iliac hranch lies close to the crest of the hip bone near iliac branch, the last dorsal nerve, and enters the fat of the gluteal region, p. 638. (h) The hypogastric hranch pierces the aponeurosis of the exter- Ijj^'"^^^*'"''' nal obhque muscle above the abdominal ring, and is distributed to the fat of the lower part of the abdomen. The ilio-inguinal nerve becomes cutaneous through the external liio-ingiiinai abdommal ring, and descends to the teguments of the scrotum, and pi^us"*^*'"^ upper and inner parts of the thigh. Cutaneous Vessels. Cutaneous A'^essels run with both sets of yesseis from 1 IT -1,11,1 , ''^^0 sources; neiwes on the abdomen :—with tJie lateral cutaneous nerves are branches from the intercostal arteries ; and -with the anterior cutaneous are offsets fi'om the intercostal, internal mammaiy, and epigastric vessels. In the groin are three small superficial branches of the femoral arterj', viz., pudic, epigastric, and circumflex iliac. The lateral cutaneous arteries have the same distribution as the both lateral nerves they accompany. The anterior or chief offsets are directed towards the front of the abdomen, and end about the outer edge of the rectus muscle. The anterior cutaneous vessels are irregular in number and in posi- and anterior tion, like the nerves. After piercing the sheath of the rectus, they run outwards with the neiwes towards the other set of branches. Branches of the femoral artery. Three cutaneous offsets ascend From fi-om the thigh between the layers of the subcutaneous fat, and !T„?.!'?'L . • oi CGI J till 6G ramify m the integuments of the genital organs and lower part of tn-auches; the abdomen. The greater portion of these vessels appears in the dissection of the thigh. Tlie external j^udic hranch (superficial) crosses the spermatic external cord, to which it gives offsets, and ends in the integuments of the P"'^'*^- under part of the penis. The superficial epigastric hranch ascends over Poupart's ligament, superficial near the centre, and is distributed in the fat nearly as high as the ^P'gasti'ic, umbilicus. The circumflex iliac branch lies usually below the level of the pircmnflex iliac crest, and sends only a few offsets upwards to the abdomen. Small veins accompany the arteries, and join the internal saphe- Veins, ous vein of the thigh.