497 VILLI OF SMALL INTESTINE. They begin in the duodenum, about one or two i^f es l^ycn^^^^ extent c,. the pylorus, and are continued in regular succession to the middle ^j,,^ of the ieiunum ; but beyond that point they become smaller and more distant from one another, and finally disappear about the middle of the ileum, having previously become irregular and rudi- mentary. The folds are largest and most uniform beyond, and not far from the opening of the bile duct. The aperhire of the common bile and pancreatic ducts (fig. Uy, e) is a narrow orifice, from three to four inches from the pylorus, and Fig. 148.*- is situate in a small prominence of the mucous membrane, at the inner and posterior part of the duodenum (p. 483). A probe passed into the bile duct will show the obhque course (half an inch) under the mucous coat. Sometimes the pancreatic duct opens by a distinct orifice. Jlicroscojnc structure of the mucous memhrane. With the use of the microscope, and Avith pieces of fi-esh intestine, the student will be able to make out the nature of the villi, the glandular bodies, and the epithelium. Villi. When a piece of the lower part of the duodenum, from which the mucus is washed away, is examined in water, the mucous membrane will be seen to be studded over thickly with small pro- jections, like those on velvet. These bodies exist along the whole of the small intestine, and are irregular in form (fig. 151, some being triangular, others conical or cylindrical with a large end. Tiieir length is from •^'yth to -Jyth of an inch ; and they are best marked where the valvulns conniventes are largest. In the duode- num their number is estimated at 50 to 90 in a square line, but in * Tlie tUiodcmim opened showing the valvulre conniventes, and the ojienin"- of the bile duct. The duct of the pancreas is iilso represented in greater part of its course, a. Duodenum, h. Pancreas, c. Common bile duct. d. Pan- creatic duct. c. Opening of the common duct in the intestine (Hcnle). K K wliere situiitf. Parts to 1)0 learnt in the intestine. The villi cover the siu'facc ; their .shape, size. aud numU>r