POPLITEAL ARTERY AND BRANCHES. 653 the Kmb to the inten^al between the condyles of the femur ; and is ^°;j;;^Xns. then dii-ected along the middle of the space over the knee jomt. As far as the inner condyle the arteiy is overlaid by the belly of the semimembranosus muscle ; but thence onwards it is situate between the heads of the gastrocnemius, and is covered only by the fascia lata and the integuments. Beneath it is the femur with the posterior ligament of the knee joint. In contact with the vessel, and somewhat on the outer side at °^ first, lies the popHteal vein, so that, on looking into the space, the arterial trunk is almost covered ; but in the interval between the heads of the gastrocnemius, the vein and its branches conceal altogether the artery. Below the knee the short saphenous vein (fig. 201, i), and the muscular branches of the artery, are laid over the popliteal trunk. More superficial than the large vessels, and slightly external to and of the them in position, is placed the internal popHteal nerve, which with its branches lies over the arteiy, like the vein, between the heads of the gastrocnemius. In the bottom of the hollow the small obturator nerve nms on the artery to the joint. Dissection. To see the deep part of the artery the inner head of Cut the the gasti-ocnemius should be cut through and raised. On removing gastrocne- the areolar tissue the vessels and nerves will appear. The lower articular branches of the vessels and nerve are now brought into view;—^the inner artery is below the head of the tibia, and the outer, higher up, between the tibia and fibula, each with a vein ; and the first has a companion nerve. Beyond the ham. Whilst the artei-y is heneath the gastrocnemius Artery he- (fig. 206) it sinks deeply into the limb ; here it is crossed by a small muscle—the plantaris c, and the ending is concealed by the soleus B. It rests on the popliteus muscle. Both the companion vein and the internal popliteal nerve change Position of their position to the artery, and gradually cross over it, so as to lie nerve!"'^ on its inner side at the lower border of the popliteus. Sometimes the artery is divided as high as the back of the knee joint; and then the anterior tibial arteiy may lie beneath the pop- liteus muscle. Branches (fig. 201) are furnished by the arteiy to the suiTound- Branches. ing muscles and to the articulation ;—those that belong to the joint are five in number, and are called articular, viz., two superior, inner and outer; two inferior, also inner and outer ; and a central or a2ygos branch. a. The muscular branches are upper and lower. The upper set. Muscular three or four in number, arise above the knee, and end in the semi- ^'"'^'^'^'es membranosus and biceps muscles, communicating with the perfora- ting and muscular branches of the profunda. The lower set (sural) are furnished to the muscles of the calf, viz., gastrocnemius soleus and plantaris. ' b. A superficial or cutaneous branch arises near the knee joint "''"'^ and accompanies the external saphenous nei-ve over the muscles of the leg to end in the teguments (fig. 201).