DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 464 Sheath on femoral vessels. rural ring, Iliac fascia. The iliac fascia covers the ihacns muscle, and lies beneath the iliac vessels. At Poupart's ligament its disposition is similar to that of the transversalis fascia; for, external to the iliac vessels, it joins the fascia transversalis along the line of the ligament ; but opposite the vessels an offset is prolonged into the posterior part of the crural sheath. The crural sheath is a loose membranous tube, which encloses the femoral vessels as they enter the thigh, and is obtained from the fascioa lining the abdomen. Its anterior half is continuous with the fascia transversalis, and its posterior is derived fi-om the fascia iliaca. The sheath is not entirely filled by the vessels, for a space (crural ring) exists on the inner side of the vem, through which the intestine descends in femoral hernia. The crural ring (fig. 139, ^) is referred to also in the dissection of the thigh, but its boun- Fig. 139.* daries are better seen in the abdomen. It is the interval in the sheath, at the inner side of the femo- ral vein, which is about half an inch wide, and is filled by a lymphatic gland. Bounding it in- ternally are Gimbernat's ligament, E, and the con- joined tendon ; and Umit- mg it externally is the femoral vein (&) without the intervention of the sheath. In fi-ont is Pou- part's ligament, with the deep arch ; and behind is the pubes, covered by the pectineus and the fascia lata. Along the fi-ont of the space, but at some Httle distance from it, lies the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. Two of the boundaries, anterior and inner, are firm and sharp- edged, though their condition varies with the position of the limb ; for if the thigh is raised and approximated to its fellow, those bounding parts will be relaxed. Position of vessels around the ring (fig. 139). On the outer side is the femoral vein (&) ; and above this are the epigastric vessels (c). In fi-ont is a small branch (pubic) from the epigastric artery to the back of the pubes ; and the vessels of the spermatic cord may be said to be placed along the anterior aspect of the ring. The ling is bounded in the male by vessels in fi-ont and on the outer side. size and boundaries. Constricting boundaries, how re- laxed. Usual ves- sels around ring. * View of the parts concerned in femoral liemia (Quain's plates). Muscles : A. Iliacus covered by tlie iliac fascia, b. Eectus. c. TransversaUs covered by tbe transversahs fascia, d. Crural ring. B. Gimbernat s hgament. Vessels: a. Iliac artery, b. Iliac vein. c. Epigastric brancb._ d. Circum- flex iliac, e. Obturator, -with its nerve. /. Small brancli joining obturator and epigastric arteries.