DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 160 Dissection of vocal cords, and ci ico- tliyroid meinbi'aiie. Vocal cords. Upper lieameiit IS a very slight filiroiis iDand. inferior vocal cord, length, has those connections, Fig. 42.* Dissection. The general shape and position of tlie vocal cords are evident on the left half of the laryngeal tube, but to show more fully the nature of the lower cord, put the cut surfaces in contact, and detach on the right side the crico-arytaenoideus lateralis from its cartilages. Eemove in like manner the thyro-arytajnoideus, raising it fi-om before back. By tlie removal of the last muscle a fibrous membrane crico-thyroid (fig. 44, ®) comes into view, and its ujjper free edge will be perceived to constitute the inferior or ti-ue vocal cord. Whilst taking away the thyro-aryttenoideus, the ventricle and the sacculus lar}'-ngis, which are formed chiefly by mucous membrane, will disappear. The vocal cords or the thyro-arytainoid ligaments, (fig. 42), are two bands on each side, which are extended from the angle of the thyroid to the arytasnoid cartilage,— one forming the upper, the other the lower margin of the ventricle. The upper ligament (false vocal cord, fig. 42, ^) is semi- lunar in form, and is much weaker than the other. It is fixed in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage, near the attachment of the epi- Mottis ; and behind to the outer surface of the aryta^noid cartilage. Tins ligament consists mostly of white fibrous tissue, which is con- tinuous with that in the arytjeno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane. The inferior ligammit (chorda vocalis, fig. 42, ^) is attached m fi-ont to the angle of the thyroid cartilage, about half way down below the notch ; the ligament is directed backwards, and is in- serted into the anterior prominence at the base of the aryta?noid cartilage. It is about seven fines long in man, and two less in the woman. Internally this band is covered by thin mucous membrane, and projects towards its fellow into the cavity of the larynx,—the interval between it and the opposite one being the glottis. Ex- A. Ventricle of the Sacculus lavyngis. E. Arytcenoid cartilage, f. Cricoid cartilage, o ThjToid cartilage, h. Epi- glottis. K. Crico-thyroid ligament, l. Thyro-hyoid hgament. Vocal apparatus, on a vertical section of the laiynx. True vocal cord. o. False vocal cord i larynx, b.