DISSECTION OP THE PELVIS. 570 Surfaces; base, and. apex. Throe lobes ; two liiteral niul a cen- tral. Gland con- tains three tubes. Structure. Fibrous ease ■distinct from pelvic fascia. Muscular and fibrous tissue; how arranged. Olands only few, (Hiding of ducts ; on vesicles are vessels: open into uretlira. Tlie upper surface of the prostate is uarrow aud rounded. The under surface, wliicli is larger and Hatter, is marked by a median hollow which indicates the division into lateral lobes. The posterior part, or tlie base, is thick, and in its centre is a notch which receives the common seminal ducts. The fore part or apex is pierced by the urethra. Three lobes are described in the prostate, viz., a middle and two lateral, though there is no fissure in the linn mass. The lateral lobes (fig. 176, &, c) are similar on both sides, and are separated only by the hollow on the under surface ; they form the chief part of the prostate, and are prolonged back, on each side, beyond the notch in the base. The middle lobe {d) will be brought into view by detaching tiie vesicular seminales and the vasa deferentia from the bladder ; it is the piece of the gland between the neck of the bladder and the seminal ducts, Avhich extends across between the lateral lobes. Oftentimes the middle lobe is enlarged in old people, and projects upwards into the bladder, so as to interfere with the flow of the urine fi-om that viscus, or the passage of a catheter into it. The urethra and the two common seminal ducts are contamed in the substance of the prostate (fig. 178). The former is transmitted through the gland from base to apex ; and the latter perforate it obliquely to terminate in the urethral canal. Structure. On a section the gland appears reddish gray in colour, is very firm to the feel, and is scarcely lacerable. It is made up of a mass of unstriated muscular and fibrous tissues, with inter- spersed glandular structure ; and the whole is enveloped by a fibrous coat. Fibrous covering. This forms a thin investment for the gland, and sends offsets into the interior. It is quite distmct fi-om the denser sheath derived from the pelvic fascia, and is separated fi-om that sheath by a jilexus of veins. Muscular tissue. The firm mass of the gland consists of involuntary muscular fibres, intermixed with elastic and fibrous tissues. The muscular fibres are arranged circularly around the tube of the urethra : they are continuous behind with the annular fibres of the bladder, and in fi-ont with a thin layer of circular fibres around the membranous part of the urethra. At the lower and outer parts the texture is looser and more spong.y, especially where the glands are situate, and the larger vessels enter (Eoy. Med. Chir. Trans., 1856). This arrangement Avill be better seen when the urethra has been opened. Glandular structure. Small branched glands project from the tube of the urethra amongst the muscular fibres ; they form but a small portion of the prostate, and are most numerous in the middle lobe. The final radicles of the ducts end in small sessile vesicles : on the exterior of the vesicles and ducts the bloodvessels ramify. Lining the interior of the tubes is an epithehum of the cohunnar kind. The ducts of the glands vary in number from twelve to twenty, and open into the prostatic part of the uretlu-a (p. 577).