INFERIOR MAXILLiVRY NERVE. 8» tomose with the superficial temporal arteiy: the anterior communi- cates, through the malar bone, with branches of the lachrymal artery (p. 45). . . , ^, When the parent trank has the unusual position beneath tlie pterj-goideus, the anterior branch lies under that muscle, mstead of over it. The masseteric arteri/ is directed outwards with the nerve o± the same name behind the tendon of the temporal muscle; and passing througli the sigmoid notch, enters the under surface of the masseter muscle. Its branches anastomose with the other offsets to the muscle from the external carotid trunk. The buccal branch quits the artery near the upper jaw, and in tlie "j^^^:'"- imusual position of the arteiy it may perforate the fibres of the pterygoideus ; it descends beneath the coronoid process with its companion nerve, and is distributed to the buccinator muscle and the cheek, joining branches of the facial artery. The iHeryrjoid branches are uncertain in their position ; whether *°^P^^^ysoiiT derived fi-om the trunk or some of the branches of the internal maxillary, they enter both pterygoid muscles. Of the branches that arise fi'om the arteiy when it enters the Branches of spheno-maxillary fossa, only one, the superior dental, will be now oi"iyone' ' described. The remainder will be examined with the superior now seen, maxillary nerve, and Meckel's ganglion ; they are infraorbital (p. 102), superior palatine, naso-palatine, vidian, and pteiygo-palatine (Section 14). The superior or posterior dental branch takes origin near the top Superior of the upper maxilla, and descends with a tortuous course on the outer surface of that bone, along with a small branch of the superior maxillarj'^ nei^ve. It sends twigs into the foramma in the bone, and supplies the upper molar and bicuspid teeth ; but some external offsets are furnished to the gums. A few branches reach the Linmg membrane of the antrum. The INTERNAL MAXILLARY VEINS receive the offsets accompanying internal the branches of the arteiy in the first two parts of its course: these TC^in'begins veins form a plexus—pterycjoid, between the two pterygoid muscles, i» plexus, and between the temporal and external pterygoid muscles. This anastomosis communicates with the alveolar plexus ; with the facial vein by a large branch (anterior internal maxillary) ; and with the cavernous sinus in the interior of the skull, by veinules that pass through the base of the cranium. Escaping from the plexus, the vein accompanies the arteiy to the and ends m parotid gland, and there joins the superficial temporal vein,—the ^ji^ijia"^ union of the two giving rise to the external jugular. Sometimes this vessel enters the internal jugular vein (p. 29). The INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE (fig. 21) is the largest of the inferior three trunks arising from tlic Gasserian ganglion (p. 18). It leaves "iel?^,e''^'"^ the skull by the foramen ovale in the sphenoid bone, and divides beneath the external pterygoid muscle into two chief pieces, viz. an anterior, small, moto-sensoiy piece; and a large, posterior, chiefly sensory portion. %