^DISSECTION OF THE NECK. ^•uiiirstm'tn ^'^y^^'^ mcml)i-anc are prolonged between tlie muscles ; and <.u lu H ui n ^i^j^^ beneath the sterno-mastoideus is connected with the sheath of the cei-vical vessels. One of these, beneath the sterno-thyroid muscle, descends in front of the great vessels at the root of the neck to the arch of the aorta and the pericardium. ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. Autoriov tiiiiiigular space. Dissection o<' anterior triangle. Trace arteries. Seek longi- tudinal nerves, and trans- verse nerves. Spinal accessory. Laryngeal iier\'es. Clean gland, seek nerve to inylo- liyoid. Boundaries. This space (fig. 15) contains the carotid vessels and their branches, with many nerves ; and it corresponds with tlie hollow on the surface of the neck in front of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dissection. To define the anterior triangular space and its contents take aAvay the deep fascia of the neck, and the fat, but without injuring or displacing the several parts. First clean the surface of the hj^-oid muscles that cover the windpipe, lea-\ang untouched the anterior jugular vein. The trunks into wliich the large carotid arterj^ bifurcates are to be followed upwards, especially the more superficial one (external carotid), whose numerous branches are to be traced as far as they lie in the space. In removing the sheath fi'om the A-^essels, as these appear fi-om beneath the muscles at the lower part of the neck, the dissector should be careful of the small descending branch of the hypo-glossal nen^e in fi-ont of it. In the sheath between the vessels (carotid artery and jugular vein) will be found the pneumo-gastric nerve, and behind the sheath lies the sympathetic nerve. Seek the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, which cross the space in the direction of a line from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone, with several nen'es directed transversely. Thus lymg below them is the hypo-glossal nerve, which gives one branch (descendens noni) in front of the sheath, and another (small) to the thyro-hyoid muscle. Above the muscles, and taking a similar direction between the two carotid arteries, are the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and the stylo-phaiyngeus muscle. Directed downwards and backwards from beneath the same muscles to the stemo-mastoideus, is the spmal accessory nerve. On the inner side of the vessels, between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage, the dissector will find the superior laryngeal nerve ; and by the side of the larynx, Avith the descending part of the superior thyroid artery, the small external laryngeal branch. Clean then the submaxillary gland close to the base of the jaw ; and on partly displacing it from the surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, the student will expose the small branch of nerve to that muscle with the submental artery. The inter^^al between the jaw and the mastoid process is supposed to be already cleaned by the removal of the parotid gland in the dissection of the facial nerve. Limits of the space. Behind, is the sterno-mastoid muscle,^ ; and in front, a line from the chin to the sternum, along the middle of