414 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL COED. Special tiacts. Vesicular columu. Intcrme- cliato tract. Size and extent. Wliite sub- stance of the half of the cord. Ai'eolar tissue. Gray and white sub- stance vary. Crescents alter theii' shape. Deep origin of nerves uncertain. Anterior root enters lateral column, anterior column of other side. Fig. 126. t other, and projects towards the anterior roots without reacliing the surface. Its end has an irregular or zigzag outline. Mr. Clarke describes two special groups of cells, one on the outer and the other on the inner side of tlie gray crescent, which extend through the cord below the cervical swelling, and with which the roots of the nerves are connected.* The inner group, or the x>osterior vesicular column (fig. 126, is close behind the transverse commissure (^); whilst the outer group, or the intermediate tract (") is placed outside the crescent, about midway fi-om front to back. The first is best marked in the dorsal enlarge- ment, and the last in the upper part of the dorsal region. Above the cervical swell- ing of the cord only rudiments of those tracts remain ; and the cells in a line with the intermediate tract are .traversed by the roots of the spinal accessory nerve. The white substance of the cord is composed chiefly of nerve fibres disposed longitudinally in bundles, so as to give passage to intermediate vessels. A framework of very fine areolar tissue extends through the substance of the spinal cord, supporting the fibres and cells : this is continuous with the pia mater on the surface. Modifications in the gray and loMte substance. The white sub- stance exceeds the gray in quantity in the neck and back ; but it is less abundant in proportion to the gray matter in the lumbar region. The comua of the gray crescents decrease in length fi-om above down, especially the posterior, and towards the end of the cord they blend in one indented or cruciform mass. Origin of the Nerves. The deep origin of the spinal nerves is uncertain, like that of the cranial nerves, but the fibrils in each root enter the gray matter of the cord (fig. 125). The anterior root (A,) traverses the longitudinal fibres of the antero- lateral column in distinct bundles ; and entering the anterior cornu of the gray crescent, it is resolved into thi-ee sets of fibres, external, internal, and middle :— The outer set penetrate into the antero-lateral colunm. The inner set pass through the anterior column and across the median fissure to the opposite half of the cord, decussating with like fibres of the opposite side. * Further researches on the gray substance of the spinal cord. By J. Lockhart Clarke, F.R.S., Philosoph. Trans, of the Royal Society for 1859. Part i t A representation of the gi-ay substance in the interior of the spinal cord, near the middle of the dorsal region (Clarke). 1. Posterior cornu (caput cornu Clarke) of the crescent. 2. Anterior cornu. 3. Casing of the sub- stantia gelatinosa. 4. Central canal of the cord. 5 Transverse commissure. 6. Tractus intermedio-lateralis. 7. Cervix cornu of Clarke reaching from the anterior points of the substantia gelatinosa to the level of the ciuial. 8. Posterior vesicular column.