CHAPTER IX. DISSECTION OF THE LOWER LIMB. Section I. THE FRONT OP THE THIGH. Directions. Position of tlie Ijody. Objects on tlie smface. Promi- jiences limiting the tliigli above. Hollow of Scai'iia's space. Groove over femoral artei-y. Position of great trochanter. Head of the femiu-. All the parts described in Section I. (p. 637) are to be examined before the time for turning the body arrives. ^ Position. During the dissection of the front of the thigh the body lies on the back, with the buttocks resting on the edge of the table, and with a block of suitable size beneath the loins. The lower limb should be supported in a half-bent position by a stool beneath the foot, and should be rotated outwards to make evident a hollow at the top of the thigh. Surface marking. Before any of the integument is removed fi-om the limb, the student is to observe the cliief eminences and hollows on the surface of the thigh. The limit between the thigh and abdomen is marked, in fi'ont, by the firm band of Poupart's ligament reaching fi-om the crest of the hip bone to the pubes. On the outer side, the separation is indicated by the convexity of the iliac crest of the hip bone, which subsides behind in the sacrum and coccyx. On the inner side is the projection of the pubes, from which a line of bone (pubic arch) may be traced backwards along the inner and upper parts of the limb to the ischial tuberosity. On the anterior aspect of the thigh, and close to Poupart's liga- ntient, is a slight hollow, coiTcsponding with the triangular space of Scarpa, in which the larger vessels of the limb are contained ; and extending thence obliquely towards the inner side of the limb, is a slight depression marking the situation of the femoral arteiy beneath. The position of the arterial trunk may be ascertained by a line from the centre of the interval between the symphysis pubis and the crest of the loip bone, to the inner condyle of the femiu-. At the outer side of the thigh, about four inches below and behind the anterior part of the iliac crest, the Avell-markcd projec- tion of the great trochanter of the femur will be recognised. In a thin body the head of the femur may be felt by rotating the limb inwards and outwards, whilst the thumb of one hand is placed in the hollow below Poupart's ligament, or the fingers beliind the great trochanter.