DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 112 Lower Ijitinch to larynx, ends in muscles in interior, gives branches to heart, to trachea cesojiliagus, and pha- rynx. Left recur- rent nerve. Spinal accessory lias two X)arts. Accessory to vagus in foramen : below foi'anien : how ends. Spinal part in foramen : in the neck, crosses to trapezius : supplies muscles. Ninth nerve chest, and joins the deep nen^es to the lieart from the sympathetic; and the left nerve terminates in the superficial cardiac plexus in the thorax. ch The inferior lurymjeal or recurrent nerve (fig. 25) leaves the pneunio-gastric trunk on the right side opposite the subclavian artery, and vi^inding round that vessel, takes an upward course in tlie neck to the larynx, ascending beneath the common carotid and inferior thyroid arteries, and between the trachea and the oesophagus. At the larynx it enters beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, Avhere it will be afterwards traced. The following branches arise from it:— Some cardiac branches leave the nei-ve as it turns round the sub- clavian artery ; these enter the thorax, and join the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic. Muscular branches spring from it whilst it lies between the trachea and the oesophagus, and are distributed to both those tubes. Near the larynx some filaments are furnished to the inferior constrictor muscle. On the left side the recurrent nerve arises in the thorax, opposite the arch of the aorta, but lies between the trachea and oesophagus in the neck, as on the right side. The SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE (fig. 26, courses through the foramen jugulare with the pneumo-gastric, but is not marked by any ganglion. The nerve is constructed of two parts, viz., ac- cessory to the vagus, and spinal, Avhich have a different origin and distribution. (Origin of the cranial nerves.) The part accessory to the vagus, (") is the smaller of the two, and finally blends with the pneumo-gastric beyond the skull. In the foramen of exit it lies close to the vagus, and joins the upper ganglion of that nerve by one or two filaments. Below the foramen it is contmued over the lower ganglion of the vagus, and blends with the trunk beyond the ganglion. It gives offsets to join the pharyngeal and upper larjoigeal branches of the pneumo- gastric, and, according to Bendz, to many other branches of that nerve. The spinal part (fig. 26, ^^) is much larger, is round and cord-like, and is connected with the smaller piece whilst it is passing through the foramen jugulare. Beyond the foramen the neiwe (fig. 25, ") takes a backward course through the sterno-mastoid muscle, and across the side of the neck to end in the trapezius muscle : at first it is concealed by the jugular vein, but it then passes either over or under that vesseL The connections of the nerve beyond the stemo-mastoideus have been already examined (p. 57). The nerve furnishes muscular offsets to the sterno-mastoideus and the trapezius. ... The HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE (ninth of Willis),^ issumg from the anium by the anterior condyloid foramen, lies deeply between e internal carotid artery and the jugular vein (fig. 25, "). It next comes forwards between the vein and artery, tummg round the outer side of the vagus to which it is united. The nerve now cr the