DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 504 Pudic artery in tliu pelvis: some small oflsets. All acces- .soi-y jiiulic branch. Branches in the female. Uterine aiiery supplies uterus: offsets to vagina, joins ovarian. Vaginal artery. Branches of tlie aorta. Ovarian artery : offsets. Superior ha;morrhoi- dal ends in loops. buted to tlie buttock : in the pelvis it supplies the pyriformis and coccygcus muscles. The pudic artery (fig. 174, o) supplies the perinoeum and the geni- tal organs, and has nearly the same connections in the pelvis as the sciatic, from which it often springs. It accompanies the sciatic, though external to it, and leaves the pehns between the pyriformis and coccj^geus. At the back of the pelvis it winds over the ischial spine of the hip bone, and enters the perineal space (p. 422). The artery gives some unimportant offsets in the pelvis, and fi-equently the middle hicmorrlioidal branch arises from it. Accessory xmdic (Quain). The pudic artery is sometimes smaller than usual, and fails to supply some of its ordinary perinasal branches, especially the terminal for the penis. In those cases the deficient branches are derived from an accessory artery, which takes origin fi-om the internal iliac (mostly from the trmik of the pudic), and courses forwards on the side of the bladder and the prostate gland, to perforate the triangular perinfeal ligament. It furnishes branches to the penis to supply the place of those that are wanting. c. The branches of the internal iliac artery which are peculiar to the female are two, the uterine and vaginal. The uterine artery (fig. 173, d) passes inwards between the layers of the broad ligament to the neck of the uterus, where the vessel changes its direction, and ascends to the fundus. Numerous branches enter the substance of the uterus, and ramifying in it, are remark- able for their tortuous condition. At the neck of the uterus some small twigs are supphed to the vagina and the bladder ; and opposite the ovary a branch bends outwards to anastomose with the ovarian artery (spermatic) of the aorta. The vaciinal artery (fig. 173, e) seldom arises separately from the interna] iliac. Combined with the preceding, or with the branch to the rectum, this artery extends along the vagina, and ramifies in its wall as low as the outer orifice. Other arteries in the pelvis. The remaining arteries in the pehas, which are not derived fi-om the internal iliac, are the ovarian, superior haamorrhoidal, and middle sacral. The ovarian artery (p. 534), after passing the brim of the pelvis, becomes tortuous, and enters the broad ligament to be distributed to the ovary : it supplies an offset to the Fallopian tube, and another to the round ligament ; and a large branch anastomoses internally with the uterine artery. The superior haimorrhoidal artery, the continuation behind the rectum of the inferior mesenteric (p. 480), divides into two branches near the middle of the sacrum. From the point of division the branches are continued along the rectum, one on each side, and each ends finally iii about three branches, which pierce the muscular layer of the gut three inches tVom the anus ; they terminate oppo- site the inner sphincter in anastomotic loops beneath the nmcous membrane, and anastomose with the middle and inferior luemorrhoi- dal arteries.