705 MOVEMENTS OF KNEE AND PATELLA. Flexion and extension. Each of these movements may be divided into stages for the purpose of particularizing changes in its direc- tion. In flexion the tibia with its fibro-cartilages moves backwards round riexion. the end of the femur; and its extent is limited by the extensor Movement muscle, and by the meeting of the calf of the leg with the thigh. For the anterior third of the movement the tibia is directed down change iu and in along the oblique curve of the inner condyle, giving rise to «l"'ection. rotation inwards of that bone ; but for the posterior two thu-ds, the tibia passes straight back over both condyles. All the external ligaments are relaxed, except the anterior ; and fj'^^^g^^g both crucials are put on the stretch towards the end of flexion. In extension the tibia is carried forwards until it comes into a Extension, straight line with the femur, when the uniting ligaments prevent Sf°tibia';" its farther progress. In the liinder two thirds of the movement the tibia has a straight ^^^ggg course over the condyles of the femur ; but in the anterior third the leg-bone is directed up and out over the oblique curve of the inner condyle, and is rotated out. All the external ligaments except the anterior are tightened, and state of the crucial cords help to limit extreme extension. ment^^' Rotation. A half bent state of the knee is necessary for this Two kinds movement, for the purpose of relaxing the anterior crucial and the °^ rotation, external ligaments ; and the foot must be fi-ee. Then, the tibia ■with its fibro-cartilages rotates around a vertical axis, the gi-eat toe being turned in and out. During rotation in the inner articular surface of the tibia touches Rotation in. the inner condyle of the femur and moves backwards ; and the Movement outer articular surface, separated by a slight interval from the thigh bone, passes forwai-ds. Both lateral ligaments are loose ; but the anterior crucial is state of gradually tightened, and stops the motion finally. ligaments. In rotation out the opposite movement of the tibia takes place,— Rotation the inner articular surface being directed forwards, and the outer °"'^> backwards. The internal lateral ligament controls the movement by its fibres state of being made tense. The crucials have not any influence on the ^'sameni,s. motion (p. 702). Movement of the patella. When the knee passes from flexion to ex- Movement tension the patella crosses it obHquely from the outer to the inner °^l'''*ellu. side, touching in succession different parts of the femoral articular surfaces. _ In complete flexion the Icnee-pan lies on the outer side of the in flexion, joint below the femur, where it is scarcely perceptible, and is fixed in its situation. It touches the semilunar surface on the inner what it condyle by its perpendicular facet; and the under part of the outer ' condyle by the upper and outer mark on its square surface. When the joint is passing from flexion to extension the upper and strai.'ht- pair of impressions on the square surface of the patella, and the lower pair rests successively on the pulley-surface of the femur.