301 SUPINATOR LOXGUS MUSCLE. Dissection. Next follow the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis Dissection, throuffh the OS trapezium to its insertion into the metacarpal bones. The temlon of the flexor carpi radialis, in passing from the fore- arm to the hand, lies in the groove in the os trapezmm between the radialis. attachments of the annular ligament to the bone, but outside the arch of that ligament; here it is bound down by a fibrous sheath lined by a synovial membrane. The tendon is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, and sends a slip to that of the middle digit. Section VI. BACK OF THE FOREARM. Position. During the dissection of the back of the forearm the Position, limb lies on the front, and a small block is to be placed beneath the wrist for the purpose of stretching the tendons. Dissection (fig. 87). The fascia and the cutaneous nerves and Take away vessels are to be reflected from the muscles of the forearm, and iiifarnerves fi-om the tendons on the back of the hand ; but in removing the ^^^^^^^ fascia in the forearm, the student must be careful not to cut away the posterior interosseous vessels, which are in contact with it on the ulnar side in the lower third. A tliickened band of the fascia opposite the carpus (the posterior annular ligament) is to be left. Let the integument be removed from the fingers, in order that strip the tendons may be traced to the end of the digits. Augers. The several muscles should be separated from one another up to Separate their origin, especially the two radial extensors of the wrist. muscles. The posterior annular ligament, k, consists of the special aponeu- Annular rosis of the limb, thickened by the addition of some transverse hfiXthe ^ fibres, and is situate opposite the lower end of the bones of the ^""'st- forearm. This band is connected at the outer side to the radius, and at thfe inner to the cuneiform and pisiform bones. Processes from it are fixed to the bones beneath, and confine the extensor tendons. The hgament will be subsequently examined more in detail. Superficial layer of muscles (fig. 87). The muscles are arranged Superficial in a superficial and a deep layer, as on the anterior part of the fore- seven'mus- arm. The superficial layer contains seven muscles, which arise ^les, viz. mostly by a common tendon from the outer condyle of the humerus, and have the undermentioned position one to another from without inwards ;—the long supinator, a, the two radial extensors of the wrist, B and 0 (long and sliort),the common extensor of the fingers, D, the extensor of the little fiiiger, E, and the ulnar extensor of the wrist, F. There is one other small muscle near the elbow, the anconeus, G. Tlie SUPINATOR RADII LONGUS, A, reaches upwards into the arm, Supinator and limits on the outer side the hollow in fr-ont of the elbow. The '°"o"s>