202 DISSECTION- OF THE BRAIN. Each half is markeil hy convolu- tions and sulci. Three Assures. _ Each hemisphere is larger in front than behind. Its outer surface 18 convex ; but tlie inner is flat, and in contact in front with the opposite half. On the upper aspect the surface of the hemisphere 18 divided by fissures into lobes, and on the under aspect it is cleft into two large pieces by the fissure of Sylvius. The superficies of the hemisphere is marked by tortuous eminences, the projections on It being named convolutions or gyri, and the intervenmg depres- sions, sulci or anfractuosities.» Fissures of thi^ IIemisi-here. The larger fissures separate the lobes, and the smaller sulci mark the extent of particular convolu- tions. _ The fissures dividing the hemisphere into lobes are the three following :— Sylviaji, The fissure of Sylvius (S, fig. 60) begins below at the anterior perforated spot, and directed out between the fi-ontal and temporo- Sjphenoidal lobes, di-sades into two pieces, anterior and posterior. fore part. The anterior limb 'S, ascends for a short distance into the frontal lobe. hinder part. The posterior limb, the continuation of the fissure, is directed obliquely upwards and backwards to about the middle of the outer face of the hemisphere. At its extremity it is sometimes divided into smaller sulci. * In the following description of the surface anatomy of the cerebrum I have followed chiefly the arrangement of Professor Turner in his paj^er "Ox THE CoNTOLTJTiONS OF THE HuMAN Cbrebeum ; " and to him I am indebted for permission to copy the woodcuts employed in illustration of his publication. + Lobes of the hemisphere, and convohitions and fissures of the outer surface. —F7: Frontal lobe. Par. Parietal lobe. Oc. Occipital lobe. TS. Temporo- sphenoidal lobe. li. Fissure of Rolando. S. Posterior. 'S. Ascending limb of the Sylvian fissure. PO. Place of the external parieto-occipital fissure which is not visible in a side view. IP, Intra-parietal sulcus. P. Parallel sulcus. —1, inferior ; 2, middle ; and 3, superior frontal gyrus ; 4, ascending frontal; and 5, ascending parietal gyrus ; 5', pai-ietal lobule ; 6, angular gjTus ; 7, superior; 8, middle ; and 9, inferior temporo-sphenoidal gjTus; 10, superior ; 11, middle; and 12, inferior occipital convolution. A. Supra-mai-ginal convo- lution—a, first; b, second ; c, thii'd ; and d, fourth, annectant gyrus.