506 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. THE SI'LKICN. Consistence and colour. Use. Form nnil position. Size niul weiglit. Suifaces. Borders. Extremi- ties. Sometimes aceessoiy spleens. Two coats and sjieciul material. Serous coat nearly complete. Fibrous coat sends in- wards pro- cesses, structure, Interior of spleen. disiiosition of llbrous tissue to fonn an areolar stiiicture. The spleen is a vascular spongy organ of a bluisli or purple colour, sometimes approaching to gray. Its texture is friable, and easily broken imrler pressure. The use of the spleen is unknown. The viscus is somewhat elliptical in shape, and is placed vertically against the gi-eat end of the stomach. Its size varies much. In the adult it measures commonly about five inches in length, three or four inches in breadth, and one inch to one inch and a half in thickness. Its weight lies between four and ten ounces, and is rather less in the female than the male. At the outer aspect it is convex towards the ribs. The inner surface is marked by a longitudinal ridge, nearer the posterior than the anterior border, into wliich the vessels plunge to ramify in the interior. Before and behind the ridge, the surface is flattened or somewhat hollowed. The spot where the vessels enter is named the hilum of the spleen. The anterior border is thinner than the posterior, and is often notched. Of the two extremities, the lower is more pointed than the upper. Small masses or accessory spleens (splenculi), vaiying in size from a bean to a moderate-sized plum, are found occasionally, near the fissure of the spleen, in the gastro-splenic omentum, or in the gi-eat omentum. Structure. Enveloping the spleen are tAvo coverings, a serous and a fibrous. It is formed by a network of fibrous or trabecular tissue, which contains in its meshes the splenic pulp, with the Mal- pighian corpuscles. Throughout the mass the bloodvessels and the nerves ramify. No duct exists in connection with this organ. The serous or peritoneal coat incases the spleen, covering the surface except at the hilum and the posterior border. It is closely connected to the subjacent fibrous coat. The fibrous coat (tunica propria) gives strength to the spleen, and forms a complete case for it. At the fissure on the inner surface this investment jjasses into the interior with the vessels, to Avhich it furnishes sheaths : and if an attempt is made to detach this coat, numerous fibrous processes will be seen to be connected with its inner surface. Its colour is whitish ; and its structure is made u^) of areolar and elastic tissues. Dissection. The spongy or trabecular structure will best appear, by washing and squeezing a piece of fresh bullock's spleen under water, so as to remove the inner giiimous-looking material. The trabecular tissue (fig. 155) forms a network thi-ough the whole interior of the spleen, similar to that of a sponge, which is joined to the external casing, and forms sheaths around the vessels. Its pro- cesses or threads are white, flattened or cylindrical, and average from -j-i^th to -^^ih of an inch : they consist of fibrous and elastic tissues, with a few muscular fibres. The interstices communicate freely to- gether, and contain the proper substance of the spleen, and the vessels.