102 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. join facial nerve, ami supply the and upper lip. Infraorbital artery ends in face; brandies to orbit and one to anterior teetli. Infraorbital vein. the other oiTscts of the nerve, and form its terminal ramifica- tions. Some incline inwards to tlie side of the nose, and tlie rest descend to the upper lip. Near the orbit they are crossed by branches of the facial nerve (fig. 9, with which they communi- cate, the whole forming the infraorhital plexus (p. 38), g. The hrancJies for the side of the nose supply the muscular and tegumentary structures. h. The branches for the upper lip are three or four in number, which divide as they descend, and are distributed chiefly to the surfaces of the lip, though they supply as well the muscles and the labial glands. The infraorhital arteri/ is a branch of the internal maxillary (p. 89). Taldng the course of the nen'e through the infraorbital canal, the vessel appears in the face beneath the elevator muscle of the upper lip ; and it ends in branches which are distributed, like those of the nerve, between tRe eye and mouth. In the face its branches anastomose with offsets of the facial and buccal arteries. In the canal in the maxilla the artery furnishes small branches to the orbit. Another branch, anterior dental, runs with the nerve of the same name, and supplies the incisor and canine teeth : this gives offsets to the antrum of the maxilla, and near the teeth it anastomoses with the posterior dental artery (p. 89). The vein, accompanying the artery, communicates in fi-ont with the facial vein ; and terminates behmd in a plexus of veins (alveolar, p. 144) corresponding with the branches of the internal maxillaiy artery in the spheno-maxillary fossa. Section IX. Parts in this section. Position of head. Dissection of the stylo- pharyngeus, and glofsso- pharyngeal Stylo- pharyngeus. DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE NECK. In this Section are included the deepest styloid muscle, the internal carotid and ascending pharyngeal arteries, and some cranial and sympathetic nerves. Position. The position of tlie part is to remain as before, Anz., the neck is to be fixed over a small block. Dissection. To see the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the posterior belly of the digastric, and the stylo-hyoid muscle, should be de- tached fi-om their origm and thro-wn down. The trunk of the external carotid artery is to be removed by cutting it through where the hjT)oglossal nerve crosses it, and by di-sadmg those branches of it that have been already examined ; any veins accom- panymg the arteries are to be taken away. In cleaning the surface of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and its branches, and the stylo-hyoid hgament may be prepared. The side of the jaw is to be drawn foi-wards on the face. The STYLO-PHARYNGEUS MUSCLE (levator phaiyngis externus) resembles the other styloid muscles in its elongated form. The