357 TRACHEA i^D BRONCHI. the right side of the heart, and pass downwards before and behmd antoor the right branch of the pulmonary arteiy: those in fi-ont running pie^us. on tlie trunk of the puhnonary artery to end in the anterior coro- nary plexus (p. 337) ; and the nei-ves behind supply the right auricle of the heart. Offsets are sent laterally on the branch ot tlie aitery root of lung. to the root of the lung. . T»ff The left half of the plexus lies close to the ligamentum arteriosum, nerves and rather on the left of the trachea. In it are collected the cardiac entering it: nerves of the sympathetic ganglia of the left side of the neck, except the highest; and numerous and large branches of the left recurrent nerve of the vagus. , ^ Nerves descend fi'om it to the heart around the left branch and "Insets end _ the trunk of the pulmonary artery, and after suppljang branches to nary plexus, the left auricle, terminate in the posterior coronary plexus (p. 337). A considerable offset is directed forwards by the side of the liga- mentum ductfis arteriosi to the superficial cardiac plexus ; and some ^"dmroot nerVes reach the left anterior pulmonary plexus by com-smg along the branch of the pulmonary artery. Termination of the cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve of ^^^l^^l^^ the neck (p. 115). On the right side there are usually only two cardiac nerves enter- Two right ing the thorax, for the highest nerve is blended commonly with one piexL.®^^ of the others. The middle and inferior nerves pass beneath the subclavian artery to the right half of the deep plexus : they com- municate with the branches of the recurrent laryngeal nerve of the vagus. On the left side the highest cardiac nerve lies over the arch of the ^^^If^ aorta, and ends in the superficial cardiac plexus ; it may give a superficial; branch beneath the arch to the deep plexus. Only one other nei-ve, ^gep^^p^exus. the lower cardiac, may be seen entering the left side of the deep plexus, as the middle one oftentimes blends with it. THE TRACHEA AND THE LUNG. Dissection. To see the pieces of the air tube in the root of the lung, it will be necessary to remove the pulmonary artery with its its divisions, branches, and the pulmonary veins. And when the transverse part of the arch of the aorta, which has been already cut through, is turned to one side, the dissector vnll be able to clear away the bronchial glands, the nerves, and the fibrous tissue fi-om the part of the trachea in the thorax, and fi-om the branches into which it bifurcates. The TRACHEA, or the air tube, reaches from the larjmx to the Trachea limgs, and lies on the fi-ont of the spinal column. The tube begins opposite the fifth cervical vertebra ; and it ends commonly at the ends in fourth dorsal vertebra by dividing into two pieces (bronchi) one for each lung. Its point of splitting may be a vertebra lower. Its connections in the neck are described in p. 120, and its structure In tlic nock, in p. 167. The tube in the thorax remains to be studied.