DISSECTION OF THE PELYlS. 55i the ]iros- tiite ; I'onii; axis. surface; umlcr surlivce. Apex and base. It is pon- taiiied in a sheath; size may increase. Seminal vesicles, their con- nections. deferens; cour.se; unites with duct I'nmi vcsieula. Tlie lu-etlu'a; length; < lu ve, bladder. It is placed about an inch below the level of the syjii- physis pubis, and is supported by the rectum. Its shape is conical with the base turned backwards, and its size equals nearly that of a large chestnut. In the present position of the pelvis, a line from the apex through the middle of the gland would be directed obliquely downwards and backwards towards the end of the sacrum ; but in the erect state of tiic body, upwards and backwards from tlie trian- gular ligament. The Mjjper surface is about an inch below the symphysis pubis, and is connected to it by the anterior true ligaments of tlie bladder. On this surface are branches of the dorsal vein of the penis. The under surface has the greatest extent, and is contiguous to the rectum ; this is the part that is felt by the finger introduced into the bowel through the anus. The ajMx touches the posterior layer of the triangular ligament; and the base surrounds the neck of the bladder, and the common seminal ducts. The prostate is enveloped by a sheath obtained from the recto- vesical fascia (p. 549), and a plexus of veins (prostatic) surrounds it. Through the gland the urethra takes its course to the penis ; and the ejaculatory ducts pierce it obliquely to open into the urethra (fig. 178,/). The size of the prostate alters much, and in old men it may acquire a considerable magnitude. The VESicuLiE SEMiNALES (fig. 172 (j) arc two small sacculated bodies, each about two inches long, between the under part of the bladder and the rectum. Each is pyramidal in form, and has the larger end turned backwards towards the ureter, whilst the smaller touches the prostate. Along the inner side is the vas deferens. At the prostate gland the vesiculas approach one another, only the vasa deferentia inten^eniug ; but farther backwards they diverge, and enclose with the pouch of the peritoneum the trianrjular space at the under aspect of the bladder. The vesicula; are contained in a membranous sheath, which is derived from the recto-vesical fascia, and is lined by involuntary muscular fibres. The VAS DEFERENS or the excretory duct of the testis (fig. 172,/) in its course to the urethra enters the abdomen by the internal abdominal ring ; and crossing the obliterated hypogastric artery, is directed inwards along the side and fundus of the bladder to the base of the prostate, where it forms the common ejaculatory duct by joining with the duct from the vesicula seminahs. The position of this tube to the external iliac artery has been noticed ; on the bladder it passes internal to the ureter and the vesicula of the same side. By the side of the vesicula the duct is much enlarged, and is sacculated. The URETHRA is the excretory passage for the urine and semen (fig. 172), and reaches from the bladder to the end of the penis. In length it measures about eight inches, and it presents one or two curves according to the state of the penis. At first the canal is directed forwards through the triangular ligament of the peri- na;um to the body of the penis, forming a large curve with the