706 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. In complete extension, the patella is situate at the upper and inner part of the knee joint, where it is very prominent, with its apex and the ligament of the patella directed down and out to the tibia. For the most part the knee-pan articular surface is raised above the trochlea of the femur, which it touches only at the upper edge by its lower transverse facet. Peroneo-tibial articulations. The tibia and fibula are united by ligamentous bands at the extremities, where they touch ; and by an interosseous ligament between the shafts of the bones. Dissection. The muscles are to be taken away from the front and back of the interosseous ligament ; and the loose tissue is to be removed from a small band in front of, and behind the upper and lower ends of the tibia and fibula. The UPPER ARTICULATION has veiy slight movement, and the structures between the ends of the bones are two small bands, anterior and posterior. The anterior ligament extends over the joint from the outer tube- rosity of the tibia to the head of the fibula. The postennor ligament, thinner than the anterior, is attached to the bones behind the joint: it is covered by the tendon of the popliteus muscle and a prolon- gation of the synovial membrane of the knee joint. The articular surfaces are covered with cartilage: and a synovial membrane lining the articulation projects backwards so as to touch that of the Imee joint. The LOWER ARTICULATION possesses an anterior and a posterior band, together with an inferior ligament between the ends of the bones. The anterior ligament reaches obliquely from the lower end of the tibia to the fibula ; and the posterior has attachments behind the articulation similar to those of the band in front. The inferior ligament closes the space between the contiguous ends of the tibia and fibula, and consists of transverse yellowish fibres distinct fi-om the posterior ligament. It is fixed on one side to the end of the fibula above the pit; and on the other it is inserted mto the contiguous part of the tibia, and into the posterior edge of the articular surface so as to assist in deepening the hollow into which the astragalus is received. The interosseous ligament fills the interval between the bones of SZ* the leg, and serves as an aponeurotic partition between the muscles on the front and back of the limb. Its fibres are directed downwards chiefly from the tibia to the inner surface of the fibula : but some few cross in the opposite direction. Internally it is fixed to the outer edge of the tibia: and externally, to the oblique fine on the inner surface of the fibula along the upper three fourths, but to the posterior border along the lower fourth of that bone. , . , x -t- Both superiorly and inferiorly is an aperture which transmits vessels. The upper opening, about an inch in length lies along the neck of the fibula, and gives passage to the anterior tibial vessels. The lower aperture is close to the fibula, about an mch In exten- sion, position to lemur. Articulation of tibia and fibula. Dissection of tlie liga- ments. Upper ar- ticulation, by anterior and poste- rior baud. Synovial sac. Lower ar- ticulation has anterior, posterior, and inferior ligament. Interosse- ous between bones. Attach- ments. Apertures,