806 DISSECTION OF BACK OF FOREARM. Origin. Insertion. The miiscle is at first deep, but afterwards superficial. Use. Extensor of first plialanx. Origin. Insertion. Connec- tions. Use. Extensor of second plialanx. Origin. Insertion. Is lower than the preceding two. Use. Indicator muscle. arises from the posterior surface of the radius for three inches below the supinator brevis ; from the ulna for the same distance by a narrow special impression on the upper and outer part of the posterior surface ; and from the intervening interosseous mem- brane. The tendon is directed outwards over the radial extensors of the wrist, and through the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and by a slip into the os trapezium. The muscle is concealed at first by the common extensor of the fingers ; but it becomes cutaneous between the last muscle and the extensors of the wrist, about two inches above the end of the radius (fig. 87). Opposite the carpus the radial artery winds backwards beneath its tendon. Between the contiguous borders of this muscle and the supinator brevis the posterior interosseous artery (a) ap- pears. Action. By this muscle the thumb is moved backwards from palm of the hand, and the wrist is extended on the radial side. The EXTENSOR prim: internodii pollicis, f, is the smallest muscle of the deep layer, and its tendon accompanies that of the preceding extensor. Its origin, about one inch in width, is from the radius and the interosseous membrane, close below the attachment of the preceding muscle. The tendon passes tlu-ough the same space in the annular ligament as the extensor of the metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the metacarpal end of the first phalanx of the thumb. With respect to sm-rounding parts this muscle has the same con- nections as the preceding. Action. It extends first the nearest phalanx, and then the wrist, like its companion. The EXTENSOR secdndi internodii POLLICIS, Q, arises fi-om the ulna for four inches below the anconeus, along the ulnar side of the ex- tensor of the metacarpal bone; and from the interosseous membrane, below, for one inch. Its tendon passing through a sheath in the annular ligament, distinct from that of the other two extensor muscles, is directed along the dorsum of the thumb to be fixed to the base of the last phalanx. It is covered by the same muscles as the other extensors of the thumb, but it becomes superficial nearer the lower end of the radius. Below the annular ligament its tendon crosses the radial artery, and the extensors of the wrist. Action. Its use is similar to that of the extensor of the first phalanx. When the phalanges are straight, the two extensors will assist in carrying back the metacarpal bone. The extensor indicis, h, (indicator) arises from the ubia for three or four inches, usually beyond the middle, and internal to the tensor secundi internodii. h. Extensor indicis. i. Posterior annular liga- ment Arteries: a. Posterior interosseous, b. Recurrent interosseous, c. Dorsal part of 'the anterior interosseous, d. Dorsal part of the radial, c. Dorsal branches to the thumb and fore finger. /. Dorsal carpal arch. .7. Two posterior interosseous (ulnar) of the hand. Na-ves: 2 Radial. 3. Posterior interosseous at its origin, and 4, near its ending in a sweUing on the back of the carpus.