583 STEUCTUEE OF EECTUM. The longitudinal, continuous with those in the bands on the colon, ha« longi- are here diffused to form a stratum around the gut. The circular ^^^^^^^^^^^ describe arches around the intestine, and become thicker and.stronger towards the anus, where they are collected in the band of the internal sphincter muscle (p. 421). The mucous coat is more moveable than in the colon, and re- Mucous sembles in this respect the lining of the oesophagus ; it \s also tliicker and more vascular than in the rest of the large intestme. vascular: When the bowel is contracted the mucous lining is thrown into folds in it; numerous accidental folds ; but some near the anus are longitudinal, enclosing submucous muscular fibres, and form the columns of Morgagni. There are other three permanent folds (Houston) which are half an inch or less in depth, and contain circular fibres of the gut. The most constant of these is about three inches from the anus, on the front of the rectum, opposite the base of the bladder; another is placed on the right side of the intestine, towards the top ; and the third is on the left side, midway between the other two. These folds will be seen by laying open the gut along the side, provided it is tolerably fresh. The mucous membrane has the same general structure as in the structure, colon, but towards the anus the secretory apparatus gradually dis- appears. Bloodvessels. The arteries are supplied from three different sources, Arteries, viz., superior hsemorrhoidal of the inferior mesenteric, middle hasmor- rhoidal of the internal iliac, and inferior hfemorrhoidal of the internal pudic. All three sets anastomose on the lower end of the gut; but arrangement only the upper hsemorrhoidal, which is the largest, requires further hEBmoSoi- notice. The final branches of this artery (p. 564), about sis in ^ai. number, pierce the muscular layer tlu'ee inches fi'om the anus, and descend between the mucous and muscular coats as far as the internal sphincter, where they unite in loops just within the anus. The veins are deficient in valves, and commimicate freely, like the Veins are arteries, in a plexus between the muscular and mucous coats, around valves, the lower end of the gut. Above, they join the inferior mesenteric vein, and thi-ough it reach the vena portte ; and, posteriorly, they pour some blood into the internal iliac vein by the middle hajmor- rhoidal branch. Nerves and lymphatics. The nerves of the intestine are obtained J^er*'es. from the sympathetic; and those of the sphincter come from the spinal cord. The lymphatics terminate in the chain of glands on Lymphatics, the sacrum. Section VI. ANATOMY OF THE FEMALE VISCERA. In the pelvis are contained the viscera, alike in both sexes, viz.. Viscera in the bladder, urethra, and rectum : and those special to the female, or the organs of generation.