SYNOmL SAC AND FAT AROUND KNEE. 701 sends a pouch between the tendon of tlie poph'tous and the external fibro-cartilage and the head of the tibia: it is also reflected over the strong cnicial ligaments at the back of the joint. There are tliree named folds of the synovial membrane. One in '"''^ the centre of the joint is the mucous ligament (a), which contains ligaments, small vessels and some fat, and extends from the interval between the condyles to the fat below the patella. Below and on each side of the patella is another fold—alar ligament (6 and c), which is continuous with the former below the patella, and is placed over a mass of fat: the inner (6) is i^rolonged farther than the outer by a semilunar piece of the serous membrane. At the back and front of the articulation pouches are prolonged Pouches, beneath the tendons of muscles. Behind there are two, one on each side, between the condyle of the femur and the tendinous head of two behind the gastrocnemius. On the fi'ont, the sac projects under the extensor muscle one inch above the articular surface ; and if it communicates and one with the bursa in that situation, it Avill reach two inches above the joint-surface of the femur. When the joint is bent there is a greater length of the serous sac above the patella. Fat around the joint. Two large masses are placed above and Articular below the patella, and some fat is located around the crucial liga- ments. The infi-a-patellar mass, the largest of all, fills the interval be- below the tween the patella with its ligament and the head of the tibia, and P^*^^ '• gives origin to the ridges of the synovial membrane. From it a piece is continued around the patella ; but it is larger at the inner margin than on the outer, and overhangs the inner perpendicular facet of that bone. Duiing extension of the joint the infra- patellar pad is apphed to, and lubricates the articular surfaces of use; the femur. The supra-patellar pad is interposed between the triceps extensor above the and the femur around the top of the synovial sac, and is greater P^t^Ua. on the outer than the inner side. Dissection (fig. 217). The hgamentous structures within the cap- Dissect sule will be brought into view, whilst the limb is still in the same jptemal position, by tlirowing down the patella and its ligament, and clear- ing away the fat behind it. In this step the student must be careful of a small transverse band which connects anteriorly the interarticu- lar cartilages. The remains of the capsule and other ligaments, and the synovial membrane, are next to be cleared away from the front and back of the crucial ligaments, and fi-om the interarticular cartilages. Whilst cleaning the posterior crucial the limb is to be placed flat on the table with the patella down ; and the student is to be careful of a band in front of it from the external fibro-cartilage, or of two balnds, one before and the other behind it. Ligaments within the capsule. The ligamentous structures within Ligaments the capsule consist of the central crucial ligaments, and of two plates of fibro-cartilage on the head of the tibia. The crucial ligaments (fig. 217) are two strong fibrous cords Two crucial ligaments.