253 INTERNAL MAMMARY VESSELS. courses tlirough tliorax to abdomen. ribs ; and by diminishing the size of - the thorax, it becomes dn expiratory muscle. i i • internal Tlie internal mammarij artery is a brancli of the subclavian ^^^^^^^^^ (p. 70), and enters the thorax beneath the cartilage of the hrst rib. It is continued through the thorax, lying beneath the costal cartilages and about half an inch from the sternum, as far as the interval between the sixth and seventh ribs ; there it gives ex- ternally a large muscular branch (musculo-phrenic), and passing beneath the seventh rib, enters the sheath ^'g- ^2. of the rectus muscle in the wall of the abdomen. In the chest the artery lies on the * pleura and the triangularis sterni, and is crossed by the intercostal nerves. It is accompanied by two veins, and by a chain of lymphatic glands. The follow- ing hranclies take ori- gin in the thorax :— a. A small branch {comes nervi phrenici) arises as soon as the artery enters the chest, and descends to tbe diaphragm along the phrenic nerve. b. A few small mediastinal branches are distributed to the remains mediastinal of the thymus gland, the pericardium, and the triangularis sterni muscle. c. Two anterior intercostal branches turn outwards in each space, intercostal, one being placed on the border of each costal cartilage, and termi- ^""^ nate by anastomosing with the aortic intercostal arteries. d. Perforating hranclies, one or two opposite each space, pierce perforating the internal intercostal and pectoral muscles, and are distributed on the surface of the thorax with the anterior cutaneous nersi-es : the lower branches supply the mamma in the female. e. The musculo-phrenic branch courses outwards beneath the musculo- cartilages of the seventh and eighth ribs, and enters the Avail of branch" the abdomen by perforating the diaphragm : it supplies anterior branches to the lower intercostal spaces. Its termination will appear in the dissection of the abdomen (p. 454.) Two veins accompany the artery ; these join into one trunk, which Veins, opens into the innominate vein. The intercostal nerves, seen now in the anterior half of their extent, Intorcostal are the anterior primary branches of the dorsal nerves, and supply Branches with phrenic nerve, nerves ; * View from behind of tho attachments of the triangularis sterni muscle, A.