DISSECTION OP THE PELVIS. 566 last niid coccygeal, sympa- thetic. Sacral nerves are live ; those that are iieculiar are fourth, which gives visceral, and muscu- lar olt'sets. Fifth is be- low ai)er- tnres in sacrum : ends on coccyx. Coccygeal nerve. Sacral plexus; .situation. and form. the fourth to the viscera. Tlie last sacral and the coccygeal nerve are of small size, and will be detected coming through the coccy- geiis muscle, close to the coccyx : these are to be dissected with care ; and the student will succeed best by tracing the connecting filaments which pass from one to another, begiiming above with the offset from the fourth nerve. Opposite the lower part of the rectum, bladder, and vagina is a large plexus of the sympathetic (pelvic plexus), which sends branches to the Anscera along the arteries. This plexus is generally destroyed in the previous dissection ; but if any of it remains the student may trace the offsets distributed from it, and its communi- cating branches with the spinal nerves. Sacral spinal nervks (lig. 175). The anterior primary branches of the sacral nerves are five in number, and decrease suddenly in size from above downwards. Issuing by the apertures in the fi-ont of the sacrum (the fifth nerve excepted) they receive short filaments of communication from the gangliated cord of the sympathetic. The first three nerves and part of the fourth enter the sacral plexus, but the fifth ends on the back of the coccyx. The coccygeal nerve, and the pecuHarities of the fourth and fifth sacral, will be noticed before the j)lexus is described. The fourth nerve (4 S) divides into two pieces :—one communi- cates with the sacral plexus ; the other joins the fifth nerve, and distributes the following branches to the viscera and the surrounding mu.scles :— The visceral branches (3) supply the bladder and the vagina, and communicate with the sympathetic nerve to form the pelvic plexus. Sometimes these branches come from the third sacral nerve. The muscular hranches are three in number. One (2) rather long branch enters the levator ani on the visceral aspect; another (4) supplies the coccygeus ; and the third (5) reaches the perinasum by jDiercing the levator ani muscle (p. 423). The Jifth nei-ve (5 S) comes forwards between the sacrum and coccyx, and receives the communicating branch fi'om the fom-th nerve ; it is then directed downwards in front of the coccygeus, where it is joined by the coccygeal nen^e, and perforates that muscle, the sacro-sciatic ligament, and the gluteus maximus, to end on the posterior surface of the coccyx. The coccygeal nerve (1 c.) after issuing by the lower aperture of the spinal canal, appears through the coccygeus muscle, and joins the fifth sacral nerve as above stated. Sacral Plexus (fig. 175). This plexus is formed by the lumbo- sacral cord, the first three sacral nerves, and part of the fourth sacral. It is situate on the pyriformis muscle, beneath the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac artery; and the nerves entering it converge towards the large sacro-sciatic notch, to unite in a flat band. From that spot the plexus becomes gradually smaller towards the outer end ; and, leaving the pelvis below the pyriformis, terminates in brfinches for the limb at the lower border of that muscle.