612 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. of the thigh, to follow the cutaneous vessels and nerves, are to be now stitched together to keep moist the subjacent parts ; and the saphenous opening is to be learnt. The saphenous opening in the fascia lata (fig. 191,/) is a narrow semilunar slit, wliich is situate rather (internal to the middle line of the thigh. It measures about a third of an inch in width, and one inch and a half in length. Its upper extremity (superior cornu) is at Poupart's ligament ; and its lower extremity (inferior cornu) is distant from that structure about one inch and a half, and presents a well-defined margin. The inner side of the opening is posterior to the level of the femoral vessels, and is flattened over the subjacent muscle (pecti- neus) ; but it is marked below by a thin and sharp border. The outer boundary is much stronger, and has a semilmiar border when detached, whose concavity is turned downwards and inwards. This edge is named from its shape falciform margin of the saphenous opening (falciform process of Burns) ; it is superficial to the femoral vessels, and is connected by fibrous bands to the crural sheath, and to the deeper layer of the superficial fascia. Traced upwards, the outer edge blends with the base of Gimbernat's ligament (part of Poupart) : the upper end of this border, where it is internal to the subjacent femoral vein, has been named the femoral ligament. Tenseness of The rigidity of the margin of the opening is much influenced by *^e^™^rgins ^]jg position of the limb ; for with the finger beneath the upper part of the falciform border, whilst the thigh is moved in difEerent directions, this band will be perceived to be most unyielding when the Hmb is extended and rotated out, and most relaxed when the thigh is bent and turned in the opposite direction. Through the lower cornu of the opening the saphenous vein is transmitted : and through the upper part, close to the falciform edge, a femoral hernia projects. Lymphatics and one or two superficial vessels also pass through it. Saphenous opening: situation, and size. Inner mar gin sharp below : outer is firm, and joins Gimhernat femoral ligament. Parts trans- mitted through the opening. Anatomy of femoral hernia. Dissection for femoral sheatli. Parts concerned in Femoral Hernia. To obtain a knowledge of the hernial protrusion in the thigh, the dissector has to study the tmdermentioned parts, viz., the crural arch and Gimbemat's hgament, the crural sheath with its crural canal and ring, together with a partition (septum crurale) between the thigh and the abdomen. Dissection (fig. 192). To examine Poupart's ligament and a loose membranous sheath around the femoral vessels, the piece of the fascia lata outside the saphenous opening is to be reflected inwards by the following incisions. One cut is to be begun near the edge of the falciform border, and to be carried outwards for one inch and a half, parallel and close to Poupart's ligament. Another is to be directed obliquely downwards and inwards from the termmation of the first, to a little below the inferior cornu of the opening. When the fascia marked out by those incisions has been raised and