DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 218 Under part. Inner side. Outer side, anterior, and pos- terior ends. Corpora genieiiliita. Optic nerve. Origin. Dissection. Origin of fornix in thalamus; ]iow fomis corpus albicans : joined by other fibres. Dissection. Pineal gland ; position, shape, attachment to thalamus. the tainia seinicircularis. Tlio under surface forms a portion of the roof of the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle, and into it the crus cerebri is inserted. By the inner side it enters into the tliird ventricle ; and along its upper eclge lies the peduncle of the pineal body. On the outer side are the corpus striatum, the taania semicircularis, and the substance of the hemisphere. The anterior end looks to the foramen of Monro. And the pos- terior part, which is fi-ee in the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle, presents inf eriorly two small roundish tubercles, which are placed one outside and the other inside the bend (genu) of the optic nerve, and are named from their position to it, internal and external genicu- late bodies. The structure of the optic thalamus will be subsequently referred to, p. 222. The origin of the optic nerve can now be seen. At the back of the crus cerebri the optic tract receives fibres from the thalamus wliich it touches, and then divides into two terminal bands:—One of these is connected with the gray matter in the external geniculate body, and is continued onwards to one of the corpora quadrigemina (nates) ; the other is connected with the internal geniculate body. Dissection. The origin of the fornix in the optic thalamus may be followed out next. As a preparatory step the anterior commissure, the front of the corpus callosum, and the commissure of the optic nerves should be cut along the middle line, so that the left hemi- sphere can be separated from the other. On the left hemisphere the crus of the fornix is to be traced downwards through the gray matter of the third ventricle to the corpus albicans, and thence up- wards into the optic thalamus. Anterior x>illar of the fornix. The fornix begins in the thalamus near the tubercle on the upper surface, from this spot it descends in a cui-ved direction to the corpus albicans, where it makes a turn like half of the fig-m-e 8, and fiu-nishes a white em^elope to the gray matter of that- body. The crus then ascends thi-ough the gi-ay sub- stance in front of the optic thalamus, and is appHed to the like part of the opposite side to form the body of the fornix. It is joined by bands of fibres from the ttenia semicircularis and pedmicle of the pineal body. The pineal lody and the corpora quadrigemina, which are placed behind the third ventricle, may be next examined. Dissection. All the pia mater should be carefully removed from the surface of the quadrigeminal bodies, especially on the right side, on which they are to be seen. The posterior pai-t of the hemisphere of the same side may be taken away. The loineal gland (conarium) is a small conical body (fig. 68, ^r), which is situate above the posterior commissure, and between the anterior pair of the corpora quadrigemina. In shape like the cone of a pine, it is about a quarter of an mch in length, and has the base turned forwards. It is connected to the optic thalami by two • white bands,—peduncles of the pineal body (/) : these begui at the