34 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Surfaces marked by fossiB and eiiuuences Margin. _ The surface next tlie head is generally convex ; but the opposite IS excavated, and presents the undermentioned elevations and de- pressions. In the centre is a deep liollow named concha, which is wide above but narrow below; it conducts to the meatus auditorius In fi-ont of the narrowed part of the hollow is a projection of a triangular shape—the trarjus, which has some hairs on the under sm-face ; and on the opposite side of the same narrow end, rather below the level of the tragus, is placed another projection —the antitrafjus. ' The round rim-like margin of the ear, which extends into tlie concha, is called the helix ; and the depression internal to it is the gi-oove or fossa of the helix. Within the helix, between it and the Fig. 8.* Lol)iile. Five small muscles of external ear. How to finrl the muscles. One muscle on tragus. One on aiititnvgus. concha, is the large eminence of the antihelix, which presents at its upper part a well-marked depression, the fossa of the antihelix. Inferiorly the external ear is terminated by a soft pendulous part, the lohule. The special muscles of the pinna, which extend fi'om one part of the cartilage to another, are very thin and pale. Five small muscles are to be recognised; and these receive then* names for the most part from the several eminences of the external ear. Dissection. In seeking the small auricular muscles, let the integu- ments be removed only over the spot where each muscle is said to be placed. A sharp knife and a good light are necessaiy for the display of the muscular fibres. Occasionally the dissector will not find one or more of the number described below. The muscle of the tragus (fig. 8 ^) is always fomid on the external aspect of the jDrocess from which it takes its name. The fibres are short, oblique, or transverse, and extend fi-om the outer to the inner part of the tragus. The muscle of the antitragus (fig. 8 -) is the best marked of all. * Muscles on the outer surface of tbe ear cartilage. 1. ^luscle of the tragus. 2. Muscle of the antitragus. 3. Large muscle of the helix. 4. Small muscle of the helix. Muscles on the inner surface of the ear cartilage. 7. Oblique muscle (Tod) sometimes seen. 6. Transverse muscle.