DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 43S BuiKM-llcial fascia is divided into two layers. The subcu- taneous layer con- tains fat. except in tlie penis and scro- tum. Deeper layer is tUiu and mem- branous. Special cha- racters and disposition, and ends on fascia lata. Attach- ments deter- mine course of effused mine. Fascia in tUe female. Cutaneous nerves arc dcriA od from two sources. Lateral cutaneous of the inter- costal, which divide into posterior and The subcutaneous fat, or tLo supei-ficial fascia, is a single layer oyer the greater part of tlie abdomen ; but in the groin it is divided into a subcutaneous and a deeper stratum by the vessels and the glands. The subcutaneous layer contains the fat, and varies therefore in appearance and thickness in difEerent bodies ; for it is sometimes divisible into strata, whilst at others it is very thin, and somewhat membranous near the thigh. It is continuous vdth the fatty covering of the thigh and abdomen ; and wlien traced to the limb, it is separated from Poupart's ligament beneath by the superficial vessels and glands. Internally it is continued to the penis and scrotum, where it changes its adipose tissue for involuntary mus- cular fibre ; and after investing the testicle, it is prolonged to the perinasum. The deeper layer (aponeurosis of the fascia lata, Scarpa) is thinner and more membranous than the other, and is closely united to the tendon of the external oblique by fibrous bands, especially towards the linea alba. Like the subcutaneous part, this layer is continued upwards on the abdomen, and inwards to the penis and the scrotum : here it becomes very thin, and reaches the perinteum, where it has attachments to the subjacent parts, as before specified (p. 424). Towards the limb, it ends a little below Poupart's hgament in the fascia lata across the front of the thigh : as it passes over the ligament it is closely joined to that band by fibrous tissue. Urine effused in the perinjeum from ruptm-e of the urethra will be dii-ected thi-ough the scrotum and along the spermatic cord to the abdomen (p. 425). From the arrangement of the deeper layer of the fascia across the thigh, it is evident that the fluid cannot pass down the limb, though its progress over the front of the abdomen is iminterrupted. In the female the fatty layer of the groin is separable into two layers, and the disposition of each is nearly the same as in the male ; but the part that is continued to the scrotum m the one sex, enters the labium in the other. In the female the round ligament of the uterus is lost in it. Cutaneous Nerves. The ners^es in the teguments are derived from the trunks of the lower intercostal nerves : thus the cutaneous branches, along the side of the belly, are offsets from five or sis of those nerves ; and the cutaneous branches, along the front, are the terminal parts of the same trunks. Two other cutaneous offsets from the lumbar plexus, viz., ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal, appear at the lower part of the abdomen. The lateral cutaneous nerves of the abdomen emerge bet^veen the digitations of the external oblique muscle, in a line with the same set of nerves on the thorax ; and the lowest are the most posterior. As soon as they reach the surface they diA-ide, with the exception of the last, into an anterior and a posterior branch :— The 2iostcrior branches are small in size, and are directed back to the integuments over the latissimus dorsi muscle. The anterior branches are continued nearly to the edge of the