IXTERIOR OF URETHRAL CAXAL. 575 About an inch and a half behind the orifice oi; the urethra, and OP«;;;.'^f«.f ratlier more than that distance apart, are the two narrow openings of the ureters (fig. 179). These excretory tubes for the urine per- forate the wall of the bladder obliquely, lying in it for the distance of one third of an inch, so that the reflux of fluid through them towards the kidney is prevented as the bladder is distended. Eacli terminates by a slit-like opening iji a prominence of the subjacent nuiscular fibres. Triaiujular surface. Immediately behind the orifice of the urethra ^[^eoneor^ is a smooth triangular surface, whicli is named tr'ujone (trigonum vesicaj, fig. 179). Its apex reaches the prostate, and its base the ureters. Its boundaries may be marked out by a line on each side iiow from the m-ethra to the ureter, and by a transverse one, "behind, °"" ' between the openings of the ureters. This surface corresponds with 'Jj^q^ij""^'" the triangular space externally at the base of the bladder, between extcniallv. the prostate in front and the A'esicula3 and vasa deferentia on the sides. Over it the mucous coat is more closely united to the fibrous and muscular, so as to prevent the accidental folds occun-ing in the otlier parts of the empty bladder. Dissection. The an-angement of the fleshy fibres of the ureters To ex]ios(> -will come into -saew on the removal of tlie mucous membrane from ureters. " the lower third of the bladder. Ending of the fibres of the ureter. As soon as the ureter pierces Muscular the outer and middle coats of the bladder, its longitudinal fibres are fil^ters^ thus disposed :—the more internal and strongest are directed trans- versely, and join the con-esponding fibres of the other mine tube ; whilst the remainder are continued down over the triangular sm-face, and blend with the submucous layer. Bloodvessels and nerves. The source of the vesical arteries, and Ai-teries; the termination of the veins have been detailed (p. 563). The veins; A^essels are disposed in greatest number about the base and neck of the bladder. Most of the nerves distributed to the bladder, though nerves of supplied from the pelvic plexus of the sympathetic (p. 568), are i^'i'^er. derived directly from the spinal nerves. The lymx>hatics enter the Ljanphatics. glands by the side of the internal iliac artery. THE URETPIRA AND PENIS. Urethra (fig. 179). The tube of the urethra extends from the Uretiira: neck of the bladder to the end of the penis, and has an average H^^^ll V"^ length of about eight inches ; but it is shorter by one inch during life (Thompson). It is supported by the prostate, the triangular no special ligament, and the spongy structure of the penis. The tube is divided, as before said (p. 555), into a prostatic, a membranous and P'^''^'"" a spongy part. ."to parts. Dissection. To open the urethra, let tlie incision through the prostate How to be continued onwards to the extremity of the penis along the line oi'c»the of union of the urethral canal with that body. urethra. T:hG prostatic part (fig. 179) is nearer the upper than the lower Prostatic surface of the muscular mass surrounding it. It is one inch and a