DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 476 are the superior mesenteric vessels and nei-ves, with lymphatic glands and lacteals. Peritoneal Ligaments of the liver. Along the upper surface is a suspensory liver."'process of the peritoneum; and there is a wide piece along the posterior border. Suspensory The Suspensory or falciform ligament is placed between the upper ligament: convex surface of the liver and the parietes of the abdomen. It is shape, triangular in shape, with its base forwards. The lower border is attach- concave, and is attached to the liver; wliilst the upper border is ments, convex, and is connected to the abdominal wall on the right of the contains linea alba, and to the under surface of the diaphragm. In its base or free part is the remains of the umbilical vein, which is named the round liga- round ligament. ment: ij^^s fold allows the umbilical vein to reach the liver without ow oimec. pigj-gj^g the peritoneum ; and with a little care the dissector will be able to detach the serous membrane from the vein, and to trace it on each side into the suspensory ligament. Coronary The coronary ligament is a short but wide process of the peri- ° toneum, which connects the hinder edge of the liver to the diaphragm. It reaches all across the liver, but at each side it is enlarged, and forms a triangularly-shaped piece ; to these larger portions of it the terms right and left lateral ligaments have been applied. gives rise to The left lateral ligament is attached to the liver above the edge of the left lobe, and is formed by two pieces of peritoneum, which are in contact; it lies in fi-ont of the oesophagean opening in the diaphragm. right lateral The right lateral ligament lies deeply in the hypochondriac region, ligament. ^ front of the vena cava inferior : it consists of two pieces of peritoneum not touching each other. MESENTERIC VESSELS AND SYMPATHETIC NERVE. Examine first vessels to intestine. Mesenteric vessels. Dissection of superior mesenteric, vems, Directions. The vessels and nerves (mesenteric) which are dis- tributed to the greater part of the alimentary tube, may be first dissected. After these have been examined, and the connections of the aorta and vena cava have been learnt, most of the intestine can be taken out to give room for the display of the viscera in the upper part of the abdomen. Mesenteric Vessels. The superior and inferior mesenteric ar- teries are two large branches of the aorta, which supply the intestine, except a part of the duodenum and the lower end of the rectum. Each is accompanied by a vein, and by a plexus of the sympathetic nerve. Dissection, {fig. 141). For the dissection of the superior mesen- teric vessels and nerves, the transverse colon and the great omen- tum are to be placed on the margin of the ribs, and one layer (anterior) of the mesentery is to be removed. Whilst tracmg the branches of the artery to the small intestine, correspondmg vems, and ofEsets of the sympathetic ner^'e on the arteries, will be met