170 beneath lirecediiig. Use. Dissection of iiiter- trausver- .sales. Intertrans- verse umscles. Numter and attach- ments. Connec- tions. Peculiari- ties. Use. Cervical uerves in their fora- juina give anterior and pos- terior branches. First two nerves clilter in both anterior and posterior branches. DISSECTION OF THE NECK. of the atlas ; and is inserted into tlie basilar process of the occipital bono between tlic foramen magnum and the rectus major, and half an inch from its fellow. The anterior primary branch of the suboccipital nen^e lies between the borders of tliis muscle and the rectus capitis lateralis. Action. Its power is very slight, but it mil help in moving forwards the head. Dissection. The small intertransversales muscles will come into view when the other muscles have been removed from the front and back of the transverse processes. By tracing towards the spine the anterior primary branches of the cei-vical nen^es, the inter- transversales will be readily seen on their sides. After the muscles and nerves have been examined, the tips of the conjoined transverse processes may be cut ofE to lay bare the verte- bral artery. The INTERTRANSVERSE MUSCLES are slender fleshy slips in the intervals between the transverse processes. In the neck there are seven pairs—the first being between the atlas and axis, and the last between the lowest cervical and the first dorsal vertebra. One set is attached to the anterior, and the other to the posterior tu- bercles on the tips of the conjoined transverse processes. Between the muscles, except in the first two spaces, is the anterior primary branch of a cen'ical nerve ; and beneath the posterior muscle is the other primary branch of the same ners'^e. In the upper space the posterior muscle is often wanting ; and in the lowest space, the muscle of the anterior set is smaller than the others, or it may be absent. Action. 'Qj approximating the transverse processes these muscles bend the spinal column laterally. Cervical nerves at their exit from the spinal canal. The trunks of the cervical nerves issue fi-om the spinal canal through the inter- A'^ertebral foramina, except the first two, and bifurcate into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior primary branch passes outwards between the inter- transverse muscles, and joins in plexuses with its fellows (p. 72). The posterior primary branch turns to the Back (p. 394) beneath the posterior intertransverse nmscle, and the other muscles attached to the posterior transverse processes ; in its course it lies close to the bone between the articular processes of the vertebra. Peculiarities in the first tivo. The first two nerves leave the spinal canal above the neural arches of the atlas and axis, and divide at the back of the neck into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior primary branch of the first or suboccipital nerve has been examined (p. 113). The anterior branch of the second nen-c, after perforating the membrane between the neural arches of the first and second vertebras, is du-ected foi-wards outside the vertebral artery, and beneath the first pair of interti-ansverse muscles, to join the cendcal plexus. The posterior primary branches of the first two nerves are de- scribed in the dissection of the Back (p. 396).