137 OLFACTOEY REGION. Fig. 32.* are entirely closed by the membrane, A'iz., incisor, the holes in the cribriform plate, spheno-palatine, and the foramen for the nasal uervu and vessels ; but the apertures that lead to the sinuses and the orbit arc only somewhat iliminished by the lining they receive. The membrane is stretched over the opening of the ductus ad nasum, forming a flap or valve to close the aperture. The characters of the membrane m the lower or respiratory por- tion of the Jiose differ greatly fi-om those of the same layer in the olfactorial region near the roof. In the lower region of the nose, through which the air passes to the lungs, the membrane is thick, and closely united to the sub- jacent periosteum and perichondrium; and on the margins of the two inferior spongy bones it is projected somcAvhat by the large submucous vessels, so as to increase the extent of surface. In the canals and sinuses it is very thin. Near the nostril it is furnished with papillffi, and small haii's (vibrissas). The surface is covered by the apertures of branched mucous glands, which are in greatest abundance, and of largest size, about the middle and posterior parts of the nasal fossa. In tliis lower region of the nose, and in the sinuses, the epithelium is of the columnar ciliated kind; but it becomes laminated or scaly in the dilata- tion or vestibule inside the nostril (fig. 31, The olfactory region (fig. 32) is situate at the top of the nasal cavity, and is confined to the surface of the roof formed by the cribrifonn plate of the eth- moid ; to a portion of the outer wall constructed by the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone : and to a coiTcsponding extent of the septum, viz., about one third. The mucous membrane in the olfactory region receives the olfactory nerve, and is therefore the seat of the sense of smell. It differs much from that in the lower portion of the nose, for it is less strong and vascular ; and is of a yellowisli colour, which is due to pigment in the epithehum and the glands. 'J'he epithelium (fig. 32 a) is thicker but softer hen others (liiiiinishecl by it. Character in lower part of nose, on bones mid in sinuses. Apertures of glands; and epithe- lium. Olfactory region. Extent. Mucous membrane. re than lower Epithelium. * Magnified vertical section of the mucous membrane of tlic nose (altered trom Henle). A. 1 Columnar epithelium at the free surface. 2. Granulai- or middle layer of the same. 3. Deepest layer of elongated ceils placed vertically, Secretuig tubular glands. B. a. Pieces of the columniir epithelium greatly enlar'^ed ccUa amongst the epithehum particles. ° 4. h. Olfactorial