DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. ports around it. Form and situation of tlio pan- creas. Its connec- tions by the surfaces, ■borders, and extremities. In front of it arc the superior mesenteric vessels with their plexus of nerves. Beneath it lie the vena cava and the aorta, with the pillars of the diaphragm ; and the left renal vein is sometimes between it and the aorta. Above it is the pancreas. Pancreas (fig. 143, e). The pancreas is situate behind the stomach, and has numerous and complicated connections. Of an elongated form, it extends across tlje spine from the spleen to the duodenum, and occupies the left hypochondriac, the umbilical, and the right lumbar region of the abdomen. The gland is covered anteriorly by the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon. It is in contact posteriorly with the aorta, the vena cava, and the pillars of the diaphragm ; and it conceals the splenic vein and the beginning of the vena portaj. Projecting above the upper border, near the centre, is the arterial trunk of the cosliac axis : to the left of that vessel, along the same border, is placed the splenic artery ; whilst to the right of it, lie the hepatic artery and the first part of the duodenum. At the lower border the superior mesenteric vessels emerge opposite the coehac axis ; to the right of that spot the third part of the duodenum is found, and to the left, the inferior mesenteric ascending to join the splenic vein. The left end or the tail of the pancreas touches the spleen, and is placed over the left kidney. The right extremity or the head is received into the concavity of the duodenum, the two being partly separated by the common bile duct and the pancreatico-duodenal arteries. This part projects above and below the body of the gland, like the head of a hammer beyond the handle ; and the lower projecting piece is directed to the left along the duodenum beneath the superior mesenteric vessels. Arteries of viscera. Veins. How to dis- sect coeliac axis and coron- ary. hepatic, and splenic. CCELIAC AXIS AND VENA POETiE. A short branch of the aorta,—the coeliac axis, fiu-nishes arteries to the stomach and duodenum, the liver, pancreas, and spleen ; it subdivides into three chief branches, coronary, hepatic, and splenic. The veins corresponding with the arteries (except the hepatic) are collected into one trunk—the vena portaj. Dissection. The vessels have been in part laid bare by the previous dissection, and in tracing them out fully the student should spare the plexuses of nei-ves around each. Supposing the liver well raised, he may first follow to the left side the small coronary artery, and show its branches to the oesophagus and the stomach. Next the hepatic artery, with the vena porta3 and the bile duct, may be traced to the liver and the gall bladder ; and a considerable branch of it should be pursued beneath the pylorus to the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas. Lastly, the splenic artery, which lies along the upper border of the pancreas, is to be cleaned ; and its branches to the pancreas, stomach, and spleen should be