65 DErRESSORS OF OS HYOIDES. from tlie posterior surface of the sternum, and fi'om the cartilage of the first rib below the former ; it is inserted into the oblique line on tlie side of the thyroid cartilage, where it is continuous with the tliyro-hyoid muscle. The inner border touches its fellow for about an inch, along the Parts over middle line of the neck, whilst the outer reaches over the carotid andbeneath. artery. The superficial surface is concealed by the preceding hyoid muscles ; and the opposite surface is in contact with the lower part of the common carotid artery, the trachea, and the larynx and thyroid body. A tnmsverse tendinous line crosses the muscle near the sternum. Action. Its chief use is to aid the preceding muscle in lowering Use. rapidly the hyoid bone after deglutition ; but it can draw down and forwards the thyroid cartilage, and assist in rendering tight the vocal cords. Like the stemo-hyoid it participates in the movement of the chest in laborious breathing. The THYRO-HYOIDEUS (fig. 15, "*) is a continuation in direction of Thyro-hyoid the last muscle. Beginning on the side of the thyi-oid cartilage, the fibres ascend to the inner half of the great corau of the os hyoides, and to the outer part of the body of the bone. On the muscle lies the omo-hyoideus ; and beneath it are the superior laryngeal nerve and vessels. It is sometimes considered one of the special muscles of the larynx. Action. Raising the thyroid cartilage towards the os hyoides, it Use. renders lax the vocal cords, and assists in placing the cartilage under the tongue preparatory to swallowing. Directions. The remaining parts included in this SECTION are the scaleni muscles and the subclavian blood-vessels, with the cer\acal nerves and the carotid blood-vessels. The student may examine them in the order here given. Dissection (fig. 16). Supposing the sterno-mastoid cut, the fat Dissection and fascia ai-e to be taken away from the lower part of the neck, so as to prepare the scaleni muscles with the subclavian vessels and their branches. By means of a little dissection the anterior scalenus muscle will be seen ascending from the first rib to the lower cervical vertebra, having the phrenic nerve and subclavian vein in fi'ont of it, the latter crossing it near the rib. The part of the subclavian artery on the inner side of the of the sub- scalenus is then to be cleaned, care being taken not only of its !jrter'-'^ branches, but of the branches of the sympathetic nerve which' "^'^ course over and along it fi'om the neck to the chest. This dissec- tion will be facilitated by the removal of a piece or the whole of the clavicle. All the branches of the artery are in general easily found and except the superior intercostal, which may be sought in the thorax ' in front of tlie neck of the first rib. On the branch (inferior thyroid) ascending to the thyroid body, or near it, is the middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; and the dissector should follow downwards from it a small cardiac nerve to the thorax.