DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 338 Four cavi- ties of the heart. Dissection to open right auricle. Form of right amicle. Its base: apex. Anterior wall pre- sents auricula. Posterior wall is marked by fossa ovalis. Annulus of Vieussens. Apertures of sinus and smallest veins. Situation of cavse, The CAVITIES OF THE HEART may be examined in the order in which the current of the blood passes through them, viz. right auricle and ventricle, and left auricle and ventricle. Dissection. In the examination of its cavities the heart is not to be removed from the body. To open the right auricle, an incision may be made in it near the right or free border, and from the superior cava nearly to the inferior cava ; from the centre of that incision the luiife is to be carried across the anterior wall to the auricula. By means of those cuts an opening will be made of sufficient size ; and on removing the coagulated blood, and raising the flaps with hooks or pieces of string, the cavity may be exa- mined. The CAVITY OF THE EIGHT AURICLE (fig. 100) is of an uTegular form,** though when seen from the right side, with the flaps held up, it has somewhat the appearance of a cone, with the base to the right and the apex to the left. The widened part or lase of the ca-\aty is turned towards the right side, and at its extremities are the openings of the superior and in- ferior cavas. Between those vessels the cavity projects a little, and presents a slight elevation in some bodies (tubercle of Lower). The ajpex is prolonged downwards towards the junction of the auricle with the ventricle, and in it is the opening into the right ventricular cavity. The anterior wall is thin and loose. Near the base is an opening leading into the pouch of the appendix or am-icula (/i), which Avill admit the tip of the little finger. Around and in the interior of the appendix, are fleshy bands, named muscuH pectinati, which run mostly in a transverse direction, and form a network that contrasts with the general smoothness of the auricle. The posterior wall cori-esponds mostly with the septum between the auricles, in consequence of the position of the heart (p. 334). On it, close to the inferior cava, is a large oval depression, the fossa ovalis (d), which is the remains of an opening between the auricles in the fetus : inferioriy it merges into the lower cava. A thin semi-transparent structui-e forms the bottom of the fossa ;^ and there is oftentimes a small oblique aperture into the left auricle at its upper part. Around the upper tlu-ee-fourths of that hollow is an elevated band of muscular fibre, called anmtZMS seu isthmus Vieussenu, wliich is most prominent above and on the left side, and gradually subsides inferioriy. „ . , . Altogether at the lower end of the posterior wall is the aperture of the coronary sinus (e). Other small apertm-es are scattered over this surface :—some lead only into depressions ; but others are the mouths of veins of the substance of the heart (venee cordis mmimaj) (p 337), and are named foramina Thebesii (/). The chief apertures in the auricle are those of the two cava^ coronary sinus, and ventricle. The opening of the superior cava (a) • The term cavity of the auricle has been sometimes applied to the appendix, a™ thTterm sinus venosus to the rest of the space here named auricle.