NERVES OF THE TONGUE. 153 wards, the anterior becoming longitudinal, to the margin of the Emling. tongue, at which they end in the fascia. Action. Both muscles tend to shorten the tongue : and they will use. bend the point back and up. The inferior lingualis (Hg. 38, is much stronger than the pre- ^^.^ ceding, and is placed under the tongue, between the hyo and genio-hyo-glossus. The muscle arises posteriorly from the fascia at Origin, the root of the tongue ; and the fibres are collected into a roundish bundle : fi-om its attached surf ace fasciculi are continued vertically "'S- upwards through the transverse fibres to the dorsum ; and at the anterior third of the tongue, where the muscle is overlaid by the stylo-glossus, some of the fibres are applied to that muscle and distributed vnt\\ it. Action. Like the upper lingualis this muscle shortens the tongue, Use. and bends the point down and back. The mucous membrane is a continuation of that lining the mouth, . and is pro-^aded with a laminar epithelium. It partly invests the its epithe- * tongue, and is reflected off at different points in the form of folds l'"™- (p. 148). At the epiglottis are thi-ee small glosso-epiglottid folds, connecting tliis body to the root of the tongue; the central one of these is called the frsenum of the epiglottis. Like the membrane of the mouth, it is furnished with numerous glands, and some folUcles. The follicles are depressions of the mucous membrane, which are Follicles, surrounded hj closed capsules in the submucous tissue, like the aiTangement in the tonsil: thej'' occupj'' the dorsum of the tongue between the papilte circum-vallataa and the epiglottis, where they form a stratum, close beneath the mucous membrane. The glands (lingual) are racemose or compound in structure, fmd glands similar to those of the lips and cheek, and are placed beneath the ^''^ mucous membrane on the dorsum of the tongue behind the papillaa vallatiB. A few are found in fi-ont of the circumvallate papilljB, where they project into the muscular substance. Some of their ducts open on the surface ; others into the hollows around the vallate papillas, or into the foramen ctecum and the depressions of the folhcles. Opposite the papillss vallataj, at the margin of the tongue, is a gi-m.-ls at small cluster of submucous glands. Under the tip of the tono-ue, , -1 _p . , 1 -, . „ beneath on each side of the ±i-a;num, is another elongated collection of the tip. same kind of glands imbedded in the muscular fibres, fi-om which several ducts issue. Nerves. There are three nerves on the under surface of each Nerves from half of the tongue, viz. the gustatory, the hypoglossal, and the sources, glosso-pharyngeal (fig. 23). The gustatory nerve gives upwards filaments to the muscular sub- gustatory, stance, and to the two smallest sets of papillre, conical and fungi- fonn ; it joins also the hypo-glossal nerve. The hypo-glossal nerve is spent in long slender offsets to the liypo-glos- muscular substance of the tongue. The ghsso-phanjngeal nerve divides under the liyo-glossus into siosso- ° pliaryugeul.