.82 DISSECTION OF THE TTERYGOID REGION. poml muscle. To seethe insertion. Origin of temporal muscle. Insertion. Connec- tions. Use. To dissect pterygoid muscles, saw tliimigb ramus of the jaw. detached from the upper border of the zygomatic arch, and to b© removed from the surface of the muscle. Next, the arch of the zygoma is to be sawn througli in front and behind, so as to include all its length ; and is to be thrown down (without being cut off) with the masseter muscle still attached to it, by separating the- fibres of that muscle from the ramus of the jaw. In detaching the masseter muscle, its nerve and vessels, which pass through the sigmoid notch, will come into view. The surface of the temporal muscle may be then cleaned. And to expose its insertion and deep origin, let the coronoid process be sawn off by a cut passing from the centre of the sigmoid notch nearly to the last molar tooth, so as to include the whole insertion of the muscle. Before sawing the bone let the student find and separate fi-om the muscle the buccal vessels and nerve issuing- fi'om beneath it. Lastly, the coronoid process should be raised and the fat removed, in order that the lower fibres of the temporal muscle, and their contiguity to the external pterygoid below them,, may be observed. The temporal muscle (fig. 18, ^) takes its origin from the whole- of the temporal fossa (p. 4), reaching up to the semicircular line on the side of the skull, and downwards to the crest on the outer aspect of the great wing of the sphenoid bone. From this exten- sive attachment, as well - as fi'om the fascia over it, the fibres con- verge to a superficial tendon, which is inserted into the inner surface of the coronoid process, as well as into a groove on the same process which reaches from the apex to near the last molar tooth. Behind the posterior border of the tendon are the masseteric- vessels and nerve, and in fi'ont of it the buccal vessels and nerve : the last nerve perforates occasionally some of the fibres of the muscle. Action. All the fibres contracting the muscle will raise the mandible and press it forcibly agamst the upper jaw ; but the hinder fibres may retract the lower jaw after it has been moved forwards by the external pterygoid. Dissection. For the display of the pterygoid muscles (fig. 18),. it will be necessary to remove a piece of the ramus of the jaw. But the greater part of the temporal muscle is to be first de- tached from the subjacent bone with the handle of the scdpel, and the deep temporal vessels and nerves are to be sought in its: fibres. A piece of the ramus is next to be taken away by sawing across-, the bone close to the condyle, and again close above the dental foramen ; and to make the dental vessels and nerve in contact with its inner surface secure from injury, the handle of the scalpel may be inserted between them and the bone, and earned down- wards to their entrance into the foramen. The masseteric arteiy and nerve are liable to be cut in sawing the bone ; should these be divided, turn them upwards for the present, and afterwards tie together the ends. I