LEYATORES COSTARUM MUSCLES. 403 the small levatores costarum will be uncovered. The posterior part of the external intercostal muscle will be denuded at the same time. o The LEVATORES cosTAKUM are twelve small fan-shaped muscles, which are connected with the hinder part of the ribs. Each, except the first, arises bom the apex and lower border of the transverse process of a dorsal vertebra ; and is inserted, the fibres spreading Attach- out, into the upper border of the rib beneath, fi-om the tubercle to the angle. The muscles increase m size from above down, and their fibres have the same direction as the external intercostal layer. The first is fixed above to the transverse process of the last cervical The first, vertebra, and below to the outer border of the first rib. Some of ^^^^^^^ the four lower muscles are continued beyond one rib to that next muscles, succeeding : these longer sHps have been named levatores longiores costarum. Action. The muscles raise the hinder part of the ribs, as the name Use. signifies, and the lowermost draw the bones someAvhat back. The external intercostal muscle is continued backwards along the P"*^'' . , ° mtercostal ribs as far as the tubercle, and is overlaid by the elevator muscle, muscle. Beneath the muscle are the intercostal nerve and artery. Dissection. To trace the anterior and posterior primary branches Dissection, of the dorsal nerves to their common trunk, the elevator of the rib and the external intercostal muscle are to be cut through in one or more spaces. The intercostal artery with its posterior branch is laid bare by this proceeding. * The dorsal nerves split in the intervertebral foramina into anterior Dorsal nerve and posterior primary branches. * The posterior branches are dkected backwards, internal to posterior the anterior costo-transverse ligament, and have been examined (p. 396). The anterior, named intercostal, is continued between the ribs to anterior the fi-ont of the chest: its anatomy is learnt in the dissection of the thorax (p. 369). * The intercostal artery has an almost exact correspondence with intercostal the dorsal nerve in its branching and distribution. artery. » D 2