607 STRUCTURE OF SPLEEX. Fis. 155.* Mkroscojyic appearances. The clmracters of the spleen substance cannot be ascertained without the aid of the microscope _ The splenic pulp is a soft red-brown mass which is lodged in tlie areola3 of the trabecular structure. Under the microscope this material is seen to be composed of a fine network of ramifying connective tissue corpuscles, with blood-cells in its meshes. The Malpighian corpuscles are small rounded whitish bodies, about -g-Vh of an inch in diameter, and are connected with the outer coat of "the smallest branches of the arteries ; they project into the pulp of the spleen, and are surrounded by it. In structure they are like the lymph follicles of the intestine, consisting of reticular tissue, with lymph corpuscles in its meshes, through wliich blood-capillaries pass. Bloodvessels. The larger branches of the splenic ttrtei-y are surrounded by sheaths of fibrous tissue in the trabeculjB; but the smallest branches leave the sheathing, and break up into tufts of capillaries, which are said to open into the fine meshes of the spleen substance. In the smallest branches, with Avhich the Malpighian corpuscles are united, the outer coat is tliickened by lymphoid tissue, and is directly continuous with those bodies in structure. The splenic vein is supposed to begin in the meshes of the splenic pulp by open channels. From the union of these radicles arise small branches, which unite into ti-unks larger than the accompanying arteries, and issue by the fissure of the spleen ; in their course they receive accessory branches, some joining at a right angle. Nerves and lymphatics. The lymphatics are superficial and deep, and enter the glands in the gastro-splenic omentum. In the spleen they begin in the corpuscles of Malpighi, and in the outer coat of the smallest arteries ; they are conveyed to the hilum of the spleen the vessels. The nerves come fi'om the solar plexus, and sur- Splenic pulp; colour, anil coinijosl- tion. Malpigliiiiu bodies ; .size; structure. Splenic artery. Ending. Peculiarity in smaller branches. Vein begins by open spaces. Brandies. Lymphatics. Nerves. on round the artery and its branches. THE LIVER. Tlie liver secretes the bile, and is the lai'gest gland in the body. 9"'"''^ o'' 'I'b Its duct opens into the duodenum with that of the pancreas. Dissection (fig. 156). Preparatoiy to examining the liver, the Clean vessels at the under surface sliould be dissected out. This proceed- ^^^l^]^ °" ing will be facilitated by distending the vena cava and vena portaa surface; Avith tow or cotton wool, and the gall-bladder with air through its * A drawing of the traljecular stnicturo of the spleen of the o.x, at some distance from the hilum.