DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 164 Form. Surfaces. Borders; the upper- most uneven. Aryteennicl cartilages. Situation and form. Base. Apex. Three surfaces. Fibro-carti- lages of Santorini. cealed by the shield-like cartilage, below wliich it is placed. It is veiy unequal in depth before and beliind,—the posterior part being three tinies deeper than the anterior, something like a signet ring. Its contained space is about as large as the fore finger. The outer surface is rough, and gives attachment to muscles. At the back of the cartilage there is a Hat and rather square portion, which is marked by a median ridge between two contiguous muscular depressions. On each side, immediately in fi-ont of the square part, is a shallow arti- cular mark, which receives the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The inner surface is smooth, and is covered by mu- cous membrane. The lower border is undulat- ing, and is united to the trachea by fibrous membra:ne. Tlie upper border is nearly straight posteriorly, opposite the deep part of the ring ; and this por- tion is limited on each side by an articular mark for the ary- tfenoid cartilage. In fi'ont of that spot the border is sloped obliquely downwards to the middle line. At the middle line behind there is a slight excava- tion in each border. The two arytcenoid cartilages^ c, are placed one on each side at the back of the laiynx, on the upper border of the cricoid cartilage. Each is pyi-amidal in shape, is about half an inch in depth, and offers for examination a base and apex, and three surfaces. The base has a slightly hollowed sm-face behind for articulation with the cricoid cartilage, and is elongated in front into a point which gives attachment to tlie vocal cord. The apex is directed backwards and somewhat inwards, and is sunnoimted by the carti- lage of Santorini. The inner surface is narrow, especially above, and flat. The outer is wide and irregular, and on it is a small projection at the base, which receives the insertion of some of the muscles. At the poste- rior aspect the cartilage is concave and smooth. Cartilages of Santorini. Attached to the apes of each arytenoid * Hyoid bone and the laryngeal cartilages : a. Body of tlie byoid bone. H. Large cornu. J. Small cornu. A. Epiglottis. B. Thyroid cai-tilage. c. Arytajnoid cartilage, d. Cricoid cartilage, e. Upper cornu, and f. Lower CDrnu of the thjToid cartilage.