528 Vessels of tllC llUL't. DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Vessels of the vas deferens. A special artenj is furnished to tlie excretory duct from tlie upper or lower vesicle, and readies as far as the testis, where it anastomoses with the ^ermatic artery. Veins from tlie e^ndidymis enter the spermatic vein. The nerves are derived fi'om the hypogastric plexus. Dissect Ijlood vessels and iiuisfles. To see the iliaphrafjm. Define iirclies. Diaphragm, situation and form. Origin^t the cimun- ference. Insertion of libres into a central tendon. Parts in contact with tlic under siu'face, and with the n{)i)er. Attachment of border. Section V. DIAPHRAGM WITH AORTA AND VENA CAVA. Directions. After the body is replaced in its former position on the Back, the student should prepare -first tlie diaphragm, next tlie large vessels and their branches, and then the deep muscles of the abdomen. Dissection. For the dissection of the diaphragm it will be neces- sary to remove the peritoneum, definmg especially the central tenchnous part, and the fleshy processes or pillars which are fixed to the lumbar vertebra;. Whilst cleaning the muscle the student should be careful of the vessels and nerves on the surface, and of others m and near the pillars. On the right side two aponeurotic bands or arches, near the spine, wliich give attachment to the muscular fibres, should be dissected : —one curves over the internal muscle (psoas) ; the other extends over the external muscle (quadratus), and mil be made more evident by separating from it the fascia covering the quadratus. The DIAPHRAGM (fig. 168, ^) forms the vaulted moveable partition between the thorax and the abdomen. It is fleshy externally, where it is attached to the suiTounding ribs and the spinal column, and has its tendon in the centre. The origin of the muscle is at the circumference, and is similar on each side of the middle line. Thus, it is connected by fleshy slips with the inner surface of the xiphoid cartilage, and of the six lower ribs ; with two aponeurotic arches between the last rib and the spinal column—one being placed over the quadratus lumborum, and the other over the psoas muscle; and, lastly, it is connected with the lumbar vertebrae by a thick muscular piece or pillar. From this extensive origin the fibres are directed inwards, with different degrees of obliquity and length, to the central tendon, but some have a peculiar disposition in the pillars which will be afterwards noted (page 530). The abdominal surface is conoave, and is covered for tlie most part by the peritoneum. In contact with it on the right side are the liver and the kidney ; and on the opposite side, the stomach, the spleen, and the left kidney : in contact also with the pillars is the pancreas, together with the solar plexus and the semilunar ganglia. The thoracic surface is covered by the pleura of each sideband the pericardium, and is convex towards the thorax (p. 369). At the circumference of tlie midriff the fleshy processes of origin