225 LOBES OF THE CEREBELLUM. level with the posterior edge of the vermiform process ; and the posterior reaches thence to the great horizontal fissure at the circumference. On the under surface of the hemisphere (fig. 66), there are five lobes; three of them are separated by sulci amongst the laminas on this aspect, but they are scarcely more distinct than the lobes on the upper surface. Beginning behind, the student will meet first the posterior lobe (7c), which joins the commissural laminae behind the pyramid in the valley. Next in succession is the slendei' lobe (i), which is connected with the posterior part of the pjTamid, as well as with the other transverse laminaj behind that body. And lastly, attached to the side of the pyramid, is the biventral lobe (h). The two other lobes, though smaller are more separate, and appear between the biventral lobe and the medulla oblongata:— One of these is the amygdaloid lobe (g), which projects into the vallecula opposite the uvula, and touches the medulla oblongata. The other is a small pyramidal slip, which, is directed ouhvards over (the under surface of the cerebellum being uppermost) the crus cerebelh, and is named flocculus, or subpedimcular lobe (/). Dissection. To see the flocculus and the posterior medullaiy velum, the biventral and slender lobes are to be sliced off on the left side, so that the amygdaloid lobe may be everted fi-om the valley (fig. 67). The flocculus is laid bare by this proceeding, and pass- Fig. 67.* Five on sur- face, viz.. posterior, slender, and biven- tral. Two in valley : amygdaloid and floccu- lus. Dissection for floc- culus. mg from it to the tip of the uvula is the thin and soft white layer of the posterior velum (6) ; beneatli the last a bit of paper may be mserted. The furrowed band on the side of the uvula can be fully seen now. Flocculus ami medullary velum. The position of the flocculus Position and 10 tne crus cerebelh has been before mentioned. This body (c) floc'c'iaus'' * View from behind of the under surface of the cerebeUum, with some of thn lobes removed to show the posterior medullary velum, a. UvuKa, c t.lTT". "«'l"lL*'-y ^vith a bit of whale-bone unde^ it c Zt Se t'^iedX'Tr'"; .^rT''Amygdalokl lobe, iurntd asiae. y. Medulla oblongata raised, showing posterior sui-face.