130 DISSECTION OF THE THAIIYNX. turns around lianuilar process is (leejier tlmn tho other. liairiular process (fif?. 30, -) ; and is mserted into about one third of an^ mcli of the posterior border of the palate, viz. from the central spme to a projecting point; and blends inferiorly with the aponeu- rosis of the velum. As tho tendon winds round the bone, it is throwi into folds; and between the two is a bm-sa. In the soft palate it lies beneath the Fig. 30.* Use ill palate, on tube. Palato-glos- sus. Attach- ments. Connec- tions. Use: tongue fixed. Palnto-pha- levator muscle. The Eustachian tube is directed inwards between tlais muscle and the preceduig. Action. Acting fi-om the skull the muscle will fix and make tense the lateral part of the soft palate; but its movements will be very limited, seeing that the tendon is inserted partly into the palate bone. If the soft palate is fixed by the depressor muscles, the levator and tensor, and the salpingo-pharyngeus, taking their fixed points below, open the Eustachian tube in swallowuig. The PALATO-GLOSSUS MUSCLE (constrictor isthmi faucium) is a small, pale band of fibres, which is contained in the anterior arch, i, of the soft palate. It is connected inferiorly with the lateral surface and the dorsum of the tongue ; fi-om this spot the fibres ascend before the tonsil to the anterior aspect of the soft palate, where they form a thin muscular stratum, and join those of the fellow muscle along the middle line. At its origin the muscle is blended with the glossal muscles, and at its insertion it is placed before the tensor palati. Action. The palato-glossus narrows the isthmus of the fauces ; the muscles of opposite sides mo-vang inwards towards each other, and separating from the mouth the morsel to be swallowed. When the tongue is fixed the muscle will render tense and draw down the soft palate. The PALATO-PHARYNGEUS is much larger in size than the preceding, * 1. Azygos uviilse. 2. pharyngeus—upper end. 5, Tensor palati. 3. Levator External pterygoid. palati. 4. Palato-