C(ELIAC ARTERY AND BRANCHES. 485 defined ; this is a difficult task without the aid of some one to hold aside the stomach and spleen. The veins will have been dissected for the most part with the Veins, arteries ; but the origin of the vena portaj is to be made out beneath the pancreas, and in front of the vena cava. The CCELIAC AXIS (fig. 143, c) is the first visceral branch of the c«i'ac ax.s^ abdominal aorta, and arises between the pillars of the diaphragm, tinee fol^ It is a short thick trunk, about half an inch long, which projects = above the upper border of the pancreas, and is surrounded by the solar plexus of the sympathetic. Its branches—coronary, hepatic, and splenic—radiate fi-om the trunk (whence the name axis) to their distribution to the surrounding viscera. a. The coronary artenj (il) is the smallest of the three, and Coronary,^^ passes between the layers of the little omentum to the left end of the stomach. At that spot it furnishes some oesophageal branches, and turns from left to right, along the upper border of the stomach, to anastomose with a branch (pyloric, o) from the liepatic arteiy. Its offsets to the oesophagus and the stomach are thus distributed :— (Esophageal hranches ascend on the gullet through the opening in the diaphragm, supplying that tube ; and they anastomose on it phagus with branches of the thoracic aorta. Gastric hranches are given to both sides of the stomach, and those and the on the left end communicate with twigs (vasa brevia) of the splenic artery. h. The splenic artery (e) is the largest branch of the coeliac axis in Splenic the adult. It is a tortuous vessel, and runs almost horizontally to ^^''^^ the spleen, along the upper border of the pancreas. Near the spleen it divides into terminal branches, about seven in number (fr-om four supplies tlie to ten), which enter that viscus by the surface towards the stomach. ^1*'®®°' It is accompanied by the splenic vein, which is below it, and it distributes branches to the pancreas and the stomach. Pancreatic hranches. Numerous small branches are supplied to the the pancreas gland ; and one of these, art. i^cmcreatica magna, arises near the small twigs'! left end, and runs to the right in the substance of the viscus with the duct. Branches for the stomach arise from the divisions of the artery near and the the spleen. Some of these, vasa hrevia, tm-n upwards to the left end of the stomach, beneath the gastro-splenic omentum and ramify Previa,'' in the coats of that organ. Another longer branch, art. gastro-epiploica sinistra (f) turns to and left the right between the layers of the gi-eat omentum along the great fpij^ok curve of the stomach, and inosculates with the right gastro- epiploic branch of the hepatic artery. This artery distributes twigs to both surfaces of the stomach, and between the pieces of peri- toneum forming the great omentum. c. The hepatic artery (g) is intermediate in size between the other Hepatic two, and is encircled by the largest plexus of nerves. In its course ' to the liver the vessel is bent first to the right towards the small ^u" iiver,° end of the stomach, where it supplies its pruicipal branches (superior