631 ADDUCTOR MUSCLES OF HIP JOINT. fibres, and one issuing beneath tlio adductor longus, to ]om the plexus at tlie inner side of the thigh. p„„,„™ Lastly, should any fat and veins be left with the profunda and Remove its branches, they must be removed. The GRACILIS reaches from the pelvis to the tibia (fig. 196,«), and Gracilis is fleshy and ribbon-like above, but tendinous below. The muscle f^^^^^^^^' arises by a thin aponeurosis, two or three inches in depth, from the pelvis, pubic border of the hip bone close to the margin, viz., opposite the lower half of the symphysis, and the upper part of the pubic arch. Inferiorly it is inserted by a flat tendon, about one third of an inch IXTibia. wide, into the inner surface of the tibia, beneath and close to the sartorius. The muscle is supei-ficial throughout. For two tliirds of the thigh it is flattened against the adductors brevis and magnus, so as to muscles, have its borders directed forwards and backwards; and in the lower third, it intervenes between the sartorius and semi-membranosus ^ muscles, and helps to form the inner boundary of the popliteal ^ space. At its insertion the tendon is nearer the knee than that of ' ' the semitendinosus, though at the same depth from the surface, and ■ both lie over the internal lateral ligament; and from the tendon an expansion is continued to the fascia of the leg, like the sartorius, A bursa separates the tendon from the ligament, and projects above it to the sartorius. Action. It bends the knee joint if the tibia is not fixed, rotating V?^°^^^^ in that bone ; and then brings the moveable femur towards the feSur, middle Une with the other adductors. Supposing the foot resting on the ground the gi-acilis will aid in °^ pelvis, propping the pelvis on the limb. The PECTiNEUS (fig. 194, ^) is the highest of the muscles directed Pectineus. fi-om the pelvis to the inner side of the femur. It has a fleshy origin from the ilio-pectineal line of the hip-bone, and from the triangular smooth surface in front of that line ; and it is inserted inferiorly by a tendon, about two inches in width, into the femur behind the small j^^g^l^^j, trochanter, and into the upper part of the line which extends from that process to the linea aspera. The muscle is twisted, so that the surfaces which are dii-ected Muscle is forwards and backwards near the pelvis, are turned inwards and ' outwards at the femur. One surface is in contact with the fascia surfaces; lata ; and the opposite touches the obturator muscle and nerve, and the adductor brevis. The pectineus lies between the psoas and the parts ou the adductor longus ; and the internal circumflex vessels pass between its outer border and the psoas. p. Psoas. Vessels: a. Femoral artery, and b, femoral vein. c. Trunk of the prftfunda. d. Internal, and e, external circumflex. /. First, g, second, and h, third perforating, i. Muscular and anastomotic of the profunda, k. Anastomotic of the femoral, with I, the articular, and n, the cutaneous piece. Nerves: 1. Obturator, joined by the accessory obturator nerve, with 2, the superficial, and 4, the deep part. 3. Cutaneous branch of the obturator. 5. Articular branch to the knee from the deep piece. 6. Anterior crural nerve. 7. Internal saphenous, and 10, its patellar branch. 8. Nerve to the vastus intemus, and 9, its articular branch to the knee.