36 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Dissection of nerve beyond parotid, on temple, in eyelids in the face. on lower jaw. The nerve in the parotid, and muscu- lar branches, Branches outside tlie skull. Posterior auricular branch. Branch to digastric. communications take place between it and the fiftli nerve ; the chief of these are fomid above and below the orbit, and over tlie side of the lower jaw. Dissection. ^ The facial nerve is to be displayed on the riglit side of the face if there is time sufficient before the body is turned, otherwise it is to be omitted for the present (see p. 1). Some of the nerve is concealed by the parotid gland, but the greater part is anterior to the glandular mass. To expose the ramifications of the nerve beyond the parotid gland, raise the skin from the face in the same manner as on the left side. The different branches are then to be sought as they escape from beneath the anterior border of the gland, and are to be followed forwards to their termination. The highest branches to the temple have been already partly dissected above the zj^gomatic arch ; and then- junction with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary and the supra-orbital nerve has been seen. Other still smaller branches are to be traced to the outer part of the orbit, where they enter the eyelids and com- municate with the other nerves in the lids ; as these cross the malar bone, a junction is to be found with the subcutaneous malar nerve of the fifth. With the duct of the parotid are two or more large branches, which are to be followed below the orbit to their junction Avith the infra-orbital, nasal, and infi-a-trochlear nerves. The remaining branches to the lower part of the face are smaller in size. One joins with the buccal nerve at the lower part of the buccinator muscle ; and one or two others are to be traced forwards to the lower lip, and to the labial branch of the inferior dental nerve. To follow backwards the trunk of the nerve through the gland, the integuments should be taken from the surface of the jjarotid as on the other side, and the gland should be removed piece by piece. In this proceeding its small branches of communication with the great auricular nerve, and the deep branches from it to the auriculo- temporal nerve (of the fifth), are to be sought. Lastly, the first small branches of the facial to the ear and the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, are to be looked for close to the base of the skull before the nerve enters the parotid. The Nerve outside the Skull (fig. 9, ^^). The nerve issues from the stylo-mastoid foramen, after traversing the aqueduct of Fallopius, and furnishes immediately the three following small branches :— The posterior auricular branch (fig. 9, ■*) turns upwards in front of the mastoid process, where it communicates with an offset of the great auricular, and is said to be joined by a branch to the ear fi-om the pneumo-gastric (cranial) nerve ; it ends in auricular and mastoid offsets (p. 8). The branch to the digastric muscle arises generally in common with the next. It is distributed by many offsets to the posterior belly of the muscle near the skull.