FOURTH VENTRICLE. 229 about half way down, tlie cavity is limited on each side by the superior peduncle of the cerebellum (l), which projectmg over it, forms pai-t of the roof; and along the lower half lies the emmence of the restiform body (fig, 65, ^). ^ , . The roof of the space is somewhat arched, and is formed above Roof, by the valve of Vieussens (Ic), and the under part of the vermiform process ; and below, by the reflection of the pia mater from that process to the spinal cord. The floor of the ventricle is constituted by the posterior surfaces Floor, of the medulla oblongata and pons, and is grayish in colour. Along f^^^'^^'^iJan its centre is a median groove, wliich ends below, near the pomt of groorc^. and the calamus, in a mmute hole,—the aperture of the canal of the cord. On each side of the groove is a spmdle-shaped elevation, the fasciculus s. eminentia teres (o). This emmence reaches the whole length of the floor, and is pointed and little marked inf eriorly, where it is covered by gray substance ; but it becomes whiter and more prominent superiorly, and its widest point is opposite the lower border of the pons. The outer border of the eminence is limited externally by a slight Foveae, groove, which points out the position of two small foss^ (fovea anterior et posterior). The posterior (?•) is near the lower end of posterior, the groove ; and the anterior (p) is opposite the crus cerebelli. anterior. Above the anterior fossa is a deposit of very dark gray substance, ^ocus^^^ which has a bluish appearance as it is seen through the thin stratum covering it f from it a bluish streak is continued upwards, at the outer edge of the eminentia teres, to the opening in the top of the fomth ventricle. Crossing the floor on each side, opposite the lower border of the White strise. pons, are some white lines, which vary much in their arrangement (fig. 55) : they issue from the central median fissure, and enter the auditory nerve (p. 188). Besides the objects above mentioned, there are other eminences of nerve in the floor of the ventricle indicating the position of the nuclei of nuclei, origin of certain nei-ves. In the lower half of the space are three slight eminences on each side for the hypo-glossal, vagus, and auditory nerves :—that for the hypo-glossal is close to the middle line below, and corresponds nuclei of tlie with the lower pointed end of the eminentia teres. The other two, i^siiai, outside that eminence, are placed in a line one above another, but separated by a well-marked groove (fovea posterior) ; the lower is vagus, the nucleus of the vagus and glosso-phaiyngeal nerves, and the giosso- upper is the nucleus of the auditory ners^e. Eunning into the lower auditory^nd end of the vagus nucleus, is the nucleus of the accessory portion of accessoiy. the spinal accessoiy nerve. (See p. 189.) In the upper half of the space some other nerves take origin in upper from nuclei, but there is only one projection. This is placed over the common nucleus of the sixth and the facial nerve : it is a * The term locus csenileus has been apijlied to the bluish spot, and the dark vesicular matter in it has been named substantia ferruginea.