€2 DISSECTION OP THE NECK. alters Ijosition. Nerves with the arteries. lying along and crossing tlieni. neck con-espondiiiff with some of the brandies of the superficial artciy. In some bodies the vein may cover the arterj-- ; and tlie branches joining it above may form a kind of plexus over the upper end of tlie common carotid. Nerves in the space. In connection, more or less intimate, with tlie large vessels, are the following nerves with a longitudinal direction :—In fi-ont of the sheath lies the descending brancli of the hypo-glossal ner^'-e ; within the sheath between the carotid artery and jugular vein, is the pneumo-gastric nerve ; and behind the sheath is the sympathetic nerve. Along the outer side of the vessels the spinal accessory nerve extends for a short distance, till it pierces the sterno-mastoid muscle. Several nerves are placed across the vessels :—thus, directed transversely over the two carotids, so as to form an arch below the digastric muscle, is the hypo-glossal nen^e, which gives downwards its branch (descendens noni) most commonly in fi-ont of the sheath. Appearing on the inner side of the carotid arteries, close to the base of the space, is the glosso-pharjaigeal nerve, wliich coui-ses forwards between them. Inside the internal carotid artery, opposite the hyoid bone, the superior laryngeal nerve comes into sight; whilst a little lower down, with the descending branches of the thyroid artery, is the external laryngeal branch of that nerve. Glands in the space. Two glandular bodies, the submaxillaiy, and thyi'oid, have their seat in this ti-iangular space of the neck. The submaxillary gland is situate altogether in front of the vessels, and is partly concealed by the jaw ; and beneath it on the surface of the mylo-hyoideus is the small nerve to that muscle, with the submental artery. By the side of the thyroid cartilage, between it and the common carotid arterj', lies the thyroid body beneath the stemo-thyroid muscle: in the female this body is more largely developed than in the male. At the base of the space, if the parts were not disturbed, would be the parotid gland, which is wedged into the hollow between the jaw and the mastoid process, and projects somewhat below the level of the jaw. Its connections have been noticed at p. 28. Directions. The student has to proceed next with the examination of the indi-sadual parts that have been referred to in the triangular spaces. Anterior jugular vein. Tliis small vem occupies the middle line of the neck, and its size is dependent upon the degree of development of the external jugular. Beginning in some small branches below the chin, the vein descends to the sternum, and then bends out- wards beneath the stemo-mastoid muscle, to open into the sub- clavian vein, or into the external jugular. In the neck the anterior and external jugular veins communicate. There are two anterior veins, one for each side, though one is usually larger than the other ; and at the bottom of the neck they are joined by a transverse branch. Stenio-nias- The STEHNO-CLEIDO-MASTOID MUSCLE (fig. 15, ) forms the super- toid muscle £^,^^1 prominence of the side of the neck. It is narrower m the Glands; submaxil- lary and thyroid "body. Parotid gland. Anterior jugular vein joins suhela- vian vein.