594 DISSECTION OF THE TELYIS. Section VII. INTERNAL MUSCLES AND LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. Two lauscles. Define the muscles and the levator ani Origin in the pelvis Insertion. Its connec- tions with parts around. Two muscles, the pyriformis and obturator internus, have their origin %\athin the cavity of tiie pelvis. Dissection. Take away any fascia or areolar tissue which may remain on the muscles ; and define their exit fi-om the pelvis,—the pyriformis passing through the great sacro-sciatic notch, and the obturator through the small notch of the same name. On the right side the dissector may look to the attachment of the levator ani muscle to the pubic part of the hip-bone. Pyrifonnis. The PYRIFORMIS MUSCLE is directed outwards through the great sacro-sciatic notch to the gi-eat trochanter of the femur. The muficle has received its name fi-om its form. In the pelvis the pyriformis arises by three slips from the second, thii-d, and fourth pieces of the sacrum, between the anterior aper- tures, and from the surface of the bone external to those holes ; as it passes fi-om the pelvis, it takes origin also fi-om the surface of the hip-bone forming the upper boundary of the large sacro-sciatic notch, and from the great sacro-sciatic ligament. From this origin the fibres converge to the tendon of insertion into the trochanter. (Dissection of the Buttock, p. 647.) The anterior surface is in contact Avith the sacral plexus, with the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac vessels, and with the rectum on the left side. The opposite surface rests on the sacrum, and is covered by the great gluteal muscle outside the pelvis. The upper border is near the hip-bone, the gluteal vessels and the supe- rior gluteal nerve being between ; and the lower border is contiguous to the coccygeus muscle, the sacral plexus, and the sciatic and jjudic vessels intervening. Action. The pyriformis belongs to the group of external rotators of the hip-joint; and its use will be given with the description of the rest of the muscle in the dissection of the Buttock (p. 647). The OBTURATOR INTERNUS MUSCLE has its Origin in the pelvis, and insertion at the great trochanter of the femur, like the preceding ; but the part outside is almost parallel in direction with that mside the pelvis. The muscle arises by a broad fleshy attachment from the obtura- tor membrane, except a small part behind ; from the pelvic fascia covering its surface ; slightly from the bone anterior to the tliyroid hole, but from all the smooth inclined surface of the pelvis behind and above that aperture, though opposite the small sacro-sciatic foramen a thin layer of fat separates the fleshy fibres from the bone. The fibres arc directed backwards and somewhat downwards, and end in three or four tendinous pieces, wliich turn over the sharp edge of the hip-bone corresponding with the small sacro-sciatic notch. Outside the pelvis the tendons blend into one, which is Insertion, inserted into the great trochanter (p. 647). Use as an external rotator of hip joint. Obturator muscle is bent over pelws. Origin in tlie pelvis, arching of its tendons liver the hip hone. t