DISSECTION OF THE LEG. €88 tendon of tibialis iios- ticus into tarsus and meta- tarsus. Insertion of tendon of peroneus longus. Connec- tions. the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint, and over the astra- galo-scaphoid articulation to be inserted into the prominence ofjlie scaphoid Lone. From its insertion processes are continued tomany of the other bones of the foot:—One is directed backwards to the margin of the groove in the os calcis for the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. Two offsets are directed forwards:—one to the internal cuneiform bone ; the other, much the largest, is attached to the micMle and outt;/ cujisi^fljuji, to the os cuboides, and to the bases of the SQCflnd, thitd, and fftujih metatarsal bones. In other words, pieces are fixed into all the tarsal bones except one (astra- galus) ; and into all the metatarsal bones except two (first and fifth). Where the tendon is placed beneath the articulation of the astra- galus, it contains a sesamoid bone, or a fibro-cartilage. The tendon of the peroneus longus muscle winds round the cuboid bone, and is continued inwards in the groove on the under surface, to be inserted into the internal cuneifoiTU bone, and the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe ; and sometimes by a slip into the base of the second metatarsal bone. In the sole of the foot (fig. 211), it is contained in a sheath wliich is crossed, towards the outer part, by the fibres of the long plantar ligament prolonged to the tarsal ends of the third and fourth meta- tarsal bones ; but it is formed internally only by areolar tissue. A separate synovial membrane lubricates the sheath. Where the tendon turns round the cuboid bone it is thickened, and contains fibro-cartilage or a sesamoid bone. Section VI. Position of the limb. Raise the skin. 1 Seek the cutaneons nerves in the leg: on the foot both vessels and nerves: THE FRONT OF THE LEG. Position. The limb is to be raised to a convenient height by blocks beneath the knee, and the foot is to be extended in order that the muscles on the fi'ont of the leg may be put on the sti-etch. Dissection. To enable the dissector to raise the sMn from the leg and foot, one incision should be made along the middle line from the knee to the toes, and tliis should be intersected by cross cuts at the ankle and the root of the toes. After the flaps of skin are reflected, the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be looked for. At the upper and inner pai-t of the leg are some filaments from the great saphenous nei-ve; and at the outer side others, still smaller, fi-om the external popHteal nerve. Perforating the fascia in the lower thhd, on the anterior aspect, the musculo-cutaneous nerve may be found, whose branches should be pursued to the toes. On the dorsum of the foot is a venous arch, which ends laterally in the saphenous veins. On the outer side lies the external saphenous nerve • and about the middle of the instep the internal saphenous