27 VESSELS OF FACE. ^viththe other muscles and with both parts of the orbicuLans ; and as some of the central hbres descend to the lower lip whilst others ascend to the upper lip, a decussation takes place at the corner o± the mouth. . -i ^ ■ On the cutaneous surface of the buccinator are the diflEerent muscles c-?^- converging to the angle of the mouth ; and crossing the upper part is the duct of the parotid gland, which perforates the muscle oppo- site the second upper molar tooth. Internally the muscle is lined by the mucous membrane of the mouth, and externally it is covered by a fascia (bucco-pharyngeal) that is continued to the pharynx. By its intermaxillary origin the buccinator corresponds with the attachment of the superior constrictor of the pharynx. Action. By one muscle the corner of the mouth is retracted, and the cheek wrinkled. By the action of both the aperture of the ' mouth is widened transversely. In mastication the cheek is pressed by the muscular contraction o'^ cheek, agamst the dental arches, when the comer of the mouth is fixed by the sphincter. In the expulsion of air fi-om the mouth, as in whistling, the m expelling: muscle is contracted so as to prevent bulging of the cheek ; but in the use of a blow-pipe it is distended over the volume of air con- tained in the mouth, and drives out a continuous stream of air by its contraction. The VESSELS OF THE FACE (fig. 17) are the facial and transverse Arteries of ^ . . , . the tace. facial artenes with then- accompanying veins, ihe artenes are branches of the external carotid ; and the facial vein is received into the internal jugular trunk. The facial artery (fig. 17, /), a branch of the carotid, emerges Facial from the neck, and appears on the lower jaw anterior to the masseter "■^^^^'^ • muscle. From this point the artery ascends in a tortuous manner, near the angle of the mouth and the side of the nose, to the inner angle of the orbit, where it anastomoses with the ophthalmic artery. The course of the vessel is comparatively superficial in the mass of course, fat of the inner part of the cheek. At first it is concealed by the platysma whilst crossing the jaw, but this thin muscle does not t/o,'ig'^°""^"' prevent pulsation being recognised during life ; and near the mouth the large zygomatic muscle is superficial to it. The vessel rests successively on the lower jaw, buccinator muscle, elevator of the angle of the mouth, and elcAMtor of the upjoer lip. Accompanjnng the arteiy is the facial vein, which is nearly a straight tube, and lies to the outer side. Branches. From the outer side of the vessel unnamed branches Plan of the are furnished to the muscles and integuments, some of which anas- tomose with the transverse facial artery. From the inner side are given the following branches :— The inferior labial branch (t) runs inwards beneath the depressor Inferior anguli^ oris muscle, and is distributed between the lower lip and chin ; it communicates with the inferior coronary, and with the labial branch of the inferior dental artery. Coronary branches (r aiul a). There is one for each lip Csunerior ^ coronary