731 CHAMBER OF AQUEOUS HUMOUR. branches (p. 46) ; they pierce tlic sclerotic coat about a line behind the cornea, supply the ciliary processes, and join the circle of the Ion"- ciliary vessels. In inllaramation of the iris these vessels are enlarged, and ofEsets of them form a ring round the cornea. The jiosterior ciliary veins (fig. 229) are commonly four in number, ajid the branches entering these trunks form arches (A, vasa vorti- veins; cosa) on the surface of the choroid coat : they perforate the sclerotic layer at separate spots, midway between the cornea and the optic nerve, and end in the ophthalmic vein. Antenor ciliary veins begin in a plexus within the ciliary muscle, ^[jj^^J^y and accompany the arteries through the sclerotic to end in the oph- veins, thalmic (p. 46) : they communicate with the venous space of the sinus circularis iridis (p. 724). The ciliary nerves (fig. 229,/) are derived fi-om the lenticular Ciliai-y ganglion, and the nasal nerve (p. 45). Entering the back of the eyeball with the arteries, they are continued with the vessels between the sclerotic and choroid, nearly as far as the ciliary muscle : at this spot tiie nerves send offsets to the cornea, and piercing the fibres of the cihary muscle, enter the iris, but their manner of ending is unlvnown. Offsets from the nerves supply the ciliary muscle and e"d in iris •' •' and ciliary the choroid. muscle. Ch.\mber of the Aqueous Humour (fig. 225). The space between spnce con- the cornea in front and the lens behind, in which the iris is suspended, ^""ofg contains a clear fluid named the aqueous humour. In the fetus iiumom-; before the seventh month this interval is separated into two by the iris and the pupillary membrane, but in the adult it is only partly 'f^^^rnto divided, for the two communicate through the pupil. The boun- two by the daries of the two chambers may be seen in the eye on Avliich a vertical section has been made. The anterior chamber is the larger of the two ; it is limited in Anterior front by the cornea, and behind by the iris. ^ The posterior chamber (i) is a narrow intei-val behmd the iris at Posterior; the circumference, which is bounded in fi-ont by the iris ; behind ijound- b}' the lens capsule, and by a piece of the membrane (suspensory ligament of the lens) on the front of the vitreous humour ; and at the circumference by the ciliary processes. The aqueous Jiuviour is quite transparent, and consists nearly of j^^^^^^f pure water. A small quantity of chloride of sodium, with some extractive matter, is in solution in it. The Retina (fig. 225, c). This layer (tunica nei-vea) is in part continuous with the optic nerve, and is the most delicate of all the optic nerve.' coats of the eyeball. On it the image of objects is received in the bottom of the eye. Dissection. The retina can be satisfactorily examined only on an dissection eye which is obtained within forty-eight hours after death. To retina.""" bring it into view on the eyeball in which the choroid coat was dissected, the choroidal covering must be torn away carefully with two pair of forceps, whilst the eye is immersed in fluid. The retina is the most internal of the three concentric strata in Situation in the globe of the eye, and is situate between the choroid coat and