DISSECTION OF THE TELVIS. 548 .Did liordevs. Use on the coccyx. Lc\-atoi' niii; situation. Origin linrtly from iiono, and liartly from membrane. Insertion along middle line of tlie perinteum. Borders and surfaces. Two mus- (des form a tiesliy dia- pliragni. Use on tlie urethra, in micturi- tion, and passage of semen ; on coccyx. Bisscction fur tlie rec- to-vesical fa.scia. sacro-sciatic ligament. Tlie liinder border is contiguoii's to the pyriformis muscle, vessels and nerves intervening ; and the anterior border is parallel with the levator ani muscle. Action. Uniting in its action with the hinder fibres of the leva- tor ani, the muscle will draw slightly forwards the coccyx. The LEVATOR ANI (fig. 171,») is a thin flat muscle, which is attached above to the side of the pelvis, and descends into the outlet of the cavity, where it joins its fellow and supports the viscera. It arises anteriorly by fleshy fibres from an oblique line above the obturator internus ; lower down fi-orathc fascia on that muscle, and from the back of the triangular ligament. Posteriorly it i.s fixed to the lower and inner surface of the ischial spine. And be- tween those osseous attachments the muscle takes origin from the under surface of the recto-vesical fascia, but not in a straight line. All the fibres are directed downwards to be inserted after the follow- ing manner :—The anterior, the longest, descend by the side of the prostate, and join, in front of the rectum, with the muscle of the opposite side in the central point of the perinceum : the middle fibres blend with the side of the rectum ; whilst the posterior meet the opposite muscle behind the gut, and are attached in part to the side of the coccyx (p. 421). The anterior fibres of the levator are in contact with the trian- gular perinasal ligament ; * and there is an interval between the two muscles which allows the urethra, with the vagina in the female, to pass from the pelvis. The posterior border is parallel to the coccy- geus muscle. The upper surface is contiguous to the recto-vcsicai fascia ; and the under surface looks to the perinajum (ischio-rectal fossa). The two muscles, by their union, form a fleshy layer or diapkragm across the outlet of the' pelvis, similar to that which separates the abdomen from the chest : this partition is convex below and concave above, and gives passage to the rectum. Action. By the miion of the muscles of opposite sides below the urethra this tube can be raised, and compressed during their con- traction. Whilst the urine is flowing the fibres are passive, but towards the end of micturition they contract suddenly, and help the other muscles in clearing the passage. As the levatores descend by the side of the vesicuUe scuiinales, and the prostate, they will compress and evacuate the contents of those viscera. The hindmost fibres, which are fixed to the coccyx, will assist the coccygeus in moving forwards that bone. Dissection. The recto-vesical fascia will be seen by dctacliing the fleshy fibres of the levator ani and the coccj'geus at their origin, and throwing both downwards. The thin membrane descends on the levator ani to the side of the bladder and the rectum, and sends downwards sheaths around the prostate and the gut. To demon- * Tlie anterior part of the muscle wliich descends by the side of the prostate, and unites with its fellow below the membranous part of the urethra, thus supporting that canal as in a sling, is named sometimes levator seu comi)rcssor ^rostatcc.