DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 224 Uvula, noclulD, furrowed band, velum, pyramid, and commis- sures. LaminfB and their ar- rangement. Sulci are shallow and deep. A lamina has white inside ; collateral ■white fibres; and gray outside. Seven lobes in each hemisphere. Two lobes on upper surface. fi-om one another witli tlio luandle of the scalpel:—Most anteriorly is a narrow body, the uvula (fig. 66, c), which is named from its resemblance to the same part in the thifeat ; it is longer from before backwards than from side to side, and is divided into laminaj. Its anterior projection into the fom-th ventricle is named nodule, or laminated tubercle (fig. 67.) On the side of the uvula is a band of gray matter with ridges and sulci, the furrowed hand (fig, 67, d), which unites it with the almond-like lobe of the liemisphere. Con- nected with the nodule is a thin white layer,—the medullary velum (b) ; but this, and the furrowed band will be seen in a subsequent dissection (p. 225). Behind the uvula is a tongue-shaped body, named pyramid (fig. 66, d), which is elongated from side to side, and is marked by transverse laminte. Farther back are certain transverse pieces (e), extending between the posterior lobes of the hemispheres, of wliich they were considered by Eeil to be the com- missures. Lamince. The surface of the cerebellum is covered by plates or laminae (fig. 68), instead of convolutions, which form segments of circles with their convexity directed backwards. On the upper aspect the anterior laminae pass from the one hemisphere to the other, with only a slight bending forwards in the superior vermi- form process ; but on the under aspect they join the sides of the difEerent commissures in the median fissure. Sulci. Between the laminse are sulci, which are lined by the pia mater, and reach to difEerent depths: the shallower separate the laminte; but the deeper limit the lobes, and reach downwards to the white substance of the interior. Here and there the sulci are interrupted by cross laminas. Structure of the lamince. On cuttmg across the laminse of the upper surface on the right side they will be seen to possess a white internal, and a gray external layer (fig. 68). The white part is derived fr-om a central medullary mass ; and dividing, like the brandling of a tree, it ends in small lateral offsets wliich enter the subdivisions of the laminaj. The white stalk of the lamina is composed mostly of fibres derived from the central mass, but there are other fibres which pass fr-om one lamina to another beneath the sulci. The stratum of gray matter enveloping the white substance resembles the cortical covering of the convolutions of the cerebrum. It is constructed of two strata, inner and outer, which can be dis- tinguished by a difference in their colour. The superficial stratum is clear and gray, and about equal to the other in thiclviiess; but the deeper one is of a rust-colour, and is generallj- thickest in the hollows between the lamina3. Between the two a layer of ramified cells (Purldnje) may be recognised with the microscope. _ Lobes of the Hemisphere. Each hemisphere is subdi-snded into lobes on both aspects. On the upper surface there are two lobes, anterior and posterior, which are separated by a sulcus, but the interval between them is not well marked. The anterior or square lobe extends back to a