CHOKOIDAL COAT WITH ITS STRUCTUKE. The outer surface (fig. 229) is flocculent and is covered by the remnants of a thin membranous layer (membrana fusca, ^^P^^'^^- roidea) between it and the sclerotic coat: on it may be seen smaU veins arranged in arches, and the ciliary artenes and nerves The inner surface is smooth, and touches the tlun dark pigmentary layer of the retina (fig. 225). The ciUaru processes (fig. 227, h) are solid projections on the inner surface of the choroidal coat, and are arranged m a circle. About 85 in number, they lie side by side, and consist of larger and smaller eminences; at their inner extremity they are united by transverse ridges. . i ^, • . n About Uh of an inch in length, they increase m depth internally and projecting around the lens, bound circumferentially by their free 727 Outer sur- face rough ; inner smooth. Ciliary pro- cesses, position, two kinds. Connections with parts around. Fig. 227.* Fig. 228.t ends the space (fig. 225, i, posterior chamber) behind the iiis. In front they correspond with the back of the iris towards then- inner end, but are separated firom it by pigment ; and behind they are closely connected with the membrane (t suspensory ligament) on the front of the vitreous body, and fit into hollows between eminences on the anterior surface of that membrane. Structure. The choroid coat and its ciliary processes are formed ° principally of bloodvessels. Kamified pigment cells make up most of the rest of the coat. The stroma or web of the choroid is formed by the outrunners of its stroma, special pigment cells (fig. 228, ^) which unite together, and con- struct, with fine areolar tissue, a fibrous network. Its meshes are finer towards the inner tlian the outer surface of the choroid. On * Inner view of the front of the choroid coat with its ciliary processes, and the back of the iris. a. Anterior piece of the choroid coat. 6. Ciliary pro- ces-ses. c. Iris. d. Sphincter of the pupil, e. Bundles of fibres of the dilator of the pupil. t Pigment cells of the eyeball (KoUiker).—A. Ramified pigment cells of the choroid coat. B. Front view of the hexagonal cells of the pigmentary membrane.