DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. 646 Offsets. Veins. plexus. Small sciatic is cliiefly a cutaueous nerve : space through the small sacro-sciatic notch, and is there distributed (p. 422). It suppHes a small branch over the back of the sacrum, which anastomoses with the gluteal and sciatic vessels ; and a twig fi-om it accompanies the nerve to the obturator internus muscle. The veins with the sciatic and pudic arteries receive contributing twigs corresponding with the branches of those arteries at the back of the pelvis, and open into the internal iliac vein. Nerves come SciATic AND PuDic Nerves. The nerves appearing at the back of from sacral j^-^^ pelvis, below the pyi-iformis, are branches of the sacral plexus to the lower limb (p. 566) ; they are furnished mostly to parts beyond the gluteal region, but a few are distributed to the muscles at the back of the pelvis. The small sciatic (fig. 198, ■'') is a cutaneous nerve of the back of the thigh, for it supplies only one muscle of the buttock. It springs from the lower end of the sacral plexus, generally by two pieces, and takes the course of the sciatic artery as far as the lower border of the great gluteus, where it gives many cutaneous branches : much diminished in size at that spot, the nerve is continued along the back of the thigh beneath the fascia, and ends below the knee in the integuments of the back of the leg (p. 658). The branches distributed to, or near the buttock, are muscular and cutaneous :— The muscular hranches (inferior gluteal) enter the imder surface of the gluteus maximus near the lower border. The cukmeous branches are directed upwards and downwards at the border of the gluteus :— The ascending set (fig. 197) are distributed in the fat over the lower third of the muscle. The descending set (fig. 197, ") supply the integuments of the upper third of the thigh at the inner and posterior aspects. One of these branches (^), which is larger than the others, is distributed to the genital organs, and is named inferior pudendal (p. 426) ; as it courses to the perinaeum, it turns below the ischial tuberosity, and perforates the fascia lata at the inner side of the thigh to. end in the scrotum. The great sciatic (fig. 198, '') is the largest nen^e in the body. It is the som-ce of all the muscular, and most of the cutaneous branches to the limb beyond the Imee, as well as of the muscular branches at the back of the thigh. At its origin it appears to be a prolongation of the sacral plexus. It is dnected through the buttock to the back of the thigh, and rests on the external rotator muscles below the pyriformis. Commonly it does not supply any branch to the buttock, but it may give origin to one or two filaments to the hip joint. Frequently the nerve is divided into two large tnmks at its origm, and one of them pierces the fibres of the pyriformis muscle. The pudic nerve (fig. 198, =) wuids over the small sacro-sciatic ligament by the side of its companion artery, and is distributed with this vessel to the perinseum and the genital organs (p, 422). No branch is supplied to the buttock. ends in the leg; gives tranches to ghiteus : cutaneous, ascending, descending; inferior pudendal liranch. Great sci- atic neiTe; outline of. Course in the but- tocls, no branch in this redon. Pudic nerve.