DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. cntls bolow by a free borclw. Deep pavt of femoral artery: connections, position of veins aud saphenous nerve. The femoral arteiy may be divided. Branches. Anasto- motic ; superfieial aud deep piece. Muscular branches. Femoral To expose muscles on front of the femur. above, but below it is formed of strong fibres, Avliich are directed transversely between the vastus internus and the tendons of the fidductor muscles. Inferiorly the membranous structure ceases at the opening in the adductor magnus by a defined border, beneath which the saphenous nerve and its vessels escape. The deep part of the femoral artery (iig. 195, ^) lies in a hollow between muscles (Hunter's canal) until it reaches the opening in the adductor magnus. Here it is covered by the sartorius muscle and the subjacent aponeurosis, in addition to the integuments and the superficial and deep fasciaj. Beneath it are the pectineus, the adductor brevis in part, the adductor longus, and a small piece of the adductor magnus. On the outer side is the vastus internus. External to the artery and close to it is the femoral vein ; and in the integuments oftentimes an offset of the saphenous passes across the line of the arterial trunk. Crossing over the artery from the outer to the inner side is the internal saphenous nerve, Avhich is beneath the aponeurosis before noticed, but is not contained within the areolar sheath of the vessels. Splitting of the artery. Occasionally the femoral artery is split into two below the origin of the profunda. Four examples of this peculiarity have been met with ; but, in all, the trunks were blended into one above the open- ing in the adductor muscle. Branches. One named branch—anastomotic, and muscular offsets, spring fi-om this part of the artery. The anastomotic branch (fig. 196, 7c arter. anastomotica magna) arises close to the opening in the adductor muscle, and di^ndes at once into two pieces, superficial and deep :— The superficial offset (w) continues with the saphenous nerve to the lower border of the - sartorius, and piercing the fascia lata, ramifies in the integuments. The deep branch (l) is concealed in the fibres of the vastus internus, and descends in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus to the inner side of the knee-jomt, where it anastomoses with the articular branches of the popliteal and anterior tibial arteries. A branch passes outwards from it in the substance of the vastus, and forms an arch in front of the lower end of the femur with an offset of the upper external articular artery ; from this loop twigs descend to the joint. Muscular branches. Branches for the supply of the muscles come mostly fi-om the outer side of the femoral arteiy ; they enter the sartorius, the vastus internus, and the adductor longus. The FEMORAL VEIN corresponds closely with the femoral artery in its connections and in its branches. Dissection. The femoral artery and vein are to be cut across below the origin of the profunda, and are to be thrown downwards pre- paratory to -the deeper dissection. Afterwards all the fat, and all the veins, are to be carefully removed from amongst the branches of the profunda artery and anterior crural nerve. Unless this dis- section is fully carried out, the upper part of the vastus internus will not be prepared for learning.