402 First throe have inner and outer branches; tlie last give cnitaneons oifsets. Last two are undivided. Coccygeal nerve. Small sacral arteries. Dissection of costal muscles. DISSECTION OF THE BACK. inner pieces Q) are distributed to the multifidus ; and the last ox this set IS verj-^ fine. The outei-pieces (2) are larger, and have communicating offsets from one to another on the back of the sacrum : there, the branch p.^ * 0^ tlie first neive is connected with the corresponding part of the last lumbar ; and the branch of the third joins in a similar manner the sacral nerve next below. After this looping they pass outwards to the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament^ where they join a second time, and become cutaneous. (Dissec- tion OF THE Buttock.) * Last tioo nerves (4 S and 5 S), These nerves, which are below the multifidus, are much smaller than the preceding, and want the regu- lar branching of the others : thej' are connected with each other and the coccygeal nerve by loops on the back of the sacrum. A few filaments are distributed to the back of the sacrum and the coccj^. Coccygeal nerve (1 c). Its posterior primaiy branch issues tkrough the lower aperture of the spinal canal, and appears by the side of the coccyx. It is joined by a loop from the last sacral nen'^e, and ends on the jDosterior surface of the coccyx. * Sacral Arteries. Small branches leave the spinal canal with the sacral nerves ; they supply the muscular mass of the erector spinae, and anastomose with branches on the back of the sacrum from the gluteal and sciatic arteries. * Dissection. The exammation of the posterior part of the wall of the thorax may be made before the body is again tunaed. B}- removing, opposite the ribs, the ilio-costahs and longissimus dorsi, * Dissection of the sacral nerves (Lond. Med. Gazette, 1843). Muscles: A. Multifidus spinse, and b. Erector spinas : botli cut. c. Gluteus maxinius. detached from its origin, and thrown do-vvn. d. Great sacro-sciatic ligament. Nerves : 5 I. Last lumbar. 1 S to 5 S, the five sacral nerves issuing fi-om the sacrum. 1 c. The coccygeal nerve, escaping by the opening of the sacral canal. 1. Internal offsets of the last lumbar and firet thi-ee sacral (these are too large in the cut) ; and 2, external offsets of the same nerves. 3. Anterior primary branch, and 4, posterior of the coccygeal nerve. 5. The nerve de- rived from the anterior primary branches of the lower sacral nerves in the pelvis, which pierces the sacro-sciatic ligament.