(i20 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. throughout. In this space it receives the internal saphenous and deep femoral veins, and a small branch (i) with the inferior external pudic artery. DEEP PARTS OF THE ERONT OP THE THIGH. Muscles on the front of tlie thigh. Vessels. Nerve. Take the fascia from the front of the thigh. Follow out sartoruis, and lix it, and pre- serve nerves in contact with it. Dissect the adductors, and clean the extensor muscle. Dissect tensor of fascia. The muscles on the fxont of the thigh are to be learnt next: they are the sartorius, and the extensor of the knee; and at the top of the tliigh is the small tensor of the fascia lata. Three muscles are combmed in the extensor, viz. rectus, vastus externus, and vastus intemus. The external circumflex branch of the profunda artery lies amongst the muscles and suppHes them with branches ; and a large nerve, the anterior craral, furnishes offsets to them. Dissection. To proceed with the deep dissection, the Hmb is to be retained in the same position as befofe, and the flaps of skin on the front of the thigh are to be thrown aside. The fascia lata is to be cut along the middle line of the tliigh and knee, and to be reflected to each side nearly to the same extent as the skin. Over the knee- joint the student is to note its attachment to the edges of the patella, and its union with a prolongation from the tendon of the extensor muscle of the leg. In raising the inner piece of the fascia the nan-ow muscle appear- ing (sartorius) should be followed to its insertion into the tibia: and to prevent its displacement, it should be fixed with stitches along both edges. Care should be taken of the small nerves in contact with the sartorius;—viz. a plexus beneath it at the middle of the thigh from the saphenous, internal cutaneous, and obturator ; two branches of the internal cutaneous below its middle,—one crossing the surface, and the other lying along the inner edge of the muscle ; and the trunk of the great saphenous escaping from beneath it neai- the knee, with the patellar branch of the same perforating it rather higher. Internal to the sartorius some strong muscles (adductors) are incHned downwards from the pelvis to the femur. The student is to lay bare the fore part of those muscles ; and beneath the most superficial (adductor longus), near where it touches the sartorius, he is to seek a branch of the obturator nerve to the plexus before mentioned in the middle of the thigh. On the outer side of the sartorius is the large extensor of the knee. For its dissection the knee is to be bent, to make tense the fibres: and an expansion below from the common tendon to the fascia lata and the knee-joint is not to be removed now,—its arrangement will be noticed after. The little muscle at the upper and outer part of the tliigh,—tensor of the fascia lata, is to be cleaned ; and a strip of the fascia, corre- sponding with its width, should be left along the outer aspect of the limb. After tliis slip has been detached, the rest of the fascia on the outer side of the thigh is to be divided by one or two trans- verse cuts, and is to be followed backwards to its insertion mto the femur.