ASCENDING rHAEYNGEAL VESSELS. 107 the surrounrling parts, viz., the muscles on the vertebra?, the nen'cs, and the lymphatic glands. A menimjeal branch enters the cranium tlu'ough the foramen a^j;;""^!'^*" lacerum (basis cranii), and is distributed in the dura mater of the middle fossa o"f the skull (p. 15) ; this is seldom seen ni the cranium because it is but rarely injected. The iMlatine bnmch, which is larger than the preceding, divides in an.ljmls in the pharynx into two main pieces, which are directed across the fore l'''^■ part of the palate beneath the mucous membrane, and form arches with like branches of the opposite side ; one of these is near the upper, and the other near the lower edge of the soft palate.** The size of the palatine artery depends upon that of the inferior palatine branch of the facial artery. Phcmjngeal hrancJies. Other small arteries ramify in the upper Pliarjmgeal constrictor, the Eustachian tube, the back of the soft palate, and the tonsil. The vein accompanying the pharyngeal artery receives branches Its vein, from the cranium, the palate, and the phaiynx, and ends in the internal jugular vein. Dissection of the cranial nerves in the nech. By the time tliis stage Directions of the dissection has been aiTived at, the condition of the parts will e°ghth"'"° not permit the ti-acing of the very minute filaments of the cranial nerve, nei-ves in the foramen jugulare of the skull; and all the paragraphs marked with an asterisk are therefore to be omitted for the present. Aftenvards, if afi-esh piece of the skull can be obtained, in which the bone has been softened by acid, and the neiwes hardened in spirit, the examination of the branches, now passed over, may be made. ® In the foramen lacerum (fig. 26). Supposing the dissection of Dissection the internal carotid to be carried out as it is described at page 104, let the student cut across with care the jugular vein near the skull, foramen. Let him then remove bit by bit with the bone forceps, or with a scalpel if the part has been softened, the ring of bone which bounds externally the jugular foramen, proceeding as far forwards as the osseous crest between that foramen and the carotid canal. Between the bone and the coat of the jugular vein, the small auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve is to be fomrd ; it is directed backwards to an aperture near the styloid process. * Trace then the spinal accessory and pneumo-gastric nerves Follow through the aperture, by opening the fibrous sheath around them. ^JnTaim*''^**' Two parts, large and small, of the spinal accessory nerve should imennio- be defined ; the latter is to be shown joining a ganglion on the ^^^^'^^'^ ■ vagus, and applying itself to the trunk of tliat nerve. A commu- nication between the two pieces of the spinal accessory is to be found. On the pneumo-gastric is a small well-marked ganglion, from which the auricular branch before referred to takes origin ; and from the ganglion filaments are to be sought passing to the smaller portion of the spinal accessory nerve, and to the ascending branch of the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. * The Anatomy of the Arteiies. By R. Quain, F.E.S., p. 110.