129 MUSCLES OF PALATE. On the left side, the mucous incinbrane is to be raised with great ^^'^j.Jeft ^^^^ care fi'om the posterior surface of the palate, to obtain a view of j-ynyu^'/"' the superficial muscular fibres. Immediately beneath the mucous covering are some fine transverse fibres of the palato-pharyngeus nuiscle ; and beneath them, in the middle line, are the longitudinal fibres of tlie azygos uvulas. A deeper set of fibres of the palato- azygos pharjmgeus is to be followed, on the right side, beneath the levator ^^''^ and azygos muscles. The student should remove next the mucous membrane from the and ].alato- muscular fibres contained in the arches of the palate, and should glo^^'iis- follow these upwards and downwards. In order to see them in the anterior fold, it will be necessary to take the membrane from the anterior siu-face of the palate. If the part is not tolerably fi-esh, some of the paler fibres may not be visible. Aponeurosis of the soft palate. Giving strength to the velum is a Aponeuro thin but firm aponeurosis, wliich is attached to the hard palate. l'''''-'*^'-'- This membrane becomes thinner as it descends in the velum ; and it is joined by the tendon of the tensor palati muscle. The MUSCLES of the soft palate are four on each side,—an elevator Nine mus- and tensor ; Avith the palato-glossus and palato-pharyngeus, wliich '^^'^^ act as depressors. In addition there is a small median azygos muscle. The LEVATOR PALATI (fig. 29, is a thick, roundish muscle. Elevator which is partly situate outside the pharynx. It arises from the ™-is*es out- mider surface of the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal side plia- hone (fig. 30, and fi-om the inner and hinder part of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. The fibres enter the phaiynx above the superior constrictor, and then spread out in the soft palate, where i,^ lost in vGlvuii they join along the middle line with those of the muscle of the opposite side. Outside the phaiynx this muscle rests against the Eustachian Connec- tube. In the palate it forms a stratum that reaches the whole depth of that structure, and is embraced by two planes of fibres of the palato-pliaiyngeus (■*). Action. It tilts backwards the fi'ee edge of the soft palate towards Use the phaiynx so as to enlarge the isthmus faucium, and to shut oflE °" Palate, with the contracted pharynx the nose openings. In swallowing the palate is raised, and is arched over the bolus passing fi-om the mouth to the pharynx. For its action on the Eustachian tube, see Tensor on tube, palati. The TENSOR vel circumflexus palati (fig. 29, ^) arises like the Tensor preceding outside the pharynx, and is a thin riband-like band, situate between the internal pterygoid plate and muscle. About arises out- one inch and a half wide at its origin, it is attached to the slight '^'j'^^.^^"^- depression (scaphoid fossa) at the root of the internal pterygoid plate, to the outer and fore part of the Eustachian tube, and still farther out to the spinous process of the sphenoid, and the vaginal (tympanic) process of the temporal bone. Inferiorly the fleshy fibres end in a tendon wliicli, entering the pharynx between the attachments of the buccinator muscle, is reflected round the