227 INTERIOR OF CEREBELLUM. into the roof of the fourth ventricle (fig. 68, h). It is thin and pointed anteriorly, but widens behind, where it is connected with the under part of tlic vermiform process. Near the corpora quadri- gemina the fourth nerve (') is attached to the surface of the valve; and close to the cerebellum the velum is marked by some gray transverse ridges. j -u-1 ii The middle peduncle (processus ad pontem), commonly named the cms cerebelli (fig. 65, -), is the largest of the three peduncular processes. Its fibres begin in the lateral part of the hemisphere, and are dhected forwards to the pons, of which they form the transverse fibres, and unite -with the peduncle of the opposite side. This neduncle is supposed to serve as a commissural or connecting is the com- ^ , , , - ,1 ,11 missure of band between the halves of the cerebellum. cerebeUum. The inferior peduncle (fig. 65, ^) (processus ad medullam) passes inferior downwards to the medulla oblongata, and gives rise to the restif orm P«g'|j}J}^® body. Its fibres begin chiefly in the laminte of the upper surface of the hemisphere. It will be better seen when the fourth ventricle has been opened. The fibres m the pedimcles connect one cerebellar hemisphere ^^^"1^*"^***°" wth the cerebrum ; with its fellow ; and with the medulla oblongata of the same side, in the manner mentioned above. The dentate body (corpus dentatum) is contained in the white mass of the hemisphere, and resembles the like part in the corpus olivare of the medulla oblongata. This body measures nearly an inch from before back, and is situate near the inner part of the white centre. It consists of a small plicated capsule, which, when cut across, appears as a thin, waA^, grayish-yellow line ; the bag is structure, open at the front, and encloses a nucleus of whitish substance. Through its aperture issues a band of fibres from the nucleus to join the superior peduncle. Dissection. One other section (fig. 68) must be made to show the l^issection. fourth ventricle, and the structure of the vermiform process. The cerebellum still resting on its under surface, let the knife be carried vertically through the centre of the vermiform processes ; and then the structure of the central uniting part, as well as the boundaries of the fourth ventricle, may be observed on separating the halves of the cerebellum. Structure of the vermiform process (fig. 68). The upper and lower Veimiform vermiform processes of the cerebellum are united in one central piece likefother which connects together the hemispheres. The structure of this l^^rts. connecting piece is the same as that of the rest of the cerebellum, viz. a central white portion and investing laminee. Here the branch- ing appearance of a tree (arbor vitiB) is best seen, in consequence of the lamina3 being more divided, and the wliite central stalk being longer and more ramified. The FOURTH VENTRICLE (fossa rhomboidalis) is a space between Fourth the cerebellum and the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata ventricle, and pons (fig. 68). It has the form of a lozenge, with the points placed upwards and downwards. The upper angle reaches as high Form and as the upper border of the pons : and the lower, to a level with extent, Q 2