154 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. two branches :—One turns to the dorHuni, and ramifies in the mucous membrane behind the foramen Ciijcum, The otlicr passes beneath the side of the tongue, and ends in branches for the muscular sub- stance ; it suppHes the papillaj circumvallataa, as well as the mucous membrane covering the lateral part of the tongue. Arteries mid Vesskls. The arteries are derived chiefly from the lingual of each side ; these, together with the vems, have been examined (p. 97). Section XVT. Outline of larynx. Dissection. Situation and foi ni. Size. Position. Is \ery movealjle. Six s]iec,ial muscles of larynx. Dissection of the exter- nal set of muscles. DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. The LAEYNX is the upper dilated part of the air tube, in which the voice is produced. It is constructed of several cartilages united together by ligamentous bands ; of muscles for the movement of the cartilages ; and of vessels and nerves. The whole is lined by mucous membrane. Dissection. The tongue may be removed from the larynx by cutting thi-ough its root, but this is to be done without injuring the epiglottis. If the student learns the laryngeal cartilages before he begins the dissection of the larynx, he will obtain more luiowledge fi-om the study of this Section. Occupying the middle line of the neck, the larynx is placed in front of the pharynx, and between the carotid vessels. It is pyrami- dal in form. The base is turned upwards, and is attached to the hyoid bone ; and the apex is contmuous with the trachea. In length it measures in man one mch and a half; in width at the top one inch and a quarter, and at the lower end one inch. The fi'ont is prominent along the middle line of the neck ; and the posterior surface is covered by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The larynx is veiy moveable, and during deglutition is elevated and depressed by the different extrinsic muscles. Muscles. Commonly five pair and one single muscle are de- scribed in the larynx. Thi-ee ai-e outside the cartilages, and the rest are more or less concealed by the thyroid cartilage. Directions. On one side of the larynx, say the right, the muscles may be dissected, and on the opposite side the nerves and vessels ; and those superficial muscles are to be first learnt, which do not require the cartilages to be cut. Dissection. The larynx being extended and fastened with pins, the dissector may clear away fi'om the os hyoides and the thyroid cartilage the following extrinsic muscles, viz. constrictor, sterno- hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid. In front, between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, one of the thi-ee small external muscles,—crico-thyroid (fig. 39), will be recog- nised. The other two external muscles (fig. 40) are situate at the pos-