101 UPPER MAXILLARY NERVE. rotundum. The course of tlie nerve is almost straight to the face, across the spheno-maxillary fossa, and through the infi-aorbital canal, along the orbital plate of the upper maxilla. Issumg froni the canal by the infraorbital foramen, it is concealed by the elevator of the upper lip, and ends in branches to the eyelid, nose, and upper lip :— a. The orhital hrancli {*) arises in the spheno-maxillary tossa, and entering the orbit, divides into malar and temporal branches as before said (p. 50). h. The spheno-palatine branches C) descend from the nerve m the fossa, and supply the nose and the palate ; they are connected with Meckel's ganglion, and will be dissected with it (Section 14). f. A jMSterior dental branch (■"*) leaves the ner\^e near the upper jaw. It enters a canal in the maxilla, and sujiplies branches to Fig. 24.* paHBes to face, through infraorbital Ciimil. Its branches are, to orbit ; to the nose and iiahite : to the teeth and buc- cinator ; the molar teeth and the lining membrane of the antrum ; it joins the anterior dental branch near the teeth. Before entering the canal it furnishes one or more offsets to the gums and the buc- cinator muscle. d. The anterior dental branch (") quits the nei-ve trank in the to anterior floor of the orbit, and descends to the anterior teeth in a special canal in fi-ont of the antrum : it is distributed by two branches. One (inner) gives nerves to the incisor and canine teeth, and furnishes one or two filaments to the lower meatus of the nose ; the other (outer) ends by supplying the bicuspid teeth. e. Before the trunk ends in the facial branches, it supplies a Branch of smaXlpalpebi-al offset to the lower eyelid ; this is directed upwards eyelid. to the lid in a groove in the margin of the orbit. /. Infraorbital or facial branches ('). These are larger than Infraorbital branches, * Diagram of the upper maxillary nerve and its branches. 2. Ti-unk of the nerve leaving the Gasserian ganglion. 3. Splieno-palatine branches. 4. Temporo-malar branch. 5. Posterior dental nerves. 6. Auterior dental. 7. Facial branches.