DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 72 Cei-vlcal nerves. Position and niunber. First two differ from rest. Brachial jilexus, 1'onnedpjy five nerves. Disposition of nerves in the plexus. Branches : in the neck are:— Nerve of subclavius. Ner\'e of rhoinboi- deus. Nci-ve of serratus. The ANTEnioR primary branches of the cervical nerves spring from the common trunks in the intervertebral foramina, and appear on the side of the neck between the intertransverse muscles. Tliese nen'es are eight in number, and are equally divided between the cervical and the brachial plexus ; the highest four bemg combined in the former, and the remaining nerves in the latter plexus. The nerves receive offsets of communication fi-om the sympathetic at their beginning, and intermix by means of numerous branches near the spine. To this general statement some addition is needed for the first two nei-ves ; and their peculiarities will be noticed in Sectiok 18. Brachial Plexus. The four lower cervical nen^es and part of the first intercostal are blended m this plexus ; and a fasciculus is added to them fi-om the lowest nerve entering the cervical plexus. Thus formed, the plexus reaches fi-om the neck to the axilla, where it ends ill nei-ves for the upper limb. Only the part of it above the clavicle can now be seen. In the neck the nen^es have but little of a plexiform disposition : they he at first between the scaleni muscles, opposite the four lower cervical vertebras, and have the following an-angement:— The fifth and sixth nerves unite near the vertebrse ; the seventh remains distinct as far as the outer border of the mitMle scalenus ; and the last cervical and the piece of the first mSmmfmm^ are blended in one trunk beneath the anterior scalenus; so that they make at first thi-ee cords. Near the attachment of the middle scalenus to the rib, the seventh nerve throws itself mto the trunk of the miited fifth and sixth, and then there result two cords to the plexus :—the one (upper) formed by the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves ; and the other (lower) by the eighth cendcal and the first intercostal nerve. These two trunks accompany the sub- clavian arteiy, lying to its acromial side, and are continued to the axilla where they are more intimately blended. Branches. The branches of the plexus may be classed into those above the clavicle, and those below that bone. The highest set end mostly in muscles of the lower part of the neck and of the scapula ; whilst the other set consist of the termuial branches, and are furnished to the upper limb, with which they will be refeiTcd to. Branches above the Clavicle. The hranch of the subclavius muscle is a slender twig, which arises fi-om the trunk formed by the fifth and sixth nerves, and is directed downwards over the subclavian artery to the under surface of the muscle ; it is often united with the phrenic nerve at the lower part of the neck. The hranch of the rhomboid muscles springs from the fifth nerve in the substance of the middle scalenus, mid perforates the fibres of tliat muscle ; it is directed backwards beneath the levator anguli scapuljB to its destination. Branches are given usually fi-om this nerve to the levator anguH scapulas. The nerve of the serratus (posterior thoracic nerve) is contained in the scalenus, like the preceding, and arises from the fifth and