446 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEX. Use of 'botli muscles, of one. Cremastor muscle. Attach- ments : external fleshy. internal tendinous; fonns loops over the cord. giving rise to cremas- teric fascia. Use. In left groin l eplace the Xiarts. ligament and the piibes where it arches over the cord, and has the cremaster muscle contiguous to it. Tlic parts covered by the internal oblique cannot be seen till the muscle is reflected. Action. Both muscles will depress the ribs ; and will assist in forcing back the -\nscera of the belly, which have been carried down by the descent of the diaphragm. One muscle may incline the body laterally ; and contracting -with the external oblique of the other side (the fibres of the two having the same direction) it will rotate the trunk to the same side. The CUEMASTKB MUSCLE (fig. 135, is a fasciculus of fibres, which lies along the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, and is named fi"om suspend- Fig. 135.* ing the testicle. The muscle has attachments, at the inner and outer sides, similar to those of the internal oblique. Externally it is fleshy, and arises from Poupart's liga- ment below, and in part beneath the internal oblique, with which some of the fibres are connected. Internally it is small, and is inserted by tendon into the front of the pubes, joining the tendon of the internal oblique. Between the two points of attachment the fibres de- scend on the fi-ont and sides of the cord, forming loops, with the convexity do-wn- wards, which reach to and over the testis. The bundles of fibres are united by areolar tissue so as to give rise to a covering on the front of the cord, which in hernia is named the fascia creniaste- rica. Occasionally the fibres may be behiaid as well as on the sides and fi-ont of the cord. Action. It elevates the testicle towards the abdomen under the influence of the will; but it may be excited to contract mvoluntanly by cold, fear, &c. •, ^ • . ^ Dissection. On the left side of the body the student is not to make any further dissection of tlie abdominal wal ; and the layers that have been reflected in the groin should be replaced, * Yiew of the lower part of the internal oblique with the cremaster muscle and the testicle. A. External oblique, reflected. B Internal oblique c Tctus abdorninis. v. Cremaster, with its loops over the spermatic cord and the testicle.