TRANSYERSALIS MUSCLE, .mtil the examination of that region in connection with hernia is oHlt right side the dissection is to be carried deeper by the remova of fhe internal oblique and the cremaster. The last muscle mi; be reflected from the cord by n.eansof a ^ons^n^^nc^-^ To raise the internal oblique, it will be necessary to cut it througl firstly near the ribs ; secondly near the crest of the hip bone and Poupart's ligament; and lastly at the hinder part, so as to connect the two first incisions. Its depth will be indicated by Fig. 136.* a fatty layer between it and the transversahs. In raising the muscle towards the edge of the rectus, let the student separate with great care the lower fibres from those of the transver- sahs, with which they are often conjoined; and dis- sect out,between the two, the intercostal nerves and arte- ries, and the two branches of the lumbar plexus (ilio- hypogastric and iHo-ingui- nal) near the fi-ont of the crest of the hip bone. The offsets of the intercostals entering the muscle must be cut. Parts covered hj the oh- lique (fig.lSG). Themternal oblique conceals the trans- versahs muscle, and the vessels and nerves between the two. Near Poupart's ligament it lies on the spermatic cord and the fascia transversahs. The rectus muscle is covered below by the aponeurosis. The TRANSVERSALis MUSCLE (fig. 13G, ^) forms the third stratum in the wall of the abdomen, and differs from the two oblique in liaving a posterior as well as an anterior aponeurosis. Like the former muscle it is attached on all sides, except where the spermatic cord lies. At the pelvis it arises along the outer tliird of Poupart's ligament, and the anterior two thirds of the iliac crest. At the ■chest it takes origin from the lower six ribs, viz. by tendon from the lowest two, and by fleshy processes from the under surface of * Dissection of the third lateral muscle in the wall of the belly, with the vessels and nerves on it. A. Transversalis muscle, with B, its anterior, and c, its posterior tendon (fascia lumboriira). d. Poupart's ligament. 1. Last dorsal nerve with its accompanying artery. 2. Ilio-hypogastric nerve with its artery, ft Intercostal nei-ves and arteries. 447 0)1 right side reflect cremaster and internal oblique. Parts covered l)y internal oblique. Transversa- lis muscle. Origin from chest, loins and iielvis.