138 mSSECTION OF THE NASAL CAVITY. Olfactoriiil colls. Glands. Dissection of nerves ;md vessels, Olfactoiy nerve is distri- buted to olfactory region. Ending. in the cavity, and it is columnar on the surface, but not ciliated. Beneath tlie surface layer arc strata of granules and ovalisii cells (-), amongst which sink the pointed or attached ends of the pieces of epithelium. Around the pieces of the columnar epitheliimi stand numerous bodies named olfactoHal cells by Schultze (fig. 32 B. ^). They con- sist of small spindle-shaped nucleated cells, with a rounded fi^lament prolonged from each end towards the attached and free surfaces of the mucous membrane : that to the free surface, the larger, ends on a level with the pieces of the columnar epithelium. But the con- nections of the deeper threads or processes are unknown ; they ha\-e been supposed to unite with the olfactory nerve. The glands in the olfactory region are simple lengthened tubes (fig. 32 A."*) like those in the stomach, but are slightly wavy, and end in the submucous tissue by closed extremities. A flattened epithelium, with coloured granular contents, lines the tubes.— (Henle.) Dissection. At this stage of the dissection, little will be seen of the distribution of the olfactory nen'c. If the septum nasi be removed, so as to leave entire the membrane covering it on the opposite side (the left), the filaments of the nerve will appear on the sm-face, near the cribriform plate. In the membrane too, near the fi-ont of the septum, is an ofi^set of the nasal nerve. The naso-palatine nei-ve and artery (fig. 33, ^) are to be sought lower down, as they are directed from behind forwards, towards the anterior palatine fossa : the artery is readily seen, especiallj^ if it is injected, but the fine nerve, which is about as large as a coarse hair, is embedded in the membrane and will be found by scrapmg with the point of the scalpel. By cutting thi-ough the fore and upper part of the membrane detached from the septum nasi, other branches of the olfactoiy nerve may be traced on the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The OLFACTORY NERVE (fig. 33forms a bulb on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and sends branches to the olfactory region of the nose tlii-ough the apertures in the roof. These branches are about twenty in number, and are divisible into three sets. An inner set, the largest, descend in the grooves on the septum nasi, and branching, extend over the upper third. A middle set is confined to the roof of the nose. And an external set (fig. 34), is distributed on the upper spongy bone, on the anterior square surface of the os etlunoides, and on the anterior end of the middle spongy bone. As the branches of the olfactory nerve leave the skull, they receive tubes fr-om the dura mater and pia mater, which are lost in the tissue to which the nerves are distributed. The nen^es ramify in the pituitary membrane in tufts of filaments which connnunicate freely with the contiguous twigs, forming a network, but their mode of termination in the tissue is unlaiown. It has been suggested by Schulze that they join the deep processes or ends of the so-called olfactorial cells.