519 BLOODVESSELS OF KIDNEY. of two vessels piercing the capsule, and is clothed with epithelium One of the two, the afferent vessel (^0, i« o^^^* ""^T artery, and divides into convoluted loops of the fineness of capil- laries, which form the exterior of the tuft. The other, the efferent vessel (/), begins in the interior of the tuft by the umon of the loops on the outer surface ; and passing out is distributed m a close network of capillaries (</) on the convoluted urine tubes, and in one with elongated meshes on the straighter tubes near the pyramids. The office of the glomerulus is to secrete the watery part of the urine. -Bloodvessels. Tlie artery and vein distributed to the kidney are very large in proportion to the size of the organ they nourish. Eenal arteiij. As the artery enters the kidney it diAudcs into four or five branches, which are invested by sheaths of the fibrous capsule, and reach the bases of the pyramids of Malpighi, where they form arches. From those arches arise small interpyramidal Fis. 164.* two, afferent, and efferent, ■which unite. Use of glomerulus. Blood- vessels of kidney. Branches of tlie artery supply Malpighian bodies. branches, which ascend towards the surface, and furnish the afferent and texture twigs to the Malpigliian bodies, whose arrangement has been re- kidney: ferred to. Other offsets are supplied to the capsule and matrix of the kidney; the former anastomose Avith the subperitoneal branches of the lumbar arteries. Straight vessels descend amongst the tubes in the pyramids of ^,g'g'^^^g'^j,j Malpighi, and some form loops like the tubes of Henle. pjTamids. Renal vein. This vein begins in. the capillary plexuses on the Veins begin convoluted urine tubes ; and its small branches, receiving twigs tub^ui^; from the matrix and the fibrous coat, unite into larger veins, which anastomose freely around the bases of the pyramids of Malpighi. anastomose At tliis spot they are joined by offsets fi-om capillary plexuses in pyramids * Plan of the vessels connected with the virine tubes, a. a. Urine tube. 5. End-ililatation. c. Interi:)yramid<aT artery, d. Afferent branch, e. Grlomemlus. /. Efferent vessel, g. Plexus of capillaries around the urine tube. h. Radicles of the veins. R. e. Glomerulus, d. Afferent and /, efferent vessel of the glomerulus. Bowman.