50i DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. and circular. Fibrous coat as in small gut. Mucous coat is without folds and villi. Structure like that of siuuU gut. Tubes or ci-ypts more numerous and longer than those of small intestine. Solitary glands most in the ciecum; size and form : epithelium. Vessels, nerves, and elongates,—the sacculi, and the ridges in the interior of the gut, disappearing at the same time. The circular fibres are spread over the whole surface, but are most marked in the folds projecting into the intestine. In the rectum (to be afterwards seen) they form the band of the internal sphincter muscle. The fibrous coat resembles that of the small intestine. It will be exposed by removing the peritoneal and muscular coverings. The viucous coat, which may be examined on opening the intes- tine, is smooth, and of a pale yellow colour ; and it is not thrown into special folds, except hi the rectum. The surface is free from villi ; and by this circumstance the mucous membrane of the large, can be distinguished fi-om that of the small mtestine. Tliis difEer- ence in the two portions of the alimentary tube is avcII marked on the ileo-ca^cal valve ; for the surface looking to the small intestine is studded with yHU, whilst the surface, continuous with the mucous lining of the cajcum, is free fi'om those small eminences. Microscopic appearances. In a piece of fresh intestine the micro- scope will show the mucous membrane to possess small tubes or crypts, and some larger solitary follicles ; with an epitheUal cover- ing on the free surface, and a thin iruiscular layer (imtscularis mucosce) on the other, whose arrangement is similar to that of the small intestme. The tubules (fig. 154, ^) occupy the whole length of the large gut, and resemble those of the small intestine, but are more nume- rous, and closer together. Their orifices on the surface are circular ('), and are more uniformly diffused than the apertures of the tubules in the small gut. A vertical section of the membrane (-) will show the tubes to extend vertically from the surface into the submucous coat, and to be longer than the crypts of Lieberkiilm in the jejunum and ileum; they measm-e from ^th to J^th of an inch in length. The so called solitary glands (fig. 154, ^) are scattered here and there through the large intestine: but they are in greatest number in the cajcum and vermiform appendix. They are whitish romided bodies from -j'^-th to ^th. of an inch in diameter, and ai-e situate in the submucous layer amongst the tubules. They are l^nnph foUicles with a structure like those in the small mtestine. The epithelium is of the columnar kind, and enters the tubules. Vessels. The distribution of the vessels in the wall of the large intestine is the same as in the smaller bowel. N'erves. In the coats of the large intestine the nerves have a plexiform arrangement like that in the small gut. * Enlarged view of a " solitary gland," and of tlic tulniles of the mucous coat (Boehm). a. Gland of the large intestine, u. Tubules of the mucous membrane. 1. Surface openings. 2. Side view of the tubes. 3. Pits for the closed ends of the tubes in the submucous tissue. Fig. 154.*