361 AORTA AND BRANCHES. tionecl. The twigs issuing fi'om the several lobules are destitute of valves, and are united in larger tubes which course to the roo of the lung. Although the small lobular branches of the artenes remain separate from one another, the corresponding vems anasto- mose together. , , i t, i • i The hroncMal arteries enter the lung on the air tube and supply Bron^iual deep branches to it and the contiguous glands, to the large blood- vessels, and to the interlobular areolar tissue of the lung. Un the smallest air tubes minute branches anastomose with offsets of the pulmonary arteries. , , , ^ . , Superficial tortuous offsets of the artery ramify beneath the pleura, Superficial forming a capillary network. The bronchial vein begins by twigs corresponding with the super- Broncliiai ficial and deep branches of the artery. Leaving the lung at the root, ^ the vein ends differently on opposite sides of the body (p. 362). Nerves and lymphatics. The lung receives nerves from the vagus pulmonary and the sympathetic ; and the offsets follow the branches of the au- "^^rves. tube, but their ending is uncertain. Eemak describes small gangHa Lymphatics, on the sympathetic filaments. The lymphatics of the Iwg are both superficial and deep, and enter the bronchial glands at the root of the lung. PARTS ON THE SPINE AND THE SYMPATHETIC CORD. In fi-ont of the spinal column are the objects in the interpleural space of the posterior half of the mediastinum, viz. the aorta, azygos veins, thoracic duct, oesophagus, and splanchnic nerves. Dissection. The thoracic duct should be found first near the dia- Dissection pkragm by removing the pleura ; there it is about as large as a ^^^^^ crow quill, and rests against the right side of the aorta : this slender vessel may be injected with tallow. The areolar tissue and the pleura are to be cleared away fi-omthe of other different things before mentioned ; and the azygos or intercostal objects, veins, one on the right and two on the left of the aorta, should be dissected. Next follow the thoracic duct upwards beneath the arch of the aorta, and along the oesophagus beneath the pleura, till it leaves the upper aperture of the thorax. After raising the pleura from the inner surface of the chest, p"^jj°^jg^' the gangliated cord of the sympathetic nen'^e will be seen lying over the heads of the ribs. Branches are to be followed outwards from the ganglia to the intercostal nerves ; and others inwards over the bodies of the vertebra3,—the lowest and largest of these forming the three tranks of the splanchnic nerves. The DESCENDING THORACIC AORTA is the part of the great systemic Thoracic vessel above the diaphragm. Its extent is from the lower border • of the fifth dorsal vertebra (the left side), where the arch ceases, ^^^■^■i*: to the front of the last dorsal vertebra. Contained in the interpleural space in front of the spine, the course; vessel is rather curved, lying at its upper end on the left, but below on the front of the spinal column. Beneath it are the vertebrai and