DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEX. 521 A ilenso tuiiiu coii- tiiiiis sniiill .secretiiij! tubes. How to see tlic struc- ture (if the testis. Fibrous coat; characters; use. Sends inwards processes, as tlie me- diastinum and tiuer septa a vascular layer lines it (tunica \asculosa). Seminal tubules; appearance and is nearly an oiuice, and the left is frequently larger tlian the other. Stiiuctuiie. The substance of the testicle is composed of minute secerning tubes, around which the bloodvessels are disposed in plexuses. Sm-rounding and supporting the delicate seniiniferal tubes is a dense covering—the tunica albuginea. Its excretory or efEerent duct is named vas deferens. Dissection. With the view of examining the investing fibrous coat, let the testis be placed on its outer side, viz. that on which the epididymis lies, and let it be fixed firmly in that position with pins. The fibrous coat is to be cut through along the anterior part, and thrown backwards as far as the entrance of the bloodvessels. Whilst raising this membrane a number of fine bands will be seen traversing the substance of the testicle, and a short septal piece (mediastinum) may be perceived at the back of the viscus, where the vessels enter ; but it will be expedient to remove part of the mass of tubes in the interior, to bring more fully into view the mediastinum, and to trace back some of the finer septa to it. The tunica albufji?iea, or the fibrous coat of the testicle, is of a bluish-white colour, and resembles in appearance the sclerotic coat of the eji-eball. This membrane protects the secreting part of the testicle, and maintains the shape of the organ by its dense and un- yielding structure : it also sends inwards processes to support and separate the seminal tubes. These several offsets of the membrane appear in the dissection ; and one of them at the back of the testicle, which is larger than the rest, is the mediastinum. The mecliastinum testis (fig. 107, cV) (corpus Highmorianum) pro- jects into the gland for a tliird of an inch with the bloodvessels. It is situate at the back of the testis, extending from the upper nearly to the lower end, and is rather larger and deeper above than below. It is formed of two pieces, which are united anteriorly at an acute angle. To its fi'ont and sides the finer septal processes are connected ; and in its interior are contained the bloodvessels behind, and a network of seminal ducts in fi-ont (rete testis). Of the finer lyrocesses of the tunica albuginea (fig. 1G7, h) which enter the testis, there are two Idnds. One set round and cord-like, but of different lengths, is attached posteriorly to the mediastinum, and serves to maintain the shape of the testis. The other set forms dehcate membranous septa, which divide the mass of seminal tubes into lobes, and join the mediastinum, like the rest. Within the tunica albuginea is a thin vascular layer, tunica vas- culosa (Sir A. Cooper), which fines the fibrous coat, covering the different septa in the interior of the gland. It is formed of the ramifications of the bloodvessels, united by areolar tissue, like the pia mater of the brain : in it the arteries are subdivided before they are distributed on the secerning tubes, and the small vchis are collected into larger trunks. Form and length of the seminal tales (tubuli scminiferi). The secerning or seminal tubes are very convoluted, and arc but slightly held together by fine areolar tissue and surrounding blood-