596 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Dissection. An anterior and a posterior ligaineut, witli a (Ibro- cartilnge. Union of tlic cornua. Motion. Union be- tween the sacrum and liip bone. To dissect the liga- ments. Anterior ligament. Posterior ligaments; one more distinct, the oblique. Articular cartilage. Motion i.s very slight, as security required; common ligament. And there is a separate articulation for the cornua of the hones. Dissection. Little dissection is needed for these ligaments. AVhen the areolar tissue has heen removed altogether from the hones, the ligaments will he apparent. The anterior ligament (sacro-coccygeal) consists of a few fihres that pass between the hones in fi-ont of the fihro-cartilage. The 2JOSterior ligament is wide at its attachment to the last piece of the sacrum, but nan-ows as it descends to be inserted into the coccyx. The fihro-cartilage resembles that between the bodies of the other vertebric, and is attached to the surfaces of the bones. Articulation of the cornua. The cornua of the first piece of the coccyx are imited with the cornua of the last sacral A^ertebra by ligamentous bands, and not by joints as in the articular processes of the other vertebrte. Movement. Whilst the coccyx remains unossified to the sacrum, a slight antero-posterior movement will take place between them. Sacro-iliac Articulation. The in-egular surfaces by Avliich the sacnim and the innommate bone articulate, are united by cartilage (synchondrosis), and are maintained in contact by anterior and posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. Inferiorly the bones are further connected, without being in contact, by the strong sacro-sciatic ligaments. Dissection. To see the posterior ligaments, the mass of muscle at the back of the sacrum is to be removed on the side on which the innominate bone remains. The thin anterior bands will be visible on the removal of some areolar tissue. The small sacro-sciatic liga- ment will be brought into view by removing the coccygeus ; and the large ligament is dissected with the lower limb. The anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of a few thin scattered fibres between the bones, near their articular surfaces. The posterior ligaments (sacro-iliac) are much stronger than the anterior, and the fibres are collected into bundles : these ligaments pass fi'om the rough iimer surface, at the hinder end of the in- nominate bone, to the first two pieces of the sacrum. One bundle, which is distinct fiom the others, and more superficial, is named the ohlique or loiig posterior hgament; it is attached to the posterior upper iliac spinous process, and descends ahnost vertically to the third piece of the sacrum. Articular cartilage. Between the in-egular surfaces of the bones is a thin uneven layer of cartilage (fig. 187, a). It fits into the inequalities of the osseous surfaces, uniting them very firmly to- gether. On separating the bones after the other ligaments are examined, the cartilage may be detached with a knife Movement. There is scarcely any appreciable motion in the sacro- iliac articulation, even when the hip-bone is seized by the hand, and pulled forcibly in different directions. The articulation seems designed for security and little movement, inasmuch as the surfaces are not in contact, are very irregular, and have a firm and in-