DISSECTIOX OF THE NECK. lU Other pans lia on lU'th nerve. Dissection or upjier giuigliou. Middle and inferior ganglion. Superior ganglion is near skull, ■beneath carotid. Branches with spinal nei-ves, with cranial outside skull, and in jugular foramen: Aud with the ganglia proceed connecting branches with the spinal and most of the cranial nerves in the neck ; and branches for distribution to viscera and blood-vessels. Besides the ganglia above mentioned, there are other ganglia in the head and neck in connection with the tlu-ee trmiks of the lifth nerve. Dissection. To display the branches of the sympathetic nerve requires greater care than is necessary in tracing the white-fibred nerves, for they are softer, more easily torn, and generally of smaller size. In the neck the ganglia and their branches have been partly prepared, and only the following additional dissection will be requii-ed, to biing them mto view :—The jugular vein having been cut thi'ough, the upper ganglion will be seen by raising the carotid artery, and the trunks of the vagus and hypo- glossal nei-ves, and by cutting through the branches that unite these two to the loop between the first and second spinal nerv€s. The several branches of the gaugHon are to be traced upwards on the carotid artery, inwards to the pharynx, down along the neck, and outwards to other nei^ves. The dissector has already seen the middle ganglion on or near the inferior thyroid artery, and its branches to spinal nei-ves, and along the neck, are now to be traced. To obtain a view of the inferior ganglion the greater part of the first rib is to be taken away, and the subclavian artery is to be cut thi-ough, inside the scalenus, and drawn aside, without however destroying the fine nerves that pass over it. The clavicle is sup- posed not to be in position. The ganglion is placed on the neok of the first rib ; its branches are large, and are easily followed out- wards to the vertebral artery and the spinal nerves, and downwards to the thorax. The SUPERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION is the largest of the three, and is of a reddish-gi-ey colour. Of a fusiform shape, it is as long as the second and third cervical vertebrte, and is placed on the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, beneath the internal carotid artery and the contiguous cranial nerves. Branches connect the ganglion with other nerves ; and some are distributed to the blood-vessels, the phai-ynx, and the heart. Connecting branches imite the sympathetic with both the spinal and the cranial nerves. With the spinal nerves. The four highest spinal nerves have branches of communication with the upper ganglion of the sym- pathetic ; but the ofEset to the fourth nerve may come from the cord connecting the upper to the next ganglion. '■'-With the cranial nerves. Near the skull the trunks of the vagus (its lower ganglion) and hypoglossal nerves are joined by branches of the sympathetic. In the foramen jugulare also, both the peti-osal ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal and the ganglion of the root of the vagus receive small filaments, one to each, fi'om an ascending offset of the ganglion. Communications are formed with several other cranial nerves by