287 DEEP LAYER OF MUSCLES. the forearm arises a small palmar branch f), which courses on the hvan^hot ulnar artery, sending twigs around that vessel, to end in the integuments of the palm of the hand : sometimes a cutaneous oi¥- set perforates the aponeurosis near the wrist, and joins the internal cutOiiicoiis ncrvG. d. The dorsal cutaneous nerve of the hand arises about two inches above the end of the ulna, and passes obHquely backwards beneath jjack of tlie flexor carpi ulnaris : perforating the aponeurosis it is lost on the ■ back of the hand and fingers (p. 278). The MEDIAN NERVE (fig. 81,') leaves the hollow of the elbow Median between the heads of origin of the pronator teres, and takes the ,,etween middle line of the limb to the hand. It is placed beneath the the two flexor sublimis as low as two inches from the annular ligament, ^ul'ifies. where it becomes superficial along the outer border of the tendons of that muscle. Lastly the nerve passes beneath the annular liga- ment to the palm of the hand. The nerve supplies the muscles on the front of the forearm, and furnishes a cutaneous offset to the hand. Muscular offsets leave the trunk of the nerve near the elbow, Supplies the and are distributed to all the muscles of the superficial layer except cies, except the flexor carpi ulnaris; in addition, the nerve supplies the deep ^'^^^'^'^ ^ layer through the interosseous branch (p. 289), except the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum. The cutaneous palmar branch Q) arises in the lower fourth of the forearm ; it jDierces the fascia near the annular ligament, and jjalm of crosses over that ligament to reach the palm of the hand. hand. The BADIAL NEEVE is the smaller of the two branches into which Radial ner\'e the musculo-spiral di^ddes at the elbow. This nerve is placed along the outer border of the Hmb, under cover of the supinator longus forearm, (fig. 80), and on the outer side of the radial artery till within thi-ee inches of the wrist, where it becomes cutaneous at the posterior border of the supinator tendon. On the surface of the limb it ends on divides into two branches, which are distributed on the dorsum of ^^^^ °^ the hand, and digits (p. 278). No muscular offset is furnished by ' the nerve. Dissection (fig. 81). To examine the deep layer of muscles it will Dissection be necessary to draw well over to the radial side of the forearm the pronator teres ; to detach the flexor sublimis from the radius, 'uuscles: and to remove its fleshy part. The areolar tissue is to be taken fi-om the deep muscular fibres ; and the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve, which lie on the interosseous membrane, and are con- cealed by the muscles, are to be traced out. Above the ends of the forearm-bones the arch of the anterior show carpal carpal arteries may be defined. arch. Deep Layer of Muscles. There are only three deep muscles Three mus- on the front of the forearm. One Hes on the ulna, and is the deep ^^'^ flexor of the fingers ; a second covers the radius, viz. the long ^"^^ flexor of the thumb ; and the third is the pronator quadi-atus, which lies beneath the other two, near the lower end of the bones. The FLEXOR DIGITORUM PROFUNDUS Vel PERFORANS ((ig. 81, «) ariscs Deep flexor of fingers.