15 MENINGEAL ARTERIES. sinuses, it receives small veins from the pituitary body. This sinus is usually destroyed by the removal of the pituitary body. The transverse or basilar sinus crosses the basilar process of the Tnuisverse occipital bone, on a level with the petrous part of the temporal ' bone, and unites the opposite cavernous sinuses. A second trans- verse sinus is sometimes found nearer the foramen magnum. The superior petrosal sirms (fig. 3, /) lies in a groove in the Snpenm- upper edge of the petrous part of the temporal bone, and extends between the cavernous and lateral sinuses. A small vein from the cerebellum, and another fi-om the internal ear, are received into it. The infm-ior petrosal sinus (fig. 3, h) extends between the same inforior sinuses as the precedmg, and lies in a groove along the line of • junction of the petrous part of the temporal with the basilar process of the occipital bone ; it is joined by a small vein fi'om the outside of the skull, through the foramen lacerum in the base of the cranium. This sinus passes through the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen, and ends in the internal jugular vein. Meningeal Akteries. These arteries supplying the cranium and the dura mater come through the base of the skull; they have been IJef— named from their situation in the thi-ee foss£e, anterior, middle, and posterior meningeal. The anterior meningeal are veiy small branches of the ethmoidal Anterior arteries (p. 46), which enter the skull by apertures between the frontal and ethmoid bones : they are distributed to the dura mater over and near the ethmoid bone. The middle meningeal arteries are three in number : two, named Middle large and small, are derived from the internal maxillary ti-unk ; and '"'^'""seal, the third is an offset of the ascending pharyngeal artery. a. The large meningeal hrancli of the internal maxillary artery from inter- appears through the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone, and il^y'"'^"^" ascends towards the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. At this spot the vessel enters a deep groove in the cranium, and ends in ramifications which spread over the side of the head, some of them reaching to the top and the occiput, whilst others perforate the bone, and end on the exterior of the head. Two veins accompany its veins, the artery. Branches. As soon as the artery comes into the cranial cavity, gives it furnishes branches to the dura mater and osseous structure, and dm-a'iualer' to the ganglion of the fifth nerA'^e. One small offset, petrosal, entei's the hiatus Fallopii, and supplies the suiTOunding bone (Hyrtl). and bone. One or two branches pass into the orbit, and anastomose with tlie ophthalmic artery. h. The small meningeal branch is an offset of the large one small outside the skull, and is transmitted through the foramen ovale to meningeal, the membrane lining the middle cranial fossa. c. Another meningeal hrancli from the ascending pharyno-eal One of artery comes through the foramen lacerum (basis cranii). Thi^^s is 'i,i'aS"fai seldom injected, and is not often visible. ' ° The p)osterior meningeal branches are small, and are furnished by Posterior the occipital and vertebral arteries. meningeal,