DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOUEAEM. 278 Superficial nerves of forearm and Ijack of hand are, internal cutaneous; external cutaneous; external cutaneous of musculo- spiral. Ending of the radial nerve lay external and internal branch, which supply some digits. Termina- tion. Branch of ulnar norve to back of the vein divides into external and internal pieces (median basilic and median cephalic), which unite, as before seen (fig. 76, with radial and ulnar veins. At its point of bifurcation the median receives a connnunicating branch from a vein (vena comes) beneath the fascia. Cutaneous Nervks. Some of the superficial nen'es of the fore- arm are continued from the arm :—those on the inner side from the large internal cutaneous nerve ; and those on the outer, fi-om the two external cutaneous nerves of the musculo-spiral, and the musculo-cutaneous. On the forepart of the limb there is oc- casionally a small offset of the ulnar nerve near the wrist. On the back of the hand is the termination of the radial nerve, together with a branch of the ulnar neiv^e. The internal cutaneous nerve (p. 271) is divided into two. The antei-ior branch extends on the front of the forearm as far as the wrist, and supplies the integuments on the inner half of the anterior surface. Near the wrist it communicates sometimes with a cutaneous offset from the ulnar nerve. The posterior branch continues along the back of the forearm (ulnar side) to rather below the middle. The cutaneous imrt of the musculo-cutaneous nerve (p. 272) is prolonged on the radial border of the limb to the ball of the thumb, over which it terminates in cutaneous offsets. Near the wrist the nerve is placed over the radial artery, and some twigs pierce the fascia to ramify on the vessel, and supply the carpus. A little above the middle of the forearm the nei-ve sends baclcvvards a branch to the posterior aspect, which reaches nearly to the wrist, and com- municates with the radial, and the following cutaneous nerve. The external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve (p. 275) after passing the elbow, turns to the hinder part of the forearm, and reaches as far as the wrist. Near its termination it joins the preceding cutaneous nerve. The radial nerve ramifies in the integument of the back of the hand and some of the digits. It becomes cutaneous at the outer border of the forearm in the lower third, and after giving some filaments to the posterior aspect of the limb, divides into two branches :— One (external) is joined by the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and is distributed on the radial border and the ball of the thumb. The other branch (internal) supplies the remaining side of the thumb, both sides of the next two digits, and half the ring finger ; so that the radial nei-ve distributes the same number of digital branches to the dorsum as the median ner\'-e furnishes to the palmar surface. This portion of the radial nerve communicates with the musculo-cutaneous and ulnar nerves; and the offset to the con- tiguous sides of the ring and middle fingers is joined by a twig from the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. On the side of the fingers each of these dorsal branches is united with an offset fi-om the digital nerve on the palmar surface. The dorsal branch of the ubiar nerve gives ofl'sets to the rest of the fingers and the back of the hand. Appearing by the styloid