530 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. Effect on tlionix and abdomen. on ■^^scern, and on apertures. State in muscular efforts. Action in- voluntary. Special parts to be examined. Central teiidon. like a tre- foil leaf. Two pillars, with certain resem- blances : an-ange- ment of tibres in each. as tliey ascend to tendon : differences in the pillars. the lowest part of the *arch, and the bulges on the sides reach rather higher. With the movement of the diaphragm the size of the cavities of the abdomen and thorax will be altered. In inspiration the thorax is enlarged, and the abdomen diminished ; and the viscera in the upper part of the latter cavity, viz., liver, stomach, and spleen, are partly moved fi-om beneath the ribs. In expiration the cavity of the thorax is lessened, and that of the abdomen is restored to its former size ; and fhe displaced \ascera return to their usual place. By the contraction of the fibres the aperture for the oesophagus will be rendered smaller, and that tube may be compressed; but the other openings for the vena cava and aorta do not experience change. Preparatory to the maldng of a great muscular effort, the'midriff contracts, and descends for the purpose of permitting a full quantity of air to enter the thorax. Till the effort is over the diaphragm remains in a depressed position. Its action is commonly involun- tary, but the movement can be controlled by the will at any stage. Parts of the diaphragm. The following named parts, which have been noticed shortly in describing the muscle, are now to be re- ferred to more fully, viz., the central tendon, the pillars, the arches, and the apertures. The central temlon (cordiform tendon) occupies the middle of the diaphragm (fig. 168), and is surrounded by muscular fibres ; the large vena cava pierces it. It is of a pearly white colour, and its tendinous fibres cross in different directions. In form it resembles a trefoil leaf ; of its three segments the right (c) is the largest, and the left (a) the smallest. The pillars (crm-a) are two large muscular and "tendinous pro- cesses {d and e), one on each side of the abdominal aorta. They are pointed and tendinous below, where they are attached to the upper lumbar vertebrae, but large and fleshy above ;' and between them is a tendinous arch over the aorta. In each pillar the fleshy fibres pass upwards and forwards, diverg- ing from each other : the greater number join the central tendon without intermixing, but the inner fibres of the two crura cross one another in the following manner :—Those of the right (e) ascend by the side of the aorta, and pass to the left of the middle line decussating with the fibres of the opposite crus between that vessel and the opening of the oesophagus. The fibres of the other crus (d) may he traced in the same way, to form the right half of the cbso- phagean opening. In the decussation the fasciculus of fibres fi-om the right crus is generally larger than that from the left, and is commonly anterior to it. The pillars differ somewhat on opposite sides. The right (e) is the larger of the two, and is fixed by tendinous processes to the bodies of the first three lumbar vertebra;, and their intervertebral substance, reaching to the disc between the third and fourth verte- bra3. The left pillar d (sometimes absent) is situate more on the side of the spine, is partly concealed by the aorta, and does not