536 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. Unimmecl offsets. Origin of brandies Vftries. Occasional brandies from it. Veins of tlie iibdonien except vena liortie. Anatomy of external iliac: position to ai-tery. Brandies. Common iliac veins form cava: difference in lengtli and connec- tions. Veins to it. Lower cava is by side of tlie aorta: extent and connections, Branches from abdo- men, except tliose of digestive .'ipparatus. Some small unnamed twigs are given to tlic psoas muscle and the lymphatic glands. Peculiarities in usual brandies. The epigastric and circumflex branclies may wander over the lower inch and a half or two inches of the artery. In unusual branches. Thougli the trunk of the vessel is commonly free from any unusual branch, it may be occupied between the middle and the end by the obturator artery, or by the internal circumflex artery of tlie thigh. Iliac Veins and Vena Cava (fig. 1G9). The larger veins of the abdomen correspond so closely with the arteries, both in number, extent, and connections, as to render unnecessary much detail in their description. As the veins increase in size from the circumfer- ence towards the centre of the body, those most distant from the heart will be first referred to. The external iliac (r) is a continuation of the femoral vein beneath Poupart's ligament. It has an extent like the artery of the same name, and ends by uniting with the vein from the pelvis (internal iliac), to form the common iliac vein. On the pubes it is inside its companion artery, and lies between the psoas and pectineus muscles; the left vein remains internal to, but the right slips beneath its artery. The veins opening into it are the epigastric and circumiiex iliac (p. 455). The common iliac vein (fig. 169 p) ascends by the side of its accom- panying artery, the right almost vertically, and the left obliquely, to the right side of the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra, where it blends with its fellow in one trunk—the vena cava. The right vein is the shortest, and lies at first behind, but after- wards outside the artery of the same name. The left is altogether below the artery of its own side, and crosses beneath the right common iliac artery. Each vein receives the ilio-lumbar, and the lateral sacral branch ; and the common iliac of the left side is joined by the middle sacral vein. The VENA CAVA iNFEEioii (fig. 169, m) collects and conveys to the heart the blood of the lower half of the body. Taking origin on the right side of the fifth lumbar vertebra, below the bifm-cation of the aorta, this large vein ascends on the right side of the vertebral column, and reaches the heart by perforating the diaphragm. Its connections with the surrounding paiis have been already noticed (p. 482), but the description may be referred to, as the position of the branches of the aorta to it can be better seen now. Branches. The cava receives parietal branches (lumbar and dia- phragmatic), fi-omthe wall of the abdomen and the diaphragm; and visceral branches from the testicle, the kidney, the suprarenal body, and the liver. The veins belonging to the digestive apparatus, viz., the intestinal canal, the spleen, and the pancreas, are united to form the vena portae (p. 488) ; and the blood contained in those veins reaches the cava by the venas cavaj hepaticse, after it has circulated through the liver.