DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. 648 Its tendon is divided on tlie edge of tlio pel- vis. Use like ]iyrifonuis on linilj, pehas; !Uid in rotiition. Quadratns lenioris; origin; insertion : parts over and be- neatli it, and at lower border. Use mth limb free, and fixed. Dissect circumflex artery. Intei'nal circumflex arteiy ends in two branches. Obturator exteruus is inserted into pit of trochanter. Connec- tions. and covering the whole is the gluteus maximus. On cutting through the tendon and raising the inner end, it Avill be found divided into three or four pieces as it turns over the margin of the pelvis (fig. 199, ; at this spot the pelvis is marked by ridges of fibro-cartilage, which correspond with the intervals between the tendons, and the surfaces are lubricated by a syno^aal membrane. Action. Acting fi-om the hinder border of the pelvis round which it turns, it rotates out or abducts the femur according as this bone may be hanging or raised. It will erect the .pelvis after stooping, and will balance the same in standing ; and it will rotate to the opposite side the trunk supported on one limb. The QUADRATUS FEMORis (fig. 198, ^) has the form expressed by its name, and is situate between the inferior gemellus and the ad- ductor magnus. Internally it arises from the outer border of the tuber ischii for two inches, along the origin of the semi-membra- nosus and adductor magnus ; externally it is inserted into a tubercle in the posterior intertrochanteric ridge, and slightly into the neck of the femur ; and into a line on the upper end of that bone for about two inches, above the attachment of the great adductor. By one surface it is in contact with the sciatic vessels and nerves, and the gluteus. By the other it rests on the obturator extemus, the internal circumflex vessels,' and its small nerve and vessels. Between its lower border and the adductor magnus one of the terminal branches of the internal cu'cumflex artery issues. Between it and the small trochanter is a bursa, which is common also to the upper part of the adductor magnus. Action. Though the muscle has but slight power, it will be asso- ciated with the other muscles on the back of the pelvis in rotation out of the pendent femuc, and in abduction of the femur when the hip joint is bent. And its femoral attachment being fixed, it mil help in supporting the pelvis ; or it will turn the face to the opposite side, the body being supported on one limb. Dissection (fig. 199). The quadratus and the gemelli muscles may be now cut across, in order that their small nerve and arteiy, the ending of the internal circumflex artery, and the obtm-ator extemus may be dissected out. The internal circumflex branch (fig. 199,/) of the prof unda artery (p. 634) divides finally into two pieces. One (g) ascends beneath the quadratus (in this position of the body) to the pit of the tro- chanter, Avhere it anastomoses with the gluteal and sciatic arteries, and supplies the bone. The other (h) passes between the quadi-atus and adductor magnus to the hamstring muscles, and communicates with a branch of the profunda artery. The OBTURATOR EXTERNUS (fig. 199, ^) has been dissected at its origin in the front of the thigh (p. 636). The part of the muscle now laid bare, winds below the hip joint, and ascends to be inserted into the pit at the root of the great trochanter. On the back of the pelvis the obturator externus is covered by the quadratus, except near the femur where the upper border is in