87 INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. During the liorizontnl motion forwards and hackwarch of tlie jaw Fomar'J^^n'l the condyle is moved successively to the front and back ot tlie ,„ove.uent. temporal articular surface ; and the lower jaw is slightly depressed, condyle in order that the fore teeth in the upper dental arch should not moves, impede those of the lower. By turns the front and back of the capsule will be stretched ; f.^te of^^ and the fibro-cartilage always follows the condyle of the jaw, even in dislocation. Too great motion forwards will be prevented by the coronoid process of the jaw striking against the zygomatic arch ; and that backwards, by the meeting of the condyle and tlie auditoiy process of the OS temporis. Lateral horizontal movement puts the jaw first to one side and Laterai^^^^^ then to the other. When the jaw is forced to the left side, the right condyle smks into its articular hollow, whilst the left is pro- ^^^^^^^ jected ; and the grinding teeth of the lower dental arch are moved to the left across those of the upper. By the alternate action to opposite sides the food is triturated. The inner part of the capsule on the right, and the outer part on ^^^^ of^^ the left side, will be put on the stretch when the jaw is caiiied to ^" the left of the middle line ; and the opposite. With old edentulous jaws the capsule is much enlarged, and per- mits the condyle to wander backwards beliind the Glaserian fissure. Without this provision the altered lower jaw would not meet the upper to crush the food. Dissection. The condyle of the jaw is next to be disarticulated, the external pterygoid muscle being still uncut ; and it with the uerve, attached muscle is to be di'awn forwards so as to allow the fifth nerve to be seen. Whilst cutting through the joint capsule, the tUssector must be careful of the amiculo-temporal nerve close be- neath (fig. 21). On dra^ving forwards the pterygoid muscle, and removing some fat, the dissector will find the trunk of the mferior maxillary ners'e. All the small muscular' branches of the nerve, before noted, should be traced to the trunk in the foramen ovale of the sphenoid bone. The auriculo-temporal branch should be followed backwards with care behind the articulation ; and the dental and gustatory nerves beneath the muscle should be cleaned. The small chorda tympaiii chorda may be found joining the posterior part of the gustatory nerve ty^P^Ji'' near the skull. The large meningeal artery and its branches are to be sought and arteries, beneath the external pterygoid. Sometimes the trunk of the internal maxillary artery lies beneath that muscle, and in such case, it and its branches are to be traced out. The INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY (fig. 18, IS OnC of the tcr- Internal, niinal branches of the external carotid, and takes a winding course a'rtery.'*'^ beneath the lower jaw and the temporal muscle to the spheno- maxillary fossa, where it ends in branches for the face, the interior of the nose, and the palate and pharynx. At first the artery is directed inwards beneath the jaw, between Course and couuections.