SPINAL CORD. with the intraspinal veins, join in the skull the veins, or the inferior petrosal sinuses. _ The SPINAL CORD (medulla spmahs) is the elongated rounded part of the cerebro-spmal centre, which is enclosed within the spinal cana . Invested by the membranes before examined, the medulla occupies about two-thirds ot the length of its canal, and is much smaller than the bony case surrounding it. The extent of the spinal cord is fi-om the upper border of the atlas to the lower border of the fii-st lumbar vertebra, but its termination inferiorly may be a little higher or lower than that spot. In the embryo before the third month the medulla reaches throughout the spinal canal, but it gradually recedes as the surrounding bones enlarge faster than it, until it takes the position it has in the adult. Its length is usually from fifteen to eighteen inches. Superiorly the cord joins the medulla oblon- gata ; and inferiorly it becomes pointed, being sometimes marked by one or two swellings, and ends in the fibrous prolongation, named the central ligament of the cord or filum terminale (fig. 124, d). The size of the spmal cord is much mcreasecl where the nerves of the Hmbs are attached. There are therefore two enlargements on it, viz., cer\'ical and dorsal: the one in the neck reaches from the tMrd cer^ncal to the first dorsal vertebra ; the other in the Back is smaller, and is on a level with the last dorsal vertebra. In the upper enlargement the greatest thickness is from side to side ; but in the lower swelhng the measurement from before back rather ex- ceeds the other. Whilst the pia mater remains on the cord, the anterior surface is distinguished fi-om the posterior by a central fibrous band and the anterior spinal artery ; and by the irregular line of the anterior nerve-roots, which approach the middle towards the lower end. Dissection. For the examination of the struc- ture the student should possess a piece of the medulla wliich has been hardened in spirit, for 411 inferior cerebellar Vig. 124.* Situation of the cord. Extent varies below, _ ^ and in the embryo. Length. Inferior • - termination " in the adult. -d Its size differs at spots. Anterior surface, how known. Dissection to see con- stituents the cord which is * Membranes of the spinal cord laid open, to show the lower end of the cord with the fihim terminale. a. Dura mater, and b, the fibrous band fixing it to the coccyx, c. Pointed lower end of the cord. d. Filum terminale of the cord.