185 VEINS OF THE BEAIX. The several nerves may be designated first, second, tliird, and so Desigiia- forth : this munerical mode of naming applies to all, and is the one generally used. But a second name has been derived for some of tlie nerves fi-om from nun.- the parts to which they are supplied ; as instances of tins nomen- clature the terms hypo-glossal, pneumo-gastric, may be taken. And j-ame of a different appellation is given to others, in consequence of the function conferred on the part to wliich they are distributed, as the terms auditory and olfactory express. In this way two names may or function, be employed in referring to a nerve :—one being numerical, the other local or fimctional, as is exemplified below. The FIRST or olfactory nkrve (olfactory process, fig. 53 ^) is ^^^^^^ soft and pulpy, being destitute of a neurilemma; and it may be considered an advanced part of the brain, for it has both gray sub- stance and wliite fibres in its composition, like the cerebrum. The olfactory process is a flat-looking band, wider at each end than in the middle, which is lodged in a sulcus on the under aspect J^es^on ^^^^ of the frontal lobe of the cerebrum, and is kept in position by the reflection of the arachnoid membrane over it. When the so-called nerve is raised from the sulcus, it is prismatic in form, the apex of the prism being directed downwards (in this position). Aiiteriorly the nervous substance swells into the olfactory hulb— ^"f^toj^, a pyriform grapsh mass, about half an inch m length, which rests bulb, on the ethmoid bone, and distributes nerves to the nose. Posteriorly the olf actoiy process is connected to the cerebrum by three roots, external, internal, and middle. The external or long root is a slender wliite band, which is directed lias external backwards along the outer part of the anterior perforated space, and across the fissm-e of Sylvius, and sinks into the substance of the cerebnim. The internal or short root, not always visible, is white and internal and delicate, and comes from the inner side of the cerebral hemisphere. The middle or gi-at/ root is connected with the gray matter on the middle root, •suitface of the brain, by means of a conical elevation at the back of 'the sulcus which lodges the nerve. Deep Origin. Tlie external root is said to be traceable to one of the con- Origin, volutions of the island of Reil. The inner root joins a band of white fibres connected with a convolution (gyi-us foruicatus) to be afterwards examined. And the middle root, continuous with the gray matter of the convolutions, contains white fibres which enter the corpus striatum. The SECOND or optic Q) is the largest of the cranial nerves, excej^t Optic nerve, the fifth, and appears as a flat band on the crus cerebri. Anterior!}^ the nei'ves of opposite sides are united in a commissure. Posterior part called to the commissure the nen'-e is named optic tract; but bej'-ond the commissural union, where it is round and firm, it is called optic rart nerve. nerve. The destination of the nerve is to the eyeball. enumerate twelve nerves, consider each of the three trunks of the eighth nerve before mentioned, to constitute a separate cranial nerve, notMathstanding that it may be combined with others in the foramen of exit.