43 THIRD AND NASAL NERVES. nearly a quarter of an inch wide, wliich is attached by fibrous tissue to the depression of the frontal bone at the inTicr angle o± the orbit. A fibrous layer is prolonged from the margins of tlie pulley on the tendon ; and a synovial membrane lines the ring, to facilitate the movement of the tendon through it. To see the synovial membrane and the free motion of the tendon, this pro- longation may be cut away. , . For the use of the muscle, see the description of the mfenor Use. oblique, p. 49. . i n rv- r Dmection. The superior rectus muscle is next to be divided Di.s.ecfon. about the middle and turned backwards (fig. 11), when a branch of the third nerve to its under surface will be found. At the same time the nasal nerve and the ophthalmic artery and vein Avill come into view as they cross inwards above the optic nerve : these should be traced forwards to the inner angle, and backwards to the pos- terior part of the orbit. By talung away the fat between the optic nerve and the external To^jind len- rectus, at the back of the orbit, the student will find easily fine gangiiou, nerve-threads (ciliary) with small arteries lying along the side of the optic nen^e ; and by tracing these ciliary nerves backwards, they will guide to the small lenticular ganglion (the size of a pin's head) and its branches. The dissector should find then two branches and offsets, from the nasal and third nerves to tlie ganglion; the nasal branch is slender, and enters the ganglion behind, and that of the third nerve, short and thick, joins the lower part. Lastly, the student should separate from one another the nasal, ^ll^^gg*"^ third, and sixth nerves, as they pass between the heads of the external rectus muscle into the orbit. The THIRD NERVE is placed highest in the wall of the cavernous Third nen-e sinus (fi^. 4, *) ; but at the sphenoidal fissure it descends below the fourth, and the two superficial branches (frontal and lachry- mal) of the ophthalmic nerve. It comes into the orbit between as it enters the heads of the outer rectus, having previously divided into two parts. The upper piece (fig. 11, ^), the smallest in size, ends in the its upper imder surface of the levator palpebraj and superior rectus muscles. ^^'''""^^''> The lower piece supplies some of the other muscles, and will be lower dissected afterwards (p. 47). The nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve (fig. 11, ^) enters the Nasal nerve, orbit between the heads of the rectus, lying between the two parts of the tliird nerve. In the orbit the nerve is directed obliquely inwards to reach the anterior of the two foramina in the inner wall. Passing through this aperture with the anterior ethmoidal General (nasal) artery, the nerve appears in the cranium at the outer margin tiie nu;e° of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Finally, it enters the ' nasal cavity by an aperture at the front of the cribriform plate ; and after passing behind the nasal bone, it is directed outwards between that bone and the cartilage, to end on the outer side of the nose. In the orUt the nasal crosses over the optic nerve, but beneath in the orbit.