416 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. by loops; spinal arteiy above and below. And from the loops offsets (d) are furnished to the periosteum and the bodies of the vertebrje. Anas- tomotic twigs connect the arches across the vertebras. The intraspinal vessels produce also a central longitudinal artery (e), Uke that on the front of the spinal cord, which lies on the anclacen- bodies of the vertebras, and is reinforced at intervals by offsets tral vessel. ^^^^^ ^j^g j^^pg^ Intraspinal The intraspinal veins (fig. 128) consist of two anterior longitu- la'rge'.'^'^ dinal vessels, which extend the whole length of the spinal canal; of veins inside the bodies of the vertebra ; and of a plexus of veins beneath the neural arches. Anterior The anterior longitudinal veins (a) are close to the bodies of the are?nbo'dies "vertebrte. One on each side of the posterior common ligament ; and of vertebra;, they are irregular in outline, owing to certain constrictions near the intervertebral foramina. They receive opposite the body of each vertebra the veins (c) from that bone ; and through the inter- vertebral foramina they have branches of communication (a) with the veins outside the spine in the neck, the dorsal region, the loins, and the pelvis. Veins of the Veins of the bodies of the vertehrce. Within the channels in the VGrtcbrifi bodies of the vertebrse are large veins, which join on the front of the bone yvith veins in that situation. Towards the back of the vertebra they are united in an arch, from which two trunks issue by the large apertures on the posterior surface. Escaped fi-om the bone, the trunks diverge to the right and left, and open into the longitudinal veins. Posterior The posterior spinal veins form a plexus between the dura mater frefnlon-^ and the arches of the vertebras. A large vein may be said to He tact witli gach side of the middle line, which joins freely with its fellow, and with the anterior longitudinal vein by lateral branches. Off- sets from these vessels are directed tlu-ough the intervertebral fora- mina, to end in the veins (a) at the roots of the transverse pro- cesses. 1^