DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 80 ends on occiput; offset to dui-a mater. Occipital vein. Posterior auricular; • a 'branch to the ear. Vein with artery Temporal artery termination. Branches to parotid, to articula- tion, and ear. Branch to face. Branch to temporal muscle and fascia. the back of the head. It springs from the carotid opposite the facial branch, near the lower border of the digastric muscle, and ascends to the inner side of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. Next it turns horizontally backwards on the occipital bone, passing above the transverse process of the atlas ; and finally be- comes cutaneous near the middle line (p. 6). In the neck this arterj- lies beneath the digastiic muscle and the parotid gland; and crosses over the internal carotid artery, the jugular vein, and the spinal accessory and hypoglossal nerves. The only offset from the artery in the front of the neck is a small posterior meningeal branch: this ascends along the internal jugular vein, and enters the skull by the foramen jugulare (p. 16). The branches at the back of the neck will be afterwards seen. The occipital vein begins at the back of the head (p. 6), and has the same course as the artery : it communicates with the lateral sinus through the mastoid foramen, also with the diploic veins, and coalesces with the internal (sometimes the external) jugular vein. The posterior auricular artery is smaller than the preceding branch, and takes origin above the digastric muscle. Between the ear and the mastoid process, it divides mto two branches for the ear and occiput (p. 6). A small branch, stijlo-mastoid, enters the foramen of the same name, and supplies the tympanum of the ear. The vein with the artery receives a stylo-mastoid branch, and terminates in the trunk formed by the temporal and internal max- illary veins. The temporal artery (t) is in direction the continuation of the external carotid trunk, and is one of the terminal branches of that artery. Ascending under the parotid gland it di^ades on the tem- poral fascia into anterior and posterior branches, about two inches above the zygoma ; these are distributed to the front and side of the head (p. 5). The trunk of the artery gives offsets to the sm- rounding parts, viz. :— a. Parotid branches are furnished to the gland of the same name. Articular twigs are supplied to the articulation of the lower jaw ; and other muscular branches enter the masseter. Some anterior auricular offsets are distributed to the pinna and meatus of the external ear. b. The transverse facial branch quits the temporal arterj- oppo- site the condyle of the jaw, and is directed forwards over the masseter muscle (p. 28) ; on the side of the face it supplies tlie muscles and integuments, and anastomoses with the facial arteiy. c. The middle temporal branch arises just above the zygoma, and pierces the temporal aponeurosis to enter the substance of the tem- poral muscle: it anastomoses with branches of the internal maxillary artery. d. A small branch of the temporal artery is likewise found between the layers of the temporal fascia; this anastomoses with an offset of the lachrymal (p. 45).