DISSECTION OF BACK OF FOEEARM. 308 Iiitorosscous nerve. Position to iniiseles. Teniiination on back of the carpus. Its muscular offsets. Eadial artery on back of wrist. Connections with parts around and nerves. Branches iU'e small. To back of carpus, dorsal inter- osseous, metacarpal branch, dorsal arteries of thumb mencement, and ascends on or through the fibres of the supinator, but beneath the anconeus, to supply both those muscles and the elbow joint; and to anastomose with the superior profunda artery in the last-named muscle, as well as with the recurrent radial. The posterior interosseous nerve takes origin from the musculo- spiral trunk (p. 275), and winds backwards through the fibres of the supinator brevis. Escaped from the supinator, the nei-ve is placed between the superficial and deep layers of muscles as far as the middle of the forearm. Much reduced in size at that spot, it sinks beneath the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb, and runs on the interosseous membrane to the back of the carpus. Finally the nerve enlarges beneath the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum, and tenninates in filaments to the ligaments and the articulations of the carpus. Branches. It furnishes ofEsets to all the muscles of the deep layer; and to those of the superficial layer with the exception of the three, following, anconeus, supinator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior. Eadial Artery at the Wrist (fig. 88). The radial artery {d), with its venai comites, winds below the radius to the back of the carpus, and enters the palm of the hand at the first interosseous space, between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. At first the vessel lies deeply on the external lateral ligament of the wrist joint, and beneath the tendons of the extensors of the meta- carpal bone, E, and first phalanx of the thumb, F ; but afterwards it is more superficial, and is crossed by the teiidon of the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb, G. Offsets of the external cutaneous nerve entwine around the artery, and the radial nerve is superficial to it. Its branches are numerous but inconsiderable in size :— a. The dorsal carpal branch (/) passes transversely beneath the extensor tendons, and forms an arch with a coiTesponding offset of the ulnar artery ; with this arch the posterior interosseous artery joins. From the carpal arch branches {g) descend to the third and fourth interosseous spaces, and constitute two of the three dorsal interos- seous arteries : at the cleft of the fingers each di^^des into two, which are continued along the dorsum of the digits. In front they communicate with the digital arteries ; and behind they are joined by the perforating branches of the palmar arch. 1) The metacarpal or first dorsal interosseous branch (fig. 87, 6), reaches the space between the second and third metacarpal bones, and anastomoses, like the corresponding arteries of the other spaces, with a perforating branch of the deep palmar arch. Fma ly it is continued to the cleft of the fingers, where it joins the digital artery of the superficial palmar arch, and gives small dorsal branches to the index and second fingers. , , v . c Two small dorsal arteries of the thumb (c) arise opposite the metacarpal bone, along which they extend, one on each border, to be distributed on its posterior aspect.