CONNECTIOXS OF TJTEIIIIS. 559 from before l.aekwanls. Unless enlarged, it lies below the brm of fonn and the pelvis, between the bladder and the reetnm ; and it is retained in plaee by the ligaments. Its wider end is free and placed upwards and the lower end communicates with the vagina. _ ' This viscus is directed forwards, so that its position is oblique m r-t-n to^ the cavity of the pelvis ; and a line through its centre would corre- pelvis. spond with the axis of the inlet of the pelvic cavity. _ Axis. The unienor flattened surface is covered by peritoneum, except m Surfaces, the lower fourth where it is in contact with the bladder. The postenor surface, rounded, is invested altogether by the serous membrane. , i • - ^ .x. The vpper end (fundus) is the largest part of the organ, and is m Estremit.es. contact with the small intestine. The loioer end, or the neck (ceiwix) is received into tlie vagina. _ To each side are attached the broad ligament with the Fallopian On ttie side tube, the round ligament, and the ovary. The Fallopian tube, jr, four inches long, is contained in the upper Fallopian or fi-ee border of the ligament. One end is connected to the uterus close to the fundus, whilst the other is loose in the cavity of the pelvis. At the uterine end the tube is of small size, but at the opposite extremity it is dilated like a trumpet, and fi-inged, f oming the corpus finibriatum. The roiiml or suspensory ligament, N, is a fibrous cord about five \9^^^^^^^ inches long, which is directed outwards through the internal abdomi- nal ring and the inguinal canal to end in the groin. This cord lies over the obliterated hypogastric, and the external iliac artery ; and it is suiTounded by the peritoneum, which accompanies it a short way into the canal. The ovary, l, is placed nearly vertically, and bulges at the ami tlie posterior aspect of the broad ligament; it is connected to the uterus ''""^ at the inner end by a special fibrous band, one inch and a half in length, the lir/ament of the OA'ary. Its form is oval, and its margins its ligament, are turned forwards and backwards. Its size is very variable. The VAGINA (fig. ]73, ^) is the tube by which the uterus commu- ^^^"t .'juj nicates with the exterior of the body. It is somewhat cylindrical form; ' in shape, though flattened from above down ; and its length is about five inches. As it follows the bend of the rectum it is slightly lengtli; curved ; and its axis corresponds below Avith the centre of the out- ^i^s. let, but higher up Avith that of the cavity of the pehns. Above the Ai-agina are the base of the bladder, and the urethra ; Connec- and beneath or beloAV it is the rectum. It is transmitted through an opening in the recto-vesical fascia, Avliich sends a sheath along the loAv.er half of the tube. The upper end receives the neck of the utenis by an apeiitn-e in the anterior or upper Avail ; and the loAver end, the narroAvest part of the canal, is encircled by the sphincter vagintc muscle. A large plexus of A^eins surrounds the vagina. In children, and in the virgin, the external aperture is partly closed by the hymen. The BT.ADDKR (fig. 173, ") is placed at the front of the pelvis, Bladder above the vagina and in contact with the back of the pubes.