DISSJECTION OF THE LEG 698 capsule, and tendons. Bones in tlio knco-joint. Capsule, obscure or conceal the ligamentous band. A Idnd of aponeurotic capsule is to be defined on the front of the joint: and some tendons, namely, those of the biceps, popliteus, adductor magnus and semimembranosus, are to be followed to their insertion, a part of each being left. Articulation of the knek. The knee is the largest hinge joint m the body, and is formed by the contiguous ends of the tibia and femur, \wth the patella. The articular surfaces of the bones are covered with cartilage, and are maintained in apposition by strong and numerous ligan:ients. The capsule (fig. 214) is an aponeurotic covering on the front of the joint, which closes the wide intervals between the anterior and Fig. 214. Fig. 215.+ arrange' ment. how formed, the lateral ligaments ; and it is derived fi-om the fascia lata united with fibrous ofEsets of the extensor and flexor muscles. It covers the anterior and the external lateral hgament, being inserted below into the heads of the tibia and fibula; and it blends on the inner side with the internal lateral ligament. It is not closely apphed to the synovial membrane, but it is united below with the interarticular fibro-cartilages. Dissection. Four external ligaments, anterior and posterior, inter- nal and external, are situate at opposite points of the articulation. The posterior and the internal lateral ligament will appear on the removal of the areolar tissue fi'om their surfaces ; but the anterior and the external lateral are covered by the aponeurosis on the front of the joint, and will not be laid bare till this has been cut The external ligaments. To define the liga- ments ; how to proceed. * External ligament of the knee joint (Bourgery).—1. Anterior ligament. 2. External lateral ligament. 3. Interosseous ligament. 4. Part of the C3iiJ)Su1g t Internal ligament of the knee joint (Bourgery).—!. Tendon of the ex- tensor muscle ending below in the ligament of the patella, 2. 3. Internal lateral ligament. 4. Lateral part of the capsule.