DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. COS ami on side of the knee. Snpei'flcial veins. Internal saphenous vein in thigh pierces fascia lata to join tlie femoral. Veins join- ing it maj' form tliree trunks at the top of the thigh. Cutaneous arteries. Cutaueons nerves. Ilio-iuguinal is near scro- tum. Genito-cra- ral reaches tlio middle of thigh : nerve,—0110 siriall offset appearing near the upper part of the thigh; one or more about half way down ; and one of the terminal branches (anterior) about the lower third. On the inner side of tlie knee tliree otiier cutaneous nerves are to be looked for :—One, a branch of the great saphenous, is directed outwards over the middle of the patella. Another, the trunk of the great saphenous nerve, Hes by the side of the vein of the same name,^ close to the lower edge of the surface now dissected. And the thii-d is a terminal branch (inner) of the internal cutaneous nerve, which is close behind the preceding, and communicates with it. Vessels. All the cutaneous veins on the anterior and inner as- pects of the thigh are collected into one ; and this trunk is named saphenous from its manifest appearance on the surface. The internal saphenous vein (fig. 191, a) is the cutaneous vessel of the inner side of the lower limb, and extends from the foot to the top of the thigh. In the part of its course now dissected, the vessel Hes inferiorly somewhat behind the knee joint; but as 'it ascends to its termination, it is directed along the inner side and the fi-ont of the thigh. Near Poupart's ligament it pierces the fascia lata by a special opening named saphenous, and enters the deep vein (femoral) of the limb. Superficial branches join it both externally and internally ; and near Poupart's ligament the three veins corresponding with the arteries in that situation, viz., external pudic (i), superficial epigas- tric (c), and circumflex iliac (rf), terminate in it. Towards the upper part of the limb the veins of the inner side and back of the thigh are most frequently united into one branch, which enters the saphenous ti'unk near the aperture in the fascia lata ; and some- times those on the outer side of the thigh are collected together in a similar way. When this arrangement exists tlu-ee large veins will be present on the front of the thigh, near the saphenous opening. On the side of the knee the vein receives a deep branch from the joint. Some unnamed cutaneous arteries are distributed to the integu- ments along with the nerves ; and the superficial branch of the anastomotic artery (p. 624) accompanies the saphenous ners^e and its branches near the Imee. Nerves. The cutaneous nerves of the thigh are derived from branches of the lumbar plexus, and in greater number on the inner than the outer side. Ilio-inguinal. This nei-ve (p. 542) is small in size, and reaches the surface by passing through the external abdominal ring (fig. 191,'); it supplies the scrotum, and ends on the contiguous surface of the thigh, internal to the saphenous vein. The Genito-crural. The crural branch of this nerA'e (p. 542) pierces the fascia lata near Poupart's ligament (fig. 190, rather external to the line of the femoral arterj'. After or before the nerve has become supei-ficial it communicates with the middle cutaneous nerve ; and it extends on the anterior aspect of the thigh as far as midway between the knee and the pelvis.