150 DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. mmbrane^ commimicating fibres, the edge of the septum will ai^pear. By tracing the binder fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus muscle towards the OS hyoides, the byo-glossal membrane will be arrived at. linsuaiill'°' Outside that triangular muscle in the middle line is the longitu- dinal bundle of the inferior lingualis, which will be better seen subsequently. Fibrous Fibrous tissue. Along the middle line of the tongue is placed a of tongue; ti'"! lamma ot this tissue, forming a septum: the root of tho tongue is attached by another fibrous structure, the byo-glossal ^ membrane ; and covering the greater part of the organ is a sub- mucous layer of the same tissue. its septum ; Se])tmn. This structure forms a vertical partition between the two halves of the tongue (fig. 37, s), and extends from the base to the apex. It is thicker posteriorly than anteriorly, and is connected beliind with the hyo-glossal membrane. To each side the transverse muscle is connected. Its disposition may be better seen subse- fibro-carti- quently on a vertical section. In some instances a small fibro- ° ■ cartilage, about a quarter of an inch deep and long, exists at the back of the septum. Hyo-glossal The hyo-qlossal memhrane is a thin but strong fibrous lamina, which lllGlUDltlllG. o / attaches the root of the tongue to the upper border of the body of the hyoid bone. On its under or anterior surface some of the liinder fibres of the genio-hyo-glossi are inserted, as if this was their aponeu- rosis to attach them to the os hyoides. Sub-mucous The sii h-mucous fibrous or aponeurotic sirait(m of the tongue invests apoueuiosis. organ, and is continued into the sheaths of the muscles. Over the posterior third of the dorsum its strength is greater than else- where ; and in fi'ont of the epiglottis it forms bands in the folds of the mucous membrane in that situation. Into it are inserted the muscular fibres which end on the surface of the tongue. Muscles in MuscLES. Each half of the tongue is made up of exti-insic and each ball, intrinsic muscles. The former or external are distinguished by Two kinds, having only their termination in the tongue ; and the latter or in- ternal, by having both origin and insertion within the organ—that is to say, springing from one part and ending at another. Extrinsic; The extrinsic muscles (fig. 37) are the following : palato and number. gtylo-glossus, hyo and genio-hyo-glossus, and pharyngeo-glossus. Only the ling-ual endings of these are now to be looked to. Dissection Dissection. After the tongue has been firmly fastened on its left °^ side, the extrinsic muscles may be dissected on the right half. Three .styfo-°'' of these muscles, yiz. palato, D, stylo, B, and hyo-glossus, c, come amUiyo- together to the side of the tongue, at the junction of the middle and y ossus. posterior third ; and, to folloAV their radiating fibres forwards, it will be necessary to remove fi-om the dorsum, between them and the tip, a thin layer consisting of the mucous membrane and fleshy £bres of the upper lingualis. Beneath the tip a junction between the stylo-glossus muscles of opposite sides is to be traced. Of consti-ic- The piece of the constrictor muscle, G, which is attached to the tor muscle, tongue, and the ending of the genio-hyo-glossus, will come into view on the division of the hyo-glossus.