ORIGIN OF CRANIAL NERVES. 187 tract,—those of the right nerve being continued to the left side, to the opposite eye, and vice versa. And the most internal are con- tinued tlu-ough the tract of the otlicr side back to the brain without entering the eye. At the front of the commissure, are placed some transverse fibres, which are prolonged to the eyeballs through the portion of each nei-ve iu front of the counnissure, but have not any connection with the tracts and the brain. The part called nerve extends from the commissure to the eye- Tiuuk of ball. Leaving the skull by the optic foramen, it receives a tube of dura mater, and its course in the orbit is described in p. 4G. In the eyeball it ends in the retina. The THIRD NERVE (^), motor nerve of the eyeball, is round and Oj:'"!"^"^^,^ firm, and is attached by a slanting line of tlu-eads to the inner sm-face of the cerebral peduncle, near the locus perforatus, and close in fi-ont of the pons Varolii. Deejj or!f/iii. The deep origin is uncertain. According to StiUing,* the deepincrus fibres of the nerve pierce the peduncle, passing thi-ough the locus niger, and cerebri, enter a nucleus of gray substance near the floor of tlie aqueduct of Sylvius. e The FOURTH or trochlear nerve C) cannot be followed back- Origin of . • T • 1 n i J! ii_ -1 fom-tli nerv( Avards at present to its ongm. It is the smallest or tne cranial iiom cere- nei-ves, and is attached to the valve of Vieussens over the fourth i^el'i"". ventricle (fig. 68,'*). The nerve appears between the cerebrum and the cerebellum, on the side of the crus cerebri ; and is du-ected forwards to enter an apertui'e in the free edge of the tentorium cerebelli near the posterior clinoid process. Deep ori'jin. In entering the valve of Vieussens, filaments of the nerves of and Sylvian opposite sides cross and communicate. Each divides into two roots ; the aqueduct, anterior enters a nucleus of gi'ay matter on the side of the aqueduct of Sylvius ; the posterior joins a nucleus (upper trigeminal) near the top of the fourth ventricle (Stilling). The FIFTH or trigeminal is the largest of all the cranial nerves, ^^^i "ei"^'' and consists of two roots, ganglionic or sensory, and aganglionic or roots, motor, which are intermixed beyond the ganglion. The nerve is attached to the side of the pons Varolii, nearer the Origin from upper than the lower border Q). The small or aganglionic root is highest, and is separated from the large one by two or three of the transverse fibres of the pons. Both roots pass outwards through an aperture in the dura mater, above the petrous part of the temporal bone, and are blended in the peculiar manner stated in page 18. Both roots penetrate the fibres of the pons, and ai-e connected i" floor of with nuclei in the floor of the fourth ventricle. Deep ori(jin. The large root divides into two near the mass of gray matter beginning called locus cteralus (p. 229). One piece arises from the gray matter near J'^*^ ^'^''8'' the locus cseruleus (upper trigeminal nucleus) ; and the other, fi-om a deeper ^ ' nucleus, lower trujeminal, opposite the lower border of the pons, within the fa-sciculus teres (Stilling). The small root begins witli the fourth nerve in the upper trigeminal nucleus (iwtl of small near the top of the fourth ventricle (Stilling). * Unta-mchvMgen iiber den Bau dcs Hirnknotens.