SEEK CUTANEOUS VEINS AND NERVES. 007 lymphatic vessels from the surface of tlio lower limb enter them, wl.icii The upper or abdominal group is joined by the lymphatics of the ^^-in-rZt penis, by those of the surface of the abdomen, and by those of lyiui>liatii's. the buttock. The glands vary much in number and size ; and not unfi-equently some of the longitudinal set by the side of the vein {\re blended together. Dissection. The deeper layer of the superficial fascia is to be n.-vise the detached from the subjacent fascia lata. Internal to the saphenous ti^H'of tim vein a thin nicnd)rane can be raised by transverse cuts above and ^.^^'"j^"*^''^^ below, and by a longitudinal one on the inner side of the thigh ; ' but external to that vessel there exists scarcely a continuous layer. The handle of the scalpel may be employed in the separation ; and the dissector is to avoid injuring the nerves and vessels. In re- flecting the stratum the margin of an aperture (saphenous) in the fascia lata will become apparent. The deeper layei- of the superficial fascials a very thin membrani- ]5f^t,^e^j|JJ^gy form stratum, which is most evident near Poupart's ligament, and ndai fascia on the inner side of the saphenous vein. About one inch below the ligament it conceals the large saphenous opening in the fascia lata ; and as it stretches across the aperture it is attached to the circum- ference,—internally by loose areolar tissue, but externally by firm covers fibrous bands ; it is also connected with the loose crural sheath of openin"'"' the subjacent vessels in the aperture. The part of the stratum over the saphenous openino: is perforated y^'^ere it is iin.iii6<i by many small apertures for the transmission of the Ij'mphatics ; cribriform and it has been named cribriform fascia from its sieve-like appear- ance. In a hernial protrusion thi-ough that opening the cribriform portion is projected forwards by the tumour, and forms one of the coverings. Dissection. Now the student has observed the disposition of the Dissection superficial fascia near Poupart's ligament, he may proceed to ex- oftheUUgh. amine the remainder of the subcutaneous covering of the thigh, together with the vessels and nerves in it. To raise the skin from the fi-ont of the thigh, a cut is to be Take away carried along the centre of the limb, over the knee joint, to rather "'"^ below the tubercle of the tibia. At the extremity a transverse incision is to be made across the front of the leg, but this is to reach farthest on the inner side. The skin may be reflected in flaps inwards and outwards ; and as it is raised fi-om the fi-ont of the knee a superficial bursa between it and the patella will be opened. The saphenous vein is first to be traced out in the fat as far as an.l follow the skin is reflected, but in removing the tissue from it the student ■fehould be careful of branches of the internal cutaneous nerve. The cutaneous nerves of the front of the thigh (fig. 190) are to Seek cutano- be sought in the fat, Avith small cutaneous arteries, in the following "f front of positions :—On the outer margin, below the upper third, is placed thigh" " the external cutaneous nerve. In the middle of the limb, below the upper third, lie the two branches of the middle cutaneous nerve. At the inner margin arc the ramifications of the internal cutaneous