57i DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. fonns detrusor urime ; inteninl continuous with i)vo- state. Sub-nnu.'ous layer: extent, fibres, addition to it. Strata are joined. Fibrous Coat. Open tlie bladder. Mucous coat lias folds except on one si)ot. Glands. Epitheliiun. Interior of the bladder. Opening of urethra, with the uvula. layer of fibres is called detrusor ttriiuc from its action in the cxpul sion of the urine. The circular fibres (fig. 177, ") are thin and scattered on the body of the bladder ; but around tlie cervix they are collected into a thick bundle, the sphincter vesicce, and are continuous below with the fibres of the prostate. When the fibres are hypertropliied, they project into the interior of the organ, forming the fasciculated bladder ; and in some bodies the mucous coat may be forced out- wards here and there between them, in the form of sacs, producing the sacculated bladder. The sxihmucous stratum (fig. 177, ^) forms a continuous layer over the lower half of the bladder, but its fibres are scattered above. In the lower thii-d of the viscus the fibres are longitudinal, and are continued around the urethra ; but they become oblique above that point. At the back of the bladder the layer is increased in strength by the longitudinal fibres of the ureters blending with it. The pro- jection of the uvula vesicte is due to this submucous stratum. The muscular strata communicate freely, so that one cannot be separated fi-om another without division of the connecting bundles of fibres. In both sexes the disposition of the fibres is similar (Eoy. Med. Chir. Trans., 1856). Fibrous coat. A fibrous layer is placed between the muscular and mucous strata, and is enumerated as one of the coats of the bladder ; it is composed of areolar and elastic tissues as in other hoUow viscera, in which the vessels and nerves ramify. Dissection. The bladder is now to be opened by an incision down the fi-ont ; and the cut is to be continued along the upper surface of the prostate gland. The mucous memirane of the bladder is continuous posteriorly with the lining of the ureters, and anteriorly with that of the urethra. It is very slightly united to the muscular layer; and it is thrown into numerous folds in the flaccid state of the -vascus, except over a small triangular space behind the urethral opening. The membrane is of a pale rose colour in the healthy state soon after death. Its surface is studded with mucous follicles and branched glands, particularly towards the neck of the bladder. In the epithelium are three kinds of cells :—the superficial are roimdish and flattened; the middle are pjTiform ; and the deeper are conical and cylindrical. Oljects inside the Madder. Within the bladder are the following named parts, vi^., the orifices of the ureters and urethra, with the triangular surface (fig. 179). Orifices. At the anterior part of the bladder is the orifice of the urethra, sunwnded by the prostate gland. The mucous membrane presents here some longitudinal folds ; and the aperture is partly closed by a small elongated prominence below, uvula vesica;, occa- sioned by a thickening of the submucous muscular and fibrous layers. This eminence is placed in front of the middle lobe of the prostate ; and from its anterior end a slight ridge is continued on the floor of the urethra.