728 DISSECTION OP THE EYE. Blood-ves- sels, ■with large meshes a:id pigment cells exter- nally : capillaries internally. Strocture of ciliaiy pro- cesses. fho ""f-i"the fibrous web the vessels ramify, with the following diiierence in their arrangement At the outer part (fig. 229) the larger branches of both arteries and vems are situate ; and the veins (/.) form curves (vasavorticosa) as ey end m four or five chief efllerent trunks. In the interspace of the vessels are the ramified pigment cells (fig. 228, which contam a nucleus and molecular grains of dark brown colouring matter At the intenor of the fibrous web the vessels form a net work of capillaries without pigment cells, and with meshes smaller than elsewhere, whose interstices are rather less towards the back than the front of the eyeball: this part of the choroidal coat is described sometimes as a separate layer (tunica RuyscUana). m the cihary processes there is a similar texture of ramified bloodvessels, though with larger capillary meshes than in the Fig. 229.* choroid ; and towards the free ends the intermixed pigment cells lose their colouring matter. Ciliaiy CiLiAEY MUSCLE (fig. 229). In the eye from which the sclerotic coat has been removed, the white band of the ciliary muscle (e) (annulus alhidus), may be seen in its natural position outside the front of the choroid coat. It consists of unstriated fibres, and forms a grayish layer, about ^th of an inch wide, on the surface of the choroid coat (fig. 229, e) ; there are two sets of fibres in it, radiating and circular:— Radiating The radiating or superficial, arise in fi'ont from the sclerotic coat ■° (fig. 225, a), and the fibres of the posterior elastic layer of the * View of the front of the choroidal coat and iris—external surface (Zinn). —a. Sclerotic, cut, and reflected. 6. Choroid coat. c. Iris. d. Circular, e. Radiating fibres of ciliai-y muscle. /. Ciliary nerves, and g. ciliary ai-teries between the two outer coats, h. Veins of the choroid coat.