AUEICULAR FIBRES OF HEART. 846 which are received into the notches of the fibrous ring, being ]Oined thereto by fibrous tissue ; and the junction between the two is strengthened externally by the outer arterial coat and the pen- njirdiiiin find internally by the endocardium. tZd^ ^pLiL, between it and the auricralo-ventricular r^o.^. orifices, is tx piece of fihro-cartilage, with which the fibrous rings are "^The' muscular fibres belong to the involuntaiy class, though Mus«>to marked with transverse stiias, and form concentric layers, which of ucart. enclose the cardiac cavities. In the auricles the fibres are separate , fi-om those in the A'entricles. In the loall of the auricles the fibres are mostly transverse (fig. r>;«Pos.tion 102, a), and are best mai-ked near the ventricles, though they form auricles, thefe but a thin layer ; and some of the fibres dip into the septum between the auricular cavities. Fig. 102.* where they are trans- verse. annular, and oblique. Detach the auricles. Besides this set there are an- nular fibres around the append- ages of the auricles, and the endings of the different veins. Lastly a few oblique fibres (c and d) pass upwards over the auricles both in front and behind. Dissection. The auricles hav- ing been learnt, separate them from the ventricles by dividing the fibrous auriculo-ventricular rings. Next clean the fleshy fibres of the ventricles by removing all the fat fi-om the base of the heart around the two arteries (aorta and pul- monary), and from the ante- rior and posterior surfaces. Before cutting into the heart let the student note that the anterior surface is to be recognised by the fibres turning in at the septum, with the exception of a small band at the base a third of an inch wide ; and that at the posterior aspect the fibres are continued from the left to the right ventricle across the septum. Separate partly the ventricles in fi"ont along Partly the septum by dividing the band near the base, and sinking the yentricfes knife for about an inch into the gi'oove between them. Disjoin then the aorta and pulmonary artery along the middle line, so as to leave one attached to each ventricle as in fig. 103. To show the laminar composition of the left ventricle divide its To show layers of left » nr . ventricle. Muscular fibres of the auricles. /. Inferior cava, and c, superior cava of the right auricle. </. Right, and h, left pulmonaiy veins of the left auricle. a. Transverse fibres of the right, and b, transverse fibres of the left auricle, entering the septum auricularum. c. Oblique fibres of the left, and d, of the right auricle. Annular fibres surround the auriculas and the veins.