452 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. is in'olonged DM the cord: piece may be imper- vious, or saccu- lated, or open. In female may bo partly open. Spermatic cord is oblique In the abdomi- nal wall, and vertical beyond. Connec- tions. Coverings. In female round liga- ment is in place of cord. Dissection. Constitu- ents of the cord; vessel in female. Vas defe- rens. forwards slightly opposite the abdominal ring. Connected with it at that spot is a fibrous thread (the remains of a prolongation to the testis in the fetus) which extends a certain distance along the front of the cord. It is generally impervious, and can be followed only a very short way, but it may be sometimes traced as a fine band to the tunica vaginalis of the testis. In some bodies the process may be partly open, being sacculated at intervals ; or it may form occasionally a single large bag in fi-ont of the cord. Lastly, as a rare state, the tube of peritoneum accom- panying the testis in its passage in the fetus may be unclosed, so that a coil of intestine could descend in it from the abdomen. In the female the fetal tube of peritoneum remains sometimes pervious for a short distance in front of the round ligament ; that imobliterated passage is named the canal of Nuch. The SPERMATIC COED (fig. 138, ^) extends from the internal abdo- minal ring to the testis, and consists mainly of the vessels and the efEerent duct of the gland, united together by coverings from the structures by or through which they pass. In the wall of the abdomen the cord lies obliquely, because its aperture of entrance amongst, is not opposite its aperture of exit fi-om the muscles ; but escaped from the abdomen, it descends almost vertically to its destination. As it lies in this obhque passage named the inguinal canal, it is placed (at first) beneath the internal oblique, and rests against the fascia transversalis ; but beyond the lower border of the oblique muscle, it lies on the upper surface of Poupart's ligament, with the aponeurosis of the external oblique between it and the surface of the body, and the conjoined tendon behind it. Its several coverings are derived from strata in the wall of the abdomen. Thus, from within out come, the subperitoneal fat, the tube of the fascia transversalis, the cremaster muscle contmu- ous with the internal oblique, the intercolumnar fascia from the external oblique muscle, and lastly the superficial fascia and the skin. The round ligament, or the suspensory cord of the uterus, occupies the inguinal canal in the female, and ends in the integuments of the groin. Its coverings are similar to those of the spermatic cord, except it wants the cremaster. Dissection. The constituents of the cord will be displayed by cutting thi-ough longitudinally, and turning aside the different sur- rounding layers, and removing the areolar tissue. The dissector should trace branches of the genito-crural nerve and epigastric ai-tery into the cremasteric covering. Vessels and nerves of the cord. In the cord are collected together the spermatic artery and vein wliich convey the blood to, and take it away from the testis ; the nerves and lymphatics of the testicle ; and the vas deferens or the efEerent duct. In the female a branch from the ovarian artery enters the round ^'^The^^'Jas deferens reaches from the testicle to the urethra, and is