171 LIGAMENTS OF CERVICAL VERTEBEiE. The vertehral artery has been seen at its origin in the neck (p. Vcrtein^ 69) ; and its termination is described with the vessels of the brain, ^.^..^.j^^i Entering usually the foramen in the sixth cervical vertebra, the vertebrae artery ascends vertically through the corresponding foramma in the other vertebra3. Finally the vessel turns backwards on the neural arch of the atlas ; and, passing beneath the ligament joining that vertebra with the os occipitis, enters the skull through the foramen magnum. In its course through the foramina the artery lies in Posmon to front of the anterior trunks of the cervical nerves, except those of "arves. the hrst and second,—the former of which crosses on the inner, imd the latter on the outer side. The vessel is accompanied by a ^g;;^^^-^*^ vein, and by a plexus of nerves of the same name. ^ with it. In the neck the artery furnishes small twigs to the surrounding Branches, muscles, the spinal canal, and the spinal cord. The vertehral vein begms by small radicles in the occiput, and in Vertebral the muscles of the back of the neck, and enters the apertm-e of the ^"^"^ atlas, where it receives sometimes a vein from the skull through the posterior condyloid foramen of the occipital bone. Accompanying g„js j„ the arteiy, the vein traverses the apertures between the transverse subclavian, processes, and ends in the subclavian vein (p. 71). In its course it is joined by branches fi-om the internal and external Branches. spinal vems ; its other branches are described at p. 70. The vertehral plexus of nerves is derived from the inferior cer\'ical Vertebral "dIgxus of ganghon of the sympathetic (p. 116). It surrounds the artery, and nerves, communicates with the spinal ner^^es as high as the third or fourth. Section XIX. LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRA AND CLAVICLE. Directions. On the remaining part of the spme, the ligaments Directions, connecting the cervical vertebras to each other and to the occipital bone are to be learnt. Dissection. Disarticulate the last cen'ical fi-om the first dorsal Dissection, vertebra. Then remove altogether the muscles, vessels, nerves, and areolar tissue and fat from the cervical vertebrae. By sawing tlirough the occipital bone, so as to leaA^e only an osseous ring behind the foramen magnum, the ligaments between the atlas and the occipital bone can be more easily cleaned. The COMMON LIGAMENTS attaching together the ccmcal vertebras common are similar to those uniting the vertebrie in other parts of the spme, ligaments of viz., an anterior and a posterior common ligament; bands between '''^^^^'"^ '• the lamina? and spines ; capsular ligaments and synovial membi-anes for the articulating processes ; and an mtervertebral ligament be- tween the bodies of the bones. Directions. The common ligaments will be best seen on the dorsal these de- or lumbar portion of the spine where they are more fully developed ; gige^^fgre their preparation and description will be found at the end of the ^