DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 616 ing layers, which are elongated and pushed before it from within oraral sep- outwards. First is a covering of the peritoneum lining the abdomen, sheathr""^ ^'^^^^^^ t^i^ hernial sac. Next one from the septum crurale across the crural ring. Aftenvards comes a stratum from the crural sheath, unless the hernia bursts through an aperture in the side, fo't ^^^^ spread a layer of the cribriform fascia. And, lastly, a'nd'skin. there is an investment of the superficial fat or fascia, together with the skin. The cover- The coverings may vary, or may be conjoined in different degrees Stered? according^ to the condition of the hernia. In some instances the prolongation fi-om the crural sheath is wanting. Further, in an old hernia the covering derived fi-om the septum crurale is united usually with that from the crural sheath, so as to form one layer, the/asa'a^j-qpWa (Cooper). In general, in an oj^eration for the rehef of the strangulated bowel, the surgeon, after dividing the subcutaneous fat, can recognise but little of the coverings enume- rated by anatomists until he meets with that of the subperitoneal fat or septum crurale. how known Diagnosis. This hernial tumbur is generally smaller than inguinal, ■ and does not extend into the scrotum in the male, or the labium in the female ; and if its neck can be traced below Poupart's liga- ment, it can be distinguished certainly from an inguinal hernia. Place of Seat of stricture and division of it. The strangulation of a femoral ^ hernia may be situate either outside or inside the neck of the sac. How to cut The external stricture may be found opposite the margin of the the external ga,p]ienous opening, or deeper in, opposite Poupart's hgament. It may be removed by cutting down on the neck of the tumoiu- at the inner side, and dividing the constricting band arching over the neck of the hernia in this situation, without opening the sac. and the The stricture inside the neck of the sac is occasioned by the tliick- structure. ening of the peritoneum. For its relief the neck of the sac is to be laid bai-e, as if there was an external stricture ; and if the intestine cannot be passed into the abdomen after division of all resisting- bands on the exterior of the neck, the sac of the peritoneum is to be opened ; and a director having been introduced through the con- striction, a cut is to be made horizontally inwards for the extent of one or two lines. The several vessels that may be wounded in at- tempting to relieve the deep stricture are enumerated at page 465. Scarpa's triangular space. Triangular This hollow is situate on the fi-ont of the thigh, and lies beneath ^i'*^^- the depression obsei-vable near Poupart's ligament. It corresponds with the axilla in the upper limb. Clean out Dissection (fig. 193). The space will appear on removing the sS''''' fascia lata near Poupart's ligament. The muscular boundaries on the sides may be first dissected, and the muscle on the outer side Follow (sartorius) should be fixed in place with stitches. Afterwards the remains of the crural sheath are to be taken away ; and the femo-