118 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Branches. Strnctiue. Large lymphatic vesself? from the left side of the head and neck, and from the left upper limb, open into the upper part of the duct, and sometimes separately into the vein ("•). ^ Structure. This tube is formed of three coats like tlie blood-vessels, viz. inner, middle, and outer. The iimer is an elastic layer of longitudinal fibres covered by flattened epithelium; the middle is Fig. 27.* Spinal nerves. Difference in origin of right and left carotids, In the neck difference in vein and nerve. Parts in the aperture of tliorax. muscular and elastic Avith transverse fibres ; and the outer is constructed chiefly of fibrous tissues aiTanged longitudinally and obliquely. Examine next the brachial and cervical plexuses, using the des- cription of the right side (p. 72 to 74). Common caeotids. On opposite sides these vessels have differ- ences like those between the right and left subclavian arteries ; for the left vessel arises fi'om the arch of the aorta, and is there- ' fore deep in the chest, and longer than the right. The description of the artery between its origin and the top of the sternum will be included in the dissection of the thorax. Beyond the sterno-clavicular articulation the vessels, on both sides, so nearly resemble one another that the same descrijDtion may serve for the two (p. 74). On the left side, however, the jugular vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve are much nearer to the carotid than on the right side, and are placed over the artery in the lower thu-d of the neck.f Paets in the uppee apeetuee of the thoeax. The relative position of the several parts entering or leavmg the thorax by the upper opening may be now observed. * Diagram of the ending 'of the lymph duct and the thoracic duct in the veins. 1. Upper vena cava. 2. Eight, and 3, left innominate vein. 4. Left, and 5, right internal jugular. 6. Left, and 7, riglit subclavian vein. 8. Thoracic duct. 9. A lymphatic vessel joining the right lymphatic duct, as this is about to end in the subclavian vein. t Occasionally these differences will be reversed—the vein and nerve being over the artery on the right side, and away from it on the left.