522 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEX. Its tissue I'oniis 11 uct-woi'k for cells. Clmractpr.H of tlif cells In cortex, size; iiiiiicUullnry l)ait. Arteries. Veins. Nerves. Fig. 165.* snmll but regular nieslies ; and tlie medullaiy is separated generally from the cortical portion by a layer of areolar tissue. Cells fill the meshes. Cells. The cells filling the loculi of the stroma in the cortex, are nucleated with oil globules and fine granules ; and being packed in masses, they take on a polygonal fonn : they measure about the TToot^' of an incli. In the medullary portion the cells resemble those of the cortex, except that they do not contain oil particles ; and they are rather larger and more granular, measur- ing about YoVo*^^ ''^'^ jnch. Bloodvessels. Numerous arteries are fur- nished to the suprarenal body from the diaphragmatic and renal vessels, and from the aorta. In the interior the arteries ramify in the cortex along the septa be- tween the cell masses ; and, fi-equently anastomosing together, end in a fine capil- lary network, with elongated meshes, around the loculi. In the medullary part the fine arteries are distributed through the stroma. The veins originate in capillary plex- uses ; and the several radicles, uniting in large branches which pass through the centre of the medullary part, are collected finally into one trunk ; this opens on the right side into the vena cava, and on the left into the renal vein. Other smaller veins pass out through the cortex to the renal vein and the A'ena cava. Nerves. The nerves are veiy numerous and large, and pass in- wai'ds along the septa of the cortical part. Branching, they extend between the cortical and medullary parts in the layer of areolar tissue ; and in the medullaiy substance they form a network in the areolar structure, but their ending is unknown. Lymphatics are superficial and deep, and both join those of the kidney ; the arrangement of the deep is undetermined. THE TESTES. Testes The testes are the glandular organs for the secretion of the semen, sitiiateiliii Each is suspended in the scrotum by the spermatic cord and its thesci5)tum, ^^^^^^-^^^^ (p. 452), but the left is usually lower than the right; and each is provided with an excretory duct named vas deferens. A serous sac partly surrounds each organ. To see the Dissection. For the purpose of examining the serous covering of serous sue. testicle (tunica vaginalis), make a small aperture into it at the * Vertical section of the suprarenal body. a. Surface layer of stroma, h. Cells in the cortex, c. Medullary portion, d. Spaces in the medullary part (Harley).