DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 162 supiilies special muscles except Olio. Superior laryngeal nerve joins recur- rent. and ends in mucous membrane. Arteries from supe- rior thyroid: from inferior thyroid. Other source. Veins end differently. larynx, furnishes backwards an ofEset to the mucous membrane of the pharynx ; this joins filaments of the upper laryngeal. The nen'o passes finally beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and ends in branches for all the special muscles of tlie larynx, except tlie crico-thyroideus. Its small muscular branches are superficial, but that to the arytfenoid muscle lies beneath the crico-arytaenoideus posticus. Beneath the thyroid cartilage the hiferlor is joined by a long offset of the tipper laryngeal nerve. The superior lan/ngeal nerve pierces the thyro-liyoid ligament, and gives offsets to the mucous membrane of the pharynx ; it fur- nishes also a long branch beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage to communicate with the recurrent nerve. The trunk terminates in many branches for the supply of the mucous membrane :—Some of these ascend in the arytseno-epiglottid fold to the epiglottis, and the root of the tongue. The others, which are the largest, descend on the iimer side of the ventricular pouch, and supply the lining membrane of the larynx as low as the vocal cords. One nerve of this set pierces the arytsenoid muscle, and ends in the mucous membrane. Vessels. The arteries of the larynx are furnished from the supe- rior and inferior thyroid branches (p. 79 and 71). The laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery enters the laiynx with the superior laryngeal nerve, and divides into ascending and descending branches ; some of these enter the muscles, but the rest supply the epiglottis, and the mucous membrane fi-om the root of the tongue to the chorda vocalis. Like the nerves, it unites with the following artery both beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and in the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The laryngeal branch of the inferior thyroid artery ascends on the back of the cricoid cartilage, and ends in the mucous membrane of the pharynx and the posterior muscles of the larynx. Some other twigs from the superior thyroid arteiy perforate the crico-th}Toid membrane, and ramify in the mucous lining of the interior of the larynx at the lower part. Laryngeal veins. The vein accompanying the branch of the supe- rior thyroid artery, joins the internal jugular or the superior thyroid vein (p. 79) ; and the vein with the artery fi'om the inferior thyroid opens into the plexus of the inferior thyroid veins (p. 71). Section XVII. HYOID BONE, CARTILAGES AND LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX, AND STRUCTURE OF THE TRACHEA. Dissection Dissection. All the muscles and the mucous membrane are to be taken away so as to denude the hyoid bone, the cartilages of the larynx, and the epiglottis ; but the piece of membrane jommg the hyoid bone to the thyroid cartilage, and the ligament umtmg one cartilage to another on the left side, should not be destroyed.