339 EIGHT AimiCLE OF HEART. is in the front and top of the auricle, and its direction is forwards. The inferior cava (&) enters the back of the cavity near the septum, and is directed inwards to the fossa ovalis (d). Valves of chief aper- tui'es. Inferior cava has Eustachian valve, The of auriculo- auriculo-ventricular opening (c) is the largest of all, and is situate opeiUng, at the lowest point of the cavity. Between this and the septum is of coronary placed the opening of Fig 100 * the coronary smus (e) ^ which is about as large as a turkey-quill. All the large vessels, except the superior cava, have some kind of valve. In front of the inferior caA^a is a thin fold of the lining membrane of the cavity, the Eusta- chian valve, which is only a remnant of a much larger structiu-e in the fetus. This valve in its perfect state is semi- lunar in form, with its convex margin attached to the anterior wall of the vein, and the other free in the cavity of the auricle. It is wider than the veia opening: and its surfaces are directed for- wards and backwards : its free margin is often reticular. The aper- one to coro- ture of the coronaiy sinus is closed by a thin fold of the lining smus, membrane—^valve of Thebesius. The auriculo-ventricular opening and to will be seen, in examining the right ventricle, to be provided with ventricular valves, which prevent blood running back into the auricle. opening. In the adult there is but one current of blood in the right auricle ^"J^l®^^ towards the ventricle. But in the fetus there are two streams in auricle in the cavity ; one of pure, and the other of impure blood, which cross ^^^'^^> one another in early life, but become more commingled as birth fetus"^ approaches. The placental or pm-e blood entering by the inferior cava, is directed by the Eustachian valve chiefly into the left auricle, through the foramen ovale in the septum ; whilst the current of systemic or impure blood, coming in by the superior cava, flows downwards in front of the other to the right ventricle. Dissection. To see the cavity of the right v entricle, the student To open should pierce it with the scalpel below the opening from the auricle, ventricle, and cut out inferiorly near the apex of the heart without injuiing * Diagram of the two cavities of the right side of the heart, a. Upper cava 6. Lower cava. c. Right auriculo-ventricular opening, d. Fossa ovalis. e. Opening of the coronary sinus. /. Foramina Thebesii, the openings of veins. Aperture of the pulmonary artery, h. Auricular appendix. z 2