DISSECTION OF TUE BACK. inner and outer branches. Find snb- occipital; and the vessels. Nei-ves and vessels in tlie dorsal region : in the lum- liar region. Posterior ■branches of spinal nerves. In the neck they di\'ide into two, except first, Extcmal Viranches are small. Internal branches; from the occipital bone and the spine of the seventh vertebra, and throwing it outwards caref-uUy from the subjacent parts. Beneath the muscle is a dense fascia, in which are contained the ramifications of the cervical nerves, and the deep cei-vical and other vessels. Each nerve except the first divides into an inner and an outer piece. Dissect out first the inner pieces of the seven lowei^, which lie partly over and partly beneath the fibres of the semispinalis muscle (g). The external pieces are very small; they are given off between the transverse processes close to where the trunks appear ; they are to be looked for outside the complexus, entering the muscles prolonged fi-om the erector spinte. The first or suboccipital is the most difficult of the set to find : this little nerve is a short trunk, which is contained in the interval between the small recti and obliqui muscles near tlie head ; it will be best found by looking for the small twigs furnished by it to the muscles around. The deep cervical artery is met with on the semispinahs muscle ; a part of the vertebral artery will be detected in contact Avith the suboccipital nerve ; and the occipital artery Avill be visible crossing the occipital bone. * Opposite the thorax the dorsal nerves and vessels Will be readily displayed on the inner side of the longissimus dorsi muscle, on the removal of a little fatty tissue fi'om between the transverse pro- cesses. External and internal pieces are to be traced fi-om each ners'e and vessel into the muscles ; some of the former have been seen in the interval between the ilio-costalis and the longissimus dorsi. * The two pieces of the lumbar nerves and vessels will be found in the same line as the dorsal; but the inner set are the most difiicult to be discovered. The small sacral nerves are placed beneath the multifidus spinas, and will be dissected after the examination of that muscle (p. 401). * Posterior Primary Branches of the Spinal Nerves. The spinal nerves, with a few exceptions in the cendcal and sacral groups, bifurcate in the inters^ertebral foramina into anterior and posterior primary branches (p. 170). The posterior supply the integuments and the muscles of the back, and are now to be learnt. In the necJc. The posterior primary branches of the cer-sdcal nerves are eight in number, and issue between the transverse processes ; but those of the first and second, which begin on the neural arches of the atlas and axis, cross those arches. All, except the first, divide into internal and external pieces. The external pieces (fig. 118) are very inconsiderable in size, and end in the splenius, and in the muscles prolonged from the erector spiniB. The internal pieces (fig. 119) are larger than the external ; tliey are directed towards the spinous processes, the three lowest nerves passing beneath the semispinalis, and the four next over that muscle. By the side of the spines cutaneous branches are furnished to the