206 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. is connected to the middle occipital convolution by an annectant gyrus (c). lower, The inferior ("), less well marked than the other two, forms part also of the inner surface of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe (p. 208). By the upper end it is united to the third occipital convolution by an annectant gyrus (cl). witliparallel The parallel sulcus (P, fig. 60), named fi-om its position to the sulcus. Sylvian fissure, extends from the lower end of the temporo-sphe- noidal lobe to the angular convolution. Centi-ailolie e. The convolutions of the central lobe (C, fig. 61), about six in tionr^^*' number, are straight for the most part, and are separated by shallow sulci : they are directed upwards from apex to base of the lobe. The posterior gyri are the longest and broadest; and the anterior joins the convolution of the under surface of the orbital lobule. Convoiu- B. The CONVOLUTIONS OF THE INNER SURFACE of the hemisphere inner sur ^^-^ generally well defined ; but some being so long as to face of he- reach beyond the extent of a lobe, the arrangement of them in lobes inisphere. cannot be followed, as on the exterior. How to see Dissection. Without the use of a separate hardened hemisphere, them. ^jjg parts to be now described will not be seen satisfactorily. If the student possesses only one brain, he maj' bring into view much of the inner surface by cutting ofi; the left hemisphere as low as the wliite corpus callosum in the median fissure. €onvolution Convolution of the corpus callosum, gyi'us fornicatus ('*), is long callosum simple, and arches round the body from wliicli it takes its name. Beginning at the base of the brain in the anterior perforated spot, it bends backwards in contact with the corpus callosum (^Cal), and below the back of that body blends by a narrowed piece with the uncinate convolution Q^) of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. Anteriorly a sulcus separates it from the following convolution ; and smaller gyri often connect the two across that sulcus. Marginal The marginal convolution ('^) is named from its position on the convolution, edge of the median fissure. Its extent is rather more than half the length of the hemisphere, for it begins in front at the anterior perforated spot, and termmates near the back of the corpus callosum, just behind the fissure of Eolando. It is much subdivided on the surface; and on the under part of the frontal lobe (fig. 61) it lies internal to the olfactory sulcus. Between it and the precedmg convolution is situate the calloso-margmal sulcus (i) which marks its hinder limit. andcaiioso- The calloso-marginal sulcus (i. Huxley), designated from its ^rgmai gjtuation, begins in front below the corpus callosum, and ends behind, near the back of the same body, by ascending to the edge of the hemisphere. Smaller gyri uniting the two boundmg convo- lutions, fi-equently interrupt it ; and secondary sulci are prolonged fi-om it into the same convolutions. Quaclrilate. The quadrilateral lohule C') I'eaches from the marginal convolu- rai lobule. ^.^^^ ^^^^ ^^^^ parietal-occipital fissure behmd. It is much divided by sulci, and projects above to the edge of the hemisphere; it joins below the gyrus fornicatus.