85 TEMPORO-MAXILLARY JOINT. Directions. Before proceeding further in the dissection, the student may learn the anatomy of the articulation of the lower jaw. T • <• f Temporo-maxillauy AnTicuL.\TioN. In this articulation are com- f^^"* Lined the condyle of the jaw and the anteiior part of the glenoid fossa of the temporal bone ; but the osseous surfaces are not in contact, for a piece of fibro-cartilago with two synovial sacs is interposed between them. The bones are retained in apposition mostly by the strong muscles of the lower jaw ; but the following ligaments serve to unite them. Capsule. This is a thm fibrous tube enclosing the bones, and is Capsu^^of wider above than below. By the upper end it is fixed around the articular surface of the temporal bone in front of the Glaserian fissure ; and it is inserted below around the condyle of the lower jaw. The space in the interior is divided into two,—upper and lower, by a piece of fibro-cartilage, which is united to the capsule by the circumference. The extei-nal lateral is a short ligamentous band, being but a piece j^^^^^^^^^j of the capsule, which is attached above to the tubercle at the root * ' of the zj-goma, and below to the outer side of the neck of the inferior maxilla. The internal lateral ligament (fig. 19, ^) is a long, thin, mem- internal branous band, which is not in contact with the joint. Superiorly it j^g^™ is connected to a projection inside the glenoid fossa, which consists of the spinous process of the sphenoid and the vaginal process of the temporal bone ; and inferiorly it is inserted into the orifice of the dental canal in the lower jaw. The ligament lies between the jaw and the internal pterygoid ; and its origin is concealed by the external pteiygoid muscle. Between the ligament and the jaw the internal maxillaiy vessels intei'vene. Dissection. After the external lateral ligament and the capsule Dissection, of the joint have been examined, an interarticular fibro-cartilage, with a hollow above and below it, will be exposed by taking away the capsule on the outer side (fig. 20). The interarticular fihro-cartilage (fig. 20,'') is adapted to the sur- Fibro-cartl- faces of the bones. It is elongated transversely, is thinner in the ^^^^ '■ centre than at the margins ; and an aperture is sometimes present in the middle. The upper surface fits into the glenoid fossa, being concavo-convex from before backwards, and the lower is moulded and attach- on the convexity of the condyle of the jaw. By the circumference it is connected with the capsule and the external lateral ligament; and in front the external pterygoid muscle is attached to it. This interarticular pad allows greater freedom of movement in the Use. joint witliout dislocation ; diminishes the injurious effect of pressure; and deadens the sound of the jaw striking the skull. Two synovial membranes are present in the articulation—one above, Two syno- and one below the fibro-cartilage. The lower one is the smaller of """^^^ tlie two. Another structure—the stylo-maxillanj ligament (fig. 20, •'') is Stylo-iiiaxil- described as a uniting band to this articulation. It is a process of ment!^""