SECOND LAYER OF MUSCLES. 681 Digital nerves on the toes. Each of the outer three nerves, being give cu- (Uvided at the spot mentioned, supplies the contiguous sides of two ^"tiou- toes, whilst the first belongs altogether to the inner side of the great lar oiisets. toe ; all give offsets to the teguments, and the cutis beneath the nail, and articular filaments are distributed to the joints as in the fingers. The external jilantar nerve (fig. 209, -) is spent chiefly in the deep j^j^^^^^'^'^j.^ muscles of the solo of the foot, but it furnishes digital nerves to o„o toe and both sides of the little toe, and the outer side of the next. It cor- ^^^l^; responds in its distribution with the ulnar nerve in the hand. It has the same course as the external plantar artery, and divides lias s"Per- at the outer margin of the flexor brevis digitorum into a superficial jj^^j, parts, and a deep portion :—the former gives origin to two digital nerves ; but the latter accompanies the arch of the plantar artery into the foot, and ^\^ll be dissected afterwards. Whilst the external jDlantar nerve is concealed by the short flexor Branches, of the toes, it gives muscular branches to the abductor minimi digiti aiid the flexor accessorius. The digital branches of the external plantar nerve (fig. 208) are Two digital two. One (') is undivided ; it is distributed to the outer side i^^anches: of the little toe, and gives offsets to the flexor brevis minimi ""^ single, digiti, and oftentimes to the interosseous muscles of the fourth space. The other (^} bifurcates at the cleft between the outer two one vided, toes, and supplies their collateral surfaces : this nerve communi- cates in the foot with the last digital branch of the internal plantar nerve. On the sides of the toes the digital nerves have the same dis- distribution tribution as those from the other plantar trunk, and end like them ^^^^ others, ii; a tuft of fine branches at the extremity of the digit. Dissection (fig. 209). To complete the preparation of the second Lay bare layer of muscles, the origin of the abductor poUicis should be faywof detached from the os calcis, and the muscle should be turned in- muscles, wards. The internal plantar nerve and artery, and the superficial portion of the external plantar nerve, are to be cut across and thrown forwards ; but the external plantar artery and the nerve with it are not to be injured. All the fat, and the loose tissue and fascia, are then to be taken away near the toes. Second layer of muscles (fig. 209). In this layer are the Second tendons of the two flexor muscles at the back of the leg, viz., flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis, which cross one another. Connected with the former, soon after it enters the foot, is an accessory muscle ; and at its division into pieces four fleshy slips (lumbricales) are added to it. The tendon of the flexor longus digitorum (fig. 209, ^), whilst Tendon of entering the foot beneath the annular ligament, lies on the internal the flexor of lateral ligament of the ankle joint. In the foot it is directed obliquely towards the centre, where it is joined by the tendon of divides into the flexor longus pollicis and the accessory muscle, and divides into tendons for the four outer toes. Each tendon enters the sheath of the toe with, and beneath a these pierce