384 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. Latissimiis dorsi. Origin. Insertion into humerus. Connec- tions. Use; on the limh when free. and fixed. Dissection to reflect latissimus. Parts covered by the latissimus. from the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra to tlie occipital protuberance. From its under surface processes are con- tinued to the spines of the six lower cervical vertebraj, so that it serves as a partition between the muscles of opposite sides of the neck. In man it is not formed of elastic tissue. « The LATISSIMUS DORSI (fig. IIG, is the widest muscle in the back, and is thin and aponeurotic at its inner attachment. It arises along the middle line from the spinous processes of the six lower dorsal, all the lumbar, and the upper two sacral vertebraj, as well as from the supraspinous ligament. On the outer side it arises by an aponeurosis from the outer edge of the posterior half of the iliac crest ; and by three or four fleshy processes from as many of the lower ribs, which digitate with pieces of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. And between the outer and inner attach- ments it is inseparably blended below with the subjacent tendon of the multifidus spinje. All the fibres converge to the inferior angle of the scapula, and after crossing that point of bone, are continued forwards to be inserted by tendon into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus (p. 250). The muscle is subcutaneous, except a small part of the upper border which is covered by the trapezius. Near the scapula there is a space between the two, in which the rhomboid muscles appear. The lower or anterior border overlays the edge of the external oblique muscle of the abdominal wall in the mterval between the last rib and the iliac crest, with the exception of a small part below. Frequently the latissimus has a distinct fleshy slip firom the inferior angle of the scapula. Action. If the arm is hanging loose the muscle can move it behind the back, rotating it in at the same time. If the limb is raised, the latissimus, combining with the pectoralis and teres, Avill depress the humerus. From its attachment to the scapula this bone can be depressed with the arm. Supposing the arm fixed, the fibres may elevate the ribs as an inspiratory muscle ; or they may assist the pectorahs major in drawing the moveable trunk towards the humerus, as in the act of climbing. * Dissection. The latissimus is to be divided about midway be- tween the spines of the vertebrte and the angle of the scapula, and the pieces are to be reflected inwards and outwards. In raising the inner half of the muscle, care must be taken not to destroy either the thin lower serratus with which it is united, or the aponeurosis continued upwards fi'om the serratus. In the inter^^al between the last rib and the iliac crest the latissimus is adherent to the apo- neurosis of the transversaHs abdominis muscle, and should not be detached fi-om it. « Pai-ts covered hy tlie latissimus. The latissimus dorsi lies on the erector spinas, the serratus posticus inferior, and the lower ribs with their intercostal muscles. As it rests on the angle of the scapula, it conceals the teres major, and part of the rhomboid muscle. Its position to the teres is worthy of note:—at the angle of the scapula