166 DISSECTION OF THE LARYi\X. «;ncoid and thyroid car- tilugea are an anterior Ugaiuont, Fig. 44. Use; and a lateral joint, use. Between cricoid and arytaenoid is a capsule and SJ^^ovial •sac. Use. joined in the middle line in front by ligament ; and on tlie side, by a joint, with the small cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The crico-thyroid ligament or membrane (fig. 44, closes the space between the thyroid, cricoid, and arytcenoid cartilages, and the right half is now visible. It is yellow in colour, and is formed mostly of elastic tissue. At the centre it is thick and strong, but is thinner on each side as it is continued backwards. By the lower border it is fixed to the upper edge of the cricoid as far back on each side as the joint with the arj^ta^noid cartilage. Its upper border, fi-ee and rounded, is covered by mucous membrane, and forms the lower vocal cord. In front it is united to the thyroid cartilage ; and behind to the base of the arytaanoid. The ligament is partly concealed by the crico-thyroid muscle, and some small apertm-es exist in it for the passage of fine arteries into the larynx. The strong fore part of the ligament serves the pui-pose of uniting the two large laryngeal cartilages ; and the lateral, closmg the larynx, ends above m the vocal cord. A capsular ligament surrounds the articular surfaces between the side of the cricoid and the lower cornu of the thy- roid cartilage. Its fibres are strongest behind. A synovial membrane lines the capsule. This joint admits forward and back- ward movements of the thyroid carti- lage, by which the condition of the vocal cords is altered. If that cartilage is moved forwards the cords are stretched, and if back- wards the cords are relaxed. Articulation of the cricoid and arytcenoid cartilages. The articular surfaces of the cartilages are retained by a loose capsule, and possess a synovial sac. The capsular ligament is fixed to each cartilage around its arti- cular surface ; and is the strongest on the inner and posterior aspects —posterior ligament. A loose synovial membrane is present m the articulation. The arytasnoid cartilage glides fi-eely forwards and backwards, inwards and outwards ; but if its horizontal movements are con- trolled by muscular action, it can be rotated around a vertical axis, the anterior spur being moved inwards and outwards. Obviously the state of the vocal cords will be changed by the movements of * View of the vocal cords and crico-thyroid ligaments. 1. Trne vocal cord. 2. Post, crico arytfcn. muscle. 3. Cricoid cartilage. 4. Arytenoid cartilage. 5. Sacculus laryngis. 6. Crico-thyroid membrane.