259 DORSAL SCAPULAR MUSCLES. beneath the deltoid muscle in which it ends. Many and large branches e„dH in enter the deltoid, and terminate in it; one or two filaments pierce the fibres and become cutaneous. , , , Branches. In the a.Killa it gives an articular filament to the under part of the shoulder-joint. Behind the humerus it furnishes an offset ^ ^^^^ to the teres minor F), which has a reddish gangliform swelling on it. And at the edge of the deltoid it gives origin to the cutaneous cutaneou.s. nerve (^) before noticed. . , t <• The INFRASPINATUS MUSCLE (fig. 74, ^) occupics the infi-aspmal tus arises part of the scapula, and extends to the head of the humerus. The from muscle anses from the infraspinal fossa, except at three spots, viz. fossa of that the neck, and the lower angle and inferior border where the teres '"^^ ' muscles are attached ; it arises also fi-om the lower side of the spmous process, and from the special fascia covering the surface. Its fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the middle Insertion, impression on the great tuberosity of the humerus, and joins the tendons of the supraspinatus and teres minor. A part of the muscle is subcutaneous, and the fibres arising from partly ^ „ , T 1 ,1 , T XI ^■ ■ covered by the spine of the scapula overlay the tendon : the upper portion is jeitoid. concealed l)y the deltoid, and the lower end, by the latissimus dorsi. The lower border is parallel to the teres mmor, with which Other con- it is sometimes imited. The muscle lies on the scapula and the ' humero-scapular articulation, but between it and the joint is a small bursa. Action. With the humerus hanging it acts as a rotator outwards ; Use. and when the bone is raised it will move the same backwards in concert with the hinder part of the deltoid. The TERES MINOR (fig. 74, ^) is a narrow fleshy slip, which is often Teres minor • 1 • 1, ^ • , 1 ' T 11 1 1 IS on back of united inseparably -with the precedmg muscle, along whose lower the scapula. border it lies. It arises on the dorsum of the scapula from a special surface along the upper two tliirds of the inferior costa of the bone, and from the investing fascia ; and it is inserted by a tendon into insertion. the lowest of the three marks on the great tuberosity of the humerus, as well as by fleshy fibres into the humerus below that spot—about an inch altogether. This muscle is partly covered by the deltoid ; it rests on the long Parts head of the triceps and the shoulder joint. Underneath it the dorsal '''"'"'^^ branch of the subscapular artery turns. Action. The limb hanging, the muscle rotates it out and moves it Use on arm, back ; the arm being raised the teres depresses the humerus. In climbing it supports the joint like the preceding scapular on joint, muscles. Tlie TERES MAJOR musclc (fig. 74, ^) is extended fi-om the inferior Teres majo angle of the scapula to the humerus. Its origin is from the rough Origin. dorsal surface of the bone at the inferior angle ; from the inferior costa as far forwards as an inch from the long head of the triceps; and from the fascia covering the teres minor. The fibres end in a tendon which is inserted partly into, and partly beliind the inner insertion. edge of the bicipital groove of the humerus. This muscle assists in forming the posterior fold of the axilla : Aiijacent ^ 2 muscles,