DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 492 Separate ami blow up the stomach. Form, direction, size, divisions. Left end and right. Cardiac and pyloric openings; last has a valve. Surfaces. tipper border; lower border. diflference in outline. Four strata in stomach. The serous coat is thin and adhe- rent. The muscu- lar coat is made up of longi- tudinal, or Dissection. To see tlie form, the stomach must be blown up mode- rately, and the surface cleaned ; but, previously, let the student detach the spleen, and cut through the duodeniun close to the pylorus. Form and Divisions. The stomach is somewhat conical in form (fig. 145). Its size varies much in different bodies, and is some- times much dnnmished by a constriction in the centre : when it is moderately distended, it is about twelve inches long and four wide There are two ends, two orifices, two surfaces, and two borders curves to be examined. Extremities. The left end or tuberosity (fundus ventriculi) is the largest part of the stomach, and projects about thi-ee inches to the left of the opening of the oesophagus. The right or pyloric end, much smaller than the other, is cylindrical, and forms the apex of the cone to which the stomach is likened. Openings. The left opening (cardiac), which communicates with the oesophagus, is at the highest point of the stomach, and is funnel-shaped towards the cavity of the organ. The right or pyloric orifice opens into the duodenum, and is guarded internally by a muscular band (pylorus) : at the same spot the stomach is slightly constricted externally, where a firm circular ring may be felt. Surfaces. The surfaces (anterior and posterior) are somewhat flattened when the viscus is empty, but rounded when it is dis- tended : the parts in contact with them have been referred to (p. 467). Borders. The upper border or small cm-ve is concave towards the left opening, but convex at the opposite end ; and the loAver border or large cui-ve is convex, except near the right end, where it is concave—the concavity of the one border corresponding with the convexity of the other. An arterial arch, and a piece of peritoneum (omentum), are fixed to each border. Structdke. In the wall of the stomach are fom- coats, viz. serous, muscular, fibrous, and mucous ; and belonging to these there are vessels, nerves, and lymphatics. Serous coat. The peritoneum gives a covering to the stomach, and is adherent to the surface except at each margin, where an interval exists corresponding with the attachment of the small and large omentum : in those spaces are contained the vessels, nei-ves, and lymphatics. During distension of the stomach the spaces above mentioned are much diminished. The muscular coat will be laid bare by the removal of the serous covering. It consists of thi-ee sets of fibres,—longitudinal, circular, and oblique ; these lie from without inwards in the order mentioned, and are unstriated or involuntaiy. The longitudinal fibres (fig. 145, «) are derived from the oesopha- gus ; they spread over the surfaces, and are continued to the pylorus and the small intestine. The fibres ai-e most marked along the borders, particularly at the smaller one ; and at the pylorus they are stronger than in the centre of the stomach.