COATS OF SMALL INTESTINE. 495 mouth by columnar epithelium (fig. 147, b) ; but in the closed end by some secrete flattened and granular nucleated cells, which are named j^ejitic glands, g^»^tric and are supposed to give origin to the gastric fluid. Towards the pylorus the tubes are clothed throughout by columnar epithelium some mucus, (fig. 147, o), and secrete mucus. A columnar epithelium covers the surface of the mucous mem- Epithelial ^ brane, and entera the small tubules. On the attached surface of the mucous membrane is a thin layer Sujjmucous of involimtary muscular fibres, separatuig it from the fibrous coat: laygr, it is said to send offsets amongst the tubules. Bloodvessels. The arteries of the stomach, after supplying the Arteries, musculai- coat, ramify in the submucous tissue ; fi-om this anasto- mosis fine twigs are continued on the tubes to the inner surface of the mucous membrane, where they form a network. The veins begin ygins, in the mucous membrane, receive branches from the muscular coat, and deliA'^er their blood into the portal system. Lymphatics. Two layers of absorbents, superficial and deep, exist lymphatics, in the stomach : the latter begin in a plexus beneath the tubules, and form a network in the fibrous layer. Both sets leave the stomach with the bloodvessels. Nerves. The nerves are derived from the pneumo-gastric and sym- and nerves, pathetic (p. 490), and can be followed to the fibrous coat : small ganglia have been observed on them. SMALL INTESTINE. The three portions into which the small intestine is divided, have Characters, the following characters :— The duodenum measures as much as the breadth of twelve fingers, Len<rth viz. about ten mches, and is more fixed than the rest of the intes- ° ' tinal tube. It is wider than either the jejunum or the ileum, and size, and its muscular coat is also thicker. Into it the common bile and ti^c'kness. pancreatic ducts pour their contents. entering it. The jejunum and the ileum together measure about twenty feet Length, in length, and are connected with the mesentery. There is not any perceptible difference between the tei-mmation of the one and the Division commencement of the other, but two fifths of the length are as- signed to the jejunum, and three fifths to the ileum. Between the Differences ends, however, a marked difference may be perceived ; for the upper part of the jejunum is thicker and more vascular than the lower end of the ileum, and its width is also greater. Structure. In the small intestme the wall is formed by the same Structui-e number of layers as m the stomach, viz. serous, muscular, fibrous mucous, and submucous. ' Dissection.^ The different layers are to be examined on pieces, Dissection about three mches long, taken fi-om the duodenum, the upper part for it '° of the jejunum, and the lower end of the ileum. After the pieces have been cut off, they are to be distended with air; and the serous covermg is to be torn off for a short distance, to show the muscular