DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 6 posterior ■branch. Occipital •irterv. Posterior inuicular. Veins of the scalp; how they join other veins. Nerves of the scalp are: Siipra-orbi- tal nerve; The posterior Iranch is larger than the other, and arches back- wards above the ear towards the occipital artery, with which it anastomoses. Its offsets to the parts around are similar to those of the anterior, and it communicates with the artery of the opposite side over the top of the head. Occipital artery (a). The terminal part of this artery, after perforating the trapezius, divides into large and tortuous branches, which spread over the back of the head and the occipito-fi-ontalis muscle. Communications take place with the arteiy of the opposite side, with the posterior part of the temporal, and with the follow- ing arteiy. Some offsets pass deeply to supply the occipito-fi-on- talis muscle, the pericranium, and the bone. The posterior auricular artery (/) appears in front of the mastoid process, and divides into two branches. One (mastoid) is directed backwards to supply the occipito-frontalis, and anastomose with the occipital artery. The other (amicular) is furnished to the retrahent muscle and the back of the pinna of the ear ; and an offset from this pierces the pinna to be distributed on the opposite surface. The VEINS of the exterior of the head are so similar to the arteries, that a full notice of each is not required. All the veins corresponding with branches of the internal carotid artery enter the facial vein, whilst the rest open into the jugular veins. These superficial veins communicate both with the sinuses in the interior of the skull by means of small branches named emissary, and with. the veins occupying the spongy substance (diploe) of the cranial bones. The frontal vein is directed towards the inner angle of the orbit, where it receives the supra-orhital vein, the two gi^^ng rise to the angular vein of the face : near its ending it receives small veins fi-om the eyebrow, and from the upper eyelid and the nose. Both the superficial temporal and posterior auricular, veins open into the external jugular ; and the occipital joins the internal jugular vein. Cutaneous Nekves (fig. 2). The nerves of the scalp are fm-- nished fi-om cutaneous offsets of both cranial and spmal nei-ves. The half of the head anterior to the ear receives branches from three trunks of the fifth cranial nerve, and a few twigs from the facial nerve. All the rest of the head is supplied by spinal nerves (anterior and posterior primaiy branches), except close behind the ear, where there is an offset of the facial or seventh cranial nerve. The supra-orhital nerve (fig. 2, ^ comes from the first ti-unk of the fifth nerve, and escapes fi-om the orbit with its companion artery; whilst beneath the occipito-frontalis muscle, the nei-ve gives offsets to it and the orbicularis palpebrarum, as well as to the pericranium. In the orbicularis a communication its two cuta- neous and IS estab- lished between this and the facial nei-ve. Finally the nei-ve ends in two cutaneous branches, which ramify in the teguments :— One of these (inner) soon pierces the occipito-frontalis, and reaches upwards as high as the parietal bone. The other branch