DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 10 and pro- cesses. Falx. Form aiul attacli- iiients. Borders. Sinuses in it. Superior longitudinal Situation and ending its interior. Veins open- ing into it. Current of Wood in it. Directions for removal of brain. Mode of pro elastic tissues so disposed as to give rise to two strata, viz. an external or endosteal, and an internal or supporting. At certain spots those layers are slightly separated, and form thereby the spaces or sinuses for the passage of the venous blood. Moreover the innermost layer sends processes between different parts of the brain, forming the falx, tentorium, &c. The falx cerebri (fig. 3) is the process of the dura mater, in shape like a sickle, which dips in the middle line between the hemispheres of the large brain. Its fonn and extent will be evident if the right half of the brain is gently separated from it. Nan-ow and pointed in front, where it is attached to the crista galli of the ethmoid bone, it widens posteriorly, and joins a horizontal piece of the dura mater named the tentorium cerebelli. The upper border is convex, and is fixed to the middle line of the skull as far backwards as the occipital protuberance ; and the lower or fi-ee border, concave, is tiu-ned towards the central piece of the brain (corpus callosum), with which it is in contact posteriorly. In this fold of the dura mater are contained the following sinuses :—the superior longitudinal along the convex border, the inferior longitudinal in the hinder part of the lower edge, and the straight sinus at the line of junction between it and the tentorium. The superior longitudinal sinus (fig. 3, 5) extends fi-om the ethmoid bone to the occipital protuberance. Its position in the convex border of the falx will be made manifest by the escape of blood tlu-ough numerous small veins, when pressure is made fi-om before back with the finger along the middle line of the brain. When the sinus is opened it is seen to be narrow in front, and to widen behind, where it ends in a common point of tmion of certain sinuses (torcular Herophili) at the centre of the occipital bone. Its ca^dty is triangular in form, with the apex of the space turned to the falx; and across it are stretched small tendinous cords —chordfe Wilhsii—near the openings of some of the cerebral veins. Occasionally small glandulte Pacchioni are present in the sinus. The sinus receives small veins fi-om the substance and exterior of the skull, and larger ones fi-om the brain ; and the blood flows backwards in it. The cerebral veins open chiefly at the posterior part of the brain, and lie for some distance against the wall of the sinus before they perforate the dura mater ; their com-se is directed fi-om behind forwards, so that the current of the blood in them is evidently opposed to that in the sinus : this disposition of the veins may be seen on the left side of the brain, where the parts ai-e undisturbed. Directions. Before the rest of the dura mater can be examined, the brain must be taken fi-om the head. To facilitate its removal, let the head incline backwards, wliilst the shoulders are raised on a block, so that the brain may be separated somewhat from the base of the skull. For the division of the cranial nerves a sharp scalpel will be necessary ; and the nerves are to be cut longer on the one side than the other. ■ Removal of the brain. As a first step cut across the anterior part