645 SCIATIC AND rUDIC VESSELS. rests on the gluteus minimus, which separates it from the hip jomt. Its tendon is united by fibrous tissue to that of the obturator and gemelli. ... Aciion. The use of this and the other external rotators is altered ^Jl^^^l'^ll^^. by the position of the femur. K that bone hangs the pyriformis i^n^^and rotates it out; but if the hip joint is bent the muscle abducts the limb from its fellow. Both hmbs being fixed the muscles balance the pelvis, and help ^"groJiJi'd^ to make the trunk erect after stooping to the ground. In standing on one leg, besides assisting to support the trunk, the pyriformis only turns the face to the opposite side. Dissection (fig. 199). The pyriformis maybe cut across and raised ^.Jf^'^^g towards the sacrum, to allow the dissector to follow upwards the ciiief ves- ' , . , sels and sciatic and pudic vessels, and to trace the accompanymg nen^es to nerves, their origin in the lower part of the sacral plexus. Some small nerves to the obturator internus p, the gemellus '^^J^J.""*" supeiior ('), and the hip joint, are to be sought in the fat at the branches, lower border of the plexus. A branch to the inferior gemellus and the quadratus (^) will be found by raising the trunk of the great sciatic nerve ; but it will be followed to its termination after the muscles it supplies have been seen. ScuTic AND Pudic Vessels. The vessels on the back of the Tiie vessels . . coine from pehas, below the pyriformis muscle, are branches of the mtemal tiie mac. ihac (p. 563). The sciatic artei'y (fig. 198, V) supplies the buttock below the gluteal. After escaping fi-om the pelvis below the pyriformis, it' descends with the small sciatic nerve over the gemelli and obturator muscles, as far as the lower border of the gluteus maximus : here eom-se the artery gives off many branches with the superficial offsets of its ^"■"'i ending, companion nen^e ; and much reduced in size, it is continued with that nerve along the back of the thigh. In this course it furnishes Branches, the following named branches :— a. The coccygeal branch, arising close to the pehas, perforates the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the gluteus maximus, and ramifies in this muscle, and on the back of the sacrum and coccyx. b. The branch to the great sciatic nerve (comes nerAd ischiadici) Branch to 11 1 , • 1 . „ tl'P sciatic IS veiy slender, and enteiing the nen'-e near the pelvis, ramifies m nerve. it along the thigh. c. Muscular branches enter the gluteus maximus, the upper Muscular gemellus, and obturator internus ; and by means of a branch to the quadratus, which passes with the nerve of the same name Branch to beneath the gemelli and obturator internus, it gives offsets to the Jatus!^'^' hip joint and the inferior gemellus. d. Anastomotic branch (fig. 198, e). Varying in size this artery is Anastomotic directed outwards to the root of the great ti-ochanter, where it ^''™«1'- anastomoses with the gluteal and internal circumflex. The pudic artery (fig. 198, d) belongs to the perinfcum and the Pu^ie genital organs ; it is smaller than the sciatic, internal to which it '""'"^ lies. Only the small part of the vessel, which winds over the ischial crosses the spine, is seen on the back of the pelvis, for it enters the perinaial 'i^^^