247 AXILLARY ARTERY. intercostal muscles of the first space and the first digitation of the serratus magnus. To the thoracic side is placed the axillary vein {(j). The cephalic vessels, vem (e), and offsets of the acromial thoracic artery and vem, cross over it. , . , , , On the acromial side lie the two cords of the brachial plexus, andnervea. separated from the vessel by a slight interval. Superficial to it lies an anterior thoracic nerve ; and beneath, is the posterior thoracic. Beneath the pectoralis, the pectoralis minor and major B and A ^^^^^\. are superficial to the axillary vessel. But there is not any muscle ^.^^ immediately in contact behind, for the artery is placed across the muscles, top of the axilla, particularly when the limb is in the position re- quired by the dissection. The coriipanion vein (g) lies to the inner side, but separated from vein, the arterial trunk by a bundle of nerves. In this position the cords of the brachial* plexus, lie around it, one nerves, being outside, a second inside, and a thu-d beneath the artery. Beyond the pectoralis minor the artery is concealed by the ^^'"^^,^5^°°'^ lower border of the great pectoral muscle A, but thence to its toral; termination it is covered only by the integuments and the fascia. Beneath it are the subscapularis muscle, F, and the tendons of the ^^^'^j^^ latissimus and teres, G and H. To the outer side is the coraco- brachialis muscle, J. The axillary vein remains a^ above on the thoracic side of the with vein, artery. Here the arteiy Kes in the midst of the large trunks of nerves and nerves, into which the brachial plexus has been resolved :—On the outer side is the median nerve, with the musculo-cutaneous for a short distance ; and on the inner side are the ulnar, and the nerve of Wrisberg. Superficial to the vessel is the internal cutaneous ; and behind are the rausculo-spiral and circumflex nerves, the latter extending only as far as the border of the subscapular muscle. The branches of the axillary artery are furnished to the wall of Branches to the thorax and the shoulder. The thoracic branches are four in number ; two (superior and acromial thoracic) arise from the arteiy above the pectoralis minor; one (alar thoracic) beneath the muscle ; and one (long thoracic) at the lower border. Three branches are supplied to the shoulder, viz., subscapular and two cu-cumflex ; the and the first springs opposite the edge of the muscle of the same name, and the others wind round the neck of the humerus. The last offsets are the external mammary and some muscular twigs. The superior thoracic branch is the highest and smallest offset. Upper and arises opposite the first intercostal space ; it ramifies on the side of the chest, anastomosing witli the intercostal arteries. Tlie acromial thoracic branch (fig. 70, a) is a short trunk on the Acromial front of the artery, which appears at the upper border of the pecto- ^ai^'^^'^ ralis minor, and opposite the interval between the large pectoral and deltoid muscles. Its branches are directed inwards, outwards, and upwards :— a. The inner set supply the thoracic muscles, and give a few offsets and supplies