DISSECTION OF FEONT OF FOREARM. 284 Superficial llexor ol' lingers. Origin. Insertion. Connections ■with pai-ts around. Use on fingers, on elbow ■and wrist. Ulnar artery ends in palm of hand. the inner condyle of the l)umerus, and turned to one side. Small branches of the ulnar artery and median nen^e may be seen entering the under snrfaces of those muscles. For the present, the pronator teres may be left uncut. The FLEXOR DIGITORUM SUBLIMIS vel PEHFORATUS (fig. 80, ") is the largest of the nmscles of the superficial layer, and is named fi-om its position to another flexor in the deep layer. It arises from the inner condyle of the humerus and the internal lateral ligament, and from the intermuscular septa in common with other muscles : it takes origin in addition from the bones of the forearm, viz. from the inner edge of the coronoid process of the ulna; from the oblique line below the radial tubercle ; and from the anterior margin of the radius as far as, or one or two inches below the insertion of the pronator teres. Rather below the middle of the foreann the muscle ends in four tendons, wlaich are continued beneath the annular liga- ment and across the hand, to be inserted into the middle phalanges of the fingers, after being perforated by the tendons of the deep flexor. The flexor sublimis is concealed by the other muscles of the superficial laj^er; and the radial vessels lie on the attachment to the radius. Along the inner border is the flexor carpi ulnaris, with the ulnar vessels and nerve. The tendons of the muscle are arranged in pairs before they pass beneath the annular ligament of the wrist;— the middle and ring finger tendons being anterior, and those of the index and little finger posterior in position. On dividing the condy- loid and coronoid attachments, the muscle will be seen to cover two flexors of the deep layer (flexor digitoiiim profundus and flexor poUicis), the median nerve, and the upper part of the ulnar artery. Action. This flexor bends primarily the middle joint of each finger ; and is then able to bring the nearest phalanx towards the palm in consequence of being bound thereto by a sheath. But when the nearest phalanx is fixed by the extensor of the fingers, it remains straight whilst the superficial flexor moves the second phalanx. After the fingers are bent the muscle will help in flexing the wrist and elbow joints. The ULNAR ARTERY (fig. 81, ^) is the larger of the two branches coming from the bifurcation of the brachial trunk ; and is directed along the inner side of the limb to the palm of the hand, where it forms the superficial palmar arch, and joins offsets of the radial artery. In the forearm the vessel has an arched direction ; and its depth fi-om the surface varies in the first and last parts of its course. Course in upiier half. Connections with muscles. In the upper lialf the artery is inclined obliquely inwards fi-om the centre of the elbow to the inner side of the limb, midway between the elbow and wrist. It courses between the superficial and deep layers of muscles, being covered by the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor sublimis. Beneath it lie the brdchialis anticus, for a short distance, and the flexor profundus, c.