743 SPECIAL PARTS IN TYMPANUM. between the meatus auditorius and the cavity of the tympanum, t.mpam;^^ It measures one third of an inch across, is oval m form, ana is ^^^^^ attached by its circumference to a groove at tlie inner end of the auditory passage. In the fetus it is fitted into a separate osseous andthc rmg, tlie tympanic bone. The membrane is placed very obliquely g.^^^^. so that it forms with the floor of the meatus an angle of 45 degrees, and the outer surface is directed downwards. Towards the auditoiy surfaces, canal the surface is concave ; but in the tympanum it is convex, imd attached to its upper half is the handle of the malleus (6),— one of the ossicles. Structure. The membrane is formed of three strata,—external, internal, and middle. The outer one is continuous with the integu- lar, epithe- ments of the meatus auditorius ; and the ' inner is derived from the mucous membrane of the tympanum. The middle layer is formed ^^JaUun of white and yellow fibrous tissues, and is ' ^ - " fixed to the groove in the bone. From its centre, where it is connected with the handle of the malleus, fibres radiate towards the circumference ; and near the margin, at the inner surface, lies a band of stronger circular fibres (fig. 238, c), which bridges across the notch at the upper part of the tympanic bone. The Eustachian tuhe (fig. 236, e) is the channel through which Eustachian the tympanic ca^^ty communicates with the fauces. It is about an inch and a half in length, and is directed downwards and inwards to the pharynx. Like the meatus auditorius, it is partly osseous and partly cartilaginous in texture. The osseous part is rather more than half an inch in length, and an osseous is narrowed at the middle. Its course in the temporal bone is along '. the angle of union of the squamous and petrous portions, outside the passage for the carotid artery. Externally it ends in a dilated and termi- and somewhat oval opening, with an irregular margin, which gives ■ attachment to the cartilage. The cartilafjinous piece of the tube is nearly an inch in length, cartilagi- and extends from the temporal bone to the interior of the pharynx "''"^ (p. 126). Through this tube the mucous membrane of the drum of the ear use of the is continuous with that of the pharynx ; and through it the mucus escapes. The secondary/ menibrane of the tympanum is placed witliin the Membrane fenestra rotunda, and is rather concave towards the tympanum, but convex towards the cochlear passage which it closes. It is formed of three strata, like the membrane on the opposite construc- side of the cavity, viz. an external or mucous, derived from the * Inner view of the membrana tympani in the fetus with the malleus attached, a. Membrane or drum of the tympanum, h. Malleus, c. Band of circular fibres at the circumference, d. Inferior, and c, superior tympanic artery. /. Tympanic bone.