349 PULMONARY ARTERY. from the left branch of the vessel to the arch of tlie aorta, and is named ligament urn ductus arteriosi. The i-igU branch is longer than the left. In its course to the lung it lies beneath the aorta and the vena cava superior, and rests on the bronchus or piece of the ah-tube : and as it passes outwards it lies above the level of the right aiuicle of the heart. At tlie lung the artery divides into three priraaiy branches, one for each lobe. The left hranch is rather smaller than the right ; it is directed in front of the descending aorta and the left bronchus to the fis- sure of the root of the lung, where it ends in two branches for the two pul- monic lobes. As the right and left branches of the pulmo- naiy arterj' pass outwards, they cross the two air-tubes resulting from the divi- sion of the trachea, and enclose with them a lozenge-shaped space which contains some bronchial glands. Ductus arteriosus. This ligamentous structure was the continuation in the fetus of the trunk of the pulmonary artery, and was larger than either branch to the lung. At that period tlie vessel receives the name arterial canal or duct (ductus arteriosus, Botalli), and opens into the aorta rather beyond the origin of the last great vessel of the head and neck from the arch. As the lungs do not give passage to the circulating fluid in the fetus, the impure blood in the pulmonary artery passes through the arterial duct into the aoiia below the attachment of the vessels of the head and neck, in order that it may be transmitted to the placenta to be purified. But after birth, when the function of the lungs is established, the current of blood is directed along the branches of the pulmonary artery instead of through the arterial duct ; and this tube becoming gradually smaller, is obliterated before the eighth or tenth day, and fonns finally the ligament of the arterial duct. The AORTA is the great systemic vessel which conveys the blood from the heart to the different parts of the body. It arches back- wards at first to reach the sjoinal column, and is continued on the spine through the chest and abdomen. In the thorax the vessel is Right branch is longest. Left branch Space at the bifurcation. Condition of the artery in the fetus. Use. This great vessel ex- tends * The formation of the septum ventriculorum by the fibres of both ventricles s represented in this cut.