DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 168 folds. This layer is closely connected with the mucous membrane covering it. fmSaiio, '^^^^ mucous membrane of the trachea linos the tube, and resembles eiiitlniliuiii, tliat of the larynx hi being furnished with a columnar ciliated epi- thelium. and glaiKiti. Connected with this membrane are numerous branched mucous glands of variable size. Tlie largest are found at the back of the trachea, in the interval between the cartilages, where some are placed beneath the fibrous membrane with the muscular fibres, and others outside that layer. Other smaller glands occupy the front and sides of the trachea, being situate on and in the fibrous tissue ■ connecting the cartila- ginous rings. Section XVIII. Deep muscles of spine. Dissection. Loiigus colli. Origin by two pieces. Insertion. Parts in contact with it. PREVERTEBRAL MUSCLES AND VERTEBRAL VESSELS. Directions. On the piece of the spinal column which was laid aside after the separation of the pharynx fi-om it the student is to learn the deep muscles on the fi-ont of the vertebrjB. Dissection. The jirevertebral muscles will be prepared by removing the fascia and areolar tissue. The muscles are three in number on each side (fig. 45), and are easily distinguished. Nearest the middle line, and the longest, is the longus colli ; the muscle external to it, which reaches to the head, is the rectus capitis auticus major ; and the small muscle close to the skull, which is external to the last and partly concealed by it, is the rectus capitis anticus minor. The smaller rectus muscle is often injured in cutting through the basilar process of the occipital bone. The LONGUS COLLI MUSCLE (fig. 45, ^) is situate on the bodies of the cei-vical and upper dorsal vertebra3, and is pointed above, but larger below. It consists of two parts—internal and external, the former being vertical, and the latter obUque in direction, as on the right side of the figure. The internal piece arises by fleshy and tendinous processes fi-om the bodies of the two upper dorsal and two lower cervical verte- br£e ; and the external piece takes origin fi-om the anterior trans- verse processes of four cervical vertebrte (sixth, fifth, fourth and third). Both parts of the muscle are blended above, and the whole is inserted by four slips into the bodies of the four upper cervical vertebrae. Some of the lowest fibres of the muscle arc attached separately by tendon to the anterior transverse process of one or tM'o of the lower cervical vertebra3. In contact with the anterior surface of the nmscle is the pharjaix. The inner border is at some distance inferiorly from the muscle of the opposite side, but superiorly only the pointed anterior common ligament of the vertebra3 separates the two. The outer border is