654 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Brandies to tho joint are live. Two SU11C- rior, external: internal. Two infe- rior : external. internal; and one central ai'teiy. Popliteal vein. Position to the artery. Branches. Popliteal nerves are two, inner and outer. The internal nerve in the space. c. The superior articular arteries arise from the popliteal trunk, one from the inner and one from the outer side, above the condyles of the femur ; they are directed almost transversely beneath the hamstring muscles, and turn round the bone to the fi-ont of the joint. The external one (]c) perforates the intermuscular septum, and divides in the substance of the vastus internus. Some of the branches end in that muscle, and anastomose with the external cu-cumflex (of the profunda) : others descend to the joint ; and one offset foi-ms an arch across the fore part of the bone with the anastomotic artery. The internal artery (Z), oftentimes veiy small, winds beneath the tendon of the adductor magnus, and terminates in the vastus in- ternus ; it supplies this and the knee joint, and communicates with the anastomotic artery. d. The inferior articular branches (fig. 206) lie beneath the gastroc- nemius, but are not on the same level on opposite sides of the limb ; for the inner one descends below the head of the tibia, whilst the outer one is placed above the fibula. Each lies beneath the lateral ligament of its own side. The external branch (c) supplies the outer side of the knee joint, anastomosing with the other vessels on the articulation, and with the recurrent branch of the anteiior tibial artery : it sends an offset beneath the ligament of the patella to join a twig fi-om the lower internal branch. The internal artery (&) ascends at the anterior border of the in- ternal lateral ligament, and after taldng its share m the fi-ee anas- tomoses over the joint, ends in offsets for the articulation and the head of the tibia. e. The azygos branch enters the back of the joint through the posterior ligament, and is distributed to the ligamentous structures, the fat, and the synovial membrane of the interior. The POPLITEAL VEIN (fig. 201, h) originates in the union of the venaa comites of the anterior and posterior tibial vessels, and has the same extent and connections as the artery it accompanies. At the lower border of the popliteus muscle the vein is internal to the arterial trunk ; between the heads of the gastrocnemius it is super- ficial to that vessel; and thence to the opening in the adductor magnus it lies to the outer side, and close to the artery. It is joined by branches corresponding with, those of the arteiy, as well as by the short saphenous vein (fig. 201). The POPLITEAL NERVES (fig. 200) are the two large trunks derived from the division of the great sciatic in the thigh (p. 658) ; they are named internal and external from their relative position. In the popliteal space each furnishes cutaneous and articular offsets, but only the inner one supphes branches to muscles. The INTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE (") is larger than the external, and occupies the middle of the ham : its connections are similar to those of the artery, that is to say, it is partly superficial, and partly covered by the gastrocnemius. Like the vessel it extends thi-ough