DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 732 Form and extent. Cells pro- longed in front. Colour transpa- rency and tliickness. Outer SIU-- I'ace is floc- culent. On the luner sm-- I'aee are seen porus opti- cus. yellow spot. fovea cen- tralis, Layers in the retina One of nerve suhstance has two strata; Fig. 231.* the transparent mass (vitreous) in the interior. It is moulded upon and supported by the vitreous body : and its form is that of a segment of a sphere, with a large aperture in front. Beginning beh.nd at the optic nerve (fig. 225, c), the thin layer extends forwards to the cihary processes (their outer extremities), where it ends in a wavy border—the ora serrata. Where the retina ceases in front, a thin gray layer (ciliary part of the retma) composed of elongated nucleated cells, which are not nerve elements, is contmued on as far as the tips of the ciliary pro- cesses (fig. 233,^') on which it ends. The retina is of a pinkish gray colour, and is semitransparent when fresh, so that an image can be seen on it when the two external coats of the eye have been removed ; but it soon loses this translucency, and is moreover rendered opaque by the action of water and other substances. Its thickness is greater at the pos- terior than the anterior part of the eyeball, being --t^th of an inch in the former, and y|oth in the latter situation. On the outer surface of the dissected retina are some fine fi-ag- ments of a structure (Jacob's membrane) to be noticed presently, wliich float in the fluid in which the preparation may be placed. The inner surface is smooth : it is covered with folds in a pre- paration of an eye cut in two, but these are accidental, in consequence of the membrane having lost its proper support. At the spot where the optic nerve expands (porus opticus) is the central artery of the retina (fig. 231). In the interior of the human eye, in the axis of the ball, is a slightly elliptical yellow part (fig. 231, ^th of an inch in diameter, wliich is named the yellow sjjot (limbus luteus of Sommerring). Almost in the centre of that spot is a minute hollow, the fovea centralis, which appears black in consequence of the thinness of the wall allowing the dark pigment outside to be seen. Structure (fig. 232). In the retina are layers or strata with blood- vessels : viz., an inner (^), composed of nerve elements ; an outer (\ Jacob's membrane), formed of peculiar- bodies ; an intermediate or granular layer (^) ; and outside all is a pigmentary stratum. Passing through the layers of the retina except Jacob's andthepig- mentar}^, are minute tlireads—fibres of Miiller. The layer of nerve substance (^) is made up of nei'^'e fibres, and of a molecular matrix containing different-sized nerve cells ; these constituents have the following arrangement:— The tubules of the optic nerve (Ji), having become solid in textui-e * Objects on the inner surface of the retina. In the centre of the ball is the yellow limbus luteus, here represented by shading : and in its middle the dark spot. To the inner side is the nerve, with its accompanying artery (Sommerring),