156 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Use. Kei-ato- cricoicltus. Al-l'tCB- noideus; Ucp trans- verse Jilires, su])erficial oblique. Use. Dissection of internal muscles. Eomove luilf of cartUage. Position of muscles. Lateral c.rico-arytas- iioicleus is liencatli tliyroid cartilage. Action. It rotcates the aryt.-cnoid cartilage, turning out the lateral projection at the base, and enlarges the interval between the carti- lages. At the Bame time the upper orifice of the larynx is widened by tlie separation from each other of its lateral boundaries. Musmlus kerato-cricoideus (Merkel). This is a small fleshy slip which is occasionally seen below and close to the preceding muscle ; it arises from the cricoid cartilage, and is inserted into the back of the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The ARYT^NOiDEUS is a single muscle in the middle line (fig. 40, "), and is placed on the posterior surface of the aryttunoid cartilages : it possesses two sets of fibres, superficial and deep, with different directions. The deep fibres, b, are transverse, and are inserted into the outer border and the posterior surface of each cartilage ; they close the interval between the cartilages. The superficial fibres, a, consist of two oblique fasciculi, which cross like the parts of the letter X, each passing fi-om the base of one cartilage to the apex of the other : a few of these fibres are continued bej^ond the cartilage to join the thyro-arytasnoid muscle and the depressor of the epi- glottis. Action. The muscle causes the small arytasnoid cartilages to glide towards one another, and diminishes much, or may close the rima glottidis. Acting with the depressors of the epiglottis it will assist in shutting the upper orifice of the larjmx. Dissection. The remaining muscles and the vocal apparatus would be learnt better on a fi-esh larynx, if this can be obtained. To bring into xiew the muscles, which are concealed by the thyroid cartilage (fig. 41), it will be necessarj'- to remove the right half of the carti- lage, by cutting through it a quarter of an inch fi-om the middle line, after its lower cornu has been detached from the cricoid. By dividing next the crico-thyroid membrane attached to the lower edge, and the thyro-hyoid ligament connected with the upper margin, the loose piece will come away on separating the subjacent areolai- tissue fi-om it. By the removal of some areolar tissue, the dissector will define inferiorly the lateral crico-ar3'ta2noid muscle ; above it, the thyro- arytasnoideus muscle ; and still higher, the thin muscular fibres (depressor of the epiglottis) in the fold of mucous membrane between the epiglottis and the arj-ttenoid cartilage. On cleaning the fibres of the thyro-arytasnoideus near the front of the larynx, the top of the sacculus laryngis with its small glands will appear above the fl.eshy fibres. The CRICO-ARYTiENOIDEUS LATERALIS (fig. 41 ^) is a Small lengthened band, which arises fi-om the upper border of the cricoid cartilage at the lateral aspect; its fibres are directed backwards to be inserted into a projection on the outer side of the base of the arytfEnoid cartilage, and into the contiguous part of the outer sur- face. This muscle is concealed by the crico-thj-roideus, and its upper border is contiguous to the succeeding muscle.