DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 222 longitudinal fibres may be enumerated on the upper and under surfaces of tlie corpus callosum along the middle line, together with the band of the convolution of the corpus callosum : these fibres are connected with the anterior perforated spot of the base of the brain. Structure of the optic thalamus. The thalamus is about an inch deep, and the following is a summary of its structure, as displayed in the previous dissections. The upper and imier half is formed chiefly of gray matter, with which the undermentioned white bands are connected:—Thus through it pass the fornix in front, and the posterior commissure behind ; whilst the peduncles of the pineal bodj' he along the inner side, and the taenia semicircularis along the outer. The lower and outer part consists mainly of white fibres directed upwards, and these are derived fi-om the peduncle of the cerebrum inferiorly, and fi'om the peduncle of the cerebellum and the corpora quadrigemina superiorly : to the hinder part of these, two slips of fibres are added from the corpora geniculata. and of cor- The corpora geniculata contain gray substance inside. Into these LtsT bodies fibres of the optic tract enter ; and from each issues a band to join the fibres of the crus cerebri. They seem to serve as accessory ganglia to the peduncular fibres of the cerebrum. Section of Corpus striatum. By slicing through the corona radiata on the corpus stri- ]gf^ side, SO as to bring into view the extraventricular nucleus of the iTinii froiii outside. corpus striatum, the extent and form of that mass, and the situation of the anterior commissm-e in it, will be apparent. Section of Crus cerebri. By a vertical section through the left peduncle of crusceretin. ^-^^ cerebrum, the disposition and the thickness of the two layers of its longitudinal fibres : and the situation and extent of the locus niger between them, may be observed. Structure of oxitic thalamus, Section Y. Prepare cerebellum. Parts to be separated from one another. rorin and THE CEREBELLUM. Dissection. The cerebellum (fig. 59, h) is to be separated from the remains of the cerebrum, by carrying the knife thi-ough the optic thalamus so that the small brain, the corpora quadrigemina, the crura cerebri, the pons, and the medulla oblongata, may remain united together. All the pia mater is to be carefully removed from the median fissure on the under surface ; and the diflEerent bodies in that fissure are to be separated from one another. Lastly the handle of the scalpel should be passed along a sulcus at the circumference, wliich is continued from the eras, between the upper and under surfaces. The cerebellum, little bram (fig. 66), is flattened from above dowii, so as to be widest from side to side, and measures about four inches across. This part of the encephalon is situate in the posterior fossaB