368 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. sTianch •> "^^^^ splanchnic nerve begins in the tentli and eleventh tocaUac'" g'^ingliti, or in the intervening cord. It is transmitted inferiorly plexua; through the crus of the diaphragm, and enters the part of the solar plexus by the side of the cocliac artery, sraallost The smallest splanchnic nerve springs from the last ganglion to rema"'° accompanies the other nerves through the diaphragm : in the plexus. . abdomen it ends in the renal plexus. This nerve may be absent, and its place may be taken by an offset of the preceding. PARIETES OF THE THOEAX. Soft parts ■bounding, the thorax. Infracostal; position, attach- ments : irregulari- ties. Use. Intercostal muscles. Inner layer reaches angle of the rib. Connec- tions. Outer layer extends ■back to head of the rib. Uae. Trace nerves. Intercostal nerves. Between the ribs are lodged the two layers of intercostal muscles, with the intervening nerves and arteries ; and inside the ribs lies a thin fleshy layer behind,—the infracostals. At the base of the thorax is the diaphragm. The INFEACOSTAL MUSCLES are small slips of fleshy fibres, which are situate on the inner surface of the ribs, where the internal inter- costals cease. Apparently part of the inner intercostals, they arise from the inner surface of one rib, and are attached to the like surface of the lib nest succeeding. They are uncertain in number, but there may be ten : they are smaller above than below, and the upper and lower may pass over more than one space. Action. These tliin muscles approach the ribs to one another, diminishing the size of the thoracic ca^vity, and act thus as expiratoiy muscles. Inteecostal Muscles. The anterior part of the muscles has been described (p. 251) ; and the posterior part may be now examined from the inner side. The inner muscle begins at the sternum, and reaches backwards to the angle of the ribs m the middle spaces, but, higher and lower, the muscular fibres approach nearer the spine. Where the fibres cease, a tliin fascia is continued backwards over the outer muscle. The inner surface is lined by the pleura, and the opposite surface is in contact "with the intercostal nerve and vessels. External nfiuscle. When the fascia and the infi-acostal muscles have been removed, the external intercostal will be seen between the posterior border of the internal muscle and the spine. Its fibres cross those of the inner intercostal layer. Whilst this muscle ex- tends back-wards to the tubercle of the rib, it does not generally reach farther forwards than the rib cartilages, as before said (p. 251). _ Action. The use of the intercostal muscles m respnation is given in p. 252. Dissection. In a few spaces the internal intercostal muscle may be cut through, and the intercostal nei-ve and artery traced out- wards. The INTERCOSTAL NEEVES are the anterior primary branches of the dorsal nen^es. Twelve in number, they occupy the intercostal spaces, without communicating in a plexus; and the last is placed below