16 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. from occi- pital and vertebral. Nen'cs of dura mater. Cranial ner\'es in the Ijase of the skull : only partly seen. Olfactory nerve, ends in the nose. Optic nei-ve enters the eye. Dissection of third and fourth nerves; of fifth nerve. Motor oculi nerve That from the occiijital, one on each side, enters the skull hy the jugular foramen ; and that from the vertebral arises opposite the foramen magnum. Both vessels ramify m the posterior fossa of the skull. Meningeal Nehves. Offsets to the dura mater are said to be derived from the fourth, fifth, glosso-pharyngeal, and vagus, cranial nerves ; and from the sympathetic nerve. To make these nerves apparent, it would be necessary to steep the dura mater in diluted nitric acid. Cranial Nerves (fig. 4). The cranial nerves pass from the encephalon through apertures in the base of the skull. As each leaA'es the cranium it is invested by processes of the membranes of the brain, which are thus disposed :—those of the dura mater and pia mater are lost on the nerve ; whilst that of the arachnoid membrane is reflected back, after a short distance, to the interior of the skull. Some of the nerves, those m the middle fossa of the skull for instance, receive sheaths of the dura mater before they approach the foramina of transmission. The nerves will be referred to now as nine pairs, but notice will be subsequently taken of a different mode of enumerating them. Only part of the course of each nerve Avill be seen at this stage, the rest will be learnt in the dissection of the base of the brain. The FIRST nerve (fig. 33) ends anteriorly in the enlargement of the olfactory bulb. This swelHng lies on the cribiiform plate of the ethmoid bone, and supplies about twenty branches to the nose through the small foramina in the subjacent bone. These delicate nerves are surrounded by prolongations of the membranes of the brain, and their arrangement will be noted in the dissection of the nose. The SECOND NERVE (fig. 4,2) diverging to the eyeball from its commissure, enters the orbit through the optic foramen ; accom- panying the nerve is the ophthalmic artery. Dissection. The tliird and fom-th nerves, and the ophthalmic trunk of the fifrh nerve, lie in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus ; and to see them, it will be necessary to trace them through the dura mater towards the orbit. Afterwards the student should follow outwards the roots of the fifth nerve into the middle fossa of the skull, as in fig. 4, taking away the dura mater from them, and from the surface of the large Gasserian ganglion which Hes on the point of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. From the front of the ganglion arise other two large trunks besides the ophthalmic, viz superior and inferior maxillaiy, and these should also be traced to their apertures of exit fr'om the skull. If the dura mater is removed entirely from the bone near the nerves a better dissection will be obtained. , „ , i f u The THIRD NERVE (fig. 4,^) is destmed for the muscles of the orbit It enters the wall of the cavernous sinus near the anterior clinoid process, and is deprived at that spot of its tube of arach- noid mcmbranL In the wall of the sinus it is placed above the