26 Use. Elevntoi' of the iuiglii .loiiis cleijressor. Use. Depressor of angle. Use. Zygoiiintic muscles; large ami small. Use. Kisorius muscle. Use. Buccinator muscle. Origin. Insertion at t:orner.s of the muuth. DISSECTION OF THE FACE. has been everted and tl.o mucous membrane removed, the muscle wdl be seen to arise from a fossa near tlie symphysis of the h.wer 3aw, and to descend to its insertion into the integument of the chin. Its position IS internal to the depressor of the lip and the attach- ment of the orbicularis. Action. It indents the skin of the cliin opposite its insertion, and assists in raising the lower hp. The levator anguli oris (fig. 6, f) has well-marked fibres, and is partly concealed by the levator hibii superioris. Arising fi-om the canine fossa beneath the infra-orbital foramen, its fibres spread out towards the angle of the mouth where they are superficial to the buccinator, and mix with the rest of the muscles, but the greater number are continued into the depressor anguli oris and the lower hp. Action. This muscle elevates the corner of the mouth, and acts as an antagonist to the depressor. The DEPRESSOR AKGULi ORIS (fig. G, is triangular in shape ; it arises from the oblique line on the outer surface of the lower jaw ; and ascending to the angle of the mouth, its fibres are prolonged into the elevator of the angle. The muscle conceals the labial branches of the inferior dental vessels and nerve. At its origin the depressor is united with the platysma myoides, and near its insertion with the risorius muscle. Action. The angle of the mouth is drawn downwards and back- wards by it, as is exemplified in a sorrowful countenance. The ZYGOMATIC MUSCLES (fig. 6) are directed obliquely from the arch of the same name towards the angle of the mouth and the upper lip. One is longer and larger than the other ; they are there- fore named major and minor. The zycjomaticns major^ arises fi-oin the outer part of the malar bone, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth. The zygomaticus minor,^ is attached to the malar bone anterior to the other, and blends with the fibres of the special elevator of the upiaer lip. Action. The large muscle inclines upwards and backwards the corner of the mouth ; and the small one assists the levator labii superioris in raising the upper lip. The RISORIUS MUSCLE (Santorini) (fig, 6,") is a thin and narrow bmidle of fibres, sometimes divided into two or more parts, which arises externally from the fascia over the masseter muscle, and is connected internally with the apex of the depressor anguli oris. Action. The use of this muscle is indicated by its name, as it retracts the corner of the mouth in laughing. The BUCCINATOR (fig. 6, '■*) is the flat and thin muscle of the cheek, and occupies the interval between the jaws. The muscle ar/scs fronj the outer surface of the alveolar borders of the upper and lower maxilh-c, as far forwards in each as the first molar tooth ; and in the interval between the jaws behind it is attached to a band of fascia—the pterygo-maxillary ligament. From the origin the fibres are directed forwards to the angle of the mouth, where they mix