DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. 408 Trunks of spinal nerves. Number and groups. Last nerve of a group below the vertebra. Primary divisions. Roots anterior and posterior. Posterior larger than anterior; forms two bundles that enter the ganglion. the posterior root into each point. The anterior root, consisting of two biuidles of tlireads, is to be followed over the ganglion to its union with the posterior root beyond the ganglion. Spinal Nerves. There are thii-ty-on6 pairs of spinal ners'-es ; and each nerve is constructed by the blending of two roots (anterior and posterior) in the inten'ertebral foramen (fig. 123). They are divided into groups corresponding with the regional subdi^nsions of the spinal column, viz., cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal. In each group the nerves are the same in num- ber as the vertebra3, except in the cenacal region of the spine where they are eight, and in the coccygeal region where there is only one. In consequence of the number of nerves in the neck exceeding that of the vertebrae, the last is placed Fig. 123.* below the seventh vertebra ; and the lowest nerve of each group, except the coccygeal, will be below its coiTesponding vertebra. Each nerve divides into two primaiy branches, anterior and posterior, the former of these is distributed to the front of the body and the hmbs, and the latter is confined to the hinder part of the trunk. EooTS OF THE Nerves (fig. 123). Two roots (anterior and posterior) attach the nerve to the spinal cord ; and these unite together to form a common trunk in the inter- vertebral foramen. The posterior root is marked by a ganghon, but the anterior root is aganghonic. The posterior or ganglionic roots (fig. 123, V) surpass in size the anterior, and are formed by larger and more numerous fibrils. They are attached to the side of the cord between the posterior and lateral columns in a straight fine, which they keep even to the last nerve. In their course to the trunk of the nerve the fibrils converge to an aperture in the dura mater, opposite the intervertebral foramen ; as they approach that aperture they are collected into two bmidles 123 B, h) which, lying side by side, receive a sheath from (fi * A Plan of the origin of a spinal nerve from the spmal cord. a. Anterior root & Posterior root. c. Ganglion on tlie posterior i^ot. d. Anterior m-imarv branch, e. Posterior primary branch of the nerve tmnk ^ B Adrawingto show the arrangement of the nerve-roots, and the form of the ganglion nl lumbar nerve, h. Posterior root gatljered into two bundles 0? thrS c. The ganglion, bifid at the inner end. a. Threads of the anterior root, also gathered into two bundles.