47 RECTI MUSCLES. arteries and nei-ves entwine around it. It tenninates in the retinal expansion of the eye. ^ Dissection (fig. 12). Take away the ophthahnic vessels, and divide DisHeet.on. the optic nerve about its middle, together witli the small ciliary vessels and nen^es. Turn forwards the eyeball, and fasten it m that position with hooks. On removing some fat the three recti muscles—inner, inferior, and outer, Avill appear; and lying on the two first, are the oflisets of the lower branch of the third nerve. The lowei' branch of the third nerve (fig. 12) supplies tlu-ee L..wer muscles in the orbit. Whilst entering this space between the tiiiiiMicive heads of the external rectus, it lies below the nasal, and rather above the sixth nerve. Almost immediately afterwards the nerve di\ades into three branches. One C) enters the internal rectus ; sm'pHes another (*), the inferior rectus ; and the third (^), the longest and """"^ most external, is continued forwards to the inferior oblique muscle which it pierces at the hinder border. Soon after its origin the last branch communicates with the and joins lenticular ganglion, forming the short root (fig. 11, =*) of that sanglion. body ; and it furnishes two or more filaments to the inferior rectus muscle. The SIXTH NERVE (fig. 12, *) Hes below the other nerves, and Sixth nerve, above the ophthalmic vein, in the intei-val between the heads of the external rectus. In the orbit it is distributed to the external rectus muscle. Eecti Muscles. The internal D, inferior C, and external rectus B straiglit (fig. 12) are placed with reference to the eyeball as theii- names "'"^^^jl^ °^ express. They arise posteriorly from the circumference of the oi.;,,!,!. optic foramen by a common attachment, which partly surrounds the optic nerve. But the external rectus differs from the others in having two heads :—The upper joins the superior rectus in the common origin. The lower and larger head blends on the one side with the inferior rectus in the common origin ; it is attached in addition to a bony point on the lower border of the sphenoidal fissure, near the inner end, whilst some of its muscular fibres are connected with a tendinous band between the heads. All the insertion, muscles are directed forwards, but the lower obhquely outwards, and liave a tendinous insertion into the ball of the eye about a quarter of an inch from the cornea, and in fi-ont of the transverse diameter of the ball. Between the heads of origin of the external rectus, the different Between nerves before mentioned are transmitted into the orbit, viz. the outerreetus tliird, the nasal branch of the fifth, and the sixth, together with the ophthalmic vein. Action. The four recti muscles, attached to the eyeball at oppo- Use of nil. site sides in front of the transverse diameter, are able to turn the pupil in opposite directions. The inner and the outer rectus move the ball horizontally around i„ner nn.l a vertical axis, the former directing the pupil towards the nose and the latter towards the temple.