DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 726 Compo- iicuts. Dissection to sec tlio clioroicl portion. To show tlie ciliary processes ■by an anterior and a pos- terior view. To make a vertical section. Form and extent: anterior termination, opening. and pigment cells : the muscles in the interior of the ball are con- nected with it. It is constructed of three parts : a posterior (fchoroid) correspond- ing with the sclerotic ; an anterior (iris) opposite the cornea ; and an intermediate ring (ciliary muscle) on a level with the union of the sclerotic and cornea. Dissection. Supposing the comea of an eye cut through circulariy, as before directed (p. 723), it will be necessary to take away the sclerotic to lay bare the choroid coat. With the point of the scalpel, or with a shut scissors, detach the fore part of the sclerotic from the fi-ont of the choroid by breaking through a soft wliitish structure uniting them. Then, the eye being put into water, the outer coat is to be removed by cutting it away piece-meal with a scissors ; in taking it o£E the slender vessels and nerves beneath are to be pre- served. The white ring around the eye in front, which comes into view during the dissection, is the ciliary muscle. For the purpose of obtaining an anterior view of the ciliary pro- cesses, which are connected with the anterior termination of the cho- roid coat, let the cornea be removed as before on another eyeball. Detach next the fore part of the sclerotic from the choroid ; and after two or three cuts have been made in it towards the optic nerve, the resulting flaps may be pinned out, so as to support the eye in an upright position. On removing with care the iris, taking it away from the centre towards the circumference, the ciliary processes be- neath will be displayed. A posterior view of the processes may be prepared on another ball by cutting through it circularly with a scissors, about one-third of an inch behind the cornea, so that the anterior can be removed from the posterior half ; on taking away the portion of the vitreous mass adherent to the anterior part of the ball, and wiping ofE the pigment from the back of the iris, the small processes will be made manifest. By means of tliis last dissection the interior of the choroid coat may be seen. If a vertical section is made of another eyeball, it Avill show the ciliary processes in their natural position, and will demonstrate the relative situation of all the parts. Tliis section, which is made with difficulty, should be attempted in water with a sharp large knife, and on a surface of wax or wood, after the cornea and sclerotic have been cut with a scissors. When the eye has been divided, the halves should remain in water. The CHOROID COAT (fig. 225, b) is a thin membrane of a dark colour, and extends fi-om the optic nerve to the fore part of the eyeball. When viewed on the eye in which the ciliary muscle is entire, it appears to terminate there ; but it may be seen in the other dissec- tions to bend inwards behind that muscle, and to end in a series of projections (ciliary processes) at the back of the iris. This covering is rather thicker and stronger behind than in front. It is supported at the bottom of the eyeball by its close connection to the sclerotic coat, and in fi-ont by the ciliary muscle. Posterioriy it is pierced by a round apertm-e for the passage of the optic nerve ; and anteriorly it is united with the uis.