0 0 IXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. SCi When the vessels are prepared the bhadder may be again dis- tended, and the viscera replaced. The INTKUNAL ILIAC ARTERY (fig. 174, fj) is One of the trunks resulting from the division of tlie common iliac artery, and furnishes branches to the viscera and wall of the pelvis, to the generative and genital organs, and to the limb. ^ ^ * In the adult the vessel is a short tiimk of large capacity, which size and measures about an inch and a half in length. Directed downwards • as far ns the sacro-sciatic notch, the artery terminates generally in termination; two large pieces, fi-om wliich the several offsets are furnished. Froni the extremity a partly obliterated vessel (hypogastric) extends for- wards on the bladder. Li entering the pelvis the artery lies in front of the lumbo-sacral connections, nerve. It is accompanied by the mternal iliac vein, which is pos- position of terior to it, and somewhat external on the right side. The branches of the artery are numerous, and arise usually in the Brant-lies. following manner :—From the posterior piece of the trunk three arise, viz., the ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, and gluteal. And fi-om the anterior portion come the vesical (upper and lower), hasmor- rhoidal, obturator, sciatic, and pudic : in the female there are in addition the uterine and vaginal branches. Artenj in thefcctus. In the fojtus the lujpogcistric artery takes the Hj-pogastric place of the internal iliac, and leaves the abdomen by the umbilicus, fetus/" At that time it is larger than the external iliac artery ; and, entering but slightly into the cavity of the pehns, it is directed forwards to the back of the bladder, and along the side of that \'iscus to the on tlie apex. ^^'"I'l"' Bej'ond the bladder the artery ascends along the posterior aspect of the abdominal wall with the urachus, converging to its fellow. Finally at the umbilicus, the vessels of opposite sides come in con- and beyond tact Avith the umbilical vein, and, passing fi-om the abdomen through the aperture at that spot, enter into the placental cord, and receive the name umbilical. In the foetus, branches similar to those in the adult are furnished branches, by the artery, though their relative size at the tAvo periods is very different. Change to adult state. When uterine life has ceased the hypo- Trnusfornia- gastric artery diminishes in consequence of the arrest of the current timt o" «.e of blood through it, and finally becomes obUterated, more or less "^^iiit- completely, as far back as an inch and a half of its commencement. The part of the trunk which is unobliterated becomes the internal iliac ; and commonly a portion of the vessel remains pervious as far as the top of the bladder, and gives origin to some vesical arteries. PccuUnritics. Tlie Icnr/th of the internal iliac artery varies from half an Trunk varies inch to tluee inclics, its extreme measurements ; but in two thirds of a certain in lengtli. number of bodies (Quain) it ranged from an inch to an inch and a half. <S'ize. When the femoral trunk is derived from the internal iliac, and is Size, placed at tlie back of the thigh, tlie jiarcnt vessel is larger than the external iliac.