366 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. may be divided; is furnished with vulves, receives most lym- phatics. Eight duct is in the neck: receives lymphatics of one- fourth of l)ody. Structure. Thoracic cord of sympathetic has twelve gauglia. as high as the arch. Opposite the fifth dorsal vertebra it passes beneath the aortic arcli, and is applied to the left side of the oesophagus, on wliich it is conducted to the neck under the left subclavian arteiy. At the lower part of the neck the duct arches outwards, as before described (p. 117), to Fig. 106.* open into the left subclavian vein. In this course the tube is oftentimes divided in two, which unite again ; or its di\Tisions may even form a plexus. Near its termination it is frequently branched. It is provided with valves at intervals, like a vein ; and these are in greatest number at the upper part. Branches. In the thorax the duct re- ceives the lymphatics of the left half of the caAdty, viz., from the sternal and inter- costal glands ; also the Ijonphatics of the left lung, the left side of the heart, and the trachea and oesophagus. The right lymphatic duct (fig. 27) re- ceives large branches from the ^ascera of the thorax. It is a short trunk, about half an inch in length, and opens into the angle of union of the subclavian and jugular veins of the same side (p. 71) : its open- ing is guarded by valves. Branches. Into tliis trunk the lymphatics of the right upper Hmb, and right side of the head and neck pour their contents. In addition, the lymphatics of the right side of the chest, right lung and right half of the heart, and some from the right lobe of the liver, after passing thi-ough their respective glands, unite into a few large trunks, which ascend beneath the innomi- nate vein to reach the duct in the neck. Structure of the ducts. The wall of the tube resembles that of the blood-vessels in structure (p. 118). CoBD OF THE SYMPATHETIC Nerve. The thoracic part of the gang- liated cord of the sympathetic nerve is covered by the pleura, and is placed over the heads of the ribs, and the intercostal vessels. The ganglia on it are usually twelve, one being opposite each dorsal nerve, but this number varies much. The upper ganglion is the largest; and the last two are rather anterior to the Ime of the * View of the thoracic duct, and the intercostal veins. 1. Thoracic duct. 2. Ending of the duct in the left subclavian vein. 3. Large or right azygos vein 4 Left lower azygos or intercostal vein. 5. Left upper azygos or intercostal. 6. Vena cava superior. 7. Left internal jugular vein, cut thi-ough.