DISSECTION OF TEE HEAD. 18 Gasseviau ganglion on it; sympa- gives tliree ■branches. Small root. Difiference in the use of the roots. Ophthalmic uerve enters orbit, supplies dura uiater in its coiu-se- Aladucens nerve is in (iavemous sinus; joins sym- pathetic. Seventh dura mater into the middle fossa of the base of the skull, where it enters immediately the Gasserian ganglion. The cjangHon of the root of the fifth nerve (Gasserian ganglion), placed in a depression on the point of tlie petrous part of the temporal bone, is flattened, and is nearly as wide as the thumb- nail. The upper surface of the ganglion is closely united to the dura mater, and presents a semilunar elevation, whose convexity looks foi-wards. Some filaments from the plexus of the thetic on the carotid artery join its inner side. Branches. From the front of the ganglion proceed the three following trunks :—The ophthalmic nerve, the first and highest, is destined for the orbit and forehead. Next in order is the superior maxillary nerve, which leaves the skull by the foramen rotundum, and ends in the face below the orbit. And the last, or the inferior maxillary ner^'-e, passes through the foramen, ovale to reach the loAver jaw, the lower part of the face, and the tongue. The smaller root lying in the same tube of the dura mater as the large one, passes beneath the ganglion, Avithout communicating with it, and joins only one of the three trunks derived from the ganglion : if the ganglion be raised, this root will be seen to enter the inferior maxillary nerve. Those branches of the ganglion which are unconnected with the smaller or motor root, viz. the ophthalmic and superior maxillary, are solely nerves of sensibility ; but the inferior maxillary, which is compounded of both roots, is a nerve of sensibility and motion. But the whole of the inferior maxillary nerve has not this double function, for the motor root is mixed nearly altogether with the part which supplies the muscles of the lower jaw; and it is, there- fore, cliiefly that small mixed joiece of the nerve which possesses a twofold action, and resembles a spinal nei-ve. The ophthalmic nerve is the only one of the three trunks which needs a more special notice in this stage of the dissection. It is continued through the sphenoidal fissure and the orbit to the forehead. In form it is a flat band, and is contained in the wall of the cavernous sinus below the third and fourth nerves. Near the orbit it diAndes into three branches (p. 40). In tliis situation it is joined by filaments of the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, and gives a small recurrent filament (fig. 4, f) to that part of the dura mater forming the tentorium cerebelli (Arnold). The SIXTH NERVE (fig. 4,") enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and supplies one of the orbital muscles. It pierces the dura mater behind the body of the sphenoid bone, and crosses the space of the cavernous sinus, instead of lying in the outer wall with the other nerves. In the sinus the nerve is placed close against the outer side of the carotid artery ; and it is joined by one or two large branches of the sympathetic nerve surrounding that vessel. Seventh Nerve according to Willis (fig. 4, 0- This cranial