389 SERRATI AND SPLENIUS MUSCLES Action. The superior serratus raises tlie upper nbs, and officiates t.se ofboth as an inspiratory muscle ; and the inferior, depressing the lower nbs and lower, becomes an expiratory muscle. Theile supposes the inferior to act indirectly as a muscle of inspiration, because, by iixing the lower ribs, it enables the diaphragm to contract more effectively. _ o The vertebral aponeurosis is a fibrous expansion, wluch is spread Vertebn^i over the fourth layer of muscles, and confines the erector spm^ m aponeurosis. the vertebral groove. , . . j . xi. i Inferiorly it is thickened by the tendons of the latissimus and Attach- lower serratus ; but it is continued above beneath the splenius, without joining the upper serratus, and blends with the deep fascia of the neck. Internally it is attached to the spinous processes. Externally it i^sWe is connected to the posterior third of the iliac crest, uniting with the tendon of the latissimus ; to the fascia lumborum between the hip-bone and the ribs ; and m the dorsal region to the ribs and a fascia over the mtercostal muscles. Below, between the pelvic and Below, vertebral attachments, it blends with the underiymg tendon of the erector spinje and multifidus. ° Dissection. The upper seiratus is to be cut through, and the Dissection, subjacent vertebral aponeurosis taken away ; and the part of the splenius muscle under the serratus should be cleaned. The SPLENIUS muscle (fig. 117) is thin and elongated ; it is un- ^P^^f^^'^/ts?^ di^^ded internally, but is split externally into two parts. It takes origin along the middle line from the six upper dorsal spines, from the seventh cervical, and fi-om the hgamentum nuchc^ as high as the third cervical vertebra. Some fibres ascend to the head (splenius capitis), and others to the neck (splenius colli). The splenius colli, c, is inserted by tendinous slips into the pos- one to the terior transverse processes of the upper thi-ee cervical vertebrae with, ^^'^^' but behind the attachment of the elevator of the angle of the attach- ments: scapula. The splenius capitis, B, much the largest, is inserted by a thin wide tendon into the apex and hinder border of the mastoid process, ^ttach- and into the bone behind it for about an inch and a half. ments. This muscle is situate beneath the trapezius, the rhomboidei, and Connec- the serratus superior ; and the insertion into the occipital bone is be- neath the sterno-mastoideus. The complexus muscle projects above the upper border of the splenius capitis. Action. The cranial parts of both muscles will carry the head Use of directly back ; and one will turn the face to the same side. cajfitis^^ The splenius colli of both sides will bend back the upper cervical splenius vertebrEB ; but one muscle will turn the face to the same side, being able to rotate the head by its attachment to the transverse process of the atlas. ° Fourth Layer. In this layer are included the spinalis dorsi; Fourth the erector spinas, with its divisions, and accessory muscles to the muscles, neck ; and the complexus muscle. Most of the vessels and nerves of the Back are to be learnt with this layer of muscles. Dissection (fig. 118). To lay bare the complexus muscle in the Dissection*