DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 386 muscular layer. Dissection. Elovatoi' of angle of seainila. Attacli- luents and eoii- nectious. Use: on scapula. on the neck. Rlioml)oid muscles are two. Small muscle. Large muscle. Origin. Insertion. Connec- tions. Use: liy tliemselvcs ■with others, Posterior elevator of the angle of the scapula, and the large and small rhom- boid muscles ; besides these, the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and some vessels and nen'-es bending backwards towards the scapula are included. Dissection. By the reflection of the trapezius and latissimus, and by the dissection made subsequently (p. 383), the several things in this layer will have been sufficiently prepared for learning. The LEVATOR ANGULi SCAPULAE (fig. 116,^) arises by tendinous slips from the posterior transverse processes of the upper three or four cei-vical vertebras. The fibres form rather a roundish muscle, and are inserted into the base of the scapula between the spine and the superior angle. At its origin the muscle lies beneath the stemo-mastoideus, and at its insertion beneath the trapezius, where it touches the serratus magnus muscle ; the rest of the muscle appears in the posterior tri- angular space of the neck. Beneath it are some of the other cersacal muscles, viz., splenius colli and cervicalis ascendens. Action. The muscle raises the angle and liinder part of the scapula, and depresses the acromion ; but united with the upper fibres of the trapezius, which prevent the rotation doAvn of the acromion, it shrugs the shoulder. "When the shoulder is fixed, the neck can be bent laterally to the same side by the levator. * Khomboidei Muscles. The thin musctdar layer of the rhomboidei is attached to the base of the scapula, and consists of two pieces, large and small, which are separated by a slight inters^al. * The rhomboideus minor (fig. 116, ^) is a thin narrow band, which arises from the spines of the seventh cervical and first dorsal vcrtebree, and the hgamentum nuchfe ; it is inserted into the base of the scapula, opposite the smooth surface at the root of the spine. * The rhomboideus major (fig. 116, ^) is larger than the preceding by the width of three or more spinous processes. It arises from the spines of four or five dorsal vertebrae below the rhomboideus minor, and from the supraspinous ligament; and its fibres are directed outwards and downwards to be fixed to the base of the scapula betsveen the spine and the lower angle. Sometimes all the fibres do not reach the scapula directly, some ending on a tendinous arch near the bone. The rhomboidei muscles are covered chiefly by the trapezius and latissimus ; but a portion of the larger rhomboid is subcutaneous near the angle of the scapula. Action. From the direction of their fibres both rhomboidei will ' draw the base of the scapula upwards and backwards, so as to depress the acromion. In combination with the trapezius they will carry the scapula directly back ; for as one tends to raise, and the other to depress the acromion, the bone will be moved m a direc- tion between the two forces. By their united action the muscles help to fix the scapula. , • j The OMO-HYOID muscle consists of two fleshy bellies, anterior and