387 SCAPULAR VESSELS. posterior, which are united by an intervening tendon. Only the ];^y°/-"«- posterior half is now seen. , , - i « • ■ The muscle arises from the upper border of the scapula behind Ongm the notch, and from the ligament converting the notch mto a fora- men. The fibres form a thin, riband-like muscle, which is directed for%vards across the lower part of the neck, and ends anteriorly in a tendon beneath the sterno-mastoideus (p. 64). The fleshy belly of Connec the muscle is placed partly beneath the trapezius ; and is partly superficial in the posterior triangular space of the neck, Avhere it lies above the clavicle and the subclavian artery. It crosses the suprascapular vessels and nei-ve, and the brachial plexus near the scapula. Action. For the supposed use of the posterior belly of the omo- use. liyoideus, see page 64. The stijmiscapidar artenj, a branch of the subclavian (p. 70), is Siipra-_^^ directed outwards across the lower part of the neck to the dorsum ai-tTry'^' of the scapula. The vessel com-ses behind the clavicle with the ends on suprascapular nen^e, but beneath the trapezius and omo-hyoid ^^^^^ muscles to the supraspinal fossa. Before entering the fossa it furnishes a small branch (supra-acromial) to the upper surface of the acromion. The suprascapular nerve, an offset of the brachial plexus (p. 73), ^"P^'^'^^j. is inclined backwards to the superior border of the scapula. It nerve, passes thi-ough the notch in the upper costa of the bone, and ter- minates beneath the supraspinatus in the muscles of the dorsum of the scapula (p. 263). The transverse cervical artery, also a branch of the subclavian Transverse (p. 70), has the same direction as the suprascapular, towards the artery'^^ upper angle of the scapula, but is higher than the clavicle. Cross- ing the upper part of the space in which the subclavian artery lies, it passes beneath the trapezius, and divides into the two following divides into branches—superficial cervical and posterior scapular :— a. The superficial cervical hranch is distributed chiefly to the superficial under surface of the trapezius though it furnishes offsets to the '^^'^'^ levator anguli scapulee and the cervical glands. 6. The posterior scapular branch crosBes beneath the elevator of posterior the angle of the scapula, and turns along the base of the scapula ^'^'^l"^''*' beneath the rhomboid muscles. If the rhomboid muscles are divided, the artery will be seen to furnish branches to them ; and to give small anastomotic twigs to both surfaces of the scapula. This branch arises very frequently fr-om the third part of the subclavian trunk. The supra-scapular and transverse cei-vical veins have the same Accompany- course and branches as the arteries above described ; they open "'^ into the external jugular, near its junction with the subclavian vein. Nerve to the rhomboid muscles. This slender nerve of the brachial Nerve of plexus (p. 72) courses beneath the elevator of the angle of the scapula, and is distributed to the rhomboidei on the under surface. Before its termination it supplies one or two twigs to the elevator of the scapula. c c 2