204 On outer Frontal eon volutions. Foiu- outer; one asccntl- and tlu'ee longitu- •ilinal. Inferior, with mar- ginal. Four parie- tal convolu- tions : first, or as- cending, second, or parietal lobule ; third, or sujn-a- inarginal: DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. A Convolutions of the Outer Surface. About the middle of the liemisphero are two Btraight vertical convolutions, one on eacli side of the fissure of Rolando, M, which will serve as a starting point Infi-ont of those two the convolutions are longitudinal; and behind they take an obhque direction to the back of the brain. • a. The fro7ital convolutions (fig. GO) form two sets, one on the outer, the other on the under surface of the fi-ontal lobe : those on the outer aspect are four, viz., one vertical or posterior, and three longitudinal or anterior, as follows : Tho ascendinc, frontal (') is the vertical, straight convolution, which bounds m fi-ont the Rolando fissure. It reaches down fi-om the median to the Sylvian fissure (posterior limb). Along the anterior border it is joined by the three frontal convolutions ; and below it unites with the most anterior convolution of the parietal lobe round the lower end of the fissure of Rolando, M. The three longitudinal frontal convoliUions are much subdivided and blended, and are separated by two intervening sulci. They are named superior (=>), middle Q), and inferior Q) : they communicate behind by secondary gja-i with the ascending fi-ontal C), the liighest havmg often two processes ; and ave directed forwards one outside another to the anterior extremity of the hemisphere. The under or orbital surface of the fi-ontal lobe, concave, is represented in fig. 61. Near the inner margin is a sulcus, the olfactory, lodging the olfactory nerve ; and internal to it is the lower end of the marginal convolution ('^). External to the sulcus Hes a convolution, which is pointed behind, but widened and sub- divided in front, and encloses smaller gjTi and sulci within its coil: this has been subdivided into three parts, an inner (2), a posterior (^), and an external (^). h. The parietal convolutions (fig. GO), like the outer fi-ontal, are four in number; an anterior, or ascending, which is vertical along the fissure of Rolando, and three directed back fi-om it. The ascending parietal (^), narrow and straight, limits behind the fissure of Rolando, and reaches from the middle line to the hinder limb of the Sylvian fissure, 8. Above, it runs into the parietal lobule, ^'j; and below, it joins the ascending fi-ontal romid the lower end of the fissure of Rolando. Behind it is separated from the other gyi-i of the parietal lobe by a sulcus, I PS' The parietal lobule (^') appears to be an appendage to the upjier end of the ascending convolution, and is continued back along the upper margin of the hemisphere as far as the parieto-occipital fissure. Subdivided on the surface into two chief parts it is joined beliind to the occipital lobe by the small annectant gjTus (o). To its outer side lies the upper end of the intraparietal sulcus ; and here it joins usually the following convolution, A. The sup)ra-marginal convolution, A, lying outside and below the * The intraparietal sulcus {I P, fig. 60, Turner), is placed between the ascending parietal and the supra-marginal convolution, A. Above, it is directed back near the upper part of the hemisphere, separating the parietal lobule (5') and the supra-marginal convolution, A.