443 EXTEKXAL ABDOMINAL RING. Should one muscle conti-act it AviU incline tlie trunk to tlic same 0"^«;^"«^'<^ side, or raise the pelvis, according as the upper or the lower attachment may he moveahle : and after the trunk is bent it will turn the thorax to the opposite side. Parts of the aponeurosis. Besides tlie general arrangement of the aponeurosis over the front of the abdomen, the student is to examine more minutely tlie linea alba in tlie middle line ; the external abdominal ring with the fascia prolonged from its margin; and tlie rounded border named Poupart's ligament. Linea alba (fig. 137). This white band on the front of the abdomen marks the place of meeting of the aponeuroses of oppo- aponeuroses site sides. It extends from the xiphoid cartilage to the pubes, ""''e'^ ■ and serves as a ligament between the chest and pelvis. Its breadth is wider above than below ; and it is perforated here and there by small apertures, which allow pellets of fat to protrude in some bodies. A little below the centre is the umbilicus, which projects in its middle now beyond the surface, though before the skin was removed, a "'"ijil'i"-^- hollow indicated its position. External abdominal ring (fig. 133, This opening is situate External near the pubes between the diverging fibres of the aponeurosis. It ?i„'fr°"^"''' is somewhat triangular in form, with the base at the crest of the Fonn and pubes, and the apex pointing upwards and outwards. The long sit^iation. measurement of the aperture is about an inch, aud the transverse about half an inch. Its margins are named pillars, and differ in form and strength, imiei' side The inner one, thin and straight, is attached below to the fi-ont of P'^^''^- the symphysis pubis, where it crosses the corresponding piece of the opposite side—that of the right muscle being superficial. The outer margin is the strongest, and is not straight like the inner, but '^^^ forms a kind of groove for the support of the spermatic cord : this margin is continuous with Poupart's ligament, and is attached below to the pubic spine or tuberosity. A thin membrane (intercolumnar) A fascia pro- covers the opening, and is derived from some fibres on the surface mai^iii.^'""^ of the aponeurosis. The ring gives passage in the male to the spermatic cord, and in The cord iu the female to the round ligament; and in each sex the transmitted part lies on the outer pillar as it passes through, and obtains a aiwi hernia covering fi-om the intercolumnar fibres. Through this aperture the turougli it. inguinal hernia protrudes from the wall of the abdomen. The intercolumnar fibres form a layer over the aponeurosis, and Intercoium- bind together its parallel fibres, so as to construct a firm membrane. Inferiorly, where they are strongest, a bmidle is connected with the attachnient outer third of Poupart's ligament, and is continued back to the • crista ilii. At the external abdominal ring the fibres stretch from side to side, and, becoming stronger and aggregated together, close the upper point of that opening ; and as they are prolonged on the tl'cy pro- cord from the margin of tlie ring, they give rise to the membrane colun'inar'' named intercolumnar fascia. On the left side, where the fascia is ' entire, this tliin^covering will be manifest on the surface of the cord, or on the round ligament in the female.