CHAPTER X. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. Situation of the eyeball; siirroiniding sheath. Parts in front of it. The dissec- tion to be made on the eye of the ox. Detach the muscles. Form of the ball. Position of optic nerve. Diameter; Composi- tion ; number of coats, and central parts. Dissection. The eyeball is the organ of vision, and is lodged in the orbit. Supported in that hollow on a mass of fat, it is surrounded bj"- muscles which impart movement to it; and a thin membrane (tunica vaginalis oculi) isolates the ball, so as to allow free movement. Two lids protect the eye from external injury, and moderate the degree of light admitted into the interior ; and the anterior or ex- posed surface is covered by a mucous membrane (conjunctiva). Directions. In the absence of specimens of the human eye, the structure may be learnt on the eye of the pig or ox. Let the stu- dent procure half a dozen eyes of the ox for the purpose of dissec- tion. One or two shallow basins will be needed ; and some wax or tallow in the bottom of one, or in a deep plate, may be useful. Dissection. To see the general form of the ball of the eye, and the outer surface of the external coat, the attachments of the differ- ent muscles are to be taken away ; and the loose mucous membrane is to be removed from the front. The hall of the eye (fig. 225) is roundish in form and consists of two parts, which differ in appearance, viz., an opaque posterior por- tion, forming five-sixths of the whole, and a smaller transparent piece (cornea) in fi-ont; these two parts are segments of different sized spheres, the anterior belonging to the smaller sphere. To the back of the eye the optic nerve is attached, rather to the inner side of the axis of the ball; and around it nutritive vessels and the nei-ves enter. The antero-posterior diameter of the ball amounts to nearly an inch (^^ths), but the transverse measures an inch. The organ of vision is composed of central transparent parts, with enclosing membranes or coats. The coats, posited one within another, are named sclerotic, choroid, and retina. The transparent media in the interior are likewise three, viz., the lens, the aqueous humour and the vitreous body. Dissection. To obtain a general idea of the structures to be dis- sected, the student may destroy one eyeball by cutting through it circularly : he will then be able to recognise the arrangement of the parts mentioned above, with their strength and appearance ; and will be better prepared to follow the directions that are after- wards given.