DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 730 Position and form of pig. went cells. Pigment gives colour. Arteries are looped. Veins. Nerves of the iris. Arteries of tlie eyeball posterior ciliary; two of them named long ciliary. Anterior ciliary. Fig. 230.* The imjment cells are spread out in the stroma, and are disposed also on both surfaces. In the stroma they are ramified and irre- gular, as in the choroid (fig. 228, and may contain yellow, brown, or very dark pigment. On the front tliey are ovalish or rounded, but still ramified ; and behind, where there is a thick layer (uvea), the cells are round without outrunners, and are filled with granules. The colour of the iris, is dependent upon the tint, and the position of the pigment. The artenes of the u-is (fig. 230, ^) have a looped arrangement: they are derived chiefly from the long and the anterior ciliary branches {d, p. 46). but some come from the vessels of the cihary processes. On arriving at the ciliary muscle the long ciliary arteries form a circle (e) around the margin of the iris ; from this loop other anastomo- tic branches are directed to- wards the pupil, near which they join in a second arterial circle (/). From the last circle capillaries run to the pupil, and end in veins. The veins resemble the arte- ries in their arrangement in the iris, and terminate in the veins of the choroidal-coat. The nerves of the iris (fig. 230, a) divide into branches which communicate, and extend towards the pupil ; they are with- out dark outline, and their ending is not known. Ciliary Vessels and Nerves (fig. 229). The ciliary arteries are offsets of the ophthalmic (p. 46), and supply the choroid, the ciliary processes, and the iris. They are classed into posterior and anterior, and two of the first set are named long ciliaiy ; but they will not be seen without a special injection of the vessels of the eye. The posterior ciliary branches (gf) pierce the sclerotic coat around and close to the optic nerve, and running forwards on the choroid, enter its substance at different points. Two of this set (long ciliary) are directed forwards, one on each side of the eyeball, and form a circle aromid the iris in the ciliaiy muscle, as before explained. In the ball the outer one lies rather above, and the inner, rather below the middle. The anterior ciliary arteries, five or six in number, are smaller than the posterior, and arise at the front of the orbit fi-om muscular * Distribution of the nerves and vessels of the ills. -i. Half of the iris representing the nerves. a. Nei-ves entering the membrane, and uniting in a plexus, &, within it (Kblliker). b. Half of the iris with a plan of the vessels, d. Ciliary arteries, e. Arch of vessels at the outer edge of the iris. /. Inner circle of vessels in the iris. </. Sphincter of the iris.