DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 172 Special ligaments between tlTst two vex-tebric thorax, with the description of the ligaments of the spine (p. 373). Should the student examine them in the neck, to see their difference in tliis region of the spine, he should leave uncut the neural arches of the three highest cervical vcrtehrte, to which special ligamente are attached. Special ligaments unite the first two cervical vertebra3 to eacli other and to the occipital bone : some of these are external to, and others within the spinal canal. The ligaments outside the spinal canal are thin fibrous membranes, which connect the bodies and arches of the first two vertebra} in' Fig. 46.* Posterior and andoccipital fj-Qnt and beliind ; and join the atlas with the occipital bone at the same aspects. Capsular ligaments surround the articular sm-faces of all the bones ; but these will be examined more com'eniently after the spinal canal has been opened. Union of the atlas loith the axis. The posterior ligament (atlo-axoid) (fig. 47, ^) is a thin loose membrane, which is attached by one margin to the neural arch of the atlas, and by the other to the corresponding arch of the axis. Below the surface are some deeper and stronger fibres. The posterior primary branch of the second ners'-e pierces it. The anterior ligament (fig. 46, ^) unites the bodies of the first two vertebras in the same manner as the preceding ligament connects their arches. It is thickest in the middle, and anterior Union of the atlas loith the occijntal bone. The anterior ligament (occipito-atloid) (fig. 46, ") is thin and wide, and passes from the basilar process of the occipital bone, in front of the foramen mag- num to the body of the atlas. The middle part of the ligament, which is fixed to the tubercle on the fi-ont of the atlas, is much the thickest. * External ligaments in front between the atlas and axis and the occipita] hone (Bourgery). 1. Sawn basilar process. 2. Anterior occipito-atloid. 3. Anterior atlo-axoid. 4. Ai-ticulation of the articular processes cut open. anterior atlo-axoid