147 OTIC GANGLION. distance, behind, lies the large meningeal artery. In this ganglion, structure, as in the others connected with the fifth nerve, filaments from motor, sensory, and sympathetic nerves are blended. Some twigs are fur- nished by it to muscles. . Connedimj branches—roots. The ganglion is joined by a f asciculus.Bmnd^^^^^^^ fi-om the motor part of tlie inferior maxillary nerve, and is closely m\x, I Fig. 36. united with the branch of that nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle, thus receiving two of its roots, motor and sensory, from the fifth nerve. Its connection with the sympathetic is established by syinpa- a twig fi'om the plexus on the large meningeal artery.-)- tiietio. Branches to muscles. Two muscles receive their nerves fi-om the Other otic ganglion, viz. tensor tympani and circumflexus palati. The nerve enter''^'^ to the tensor tympani, ^, is directed backwards, and enters the bony muscles, canal containing that muscle. The branch for the circumflexus, arising from the front of the ganglion, may be supposed to be derived from the internal pterygoid nerve. The nerve of the internal pterygoid muscle, ^, arises fi'om the inner Nerve of side of the inferior maxillary nerve near the skull, and penetrates Jfteiygoid the deep surface of the muscle. This branch is joined by a fasciculus from the motor root of the fifth nerve. Directions. The remainder of the pterygo-maxillary region of the Directions, left side may be now examined. * Inner view of the otic gangUon. a. Tensor tympani muscle, h. Internal pterygoid muscle with Its nerve entering it. c. E.xternal carotid artery with the sympathetic on it. 1. Otic ganglion. 2. Branch of Jacobsou's nerve. 3. Nerve to tensor tympani. 4. Chorda tympani joining gustatory. 5. Nerve to pterygoidcus internus. 6. Nerve of tensor palati. 7. Auriculo-temporal nerve. t Further, the ganglion is said to be connected witli the tympanic nerve (of the glosso-pharyngeal) by means of the small superficial petrosal nerve 2 joining the posterior part. ' ' L 2