451 FASCIA TEANSVERSALIS. The ilio-inguinal nerve perforates the transversah-s muscle near nj^J^^^K"'""! the front of the iliac crest. It pierces aftemards the internal through oblique, and reaches the surface of the thigh through the external ""S- abdominal ring (p. 439) : it furnishes offsets to the internal oblique, the cremaster, and the pyramidalis. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the transversalis fascia, it will be necessary to raise, on the right side, the lower part of the saiis fascia, transversalis muscle by two incisions ;—one of these is to be carried through the fibres attached to Poupart's ligament ; the other, across the muscle from the front of the hip bone to the margin of the rectus. With a little care the muscle may be separated easily fi'om the thin fascia beneath. The fascia transversalis (fig. 138, ^) is a thin fibrous layer be- Fasciatrans- tween the transversalis muscle and the peritoneum. In the gi'oin ""'^^^ or inguinal region, where it is unsupported by muscles, the fascia is best is considerably stronger than elsewhere, and is joined by fibres of "^e'^groin" the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle ; but farther from the pelvis it gi-adually decreases in sti-ength, until at the thorax it becomes very thin. In the part of the fascia now laid bare, is the internal abdominal internal ring, which gives passage to the spermatic cord, or the round liga- ^i^g°^'™^^ ment, according to the sex ; it resembles the hole into the fimger of a glove in being visible inside, but indistinguishable outside in consequence of a prolongation from the margin. On the inner side of the ring the fascia is thinner than on the outer, and is there fixed into the pubes and the pectineal line of the hip bone, behmd the conjoined tendon with which it is united. At Poupart's ligament the fascia is joined to the posterior margin is partly of that band along the outer half ; but along the inner half it is poupai^t-s directed do^vn to the thigh, in fi-ont of the blood-vessels, to form ligament, the anterior part of a loose sheath (crural) around them. Internal abdominal ring (fig. 138). This opening is situate mid- Sitnation of way between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac ^i^t?™'"'^^ spine, and half an inch above Poupart's ligament. From its margin a thin tubular prolongation of the fascia is continued around the cord, as before said. Dissection. The tubiform prolongation on the cord may be traced Dissection by cutting the fascia transversalis horizontally above the opening I'^How of the ring, and then longitudinally over the cord. With the handle 00°^^^ °^ of the scalpel the thin membrane may be reflected to each side, so as to lay bare the subperitoneal fat. The subperitoneal fat forms a layer between the fascia trans- Subreri- versahs and the peritoneum. Its tliicloiess varies much in different ^"^"'^fj! ^'^^ bodies, but is greater at the lower part of the abdomen than higher up. This structure will be more specially examined in the dissection of the wall of the abdomen fxom the inside. Dissection. After the subperitoneal fat has been seen, let it be Trace re- reflected to look for the remains of a piece of peritoneum alono-""''■'i'' the cord, in the form of a fibrous thread. ° pentonemn. The j;m7one«TO, or the serous sac of the abdominal cavity, projects Peritoneum G G 2 of U'c groin