DISSECTION or THE rERIN^TJM. Dissection. Take flret ischio-rectnl fossa. Then ex- amine ante- rioi' half of lierinaiiun. Superficial fascia. Dissection of the muscles. Sphincter vagina. Origin. Insertion. Use. Erector olitoridis. Transver- sails. To expose triangular ligament. Triangular ligament. To see muscles of urethra. Deep transverse muscle. Dissection. Tlie steps of the dissection are much the same in both sexes, and the same description will serve, generally, for the male and female perinicum. First, the dissection of the ischio-rectal fossa is to be made. Afterwards the muscles, vessels and nen^es of the posterior half of the perinatal space are to be examined. (See description of the male perinajum, p, 418 to 423.) Next the skin is to be taken from the anterior half of the perinaal space, as in the male ; and the transverse incision in fi-ont is to be made at the anterior part of the vulva. The attachments of the superficial fascia are then to be looked to, and the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be traced beneath it (p. 423 to 426). Superficial fascia. The description of this fascia in the male will sen^e for the like part in the female, with these modifications ;—that in the female it is interrupted in the middle line, and is of less extent, in consequence of the aperture of the vulva; and that it is continued forwards thi-ough the labia majora (the representative of the scrotum) to the inguinal region. Dissection. The labia and the superficial fascia are to be removed, to follow the sphincter muscle around the opening of the vagina. Two other muscles are exposed at the same time, viz., the erector clitoridis on the pubic arch, and the transversalis perintei passing across the perinasum to the central point. The SPHINCTEE VAGIN.^ is an orbicular muscle around the orifice of the vagina, and coiTesponds with the ejaculator urinfe in the male. Posteriorly it is attached to the central point of the perinajum, where it mixes with the sphincter ani and transversalis muscles ; and its fibres are directed forwards on each side of the vagina, to be inserted into the body of the clitoris, and the front of the triangular ligament. Action. Like the other orbicular muscles the sphincter diminishes that part of the vagina which it encircles ; and it assists in fixuig the central point of the perinseum. The ERECTOR CLITORIDIS resembles the erector of the penis in the male, though it is much smaller (p. 426). The TRANSVERSALIS is similar to the muscle of the same name in the male. The one description will suffice for the muscle in both sexes (p. 427). Dissection. To see the triangular ligament of the urethra, the erector and the crus clitoridis are to be detached from the bone, and the outer fibres of the sphincter vaginae are to be removed. The triangular ligament transmits the urethra, but is not quite so strongly marked as in the male (p. 428) ; its extent is partly inter- rupted behind by the lai-ge aperture of the vagina. Dissection. By cutting through the superficial layer of the liga- ment in the same way as in the male (p. 429) ; the deep muscles, with the pudic vessels and nerve and their branches, will be arrived at. The DEEP TRANSVERSE MUSCLE (depressor urethra;, Sontorini) has the same origm externally as in the male (p. 429) ; and it meets its fellow at the middle line, like the muscle answering to it in the