31 ArrENDAGES OF EYE. Tlie cartilage of the aperture (fig. 7) forms a ring around the Tiie lower opening of the nose except behind. It lias not any attachment ^J-™^« directly to bone ; but it is united above to the lateral cartilage by „ot inserted fibrous tissue, and below with the dense teguments forming the bone, margin of the aperture of the nostril. The part of the cartilage which bounds the opening exter- Tially, is narrow and pointed behind, where it ends in two or three "^l^l^^:^ small pieces of cartilage—cartilacjines minores vel sesamoidea:; but cartilages; swells out in fi-ont where it touches its fellow, and forms the apex of the nose. The inner part (•*) projects backwards along the septum of the ^JJig^^^'^^J^^ nose nearly to the superior maxillary bone ; it assists in the for- mation of the partition between the nostrils, and extends below the level of the septum nasi. The Appendages of the Eye include the eyebrow, the eyelid. Appendages and the lachrj^al apparatus. Some of these can be examined" "^"^i*^- now on the opposite side of the face. The apparatus for the tears will be dissected after the orbit has been completed. The ei/ehroio (supercilium) is a curved eminence just above the Eyebrow, eye which is placed over the orbital arch of the fi'ontal bone. It consists of thickened integuments, and its prominence is in part due to the subjacent orbicularis palpebrarum. It is furnished with long coarse hairs, which are directed outwards, and towards one another. The eyelids' are two moveable semilmiar parts in front of the Eyelids, eye, which can be approached or separated over the eyeball. The upper lid is the largest and the most moveable, and descends below Upper the middle of the eyeball when the two meet; it is also provided largest: Avith a special muscle to raise it. The interval between the open lids is named Jissicra palpebrarum. Externally and intei-nally they are united by a commissure or canthus. The free margin is thicker than the rest of the lid, and is semi- shape of lunar in form ; but towards the inner side, about a quarter of an inch from the commissure, it becomes straighten At the spot PapiUa. where the two parts join is a small white eminence (fig. 13, the papilla lachrymalis ; and in this is the punctum lachrymale, or the Panctmn. opening of the canal for the tears. This margin is provided anteriorly with the eyelashes, and near Hairs and the posterior edge with a row of small openings of the Meibomian ^P^rtures. glands : but both the cilia and the glands are absent fi-om the part of the lid which is internal to the opening of the punctum lachrymale. The fi-ee margin of each lid is sharp at the anterior edge where it Edge sloped touches its fellow ; but is sloped at the posterior, so as to leave an interval between it and the eyeball for the passage inwards of fluid. The eyelashes (cilia) are two or more rows of curved hairs, which Eyelashes, are fixed into the anterior edge of the free border of the lid'; they are largest in the upper lid, and diminish in length from the centre to the sides. The cilia are convex towards one another, and cross when the lids are shut. The Structure of the Eyelids. Each lid consists fundament- Different ally of a piece of cartilage attached to the bone bv li"-amentR i"""*^"^ J tj">n\-uiD. eyelids.