DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 702 Anterior is oWique, its attacli- mcnts. Posterior is vertical: its attach- ments. The use. Both unite the bones. Eotation checked hy anterior. Use of anterior, and poste- rior crucial. between the ends of the tibia and femur, wliich maintain in contact the bones. Tliey cross one another somewhat like the legs of the letter X, and have received their name from that circumstance. One is much anterior to the other at the attachment to the tibia. The anterior ligament (/) is most oblique in its direction, and is smaller than the posterior. Inferiorly it is attached in front of the spine of the tibia, close to the inner articular surface, reaching back to the inner pomt of the spine ; superiorly it is inserted by its posterior shorter fibres into the back of the outer condyle of the femm-, and by the anterior or longer into the hinder part of the intercondyloid fossa. The posterior hgament (e) is almost vertical between the Ijones at the back of the joint. By the lower end it is fixed to the liinder- most impression of the hollow behind the spine of the tibia, near the margin of the bone; and above, its posterior shorter fibres are inserted into the inner con- dyle along the side of the obUque curve, whilst the anterior and longer reach the fore part of the intercondyloid fossa. The use of these ligaments in the movements of the joint, after the external ligaments have been cut through, may now be studied. As long as both Hgaments are whole the bones cannot be separated fi-om each other. Eotation in of the tibia is stopped by the anterior crucial. Eota- tion out is not checked by either ligament ; for the bands uncross in the execution of the movement, and will pennit the tibia to be put hind foremost. Supposing the tibia to move, as in straightening of the limb, the anterior prevents that bone being carried too far forwards by the extensor tendon, or by force ; and the ligament is brought into action at the end of extension, because the tibia is being put m front of the femur. Its use is shown by cutting it across, and leav- ing the posterior entire, as then the tibial articulating surfaces can be placed in front of the femoral in the half bent state of the joint. The posterior crucial aixests the too great movement backwards * Interarticular ligaments of the knee-joint, a. Internal, and h, external semilunar fibro-cartilage ; the latter rather displaced by the bending of the joint, c. Posterior crucial ligament, with d, the ascending ligamentous band of the external fibro-cartilage. /. Anterior crucial ligament, g. Patellar surface of the femur.