695 EXTENSOR BREVIS DIGITORUM. Branches. Offsets are given to the bones and ligaments of the Branches, foot : those from the outer side of the vessel are named tarsal and metatarsal from their distribution. A small interosseous branch is furnished to the first metatarsal space. a. The tarsal Irranch arises opposite the scaphoid bone, and runs Tarsal, beneath the extensor brevis digitorum to the outer border of the foot, where it divides into twigs that inosculate with the metatarsal, plantar, and anterior peroneal arteries : it supplies offsets to the extensor muscle beneath which it lies. b. The metatarsal branch takes an arched course to the outer side Metatarsal, of the foot, near the base of the metatarsal bones and beneath the short extensor muscle, and anastomoses with the external plantar and tarsal arteries. c. From the arch of the metatarsal branch three dorsal interosseous winch gives arteries are furnished to the tliree outer metatarsal spaces ; and the geo^Jjf'*' external of these sends a branch to the outer side of the little toe. They supply the interossei muscles, and divide at the cleft of the toes into two small dorsal digital branches. At the fore part of the metatarsal space each interosseous branch and per- joins a digital artery in the sole of the foot by means of the anterior ^"''''''"S- perforating tioig ; and from the beginning of each a small branch, postennor pei-forating, descends to the plantar arch. d. The first interosseous branch (art. dorsalis pollicis) arises from First inter- the trunk of the artery as this is about to leave the dorsum of the foot; it extends forwards in the space between the first two toes, and is distributed by dorsal digital pieces like the other dorsal inter- osseous offsets. The ANTERIOR TIBIAL VEINS have the same extent and connections Anterior as the vessel they accompany. They take their usual position along the arterj'-, one on each side, and form loops around it by cross branches ; they end in the popliteal vein. The branches they receive con-espond with those of the arteiy ; and they communicate with the internal saphenous vein. Dissection. To examine the extensor brevis digitorum on the Divide dorsum of the foot, cut thi-ough the tendons of the extensor longus longus!"^ and peroneus tertius below the annular ligament, and throw them towards the toes. The hinder attachment of the muscle to the os calcis is to be defined. The EXTENSOR BREVIS DIGITORUM arises from the outer surface of Extensor the OS calcis in front of the sheath for the peroneus brevis muscle, ^^'^^^ and from the lower band of the anterior annular ligament. At the back of the metatarsal bones the muscle ends in four tendons, which spring from as many fleshy bellies, and are inserted into the four sends ten- inner toes. The tendon of the great toe has a distinct attachment dons" to four to the base of the metatarsal phalanx ; but the rest are united to """^"^ the outer side of the long extensor tendons, and assist to form the expansion on the metatarsal phalanx (p. 692). The muscle lies on the tarsus, and is partly concealed by the Connec- tendons of the long extensor. Its inner belly crosses the dorsal artery of the foot.