407 SPINAL PIA MATER. The outer surface of the pia mater is rough. Along the front is Fibrous a central, anterior fibrous band (linca splendens, Haller) ; and on each side another fibrous band, the ligamentum denticulatum, is attached to it. Scattered through the membrane are branched pig- ment cells, which give a dark appearance in the cen'ical region. Where the medulla spinalis ceases, viz., about the lower edge of ^^^^f^^^^ the body of the first lumbar vertebra, the tube of the pia mater is in a nurous suddenly reduced in size, and has the appearance of around fibrous P'ece, the cord (fig. 124, b). This cord-hke part (filum terminale) is provided with ners'ous substance above ; and blends, below, with the central impervious prolongation of the dura mater. It sen'-es to fix the lower end of the medulla spinalis, and has been named, from that circumstance, the central ligament of the cord. A veiii and artery 1^^^^^',^^ accompany this fibrous piece, and distinguish it from the suiTOunding nerves. The ligamentum denticulatum (fig. 122, c) is the white, fibrous The dentate toothed band, on each side of the spinal cord. It is named fi-om ' its serrated appearance ; and it has the same structure as the dura mater, except that it wants an epithelial covering. Situate between the anterior and posterior roots of the nei'ves, is fixed on , 1 1 1 1 n 1 1 11 one side to the band reaches upwards to the medulla oblongata, and ends cord, inferiorly on the lower pointed extremity of the cord. Internally it is united to the pia mater. Externally it ends in a series of triangidar or tooth-like projections (rf), wliich are fixed at intervals into the dura mater, each being about midway between the apertures and on^etiier of the roots of the spinal nerves. There are twenty or twenty-one mater. denticulations ; of which the first is attached to the dura mater Nmnlier and opposite the mar-gin of the occipital foramen, and the last, opposite ofpofnts"* the twelfth dorsal, or the first lumbar vertebra. This fibrous band supports the spinal cord, and has been called a Use. ligament from that cii'cumstance. Vessels and nerves of the membranes. The dura mater of the cord ^^^'^gg^jJP'^ hafe but few vessels in comparison with that in the skull, for its tUu-a mater, oflBce is difEerent. Nerves are said to be furnished to it fr-om olfsets on the vessels supplying the cord. The arachnoid is sparingly supplied with vessels like serous of arach- raembranes in general; and proof of its containing nerves, in man, ' is yet wanting. The^Jia mater has a network of vessels in its substance, though of pia mater, this is less marked here than on the brain ; and from them offsets enter the cord. In the membrane are many nerves, derived fi-om the sympathetic. Dissection. The arachnoid membrane is to be taken fr-om the Dissection fibrils of the roots of the nerves on one side ; and the roots are to ne^vesf °^ be traced outwards to their transmission through two apertures in the dura mater for each nQrve. One of the offsets of the dura mater, which has been cut of some and the length, is to be laid open to show the contained ganglion. The student should define one ganglion, showing its bifid condition at the inner end (fig. 123 b), and should trace a bundle of threads of