MUSCLES OF NOSE. 21 of tow or cotton wool between tlie eyelids and tlie eyeball, and between the lips and the teeth. First lay bare the sphincter muscle of the eyelids by a skin-deep Howto^ circular incision over the margin of tlie orbit, and by raising the f,.o„i skin of the lids towards the aperture of the eye. Much care must "^^^^^^"^ be taken in detaching the skin from the thin, and oftentimes pale fibres of the orbicular muscle in the lids, else they will be cut away in consequence of the little areolar tissue between the two. Next the integument is to be removed from the side of the face from the by one incision in front of the ear, from above the zygomatic arch to the angle of the jaw, and then along the base of the jaw to the chin ; and by another cut carried backwards horizontally from the corner of the mouth into the first. The flaps of skin are to be raised from behind forwards, and left adherent along the middle line. On tlie side of the nose tlie skin is closely united to the subjacent from the parts, and must be detached with caution. Around the mouth are many fleshy slips extending both upwards and downwards from the orbicular muscle, but they are all marked so distinctly as to escape injury, with the exception of the small risorius muscle which goes from the corner of the mouth towards the ramus of the lower jaw. Whilst removing the fat from the muscles, each fleshy slip nnd around may be tightened with hooks. mouth. The facial vessels and their branches will come into view as Facial the muscles ai-e cleaned ; but the nei-ves may be disregarded on "^'^s^eis this side. In front of the ear is the parotid gland, whose duct is to be and pai-otid preserved; this is on a level with the meatus auditorius, and pierces sl^ud- , the middle of the cheek. Muscles of the Face (fig. 6). The superficial muscles of the face in the face are gathered around the apertures of the nose, eye, and mouth. An g^J^ro^itf ^ orbicular or sphincter muscle encircles the apertures of the eye and the aper- mouth; and other muscles ai-e blended with each to enlarge the opening in the centre of the fibres. There are three distinct groups of muscles : one of the eyelids ; another of the nostril ; and a third of the aperture of the mouth. One of the muscles of mastica- tion, -vniz. the masseter, is seen between the jaws. Muscles of the Nose. These muscles are the following : pyra- Muscles of midalis nasi, compressor naris, levator ala3 nasi, dilator naris, and depressor alaj nasi. The I'YKAMiDALis NASI (fig. 5, ^) is a small fleshy slip that covers P>-ramiaalis the nasal bone, and is continuous above with the occipito-frontalis muscle. Over the cartilaginous part of the nose its fibres end in an aponeurosis, which joins tliat of the compressor naris. Along its inner border is the muscle of the opposite side. Action. This muscle makes tight the skin over the nasal carti- Use. lages, but renders lax, and sometimes wrinkles transversely the skin towards the root of the nose. CoMPUESSOR Nauis. This muscle (fig. 5, ^) is not well seen till Compressor after the examination of the following one. Triangular in shape, it arises by its apex from the canine fossa of the upper maxillaiy