DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. 362 and connec- tions. Branches. Arteries of the lung: ' distribu- tion : two left. one right. Vein of the lung. Pericardial hranches. CEsorhageal branches. Mediastinal branches. Intercostal ai-teries: number. coui'se to intercostal spaces, right longest. The anterior branch of upper occupies intercostal space tlie smaller azygos veins. In front of the vessel is the root of the left lung with the pericardium. On its left side it is covered through- out by the pleura ; and on its right side are the oesophagus and the thoracic duct, though near the diaphragm the gullet is placed over the aorta. The branches of the vessel are distributed to the sun-ounding parts, and are named from their destination bronchial, pericardial, oesophageal, mediastinal, and intercostal. ' a. The bronchial arteries supply the structure of the lungs, and adhere to the posterior part of the bronchial tubes, on which they ramify (p. 361) ; they give some twigs to the bronchial glands and the oesophagus. For the left lung there are two arteries (superior and mferior), which arise fi-om the front of the aorta at a short distance from each other. The artery of the right lung arises in common with one of the left bronchial arteries (superior), or fz-om the first mtercostal artery of the right side. Bronchial veins. A vein issues fi'om the root of each lung, and ends in the following manner :—the right joins the larger azygos vein ; and the left ends in the superior intercostal vein of its own side. b. The j)S'>^'i'Cardial branches are some irregular twigs, wliich are furnished to the posterior part of the cardiac bag. c. CEsojihageal branches arise at inconstant points of the aorta, and are four or five in number. Ramifying in the gullet, the vessels anastomose with one another ; above, they communicate with branches of the inferior thyroid artery near the pharynx ; and below, with twigs of the coronary artery of the stomach. d. Small mediastinal branches (posterior) supply the areolar tissue and the glands in the interpleural space. e. The intercostal arteries are ten on each side ; nine are furnished to the same number of lower intercostal spaces, whilst the last lies below the twelfth rib : to the upper two spaces branches are sup- plied from the intercostal artery of the subclavian tnink. These small vessels arise from the posterior part of the aorta, and run outwards on the bodies of the vertebrte, beneath the cord of the sympathetic nei-ve, to the intercostal spaces, where each divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. In this coiu'se the upper arteries have a somewhat oblique direction ; and as the aorta lies on the left of the spine the right vessels are the longest: the right run also beneath the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, and the large azygos vein. Many twigs are supplied to the bodies of the vertebriE. In the spaces bounded by the true ribs, the anterior branch, the larger of the two, continues onwards between the muscular strata nearly to the anterior third of the intercostal space, where it ends in two pieces, which anastomose with the intercostal arteries of the internal mammary (p. 253). At first the artery lies in the middle of the intercostal space, beneath the pleura and a fascia from the internal intercostal muscle, and resting on the external intercostal