DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 888 Third layer of musclee. Dissection. Serratl are two in munber. Smaller at top of thorax. Attach- ments. Larger at bottom of thorax. Attach- ments. Connec- tions. **Thied Layer (fig. 11-7). In this stratum are the following muscles :—the serratus posticus superior and infei-ior, with the splenms. * Dissection. By reflecting the rhomboidei muscles towards the spinous processes, and removing loose areolar tissue, the thin upper serratus muscle beneath them will be laid bare. The splenius and the inferior serratus have been previously ex- posed by the reflection of the trapezius and latissimus. The SERRATi muscles are very thin, and receive their name from their toothed attachment to the ribs. They are two in number, superior and inferior, and have aponeurotic origins fi-om the spine of the vertebraa. * The serratus posticus superior (fig. 117, ^) arises from the liga- mentum nuchas, and from the spinous processes of the last cervical, and two or three upper dorsal vertebrae. The fleshy fibres are inclined down and out, and are inserted by slips into the second, third, and fourth ribs, external to their angles. The muscle rests on the splenius, and is covered by the rhomboideus major. * The serratus jjosticus inferior (fig. 116, occu- pies the lumbar region, and is wider than the preceding muscle. Its aponeurosis of origin is inseparably united with that of the latissimus dorsi, and wth the fascia lumborum, and is con- nected to the spinous pro- cesses of the last two dorsal and first three lum- bar vertebras. The fleshy fibres ascend to be inserted ^ into the last four ribs " in fi-ont of their angles, each successive piece extending fm-ther forwards than the one below. . J . , . This muscle lies on the mass of the erector spmsB ; and mth its tendon the vertebral aponeurosis is united. * Part of tlie third layer of tlie Back-muscles. A. Serratus posticus superior. B. Splenius capitis, c. Splenius colli, r. lUo-costahs. e. Lougissunusdorsi. p. Spinalis dorsi.