REMOVAL OF BRAIN. 11 of the falx cerebri, and the difiEerent cerebral veins entering the j^/^«.'/]"S;^".>;;i longitudinal sinus ; rise and tluw backwards the falx, but leave succession. it uncut in the middle line behind. Gently raise with the fingers the fi-ontal lobes and the olfactory bulbs of the large brain. Next Ai'terior^^ cut through the internal carotid arteiy and the second and third ne^es^^" nen-es, which then appear; the large second nerve is placed on the inner, and the round third nerve on the outer side of the artery. A small brajich of artery to the orbit should likewise be divided at tliis time. The brain is now to be supported in the left hand, and the pituitary body to be dislodged with the knife fi'om the hollow in the centre of the sphenoid bone. A strong horizontal process of the dm-a mater (tentorium cerebelli) comes into view at the back of the cranium. Along its free margin lies the small fourth nei-ve, which is to be cut at this stage of the proceeding. Make an incision through the tentorium on each side, close to its attachment to the temporal bone, without injm-ing the parts underneath : the follo^ving nerves, which will be then visible, are to be divided in succession. Near the inner margin of the tentorium is the fifth posterior nerve, consistmg of a large and small root; whilst towards the middle line of the skull is the long slender sixth nerve. Below the fifth, and somewhat external to it, is the seventh nerve with its facial and auditory parts, the former being anterior and the smaller of the two. Directly below the seventh are the thi-ee trunks of the eighth nerve in one line :—of these, the upjDer small piece is the glosso-pharyngeal; the flat band next below, the pneumo-gastric ; and the long round nerve ascending fi-om the spinal caiial, the spinal accessoiy. The remaining nerve nearer the middle line is the ninth, which consists of two small pieces. After dividing the nerves, cut through the vertebral arteries as vessels, and they wind round the upper end of the spinal cord. Lastlj-, cut across the spinal cord as low as possible, as well as the roots of lastly the tlie spinal nerves that are attached on each side. Then on placing spinal cord, the first two fingers of the right hand in the spinal canal, the cord may be raised, and the whole brain may be taken readily fi-om the skull in the left hand. Preservation of the brain. After removing some of the mem- How to pre- branes from the upper part, and making a few apertures tlu-ough '^^''Y" tl'^ them on the imder surface, the brain may be immersed in spirit to harden the texture ; and methylated spirit may be used on account of its cheapness. Placing the brain upside down on a piece of calico long enough to wrap over it, put it in the spirit. Examination of the brain. At the end of two or three days the Kxaminn- dissector should examine the other membranes, and the vessels. As °^ soon as the vessels have been learnt, the membranes are to be carefully removed fi-om the surface of the brain, without detaching the different cranial neiwes at the under surface. The brain may remain in the spirit till the dissection of the head and neck has been completed, but it should be turned over occasionally to allow tlie spirit to penetrate its substance.