PUDIC ARTERY AND NERVE. 431 Connected with each is a minute duct, nearly an inch in length, Len^h and which perforates obliquely the wall of the urethra (corpus spongio- the duct, sum), and opens into the urethral canal about half an inch m front of the triangular ligament. Its aperture in the ordinary state does not admit a bristle. In the wall of the duct are unstnated muscular fibres ; and the interior is lined by a columnar epithelium. The nature of the secretion of the gland is not Icnown. These bodies arc sometimes so small as to escape detection, and THe^g^^ they appeal- to decrease in size with advancing age. Dissection. Tlie student may complete the examination of the ^^isjection^ perinttum by tracing out the pudic vessels and nerve, and their vessels and remaming branches. From the point of its division beneath the "erve. crus into two branches (dorsal of the penis, and cavernous), the ai-tery is to be followed backwards, along the pubic arch of the left side. The pudic neiwe will be by the side of, but deeper than the artery. Pudic Artery (a). The posterior half of this artery has been ^^^^ aheady dissected (p. 422). In the anterior half of the perinssum it ascends between the layers of the triangular hgament, and along the pubic arch nearly to the pubes ; there it perforates the super- ends on ficial layer of the hgament, and divides into the arteries of the g^^^Jj^gg._ cavernous structure and dorsum of the penis. In this course it is placed beneath the constrictor urethrEe, and is accompanied by venjB comites and the pudic nerve. Its ofEsets are subjoined :— a. The artery of the hulb of the urethra is a branch of considerable ^^j^^ ^jjg size, and arises near the base of the triangular ligament. Passing triangular almost transversely inwards between the layers of that ligament, ^'sament, about half an inch from the base, the artery reaches the back of the bulb, and enters the spongy structure. Near the urethra it fm-nishes a small branch to Cowper's gland. The distance of this branch from the base of the hgament will be its situation influenced by its origin nearer the front or back of the perineeal space. • If the vessel arises farther behind than usual, it may be altogether below the ligament,* and may cross the front of the ischio-rectal fossa, so as to be liable to be cut in the operation of lithotomy. h. Deep muscular branches (d). As the artery is about to enter muscular between the layers of the triangular ligament it furnishes one or more branches to the levator ani and sphincter, and fine twigs through the ligament to the constrictor and the urethra. c. The artery of the cavernous structure of the penis (c art. cor- artery of poris cavemosi) is one of the terminal branches of the pudic. At pouig"' first this small vessel lies between the crus penis and the bone, but it soon enters the crus, and ramifies in the cavernous structure of the penis (p. 580). d. The dorsal artery of the penis (h) is in direction and size the artery of continuation of the pudic ; it runs upwards between the crus and penis.'" '^^ the bone, and reaches the dorsum of the penis by passing through the suspensory ligament. Its distribution with the accompanying nerve is noticed at page 440. It is much smaller in the female than the male.