so DISSECTION OF THE FACE. Structure of gliUUl. The duct lias two coats. Tassels and nerves. Molar glands. H'asal car- tilages. Take away tissue from ■surface. The upper •cartilage touches its fellow. forwards is the trunk of the facial nerve, which passes over the artery, and distributes its branches tlirough the parotid. The superficial temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nei-vc lies above the upper part of the glandular mass ; and offsets of the great auricular nerve pierce the gland at the lower part, and join the facial. The structure of the parotid resembles that of the other salivaiy glands. The glandular mass is divided into numerous small lobules by intervening processes of fascia; and each lobule consists of a set of the fine closed saccular extremities of the branched excretory duct, which are lined by flattened and nucleated epithe- lium, and surrounded by capillary vessels. These little sacs form by their aggregation the mass of each lobiile. From the lobules issue small ducts, which imite to form larger tubes, and finally all the ducts of the gland are collected into one. The common duct (duct of Stenson) is composed of an external fibrous coat, consisting of white and elastic fibres; and of an internal mucous coat which is clothed with columnar epithelium. The parotid receives its arteries from the external carotid ; and its nerves from the sympathetic, auriculo-temporal of the fifth, facial, and great auricular. Its lymphatics join those of the neck. Two or three small molar glands he along the origin of the buccinator, and open into the mouth near the last molar tooth by separate ducts. Cartilages of the Nose (fig. 7). These close the anterior nasal aperture in the skeleton, and form part of the outer nose and the septum. They are five in number, two on each side—lateral cartilage and cartilage of the aper- ture ; together with a central one, or the cai-- tilage of the septum of the nose. Only the lateral cartilages are learnt in this stage of the dissection. Dissection. The lateral cartilages will be seen when the muscular and fibrous structure of the left side of the nose, and the skin of the loweri part of the nostril of the same side, have be^ taken away. By turning aside the lateral car- tilages the septal one will appear in the middle line. The upper lateral cartilage (fig. 7, ^) is flat- tened, and is somewhat triangular in form. Posteriorly it is at- tached to the nasal and upper maxillary bones ; and anteriorly it meets the one of the opposite side for a short distance above, but the two are separated beloAv by an intei-val, in which the cartilage of the septtmi appears. Inferiorly the lateral cartilage is contiguous to the cartilage of the aperture, and is connected to it by fibrous tissue. * Lateral cartOages of the nose. 1. Triangular septal cartilage. 2 Upper lateral cartilage. I Lower lateral, or the cartilage of tl^^^Perture, the outer pTrt 4 Inner part of the cartilage of the aperture. 5. Nasal bone.