625 TRICEPS EXTENSOR OF KNEE. The TENSOR VAGINi^; FEMORIS (fig. 196, OCCUpieS the upper third Tensor of the thigh, and is the smallest and most external of the outer set ^^^s^nm of muscles. It takes origin from the front of the crest of the hip a,.j.scs from bone at the outer aspect ; from the anterior upper iliac spine, and pelvis, from the notch between this and the inferior spine as far as the attachment of the sartorius. Its fibres form a fleshy belly about two inches wide, and are inserted into the fascia lata about three ^^^^^^''j^^g inches below, and rather in fi'ont of the line of the great trochanter of the femur. At its origin the muscle is situate between the sartorius and the Parts gluteus medius. Beneath it arc the ascending offsets of the external circumflex artery ; and a branch of the superior gluteal nerve enters its under surface. A strong sheath of fascia surrounds the muscle. Action. Supposing the limb moveable the muscle abducts the TJse on thigh, making tense at the same time the fascia lata ; and finally ' it will help in rotating inwards the femur. When the hmb is fixed it will support the pelvis, and assist in on pelvis, balancing the same on the femur in walking. Dissection. After the tensor has been learnt, the slip of fascia Cut through extending from it to the knee may be cut through ; and when it is detached from the muscles around, the head of the rectus may be followed upwai-ds to the pelvis. The TRICEPS EXTENSOR of the knee (fig. 195) consists of three fleshy Muscle on parts or heads, outer (vastus externus), inner (vastus internus), and y^lg^"^ middle (rectus), which are united below in a common tendon. The RECTUS FEMORIS gives rise to a fleshy prominence on the Rectus has front of the thigh (fig. 195, At its origin from the pelvis the muscle consists of two tendinous pieces:—one arises from the origin at the anterior inferior iUac spinous process ; the other (to be afterwards l"^^^'^> seen) is fixed into a depression on the back of the hip bone, close double, above the acetabulum. The fleshy fibres terminate inferiorly in insertion another tendon, which joins the aponeuroses of the other two muscles in the common tendon. The rectus is larger at the middle than at the ends ; and its fibres raiiscle are directed from the centre to the sides, as in a quill, giving rise form^nd to that condition called pennif orm. It is subcutaneous, excejjt above superficial, where it is overlaid by the sartorius. It conceals branches of the above* external circumflex artery and anterior crural nerve, and rests on the vasti. The upper tendon of the rectus reaches farthest on the anterior surface where the sartorius touches, whilst the lower tendon is most extensive on the posterior aspect, or towards the subjacent vasti. Dissection. To see the remaining muscles, cut across the rectus Cut the near the lower end, and raise it without injuring the branches of vessels and nerves beneath. The muscular mass on the fi-ont'of the femur is to be divided into two, above, along the situation of some descendmg vessels and nerves : the part external to the vessels and separate IS the vastus externus, and the larger mass, internal to them is vastus internus. ' abovo!""^ 8 s