505 PANCREAS AND DUCT. The ahsovhent vessels consist of two sets as in the small intestine ; absorbents, after leaving the gut they join the lymphatic glands along the side of the colon. THE PANCnKAS. The pancreas (fig. 143, e) is a narrow flattened gland, from six Fonn an,! to eight inches in length, which has some resemblance to a dogs tongue. It is larger at the right than the left end ; and it is divisions, divided into head, tail, and body. The Imul, or the right extremity, occupies the concavity of the Situati<m. duodenum : and the left extremity, or the tail, is rounded, and touches Tlie bead ' and tail; the spleen. The hochj of the gland is narrowest a little to the right of the anil tbe vertebral column, and is thickest at the upper border ; it measures about one inch and a half in breadth, and from half an inch to an inch in thickness. The connections of the pancreas with surround- ing psu-ts are described at p. 484. Dissection. Let the pancreas be placed on the anterior surface, T'™<J«^o'^''^ and let the excretory duct be traced fi-om the head to the tail by ^ ' cutting away the substance of the gland. The small duct will be recognised by its whiteness. Structure. The pancreas consists of separate lobules, and is it is a provided with a special duct. It is destitute of a distinct capsule ; giana°wi'tii- but it is surrounded by areolar tissue, which projects ijito the interior, and connects together its smaller pieces. The fluid secreted capsule, by it assists in the digestion of the aliment. The lobules are soft and loose, and of a grajdsh white colour, and '""^ are united into larger masses hy areolar tissue, vessels, and ducts. Each consists ultimately, as in the parotid, of the fine branchings like the of the excretoiy duct, which end in closed vesicular extremities, and are suiTOunded by a plexus of vessels. In the vesicles the epithelium " is spheroidal. The duct of the pancreas (fig. 148, f/, canal of Wirsung) extends The duct nf the entire length of the gland, and is somewhat nearer the lower ^^^^ ''''"'"^' than the upper border. It begins in the tail of the pancreas, where extent; it presents a bifurcated extremity ; and as it continues onwards to the head, it receives many branches. It finally ends by opening branches: into the duodenum, either in union with, or separate firom the common bile duct (p. 497). Of the tributary branches, the largest • is derived from the head of the pancreas. The duct measures from .j-^-th to -Jytli of an inch in diameter near size and the duodenum. It is formed of a fibrous and a mucous coat: the latter is lined by a cylindiical epithelium, and is provided with amfgh^^^^^^^^^^ small glands in the duct and its largest branches. Vessels, lympliatics, and nerves. The arteries and veins have been Vessels and described (p. 485) ; and the lymphatics join the lumbar glands. The nerves are furnislied by the solar plexus.