260 DISSECTION OF THE UrPER LIMB. tendon anil biirsaj. Use on swinging and fixed limb. Spaces be- tween the teres: anterior and posterior. Dissection of ligaments of the cla- vicle. capsular and of scapula. Union of tlie clavicle and scapula. Coraco-cla- vicular has a conical and a sqiTare piece. and is situate beneath the axillary vessels and nerves near the humerus (fig. 70). At its origin it is in contact with the latissimus dorsi. The upper border is contiguous to the subscapularis muscle, and the lower is received into a hollow formed by the fibres of the latissimus dorsi. At the humerus the tendon of the muscle is one inch and a half to two inches wide, and is placed behind that of the latissimus : the two are separated above by a bursa ; but they are united below, and an expansion is sent from them to the fascia of the arm. A second bursa lies between the tendon and the bone. Action. If the limb hangs it is carried back behind the trunk, and is rotated inwards by the muscle. The humerus being raised, the muscle depresses and abducts it. With the limb fixed by the hand the teres will cause the lower angle of the scapula to move forwards. Below the scapula (inferior costa), where the teres muscles sepa- rate from one another, is a triangular interval, which is bounded in front by the shaft of the humenis, and above and below by the teres muscles. This space is divided into two by the long head of the triceps. Through the anterior part, wliich is of a quadrilateral shape, the posterior circumflex vessels and the circumflex nerve pass : and opposite the posterior triangular space, the dorsal branch (c) of the subscapular artery bends backwards. Dissection (fig. 75). In order that the acromion process may be sawn through to expose the supraspinatus muscle, the ligaments of the scapula and clavicle, which would be injtured by such a pro- ceeding, should be next dissected. A ligament (coraco-clavicular) ascends from the coracoid process to the under part of the clavicle : on removing the areolar tissue it will be seen to consist of two parts, anterior and posterior, differing in size, and in the dhection of the fibres. A capsular ligament, connecting the outer end of the clavicle with the acromion, will be recogniseci by taking away the fibres of the trapezius and deltoid musqles. Another strong band (coraco-acromial) passing transversely between the acromion and the coracoid process ; and a small fasci- culus (posterior proper ligament), placed over the notch in the superior costa, are then to be defined. Ligaments of the Clavicle and Scapula (fig. 75). The outer end of the clavicle is connected to the scapula by a distinct joint with the acromion, and by a strong ligament (coraco-clavicular) between it and the coracoid process. The coraco-clavicular ligament consists of two portions, each having a different direction and designation. The posterior piece (^), called conoid from its shape, is fixed by its apex to the posterior and inner part of the coracoid process ; and by its base to the tubercle and the contiguous imder surface of the clavick, at the junction of the outer with the middle third of the bone. The anterior part (-), trapezoid ligament, is larger than the conoid