DISSECTION OP THE PELVIS. 5G8 joins tlint of ojiiKisito side below in ;i i,''"ii;l'oii: iiffsets of the ganglia to the spinal nerves: to the, liypo- gastric ))lexns and the viscera. PloxiTses of tiie sympa- thetic : situation : how formed. Offsets to the viscera of the male, viz.— to the rectum; to the bladder: ■ to the pro- state gland and the penis. Offsets in the female ; to the ovai-y; to the TOgina : and to the uterus ; converges to its fellow, and is united with it by a loop in front of the coccyx, on which is situate a single median ganglion {gang, ■iiivpar). Each cord is marked by ganglia at intervals, the number varying from three to five : from them branches of communication pass outwards to the spinal nerves, and some filaments are directed inwai-ds in front of the sacrum. The connecting branches are two to each ganglion, gray and white, and are very short: the gray cord unites the ganglion with the spinal nerve, but the white one is continued over the ganglion to the visceral plexus (Beck). The internal branches are small, and communicate around the middle sacral artery with the branches of the opposite side. From the first, or first two ganglia, some filaments are furnished to the hypogastric plexus ; and from the terminal connecting branches, and fi-om the ganglion in fi-ont of the coccyx, ofEsets descend over that bone. The PELVIC PLEXUSES (lateral inferior hypogastric) are two in iiumber, right and left, and are continuous with the lateral pro- longations of the hypogastric plexus (p. 481). Each is situate by the side of the bladder and rectum in the male, and by the side of the uterus and vagina in the female, and is united with offsets of the third and fourth sacral nen'es. Numerous ganglia are found in the plexus, especially at the points of nnion of the spinal and sympathetic nerves. Offsets. From each plexus offsets are furnished along the branches of tiie internal iliac artery to the viscera of the pelvis, and the genital organs: these form secondary plexuses, and have the same name as the vessels on which they are placed. The inferior hemorrhoidal plexus is an offset from the back of the plexus to the rectum, and joins the sympathetic on the superior liijemorrhoidal artery (p. 481). The vesical plexus contains large offsets, with many white fibred or spinal nerves, and passes forwards to the side and neck of the bladder. It gives one plexus to the vesicula seminalis, and another to the vas deferens. The prostatic x)lexus leaves the front of the pelvis plexus, and is distributed cliiefly to the substance of the prostate. At the fi'ont of the prostate an offset (cavernous) is continued onwards to the dorsum of the penis, to supply the cavernous structm-e. On the penis the cavernous nerves join the pudic nerve (p. 441). In the female there are the following additional plexuses for the supply of the viscera peculiar to that sex :— Ovarian plexus. The chief neiwes to the ovary are derived from the renal and aortic plexuses (p. 481), and accompany the artery of that body ; but the uterine nen-es supply some filaments to it. Vaginal plexus. The nerves of the vagina are large, and are not plexiform, but consist in greater part of spinal nerve fibres ; they end in the lower part of the tube. The uterine nerves are furnished to the uterus withont direct admixture with the spinal nen-es : they ascend along the side of the