CHAPTER XI. DISSECTION OF THE EAR. The organ of hearing is made up of complex bodies, which are Constitu- lodged in, and attached to the surface of the temporal bone. The fimdamental structure, as in the eyeball, is an expansion of a special nerve over a membrane containing fluid. This delicate heaimg. apparatus is enclosed in bone for its protection ; and it is suiTounded by certain accessory structures which convey to it the vibrations produced by the sonorous undulations of the air. The auditory apparatus may be arranged into the parts outside, ^^^f^[^ and those within the substance of the temporal bone. two sets. In the EXTERNAL SET which may be iirst examined, are included Outer set. the pinna or auricle, and the auditory canal : the former has been noticed at p. 33, and the latter is described below. The AUDITORY CANAL (fig. 236) (meatus auclitorius cxternus) is the Auditory passage which leads fi-om the pinna to the ca^aty (tympanum) in the temporal bone, and transmits inwards sonorous undulations of the air. Dissection. To obtam a view of this canal, a recent temporal How to ob- bone is to be taken, to which the cai'tilaginous pinna remains o/it.^ attached. After the removal of the soft parts, the squamous piece of the bone in front of the Glaserian fissure is to be sawn ofE; and the front of the meatus, except a ring at the inner end which gives support to the thin membrana tympani, is to be cut away with a bone forceps. The canal (fig. 236) is about one inch and a quarter in length. Length, and is formed partly by bone, and partly by cartilage. It is directed forwards somewhat obliquely. In shape it is rather flattened fi-om direction, before backwards ; and it is narrowest in the osseous portion. The size and outer extremity is continuous with a hollow (concha) of the external ear, and the inner is closed by the membrana tympani. The cartilaginous part (a) is largest. It is about half an inch in Cartilagi- length, and is formed chiefly by the pinna of the outer ear which is attached to the margin of the meatus ; but at the upper and posterior aspect the cartilage is deficient, and the tube is closed "s dcfloient by fibrous tissue. One or two fissures (fissures of Santorini) cross the cartilage. The osseous piece (6) is about three quarters of an inch long in Osseous the adult, and is constricted sometimes about the middle. Its outer I""'*' "> 3 ij 2