226 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. resembles the other lobes in structure, and may be considered a rudimentary lobe ; for it is divided on the surface into laminae, and contains a wliite medullary centre which furnishes oilsets to the laminas. Passing from the flocculus to the tip of the inferior venniform process (nodule) is the half of a thin wliite layer (i), the posterior medullary velum, which serves as a commissure to the flocculi. On each side this band is semilunar in form. Its anterior edge is free ; but its posterior border is attached in front of the transverse furrowed band {d). In front of the nodule the pieces of opposite sides are united. Interior of the Cerebellum. In the cerebellum there is not any cavity or ventricle enclosed as in the cerebrum. In the interior there is a large white centre, corresponding with that of the cere- brum, which furnishes offsets to the laminae, and to other parts of the encephalon. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the medullary centre, with its contained corpus dentatum, remove all the laminse from the upper surface on the left side. This dissection may be accom- plished by placing the scalpel in the horizontal fissure at the circumference, and carrying it inwards as far as the upper vermi- form process, so as to detach the cortical stratum. If the corpus dentatum does not at first appear, thin shoes may be made anteriorly till it is reached. Medullary Centre. In the centre of each cerebellar hemisphere is a large white mass, containing in its substance a dentate body. From its surface offsets are furnished to the different laminas. And from the fore part proceeds a large stalk-hke process, the crus cerebelli, which is subdivided into three pieces or peduncles, an upper for the cerebrum, a middle piece for the pons, and a lower one for the medulla oblongata. The superior peduncle (processus ad cerebrum) is directed forwards towards the corpora quadrigemina (fig. 68, I). It is rather flattened in shape, and forms part of the roof of the fourth ventricle : be- tween the processes of opposite sides the valve of Vieussens (/c) is above fourth situate. Its fibres, contmuous behmd with the inferior vermiform ventricle. process, receive an offset from the corpus dentatum; and passmg beneath the band of the fillet and the pair of the corpora quadrigemina of the same side (fig. 65), enter the optic thalamus and are applied to the fibres of the crus cerebri (p. 220). Beneath the copora quadrigemina the internal fibres of the peduncle are directed across the middle line, through the bundle prolonged from the fasciculus teres.* In this way the fibres of each peduncle end partly in the same, and partly in the opposite hemisphere of the cerebrum. Between the superior peduncles is a thin, translucent, white layer, —the valve of Vieussens (velum medullare anterius), which enters * This intercommunication was known to Reil, and was named «'ansa'"by Wm, but the decussation has been since noticed by Stilhng, Ueber den £au des Hirnknotena: 1846, Posterior medullary veluiu. Torm and attach- ments. Cerebellum is solid in- ternally. Dissection of centre, and corpus dentatum. White centre of cerebellum Gives off- sets, viz., supenor peduncle Its fibres partly de- cussate. Valve of Vieussens between the two.