DISSECTION OP THE HAND. 298 Flexor ■brevis is often absent. Use. Opponens pollicis. Use. Dissection of deep arcli and interossei jmiscles and fascia. fiadial artery in hand forms deep arcli which lies near carpal bones, and beneath muscles. Branches: Eecurrent. Perforating. Inter- osseous. The FLEXOR BREVIS MINIMI DIGITI, F, appears often to be a part of the abductor. Placed at the radial border of the preceding muscle, it takes origin from the tip of the process of the unciform bone, and slightly from the annular ligament; it is inserted with the abductor into the first phalanx. It lies on the abductor ; and near its origin it is separated fi-om the abductor muscle by the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve. Action. The first phalanx is moved towards the palm by this muscle, and the metacarpo-phalangeal joint is bent. The ADDUCTOR (fel OPPONENy MINIMI DIGITI, G, resembles the opponens pollicis in being attached to the metacai-pal bone. Its origin is from the process of the unciform bone, and the lower part of the annular ligament : its insertion is fixed into the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. The adductor is partly overlaid by the preceding muscles ; and beneath it the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nen^e pass. Action. It raises the inner metacarpal bone, and moves it towards the others, so as to deepen the palm of the hand. Dissection. The radial artery comes into the hand between the first two metacarpal bones ; and to lay bare the vessel, it will be requisite to detach the origin of the flexor brevis pollicis. The deep palmar arch, and the branch of the ulnar wgxyq accompanying it, together with their offsets, are to be dissected out. A fascia, which covers the interossei muscles, is to be removed, when the dissector has observed its connection with the transverse ligament uniting the heads of the metacarpal bones. Kadial Artery in the Hand (fig. 84). The radial artery enters the palm at the first interosseous space, between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle : and after furnishing one branch to the thumb, and another to the index finger, turns across the hand towards the ulnar side, with its venas comites, forming the deep arch. The deep palmar arch (c) extends from the interosseous space to the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, where it joms the profunda communicatmg branch (6). Its convexity, which is but slight, is directed forwards ; and its situation is near-er the carpal bones than that of the superficial arch. The arch has a deep position m the hand, and lies on the metacarpal bones and the interossei muscles. It is covered by the long flexor tendons, and in part by the flexor brevis pollicis. The branches of the arch are the following :— a. Recurrent branches pass from the concavity of the arch to the front of the carpus ; these supply the bones, and anastomose with the other carpal arteries. b. Threelyerforating arteries pierce the three inner dorsal interossei muscles, and communicate with the interosseous arteries on the back of the hand. c. Usually there are three palmar interosseous arteries (/), which occupy the three inner metacarpal spaces, and terminate by joinmg