DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. 406 and see next covering. Arachnoid membrane has a parietal or attached, loose or visceral layer, and space beneath. To expose sub-arach- noid space. Sub-arach- noid space contains a fluid, and opens into cavities of brain : imperfect septum behind. Dissection of next covering. Pia mater supports the cord, gives offsets. its membranes are to be divided opposite the lower cervical vertebrae and to be removed by cutting the bands that attach the dura mater to the posterior ligament of the bodies of the vertebra}. When the cord is taken out, place the anterior surface upper- most with the lateral offsets widely separated. To show the arachnoid covering, the dura mater is to be slit along the middle as far as the small terminal fibrous cord before referred to; but the membrane is to be raised whilst it is being cut through, so that the loose arachnoid on the cord may not be injured. Lastly fasten back the dura mater with pins. The arachnoid membrane (fig. 122, h) is the thin serous covering of the cord wliich is immediately beneath the dura mater. Like the corresponding membrane in the skull, it invests the spinal cord and lines the dura mater, and consists thus of a visceral and a parietal part. The outer or parietal part is inseparably joined to the inner surface of the dura mater, and gives to that membrane a shining appearance.** The inner or visceral layer surrounds the cord loosely, so as to leave a considerable intei-val between the two (sub-arachnoid space). At the lower end of the spinal canal the loose sheath is largest, and envelops the mass of nerves forming the cauda equina. As the different spinal nei-ve-roots extend to the intervertebral foramina, they receive loose tubes from the arachnoid, but lose the same when they perforate the dura mater. Dissection. The subarachnoid space may be made evident by placing the handle of the scalpel beneath the visceral layer : or by putting a piece of the cord in water, with the posterior aspect uppermost, and blowing air beneath that membrane. The subarachnoid space separates the loose or visceral part of the arachnoid membrane, fi'om the spinal cord invested by pia mater. Larger at the lower than the upper part of the spinal canal it con- tains a special fluid—cerebrospinal ; and it communicates with the cavity in the interior of the brain by an aperture in the fourfii ventricle. Crossing the space, at the back of the cord, are bundles of fibrous tissue, which are most marked in the neck. In the space are contained the serrations of the ligamentum denticulatum, and the roots of the spinal nen^es, with some vessels. Dissection. For the purpose of seeing the next covering of the cord with the ligamentum denticulatum, the arachnoid membrane is to be taken away ; and two or three of the anterior roots of the upper dorsal nerves may be cut through and reflected, as in the wood cut 122. The pia mater (fig. 122, h) is much less vascular on the spinal cord than on the brain. Thicker and more fibrous in its nature, the membrane closely surrounds the cord with a sheath, and sends a thin prolongation into the anterior median fissure; it furnishes coverings to the roots of the spinal nen'-es. * According to the opinion of KoUiker, the arachnoid membrane is a simple tube corresponding with the visceral layer in the text.