547 rAKTS IN OUTLET OF PELVIS. should bo raised with hooks whilst the levator ai.i, d, and coccygcus iiuisclo c below it are cleaned. . ParU dosinc, the pelvis below. In addition to the recto-ves.cal fascia, the following parts close the pelvic cavity on each side, between the sacrum and the pubic symphysis. Behind, the student will meet with the pyriforrais passing through the great sacro-sciatic notch, with the gluteal vessels and nerve above it. Nest comes the coccygcus muscle, c, on the small sacro- sciatic ligament, between the ischial spine and the coccyx : one Outlet of pelvis is closed bj- pyrifonnis, liy coocy- geus, ai)(i saoro-suiatic ligamcut.s, Yvj. 171. border of the muscle reaches towards the pyriformis, the other to the levator ani; and between its hinder border and the pyriformis lie the sacral plexus of nerves (^), and the sciatic and pudic vessels. The greater part of the pelvic outlet is closed by the levator ani, D, which extends forwards from the coccygcus to the symphysis pubis. It meets its fellow inferiorly, but the muscles of opposite sides are separated in fi-ont by the urethra, with the vagina in the female ; and the interval between them is closed by the triangular ligament of the perinasum, n. The COCCYGEUS muscle (fig. 171, ^) is flat and triangular, and assists to close the outlet of the pelvis. It arises from the upper part of the ischial spine, and some fibres are attached to the small sacro-sciatic hgament. Widening as it passes inwards the muscle is inserted into the side, and the contiguous anterior surface of the coccyx, and into the side of the lower piece of the sacrum. The inner surface looks to the pelvis, and is in contact with the rectum on the left side : the opposite surface rests on the small * Side view of the muscles in the outlet of the pelvis (Illustrations of Dis- sections). Muscles: A. Gluteus maxiiuus, cut. b. Psoas and Iliacus, cut. c. Coccygcus. p. Levator ani. k. External anal sjihincter. f. Ejaculator urinffi. 0. Ischial spine, cut off. ir. Triangular ligament. Arteries: a External iliac artery, cut; h, its accompanying vein. c. Obliterated hypo- gastric cord. d. Upper vesical, and e, lower vesical. /. Internal pudic. Nerves : 1. Sacral plexus. 2. Inferior hemorrhoidal. 3. Pudic. X N 2 with vessels, and nen'es: by levator ani, and by ligament below the pubes. Coccygcus; origin and inser- tion. Connections of surfaces