40 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Orbit has seven muscles, several cra- nial nerves ; their distri- bution ; iuiil some vessels. Lachrymal gland at outer part of orbit. Ducts open on upper eyelid. Fourth i^erve supplies superior oblique. Ophthalmic gives three branclies. i*'runtal branch su])plies followiu}' sinus. In tracing them back, it will be expedient to remove the projecting clinoid process, shotdd this still remain ; and some Ciire will be required to follow the lachrymal nerve to its com- mencement. Contents of the orbit. The eyeball and the lachrymal gland, and a great quantity of granular fat, are lodged in the orbit. Con- nected with the eye are six nmscles—four straight and two obli que ; and there is also an elevator of the upper eyelid in the cavity. The nerves hi this small space are numerous, viz. the second, third, fourth, ophthalmic of the fifth, and the sixth, together with the jsmall temporo-inalar branch of the superior maxillary nerve, and offsets of the sympathetic ; their general distribution is as follows :—The second nerve penetrates the eyeball; the tliird is furnished to all the muscles of the cavity but two ; the fourth enters the superior obhque (one of the two excepted) ; and the sixth is spent in the extenial rectus muscle. The fifth nerve supplies some filaments to the eyeball with the sympathetic, but the greater number of its branches pass through the orbital cavity to the face. The ophthalmic vessels are also contained in the orbit. The lachrymal gland (fig. 10, F) secretes the tears, and is situate in the hollow on the inner side of the external angular process of the frontal bone. It is of a lengthened form, something like an almond, and lies across the eye. From its anterior part a thin accessory piece projects beneath the upper eyelid. The upper surface is convex, and in contact with the periosteum, to which it is connected by fibrous bands that constitute a ligament for the gland ; the lower surface rests on the eyeball and the external rectus muscle. In structure the lachrymal resembles the salivaiy glands; and its very fine ducts, fi'om eight to twelve in number, open by as many apertures in a semicircular line on the inner aspect of the upper eyelid towards the outer canthus. The FOURTH NERVE (fig. 10, ^) is the most internal of the three nerves entering the orbit above the muscles. After reaching this space, it is directed inwards to the superior oblique muscle, which it pierces at the orbital surface,—the rest of the nerves of the muscles except one entering the ocular surface. The OPHTHALMIC TRUNK of the fifth nerve (fig. 10, p. 18), as it approaches the sphenoidal fissure, fiu-nishes fi-om its inner side the nasal branch, and then divides into the fi'ontal and lachrymal branches ; the former passes into the orbit between the heads of the external rectus, but the other two lie, as before said, above the muscles. The frontal nerve (fig. 10, ") is close to tiie outer side of tlie fourth as it enters the orbit, and is much larger than the lachrymal branch. In its course to the forehead the nerve lies along the middle of the orbit, and supplying anterioriy a supra-trochlear branch (•*), leaves that cavity by the supra-orbital notch. Taking