716 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Form of ■bones. Motion up and down, and lateral motion. Joints of four outer toes: dorsal liga- ments. plantar, lateral liga- ments : oblique plantar. Line of tlie articulation across the loot. The articular surfaces are oval fi-om above down, curved inwards and constricted in the middle ; that of the great toe is excavated' and tlie other is convex. Movemmt. There is an oblique movement of the metatarsal bone down and m and up and out, like that of the internal cuneiform with the scaphoid bone ; and this will contribute some motion to inversion and eversion of the foot. The joint possesses hkewise slight abductory and adductory move- ment. Articulation of the four outer toes. The three outer tarsal bones of the last row correspond with four metatarsals ;—the middle cunei- form being opposite the second metatarsal bone, the external cuneiform touching that of the third toe, and the os cuboides carrying the two outer bones. The surfaces in contact are tipped with cartilage, and have longitudinal dorsal, plantar, and lateral ligaments, with some oblique in the sole. The dorsal ligaments (fig. 224) are thin bands of fibres, which are more or less longitudinal as they extend from the tarsal to the metatarsal bones. Each metatarsal bone receives one ligament, except that of the second toe, to which there are three ;—the three bands to the second coming from all the cuneiform bones, one from each. The third bone obtains a ligament from the external cunei- form ; and the fourth and fifth have a fasciculus to each from the OS cuboides. Plantar ligaments (fig. 222). There is one longitudinal land from each of the two outer cmreiform to the corresponding metatarsal bone; but between the cuboid and its metatarsal bones there are only some scattered fibres. The lateral ligaments are longitudinal ; they lie deeply between the bones, and are connected with the second and third metatarsals : they will be better seen by cutting the transverse bands joining the bases of the bones. To the bone of the second toe there are two bands, one on each side :—the imier is strong and is attached to the internal cuneiform ; and the outer is fixed into the middle or the outer cuneiform bone. The metatarsal bone of the third toe is provided with one lateral shp on its outer side, which is inserted behind into the external cuneiform bone. Oblique plantar ligaments. A fasciculus of fibres extends across from the front of the internal cuneiform to the second and third metatarsals ; and from the external cuneiform there is another slip to the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Line of the articulation. The line of the articulation between the tarsus and metatarsus is zigzag, in consequence of the unequal lengths of the cuneiform bones. To open the articulation, the knife should be carried obliquely forwards from the tuberosity of the fifth to the base of the second metatarsal bone ; then about two lines farther back for the union of the second metatarsal with the middle cuneiform ; and finally, half an inch in front of the last articulation, for the joint of the internal cuneiform with the first metatarsal bone.