DISSECTION OP THE EAR. 742 ilicre ; around it the student may the roof; the floor. At back, opening of mastoid cells; pjTaniid; uneven on tlie surface here and obsers'e the following things. The roof is flattened, and consists of the thin osseous plate sepa- rating tlie tympanic cavity fi-om the cranium. The floor is narrower than the roof, and is curved over the subjacent jugular fossa ; it has more or less of an areolar condition, and some small apertures communicate with the fossa beneath. At the posterior part of the circumference, towards the roof, is one large, with other small apertures, leading into the mastoid cells (fig. 237). Below these apertures, but near the inner wall, and on a level with the narrowed part of the promontoiy, is the small conical hollow projection (e) of the pyramid ; this is perforated by Fig. 237.* aqiiediict of Fallopivis. In front canals for tensor tyni- pani and Eustachian tube. Mcmbrana an aperture, and lodges the stapedius muscle. A minute canal con- nects its ca-saty with the aqueduct of Fallopius ; and sometimes a small round spiculum of bone attaches the pyramid to the promontory. In a line with the pyramid, and arching upwards above the fenestra ovalis, is a bony ridge (/) marking the situation of the aqueduct of Fallopius. The front of the tympanic cavity con-esponds with the carotid artery, only a thin piece of bone intervening. In it are the aper- tures of two canals which lie on the outer side of the passage for the vessel: the upper (h) contains the tensor tympani muscle ; and the lower (i) is the Eustachian tube. Between the two canals is a thin osseous lamina, wliich is hollowed above and dilated at the inner end, and is named processus cochleariformis. Some objects that have been referred to above, viz. the membrana tympani, the Eustachian tube, and the secondary tj'mpanic mem- brane, require separate notice. The memhrana tympani (fig. 238, a) is a thin translucent stratum * View of the inner wall of the tympanum enlarged (Bowman), a. Promon- tory, h. Fenestra ovalis. c. Fenestra rotunda, d. Nerve grooves on the promontory, e. Pyramid. /. Prominence of aqueduct of Fallopius. g. Open- ings of mastoid cells, h. Canal of tensor tympani. i. Osseous part of Eusta- chian tube. k. Internal carotid artery. I. Facial nerve.