DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 356 Sympftthotic SYMPATHETIC NERVE. Ill tlie thorax the sympathetic nerve con- conlS'^of ^^^'^'^ ^ knotted cord along each side of tlie spinal column, which comnumicates with the spinal nerves : and of a large prevertebral or cardiac plexus, which distributes branches to the heart and the lungs. a gaiigliatod The gangliated cord will be seen in a future stage of the dissec- tion, after the heart and the lungs have been removed (p. 366). and a cen- The CARDIAC PLEXUS lies at the base of the heart around the pleLSs!'^'"''' S^'^^^ blood-vessels. A part of this network, the superficial cardiac plexus, has been already described (p. 337). The remaining part, or the deep cardiac plexus, is placed beneath the arch of the aorta. Dissection of Directions. The cardiac plexus has been injured by the previous the plexus, examination of the heart, so that it should be dissected in a body in wliich the heart and the large vessels are entire. To find the Dissection. The arch of the aorta is to be cut across near the nghtpart. heart and close above the pulmonary artery, and is to be drawn over to the left side : next, the upper cava is to be divided above the entrance of the vena azygos, and its lower part is to be thi-own down. By the removal of some fibrous and fatty tissues and lym- phatic glands, the right part of the plexus, in which the nerves of the right side are united, will be seen in front of the trachea, above the right branch of the pulmonaiy artery. The offsets to the heart should be followed downwards on the trunk of the pulmonary artery ; and those to the lung should be traced along the right branch of that vessel. ' To expose To lay bare the part of the plexus into which the nerves of the the left. g^^g q£ hodiy enter, the arch is to be cut through a second time, to the right of and close to the junction of the ligamentum arteriosum with it; and the transverse part of the arch is to be tm-ned upwards with the great vessels attached. The lymphatic glands and the areolar and fatty tissue being cleared away fi-om the plexus as on the opposite side, the offsets to the posterior coronary plexus of the heart will be visible. Deep cardiac Deep cardiac plexus. This large centre is situate between the plexus. trachea and the arch of the aorta, above the branches of the pul- Its situa- monary artery. In it are united the cardiac nerves of the sympa- thetic of both sides of the neck, except the highest nerve of the left side : and the cardiac branches of the vagus in the neck and chest, with the exception of the lowest cervical branch of the left side. From it nerves are furnished to the heart and lungs, two parts. The several nerves entering the plexus are not intermingled iii a plexiform mass in front of the trachea ; but those of the right side unite together on the right of the air tube, and those of the left have a like jmiction on their side. Right part, The rigU part of the plexus is placed above the right branch of how formed, ^i^^ pulmonary arteiy, and receives the nerves of the right side, viz. the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic in the neck ; the cardiac branches of the trunk of the vagus, in both the neck and chest; and the cardiac offsets of the recm-rent branch. Branches to The branches of this half of the plexus ai'e distributed mostly to