DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 364 Branches joining it. Use of vein. Left lower vein ■begins in abdomen, ends in larger azygos. Brandies. Left upper vein. CEsopliagus in the tliorax through diaphragm. Parts covering it, iDeneath it. and on sides. Three coats are in it. A muscular coat of _ Branches. In this vein are collected the intercostals of the right side below the upper two spaces ; some of the intercostals of the left side of the thorax, through the left azygos veins; and some small cesophageal, mediastinal, and vertebral veins, with the right bronchial A^ein. By means of the right azygos vein the inferior communicates with the superior cava, so that blood may reach the heart from the lower half of the body, if the inferior cava should be obstructed ; or the opposite, if the upper cava is impervious. The left lower azygos vein (fig. 106, ") begins in the abdomen in the lumbar veins of the left side of the vertebral column. Entering the thorax along with the aorta, or through the crus of the dia- phragm, the vein ascends on the left of the aorta as high as the seventh or eighth dorsal vertebra, Avhere it crosses beneath that vessel and the thoracic duct to end in the right azygos. It receives the four or five lower intercostal veins of the left side, and some cesophageal and mediastinal branches. The left upper azygos vein (fig. 106, is formed by offsets fi-om the spaces between the superior intercostal and the preceding. Ee- ceiving three or four branches, the trunk either joins the lower azygos of its own side, or crosses the spine to open into the right vein. The CESOPHAGtrs or gullet is a hollow muscular tube, which extends from the pharynx to the stomach : the cervical portion has been described at p. 120, and the thoracic part is now to be examined. Appearing in the thorax rather to the left of the middle line, the gullet is directed beneath the arch of the aorta, and reaches the middle of the spine about the fifth dorsal vertebra. From that spot it is continued through the interpleural space on the right of the aorta, till near the diaphragm, Avhere it takes a position over the aorta, to gain the cesophageal opening of that muscle. As far as the aortic arch the oesophagus lies beneath the trachea, though it is inclined somewhat to the left of the air tube ; beyond the arch it is crossed by the left bronchus, and is concealed by the pericardium as far as the diaphragm. At the upper part of the thorax the gullet rests on the longus colli muscle and the vertebrae ; but beloAV the arch of the aorta it is separated fi-om the spine by the intercostal vessels, and the aorta. Laterally it touches the left pleura above the arch, and both pleurfe below, but more of the right than the left. Below the bronchus the pneumo-gastric nerves sur- round the oesophagus with their branches ; and above the same spot the thoracic duct is in contact Avith it on the left. Structure. If a piece of the gullet be removed and distended with toAv, it will be easy to show a muscular, fibrous, and mucous coat, one witliin another. The muscular coat is thick and strong, and possesses two layers of fibres, of which the external is longitudinal, and the internal circular in direction, like the muscular tunic of the other parts of the alimentary tube. In the upper thu-d of the oesophagus the fibres are red, but below that spot the colour becomes paler.