418 DISSECTION OF THE PERINiEUM. and foUls and veins ai-ound that opening. Bounding parts same as those of outlet of pelvis. Form of the space, and measure- ments. Depth of the space. A line he- tween the tuberosities divides it into tfl o. folds, but these arc more or less oblitei-cated by the position of the body and the distension of the rectum ; and projecting oftentimes through and aromid the opening are some dilated veins (haimor- rhoids). Deep houndaries. The deep boundaries of the perineal space will be ascertained, in the progress of the dissection, to correspond with the inferior aperture or the outlet of the pelvis. The limits may be seen on a dry or prepared pelvis, on Avhich the ligaments remain entire ; and the student should trace on the body the individual boundaries with his finger. In fi-ont is the arch of the pubes ; and at the posterior pai't is the tip of the coccyx, with the gi-eat gluteal muscles. On each side in fi-ont is the portion of the innominate bone which forms the pubic arch, viz. from the pubes to the ischial tuberosity ; and still fm-ther back is the great sacro-sciatic ligament extending from the tuber ischii to the tip of the coccyx. This region sinks into the outlet of the pelvis as far as the recto-vesical fascia, which forms its floor. Form and size. The interval included within the boundaries above said has the form of a lozenge, and measures about four inches from before backwards, and three inches between the ischial tuberosities. Depth. The depth of the perinseum from the surface to the floor may be said to be generally about three inches at the anus, but this measurement varies in difEerent bodies ; and it amounts to about an inch near the pubes. Division. A line from the front of the tuberosity of one side to the con-esponding point on the other, will divide the perinseal space into two triangular parts. The anterior half (urethral) contains the penis and the urethra, with their muscles, and vessels and nei-ves. The posterior half (rectal) is occupied by the lower end of the large intestine, with its muscles, &c. POSTERIOR HALF OF THE SPACE. Contents and general position, of anal half. . Dissection This portion of the perinseal space contains .the lower end of the rectum, suiTOunded by its elevator muscles and the muscles acting on the anus. The gut does not occupy however the whole of the inters^al between the pelvic bones ; for on each side is a space, the ischio-rectal fossa, in which is contained much loose fat, with the vessels and nerves for the supply of the end of the gut. Dissection (fig. 129). The skin is to be raised fi'om this part of the perina3um by the employment of the following cuts ;—Oiie is to be made across the perinasum at the front of the anus, and is to be extended rather beyond the ischial tuberosity on each side. A second is to be carried a little behind the tip of the coccyx in the same direction, and for the same distance. The two transverse of sphincter, cuts are to be connected by carrying the knife along the mid-hne, and around the anus. The flaps of skin thus marked out, are to be raised and thrown outwards from the middle luae : in detaclnng ^ the skin from the margin of the anus, the superficial subcutaneous