DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEX. 534 given off- iiutii: (liflTerenw! l>OtWL'Ctl loft iiiul Tight. C'ajwular arti'i-y. Spei'inatic artery is remarkable. Course to tlie testicle: condition in the fetus. In the I'eiiiale. Branches to wall of abdomen. Inferior phi-enic; course of left and right: distribu- tion. Small otfsets. Other arteries to diai)hraj;ni. its companion vein, being surrounrled hy a plexus of nerves, and supplies small twigs to the suprarenal body (inferior capsular), to the ureter, and to the fatty layer about the kidney. The arteries of opposite sides have some differences. The left is the shortest, owing to the position of the aorta : the right crosses the spine, and passes beneath the vena cava. The middle capsular artery is a small branch which runs almost transversely outwards to the suprarenal body : this offset anasto- moses with the other branches of the suprarenal body from the renal and diaphragmatic arteries. It is of large size in the fetus. The spermatic artery of the testicle (fig. 1G9, d) is remarkable for its small size in proportion to its length ; for leaving the cavity of the abdomen ; and for having the part in the abdomen straight, but that in the cord tortuous. From its origin below the renal, the vessel passes downwards along the posterior wall of the abdomen to the internal abdominal ring, where it enters the spermatic cord (p. 452). In its course beneath the peritoneum the vessel runs along the fi-ont of the psoas, crossing over the ureter ; and on the right side it passes over the vena cava. It is accompanied by the spermatic vein, and the spermatic plexus of nerves. In the fetus before the testicle leaves the abdomen the spermatic arteiy is very short, but the vessel elongates as the testis is removed fi-om its former site. In the female the corresponding artery (ovarian) descends into the pelvis to end in the ovary and the uterus. The parietal hranclies of the aorta are the diaphragmatic, lumbar, and middle sacral. The diaphragmatic arteries (inferior phrenic) (fig. 169, a) are directed outwards along the mider surface of the diaplu-agm near the posterior part, the left artery passing beliind the oesophageal opening, and the right behind the vena cava. Each ends in two branches :—One (intemal) passes onwards towards the front of the diaphragm, and anastomoses with its fellow, and \ni\i the branch (superior phrenic) to the diaphragm fi-om the internal mammary (p. 253). The other (external) is larger, and is directed outwards to the side of the muscle, where it communicates with the musculo-phrenic and intercostal arteries. Branches. Small offsets to the suprarenal body from the external division of tliis arteiy are named superior capsular. Some twigs are given by the left artery to the oesophagus, and by the right to the vena cava. On the under surface of the diaphragm are two branches of the internal mammary artery ; one (superior phrenic, p. 253) accompanies the phrenic nerve, and ramifies over the middle of the muscle ; the other (musculo-phrenic, p. 253) appears opposite the ninth rib, and passing along the edge of the thorax, gives offsets to the lower intercostal spaces. The other parietal branches, viz., lumbar and middle sacral, are not learnt in this stage : the former will be seen after the lumbar plexus (p. 543), and the latter in the pelvis (p. 565).