DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 61 covered by the cominoii integuments, by the platysma and deep fascia, and by the external jugidar vein and the superficial branches of the cei-vical plexus (across the middle). If the muscle be cut through below and raised, it will be seen to lie on the following parts :—The clavicular origin is superficial to the anterior scalenus and omo-hyoid muscles ; and the sternal head conceals the depressors of the hyoid bone, and the common carotid artery with its vein and nerves. After the union of the heads, the muscle is placed over the cervical plexus, and the middle scalenus and the elevator of the angle of the scapula ; and near the skull on the digastric and splenius muscles, the occipital arteiy, and part of the parotid gland. The spinal accessory nerve perforates the muscular fibres about the upper third. Use. Action. Both muscles acting bend the head forwards ; but one muscle will tm-n the face to the opposite side. In conjunction with the muscles attached to the mastoid process one stemo-mastoideus will incline the head towards the shoulder of the same side. In laborious respiration the two muscles will assist in elevating the sternum. Omo-hyoid '^^^ OMO-HYOID MUSCLE crosses beneath the sterno-mastoideus, muscle and consists of two fleshy bellies united by a small round inter- tteTcapula, mediate tendon (fig. 14, ^). The origin of the muscle fi-om the scapula, and the connections of the posterior part, are to be and ends at studied in the dissection of the Back. From the intei-vening liyoidboue. tendon the anterior fleshy belly (fig. 15, ^) is directed upwards along the outer border of the sterno-hyoid muscle, and is inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone, close to the great comu. Connec- The anterior belly is in contact with the fascia, after escaping- tions. from beneath the sterno-mastoid; and rests on the sterno-thyroideus. This part of the muscle crosses the common carotid artery and internal jugular vein on a level with the cricoid cartilage. Use. Action. The anterior belly depresses the hyoid bone ; and the posterior is said by Theile to make tense the deep fascia of the neck with which it is connected. Sterno- The STERNO-HYOID MUSCLE (fig. 15, ") is a flat thin band nearer hyokT the middle line than the precedmg. It arises from the posterior nius'^ie. gyj-f ace of the sternum and the cartilage of the first rib. From this spot the fibres ascend, and are inserted into the lower border of the body of the os hyoides, internal to the preceding muscle. Parts over One smiace is in contact with the fascia, and is often marked andbeneath. -[^y ^ tendinous intersection near the clavicle. When the muscle is divided and turned aside, the deep surface will be found to touch the sterno-thyroideus, and the superior th>Toid vessels. The muscles of opposite sides are separated by an inten'al which is largest below. . Use. Action. It draws the os hyoides downwards after swallowmg; and in laborious respiration it will act as an elevator of the sternum. The STERNO-THYROID MUSCLE is wider and shorter tiian the sterno- roiTmusJre hyoid, beneath which it lies. Like the other hyoid muscle, it arises