DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 652 Limit above and below. Superficial and deep boundaries. Greatest widtli and depth. Contents. Popliteal arteiy; extent; l)art is in the ham. and part beyond. The part in the space; Fig. 200. sartoriiis between them and the femur ; and beyond the joint is the inner head of the gastrocnemius ('). The upper point of the ham is Umited by the apposition of the inner and outer hamstrings ; and at the lower point the heads of the gastrocnemius touch each other. Stretched across the cavity are the fascia lata and the teguments. Forming the deep boundary, or the floor, are the following things,— the posterior surface of the femur included between the lines to the condyles, the posterior ligament of the knee joint, and part of the pop- liteus muscle with the upper end of the tibia. The popliteal space is widest opposite the femoral condyles, where the muscles are most drawn to the sides ; and is deepest above the articular end of the femur. Above and below it communicates, beneath the muscles, ■with the back of the thigh and leg. In the hollow are contained the popliteal vessels with their branches, and the ending of the external sa- phenous vein ; the popliteal tninks of the great sciatic nei-ve, and some of their branches ; together with lymphatic glands, and a large quan- tity of fat. The small sciatic nerve and its vessels are placed superfi- cially in the ham ; and a branch of the obturator nerve lies on the artery in the bottom of the space. The POPLITEAL ARTERY (fig. 200, ^) is the contuauation of the femoral, and reaches fi-om the opening in the adductor magnus to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it terminates by bifurcating into the anterior and posterior tibial vessels. A portion of the artery lies in the ham, and is not crossed by muscle ; but the rest is beneath the gastrocnemms, aud beyond the limits of the popliteal space as above defined. The description of the artery may be divided therefore into two parts, correspondmg with this difEerence in the connections. In the ham the vessel is inchned obliquely from the inner side of *■ View of the popliteal space (Quaiu's Ai-teries). 1. Popliteal vessels. 2 view ui u ^1 i 1. u .1''.„„i ,^-,,i;4.p„i nerve. 4. Semimembranosus Internal popliteal nerve. 3. External popliteal nerve. muscle 5 Semitendinosus muscle. 6. Biceps miiscle. /, 8, Iimei and outer heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. The supcrhcuvl vein on the gastvoc- nemius is the short saphenous, which enters the popliteal.