DISSECTION OP THE EYE. 734 niid ending 'if fUii-es. Characters. Granular layer. Inner set of cell.s: outer set. Molecular material. Fibres of Miiller. Extent. Connec- tions. Inner ending. Struetiu-e of yellow spot. Colour. Vessels. swellings (m) amongst the ends of the rods, and at a deeper level. By their inner ends they are united with a pear-shaped cell (fig. 232) in the outer part of the granular layer; and fibres from them are said to reach as far as the molecular material (d) between the two sets of granules. In the fi-esh state both are soft, clear, and homogeneous, with a glistening appearance, but these characters are soon destroyed by water and other fluids: their structure is not ascertained. The granular layer (^) consists of innumerable rounded and ovalish bodies with nuclei, which are collected into two sets (c and e), with an intervening fine molecular material (d). In the inner set (e) there are several kinds of cells, whose nature is unknown. Two sets, which are oval and nucleated, are said to have this arrangement:—One is connected with the fibres of Miiller; and the other has a fibre at each end, like a bipolar ganglion-cell, which is continued outwards and inwai'ds into the molecular material (cl and/). In the outer set (c) two kinds of nucleated cells are to be recog- nized, which are connected with the fibres from the rods and cones in Jacob's layer. The cells of the rod-fibres, the most numerous, are elhptical, and marked by cross strife (Henle, fig. 232). The cells of the cone-fibres are pyriform in shape, with the base tm-ned to the cone, but are free fi-om cross stripes. The intervening molecular portion ((Z) has a striated appearance, fi-om the passage of the fibres of Miiller through it. The fibres of Miiller (fig. 232) are extremely fine thi-eads, which pierce the substance of the retina, supporting and uniting the several layers, as with a framework of areolar tissue : they reach fi'om Jacob's layer to the inner surface. As they pass through the granular laj'cr they are connected with very fine threads amongst both sets of granules (c and e) ; and in the inner set (e) each possesses an oval nucleated cell. At the inner surface of the retina they are dilated and joined to each other, so as to construct a bounding stratum (i, membrana limitans interna) ; and at the outer part they are united in another boundary line at the bases of the cones (membrana limitans externa). Structure of the yellow spot. The strata of the retina undergo modifications in the yellow spot, the chief of wliich are the follow- ing :—externally, the rods of Jacob's layer Q) are absent, and the cones become less bulged and longer towards the centre. Inter- nally, the nerve cells {g) of the layer (^) are six to eight deep, but the nerve fibres Qi) gradually cease at the edge of the central fovea. The intermediate strata thin gradually towards the fovea centralis, where they are so blended as to render difiScult their identification. The yellow colour is due to pigment diffused through the sub- stance, except through Jacob's membrane and the outer set of cells (c) of the granular layer. Water removes it easily. Capillary vessels occupy the yellow spot, whilst the larger branches pass around on each side.