UPPER PART OF FEMORAL VESSELS. 619 about a third of an inch near Poupart's ligament; and the internal cutaneous branch of the nerve approaches the artery, or lies on it, near the apex of the containing space. Crossing beneath the vessels is the nerve of the pectincus C)- Unusual position. Some examples of transference of the main arte^ of the Unusual limb from the front to the back of the thigh have been recorded. In these posiuo cases the vessel passed from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic notch, and accompanied the great sciatic nerve to the popliteal space. The hrancJies of the artery in Scarpa's space are the superficial Branches, epigastric and cncumflex iliac, two external pudic, and the deep femoral branch. The cutaneous ofEsets have been seen (p. 606), with the exception of the following, which lies at first beneath the fascia lata. The inferior external pudic artery (fig. 193, e) arises separately An external from, or in common with the other pudic branch (superior). It l"^ courses inwards over the pectineus muscle to end in the teguments of the scrotum or the labium pudendi, according to the sex, and it perforates the fascia lata at the inner border of the tliigh to reach its destination : in the fat it anastomoses with branches of the superficial perinseal artery. The dee}} femoral branch (fig. 195, ^) or the profunda, is the largest Profunda, offset of the femoral artery, and arises fi'om the outer side of that trunk one or two inches (Quain) below Poupart's ligament. It is Origin consumed in the muscles of the thigh, and its distribution will be afterwards ascertained. In the present dissection it may be seen to and position lie over the iliacus muscle, where it gives the external circumflex ^angil!^ ^ artery to the outer part of the thigh ; and then to turn, mth a large vein, beneath the trunks of the femoral vessels to the inner side of the limb.* Variation in origin. The origin of the profunda may approach nearer to Origin of Poupart's ligament untU it arrives opposite that band ; or may even go beyond, ^^™|gg"'^''"' and be iixed to the external iliac arteiy (one example, Quain). And the branch may recede farther and farther from the ligament, till it leaves the parent trunk at the distance of four inches from the commencement; but in this case the circumflex branches usually arise separately from the femoral. In applying a ligature to the femoral arteiy in the upper part of the thigh, the thread should be placed four inches below Poupart's ligament, in order that the spot chosen may be free fi'om the disturbing influence of so large an offset. Femoral Vein (fig. 193, h). The principal vein of the limb, whilst Femoral in the triangular space, has almost the same relative anatomy as the rust inside artery : its position to that vessel, however, is not the same tln-ough- artery, out. Beneath Poupart's ligament it is on the inner side of the arterial trunk, and on the same level, and is supported on the pubes between the psoas and pectineus muscles ; but it soon winds beneath afterwards the artery, and appears on the outer side opposite the upper border °^ ' ^ of the adductor longus muscle. Occasionally it is inside the artery * Sometimes the term common femoral is applied to tlie trunk above the origin of the profunda, and the names superficial and deep femoral to the nearly equal pieces into which it divides.