NERVES OF THE TELVIS. 567 Branches. Most of the branches arise outside the pelvis, and are distributed to the back of the lower limb ; for, only two internal pelvic muscles (pyriformis and obturator intcrnus) receive nerves fi-om it. , J. J! +1 The nei-ve of the ohturator internus springs from the part ot tlie plexus formed by the union of the lumbo-sacral with the first sacral nerve ; it leaves the pelvis with the pudic arteiy, and winding over the ischial spine of the hip ^ ^ bone and through the small P'S- 1 ^ 5. sacro-sciatic notch, enters the muscle on the perinosal surface. The nerves of the pijri- formis are commonly two in number, and arise from separate points of the plexus : they enter the muscle at its visceral aspect. The pudic nerve, like the artery of the same name, supplies the perinicum, and the genital organs. The nerve arises in the lower part of the plexus, and courses over the small sacro-sciatic ligament, to ac- company its artery through the small sacro-sciatic notch. The remaining branches of the plexus, viz., the small and great sciatic nei"ves, and muscular offsets to the gluteus, gemelli, and quadratus femoris, are described with the lower limb. (Dissection of the Buttock, p. 646.) Dissection. The gangliated cord of the sympathetic that lies in front of tlie sacrum may be examined now : its several ganglia (three or four), and their branches, ^vill come into View on the removal of the areolar tissue. Sympatiietio Nerve. In the pelvis the sympathetic nerve consists of a gangliated cord, and of a plexus on each side. The Gangliated Cord (fig. 175) lies on the front of the sacrum and internal to the series of apertures in that bone. Inferiorly it Branches to lIlUKClCS insidi; tlie \tii\\\*: one to ob- turator, two to i>yri- foriuis. Pudic nerve. now seen at its origin. Branches to the lower limb after. Trace ont the sympa- thetic. Sjnnpathetic in theiielvis. The gan- gliated cord * Dissectioa of tlie sacral nerves and plexus (altered from Henle). a. Urinary bladder, h. Rectum, c. Levator ani. d. Coccygeus. Nerves : 4 I and 5 I, the last two lumbar nerves, whicli form by their \miou the lumbo- sacral cord. 1 jS to 5 ^S*, the five sacral nei-ves, forming the sacral plexus. 1 c. Coccygeal nerve. 1. Upper gluteal nerve. 2. ]3ranch of levator ani. 3. Branch to the bladder. 4. Branch of coccygeus. 5. liranch to the peri- neum, 6. Common brancli ot i S, 5 S, and 1 c, for the back of the coccyx.