DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 482 CONNECTIONS OP AORTA AND VENA CAVA. Aorta aucl cava. Dissection, of aorta, and vena cava. Aorta lies on niiddle of spine. Parts around. Vena cava; extent; connec- tions ; is by the side of the aorta, except above. Arteries crossing it; vein and pervcs. Before the viscera are removed from the body, the connections of the ahclominal aorta and vena cava may be learnt. Dissection. To see the aorta above the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, it will be necessary to detach the great omentum from the stomach, without injuring the gastro-epiploic arteiy along the great cm-ve ; and after raising the stomach and the spleen, to remove the peritoneum from the surface of the pancreas. A short arterial trunk (cceliac axis) above the pancreas is not to be quite cleaned now, otherwise the nerves about it would be destroyed. The vena cava on the right side of the aorta may be followed as far as the posterior border of the hver, where it disappears. The connections of its upper end can be better observed after the dis- section of the vessels of the liver. The aorta enters the abdomen between the pillars of the dia- phragm, and divides into iliac arteries opposite the left side of the fourth lumbar vertebra. At its beginning the vessel occupies the middle line of the spine, but gradually incUnes to the left as it descends. In the abdomen the aorta lies behind all the viscera ; but it is crossed more immediately by the pancreas and duodenum, which touch it without the intervention of peritoneum. Its connections are the following : at first it is covered by the solar plexus, and by the pancreas and the splenic vein ; still lower (beyond the superior mesenteric artery) by the left renal vein and the duodenum; and thence to its termination by the peritoneum and the aortic plexus. The vessel lies on the lumbar vertebra, with the pillars of the dia- phragm embracing it at the beginning. To its right side is the vena cava. For its relation to other deep parts see p. 533. The vena cava inferior commences on the right side of the fifth lumbar vertebra by the union of the common ihac veins, and reaches thence to the heart. The venous trunk is placed on the right side of the vertebral column. It lies close to the aorta, and is concealed by the same viscera as high as the crus of the diaphragm ; but above that spot it is incHned away fi-om the arteiy, and ascendmg on the right of the crus of the diaphragm, is imbedded in the posterior edge of the liver for an inch or more. Lastly, it leaves the abdomen by an aperture in the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, on the right of, and higher than the aortic opening. Its connections with vessels are not the same as those of the aorta. Beneath it are the right lumbar, renal, capsular, and diaphragmatic arteries ; and crossing over it below the kidney is the spermatic. Superficial to it beneath the pancreas is the beginning of the vena portse. Offsets of the solar plexus of nerves descend on it, as on the aorta.