INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 143 At its exit from tlie canal, the nerve receives a soft reddish offset (carotid branch) ftoiii the sympathetic on the outer side of the carotid arteiy. The contimiation of the nerve enters the cranium through the cartihaginous substance in the foramen lacerum (basis cranii), and is directed backwards in a groove on the surface of the petrous part of the temporal bone, where it takes the name of larrje superficial})etrosal nei-ve (fig, 35, "). Lastly it is continued through the hiatus Fallopii, to join the gangliform enlargement on the facial nerve (p. 145). Whilst in the temporal bone, the vidian receives a twig fi-om the tympanic nerve. The vidian nerve is supposed to consist of motor and sympathetic vidian a fibres in the same sheath, as in the connecting branches between the sympathetic and spinal nerves. Directions. The student may now give liis attention to the re- maining nerves in the nasal ca^nty. Dissection. The nasal nerve is to be sought in the nose behind Seek otlier the nasal bone (fig. 34), by gently detacliing the lining membrane, after having cut off the projecting bone. A branch is given from the ners'e to the septum nasi, but probably tliis, and the trunk of the nerve, will be seen but imperfectly in the present condition of the nasal cavity. The teiTOinal branches of the internal maxillary artery in the vessels of spheno-maxillary fossa have been laid bare in the dissection of Meckel's ganglion, but they may be now completely traced out. The nasal nerve (of the ophthalmic) (fig. 34, ") has been already Nasal nerve seen in the skull and orbit. Entering the nasal fossa by an apertm-e JjI^ggT^o'!^*'! at the front of the ethmoid bone, the nei-ve gives a branch to the gives membrane of the septum, and is continued in a groove behind the OS nasi to the lower margin of this bone where it escapes to the surface of the nose in the face (fig. 9, p. 45). Branches. The branch to the septum (fig. 33) divides into filaments branch to that ramify on the anterior part of that partition, and reach nearly to the lower border. One or tioo filaments are likewise furnished by the nei^ve to the and to mucous membrane on the outer wall of the nasal fossa ; these ex- ^'^^^r wall, tend as low as the inferior spongy bone. Terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery. The Branches of branches of the artery in the spheno-maxillary fossa, which have not '"ternal been examined, are the superior palatine, naso-palatuie, pterygo- '"^^'I'-'^'T palatine, and vidian. The superior or descending palatine is the largest branch, and palatine accompanies the large palatine nerve through the canal, and along ^""'""'ch; the roof of the mouth ; it anastomoses behind the incisor teeth mth its fellow, and with a branch through the incisor foramen. This artery supplies offsets to the soft palate and tonsil thi-ough the other palatine canals, and some twigs are furnished to the lining membrane of the nose. In the roof of the mouth the mucous mem- brane, glands, and gums, receive their vessels from it. The nasal or spheno-palatine artery enters the nose through the nasal spheno-palatine foramen, and divides into branches :—Some of these ^'■''""^*°*>