586 DISSECTION OP THE PELVIS. Mucous layer over gonitiils: its papillro, cpitlieliniu, ami glamls. Mucous membrane. The mucous covering of the external genitals is furnished throughout with papillaa, but these are largest on the labia minora and the clitoris. Its epithelium is laminar. Sebaceous glands open on the contiguous surfaces of the labia majora and minora, and beneath the prepuce ; and mucous glands and follicles exist on the vestibule, and on the inner surface of the nymphte. GENERATIVE OEGANS. Separate vagina and uterus : clean vagina. The generative organs are the uterus and vagina, and the ovaries ■with the Fallopian tubes. Dissection. The viscera are now to be separated, so that the bladder and the urethra may be together, and the vagina and the uterus remain united. The bladder is to be set aside for subsequent use. The surface of the vagina and the lower part of the uterus should be cleaned ; but the peritoneal investment of the latter is to be left untouched for the present. Vagina: extent and curved course. Fomi and size. Interior has columns and rugje. Tliicluiess. An erectile stnicture in the wall. Erectile tissue forms senii- IjuIIjs : THE VAGINA. The tube of the vagina is connected with the uterus at one end, and with the vulva at the other (fig. 173, ^). It has a cui-s^ed course between the two points mentioned ; and the anterior and posterior walls are not equal in length, for the foimer measnres about four inches, and the latter five or six. In the body the vagina is flattened fi'om above downwards, so that the opposite surf aces'may be in contact, but the upper end is rounded where it is jouaed to the uterus. Its size varies at different spots :—thus the external orifice which is sun-ounded by the con- strictor vaginge muscle is the narrowest part; the middle portion is the largest ; and the upper end is intermediate in dimensions be- tween the other two. After the vagina has been laid open by an incision along the upper wall, the position of the uterus in that wall, instead of the extremity of the passage, may be remai'ked ; and the tube may be seen to extend higher on the posterior than the anterior aspect of the cervix uteri. On the inner surface, towards the lower part, is a slight longitudinal ridge both in fi'ont and behind, named columns of the vagina. Before the tissue of the vagina has been distended, other transverse ridges or rugae pass between the columns. The wall of the vagina is thicker anteriorly around the urethra than at any other part of the canal. Structure. The vaginal wall is formed by a spongy erectile tissue, covered externally by a layer of unstriated muscle, and lined by mucous membrane. At its lower end the tube is surrounded by a band of the fibres of the sphmcter vaginaa muscle (p. 434). The eo-ectile tissue is more abundant at the ends than the middle of the vagina, and is greatest in quantity below where it gives m- creased thickness to the Avail. Two masses, one on each side of