131 THE TONSIL. aiul gives rise to the eminence of tlie posterior pillar, L, of the soft jwus, in palate The muscle is attached below to the postenor border of the l,^,^^^. thyroid cartilage, some fibres blending with the contiguous portion of the pharynx ; and it decussates across the middle line with ^^^^^^^ corresponding fibres of the muscle of the opposite side (Merkel) ,,,^^4., Ascending thence behind the tonsil, the fibres enter the side of tlie palate, and separate into layers (fig. 30, ')• The posterior, thin strata in and in contact with the jnucous membrane, joins at the middle line a like offset of its fellow. The deeper or anterior stratum, much the strongest, enters the substance of the palate between the levator and tensor, and joins at the middle line the corresponding part of ' the opposite muscle, whilst some of the upper fibres end on the aponeurosis of the palate. In the palate the muscle encloses the levator palati and azygos uvuliV) between its two strata. Action. Taldng its fixed pomt at the thyroid cartilage the muscle U^^^^j^^^ depresses and makes tense the soft palate. During the act of swallowing both muscles move back the lower in^swaUow edge of the velum towards the phaiynx ; and approaching each other form an oblique plane for the du-ection of the food : in that state the uvula lies in the interval between the two. The AZYGOS uvuL/E ("fig. 29is situate along the middle line of Azygos IllllSClG IS the veliun near the posterior surface. The muscle consists of two single along narrow slips of pale fibres, which arise fi'om the spine at the posterior ""'i^le ; border of the hard palate, or from the contiguous aponeurosis, and end inferiorly in the tip of the uvula. Behind this muscle, attadi- separating it fi-om the mucous membrane, is the tliin stratum of the palato-pharyngeus. Action. Its fibres elevate the uvula, shortening the mid-part of xjse. the soft palate, and dnect that process backwards. The tonsil, k, is a collection of follicular capsules resembling Tonsil is those on the dorsum ling UcB, which is placed close above the base pfi^"itf of the tongue, and between the arches of the soft palate. Each is palate, roundish in shape, but variable in size ; and apertm'es are apparent on its surface. Externally the tonsil is situate opposite the superior constrictor muscle and the angle of the lower jaw; and when en- larged it may press against the internal carotid blood-vessel. The apertures on the sm-f ace lead to rounded terminal recesses or Formed of hollows which are lined by mucous membrane. Aromid each recess gjj|^.^!'^^ "'"^l'" is a ring of small closed capsules, which are seated in the tissue beneath the mucous membrane, and are filled with a grayish sub- stance containing cells and nuclear-looking bodies. No openings fi'om the capsules are to be recognised in the recesses. Its arteries are numerous and are derived from the facial, lingual. Vessels, ascending pharyngeal, and internal maxillaiy branches of the ex- ternal carotid. Its veins have a plexiforin arrangement on the outer * Dr. Merkel, in the work before referred to, states that this muscle has no firm fixed attachment below, and tliat it ends altogether in the wall of the pharj-nx, decussating with the muscle of the opposite side. This assertion does not accord with my experience. K 2