591 STRUCTUfiE OF OVARY. form and colour. dimensions and weight. Connec- tions. Each ovary is of an elongated form, and somewhat flattened from side to side. It is of a wliitish colour, with either a smooth or a scarred surface. Its volume is variable ; but in the virgin state it is about one inch and a half in length, half that size in width, and a third of an inch in thickness. Its weight varies from one to two drachms. The ovary is placed at the back of the broad ligament, and is attached to that membrane by its anterior margin, where the vessels enter the stroma. Its outer end (g) is rounded, and is con- nected with one of the fimbriaj at the mouth of the Fallopian tube. The inner extremity is narrowed, and is fixed to the side of the uterus .by a fibrous cord (i),—the ligament of the ovary, below the level of the Fallopian tube and round hgament. Siructure. The OA'ary consists of a stroma of areolar tissue con- taining small sacs named Graafian, and the whole is enclosed within a fibrous tunic. The peiitoneum surrounds it except at the attached margin. The fibrous coat is adherent to the contained stroma. Along the attached margin of the ovary is a sHt (hilum), by which the vessels and nerves enter. Sometimes a yellow spot (corpus luteum), or some cicatrices, niay be seen in this covering. Stroma (fig. 186). The substance of the ovary is spongy, vascular, and fibrous. At the centre the fibres radiate fi-om the hilum towards the circumference. But at the exterior is a granular material (cortical layer) which contains veiy many small cells, about -j-outh of an inch in size ;—the nascent G-raafian vesicles. The Graafian vesicles or ovisacs (fig. 186) are round and trans- parent cells, scattered through the stroma of the ovary below the cortical layer. Duiing the child-bearing period some are larger than the rest (a) ; and of this larger set ten to thirty, or more, may be counted Kg. 186.* at the same time, which vary in size from a pin's head to a pea. The largest are situate at the circumfer- ence of the organ, and sometimes they may be seen projecting through the fibrous coat. Each consists of a transparent coat with a fluid inside. The coat of the vesicle named ovi-capsule (tunica fibrosa), is formed of fine areolar tissue, and is united to the stroma of the ovary by bloodvessels, which ramify in the wall. Lining it is a layer of nucleated granular cells—^the memhrana granulosa, Avhich is thickened at one spot, and surrounds the ovum as the discus proligerus (Von Baer), fixmg it contents to the wall. The fluid in the interior is transparent and albumi- • * ^^^^'''"■ing the child-bearing pcriocl laid open. a. Graafian vesicles in different stages of growth, b. PHcated body remaining after the escape of tlie ovum (Farre). i Structure. A filirous coat sur- rounds stroma. Stroma, fibrous and granular, with cells. Graafian vesicles, size and number. coat;