538 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. iusui-tion. Connoctions in front, l)ehind. Of outer bonier, of inner bonier, along pelvis. Use to bend the hip- joint ■with iliacus, or to bend trunk on the limb. Psoas l)arvus; Insertion; often absent. Use ou siiine and pelvis. Iliaens has the form of the iliiiu fossa : origin; insertion. Parts cover- ing it on opi)osite sides. Beneath it. Poupart'8 ligament to be inserted into the small trochanter of the femur. The abdominal part of the muscle has the following connections: —In front are the internal arcli of the diaphragm, the kidney with its vessels and duct, the spermatic vessels and the genito-crural nei-ve, and, near Pouparts's ligament, the ending of tiie external iliac artery. Posteriorly the muscle is in contact with the transverse processes, with the quadratus lumborum, and with the innominate bone. The outer border touches the quadratus and iliacus ; and branches of the lumbar plexus issue from beneath it. The inner border is partly connected to the vertebraj, and is partly free along the margin of the pelvis :—along tlie attached part of this border lies the sj^mpathetic neive, with the cava on the right, and the aorta on the left side ; along the free or pelvic part are the external iliac arteiy and vein. Action. If the femur is fi-ee to move it is raised towards the belly ; and as the flexion proceeds, the limb is rotated out by the attach- ment of the muscle to the trochanter minor. The psoas is always combined with the iliacus in flexion of the hip-joint. When the lower limbs are fixed the two muscles will draw down the lumbar part of the spine, and bend the hip-joints, as in stooping to the ground. One muscle under the same circumstances can incline the spijie lateral Ij-. The rsOAS tarvus (fig. 169, ^) is a small muscle with a long and flat tendon, which is placed on the front of the large psoas, but is rarely present. Its fibres arise from the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrje, with the intervening fibro-cartilage. Its tendon becomes broader inferiorly, and is inserted into the ilio- pectineal eminence and the brim of the pelvis, joining the fascia over tlie iliacus muscle. Action. If the spine is immoveable the two muscles will make tense the pelvic fascia. The pelvis being fixed they may assist in bending the lumbar region of the spinal column. The ILIACUS MUSCLE (fig. 169, ") occupies the iliac fossa on the inner aspect of the hip-bone, and is blended inferiorly with the psoas. It is triangular in form, and has a fleshy origin from the iliac fossa and the ilio-lumbar ligament, from the base of the sacram, and from the capsule of the hip-joint in fi-ont. The fibres pass inwards to the tendon of the psoas, uniting with it even to its insertion into the femur, but some reach separately the femur near the small trochanter. Above Poupart's ligament the muscle is covered by the iliac fascia; but over the right iliacus is placed the crecura, and over the left, the sigmoid flexure. Beneath it are the innominate bone and the capsule of the hip-joint ; and between it and the grooved anterior margin of the bone, above the joint, is a bursa. The nmer margm is in contact with the psoas and the anterior crural nerve, nections of the united psoas and iliacus below Poupart' are given with the dissection of the thigh (p. 636). The con- s ligament