DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 216 is over tliivcl ventricle: on its side is the eho- xoid plexus of the lateral ventricle. Vessels of the velum. -Viteries; Teins; -witli veins of Galen. "Dissection. Other •choroid plexuses. Third veutricle as near hase •of brain. Ttoof. Moor. Parte on the sides, in front, contact with the fornix, to which it supplies vessels. And the lower surface, looking to the third ventricle, covers the pineal body, and a part of each optic thalamus : underneath it in the middle line are the two choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. Along each sid© is another vascular roll (choroid plexus). The choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle (fig. 64,/) is the red, somewhat rounded and fringed margin of the piece of pia mater contained in the lateral ventricle, which extends fi-om the foramen of Monro to the extremity of the descending cornu. Its lower end is larger than the upper. On its surface the choroid plexus is villous ; and the villi, minutely subdivided, are covered by flattened nucleated epithelium, with fat granules and pigment in the cells.* Vessels of the velum. Small arteries have been already traced to the velum and the choroid plexus from the cerebral and cerebellar arteries (p. 182) : they are three on each side, and supply the sur- rounding cerebral substance. The veins of the choroid plexus receive branches fi-om the ventricle, and end in the following. Veins of Galen. Along the centre of the velum are placed two .large veins with this name ; they begin at the foramen of Monro, by the union of branches fi-om the corpus striatum and the choroid plexus. Lying side by side in the membrane they are usually united into one at the posterior part of the velum ; and through tliis they join the straight sinus. Dissection. When the velum interpositum has been raised and thrown backwards, the tliird ventricle will be visible (fig. 68). In reflecting the piece of pia mater the student must be careful of the pineal body (</) behind, wliich would otherwise be detached, as it is surrounded by the membrane. On the under surface of the velum are the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. The choroid plexuses of the third ventricle are two short and narrow fringed bodies below the velum, which resemble the like structures in the lateral ventricle. The third ventricle is the interval between the optic thalami (fig. 68). Its situation is in the middle line of the cerebrum, below the level of the other ventricles with which it communicates ; and it reaches to the base of the brain. Its boundaries and communica- tions are the following:— The roof is formed by the velum intei-positum and the fornix. The floor is very oblique ffom behmd forwards, so that the depth of the cavity is about an inch in front and half an inch behmd : it corresponds with the parts at the base of the brain, which lie between the crm-a cerebri and the median fissure (fig. 59), viz., locus perforatus, corpora albicantia tuber cinereum, commissure of the optic ners^es, and lamina cinerea. On the sides of the cavity are situate the optic thalami (&). In front of the space are the descending pillars of the fornix, -with the anterior commissure of the * Particles of train sand, like that in the pineal body, are sometimes present in the choroid ]3lexus.