DISSECTION OP THE THORAX. 374 are more closely united with the inter^'ertebral substance than with the bone. To see the Dissection. To see the intervertebral substance, the anterior and vertebral posterior common ligaments must be taken away. One vertebra substance, should be detached from the fibro-cartilage to obtain a horizontal view of tliis structure ; and two other vertebr£e should be sawn Fig. 110a.* Fig. 110B.t Inter- vertebral substance has the width of the hones, constituent parts; the outer laminae, how arranged; all not vertical; the fibres of the layers cross. vertically to see the difiEerence in the consistence and an-angement of its laminte. The intervertebral substance (fig. Ill) is placed between the con- tiguous sm-faces of the bodies of the vertebras, except between the atlas and the axis. It forms a flattened disc between each pair of the vertebras, and its width is determined by the size of the bones. It is connected in front and behind with the anterior and posterior common hgaments, and on the sides with the stellate ligament of the head of the rib. By means of the previous dissections, the inteiwertebral sub- stance may be observed to consist of two distinct parts ; an external, firm and laminar, and an internal, soft and elastic (fig. 112). The outer laminar part (fig. 113, a) forms more than half of the disc, and is composed of pieces of fibro-cartilage with layers of fibrous tissue. All the strata ai'e arranged one within another, like the scales of an onion, and are connected by their edges to the bodies of the vertebrae ; but all have not a vertical direction, for whilst the outer pieces are straight, the inner are bent with the convexity outwards (fig. 112, Humphry). The laminae do not form com- plete rings, but those composed of fibrous tissue reach farther than those of fibro-cartilage : the free ends of both layers overlap. Each layer is constructed of oblique fibres ; and the fibres of one layer are directed across those of another like the legs of the letter * Two views of the posterior common ligament, c, of the bodies of the vertebraj, to sliow the difference in shape. A, refers to its form in tlie neck, and B, to its shape in the loins.