DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 196 Nucleus of vagns, ami of glosso-plia- rjnigeal. Nnolous of auditory. Gray matter in olivary body, behind it, and at the inner side. The nucleus of the vagus begins on a level with the fourth ventricle (fig. 58, p), and is continuous below with tliat of the accessory nerve. On the surface it forms a pyriform swelling along the inner side of the posterior pyramid, and limits laterally the calanms scriptorius. Above, this sinks under the auditory nucleus, and joins a nucleus for the glosso-pliaryngeal nerve in a line with it. Above the last two nerves is another collection of cells sei-ving as a nucleus for the auditory nerve. This projects on the lateral part of the medulla (fig. 58, ?•). At the front of the medulla. Outside the pyi-amid is the graij layer of the olivaiy body (fig. 58, /) already described (p. 193). Behind this is another separate, elongated and flattened yellowish streak, the accessory olivanj nucleus (fig. 43, Ic) ; while at the inner part of the olive, near the rapM^ is a second collection (fig. 58, Z), Avhich is broken up into pieces. Both of the last deposits IMr. Clarke considers to be but pieces of the cut folds of the corpus dentatum. Pon.s: position, form, surfaces, and borders It Is foi-med by longi- tudinal and transverse fibres. Dissection to expose tlie fibres. PONS VAROLII. The PONS, or annular protuberance (pons Varolii, nodus ence- phali, fig. 54) is situate above the medulla oblongata, and between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. In its natural position in tbe skull it lies below the opening in the tentorium cerebelli. It is nearly of a square shape, though it is rather Avidest from side to side, and measures two inches in the last du-ection. The anterior surface is grooved along the middle line, and is received into the basilar hollow in the base of the skull. By the opposite surface the pons forms part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The upper border is longest and most curved, and arches over the cerebral peduncles ; and the lower border overlays the medulla oblongata. On each side is the crus cerebelli, whose fibres radiate over the surface. Structure. In the pons are alternating strata of ti-ansverse and longitudinal fibres (fig. 56) :—The transverse set are continuous with the fibres of the cms cerebelli, much gray matter being in- terspersed : and the longitudinal are prolonged fi-om the medulla oblongata. Dissection. The transverse superficial fibres of the pons being divided along the line of the pyramidal body of the right side (fig. 66), may be turned outwards so as to denude the longitudinal fibres (c) of the pyramid ; and this first set of longitudmal fibres, having been cut across already in the medulla oblongata, may be raised as far as the upper border of the pons. Beneath them will appear the second or deep set of transverse fibres of the pons (fig. 57,/). The deep transverse fibres may be cut through outside the pyramidal (fig. 57) ; then the deep longitudinal fibres fi-om the lateral column and the posterior pp-amid {d) will appear. Amongst