39 PERIOSTEUM OF ORBIT, Section IV. DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Directions. The orbit should be Icamt on that side on whicli the muscles of the face have been seen. Position. In the examination of that cavity the head is to be r;'s>tw'^of placed in the same position as for the dissection of the sinuses of the base of the skull. Dissection. For the display of the contents of the orbit, it will be ^ow to open necessary to take away the cotton wool fi-om beneath the eyelids, ^aw, To remove the bones forming the roof of the space, two cuts may be made with a saw through the margin of the orbit, one being placed at the outer, the other near the inner angle of tlie cavity ; and these should be continued backwards with a chisel, along the t-hisel, roof of the orbit, so as to meet near the optic foramen. The piece of bone included in the incisions is now to be tilted forwards, but is not to be taken away. Afterwards the rest of the roof of the orbit, which is formed by '^^^^^°^]'' the small -wing of the sphenoid bone, is to be cut away with the bone forceps, except a naiTOw ring around the optic foramen ; and any overhanging bone on the outer side, which may interfere ■with the dissection, may be likewse removed. During the examination of the cavity the eye is to be pulled gently forwards. The periosteum of the orbit, which has been detached fi-om the Periosteum bone in the dissection, sm-rounds the contents of the orbital cavity, °^ and joins the dura mater of the brain through the sphenoidal fissure. It encases the contents of the orbit like a sac, and adheres but loosely to the bones. Apertures exist posteriorly in the mem- Apertures brane for the entrance of the different nerves and vessels ; and ^ * laterally prolongations of the periosteum accompany the vessels and nerves leaving the cavity. Dissection. Tlie periosteum is next to be divided along the middle Open of the orbit, and to be taken away. After the removal of a little Periosteum, fat, the following nerves, vessels, and muscles come into Aaew ; but it is not needful to remove much of the fat in this stage of tlie di.ssection. The frontal neiwe and the supra-orbital vessels lie in the centre ; Position of the lachrymal nerve and vessels close to the outer wall; and the cavitv." small fourth nerve at the back of the orbit : all these nerves enter the cavity above the muscles. The superior oblique muscle is re- cognised by the fourth neiwe entering it: the levator palpebral and superior rectus lie beneath the frontal nerve ; and the external rectus is partly seen below the lachrymal nerve. In the outer part of the orbit, near the front, is the lachrymal gland. The frontal and lachrymal nerves should be followed forwards Trace super- to their exit from the orbit, and backwards with the fourth nerve, "ei'ves. tlirough the sphenoidal fissure, to the wall of the cavernous