DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 104 in the tem- poral bone. Nerves on it. Tjnipanum obtained. Internal carotid enters the skull. Its course is first tlu-ough the neck; less deep below, but very deep above rests on rectus. Position of vein, of vessels, of nerves. the cranium, on the inner side of the carotid, the ascending phaiyn- geal artery will be met with. To open the carotid canal in the temporal bone, and to follow the contained artery into the cranium, make a cut along the side of the skull in the following manner :—the saw beijig placed beneath the mastoid process, cut forwards to the foramen spinosum in the Aving of the sphenoid bone (to which spot the side of the skull has been already taken away), and let the instrument be du-ected through the stylo-mastoid foramen and the root of the styloid process, but rather external to the jugular foramen and the carotid canal. When the piece of bone has been detached, the carotid canal may be opened with the bone forceps. In cleaning the artery in the canal, large and rather red branches of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic will be found on it; and in a fresh part two small filaments may be recognised Avith care,—one from Jacobson's nerve, joining the sympathetic at the posterior part of the canal; the other fi-om the vidian nerve, at the front of the canal. On the piece of bone that has been cut off, the dissector may prepare very readily the tympanum with its membrane and chain of bones, and the chorda tjaiipani nerve. The internal carotid artery (fig. 25, d) sprmgs from the bifurcation of the common carotid trunk. It extends from the upper border of the thyi'oid cartilage to the base of the skull; then through the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; and lastly along the base of the skull to the anterior clinoid process, where it ends in branches for the brain. This winding course of the artery' may be divided into three portions :—one in the neck, another in the temporal bone, and a tliird in the cranium. Cervical part. In the neck the artery ascends almost vertically from its origin to the carotid canal, and is in contact with the pharynx on the inner side. The line of the common carotid artery would mark its position in the neck. Its depth fi'om the surface varies like that of the external carotid ; and the digastric muscle may be taken as the index of this difference. Thus, beloAV that muscle, the internal carotid is overlapped by the sterno-mastoid and coA^ered by the common teguments, fascia, and the platysma, and is on the same level as the external carotid, though farther back. But, above that muscle, the vessel is placed deeply beneath the external carotid artery and the parotid gland, and is%-ossed by the styloid process and the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. Whilst in the neck the internal corotid lies on the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, which separates it from the vertebras. Vein. The internal jugular vem accompanies the artery, being contained in a sheath Avith it, and placed on the outer side. Small vessels. BeloAV the digastric muscle the occipital artery is directed back over the carotid; and the offset from it to the sterno-mastoideus may run doAvn on the carotid trunk. Above the digastric the posterior auricular vessels cross the carotid. Nerves. The pneumogastric is contained in the sheath betAveen