DISSECTION OF THE BACK. •400 in the neck; in the back; in the loins. Use on tlie spine. Inter- transverse muscles in the neck, in the dorsal region, in the loins. Use on the .spine. Dissection of multi- lidus spina. In tlie neck, over sacrum and over rihs. Multifldus spinas. Origin on sacrum; in loins; in Back. In the cei-vical region the muscles are absent from tlie interval between the first two vertebrre;. They are small round bundles, and are attached above and beloAv to the bifurcated apices of the spines. In the dorsal region the muscles are rudimentary ; they exist between the first two, and the lowest two pairs of spmous processes, and between the last dorsal and the first lumbar vertebra. ** In the lumhar region they are thin flat muscles, which reacli the length of the spines. Action. By the approximation of the spinous processes these small muscles will help in extending the spine. Necessarily the movement of each pair is very slight, but the aggregate of all would amount to perceptible motion. * The INTERTRANSVERSE MUSCLES lie between the transverse pro- cesses of the vertebra ; but only those in the loins and the back are now dissected. In the nech they are double, like the interspinal muscles of the same vertebrae (p. 170). * In the dorsal region they are single rounded bundles, and are found only between the lower processes : their number varies from three to six. * In the lumhar region the anterior set are four thin and fleshy planes. The posterior set are rounded bundles, which are attached to the accessory points at the roots of the transverse processes : these have been named interaccessorii. Action. The small intertransversales help to incline laterally the spine by approximating the transverse processes : the motion be- tween a single pair of bones would be scarcely appreciable, as in the case of the interspinales. Dissection. The multifldus spinas muscle, which fllls the hollow by the side of the spinous processes, may be now dissected. The upper pai-t of the muscle is to be prepared and learnt by the dis- sector of the head and neck. It will be laid bare by cutting through the insertion of the semispinalis, and everting this. Over the sacrum the thick aponeurosis covering the multifldus and the erector spinse must be turned aside. In the dorsal region the muscle will appear now on detaching, and di-awing the semi- spinalis from the spines. * The MULTIFIDUS SPiNiE muscle extends from the sacrum to the second vertebra, and is much larger towards the pelvis than in the neck. On the back of the sacrum it takes origin between the central and external row of processes, as low as the fourth aperture ; from the inner surface of the iUac spine (posterior superior) of the hip bone ; and from the ligaments connecting this bone to the sacrum. It is attached differently along its outer edge (origin) in the several regions of the spine :—In the loins' it arises by large fasciculi from the accessoiy and the articular processes : in the dorsal region, from the transverse processes ; and in the neck, fi-om the articular processes of the five lower vertebra?. From these attachments the