749 BOUNDAEIES OF VESTIBULE. facial nen'e, to which it is connected by filaments (fig. 35). Be- tliis called yoncl the union with the facial, the nen^e is named small superficial P^*™" petrosal, and is continued forwards through the substance of the temporal bone, to end in the otic ganglion (p. 146). Nerves to muscles. The tensor tympani muscle is supplied by a Neives for branch from the otic ganglion (fig. 241, ^) : the stapedius receives muscles, an offset fi'om the facial trunk ; and the laxator tj^mpani from the chorda tympani nerve (?). The chorda tympani (fig. 241, ^) is a branch of the facial nerve Chorda (p. 146). Entering the cavity beliind, it crosses the membrana CT,j"se"' tympani, and issues from the space by an aperture in, or internal cavity, to the Glaserian fissure ; it joins the gustatory nerve, and its farther course to the tongue is described at page 92. The auricular branch of the vagus nerve, though not a nerve of Branch of the tympanum, is an oifset to the outer ear, and may be now traced outer in the softened bone. Arising in the jugular fossa (p. Ill), the nerve enters a special canal, and crosses through the substance of the temporal bone to the back of the ear. The labyrinth. The inner portion of the organ of hearing is so Labyrinth named fi-om its complexness. It consists of three spaces sur- ossecms and rounded by dense bone; and of sacs containing fluid for the membra- expansion of the auditory nerve, which are included -within the parts, former. The OSSEOUS labyrinth comprises the vestibule, the semicircular Constltu- canals, and the cochlea : these communicate externally with the osseous*^^ tympanum, and internally, through the meatus auditorius internus, part, with the cranial cavity. The VESTIBULE (fig. 242), or the central cavity of the osseous Vestibule. labjTinth, is placed behind the cochlea, but in front of the semi- circular canals. Dissection. This space may be seen on the dry bone which has Dissection been used for the preparation of the tympanum. The bone is to *° be sawn through vertically close to the inner wall of the tympanum, so as to lay bare the fenestra ovalis leading into the vestibule. By enlarging the fenestra ovahs a very little in a dkection upwards and forwards, the vestibular space will appear; and the end of the superior semicircular canal will be opened. Other views of the cavity may be obtained by sections of the temporal bone in different directions, according to the knowledge and skill of the dissector. The vestibular space (fig. 242) is ovoidal in form, and the ex-Form and tremities are directed forwards and backwards. The larger end is turned back, and the under part or floor is more narrowed than the upper part or roof. It measures about ith of an inch in length, dimensions, but it is narrower from without inwards. The following objects are to be noted on the boundaries of the space. _ In front, close to the outer wall, is a large aperture {g) leading Apertures ' mto the cochlea ; and behind are five round openings of the thi-ee J'^foreand semi-circular canals (c^,e,/). ^ « ^'"ee ^e,.,,,^ The outer wall corresponds with the tympanum, and in it is the i„ outer waU.