595 LIGAMENTS OF PELVIC BOXES. The muscle is in contact by one surface with tiie wall of the Part nf pelvis and the obturator membrane ; by the other surface with the ^^1^1^^ pelvic fascia, and towards its lower border with the pudic vessels cavity, and nerve. Action. The muscle draws the trochanter towards the back of the "^^^^^^^^^ hip-bone over which it bends, and rotates out the hip-joint. For rotator, further notice of its use, sec p. 648. CoccYGEUS MuscxK. The position and the connections of this Co«!^}jgeiis muscle may be studied with advantage in the interior of the pelvis. The muscle is described at p. 547. LIGAMENTS OF THE I'ELVIS. The following are the articulations between the bones of the pel- :—The several pieces of the sacrum and coccj'x are united with lations. one another. The sacrum is joined at its base to the last lumbar vertebra, at its apex to the coccyx, and laterally to the two innomi- nate bones. And the innominate bones are connected together in front, as well as to the sacrum and the spinal column posteriorl3^ Union of Pieces of Sacrum and Coccyx. Whilst the pieces of the sacrum and coccjrs remain moveable they are articulated as in Ligaments the other vertebraj by an anterior and posterior common ligament, separate,' with a disc of intervertebral substance for the bodies ; and by other ligaments for the neural arch and processes (p. 372). After the sacral vertebra; have coalesced, only rudiments of the andjoinea. ligaments of the bodies are to be recognised ; but when the pieces of the coccyx unite by bone, those ligaments disappear in the adult male. Sacro-vertebral Articulation. The base of the sacrum is articu- ^ij^""". lated wtli the last lumbar vertebra by ligaments similar to those vertebra, imiting one vertebra to another (p. 373) ; and by one special liga- ment—the sacro-vertebral. Dissection. For the best mamier of bringmg these different liga- Dissection, ments into -vaew, the dissector may consult the directions given for the dissection of the ligaments of the vertebraj (p. 372). The common ligaments for the bodies of the two bones are an By liga- anterior and a posterior, with an intervening fibro-cartilaginous |"''the vcr- substance. Between the neural arches lie the ligamenta subflava ; tebne. and between the spines the supra and interspinous bands are situate. Tlie articular processes are united by capsular ligaments with syno- vial membranes. The sacro-vertebral ligament is a rather strong bundle of fibres, and by which reaches from the under surface of the tip of the transverse bandfsaero- process of the last lumbar vertebra to the lateral mass at the b use '^■^rtcbral. of the sacrum. Widening as it descends, the ligament joins the fibres in front of the articulation between the sacrum and the inno- minate bone. Sacro-coccygeal Articulation. The sacrum and coccyx are united at the centre by a fibro-cartilagc, and by an anterior and posterior coccyx."'"^ Q Q 2