86 Surface of jaw and tfim- poral bone. DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. the deep cervical fascia, which extends from the styloid process to the hinder border of the ramus of the jaw : it gives attaclmient to the stylo-glossus muscle, and separates the parotid and submaxillary glands. Artimlar surfaces of the bones. The lower jaw possesses a thin narrow condyle, which is elongated transversely, and directed back- wards and inwards. On the temporal bone is a narrow deep articular hollow (glenoid fossa), which is lengthened ffom without in, and is placed in front of Fig. 19.* Fig. 20. t Kinds of movement. In opening tlie mouth, liow jaw moves. Dislocation. State of ligaments. Shutting mouth ; condyle moves. State of ligaments. the Glaserian fissure. In front of this is a prominence of bone, (transverse root of the zygomatic process) which is convex fi-om before back. Movements of the joint. This condyloid articulation is provided with an up and down, a to and fi'O, and a lateral movement. In depressing the Jaio, as in opening the mouth, the articular con- dyle moves forwards till it is placed under the convexity at the fore part of the articular hollow ; but the mterposed concave fibro- cartilage gives security to the joint. Even with this pro^^sion, a slight degree more of sudden motion throws the condyle oS. the prominence of the temporal bone into the zygomatic fossa, and gives rise to dislocation. In this movement the fore and lateral parts of the capsule are made tight; and the fibro-cartilage is drawn forwards with the con- dyle by the external pterygoid muscle. When the jaio is elevated and the mouth closed, the condyle and the fibro-cartilage ghde back into the glenoid fossa. In tliis posi- tion the jaw is placed in the state of greatest security against dis- location. The ligaments and the surrounding muscles, which were sti-etched in the previous mo^^ement, are then set at rest. * Ligament of tlie jaw—an inner view (Bonrgery and Jacob), 1. Internal lateral ligament. 2. Stylo-maxillary. t A view of the interior of the compound tempore-maxillary joint (Bonrgery and Jacob). 3. Stylo-maxillary ligament. 4. Interai-ticular fibro-cartilage— the dark intervals above and below show the hollows containing the sjniovial membranes.