DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 478 and branches. Pancreatico- duodenal. Branches to small intes- tine : numher and aiTange- nient in arches. distrihution on the gut. Arteries of large gut. Ileo-colic branch ends on ciBcum. Bight colic branch sup- plies ascend- ing colon. Middle colic branch passes to transverse colon; branches form arches. Superior mesenteric vein, and branches. renal vein. This vessel is surrounded by tlie mesenteric plexus of nerves, and is accompanied by the vein of the same name. Branches. Whilst tlie vessel is covered by the pancreas it gives a small branch to that body and the duodenum. Its other branches are intestinal: those from the left or convex side of the vessel (rami intestinales) are furnished to the jejunum and ileum ; and those from the opposite side supply the colon, and are named colic arteries. a. The pancreatico-duodenal hrancli (inferior) is of small size (fig. 141, h) ; after giving twigs to the pancreas, it runs to the right along the concavity of the duodenum, and anastomoses with the other duodenal branch (p. 486). 6. The intestinal branches for the jejunum and ileum (fig. 141,/) are about twelve in number, and pass from the left side of the artery between the layers of the mesentery. About two inches from their origin the branches bifurcate, and the resulting pieces unite with similar offsets from the collateral arteries, so as to form a series of arches. From the convexity of the arches other branches take origin, which divide and unite as before. This process is repeated four or five times between the origin and the distribution, but at each branching the size of the vessels diminishes. From the last set of arches twigs are sent to the intestine on both aspects of the tube, and anastomose round it. The branches to the large intestine are three in number, ileo-colic, right colic, and middle colic arteries. c. The ileo-colic artery (o) arises from the right side of the trunk, and divides at the ctecum into branches which encircle the head of the colon. A descending offset is distributed to the lower end of the ileum, and to the caecum and the vermiform appendix ; whilst an ascending offset supplies the beginning of the ascending colon, and anastomoses with the right colic artery. d. The right colic artery (d) is commonly an offset of the pre- ceding, instead of a separate branch from the trunk. Near the ascending colon it divides into ascending and descending pieces, which anastomose with the ileo-colic artery on the one side, and with the middle colic on the other. e. The middle colic branch (c) springs from the upper part of the artery, and entering between the layers of the transverse meso- colon divides into two diverging branches : the right one anasto- moses with the artery to the ascending colon, and the left inosculates on the descending colon with a left colic branch (fig. 142, c) of the inferior mesenteric artery. The intestinal twigs are imited in arches before entering the gut, like those to the small intestine. The superior mesenteric vein (fig. 144, b) commences in that part of the intestinal tube to which the artery is distributed. Its radicles unite into one trunk, which accompanies the artery beneath the pancreas, and there joins the splenic vein to form the vena ports. At the lower border of the pancreas it receives the right gastro- epiploic branch of the stomach, and the pancreatico-duodenal vems (fig. 144, c.)