DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 462 Coverings, becomo united over tlie tumour, changes iu. Stricture, where foiuul. Other abdominal lierniae are femoral, obtiu-ator, ischiatic. Dissection of cords inside abdomen; one m middle line, another on each side. forming two fossae. Sometimes last cord moved inwards, causing three fossEe. Coverings. Tlie coverings of the intestine are few in number •— They are the skin and the superficial fascia; a prolongation fi^m the tendinous margin of the umbilical opening : together with coverings of the fascia transversalis, the subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum. Over the end of the tumour the superficial fascia blends with the other contiguous structures, and its fat disappears If the hernia is suddenly produced, it may want the investment otherwise derived from the edge of the umbilicus. Seat of stricture. The stricture on the intestine is generally at the margin of the tendinous opening in the abdominal wall ; and it may be either outside, or in the neck of the sac, as in the other kinds of hernia. It should be remembered that the narrowed neck is at the upper end and not in the centre of the swelling. Division of the stricture. The constriction may be removed by cutting externally the parts around the neck. Or if the sac is to be opened, the knife may be carried upwards in cutting the stricture • but there is not any vessel liable to injury in the operation. Other Forms of Hernia. At each of the other apertures in the parietes of the abdomen, a piece of intestine may be protruded, so as to form a hernial tumom-. For instance there may be femoral hernia below Poupart's ligament, with the femoral vessels ; obturator hernia through the thyroid foramen, with the arteiy of the same name ; and ischiatic hernia through the ischiatic notch. The femoral hernia, as the most important, will be noticed pre- sently ; but the student may refer to some special treatise for mformation respecting the other abdominal herniee. Dissection. The abdomen may be now opened to see the cords and the depressions on the posterior surface of the abdominal wall. A transverse cut may be made through the umbilicus across the front of the abdomen ; and on holding up the lower half of the wall, fibrous cords will be seen ascending to the umbilicus fi-om the pelvis. Cords of the abdominal wall. In the middle line is the prominence of the remains of the urachus, which reaches fi-om the summit of the bladder to the umbilicus. On each side is another cord of the obliterated hypogastric artery; this is directed fi'om the side of the pelvis to the umbilicus, and lies usually behind or close to the epi- gastric artery, near Poupart's Hgament. Fossce. With this disposition of the cords, two fossas are seen near Poupart's ligament, one on each side of the obliterated hypogastric artery ; they correspond with the situation of the internal and ex- ternal abdominal rings, and with the places where the external and internal (common kind) herniie occur. But occasionally the cord of the obliterated hypogastric is moved inwards from the epigastric artery, to the line of junction of the outer with the inner two thirds of the triangular space through which the direct hernia comes. In this position of the cord there will be three fossse on the lower part of the abdominal wall ; viz. an inner between it and the urachus, a middle one between it and the epigastric vessels, and an external outside the epigastric artery.