CERVICAL TLEXUS. 73 sixth nerves near the interv'ertebral foramina. Piercing the fibres of the scalenus lower than the preceding branch, the nerve is con- tinued behind the brachial plexus, and enters the serratus magnus muscle on the axillary surface. Branches of the scaleni and longus colli muscles. These small Ne^J^'cs of ^ twigs are seen when the anterior scalenus is divided : tliey arise iongu.s colli, from the beginning of the trunks of the nerves. The suprascapular nerve is larger than either of the others. It j^^^'Jl^^g^^gi"^" arises near the subcla\nan branch from the cord of the plexus formed by the fifth and sixth nerves. Its destination is to the muscles on the dorsum of the scapula, and it will be dissected with the arm. Occasionally an offset fi-om the fifth cer\acal trunk joins the Offset to the , , . 1 1 Ijlirenic. phrenic nerve on the anterior scalenus muscle. The CERVICAL PLEXUS is formed by the first four cervical nerves. Cervical Situate at the upper part of the neck, it lies beneath the sterno- mastoid muscle, and on the middle scalenus and the levator anguir scapulcE. It difliers much fi'om the brachial plexus, for it resembles fonnsa a network more than a bundle of large cords. The following is the general aiTangement of the nerves in the plexus :—Each nerve, Airange- except the first, divides into an ascending and a descending branch, ugi^es.^ ^^'^ and these unite with similar parts of the contiguous nerves, so as to give rise to a series of arches. From these.loops or arches the different branches arise :— The branches are superficial and deejD. The superficial set has offsets been described with the triangular space of the neck, as consisting nda™^^'^ of agcending and descending (p. 67). The ascending branches may be now seen to spring from the imion of the second and third nerves ; and the descending, to take origin fi-om the loop between tbe third and fourth nerves. The deep set of branches remains to and deep, be examined : they are muscular and communicating, and may be wiiichare:— arranged into an internal and an external series. Interxal Series. The phrenic or muscular nerve of the dia- P'lrenic phragm (fig. IG) is derived from the fom-th, or thii-d and fourth nerves of the plexus ; and it may be joined by a fasciculus fi-om the fifth cen'ical nerve. Descending obliquely on the surface of tl'e anterior scalenus fi-om tlie outer to the inner edge, it enters the chest in front of the internal mammary artery, liut behind the sub- clavian rein, and traverses that cavity toj-each the diaphragm. At the lower part of the neck the phrenic nerve is joined by a filament of the sympathetic, and sometimes by an offset of the nerve to the subclavius muscle. On the left side the nerve crosses over the first part of the subclavian artery. The branches communicating with the descendens noni are two in Nerves to number. One arises from the second, and the other from the^iird j"'" cervical nerve ; they are directed inwards over the internal jugular vein, and communicate in front of the carotid sheath with the descending muscular brancli (descendens noni') of the hypoglossal nerve. Sometimes these nerves pass under the jugular vein.