489 EPIGRASTIC PLEXUS AND OFFSETS. SYMPATUETIC AND VAGUS NERVES. Sympathetic Nekve. In the abdomen, as in the thorax the Genemid^^^ sympathetic nerve consists of a gangliated cord on each side o± tlie „erves. vertebral cohunn ; and of prevertebral centres or plexuses, which furnish branches to the viscera. Two prevertebral plexuses exist in the abdomen. One of these, ^=^8" the epigastric, is placed behind the stomach, and supplies nerves to solar all the viscera above the cavity of the pelvis. The other, the hypo- gastric plexus, is situate in the pelvis, and distributes nerves to the and hypo- pelvic viscera. The knotted or gangliated cord will be met with in a subsequent stage of the dissection ; and only the great solar plexus with its otfsets is to be now examined. Dissection. To denude the epigastric plexus, the following dissec- tion is to be made :—After the air has been let out of the stomach piexus, and duodenum, the portal vein, the common bile duct, and the gastro-epiploic vessels are to be cut tlu-ough near the pylorus ; and the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas are to be drawn over to the left side. On raising the liver the vena cava appears : the vein is to be cut across above the junction of the renal vein with it, and the lower end is to be drawn down with hooks. Beneath the vein the dissector will find the large reddish semi- and tlie ... ? 1 1 semilunar lunar ganglion ; and mixed up with the nerves ot the plexus are ganglia. numerous lymphatic glands, with a dense tissue, which require to be removed -with care. From its inner part he can trace the numerous nerves and ganglia around the coeliac and superior mesenteric arteries, and the secondary plexuses on the branches of those arteries. From the outer part of the ganglion oiEsets are to be followed to the kidney, the suprarenal body, and the diaphragmatic arteries. At its upper end the junction with the large splanchnic nerve may be seen ; and deeper than the last, one or two smaller splanchnic nerves may be observed in a fissure of the diaphi'agm, which throw themselves into the coeliac and renal plexuses. The student should then trace the ending of the pneumogastric Follow the nerves on the stomach. The left nerve will be found at the upper tue'vfgus border in front near the oesophagus ; and the right nerve will be nerves? seen at a coiTcsponding point on the opposite aspect. Branches from the right nerve are to be followed to the plexus of the sympa- thetic by the side of the coeliac axis; and fi-om the left, to the hepatic plexus. The EPIGASTRIC or solar plexus is a large netM-'ork of nerves and Solar ganglia, which lies in front of the aorta and the pillars of the ^'^"''''^' diaphragm: it fills the space between the suprarenal capsules of appeai-auce, opposite sides, and extends downwards to the pancreas, sun-ound- extent; ing the cceliac axis and the superior mesenteric artery. The plexus is connected on each side with the large and small splanchnic nerves; and it is joined also by an ofilsct of the right pneumo-gastric nerve. Large branches are furnished to the different viscera along the S'ves offsets vessels. o" blood- vessels.