DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. 638 and hy side of sacrum : other nerves of small sciatic below, cutaneous arteries. Sources of the cutane- ous nerves. Prom last dorsal nerve. From lum- Tjar plexus, through ilio-hypo- gastric, and external cutaneous. From lum- bar and sacral nerves. From sacral plexus, through small sciatic. Clean By the side of the sacrum and coccyx two or three ofEsets of the sacral nei-ves are to be looked for beneath the fat. The remaining cutaneous nerves are derived from the small sciatic, and must be sought beneath the fat along the line of the lower incision, where they come fi-om underneath the gluteus maximus. A few turn upwards over that muscle ; the rest are directed down the thigh, and one (inferior pudendal, (fig. 197, bends below the ischial tuberosity to reach the perinfeal space. Cutaneous arteries accompany all the nerves, and will ser^'e as guides to their situation. Cutaneous Nerves (fig. .197). The nerves distributed in the integuments of the buttock are small but numerous, and are derived from the last dorsal nerve ; from branches of the lumbar and sacral plexuses ; and from the spmal nerves (posterior primary pieces). The last dorsal nerve (^) supplies the buttock by means of its lateral cutaneous branch (p. 450). This ofEset perforates the muscles of the abdomen, and crosses the front of the iliac crest to be dis- tributed over the fore part of the gluteal region, as low as the great trochanter. Nerves of the lumbar plexus. Parts of two nerves of the lumbar plexus (p. 541), -^dz. ilio-hypogastric and external cutaneous, are spent in the integuments of this region. The iliac branch of the ilio-hypogastric (^) crosses the iliac crest in fr-ont of the branches fr-om the lumbar nerves, lying generally in a groove in the bone, and extends only a short distance below the crest. Offsets of the external cutaneous nerve of the tliigh bend back- wards to the integuments above the great trochanter, and cross the ramifications of the last dorsal nerve. Branches of the lumbar nerves C). The ofEsets of the posterior primary pieces of the lumbar nerves (p. 396) are two or three in number, and cross the crest of the hip bone near the anterior edge of the erector spinas : they ramify in the integuments of the middle of the buttock, and some branches may be traced nearly to the trochanter major. The brandies of the sacral nerves (^) perforate the gluteus maximus near the sacrum and coccyx, and are then directed out- wards for a short distance in the integuments over the muscle. These ofEsets are usually two in number : the largest is opposite the lower end of the sacrum, and the other by the side of the coccyx. Small sciatic (^). This nerve of the sacral plexus (p. 566) sends superficial branches to the buttock. Its cutaneous offsets appear along the lower border of the gluteus maximus, accompanied by superficial branches of the sciatic arteiy : two or three ascend round the edge of the muscle, and are lost in the integuments of the lower part of the buttock; the remainmg branches C) descend to the thigh, and will be afterwards noticed on it (p. 646). Dissection. The thin and unimportant deep fascia of this region