URETHRAL HALF OF THE REGION. 423 ficial perineal) may be seen on the right side, where they lie offseteto for a short distance in the ischio-rectal fossa. ments. The hcemorrhoidal branch of the fourth sacral nerve (•) reaches Branch of the ischio-rectal fossa by piercing the fibres of the levator ani. sacral nerve Appearing in the posterior part of the fossa, near the coccyx, the nerve ends by supplymg the external spliincter, and the integuments Bupphes^ behind the anus. and skin. One or two cutaneous branches of the small sciatic nerve ( ) turn offsets of round the lower border of the gluteus, in their course to the tegu- ^ni^y^^ ments on its siurface. ANTERIOR HALF OF THE PERIN^EAL SPACE. In the anterior part of the perinfeal space are lodged the crura of ^re*'""^! the penis, and the tube of the urethra as it courses fi-oin the interior ^^^^^^^^ of the pehds to the surface of the body. Placed about midway and general between the bones, the urethi-a is supported by the triangular ''^ hgament of the perineum, and by its union with the penis. Muscles are collected around the urethra to aid in the expulsion of the contents of that tube : some of these are superficial to, and some within the triangular ligament. The vessels and nerve Ke along the outer side, as in the posterior half, and send inwards offsets. Dissection (fig. 130). To raise the sldn from the anterior half of ^'1^^^^'^'^ the perineum, a transverse cut is to be made at the back of the skin. scrotum, and is to be continued for a short distance (two inches) on each thigh. A second incision along the middle line will allow the flaps of skin to be reflected outwards. After the removal of the Blow up 1-1 1 p/- ('•ip-xi-i superficial skm the subcutaneous fat (superficial fascia) which covers the fascia, and front of the perineeal space, is to be blown up by means of a pipe inflect it introduced beneath it posteriorly. Each side is to be inflated to demonstrate a partition along the middle line, and a septum between the perinajal space and the thigh which prevents the air passing to the limb. The student is next to cut through the superficial fascia on the left side fi-om the scrotum to the ischio-rectal fossa ; and after reflecting it, and removing loose fatty tissue, its line of attachment to the bones externally, and to the triangular ligament posteriorly, will be brought into view. The septum along the middle line should be also defined. To show more completely the attachment of this uonbeWeen subcutaneous layer to the pubic arch between the perinseal space thigh and and the thigh, it will be necessary to take away from the left limb space^ the fat on the fascia lata, external to the line of the bone. In the fat of the thigh on the right side tlic student should seek On right the inferior pudendal neiwe, which pierces the fascia lata one inch f,',fe,.fo°'^ anterior to the tuber ischii, and about the same distance from the pudend margin of the pubic arch ; and should trace its junction in the fat with the inferior hajmorrhoidal nerve. Afterwards the nerve is to be followed forwards to where it enters beneath the superficial fascia in the middle Hne.