GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE, 109 the spinal accessory backwards to the sterno-mastoideus and coiisist.s of trapezius muscles ; and the pneunio-gastric nerve descends to the tn,„k3 viscera of the thorax and abdomen. The OLOSSO-PHARYNOEAL NKUVK (fig. 25, ') is the smallest of the Glosso-pha- three trunks. In the jugular foramen it is placed somewhat in front Jje^ve* of the other two, and lies in a gi-oove in the lower border of the petrous part of the temporal bone. In the aperture of exit the has two nerve is marked by two ganglionic swellings, the upper one being ^',"i*fl,'e,l" the jugular, and the lower the petrous ganglion. laceram. * Ganglia. The jugular ganglion,^, (ganglion supcrius) is very its upper small, and is sit'.iate at the upper end of the osseous groove con- taining the nen'e. It is placed on the outer surface of the glosso- pharjmgeal trunk, and includes only some fibrils of the nerve. The petrosal ganglion, ^, (gang, inferius) is much larger tlian the pre- ceding, and encloses all the fibrils of the nerve. Ovalish in form, '° it is placed in a hollow in the lower border of the temporal bone ; and from it spring the branches that unite the glosso-pharyngeal with other nerves. After the nerve has quitted the foramen it comes forwards between In the neck the jugular vein and the carotid artery (fig. 25, and crossing inwards over the arteiy, reaches the lower border of the stylo- pharyngeus muscle. At this spot the nerve becomes almost trans- courses to verse in direction in its course to the pharynx ; it crosses over the and*°"a"^ stylo-phar^-ngeus, and forms an arch across the side of the neck rjTix. above the superior laryngeal nen^e. Finally it passes beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, and ends in branches to the pharynx, the tonsil, and the tongue. Tlie branches of the glosso-pharyngeal may be classed into those Branches connecting it with other ner^'es at the base of the skull, and those distributed in the neck. « Connecting branches arise chiefly from the petrosal ganglion ; with otliers, and in this set is the tympanic nei-ve. viz., « A filament ascends from the sympathetic nerve in the neck to sympathetic join the petrosal ganglion. Sometimes there is an offset from the ^"'I'^'^g^s. ganglion to the auricular branch of the vagus, as well as to the upper ganglion of this nerve. « The tympanic branch (fig. 26,») (nerve of Jacobson) enters the facial and aperture in the ridge of bone between the jugular and the carotid ^5'"'P'''- foramen, and ascends by a special canal to the mner Avail of the tympanum, where it ends in branches : its distribution is given with the tjTnpanum of the ear. Branches for Distribution. In the neck the branches are fm-- Distributed nished chiefly to the pharynx and the tongue. t" a. Carotid branches suiTound the internal artery of that name carotid and communicate with the pharyngeal branch of the vao-us and '"'''"^> with the sympathetic nerve. & '' ' b. Some muscular branches enter the stylo-pharyngeus, whilst the styio-pha- nerve is m contact with it. ryngeus, wi^bfr'''t'° '^'^^/'«'-y«^ foi-m the pharyngeal plexus by uniting ana phary.,- with nerves from the sympathetic and vagus. ^ geui pio.xus.