378 DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. Ligaments of special vertebra;. Kinds of motion. Flexion; degree. Movement of bones. State of ligaments. Extension; where most, and least. Movement of bones. State of ligaments. Side bend- ing; extent. Movement of bones. State of ligaments. Eotation: where present. Motion of bones. LiG.\MENTS OF SPECIAL VERTEBRiE. The ligaments of the first two cervical, and of the sacral and coccygeal vertebrae, will be given Avith the dissection of the neck (p. 172) and of the pelvis (Section vii.). Movements of Spinal CoLrMN. The spinal column can be bent forwards, backwards, and to each side ; and can be rotated. In flexion the vertebrae between the axis and sacrum are bowed forwards. The greatest movement takes place between the last two lumbar vertebrfe and the sacrum (Humphry); there is an inter- mediate degree in the neck ; and the least is in the upper half of the dorsal region, where the ribs are united to the sternum. The bodies of the bones are brought nearer together in front, whilst they are separated behind. The inferior pair of articular processes of the second vertebra glide upwards on the upper articular of the third vertebra ; the inferior of the third bone move in like manner on the upper processes of the fourth ; and so on throughout the moveable column. The ligament in front of the bodies is loose, but the posterior, and those uniting the neural arches and processes, are stretched. The fore part of each intervertebral disc is squeezed and thinner, and the back is elongated. In extension, the vertebrte are arched backwards, but not to so great a degree as when the spine is bent forwards. The motion is most in the neck ; and is least in the dorsal vertebrae., which are fixed by the true ribs and the sternum, and are impeded in their movement by the overlapping spinous processes. The posteiior parts of the vertebrae are approximated, whilst the anterior are separated; and the inferior articular processes of each (from the second cervical to the sacrum) glide downwards, on the upper articular processes of the next succeeding bone. The condition of the ligaments is the opposite to that in flexion. Thus, the intervertebral discs are compressed behind and widened before ; the spinous and subflaval are relaxed ; the anterior common of the bodies is tightened, and the hinder band is slackened. Lateral inclination. The spine can be cm-ved to the right or the left side. Like the other movements, this bend is least in the more fixed upper dorsal vertebrae, and is greatest in the neck. On the concave side of the curve, say the right, the bodies are brought nearer together ; and are carried away from each other on the opposite aspect. The right inferior articular surface glides down, and the left up, in the joints with the vertebra beneath. On the right side the ligaments will be relaxed and the inter- vertebral substance compressed ; and on the left those sti-uctures will be tightened so as to check the movement. Rotation is the twisting of the bodies of the vertebra around a line through their centres, the fore part bemg turned to the right and to the left. Its degi-ee is greatest in the cervical and the upper dorsal vertebrae, but is absent in the lumbar part of the column. The vertebral bodies are directed horizontally, and the articular processes move difEerently on the two sides. Supposmg the face