DISSECTION OP THE LARYNX. 158 Insertion. Use on aperture of larynx, on sacculu.s, Parts inside larynx. ■Dissection to exiiose them. LarynReal space. Upper orifice, shape. and bounda- ries. Lower opening. Cavity of larynx, shape and size. Glottis, position, directions, and arc inserted into the border of the epiglottis on the same side. The strength of the muscle vaiies much in difEerent bodies. Some of the lower fibres of the muscle, which cover the top of the laryngeal pouch, have been described by Mr. Hilton as a sepa- rate muscle with the name arytceno-epujlottideus inferior. Action. By the contraction of the fibres, the tip of the arytaenoid cartilage will be moved forwards and inwards, and the epiglottis will be lowered over the orifice of the larynx. The fibres of the muscles which are spread over the sacculus will compress it, and assist in the expulsion of the contents. Pakts inside the larynx. The parts more immediately concerned in'the production of the voice are, the vocal cords, the glottis, and the ventricle of the larynx and its pouch; these are placed within, and are protected by the laryngeal cartilages. Dissection. For the purpose of displaying the vocal apparatus, let the tube of the larjaix be divided along the-posterior part, as in fig. 42 ; and in cutting through the aryttenoid muscle, let the in- cision be rather to the right of the middle line, so as to avoid the nerves entering it. On looking into the larynx a hollow (ventricle) will appear on each side; and bomiding the ventricle above and below are the whitish bands of the vocal coi"ds. If a probe be passed into that hollow, it will enter a small pouch (sacculus laryngis) by an aperture in the anterior and upper part. The dissector should fill the sacculus on the left side by introducmg a small bit of cotton wool mto it. The laryngeal space resLches fi-om the epiglottis to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. It opens above into the pharynx, and below into the trachea ; and in the intermediate portion are lodged the parts producing voice. The U2}2)er orifice of the larynx (fig. 29, ^) will be evident on placmg in contact the cut surfaces. It is triangular in shape, with the base in fi'ont and the apex beliind, and its sides are sloped obliquely downwards in the antero-posterior dhection. Its boun- daries are,—the epiglottis m front, the aiytasnoid muscle and cai-ti- lages behind, and the arji;£eno-epiglottidean fold of mucous mem- brane on each side. This aperture is closed by the epiglottis durmg deglutition. The lower opening, lunited by the inferior edge of the cricoid car- tilage, is circular m form, and is of the same size as that cartilage. The laryngeal cavity is much reduced in size within the thyroid cartilage by the vocal cords, and is dilated above and below them for the purpose of allowing then: free Aabration. The lower dilatation may be seen to be as large as the ring of the cricoid ; and the upper, much smaller, corresponds with the ventricles of the larynx. Above the upper bulge the wall of the larynx slants up to the ^^Thf oZo««s or rima glottidis, is the interval between the lower vocal cords (fig. 44) ; it is placed on a level with the base of the