758 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. Blood-ves- sels of tho membranes. Internal auditory artery has a branch to mem- branous sacs; termination; and another to the cochlea; mode of ter- mination : joins a longi- tudinal vessel. Vein to petrosal sinus. Auditory nerve divides into two. A cochlear branch, runs at first in the bone, and then enters the membrane. Ending unknown. Vestibular- branch divides into tliree. Blood-vessels. The membranes of the labyrinthic cavity receive their blood mostly fi-om an artery which ejiters the internal auditory meatus with the nerve ; but some offsets from the posterior auricular blood-vessel supply them behind. The internal auditory artery arises from the basilar trunk within the skull (p. 183), and enters the internal meatus with the auditoiy nei-ve. In the bottom of that hollow it divides into two branches —one for the vestibule, the other for the cochlea. The branch of the vestibule, after piercing the wall of the cavity, subdivides into small offsets, which supply the lining membrane, and ramify over the sacs, and the tubes occupying the semicircular canals. The vessels end in a network of capillaries on the exterior of the special layer of the sacs ; and this is most developed about the termination of the nerves. The branch of the cochlea subdivides into twigs which enter the canals in the modiolus. Small offsets fr-om these are directed out- wards through channels in the lamina spiralis, and communicate together in loops near tlie margin of that osseous zone. From this anastomosis vessels are supplied to the basement layer and the membrane lining the scalte ; but the septum cochlese prevents the communication of the vessels of the two passages. A longitudinal vessel is placed on that surface of the membranous portion of the septum cochleae which is turned to the scala tympani, and is opposite the outer rods of Corti; it communicates here and there with the arterial loops before mentioned. The vei7i. One branch of vein is derived fr"om the cochlea, and another from the membranous labyrinth : the two are united near the cochlea, and the trunk ends in the superior peti'osal sinus in the base of the skull (p. 15). Nerve of the Labyrinth (fig. 247). Only one special nerve, auditory (p. 188), is distributed to the labyrinth. Entering the in- ternal auditory meatus, the nen^e divides into two branches, like the arteiy, viz., an anterior for the cochlea, and a posterior for the membranous labyrinth. In the trunk and in both branches ners'e- cells ai-e contained : in the branch to the labyrinth they form a swelling (intumesc&ntia ganglioformis of Scarpa). The cochlear branch divides at the base of the modiolus into twigs, wliich enter it, and are directed outwards with the vessels into the canals in the lamina spiralis (fig. 245, "). As they enter the lamina they form a plexus with ganglion cells, and are con- tinued onwards near the scala tympani, being still plexifonn, as far as the edge of the bone. At this spot they leave the bone and are arranged in conical bundles, wliich pass through apertures at the junction of the bone with the lamina basilaris of the septum cochlea} : consisting now of axis cylinders they are directed towards the cells of the organ of Corti, but their ending is unknoAvn. The vestibular branch ends in three nerves for the membranous labyrinth : these pierce the cribriform plate in the bottom of the meatus, and are thus distributed :—One appertains to the utricle (c), and to the enlargements on the tubes contained in the superior