DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 116 Inferior ganglion on neck of lirgt rib. Branches to ■blood- vessels, and spinal nerves, and inferior cardiac. Directions. be learnt in tlie chest. In the neck it communicates with the upper cardiac and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The INFERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION is of large size but irregular in shape, and occupies the interval between the first rib and the lateral mass of the last certical vertebra, its position being internal to the superior intercostal artery. Oftentimes it extends in fi-ont of the neck of the rib, and joins the first swelHng of the knotted cord in the thorax. Its branches are similar to those of the other two ganglia. One or two branches sun-ound the trunk of the subclavian artery, and supply filaments to that blood-vessel. Connecting branches join the last two cervical nerves. Other nerves accompany the vertebral artery, forming a plexus—vertebral, around it, and communicate with the spinal nerves as high as the fourth. Only one branch for distribution, the inferior cardiac nerve, issues from the lower ganglion. It lies beneath the subclavian artery, joining in that position the recurrent laryngeal nerv^e, and enters the thorax to terminate in the deep cardiac plexus behind the arch of the aorta. Directions. The student now proceeds to dissect the left side of the neck, but the remains of the right half should be carefully preserved during the time occupied in the examination of the left half. Section X. Directions. Dissection of anterior triangle of neck: of scaleni, and subcla- ■vian artery of thoracic duct. DISSECTION OF THE LEFT SIDE OF THE NECK. Directions. In the dissection of the left half of the neck, the differences observ^able between it and the right side are specially to be studied. When the description of the right side will suffice, reference will be only made to it. After the neck has been made tense over a narrow block, the anterior part of it is to be prepared as on the opposite side. The description of the right side (p. 58 to 65) is to be used for the anterior triangular space, the sterno-mastoideus, and the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone. Next the scaleni-muscles and the subclavian vessels are to be . learnt. The dissection, and description of the muscles on the right ' side (p. 65 to 67), will serve for those on the left, except that the student will meet on the left side with the thoracic duct. The thoracic duct is contiguous to the part of the subclavian artery inside the scalenus muscle. If it is uninjected it looks like a vein, rather flattened, and smaller than a crow-quill; and it mil be found by separating the jugular vem from the carotid artery, about half an inch above the claA^cle, coursing from beneath the artery to the end in the subclavian vein. On this side the clavicle may remain articulated, in order that the joint may be learnt.