DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 58 gianas'ofThe /?/m;257ja/iic rjlanch (glanduUo coiicatcnatic) lie along the sterno- ueck."" mastoid muscle, and ara continuous at tlie lower part of the neck with the glands in the cavity of the thorax. There is also a super- ficial chain along the extenial jugular vein. Directions. Directions. The dissection of the posterior triangle should be repeated on the left side of the neck, in order that the difference in the vessels may be obsen'ed. Afterwards the reflected parts are to be replaced and carefully fastened in their natural position with a few stitches, preservative fluid or salt having been previously applied. be examined ^he body now is to be turned on tlie fore part for the examina- iiow. tion of the Back ; and durmg the time allotted for this position the dissector of the head is to learn the posterior part of the neck. (Dissection of the Back.) fXaTcord ^^^^ completion of the Back, the student should take out spina cou. ^j^^ spinal cord, and then return to the dissection of the front of the neck, which is described below. FEONT OF THE NECK. Detach the head. Examine right side of necl<. Position of part. Dissertion to raise skin to show platysina. Anterior part of platysnia. Insertion into jaw. Crossing of tlie fibres. Directions. After the thorax and Back are finished, the bead and neck may be detached fi-om the trunk by di-^ading the spinal column between the second and third dorsal vertebras, and cutting through the arch of the aorta beyond its large branches (if this is not done), so as to take that piece of the vessel with the head. The dissector con- tinues his work on the remainder of the right side of the neck ; but if the facial nerve has been omitted, it should be first learnt (p. 35). Position. Supposing the facial nerve completed, a small naiTow block is to be placed beneath the left side of the neck, and the face is to be turned from the dissector. Further, the neck is to be made tense by means of hooks, the chin bemg well raised at the same time. Dissection. An incision along the base of the jaw on the right side (if it has not been made already) will readily allow the piece of integument in front of the stemo-mastoideus to be raised towards the middle line. Beneath the skin is the superficial fat, containing very fine offsets of the superficial cervical nerve. To define the platysma muscle, remove the fat -wliich covers it, carrying the knife down and back in the direction of the fleshy fibres. Platysma Myoides. The anterior part of the platysma, viz. fi-om the sterno-mastoid muscle to the lower jaw, covers the greater portion of the anterior triangular space. At the base of the jaw it is inserted betAveen the symphysis and the masseter muscle \ while other and more posterior fibres are continued over the face, joining the depressor anguli oris and risorius, as far as the fascia covering the parotid gland, or even to the cheek bone. The fibres have the same appearance in this as in the lower half of the muscle (p. 62), but they are rather stronger. Below the chin