79 BRANCHES OF CAROTID. hyoides, and passes beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and fiterno-thyroid muscles to the thyroid body, to which it is dis- tributed on the anterior aspect. This artery is superficial in the i.as tiiese anterior triangle, and furnislies offsets to the lowest constrictor and o««ct.s; the other muscles beneath which it lies, in addition to the following named branches :— o. The hijokl branch is very 'inconsiderable in size, and runs *\'.^,[^^,"'^^ inwards below the hyoid bone : it supplies the muscles attached to that bone, and anastomoses with the vessel of the opposite side. h. A branch for the sterno-mastoid muscle lies in front of the sheath of the common carotid artery, and is distributed chiefly to muscle, the muscle fi'om which it takes its name. c. The laryngeal branch pierces the membrane between the hyoid to larynx, bone and the thyi-oid cartilage, with the superior laryngeal nerve, and ends in the interior of the larynx. cl. A small crico-thyroid branch is placed on the membrane be- to "^co- tween the cricoid and the thyi-oid cartilage, and communicates with membrane, the con-esponding artery of the opposite side, forming an arch. The superior thyroid vein commences in the larynx and the thyroid Accompany- body, and crosses the end of the common carotid arteiy to open into ^^'"* the internal jugular vein. The facial artery (g) aiises above the lingual, and is directed Facial upwards over the lower jaw to the face. In the neck the artery ^^^'^^ passes beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and is after- wards lodged on the submaxillaiy gland, on which it makes a sig- moid turn. Its anatomy in the face has been referred to (p. 27). j^^^gj?^'®^ From the cervical part branches are given to the pharynx, and to branches the structures below the jaw, viz. :—■ a. The inferior palatine branch ascends to the phaiyns beneath to the the jaw, passing between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and is distributed to the soft palate, after furnishing a branch to the tonsil. This branch fi-equently arises from the ascending phaiyngeal artery. b. The tonsillar branch is smaller than the preceding, and passes tonsU, between the internal pterygoid and stylo-glossus muscles. Opposite the tonsil it perforates the constrictor muscle, and ends in offsets to that body. c. Glandular branches are supplied to the submaxillary gland submaxii- from the part of the artery in contact with it. ^^"^ d. The submental branch arises near the inferior maxilla, and and mylo- courses forwards on the mylo-hyoideus to the anterior belly of the muicie. digastric muscle, where it ends in offsets : some of these turn over the jaw to the chin and lower lip ; and the rest supply the muscles between the jaw and the hyoid bone,—one or two perforating the mylo-hyoideus and anastomosing with the sublingual artery. The facial vein (p. 28) joins the internal jugular. In the cervical Facial vein, part of its course it receives branches corresponding with the off- sets of the artery. Not unfrequently it opens into the temporo- maxillary trunk. The occipital artery is of considerable size, and is destined for ^^^J'y^^