CERVICAL GANGLIA OF SYMPATHETIC. 115 means of the ascending offset from the ganglion into the carotid some in the , . . ° skull. canal (p. 20). Branches for Distribution. This set of branchea is more numerous Branches, than the preceding, and the nerves are larger in size. Branches for blood-vessels (nervi-molles). These nerves surround To external the external carotid artery, and ramify on its branches so as to ' ' form plexuses on the arteries with the same names as the vessels : some small gangha are occasionally found on these ramifymg nerves. By means of the plexus on the facial artery the sub- forming maxillary ganglion communicates with the sympathetic ; and ai'^fganglia; tlu-ough the plexus on the internal maxillary artery the otic gang- lion obtains a similar communication. Another offset from the upper part of the ganglion accompanies g^j.^jj^™"'' the internal carotid artery and its branches. Near the skull it divides into two pieces, which enter the canal for the carotid, one on each side of that vessel : and are continued to the eyeball and the pia mater of the brain, forming secondary plexuses on the ophthalmic and cerebal arteries. In the carotid canal communica- nerves; tions are formeJ with the tympanic nerve (p. 109) and with the spheno-palatine ganglion (p. 142) ; with the former near the lower end, and with the latter near the upper opening of the canal. The communications and plexuses which these nerves form in their course to the brain are described at p. 20. The pharyngeal nerves pa^s inwards to the side of the pharynx, to pharyn- where they join with other branches of the cranial nerves in the Pl^xus, pharyngeal plexus (p. 111). Cardiac nerves enter the thorax to join in the plexuses of the to cardiac heart. There are three cardiac nerves on each side, viz. superior, P^®^^* > middle, and inferior, each taking its name fi-om the ganglion of which it is an offset. The superior cardiac nerve (superficial) of the right side courses superficial behind the sheath of the carotid vessels, and enters the thorax °^<"*° beneath the subclavian artery. In the neck the nei-ve is connected with the cardiac branch of the vagus, with the external laryngeal, and with the recurrent nerve. In some bodies it ends by joining joins others one of the other cardiac nerves. in neck. The MIDDLE CERVICAL GANGLION (gang, thyroideum) is of small Middle size, and is situate opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, usually on ganglion, or near the inferior thyroid artery. It has a roundish shape, and Situation, lies beneath the great vessels. Its branches are the following : Connecting branches with the spinal nerves sink between the Is .joined to borders of the longus colli and anterior scalenus, to join the fifth ^p'*"*^ and sixth cervical nerves. ""^"^^' Branches for Distribution. These consist of nerves to the thyroid oiTsets body, togather with the middle cardiac nerve. The thyroid branches ramify around the inferior thyi-oid artery, thyroid and end in the thyroid body ; they join the external and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The mi^ldle or great cardiac nerve descends to the thorax across middle tne subclavian artery ; its termination in the cardiac plexus will I 2