DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 686 second. third, fom-th digital join inner plantar. Distribution on the toes. Ending of the dorsal arterj- of the foot; its digital tranches, on the digits. External plantar nerve ends in the deep muscles: like ulnar nerve. Dissection. Transverse metatarsal ligament. Dissect the last layer of the muscles. the flexor brevis minimi digiti, and distributes small arteries to the teg-nments of the outer border of the foot. The second belongs to the sides of the fifth and fourth toes, and furnishes a branch to the outer lumbrical muscle. The third is distributed to the contiguous sides of the fourth and third toes, and emits a branch to the third lumbricalis. The fourth, or most internal, corresponds with the second inter- osseous space, and ends like the others on the third and second digits; it may assist in supplying the third lumbricalis. The last two are joined by superficial digital branches of the internal plantar at the root of the toes. On the sides of the toes the disposition of the arteries is like that of the digital in the hand. They extend to the end, where they unite in an arch, and give offsets to the sides and ball of the toe ; and the artery on the second digit anastomoses at the end of the toe with a branch from the anterior tibial artery. Near the front of both the metatarsal and the next phalanx, they form anastomotic loops beneath the flexor tendons, from which the phalangeal articulations are supplied. The DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT (fig. 211, e) enters the sole at the posterior part of the first (inner) .metatarsal space, and ends by inosculating with the plantar arch. By a large digital artery it furnishes branches to both sides of the great toe and half the next, in the same manner as the radial artery in the hand is distributed to one digit and a half. The digital branch (/, art. magna pollicis) extends to the front of the first interosseous space, and divides into collateral branches (Ji) for the contiguous sides of the great toe and the next. Near the head of the metatarsal bone it sends mwards, beneath the flexor muscles, a digital branch (g) for the inner side of the gi-eat toe. The arteries have the same arrangement along the toes as the other digital branches ; and that to the second digit anastomoses at the end with a branch of the plantar arch. External plantar nerve (fig. 211, The deep branch (*) of this nerve accompanies the arch of the artery, and ends internally in the adductor pollicis. It furnishes branches to all the interossei ; to the transversalis pedis ; and to the two external lumbrical muscles. The nerve corresponds with the deep portion of the ulnar nerve in the hand. Dissection. It will be needful to remove the transversaHs pedis muscle, to see a ligament across the heads of the metatarsal bones. The transverse metatarsal ligament is a strong fibrous band, like that in the hand (p. 299), which connects together all the meta- tarsal bones at their anterior extremity. A thin fascia covering the interossei muscles is attached to its hinder edge. It is con- cealed by the transversalis pedis, and by the tendons, vessels, and nerves of the toes. Dissection. To complete the dissection of the last layer of muscles, the flexor brevis mkdmi digiti may be detached and