501 LARGE INTESTINE. Dissection. To demonstrate the areolar tissue between the coats How t.. of tlie intestine, a piece of tlie bowel turned inside out is to be - inflatcd forcibly; and to ensure the success of the attempt, a few cuts may be previously made through the peritoneal coat. The air enters the wall of the intestine where the peritoneal covering is injured, and spreads through the whole gut; but opposite the solitary glands, and the patches of Peyer, the mucous coat is more closely connected with the contiguous structures, and the subjacent portion will not be distended with the air. The piece of the iu- tcstmc may be examined when it is dry. Vessels of the intestine. The branches of arte>-ies ramify in the submucous layer, and end in a network of small twigs in the ^jjfy'" mucous membrane, which supplies the folds, the villi, and the glands. Opposite Peyer's patches the intestine is most vascular ; and the vessels form circles around the follicles, before supplying offsets to them. The veins have their usual resemblance to the veins; companion arteries. The absorbents consist of a superficial set (lymphatics) in the absorbents, muscular coat; and of a deep plexiform set (lacteals) in both the mucous and submucous layers. The two sets join, and all end in larger trunks in the mesentery. Nerves of the small intestine come fi-om the upper mesenteric pig^^g^^f'"'"^ plexus, and entering the coats by the side of the arteries, form with gaii- plexuses witli interspersed ganglia. One such plexus is contained 8^"*- in the muscular coat between the longitudinal and circular fibres (Auerbach) ; and another is placed in the submucous laj'^er (Meiss- ner) : they join fi-eely by branches through the intestinal coats, and reach fi-om the pylorus to the extremity of the alimentary tube. Structure of the common bile duct. The bile duct consists of an Two coats external or strong fibrous layer, and of an internal or mucous coat duct; which is lined by columnar epithelium. On the surface of the eiiitheiium inner membrane are the openings of numerous branched mucous '""^ glaiKls. glands, which are imbedded in the fibrous coat; some of them are aggregated together, and are visible with a lens. LARGE INTESTINE. The large intestine is the part of the aliraentaiy canal between Kxtent of the termination of the ileum and the anus. Its division, and its ^lie gut; attachment by peritoneum to the abdominal wall, have been de- scribed (p. 470). In length this portion of the ahmentary canal measures about five length: or six feet,—one fifth of tlie length of the intestinal tube. The diameter of the colon is largest at the commencement of the cajcum, size, and gradually decreases as far as the rectum, where there is a dilata- tion near the end. When compared with the small intestine, the colon is distinguished cq,,, ,„,.p,, by the following characters :—It is of greater capacity, being in w?t'h small «omc places as large again, and is more fixed in its position : it is '