515 STRUCTURE OF GALL-BLADDER. The surface of the raucous meiubrane is covered by a columnar Where the gall-bladder ends in the cystic duct (fig. IGO) its coats project into tlic interior, and give rise tu ridges resembling those in the sacculated large in- testine. The cystic duct (b) joins the hepatic duct at an acute angle, to form tlic ductus com- munis clioledochus. It is about an incii and a half long, and is distended and somewhat sacculated near the gall-bladder. Structure. The coats of the duct are formed like those of tlie sac from which it leads, but the muscular fibres are very few. The mucous lining is provided witli glands, as in the hepatic and common bile ducts (p. 514). On opening the duct the mucous membrane may be observed to form about twelve semi- lunar projections (fig. 160, c), which are ar- ranged obliquely around the tube, and increase in size towards the gall-bladder. This strnc- ture is best seen on a gall-bladder which has been inflated and dried ; as in this state the parts of the duct between the ridges are most stretched. Bloodvessels and iwves. The vessels of the gall-bladder are named c>/stic. The artery is a branch of the hepatic ; and the cystic vein opens into the vena portas near the liver. The nerves are derived from the hepatic plexus, and entwine around the vessels. The bjmphatics follow the cystic duct, and joi-n the deep lymphatics on the spinal column. witli a cohiiiinar epithelium: projections of tlie wall. Piict of gall- bladder : structure same as sac, and is pro- vided wltli glands. Artery and vein, nen e and lymphatics. THE KIDNEY AND THE URETER. The Iddney has a characteristic form :—flattened on the sides, it Use and is larger at the upper than the lower extremity, and is hollowed out form.: at one part of its circumference. For the purpose of distinguishing ,iistin- between the right and left kidneys, let the excavated margin be K^ish right turned to the spinal column, with the lu'eter or the excretory tube behind the other A^essels ; and let that end of the ^'iscus be directed ilownwards, towards which the ureter is naturally inclined. Witli the special form above mentioned, the kidney is of a deep Colour, red colour, witli an even surface. Its average length is about four size, inches ; its breadth two ; and its thickness about one inch ; but the left is commonly longer and more slender than the right kidney. * Gall bladder and its duct. a. Gall bladder, h. Bile duct sacculated, r. Ridges in the interior. (/. Common bile duct. e. Common hepatic duct. L L 2