165 LIGAMENTS OF LARYNX. cartilage is tlic small, conical, fibro-cartilago of Santorini (comi- culum capitulum), which is bent inwards towards the one of the opposite side. The arytceno-epiglottidean fold is connected with it. Cuneiform cartilcujes. Two other small fibro-cartilaginous bodies, one on each side, which are contained in the arytajno-epiglottid wrisberg. folds, have received this name. Each is somewhat elongated and rounded in form, like a gi-ain of rice ; it is situate obliquely in front of the capitulum of the arytajnoid cartilage, and its place in the fold of the mucous membrane is marked by a slight whitish pro- jection. The epirjlottis (fig. 43, ^) is single, and is the largest of the pieces Epiglottis, of yellow hbro-cartilage. In form it is cordate ; and it resembles a py^jjo^ leaf, with the stalk below and the lamina or expanded piece above. Its position is behind the tongue, and in front of the orifice of the lai-ynx. During respiration it is placed vertically; but during de- glutition it takes a horizontal du-ection so as to close the opening of the larynx. The anterior surface is bent forwards to the tongue, to which it Surfaces, is connected by three folds of mucous membrane ; and the posterior surface, hollowed laterally, is convex fi-om above down. To its sides the arytajno-epiglottid folds of mucous membrane are united. After the mucous membrane has been removed from the epiglottis ™ its substance will be seen to be perforated by numerous spaces, which lodge mucous glands. Between the epiglottis and the hyoid bone is a mass of yellowish Supposed fat with some glands ; this has been sometimes called the epiglot- ^ ™ ' tidean gland. Ligaments of the Larynx. The larynx is connected by extrinsic Ligaments ligaments with the hyoid bone above and the trachea below. Other °aryux, ligaments unite together the cartilages, sometimes with joints. Union of the larynx loitli the hyoid hone and the trachea. A thin betiveen os loose elastic membrane (thyro-hyoid) extends fi-om the thyroid carti- and tr-cbea lage to the hyoid bone ; and a second membrane connects the cricoid cartilage with the trachea. The thyro-hyoid ligament (fig. 42, ^) is attached on the one part TlijTo-hyoid to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage ; and on the other, to the. upper border of the hyoid bone, at the posterior aspect. Of some thickness in the centre, it gi-adually becomes thinner towards ^Vmnge- the sides ; and it ends laterally in a rounded elastic cord, which intervenes between the extremity of the hyoid bone and the upper cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The superior laryngeal nei-ve and vessels perforate the li gament, Connec- and a synovial membrane is placed between it and the posterior surface of the hyoid bone. In the elastic lateral cord of the liga- ment will be found occasionally a small ossific nodule (cartilage triticea). The membrane joining the lower border of the cricoid cartilage Crico- to the first ring of the trachea—crico-trachcal ligament, resembles membmne. the bands jommg the rings of the trachea to each other. Union of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. These cartilages are Between