372 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Union of the costal cartilages. Cartilages with tho sternum. Synovial sac. Second car- tilage has a doublejoint. Costo- xiphoid ligament. Costal cartilage with rib. Cartilages with one another. Motion. False carti- TJnion of pieces of sternum. Motion slight. Two sets of ligaments unite the vertebrK. How to see the several ligaments. Ligaments of the Sternal Cautilages. The cartilages of the true ribs except the first are united to the Bternum by a fibrous capsule, which covers a synovial membrane ; and externally they ai-e joined to the osseous part of the rib. The first is generally ossified to the sternum ; and some of the lower cartilages touch each other, and are connected together by fibrous bands with synovial membranes. In the chondro-sternal articulation (fig. 51, ■*), the cartilages are received into the depressions on the side of the sternum, and are fixed in their position by a capsule of surrounding fibres. In fi-ont and behind the capsule are thickened bands, which have been de- scribed as anterior and posterior ligaments. Between the cartilage and the bone is a synovial membrane. In the joint of the second cartilage there is an interarticular ligament (fig. 51, as in the head of the rib, which joins the cartilage between the pieces of the sternum. A synovial sac exists on each side of the interarticular ligament. A separate band of fibres joins the cartilage of the seventh rib to the xiphoid cartilage, and is named costo-xiphoid ligament. Costal cartilage with the rib. The bony part of the rib is hollowed to receive the costal cai'tilage, and the periosteum of the rib is the investing membrane between the two. Costal Caktilages to one Another. The contiguous surfaces of the costal cartilages fi-om the sixth to the ninth are flattened, and are connected by ligamentous fibres ; each articulation is provided with a synovial membrane. Movement. There is only a limited gliding motion in the chondro- sternal and theinterchondral articulations. The second rib-cartilage joint is the most moveable. AsTEBNAL Cartilages. The cartilages of the three first false ribs, are united only by end-bands of fibrous tissue, and are freer to move than those which are attached to the sternum. The lowest two, which are separate from one another, are the least fixed. Articulation of the Sternum (fig. 51). As the two pieces of the bone are united by cartilage without any synovial membrane, the kind of articulation is sometimes named synchondrosis. The articulation is strengthened by anterior and posterior longitudinal fibres. Movement. In articulations through the medium of cartilage, as here and in the pelvis, there is very little motion to be perceived, even when the osseous pieces are forcibly pulled by the hands. ^ Articulation of the Vertebra. The vertebraj of the spinal column are united together by two sets of ligaments—one for the bodies, and the other for the arch and processes. Along the spinal column the ligaments have a general resem- blance, and one description will suface except for those between the first two vertebrae and the head, and those of the pelvis. Dissection. After the articulations of the ribs have been examined, the same piece of the spinal column will serve for the preparation of the ligaments of the bodies of the vertebra. The anterior hga-