161 NERVES OF LARYXX. ternally it is connected with the thyro-arytfenoicl muscle. And in- feriorly it is continuous with the crico-thyroid hgament, ic. Ihe cd"-e that bounds the ventricle is straight and well defined, and vibrates to produce sounds. The ligament is composed of fine Kuture. elastic tissue. . The mncous memirane of the larynx is continued from that invest- ^J^^^^^l^^ ing the pharjmx, and is prolonged to the lungs through the oc larynx, trachea. When entering the larynx it is stretched between the epiglottis and the tip of the arytasnoid cartilage, forming the arytajno-epiglottid fold on each side of the laryngeal orifice : at this spot it is very loose, and the submucous tissue abundant. In An-ange- the larynx the membrane lines closely the cavity, sinks into the ' ventricle, and is prolonged into the laryngeal pouch. On the thyi'O- arytiunoid ligaments it is very thin tmd adherent, allowing those to be visible through it. In the small part of the larynx above the vocal cords, the Epithelium epithelium is of the laminar kind, and fi-ee fiom cilia. But a columnar ciMated epithelium covers the surface below the level of differs in the superior cords, though it becomes flattened without cilia on the cords : on the epiglottis it is ciliated in the loAver half. Numerous branched glands are connected vnth. the mucous mem- Glands, brane of the larynx; and the orifices will be seen on the surface, especially at the posterior aspect of the epiglottis. In the edge of tlie arj'tajno-epiglottidean fold there is a little swelling occasioned by a mass of subjacent glands (arytajnoid) ; and along the upper vocal cord lies another set. None exist over the vocal cords, but close to those bands is the collection of the sacculus laryngis, which lubricates the ventricle and the lower vocal cord. Dissection of nerves ami vessels. The termination of the laryngeal ^/^j^g^j^ygg^ ner^'^es may be dissected on the untouched side of the lai'ynx. For this pui-jDose the other half of the thyroid is to be disarticulated from the cricoid cartilage, care- being taken of the recurrent nerve, which lies near the joint between the two. The trachea and larjmx should be fastened down with pins ; and after the thjToid has been drawn awaj' fi'om the cricoid cartilage, the inferior laryngeal inferior, nerve can be traced over the side of the latter cartilage to the muscles of the larynx, and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Aftei-wards the superior laryngeal is to be found as it pierces the superior thyro-hyoid membrane, and branches of it are to be followed to the ^'^'^"oeal: mucous membrane of the larynx and pharjmx. Two communica- tions are to be looked for between the larj^ngeal nerves ; one is beneath the thyroid cartilage, the other in the mucous membrane of the pharynx. An artery accompanies each nerve, and its offsets are to be of vessels, dissected at the same time as the nerve. Nerves. The nerves of the laiynx are the superior and inferior Neri'es are laryngeal branches of the pncumo-gastric (p. Ill) ; the former ig ^^o"'^ag"s. distributed to the mucous membrane, and the latter mostly to the muscles. The inferior larynrjcal nei-ve (recun-ent), when about to enter the Recurrent jj. ucrvo