DISSECTION OP THE EYE. T88 Ponn of the laiiiiuic. fibres microscope each layer may be seen to be constructed of minute parallel fibres. It consists mostly of albumen, and no bloodvessels are found in its texture. The laminm of each surface have their apices in the centre, where the septa meet ; they may be detached from one another at that spot, and may be turned outwards towards the equator of the lens The constituent ^i?-es of the laminaj are about -^th of an inch m diameter, solid, and flattened at the margin of the lens; and the deeper fibres are narrowed and are wavy at the edge, aud six- sided, less distinct. In the superficial softer fibres are contained gra- nular nuclei (fig. 235, a). The edges are slightly wavy ; and each fibre touches six others (fig. 235, 6), viz. two on each side, with one above, and another below : contiguous fibres are Fig. 234.* Fig. 235.t and attached to the septa hy theii- ends. Change in form colour, and consistence of lens with age. dovetailed together, and this interlocking is best seen in the lens of the codfish. The ends are soft and not well defined, and are connected with the partitions on the opposite surfaces of the lens in this way :— those attached at the union of two septa on the one aspect, are fixed to the extremity of a septum on the other aspect: and the fibres passing between two septa are nearer to the pole at one end, and farther from it at the other, while the middle ones are at the same distance fi-om the ends of the septa on both aspects. Changes in the lens with age. The form of the lens is nearly spherical in the fetus; but its convexity decreases with age, particularly on the anterior aspect, tmtil it becomes flattened in the adult. In the fetus it is soft, is reddish in colour, and is not quite trans- parent; in mature age it is firm and clear; and in old age it becomes flatter on both surfaces, denser, aud of a yellowish colour. * A representation of the laininje in a hardened lens. a. The nucleus. 6. Superficial laminte. t Views of the lens fibres—after Henle.—a. Surface fibres with their nuclei, in the equatorial region of the lens. h. Transverse section of the fibres of the surface of the lens, showing their union with others.