DISSECTION OF TEE BUTTOCK. Superior gluteal nervo is muscular. Glutens minimus. Attacli- ments. It is next tlie bone, its boi*ders. Use on femur hanging, and fixed: standing on one leg. Divide smallest gluteus. trace deep vessels. Outer head of the rectvis. vagingft Origin of pyrtfomiis. Insertion: lies in sacro- sciatic notch: position to other parts. The superior gluteal nerve (fig. 199,') is a brancli of the lumbo- sacral cord (p. 541). It accompanies the gluteal artery, and divides into two for the supply of the two smallest gluteal muscles: its lowest branch terminates anteriorly in the tensor femoris, B. The GLUTEUS MINIMUS (fig. 199, c) is triangular in shape, and arises from the dorsum of the hip bone between the superior and inferior curved Unes, extendmg backwards as far as to a level with the middle of the liip joint. Its tendon is inserted into an impres- sion along the fore part of the gi-eat trochanter, where it is united inferiorly with the gluteus medius : some fibres are attached to the capsule of the hip joint. One surface is in contact with the gluteus medius, and the gluteal vessels and nerve ; the other with the hip bone, the hip joint, and the outer head of the rectus femoris muscle. The anterior border lies by the side of the other gluteus ; and the posterior is covered by the pyiiformis muscle. A bursa is placed between the tendon and the bone. Action. It acts as an abductor, and rotator out of the femur when this bone is hanging ; and in walldng it and the medius will be employed in bringing forwards the limb. Both legs being fixed, the muscles are used in balancing the pel- vis. In standing on one leg the gluteus pitches the pelvis over the supporting limb with the preceding muscle. Dissection. Cut through the smallest gluteal muscle near the innominate bone, and define the tendinous portion of the rectus femoris underneath it, close above the hip joint. Whilst detach- ing the gluteus fi"om the parts underneath, the student cannot fail to notice the connection between its tendon and the capsule of the joint. The deep vessels to the articulation may be observed and followed as the muscle is removed. The outer head of the rectus femoris is a tendon as wide as the little finger, and about two inches long, which is fixed into the groove above the margin of the acetabulum. In front it joins the other tendinous piece of the rectus, which is attached to the anterior in- ferior iliac spine : and its lower border is connected with the cap- sule of the hip joint. The Pyeifoemis (fig. 198 b) arises in the pelvis from the front of the sacrum (p. 594), and leaves that cavity through the great sacro-sciatic notch. Outside the pelvis it ends in a rounded tendon, Avhich is inserted into the upper edge of the great trochanter, between the two smaller glutei. As the muscle passes through the large sacro-sciatic notch it divides that space into two :—The upper giving passage to the gluteal vessels and nerve, and the lower transmitting the sciatic and pudic vessels and the sacral plexus. Its upper border is contiguous to the gluteus medius; and its lower, to the gemellus superior. Like the other rotator muscles in this situation, it is covered by the gluteus maximus, and by the gluteus medius at the insertion; it