180 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Cerobruni, divisiima. Dissection of vessels of large brain; Cerebellum. The cerebellum (fig. 59, b), or the small brain, is separated into two by a median fissure, and each half will be subsequently seen to consist of lobes. The cerebrum (fig. 59, r and 2>), or the large brain, is divided into hemispheres by a longitudinal fissure in the middle line ; and ana its great ^f^ch half is further subdivided into two by a transverse sulcus,— the fissure of Sylvius. In the centre of the cerebrum, between the hemispheres and in front of the pons, are several small bodies which will be afterwards enumerated. Dissection. To follow out the arteries, let the brain remain upside down, and let the arachnoid membrane be removed from them. Having displayed the trunks of the vertebral arteries on the medulla oblongata, and those of the carotid near the median fissure of the large brain, the student should lay bare on one side the branches to the large brain. Define first the two arteries (anterior cerebral) lying in the median fissure and joining by a short branch ; next, an arteiy that passes outwards in the fissure of Sylvius (middle cere- bral), and pursue it to the outer surface of the hemisphere. Look then for a much smaller vessel (choroid), which sinks into the brain on the outer side of the crus cerebri. By gently raising the cere- bellum on the same side, the last artery of the cerebrum (posterior cerebral) may be traced back along the inner aspect of the hemi- sphere. Two arteries pass out to the small brain. One on the upper surface (upper cerebellar) may be brought into view on raising the cerebellum, with the slender fourth nen^e by its side. The other artery (lower cerebellar) turns inwards to the median hollow, and may be easily followed. Akteries of the Brain (Fig. 52). The brain is supplied -with blood by the vertebral and internal carotid arteries. The vertebral artery, is a branch of the subclavian trunk (p. 70), and enters the skull thi-ough the foramen magnum ; directed upwards round the medulla oblongata, it blends with its fellow in a common trunk (basilar) at the lower border of the pons. As the vessel winds round the upper end of the cord, it lies between the roots of the suboccipital and hypoglossal nerves ; but it is after- wards internal to the last. Branches. Between its entrance into the spinal canal and its termi- nation, each artery furnishes offsets to the spinal cord, the dura mater, and the cerebellum. a. The 2)Osterior spinal branch is of inconsiderable size, and arises opposite the back of the medulla: it descends along the side of the cord, behind the nei-ves, and anastomoses with its fellow, and with branches that enter by the intervertebral foramina. b. The anterior sjnnal branch Q^) is small like the preceding, and springs from the trimk opposite the fi-ont of the spinal cord. ^ It joins the corresponding twig of the opposite side, and the resulting vessel is continued along the middle of the cord on the anterior aspect. to dura c. The posterior meningeal arteiij leaves the vertebral tiimk oppo- Biater. of sm, brain. Arteries of the brain. Vertebral ends in basilar, winds round medulla. Branches to spinal cord, anterior and posterior;