DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 398 iiiul give a branch to spinnl oord. Lumbar arteries are also divided into inner and outer branches. Veins are deep cer- vical. occipital. dorsal and lumbar, and deep veins. Muscles of the fifth layer. Dissection of the last layer of muscles. Bectus capi- tis major: •attach- ments. Connec- tions. Use of both, and one muscle. Bectus capi- tis minor; As the dorsal brancli of the intercostal artery passes by the inter- vertebral foramen, it furnishes a small intruspinul artery to the spinal canal (p. 415). » In the loins. The posterior branches of the lumbar arteries divide, like the intercostal, into internal and external pieces as soon as they reach the interval between the longissimus dorsi and multifidus spinas. Each gives also a spinal branch to the spinal canal. '■■ The internal branches are small, and end in the multifidus spina) muscle. The external branches supply the erector spina); and offsets are continued onwards to the integuments with the superficial nerves. Veins. With the deep cervical artery is a large vein, vena pro- funda cervicis, wliich communicates with the occipital and other deep veins in this region, forming the posterior plexus of the neck, and passes forwards ^vith its artery, between the transverse processes, to join the vertebral vein. The occipital vein lies with its artery, and communicates sometimes with the lateral sinus of the skull through the mastoid foramen. The dorsal and lumbar veins correspond in their branching and distribution with the arteries they accompany, and end in the inter- costal veins and the vena cava. In contact with the spinous processes and plates of the vertebrte is a deeper set of veins (dorsi spinal), which anastomose fi-eely together, and open into the veins in the interior of the spinal canal. o yijTTH Layer. In this layer are the following small muscles:— the recti and obliqui, semispinalis, interspinales, multifidus spinas, and intertransversales. Dissection. Most of the remaining muscles of the Back are un- covered by the previous dissection. Between the first two vertebrje and the occipital bone the small straight and oblique muscles extend. * In the cervical and dorsal regions the semispinalis muscle appears, with the small interspinales internal to it; and occupying a corresponding position in the loins, is the multifidus spina). The small intertransverse muscles of the lumbar region will be found by removing the erector spinte. The RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MAJOR (fig. 119, a) is the largest of the muscles between the occipital bone and the first two vertebrse, and arises from the side of the spinous process of the axis. It is inserted into the outer part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone for about an inch, as well as into the surface below it. The muscle is directed outwards very obliquely, and forms one side of the triangular space which contains the suboccipital nerve and the vertebral artery. Its upper attaclmient lies beneath the superior oblique muscle. Action. By the action of both muscles the head will be put backwards. By one rectus the face will be turned to the same side ; and after the head has been so rotated, the muscle will assist in extending the head. The RECTUS capitis POSTICUS MINOR (fig. 119, b) is internal to the