DISSECTIOX OF THE ABDOMEX. 540 and tlie ii'cejitiicu- luiii, and spkncliiiic nerves. Luml)nr lyiiiplmtics end in one duct: lyuipliaties enter glands Beginning of the tlio- racic duct, at first lumbar vertebra. Large azj-gos vein; entrance into thorax, Small azygos beginning of the duct (cliyli receptaculnm), and of the vena azygoB, may be well seen ; and the two may be followed upwards into the thorax. On the left side the student may trace the splanchnic nerves and the small vena azygos through the pillar of the diaplu-agm; and may show the knotted cord of the sympathetic nerve entering the abdomen licneath the arch over the psoas muscle. Lympliatic glands. A chain of glands is placed along the side of the external iliac artery, and along the front and sides of the lumbar vertebriB ; they are connected by short tubes, which increase in size and diminish in number, and opposite the first lumbar vertebra tliree or four trunks unite in the thoracic duct. Into the glands the lymphatics of the lower limbs, and those of the viscera and wall of the abdomen are received. Receptaculum chyli (Pecquet). The thoracic duct begins in the abdomen by the union of three or four large lymphatic vessels. Its commencement is marked by a dilatation,, which is placed on the right side of the aorta, about opposite the first lumbar vertebra. The duct enters the thorax by passing through the diaphragm with the aorta. Beginning of the azygos veins. The right vein (vena azygos major) begins at the first or second lumbar vertebra by a small branch, which is united with a lumbar vein. It enters the thorax with the thoracic duct and the aorta, to the right of which it lies. The left or small azygos vein begins on the left side of the spine, joining one of the lumbar veins, and passes through the pillar of the diaphragm, or through the aortic opening. The anatomy of these veins is given in the description of the thorax, p. 363. Sectiox VI. SPINAL AND SYMPATHETIC NERVES. The spinal nerves of the loins are united in a plexus, and supply the limb and the contiguous portions of the trunk. Dissection. The lumbar nerves and their plexus are to be leanit on the left side, although the woodcut shows them on the right side ; and to bring them into view, the dissector should cut through Dissection the external iliac vessels, and afterwards scrape away the psoas, oft'heium- ^ox the most part the fleshy fibres may be removed freely ; but a ou'ieft side, small branch (accessory of the obturator) should be first looked for at the inner border of the muscle. In the substance of the quadratus lumborum a connnunication may be sometimes found between the last dorsal and the first lumbar i\ex\&. vith «yT,i- The cord of the sympathetic nerve lies along the edge of the pathetic. pgojis^ and offsets of it join the spinal nerves ; these are to be followed back along the lumbar arteries.