DUCT AND VESSELS OF TESTIS. 527 urethra. The lengtli of this part of the excretory duct is about two length ami feet, and the width of its canal about ^\jth of an inch. Opening sometimes into the vas deferens, at the angle of union with the epididymis, is a small narrow enseal appendage, the present: aberrant of Hallcr (fig. 107, I). It is convoluted, and projects up- Kituatiou wards for one or two inches amongst the vessels of the cord. ^ Like and size, the epididymis, it is longer when it is uncoiled : its capacity is greatest at the free end. Its use is unknown. Structure. The excretory duct of the testis has a thick muscular Two coats coat, which is covered externally by fibrous tissue, and lined inter- nally by mucous membrane. To the feel the duct i^ firm and wiry, like whip-cord. On a section its wall is dense and of a rather yellow colour, but it is tliinnest at the head of the epididymis. The muscular coat is composed of longitudinal and circular fibres a muscular, arranged in strata. Both externally and internally is a longitudinal layer, the latter being very thin ; and between them is the layer of circular fibres. The mucous memlrane is marked by longitudinal folds in the ^''^"^'[.yjjg straight part of the canal, and by irregular ridges in the sacculated portion. A columnar epithelium, though not ciliated, covers the inner surface; but m the epididymis it is cihated (Becker). Organ of Giraldesfi In the spermatic cord of the fetus and child, ^jj?^," .p?". close above the epididymis, is a small whitish granular-looking bodj^ (" Corps Imiomine," Giraldes), about half an inch long—the '^y"j^'^^^°^ remains of the lower part of the Wolffian body of the embryo, body," "With slight magnifying power its component white granules are oonsti- resolved into small vesicles, and convoluted tubes of varying shape, filled with a clear tliick fluid ; their wall consists of a tliin membrane, structure, lined by flattened epithelium, with plexuses of bloodvessels ramify- ing on the exterior. Bloodvessels and nerves of the testicle. Tlie branches of the sper- Siiermatie matic artery supply offsets to the epididymis, and pierce the back of the testicle to enter the posterior part of the mediastinum. The vessels are finely divided in the vascular structure lining the inteiior of the tunica albuginea ; and oflisets are continued on the fine septa to the seminal tubules, on wliich they are distributed in capillary plexuses. The spermatic vein begins by radicles in the plexuses aroimd the Spevniatiii seminal tubes, and issues from the gland at the back, being there joined by veins fifom the epididymis. As it ascends along the cord its branches form the spermatic plexus ; it joins the vena cava on the right side, and the renal vein on the left (p. 537). The an-angement of the lymphatics in the testicle is unknown ; Lymphatics external to that body they ascend on the bloodvessels, and join the lumbar glands. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic, and accompany the and nerves, arteries to the testis : their ending has not been seen. * Sur un Organe place dans Ic Cordon Spermatique, et dont I'existence n'a pas et6 signalee par les Anatoinistes. Par F. Giraldes. Proceedin^rs of the Koyal Society for May, 1858.