257 DELTOID MUSCLE. posterior edge is approaclied, the cutaneous nerve and vessels escaping from beneath it, are to be dissected out. , , , . At the same time the fascia may be removed fi-om the back ot the scapula, so as to denude the muscles there. The DELTOID MUSCLE is triangular in form (fig. 74, f), with the Deltoi.l base at the scapula and clavicle, and the apex at the humerus. It arises from nearly all the lower border of the spine of the scapula, from the anterior edge of the acromion, and from the outer half or third of the clavicle. Its fibres converge to a tendon which is inserted into a triangular impression, two to three inches long and Insertion, about one inch wide at the base, above the middle of the humerus on the outer surface. The anterior border is contiguous to the pectoralis major muscle A'lj?'^^"*' and the cephalic vein ; and the posterior rests on the infraspinatus and triceps muscles. The origin of the muscle corresponds with the attachment of the trapezius to the bones of the shoulder; the insertion is imited with the tendon of the pectoralis major, and a fasciculus of the brachialis anticus is attached on each side of it. Action. The whole muscle raises the humerus and abducts it Use oii^^ from the trunk. The limb being raised, the anterior fibres will carry it forwards, and the posterior fibres will move it backwards. When the humerus is fixed as in climbing, the muscle assists in fixed limb, supporting the weight of the body, and strengthening the shoulder joint. Dissection (fig. 74). The deltoid is to be di-^dded near its origin. Dissection and is to be thrown down as much as the circumflex vessels and aeitow!' nerve beneath will permit. As the muscle is raised a large thick bursa between it and the head of the humerus comes into sight. The loose tissue and fat are to be taken away from the circumflex vessels and nerve ; and the size of the bursa having been looked to, the remains are to be removed. The insertion of the muscle should be examined. Parts covered hy deltoid. The deltoid conceals the head and upper parts end of the humerus, and those parts of the dorsal scapular muscles which are fixed to the great tuberosity. A large bursa, sometimes divided into sacs, intervenes between the head of the humerus and the under surface of the deltoid muscle and the acromion process. Below the head of the bone are the circumflex vessels and nen'^e, and the upper part of the biceps muscle. In front of the humerus is the coracoid process with its muscles. Dissection. By following back the posterior circumflex vessels Dissection and nerve through a space between the humerus and the long head chl-umHcT of the triceps, o, their connection with the axillary trunks will be vessels, arrived at. In clearing the fat from the space a branch of the nerve to the teres minor muscle is to be sought close to the border of the scapula, where it is surrounded by dense fibrous tissue. Arching outwards in front of the neck of the humerus, is the and anterior, small anterior circumflex artery : this is to be cleaned. The circumflex arteries arise near the termination of the axillaiy Two circum- „ flex arteries.