167 STRUCTURE OF TRACHEA. tlie cartilages. When the arytsenoids glide in and out the cords AcWon on will be approximated and separated ; when backwards and forwards, ^ocalcoras. the cords will be tightened and relaxed ; and in rotation the cords will be moved away from, and brought towards each other. A kind of capsule, formed of thin scattered fibres, with a synovial ^^^^^^.^ sac unites the apex of the arytajnoid cartilage with the hollowed and capitu- base of the capitulum of Santorini. Sometimes these cartilages are blended together. Fibrous bands (thyro-arytainoid) join the thyroid with the ai-y- tcmoid cartilages, and have been examined as the vocal cords aiytienoid. (p. 160). Ligaments of the epiglottis. A band, ihjro-epiglottidean, connects Two^^>^«- tlie foot-stalk of the epiglottis to tlie thyroid cartilage, close to the epiglottis, excavation in the upper border of the latter (fig. 42). Some fibrous and elastic tissues—hyo-epiglottid ligament, connect likeAvise the front of the epiglottis to the hyoid bone. Structure of the Trachea. The air tube consists of a series of CousWtu- pieces of cartilage (segments of rings) (fig. 40), which are con- trachea, nected together by fibrous tissue. The interval between the carti- lages at the back of the tube is closed by fibrous membrane, and by muscular fibres and mucous glands. The trachea is lined by mucous membrane with subjacent elastic tissue. Cartilages. The pieces of cartilage vary in number from sixteen Cartilages, to twenty. Each forms an incomplete ring, which extends about Form. tln.-ee fourths of a circle; and each is convex forwards, forming the fi-ont and sides of the air tube. Both above and below, the carti- ^^g*^^^"" laginous pieces are less constant in size and form ; for towards the laiynx they increase in depth, whilst in the opposite direction they may be slit at their ends or blended together ; and the lowest piece of cartilage is shaped like the letter V. A fibrous tissue is continued from one to another on both as- Fibrous pects, though in greatest quantity externally, so as to incase and tissue, imite them ; and it is extended across the posterior part of the air tube. Dissection. On removing for about two inches the fibrous mem- Dissection, brane and the mucous glands from the interval between the carti- lages at the back of the trachea, the muscular fibres mil appear. After the muscular fibres have been examined the membranous part of the tube may be slit down, to see the elastic tissue and the mucous membrane. Muscular fibres. Between the ends of the cartilages is a continuous Muscular layer of transverse bundles of unstriated muscle, wliich is attached ['1!,^"]^^;^^"*® to the truncated ends and the inner surface of the cartilages. By beiiind. the one surface the fleshy fibres are in contact with the membrane and glands, and by the other with the elastic tissue. Some longi- tudinal fibres are superficial to the transverse ; they are arranged in scattered bundles, and are attached to the fibrous tissue. The elastic tissue forms a complete lining to the tracheal tube Elastic beneath the mucous membrane ; and at the posterior part, where tradiwu"''^ the cartilages are deficient, it is gathered into strong longitudinal