C76 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. Oinieiuiions «ikI slmpe; Uiametcr. On the floor is a fit'st: in the crest is a pouoh. Vcsic-ul.a projects into llie prostate quarter in length, and is altogether the widest portion of the urethral canal. Its form is spindle-shaped, for it is larger in the middle than at either end. Its transverse measurement at the neck of the bladder is a quarter of an inch ; at its centre a line or two more ; and at the front rather less than at the back. Separating this part of the passage from the bladder is the emi- nence of the uvula vesicre with its slight ridge. In front of this is a central longitudinal eminence of the mucous lining (cl), about three quarters of an inch in length, and larger beliind than before, which is prolonged anteriorly towards the membranous part of the canal, and is named crest of the urethra (veru montanum, caput gallinagfinis) : it is formed like the uvula by a bimdle of the sub- mucous muscular and fibrous tissues. In that crest of the mucous membrane, near its posterior extremity, is a slight hollow (e) named vesicxda prostatica or sinus ^ocularis. The vesicula prostatica or utricle (fig. 178, g) is directed back- wards and downwards in the prostate, for a quarter of an inch, FiK. 178.* passing beneath the middle and between the lateral lobes. Its orificein the urethra is about a line wide, and its closed extremity nn.ihyits is about as large again. Along the wall, on each side, is placed sides are the tl^g common seniinal duct (/), which terminates on or withm the margin of the mouth of the sac ; and if bristles are introduced into the common seminal duct behmd the prostate, they will render evident the apertures. Small glands open on the surface of the mucous membrane lining the utricle. The vesicula is the remains of the united lower ends of the ducts of MiiUer m the fetus, and represents the uterus in the female. * Section tlirongli tlie bladder, prostate, and n.-cUira, ^-^^7^^*^^^^ nrostatica and the common seminal duct. a. Bhidder. 6 iiostate, ana f, J^SrpaTrof the urethra, rf. Vesicula seminahs. c. Vas deferens. /. Common ejacnlatory duct. (j. Vesicula prostatica.