DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 680 lirst, second, third, fourth. External artery has curved course; partly superficial, partly deep. Superficial part: connec- tions, veins and neiTe. Branches. Plantar nerves also two. Internal nerve to three toes and a half: muscular branches. Digital nerves are divided ex- cept first; muscular branches: ficial digital branches accompany the digital nei-ves of the internal plantar (fig. 208), and are thus disposed of:— The first is distributed to the inner side of the foot and great toe ; the second lies over the first interosseous space ; the third corresponds with the second space ; and the fourth is placed over the third space. At the root of the toes the last three join the deeper digital arteries in those spaces. The external artery (a) takes an arched course in the foot, with the concavity of the arch turned inwards. The vessel is first directed outwards across the sole, and then obliquely inwards towards the root of the gi-eat toe, so that it crosses the foot twice. In the first half of its extent, viz. from the inner side of the cal- caneum to the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, the artery is comparatively superficial; in the other half, between the little and the great toe, it lies deeply in the foot, and forms the plantar arch. Only the first part of the artery is now laid bare ; the remaining portion, supplying the digital branches, will be noticed after the examination of the third layer of muscles (p. 685). As far as the metatarsal bone of the little toe, the vessel is concealed by the abductor poUicis and the flexor breads digitorum ; but for a short distance near its termination it lies in the interval between the last muscle and the abductor minimi digiti. In this extent it is placed on the os calcis, and the flexor accessoiius : and it is accompanied by venas comites, and the external plantar nerve. It supplies -offsets to the muscles between which it lies, and others to the outer side of the foot for anastomosis with the peroneal artery. The PLANTAE NERVES (fig. 209) are derived from the bifurcation. of the posterior tibial trunk behind the inner ankle. They are two in number, hke the arteries, and have the same anatomy as those vessels, for each accompanies a plantar arteiy : but the larger nerve lies with the smaller bloodvessel. The internal plantar nerve Q) courses between the short flexor of the toes and the abductor poUicis, and giving but few muscular offsets, di^ddes into four digital branches (fig. 208 ^ ^ ^ %) for the supply of both sides of the inner three toes, and half the fourth ; it resembles thus the median nerve of the hand in the distribution of its branches. Muscular offsets are given by it to the short flexor of the toes (perforatus) and the abductor poUicis ; and a few superficial twigs perforate the fascia. The four digital nerves have a numerical designation, and the first is nearest the inner border of the foot. The branch (') to the inner side of the great toe is undivided, but the others ai-e bifurcated at the cleft between the toes. Muscular branches are furnished by these nerves before they reach the toes ; thus, the first (most internal) supplies the flexor 2Cond gives a branch to the inner lumbrical brevis poUicis ; the se muscle ; and the third, to the next lumbricalis.