516 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. amlwoiglit. Its usual woif^'lit is about five ounces and a half in the male, and rather less in the female. The upper extremity of the kidney is rounded, is thicker than the lower, and is surmounted by the suprarenal body. The lower end is flat, and more pointed. The position with respect to the spinal colunm has been before detailed (p. 472). On the anterior surface the viscus is rounded, but on the opposite surface it is £>:enerally flattened. The outer border is convex ; but the inner is excavated, and is marked by a longitudinal fissure,—liilum. In the fissure the vessels are thus placed with respect to one another :—The divisions of the renal vein are in front, the ureter is behind, and the branches of the artery lie between the two. On the vessels the nerves and lymphatics ramify ; and areolar tissue and fat surround the whole. Opposite the fissure is a hollow in the interior of the kidney, named sinus, in which the vessels and the duct are contained before they pierce the renal substance. Dissection. To see the interior it will be necessary to cut tlu-ough the kidney from the inner to the outer border ; and to remove the loose tissue from the vessels, and fi-om the division of the excretory duct. The hollow or'sinus containing the bloodvessels now comes completely into view. The interior of the liidney (fig. 161) appears on a section to consist of two different materials, viz., of an external granular or cortical portion ; and of internal, darker Fig. 161.* coloured, pyramidal masses, which converge towards the centre. But these dissimilar-looking parts are constructed of urine tubes, though with a different arrangement. The jiijramidal masses (d pyi'a- mids of Malpighi), are twelve or eighteen in number, and com^erge to the sinus of the kidney. The apex of each mass, which is fi"ee from cortical covering, is directed to the sinus, and ends in a smooth, rounded part, named mamilla or papilla (c). In it are the openings of the urine tubes, which are about twenty in number, some being- situate m a central depression and the others on the surface ; and it is surrounded by one of the divi- sions (calyx) of the excretory tube. Occasionally two of the masses are united in one papillaiy termination. Extroiiii- tius: smfaces; Ijordois. Contents of the tissure; their position. Sinus. Open the kidney, and (•lean tlie vessels. Renal siibstanec divided into cortical and pyramidal. rjTaniitlt nunilicr, apcK, ends in jiapilla : base. The base is em- * Section through a piece of tlie kidney, sliowfng the medullary aud cortical portions, and the beginning of the ureter. a. Ureter, h. Pelvis of the ureter, c. Calyx of the excretory tube, portion of the kidney (Henle). d. Pyramidal portions; c. Cortical