323 LIGAMENTS OF PHALANGES. Abduction and adduction are the lateral movements of the finger Lateral fi-om or towards the middle line of the hand. The lateral ligament of the side of the joint which is rendered convex will be tightened, and the other will be relaxed. The circumductory motion is less impeded in the thumb, and in ^(JJ^"™'^'^^' the fore and little fingers than in the others ; and in the thumb it allows the turnmg of the last phalanx towards the other digits in the movement of opposition. Union of the Phalanges. The ligaments of these joints are ^5*/^}*^°"^^ similar to those in the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation, viz. two have lateral and an anterior. The lateral ligaments are triangular in form. Each is connected lateral and by its apex to the side of the phalanx near the front; and by its base to the contiguous phalanx and the anterior ligament. The anterior ligament has the same mode of attachment between anterior the extremities of the bones as in the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, I'sament. but it is not so strong ; and the extensor tendon takes the place of a posterior band as in that articulation. There is a simple synovial membrane present in the joint. Synovial The joint of the second with the last phalanx is like the preced- LaJ^jjoi^t ing in the number and disposition of its ligaments ; but all the articular bands are much less strongly marked. Articular Surfaces. The anterior end of each phalanx is marked Surface of by a pulley-like surface. The posterior end presents a transversely hollowed fossa, and is provided with a crest which fits into the central depression of the opposed articular surface. Movements. The two mterphalangeal jomts can be bent and Kind of straightened like a hinge. Flexion and extension. In flexion, the farther phalanx moves Bending, under the nearer in each joint, and the motion is checked by the lateral ligaments and the extensor tendon : in the joint between the middle and the metacarpal phalanx this movement is most extensive. In extension the farther phalanx comes into a straight Extending, line with the nearer one, and the motion is stopped by the anterior ligament and the flexor tendons. T 2