DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Section III. Definition and con- tents. Dissection to open abdomen. Is largest cavity in the body. Is oval. Boundaries above and below, in front and on sides. Behind is spine. Depth is altered by action of diaphragm and levator anL "Width by muscles in wall of abdomen. How excreta expelled. Division of space. Abdomen Ijroper. Telvic portion. Abdomen proper here described. CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. The abdominal cavity is the space included between the spinal column behind, and the visceral arches of the vertebra3 with their intervening muscles in front. It is lined by a serous membrane (peritoneum), and contains the digestive, urinary, and generative organs, with vessels and nerves. Dissection. To prepare the cavity for examination, the remamder of the abdominal wall above the umbihcus is to be cut, along the left side of the linea alba, as far as the xiphoid cartilage. The resulting flaps may be thrown to the sides. Size and form. This space is the largest in the body. It is ovoidal in form with the ends upwards and downwards, so that it measures more in the vertical than the transverse direction ; and it is much -wider superiorly than inferiorly. Boundaries. Above it is limited by the diaphragm; below by the recto-vesical fascia and the levatores ani, and the structures closing the outlet of the pelvis : both these boundaries are concave towards the cavity, and are in part fleshy, so that the space will be diminished by their contraction and flattening. In front and on the sides the parietes are partly osseous and partly muscular :—thus towards the upper and lower hmits is the bony framework of the skeleton, viz. the ribs in one direction and the pelvis in the other ; but in the centre are stretched the muscles of the abdominal wall. Behind is placed the spinal column with the muscles contiguous to it, viz. the psoas and the quadratus lumborum. Alterations in size. The dimensions of the cavity are influenced by the varying conditions of the boundaries. Its depth is diminished by the contraction and descent of the diaphragm, and the contrac- tion and ascent of the levatores ani ; and the cavity is restored to its former dimensions by the relaxation of those muscles. The width is lessened by the contraction of the abdominal muscles; but it is increased, during their relaxation, by the action of the diaphragm forcing outwards the viscera. The greatest diminution of the space is effected by the simultaneous contraction of all the muscular boundaries, as in the expulsion of the excreta. Division of the space. A division has been made of the space into the abdomen proper and the cavity of the pelvis. The abdominal portion reaches from the diaphragm to the brim of the pelvis, and lodges the alimentary tube and its appendages, together with the kidneys. The pelvic portion is situate below the brim of the pelvis, and contains chiefly the generative and urinary organs. The following description concerns the part of tlie cavity between the diaphragm and the brim of the pelvis. Towards the end of