59 FORE PART OF NECK. the inner fibres of opposite muscles cross for about an inch, but those which are superficial do not belong always to the same side in difl'erent bodies. , , xi i • tt Action. The ordinary action of this muscle is confined to the skin Usoonsk.n, of tlie neck, which it throws into longitudinal wrinkles ; but wlien acting strongly it can depress the comer of the mouth by the slip ...outh, prolonged to the face. Through its attachment to the jaw it will jaw. assist in opening the mouth. Dissection. Eaise the platysma to the base of the jaw, and dissect Dissection, out beneath it the branches of the superficial cervical nerve, and the cervical branches of the facial nerve. Clean also the deep fascia of the neck, and the anterior jugular vein which is placed near the middle line. The superficial cervical nerve has been traced from its orig-in in ^^^j^l^^j^"'^ the cei-vical plexus to its position on the deep fascia of the neck uerve, (p. 57); the nei-ve may take origin from the plexus by two pieces. Beneath the platysma it di-\ddes into an ascending and a descending branch :— The ascending branch perforates the platysma, supplying it, and ascending, ends in the integuments over the anterior triangle, about half way down the neck. Whilst this branch is beneath the platysma it joins the facial nerve. The descending branch likewise passes tkrough the platysma, and is distributed to the teguments below the preceding, reaching as low as the sternum. The infra-maxillary branches of the facial or seventh cranial nerve Branches of (rami subcutanei colli) (p. 38) pierce the deep cer\acal fascia, and to tiie neck, pass forwards beneath the platysma, forming arches across the side of the neck (fig. 9), which reach as low as the hyoid bone.. Most of the branches end in the platysma, but a few filaments perforate it, and reach the integuments. Beneath the muscle there is a com- munication between the branches of the facial and the offsets of the superficial cervical ners'e. Dissection. Cut across the external jugular vein about the Dissection- middle, and thi'ow the ends up and down. Aftei-wards the super- ficial nerves of the neck may be divided in a line with the angle of the jaw, the anterior ends being removed, and the posterior reflected. The great auricular nerve may be cut through and the ends reflected. The part of the deep cervical fascia in fi'ont of the sterno- Cervical mastoideus is stronger than that behind the muscle (p. 53), and has ftont'^d" the following an-angement. Near the sternum the fascia forms a stemo- white finn membrane, which is attached to that bone ; but liigher in the neck it becomes thinner, and is fixed to the lower jaw and the zygoma, covering also the parotid gland. From the ramus of the jaw a piece is prolonged deeply, between the parotid and sub- maxillary glands, to join the styloid process ; this piece is named the Htyln-maxillarg ligament. And fi-om the angle of the jaw a forms stj-lo- strong piece is continued to the sterno-mastoideus, which fixes ''>i'''"">"y forAvards the anterior border of that muscle. ligament.