491 ENDING OF VAGUS NERVE, The remaining offsets of the plexus, viz., superior and inferior mesenteric, aortic, and spermatic, have been already noticed (p. 481); but the derivation of the superior mesenteric and aortic plexuses from tlie epigastric centre can be now seen. Ending of the splanchnic nerves. The lanje nerve perforates the Ending crus of the diaphragm, and generally ends altogether in the semi- splanchnic lunai- ganglion. nerve, The small nerve comes through the same openmg in the diaphi-agm smaU, as the preceding, and joins the coeliac plexus. The smallest nei-ve, which is often absent, throws itself into the ^JJ^^^j^^^ renal plexus. Ending of the vagus nerve. The pneumo-gastric nerves end in the stomach :— The left nerve divides into branches, wliich extend along the Ending of small curvatiu-e, and over the front of the stomach ; these send ^^"^ offsets to the hepatic plexus. The right nerve is distributed to the posterior surface of the and riglit. stomach near the upper border ; it communicates with its fellow, and with the ccehac and splenic plexuses. Dissection. Most of the ^ascera are now to be removed fi-om the Prepare for abdomen, in order that the body may be turned for the dissection body b^' of the Back and lower hmbs. The stomach and the spleen, with the duodenum and the pancreas, removing are to be taken away together by cutting through the oesophagus ^^^^ viscera, near the diaphragm, as well as the vessels and nerves they receive. The hver is to be removed from the abdomen by dividing its liga- ments, and incising the vena cava between the posterior border and the diaphragm. At the same time the left testicle, and the right kidney with the suprarenal body, should be removed for examination whilst the body is turned ; the former can be taken out by cutting thi-ough the spermatic cord, and the latter by dividing its vessels about the middle. Directions. Supposing the body to be now turned for the dissec- Directions tion of the Back, and to lie with the face downwards for the usual dissertor. time, the dissector may look first to the fascia lumborum, which is described in the Dissection of the Back, p. 385. Tlie rest of the time should be occupied in learning the viscera included in the following Section. Section IY. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE ABDOMEN. THE ST05LVCH. The stomach is the dilated pari; of the alimentary tube between Dellnition, the esophagus and the small intestine, into wliich the masticated food is received to be changed into chyme.