DISSECTION OP THE HEAD. 142 small; ami external palatine. Pharyngeal ■branch. Orbital branches. Whilst in the canal, the nerve furnishes two or more filaments {inferior nasal f) to tlie membrane on the middle and lower spongy bones ; in tlie roof of the mouth it supplies the mucous membrane and glands, and gives an offset to the soft palate. The small imlatinc nerve, 10 (posterior), lies in the smaller canal, and ends inferiorly in the soft palate, and the levator palati and azygos nvula3 muscles ; it supplies the uvula and tonsil. The external j^alatine nerve is smaller than the other two, and descends in the canal of the same name. Leaving the canal, the nerve is distributed to the velum palati and the tonsil. The pliaryncjeal branch is very small, and is directed through the pterygo-palatine canal to the mucous membrane of the pharynx near the Eustachian tube, in which it ends. Branches to the orhit. Two or three in number, these ascend through the spheno-maxillaiy fissure, and end m the fleshy layer of Fig. 34.* the musculiis orbitalis (p. 50). It will be necessaiy to cut tlu-ough the sphenoid bone to follow these nerves to their teraiination. Unitin" Connecting branches. The ganglion is united, as before said, \vith branches, spheno-palatine branches of the fifth nei-ve (fig. 34,'), receiving to fifth, sensory nen^e fibres through them ; and through the medium of the vidian, which is described below, it communicates with a motor nei-ve (facial), and with the sympathetic nerve, and to facial The vidian nerve (^) passes backw^ards through the vidian canal, and sympa- ^j^^ sends some small filaments, through the bone, to the membrane through the at the back of the roof of the nose (iipper posterior nasal branches). vidian. * Nerves of the nose and palate. 1. Olfactory nerve. 2. Olfactory bulb giving branches to the nose. 3. Third nerve. 4. Fourth nerve. 5. Fifth nerve. 6. Nasal nerve of the ophthalmic trunk. 7. Meckel's ganglion. 8. Vidian nen'e. 9. Larger palatine nerve. 10. Smaller palatine nerve, ft Nasal nerves. \