69 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. Third part. Beyond the scalenus the artery is contained in the Tlilrd part clavicular part of the posterior triangular space (fig. 54), and is nearer the surface than in the rest of its course : this part of the jsj^l"^""- vessel is enclosed in a tube of the deep cervical fascia, which it receives as it passes from between the scaleni. It is comparatively superficial whilst in the space before mentioned, for it is covered parts cover- only by the integuments, the platysma, and deep fascia ; but near its termination the vessel gets under cover of the suprascapular artery iuid veui, and the clavicle and subclavius muscle. In this part of its course the artery rests on the surface of the first rib, which is ^^^^ interposed between it and the pleui-a. Veins. The arch of the subcla-saan vein is close to the artery, not Position Jjeing separated by muscle, but lies commonly at a lower level. °' ' The external jugular vein crosses it near the scalenus muscle ; and the suprascapular and transverse cervical branches, wliich enter the jugular, form sometimes a jjlexus over this part of the artery. Nerves. The large cords of the brachial plexus are placed above of nerves to and close to the vessel; and the small wqi-yq of the subclavius "'^'^''y- crosses it about the middle. Superficial to the cervical fascia lie the descending cutaneous branches of the cer-\acal plexus. Peculiarities. The arteiy may spi-ing as a separate trunk from the Peculiarities arch of the aorta ; and in such a deviation the vessel takes a deeper °^ ""sm, place than usual to reach the scaleni muscles. It has been before said (p. 56) that the subclavian may be in com-se and fi-ont of the scalenus or in its fibres ; and that it may be placed one inch and a half above the level of the clavicle. Branches of subclavian. Usually there ai-e four chief branches on Branches of the subclavian artery. Tlu-ee branches arise fi'om the first part of subclavian, the arterial trunk ;—one (vertebral) ascends to the head ; another From first, (internal mammary) descends to the chest ; and the remaining one (thyroid axis) is a short tliick trunk, which furnishes branches inwards and outwards to the thyroid body and the shoulder. These arise commonly neai- the scalenus muscle, so as to leave an interval at the origin fi-ee from offsets. This interval varies in length fi-om half an inch to an inch in the greater number of cases ; and its extremes range from somewhat less than half an inch to an inch and three quarters. But in some instances the branches are scattered over the first part of the artery (Quam).* The fourth branch (superior intercostal) arises beneath the an- second, terior scalenus from the second part of the artery, and gives off the deep cervical branch : a small spinal artery comes sometimes from this part of the trunk. If there is a branch present on the third part of the artery, it is and third commonly the posterior scapular : if more than one, this same branch with the external mammary ; and if more than two, an offset be- longmg to the thyroid axis will be added. * The student is referred for fuller information respecting the pecuHarities ot the yesse s, and the practical applications to be deduced from them to the Porlv'l ^ f/!^ °^ ^"^teries of the Human aody, by Richard Quaiu, F.R.S.