EADIAL ARTEEY AND BRANCHES. 283 where it is more superficial in the lower half, it can be felt beating as the pulse near the wrist during life. In its upper half the vessel is placed beneath the supinator longus Connections (*) ; and rests successively on the following muscles, the fleshy j,a,f_ supinator brevis, the pronator teres part of the thin origin of witii_^^^^ the flexor sublimis ("), and sometimes on tlie biceps tendon ( ). Veins. Venas comites lie on the sides, with cross branches over veins, the artery. Nerve. The radial nerve is parallel to, and outside it, but separated and nen-e. by a slight interval. In its lower Juilf the artery with its venae comites is superficial, l^^'ower being covered only by the teguments and the deep fascia. Here it ^.^^ is placed in a hollow between the tendons of the supinator longus (") muscles, and flexor carpi radialis ("). It lies from above down on the origin of the flexor sublimis, on two other muscles of the deep layer, viz. flexor pollicis longus and pronator quadi-atus, and lastly on the end of the radius. Nerves. The radial nerve is still on the outer side until it passes nerve, backwards beneath the tendon of the supinator longus, and becomes cutaneous. Superficial to the lower end are the ramifications of the musculo-cutaneous neiwe, some of which reach the vessels (p. 278). Branches. The radial artery furnishes many uimamed muscular Branches, and nutrient ofEsets to the surroimding parts ; and three named branches, viz. recurrent radial, superficial volar, and anterior carpal. The radial recurrent is the first branch, and supplies the muscles radial re- on the outer side of the limb. Its com'se is almost transverse to '^^'^^t, the supinator longus, beneath which it terminates in that muscle and the two radial extensors of the wrist. One offset ascends beneath the supinator, and anastomoses with the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. The superficial volar branch (fig. 83, c) arises usually near the superficial lower end of the radius. It is du-ected towai'ds the palm of the ^' hand, across or through the mass of muscles in the ball of the thumb, and it either ends in those muscles, or joins the superficial palmar arch. Tlie anterior carpal branch is very inconsiderable in size, and will anterior be seen in the examination of the deep layer of muscles. Arising rather above the end of the radius, it passes transversely at the lower border of the pronator quadratus, and anastomoses with a similar branch from tlie ulnar artery : fi-om the arch thus formed, oflisets are given to the carpus. Peculiarities of the radial aHerij. When the radial arises high in the arm, Variations its course is close to the brachial artery, along the edge of the biceps muscle • oftha and in passing the bend of the elbow it may be occasionally subcutaneous' viz., above the deep fascia, and be liable to injury in venesection. In the forearm it may be likewise subcutaneous, and superficial to the supinator longus muscle. Dissection. To bring into view the flexor sublimis digitorum, tlie Dissection flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus must be cut thi-ough near