LEFT VENTEICLE OF HEART. 343 so as to reacli the auricle. On raising the triangular flap the interior of the cavity will be visible. ^, « The CAVITY OF THE LEFT VENTRICLE (fig. 101) IS longer and more ofMfc conical in shape than that of the opposite ventricle ; and is oval or almost circular, on a transverse section. The apex of the ca^'ity reaches the apex of the heart. The base Apex, is turned towards the auricle, and is not sloped like that of the Ba«e.w,auts right ventricle ; in it are the openings into the aorta («) and the left auricle (Z). The icalls of this ventricle are thickest, and the anterior boundary Walls, is formed by the septum ventriculorum. Its surface is irregular, like that of the right ventricle, in con- j^^l^l^' sequence of the projections of the fleshy columns, or carnese columns ; fleshy but near the great artery (aorta) the surface is smoother. There columns, are three sets of fleshy columns in this as in the right ventricle. But the set (muscuH papillares), which project into the cavity, and ^^^^^^^J^^ receive the small tendinous threads of the valve, are the most marked : ° ' these are arranged chiefly in two large bundles, and spring from the anterior and posterior walls of the cavity. The aperture into the left auricle {I auriculo-ventricular) is placed beneath the orifice of the aorta, but close to it, only a thin fibrous cular aper- band intervening between the two. It is rather smaller than the corresponding aperture of the right side, being somewhat more than ^j^™ ^^'^ an inch in diameter, and is longest in the transverse direction. Placed, as before said, beneath the aortic aperture, it extends also position, to the right, so as to lie beneath the left extremity of the right auriculo-ventricular opening. It is furnished with a membranous It lias a valve (mitral) which projects into the ventricle. la:ge\alve. The mitral valve is stronger and of greater length than the tri- cuspid, and has also firmer and more tendinous cords : it takes its name from a fancied resemblance to a mitre. Attached to a fibrous ring around the aperture, as well as to the aortic fibrous ring, it is divided below by a notch on each side into two pieces. Its seg- segments, ments lie one before another, with then* edges directed to the sides, and their sm-faces towards the front and back of the cavity. The anterior tongue of the valve intervenes between the auricular and aortic openings, and is larger and looser than the posterior. The mitral resembles the tricuspid valve in its structure and office, structure, Its segments consist of thicker and thinner parts ; and in the notches at the sides there are also thinner pieces between the two primary segments. The tendinous cords ascend to be attached to the valve attaclimen in the notches between the tongues ; and they end on the segments °^ conXs. in the same way as in the tricuspid valve. Each of the large papil- lary muscles acts on both portions of the valve. When the blood enters the cavity, the pieces of the valve are xjse. raised as on the right side, and meet to close the passage into the left auricle. In combination with the tricuspid it assists in pro- ducing the first sound of the heart. The opening of the aorta, anterior to that of the auricle, is next Aortic open- the septum of the ventricles. Its aperture is round, and rather '"s