710 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Dissection for the joints of the foot. Astragalus with 08 calcis by posterior, external, and Dissection. The joints of the foot ^^rill be demonstrated by re- movmg from both the dorsum and tlie sole all tlie soft parts which have been examined. Between the different tarsal bones bands of ligament extend, which will be defined by removing the areolar tissue from the intervals between them (fig. 221). It will be more advantageous for the student to clean all the ligaments before he proceeds to learn any, than to prepare only the bands of one articulation at a time. Articulation of the astragalus and os calcis. These bones are kept together by two joints, and a strong interosseous ligament; and there are also tliin bands at the outer side and behind. The posterior ligament (fig. 221, a) consists of a few fibres be- tween the bones, where they are grooved by the tendon of the flexor poUicis ; and the external ligament (i) is connected to the Fig. 221.* interos- seous liga- ment. Articular surfaces, synovial membranes. Motion in standing. sides of the astragalus and os calcis, near the middle piece of the extei-nal lateral ligament of the ankle joint. The interosseous ligament (fig. 221, c) consists of strong vertical and oblique fibres, Avhich are attached above and below to the depressions on the contiguous surfaces of the two bones. This band extends across the bones, and its depth is gi-eatest at the outer side. In a subsequent stage of the dissection (p. 713) articular surfaces will be seen between the bones, viz., one behind the interosseous ligament, and one in front of it, with two synovial membranes. Movement. Under the influence of the weight of the body, as in standing, the astragalus moves down and m (not straight forwards) ■with flattening of the arch of the foot, so that its head projects against the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. In this state the interosseous ligament is put on the stretch. * View of the dorsal ligaments of the tarsus, a. Posterior, I, external and c, interrosseous ligaments between astragalus and os calcis. d. Astragalo- scaphoid. c. External calcaneo-scaphoid. /. Internal, and ^r, upper calcaneo- cuboid ligaments, li. Dorsal scapho-cuboid band, i, k, I. Dorsal external, middle, and internal scapho-.cuneiform longitudinal bands, n. Dorsal trans- verse bands between the cuneiform and cuboid bones.