52 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Division into two triangles by sterno- luastoitl. Hollows. Pi'onii- nences in the iniddlo line of neck, hyoicl bone, thjToiil, cricoid cartilage, and snpra- sternal de- pression. Dissection of the pla- tysma. Platj'snia muscle arises at shoulder; in-serteii into jaw ; prominence of the clavicle ; and above is the base of the lower jaw with the skull. In front the boundary is a line from the cliin to the sternum; and behind, another line from the occiput to th& acromial end of the clavicle. The part thus included is di^^■de(I into two triangular spaces (anterior and posterior) by the diagonal line of the projecting stemo-mastoid muscle. And in consequence of the position of that muscle the base of the anterior space is at the jaw, and the apex at the sternum ; whilst the base of the posterior one is at the clavicle, and the apex at the head. The surface in fi-ont of the stemo-mastoid is depressed at tlie upper part of the neck, near the position of the carotid vessels ; and behind the muscle, just above the clavicle, is another shght hollow which points to the situation of the subclavian artery. Along the middle' line of the neck the following parts can be recognised through the skin :—About two inches and a half from the base of the jaw is the eminence of the os hyoides, with its cornu extending laterally on each side. Below this maybe felt the wide prominence of the thyroid cartilage, called pomum Adami,. Avhich is most marked in man ; and between the cartilage and the hyoid bone is a slight interval, corresponding with the thyro-hyoid membrane. Inferior to the thyroid, is the narrow prominent ring of the cricoid cartilage ; and between the two the finger may distinguish another interval, which is opposite the crico-thyroid membrane. From the cricoid cartilage to the sternum, and between the stemo- mastoid muscles, is a depression, whose depth is much increased in emaciated persons, in which the tube of the trachea can be recognised. In some bodies, especially in women, the swelling of the thyroid gland may be felt by the side of the air tube. Direction. As the time for turning the body will not alloAv the examination of the whole side of the neck, the student should lay bare now only the parts beliind the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dissection. To raise the skin fi'om the posterior triangle of the neck, make an incision along the stemo-mastoid muscle fi-om the one end to the other, and afterwards along the clavicle as far as the acromion. The triangular flap of sldn is to be reflected fi-om before back towards the trapezius muscle. The superficial fascia which will then be brought into view, contains the platysma ; and to see that muscle, it will be necessary to take the subcutaneous layer from the surface of the fibres. The PLATYSMA MYOiDES is a thin subcutaneous muscular layer^ which is now seen only in its lower half. The muscle is placed across the side of the neck, and extends from the top of the shoulder to the face. Its fleshy fibres take oriqin by fibrous bands from the clavicle and the acromion, and below those bones from the superficial fatty layer covering the pectoral and deltoid muscles ; ascending through the neck, the fibres are inserted into the jaw. The lower part of the muscle is more closely united to the skin than the upper, and covers the external jugular vein as well as the