PAROTID GLAND. 29 of the law to the stemo-mastoid muscle marks usually the extent of the -land in this direction. Above the parotid is limited by the zy-omatic arch and the temporal bone. Along the posterior part the sterno-mastoid muscle extends ; but anteriorly the gland projects somewhat on the face, and in this direction a small accessory part, accessory socia parotidis, is prolonged over the masseter. ^ . , ^ Connected with the anterior border is the excretory duct—duct The duct of Stenson (ductus Stenonis, fig. 17), which crosses the masseter ,„<,utu: below the socia parotidis, and perforates the cheek obliquely opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. The duct lies between the transverse facial artery and some branches of the facial nerve, the latter being below it. A line drawn fi-om the meatus auditorius to a httle below the nostril would mark the level of the duct in the face ; and the central point of the line would be opposite the open- in"- into the mouth. The length of the duct is about two inches itsleiijjtli and a half ; and its capacity is large enough to allow a small probe to pass, but the opening into the mouth is much less. The cutaneous surface of the parotid is smooth, and one or two Smface of lymphatic glands are seated on it; but fi-om the deep part processes are sent into the inequalities of the space between the jaw and the mastoid process. Dissection. By removing with caution the parotid gland, the hollows Disaection that it fills will come into view : at the same time the dissector will part's!' '^^^ see the vessels and nerves that pass through it. An examination of the processes of the gland, and of the number of important vessels and nerves in relation with it, will demonstrate the dangers attend- ing any operation on it. The duct may be opened, and a pin may be passed along it to the mouth, to show the diminished size of the aperture. Two large processes of the gland extend deeply into the n.eck. Deep P*^^ One dips behind the styloid process, and projects beneath the |"w. mastoid process and sterno-mastoid muscle, wliilst it reaches also the deep vessels and nerves of the neck. The other piece is situate in front of the styloid process ; it passes into the glenoid liolloAV behind the articulation of the lower jaw, and sinks beneath the ramus of that bone along the internal maxillaiy arterj\ Coursing tlirough the middle of the gland is the external carotid Vessels ana artery, which ascends behind the ramus of the jaw, and furnishes the auricular, superficial temporal, and internal maxillary branches. Superficial to the artery lies the trunk formed by the junction of the temporal and internal maxillary veins, from which the external jugular vein springs; and this common trunk, receiving some veins from the parotid, is connected with the internal jugular vein by a branch through the gland.** Crossing the gland fi'om behind "ei-^'cs the glami * Oftentimes there is a difTerciit arrangement of tliese veins. In sucli case the external jugular is continued from the occipital (half or all) and posterior auricular veins ; whilst the temporal and internal maxillary veins unite to form a trunk (temporo-maxillary), which receives the facial below the jaw, and opens into tlie internal jugular vein opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. When this condition exists, the temporo-maxillary vein accompanies the external carotid artery.