510 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEX. Vessels in tlif tiaiisver.se /isguie. Hematic duct. Hepatic arteiy. Vena portte. Umbilical vein in the fetus ; oniiditinii after birth. Lolnilav stnieture ; ineasutl by two coats. Serous coat, ■where deticient. Fibrous covering is prolonged to the interior. Lobules of the liver; sioiis:—one for tlic gall-bladder to the right oC the square lobe ; another for the colon, near the anterior edge ; and a tliird for the kidney near the posterior border. Vessels of the transverse fissure. The vessels in the transverse iissnre, viz. vena portic, hepatic artery and duct, have the following position :—the duct is anterior, the portal vein posterior, and the artery between the other two. The hepatic duct (fig. 15G, e) is formed by two branches—one fi-om the right, and one from the left lobe, which soon blend in a common tube. Aftei- a distaiice of one inch and a half it is joined by the duct of the gall-bladder (/) ; and the union of the two gives rise to the common bile duct (17). The hepatic artery (li) is divided into two for the chief lobes, and its branches are suiTounded by nerves and lymphatics. The venaportce (b) branches, like the artery, into two tranks for the right and left lobes, and gives an offset to the Spigelian lobe ; its left branch is the longest. Fetal condition of the uniUlical vein. Before birth the pervious umbilical vein occupies the longitudinal fissure, and opens pos- teriorly into the vena cava ; the portion of the vessel behind the transverse fissure recei^-es the name ductus venosus. Branches are supplied fi-om it to both lobes of the liver ; and a lai-ge one, directed to the right lobe, is continuous with the left piece of the A'ena portas. Purified or placental blood circulates through the A'essel at that period. Adult state. After birth the part of the umbilical vein in fi-ont of the transverse fissure is closed, and becomes eventually the round ligament (fig. 156, c). The ductus venosus is also obliterated, only a thin cord (f/) remaining in its jilace. Whilst the lateral branches, which are in the same line as, and continuous with the left branch of the vena portaj, remain open, and subsequently form the left division of the vena porta3. Occasionally the ductus A^enosus is found more or less pervious. Structure of the Liver. The substance of the liver consists of small bodies called lobules or acini; together with vessels which are concerned both in the production of the secretion, and in the nutri- tion of the organ. The whole is surrounded by a fibrous and a serous coat. Serous coat. The peritoneum invests the liver almost completely, and adheres closely to the subjacent coat. At certain spots interA'als exist between the two, viz. in the fissures occupied by vessels, along the line of attachment of the ligaments, and at the surface touching the gall-bladder. The fibrous covering is verj' thin, but it is rather stronger where the peritoneum is not in contact with it. It invests the liver, and is continuous at the transverse fissure with the fibrous sheatli (capsule of Glisson) surrounding the vessels in the interior. When the membrane is torn from the surface, it will be found connected with fine shreds entering into the liver. Size and form of the lobules. The lobules (fig. 159, I) constitute