217 TIIIED VENTRICLE. cerebrum (c) in the inten^al between them. Behind are the posterior and behind, commissure (e) and the pineal body (tj). Crossing the centre of the * * ventricle, from one optic thalamus to another, is a band of gray- matter—the soft commissure (d). This space communicates with the other ventricles of the brain Openings in the following way :—In front it ]onis each lateral ventricle ventricles, tlu-ough the foramen of Monro ; and in the fetus it opens into the fifth ventricle. Behind is a passage beneath the posterior commis- sure into the fourth ventricle, which is named aqueduct of Sylvius. In the floor, in front, there is a depression opposite the infundibulum (iter ad infundibulum). The lining of the ventricle (ependyma) is continued into the Lining of neighbouring cavities through the different apertures of communica- '^^^'^y* tion, and closes the iter ad infundibulum. Grai/ matter of the ventricle. A stratum of gray matter covers ^f'^flJ"^*''^'^ most of the surface of the ventricle. At the lower part of each veutricle. optic thalamus it envelops the cms of the fornix, and ascends to the septum lucidum ; and in the floor of the ca^dty it exists in abun- dance entering into the corpora albicantia. In the middle of the space it reaches fi"om side to side, and foi'ms the soft commissure (d). Soft com- The antenor commissure of the cerebrum (e) is a round bmidle of white fibres about as large as a crow-quill, which passes through ^0"^^^ both corpora striata, and connects the opposite hemispheres. To sme: see it in one half of its extent, the following dissection should be made :— Dissection. On the side on which the corpus striatum has been To see it, cut into, the commissure is to be followed into the interior of that striaTmii"^ body by scraping away the intraventricular gray matter with the handle of the scalpel. The commissure may be seen then to per- forate the front of the corpus striatum below the white fibres; and it should be followed through the extraventricular mass of gray matter of the same body. The anterior commissure is free in the middle line for about the Position: eighth of an inch, where it lies before the pillars of the fornix. Laterally it perforates the corpus striatum, passing in succession and oourse tlirough the intraventricular gray mass, the white fibres, and the extraventricular gray mass. Lastly, the commissure pierces the 'le""- white layer boundmg externally the striate body, and spreads in the hemisphere over the inferior conui of the lateral ventricle, commu- nicating with the teniporo-sphenoidal and central lobes. The posterior commissure of the cerebrum (e) is smaller than the Posterior anterior, and is placed above the passage into the fourth ventricle, '^'""""^^^"■e- Laterally it enters the substance of the optic thalamus ; and pierces this body to end in the hemisphere. The connections of the thalamus opticus (inferior ganglion of the Timiamus cerebrum, fig. G8, h) will be best seen on the side on which the "Ptiuus. inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle has been opened. It has the form of a cube, and bounds the lateral and tlurd ventricles. The upper surface projects in the floor of the lateral ventricle. Upper and IS marked m fi-ont by a prominence—anterior tubercle, near