COMrOSITION OF CORD. 413 which marks ott' a slender piece, the 2^osterior median column (c) : this portion is best seen in the cemcal region of the cord. A central piece, or the commissure of the cord, connects the ^'^^.'^^^'J.jp- halves and limits the depth of the median fissures. Different division of the cord. Each half of the cord is sometimes ^^^^^^^ divided into three columns—anterior, lateral, and posterior, wliose limits are the following :—The antenor reaches from the anterior roots of the nei-ves to the median fissure in fi-ont. The lateral column is limited before and behind by the roots of the nerves. The posterior with its small posterior median segment, is placed between the posterior roots and the median fissure behind. Composition of the Cord (fig. 125). A horizontal section of the Cord con- medulla shows more distinctly its division into halves, with the and^white*^ commissm-al or connecting piece between them. The same cut matter, demonstrates the existence of a mass of gray matter in the interior, which is arranged in the form of two crescents (one in each half) united by a cross piece, and surrounded by white substance. The commissure (fig. 125, h) consists of two parts, viz., a trans- The com- verse band of gray matter, with a white stratum in front. missure. The gray transverse band (gray commissure) connects the Tiie gray opposite crescents, and consists of nerve cells, and of transverse ^"^'^' nerve fibres derived from the halves of the cord and the roots of the nerves. In its centre is the shrunken canal of the spinal cord (fig. 125, gr), J.anai'^*^'^^ which is best seen in the fetus. It reaches the whole length of the medulla, and a cross section of the cord shows it as a round spot. Above, it opens on the floor of the fourth ventricle, and below it is continued into the filum terminale. It is lined by a columnar lined by ciliated epithelium ; and is obstructed by a granular material near epithelium, the upper opening (Clarke). The ivJiite piece of the commissure is formed partlj"- by fibres of Tlie white the anterior column ; and partly by fibrils of the anterior roots of the nerves, which here decussate as they cross from the one half to the other. It is best marked opposite the enlargements on the cord, and is least developed in the dorsal region. The half of the medulla. In the half of the cord, as in the com- The half of missure, gray and white portions exist; the former is elongated fi-om before back, being crescentic in shape as before said, and is quite surrounded by the latter. The gray crescent (g) is semilunar in form, with the horns or The cres- cornua of the crescent directed towards the roots of the nerves and the convexity to the middle line (fig. 125). The crescentic masses m the opposite halves of the cord are united by the gray commissure. The posterior comu is long and slender (fig. 126, and reaches Posterior near the fissure along the attachment of the posterior nerve-roots. At Its extremity, where it is slightly enlarged, it is encased with a rather transparent stratum of small nerve cells, which has been substantia named the substantia gelatinosa (fig. 12G, ») geiatilloS^ The anterior comu (fig. 12G, is shorter and thicker than the Anterior COITIU.