685 PLANTAR ARCH OF VESSELS. Action. It will aclduct the great toe to the others, and then Use on the approximate the remaining toes. The FLEXOR BREVis MINIMI DiGlTi (fig. 210, ^) is a Small narrow Flexor muscle on the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and resembles one JJ|g"[ng nkc of the interossei. Arising behind from the metatarsal bone and an inter- the sheath of the peroneus longus, it blends with the inferior liga- ment of the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, and is inserted into the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the toe ; it is united also by- fleshy fibres with the front of the metatarsal bone. Action. Firstly it bends the metatarso-phalangeal joint, and Use. nextly it draws down and adducts the fore part of the fifth meta- tarsal bone. Dissection Cfier. 211"). In order that the deep vessels and nei-ves Dissect the ^ ^ r, , ■ iiij^ ii-- J. deep vessels may be seen, the flexor brevis and adductor poliicis are to be cut and nerves. through behind, and thrown towards the toes ; but the nerves supplying them are to be preserved. Beneath the adductor lie the plantar arch, and the external plantar nerve, with their branches ; and through the first interosseous space the dorsal artery of the foot enters the sole. All these vessels and nerves with their branches require careful cleaning. The muscles projecting between the metatarsal bones are the interossei ; the fascia covering them should be removed. The PLANTARABCH (fig. 211, d) is the portion of the external plantar Arch of the artery which reaches from the base of the metatarsal bone of the arteiy."" little toe to the back of the first interosseous space : internally the arch is completed by a communicating branch fi'om the dorsal artery of the foot (e, p. 686). It is placed across the tarsal ends Extent and of the metatarsal bones, in contact with the interossei, but under with mus°^ the flexor tendons, and the adductor poliicis to which it gives many des, branches. Ven£e comites lie on the sides of the artery, and the external plantar nerve accompanies it. From the front or convexity of the arch the digital branches Branches, are supplied, and from the opposite side small nutritive branches arise. Three small arteries, the posterior perforating, leave the under Posterior part: these pass to the dorsum of the foot through the tliree outer P^'fo'^t'ng- metatarsal spaces, and anastomose with the dorsal interosseous branches of the anterior tibial artery (p. 696). The digital branches (c) are four in number, and supply both Digital sides of the three outer toes and half the next. One to the outer iS'^tols*" side of the little toe is single ; but the others lie over the interossei >^^'^ a half, i in the outer three metatarsal spaces, but beneath the transversalis pedis (fig. 210), and bifurcate in front to supply the contiguous sides of two toes. They give fine ofEsets (fig. 210) to the interossei, Muscular to some lumbricalcs, and the transversalis pedis ; and at the point ''"'^ of division they send small communicating branches—a?ifenor anterior perforating, to join the interosseous arteries on the dorsum of the l'Sr^°/''t'ng foot (p. 695). The first digital runs on the outer side of the little toe, supplying First,