DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. 84 Intermaxil- lary baud. External ptcrygoiil. Attach- ineuts. Insertion. Contiguous parts. A second head. Use of both muscles. of one muscle. Internal pterygoid is tooneatli the ramus of the jaw. Attach- ments. Vessels and nerves arodnd. Use. maxillary artery accompany the nei-ves. Coursing along the pos- terior part of the upper jaw, is the small posterior dental nerve with an artery. Between the jaws is tlie whitish narrow band of the pterygo- maxillary ligament, to which the buccinator and superior constrictor muscles are connected. The EXTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE (fig. 18, 2) extends almost hori- zontally from the zygomatic fossa to the neck of the lower jaw. Its origin is from the outer surface of the great wing of the sphenoid bone below the crest, and from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate. The fibres are directed outwards and somewhat backwards, those attaclied to the upper margin of the spheno-maxillary fissure forming at first a separate bundle, and are inserted into the hollow in front of the neck of the lower jaw bone, and into the interarticular fibro-cartilage of the joint. Externally the pterygoid is concealed by the temporal muscle and the lower jaw ; and the internal maxillary artery lies on it. By the deep surface it is in contact with the inferior maxillary nerve, with a plexus of veins, and with the internal lateral ligament of the joint of the jaw. The parts in contact with the borders of the muscle have been enumerated before. Sometimes the slip of the muscle, which is attached to the margin of the spheno-maxillaiy fissm-e and the root of the external ptery- goid plate (fig. 18,) is described as a separate head with an insertion into the interarticular cartilage. Action. If both muscles act the jaw is jnoved forwards, so that the lower dental arch is placed in fi-ont of the upper, and the grinding teeth are rubbed together in an antero-posterior direction. In order that the lower front teeth may be able to pass the others the jaw is depressed. One muscle contracting (say the right), the condyle of the same side is drawn inwards and forwards, and the grindmg teeth of the lower jaw are moved horizontally to the left across those of the upper. By the alternate action of the two muscles the trituration of the food is eflEected. The INTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE (fig. 18, ^) IS nearly parallel to the ramus of the jaw, and its fibres are longer than those of the preceding muscle. Arising in the pterygoid fossa, and chiefly from the iimer surface of the external pterj^goid plate, the muscle is fiuiher attached below, outside the fossa, to the outer surface of the tuberosity of the palate bone, and to the tuberosity of the upper jaw bone. The fibres descend to be inserted into the angle, and into the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw as high as the inferior dental foramen. On the muscle are placed the dental and gustatory nerves, the dental artery, and the internal lateral ligament of the jaw. Tlie deep surface is in relation below with the superior constrictor, and at its origin with the tensor palati muscle. Action. From the direction and attachment of the fibres the muscle will unite with the masseter in elevating the jaw.