DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 12 Directions. Duva'niater ill base of skull; its prolonga- tions {ind connec- tions to Ijonc. Tentorium cerel)elli; surfaces, edges, and the sinuso in it Falx cerebri. Falx cerebelli The description of the brain and its vessels will be found after that of the head and neck (p. 178). Directions. After setting aside the brain, the anatomy of the dura mater, and the vessels and nerves in the base of the skull should be proceeded with. For tliis purpose raise the head to a conA-^enient height, and fasten the tentorium in its natural position with a few stitches. The dissector should be furnished with the base of a skull while studying the following parts. Dura mater. At the base of the cranium the dura mater is much more closely united to the bones than it is at the top of the skull. Here it dips into the different inequahties of the osseous surfaces ; and it sends processes through the several foramina, which join for the most part the pericranium, and furnish sheaths to the nerves. Beginning the examination in front, the membrane will be found to send a prolongation into the foramen ca2cum, as well as a series of tubes through the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Through the sphenoidal fissure it joins the peri- osteum of the orbit; and through the optic foramen a covering is continued on the optic nei-ve to the eyeball. Behind the sella Turcica, the dura mater adheres closely to the basilar process of the occipital bone ; and it may be traced into the spinal canal tln-ough the foramen magnum, to the margin of wliich it is very fii-mly united. The tentorium cerehelli is the piece of the dura mater which is interposed in a somewhat horizontal position between the small brain (cerebellum), and the posterior part of the large brain (cere- brum). Its upper surface is raised along the middle, where it is joined by the falx cerebri, and is hollowed laterally for the reception of the back part of the cerebral hemispheres. Its under surface touches the little brain, and is joined by the falx cerebelli. The anterior concave margin is free, except at the ends where it is fixed by a nan-ow slip to each anterior clinoid process. The posterior or convex edge is cormected to the folloAving'j bones :— occipital (transverse groove), inferior angle of the parietal, petrous portion of the temporal (upper border), and posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid. Along the centre of the tentorium is the straight sinus : and in the attached edge are the lateral and the superior petrosal sinus on each side. Falx cerebri. The characters of this fold have been given in page 10. The Falx cerehelli has the same position below the tentorium as the falx cerebri above that fold. It is much smaller than the falx of the cerebrum, and will appear on detaching the tentorium. Triangular in form, this fold is adherent to the middle ridge of the occipital bone below tlie protuberance, and projects between the hemispheres of the small brain. Its base is directed to the ten- torium ; and the apex reaches the foramen magnum, to each side