569 STRUCTURE OF TROSTATE. uterus, and consist of long slender filaments without ganglia or communications. The Fallopian tube receives its branches fi-om the «« gang!'". uterine nerves. . c t on Some few nerves suiTOunding the arteries of the uterus are plexi- ^.g^^J'ij.. form and ganglionic. . . , The lymphatic glands of the pelvis form one chain in fi'ont of ^^^^^"2; the sacrum, and another along the internal iliac artciy : their eflrerent ducts join the lumbar glands. Into these glands the deep lym- ^^'J'JjlJf^''^'' phatics of the penis, those of the genital organs in the female, and them, the lymphatics of the viscera and wall of the ])elvis are collected. Section V. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE MALE FELVIS. Directions. The bladder and the bodies at its base, viz., the vesiculas seminales, and the prostate gland, are to be taken first for exami- nation. Dissection. To study the fonn and structure of the viscera, it Take out will be necessaiy to remove them from the pelvis. For this purpose ^ ^scera. the student should carry the scalpel around the pelvic outlet, close to the osseous boundaiy, so as to detach the crus of the penis fi-om separate the bone, and the end of the rectum from the parts around. When le^^t™'! the viscera are removed, the rectum is to be sej^arated from the other organs ; but the bladder, the penis, and the m-ethra are to remain iniited. After the bladder has been distended with air, the areolar tissue clean tlie is to be removed from the muscular fibres. The prostate gland ^^'"'^ and the vesicula3 seminales are to be tlieu cleaned ; and the duct of the latter, with the vas deferens, is to be followed to the gland. If any of the integument has been left on the penis and the and penis;, urethra it is to be taken away. THE PROSTATE GLAND AND SEMINAL VESICLES. Pkostate GLAND (fig. 17G). This is a firm muscular body, Avith Prostate ' glands m it secreting a special fiuid, which surrounds the neck of f/j"'^^,;,, tlie bladder and the beginning of the urethra. Its connections have situation, been enumerated (p. 653). The prostate is conical in form Hke a chestnut, with the base or Form, larger end directed backwards. Its dimensions in difl"erent direc- dimensions, tions are the following :—Transversely at the base it measures about an inch and a half ; from apex to base an inch and a quarter ; and in depth about three quarters of an inch or an inch : so that an incision directed obliquely outwards and backwards laterally, from the apex to the base, will be the longest that can be practised in the half of this body. Its weight is about an ounce, but in this mid weight respect it varies greatly.