AOETIC ARCH AND BRANCHES. 361 vein ..^ (g), to which the left upper intercostal vein (i) is directed over the'left side of the arch ; and to the lower border near the termination, the remnant of the arterial duct (e) is attached. From it arise the three great vessels of the head and upper limbs. The third or descending part of the arch is very short, extending Third part fi-om the lower edge of the fourth to that of the fifth dorsal ver- branches. tebra.« It hes against the fifth vertebra, and the fibro-cartilage between this and the fourth, and is covered by the pleura of the left side of the chest. In the concavity of the arch of the aorta are contained the root Things con- of the left lung, the branching of the pulmonary arteiy with its ^^l^^^ arterial duct, and the left recurrent nerve. Deeper than those things, the oesophagus and the thoracic duct, with some lymphatic glands, may be recognised. The branches of the arch of the aoiia are five in number ; two Five come from the ascending, and three from the transverse part. The thearch: first two are the coronary arteries of the heart (o), which have been already noticed (p. 336). The other three are much larger in size, and supply the neck, the head, and the upper limbs. Fii'st on the right is the large tiimk of the innominate artery (6) ; close to it is the left carotid (c) ; and last of all comes the left sub- clavian (d). The INNOMINATE ARTERY (5 brachio-cephalic), the first and largest innominate of the three branches, measures from one inch and a half to two ^^^ry ends 1 . . m carotid inches in length. Ascendmg to the right beneath the sternum, it and sub- divides opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation into the right Flavian, common carotid and the subclavian artery. The artery is crossed by the left innominate vein (g), and lies Length and behind the upper piece of the sternum, and the origin of the hyoid connections, and thyroid muscles. At first it rests on the trachea, but as it ascends it is placed on the right side of the air-tube. On its right is the innominate vein of the same side (7i). Usually no lateral branch arises from the artery. Left Common Carotid Artery (c). The common carotid artery Left com- of the left side of the neck is longer than the right by the distance carotid, between the arch and the top of the sternum. In the thorax the artery ascends obHquely to the left sterno- Connection clavicular articulation, but not close to the first piece of the sternum jj^jo^ax and the origin of the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone and larynx. In this course it passes beneath the left innominate vein (g), and the remains of the thymus gland. At first it lies on the trachea, but it crosses afterwards to the left of that tube, so as to be placed over the oesophagus and the thoracic duct. To its outer side is the left vagus, with one or more cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve. * It is usually said that the second part of the aortic arch ends opposite the left side of the body of the second dorsal vertebra, and the third part opposite the lower edge of the third vertebra. After examination, I have accepted the statement of Mr. "Wood respecting the position of the aortic arch to the dorsal vertebra). (Joiurnal of Anatomy and Physiology for 1868.)