LOBES OF CEREBRUM. 205 Fissure of Rolando (R. fig. 60). Beginning above abont half F.ss..re ,.t way along the hemisphere, in or near the longitudnial fissure ot the cerebrum, it is prolonged outwards between the frontal and p^ine al lobes nearly to the posterior part of the Sylvian fissure,—about the middle of that limb. ^rw -u • n + The external jmrieto-occij^italfissure (opposite P 0, fig. bU,; begins parieto- in the median longitudmal fissure half way between the preceding ,,eeii>itai and the hinder end of the hemispliere. It is veiy variable m extent, • behig sometimes an inch long, and at others only a slight indentation ; but it may be always recognised by its continuity with the per- pendicular fissure on the inner face of the hemisphere (fig. 62). LoiiES OF THE Hemisphere. Each hemisphere is divided mtofive J^™"* lobes, which have the following names and limits :— The frontal lobe (Fr, fig. 60) forms the anterior half of the Frontal lobe hemisphere. It is limited below by the fissure of Sylvius S, and behind by the fissm-e of Eolando,* E. Its under part, which rests and lobule, on the orbital plate, has been called the <frbital lobule. The pa7-ietal lobe (Par, fig. 60) is placed behind the preceding, Parietallobe and reaches down to the Syhaan fissure. It is about half as long as the frontal. In front it is bounded by the fissure of Eolando, M, and behind by the parieto-occipital (P 0). The upper and hinder and lobule, part, close to the median fissure, is named the parietal lobule (5')- The occipital lobe (Oc, fig. 60) constitutes the pointed end of the o^'^'P^''^^ hemisphere and measm-es about a fifth of the whole. In fi'ont it is separated fi-om the parietal lobe by the parieto-occipital fissure (P 0), but below it blends with the following lobe. It rests on the tentorium. On the inner surface is a triangular piece, the occipital and lobule, lobule (2% fig. 62). The temporo-sphenoidal lobe (T S, fig. 60) projects into the middle Jj]\"PXiiil fossa of the base of the skull. It is situate behind the fissure of lobe. Sj'lvius, and below the parietal and occipital lobes. The outer surface is in contact with the cranium, and the opposite is supported mainly on the tentorium. The central lobe, or the island of Eeil (C, fig. 61), Hes in the Central lobe Sylvian fissure, and is concealed by the overlapping of the fi-ontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes. On separating those lobes it mil be seen to be bounded in front and behind by the limbs of the Sylvian fissure, and externally by a deep gi'oove separating it fi'om the frontal and parietal lobes. It is of a triangular form with the apex down. Convolutions of the Cerebrum. In different brains the con- Convoiu- volutions vaiy slightly in foiTn, and even in the two hemispheres of hemispliere the same cerebrum they are not exactly alike ; but there is always similarity enough for the recognition of the chief eminences. Each lobe possesses convolutions, but these run into each other by means of smaller gyri, either on the surface of the brain or at the bottom of the sulci ; and the student may experience some difliculty at first in defining the hmits of each. It is in the smaller gyri that the greatest variation will be found. * By some the anterior limb of the fissure 'S is m!\cle the hinder bound of the lobe ; but this is not so good an arrangement as the one in the text.