188 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Origin of sixtii iiurve, from fourtli ventricle. Seventh iierve luis two iiart.s. Origin of tlie facial. Small acces- sorj' piece. Auditoiy neiTe. Deep origin of facial; of auditor-^-. Eighth nerve lias three parts. Origin of glosso-iiha- lyngeal. Vagus. Spinal acces- sory has two parts; accessoiy; The SIXTII NEUVE C), abducent nei-ve of tlie eyeball, springs from the pyramidal body close to the pons, and by a second band from the lower border of the pons. Deep mnrjin. The fibres of the nerve bend backwards, through the medulhi oblongata, to a nucleus in tlie floor of the fourth ventricle, whose position Ls on the outer part of the fasciculus teres, and behind the anterior fossa. See Anatomy of the Fourth Ventricle (p. 229). The SEVENTH CRANIAL NERVE (Willis') appears at the lower border of the pons near the restiform body. It consists of two distinct trunks, facial and auditory; the former being the motor nei-ve of the face, and the latter the special neive of the organ of hearing. The facial nerve (poitio dura, seventh nerve, Sommerring) is firm and round, and smaller than the auditory, internal to which it is placed. It comes fi-om the lateral tract of the medulla, and is connected by a slip with the lower border of the pons. The facial nerve receives a small accessorj"^ band of fibres (inter- mediate portion of Wrisberg) from the same part of the medulla, and enters the internal meatus with the auditory trank. The auditory nerve (portio mollis, eighth nerve, SommeiTuig) has a surface attachment to the restiform body and the floor of the fom-th ventricle. The nen-^e is very soft, and receives one of its names from that fact. Deep origin. The facial nerve penetrates to the floor of the fourth ventricle, and arises from the same nucleus as the sixth nerve, which it joins (Clarke*). The fasciculus of the auditory nerve which reaches the floor of the fourth ventricle, bends backwards over the restiform body to the auditory nucleus ; and some arciform fibres out of the median sulcus are joined with this part, of the root. The other fasciculus pierces the restiform body, and takes origin from a network connected with the posterior pyramid (Clarke). The EIGHTH CRANIAL NERVE (Willis is placed along the side of the medulla oblongata, and consists of three distinct ti'unks, glosso- pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory : the names of the first two indicate their destination ; and the last, besides being accessory to the pneumo-gastric, supplies some muscles. The glosso-pliaryngeal nerve (ninth nerve, Sommeriing) is the smallest of the three, and is situate highest. Its apparent origm is by three or more fibrils, which penetrate the lateral tract of the medulla close to the facial nerve. The pneumo-cjastnc or vagus (tenth nerve, Sommemng) is con- nected with the lateral tract of the medulla, below the glosso- pharyngeal nei-ve, by a series of filaments, which are collected at first into bundles, but are finally gathered into one flat band. The s])inal accessory nerve (eleventh nerve, §6mmerring) consists of two parts—accessory to the vagus, and spinal. The accessory part is of small size, and arises by fine filaments in a line with the root of the vagus, as low as the first cervical neive. * On the sti-ucture of the Medulla Oblongata, by J. Lockhart Clarke, F.R.S., in the Pliilosophical Transactions for 1858, pai-t i.