FIEST LAYER OF MUSCLES. 677 The intermuscxaar septa pass down on the sides of the Aexor Two^nter- brevis digitonini, and a piece of fascia reaches across the foot from gepta. the one septum to the other, beneath that flexor, so as to isolate it. The in7ier septum lies between the short flexor and the abductor inner pollicis : and the internal plantar nerve and vessels, and the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus, pass througli it. The outer partition, between the short flexor and the abductor minimi digiti, is pierced by the digital nerve and vessels for the outer side of the little toe. The superficial transverse ligament crosses the roots of the toes, ^^^l^^^^- and is contained in the skin forming the rudimentary web of the the toes, foot. It is attached at the ends to the sheath of the flexor tendons of the great and the little toe, and is connected with the sheaths of the others as it Hes over them. Beneath it the digital nerves and vessels issue. The sheaths of the flexor tendons (fig. 209, ^) are similar to those S'jeatiis of of the fingers, though not so distinct, and serve to confine the ^l^J tendons against the grooved bones. The sheath is weak opposite the articulations between the phalanges, but is strong opposite the centre of both the metatarsal and the next phalanx. Each is lubri- cated by a synovial membrane, and contains the tendons of the long and short flexor muscles. Dissection (fig. 208). In the sole of the foot the muscles are fj^^^f^^^ numerous, and have been airanged in four layers. To prepare the muscles, first layer all the fascia must be taken away ; but this dissection must be made with some care, lest the digital nerves and vessels, which become superficial to the central muscle towards the toes, should be injured. The tendons of the short flexor muscle are to be followed to the toes, and one or more of the sheaths in which they ai"e contained should be opened. First layer of muscles. In this layer are three muscles, viz., Muscles in the flexor brevis digitorum, the abductor pollicis, and abductor minimi layer"^^^ digiti. The short flexor of the toes lies in the centre of the foot; and each of the others is in a line with the toe on which it acts. The ABDUCTOR POLLICIS (fig. 208, ■*■), the most internal muscle of Abductor the superficial layer, takes origin from the inner side of the larger P°'l'"^'s; tubercle on the under surface of the os calcis : fi-om the plantar ' fascia ; and from the lower border of the internal annular ligament, and the inner border of the foot as far as the scaphoid bone. In front the muscle ends in a tendon, which is joined by fibres of the short flexor, and is inserted into the uaner side of the base of the msertion: metatarsal phalanx of the great toe. The cutaneous surface of the muscle is in contact with the connections plantar fascia ; and the other touches the tendons of the tibial muscles, the plantar vessels and nerves, and the tendons of the long flexors of the toes with the accessorius muscle. Action. This abductor acts chiefly as a flexor of the metatarso- use as phalangeal joint of the great toe, but it will abduct slightly that "'^^o'"' toe from the others. l'^^