353 CAVA AND INNOMINATE VEINS. receives the internal mammary, the inferior thyi-oid, and the superior intercostal of its own side ; and the left vein is jomed m addition by some small thymic and pericardiac veins. Sometimes the innominate veins are not united in the vena cava, Sometocs but descend separately to the heart, where each has a distinct separately opening in the right auricle. Wlien such a condition exists, the '^^^^^ right vein takes the course of the upper cava in front of the root of the right lung; but the left vein descends in front of the root of the left lung, and turning to the back of the heart, receives the cardiac veins, before it opens into the right auricle. A cross branch connects the two above the heart.® This occasional condition in the adult is a regular one in a very this eai-ly period of the growth of the fetus ; and two vessels are also fetus, persistent in some mammalia. Clmnqe of the two veins into one. The changes taking place in the veins How two during the growth of the fetus, to produce the arrangement common in the Ff^ changed adult,° concern the trunk on the left side. The following is an outline of them. ° First the cross branch between the two trunks enlarges, and forms the future left innominate vein. Next the left trunk below the cross branch disappears at its middle, and undergoes transformations at each end :—At the upper end and coro- it becomes converted into the superior intercostal vein. At the lower part it J?Qj,^g^™"^ remains pervious for a short distance as the coronary sinus ; and even the small oblique vein opening into the end of that sinus in the adult (p. 336), is a remnant of the trunk of the vein that lay beneath the heart. In the adult there is a vestige of the occluded vessel in the form of a fold of Vestige in the serous membrane of the pericardium in front of the root of the left lung ; gardium this Mr. Marshall names the vestigial fold of the pericardium (p. 333). + The IHFERIOB or ascending cava enters the right auricle as soon inferior as it has pierced the diaphi-agm. No branches join the vein in the thorax. The anatomy of this vein will be given with the vessels of the abdomen (p. 536). The PULMONARY VEINS are two on each side. They issue from the Four pia- fissm-e of the root of the lung, and end in the left auricle : their ^J^'jns'^^ position to the other vessels of the root has been noticed at p. 332. The right veins are longer than the left, and he beneath the aorta l^'ght veins and the right auricle of the heart. The superior receives its roots ° ^' from the upper and middle pulmonic lobes, and the infeiior vein is formed by branches of the lower lobe. The left veins cross in front of the descending aorta j and one Left veius. springs from each lobe of the lung. NERVES OF THE THORAX. The pneumo-gastric and the sympathetic nerves supply the viscera Nerves of of the thorax. Through the cavity courses the phrenic nerve to the t'lo^ax. diaphragm. Dissection. The phrenic nerve is sufficiently denuded for its exa- To trace the _ * An example of two large vessels, "double vena cava," opening into the right auricle in the adult, is contained in the Museum of University Collecre. t See a paper by Mr. Marshall on the development of the veins of the neck (Philosoph. Transac. 1850.) nerves,