LUMBAR PLEXUS AND BRA.N'CIIES. On the right side the psoas is to be left untouched, in order that the place of" emergence of the different nerve branches from it maj be noticed. . , i „„ +t,o LUMBAU SnxAL Nkuvks. The anterior prnnary branches of the lumbar nerves enter the lumbar plexus, with the exception ot the last. Five in number, ^ they increase in size from ^'S- ^' ■ the first to the last, and are joined by filaments of the sympathetic near the intervertebral foramina. Before entering the plexus they supply branches to the psoas and quadratus luinborum muscles. The fifth nerve (fig. 175) receives a communi- cating branch fi'om the fourth, and is to be fol- lowed into the pelvis to its jmiction with the sa- cral plexus. After the two are united, the name lumbosacral is applied to the common trunk ; and from this, before it enters the sacral plexus, arises the superior gluteal nerve (^). The LUMBAR PLEXUS (fig. 170) is fomied by the intercommunication of the first four lumbar nerves. Contained in the substance of the psoas near the posterior surface, it consists of communi- cating loops between the several nerves, and in- creases in size from above downwards, like the individual nerves. Superiorly it is sometimes united by a small branch with the last dorsal nerve ; and inferiorly it joins the sacral plexus tlu-ough the large lumbo-sacral cord. The branches of the plexus are six in number, and supply the lower part of the abdominal wall and the muscular covering of the * Dissection of the luraljar iilexus and its branches. (Illustrations of Dis- sections.) a. External iliac artery, cut across, b. Thoracic duct. c. A^ygos vein. Nerves: The figures 1 to 5 mark the trunks of the five lumbar nerves. </. Splanchnic nerves, e. Last dorsal. /. Uio-hypogastric. f/. Ilio-inguinal. Ji. Genito-crural. i. External cutaneous, k. Anterior crural. I. Accessory to obturator, n. Obturator, o. Grangliated cord of the sympathetic. 541 Four luniliar nerves enter plexus, and supply niuscle.s: flfth to the saeral plexus. Plexus liow fonned: situation. connections with nerves. Six branches, viz.: