THIRD LAYER OF MUSCLES. 683 hollow below the inner projection (sustentaculum tali) of the os calcis, being enveloped by a synovial membrane. Action. For the action of this muscle on the great toe, see page Use on fust 671. Through the slip that it gives to the tendons of the flexor ^i>d other longus going to the second and third toes, it may bend those digits with the great toe. Dissection (fig. 210). For the dissection of the third layer of muscles, the accessorius and the tendons of the long flexor are to of muscles, be cut through near the calcaneum, and turned towards the toes. Whilst raising the tendons the external plantar nerve and arteiy ai-e not to be interfered with ; and two small nerves and vessels to the outer two lumbricales are to be looked for. Afterwards the areolar tissue is to be taken from the muscles now brought into view. Third layer of muscles (fig. 210). Only the short muscles of Third layer . of muscles the great and little toes enter into this layer. On the metatarsal consists of I'one of the gi-eat.toe the flexor brevis pollicis lies, and external 1.1 it is the adductor pollicis ; on the metatarsal bone of the little toe is placed the flexor brevis minimi digiti. Crossing the heads of the metatarsal bones is the transversalis pedis muscle. The fleshy mass between the adductor pollicis and the short flexor of the little toe consists of the interossei muscles of the next layer. The FLEXOR BREVIS POLLICIS muscle (fig. 210, ^) is tendinous and Flexor bre- VIS poiliciSi pointed posteriorly, but bifurcated in fi'ont. It is attached behind origin to the inner part of the under surface of the cuboid bone, and to a prolongation from the tendon of the tibialis posticus. Near the front of the metatarsal bone of the great toe it divides into two heads, which are inserted into the sides of the base of the metatarsal Insei-tlon. phalanx. Kesting on the muscle at one part, and in the interval between Connec- the heads at another, is the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. The inner head joins the abductor, and the outer is united with the adductor pollicis. A sesamoid bone is developed in the tendon connected with each head. Action. By its attachment to the first phalanx it flexes the meta- Use on the tarso-phalangeal joint of the big toe. The ADDUCTOR POLLICIS (fig. 210, ^), which is larger than the Adductor preceding muscle and external to it, arises from the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, and fi'om the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. Anteriorly the muscle is united joins outer with the outer head of the short flexor, and is insertecl with it into short flexor the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the great toe. To the inner side is the flexor brevis ; and beneath the outer Covers border the external plantar vessels and nerve are directed inwards. P'.'*"tar Action. Its first action will be to adduct the great toe to the ul,'', others, and it will help afterwards in bending the metatarso- toe! phalangeal joint of the toe. The TRANSVERSALIS PEDIS (fig. 210, ») is placed transversely over Transversa- the heads of the metatarsal bones. Its origin is by fleshy bundles P"'^''' = origin,