DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. OOG Sulicutnne- ous layer uininitcd witli I'liu- ]iiirt. Dissection ; to sec the superfutial vessels, lymplinties, ^ncl nerves. The arteries fr<in\ the I'eiiioral. One exter- miil putlic artery ; another beneath' the fascia. Superficiiil epigastric. Superficial circumflex iliac. Veins .join the saphe- uous. Ingiiin.il glands; two sets, outer and inner borders of the tliigli, the separation of the superficial fascia into two laj^ers cannot be easily made. The suhcutaneous layer of tlie fat decreases in thickness near Poupart's ligament, becoming more fibrous at the same spot; and at its under aspect is a smooth and membranous surface. It con- ceals the superficial vessels and the inguinal glands, and is separated by these from Ponpai-t's ligament. Dissection (fig. I'Jl). The inguinal glands and the supei-ficial vessels are to be next laid bare by the removal of the surrounding fat; but the student is to be careful not to destroy the deeper, very thin layer of the superficial fascia, which is beneath them, and is visible chiefly on the imier side of the centre of the limb. Three sets of vessels are to be dissected out:—One set (ai-terj-- and vein) is directed inwards to the pubes, and is named external pudic ; another, superficial epigastric, ascends over Poupart's ligament; and the third, or the superficial circumflex iliac, appears at the outer border of the hmb. The large vein in the middle line of the thigh to which the branches converge, is the internal saphenous. Some of the small lymphatic vessels maj"^ be traced from one inguinal gland to another. A small nerve, the ilio-inguinal, is to be sought on the inner side of the saphenous vein, close to the pubes ; and the branch of the genito-ciin-al nerve, or an oflrset of it, may be found a little outside the vein. Superficial Vessuls. The small cutaneous arteries at the top of the thigh are the first branches of the femoral trunk ; thej^ pierce the deep fascia (fascia lata), and are distributed to the integuments and the glands of the groin. The external inulic artery {h superior) crosses the spermatic cord in its course inwards, and ends in the integuments of the penis and scrotum, Avhere it anastomoses with offsets of the internal pudic artery. Another external pudic branch (inferior, p. 619) pierces the fascia lata at the inner border of the thigh, and ramifies also in the scrotum. In the female both branches supply the labium pudendi. The superficial epigastric artery (c) passes over Poupart's ligament to the abdomen (p. 439), and commimicates with branches of the deep epigastric arteiy. The superficial circumflex iliac artery (fZ) is the smallest of the three branches : appearing as two or more pieces on the outer border of the thigh near the iliac crest, it is distributed in the integuments: it supplies an offset with the external cutaneous nerve. A vein accompanies each artery, having the same name as its com- panion vessel, and ends in the upper part of the saphenous vein, with the exception of that with the inferior pudic artery : these veins will be noticed subsequently (p. 608). The superficial inguinal glands (c) are arranged in two lines. One set lies across the thigh, near Poupart's ligament; and the other is situate along the side of the saphenous vein. In the lower or femoral group the glands are larger than in the upper, and the