419 ISCHIO-EECTAL FOSSA. sphincter muscles may be injured without care, for they are close to and sub- the skin, without the intervention of fat. The dissector should ^^^^^^""^ trace the external sphincter to the coccyx, and forwards for a short distance beneath the skin; and define a fleshy slip at each side in front and behind to the subcutaneous fatty layer. The next step is to bring into view the ischio-rectal^ hollow Difference^^ between the side of the rectum and the tuberosity of the hip bone, the isciiio- On the left side the fat is to be cleaned out of it without reference rectal fossee. to the vessels and nerves, but on the opposite side a special dissec- tion is to be made of them. To take out the fat from the left fossa, begin at the outer margin of the spliincter ani, and proceed forwards ^^^^^^^^^^^^^ and backwards. In fi-ont the dissection should not extend farther "gg^i fossa." than the anus, whilst behind it should lay bare the margin of the gluteus maximus. On the inner side of the holIo\y the levator ani (sometimes very pale) is to be dissected. On the outer boundary the pudic vessels and nerve should be denuded : they lie in a canal formed by fascia, and at some distance from the surface. On the right side it is not necessary to clean the muscular fibres, ^j^g^lggj. when following the vessels and nerv^es. If the student begins at vessels and the outer border of the sphincter, he will find the inferior hasmor- iierves. rhoidal vessels and nerve, which he may trace outwards to the pudic trunks : some of the branches, which join the superficial perinteal and inferior pudendal nerves, are to be followed forwards. In the posterior angle of the space seek a small offset of the fourth sacral nerve ; and external to it, one or more branches of the sciatic nerve and vessels turning round the border of the gluteus. Near the front of the fossa is a superficial peiinEeal artery with nerve (of the pudic); and the last, after communicating with the hjemorrhoidal nerve, leaves the fossa. A second perinseal nerve with a deeper position may be found at the front of the hollow. The iscHio-RECTAL FOSSA (fig. 229) is the space intervening situation between the rectum and the ischial part of the innominate bone, of fossa. It is a subcutaneous and somewhat conical interval, wliich is larger Fomi. behind than before, and diminishes in width as it sinks inside the Dimensions, hip bone. Its width is about one inch at the surface ; and its depth about two inches at the outer side. It is filled by a soft granular fat. The inner or longest side of the space is very oblique, and is Boundaries, bounded by the levator ani (d), together with the coccygeus muscle posteriorly ; but the outer side is vertical, and is formed by the obturator muscle and the fasgia covering it. In fi'ont it is limited by the triangular ligament (to be afterwards seen) : and beliind are the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and the largest gluteal muscle. Towards the surface it is covered by the teguments, and is overlaid in part by the gluteus B and the sphincter externus a. Position of vessels. Along the outer wall lie the pudic vessels and Pudic ves- Tierve (a), which are contained in a tube of fascia ; opposite the outer wilf ischial tuberosity, they are situate an inch and a hall; from tlie "^"^ ^ ' surface, but towards the front of the space they approach to about half an inch from the edge of the pubic arch. Crossing the centre E E 2