370 DISSECTION OP THE THORAX. brres and tlio cartilage. To see liga nionts of tlie vorto- ■brte; of rib and sternum. Ligaments of head of rib are costo-verte- bral or stellate: attach- ments. differs in certain ribs. Fig. 108.* Inter- articular, other. Between it and the spine are two sets of ligaments, viz., one between the liead of the bone and the bodies of the vertebraj ; and a second fi-oni the neck and tubercle to the transverse pro- cesses of the vertebra). Dissection. For the purpose of examining the ligaments between the rib and the vertebras, take a piece of the spinal column with three or four ribs attached. After removing the intercostal and other muscles, and the loose tissue from the surface of the bones, the student will be able to define, as below, the ligaments passing from 1^e head and neck of the rib to the bodies and transverse processes of the vertebras. The Hgaments attaching the costal cartilage to the rib and sternum are to be dissected on the part of the thorax which was removed in opening the cavity. Ligaments of the Head of the Eib. Where the head of the rib is received into a hollow in the bodies of two contiguous vertebrse, the articulation is provided with two retaining ligaments — costo- vertebral and interarticular, with two synovial sacs. The costo-vertebral ligament (fig. 108, ^), named stellate fi-om its form, is composed of radiating fi.bres, and is placed in front of the joint. Attached by one end to the rib, it is divided at the other into three sets of fibres :—The upper, the largest, ascends to the body of the vertebra above the rib head ; the lower descends to the vertebra below the head ; and the central part is united with the fibro-carti- lage between the vertebrte. Where the rib is in contact with only one vertebra, as in the first, eleventh, and twelfth, the ligament has but two sets of fibres. The chief fibres in those three joints are fixed into the body of that vertebra which is touched by the costal head; whilst the ascending band is attached to the body of the vertebra immediately above. In tbe first rib-joint the ascending band is continued to the last cervical vertebra. The interarticular ligament willhe seen when the stellate is divided. It is a short thin band of fibro-cartilage, which is attached on one side to the ridge separating the articular sm-faces on the head of * Li<^aments of the ribs and vertebrte (Bourgery).—1. Anterior ligament of the bodies of the vertebra. 2. Lateral part of the anterior ligament of the spine 3 Ligament (stellate) between the vertebra3 and head of the rib. 4. Ascending costo-transverse Ugament. 5. Interspinous hgament.