DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 140 Dissection of palatine and nasal branches ; body of ganglion; vidian nerve. tained in osseous canals wliicli require to be opened. As is the case with other dissections, the student seeks first the branches, and traces these to the ganglion and main trunk. Dissection. The left half of the head is to be used for tlie display of the ganglion and its branches ; but the student may previously acquire some skill by attempting the dissection on tlie remains of the right side. To lay bare the branches of the palate, detach the soft parts in the roof of the mouth from the bone, until the nei-ves and vessels escaping from the posterior palatine foramina are arrived at. Cut off, with a bone forceps, the posterior part of the hard palate to a level Avith the vessels and nerves ; and cleaning these, trace offsets behind into the soft palate, and follow the main pieces forwards to the fi-ont of the mouth. Take away without injuiy to the naso-palatine nerve and vessels (already found), the hinder portion of the loose piece of mucous membrane detached fi-om the septum nasi ; and separate the mucous membrane fi'om the outer wall of the nasal fossa, behind the spongy bones, as high as the spheno-palatine foramen. In re- flecting forwards the membrane many branches of vessels and nen^es will be seen entering it tlu-ough the foramen ; but these may be left for the present, as directions for their dissection will be subsequently given. When the lining membrane of the nose has been removed behind the spongy bones, palatine nerves and vessels will appear through the thin translucent palate bone, and will be readily reached by breaking carefully through it with a chisel. Aftenvards the tube of membrane containing the palatine vessels and nerves being opened, these are to be followed down to the soft palate and the roof of the mouth, and upwards to the ganglion which is close to the body of the sphenoid bone. To bring the ganglion fully into -vaew, it will be necessaiy to saw through the overhanging body of the sphenoid bone, to cut away pieces of the bones surrounding the hollow in which it lies, and to remove with care the enveloping fat and the periosteum. The ganglion then appears as a flattened reddish-looking body, fi-om which the vidian and pharyngeal nei-ves pass backwards. Besides the branches referred to, the student should seek two large neiwes from the top of the ganglion to join the upper maxillary; and smaller offsets to the floor of the orbit. To trace backwards the vidian branch to the carotid plexus and the facial nei-ve, the student must lay open the canal which contains it and its artery in the root of the pterygoid process ; and in doing this he must define the small pharyngeal branches of nerve and artery which are superficial to the vidian, and lie in the pterygo- palatine canal. At the back of the pterygoid canal, a small branch fi-om the vidian to the plexus on the internal carotid artery is to be looked for. Lastly, the vidian nerve is to he followed into the skull through the cartilage in the foramen lacerum (basis cranii), after cutting aAvay the point of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and dividing the internal carotid artery ; and it is to be pursued on