dissectiojS" of the abdomen. 500 a ('o)lcptioii of follicles. Avti'iics. Avliich are round or oval in form, and arc covered by tha mucous membrane. Around each follicle is a ring- of apertures of the ci-ypts before described. The follicles have the same composition as the scattered " solitary glands." Fine arterial twigs (fig. 150, ") ramify on the follicles, and send inwards capillary offsets which form a network in the interior, and FIk. 151. ]5 Laeteals. Glamls of Brunner; comiio- sitioii: aiiei'turcs of their ducts. The ejiithe- liuin is columnar. converge to the centre. Lacteal vessels form plexuses around and beneath the follicle, but do not penetrate the wall. The Glands of Brunner (fig. 152, h) are small compound bodies, similar to the buccal and labial glands of the mouth, wliich exist in the duodenum. For a few Fig. 152. + inches near the pyloras they are most numerous, and there they are visible without a lens, being nearly as large as hemp seed. The glands consist of lobules, with appertaining excretorj'- tubes : and each ends on the siu-face of the mucous membrane by a duct (c), whose aperture is slightly larger than the mouths of the contiguous crypts of Lieberkiilm ; they secrete mucus. Epitlieliiim. The epithelial lin- ing of the mucous membrane of the small intestine is of the columnar or cylindrical kind. On the villi it forms a distuict cover- ing of elongated pieces. It sinks into the crypts of Lieberkiilm, and into the ducts of the glands of Brunner, and gives them a linuig. * A. A piece of mucous membrane enlarged, with its villi and tubules. Part of a patch of Peyer's gland is also represented witli tlie follicles (a), each Laving a ring of tubes at the circumference, b. A " solitary gland " of the small intestine, also enlarged, covered by villi (Boehm). t Magnified view of the mucous membrane of the duodenum with the tubules of Lieberkuhn, and a gland of Brunner. a. Tubules, h. ftlaud of Bi-iinner. c. Duct of the gland, d. Submucous layer of muscular fibres (Kollikcr).