311 LIGAMENTS OF SHOULDER. Articular surfaces (fig. 89). The convex articular " t^e urfaceof humerus is two or three times larger than the hollow m the scapula and forms rather less than the half of a sphere. The head of the bone is supported on a neck, which is joined to the shaft at an angle as in the femur, and a rotatory movement is possessed by the humerus in consequence. ^^ ^ „ , i The glenoid surface of the scapula is oval in form with the large f scapula, end do^vn, and is very shallow ; it is not nearly large enough to cover the head of the humerus. _ . Movements. In this joint there is the common motion m four M^of^^ directions, with the cncular or circumductory ; and m addition a movement of rotation. , » In the minging or to and fro movement, the carrying forwards o± Fi«cion the humerus constitutes flexion, and the moving it backwards, ex- Fig. 89.* tension. Flexion is freer than extension ; and when the joint is most bent the scapula, rotating on its axis, follows the head of the hrmierus, so as to keep the centre of the glenoid fossa applied to the middle of the articular surface of the arm-bone. In extension the articular surface of the scapula does not move after the humerus. During these movements the head of the bone rests in the bottom of the glenoid fossa, turning forwards and backwards around a line representing the axis of the head and neck ; and it cannot be dis- lodged by either the rapidity or the degree of the motion. The muscles have more influence than the loose capsule in con- trolling the swinging motion. Abduction and adduction. When the limb is raised, it is abducted, and when depressed, adducted ; and in both cases the humerus rolls on the scapula which is fixed. * View of the interior of the shoulder-joint, a. Attachment of the capsule to the neck of the humerus, b. Interval of the bicipital groove, c. Glenoid ligament around the glenoid fossa. - - - of the fossa. extension. Scapula moves in flexion not in ex- tension. Movements of humerus. Muscles, their use. d. Tendon of the biceps fixed to the top