DISSECTIOX OF THE PELVIS. 572 length anil Vesicle liiis lisuul Cdiits ; a n(]venii{; of iiuiseiilar llbivs; aiul a mu- cous coat. End of vns Ueft'vcns : glands and eiiitlielimu. Seminal duc-.ts, how formed : extent, conrst', lengtli, and tenni- natiou. Structure: plnnds and ejiithelium whose bends are bound together by fibrous tissue ; this cell struc- ture will be shown by means of a cut into it. When the bends of the vesicle are undone, its formative tube, which is about the size of a (luill, measures from four to six inches, and ends posteriorly in a closed extremity: connected with the tube at intervals, arc lateral ciccal appendages (fig. 170). Structure. The wall of the seminal vesicle Las the same number of layers as the vns deferens (p. 527); but the muscular coat is thinner. Within the casing of the recto-vesical fascia, the vesiculaj and vasa deferentia arc covered by a layer of transverse and longitudinal plain muscular fibres. The transverse are the more superficial (the base of the bladder bemg upwards), are strongest near the prostate, and act most on the vasa deferentia. The longitudinal fibres, placed chiefiy on the sides of the vesicuhr;, are continued forwards with the common seminal ducts to the urethra. (Koy. Med. Chir. Trans. 1856.) The mucous memhrane is thrown into ridges by the bending of the tube, and presents an areolar or honeycomb ajDpearance ; it is provided with tubular glands, as in the vas deferens, and is covered by a flattened epithelium. End of vas deferens (fig. 17G). Opposite the vesicula the vas deferens is increased in capacity, and is rather sacculated like the contiguous vesicle : but before it joins the tube of that body to form the common seminal duct, it diminishes in size, and becomes straight. In the mucous lining are numerous tubular glands like those of the intestine (Henle) ; and the epithelium is columnar as in the rest of the tube. Common seminal ducts (fig. 178, /). These tubes (right and left) are formed by the junction of the narrowed part or the duct of the vesicula scminahs with the vas deferens of the same side. They begin opposite the base of the prostate, and are directed upwards and forwards through an aperture in the circular prostatic fibres, and along the sides of the hollow (vesicula prostatica), to open into the urethral tube. Their length is rather less than an inch, and their course is convergent to their termination close to each other in the floor of the urethra (p. 570). Structure. The wall of the common duct is thinner than that of the vesicula seminalis ; but it possesses similar coats. It is sur- roimdcd by longitudinal involuntaiy muscular fibres, which blend in the urethra with the submucous stratum. It possesses the same glands and epithelium as the dilated part of the vas deferens ; but at the end of the tube the mucous membrane wants glands and is smooth (Henle). THE BLADDER. Bladder out bladder has been removed from the cavity of the pelvis, of the body, its form, and the extent of its difEerent regions, can be more con- veniently studied. Form. Whilst the bladder is in the body, it is conical in shape, and rather