453 VESSELS IN ABDOMINAL "WALL. placed behind the other vessels of the cord ; it ivill be recognised by its resemblance in feel to a piece of wliipcord, when it is taken between the finger and the thumb. As it enters the abdomen Situation tlu-oughthe opening in the fascia transversalis (internal ring), it and course, lies on the inner side of the vessels of the testicle ; and as it begins its descent to the pelvis, it winds behind the epigastric artery. Cremasteric artery and nerve. The cremasteric covering of the ^^'JJ^^^ cord has a separate artery and nerve. The artery is derived fi-om coverings of the epigastric, and is distributed to the coverings of the cord. The "lecord; genital branch of the genito-crural nerve enters the cord by the in- ternal abdominal ring, and ends in the cremaster muscle. Cutaneous vessels and nerves are supplied to the teguments of the cord from the superficial pudic artery and the iho-inguinal nerve. Dissection. By cutting through the spermatic cord near the pubes, ^ jggp'°j"ij and raising it towards the inner abdominal ring, a fibrous band below Poupart's hgament, the deep cnu:al arch, will appear : it passes in- wards to the pubes, and is to be defined with some care. The remaining vessels of the abdominal wall, viz., the epigastric and of the and circumflex iliac, and the ending of the internal mammary the-waU of artery, are to be next dissected. The epigastric and mammary abdomen, arteries will be observed on raising the outer edge of the rectus, one above and the other below, ramifynng in the muscle. The epigastric, with its earliest branches, may be traced by remo\ang the fascia transversalis from it near Poupart's ligament. The circumflex iliac artery lies behind the outer half of Poupart's ligament, and should be pursued along the iliac crest to its ending. Deep crural arch. Below the level of Poupart's ligament is a thin Deep crural band of transverse fibres over the femoral vessels, which has received the name deep crural arch from its position and resem- blance to the superficial crural arch, (Poupart's ligament). This Attach- fasciculus of fibres, beginning about the centre of the hgament, is prolonged inwards to the pubes, where it is widened, and is inserted into the pectineal line at the deep aspect of the conjomed tendon of the broad muscles of the abdomen.** It is closely connected Avith the front of the crural sheath. Vessels in the Wall of the Abdomen. On the side of the vessels in abdomen are the intercostal and lumbar arteries with the inter- aMominal costal nerves. In the sheath of the rectus lie the epigastric and internal mammary vessels. And around the crest of the hip-bone bends the circumflex iliac branch. The intercostal arteries (fig. 136) issue between the false ribs intercostal (p. 362), and enter the abdominal wall between the transversalis "■^^^^^ • and internal obhque muscles : they extend forwards Avith the nerves, supplying the contiguous muscles, and the teguments. In front * Sometimes this structure is a firm distinct band, which is joined by some of the lower fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique. At other times and this is the most common arrangement, it is only a thickenin'r of the fascia transversalis with fibres added from the tendon of the transversalis muscle.