121 PREPARATION OF PHARYNX. DirecHons. The dissector may learn next the d.gash-ic and styb- M-des and hvoid muscles, witii the hypo-glossal nerve (p. 75). ^t^T,^'^^.^"*""'-^^^^ niay take the trmik of the external carotid, with the followmg tnai.tic branches,—superior thyroid, facial, occipital, posterior auncular, and superficial temporal (p. 77 to 81). The dissector is not to examine now the pterygo-maxillary or sub- negions to maxillary regions on the left side because such a proceeding would - interfere with the subsequent dissections. Before learning the pharynx he should lay bare, on this side, the middle and inferior ganglia of the sympathetic with their branches. Dissection. For the display of the two lower ganglia of the sym- cisseetion pathetic and their branches, it will be necessary to take away the °i^|t^j{!|i"'" great blood-vessels by cutting them across at the lower part of the neck, and near the digastric muscle. In removing the vessels, care must be taken of the sympathetic beneath them. The middle ganglion must be sought in the fat and areolar tissue viz., mWdle near the inferior thyroid artery ; and the inferior one will be seen gaugua. on the neck of the first rib, after the subclavian artery has been divided. The upper cardiac nerve may be found descending beneath the carotid sheath. The upper end of the sternum with its attached clavicle is to be Reserve taken away next, by cutting through the middle of the first rib ; |oi,it and the piece of bone is to be put aside for the subsequent exami- nation of the sterno-clavicular articulation. The middle and inferior cei-vical ganglia of the sympathetic nen'e Ganglia of are so similar to the coiTesponding gangHa of the right side, that nerve?*'^'^*^'^ the same description will suffice (p. 115). The cardiac nerves are three in number on the left as on the right Cardiac side, viz. superior, middle, and inferior, but they present some ""^^ ^ differences. The superior cardiac nerve has a similar course in the neck on both Upper, sides ; but the left in entering the chest lies between and parallel to the carotid and subclavian arteries. The middle cardiac nerve unites frequently with the next, and Middle, passes beneath the subclavian arteiy to the deep cardiac plexus. The inferior cardiacnen-eis generally a small branch, which enters Lower, the thorax conjoined with the preceding, to end in the cardiac plexus. Section XI. DISSECTION OF THE PHAKYNX. The phaiynx, or the commencement of the ahmentary passage, Directions. can be examined only when it has been separated from the back of the head and the spinal column ; and it will therefore be necessary to cut through the base of the skull in the manner mentioned below, 80 as to have the anterior half, with the pharynx connected to it, detached from the posterior half. Dissection. The block being removed from beneath the neck, the To detjK'li pharynx,