DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 54 PiiKl oino- liyoitlcus. Nerves above omo- hyoid ; vessels below. and a small nen'e. Define serratiis, and nerves piercing .scalenus. Bovindaries. Is di\'ided by omo- hyoideus. Part near clavicle. Extent of the space. between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles, the posterior triangle of tlio neck will be displaj^ed. In the execution of this somewliat difficult task the student should proceed cautiously, to aA^oid injm-ing the small nei-ves and vessels in the space. Seek first the small omo-hyoid muscle (fig. 14, which crosses the space obliquely about an inch above the clavicle, and divides it into two. Close to or under the upper border of the muscle lie the small nerve and vessels to it: the nerve is to be traced to the descendens noni, and the artery to the supra-scapular. Above the omo-hyoid muscle will be found the ramifications of the branches of the cenacal plexus, together witli the spinal acces- sory nerve ; the latter will be recognised by its piercing the stenio- raastoid muscle. The greater number of the branches of the cervical plexus descend to the shoulder ; but the small occipital and gi-eat auricular nerves ascend to the head, and the superficial cervical branch is directed fore^ards over the sterno-mastoid muscle. Below the omo-hyoideus find the large subclavian artery and tlie brachial plexus, wliich have a deep position, and run down and out. Also the following vessels and nerve are to be sought, viz. the supra-scapular vessels behind the claAacle ; the transverse cervical vessels, which are higher in the neck, but take an outward direction beneath the omo-hyoid muscle ; and, lastly, the small branch of nerve to the subclavius muscle, which lies about the middle of the space between the clavicle and the omo-hyoideus. Underneath the trapezius, where it is attached to the clavicle, define the serratus magnus muscle ; and behind the large cervical nerves, towards the lower part of the space, the middle scalenus muscle appears. Through the scalenus issue two small muscular nerves ; one, formed by two roots, for the seiTatus magnus ; the other smaller, and higher up, for the rhomboidei. Limits of the space. The space is bounded in front by the sterno- mastoid muscle, ^ ; and behind by the trapezius, Its base corre- sponds with the middle third of the clavicle, and its apex is at the skull. In its area are several muscles, which are placed in the following order from above doAvn, viz. splenius capitis, levator anguli scapulse " ; and middle scalenus ^; and at the lower and outer angle, somewhat beneath the trapezius, lies the upper part of the serratus magnus. Covering the space are the structures already examined, viz. the skin and superficial fascia, the platysma over the lower half or two thirds, and the deep fascia. The small omo-hyoid muscle, ^, crosses the lower part of the space, so as to divide it into two, a lower or clavicular, and an upper or occipital. The clavicular part is small in size and close to the clavicle, and contains the subcla^dan artery. It is triangular in form, with its base directed fomards; and is bounded in fi-ont by the sterno- mastoid, ' ; above by the omo-hyoid muscle, ^; and beloAv by the clavicle. This small space measures commonly about one inch and a half from before baclnvards, and about half that in extent across at its base.