65L ANATOMY OF POPLITEAL SPACE. or two twigs in the middle line of the limb from the small sciatic cutanecu. nerve and artery beneath the fascia; and some oftsets ot the internal cutaneous nerve towards the inner side. After the sub- cutaneous fat is removed, the special fascia of the limb will be brought into view. . _ .„ „p Fascia lata, mere this fascia covers the popliteal space it is the limb streno-thened by transverse fibres, particularly on the outer side; over the and It is connected laterally with the tendons bounding that i>am. interval. The short saphenous vein perforates it sometimes opposite the knee, but usually at a spot lower down. Dissection (fig. 200). The fascia over the ham is now to be Bemove removed wthout injurmg the small sciatic nerve and artery, and the short saphenous vem, which are close beneath it. A large ^yji^^^^take^^^^^^^^ quantity of fat may be next taken out of the space, but without iiam. injury to the several small vessels and nerves in it. In cleaning the space the student will come upon the large Seek«^e^ internal popliteal nerve in the middle line ; and nearer the outer the space, side, on the external popliteal. Both nerves give branches ; and the numerous offsets of the inner will be recognized more certainly by tracing them from above down along the trunk of the nen'e, than by proceeding in the opposite dnection : in fat bodies the two small nerves from the inner popliteal trunk to the knee joint are difiicult to find. Under cover of the outer boundary, and deep in the space, is an articular nerve fi'om the external popliteal, which sometimes arises fi-om the gi-eat sciatic. In the bottom of the space are the popliteal vessels, the vein being ^leantlie more superficial than the artery. The student is to seek an articular branch (superior), on each side, close above the condyle of the femur; and to clean numerous other branches of the vessels to the muscles around, especially to those of the leg. On the upper part of the r"toi°nerve, artery, the branch of nerve from the obturator to the knee joint is and glands, to be found : and on the sides of the arteiy are tfiree or four lym- phatic glands in the fat. After the ham has been cleaned, the sartorius and the gracilis are to be replaced in their natural position on the inner side. The POPLITEAL SPACE, or the ham (fig. 200), is the hollow behind The ham; the knee : it allows of the free flexion of the joint, and contains the large vessels of the limb. When dissected, this interval has the form situation 1 1 11 i-iPTP n ^'^'^ extent, of a lozenge, and extends upwards along one third of the femur, and downwards along one sixth of the tibia ; but in the natural condi- tion the muscles on the sides are approximated by the fascia of the limb, and the space is limited, apparently, almost to the region of the joint. This hollow is situate between the muscles on the back of the Boundaries; limb ; and the lateral boundaries are therefore formed by the muscles of the thigh (hamstrings), and leg. Thus, on the outer outer side, is the biceps muscle (") as far as the joint ; and the plantaris and the external head of the gastrocnemius (^) beyond that spot. On the inner side, as low as the articulation, are the scmimembra- and inner, nosua C) and semitendinosus Q) muscles with the gracilis and