RECTO-VESICAL FASCIA. sti-ate those sl.catl.s one incision is to be made along the prostate, and another along the lower end of the rectum, below the fascia ; and the tubes are to be isolated from the viscera. _ The recto-vesical fascia supports and partly invests the viscera of ^{^J.^' the pelvis. Coverijig the pelvic surface of the levator am it isiixed above, like that muscle, to the wall of the pelvis in front and behind, and between those attachments it joins the pelvic fascia. Below it meets the fascia of the opposite side, in the centre of the pelvis, and forms a partition across the cavity, lilce that of the leva- fnmH^fl.e tores nni, wliich is perforated by the bladder and the rectum. .Lhe ^i.e iidvis, partition is supported anteriorly by being fixed to the pubes, and posteriorly, where it blends with the fascia on tlie coccygeus, by being inserted into the coccyx : it is concave above and convex septum, below, and divides the cavity of the pelvis from the perinatal space. This septum is attached to tlie viscera which pierce it, forming mul use; ligaments for them ; and from the under surface tubes are prolonged on the rectum and the prostate. The slieath on the rectum incloses the lower three inches of the j};^''^*^;.^';;',,,^ intestine, and gradually becomes very thin towards the anus ; be- tween it and the intestine are interposed the branches of the upper liaMUorrhoidal vessels with a layer of fat. On the prostate the sheatb is thinner than on the rectum, and not "^^'^^^^^^ loose ; and is continued forwards to the apex of that body, where it blends with the triangular hgament of the urethra : it is separated from the capsule of the prostate by a plexus of veins, and by some small arteries. In the female the fascia has much the same an-angement as in the male ; but the vagina perforates the membrane, and receives a tube from it, like the prostate. The true lUjaments of the hiadder are two on eacb side, anterior Ligaments and lateral, and are portions of the recto-vesical fascia. " i > x ., ITie anterior reaches fi'om the back of the pubes to the upper fonn tlie surface of the prostate, and the neck of the bladder ; it is a naiTOw ligaments, white band, and encloses some muscular fibres of the bladder. Be- tween the ligaments of opposite sides, the recto-vesical fascia descends to reach the triangular ligament of the perinojum, and closes the pelvis between the levatores ani. The lateral ligament is a side piece of the fascia, which is fixed ant^ lateral to the upper border of the prostate gland, to the side of the bladder ijiaaacr. close above the vesicula seminalis, and to the back of the bladder between the vesicula; ; from it an offset is continued downwards over the vesicula seminalis, so as to join a like piece from the other side, and form a sheath for those bodies. There are other ligaments of the bladder (false ligaments), whicli ■False liga- are derived fi-om the peritoneum investing it, and will be described bhuuicr. in the following Section. Ligament of the rectum. On each side of the rectum is a strong Ligament of wide piece of the recto-vesical fascia, which is connected externally to the ischial spine of the hip bone, and supports that viscus like the bladder.