DISSECTION OF THE PERINiEUM. 422 on iirothra. Arteries of the space. Pudlo ai'tery. Course. Posterior jmrt in fossa. Depth and connections. Offsets. Inferior hiiemon-lioi' dal. Muscular offsets. Branches of the sciatic. Veins. Nerves. Pudic nerve, Course and con- nections. Inferior hsemorrhoi- dal. Termina- tion. Perinseal ■branch : With the description of the muscle in the pelvis its action on the urethra will be referred to (p. 548). Arteries (fig. 129). The pudic artery, with its inferior haemor- rhoidal branch, and other small ofEsets of it and the sciatic, are now visible. The pudic artery (a) is derived from the internal iliac in the pelvis (p. 664), and ascending to the genital organs, distributes offsets to the perinasum ; one portion will be laid bare in the hinder, and the other in the anterior half of the perinasum. As now seen, the vessel enters the posterior part of the ischio- rectal fossa, and courses forwards along the outer wall at the depth of one inch and a half behind, but of only half an inch in front. It is contained in an aponeurotic sheath which attaches it to the obtu- rator fascia. The usual companion veins he hy its side ; and two nerves accompany it, viz. the trunk of the pudic, and the perinaeal branch of the same nerve which is nearer the surface. Its offsets in the posterior half of its course are the follo-\ving :— The inferior hcemorrhoidal branch (b) arises internal to the iscliial tuberosity ; it sends offsets inwards across the ischio-rectal fossa to the teguments, and the sphincter and levator ani muscles. On the rectum it anastomoses with the upper haamorrhoidal branch, and with the artery of the opposite side. In a well injected body cutaneous branches may be seen to run forwards to the anterior part ^of the perinseum, and to communicate with the superficial perinasal branch. Small muscular branches cross the front of the ischio-rectal fossa, and supply the anterior part of the levator ani muscle. The branches of the sciatic artery (c) appear on the inner aspect of the gluteus maximus at the back of the fossa; some end in that muscle, and others are continued round its border to the fat. Veins accompany the different arteries, and have a like com'se and ramification : the pudic end in the internal iliac (p. 565). Nerves (fig. 129). The nerves to be learned in this part of the perina3um are, the trunk of the pudic and its inferior heemorrhoidal and perinasal branches ; an offset of the fourth sacral ; and some branches of the small sciatic. The pudic nerve comes fi-om the sacral plexus, and accompanies the artery to the genitals. In the anal half of the perinfeum it is placed deeper than the artery, and fm-nishes the two subjoined branches. The inferior hcemorrhoidal branch (1) crosses the ischio-rectal fossa, and reaches the margin of the anus, where it terminates in offsets to the integument and the sphincter muscle. Other cutaneous oft'- sets of the nerve turn forwards over the fossa, and communicate with one of the superficial perinasal nerves, and with the inferior pudendal (of the small sciatic) on the margin of the thigh. The perinoial branch arises about half way along the fossa, and becomes superficial to the blood-vessels. It is larger in size than the continuation of the nei-ve to the penis, and divides into cutane- ous, muscular, and genital offsets. Its two cutaneous offsets (super-