DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 240 of ni °u another, and gradually naiTowing in size, to open on the summit 0 nippe. -i^y apertures varying from the size of a bristle to that of a common pin. Structure. Like some other excretory ducts, the milk tubes consist of an external or fibrous, and of an internal or mucous coat: they and the vesicles are lined by a columnar epithelium, which becomes flattened towards the outer opening. Small glands Beneath the skin of the nipple and areola are branched lubricating of skin. glands, which open on the tubercles before mentioned. Arteries of the gland and veins. Bloodvessels.—The a/rteries are supplied by the axillary, internal mammary, and intercostal, and enter both surfaces of the gland. The veins end principally in the axillary and internal mammary trunks; but others enter the inter- costal veins. Nerves. The nerves are supplied from the anterior and lateral cutaneous branches of the thorax, viz., from the third, foui-th, ajad fifth intercostal nerves. Lymphatics. The lymphatics of the inner side open into the anterior mediastinal glands : but on the outer side they reach the axillary glands. Dissection of pectoral muscle. Bemove fat of axilla. follow vessels. Clean back of space. Trace nerves of plexus. and on inner wall. Dissection (fig. 69). With the hmb in the same position to the trunk, the student is first to remove the fascia and the fat from the surface of the great pectoral muscle. In cleaning the muscle the scalpel should be carried in the direction of the fibres, viz., from the arm to the thorax ; and the dissection may be begun at the lower border on the right side, but at the upper border on the left side. The fascia and the fat are to be taken from the axilla, without injury to the numerous vessels, nerves, and glands in the space. The dissection will be best executed by cleaning first the large axillary vessels at the outer part, where these are about to enter the arm : and then following their branches which are directed to the chest, viz., the long thoracic under cover of the anterior boundary, and the circumflex and subscapular vessels and nerves along the posterior boundary. Some arterial twigs entering the axillary glands should be traced out. In taking away the fascia and fat from the muscles in the posterior boundary of the space, the small internal cutaneous ners'e of the musculo-spiral should be looked for near the great vessels. The large nerves of the brachial plexus are then to be defined. The smallest of these, which possibly may be destroyed, is the nen^e of Wrisberg : it lies close to the hinder edge of the axillary vein, and joins with the intercosto-humeral nerve. When cleaning the serratus muscle on the ribs the student is to seek on its surface the posterior thoracic nerve ; and to trace the posterior ofEsets of the intercostal nerves crossing the axilla. THE AXILLA. Situation The axilla is the hollow between the arm and the chest (fig. 69). and form ot jg somewhat pyramidal in form, and its apex is directed upwards the arm-pit. ^^^^ ^^^^ ^^^j^^ rpj^^ ^^^^^ lg j^rger near the thorax than at the arm, and its boundaries are as follows :— Boundaries. Boundaries. In front and behind the space is limited by folds,