DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. 486 m which it pyloric and gastro-epiploVc). It ascends then between the layers of the little omentum, on the left side of the bile duct and vena portaj, and divides near the transverse fissure of the liver into two—the and supplies right and left hepatic. Branches are distributed not only to the iver, but fi-eelyto the stomach, the duodenum, and the pancreas, as below :— ' ?hfstomad> for pyloric branch (o) descends to the upper border of ' the stomach, and rumiing from right to left anastomoses with the coronary artery ; it distributes small ai'terial twigs on both sm-f aces of the stomach. to the The right gastro-epiplo'ic branch ■\(Ji) (art. gast. epiploi'ca dextra) duodemuii"'^ descends beneath the duodenum near the pylorus, and turning to \\z.:- ' the left along the great curvatm-e of the stomach, inosculates with the left gastro-epiplo'ic of the splenic arteiy. To the surfaces of the stomach some offsets are given; and others descend between the layers of the omentum. It furnishes the following named branches to the stomach, and the pancreas and duodenum :— Small inferior pyloric branches end in the small extremity of the stomach. The pana^eatico-diioclenal branch superior) arises opposite the duodenum, and runs between the intestine and the jDancreas ; it anastomoses beloAV with the pancreatico-duodenal branch (inferior) of the superior mesenteric (fig. 141, b): both the duodenum and the pancreas receive offsets from this vessel. On the posterior aspect * View of the coeliac axis, and of the viscera to which its branches are supplied (Tiedemann). A. Liver. B. Gall-bladder, o. Stomach, d. Duo- denum. E. Pancreas, f. Spleen. Vessels: a. Aorta, b. Upper mesenteric. c. Cceliac axis. d. Coronaiy. c. Splenic. /. Left gastro-epiploic. g. Hepatic, h. Eight gastro-epiploic. i. Superior, and k, inferior pancreatico- duodenal. I. DiapLragmatic arteries, n. Cystic, o. Superior pyloric. t This artery is named commonly gastro-duodenal as ftu- as to the spot where it gives oS the branch to the duodenum and pancreas. inferior pyloric, and pan- creatico- duodenal.