207 INNER CEREBRAL CONVOLUTIONS. The occipital lohide {-') is triangular in shape, with tlie base upwards at tlie margin of the hemisphere. Measurnig about an inch and a lialf in depth, it hes between the internal paneto-occi- pital fissure, FO, and the calcarine sulcus (0- Sulci runnuig from apex to base divide it into four or five narrow convolutions. Internal 2->erpencUcular or parieto-occipital fissure (PO, fig. 6l) separates the two preceding lobules. Continuous with the external fissure of the same name, it opens below into the followmg. The calcarine sulcus I, (Huxley) is directed across the back of the hemisphere below the level of the corpus callosum, and ends in fi-ont at the gyrus fornicatus ('^), whose hinder limit it marks. Fig. 1)2.* OcRijiital lobule. Inner jiarieto- oociiiital )i.s»ui-e. Calcarine sulcus. Fr TS It receives aboA'^e the internal perpendicular fissure ; and it sinks into the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle, forming the eminence of the hippocampus minor. Internal temporo-spJienoiclal convolutions (fig. 62) are two in Two tem- number, vi-/.., the uncinate and dentate, and occupy the tentorial noUlal'^coii- surface of the hemisphere. volutions: Tlie uncinate or hippocampal convolution Q^), is prolonged fi-om uncinate: ths posterior end of the hemisphere nearly to the tip of the temporo- sphenoidal lobe. It is somewhat narrowed in the middle, Avhere the gjTUS fornicatus blends with it; and is enlarged at each end, especially at the posterior where it is subdivided by sulci. Below it is a long curved sulcus, the collateral (n) ; and above it are the calcarine (Z), and the dentate sulcus (to). From the anterior extremity a narrow piece (}^, uncus) is prolonged back for half an inch on the inner side, like a hook. Below the uncinate convolution is part of the inferior temporo- sphenoidal convolution ("), before described, which forms the lower * Convolutions and sulci on the inner face of the hemisphere.—P.O. In- ternal parieto-occipital fissure. Cnl, Corpus callosum, cut. i, calloso-marginal sulcus ; I, calcarine sulcus ; vi, dentate sulcus ; n, collateral sulcus ; 17 mar- ginal gyrus; 18, convolution of corpus callosum ; 18', quadrilateral lo'bulo ; 19, uncinate gyrus ; 19', crochet or hook of the uncinate gyrus ; 25, occipital lobule; 9, inferior temporo-sphcnoidal gyrus partly seen.