401 SACRAL AND COCCYGEi\X NERVES. fibres are directed obliquely inwards, sonic extending more than the length oE one vertebra, to be inserted into the spines and the insertion. neural arches of the vertebra) from the second cervical to the third ^'^This muscle fills chiefly the vertebral groove, and is concealed Connec- by the erector spinsB and the semispinalis. The internal branches of the vessels and nerves in the back lie along its outer border. The small muscles described below may be said to be shps of the multifidus. Action. By the use of the muscle of both sides, the spinal column Use of both' can be extended ; and by the contraction of one, the spine will be rotated in the dorsal region and the neck, the face being turned ami ""^ to the opposite side. « Rotatores dorsi (Theile). These are eleven small muscles be- f°^^^l^l neath the multifidus spinas in the dorsal region, and are separated pllru of from it by fine areolar tissue. Each is attached inferiorly to the multifidus. tip and upper edge of a transverse process, and superiorly to the lower border of the neural arch of the vertebra next above. The first springs fi-om the transverse process of the second vertebra. Action. These small rotators will assist the larger muscle (multi- Use. fidus) in turning the trunk to the opposite side. * The aponeurosis common to the multifidus and erector spin£e is ^/'^'J^"™^'^ fixed firmly to the surrounding bones, and furnishes attachment to fidus. the muscular fibres. In the middle line it is united with the spines of the lower lumbar vertebrte and sacrum. On the outer side it is attached to the posterior part of the iliac crest, and to the outer row of tubercles on the back of the sacrum, being connected at the last spot with the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Above, it is con- tinued some way on the surface of the erector spinje, but further on the longissimus dorsi than the ilio-costalis. Below, the latissimus dorsi and the vertebral aponeurosis blend with its cutaneous surface (p. 389). * Dissection (fig. 120). To find the branches of the sacral nei-ves. Dissection it will be necessary to remove the part of the multifidus spinas nerves'^' which covers the sacrum. The first three nerves are split into two each : then- external pieces will be found readily on the great sacro-sciatic ligament, fi-om which they may be ti-aced inwards ; the inner branches are veiy slender and difficult to be recognised. The lowest two nerves are very small, and are to be sought on the back of the sacrum, below the attachment of the multifidus spinffi. They are not bifurcated like the others, but unite together, and with the coccygeal nerve in loops. The fourth comes through a sacral aperture, and the fifth between the sacrum and coccyx. The coccygeal nerve is still lower by the side of the coccyx. Sacral Nerves (fig. 120). The posterior primary branches of Five sncrai the sacral ncrv^es are five in jiumber. Four issue from the spinal """^^^ '• canal by the apertures in the back of the sacrum, and tlic fifth between the sacnim and the coccyx. The first three have the aro riinoi- common branching into inner and outer pieces, hke the other spinal ^'"i''''- nerves ; but the last two are undivided.