DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 14 position to Done, and sinuses joining it: situation in the foramen jugulare. Dissection. Cavernous sinus lias nerves in outer wall; contains carotid artery and sixth nerve; and is joined ■by the fol- lowing sinuses, \'iz. Circular sinus, blood passes from the kIcuII. Tliere is one on each side, right and left, which extends from the occipital protuberance to the foramen jugulare, where it ends in the internal jugular vein. In this extent the sinus occupies the winding groove in the interior of the skull between the two points of bone before mentioned : and the right is fi'equently larger than the left. Besides small veins from the brain, it is joined bj-- the superior petrosal sinus (/), opposite the upper edge of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; and by the inferior petrosal (h) at the fora- men jugulare. Oftentimes it communicates with the occipital vein through the mastoid foramen, and sometimes with veins of the diploe of the skull. The foramen jugulare is divided into three compartments by bands of the dura mater. Through the posterior interval the lateral sinus passes ; through the anterior the inferior petrosal sinus ; and through the central one the pieces of the eighth ner^^e. Dissection. To examine the cavernous sinus on the left side, cut through the dura mater by the side of the body of the sphenoid bone fi'om the anterior to the posterior clinoid process, and internal to the position of the third nerve : behind the clinoid process, let the knife be directed inwards for about half the width of the basilar part of the occipital bone. By placing the handle of the scalpel in the opening thus made, the extent of the space will be defined. A probe or a blow-pipe ynW be required, in order that it may be passed into the different sinuses joining the cavernous centre. B. The CAVERNOUS SINUS, which has been so named from the reticulate structure in its interior, is situate on the side of the body of the sphenoid bone. This space, resulting from the separation of the two layers of the dura mater, is of an irregular shape, and extends from the sphenoidal fissure to the tip of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The piece of dura mater bounding the sinus externally is of some thickness, and contains in its substance the third and fourth ner^-^es, with the ophthalmic trunk of the fifth nerve ; these lie in their numerical order from above down. The ca^aty of the sinus is larger behind than before, and in it are shi-eds of fibrous tissue with small vessels. Through the space winds the trunk of the internal carotid artery surrounded by the sympathetic, with the sixth nerve on the outer side of the vessel; but all these are shut out from the blood in the space by a thin lining membrane. The cavernous sinus receives the ophthalmic vein of the orbit, some inferior cerebral veins, and twigs fi-om the pterj'goid veins outside the skull. It communicates with its fellow on the opposite side by the circular and transverse sinuses ; and its blood is trans- mitted to the lateral sinus by the superior and inferior petrosal channels. The circular sinus lies around the pituitary body, and reaches from the one cavernous sinus to the other across the middle Ime. Besides serving as the means of communication between those