CONNECTIONS OF BLADDEE. 553 distended it beconics of a conical shape, with the larger part towards an;|^mi;^t« the rectum, and the apex to the abdominal wall. In distension during life it is slightly ctu-ved forwards over the pelvis, as it projects above the bone ; and if a line through its centre were prolonged, it would touch the abdominal wall anteriorly somewhere Axis, (accordhig to tiic distension) between the umbilicus and the pubes, and the end of the sacrum or the coccyx posteriorly. The position and form of the bladder are not the same in early rositionjn^^ life as in the adult. For in the cliild this viscus rises above the ^.vltli age."'"'* brim of the pelvis into the hypogastric region of the abdomen, and the cervix is the lowest part. But in the adult the bladder is con- tained within the space enclosed by the pelvic bones, and the base projects inferiorly. The organ is maintained in position by the recto-vesical fascia and the peritoneum, which form its ligaments (pp. 549 and 551). The connections of the bladder moderately full are the follow- ing:— The sumviit or apes is rounded, and from its anterior part three ■^J'^?- . " ligamentous cords are ijrolonged to the umbilicus ; the central one of these is the remains of the urachus ; and the two lateral are fonned by the obliterated hypogastric arteries. If the bladder is distended the apex is above, but otherwise below the pubes. All the surface behind the obliterated vessels is covered by peritoneum. The hase (fundus) is large, and rests on the middle piece of the Base rectum : in the state of emptiness of the bladder the base is scarcely prominent, but in distension of the viscus, it extends lower, and ^J^^^^i^ I" becomes widened. Connected Avith the fundus are the vesicula? , .' Pirts m seniinalcs and the vasa deferentia ; and between these is a triangular contact space, from which the peritoneum is mostly absent. ^^'''^^ Surfaces of the iochj. The fi-ont of the body is in contact with Surfnees; the posterior surface of the symphysis pubis, and with the abdominal wall if it is distended, and is altogether fi-ee from peritoneum ; whilst the posterior surface is entirely covered by the serous mem- and pos- l)rane, and is touched often by the small intestine. tuiiur. E.xtending along the upper part of each lateral region is the T^atcral obliterated hypogastric vessel : and running down behind this is the vas deferens, which passes internal to the ureter. Near the base the ureter enters the bladder. All the side of the bladder behind the hypogastric vessel is covered by peritoneum, but the rest is uncovered. The 7}eck (cervix) is the narrow anterior part of the bladder tlint xeck. joins the urethra : in the state of contraction it is the lowest point of the viscus, but in distension it is above the level of the fundus. It is suiTOunded by the prostate gland. The ureter (fig. 172, h) crosses the common or the external iliac Urotci-in artery, and fonns an arch below the level of the obliterated hypo-1'"'^'"'*' gastric vessel; it enters tlie bladder near tlie base, and somewhat on tlio side, at the distance of one inch and a half or two inches from the prostate gland. Tirn rnnsTATE Gi,ANn (fig. 172, h) surrounds the nock of the rosition of