INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 445 Origin from pelvis. external abdominal ring. Its inner attachment is tendinous, and is easily taken awaj'. , ,, , „i „ Paris covered hy external oblique (fig. 134). Beneatli the extern , ^ a^^. •ed 1>y is the internal obli(iue muscle, with the nbs and the intercostal ten^^^ muscles. At the lower part of the abdomen the muscle conceals obu-iue. the spermatic cord, and the branches of the Imnbar plexus m the abdominal wall. , „ . , ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ The INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE (fig. 134,^) is fleshy bclow and inte-nal aponeurotic above, just the reverse of the preceding ; and its hbres „j„sde. (except the lowest) ascend across those of the external oblique. The muscle arises along the outer half of Poii-. part's ligament; along the anterior two thirds of the crest of the hip bone ; and fi-om the tendon of the trans- versalis muscle, c, (fascia lumborum) in the interval between that bone and the last rib. Tlie fibres diverge on the abdomen to their des- tination :—The upper are fleshy and ascend to be m- serted into the cartilages of the lower three ribs, where, they join the internal inter- costal muscles of the lowest two spaces. The remaining fibres pass obhquely to the aponeurosis. The aponeurosis covers the fi-ont of the abdomen fi'om the pelvis to the chest, and blends with its fellow along the middle line. For the most part it divides to incases the rectus ; but midway between the umbilicus and the J.ectas: pubes it is undivided, and lies m fi-ont of that muscle. Superiorly attacliments it is attached to the thorax after the following manner :—The chest, stratum superficial to the rectus is fixed to the ninth rib, and blends with the aponeurosis of the external oblique ; and the stratum beneath the rectus joins the cartilages of the eighth and seventh ribs, and the ensiform cartilage. Inferiorly its fibres become more and the distinct and separate from each other, and are inserted into the Pdvis. front of the pubes, and into the pectineal line for half an inch behind the attachment of Grimbemat's ligament. Connections. The internal is covered by the external oblique Parts in muscle. It is attached on all sides, except between Poupart's ^bi'i'quc * Internal oblique muscle of tlie alxlom'nial wall. a. Internal oblique. T,. Latissimus dorsi, cut. c. Part of the hinder tendou of the transversalis muscle. D. Poupart's ligament, e. External : v. Internal iutercostals. Insertion into the ribs and linea alba. Aponeurosis of the muscle