DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOREARM. 286 posterior recurrent, Jinterior and «• The anterior ulnar recurrent branch (cl) arises generally in common with the next, and, ascending on the brachiaHs anticus muscle, inosculates with the small anastomotic arteiy beneath the pronator radii teres. It gives offsets to the contiguous muscles. h. The posterior iilnar recurrent branch (rZ), of larger size than the anterior, is inclined beneath the flexor sublimis muscle to the interval between the inn^r condyle and the olecranon. There it passes with the ulnar nei-ve between the attachments of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and joins the ramifications of the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries on the inner side of the elbow joint. Some of its offsets enter the muscles, and others supply the articulation and the ulnar nerve. c. The interosseous branch is a short thick tnink, about an inch long, which is directed backwards towards the interosseous mem- brane, and divides into anterior and posterior interosseous : these branches will be afterwards followed (p. 288). metacarpal, d. The metacarpal branch arises from the artery near the lower end of the ulna, and runs along the metacarpal bone of the little finger, of wliich it is the inner dorsal branch. e. The carpal branches (anterior and posterior) ramify on the front and back of the carpus, on which they anastomose with cor- responding offsets of the radial artery, and from arches across the wrist. interos- seous. and carpal. The origin and course may vary. Ulnar nerve in the fore- arm. Its branches are to elhow joint, to two mus- cles of fore- arm, cutaneous Peculiarities of the ulnar artery. The origin of the artery may be trans- ferred to any point of the main vessel in the ai-m or axilla. Once the origin was found between two and three inches below the elbow. (Quain.) When it begins higher than usual it is generally superficial to the flexor muscles at the bend of the elbow, only one exception, Quain, but beneath the aponeurosis of the forearm ; though sometimes it is subcutaneous with the superficial veins. The ULNAR NERVE (fig. 81, '') enters the forearm between the attachments of the flexor carpi ulnaris to the olecranon and inner condyle of the humerus. Under cover of that muscle the nen^e reaches the ulnar artery about the middle (in length) of the fore- arm, and is continued on the inner side of the vessel to the hand. On the annular ligament the nerve is rather deeper than the artery. It furnishes articular, muscular, and cutaneous branches as below:— a. Articular nerves. In the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle, slender filaments to the joint arise. h. Muscular branches. It furnishes offsets near the elbow to two muscles of the forearm ; one enters the upper part of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and the other supplies the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum. c. Cutaneous nerve of the forearm and hand. About the middle of ulnaris Arteries : a. Radial trunk, b. Cutaneous branch of it to the palm of the hand. G. Ulnar trunk, d. Its recurrent branch. /. Branch with the median nerve, e. Anterior interosseous, g. Brachial trunk. Nei-ves: 1. Median. 2. Anterior interosseous. 3. Ciitaneous palmar branch. 4. Ulnar trunk. 5. Cutaneous palmar branch of ulnar.