DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 28 Brniu'li to Lateral uasiil Jjmiicli. Angular liraiiuli. Facial vein away from arteiy; .ioincd liy Ijrauclio.s, nivhin" ^^'^ inferior), wliicli arise togetlicr or separately from tlie facial, oaclili'i.. ^"f^ "^'^ directed inwards between the orbicular muscle and the mucous membrane of the lip, till tliey inosculate with the corres- ponding branches of the opposite side. From the arterial arches thus formed, offsets are supplied to the lips and labial glands. From the arch in the upper lip a branch is given to each side of the septum of the nose,—artery of ihe neptum. The lateral nasal branch (j)) arises opposite the ala nasi, and passes beneath the levator labii superioris alasque nasi to the side of the nose, where it anastomoses with the internal nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. The amjular branch (o) is the terminal twig of the facial artery at the inner angle of the orbit, and joins with a branch (external nasal) of the ophthalmic arterj'. The facial vein commences at the root of the nose in a small vein named angular (p. 6). It then crosses over the elevator of the upper lip, and separating fi-om the artery, courses beneath the large zygomatic muscle to the side of the jaw. Afterwards it has a short course in the neck to join the internal jugular vein. Branches. At the inner side of the orbit it receives veins from the lower eyelid, (inferior ^lalpebral) and fi-om the side of the nose. Below the orbit it is joined by the infra-orhital vein, also hy a large branch, anterior internal maxillary, that comes fi-om the pteiygoid region ; and thence to its termination by veins corresponding with the branches of the artery in the face and neck. The transverse facial artery (fig. 17) is a branch of the temporal, and appears in the face at the anterior border of the parotid gland. It lies by the side of the parotid duct, with branches of the facial nerve, and distributes offsets to the muscles and integuments ; some branches anastomose with the facial artery. Dissection. The parotid gland in fi-ont of the ear may be next displayed. To see the gland, raise the skin fi-om the surface towards the ear by means of a cut fi-om the base of the jaw to the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; this cut may be united with that made for the dissection of the posterior muscle of the ear. A strong fascia covers the gland, and is connected above and behind to the zygomatic arch and the cartilage of the ear, but is continued in front over the face ; this is to be removed, so that the gland may be detached slightly from the parts around. The great auricular nen-e Avill be seen ascending to' the lobe of the ear ; and one or two small glands rest on the surface of the parotid. The PAROTID (fig. 16, ^'') is the largest of the salivary glands. It occupies the space between the ear and the lower jaw, and is named from its position. Its excretory duct enters the mouth through the middle of the cheek. The shape of the gland is irregular, and is determined somewhat by the bounding parts. Thus inferiorly, where there is not any resisting structure; the parotid projects into the neck, and comes into close proximity with the sub-maxillary gland, though separated connections; from it by a process of the cervical fascia; a line from the angle Transverse fecial artery Juay bare tlio jiarotid. Parni-id Kland. Jn-cgular 7)1 sliaiie: