33 AURICLE OF TUE EAR. tendon of the levator 2}(dpehrce will be seen to be inserted into the levat >r fore part of the tarsal cartilage by a wide aponeurotic expansion. palpei-nc. The conjunctiva, or the mucous membrane, lines the iiitei-ior of Mucous^ the eyelids, and covers the anterior part of the eye-ball. Inside '"'"^ the lids it is inseparably united to the tarsal cartilages, and has nmnerous fine papilltc. At the free margin of the lids this mem- brane joins the common integuments. Through the lachrymal canals and sac it is continuous with the pituitary membrane of the nose. At the inner commissm-e of the eyelids the conjunctiva forms a prominent and fleshy-looking body — caninculu lachrymalis, (fig. 13, ■*) which contains a group of mucous follicles, and has a few mimite hairs on its surface. External to the caruncle is a small t/^^,o°"^o]d. vertical fold of the mucous membrane—plica semilunaris; this extends to the ball of the eye, and represents the membrana nictitans of birds. Bloodvessels of the eyelids. The arteries of the eyelids are Arteries fm-nislied by the paljjebral and lachrymal bi'anclies of the opli- thalmic artery :— The palpebral arteries, one for each ej'^elid, run outwards fi'om Palpebral the inner canthus, lying between the tarsal cartilage and tlie tendon of the special elevator in the upper lid, and between the cartilage and the palpebral ligament in the lower lid ; and they anastomose externally with the lachr^anal arteiy. From each arch branches are distributed to the lid. The laclmjmal artery furnishes an offset to each lid to form '''"^ lacliiy- arches ^vith the palpebral arteries, and then perforates the palpebral ligament at the outer part of the orbit to end in the upper eye-lid. The veins of the lids open into the fi-ontal and angular veins at Veins, the root of the nose (pp. 6, 28). The nerves of the eyelids are supplied from the ophthalmic and Nerves of facial ner^•e8. ^'^^^ The branches of the ophthalmic nerve (of the fifth) which give from fifth oflisets to the upper lid, ai-e the foUowmg : lachrymal, near the outer part ; supra-orbital, about the middle ; and supra-trochlear and infra-trochlear at the inner side (pp. 41,44). In the lower eyelid, about its middle, is a palpebral branch of the superior maxillary tnmk of the fifth nerve. Branches of the facial nerve (p. 38) enter both lids at the outer seventh angle, and supply the orbicularis muscle ; they communicate with the offsets of the fifth nen'e. External Ear. The outer ear consists of a trumpet-shaped ^''""^^ox- structure, named pinna or auricle, which receives the undulations ^"'""^ of the air ; and of a tube—meatus auditorius, which conveys them to the inner ear. The pinna may be now examined on the left side of the head; but the anatomy of the meatus will be described with the ear (p. 739). Tlie pinna, or auricle, is an uneven piece of yellow fibro-cartilage, Te.xture m.d which is covered with integument, and is fixed to the margin of the ^""'^ °^ meatus auditorius externus. It is of an oval form, with the margin folded and the larger end placed upwards.