410 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. Union of the roots ill iuter- vortfcbi-al foramen, except in llrst two cervical, the sacral. and coc- cygeal nerves. Situation of ganglia. Exceptions in cervical, sacral, and. coccygeal. Arteries of cord are Anterior spinal, a single artery. Termina- tion, Offsets. Posterior arteries are two; lie on sides of cord. Veins. Termina- tion. At top of cord. lumbar and sacral nerves each succeeding root becomes a vertebra longer, for the cord does not reach beyond the first lumbar vertebra. Place of union of the roots. Commonly the roots unite as before stated in the intervertebral foramina ; and the trunk of the nerve bifurcates at the same spot into anterior and posterior primary branches (fig. 123, d and e). But deviations fi-om this arrange- ment are found at the upper and lower ends of the spinal column in the following nerves. The roots of the first two cervical nerves join on the neural arches of the corresponding vertebraj ; and the anterior and poste- rior primary branches diverge from the trunks in that situation. In the sacral nerves the union of the roots takes place within the spinal canal ; and the primary branches of the nerves issue by the apertures in the front and back of the sacrum. The roots of the coccygeal nerve are also united inthe spinal canal; and the anterior and posterior branches of its trunk escape by the lower aperture of that canal. Situation of the ganglia. The ganglia are placed commonly in the intervertebral foramina, but where the position of those apertures is irregular, as at the upper and lower extremities of the spinal column, they have the following situation :—In the first two nerves they He on the neural arches of the atlas and axis. In the sacral ners'^es they are contained in the spinal canal. In the coccygeal nerve the ganglion is also within the canal, and about the middle of the long posterior root (Schlemm). Vessels of the Spinal Cord. The arteries on the surface of the cord are anterior and posterior spinal. The anterior spinal artery occupies the middle line of the cord beneath the fibrous band before alluded to in that position. It begins by the union of two small branches of the vertebral arteiy (p. 180) ; and it is continued to the lower end of the cord by a series of anastomotic branches, which are derived from the vertebral and ascending cervical arteries in the r>eck, and from the intercostal arteries in the Back. Inferiorly it supplies the roots of the nerves forming the cauda equina, and ends on the central fibrous prolonga- tion of the cord. The branches of this artery ramify in the pia mater, some entering the median fissure. The 230sterior spinal arteries, one on each side, are continued from the upper to the lower part of the cord, behind the roots of the nerves. These vessels are furnished from the same source as the anterior (p. 180), and their continuity is maintamed by a series of anastomotic ofEsets, which enter the canal along the spinal nerves. Dividing into small branches, the vessels of opposite sides form a free anastomosis around the posterior roots, and some twigs enter the posterior fissure of the cord. The veins of the spinal cord are very tortuous and form a plexus on the surface. At intervals larger trunks arise, which accompany the spinal nerves to the inteiwertebral foramina, and end in the veins outside the spinal canal. Near the top of the cord the veins are united into two or more small branches, Avhich, communicating