282 DISSECTION OF FRONT OF FOEEARM. Long palmar muscle lies over annular ligament and joins the fascia of palm. Use. Flexor carpi ulnaris. Origin. Insertion into pisi- form bone. Adjacent parts. Use. Course and extent of the radial artery. Situation in the forearm. forwards the lower end of the radius in pronation. Still con- tinuing to contract, it bends the elbow. The PALMAius LONGus (fig. 80, ^) is often absent: or it may present great irregularity in the proportion between the fleshy and tendinous parts. Its origin is connected, like that of the preceding muscle, to the common tendon, the fascia, and the intermuscular septa. Its long thin tendon is continued along the centre of the foreann ; and piercing the aponeurosis, it passes over the annular ligament to end in the palmar fascia, and to join by a tendinous slip the short muscles of the thumb. The palmaris is situate between the flexor carpi radialis and ulnaris, and rests on the flexor sublimis digitorum. Action. Eendering tense the palmar fascia, the palmaris will afterwards bend the wrist and elbow, like the other muscles of the superficial layer. The FLEXOR CARPI ULNARIS (fig. 80, ^) has an aponeurotic origin from the inner condyle of the humerus ; from the inner side of the olecranon ; and fi"om the ridge of the ulna between the internal and posterior surfaces for three fourths of the length. Most of the fibres are continued vertically downwards, but others obliquely forwards to a tendon on the anterior aspect of the muscle in the lower half, some joining it as low as the wrist ; and the tendon is inserted into the pisiform bone,—an offset being sent to the muscles of the little finger. One surface of the muscle is in contact with the fascia ; and its tendon, which can be felt readily through the skin, may be taken as the guide to the ulnar artery. To its radial side are the palmaris and flexor digitorum sublimis muscles. When the attachment to the inner condyle has been divided, the muscle will be seen to conceal the flexor digitorum sublimis and flexor profundus, the ulnar nerve, and the ulnar vessels ; between the attachments to the condyle and the olecranon the ulnar nerve enters the forearm. Action. The wrist is bent, and the hand is drawn inwards by the contraction of the muscle. The RADIAL ARTERY (fig. 80, ^) is One of the vessels derived from the bifurcation of the bracliial trunk ; and its destination is the palm of the hand. It is placed first along the outer side of the forearm as far as the end of the radius ; next it winds backwards below the extremity of that bone : and it enters finally the palm of the hand tlirough the first interosseous space. In consequence of this circuitous course the artery will be found in three different dissections, viz. the front of the forearm, the back of the wrist, and the palm of the hand. In the front of the forearm. In this region of the limb the position of the artery will be marked, on the surface, by a line from the centre of the hollow of the elbow to the fore part of the styloid process of the radius. At first it lies on the inner side of the radius, but afterwards over that bone. This vessel is smaller than the ulnar artery, though it appears in direction to be the continuation of the bracliial trunk; it is partly deep and partly superficial and