DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 426 distributed to scrotum aud penis. MusciUar ■branches; Inferior pudendal nerve ends in scrotum. Dissection of muscles of tlie urethra and penis. Of nerves. Three muscles over tri- angular ligament. Central point. where mus- cles join. Erector lienis. Origin. Insertion. Use. Ejaculator Tirinse. and the posterior is joined by the inferior pudendal nerve. At the scrotum they are distributed by long slender filaments, which reach as far as the under surface of the penis. In the female these nerves supply the labia pudendi. Other muscular Iranches of the pudic will be afterwards exa- mined (p. 431). The inferior pudendal nerve (^) is a branch of the small sciatic. It pierces the fascia lata about one inch in front of the ischial tuberosity, and enters beneath the superficial fascia of the perinaium, to end in the outer and fore parts of the scrotum. Communica- tions take place between this nerve, the inferior hemorrhoidal, and the posterior of the two superficial perineal branches. In the female the inferior pudendal nerve is distributed to the labium. Dissection. For the display of the muscles, the fatty layer, as well as the vessels and nerves of the left side, must be taken away from the anterior half of the perinasal space. Afterwards a thin subjacent aponeurotic layer is to be removed from the muscles. Along the middle line lies the ejaculator urinte ; and in cleaning it the student is to follow two fasciculi of fibres from it on the same side,—one in fi.-ont, the other behind. On the outer edge of the space is the erector penis. And behind, passing obhquely between the other two, is the transverse muscle. The student should seek, on the right side, the branches of the two superficial perineeal ner^^es to the underlying muscles ; and beneath the transversalis, an oiEset of the perineeal branch which supplies the deep muscles and the urethra. Muscles (fig. 130). Superficial to the triangular ligament in the anterior half of the perinjeal space, are three muscles, viz. the erector penis, the ejaculator urinaa, and the transversalis perinsei. Other muscles of the urethra are contained between the layers of the triangular ligament, and will be subsequently seen. Central point of the perincEum. Between the urethra and the rectum is a white fibrous spot, to which this term has been applied. It occupies the middle line, half an inch in front of the anus. In it the muscles acting on the rectum and the urethra are united ; and it serves as a common point of support to the space. The ERECTOR PENIS (fig. 130, ^) is the most external of the three muscles, and is narrower at each end than in the middle. It covers the crus penis ; and its fibres arise from the ischial tuberosity farther back than the attachment of the penis, and from the bone on each side of the crus. Superiorly the muscle is inserted into the inner and outer surfaces of the crus penis. It rests on the root of the penis and the bone. Action. The muscle compresses the crus penis against the sub- jacent bone, and retards the escape of the blood from that organ by the veins : in that way it will contribute to the continuance of distention. The EJACULATOR URiNiE muscle (fig. 130, ■*■) lies on the urethra. The muscles of opposite sides unite by a median tendon along the middle line and in the central point of the perinasum (origin). The