DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 17G To anil fro. Rotation. Head laterally. Joint at sternal end of clavicle. Dissection. Capsular ligament. Intercla-^-i- cular, and costo- clavicular ligament. Fibro-carti' lage. Attach- ments. Nodding takes place in tlie joints between the atlas and occipital bone, the condyles gliding forwards and backwards. When the bead is moved more freely, flexion and extension of the cervical vertebrte come into play. Rotation is permitted by the several joints between the atlas and axis. In this movement the axis is fixed, and the atlas, bound to it by the transverse ligament, moves to the right and the left, can-ying the weight of the head. Too great a movement of the face to the side is checked by the odontoid ligament. Only part of the whole of the rotatory movement to one side is obtained be- tween the atlas and axis, the rest being made np by the neck. Approximation of the head to the shoulder is eflEected by the neck movement : perhaps a very sUght degree of it may be due to gliding downAvards of the occipital condyle of the same side on the articular surface of the atlas. Sterno-clavicular Articulation (fig. 51). The articular surfaces are somewhat irregular and adapted to each other, with an inter- mediate fi-bro-cartilage ; and they are retained in contact by a capsular ligament ; by a band to the first rib; and by another between the ends of the clavicles. Dissection. For the examination of the ligaments of the sterno- clavicular articulation, take the piece of the sternum that was set aside for the purpose (p. 121). If the ligaments have become dry, they may be moistened for a short time. The several ligaments will appear in the situation indicated by their names, after the removal of some fibrous tissue. Capsular ligament. This is a thin membranous expansion (fig. 51, ^), which incases the articular- ends of the bones and the fibro- cartilage. It is attached near the articular surface of each bone, and is thinner before than behind. Sometimes the stronger fibres in fi-ont and at the back are described as separate ligaments. The interclavicular ligament (^g. 51, ^) extends above the sternum, between the ends of the cla-\acles. The fibres do not cross in a sti-aight line, but dip into the hollow between the collar bones, and are connected with the upper piece of the sternum. The costo-clavicular ligament (fig. 51, ^) is a short strong band of obUque fibres between the first rib and the clavicle. Inferiorly it is fixed to the upper surface of the cartilage of the first rib, and superiorly to a tubercle on the imder surface of the clavicle near the sternal end. The subclavius muscle is in front of the ligament. Sometimes the claAncle touches the rib, and is provided -with an articular surface and a synovial membrane. The interarticular fihro-cartilage (fig. 51, ') will come into view by cutting the ligaments before described, and raising the clavicle. It is ovalish in form and flattened, but is thicker at the circumference than the centre. By its upper margin and surface the cartilage is united to the head of the clavicle which is embedded in it; and by the opposite surface and margin it is inserted into the cartilage of the first rib. At its circumference it miites with the capsule of the