46 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Branch to retina. Sui)rn-()rlii- tiil branrli. Ciliary arteries are posterior— two named long ciliary ; and an- terior. Muscular. Etlnnoidal , branches, posterior and an- terior. Branches to eyelids. Frontal branch. Ophthalmic vein ends in ca- vernous sinus. Optic nerve the terminal pieces of the teniporo-malar nerve ; and tlicse join the temporal and transverse facial arteries. The central arteiij of the retina is a very small branch wliich pierces the optic nerve, and so reaches its destination in the eye- ball. The supra-orhital branch arises beneath the levator palpebras and superior rectus muscles; it then takes the course of the nerve of tlie same name through the notch in the margin of the orbit, and ends in branches on the forehead (p. 5). As it winds round the margin of the orbit it supplies the eyelid and the orbicularis muscle. The ciliary brandies are imcertain in their place of origin and enter the eyeball at the fi-ont and back :— The ]}osterior ciliary, about twelve in number, are continued to the eyeball around the optic nerve, and perforate the sclerotic coat at the i30sterior part. Two of this set (one on each side of the optic nen^e), named long ciliary, pierce the sclerotic farther out than the others, and lie along the middle of the eyeball. The anterior ciliary arteries arise fi'om muscular branches of the ophthalmic, and perforate the sclerotic coat near the cornea : in the eyeball they anastomose with the posterior ciliary. For the ending of these vessels, see the eyeball (p. 730). The muscular branches are uncertam in their place of origin ; and those to the lower muscles often arise together as one tnink. The ethmoidal branches are two, anterior and posterior, and are directed through the foramina in the inner wall of the orbit :— The posterior is the smaller of the two, and furnishing small meningeal offsets (anterior) to the dura mater of the base of the skull, descends into the nose cavity, through the openings in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. The anterior branch (internal nasal) accompanies the nasal nerve to the cavity of the nose (Section XIV.), and gives likeA\ase meningeal offsets to the dura mater, and the fore part of the falx cerebri. The palpebral branches, one for each eyelid, generally arise together opposite the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, and then separate from one another. The arches they form have been dissected with the eyehds (p. 33). "i^he frontal branch tams round the margin of the orbit, and is distributed on the forehead (p. 5). The ophthalmic vein con-esponds in its course and most of its branches with the artery of the same name. It begins at the inner angle of the orbit, where it joins the facial vein, and receives tribu- tary branches in its progress to the back of the ca-saty. Posteriorly it leaves the artery, and escapes from the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure, between the heads of the external rectus, to end in the cavernous sinus. The OPTIC NERVE in the orbit extends from the optic foramen to the back of the eyeball. As the nerve leaves the foramen it is surrounded by the recti muscles ; and beyond that spot the ciliary