148 DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Section XV. DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Directions. Dissection. Tongue. Situation anil form. Connections of apex, and base. Upper surface. Under • • surface. Borders. Kinds of papill'cE; conical and filifonii, situation on front nf tongue; fungiform Directions. The tongue and larynx arc to remain connected with each other whilst the student learns the general form and structure of the tongue. Dissection. The ends of the extrinsic lingual muscles that have been detached on the right side may be shortened, but enough of each should be left to trace it afterwards into the substance of the tongue. The TONGUE occupies the floor of the mouth, and is rather flattened, with the larger end turned backwards. It is free over the greater part of its surface ; but at the back, and at the posterior two thirds of the under surface, it gives attachment to the muscles and the mucous membrane which fix it to the parts around. The tip of the tongue (apex) touches the incisor teeth. The base, which looks towards the pharynx, is attached to the hyoid bone, and is connected likemse with the epiglottis by thi"ee folds of mucous membrane—a central and two lateral. The upper surface or dorsum is somewhat convex, and is received into the hollow of the roof of the mouth ; along the anterior two thirds it is divided into two equal halves by a median groove, which ends behind in a hollow named foramen caecum. This surface is covered with papillfe over the anterior two thirds ; but is smoother at the posterior third, though even here the surface is irregular in consequence of projecting mucous glands and follicles. The under surface, free only in part, gives attachment to the mucous mem- brane, and to the different lingual muscles connected with the hyoid bone and the jaw ; and in fi-ont of those muscles is a fold of the mucous membrane named fi-asnum linguse. The borders of the tongue are thick and round at the base of the organ, where they are marked by vertical ridges and furrows ; but gradually become thinner near the tip. PapillcB. On the dorsum of the tongue are the following kinds of papillae ; the conical and filiform, the fungiform, and the circum- vallate. The conical and filiform papillae are the numerous small projec- tions, like the on the mucous membrane of the small intestine, which cover the anterior two thirds of the dorsum of the tongue. Some of the papilte (conical) are wider at their attached than at three free ends ; and these are most developed over the central part of the tongue. Others become longer (filiform), especially towards the sides of the tongue. These papilhe are furnished with minuter papilljE, and are provided at the tip with hair-like processes of the epithelium. Towards their limit behind, as well as on the side of the tongue, they have a linear arrangement. The f ungiform papilloB are less numerous but larger than the pre-