565 VEINS OF THE PELVIS. The middle sacml arlenj of the aorta (p. 533), (fig. 174, I) de- jiiddlo scends along the niicklle of the last lumbar vertebra, the sacram, and the coccyx. The artery gives small branches laterally, oppo- ,„teral site each piece of the sacrum, to anastomose with the lateral sacral onsets, arteries, and to supply the nerves, and the bones with the perio- steum. ' Sometimes a small brancli is furnished by it to the lower end of the rectum, to take the place of the middle hasmorrhoidal artery. The INTERNAL ILIAC vuiN receives the l)lood from the wall of the I'lt'-;™^'^, pelvis, and the pelvic viscera, by branches corresponding for the pJ;!,aion to most part with those of the arteries. The vein is a short thick its artery: trunk, wliich is situate at first on the inner side of the internal iliac artery ; but as it ascends to join the external iliac, it passes behind, and to the outer aspect of its companion artery on the right side. Branches. Most of the branches entering the trunk of the internal its iiranclies iliac vehi, have the same anatomy as the arteries ; but the follow- peculiar are ing visceral branches,—the pudic and dorsal of the penis, the vesical and hajmorrhoida], the uterine and vaginal, have some peculiarities. The pudic vein receives roots con-esponding with the branches of pudic, the pudic artery in the ijerinajum (p. 431), but not those corre- sponding with the offsets of the artery on the dorsum of the penis. The dorsal vein of the penis (p. 441) receives veins fi-om the dorsal vein corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum of the penis, and piercing of penis, the triangular ligament of the urethra, divides into two, a right and a left branch, which enter a plexus around the prostate. The middle JiwmorrJioidal vein communicates with a large plexus liremon-lioi- (hajinorrhoidal) around the lower end of the rectum beneath the mucous membrane (p. 583). The vesical veins begin in a i^lexus about the fundus of the vesical, bladder, and anastomose with the prostatic and hfBmorrhoidal veins. The uterine veins are numerous, and fonn a plexus in and by the uterine, and side of the uterus : this plexus inosculates above with the OA-arian plexus, and below with one on the vagina. The vaginal veins surround their tube Avith a large vascular vaginal plexus (p. (387). veins. Parietal veins of the pelvis. Three veins of the wall of thepehas, Parietal viz., ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, and middle sacral, open into the conunon iliac vein. Dissection (fig. 175). To dissect the nerves of the pelvis, on the Dissection or right side, it Avill be necessary to detach the triangular ligament of the?elvis with the urethra from the arch of the pubes ; and to cut through, on the right side, the recto-vesical fascia and the levator ani, together with the visceral arteries, in order that the viscera may be drawn somewhat from the side of the pehas. If the -bladder is distended let the air escape from it. By means of the foregoing dissection the sacral nerves may be First four found as they issue from the sacral foramina. The dissector should follow the first four into the sacral plexus, and some branches from