MASSETER MUSCLE. 81 The temporal vein begins on the side of the head (p. 6) and Correspond- is contiguous to its companion artery. Near the zygoma it is joined by the middle temporal vein ; next it receives branches which are companions of the offsets of the artery ; and it ends by uniting with the internal maxillary vein. Directions. The lower part of the neck will not be used again for some days, so that the dissector may stitch together the flaps of skin, when he has applied salt to presence it. Section VI. PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGION. In this region are included the muscles superficial to and beneath the'^^^^,^'^ the ramus of the lower jaw, together with the articulation of that bone. In contact with the muscles (pterygoid) beneath the jaw, are the internal maxillary bloodvessels, and the inferior maxillary trunk of the fifth nerve. Dissection. The masseter muscle, which is superficial to the Dissection, bones, has been partly laid bare in the dissection of the facial nerve. To see it more fully the branches of the facial nerve, and the transverse facial artery should be cut tlu-ough, and turned back- wards off the face. A little cleaning will suffice to define the origin and insertion of the muscle. Should there be any tow or cotton wool in the mouth let it be removed. The MASSETER (fig. 6, ^'') is partly aponeurotic at the upper Masseter. •attachment. It arises from all the lower border of the zygomatic Origin, ■arch, extending forwards to the upper jaw ; and firom the inner surface of the arch by fine fleshy fibres. Most of the fibres are inclined down and somewhat back, and are inserted into the outer Insertion, surface of the coronoid process, ramus, and angle of the lower jaM'; but a few are fixed into the contiguous part of the body of the bone as far as the second molar tooth. Some of the hinder and deeper fibres are inclined downwards and forwards across the others. The lower part of the masseter is subcutaneous, but the upper is Muscle partly concealed by the parotid gland (socia parotidis), and is "utiii^ous- crossed by Stenson's duct, and by the transverse facial vessels aildi the facial nerve. The anterior border projects over the buccinator muscle, and a quantity of fat resembUng that in the orbit is found beneath it. The muscle covers the ramus of the jaw, and the lies on the masseteric branches of nerve and artery entering it at the under f"^' surface. Action. It raises the lower jaw with the internal pterj^goid in the tose. mastication of the food. 1 Dissection. To lay bare the temporal muscle to its insertion the following dissection may be made :—The temporal fascia is to be ^'"^'^ °^