690 DISSECTION OjF THE LEG. Anterior tibial, w}iero found. External isaplienoiis. Internal saplienous. Deep fascia of the leg; attach- ments : transverse fibres at the ankle. Take away the fascia, leave liga- jnentous bands, clean nerves and vessels. Anterior annular ligament; its upper and lower piece. spaces ; it joins the external saphenous nerve on the outer border of the foot. The anterior tibial nerve (') becomes cutaneous in the first inter- osseous space, and is distributed to that space, and to tlie opposed sides of the great toe and the next. The musculo-cutaneous nerve joins it, and sometimes assists in supplying the same toes. The external saphenous nerve (fig. 205, comes from the back of the leg below the outer ankle, and is continued along the foot to the outside of the little toe; all the outer margin of the foot receives nerves from it, and the offsets towards the sole are larger than those to the dorsum. Occasionally it suppHes both sides of the little toe and part of the next. Internal saphenous nerve (^). This nerve is continued along the vem of the same name to the middle of the instep, where it ceases mostly in the integuments, but some branches pass thi-ough the deep fascia to end in the tarsus. The fascia of the front of the leg is thickest near the knee joint, where it gives origin to muscles. It is fixed laterally into the tibia and fibula. Intermuscular septa are prolonged fi'om the deep sur- face ; and one of these, wliich is attached to the fibula, separates the muscles on the fi-ont from those on the outer side of the leg. Superiorly the fascia is connected to the heads of the leg bones, but inferiorly it is continued to the dorsum of the foot. Above and below the ankle jomt it is strengthened by some transverse fibres, and gives origin to the two parts of the anterior annular ligament; and below the end of the fibula it forms another band, the external annular ligament. Dissection. The fascia is to be removed fi-om the front of the leg and the dorsum of the foot, but the thickened band of the annular ligament above and below the end of the tibia is to be left. In separating the fascia from the subjacent muscles, let the edge of the scalpel be directed upwards. In like manner the fascia may be taken from the peronei muscles on the outside of the fibula, but without destroying the band (ex- ternal annular ligament) below that bone. On the dorsum of the foot the dorsal vessels with their ners'-e are to be displayed, and the tendons of the short and long extensors of the toes are to Ije traced to the ends of the digits. In the leg the anterior tibial neiwe and vessels are to be followed from the dorsum into their intermuscular space, and are then to be cleaned as liigh as the knee. The anterior annular ligament consists of two pieces, upper and lower, which confine the muscles in their position :—the fonner serving to bind the fleshy belHes to the bones of the leg, and the latter to keep down the tendons on the dorsum of the foot:— The upper part (fig. 213, above the level of the ankle-joint, is attached laterally to the bones of the leg ; it possesses one sheath with synovial membrane for the tibialis anticus. The lower part is situate in front of the tarsal bones. It is in- serted externally by a narrow piece into the upper surface of the os