226 Dainty Meals for Small Households three or four sprigs of tarragon, eight or ten cloves, two or three large carrots, the same quantity of turnips, half a dozen leeks, and let all boil very slowly for at least six hours. Strain through a fine hair sieve, and let the broth stand aside to cool; remove all the fat which will rise to the surface as soon as the broth becomes cold. Put the latter back over the fire, have ready the whites of three eggs, with their shells, previously whisked to a froth. Put them into the broth, and beat the whole mixture thoroughly until it boils ; at this moment take off the saucepan, and strain again through a fine hair sieve; stand it aside to cool, and the result will be the most delicious jelly imaginable ; excellent for invalids. For garnishing use the following, for which I am indebted to Mrs. A. B. Marshall, of 30, Mortimer Street, London, W., and I may as well take this opportunity of recommending Marshall’s leaf gelatine as the best to use for all purposes. The aspic jelly is produced by this method: Put into a pan 2 ozs. of best leaf gelatine, a quart of hot water, a dessertspoonful of salt, the juice of a lemon, one bay leaf, a teaspoonful of good brown vinegar, a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, a small onion sliced, twenty mixed peppercorns and allspice, and the whites and shells of two eggs. Let this all boil up together, and then run it through a jelly bag wrung out of warm water. Fondues and Cheese in various ways: Neuchateloise.— Put into a silver saucepan, or chafing dish (one that is made of iron and lined with enamel will do as well), a small lump of very fresh butter ; have ready sliced 1 lb. of gocd rich cheese, stir it slowly and by degrees into the melting butter, then add gradually a tumblerful of French white wine, salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg. Have ready a hot water dish ; just before serving put into the fondue a dessertspoonful of kirshwasser, and send the saucepan up to table standing on a napkin spread over the hot