28 Dainty Meals for Small Households operator. When the stock nearly boils skim it carefully, and add half a cupful of cold water ; repeat this operation three or four times, and the stock will be quite clear; then the vegetables, which give such a delicious flavour, must be put in. These can be varied at times, and per- sonal taste should be considered ; as a rule, however, the best ingredients are carrots, a large turnip, three or four large leeks, some celery (some people like half a bay- leaf), and a large onion studded with half a dozen cloves. When the stock boils draw the pot aside, raise the cover slightly, to allow the steam a passage, and continue the process for two or three hours ; from four to five hours in all are none too much for the whole operation, though many people are satisfied with less. The flavour may be varied by the occasional addition of half a firm cabbage, and it goes without saying that any kind of bones, a knuckle of veal, trimmings of various joints, &c., all con- tribute a change without at all impairing the pot-au-feu. The real bouillon, however, is made from beef only, as in the preceding instructions. Other stocks are called by their own name, veal broth, chicken broth, &c., as the case may be, and are prepared according to special recipes. When the meat is quite tender remove it care- fully from the pot ; always store the broth that is not required for the soup of the day, for instance, in a cool place, and do not cover it up. This will keep four or five days in winter ; in summer or doubtful weather it should be boiled up once daily. Colouring the general contents of the pot-au-feu is not advisable, as they may be required for sauces for which such a foundation would be unsuitable. Finally, the fat which results from this stock-pot is a most desirable addition to the larder, being delicious for frying purposes. It must, of course, be clarified ; this is easily done by letting the fat simmer slowly over the fire for a full hour in a saucepan kept for