£chap. XVII. 368 MODERN COOKERY. be added to it always, and for a meat pudding the same propor- tion as directed in the preceding receipt. For kitchen, or for quite common family puddings, butter and clarified dripping are used sometimes in equal proportions. From three to four ounces of each will be sufficient for the pound and quarter of flour. Flour, 1 lb.; butter, 8 ozs.; salt, for fruit puddings, \ salt- spoonful ; for meat puddings, \ teaspoonful. BEEF-STEAK, OB JOHN BULL’S PUDDING. This, and all other meat puddings are more conveniently made in deep pans or basins having a thick rim, below which the cloths can be tied without the hazard of their slipping off; and as the puddings should by no means be turned out before they are sent to table, a basin or pan to match the dinner-service, at least in colour, is desirable.* Roll out a suet crust to half an inch in thickness, line evenly with it a quart, or any other sized basin that may be preferred, and raise the crust from an inch and a half to two inches above the edge. Fill it with layers of well- kept rump-steak, neatly trimmed, and seasoned with salt and pepper, or cayenne; pour in some cold water to make the gravy; roll out the cover, moisten the edge, as well as that of the pudding; draw and press them together carefully, fold them over, shake out a cloth which has been dipped into hot water, wrung out, and well floured; tie it over the pudding, gather the corners together, tie them over the top of the pudding, put it into plenty of fast boiling water, and let it remain in from three to five hours, according to its size. The instant it is lifted out, stick a fork quite through the middle of the crust to pre- vent its bursting; remove the cloth quickly, and cut a small round or square in the top to allow the steam to escape, and serve the pudding immediately. Though not considered very admis- sible to an elegantly served table, this is a favourite dish with many persons, and it is said to be in great esteem with Sussex sportsmen, for whom it is often provided in preference to fare which requires greater exactness in the time of cooking; as an additional hour’s boiling, or even more, will have little effect on * It is now customary in many families to have both meat and fruit puddings boiled, and served in pie or tart-dishes. They are lined entirely with very thin crust, or merely rimmed with it, according to taste; then filled, closed, and cooked in the usual manner. The plan is a good and convenient one, where the light upper-crust is preferred to the heavy and sodden part which is under the meat. In Kent and Sussex, shallow pans, in form somewhat resembling a large deep saucer, are sold expressly for boiling meat puddings.