412 MODERN COOKERY. fcHAP. XIX. process is always the same whether the principal ingredient he whole rice boiled very tender in milk and pressed through a sieve, bread-crumbs soaked as for a pudding and worked through a sieve also, arrow-root, potato-flour, or ought else of which light puddings in general are made. Take from a pint and a half of new milk or of cream sufficient to mix four ounces of flour of rice to a perfectly smooth hatter; put the remainder into a very clean, well-tinned saucepan, and when it boils, stir the rice briskly to it; let it simmer, keeping it stirred all the time, for ten minutes, or more should it not he very thick, then mix well with it two ounces of fresh butter, one and a half of pounded sugar, and the grated rind of a fine lemon (or let the sugar which is used for it he well rubbed on the lemon before it is crushed to powder) ; in two or three minutes take it from the fire, and heat quickly and carefully to it by degrees the yolks of six eggs; whisk the whites to a very firm solid froth, and when the pan is buttered, and all else quite ready for the oven, stir them gently to the other ingredients; pour the souffle immediately into the pan and place it in a moderate oven, of which keep the door closed for a quarter of an hour at least. When the souffle has risen very high, is of a fine colour, and quite done in the centre, which it will be in from half to three quarters of an hour, send it instantly to table. The exact time for baking it depends so much on the oven that it cannot be precisely specified. We have known quite a small one not too much baked in forty-five minutes in an iron oven; but gene- rally less time will suffice for them: the heat, however, should always be moderate. New milk or cream, H pint; flour of rice, 4 ozs.; fresh butter, 2 ozs.; pounded sugar, 1± oz.; eggs, 6 ; grain of salt; rind, 1 lemon : 30 to 45 minutes. Qbs. 1.—The souffle may be flavoured with vanilla, orange- flowers, or ought else that is liked. Chocolate and coffee also may be used for it with soaked bread : a very strong infusion of the last, and an ounce or two of the other, melted with a little water, are to be added to the milk and bread. Obs. 2.—A souffle is commonly served in a dinner of cere- mony as a remove of the roast, but the better plan for this, as for a fondu, is to have it quickly handed round, instead of being placed upon, the table. louise Frank’s citron souffle. To obtain the flavour of the citron-rind for this celebrated Swedish souffle, take a lump of sugar which weighs two ounces