565 CHAP. XXVIII.] BREAD. CRUSTS TO SERVE WITH CHEESE. Take a half-baked loaf from the oven, and tear it into small rough bits with a couple of forks; la}' these on a tin, and put them back into the oven for ten minutes. If a light loaf be made for the purpose, with a couple of ounces of butter and new milk they will quite resemble rusks. A sweet light cake pulled apart in the same manner is likewise very good. EXCELLENT BREAD CRUST FOR HOT PIES OR TARTS. Roll out square a pound of good white dough which is just ready for the oven; make four ounces of butter into a ball, put it in the centre of the paste, fold the corners well over it, and roll it out lightly two or three times, folding the ends always into the centre. Use it immediately. We have had this paste tried only with the Bordyke bread of page 562, which was made entirely with milk, and we have found it extremely good; but an additional ounce of butter, or even more, may be required with common dough. Meat well seasoned, and folded in it in the form of a turnover, and baked about half an hour answers well. White bread dough, 2 lbs.; butter, | lb., or more; little salt. ENGLISH BRIOCHE, AND BRIOCHE-RUSKS. Mix into a very light dough half a pound of hour with an ounce of purified yeast, and five or six tablespoonsful of warm milk or cream. While this is rising, make a pound of flour into rich cream-crust, or the finest puff-paste, by the receipt for either in Chapter XVI.; and when the leaven is double its original size, mingle them perfectly as directed for brioche Easte, page 339, and leave the mass to rise for four or five ours; then mould it lightly into small brioche-shapes, or roll it an inch thick, and form it into rusks with a round paste- cutter. Wash the tops with beaten egg, and bake them in a somewhat brisk oven from ten to fifteen minutes, or until they are well baked and well coloured. The rusks must be divided, and put again into the oven when the heat has subsided a little, and left in it until they are very crisp, and equally browned. The whole of the paste may be baked in a round cake-mould, and served in the same manner as the Solimemne of page 519. Flour, i lb ; yeast, 1 oz.; milk or cream, 5 or 6 tablespoons- ful : l to f hour. Cream, or puff-paste: flour, 1 lb.; other ingredients as given in receipt: 4 to 5 hours. Baked, in small shapes, 10 to 15 minutes; in large, 1 to 1| hour.