VEGETABLES. 317 CHAP. XV.] of good butter and some salt have previously been thrown ; so soon as they are quite tender, drain the water from them, place a dish over the stewpan and turn it gently upside down; arrange the vegetables neatly in the form of one large cauliflower and cover it with good melted butter, into which a little lemon-juice has been stirred. 12 to 18 minutes. BROCCOLI. This is boiled, and served in the same manner as cauliflowers when the heads are large ; the stems of the branching broccoli are peeled, and the vegetable, tied in bunches, is dressed and served, like asparagus, upon a toast. 10 to 20 minutes. TO BOIL ARTICHOKES. After they have been soaked and well washed, cut off the stems quite close, trim away a few of the lower leaves, and clip the points of all; throw the artichokes into plenty of fast-boiling water, ready salted and skimmed, with the addition, if it be at hand, of the proportion of soda directed in page 300, as this will greatly improve the colour of the vegetable. When ex- tremely young, the artichokes will be tender in from half to three quarters of an hour, but they will require more than double that time when at their full growth : when the leaves can be drawn out easily they are done. Send good melted butter to table with them. They should be boiled always with the stalk-ends uppermost. Very young, \ to f hour ; fall-grown, 1J to 2 hours. Obs.—French cooks lift the tops from the artichokes before they are served, and replace them after having taken out the chokes ; this must be expeditiously done to prevent the vege- table from cooling. ARTICHOKES EN SALADE. Wash, soak, and drain some very young and tender arti- chokes (they should not have attained more than a third of their growth), cut off the stalks close, quarter them, and send them to table with a little water in the dish. The chokes will be scarcely formed, and the remainder of the vegetable will have almost the flavour of fresh walnuts : it is constantly served thus in France as a hors d'oeuvre.