22 MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. I. ounce and a half of almonds blanched, and cut in strips ;* give it one minute’s simmer, and serve it immediately, with a French roll in the tureen. Yeal, 5 lbs.; water, 3 quarts; salt, oz.; onions, 2J ozs.; 20 corns white pepper; 2 large blades of mace: 5 hours or more. Cream, 1 pint; almonds, 11 oz.; vermicelli, 1 oz.: 1 minute. Little thickening, if needed. Obs.—Cream should always be boiled for a few minutes be- fore it is added to any soup. The yolks of two or three very fresh eggs beaten well, and mixed with half a pint of the boiling soup, may be stirred into the whole, after it is taken from the fire. Some persons put the eggs into the tureen, and add the soup to them by degrees ; but this is not so well. If a superior white soup to this be wanted, put three quarts of water to seven pounds of veal, and half a pound of the lean part of a ham ; or, instead of water, use very clear, weak veal broth. Grated Par- mesan cheese should be handed round the table when white or macearoni soup is served. A RICHER WHITE SOUP. Pound very fine indeed six ounces of sweet almonds, then add to them six ounces of the breasts of roasted chickens or par- tridges, and three ounces of the whitest bread which has been soaked in a little veal broth, and squeezed very dry in a cloth. Beat these altogether to an extremely smooth paste; then pour to them boiling and by degrees, two quarts of rich veal stock ; strain the soup through a fine hair sieve, set it again over the fire, add to it a pint of thick cream, and serve it, as soon as it is at the point of boiling, with a French roll in the tureen. When cream is very scarce, or not easily to be procured, this soup may be thickened sufficiently without it, by increasing the quantity of almonds to eight or ten ounces, and pouring to them, after they have been reduced to the finest paste, a pint of boiling stock, which must be again wrung from them through a coarse cloth with very strong pressure: the proportion of meat and bread also should then be nearly doubled. The stock should be well seasoned with mace and cayenne before it is added to the other ingredients. * We have given this receipt without any variation from the original, as the soup made exactly by it was much approved by the guests of the hospitable country gentleman, at whose elesant table it was served often for many years; but we would rather recommend that the almonds should be pounded, or merely blanched, cut in spikes, stuck into the crumb of a French roll, and put into the tureen, simply to give flavour to the soup.