536 MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XXIV. Sugar, highly refined, 1 lb.; water, i of a pint; ginger, 1 teaspoonful; rind of 1 large lemon. ORANGE-FLOWER CANDY. Beat in three quarters of a pint, or rather more, of water, about the fourth part of the white of an egg, and pour it on two pounds of the best sugar broken into lumps. When it has stood a little time, place it over a very clear fire, and let it boil for a few minutes, then set it on one side, until the scum has subsided; clear it off, and boil the sugar until it is very thick, then strew in by degrees three ounces of the petals of the orange- blossom, weighed after they are picked from their stems. Con- tinue to stir the candy until it rises in one white mass in the pan, then pour it into small paper cases, or on to dishes, and follow for it precisely the same directions as are given for the ginger-candy in the preceding receipt. The orange-flowers will turn brown if thrown too soon into the syrup: it should be more than three parts boiled when they are added. They must he gathered on the day they are wanted for use, as they become soon discoloured from keeping. Sugar, 2 lbs.; water, fpint; £ white of egg; orange-blos- soms, 3 0£S. ORANGE-FLOWER CANDY. (.Another Receipt.') The French, who are very fond of the delicious flavour of the orange-blossom, leave the petals in the candy; but a more deli- cate confection, to English taste, is made as follows:—Throw the orange-flowers into the syrup when it has boiled about ten minutes, and after they have simmered in it for five more, pour the whole out, and leave them to infuse until the following day, or even longer, if more convenient; then bring the syrup to the point of boiling, strain it from the blossoms through a muslin, and finish it by the foregoing receipt. COCOA-NUT CANDY. Hasp very fine a sound fresh cocoa-nut, spread it on a dish, and let it dry naturally for two or three days, as it will not bear the heat of an oven, and is too oily for use when freshly broken. Four ounces of it will be sufficient for a pound of sugar for most tastes, but more can be used at pleasure. Boil the sugar as for the orange-flower candy, and when it begins to be very thick and white strew in the nut, stir and mix it well, and