304 fCHAP. XT. MODERN COOKERY. with the finest bread-crumbs, and shaken free of the loose ones, then turned out, and browned in a Dutch or common oven. More or less liquid will be required to moisten sufficiently potatoes of various kinds. Potatoes mashed, 2 lbs.; salt, 1 teaspoonful; butter, 1 to 2 ozs.; milk or cream, | pint. Obs.—Mashed potatoes are often moulded with a cup, and then equally browned; any other shape will answer the purpose as well, and many are of better appearance. ENGLISH POTATO BALLS. Boil some floury potatoes very dry, mash them as smoothly as possible, season them well with salt and white pepper; warm them with about an ounce of butter to the pound, or rather more if it will not render them too moist; a few spoonsful of good cream may be added, but they must be boiled very dry after it is stirred to them. Let the mixture cool a little, roll it into balls, sprinkle over them vermicelli crushed slightly with the hand, and fry them a fine light brown. They may be dished round a shape of plain mashed potatoes, or piled on a napkin by themselves. They may likewise be rolled in egg and fine bread-crumbs instead of in the vermicelli, or in rice flour, which answers very well for them. POTATO BOULETTES. (ENTREMETS.) (Good.) Boil some good potatoes as dry as possible, or let them be prepared by Captain Eater’s receipt; mash a pound of them very smoothly, and mix with them while they are still warm, two ounces of fresh butter, a teaspoonful of salt, a little nut- meg, the beaten and strained yolks of four eggs, and last of all the whites thoroughly whisked. Mould with, and drop the mixture from a teaspoon, into a small pan of boiling butter, or of very pure lard, and fry the boulettes for five minutes over a moderate fire: they should be of a fine pale brown, and very light. Drain them well and dish them on a hot napkin. Potatoes, 1 lb.; butter, 2 ozs.; salt, 1 teaspoonful; eggs, 4: 5 minutes. POTATO RISSOLES. (French.) Mash and season the potatoes with salt, and white pepper or cayenne, and mix with them plenty of minced parsley, and a small quantity of green onions, or eschalots; add sufficient