CHAP. XX.] SWEET DISHES, OR ENTREMETS. 433 fail to obtain it clear. It should be strained through a thick flannel-bag of a conical form (placed before the fire, should the weather be at all cold, or the mixture will jelly before it has run through), and if not perfectly clear it must be strained, again and again, until it becomes so; though we generally find that once suffices. ]Mix thoroughly in a large stewpan five half- pints of strong calf’s feet stock (see page 425), a full pint of sherry, half a pound of sugar roughly powdered, the juice of two fine lemons, the rind of one and a half, cut very thin, the whites and shells of four large eggs, and half an ounce of isinglass. Let these remain a few minutes off the fire, that the sugar may dissolve more easily; then let the jelly be brought to boil gradually, and do not stir it after it begins to heat. When it has boiled gently for sixteen minutes, cLraw it from the fire, and let it stand a short time before it is poured into the jelly-bag, under which a bowl should be placed to receive it. When clear and cool, put it into moulds which have been laid for some hours in water: these should always be of earthenware in preference to metal. If to be served in glasses, or roughed, the jelly will be sufficiently firm -without the isinglass, of which, however, we recommend a small quantity to be thrown in always when the jelly begins to boil, as it facilitates the clearing. Calf’s feet stock, 2\ pints; sugar, ± lb.; sherry, 1 pint; juice of lemons, 2 large; rind of L]; whites and shells of eggs, 4 large, or 5 small: 16 minutes. Ohs. 1.—-After all the jelly has dropped through the bag, an exceedingly agreeable beverage may be obtained by pouring in some boiling water; from one to three half pints, according to the quantity of jelly which has been made. The same plan should be pursued in making orange or lemon jelly for an invalid. Ohs. 2.—As it is essential to the transparency of calf’s feet jelly of all kinds that the whole of the ingredients should be quite cold when they are mixed, and as the stock can only be measured in a liquid state, to which it must be reduced by heat- ing, the better plan is, to measure it when it is first strained from the feet, and to put apart the exact quantity required for