415 CHAP. XIX.] SOUFFLES, OMLETS, &C. over them, or spread them quickly with preserve, laying them one on the other. A richer kind of pancake may be made with a pint of cream, or of cream and new milk mixed, five eggs, or their yolks only, a couple of ounces of flour, a little pounded cinnamon or lemon-rind rasped on sugar and scraped into them, with two ounces more of pounded sugar, and two ounces of clarified butter: a few ratifias rolled to powder may be added at pleasure, or three or four macaroons. From 4 to 5 minutes. FRITTERS OF CAKE AND PUDDING. Cut plain pound, or rice cake into small square slices half an inch thick ; trim away the crust, fry them slowly a light brown, in a small quantity of fresh butter, and spread over them when done a layer of apricot-jam, or of any other pre- serve, and serve them immediately. These fritters are im- proved by being moistened with a little good cream before they are fried: they must then be slightly floured. Cold plum pudding sliced down as thick as the cake, and divided into por- tions of equal size and good form, then dipped into French or English batter, and gently fried, will also make an agreeable variety of fritter. MINCEMEAT FRITTERS. With half a pound of mincemeat mix two ounces of fine bread-crumbs (or a tablespoonful of flour), two eggs well beaten, and the strained juice of half a small lemon. Mix these well, and drop the fritters with a dessertspoon into plenty of very pure lard or fresh butter; fry them from seven to eight minutes, drain them on a napkin or on white blotting paper, and send them very hot to table: they should be quite small. Mincemeat, \ lb.; bread-crumbs, 2 ozs. (or flour, 1 table- spoonful) ; eggs, 2 ; juice of \ lemon: 7 to 8 minutes. VENETIAN FRITTERS. ( Very good.') Pick, wash, and drain three ounces of whole rice, put it into a full pint of cold milk, and bring it very slowly to boil; stir it often, and let it simmer gently until quite thick and dry. When about three parts done add to it two ounces of pounded sugar, and one of fresh butter, a grain of salt, and the grated rind of half a small lemon. Let it be cold in the saucepan, and w hen only just warm mix with it thoroughly three ounces of cur-