MODERN COOKERY. 112 [chap. IV. tarragon-vinegar may be substituted for other, and small quan- tities of soy, cavice, essence of anchovies, or catsup may in turn be used to flavour the compound. The salad-bowl too may be rubbed with a cut clove of garlic, to give the whole composition a very slight flavour of it. The eggs should be boiled for fifteen minutes, and allowed to become quite cold always before they are pounded, or the mixture will not be smooth : if it should curdle, which it will sometimes do, if not carefully made, add to it the yolk of a very fresh unboiled egg. Obs. 2.—As we have before had occasion to remark, garlic, ' when very sparingly and judiciously used, imparts a remarkably fine savour to a sauce or gravy, and neither a strong nor a coarse one, as it does when used in larger quantities. The veriest morsel (or, as the French call it, a mere sonpqori) of the root, is sufficient to give this agreeable piquancy, but unless the proportion be extremely small, the effect will be quite different. The Italians dress their salads upon a round of delicately toasted bread, which is rubbed with garlic, saturated with oil, and sprinkled with cayenne, before it is laid into the bowl: they also eat the bread thus prepared, but with less of oil, and un- toasted often, before their meals, as a digestor. FRENCH SALAD DRESSING. Stir a saltspoonful of salt and half as much pepper into a large spoonful of oil, and when the salt is dissolved, mix with them tour additional spoonsful of oil, and pour the whole over the salad; let it be well turned, and then add a couple of spoons- ful of tarragon vinegar; mix the whole thoroughly, and serve it without delay. The salad should not be dressed in this way until the instant before it is wanted for table : the proportions of salt and pepper can be increased at pleasure, and common, or cucumber vinegar may be substituted for the tarragon, which, however, is more frequently used in France than any other. Salt, 1 spoonful; pepper, £ as much ; oil, 5 salad-spoonsful ; tarragon, or other vinegar, 2 spoonsful. OUR OWN SAUCE FOR SALAD OR COLD MEAT. Mix with the yolks of two very fresh unboiled eggs a half- saltspoonful of salt, a third as much of cayenne, and a slight grating of nutmeg; then stir very gradually to them three tablespoonsful of oil of the finest quality, working the sauce like the Mayonnaise; and when it is perfectly smooth, add three spoonsful of good meat-jelly, and two of cucumber-vinegar. The shin of beef stock for gravies, which will be strongly