78 MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. II. mix it with the other ingredients, put in the shrimps, and add a squeeze of lemon-juice, stirring the sauce at the same time. Soak the crust before it is fried, in a little cold cream ; or toast, and butter it, and then moisten it well with boiling cream. Veal-gravy, f pint; rind of small lemon : 10 minutes. But- ter, 2 ozs.; flour, 1 teaspoonful; mace, | spoonful; little cayenne, and nutmeg: 5 to 7 minutes. Cream, \ pint; shrimps, 2 quarts: 1 minute. Squeeze of lemon-juice. OYSTERS. In season from September to April. The old-fashioned plan of feeding oysters with a sprinkling of oatmeal or flour, in addition to the salt and water to which they were committed, has long been rejected by all genuine amateurs of these nutritious and excellent fish, who consider the plumpness which the oysters are supposed to gain from the process but poor compensation for the flavour which they are sure to lose. To cleanse them when they first come up from the beds, and to keep them in good condition for four or five days, they only require to be covered with cold water, with five ounces of salt to the gallon dissolved in it before it is poured on them: this should be changed with regularity every twenty- four hours. By following this plan with exactness they may be kept alive from a week to ten days, but will remain in perfect condition scarcely more than half that time. Oysters should be eaten always the instant they are opened. They are served often before the soup, in the first course of a dinner, left upon their shells, and arranged usually in as many plates as there are guests at table. TO STEW OYSTERS. A pint of small plump oysters will be sufficient for quite a moderate-sized dish, but twice as many will be required for a large one. Let them be very carefully opened, and not mangled in the slightest degree; wash them free from grit in their own strained liquor, lay them into a very clean stewpan or well-tin- ned saucepan, strain the liquor a second time, pour it on them, and heat them slowly in it. When they are just beginning to simmer, lift them out with a slice or a bored wooden spoon, and take off the beards; add to the liquor a quarter-pint of good cream, a seasoning of pounded mace and cayenne, and a little salt, and when it boils, stir in from one to two ounces of good butter, smoothly mixed with a large teaspoonful of flour ; con- tinue to stir the sauce until these are perfectly blended with it,