CHAP. XVI.] 363 FINE PASTRY, FANCHONNETTES. (ENTREMETS.) Roll out very thin and square some fine puff paste, lay it on a tin or copper oven-leaf, and cover it equally to within something less than an inch of the edge with peach or apricot jam; roll a second bit of paste to the same size, and lay it carefully over the other, having first moistened the edges with beaten egg, or water; press them together securely, that the preserve may not escape; pass a paste brush or small bunch of feathers dipped in water over the top, sift sugar thickly on it, then with the back of a knife, mark the paste into divisions of uniform size, bake it in a well-heated but not fierce oven for twenty minutes, or rather more, and cut it while it is still hot, where it is marked. The fanchonnettes should be about three inches in length and two in width. In order to lay the second crust over the preserve without disturbing it, wind it lightly round the paste- roller, and in untwisting it, let it fall gently over the other part. This is not the form of pasty called by the French fan- chormen es. Fine puff paste, 1 lb.; apricot or peach jam, 4 to 6 ozs.: baked 20 to 25 minutes. CURRANT-JELLY TARTLETS, OR CUSTARDS. Put four tablespoonsful of the best currant-jelly into a basin, and stir to it gradually twelve spoonsful of beaten egg; if the preserve be rich and sweef, no sugar will be required. Line some pans with paste rolled very thin, fill them with the cus- tard, and bake them about ten minutes.* RAMEKINS A l’uDE, OR SEFTON FANCIES. Roll out, rather thin, from six to eight ounces of fine cream- crust, or feuilletage (see page 335) ; take nearly or quite half its weight of grated Parmesan, or something less of dry white English cheese; sprinkle it equally over the paste, fold it together, roll it out very lightly twice, and continue thus until the cheese and crust are well mixed. Cut the ramekins with a small paste-cutter; wash th,em with yolk of egg mixed with a little milk, and bake them about fifteen minutes. Serve them very hot. Cream-crust, or feuilletage, 6 ozs.; Parmesan, 3 ozs.; or English cheese, 2^ ozs.: 15 minutes. • Strawberry or raspberry jelly will answer admirably for these.