VEAL. 213 CHAP. IX.] the vegetables may be at once divided: if extremely young they will not need the previous boil. Before the harrico is served, skim the fat from it, and add salt and pepper should it not be sufficiently seasoned. A few bits of lean ham, or shoulder of bacon browned with the veal, will much improve this dish, and for some tastes, a little acid will render it more agreeable. Very delicate pork chops may be dressed in the same way. Veal, 2 to 3 lbs.; water (or gravy), 1 pint; new potatoes, 1| to 2 lbs.; faggot, parsley and green onions : 1 hour or more. VEAL CUTLETS. Take them, if possible, free from bone, and after having trimmed them into proper shape, beat them with a paste roller until the fibre of the meat is thoroughly broken; flour them well to prevent the escape of the gravy, and fry them from twelve to fifteen minutes over a fire which is not sufficiently fierce to burn them before they are quite cooked through: they should be of a fine amber brown, and perfectly done. Lift them into a hot dish, pour the fat from the pan, throw in a slice of fresh butter, and when it is melted, stir or dredge in a dessertspoonful of flour; keep these shaken until they are well- coloured, then pour gradually to them a cup of gravy or boil- ing water; add pepper, salt, a little lemon pickle or juice, give the whole a boil, and pour it over the cutlets : a few forcemeat balls, fried, and served with them, is usually a very acceptable addition to this dish, even when it is garnished or accompanied with rashers of ham or bacon. A morsel of glaze, or of the jelly of roast meat, should, when at hand, be added to the sauce, which a little mushroom powder would further improve : mushroom sauce, indeed, is considered by many epicures, as in- dispensable with veal cutlets. We have recommended, in this one instance, that the meat should be thoroughly beaten, be- cause we find that the veal is wonderfully improved by the process, which, however, we still deprecate for other meat. 12 to 15 minutes. VEAL CUTLETS A L’lNDIENNE, OR INDIAN EASHION. (ENTREE.) Mix well together four ounces of very fine stale bread- crumbs, a teaspoonful of salt, and a tablespoonful of the best currie powder. Cut down into small well-shaped cutlets or collops, two pounds of veal free from fat, skin, or bone; beat the slices flat, and dip them first into some beaten egg- yolks, and then into the seasoned crumbs; moisten them