573 APPENDIX. lean of ham cut into small dice, and either lightly fry them or stew them gently in a small slice of butter, until they are equally coloured; stir in half a teaspoonful of flour, and then pour to them by degrees half a pint of boiling broth or brown gravy; boil the whole softly for half an hour, strain, skim, and re-heat it with pepper and vinegar as above. THE poet’s RECEIPT FOR SALAD.* “ Two large potatoes, passed through kitchen sieve Unwonted softness to the salad give; Of mordent mustard, add a single spoon, Distrust the condiment which bites so soon; But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault, To add a double quantity of salt; Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, And once with vinegar, procured from town; True flavour needs it, and your poet begs The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs; Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl, And, scarce suspected, animate the whole; And lastly, in the flavour’d compound toss A magic teaspoon of anchovy sauce: Then, though green turtle fail, though venison’s tough, And ham and turkey are not boiled enough, Serenely full, the epicure may say— Fate cannot harm me,—I have dined to-day.” Two well-boiled potatoes, passed through a sieve; a tea- spoonful of mustard; two teaspoonsful of salt; one of essence of anchovy; about a quarter of a teaspoonful of very finely-chopped onions, well bruised into the mixture; three tablespoonsful of oil; one of vinegar; the yolks of two eggs, hard boiled. Stir up the salad immediately before dinner, and stir it up thoroughly. “ In. B.—As this salad is the result of great experience and re- flection, it is hoped young salad makers will not attempt to make any improvements upon it.” LOBSTER SALAD. (ENTREMETS.) First, prepare a sauce with the coral of a hen lobster, pounded and rubbed through a sieve, and very gradually mixed with a * Note. This receipt, though long privately circulated amongst the friends and acquaintance of its highly distinguished and regretted author, now (with permis- sion) appears for the first time in print. We could not venture to deviate by a word from the original, but we would suggest, that the mixture forms almost a substitute for salad, instead of a mere dressing. It is, however, an admirable compound for those to whom the slight flavouring of onion is not an otyection.