71 CHAP. II.] FISH. mace, cayenne, and nutmeg; lay in the fish after it has been emptied, washed very clean, and wiped perfectly dry; shake it in the pan, that it may not stick, and when lightly browned on both sides, pour in three quarters of a pint of good veal stock, add a small bunch of parsley, one bay leaf, a roll of lemon-peel, and a little salt: stew the fish very gently from half to three quarters of an hour, or more, should it be unusually fine. Dish the trout, skim the fat from the gravy, and pass it through a hot strainer over the fish, which should be served immediately. A little acid can he added to the sauce at pleasure, and a glass of wine when it is considered an improvement. This receipt is for one large, or for two middling-sized fish. We can recom- mend it as a good one, from our own experience. Butter, 3 ozs.; flour, 1 tablespoonful; seasoning of mace, cayenne, and nutmeg; trout, 1 large, or 2 moderate sized; veal stock, § pint; parsley, small faggot; 1 bay-leaf; roll of lemon- rind ; little salt: | to f hour. Obs.—Trout may be stewed in equal parts of strong veal gravy, and of red or white wine, without having been previously browned; the sauce should then be thickened, and agreeably flavoured with lemon-juice, and the usual store-sauces, before it is poured over the fish. They are also good when wrapped in buttered paper and baked or broiled : if very small, the better mode of cooking them is to fry them whole. They should never he plain boiled, as, though a naturally delicious fish, they are then very insipid. TO BOLL PIKE. In best season from September to February. Take out the gills, empty and clean the fish very thoroughly, and soak it for half an hour with a cup of vinegar thrown into as much water as will cover it well, should there be any danger of its having a muddy taste. Wipe the inside dry, and fill it with oyster-forcemeat, or with common veal-forcemeat, made either with butter or with suet (for which see Chapter VI.); curl the fish round, and fasten it with the tail in the mouth, lay it on the drain, cover it well with cold water, throw in some salt as soon as it boils, skim it well, and boil the fish gently from half to a whole hour, according to its size. Some persons prefer the scales taken off the pike when it is prepared for this mode of dressing; and many cooks still put the fish into boiling water, well salted and skimmed. Serve it with plain melted butter, the sauce-cruets, and a lemon; or with Dutch, brown caper, or anchovy sauce.