CHAP. VIII.] BEEF. 187 Ohs.—We give this receipt exactly as we have often had it used, but celery and turnips might he added to the gravy; and when the appearance of the meat is much considered, three- quarters of an ounce of saltpetre may he mixed with the spices ; the beef may also he plainly boiled in water only, with a few vegetables, or baked in a deep pan with a little gravy. No meat must ever be left to cool in the stewpan or saucepan in which it is cooked; it must be lifted into a pan of its own depth, and the liquor poured upon it. A MINIATURE ROUND OF BEEF. “ Select a fine rib of beef, and have it cut small or large in width, according to your taste; it may thus he made to weigh from five to twelve pounds, or more. Take out the hone, and wrap the meat round like a fillet of veal, securing it with two or three wooden skewers; place it in a strong pickle for four or five days, and then cook it, taking care that it does not boil, but only simmers from forty minutes, or more, according to its size. It is best to put it on in hot water, as it will not draw the gravy so much as cold. Many persons adjust a rib of beef in this way for roasting : let them try it salted, and they need not envy the possessor of the finest round of beef.” We give the receipt to our readers in its original form, and we can assure them, from our own experience, that it is a good one ; but we would recom- mend that, in dressing the meat, quite the usual time for each pound of it should be allowed. When boned and rolled at the butcher’s, the skewers should be removed when it is first brought in; it should be well wiped with a dry cloth, or washed with a little fresh brine, and a small quantity of salt and salt- petre should be rubbed over the inside ; it may then be firmly bound with tape, and will be quite ready to boil when taken from the pickle. The sirloin, after the inside fillet is removed, may be cured and dressed in the same way, and will be found super-excellent, if the beef be well fatted and properly kept The Hamburg pickle (see page 183,) is perhaps the best for these joints. Part of the rump, taken clear of bone, answers admirably when prepared by this receipt. STUFATO. (A Neapolitan Receipt.) “ Take about six pounds of the silver side of the round, and make several deep incisions in the inside, nearly through to the skin; stuff these with all kinds of savoury herbs, a good slice of lean ham, and half a small clove of garlic, all finely minced,