[CHAP. X. 232 MODERN COOKERY. for the top ; pour in three quarters of a pint of cold water, and add, when the stew begins to boil, an ounce of salt; let it simmer gently for two hours, and serve it very hot. When the addition of onion is liked, strew in two or three minced ones with the potatoes. Mutton cutlets, 2 lbs.; potatoes, 4 lbs.; pepper, \ oz.; salt, 1 oz.; water, f pint: 2 hours. Obs.—For a real Irish stew the potatoes should be boiled to a mash : an additional quarter-hour may be necessary for the full quantity here, but for half of it two hours are quite sufficient. CUTLETS OF COLD MUTTON. Trim into well-shaped cutlets, which should not be very thin, the remains of a roast loin or neck of mutton, or of a quite under-dressed stewed or boiled joint; dip them into egg and well seasoned bread-crumbs, and broil or fry them over a quick fire that they may be browned and heated through with- out being too much done. This is a very good mode of serv- ing a half roasted loin or neck. When the cutlets are broiled they should be dipped into, or sprinkled thickly with butter just dissolved, or they will be exceedingly dry; a few additional crumbs should be made to adhere to them after they are mois- tened with this. MUTTON KIDNEYS A LA FRANCHISE. (ENTREE.) Skin six or eight fine fresh mutton kidneys, and without opening them, remove the fat; slice them rather thin, strew over them a large dessertspoonful of minced herbs, of which two thirds should be parsley and the remainder thyme, with a tole- rable seasoning of pepper or cayenne, and some fine salt. Melt two ounces of butter in a frying-pan, put in the kidneys and brown them quickly on both sides; when nearly done, stir amongst them a dessertspoonful of flour and shake them well in the pan; pour in the third of a pint of gravy (or of hot water in default of this), the juice of half a lemon, and as much of Harvey’s sauce, or of mushroom catsup, as will flavour the whole pleasantly; bring these to the point of boiling, and pour them into a dish garnished with fried sippets, or lift out the kidneys first, give the sauce a boil and pour it on them. We generally have the store-sauce of page 177 (see English stew) used to flavour this dish in preference to simple catsup. In France, a couple of glasses of champagne, or, for variety, of claret, are frequently added to the gravy; one of port wine can be substituted