MODERN COOKERY. 266 [CHAP. XII. in the dish, and pour a rich brown gravy or Sauce Espagnole round, but not over them. PRIED CHICKEN A LA MALABAR. (ENTREE.) This is an Indian dish. Cut up the chicken, wipe it dry, and rub it well with currie-powder, mixed with a little salt; fry it in a bit of butter, taking care that it is of a nice light brown. In the mean time cut two or three onions into thin slices, draw them out into rings, and cut the rings into little bits, about half an inch long ; fry them for a long time gently in a little bit of clarified butter, until they have gradually dried up and are of a delicate yellow-brown. Be careful that they are not burnt, as the burnt taste of a single bit would spoil the flavour of the whole. When they are as dry as chips, without the least grease or moisture upon them, mix a little salt with them, strew them over the fried chicken, and serve up with lemon on a plate. We have extracted this receipt from a clever little work called the “ Hand-Book of Cookery.” HASHED FOWL. (ENTREE.) After having taken off, in joints, as much of a cold fowl, or fowls as will suffice for a dish, bruise the bodies with a paste roller, pour to them a pint of water, and boil them for an hour and a half to two hours, with the addition of a little pepper and salt only, or with a small quantity of onion, carrot, and herbs. Strain, and skim the fat from the gravy, put it into a clean saucepan, and, should it require thickening, stir to it, when it boils, half a teaspoonful of flour, smoothly mixed with a small bit of butter; add a little mushroom catsup, or store-sauce, with a slight seasoning of mace or nutmeg. Lay in the fowl, and keep it near the fire until it is heated quite through, and is at the point of boiling : serve it with fried sippets round the dish. For a hash of higher relish, add to the bones, when they are first stewed down, a large onion, minced and browned in butter, and before the fowl is dished, add some cayenne, and the juice of half a lemon. MINCED FOWL. (ENTREE.) (French Receipt.') Raise from the bones all the more delicate parts of the flesh of either cold roast, or cold boiled fowls, clear it from the skin, and keep it covered from the air, until wanted for use. Boil the bones, well bruised, and the skin, with three quarters of a pint of water, until reduced quite half, then strain the gravy and let