CHAP. XX.] 457 SWEET DISHES. A few petals of fresh orange-blossom infused in the milk, will give it a most agreeable flavour, very superior to that derived from the distilled water. Half a pod of vanilla, cut in short lengths, and well bruised, may be used instead of either; but the milk should then stand some time by the fire before or after it boils, and it must be strained through a muslin before it is added to the eggs, as the small seed of the vanilla would pro- bably pass through a sieve. New milk, 1 quart; yolks of eggs, 12 ; sugar, 6 to 8 ozs. Or: new milk, 1 pint; cream, 1 pint; yolks of eggs, 10 ; flavouring of orange-flowers or vanilla: simmered in water-bath, 1 to 1 £ hour. GERMAN PUFFS. Pound to a perfectly smooth paste two ounces of Jordan al- monds and six bitter ones; mix with them, by slow degrees, the yolks of six, and the whites of three eggs. Dissolve in half a pint of rich cream, four ounces of fresh butter, and two of fine sugar; pour these hot to the eggs, stirring them briskly to- gether, and when the mixture has become cool, flavour it with half a glass of brandy, of cuirasseau, or of orange-flower water; or, in lieu of either, with a little lemon-brandy. Butter some cups thickly, and strew into them a few slices of candied citron, or orange rind; pour in the mixture, and bake the pufls twenty minutes, in a slow oven. Jordan almonds, 2 ozs.; bitter almonds, 6; eggs, whites, 3, —yolks, 6; cream, \ pint; butter, 4 ozs.; sugar, 2 ozs.; brandy, cuirasseau, or orange-flower water, \ wineglassful (or little lemon-brandy) : 20 minutes, slow oven. MERINGUE OF PEARS, OR OTHER FRUIT. Fill a deep tart-dish nearly to the brim with stewed pears, and let them be something more than half covered with their juice. Whisk to a solid froth the whites of five eggs, stir to them five tablespoonsful of dry sifted sugar, and lay them lightly and equally over the fruit; put the meringue im- mediately into a moderate oven, and bake it half an hour. Cherries, bullaces, and damsons, with various other kinds of plums, first either stewed as for compotes (see page 428), or baked with sugar, as for winter use, answer as well as pears for this dish; which may, likewise, be made of apples, peaches, apricots, or common plums boiled down quite to a marmalade, with sufficient sugar to sweeten them moderately: the skins and