569 APPENDIX. Fresh butter, £ lb.; sugar, 1 lb.; yolks 6 eggs; whites 4; rinds 2 lemons; juice of 3. PUFFS A LA COLBURN. (EXTREMELY GOOD.) Make first a good pastry cream (see Creme Patissiere, page 337), with three quarters of a pint of cream, and as much new milk, or with either by itself, as may be most convenient; though a portion of the former is desirable, as these puffs should be rich, though very light. After having mixed the ingredients in the usual way, and thickened them, add to the creme patis- siere three ounces of fresh butter cut small or clarified, and four of pounded sugar. When the mixture is nearly cold stir to it four ounces of ratafias crusted to powder, and add a little sugar which has been rasped on a citron, or on a Seville orange ; or in lieu of this, flavour the milk or cream in the first instance with from a third to half of a pod of vanilla, as directed for Nes- selrode cream (page 441); then strain, and bring it again to a full boil before it is poured to the flour and eggs. Make a delicate cream crust (see page 361), roll it very thin in rounds of equal size, and six inches in diameter; lay in some of the cream; moisten the edges ; fold and press them together, very securely; ice the tops lightly with the whites of a couple of eggs beaten to snow, and mixed with three ounces of sugar; strew over them rose-coloured almonds (see page 513), not very finely chopped, and bake them in a moderate oven from twenty- five to thirty minutes. For variety, pistachio-nuts, merely blanched and sliced, may be sprinkled over them, instead of almonds, and will have a very good effect. RICE A LA VATHEK. Blanch, and then pound carefully to the smoothest possible paste four ounces of fine Jordan almonds and half a dozen bitter ones, moistening them with a few drops of water to prevent their oiling. Stir to them by slow degrees a quart of boiling milk, which should be new, wring it again closely from them through a thin cloth, which will absorb it less than a tammy, and set it aside to cool. Wash thoroughly, and afterwards soak for about ten minutes, seven