153 BOILING, ROASTING, &C. CHAP. VII.] Iron Boiler. CHAPTER YH. BOILING, ROASTING, &c. TO BOLL MEAT. Large joints of meat should be neatly trimmed, washed extremely clean, and skewered or bound firmly into good,' shape, when they are of a nature to require it; then well covered with cold water, brought to boil over a moderate fire, and simmered until they are done, the scum being care- fully and entirely cleared from the surface of the water, as it gathers there, which will he principally from within a few minutes of its beginning to boil, and during a few minutes afterwards. If not thoroughly skimmed off at the proper time, it will sink, and adhere to the joint, giving it a very uninviting appearance. We cannot too strongly again impress upon the cook the advantages of gentle simmering over the usual fast-boiling of meat, by which, as has been already forcibly shown (see article Bouillon, Chapter I.), the outside is hardened and deprived of its juices before the inside is half done, while the starting of the flesli from the hones which it occasions, and the altogether ragged aspect which it gives, are most unsightly. Pickled or salted meat requires longer boiling than fresh; and that which is smoked and dried longer still. This last should always he slowly heated, and if, from any circumstances, time cannot have been allowed for soaking it properly, and there is a probability of its being too salt when served, it should be brought very softly to boil in a large quantity of water, which should in part he changed as soon as it becomes quite briny, for as much more that is ready boiling. It is customary to lay large joints upon a fish-plate, or to throw some wooden skewers under them, to prevent their sticking to the vessel i in which they are cooked; and it is as well to take the precaution, though, unless they he placed over a very fierce fire, they cannot be in danger of this. The time allowed for them Large Copper or Iron Stockpot.* * The most suitable, and the most usual form of stockpot for making soup in