68 [chap. II. MODERN COOKERY. the paper case. This is the usual mode of serving it; but it is dished without the paper, for dinners of high taste. 20 to 30 minutes. TO BOIL GREY MULLET. This fish varies so much in size and quality, that it is difficult to give exact directions for the time of cooking it. When quite young and small, it may be boiled by the receipt for whitings, haddocks, and other fish of about their size; but at its finest growth it must be laid into cold water, and managed like larger fish. We have ourselves partaken of one which was caught upon our eastern coast, that weighed ten pounds, of which the flesh was quite equal to that of salmon, but its weight was, we believe, an unusual one. Anchovy, or caper fish sauce, with melted butter, may be sent to table with grey mullet. TO FRY SMELTS. In season from beginning of November to May. Smelts when quite fresh have a perfume resembling that of a cucumber, and a peculiarly delicate and agreeable flavour when dressed. Draw them at the gills, as they must not be opened; wash and dry them thoroughly in a cloth ; dip them into beaten egg-yolk, and then into the finest bread-crumbs, mixed with a small quantity of flour; fry them of a clear golden brown, and serve them very crisp and dry, with good melted butter in a tureen. They are sometimes dipped into batter and then fried ; when this is done, we would recommend for them the French batter of Chapter IV. 3 to 4 minutes. BAKED SMELTS. Prepare them as for frying ; pour some clarified butter into the dish in which they are to be sent to table, arrange them neatly in if, with the tails meeting in the centre, strew over them as much salt, mace, and cayenne, mixed, as will season them agreeably, cover them smoothly with a rather thick layer of very fine bread-crumbs, moisten them equally with clarified butter poured through a small strainer, and bake the fish in a moderately quick oven, until the crumbs are of a fine light brown. A glass of sherry, a half-teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and a dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, are some- times poured into the dish before the smelts are laid in. About 10 minutes.