571 APPENDIX. CRISPED POTATOES, OR POTATO-RIBBONS. (To serve with Cheese.) Wash well, and wipe, some potatoes of good flavour; cut them up into slices of from half to a whole inch thick, free them from the skins, and then pare them round and round in very thin, and very long ribbons, like the dressed cucumber of page 312. Lay them into a pan of cold water, and half an hour before they are wanted for table lift them on to a sieve that they may be well drained. Fry them in very hot lard, butter, or clarified dripping, of the purest quality, until they are quite crisp and lightly browned ; drain and dry them on a soft cloth, pile them in a hot dish, strew over them a mixed seasoning of salt and cayenne in fine powder, and serve them without delay. For the second course, dress them in the same manner, but omit the cayenne. Five or six minutes will fry them. Some cooks tie them in fanciful bows and knots, before they are laid into the water. SAVOURY TOASTS. Cut some slices of bread free from crust, about half an inch thick, and two inches and a half square ; butter the tops thickly, spread a little mustard on them, and then cover them with a deep layer of grated cheese and ham seasoned rather highly with cayenne ; fry them in good butter, but do not turn them in the pan; lift them out, and place them in a Dutch oven for three or four minutes to dissolve the cheese : serve them very hot. To 4 tablespoonsful of grated English cheese, an equal portion of very finely minced, or grated ham; but of Parmesan, or Gruyere, 6 tablespoonsful. CROQUETTES OP SHRIMPS. (ENTREE.) Shell quickly from a quart to three pints of fine fresh brown shrimps; chop them a little with a very sharp knife; put four ounces of them into a mortar and pound them to the smoothest paste, with the addition of an ounce and a half of fresh butter, a seasoning of mace, nutmeg, and cayenne, and a very small quantity of salt. Pour boiling, on an ounce and a half of the crumb of a stale loaf sliced thin, sufficient milk or cream to just cover it; let it soak for a quarter of an hour, then turn it into a small saucepan, and stir it over a clear and gentle fire until it forms a quite dry paste ; let it become cold;