MODERN COOKERY. ^CHAP. IY. 104 when it boils; then put in the flesh of the tail and claws of a small lobster cut into dice (or any other form) of equal size. Keep the saucepan by the side of the fire until the fish is quite heated through, hut do not let the sauce boil again: serve it very hot. A small quantity can be made on occasion with the remains of a lobster which has been served at table. Melted butter, \ pint; essence of anchovies, 1 tahlespoonful; pounded mace, small \ saltspoonful; less than \ one of cayenne; cream (if added), 2 tablespoonsful; flesh of small lobster. GOOD LOBSTER SAUCE. Select for this a perfectly fresh hen lobster; split the tail carefully, and take out the inside coral; pound half of it in a mortar very smoothly with less than an ounce of butter, rub it through a hair-sieve, and put it aside. Cut the firm flesh of the fish into dice of not less than half an inch in size; and when these are ready, make as much good melted butter as will supply the quantity of sauce required for table, and if to be served with a turbot, or other large fish, to a numerous com- pany, let it be plentifully provided. Season it slightly with essence of anchovies, and well with cayenne, mace, and salt; add to it a few spoonsful of rich cream, and then mix a small portion of it very gradually with the pounded coral; when this is sufficiently liquefied, pour it into the sauce, and stir the whole well together ; put in immediately the flesh of the fish, and heat the sauce thoroughly by the side of the fire, without allowing it to boil, for if it should do so its fine colour would be destroyed. The whole of the coral may be used for the sauce when no portion of it is required for other purposes. GOOD OYSTER SAUCE. At the moment they are wanted for use, open three dozens of fine plump native oysters ; save carefully and strain their liquor, rinse them separately in it, put them into a very clean saucepan, strain the liquor again, and pour it to them ; heat them slowly, and keep them from one to two minutes at the simmering point, without allowing them to boil, as that will render them hard. Lift them out and beard them neatly; add to the liquor three ounces of butter, smoothly mixed with a large dessertspoonful of flour; stir these without ceasing until they boil, and are per- fectly mixed; then add to them gradually a quarter-pint, or rather more, of new milk, or of thin cream (or equal parts of both), and continue the stirring until the sauce boils again; add a little salt, should it be needed, and a small quantity of cayenne