524 MODERN COOKERY. []cHAP. XXIII. spoon, and when quite smooth leave it until it is perfectly cold, then add to it five ounces of grated cocoa-nut, and when it is thoroughly blended with the other ingredients, lay the paste in small heaps upon a buttered tin, and bake them in a very slack oven from half to three quarters of an hour. Flour, 10 ozs.; ground rice, 6 ozs.; rind of 1 lemon ; ginger, f oz.; treacle, 1 lb.; sugar, 5 ozs.; butter, 5 ozs.; cocoa-nut, 5 ozs.: l to | hour. ANOTHER RECEIPT FOR COCOA-NUT GINGERBREAD. This receipt varies from the preceding one only in its propor- tions. On eight ounces of flour, well mixed with an equal weight of ground rice,* three quarters of an ounce of ginger, and the rind of a lemon, pour hot the same quantity of treacle, butter, and sugar, as directed above. When the paste is cold, strew over, and beat well into it, six ounces and a half of grated cocoa-nut. A couple of ounces of candied orange or lemon rind, cut small, can be added, at pleasure. Flour, \ lb.; ground rice, \ lb.; ginger, f oz.; rind of 1 lemon; butter, 5 ozs.; sugar, 5 ozs.; treacle, 1 lb.; cocoa- nut, 6.1 ozs. Obs.—We can particularly recommend these receipts to the reader: the cakes made by them are excellent. PARLIAMENT. Roll a pound of Lisbon sugar, to take out the lumps, and mix it well with two and a half of flour, and four ounces of ginger in fine powder. On these pour, quite boiling, a pound of butter, and a pound and a half of treacle which have been heated together, and when the paste is sufficiently cool, knead it very smoothly, and roll it out thin upon the tins on which it is to be baked; mark it with the back of a knife into squares, set it into a slow oven, and let it remain until it is quite crisp, with- out allowing it to take much colour. Divide it while it is still warm, and as soon as it is cold put it into a dry canister. Lisbon sugar, 1 lb.; flour, 2£ lbs.; ginger, 4 ozs.; butter, 1 lb.; treacle, 1| lb.: slow oven, 15 to 20 minutes. CHEAP GINGER BISCUITS. Work into quite small crumbs three ounces of good butter, with two pounds of flour, then add three ounces of pounded sugar and two of ginger, in fine powder, and knead them into a * Properly, rice-Jlour.