fcHAP. III. MODERN COOKERY. 86 strong broth, 3 pints, (or veal, 4 lbs., and water, 3 pints) ; salt; bunch of savoury herbs; mild onion, 1; carrot, 1 large or 2 small; celery, \ small head; mace, 1 large blade; peppercorns, 5 saltspoonful: 4 hours or more. Or : ham, £ lb.; veal, 4 lbs. broth, third of a pint: nearly 1 hour. Additional broth, 3 pints: 31 to 4\ hours. RICH DEEP-COLOURED VEAL GRAVY. Lay into a large thick stewpan or saucepan, from half to three quarters of a pound of undressed ham, freed entirely from fat, and from the smoked edges, and sliced half an inch thick ; on this place about four pounds of lean veal, cut from the best part of the knuckle or from the neck (part of the fillet, which in France is often used for it instead, not being generally pur- chasable here, the butchers seldom dividing the joint) ; pour to them about half a pint of good broth,* and place the pan over a brisk fire until it is well reduced, then thrust a knife into the meat, and continue the stewing more gently until a glaze is formed as we have described at page 93. The latter part of the process must be very slow ; the stewpan must be fre- quently shaken, and the gravy closely watched that it may not burn; when it is of a fine deep amber colour, pour in sufficient boiling broth to cover the meat, add a bunch of parsley, and a few mushrooms and green onions. A blade or two of mace, a few white peppercorns, and a head of celery, would, we think, be very admissible additions to this gravy, but it is extremely good without. Half the quantity can be made, but it will then be rather more troublesome to manage. Undressed ham, 8 to 12 ozs.; lean veal, 4 lbs.; broth, \ pint: 1 to 2 hours. Broth, 3 to 4 pints; bunch of parsley and green onions, or 1 Portugal onion; mushrooms, ^ to J pint: 1^ to 2 hours. GOOD BEEF OR VEAL GRAVY. (.English Receipt.) Flour and fry lightly in a bit of good butter a couple of pounds of either beef or veal; drain the meat well from the fat, and lay it into a small thick stewpan or iron saucepan; pour to it a quart of boiling water; add, after it has been well skimmed and salted, a large mild onion sliced, very delicately fried, and laid on a sieve to drain, a carrot also sliced, a small bunch of * When there is no provision of this in the house, the quantity required may be made with a small quantity of beef, and the trimmings of the veai, by the di- rections for Bouillon, page 6.