CARVING. xliii A parser ruffle, as will be seen, is wrapped round the bone of the knuckle. NO. 15. A PHEASANT. This bird is still commonly sent to table with the head on, but it is a barbarous custom which, it is hoped, may soon be alto- gether superseded by one of better taste. The breast is by far the finest part of a pheasant, and it is carved in slices from pinion to pinion in the lines a abb', the legs may then be taken off, in the direction c d. The bird, when it is preferred so, may be entirely dismembered by the directions for a fowl, No. 16. Black and moor-game are trussed and served like pheasants. The breasts of both are very fine eating, and the thigh of the black-cock is highly esteemed. No. 16. A BOLLED FOWL. The boiled fowl of plate 6 is represented as garnished wath branches of parsley, which is an error, as they would be appro- priate to it only if it were cold, and it is seldom served so, being considered insipid. Small tufts of cauliflower would have been in better keeping with it, as the bird is supposed to be dished for the dinner-table. Unless it be for large family parties, fowls are seldom carved there entirely into joints ; but when it is washed to divide them so, the fork should be fixed firmly in the centre of the breast, and the leg, being first disengaged from the skin, may be taken off with the wing in the line a b; or, the wing being previously removed, by carving it down the line to 6, and there separating it from the neck-bone, the leg may be released from the skin, and easily taken off, by cutting round it from a to c, and then turning it wath the fork, back from the body, when the joint will readily be perceived. After the leg and wing on the other side have been taken off in the same manner, the merrythought must follow. To remove this, the knife must be drawn through the flesh in the the line d e, and then turned towards^ ^ the neck quite under the merrythought, it will so lift from the breast, in this form:— The neck-bones—which lie close under the upper part of the wings, and are shaped thus — must next be disengaged from the fowl, by putting the knife in at the top of the joint, dividing the