576 APPENDIX. Obs.—When soft water cannot be had, a small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda must be stirred into that in which the peas are boiled. They must have room to swell or they will be hard ; but if too much be given them they will be watery and it will be difficult to convert them into a pudding at all. THE POOR. curate’s PUDDING. This is but a variation of the pudding, a la Paysanne of page 408, but as it is both good and inexpensive it may be acceptable to some of our readers. Wash, wipe, and pare some quickly grown rhubarb-stalks, cut them into short lengths, and put a layer of them into a deep dish with a spoonful or two of Lisbon sugar; cover these evenly with part of a penny roll sliced thin ; add another thick layer of fruit and sugar, then one of bread, then another of the rhubarb ; cover this last with a deep layer of fine bread-crumbs well mingled with about a tablespoonful of sugar, pour a little clarified butter over them, and send the pudding to a brisk oven. From thirty to forty minutes will bake it. Good boiling apples sliced, sweetened, and flavoured with nutmeg or grated lemon-rind, and covered with well but- tered slices of bread, make an excellent pudding of this kind. THE CAVALIER’S BROIL. Half roast or stew, or parboil, a small, or moderate-sized shoulder of mutton; lift it into a hot dish, score it on both sides down to the bone, season it well with fine salt and cayenne or pepper, and finish cooking it upon the gridiron over a brisk fire. Skim the fat from any gravy that may have flowed from it, and keep the dish which contains it quite hot to receive the joint again. Warm a cupful of pickled mushrooms, let a part of them be minced, and strew them over the broil when it is ready to be served; arrange the remainder round it, and send it instantly to table. The reader will scarcely need to be told that this is a most excellent dish. VEAL GOOSE. (City of London receipt.') “ This is made with the upper part of the flank of a loin of veal, (or sometimes of the fillet) covered with a stuffing of sage and onions, then rolled, and roasted or broiled. It is served with brown gravy and apple sauce, is extremely savoury, and has many admirers.” We transcribe the exact receipt for this dish, which was procured for us from a house in the city, which is famed for it. We had it tested with the skin of the best end