[chap. IV. MODERN COOKERY. 128 press tne butter down into jars or pattypans, and keep it in a cool place. Fine anchovies, 12; butter, f lb.; cayenne, small \ saltspoon- ful; nutmeg and mace, each more than twice as much; rose- pink (if used), \ teaspoonful. Obs.—This proportion differs from potted anchovies, only in the larger proportion of butter mixed with the fish, and the milder seasoning of spice. It will assist to form an elegant dish if made into pats, and stamped with a tasteful impression, then placed alternately with pats of lobster-butter, and decorated with light foliage. It is generally eaten with much relish when carefully compounded, and makes excellent sandwiches. To convert it into a good fish sauce, mix two or three ounces of it with a teaspoonful of flour and a few spoonsful of cold water, or of pale veal stock, and keep them constantly stirred until they boil. The butter should not be moulded directly it is taken from the mortar, as it is then very soft from the beating. It should be placed until it is firm in a very cool place, or over ice, when it can be done conveniently. TARTAR MUSTARD. Rub four ounces of the best Durham mustard very smooth with a full teaspoonful of salt, and wret it by degrees with strong horseradish vinegar, a dessertspoonful of cayenne, or of Chili vinegar, and one or two of tarragon vinegar, when its flavour is not disliked. A quarter-pint of vinegar poured boiling upon an ounce of scraped horseradish, and left for one night, closely covered, will be ready to use for this mustard, but it will be better for standing two or three days. Durham mustard, 4 ozs.; salt, large teaspoonful; cayenne, or Chili vinegar, 1 dessertspoonful; horseradish vinegar, third of pint. Obs.—This is an exceedingly pungent compound, but has many admirers. ANOTHER TARTAR MUSTARD. Mix the salt and mustard smoothly, with equal parts of horse- radish vinegar, and of Chili vinegar. Mustard made by these receipts will keep long, if put into jars or bottles, and closely stopped. Cucumber, eschalot, or any other of the flavoured vinegars for which we have given receipts, may in turn be used for it, and mushroom, gherkin, or India pickle-Hquor, like- wise.