MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XVIII. 404 tender.* Before it is taken from the fire, scrape into it the out- side of some sugar which has been rubbed upon the rind of a fresh lemon. Have ready a tin mould of pretty form, well buttered in every part; press the rice into it while it is still hot, smooth the surface, and let it remain till cold. Should the mould be one which opens at the ends, like that shewn in the plate at 334, the pudding will come out easily; but if it should be in a plain common one, just dip it into hot water to loosen it; turn out the rice, and then again reverse it on to a tin or dish, and with the point of a knife mark round the top a rim of about an inch wide; then brush some clarified butter over the whole pudding, and set it into a brisk oven. When it is of an equal light golden brown draw it out, raise the cover carefully where it is marked, scoop out the rice from the inside, leaving only a crust of about an inch thick in every part, and pour into it some preserved fruit Avarmed in its own syrup, or fill it with a compote of plums or peaches (see Chapter XX) ; or with some good apples boiled with fine sugar to a smooth rich marmalade. This is a very good as well as an elegant dish : it may be '-en- riched with more butter, and by substituting cream for the milk in part, or entirely, but it is excellent without either. Kice, J lb.; new milk, 1 quart: \ hour. Fresh butter, 2 ozs.; pounded sugar, 2| ozs.; rasped rind, 1 lemon: £ hour or more. Obs.—The precise time of baking the pudding cannot well be specified: it only requires colour. VERMICELLI PUDDING. Drop lightly into a pint and a half of boiling milk four ounces of fresh vermicelli, and keep it simmering and stirred gently for ten minutes, when it will have become very thick ; then mix with it three ounces and a half of sugar, two ounces of butter, and a small pinch of salt. When the whole is well blended pour it out; beat it for a couple of minutes to cool it a little ; then add by degrees five ivell-whisked eggs, the grated rind of a lemon, and just before it is put into the dish, a small glass of brandy: bake it from half, to three quarters of an hour. Vermicelli varies much in quality, and of some kinds three ounces will render the pudding quite firm enough. Milk, 1^ pint; vermicelli, 4 ozs.; 10 minutes. Sugar, 3| ozs.; butter, 2 ozs.; pinch of salt; eggs, 5 ; lemon-rind, 1; brandy, 1 wineglassful: \ to -| hour. Obs.—This pudding requires, more than many others, a * Unless the rice be boiled slowly, and very dry, it will not answer for the casserole.