SAUCES. CHAP. IV.] 103 milk is poured to them; they should be of stale bread, and very lightly grated. As some will absorb more liquid than others, the cook must increase a little the above proportion, should it be needed. Equal parts of milk and of thin cream make an excellent bread sauce : more butter can be used to enrich it when it is liked. Bread-crumbs and new milk, each \ pint (or any other measure) ; soaked 20 to 30 minutes, or more. Salt, small saltspoonful; mace, half as much ; little cayenne; butter, 1 oz.: boiled 4 to 5 minutes. 2 to 4 spoonsful of good cream (or milk) : 1 minute. Or : bread-crumbs, \ pint; milk and cream, each \ pint; and from 2 to 4 spoonsful of either in addition. Obs.—Very pale, strong veal gravy is sometimes poured on the bread-crumbs, instead of milk; and these, after being soaked, are boiled extremely dry, and then brought to the proper con- sistency with rich cream. The gravy may be highly flavoured with mushrooms when this is done. BREAD SAUCE WITH ONION. Put into a very clean saucepan nearly half a pint of fine bread-crumbs, and the white part of a large mild onion, cut into quarters; pour to these three quarters of a pint of new milk, and boil them very gently, keeping them often stirred, until the onion is perfectly tender, which will be in from forty minutes to an hour. Press the whole through a hair-sieve, which should be as clean as possible; reduce the sauce by quick boiling, should it be too thin; add a seasoning of salt and grated nutmeg, an ounce of butter, and four spoonsful of cream, and when it is of the proper thickness, dish, and send it quickly to table. Bread-crumbs, nearly \ pint; white part of 1 large mild onion; new milk, | pint: 40 to 60 minutes. Seasoning of salt and grated nutmeg; butter, 1 oz.; cream, 4 tablespoonsful: to be boiled till of a proper consistency. Obs.—This is an excellent sauce for those who like a subdued flavour of onion in it; but as many persons object to any, the cook should ascertain whether it be liked before she follows this receipt. COMMON EOBSTER SAUCE. Add to half a pint of good melted butter, a tablespoonful of essence of anchovies, a small half-saltspoonful of freshly pounded mace, and less than a quarter one of cayenne. If a couple of spoonsful of cream are at hand, stir them to the sauce