PRESERVES. 481 CHAP. XXI.] Red currants (without stalks), 4 lbs.; fine sugar, 3 lbs.: boiled quickly, 8 minutes. Or, equal weight fruit and sugar: 7 minutes. VERT FINE WHITE CURRANT JELLY. The fruit for this jelly should be very white, perfectly free from dust, and picked carefully from the stalks. To every pound add eighteen ounces of double refined sifted sugar, and boil them together quickly for six minutes; throw in the strained juice of a sound fresh lemon, or of two, should the quantity of preserve be large; boil it two minutes longer; pour it into a delicately clean sieve, and finish it by the directions given for the Norman red currant jelly (page 479). White currants, 6 lbs.; highly refined sugar, 6| lbs.: 6 minutes. Juice of 2 moderate-sized lemons : 2 minutes. WHITE CURRANT JAM, A BEAUTIFUL PRESERVE. Boil together quickly for seven minutes an equal weight of fine white currants, picked with the greatest nicety, and of the best sugar pounded and passed through a sieve. Stir the preserve gently the whole time, and be careful to skim it thoroughly. Just before it is taken from the fire throw in the strained juice of one good lemon to four pounds of the fruit. White currants, 4 lbs.; best sugar, 4 lbs.: 7 minutes. Juice 1 lemon. CURRANT PASTE. Stalk and heat some red currants as for jelly, pour off three parts of the juice, which can be used for that preserve, and press the remainder, with the pulp of the fruit, closely through a hair-sieve reversed; boil it briskly, keeping it stirred the whole time, until it forms a dry paste; then for each pound (when first weighed) add seven ounces of pounded sugar, and boil the whole from twenty-five to thirty minutes longer, taking care that it shall not bum. This paste is remarkably pleasant and refreshing in cases of fever, and acceptable usually for winter-desserts. Red currants boiled from 5 to 7 minutes, pressed with one fourth of their juice through a sieve, boiled from 1 i to 2 hours. To each pound add 7 ozs. pounded sugar : 25 to 30 minutes. Obs.—Confectioners add the pulp, after it is boiled dry, to