CHAP. XV.] VEGETABLES. 305 yolks of egg to bind the mixture together, roll it into small balls, and fry them in plenty of lard or butter over a moderate fire, or they will be too much browned before they are done through. Ham, or any other kind of meat finely minced, may be substituted for the herbs, or added to them. POTATOES A LA MAITRE D’HOTEL. Boil in the usual manner some potatoes of a firm kind, peel, and let them cool; then cut them equally into quarter-inch slices. Dissolve in a very clean stewpan or saucepan from two to four ounces of good butter, stir to it a small dessertspoonful of flour, and shake the pan over the fire for two or three minutes; add by slow degrees a small cup of boiling water, some pepper, salt, and a tablespoonful of minced parsley ; put in the potatoes, and toss them gently over a clear fire until they are quite hot, and the sauce adheres well to them; at the instant of serving add a dessertspoonful of strained lemon-juice. Pale veal gravy may be substituted for the water; and the potatoes after being thickly sliced, may be quickly cut of the same size with a small round cutter. POTATOES A LA CREME. Prepare the potatoes as above, and toss them gently in a quarter-pint or more of thick white sauce or of common bechamel, with or without the addition of the minced parsley. TO BOIL SEA-KALE. Wash, trim, and tie the kale in bunches, and throw it into plenty of boiling water with some salt in it. When it is per- fectly tender, lift it out, drain it well from the water, and send it to table with good melted butter. When fashion is not par- ticularly regarded we would recommend its being served upon a toast like asparagus. About twenty minutes will boil it, rather less for persons who like it crisp. 18 to 20 minutes. SEA-KALE STEWED IN GRAVY. (ENTREMETS.) Boil the kale for ten minutes in salt and water; drain it well, and put it into a saucepan with as much good brown gravy as will nearly cover it; stew it gently for ten minutes or until it is tender, and send it to table in the gravy very hot. Another excellent mode of serving this vegetable is, to boil it in salt and water, and to pour over it plenty of rich white sauce alter it is dished. x