427 CHAP. XX.] SWEET DISHES, OR ENTREMETS. muslin, and set it by for use: it will be perfectly transparent, and may be mixed lukewarm with the clear and ready sweetened juice of various fruits, or used with the necessary proportion of syrup, for jellies flavoured with choice liqueurs. As the clarify- ing reduces the strength of the isinglass,—or rather as a portion of it is taken up by the white of egg,—an additional quarter to each ounce must be allowed for this: if the scum be laid to drain on the back of a fine sieve which has been wetted with hot water, a little very strong jelly will drip from it. Isinglass, ozs.; water, 1 pint; beaten white of egg, 1 tea- spoonful. SPINACH GREEN, FOR COLOURING SWEET DISHES, CONFEC- TIONARY, OR SOUPS. Pound quite to a pulp, in a marble or Wedge wood mortar, a handful or two of young fresh ly-gathered spinach, then throw it into a hair-sieve, and press through all the juice that can be obtained from it; pour this into a clean white jar, and place it in a pan of water that is at the point of boiling, and which must be allowed only to just simmer afterwards ; in three or four mi- nutes the juice will be poached or set; take it then gently with a spoon, and lay it upon the back of a fine sieve to drain. If wanted for immediate use, merely mix it in the mortar with some finely-powdered sugar ;* but if to be kept as a store, pound it with as much as will render the whole tolerably dry, boil it to candy-height over a. very clear fire, pour it out in cakes, and keep them in a tin box or canister. For this last preparation consult the receipt for orange-flower candy. PREPARED APPLE, OR QUINCE JUICE. Pour into a clean earthen pan two quarts of spring water, and throw into it as quickly as they can be pared, cored, and weighed, four pounds of nonsuches, pearmains, Ripstone pippins, or any other good boiling apples of fine flavour. When all are done stew them gently until they are well broken, but not reduced cpite to pulp; turn them into a jelly-bag, or strain the juice from them without pressure through a closely-woven cloth, which should be gathered over the fruit, and tied, and suspended above a deep pan until the juice ceases to drop from it: this, if not very clear, must be rendered so before it is used for syrup or jelly, but for all other purposes once straining it will be suffi- • For soup, dilute it first with a little of the boiling stock, and stir it to the remainder.