360 MODERN COOKERY.' [chap. XVI. tains may not escape.* Take out the kernel, wash it in cold water, pare thinly off the dark skin, and grate the nut on a delicately clean bread-grater; put it, with its weight of pounded sugar, and its own milk, if not sour, or if it be, a couple of spoonsful or rather more of water, into a silver or block-tin saucepan, or a very small copper stewpan perfectly tinned, and keep it gently stirred over a quite clear fire until it is tender: it will sometimes require an hour’s stewing to make it so. When a little cooled, add to the nut, and beat well with it, some eggs properly whisked and strained, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Line some pattypans with fine paste, put in the mixture, and hake the cheese-cakes from thirteen to fifteen minutes. Grated cocoa-nut, 6 ozs.; sugar, 6 ozs.; the milk of the nut, or of water, 2 large tablespoonsful: g to 1 hour. Eggs, 5; lemon-rind, g of 1 : 13 to 15 minutes. Obs.—We have found the cheese-cakes made with these pro- portions very excellent indeed, but should the mixture be con- sidered too sweet, another egg or two can be added, and a little brandy also. LEMON CHEESE-CAKES.' (ENTREMETS.) ( Christ- Church- College Receipt.) Rasp the rind of a large lemon with four ounces of fine sugar, then crush, and mix it with the yolks of three eggs, and half the quantity of whites, well whisked; beat these together tho- roughly ; add to them four tablespoonsful of cream, a quarter of a pound of oiled butter, the strained juice of the lemon,— which must be stirred quickly in by degrees,—and a little orange-flower brandy. Line some pattypans with thin puff- paste, half fill them with the mixture, and bake them thirty minutes in a moderate oven. Sugar, 4 ozs.; rind and juice, 1 large lemon; butter, 4 ozs.; cream, ,4 tablespoonsful; orange-flower brandy, 1 tablespoonful: bake | hour. COMMON LEMON TARTLETS. Beat four eggs until they are exceedingly light, add to them gradually four ounces of pounded sugar, and whisk these to- gether for five minutes; strew lightly in, if it be at hand, a dessertspoonful of potato-flour, if not, of common flour well * This, as we have elsewhere stated, is best secured by boring the shell before it is broken.