[CIIAP. IS. 20 G MODEllN COOKERY. BOILED BREAST OP VEAL. Let both the veal and the sweetbread be washed with exceed- ing nicety, cover them with cold water, clear off the scum as it rises, throw in a little salt, add a bunch of parsley, a large blade of mace, and twenty white peppercorns; simmer the meat from an hour to an hour and a quarter, and serve it covered with rich onion sauce. Send it to table very hot. The sweetbread may be taken up when half done, and curried, or made into cutlets, or stewed in brown gravy. When onions are objected to, sub- stitute white sauce and a cheek of bacon for them, or parsley and butter, if preferred to it. 1 to 1£ hour. TO ROAST A BREAST OP VEAL. Let the caul remain skewered over the joint till within half an hour of its being ready for table; place it at a moderate dis- tance from a brisk fire, baste it constantly, and in about an hour and a half remove the caul, flour the joint, and let it brown. Dish and pour melted butter over it, and serve it with a cut lemon, and any other of the usual accompaniments to veal. It may be garnished with fried balls of the forcemeat (No. 1, Chapter VI.), about the size of a walnut. 2 to 2£ hours. nuMm Shoulder of Veal or Mutton, boned and rolled. TO BONE A SHOULDER OF VEAL, MUTTON, OR LAMB. Spread a clean cloth upon a table or dresser, and lay the joint flat upon it, with the skin downwards; with a sharp knife cut off the flesh from the inner side, nearly down to the blade bone, of which detach the edges first, then work the knife under it, keeping it always close to the hone, and using all possible precaution not to pierce the outer skin; when it is in every part separated from the flesh, loosen it from the socket with the point of the knife, and remove it; or, without dividing the two bones, cut round the joint until it is freed entirely from the meat, and proceed to detach the second bone. That of the knuckle is tfequently left in, but for some dishes it is necessary to take it out; in doing this, be careful not to tear the skin. A most excellent grill may be made by leaving sufficient meat for it upon the bones of a shoulder of mutton, when they are removed Irom the joint: it will be found very superior to the broiled