APPENDIX. 584 we had it tried in the first instance for a person in delicate health, to whom it proved extremely palatable. The juice of gooseberries, or of spring fruit, may be substituted for this on occasion; and we would recommend that of white currants, mixed with a few strawberries, as likely to prove much more agreeable than either. Carolina rice, 7 ozs.; prepared apple-juice, 1 quart; sugar, 6 ozs.; lemon-juice, 1 tablespoonful: boiled till very thick and dry. Or: sago, 4 ozs.; apple-juice, 1J pint; rind and juice, 1 lemon; sugar, 4 ozs.: 15 to 20 minutes, or longer if not very thick. TO DRESS CARP. (A common country receipt.') Scale and clean the fish with exceeding care, lay them into a stewpan, and cover them with good cold beef or veal broth; add one small onion stuck with a few cloves, a faggot of savoury herbs, three or four slices of carrot, and a little salt, and stew the carp as gently as possible for nearly or quite an hour. Have ready some good brown gravy, mixed with a couple of glassesful of port wine, add a squeeze of lemon-juice, dish the carp very carefully, pour the sauce over, and serve them immediately. We would recommend the Genevese Sauce, of page 108, as superior to any other for this dish. MOULDED POTTED MEAT. (For the second course.) Press very closely and smoothly into a pan or mould the potted ham, or any other meat, of Chapter XIV., pour a thin layer of clarified butter on the top, and let it become quite cold. When wanted for table, wind round it for a moment a cloth which has been dipped into hot water, loosen the meat gently from it with a thin knife, turn it on to a dish, and glaze it lightly; lay a border of small salad round it, with or without a decoration of hard eggs, or surround it instead with clear savoury jelly cut in dice. The meat, for variety, may he equally sliced, and laid regularly round a pile of small salad. A very elegant second course dish may be made with potted lobsters in this way, the centre being ornamented with a small shape of lobster butter. (See page 298.)