330 MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XV. must endeavour, by attention, to learn the time required for it. After it is lifted out, the thickest part may be pressed with the fingers, to which it will yield, if it be sufficiently boiled. TO BAKE BEET ROOT. Beet root, if slowly and carefully baked until it is tender quite through, is very rich and sweet in flavour, although less bright in colour than when it is boiled: it is also, we believe, remark- ably nutritious and wholesome. Wash and wipe it very dry, but neither cut nor break any part of it; then lay it into a coarse dish, and bake it in a gentle oven for four or five hours: it will sometimes require even a longer time than this. Pare it quickly if to be served hot; but leave it to cool first, when it is to be sent to table cold. The white beet root is dressed exactly like the red: the leaves of it are boiled and served like asparagus. In slow oven from 4 to 6 hours. STEWED BEET ROOT. Bake or boil it tolerably tender, and let it remain until it is cold, then pare and cut it into slices; heat and stew it for a short time in some good pale veal gravy (or in strong veal broth for ordinary occasions), thicken this with a teaspoonful of arrow- root, and half a cupful or more of good cream, and stir in, as it is taken from the fire, from a tea to a table spoonful of Chili vine- gar. The beet root may be served likewise in thick white sauce, to which, just before it is dished, the mild eschalots of page 164 may be added. TO STEW RED CABBAGE. (Flemish Receipt.') Strip the outer leaves from a fine and fresh red cabbage; wash it well, and cut it into the thinnest possible slices, beginning at the top; put it into a thick saucepan in which two or three ounces of good butter have been just dissolved; add some pepper and salt, and stew it very slowly indeed for three or four hours in its own juice, keeping it often stirred, and well pressed down. When it is perfectly tender add a tablespoonful of vinegar; mix the whole up thoroughly, heap the cabbage in a hot dish, and serve broiled sausages round it; or omit these last, and substitute lemon-juice, cayenne pepper, and a half-cupful of good gravy. The stalk of the cabbage should be split in quarters and taken entirely out in the first instance. 3 to 4 hours.