584c APPENDIX. ragon, or common vinegar, and one of water, with a little salt. To keep this smooth, proceed as for the Norfolk sauce of page 99. We think this receipt might he applied with very good effect to some other kinds of fish, and to dressed meat also. We have found it answer agreeably even for cold shin of beef, which had been stewed in good gravy, and lifted from it while hot. POTTED LOBSTERS. (ENTREMETS.) Split the bodies and break the claws of some perfectly fresh lobsters, clear the flesh from all tough skin and shell, cut it quickly with a very sharp knife, and pound it, with all the in- side coral, to the smoothest paste, adding about an ounce and a half of butter, for each lobster of moderate size, and a seasoning of fine mace, nutmeg, cayenne, and salt. When there is no coral, colour may be given to the mixture by stewing gently the reel skin of the tails in part of the butter for about ten minutes, and adding it to the flesh, after it has been strained, and has become cold.* When flavour is preferred to good appearance, the soft part of the bodies may be beaten to the mixture. For precise directions for potting fish and meat, see Chapter XIY.; and for an elegant mode of serving this preparation en solade, see page 584. We recommend the addition of a few very fresh shrimps to the lobster here, as a great improvement to the receipt. The proportion of butter can be increased at pleasure. LOBSTER CUTLETS. (A SUPERIOR ENTREE). Prepare and pound with exceeding nicety, by the receipt which precedes this, about three quarters of a pound of the flesh of a couple of fine fresh lobsters, of which one must be a hen lobster ; add to it, when it is partially beaten, an ounce and a half of sweet new butter, a saltspoonful of salt, and about two- thirds as much of mixed mace and cayenne, with a dessertspoonful of the inside coral (the whole of which should be rubbed with a wooden spoon through a hair sieve, to be in readiness for use). When all these ingredients are well blended, and beaten to the finest and smoothest paste, the mixture should be tested by the taste, and the seasoning heightened if needful; but, as the pre- * By pounding separately part of the white flesh of the fish, freed from every particle of the skin, and by colouring the remainder highly with the coral of the lobster, and then pressing the two in alternate and regular layers into a mould, a dish of pretty appearance is produced, which should be turned out of the mould for table. Ham and turkey, or any other white meat, are often potted in this way.