APPENDIX. 568 a layer of apricot jam; on this pour some thick boiled custard, or the pastry cream of page 361. Whisk the whites of a couple of eggs to a solid froth, mix a couple of tablespoonsful of sifted sugar with them, lay this icing lightly over the tartlets, and hake them in a gentle oven from twenty to thirty minutes, unless they should be very small, when less time must be allowed for them. NORFOLK CHEESE CAKES. Beat well together until they are perfectly smooth, three quarters of a pound of cheese curd and five ounces of butter; add to them two ounces of almonds, of which five or six should be bitter ones, four ounces of sifted sugar, four eggs, leaving out two of the whites, three spoonsful of cream, two of brandy, a little mace or nutmeg, and if candied peel and currants are considered an improvement, one ounce and a half of the first, and three of the latter. Bake the cheese-cakes, in pattypans lined with paste, for twenty minutes: the curd may be passed through a sieve before it is used. Curd, f lb.; butter, 5 ozs.; sugar, 4 ozs.; almonds, 2 ozs.; eggs, 4 yolks, 2 whites; cream, 3 tablespoonsful; brandy, 2 ; little mace or nutmeg; currants (if added), 3 ozs.; candied orange or lemon-rind, 1^ oz.: 20 minutes. STORE MIXTURE FOR LEMON TARTLETS, Which will remain good for a year or two. Put into a very clean stewpan or saucepan a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a pound of good sugar, beaten to powder, the yolks of six eggs, and the whites of four, whisked and strained, the grated rinds of two large lemons, and the strained juice of three; and keep the whole stirred over a gentle fire until it is as thick as good cream. When it is quite cold, pour it into small jars or pans, and tie paper over it. When required for table, put it into pattypans lined with thin puff-paste, and bake the cheesecakes from fifteen to eighteen minutes. This is a very convenient store, especially quite in the country, where it is sometimes difficult to obtain the fresh fruit. The proportions may be varied so that the lemon shall predominate more or less, according to the taste; and the rinds may be rasped on part of the sugar before it is pounded; or they may be boiled tender, and beaten to a paste previously to being mixed with the other ingredients: but the receipt, as we have given it, is exceedingly good.