CHAP. XXVI.] 551 SYRUPS, LIQUEURS, &C. CU1RASSEAU, OR CURAQOA. (An excellent and wholesome liqueur.') Stick into the rind of a very fine China orange of rich flavour from three to four cloves; put it into a glass jar, and shower over it half a pound of West Indian sugar, of good quality; pour in a quart of French brandy, tie a couple of bladders over the jar, or stop it with a cork fitted to its size, and place it in a sunny window, or any other warm place, for a month; shake it gently round every day to dissolve the sugar, or stir it, if need- ful ; then strain it off, and bottle it. It is sometimes filtered; but the long exposure to the air which this occasions is better avoided. It is an admirable household stomachic liqueur, of which we obtained the receipt abroad, from a friend who had it made yearly in considerable quantity. One very fine richly-flavoured China orange, left whole (or 2 small ones), stuck with 3 or 4 cloves; good pale brown sugar, l lb.; French brandy, 1 quart: infuse, 1 month. THE regent’s, OR GEORGE THE FOURTH’S, PUNCH. Pare as thin as possible the rinds of two China oranges, of two lemons, and of one Seville orange, and infuse them for an hour in half a pint of thin cold syrup; then add to them the juice of the fruit. Make a pint of strong green tea, sweeten it well with fine sugar, and when it is quite cold, add it to the fruit and syrup, with a glass of the best old Jamaica rum, a glass of brandy, one of arrack, one of pine-apple syrup, and two bottles of cham- pagne ; pass the whole through a fine lawn sieve until it is per- fectly clear, then bottle, and put it into ice until dinner is served. We are indebted for this receipt to a person who made the punch daily for the prince’s table, at Carlton palace, for six months; it has been in our possession some years, and may be relied on. Rinds and juice of 2 China oranges, 2 lemons, and of 1 Seville orange; syrup, \ pint; strong green tea, sweetened, 1 pint; best old Jamaica rum, arrack, French brandy (vieux cognac), and pine-apple syrup, each 1 giassiiil; champagne, 2 bottles. In ice for a couple of hours. THE OLD bachelor’s PUNCH. Put into a half-pint tumbler the very thin rind of a fresh lemon, and fill it with boiling water; squeeze the juice into a second glass of the same size, and fill it more than half full