MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. V. 134 of ginger, and two large blades of mace, and let it boil fast for twenty minutes longer. When perfectly cold, put it into bot- tles, cork them well, and dip the necks into melted rosin. Mushrooms, 1 peck; salt, f lb. Liquor to boil, 15 minutes. To each quart, | oz. black pepper; | oz. allspice ; \ oz. ginger ; 2 blades mace: 20 minutes. DOUBLE MUSHROOM CATSUP. On a gallon of fresh mushrooms strew three ounces of salt, and pour to them a quart of ready-made catsup (that which is a year old will .do if it be perfectly good) ; keep these stirred occasionally for four days, then drain the liquor very dry from the mushrooms, and boil it for fifteen minutes, with an ounce of whole black pepper, a drachm and a half of mace, an ounce of ginger, and three or four grains only of cayenne. Mushrooms, 1 gallon; salt, 3 ozs.; mushroom catsup, 1 quart; peppercorns, 1 oz.; mace, 1 \ drachm; ginger, 1 oz.; cayenne, 3 to 4 grains: 15 minutes. COMPOUND, OR cook’s CATSUP. Take a pint and a half of mushroom catsup when it is first made, and ready boiled (the double is best for the purpose), simmer in it for five minutes, an ounce of small eschalots nicely peeled; add to these half a pint of walnut catsup, and a wine- glassful of cayenne vinegar,* or of Chili vinegar; give the whole one boil, pour it out, and when cold, bottle it with the eschalots. Mushroom catsup, 1| pint; eschalots, 1 oz.; walnut catsup or pickle, \ pint; cayenne or Chili vinegar, 1 wineglassful. WALNUT CATSUP. The vinegar in which walnuts have been pickled, when they have remained in it a year, will generally answer all the purposes for which this catsup is required, particularly if it he drained from them and boiled for a few minutes, with a little additional spice, and a few eschalots; but where the vinegar is objected to, it may be made either by boiling the expressed juice of young walnuts for an hour, with six ounces of fine anchovies, four ounces of eschalots, half an ounce of black pepper, a quarter- ounce of cloves, and a drachm of mace, to every quart; or as follows:— Pound in a mortar a hundred young walnuts, strewing * We have alwavs had the cayenne-vinegar used in this receipt, but the Chili would, without doubt, answer as well, or better.