CAKES, CHAP. XXIII.]] 515 of them is obtained by gently browning the almonds in a slow oven before they are pounded. Jordan almonds blanched, 1 lb.; sugar, l^lb.; whites of 7 or 8 eggs: 15 to 20 minutes. VERY FINE COCOA-NUT MACAROONS. Rasp a fresh cocoa-nut, spread it on a dish or tin, and let it dry gradually for a couple of days, if it can be done conve- niently; add to it double its weight of fine sifted sugar, and the whites of eight eggs beaten to a solid froth (see page 514), to the pound. Roll the mixture into small balls, place them on a buttered tin, and bake them in a very gentle oven about twenty minutes. Move them from the tin while they are warm, and store them in a very dry canister as soon as they are cold. Cocoa-nut, l lb.; sugar, 1 lb.; whites of eggs, 8 : very gentle oven, 20 minutes. IMPERIALS. (NOT VERY RICH.) Work into a pound of flour six ounces of butter, and mix well with them half a pound of sifted sugar, six ounces of currants, two oimces of candied orange-peel, the grated rind of a lemon, and four well-beaten eggs. Flour a tin lightly, and with a couple of forks place the paste upon it in small rough heaps quite two inches apart. Bake them in a very gentle oven, from a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes, or until they are equally coloured to a pale brown. Flour, 1 lb.; butter, 6 ozs.; sugar, 8 ozs.; currants, 6 ozs.; candied peel, 2 ozs.; rhid of 1 lemon; eggs, 4: 15 to 20 minutes. VERY GOOD SMALL RICH CAKES. Beat and mix well together four eggs properly whisked, and half a pound of fine sifted sugar; pour to them by degrees a quarter-pound of clarified butter, as little warmed as possible; stir lightly in with these four ounces of dry sifted flour, beat the mixture for about ten minutes, put it into small buttered patty- pans, and bake the cakes a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven. They should be flavoured with the rasped or grated rind of a small lemon, or with pounded mace or cinnamon. Eggs, 4; sugar, i lb.; butter, 4 ozs.; flour, 4 ozs.; lemon- rind, mace, or cinnamon : baked, 15 minutes. ALMOND ROCHER. Chop together very fine eight ounces of almonds, blanched, and dried, six of candied orange-rind, or of orange and lemon