[[CHAP. XVI. 350 MODERN COOKERY. stew the beards of the fish with a strip or two of lemon-peel, in a little good veal stock for a quarter of an hour, then to strain and add it to the sauce. The oysters, unless very small, should be once or twice divided. GOOD CHICKEN PATTIES. (ENTREE.) Raise the white flesh entirely from a young undressed fowl, divide it once or twice, and lay it into a small clean saucepan, in which about an ounce of butter has been dissolved, and just begins to simmer; strew in a slight seasoning of salt, mace, and cayenne, and stew the chicken very softly indeed for about ten minutes, taking every precaution against its browning: turn it into a dish with the butter,* and its own gravy, and let it become cold. Mince it with a sharp knife; heat it, without allowing it to boil, in a little good white sauce (which may be made of some of the bones of the fowl), and fill ready-baked patty-crusts, or small vol-au-vents with it, just before they are sent to table; or stew the flesh only just sufficiently to render it firm, mix it after it is minced and seasoned with a spoonful or two of strong gravy, fill the patties, and bake them from fifteen to eighteen minutes. It is a great improvement to stew and mince a few mushrooms with the chicken. The breasts of cold turkeys, fowls, partridges, or pheasants, or the white part of cold veal, minced, heated in a bechamel sauce, will serve at once for patties: they may also be made of cold game, heated in an Espagnole, or in a good brown gravy. PATTIES A LA PONTIFE. (ENTREE.) (A fast day, or Maigre dish.) Mince, but not very small, the yolks of six fresh hard boiled eggs; mince also and mix with them a couple of fine truffles,* a large saltspoonful of salt, half the quantity of mace and nut- meg, and a fourth as much of cayenne. Moisten these ingredients with a spoonful of thick cream, or bechamel maigre (see page 98), or with a dessertspoonful of clarified butter; line the patty- moulds, fill them with the mixture, cover, and bake them from twelve to fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. They are excel- lent made with the cream-crust of page 337. Yolks hard-boiled eggs, 6; truffles, 2 large; seasoning of salt, mace, nutmeg, and cayenne; cream, or bechamel maigre, 1 tablespoonful, or clarified butter, 1 dessertspoonful : baked moderate oven, 12 to 15 minutes. * The bottled ones will answer well for these.