SOUPS. CHAP. I.] 35 then brown lightly in it a young rabbit, or the prime joints of two, or a fowl cut down small, and floured. When the meat is sufficiently browned, lay it upon the onions, pour gradually to them a quart of good boiling stock, and stew it gently from three quarters of an hour to an hour; then take it out, and press the stock and onions through a fine sieve or strainer. Add to them two pints and a half more of stock, pour the whole into a clean pan, and when it boils stir to it two heaped table- spoonsful of currie-powder mixed with nearly as much of browned flour, and a little cold water or broth; put in the meat, and simmer it for twenty minutes or longer should it not be perfectly tender, add the juice of a small lemon just before it is dished, serve it very hot, and send boiled rice to table with it. Part of a pickled mango is sometimes stewed in this soup, and is much recommended by persons who have been long resident in India. We have given here the sort of receipt commonly used in England for mullagatawny, but a much finer soup may be made by departing from it in some respects. The onions, of which the proportion may be increased or diminished to the taste, after being fried slowly, and with care, that no part should be overdone, may be stewed for an hour in the first quart of stock with three or four ounces of grated cocoa-nut, which will impart a rich mellow flavour to the whole. After all of this that can be rubbed through the sieve has been added to as much stock as will be required for the soup, and the currie- powder and thickening have boiled in it for twenty minutes, the flesh of part of a calf’s head previously stewed almost suffi- ciently, and cut as for mock turtle, with a sweetbread also stewed or boiled in broth tolerably tender, and divided into inch-squares, will make an admirable mullagatawny, if sim- mered in the stock until they have taken the flavour of the currie-seasoning. The flesh of a couple of calves’ feet, with a sweetbread or two, may, when more convenient, be substituted for the head. A large cupful of thick cream, first mixed and boiled with a teaspoonful of flour or arrow-root to prevent its curdling, and stirred into the soup before the lemon-juice, will enrich and improve it much. Rabbit, 1, or the best joints of 2, or fowl, 1; large onions, 4 to 6; stock, 1 quart: f to 1 hour. 2^ pints more of stock; currie-powder, 2 heaped tablespoonsful, with 2 of browned flour; meat and all simmered together 20 minutes or more; juice of lemon, 1 small; or part of pickled mango stewed in the soup. Or,—onions, 3 to 6 ; cocoa-nut, 3 to 4 ozs.; stock, 1 quart: