fCHAP. XXIII. 516 MODERN COOKERY. rind mixed, and one ounce of citron; then add to them two ounces of flour, three quarters of a pound of sugar, a small teaspoonful of mace and cinnamon mixed, and the whites of three large eggs; roll the mixture into halls about the size of a large marble and bake them on wafer-paper twenty minutes in a moderate oven: they should be quite crisp, but not deeply coloured. Almonds, 8 ozs.; candied orange-rind, 6 ozs.; citron, 1 oz.; flour, 2 ozs.; sugar, f lb.; mace and cinnamon mixed, 1 tea- spoonful; whites of eggs, 3 large: baked, moderate oven, 20 minutes. Obs.—When the flavour is not disliked, it will be found an improvement to substitute an ounce of bitter almonds for one of the sweet; and we prefer the whole of the almonds and candied peel also cut into spikes instead of being chopped: the ingre- dients must then be made into a lither paste, and placed in small heaps on the paper. BITTER-ALMOND BISCUITS. Blanch, and then chop as fine as possible, two ounces of bit- ter almonds, and add them to half a pound of flour, half a pound of sifted sugar, and two ounces of butter, previously well mixed together. Whisk the whites of a couple of eggs to a strong froth, beat them lightly to the other ingredients, drop the cakes on a buttered tin, or copper oven-leaf, and bake them rather slowly from ten to twelve minutes : they should be very small. Should the proportion of bitter almonds be considered unhealth- ful, use half as many, and substitute sweet ones for the re- mainder. Flour, i lb.; sugar, \ lb.; butter, 2 ozs.; bitter almonds, 2 ozs.; whites of eggs, 2 : slow oven, 10 to 12 minutes. FINE ALMOND CAKE. Blanch, dry, and pound to the finest possible paste, eight ounces of fresh Jordan almonds, and one ounce of bitter; moisten them with a few drops of cold water or white of egg, to prevent their oiling; then mix with them very gradually twelve fresh eggs which have been whisked until they are exceedingly light; throw in by degrees one pound of fine, dry, sifted sugar, and keep the mixture light by constant beating, with a large wooden spoon, as the separate ingredients are added. Mix in by degrees three quarters of a pound of dried and sifted flour of the best quality; then pour gently from the sediment a pound of butter which has been just melted, but not allowed to become