518 fCHAP. XXIII. MODERN COOKERY, flour strewed in by degrees, and last of all a pound and a quarter of currants. Directly it is mixed send the cake to a well-heated oven, and bake it for a couple of hours. Four ounces of pounded almonds are sometimes added to it. Butter, 5 lb.; sugar, £ lb. ,• eggs, 8; mace, ! teaspoonful, brandy, 1 wineglassful; flour, 1 lb.; candied-peel, 2 ozs.; cur- rants, l|lb.: 2 hours. A GOOD SPONGE CAKE. Hasp on some lumps of well-refined sugar the rind of a fine sound lemon, and scrape off the part which has imbibed the es- sence, or crush the lumps to powder, and add them to as much more as will make up the weight of eight or ten fresh eggs in the shell; break these one by one, and separate the whites from the yolks; beat the latter in a large bowl for ten minutes, then strew in the sugar gradually, and beat them well together. In the mean time let the whites be whisked to a quite solid froth, add them to the yolks, and when they are well blended sift and stir the flour gently to them, but do not beat it into the mixture; pour the cake into a well-buttered mould, and bake it an hour and a quarter in a moderate oven. Rasped rind, 1 large lemon ; fresh eggs, 8 or 10; their weight of dry, sifted sugar; and half their weight of flour: baked, 1£ hour, moderate oven. A SMALLER SPONGE CAKE. ( Very good.) Five full-sized eggs, the weight of four in sugar, and of nearly three in flour, will make an exceedingly good cake: it may be flavoured, like the preceding one, with lemon-rind, or with bitter almonds, vanilla, or confected orange-blossoms re- duced to powder. An hour will bake it thoroughly. All the ingredients for sponge cakes should be of good quality, and the sugar and flour should be dry; they should also be passed through a fine sieve kept expressly for such purposes. The excellence of the whole depends much on the manner in which the eggs are whisked; this should be done as lightly as possible; but it is a mistake to suppose that they cannot be too long beaten, as after they are brought to a state of perfect firmness they are injured by a continuation of the whisking, and will at times curdle, and render a cake heavy from this cause.