583 APPENDIX. quite pale. Before it is sent to table, fill the four divisions of each fantaisie with preserve of a different colour. For ex- ample : one ring with apple or strawberry jelly, another with apricot jam, a third with peach or green-gage, and a fourth with raspberry jelly. The crusts may be iced, and ornamented in various ways before they are baked. They are prettiest when formed of white almond-paste, with pink or pale green rings: they may then be filled, at the instant of serving, with well- drained whipped cream. AN ADMIRABLE COOL CUP. Weigh six ounces of sugar in lumps, and extract the essence from the rind of a large fresh lemon by rubbing them upon it; then put them into a deep jug, and add the strained juice of one lemon and a half. When the sugar is dissolved, pour in a bottle of good cider, and three large wineglassesful of sherry; add nearly half a small nutmeg lightly grated, and serve the cup with or without some sprigs of fresh balm or borage in it. Brandy is sometimes added to it, but is, we think, no improve- ment. If closely covered down, and placed in ice for a short time, it will be more agreeable as a summer beverage. MOULDED RICE, OR SAGO, AND APPLE JUICE. Free seven ounces of Carolina rice from the unhusked or discoloured grains, and wipe it well in a soft cloth; pour to it a quart of cold prepared apple-juice (see page 427), and place it over a gentle fire: stir it often before it begins to boil, or it will gather into hard lumps. When it has stewed softly until it is tolerably tender, add to it six ounces of pounded sugar, and a tablespoonful of lemon-juice, and stir it constantly until it is very thick and dry; then press it into a mould which has been laid into water, and in twelve hours it may be turned out, and served either quite plain or with a rich syrup of apple-juice well flavoured with lemon; or it may be stuck with almond- spikes, and covered with a good boiled custard. For invalids, to whom it is peculiarly adapted, it is better without any accompaniment. After having well washed, and then drained the water from, eight ounces of sago, pour to it a pint and a half of apple juice, and proceed exactly as above; add four ounces of sugar, with the strained juice and grated rind of a lemon, and boil the mixture from fifteen to twenty minutes. In Sweden, and other countries, sago is boiled thick in the juice of cranberries, but of this preparation we have no expe- rience. It is very agreeable with the apple-juice, with which