282 [[CHAP. XIII. MODERN COOKERY. always from its neighbourhood, rendering it an undesirable occupant of a preserve. It was at one time, however, plentiful in Suffolk,* and in one or two of the adjoining counties, hut great efforts, we have understood, have been made to exterminate it. TO ROAST BLACK COCK AND GRAY HEN. These birds, so delicious when well kept and well roasted, are tough and comparatively flavourless when too soon dressed. They should hang therefore till they give unequivocal indica- tion of being ready for the spit. Pick and draw them with ex- ceeding care, as the skin is easily broken; truss them like pheasants, lay them at a moderate distance from a clear brisk fire, baste them plentifully and constantly with butter, and serve them on a thick toast which has been laid under them in the dripping-pan for the last ten minutes of their roasting, and which will have imbibed a high degree of savour: some cooks squeeze a little lemon-juice over it before it is put into the pan. Send rich brown gravy and bread sauce to table with the birds. From three quarters of an hour to a full hour will roast them. Though kept to the point which we have recommended, they will not offend even the most fastidious eater after they are dressed, as, unless they have been too long allowed to hang, the action of the fire will remove all percep- tible traces of their previous state. In the earlier part of the season, when warm and close packing have rendered them, in their transit from the North, apparently altogether unfit for table, the chloride of soda may be used with great advantage to restore them to a fitting state for it; though the copious wash- ings which must then be resorted to may diminish something of their fine flavour. f to 1 hour. TO ROAST GROUSE. Handle the birds very lightly in picking them, draw, and wipe the insides with clean damp cloths, or first wash, and then dry them well; though this latter mode would not be approved generally by epicures. Truss the birds in the same manner as the black cock, and roast them about half an hour at a clear and brisk fire, keeping them basted almost without inter- mission. Serve them on a buttered toast which has been laid under them in the pan for ten minutes, or with gravy and bread sauce only. \ hour to 35 minutes. • Brought there by the late Marquis of Hertford, to his Sudbourne estate.