TRUSSING. XXXV from them in every part, the legs are thrust entirely into the body by means of a slight incision made in the skin just above the first joint on the underside, the feet then appear almost as if growing out of the sides of the breast: the effect of this is not pleasing. TO TRUSS A TURKEY, FOWL, PHEASANT, OR PARTRIDGE FOR ROASTING. First draw the skin of the neck down over the back, and secure it from slipping up; then thread a trussing needle of convenient size,* for the occasion, with packthread or small twine (the former, from being the most flexible, is best); pass it through the pinion of the bird, then through the thick part of the thigh, ■which must be brought up close under the wing, and in a straight line quite through the body, and through the leg and pinion on the other side; draw them close, and bring the needle back, passing it through the thick part of the leg, and through the second joint of the pinion, should it be left on the bird; tie it quite tight; and then to secure the legs, pierce the sidebone and carry the twine over the legs, then pass the needle through the other sidebone, and tie them close down. If skewers be used they should be driven through the pinions and the legs, and a twine passed across the back of the bird, and caught over the points of it, and then tied in the centre of the back : this is only needful when the trussing is not firm. When the head is left on a bird, it may still be trussed in the same way, and the head brought round, as shown here, and kept in place by a skewer passed through it, and run through the body. Should the bird be trussed entirely with skewers, the point of one is brought from the other side, through the pinions and the thighs, and the head is fixed upon it. The legs are then pressed as much as possible under the breast, between it and the side-bones, where they are lettered a h. The partridge in the engraving is shown with the skewers just withdrawn after being roasted. Hares, after being filled with forcemeat, and sewn or securely fastened up with skewers, are brought into proper roasting form * These may be had, of various sizes, at any good ironmonger’s. c 2