339 CHAP. XVI.] PASTRY. short crust; but for a very rich one the proportion must be in- creased. Good short crust: flour, 1 lb.; suet, 8 ozs.; butter, 2 ozs.; salt, i teaspoonful. Richer crust: suet, 16 ozs.; butter, 4 ozs.; flour, 1| lb.; salt, 1 small teaspoonful. VERY RICH SHORT CRUST FOR TARTS. Break lightly, with the least possible handling, six ounces of butter into eight of flour; add a dessertspoonful of pounded sugar, and two or three of water; roll the paste, for several minutes, to blend the ingredients well, folding it together like puff-crust, and touch it as little as possible. Flour, 8 ozs.; butter, 6 ozs.; pounded sugar, 1 dessertspoon- ful ; water, 1 to 2 spoonsful. BRIOCHE PASTE. The brioche is a rich, light kind of unsweetened bun, or cake, very commonly sold, and served to all classes of people in France, where it is made in great perfection by good cooks and pastrycooks. It is fashionable now at English tables, though in a different form, serving principally as a crust to enclose rissoles, or to make cannelons and fritters. We have seen it recom- mended for a vol-au-vent, for which we should say it does not answer by any means so well as the fine puff-paste called feuilletage. The large proportion of butter and eggs which it contains render it to many persons highly indigestible; and we mention this to warn invalids against it, as we have known it to Cause great suffering to persons out of health. To make it, take a couple of pounds* of fine dry flour, sifted as for cakes, and separate eight ounces of this from the remainder to make the leaven. Put it into a small pan, and mix it lightly into a lithe paste, with half an ounce of yeast, and a spoonful or two of warm water; make two or three slight incisions across the top, throw a cloth over the pan, and place it near the fire for about twenty minutes, to rise. In the interval make a hollow space in the centre of the remainder of the flour, and put into it half an ounce of salt, as much fine sifted sugar, and half a gill of cream, or a dessertspoonful of water; add a pound of butter, as free from moisture as it can be, and quite so from large * It should be remarked, that the directions for brioche-making are principally- derived from the French, and that the pound in their country weighs two ounces more than with us: this difference will account for the difficulty of working in the number of eggs which they generally specify, and which render the paste too moist.