CHAP. XX.] SWEET DISHES. 461 a pint of water, and from five to six ounces of sugar must then be allowed for them. If any of those used for the marmalade should not be quite ripe, it will be better to pass it through a sieve, when partially done, to prevent its being lumpy. Large ripe peaches, pared and halved, 4: simmered in syrup, 5 to 8 minutes. Marmalade : peaches (or nonsuches), 2 lbs.; sugar, 5 to | lb.: | to 1 hour, and more. Strained lemon-juice, 1 tablespoonful. Citron, or macaroons, as needed. Peaches, if boiled whole in syrup, 15 to 18 minutes. Obs.—The number of peaches can, at pleasure, be increased to six, and three or four of the halves can be piled above the others in the centre of the dish. AROCE DOCE (OR SWEET RICE, A EA PORTUGAISe). Wipe thoroughly, in a dry soft cloth, half a pound of the best Carolina rice, after it has been carefully picked ; put to it three pints of new milk, and when it has stewed gently for half an hour, add eight ounces of sugar, broken into small lumps; let it boil until it is dry and tender, and when it is nearly so, stir to it two ounces of blanched and pounded almonds. Turn the rice, when done, into shallow dishes, or soup-plates, and shake it until the surface is smooth; then sift over it, rather thickly, through a muslin, some freshly-powdered cinnamon, which will give it the appearance of a baked pudding. Serve it cold. It will remain good for several days. This is quite the best sweet preparation of rice that we have ever eaten, and it is a very favourite dish in Portugal, whence the receipt was derived. One or two bitter almonds, pounded with the sweet ones, might a little improve its flavour, and a few spoonsful of rich cream could occasionally be substituted for a small portion of the milk, but it should not be added until the preparation is three parts done. Rice, 8 ozs.; milk, 3 pints: 30 minutes. Sugar, 8 ozs.: 1 hour, or more. Pounded almonds, 2 ozs.; cinnamon, 1 tea- spconful. Obs.—The rice must be frequently stirred while boiling, par- ticularly after it begins to thicken ; and it will be better not to add the entire quantity of milk at first, as from a quarter to half a pint less will sometimes prove sufficient. The grain should be thoroughly tender, but dry and unbroken. BUTTERED CHERRIES. (CERISES AU BEURRE.) Cut four ounces of the crumb of a stale loaf into dice, and fry them a light brown in an ounce and a half of fresh butter; take them up, pour the butter from the pan, and put in another