CHAP. IV.] SAUCES. 105 in the finest powder; put in the oysters, and keep the saucepan by the side of the fire, until the whole is thoroughly hot, and begins to simmer, then turn the sauce into a well-heated tureen, and send it immediately to table. Small plump oysters, 3 dozens ; butter, 3 ozs.; flour, 1 large dessertspoonful; the oyster-liquor; milk or cream, full £ pint; little salt and cayenne. COMMON OYSTER SAUCE. Prepare and plump two dozens of oysters as directed in the receipt above; add their strained liquor to a quarter-pint of thick melted butter made with milk, or with half milk and half water; stir the whole until it boils, put in the oysters, and when they are quite heated through, send the sauce to table without delay. Some persons like a little cayenne and essence of ancho- vies added to it when it is served with fish; others prefer the unmixed flavour of the oysters. Oysters, 2 dozens; their liquor; melted butter, \ pint. (Little cayenne and 1 dessertspoonful of essence of anchovies when liked.) SHRIMP SAUCE. The fish for this sauce should be very fresh. Shell quickly one pint of shrimps, and mix them with half a pint of melted but- ter, to which a few drops of essence of anchovies, and a little mace and cayenne, have been added. As soon as the shrimps are heated through, dish, and serve the sauce, which ought not to boil after they are put in. Many persons add a few spoonsful of rich cream to all shell-fish sauces. Shrimps, 1 pint; melted butter, \ pint; essence of anchovies, 1 teaspoonful; mace, % teaspoonful; cayenne, very little. ANCHOVY SAUCE. To half a pint of good melted butter add three dessertspoonsful of essence of anchovies, a quarter-teaspoonful of mace, and a rather high seasoning of cayenne; or pound the flesh of two or three fine mellow anchovies very smooth, mix it with the boiling butter, simmer these for a minute or two, strain the sauce if needful, add the spices, give it a boil, and serve it. Melted butter, \ pint; essence of anchovies, 3 dessertspoonsful; mace, J teaspoonful; cayenne, to taste. Or, 3 large anchovies finely pounded, and the same proportions of butter and spice.