540 [CHAP. XXV. MODERN COOKERY. we believe, for this dish, instead of the white of egg; we give, however, the French method of preparing it. It will dry gradually in a warm room, or a sunny window, in the course of three or four hours. PEACH SALAD. Pare and slice half a dozen fine ripe peaches, arrange them in a dish, strew them with pounded sugar, and pour over them two or three glasses of champagne: other wine may be used, but this is best. Persons who prefer brandy can substitute it for wine. The quantity of sugar must be proportioned to the sweet- ness of the fruit. ORANGE SALAD. Take off the outer rinds, and then strip away entirely the white inside skin from some fine China oranges; slice them thin, and remove the pips as this is done; strew over them plenty of white sifted sugar, and pour on them a glass or more of brandy: when the sugar is dissolved serve the oranges. In France ripe pears of superior quality are sometimes sliced in with the oranges. Powdered sugar-candy used instead of sugar, is an improvement in this salad; and the substitution of port, sherry, or Madeira for the brandy is often considered so. The fruit may be used without being pared, and a little cuirasseau or any other liqueur may be added to the brandy; or this last, when unmixed, may be burned after it is poured on the oranges. COMPOTE OF ORANGES. (A Hebrew dish.) After having pared and stripped the white inner rind from some fine oranges, pull them into quarters, arrange them neatly in a dish, and just before they are sent to table pour over them some rich syrup, and garnish the whole tastefully with preserved citron cut in thin slices. Half a pint of syrup will be sufficient for a large number of oranges: it would be improved, we think, if the rind of one, pared very thin, were infused in it for an hour before it is used. This is one of the receipts which we have not considered it needful to prove. ORANGES WARMED. Place them in a Dutch oven at a considerable distance from the fire, and keep them constantly turned: they should be only just warmed through. Fold them in a napkin when done, and send them immediately to table. This mode of treating them is said to improve greatly the flavour of the oranges.