MODERN COOKERY. [chap. XYI. 362 portions at first, three quarters of a pint of boiling cream, or of cream and new milk mixed; then turn the whole into a clean stewpan, and stir it over a very gentle fire until it is quite thick, take it off, and stir it well up and round; replace it over the fire, and let it just simmer from six to eight minutes; pour it into a basin, and add to it immediately a couple of ounces of pounded sugar, one and a half of fresh butter, cut small, or clarified, and a spoonful of the store mixture of page 139, or a little sugar which has been rubbed on the rind of a lemon. The cream is rich enough for common use without further addition; but an ounce and a half of ratitias, crushed almost to powder with a paste roller improves it much, and they should be mixed with it for the receipt which follows. Flour, 1 oz.; yolks of eggs, 3; boiling cream, or milk and cream mixed, £ pint: just simmered, 6 to 8 minutes. Butter, l|oz.; sugar, 2 ozs.; little store-flavouring, or rasped lemon- rind ; ratifias, 1| cz. Obs.—This is an excellent preparation, which may be used for tartlets, cannelons, and other forms of pastry, with extremely good effect. SMALL VOLS-AU-VENTS, A LA HOWITT. (ENTREMETS.) Make some small vols-au-vents by the directions of page 351, either in the usual way, or with the rings of paste placed upon the rounds. Ice the edges as soon as they are taken from the oven, by sifting fine sugar thickly on them, and then holding a salamander or heated shovel over them, until it melts and forms a sort of pale barley-sugar glaze. Have ready, and quite hot, some creme patissiere, made as above; fill the vols-au-vents with it, and send them to table instantly. PALTRY SANDWICHES. Divide equally in two, and roll off square and as thin as possible, some rich puff crust ;* lay one half on a buttered tin, or copper oven-leaf, and spread it lightly with fine currant, Strawberry, or raspberry jelly; lay the remaining half closely over, pressing it a little with the rolling pin after the edges are well cemented together ; then mark it into divisions, and bake it from fifteen to twenty minutes in a moderate oven. LEMON SANDWICHES. Substitute for preserve, in the preceding receipt, the lemon cheese-cake mixture of page 361, with or without, the almonds in it. * Almond paste is sometimes substituted for this.