[CHAP. XII. 256 MODERN COOKERY. to these preparations of poultry (the last of which is called a galantine) ,* but these our own taste would lead us to reject. Rolled, 1^ to hour; galantine, 1 hour. Obs — A couple of fowls, boned and rolled, make an excel- lent pie. TO BONE FOWLS FOR FRICASSEES, CURRIES, AND PIES. First carve them entirely into joints, then remove the bones, beginning with the legs and wings, at the head of the largest bone; hold this with the fingers, and work the knife as directed in the receipt above. The remainder of the birds is too easily done to require any instructions. TO ROAST A TURKEY. In very cold weather a turkey in its feathers will hang (in an airy larder) quite a fortnight with ad- vantage ; and, however fine a quality of bird it may be, unless sufficiently long kept, it will prove not worth the Turkey trussed for Roasting. dressing, though it should always be perfectly sweet when prepared for table. Pluck, draw, and singe it with exceeding care; wash, and then dry it thoroughly with clean cloths, or merely wipe the outside well, without wetting it, and pour water plentifully through' the in- side. Fill the breast with forcemeat (No. 1, page 143), or with the finest sausage meat, highly seasoned with minced herbs, lemon-rind, mace, and cayenne. Truss the bird firmly, lay it to a clear sound fire, baste it constantly and bountifully with butter, and serve it when done with good brown gravy, and well-made bread sauce. An entire chain of delicate fried sau- sages is still often placed in the dish, round a turkey, as a garnish. It is usual to fold and fasten a sheet of buttered writing paper over the breast to prevent its being too much coloured: this should be removed twenty minutes before the bird is done. The forcemeat of chestnuts (No. 15, Chapter VI.) may be very advantageously substituted for the commoner kinds in stuffing it, and the body may then be filled with chestnuts, previously stewed until tender in rich gravy, or simmered over a slow fire in plenty of rasped bacon, with a high seasoning of mace, nutmeg, and cayenne, until they are so ; or, instead of this, well-made