223 MUTTON, CHAP. X.] should he kept at sufficient distance from the fire to prevent the possibility of the fat being burned ; and that something more of time should be allowed for the roasting. With constant basting, great care, and good management, the cook may always ensure the proper appearance of this, or of any other joint (except, perhaps, of a haunch of venison) without having recourse to papering or pasting, or even to replacing the skin; but when unremitted attention cannot be given to this one part of the dinner, it is advisable to take all precautions that can secure it from being spoiled. 2 2 to 21 hours. More if very large. TO ROAST A LEG OF MUTTON. In a cool and airy larder a leg of mutton will hang many days with advantage, if the kernel be taken out, and the flap wiped very dry when it is first brought in; and it is never tender when freshly killed: in warm weather it should be well dredged with pepper to preserve it from the flies. If washed before it is put upon the spit, it should be wiped as dry as pos- sible afterwards, and well floured soon after it is laid to the fire. When the excellence of the joint is more regarded than the ex- pense of fuel, it should be roasted by what we have denomi- nated the slow method; that is to say, it should be kept at a considerable distance from the fire, and remain at it four hours ' instead of two: it may be drawn nearer for the last twenty or thirty minutes to give it colour. The gravy will flow from it in great abundance when it is cut, and the meat will be very superior to that roasted in the usual way. When this plan is not pursued, the mutton should still be kept quite a foot from the fire until it is heated through, and never brought suffi- ciently near to scorch or to harden any part. It should be constantly basted with its own fat, for if this be neglected, all other precautions will fail to ensure a good roast; and after it is dished a little fine salt should be sprinkled lightly on it, and a spoonful or two of boiling water laded over. This is the most palatable mode of serving it, but it may be frothed when it is preferred so, though we would rather recommend that the flour should be dredged on in 'the first instance, as it then prevents the juices of the meat from escaping, and forms a savoury coat- ing to it; while the raw taste which it so often retains with mere frothing is to many eaters especially objectionable. Leg of mutton, 7 to 8 lbs.; slow method 4 hours, common method If to 2 hours.