251 PORK. CHAP. XI.] formed into cakes, which, after being well floured, are roasted in a Dutch oven. They must he watched, and often turned, that no part may he scorched. The meat may also be put into skins, and dressed in any other way. Lean of pork, 3 lbs.; fat, 2 lbs.; salt, 2£ ozs.; pepper, 1 oz.; minced sage, 3 large tablespoonsful. EXCELLENT SAUSAGES. Chop, first separately, and then together, one pound and a quarter of veal, perfectly free from fat, skin, and sinew, an equal weight of lean pork, and of the inside fat of the pig. Mix well, and strew over the meat an ounce and a quarter of salt, half an ounce of pepper, one nutmeg grated, and a large teaspoonful of pounded mace. Turn, and chop the sausages until they are equally seasoned throughout, and tolerably fine; press them into a clean pan, and keep them in a very cool place. Form them, when wanted for table, into cakes something less than an inch thick, flour and fry them then for about ten minutes in a little butter. Lean of veal and pork, of each 1 lb. 4 ozs.; fat of pork, 1 lb. 4 ozs.; salt, 1^ oz.; pepper, \ oz.; nutmeg, 1; mace, 1 large teaspoonful: fried in cakes, 10 minutes. POUNDED SAUSAGE-MEAT. ( Very good.) Take from the best end of a neck of veal, or from the fillet or loin, a couple or more pounds of flesh without any inter- mixture of fat or skin ; chop it small, and pound it thoroughly in a large mortar, with half its weight of the inside, or leaf-fat, of a pig; proportion salt and spice to it by the preceding receipt, form it into cakes, and fry it as above. BOILED SAUSAGES. In Lincolnshire, sausages are frequently boiled in the skins, and served upon a toast, as a corner dish. They should be put into boiling water, and simmered from seven to ten minutes, according to their size. SAUSAGES AND CHESTNUTS. (ENTREE.) An excellent dish. (French.) Roast, and take the husk and skin from forty fine Spanish chestnuts ; fry gently, in a morsel of butter, six small flat oval cakes of fine sausage-meat, and when they are well browned, lift them out and pour into a saucepan, which should be bright