MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. XVIII. 400 fill; yolks, 8 eggs; whites, 2; rind, 1 large lemon; brandy, large wineglassful: f hour, slow oven. Obs.—These proportions are sufficient for a pudding of larger size than those served usually at elegant tables; they will make two small ones; or two thirds of the quantity may be taken for one of moderate size. Lemon-brandy or ratifia, or a portion of each, may be used to give it flavour, with good effect; and it may be enriched, if this be desired, by adding to the other ingredients from three to four ounces of Jordan almonds, finely pounded, and by substituting cream for half of the milk. COMMON GROUND RICE PUDDING. One pint and a half of milk, three ounces and a half of rice, three of Lisbon sugar, one and a half of butter, some nutmeg, or lemon-grate, and four eggs, baked'slowly for half an hour, or more, if not quite firm. GREEN GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. Boil together, from ten to twelve minutes, a pound of green gooseberries, five ounces of sugar, and rather more than a quarter-pint of water ; then beat the fruit to a mash, and stir to it an ounce and a half of fresh butter; when nearly, or quite cold, add two ounces and a half of very fine bread-crumbs, and four well-whisked eggs. Bake the pudding half an hour. To make a finer one of the kind, work the fruit through a sieve, mix it with four or five crushed Naples biscuits, and use double the quantity of butter. Green gooseberries, 1 lb.; sugar, 5 ozs.; water, full \ pint: 10 to 12 minutes. Bread-crumbs, 2\ ozs.; eggs, 4: \ hour. Obs.—Spring fruit (rhubarb), is sometimes made into this kind of pudding, but we cannot particularly recommend it. It is infinitely better in a tart, or as a compote. FOTATO PUDDING. With a pound and a quarter of fine mealy potatoes, boiled very dry, and mashed perfectly smooth while hot, mix three ounces of butter, five and a half of sugar, five eggs, a few grains of salt, and the grated rind of a small lemon. Lour the mixture into a well-buttered dish, and bake it in a moderate oven for nearly three quarters of an hour. It should be turned out and sent to table with fine sugar sifted over it; or for variety, red currant jelly, or any other preserve may be spread on it as soon as it is dished.