218 [CHAP. IX. MODERN COOKERY. steep the liver over-night in vinegar, with a sliced onion and branches of savoury herbs laid over it; this whitens and renders it firm. As an economical mode, some small bits of the liver may be trimmed off, floured, and lightly fried with a sliced onion, and stewed down for gravy in three quarters of a pint of water which has been poured into the pan, with the addition of a few peppercorns, and a small bunch of herbs. A seasoning of salt must not be forgotten, and a little lemon pickle, or juice, would generally be considered an improvement. 1 to If hour. BLANQUETTE OF VEAL OR EAMB, WITH MUSHROOMS. (entree.) Slice very thin the white part of some cold veal, divide and trim it into scallops not larger than a shilling, and lay it into a clean saucepan or stewpan. Wipe with a bit of new flannel and a few grains of salt, from a quarter to half a pint of mush- room-buttons, and slice them into a little butter which just begins to simmer; stew them m it from twelve to fifteen minutes, without allowing them to take the slightest colour; then lift them out and lay them on the veal. Pour boiling to them a pint of sauce tournee (see page 96) ; let the blanquette remain near but not close to the fire for awhile ; bring it nearer, heat it slowly, and when it is on the point of boiling mix a spoonful or two of the sauce from it with the well beaten yolks of four fresh eggs; stir them to the remainder; add the strained juice of half a small lemon; shake the saucepan above the fire until the sauce is just set, and serve the blanquette instantly. Cold veal, f lb.; mushrooms, i to £ pint: stewed in 1 £ oz. butter, 12 to 15 minutes. Sauce tournee, or thickened veal gravy, 1 pint; yolks of eggs, 4; lemon-juice, 1 tablespoonful. Obs.—Any white meat may be served en blanquette. The mushrooms are not indispensable for it, but they are always a great improvement. White sauce substituted for the thickened veal gravy will at once convert this dish into an inexpensive fricassee. Mace, salt, and cayenne, must be added to either preparation, should it require seasoning. MINCED VEAE. When there is neither gravy nor broth at hand, the bones and trimmings of the meat must be boiled down to furnish what is required for the mince. As cold meat is very light in weight, a pound of the white part of the veal will be sufficient