126 MODERN COOKERY. [CHAP. IV. Rind h lemon; sugar, 1| oz.; water, 1 wineglassful: 15 minutes. Butter, 1 oz.; flour, large \ teaspoonful: 1 minute. Wine, 1± wineglassful; or, 1 of wine, and \ glass of brandy. PUNCH SAUCE FOR SWEET PUDDINGS. This is a favourite sauce with custard, plain bread, and plum- puddings. With two ounces of sugar and a quarter-pint of water, boil very gently the rind of half a small lemon, and somewhat less of orange-peel, from fifteen to twenty minutes ; strain out the rinds, thicken the sauce with an ounce and a half of butter and nearly a teaspoonful of flour, add a half-glass of brandy, the same of white wine, two thirds of a glass of rum, with the juice of half an orange, and rather less of lemon- juice : serve the sauce very hot, but do not allow it to boil after the spirit is stirred in. Sugar, 2 ozs.; water, i pint; lemon and orange rind : 14 to 20 minutes. Butter, 1± oz.; flour, 1 teaspoonful; brandy and white wine each \ wineglassful; rum, two thirds of glassful; orange and lemon juice. COMMON PUDDING SAUCE. Sweeten a quarter-pint of good melted butter with an ounce and a half of sugar, and add to it gradually a couple of glasses of wine; stir it until it is at the point of boiling, and serve it immediately. Lemon-grate, or nutmeg, can be added at pleasure. A DELICIOUS GERMAN PUDDING SAUCE. Dissolve in half a pint of sherry or of Madeira, from three to four ounces of fine sugar, but do not allow the wine to boil; stir it hot to the well-beaten yolks of six fresh eggs, and mill the sauce over a gentle fire until it is well thickened, and highly frothed; pour it over a plum, or any other kind of sweet boiled pudding, of which it much improves the appearance. Half the quantity will be sufficient for one of moderate size. A small machine, resembling a chocolate mill, is used in Germany for frothing this sauce; but a couple of silver forks, fastened to- gether at the handles, will serve for the purpose, on an emer- gency. We recommend the addition of a dessertspoonful of strained lemon-juice to the wine. For large pudding, sherry or Madeira, \ pint; fine sugar, 3 to 4 ozs.; yolks of eggs, 6 ; lemon-juice (if added), 1 dessert- spoonful. Obs.—The safer plan with sauces liable to curdle is to thicken