455 CHAP. XX.] SWEET DISHES. Obs.—In making lemon-creams the apple-juice may he sub- stituted very advantageously' for water, without varying the receipt in other respects. THE duke’s CUSTARD. Drain well from their juice, and then roll in dry sifted sugar, as many fine brandied Morelia cherries as will cover thickly the bottom of the dish in which this is to be sent to table; arrange them in it, and pour over them from a pint to a pint and a half of rich cold boiled custard; garnish the edge with macaroons or Naples biscuits, or pile upon the custard some solid rose-coloured whipped cream, highly flavoured with brandy. Brandied Morelia cherries, \ to whole pint; boiled custard, from 1 to 1| pint; thick cream, \ pint or more ; brandy, 1 to 2 glassesful; sugar, 2 to 3 ozs.; juice of ^ large lemon; prepared cochineal, or carmine, 20 or 40 drops. CHOCOLATE CUSTARDS. Dissolve gently by the side of the fire an ounce and a half of the best chocolate in rather more than a wineglassful of water, and then boil it until it is perfectly smooth ; mix with it a pint of milk well flavoured with lemon peel or vanilla, add two ounces of fine sugar, and when the whole boils, stir it to five well-beaten eggs that have been strained. Put the custard into a jar or jug, set it into a pan of boiling water, and stir it with- out ceasing until it is thick. Do not put it into glasses or a dish till nearly or quite cold. These, as well as all other custards, are infinitely finer when made with the yolks only of the eggs, of which the number must then be increased. Two ounces of chocolate, a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, two ounces and a half or three ounces of sugar, and eight yolks of eggs, will make very superior custards of this kind. Rasped chocolate, 1| oz.; water, 1 large wineglassful: 5 to 8 minutes. New milk, 1 pint; eggs, 5 ; sugar, 2 ozs. Or: choco- late, 2 ozs.; water, I pint; new milk, 1 pint: sugar, 2^ to 3 ozs.; cream, \ pint; yolks of eggs, 8. Obs.—Either of these may be moulded by dissolving from half to three quarters of an ounce of isinglass in the milk. The proportion of chocolate can be increased to the taste. COMMON BAKED CUSTARD. Mix a quart of new milk with eight well beaten eggs, strain the mixture through a fine sieve, and sweeten it with from five to eight ounces of sugar, according to the taste; add a small