CHAP. XVII.] BOILED PUDDINGS. 371 should be whisked to a froth and stirred into it just before it is put into the cloth. Flour, \ lb.; eggs, 4; salt, f teaspoonful; milk, 1 pint: 1 hour and 10 minutes. Obs.—Modern taste is in favour of puddings boiled in moulds, but, as we have already stated, they are seldom or ever so light as those which are tied in cloths only. Where appearance is the first consideration, we would recommend the use of the moulds, of course. ANOTHER BATTER PUDDING. Mix the yolks of three eggs smoothly with three heaped tablespoonsful of flour, thin the batter with new milk until it is of the consistency of cream, whisk the whites of eggs apart, stir them into the batter, and boil the pudding in a floured cloth or buttered basin for an hour. Before it is served, cut the top quickly into large dice, half through the pudding, pour over it a small jarful of fine currant, raspberry, or strawberry jelly, and send it to table without delay. Flour, 3 tablespoonsful; eggs, 3; salt, \ teaspoonful; milk, from \ to a whole pint: 1 hour. Obs.—For a very large pudding, double the quantity of in- gredients and the time of boiling will be required. BLACK-CAP PUDDING. Make a good light thin batter, and just before it is poured into the cloth stir to it half a pound of currants, well cleaned and dried; these will sink to the lower part of the pudding and blacken the surface. Boil it the usual time, and dish it with the dark side uppermost; send very sweet sauce to table with it. Some cooks butter a mould thickly, strew in the currants, and pour the batter on them, winch produces the same appearance as when the ingredients are tied in a cloth. BATTER FRUIT PUDDING. Butter thickly a basin which holds a pint and a half, and fill it nearly to the brim with good boiling apples pared, cored, and quartered; pour over them a batter made with four table- spoonsful of flour, two large or three small eggs, and half a pint of milk. Tie a buttered and floured cloth over the basin, which ought to be quite full, and boil the pudding for an hour and a quarter. Turn it into a hot dish when done, and strew sugar thickly over it: this, if added to the batter at first renders it heavy. Morelia cherries make a very superior pudding of this