PART II. MORBID ANATOMY.In entering on the Second Part, which constitutes the most important Division in this Volume, it may be proper to repeat the remark ah-eady expressed in the Introduction; namely, that the Observations prefixed to the Sections are not to be considered as designed to present any thing like a complete illustration of the subjects comprised in them; but merely as incidental additions, to increase the interest of some particular points. It is obvious, that the illustra- tion of the Part now before us would require nothing less than a system of Pathological Anatomy, and far exceed the limits prescribed to this work. The numerous inspections which it has fallen to the Author's lot to make, or witness, during the last ten years, have afForded opportunities of examining the greater num- ber of Pathological alterations, to which the various organs of the human body are hable, and, as he believes, have furnished him with motives for modifying or adding to the descriptions which have been given of some of them. Although this circumstance has necessarily influenced the arrangement and description of some of the Preparations beloncring to this Part, the Author has reframed from entering into details which rather belong to his Lectures on Morbid Anatomy, than to the Catalogue of the Museum.I OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION I. OF PART II. It does not appear necessary to prefix any general Remarks to this Section: but it may afford some assistance to those who have only time to take a transient and partial review of the Museum, to point out a few of the most interesting Preparations contained in the Section. As such may be mentioned, 1011 and 1012, which exhibit the Processus Dentatus so much enlarged as to have occasioned Para- lysis. A similar effect was produced by Fungoid disease of the Spine, in the patient who furnished the Preparation 1028. Several of the succeeding Preparations consist of Fractures of the Vertebrae; in all of which, where death did not almost immediately follow, disease of the Bladder was induced. 1037 is a specimen of Fungoid disease of the body of a Vertebra succeeding to accident. 1067, 1068, 1069, and 1069*, are specimens of a remarkable affection of the Bones of the Head, under which they be- come thick and spongy. Some very good cases of this kind have been described by Wadd ; but the precise nature of the affection does not appear to be understood. 1070 is a complete Anchylosis of the Lower Jaw, in- duced by accident. A similar Preparation, occasioned by Rheumatism, is preserved in the Museum at Leyden, and has been described by Sandifort. 1114, a specimen of Fracture of the Neck of the Hume- rus, with dislocation of the Head of the Bone, is very interesting, from the circumstance of its having been known to have produced symptoms which are considered as indicative of Fracture of the Neck of the Scapula.OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION I. OF PART II. 1163 is a remarkably good illustration of some of the peculiarities of Fungoid disease affecting the Bones. Amongst the specimens of the Thigh-bone, are many instances of that derangement of the Head and Neck, which is liable to be mistaken for Fracture through the Neck. 1183 is one of the specimens of Fracture through this part, and to a great degree within the Capsular Ligament: the union, though remarkably close, is wholly ligamentous.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21521244_0002t 1SECTION I. BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. (1.) The Vertehrm—Sternum and Ribs— Scull, and Bones of the Face. 1000 Spina Bifida, in the Fcetus at a vprv early period. Dr. Addison. 1001 Spina Bifida. 1 009 ■'■S-HVii.llCl oUci^lllltJll, 1003 Another specimen, with^the protruded portion included in a ligature. Mr. Butler, Woolwich. 1004^ Sacrum, with the Canal open posteriorly, from deficiency of the Spinous Pro- cesses. 1005 Vertebral Column, distorted by Lateral Curvature: bony matter deposited in the concavity, and producing Anchy- losis of three of the Vertebra and the last Rib. 1006 Vertebral Column, of an old subject- contoriio.i considerable: Anchylosis between some of the bones. r r r.Foster, Esq. IBONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1007 Vertebral Column, distorted by Lateral Curvature. 1008 Three Anchylosed Lumbar Vertebrae; from a case of Lateral Curvature, 1009 Sacrum, with the lower part bent pre- ternaturally forwards. 1010 Sacrum, with the lower part projecting preternaturally forwards. 1011 Considerable Bony Deposit on four of the Cervical Vertebrae; producing com- pression of the Spinal Cord, by the enlargement of the Processus Denta- tus, and Anchylosis. The effect of iniurv. — Anrhvlosis of Tjower .Tjiw (see Prep". 1070) existed in the same subject. Red Insp. Book, page 188. Case of Chas.Davies, a Black, from Jamaica. 1012 Exostosis on the Processus Dentaitus. It produced partial Paralysis, both of thp iinnpr and lower extremitips. From a patient under the care of Dr. Bright. lUlO fipf*tJnn nf F)nr<;Ml VprtpHnp anohvlosfid by a copious deposition of bony mat- ter. 1014 Two Dorsal Vertebrae, anchylosed by a copious deposition of bonv matter.IBONES. 1015 1016 1016 DESCRIPTION. Dorsal and Lumbar Vertebrae, anchy- losed by a copious deposition of bony matter. Lumbar Vertebrae, anchylosed by a la teral deposit of bony matter. 1017 1018 Lumbar Vertebrae, two of which are united by a copious and irregular de posit of bony matter. There appears to have been disease of the Interverte bral substance. Lumbar Vertebrae, affected with Exos tosis, forming curved ramiform pro jections from the edges of the bodies, Atlas, partially destroyed by Ulceration ; accompanied by Abscess, making its way to the anterior part of the Verte- bral Column. 1018 1019 Several of the Dorsal Vertebrae: the bodies of the fourth and fifth destroyed by an extensive Abscess. From a Child six years of age, who died with symptoms resembling Croup, but with- • out disease of the Larynx or Trachea. Disease, apparently Scrofulous, in the bodies of two Dorsal Vertebrae : one of which is to a great degree absorbed, producing Curvature forwards, and pressure on the Medulla Spinalis. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. From Dissecting Room. C.A.Key, Esq. Miscellaneous Insp. Book, page 13. Case of W. Gibbs. Old Mus. Book, No. 264.BONES. N". DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1020 Ulceration and partial Absorption of the body of the iirst Lumbar Vertebra; producing Curvature forwards, and compression of the Spinal Gord. 1021 Bodies of two Dorsal Vertebrse, anchy- losed, and hollowed by Abscess. (See 1292, the corresponding wet prepara- tion ; from which it appears that the disease commenced in the Interverte- bral substance.) 1022 Bodies of several Dorsal Vertebrae, ex- cavated by Ulceration; producing con- siderable Incurvation forwards. 1023 Abscess in the bodies of the Vertebrae, terminating in Anchylosis. A dry Section. 1024 A Section, corresponding to the pre- ceding. 1025 Ulceration of the bodies of two Dorsal Vertebrae; producing Contortion for- wards, and Anchylosis. 1026 * Lumbar Abscess, from disease in the Spinous and Transverse Processes of the Vertebrae. Old Museum Book. No. 89. 1026^ ^ The last Dorsal and two first Lumbar Vertebra, affected with Ulceration, and slight Exostosis, from Abscess; which appears to have commenced in the Intervertebral substance: there is like- wise a considerable Lateral Curvature. 6th Green Insp. Book, page 49. Case of Abr. HarrowBONES. N". DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom , presented, or whence de- rived. 1027 Destruction of the greater part of the body of the fifth Lumbar Vertebra, from 1 Q A n^f*PQQ tfii'TYiinntirifr in Anf»Vtu ■> J\Jao XXLIoUCooj ICl lillUdLllig 111 XxIiLIlY losis. 1027 Last Lumbar Vertebra, and Sacrum, affected with Sorofiila ■ thp Tntprvpr. tebral substance destroyed by Abscess. 1028 Several of the Dorsal Vertebrae, affected with Fungoid disease, in which the Spinal Cord and its Membranes are implicated: Paralysis was the conse- quence. From a patient of Dr. Cholme- ley's. He had the disease in various parts of the body.—(See Prep"'. 1024, 1449, 1544, 1548, 1782, 1927, 2012.) C. A. Key's Record of Inspections. Case of John Fenn. 102Q Cancerous degeneration of the bodies of the Vertebrap from a nntiput affofioA with Scirrhous Mamma. Mr. Langley. 10,S0 X \JtJ\J Fracture of the seventh, and Dislocation forwards of the sixth Cervical Verte- bra. Old Museum Book, No. 96. 1031 Fracture and Dislocation of two Cervi- cal VertebrcE. The patient survived five days. The Bladder was found diseased.—(See 2063.) Old Museum Book, No. 62. Case of Edw. Patrick.BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1032 Fracture of the sixth Cervical Vertebra, With Dislocation. Death was proauced in twenty-four hours. A patient of C. A. Key's. C. A. Key's Record of Inspections. Case of Dan. Keefe. 1033 Fracture of the Cervical Vertebra. The patient survived sixteen days. Mr. Greenwood. 1034 Section of Fractured Cervical Vertebrse, from a patient in the Clinical Ward, who died of Arachnitis. The fracture was not discovered till after death. 2d Green Insp. Book, page lJU. Case of John Clark. 1034* Dorsal Vertebrae, with Fracture and great displacement between the third and fourth: from a patient of Mr. B. B. Cooper's.—He survived the ac- cident three weeks. 4th Green Insp. Book, page 152. Case of Thos. Brian. 1035 Fracture of the body of the first Lum- bar Vertebra. 1st Green Insp. Book, page 17. Case of J. Cochrane. 1036 Fracture about the tenth Dorsal Verte- bra ; from a patient of C. A. Key's, in Barnabas Ward. The patient, sur- vived several weeks, and died of dis- eased bladder. — (See Prep"'. 2034, 2096, and Cast.) 4th Green Insp. Book, page 55. Case of Jas. Harlow. 1037 Section of Lumbar Vertebrse, crushed, and affected with Fungoid disease, in consequence of a violent effort. The body of the diseased vertebra is nearly gone, but the Intervertebral substance appears to be sound. — (See Prep"*. 1038, 1554*, 2052,2053, and 2093.) 4th Green Insp. Book, page 64. Case of Fred. Hunter 1038 A Section—The counterpart of the pre- ceding. •BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1038^ Sternum, irregailarly and imperfectly formed. From Dissecting Room. JLilloilUl ill Vxxl llldt'UoolLlcU J WlLll a> deficiency in the middle, producing a Foramen. XlilJoltUi 111 V^dl LI IctCl C ^ Witll CV X UiCllllCll) through which protrude a portion of Peritoneum and fat. 5th Green page 51. Case of Jas. Collins. 1040 Bifid Ensiform Cartilage. 1041 Another specimen. ■ 1042 Fungoid Tumor in the cancellated structure of the Sternum ; from a pa- tient of Dr.Cholmeley's, who furnished numerous nrpnaratinn*? nf thp Qnmp . disease. — (See Prep"^ 1028, 1449, 1544, 1548, 1782, 1927, and 2012.) C. A. Key's Record of Inspections. Case of John Fenn. 1042* Funffoid Tumor attachpd to thp .Stpr num, which is implicated in the dis- ease. 1043 Fracture of the second bone of the Ster- num, with displacement.BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. Kv wVinm XJ y WW iMXJiii presented, or whence de- rived. 1043" Cartilage of one of the False Ribs, with a cavity in its interior, which was filled with a glary fluid resembling. Synovia. 1044 Congenital deficiency of the greater part of the third Rib.—(See Prep"\ 1771,2456, and a Cast.) 4th Green Insp. Book, page 120. Case of John Welsh. 1045 Supernumerary Rib, above the usual first rib, on the right side. From Dissecting Room. 1046 A Rib affected with Exostosis. 1047 Exostosis of the Ribs, which are anchy- losed to the Vertebrae. 1048 Exostosis of the Ribs, with Anchylosis to the Vertebrae. 1049 Exfoliated portion of a Rib, making an ulcerated opening into the Lung, which is loaded with Tubercles. The patient had a Psoas Abscess, and diseased knee. He was under the care of Sir A. Cooper. Old'Museum Book, No. 169. Case of Jas. Morton. 1049* A Rib affected with Necrosis ; the effect of Syphilis. Cat. LVi. 69. Brookes s Collection.BONES. N". DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1050 A Rib affected with Fungoid disease, producinor fragility. — (See Prep"^ 2056, 2318.) 2d Green Insp. Book, page 57. Case of Eliz. Woodward. 1050' Two Ribs, one of which is affected with Fungoid disease. IOjI f Dried preparation of a Fractured Rib, with which there co-existed an ex- ternal Cyst, containing air. Mr. King, from Paris. 1052 Fractured Rib, united. 1053 Three Ribs, fractured, and united. inree kids, iractured near the middle. The reparation attended with Anchy- losis, or bony union with each other. 1055 Longitudinal Section of the Scull of a Brainless Foetus: theCalvaria wanting. Mr. Dodd. 1055* Cranium of a Child, in which there is- a very considerable deficiency of the right Parietal Bone: less of the left. The child had Congenital HerniaCere- bri, which produced a tumor almost as large as the scull : one of the Late- ral Ventricles, with an indurated por- tion of Plexus Choroides, extended into this tumor: the membranes of the brain of this part were much thickened. The child died when npnrlv two years of age.—(See Prep". 1563, and a Cast..)BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. Hv whnm ^ J T» IIUIII presented, or whence de- rived. 1056 Calvaria of an Hydrocephalic Child: ossification incomplete. 1057 Scull of "an Hydrocephalic Child, two years and two months old: ossifica- tion very incomplete, leaving nume- rous irregular insulated spots, wholly membranous. Three pints of water were found in the brain. Old Museum Book, No. 277. Dr. Dunlap. 1058 A Portion of a Parietal Bone, upon wnicn tne, irepnine nao oeen em- ployed, and reparation commenced. — 1059 Scull of a Flat-Head Indian, from the Columbia River; remarkable for the number of its Wormian Bones, oc- curring not only in the Lambdoidal, but also in the Sagittal and Coronal Sutures. B. Harrison, Esq. 1060 European Scull, apparently of aFemale, having several Wormian Bones. 1061 European Scull, with a small supernu- merary Plate to the squamous portion of the left Temporal Bone. 1062 Scull, in which the right and left por- tions of the Os Frontis have continued separate, forming a Frontal Suture. 1063 Scull, in which the original division of the Os Frontis persists, producing a Frontal Suture.IBONES. N". DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1064 Scull, in which the different bones are more than usually united, the sutures nemo* ohlitpratpH Somp nnnparftTiPP of Necrosis at the protuberance of the Os Occipitis. 1065 The Head of Joseph Spearing; enlarged, and thickened from Chrnnir HvHro- cephalus: the structure of the bone dense : the sutures completely united. 1066 Calyaria of a Female, externally pre- senting a good frontal developement, but which admitted but little space for the Anterior Lobes of the Brain, from the great, but partial, thickness of the bone: the two tables of bone distinct, but unusually separated. This patient died of Apoplexy, following the healing of an ulcer on the leg. Red Insp. Book, page 217. Case of EmmaJacobs. 1067 Calvaria and Base of a Scull, in which the bone is throughout of unusual thickness, but spongy, and not pre- senting the distinction into Tables and Diploe. The impressions of the ves- sels of the Dura Mater are remarkably strongly marked. ■ 1068 Fragment of a Cranium, in the same hidie as me preceding; but m which the thickness is much more conside- rable. 1069 Several of the Bones of the Head of a Child, somewhat thickened, and re- markably spongy: apparently, an early stage of the affection shewn in the preceding specimens : supposed by some to be the effect of Scrofula. From Dissecting Koom. 1069* Similar specimens, from another subject.BONES. 1070 DESCRIPTION. Scull of a Black, from Jamaica: the Articulation of the Lower Jaw firmly anchylosed.—(See the Cervical Verte- brae of the same subject, Prep". 1011.) 1071 1072 1073 1074 Base of the Scull, with the Atlas firmly anchylosed to it. It would seem that, in this case, the Anchylosis has de- pended on some peculiarity in the growth and developement of the indi- vidual, and not on disease. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. Red Insp. Book, page 188. Case of Chas.Davies. A specimen, in which there is Anchy- losis between the Occiput and Atlas, and also between three of the Cervical Vertebrae. Calvaria, in which, at the anterior part, the inner table is much thickened, and presents numerous smooth Tube- rous Exostoses; having, at least super- ficially, the hardness and whiteness of ivory : this state of the inner table is almost confined to the Os Frontis. The patient, a female, had long been the subject of incurable lunacy : she died in the Lunatic Asylum of this Hospital. Calvaria, taken from a patient who had been affected with Tic Doloureux : it exhibits nearly the same appearance as the preceding. The inner table of the Os Frontis is much thickened by numerous Tuberous or Botryo'idal Exostoses ; and part of both Parietal Bones are in the same state. C.A.Key, Esq. 4th Green Insp. Book, page 161. Case of Jane Worth, Mr. Wood, Birmingham.BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence, de- rived. 1074' Scull, presenting'a considerable defi- ciency in symmetry : exciting the idea of its having been subjected to a force obliquely pressing the upper part to the right, and the lower to the left, side. 1075 Ulceration on the external surface of the Cranium of a Child. Old Museum Book, No. 80. Dr. Curry, 1076 A portion of the Cranium, in which Ulceration has commenced internally. A Jrarietai iJone, the subject of extensive Ulceration and Necrosis, which ap- pear to have commenced internally. Sir Astley Cooper. 1078 Calvaria, in which there is a large irre- gular opening in the left portion of the Os Frontis. It appears to have been the result of Ulceration, and to have been of long standing. 1079 Exfoliated portion of the Os Frontis : its dimensions rather exceed three inches by four. Old Museum Book, No. 77. Case of D. Connor. 1080 Calvaria, in which a large portion of Bone, consisting of a part of the Os Frontis and of both OssaParietalia, is exfoliating. 1st Green Insp. Book, page 62. Case of F.Newbury.BONES. N". DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1081 Calvaria, diseased from Scrofula. There* is a scrofulous deposit on the interior: absorption of bone has taken place, both internally and externally, pro- ducing a worm-eaten appearance. • 1082 Anterior half of the Base of the Scull, exhibiting extensive Fracture ; impli- cating not only the base of the scull, but also both superior MaxillaryBones. 1083 Portion of the Parietal Bone, removed successfully by the Trephine, from a man who attempted suicide, with a pistol loaded to the muzzle. The ball was divided by the resistance it re- ceived from the thick bone : one half passed under the scalp, and lodged in the Integuments; the other in the Diploe, depressing and fracturing the inner table. See the Copy of the Letter which accom- panied this Preparation. Mr. George Dickenson, Ealing. 1084 Portion of a Scull, exhibiting marks of old extensive injuries, apparently pro- duced by a sabre : one cut, five inches in length, implicates the Frontal and left Parietal Bones ; a second, the squamous portion of the left Temporal Bone: and on the same side there is a fracture, several inches in length, through the Parietal and Temporal Bones, and extending to the base of the scull.—Found, on the field of Ma- rengo. • B. B. Cooper, Esq. 1085 Portion of the Parietal Bone, in which iU ^ nvtn«.na1 ♦.jT^l<a ic inrlpntpH without tne external idoie la iiuicincii wnin'iit fracture.BONES. than the left,and the angle more obtuse. Collection, DESCRIPTION. Reference to History, By Whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1086 Depression of the Os Frontis, below the anterior edge of the Parietal Bones. A large L»s irioueiruui in iiie cuuroc of the Sagittal Suture.—(See Prep"'. 1578, 1607.) Red Insp. Book, page 201, Case of Matt, Leary, 1087 A Redundant portion of Bone, covered by common Integument, and support- ing three Teeth: it was removed from the fore part of the Upper Jaw; and appears to consist either of a malfor- lilctLlULl UI Ifllc aUpcllUl iyXdAlilfx;, UX Ui Intermaxillary Bones imperfectly and irregularly formed. Sir Astley Cooper, 1087" Two Ossa Nasi, necrosed. • Mr, Towne, 1088 Fractured Ossa Nasi, very badly united. 1089 Scull, with fractured Ossa Nasi. 1090 Lower Maxilla, which, if it belonged to an Adult, presents an original defi- ciency in the number of Teeth. 1090" Lower Jaw; the right side much smaller Cat. Lvi, 30, Brookes'sBONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By wlioiii presented, or whence de- rived. 1091 Sequestrum, consisting of two-thirds of the Alveolar Processes of the Lower Jaw. Necrosis induced by the use of mercury, for Ovarian Dropsy. C.A.Key, Esq. 1091* Lower Jaw, fractured on the left side; very doubtful. Cat. LVi. 30. Brookes's Collection. (2.) Bones of the Upper Extremity. 1092 Sternal Extremity of both Clavicles, anchylosed to the Sternum. 1093 Clavicle, affected with Periosteal In- flammation. • 1093" Clavicle, affected with extensive Pe- rini;tpal Inflammation from Svohilis. There is Necrosis of the Scapular ex- tremity. f!at IVI 15. Brookes's Collection. 1 no/i T?oihor mnrp fhan fniir inohes Oi the middle of the Clavicle, separated by Necrosis. The patient recovered. 1094* Clavicle of a Child, remarkably spongj, and apparently affected with Scrofula. Cat. LVI. 17. Brookes's Collection. Clavicle, which appears to be affected with Scrofula at its Sternal extremity. Cat. LVI. 16. Brookes's Collection.BONES. Collection. 1094^ DESCRIPTION. 1094" Clavicle, affected with Scrofula at its Scapular extremity. It also exhibits a united fracture. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. Clavicle, which has been fractured, and well united. 1094^1 A very oblique Fracture of the Clavicle, badly united. Cat. Lvi. 15. Cat. Lvi. 19. Brookes's Collection. Brookes's Collection. Cat. LVI. 19. 1094^ Fractured Clavicle, united. 1094'' Clavicle, fractured, and badly united. 1094" Clavicle, fractured, and very badly united. 094'I Fracture of the Clavicle, near the Ster nal extremity; badly united, and much shortened. 1095 I Scapula, exhibiting- preternatural thin- ness, almost producing an opening in the Dorsum. 1096 Another similar specimen. 1097 Scapula, of which the Glenoid cavity and neck are ulcerated : a dry nrena- ratiou. ■' ' ' K Cat. Lvi. 14. Cat. LVI. 16. Brookes's Collection. Brookes's Collection. Brookes's Collection. Cat. Lvi. 14 Cat. Lvi. 17 Brookes's Collection Brookes'sBONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1098 Fractured Acromion, with partial liga- mentous union. - 1099 Humerus, in which the pits for the re- ception of the Olecranon and Coro- noid Processes of the Ulna meet, producing a Foramen. The lower ex- tremity of the bone is affected with Periosteal inflammation. 1100 Humerus, of which the head is deformed by considerable absorption from some nart<5 and slierht bony deposit on others : probably the result of dislo- cation ; but the history is not known. • 1101 Longitudinal Section of the Humerus, of which the shell is ttiiCKenea uy ireu- osteal inflammation, and partially ul- cerated. 1102 Longitudinal Section of the Humerus, thickened by Periosteal inflammation. _ 1103 Necrosis of the Humerus : a very fine specimen : the bequestrum conbis>img of nearly the whole of the lower halt of the bone. 1104 Sequestrum, six inches long, trom me Humerus of a Child, a patient of Mr. C. A. Key's. 110.: , Numerous Bones, from a Child affect- ed with Rickets. Sir Astley Cooper.1BONES. K 2 DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1106 Fungoid Exostosis of the Humerus, commencing in the Medullary Mem- brane : a dry preparation. C. A. Key's Record of Inspections. Case of J. Fielder. 1107 Section corresponding with the pre- ceding, preserved wet; with the sur- rounding soft parts. The patient, aged 23, died of Haemorrhage, in Cor- nelius's Ward, under the care of C. A. Key, Esq. C. A. Key's Record of Inspections. Case of J. Fielder. 1107* Section of Fractured Humerus, in which fragility was induced by Fungoid dis- ease of the Medullary structure. 1108 Fractured Humerus, badly united. 1109 Humerus, fractured about the middle, and badly united. 1110 Another specimen, tolerably well united. 1110* Section of the Humerus, which has been fractured, and very fairly united. 1111 Longitudinal Section of the Humerus fractured in two places; with liga- mentous union, and false joint. Old Museum Book, No. 117*. Case of Peter Price, a Maniac. 1112 Lower portion of the Humerus, with fracture partly above, and partly through the Condyles : removed by operation.BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1113 Elbow-joint, with an old and partially- united fracture through the outer Con- dyle.—From W. Wright, a patient of C. A. Key's. 1114 Dislocation of the Shoulder, and Frac- ture of the Humerus, through its neck: the head of the bone lodged against the neck and superior part of the infe- rior Costa of the Scapula, internally. It is the fractured surface which is towards the Scapula, while the round- ed head is opposed to the Ribs. The upper end of the shaft of the Hume- rus is against the Glenoid cavity, at- tached to it by ligament. Bequeathed to Sir Astley Cooper by Will. Sir Astley Cooper. 1115 Radius, affected by Periosteal inflam- mation, producing Ulceration. 1116 Radius, affected by Periosteal inflam- mation. Syphilitic. 1117 Upper part of the Radius, in a state of Necrosis. 1118 Elbow-joint, with fractured Olecranon. 1119 Ulna, fractured about the middle ; the broken extremities united, and at- tached by bone to the Radius. The lower extremities of both bones seem to indicate that the arm had been am- putated at the wrist.BONES. Description. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1119* Stump of a Fiiig-er, amputated by Mr. B. B. Cooper. 1120 Hand of a Child, possessing a supernu- merary Finger. 1121 Exostosis from a Finger : a dry pre- paration. 1122 Exostosis from the first Phalangeal Bone of the Little Finger. 1123 Cartilage of Exostosis. 1123* Ulcerated Bones of the Carpus : a dry preparation. 1124 Bones of the Carpus, ulcerated; and, with the exception of the Unciform Bone, anchylosed to each other, and to two of the Metacarpal Bones, 1124* Anchylosed Bones of the Carpus, with slight Exostosis at the extremities of the Radius and Ulna. (3.) Bones of the Lower Extremity. 1125 Male Pelvis : the Ossa Ilii remarkahly thin about the middle of the Iliac Fossae : the left Sacro-Iliac Symphysis anchylosed.BONES. N". DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1126 Sacrum, and right Os Innominatum: the Sacro-Iliac Symphysis auchylosed. 1127 Male Pelvis : both Sacro-Iliac Symphy- ses united. 1128 Small Male Pelvis: both Sacro-Iliac Symphyses united: numerous small Exostoses along the outer Labia of the Ilia, the Brims of the Acetabula, the Symphysis Pubis, and the Rami of the Pubes and Ischia. 1129 Large Male Pelvis : the left Sacro-Iliac taympnysis uniteo. ii presenis jcixos- toses, similar to those of the preceding- specimen. 1129" Cast of a Distorted Female Pelvis : the transverse diameter contracted. The Ossa Pubis are brought in apposition to each other, and the outlet contracted by the turning up of the Sacrum and Coccyx. Cat. 1.125. Brookes's Collection. 1129" A similar Cast. Dr. Hodgkin. 1130 Symphysis Pubis, anchylosed, and ulce- rated.BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1131 The right Os Innominatum ; of which the cavity of the Acetabulum is in- creased in diameter, and the brim elevated byChronic-Rheumatic disease nf tlif* PTin-inint ' al«5n thp rorre- sponding head of the Os Femoris, similarly affected. From Dissecting Room. 1132 Left Os Innominatum, of which the cavity of the Acetabulum is increased, and the brim elevated by Chronic- Rheumatic disease of the Hip-joint. The head of the Femur, enlarged by the disease, accompanies it. The Arti- pnlar (~!artilaor'p anTipar*5 tn havp Hppn removed from both bones ; which, in these spots, are polished and indurated. 11^* Fungous Exostosis on the Dorsum Illii. 1133 Right Os Innominatum, fractured. 1134 Pelvis, comminuted by the fall of a wall. 1134^ Os Femoris, somewhat distorted, and ita luwei jjari. consiciGraDly en- larged : probably the effect of Rickets.BONES. DESCRIPTION. 1 n r Reference to History. K 17 11/ rl /\ m wiiuin presented, or whence de- rived. 1135 Iransverse Sections of old and young Thigh-bones. 1136 Section of the head and neck of the Os Femoris; shewing absorption of the CanceHi, without depression of the neck. 1137 Sections of the head and neck of the Femur, in an old subject; shewing ab- sorption of the Cancel!i, without de- pression of the neck : a wet prepa- ration. 1138 Section of the head and neck of an oiu Xliii'11-uuiJc, wiiiiuui oepression of the neck : a dry preparation. 1139 Section of the head and neck of an old Thigh-bone; shewing the direction of the bony fibres in the cancellated structure giving support to the bone. 1140 ^i^eck of a Thigh-bone, of unusual length: the shaft of the bone remarkably spongy, and differing but little from the cancellated structure, which is more than usually close. 1141 Section of the head and neck ot the Os Femoris, in advanced age : the bone softened : the neck depressed and shortened. 1142 Section of the head of the Thigh-bone, sunk from age, and with the neck of Uiebone very much absorbed.BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1143 Upper part of an old Thigh-bone, of which the neck is shortened, and the head very remarkably depressed. 1144 Head of a Thigh-bone, altered by age and Rheumatic inflammation. 1145 Upper portion of a Thigh-bone, of which the head is enlarged and deformed : apparently from Rheumatic inflamma- tion. Rheumatic enlargement of the head of the Os Femoris, much more advanced than in the preceding specimen. 1146^ Section of the upper part of the Thigh- bone, of which the head and neck are much enlarged and deformed by Rheu- matic inflammation : the Articular v^artuage aiseasea. ine patient was supposed to have fractured the Cervix Femoris. T. Hardy, jun. Esq. 1146« A Section ; the counterpart of the pre- ceding. 1147 Section of the head of a Thigh-bone, en- larged by Rheumatic inflammation : iiie ^rucuiar i^artiiage aDSf>rbeu : the n<'ck of the bone depressed, and nearly absorbed. 1148 Section of the head of a Thigh-bone, enlarged by bony deposit at its union with the neck • thp ArtiVnlar Part;io/^/> absorbed, and the surface partially polished.BONES. N". DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1149 Sectiun of the head of a Thig^h-bone, enlarged by Ossific deposit round its junction with the neck, from Rheumatic inflammation : the Cartilage absorbed, and the surface polished. 1150 Two Sections of the head of the Thigh- bone, enlarged by Rheumatic inflam- mation : the Articular surface polished, as in the preceding specimen. 1151 Upper part of the Os Femoris; the neck shortened and nearly horizontal : the head of the bone greatly enlarged and distorted; very spongy ; and par- tially polished where there appears to have been a loss of Articular Cartilage. T^hisj "nrpnaration also nrespnts the semblance of fracture through the head. 1152 Exostosis on the Femur, at the origin of the short head of the Biceps. 1153 Longitudinal Section of theOsFemoris; thickened, and of very dense structure, from Periosteal inflammation. 1154 Transverse Sections of Thigh-bone, thickened by inflammation.BONES. N". DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1155 ijecilOu or ine JCfiTiur, sncwing ine ei- feots of Ii'.flammation in the Medullary structure: the whole forming a cylin- der of dense Cancelli. 1156 Head and neck of the Thigh-bone, al- most destroyed by ulceration in Hip- disease. 1157 Cast of the head of the Femur, ulcerated in Hip-disease. ■ 1158 Several portions of Bone, exhibiting the effects of Inflammation, Sequestra, &c. 1159 Sequestrum, five inches long; detached from the Femur after amputation. 1160 Sequestrum, six inches long; from an amputated Femur. 1161 Cancerous Tubercle in the Medullary structure of the upper part of the Fe- mur; from a patient who died of can- cer of the breast. (See a Cast.) The patient had complained of Rheumatic pains in the thigh ; and was under the care of Mr. Key, in Charity's Ward. 1162 Cancerous Tubercle in the Medullary structure of the middle of the Femur. 1163 Section of a Thigh, amputated for Os- teo-sarcoma. The patient, a young woman, in Dorcas's Ward, aged 17, under the care of C. A. Key, died about six months afterwards, with Fungoid disease in the chest, more particularly affecting the heart. (Sec Prep". MOO.) Miscellaneous Insp. Book. Case of Ann Goodwin.BONES. 1 N". DESCRIPTION, Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1164 Section of the lower part of the Thigh : a counterpart of the preceding. 1165 Small Section of the preceding; shew- ing the effect of the disease, in sepa- rating the Lamellae of the shaft of the bone, and the more complete Fungoid growth between the outer layer and the Periosteum. 1166 Lower portion of the Thigh-bone, af- fected with Fungoid disease ; which appears to have originated in the Me- dullary structure, and has produced a tumor of large size. It extends to the knee-joint, which is but slightly affect- ed. Amputated by Mr. B.B.Cooper. 1167 Os Femoris, of which the upper part is affected with Fungoid disease, which has produced spongy and radiating Exostosis. Cat. xxvui. 61. Brookes's Collection. 1167* Os Femoris, with several large Exos- toses ; apparently of Fungoid origin. (See Prep". 1251.) 1168 Sarcomatous Tumor of the Thigh-bone, affecting the Medullary structure and Periosteum. From a patient of Mr. Lucas. He left the Hospital with a good stump, and improved health; but returned with the same disease in the chest, of which he died. (See Prep". 2330.) 01(1 Museum Book, No. 3; and the Se- quel, No. 121. Case of Thos. Heam. 1169 Fracture of the Thigh-bone, induced by Fungoid disease.BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1170 Section of the fractured head, neck, and Trochanters of the Os Femoris. It appears to have been either induced or succeeded by disease similar to XlrlJ CLC. X lie 11 dLlU [ c lb UlllLcQ. XUc Medullary matter is in much larger proportion than is natural. J. Morgan, Esq. 1171 Dry Section, corresponding to the pre- ceding. 1 1 79 Section of the nnner nart nf thp T'hio-Vi- bone, fractured through the neck and Trochanters : a wet preparation. _ Sir Astley Cooper. 1173 A dry Section, corresponding to the preceding. 1174 Upper part of the Thigh-bone, with a fracture through the neck, principally within the Capsular ligament: from an old man, between 60 and 70 years or ap'e rfp harl Fallpn r^nwn fijirr* cfunc? and died 14 days after the accident, with gastric irritation and delirium. Mr. Fogerty. 1175 Head of. the Thigh-bone, separated by Maceration. 1176 Fracture of the neck of the Thigh-bone: recent. 1177 Another specimen. 1178 Another specimen.BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 11 7Q 1 1 1 C7 of the Thigh-bone. 1180 Old Fracture of the neck of the Thigh- bone, with absorption of the neck and of the Articular cartilage, but without any disposition to union of any kind. 1181 Old Fracture, with absorption of the lict-iv Ul Lllc XIlly 11-uvilic . a. ui Y iJic- paration. 1182 Old Fracture, followed by total absorp- tion of the neck of the Thigh-bone : Lllc Ilc:clii (Jl tllC 17LI11C 1 WUg 111 Lli\.y Acetabulum. 1183 Fracture of the head of the Thigh-bone, partly within and partly without the Capsular ligament; followed by re- markably close ligamentous union: tVia Vitfiarl n^* tlifi "Hnnp «;iiiik TiPfirlv tn X,Ilt; llcdu Ul lilc uuiic ouiiiv ijcrui 1T the level of the Trochanter major. T. Hardy, Esq. 1 1 Q/l, F r3.ciLirc oi trie iicck ui tiic x iiij^n- uunc in a Child. 1 loo Section 01 *^ervix jreniorio, buewmg very close Ligamentous union. Drv Preparation; shewing Ligamentous imion of fractured Cervix Femoris. 1187 Section of the head and neck of the Thigh bone, in which Bony union is supposed to have taken place : doubt- ful.BONES. N°. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1188 Fracture of the Femur, in which the neck is sunk between the two Tro- chanters, of which the greater is broken: the patient died, in Corne- lius's Ward, from injury to the head received at the same time. The in- jury to the Femur was not detected during' life. 1188* Head of the Thigh-bone, fractured through the Trochanters, with consi- derable comminution : from a young man, who survived the accident only four or five days. 3d Green Insp. Book, page 128. Case of Sam. Jones. 1189 Section, shewing the neck of the Fe- mur driven into the cancellated struc- ture between the Trochanters, and united : a wet preparation. 1190 Corresponding Section : dry. 1191 Os Femoris, fractured through the neck and Trochanters: the head of the bone, which is enlarged by bony de- posit, is lodged in the Acetabulum. There is no appearance of union hav- ing been attempted. 1192 Neck of the Thigh-bone, fractured ob- liquely between the Trochanters : union completed. 1193 Thigh-bone, fractured close to the Tro- chanters, and united. 1194 Cast of upper part of the Thigh-bone, fractured through the Trochanters, and united. •BONES. 1 DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. I 1 Ck^ II yo J IdLiure or tne irocnanter major. Itie patient died of Pericarditis, which fol- lowed the accident. C. A. Key's Record of Inspections. Case of Eliz. Cloud. 1196 Os Femoris, fractured between the Tro- t-iidULerb, ana ODiiqueiy tnrougn tne upper part of the shaft: union com- plete. 1197 Oblique Fracture through the upper part of the Femur : united. 1 1 QQ 1 Ib/o I'lou-umon oi a iractureu jemur; irom a loose piece of bone between the ex- tremities. 1199 Os Femoris, fractured through the middle ; accompanied by Necrosis of one of the extremities: but union com- pleted, with considerable Periosteal in- flammation. — 1200 Lower extremity of Os Femoris ; am- putated by C. A. Key, for Compound Fracture, occasioned by a fall from a scaffold : the upper portion was pro- truded, and stuck into the ground. Amputated five hours after the acci- dent. From — Aberdeen, a patient in Job's Ward. Mr. G. W. Linton. 1201 Fracture of the Femur, piercing the Vastus Internus. Sir A.Cooper on Dislocation. 1202 Os Femoris of a young subject, much wasted and distorted. There appears to have been a separation of the lower Epiphysis, followed by re-union : the Condyles ulcerated.BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. Bv whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1203 Section of'united Fracture of the Femur: the earthy matter removed by acid. 1204< Section of united oblique Fracture of the Femur, greatly overlapping : a speci- men corresponding to the preceding, but in a great measure deprived oi the animal matter. 1205 Os Femoris, fractured in its upper third: union completed : the head and neck of the bone much distorted by Rheumatic inflammation. • • 1206 Os Femoris, fractured through the middle, and badly united. 1207 Section of the Os Femoris, fractured through the middle, and badly united. 1208 Os Femoris, fractured a little below the middle, and badly united. 1209 Os Femoris, fractured just below the Trochanters, and badly united : it is also fractured just above the Condyles. 1210 Os Femoris, fractured about the middle, and united, with much overlapping: abundance of Ossified Callus, and con- siderable Exostosis. • LBONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or wlience de- rived. 1211 Jfatella, tractured longitudinally, and united, but with some absorption of bone. 1212 Transverse Fracture of the Patella : the two portions are several inches apart. 1212"" Iransverse fracture of the Patella, united by a Ligament of about an inch in length. • 1212 Iransverse Jbracture of the Patella, united by a Ligament of about two or three inches in length. 1213 Tibia of a young subject, rather crooked, and much wasted. 1213" Another similar specimen. 1214 m*! * 1 !■ Ill * 1 11 Tibia, much distorted, considerably thickened and enlarged: the elFects of Rickets. 1215 Small Exostoses on the upper and inner part of the Tibia. 1216 Tibia, of which the head is somewhat enlarged, and presents several Exos- toses : the Articulating surfaces face very much backwards.BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1217 Portion of Tibia, exhibiting Periosteal inflammation, with Sloui^hing from Hospital Gangrene: injected.—"Vene- real. (See Prep". 1376.) 1218 Portions of the Tibia and Fibula, in which Periosteal inflammation is far advanced, with Incipient Ulceration. Node. 1219 Tibia, with a large Node : Ulceration commencing. 1220 Tibia, exhibiting the effects of Periosteal inflammation. • 1221 Fibula, exhibiting the effects of Peri- osteal inflammation. 1222 Portion of a Chronic Ulcer on the Leg, injected : shewing Granulations; new, but diseased. Cuticle; thickened and indurated subjacent Cellular Mem- brane; and Periosteal inflammation. (See Prep"\ 1350, 1351, 1622, 1653.) From a patient of C. A. Key, Esq. 1223 Lower portion of the Tibia; shewing Granulations from the Periosteum : the effect of an Ulcer. 1224 The lower end of the Tibia, ulcerated : a dry preparation. 1225 Anchylosis of the Tibia, Fibula, and Bones of the Tarsus; with copious de- posit of Osseous matter, from Peri- osteal inflammation. Lf2BONES. N". DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1226 Fibula, greatly enlarged by copious ir- regular bony deposit, from Periosteal inflammation. Cat.xxii.nc. Brookes's Collection. 1227 Fibula, with considerable irregular bony deposit, from Periosteal inflammation near its lower extremity. 1228 Tibia and Fibula, united by Periosteal inflammation. 1229 Another specimen. 1230 Another specimen. 1231 Tibia andFibula.anchylosed. The bones bear little it' any marks of inflamma-' tion, except where the union has taken place. 123V Tibia and Fibula united at their lower extremity by Periosteal inflammation. There is considerable distortion of both bones. 1232 Longitudinal Sections of the Tibia, of which the shell is much thickened by Periosteal inflammation. Node. 1233 Another specimen. 1234 Longitudinal Section of the Tibia, af- fected with Periosteal inflammation. 1235 Section of the Tibia, greatly thickened from Periosteal inflammation.BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1230 •Fibula, affected with Periosteal inflam- mation. I CiO<7 Vzol oeciion 01 me lower exireraiues or iiie Tibia and Fibula, anchylosed by Peri- osteal inflammation. 1238 Section of the Tibia and Fibula, united by Periosteal inflammation. 1 OQQ • Head of the Tibia, with a considerable Sequestrum in the Medullary struc- ture : amputated : a wet preparation. Old Museum Book, No. 45. 1240 Necrosed Tibia: the bone has been burnt. 1241 Fibula, enlarged by Periosteal inflam- mation, and internally necrosed. 1242 Necrosis of Tibia; the Sequestrum con- sisting of nearly the whole bone. 1243 Necrosis of Tibia. • 1244 Tibia, affected with Necrosis. Attempts had been made to ren)Ove the Seques- trum, which is of considerable size : it belongs to a young subject, and the upper Epiphysis is nearly separated. 1245 Necrosis of the lowpr nnrtinn r\f iVia Tibia : a very fine specimen.BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. T^lxfnlintinn of thp Tihia and thicken- ing of the Periosteum, consequent to external ulceration. A Node appears to have preceded. 1247 Sloughing Ulcer, with Necrosis of the Tihia 1248 Sections of the Tibia and Fibula, soft- ened, and crooked; from a child af- fected with Rickets. • ^CiA OA A/Tiilin'nQTitWjirtvTTlf'pration affectinsrthe Tibia. Amputated by C. A. Key. Esq. (See Prep'", of Scirrhous Heart and Kidneys, N"\ 1399, 1641, and 2055.) 1249 Warty Fungus of the Leg, which has led to the destruction of the Tibia and Fibula. 1250 Tibia and Fibula, ulcerated from ma- lignant disease, and preternaturally fragile. 1251 Tibia and Fibula, anchylosed, and pre- senting several Exostoses, apparently of Fungoid origin. (See Prep". 1167*.) B. B. Cooper, Esq. 1 aOa Tibia of a young person; shewing the bony portion of a large Osteo-sarco- matous Tumor.BONES. DESCRIPTION. lleference 10 History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1253 Fungous Exostosis of the head of the Tibia. Parts of two Tibiae, affected with Fun- ■ gold disease, and beautifully shewing the bony part of an Osteo-sarcomatous Tumor. Mr. Patchet, Plastow. 1255 Head of the Tibia, enlarged and exca- vated from Fungoid disease. 1256 Lower extremity of the Tibia, said to have been affected with Fungoid disease. 1257 Fungoid Tumors, growing on the lower part of the Tibia and Fibula, with a partial bony shell. The Leg was am- putated by C. A. Key, Esq. The pa- tient died. 1258 Section of the upper part of the Tibia: the Medullary structure has been nar- tially absorbed from the presence of Hydatids, Which induced fragility. 1259 Tibia and Fibula, from a Leg ampu- tated by C. A. Key, Esq. for compound fracture. One of the broken extre- mities of the Tibia was sawed off, to favour the reduction; but a fragment of bone, piercing and irritating the Tibialis Posticus muscle, prevented the limb from being retained in its proper position. (See the Drawing.)BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1260 Section of Compound Fracture of Tibia. The fractured portion does not appear to be in the Preparation, which seems only to shew the state of the neigh- bouring parts. Old Museum Book, No. 172. 1260" Two portions of the Tibia, which has been fractured near its upper part, in which a very slight and imperfect at- tempt at imion appears to have taken place, although considerable time seems to have elapsed. From Dissecting Room. 1260" The upper part of the Tibia; shewing an oblique Fracture badly united. 1261 Section of the Tibia, fractured, and sub- sequently united. 1262 Tibia, obliquely fractured through its lower third, and badly united. 1263 Section of Tibia, fractured, and united. 1264 Another specimen. 1265 Oblique Fracture of theTibiain its lower third, united. 1265* A Tibia, fractured near its middle, and badly united. 1265« Section of the lower part of a Tibia; shewing a Fracture badly united, and accompanied by a partial thickening of the shell.IBONES. N°. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1266 Oblique Fracture of the Tibia in its lower third, badly united. 1267 Tibia, united after Compound Fracture : a fragment of bone appears to have been removed: a dry preparation. Mr. M'Intyre, Newcastle. 1268 Tibia, fractured, not united, but consi- derably shortened from overlapping and absorption: the Fibula curved, and considerably thickened. Dr. Sims. 1269 Section of the Tibia, fractured, and united. 1269" Fibula, fractured near its middle, and badly united. Cat.xxii.118. Brookes's Collection. 1269" Fibula, fractured near its lower extre- mity, and very badly united. Cat.xxii.114. Brookes's Collection. 1270 Fibula, fractured, and badly united. 1270* Portion of Fibula, which appears to have been fractured, with comminu- tion : union effected, but with consi- derable irregularity. 1271 Fibula, fractured, and united, with some overlapping. 1272 Fibula, fractured, and badly united : a small fragment partially intervening between the extremities of the larger portions, and united to both.BONES. N". DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1273 Tibia and Fibula, fractured, and united. • 1274 Another specimen. 1275 Tibia and Fibula, which appear to have been fractured, but well united : bony union has taken place between them, near to, but not at the point of frac- ture. 1276 Tibia, fractured, but anchylosed to the Fibula, which is entire. > • 1277 Tibia and Fibula, fractured, and united, but with considerable overlapping; and union commenced between the two bones. 1278 Section of the Tibia and Fibula, frac- tured towards the lower part ot the leg, and badly united, with Ancliylosis. 1279 Section of the Tibia and Fibula, frac- tured near the lower part- of the leg, and badly united; with union between the bones.—The counterpart of the preceding. 1280 Tibia and Fibula, fractured, and imper- fectly united. Threre appears to have been some tendency to the formation of a false joint. 1280* Two Sections of Tibia, fractured, but united by a Ligament, producing a false joint.BONES. N". DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1281 Tibia and Fibula, fractured at birth, and not united by bone at the end of five years: distortion very conside- rable. Sections of fractured, and subsequently united, Tibia and Fibula; from which the earthy matter has been removed. 1283 Compound fracture of the Tibia and Fibula, with the Foot attached, and its Ligaments dissected. • 1284 Leg of a Foetus, somewhat distorted. 1285 Foot of an Infant, having Six Toes. 1286 A Double Toe. Removed by Sir Astley Cooper. Old Museum Book, No. 164. 1287 Exostosis, from the extremity of the Little Toe. • 1288 Several Bones of the Foot, affected by Periosteal inflammation; with An- chylosis and Ulceration. _ 1288^ First and second Phalangeal Bones of a Toe, anchylosed.BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1288« First and second Phalangeal Bones of a Toe, anchylosed. • 1289 One of the Bones of the Tarsus; exhi- biting incipient disease in the Can- celli; with Scrofulous Deposit.OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION II. OF PART II. Amongst the Preparations of diseased Joints, are several good specimens of the soft and highly-vascular Membrane, which constitutes the agent by which the Articular Carti- lage is absorbed. 1329* is, perhaps, the most characteristic specimen of this kind. 1369 is a specimen of Muscle, in Avhich complete fatty degeneration took place during life. Many other Muscles were similarly affected, in the same subject.SECTION II. SOFT PARTS ABOUT THE BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. (1.) Cartilages, Synovial Membranes, Ligaments, and Fibro-Cartilages. 1290 Longitudinal Section of the Vertebrae, with Ulceration of the last Dorsal Vertebrae; Distortion of the Spine forwards; and Abscess runnipg along anteriorly to the bodies of the Verte- brsB. There was likewise a copious Deposit of Calcarious matter at the posterior part of the Trachea. The Case was of rather more than a year's standing, in a Lad of 17 years of age. (See Prep". 1547.) Old Museum Book, No. 73. Case of J. R. Grist. 1291 Ulceration of the Intervertebral sub- stance between the last Cervical and first Dorsal Vertebrae; with Abscess burrowing in the soft parts, anterior to the bodies of several of these bones. 1292 Section of several of the Cervical Ver- tebrae ; exhibiting Scrofulous Disease commencing in the Intervertebral sub- stance. (See Prep". 1021.)BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1292" Dislocation of the Sternal extremity of the Clavicle, upwards and outwards. 5th Green Insp. Book, page 138. Case of G. Rothram. 1293 Dislocation of the Sternal exti'einity of the Clavicle upon the Sternum. (Fac- titious.) 1294 Dislocation of the Clavicle on the Acro- mion. (Factitious.) 1295 Synovial Membrane of the Shoulder- joint, inflamed from Rheumatism. 1295' Shoulder-joint, in which there has been a slight displacement, with sqme al- teration of form, from Rheumatic in- flammation. An Articulating surface, of considerable extent, is formed at the under-surface of the Acromion ; and there is also a small Osteo-Car- tilaginous body attached by the soft parts only. The Tendon ot the long head of the Biceps was flattened, and attenuated. A Paper, by Dr. Knox, in the London Medical Gazette. • From Dissecting Room. 1296 Dislocation of the head of the Humerus upon the Dorsum of the Scapula, near the neck of that bone. (Factitious.) 1297 Dislocation of the head of the Humerus into the Axilla. (Factitious.) 1298 Dislocation of the head of the Hume- rus under the Venter of the Scapula. (Factitious.) 1299 Elbow-joint, amputated for Scrofulous disease : one ot the Condyles oi ine Humerus partially necrosed, and the soft parts ulcrated.BONES. DESCRIPTION. • Keleience to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1300 Diseased Elbow-joint ; exhibiting com- mencing Ligamentous Anchylosis : an injected preparation. Sir Astley Cooper. 1301 Elbow-joint, amputated for Scrofulous Disease; Vascular Membrane formed ; Cartilage and Bone partially absorbed; with Bony Deposit, from Periosteal in- nammaiion, in irie neignnournooQ or the joint.—A patient of J. Morgan's. 1302 Section of an Elbow, in which Anchy- From a patient of J. Morgan's. 6th Green Insp. Book, page 79. Case of S. Johnston. 1303 Elbow-joint; exhibiting Ulceration of the Cartilages, and partial Membra- nous Anchylosis : the bone appears sound.—Amputated by J. Morgan. The boy died. 1304 Elbow, in which inflammation of the Synovial Membrane has terminated in Anchylosis. 1305 Numerous Osteo-cartilaginous Bodies, of considerable size, attached to the Synovial Membrane of the Elbow- joint. • 1306 Old and partial Dislocation of the Ulna. Mr. C. Fagg, Hythe. 1 OCY7 Dislocation of the Elbow-joint. (Fac- titious.) 1308 Another specimen.BONES. DESCRIPTION, Reference to History, By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1309 Inflammation of the Synovial Mem- brane; Ulceration of the Inter articular Cartilage of the Ulna ; and Incipient Disease of the Wrist. 1310 Anchylosis of the Carpus, followine: dis- ease; similar to that seen in Prep". 1309. 1311 ringer, amputated tor disease of one of the joints, with Necrosis. From the Surgery. 1312 Warty Fungoid Tumors on the joints of the Fingers. 1313 Dislocation of the Finger between the Metacarpal Bone and the first Pha- lanx. Mr. J. Stocker. 1314 Dislocation between the first and se- cond Phalangeal Bones of a Finger. 1315 Head of a Thigh-bone, from which a portion of the Articular Cartilage has been absorbed ; not suspected during life, but found accidentally in the dead-house. 4th Green Insp, Book, page 100. Case of Sarah Holm. 1316 Absorption of Articular Cartilage near the Ligamentum Teres; and loose Os- seous bodies in the condensed Cel- lular structure near the Trochanters, 1st Green Insp. Book, page 20. M. Sullivan.SOFT PARTS ABOUT THE BONES. 1 DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. Rv wVlnm presented, or whence de- rived. 1317 Hip-joint, in which ulceration has con- verted the Acetabulum into a Fora- men, and removed a considerable por- tion of the head of the Femur. An- chylosis appears to have commenced : extensive Abscesses were formed in the Thigh. From a patient of C. A. Key, Esq., in Luke's Ward. 1318 Hip-joint, in which there is extensive ulceration of the Articular Cartilage, both of the Acetabulum and of the head of the Femur: from the latter much of the bony structure is absorbed. (From Scrofula.) Two Sections of the Hip-joint, in which Anchylosis is commencing. From a Child. ^ 1319 Head of a Thigh-bone, on a conside- rable part of which a remarkable po- lish has succeeded to absorption of the Articular Cartilage. There is also a bony deposit around the head and neck. ■ ' 1320 Dry Preparation ; shewing Dislocation of the head of the Femur on to the Dorsum Ilii. The dislocation appears to have been of long standing. 1321 Dislocation of the head of the Femur on to the Dorsum Ilii. (Factitious.) 1322 Dislocation of the head of the Femur on to the Os Pul)is and Ilium. (Facti- tious.) MSOFT PARTS ABOUT THE BONES. N". DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1323 Dislocation of the head of the Pemur into the Foramen Thyroideum. (Fac- titious.) 1324 Dislocation of the head of the Femur into the Ischialic Notch. (Factitious.) 1325 Condyles of the Os Femoris; exhibiting recent and acute inflammation of the Synovial Membrane and Cartilage. From Mr. F., a private patient of C. A. Key, Esq. He was labouring under stone in the bladder; and ten days be- fore his death he was seized with acute inflammation of the Knee-joint, and of one of the Bursas of the Flexors. The Knee-joint was found full of pu- riform fluid. There was no external opening. C. A. Kev, Esq. ' 1326 Condyles oi tne ws remoris, exniuiuiig recent and acute inflammation of the Synovial Membrane and Cartilage. 1327 Knee-joint; exhibiting extensive ulcera- tion of the Articular Cartilage on the Condyles of the Os Femoris, on the head of the Tibia, and on the Patella : the other textures little affected. From a patient of C. A. Key, Esq. 1328 Knee-joint, of which the outer Semi- hmar Cartilage and the Articular Cartilage from the outer Condyle of the Os Femoris, and also from the corresponding surface of the head of the Tibia, are absorbed. Strongly marked in-knee, was the consequence. This preparation was found in the Dissecting Room. There was no ap- pearance of recent disease of the joint; From Dissecting Room.SOFT PARTS ABOUT THE BONES. N". DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. Knee-joint, affected by severe suppu- rative inflammation of tiie Synovial Membrane. 1329* Knee-joint; amputated by C A. Key, Esq. The Synovial Membrane is thickened, villous, and highly vas- cular; and has effected a remarkable absorption, without ulceration, of the Articular Cartilage on the Patella and Condyles of the Femur. The patient was admitted into Accident Ward; having received a wound from an axe, by which the internal Ligament was divided, and the Semilunar Cartilage injured. An Abscess extended from the jomt high up the Thigh. Ampu- tation was resorted to, five weeks after the accident. 1330 Knee-joint, affected with chronic sup- purative inflammation of the Synovial Membrane whioh is fhJpVlv ocwraroA with long and vascular Flocculi. Am- putated by C. A. Key, Esq. • 1331 Knee-joint, affected with severe inflam- mation of the Svnnvial M/jm>n-ir.Q i^iiv^ ^jjiiuvidi i'X<. Illurane, producing ulceration of the Articular Cartilage. 1332 Knee-joint; shewing the destruction of the outer Semilunar Cartilage, with suppurative inflammation of the Sy- novial Membrane, absorption of the Articular Cartilage on the same side, disorganization of the Semilunar Car- tilage, and adhesion of the Synovial Membrane, without suppuration, on the inner side. From a nntJpnt nf * luiij a paiieni oi C. A. Key, Esq.—(See Prep". 1342.) M 2 1SOFT PARTS ABOUT THE BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1333 Knee-joint, amputated by C. A. Key, Esq. There is extensive inflamma- tion of the Synovial Membrane, de- struction .of the Semilunar Cartilage, and absorption of the Articular Carti- lage. 1334 Knee-joint, with extensive ulceration of the Inter-articular and Articular Car- tilages. 1335 Longitudinal section of the Knee-joint; shewing Ligamentous union between the Tibia and Femur, with adhesion of the latter to the Patella: Anchylosis commencing. From a patient of Dr. Bright's. The Leg was amputated by C. A. Key, Esq., at the patient's re- quest. 1336 Counterpart to the preceding. • 1337 • Section of a Knee-joint. There appears to have been spontaneous dislocation and subsequent imperfect Anchylosis. From a patient in Naaman's Ward. Amputated by B. B. Cooper, Esq. 1338 Scrofulous disease in the Cancellated structure of the Condyles of the Femur and head of the Tibia, with Anchy- losis and Abscesses. 1339 Scrofulous disease of the Knee-joint, terminating in imperfect Anchylosis. The shell of the bone is thin, and the cancelled structure rare. The joint continued easy and free from inflam- matory symptoms when perfect rest was given it, but slight exertion ex- cited return of inflammation. Re- moved, by amputation, from Mr. Horn, a private patient of B. B. Cooper, Esq. B. B. Cooper, Esq.SOFT PARTS ABOUT THE BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1310 Ulceration of the Articular Cartilage, and of the head of the Tibia. , 1341 Acute inflammation of the Synovial Membrane, with incipient ulceration of the Articular Cartilage of the Pa- tella: injected. 1342 ___ .—-- Ulceration of the Cartilage of the Pa- tella : counterpart to 1332. 1343 Ulceration of the Cartilage of the Pa- tella : injected preparation. 1343* Lower extremity of a Thigh-bone. The Cartilage removed from the Articular surface, which is surrounded by an elevated bony rim in the situation of the attachment of the Capsular Liga- ment. 1344 Extensive ulceration of Cartilag-e and Bone at the head of the Tibia, with Periosteal inflammation. 1344' Loose Cartilage, removed from the Knee-joint of Mr. H. R., a private pa- tient of C. A. Key, Esq. It had ex- isted a year and a half, and no incon- venience followed the operation. C.A.Key, Esq. 1.345 Knee-joint, dislocated from ulceration. s • 1346 Dislocation of the Tibia and Patella out- wards : amputated. Appears to be the effect of ulceration.SOFT PARTS ABOUT THE BONES. N". DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. Fungoid Tumor, attached to the Sy- novial Membrane of the Semilunar Cartilae:es. From a Knee, amputated by Sir Everard Home. Mr. W. King. 1348 Knee-joint, destroyed by Fungoid dis- ease, commencing in the head of the Tibia: the greater part of the Arti- cular surfaces of the Condyles of the Os Femoris not contaminated. Am- putated by Mr. New. Mr IVpw 1349 Lower extremity of the Tibia and Fi- bula ; shewing a Fissure in the Ar- ticular Cartilage of the former, pro- bably the result of fracture, with little or no displacement. 1350 Astragalus, with the remains of a Fis- sure upon its upper articulating sur- face. From a Leg amputated for obstinate chronic Ulcer, by C. A. Key, Esq.—Counterpart to the preceding. (See also 1222, and 1622.) 1351 Portion of the lower extremity of the Tibia; exhibiting commencing ulcera- tion of the Articular Cartilage, and the formation of a Vascular Adventi- tious Membrane, such as precedes Anchylosis. There is also Exfoliation of the external part of the bone, with vJIdllUiatlUIla Uil tile JTcriUbLCUlXl, aXlU extensive ulceration of the neighbour- ing integuments. Amputated by C. A. Key, Esq. • 1352 Ancle-joint, disorganized from Scrofula ; shewing ulceration of the Astragalus and Adventitious Membrane, which is injected within the joint, and an ex- ternal opening, which appears to com- mimicate with the joint. (See Prep"* • 1289.)SOFT PARTS ABOUT THE BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. DV WIIUIII presented, or whence de- rived. Anchylosis of the Ancle-joint after frac- ture : the Astragalus a little advanced. 1354 Ancle-joint, seven weeks after com- pound dislocation, with fracture ot the outer Malleolus and Astragalus. There is a considerable deposit of os- sified Callus on the Tibia and Fibula. From a patient of C. A. Key, Esq. • 1355 Dislocation of the Tibia forwards, with fracture of both Malleoli, which are badly united : much ossified Callus deposited about the joint. 1356 Dislocated Ancle-joint; both Malleoli fractured. — 1357 Lower portion of the Tibia, removed in a case of compound dislocation of the Ancle-joint. 1358 Dislocation of the Ancle-joint, inwards. (Factitious.) 1359 Dislocation of the Ancle-joint, outwards. (Factitious.) 1360 Os Naviculare, from which a larffe nor- tion of the Articular Cartilage has been removed by absorption. 1360' Second joint of the great Toe, affected with Scrofula, and communicating with an extensive external opening. Both the Metatarsal and Phalangeal bones are diseased. From a patient of B. B. Cooper, Esq.SOFTvPARTS ABOUT THE BONES. 1 : DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1361 Toe, dislocated by the pressure of a shoe. Amputated by Sir AstleyCooper, at the request of the patient. 1- • (2.) Muscles, Tendons, Aponeuroses, and Bursce Mucosce. 1S6P The Sterno-Hyoideus Muscle, speckled with numerous minute bony points. 136P Tumor, removed from the Deltoid Muscle by C. A. Key, Esq. In firm- ness and density,it resembled an elastic Licament' but it is lohnlatprl anrl py hibits a structure dependent on Pe- dunculated Cysts. 1362 Portion of Pectoral Muscle, affected with Cancer. 1363 Fungoid Tumors, attached about the ±iX Uo^lCo \Jl LlIC kJilW UlUd o* III icy uic distinctly incysted, and partially ul- cerated. ,01d Museum XinrAr DOCK, No. 163. 1363^ Fungoid Tumor, removed by B. B. Cooper, Esq. from the fore-arm, to the muscles of which it was attached. A Tumor had been removed from the same spot some years before : the com- plete cicatrix, leit by that operation, is seen in this preparation.SOFT PARTS ABOUT THE BONES. N". DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1364 Tendons in their Thecre; to the Synovial IVrpmhrnnp of whiph arp attached nu- merous pyriform pedunculated granu- lations. 1365 Deep-seated Paronychia of the middle Finger, with extensive inflammation and suppuration running along the Palm of the Hand, destroying the TTpndorm oTiino* to the fore and mid" die Finger, and burrowing under the Flexor Tendons at the Wrist. Old Museum Book, No. 123. 1366 Tendon of the Flexor Profundus, ad- herent to theTheca : the Finger flexed. 1367 Last joint of t-he middle Finger, with its Tendon from the Flexor Profundus attached to it. It was torn by a thrashing-machine : the accident was followed by Tetanus. The patient re- covered. Mr. Haynes, Trinity Sq. Borough. 1368 Upper portion of the OsFemoris ; shew- ing Ossification of the insertion of the Psoas and Iliacus Muscles. 1369 A portion of Muscle, apparently from the Thigh, converted into fat. Old Museum Book, No. 235. 1369'^ A Tumor, removed by C. A. Key, Esq. from the Gluteal Muscles of a Girl in Lydia's Ward. It is of considerable size, and of a firm and dense texture. Indications of thp Sfmnhipo HoT-iunrionf on Cysts are discoverable.SOFT PARTS ABOUT THE BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented., or whence de- rived. 1369" Fungoid Tumor, growing from the Muscle and Tendon of the Biceps Fe- moris. When recent, it shewed very distinctly the mode of formation, by the production of Pedunculated Cysts. 1369^^ Ulcerated Fungoid Tumor, removed from the Thigh by Mr. Lucas. Old Museum Book, No. 161. 1369" Part of a malignant ulcerated Tumor, removed fromtheThigh by B. Travers, Esq. When recent, this preparation exhibited both the appearances of Scirrhous and Fungous : the latter ap- peared the more recent. The line of demarcation between them was tole- rably distinct. ■ Mr.W.I.Fagg. 1370 Transverse section of the Thig h, affected with Fungoid disease. 1371 Another specimen. 1372 Another specimen. 1373 Dried transverse section of the Thigh, affected with Fungoid disease, com- mencing in the Os Femoris. 1374 Section of a Fungoid Thigh, correspond- ing with the preceding preparation : a wet preparation. —r •SOFT PARTS ABOUT THE BONES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1375 Ganglion formed over the Patella : the internal surrace preseniing nunieruus> Pedunculated bodies and Filaments attached to it. 1375' A nearly similar specimen. Old Museum Book, No. 237. 137fi Tendon, slouffhiner from Hospital Gan- grene, attacking a Venereal Sore of the Leg. Belongs to 1217. • 1377 Mortified Foot; of which the natural separation took place, in Elizabeth vvumoi, a paiieiiL oo years oi age, under Sir Astley Cooper, in Charity's Ward for 13 months. Old Museum Book, No. 91. 1377* A Tumor, removed from the Sole of the uui. X.I lis VI uense lexiure, anu its structure is evidently dependent on Pedunculated Cysts. . 1378 Little Toe ; amputated by C. A. Key, Esq., for a Scirrhous Tumor situated. at Lllc UIlUcl pal t Ul Llic lilLIts XUc Ol a Female aged 40. Ulcerative process not commenced.OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION III. OF PART II. It would involve a needless repetition of the greater part of this Section, to point out all the interesting and impor- tant Specimens contained in it. To facilitate the inspection of the specimens of disease of the Heart, the following brief explanation of the plan adopted in their arrangement may be found of some assistance. The Preparations in the first part of the Section exhibit Mal-formations, dependent on suspension of developement; such as, Perforations through the Septa of the Auricles and Ventricles. No.1387, in which the Foramen Ovale is imperfectly closed, is addi- tionally interesting, from the presence of a large Coagulum, which, to all appearance recent, had become partially or- ganized, and adherent to the left Auricle, in which it was lodged. This case, which is unquestionably of consi- derable rarity, appears to resemble one mentioned by Bichat. 1388*, and those immediately following it, exhibit diseases of the Muscular substance of the Heart; such as preternatural thinness, thickness, and dilatation oftheParie- tes, and degeneration of structure. The specimens in which the right Ventricle is concerned, are taken before those of the left. In 1392*, the right and left cavities are transposed. 1396* presents a specimen of true Aneurism of the Heart. 1397 is an instance of Scrofulous Tubercles formed in the substance of the Ventricles, a very rare occurrence of which Laennec has only cited four or five examples. The two next specimens are equally remarkable; the one exhi- bitmg true Scirrhus; the other. Fungoid disease in the same situation. Next follow the diseases of the Valves; thoseOBSERVATIONS ON SECTION III. OF PART II. of the Auriculo-Ventricular openings preceding those of the Semilunar Valves. Amongst the latter are-several examples of Retroversion of the Aortic Valves. Some account of this derangement of structure, which, with the exception of a very short incidental notice in the Work of Bertin, appears to have wholly escaped the observation of the Pathologists who have treated of the diseases of the Heart, was laid before the Hunterian Society, in a Letter addressed by the Editor to C. A. Key, Esq.-See Medical Gazette, 7. 3. 1829. The specimens of diseased Heart terminate with those in which the Pericardium is principally affected: and they are arranged with reference to the character of the pro- duct of inflammation, rather than with any view to the exciting cause. 1448 is a specimen in which Pericarditis led to the production of an irregular but complete bony ring round the base of the heart. In proceeding to the Arteries, the Pulmonary is taken before the Aorta and its branches. Amongst the Preparations of the Aorta, may be mentioned 1473, 1474, 1475, in which this vessel was spontaneously obliterated; and the three following, shew- ing the effect of Ligatures upon the Aorta of Dogs. The numerous cases of thickening, Ossification, and of Aneurism, do not require to be particularly pointed out. The Preparations relating to the different Arteries given off from the Aorta are placed in conformity to the order adopted in Part I. One of the most interesting specimens belonging to this part of the Section will be found on the Ground Floor, No. 9(50; and consists of a dry preparation of the right half of the Pelvis and the corresponding Thigh, and shews the state of the Anastomosing Vessels eighteen years after the obhteration of the external Iliac. It appears, from the experiments of those who have in- vestigated the effects of Ligatures applied to Arteries, that it is not merely by the dilatation of pre-existing Anasto- mosing Vessels that the interrupted circulation is main- tained ; but that there is also, at times, a production of new vessels, passing more or less directly from the upper to theOBSERVATIONS ON SECTION III. OF PART H. lower portion of the interrupted or divided vessel. Dr. Parry fully demonstrated this fact, in an experiment per- formed on the Carotid Artery of a Ram. It appears, from a Work printed in Italy nearly half a century before the publication of Dr. Parry's experiment, and pointed out to the Author, several years since, by his friend Dr. Knox, that the fact alluded to had been proved in that country, by experiments made on the Carotid Artery of a Fox. As there is no reason to suppose that Dr. Parry had ever seen the Pamphlet in which this experiment is detailed, the formation of new vessels, in the cases alluded to, may be regarded as indisputably confirmed by the coincidence of two independent testimonies. The subject has since been further illustrated by Professor Mayer, of Bonn. Amongst the Veins, may be noticed specimens of oblite- rated Cava and Ihac Veins; also a specimen of obliterated Vena Port^, and several excellent Preparations of Varico- cele, made by Sir Astley Cooper. Amongst the specimens relating to'the Lymphatic Sy- stem, may be mentioned 1555% in which the superficial Absorbents of the Liver are seen greatly enlarged on the Parietes of a Cyst, which contained Hydatids : several of these vessels communicated freely, by lateral openings, with the interior of the Cyst. Similar communications have also been noticed in the Veins.SECTION III. THE HEART, AND VASCULAR OR CIRCULATORY SYSTEMS. DESCRIPTION. Keference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. (1.) The Heart. 1379 Aorta arising from both Ventricles; an aperture existing in the upper part of the Septum of the Ventricles; the Pul- monary Artery communicating with the Aorta by the Canalis Arteriosus, but not opening into the right Ven- tricle. 1380 Heart, with an aperture on the upper part of the Septum of the Ventricles. It was taken from the body of a young woman, aged 20, of loose life, but who had enjoyed good health till two years before admission. Her principal sym- ptoms were lividity of countenance, Orthopncea, and great physical weak- ness. The heart is not enlarged. (Dorcas' Ward, 1821.) 1381 Heart, with aperture in the Septum of the Ventricles at the upper part. The heart is enlarged. 1382 Heart of a Child, with a large opening in the Septum of tlie Ventricles.THE HEART, AND DESCllIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1383 Heart of a Foetus, in which the Aorta arises from both Ventricles. The Pul- monary Artery is nearly obliterated. 1383^ The Pulmonary Artery and Arch of the Aorta, with the Canalis Arteriosus still open, so as to admit a bristle. It ap- pears to have been taken from a young subject, but not from an infant. 1384 Heart of a Child, in which the Foramen Ovale is imperfectly closed. T. Callaway, Esq. 1385 Foramen Ovale open in the adult. The patient lived to the age of 29, stout and active. A Pulmonic attack induced great disturbance in the circulating system : she had great Dyspnoea, uni- versal lividity, and some Anasarca. From a patient of Dr. Babington's, in Martha's Ward. Old Museum Book, No. 51. Case of Hannah Lee, died Feb. 5, 1806. 1386 Foramen Ovale, imperfectly closed by a Cribriform Membrane: in the Adult. 1387 Heart of an Adult, in which the Fo- ramen Ovale is only closed by a Valvular Flap : the Auricles are both much distended. In the left, there is a large Coagulum, which, when re- cent, was semi-transparent: it adhered firmly to the Valvular Flap of the Fo- ramenOvale: it was obviously vascular, and admitted fine injection. The pa- tient was aged, and had nothing of the blue disease; but, some time before her death, had great oppression of chest, and Dyspnoea. — (See Prep". 2449.) 3d Green Irisp. Book, page 156. Case of Eliz. George.VASCULAR OR CIRCULATORY SYSTEMS. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom or whence de- rived. 1388 Sections of the Coagulum, from the preceding : dried and immersed in spirit oi turpeniiuc, w anew no vao cularity. 1388^ Heart, of which the Cavities are dilated, with thinning of the Parietes, espe- cially those of the right Ventricle, which consist more of fat than of muscular fibre. 1389 Heart, in which there is great Hyper- trophy of the left Ventricle, without disease of the Pericardium or Valves. 1390 Extreme Hypertrophy, with dilatation, principally affecting the right side of thp hpart with Hispasp of thp IVFifrnl and the Aortic Valves. Old M\iseum Book, JNO. J-0/. 1391 Heart, in which there is considerable dilatation and thirkpninfr of tli*» rirrht Ventricle. 139r ^ Heart, enlarged, with its apex blunted; chiefly in consequence of the dilata- tion of the right Ventricle, the Pariet es of which are somewhat thickened and altered in texture : the right Auricle is likewise dilated. From a young man, 22 years of age, who had la- boured for some months under palpi- tation, anxiety, and Dyspnoea, with effusion into thp l^hnrnv 6th Green Insp. Book, page 32. Dr.Babington, and Dr. Hodgkin.THE HEART, AND DESCRIPTION. • Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1392 Heart, in which there is Hypertrophy and dilatation of the left Ventricle, and dilatation of both Auricles with- out adhesion of the Pericardium ; and little, if any, Valvular disease. The patient, about 55 years of age, died very suddenly : he had lone: been af- fected with Dyspnoea, but was not Anasarcous. 3d Green Insp. Book, page 79. Case of Joseph Lake. 1392* Heart of a Foetus, in which the sides are transposed: the Aorta arising from the right Ventricle. 1393 Heart, in which the Cellular structure in the substance of the left Ventricle is partially thickened and indurated : the Aortic Valves nearly closed by bony matter almost filling their cups. The Aorta is loaded with bony matter; and the Pericardium appears to have been generally adherent. 4th Green Insp. Book, page 7. Case of Jas, Taylor. 1394 Ulceration of the internal Membrane of the Heart: very doubtful. 1395 Remarkably small Heart, with adherent Coagula, of considerable size, in both Auricles. The Coagula have a par- tially lamellar structure : whether any commencement of organization had taken place is doubtful, A disposition to the formation of similar Coagula in the Ventricles. Aorta stained with blood. 1396 Rounded bodies, forming Cysts, pro- bably Coagula, in which organization had commenced, adhering to the inner surface of the Heart, near the Auriculo-Ventricular opening.VASCULAR OR CIRCULATORY SYSTEMS. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1396" Enlarged Heart, the Parietes of which are remarkably attenuated near the Apex of the left Ventricle : the Carniffi Columnae appear to be ruptured, and there is a considerable Coagulum formed at this part. (Aneurism of the Heart.) From a Gentleman rather above middle age. He died very sud- denly, in a state of Syncope, of vrhich he had had two or three previous at- tacks. Miscellaneous Iiisp. Book. Dr.Babington. 1397 Scrofulous Tubercles, developed in the substance of the Ventricles. The patient had Scrofulous disease of the Sternum, for which he was a pa- tient under Mr. Forster. He died sud- denly, out of the Hospital. Mr.J.Stocker. 1398 Small and apparently Scrofulous Tu- bercle on the Mitral Valve. From a patient of Dr. Curry's, in Lydia'sWard. Old Museum Book, No. 112. 1399 Heart, with Scirrhous deposit in the substance of the Ventricles. The pa- tient had the same disease in other parts ; viz. in the Kidneys ; and in the Leg, which was amputated for malig- nant ulceration. — (See Prep"\ 1248, 1641, and 1658.) Mr. Clark. 1400 Heart and portion of Lung, affected with Fungoid disease. From a young woman, whose Thigh had been ampu- tated for Osteo-sarcoma a few months before her death. —(See Prcp"M163 and 1749*.) Miscellaneous Insp. Book. Case of Ann Goodwin. Mr. J. Hilton. NTHE HEART, AND DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. (2.) Diseases of the Auriculo-Fentricular Valves. 1401 Thickening and Contraction of the Ten- dinous Curtains and Cords of the XllCUOUlU. VctlVCa X lie lTJ.ltIcli VdlVc is also much diseased. The Auricles were much dilated. ened; and the openings, especially the left, much contracted. 1403 Thickening', apparently with Bony de- posit, of the Pulmonary Artery, in the ncicriiDCJurnuuu ui its vdivc&j wui^ii are not implicated. Aorta much thickened. 1404 Abundant Osseous deposit in the Mi- tral Valve, with great enlargement of the Auricles, thickening of the left ventricle, ana aiidiciiiun ui its caviLj . Aortic Valves thickened. From a pa- tient of Dr. Bright's. 3d Green Insp. Book, page 5. Case of Eliz. Winch. 1405 Thickening of the Mitral Valve, with mucH rjony ueposii. ±iie xTxcmuitiuc covering it appears to have given way, and favoured the adhesion of Coagula. 1406 Heart, in which both Ventricles are di- lated, and the right considerably thick- 6ii6Ci- Xn6 ivxiirai vuivc lo iiiiik^n thickened by Bony deposit, and the opening nearly closed. 5th Green Insp. Book, page 14. Case of John George. 1407 Mitral Valve, ossified, and the opening much contracted. C. A. Key's Record of Inspections. Case of Joseph M'Causland.VASCULAR OR CIRCULATORY SYSTEMS. N". DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1408 Heart, g-reatly enlarged, with much thickening of the Mitral Valve and Tendinous Curtains : the Pericardium generally adherent. From a patient of Dr. Bright's, in Naaman's Ward. He died suddenly, after too full a meal. 4th Green Insp. Book, page 48. Case of J. Heaps. 1408' Part of the Heart and Arch of the Aorta: the left Auricular Ventricular opening nearly closed by Bony deposit: the lendmous Cords greatly thickened : the Aorta healthy, its Valves rather thickened. Miscellaneous Insp. Book. Dr. Bright, and Mr.Mouutford. 1408" Heart, greatly enlarged ; chiefly from the thickening and dilatation of the left Ventricle : the Mitral Valve nearly closed by a large irregular Bony mass deposited in one of its cul'tains : the Pericardium universally adherent: the production of inflammation is in the form of three distinct layers. From a patient under the care of Dr. Ad- dison, who had asserted the existence of the Valvular disease. 5 th Green Insp. Book, page 164, and the Clinical Kep. Case of T. Benson. 1409 Section of the Heart, shewing its Valves. The Mitral thickened, and ossified. 1410 Portion of the Heart, dried and im- mersed in spirit of turpentine ; shew- ing Ossification of the Mitral Valve, and much Bony deposit in the Aorta. 1/111 inickened Mitral Valve, almost obli- terating the opening. Left Auricle enlarged. 1412 Heart; shewing a thickened and ossified state of the Mitral and Aortic Valves, producing great contraction of the openings. The Pericardium not ad- herent, and the heart much less en- larged than is usual with such a state of the Valves; but the Ventricles are somewhat dilated. N 2THE HEART, AND DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or wliened de- rived. 1413 Extreme case of contracted Annulus Venosus. (3.) Diseases of the Semilunar Valves-.. 14-14 The Aortic Valves,, thickened, with commencing Ossification. 1415 Thickened and contracted Aortic Valves, 1416 Large soft Excrescences (Vegetations)- about the lips of the Aortic Valves. 1417 Large soft Excrescences (Vegetations) about the Aortic ValveSi^ 1418 Vegetation along the whole margin of the Aortic Valves, with rupture of one of them : it appears to depend on dis- i I 1 ease of the lining membrane. The pati€nt died of dropsy. 1419 Aortic Valves, much thickened and con- tracted. 1420 Osseous Excrescences within the Cup- like Cavities of the Aortic Valves : the Mitral Valve partially ossified. From a patient affected with Fungoid dis- ease oi tne oiomacii, jviuucyb, aiiii Renal Capsules.—(See Preparations from the same subject, Nos. 1462, 1812, 2022.) Red Insp. Book, page 168. Case of joun iyanici.VASCULAR OR CIRCULATORY SYSTEMS. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1421 Aortic Valves, much thickened with Bony deposit: they are united in the form of a Cupola over the mouth of the Aorta : the opening is extremely contracted : the Heart was greatly en- larged, especially the right Auricle and the left Ventricle. From William OcLuUt::Ia, dgcU jj. XJ.C riau iicvc-i well, since he had Hooping Cough at two years of age. Old Museum, Book, No. 276. and 4th Green Insp. Book, page 159. Case of \\f 5i!>nHprQ 1422 Aortic Valves, retroverted, with an ap- pearance of laceration at the attach- ment of one of them. The specimen in which this morbid appearance was first nntiopH hv C A Kev Esa The patient had enlarged Heart, and was Anasarcous. 1423 Aortic Valves retroverted, with appear- ance of laceration at the attachment of one of them : the Heart was much en- larged, the Pericardium not adherent. J. lie IJctLlCllL U.XCU WlLll lllgCllt/ X CULLIXdl affection, in part dependent on disease of the Pleura and Lungs. Red Insp. Book, page 181. Case of W. Asiiton. 1424 Retroversion of the Aortic Valves. This preparation was supposed to have be- longed to Edward Brownless, who died in Lazarus' Ward, under Dr. Cholmeley, affected with Anasarca and great Dyspnoea, and in whom this state of the Valves was observed. This preparation greatly resembles the state of the Aorta and Vales in Brownless, as will oe been oy me inspection Joook ; but appears to have been taken from another patient, some months earlier. Red Insp. Book, page 219. Case of E. Brownless.THE HEART, AND DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1425 Retroversion of the Aortic Valves, with slight appearance of laceration at the point of attachment. The Aorta much dilated, and loaded with Bony matter. The patient was Anasarcous,had great anxiety, with expectoration of San- guinolent Sputa; impulse of the heart strong and frequent, without bruit; death sudden: Retroversion predicted. 2d Green Insp. Book, page 20. Case of Mrs. TunniclifFe, Oisp. Patient* Dr. Hodgkin, and E. Cock, Esq. 1426 Aortic Valves thickened: the middle one appears notched near its left ex- tremity, with some degree of Retro- version : tliick Bony patches in the coat of the Aorta. 2d Green Insp. Book, page 148. Case of J.Richardson. 1427 Attachment of the Semilunar Valves of the Aorta, elongated, and forming a fleshy column, as in cases of Retro- version ; of which there is only a slight degree in the present example. 1427^^ Heart, with the left Ventricle greatly di- lated : one of the Aortic Valves retro- verted. The Aorta itself dilated, and loaded with Bony matter. Miscellaneous Insp. Book, T. Bevan, Esq. Queen Street. 1427'' Another specimen of greatly enlarged Heart, with thickening, and slight re- troversion of the Aortic Valves; with much Bony deposit in the Aorta. See the Note which accom- panied the Specimen. C. Fagg, Esq. Hythe. 1428 Echymosed Heart, from a patient af- fected with Ascites.VASCULAR OR CIRCULATORY SYSTEMS. N". DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. ijy wiioni presented, or whence de- rived. (4.) Diseases of the Pericardium. 1429 Pericardium, affected with recent in- flammation from Rheumatism : the effusion highly plastic, and tending to the production of perfect Cellular Membrane. Dr. Whiting. 1430 Heart, affected with recent Pericarditis. ^OlOUlcCl OlZc dUUccllo lU IldVC oLdlllcu, rather than to have injected, the effused Lymph, which appears to be of a plastic character. Old Museum Book, ISO* XDU. Mr. Davy's Collection. B. Harrison, Esq. 1431 Enlarged Heart, with universal old Cellular Membranous Adhesions of the Pericardium. From a patient of Dr. Cholmeley's, in the City. Old Museum BOOK, No. 131. 1432 Old Adhesion of the Pericardium to the Heart: the bond of union consisting of dense Cellular Membrane. Old Museum Book, No. 173. 1433 Enlarged Heart: with old and extensive Adhesion of Pericardium. The bond of union a short Cellular Membrane. Old Museum Book, No. 156. 1434 Portion of Pericardium, with recently- formed Layers of False Membrane: organization not commenced. 1435 Portion of Pericardium, covered with coagulated effusion,in which the plastic form appears to predominate. .THE HEART, AND DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1436 Heart of a Child, affected with Pericar- ditis. The Pericardium appears to be thickened by previous attacks: the recent eriusion is in the form of loose opaque coagula, and appears very in- organizable. Miscellaneous Insp. Book. T. Callaway, Esq. 1437 Heart, covered by a thick layer of loose inorganizable Coagulable Lymph. The Pericardium greatly thickened. (See dilated Bronchi, No. 1718, from the same subject.) A patient of Dr. Hodgkin's, at the London Dispensary. 2d Green Insp. Book, page 140. Case of a Boy 11 yrs. of age. Dr. Hodgkin. 1438 Enlarged Heart, covered with inorga- nizable Coagulable Lymph: 18 ounces of effusion, resembling Pus, were found in the Pericardium. The patient was five years of age : he had been ailing for about three years : his last illness was upwards of three months' dura- tion. Old Museum Book, No. 4. Case of J. Latimer. 1439 Heart of a man, who was a patient of Dr.Curry's : it is greatly enlarged, and covered with a thick and extensive layer of coagulable effusion,apparentIy little susceptible of organization. The Pericardium is much thickened. The effects of Rheumatism. Old Museum Book, No. 155. 1440 Enlarged Heart: the Pericardium ap- pears to have been the subject of renewed Pericarditis; the effusion at first being more plastic than subse- quently. 1441 Enlarged Heart, with inflammation of the Pericardium ; the effused Lymph possessing a moderate susceptibility of organization, and producing a shaggy coat. Old Museum Book, No. 149./ IVASCULAR OR CIRCULATORY SYSTEMS. N". DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1442 Heart, affected with Pericarditis : the etTused matter similar to that in the preceding number, but more recent. An attempt at injection, with coloured size, partially and imperfectly suc- cessful. 1443 Recent acute Pericarditis. The layer of Lvmph on the Heart is intermediate J I , between the plastic and the inorga- nizable form of effusion. T. Hardy, jun. Esq. 1444 Heart, much enlarged, and thickly co- vered with coagulable effusion from Pericarditis : that nearest to the Heart appears to be almost or altogether in- susceptible of organization ; whilst the most superficial, or that which lines the cavity, is of a firmer texture, and in the form of minute Scabrous Villi. Old Museum Book, No. 149. 1445 Enlarged and thickened Heart. The Pericardium, which contained about three ounces of clear fluid, lined by a false membrane, rendered rough by papilliform projections : the Aorta presenting several patches of soft Ar- theromatous deposit, raising the in- ternal membrane. Some of the Bron- chial Glands much enlarged and tu- berculous, though the Lungs were free from such deposit. There was copious recent effusion into thePleura. The patient died of dropsy, which had to depend on disease of the Kidneys. 3d Green Insp. Book, p. 75 ; and Dr. Bright's Book, Part I. Case of W. Roddick.THE HEART, AND DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1446 Scabrous adventitious Membrane, lining the close and reflected Pericardium, with several bridles of adhesion. The patient, about 14 years old, affected wiin Ascites and large indurated JLiver (see No. 1910), and mottling deposit in the Kidneys. 3(1 Green Insp. Book, page 22. Dr. Bright's Work, Part I. Clinical Reports. Case of W. Hobson. 1447 Heart, somevi^hat enlarged ; the Peri- cardium very generally adherent, and having detached Bony bodies appa- rently formed in the adventitious structure constituting the adhesions, and on the cellular structure about the base of the Heart. From a patient of B. B. Cooper, Esq., affected with Gangrene of the Leg. 2d Green Insp. Book, page 121. 1448 Heart, with large layer of Osseous de- posit beneath the close Pericardium, forming a complete but irregular ring around the base of the Ventricles; the apex continuing free. The pa- tient, Ellen Ryan, was affected with Ascites, and had been tapped 15 times. 1449 Fungoid Tubercles between the Peri- cardium and Pleura; taken from a man who died of Fungoid disease, affecting various parts of the body, and had been Paralytic from its effects on the iSpine.—(,oee 1 rep . iViCo, iv^.a, ij^'i, 1548, 1782, 1927, and 2012.) C. A. Key's Record of Inspections. Case of John Fenn.VASCULAR OR CIRCULATORY SYSTEMS. DESCRIPTION. 1 Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. DISEASES OF THE ARTERIES. (1.) Pulmonary Artery. 1450 Heart, in which the right Ventricle is dilated : the Pulmonary Artery larger than the Aorta, which is unusually small, especially beyond the arch. ^2 ^ Anrtfi, (md other Arteries of the greater Circulation. 1451 Arch of the Aorta, considerably dilated. The lining membrane appears to have given way at the inner side of the arch, and coagulum is formed at this part. Mr. Nisby. 1452 Much-dilated ascending Aorta, loaded with earthy matter, and ruptured to a considerable extent, causing instant death. The patient, a man passed the middle age, had been in India, and had been intemperate in the use of spirits. 1st Green Insp. Book, page 161. Mr. Linton. 1453 Aorta dilated, opposite the Bifurcation of the Trachea; and a similar but smaller dilatation at fVip moem-o through the Diaphragm. Old Museum Book, No. 15. Case of J. Spruhn.THE HEART, AND DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1454 Aorta dilated, loaded with brittle Bony matter, and affected with spurious Aneurism; the sac of which is situ- ated in the upper lobe of the left Lung, into which it Isurst. 3d Green Insp. Book, paee 17. Case of W. Riley. 1455 Aorta, inflamed, in a case of Hooping Cough. Dr. Burne. 1456 The ascending Aorta dilated : the in- ternal membrane rough and uneven, with opaque irregular spots behind it. Old Museum Book, No. 275. and 4-th Green Insp. Book, page 766. Case of Eliz.Redman. 1457 Arch of the Aorta, similarly affected ; but the patches larger, and more dis- tinct. Mr. Wood. 1458 Arch of the Aorta, and the Thoracic por- tion of the descending Aorta, loaded with large spots of Artheromatous and Ossific deposit: the lining mem- brane partially ulcerated. 1459 Portion of the Aorta ; the lining mem- brane rough and separating; with numerous small spots of deposit be- neath it. 1460 Portion of the Thoracic Aorta, with numerous spots of whitish deposit be- neath the lining membrane. 1461 Portion of the Thoracic Aorta, with nu- merous spots of white deposit beneath the lining membrane : some of the spots are ossified.VASCULAR OR CIRCULATORY SYSTEMS. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1462 Portion of the Aorta, with irregular spots of friable and Bony deposit beneath the lining membrane, which has separated from some of them. This patient had Fungoid disease of the Stomach.— (See N". 1812 ; and Renal Capsule, N". 2022. See also N°. 1420.) Red Insp. Book, page 166. Case of John Daniel. 1463 Portion of the Abdominal Aorta, loaded with Artheromatous deposit: the lining membrane in some parts destroyed. The Coeliac Artery nearly obliterated. —(See Prep". 1990.) 4th Green Insp. Book, page 60. Case of John Baldry. 1464 Artheromatous and Bony deposit be- tween the coats of the descending Aorta, near the origin of the Coeliac Artery, with partial detachment of the internal membrane. 1465 Thoracic and part of the Abdominal Aorta, with large and thick spots of white deposit, which, in some places, is of a Bony character. They are largest, and the Ossification most advanced, a little above the origin of the Coeliac Artery. There is some small partial destruction of the internal membrane. The patient had Gangrene of the Ex- tremities. Old Museum Book, No. 110* 1466 First portion of the Abdominal Aorta, with the Coeliac and EmulgentArteries. There are large spots of Artheroma- tous and Bony matter in the former, and considerable destruction of the internal membrane : both of the latter are ossified. Green Insp. Book, page Case of 1467 Ascending Aorta, with small Bony patches just above the Aortic Valves. Old Museum Book No. 124.THE HEART, AND DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. T~ ' By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1468 Thoracic and first part of the Abdominal Aorta, loaded with numerous spots of Bony matter; the lining membrane universally of a diffused deep red. 4th Green Insp. Book, page oU. Case of W. Sutmire. 1469 Arch of the Aorta, with large and ex- tensive patches of Bony matter. The patient died of mortified extremities, having disease m other Arteries. Dried, and immersed in spirit of turpentine. Old Museum Book, No. 110«*. 1470 Lower part of the Aorta and Iliac Ar- teries, extensively ossified. 1471 Lower part of the Aorta and common Iliacs, with numerous patches of Bony matter. 147P Lower part of the Aorta and the Iliacs, loaded with patches of Semi- cartilaginous, Artheromatous, and Bony matter: the lining membrane partially destroyed. 1472 Lower part of the Aorta, and com- mon Iliacs; in which diffused and ex- tensive Ossification has taken place. It appears to depend on the entire conversion of the fibrous coat into bone, rather than on the deposition of bony patches. T. Callaway, Esq.VASCULAR OR CIRCULATORY SYSTEMS. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1473 Aorta of a patient of Dr. Bright's: it is dilated at its commencement; has much ossified deposit in its coats; and is obliterated in two places, the one above, and the other below the Dia- phragm, by cauliflower-shaped masses of bony matter of very rapid formation. The patient had Haemoptysis; and (Edema of the Legs, with a tendency to Gangrene in the right Leg. 2d Green Insp. Boole. page 105. Case of Sam. Long. 1474 Aorta obliterated just above its Bifur- cation, by a firm fibrinous coagulum, which is continued into the lliacs: the Artery is otherwise diseased, and loaded with Bony deposit, ine Co- ronary Arteries are ossified. Green Insp. Book, 'page Case of - 1475 A 1 I'l ill 1 " J. Aorta obliterated by Coagulum, just above its Bifurcation. Dublin Hospital Reports, No. 130. Mr. Crampton. 1476 Aorta of a Dog, tied. 1477 Aorta of a Dog, on which a ligature had been applied two or three days. (Coats divided.) 1477^ Spine of a Dog; with the Aorta, on * which a ligature had been applied. Several large Anastomoses of the Juumbar Arteries, by which the circu- lation was maintained. Sir Astley Cooper.THE HEART, AND DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1478 Aneurism of the Aorta, bursting into the Pericardium. 1479 Another specimen. Mr. Bossy, Woolwich. 1480 Another specimen. 1480" Base of the Heart and Arch of the Aorta; with its branches affected with Aneurism, which burst into the Peri- cardium. 5th Green Insp. Book, page 81. Case of a Female in Willis's Factory. 1481 Heart, with the large Arterial Trunks ; shewing Aneurism of the ascending Aorta perforating the Sternum and Ribs : a dry preparation.' 1482 Aneurism of the ascending Aorta and Arch, opening into the CEsophagus. It burst whilst the patient was at the water-closet: he vomited blood, and died in a quarter of an hour. Old Museum Book, No. 73. Case of R. Entwistle. 1483 Aneurism of the Aorta; which burst during the operation for Popliteal Aneurism. 1484 Large Aneurism of the ascending Aorta. 1 1485 Aneurism of the Aorta pressing on the Trachea: it produced symptoms of diseased Larjnx. C. A. Key was re- quested to perform Bronchotomy; which he refused to do, suspecting Aneurism.VASCULAR OR CIRCULATORY SYSTEMS. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1486 Dry preparation of Aneurism of the ascending Aorta and Arteria Innomi- nata: the tumor of considerable size, and appearing externally to the right of the Sternum between the Ribs.which are partially absorbed. 1487 Dry preparation of Aneurism of the Arch of the Aorta, pressing on the Trachea. An opening was made into the Larynx, with a view to relieve the symptoms of suffocation. S. Wray,Esq. Fleet Street. 1488 Aneurism of the Arch of the Aorta. It produced no tumor externally; but, from the symptoms, the existence of the Aneurism was predicted by Dr. Bright, under whose care the patient was admitted into the Hospital. 1489 Aneurism of the Arch of the Aorta, dis- placing the Sternum, and producing absorption of a part of the first Rib, Dy wnicn It IS penetrated. The Man was affected with Empyema, of long standing. ° 2d Green Insp. Book, page 152. Case of a Dispensary Patient in tfie Kent Road. Dr. Whiting. 1489^ Aneurism of the Aorta, just beyond the i\rcn, Durstmg into the Upper Lobe of the Lung: tiie Aneurismal Sac lined by the inner Membrane of the Artery. 4th Green Insp. Book, page I'io. Case of a Woman, aet. 54. From Hertfordshire. 1490 Aneurism of the lower part of the Arch of the Aorta: from a patient of Dr. Laird's. There are two very minute openings in the diseased Aorta, ap- parently produced by two Spiculic of Bony matter in a Bronchial Gland : the blood passed into the posterior Mediastinum and right Pleura: the Artery was sound, except at these openings. C. A. Key's Insp. Book, page C). Case 7. oTHE HEART, AND 1497 Another specimen. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 14.90" Aneurism of the inferior portion of the Thoracic Aorta : a wet preparation. 1490« Dry preparation of Aneurism of the descending Thoracic Aorta, producing absorption of the Ribs. From a sub- ject obtained for Lecture. H. B. Cooper, Esq. 1491 Dry preparation of a large Aneurism of the ascending Aorta, which occasioned considerable absorption of the Ribs and Vertebrae. • 1 A QO Aiicuriam oi me Aona, jusl ueiow Liie Arch. From a patient of Dr. Curry's : supposed to die withAnginaTrachealis. V^IU IVl UScUIll Book, No. 127. 1493 Aneurism of the Aorta, bursting into the CEsophagus. 1494 Dry preparation of Aneurism of the descending Aorta, producing absorp- tion of two Ribs, and part of the bodies of three Vertebrie. • 1495 Aneurism of the Abdominal Aorta ; shewing the internal coat of the Ar- tery, forming part of the Sac : it burst posteriorly. 1496 Portion of Aneurismal Coagulum.VASCULAR Oil CIRCULATORY SYSTEMS. 0 2 DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 14-98 Portion of Aneurismal Coagulum. 1499 Another specimen. 1499^ Thin Section of a Coagulum, from Popliteal Aneurism. Amputated by C. A.Key, Esq. It shews the difterence of structure exhibited by the Layers. (See Prep". 1519*.) (3.) Coronary Artei-y. 1500 Coronary Arteries, ossified; from a sub- ject dissected at St. Thomas's Hospital, by T. Cox. Old Museum Book, No. 272. Dr. Cox. 1501 Aneurism of the Arteria Innominata, pressing on the Trachea : it produced Bronchitis, and suffocation. • 150P Aneurism of the Carotid Artery. The Man was operated upon, and died of Haemorrhage from the upper part of the Artery. Miscellaneous Insp. Book. Mr. Wood, Birming-ham. 1502 Varicose Aneurism: injected. Mr. Sampson. 1503 Wound of the Ulnar Artery, from com- pound dislocation of the Ulna. Old Museum Book, No. 113.THE HEART, AND 1513 Another specimen. DESCRIPTION. Reference to By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1504 Ossified Artery, probably the Radial. 1505 Ossified Femoral Artery ; removed by Mr. Travers, fi-om a subject who, for years, had had ulcerated Legs. Old Museum Book, No. 37. Short History. 1506 Femoral Artery, plugged up with Co- agula. The patient died with morti- fied extremities. Old Museum Book, No. 110. 1507 Ulceration into the Femoral Artery, from Phagedenic Bubo. From a pa- tient of Sir Astley Cooper's. Old Museum Book, No. 107. Case of A. Jennings. 1508 UlceratedFemoral Artery, from a slough- ing Bubo. —1— 1509 Femoral Artery, ruptured in compound fracture. 1510 Gun-shot wound of the Femoral Artery. A slug struck the man in the thigh : he died with Gangrene of the parts surrounding the wound. C. A. Key's Inspections. Case of J. Dradge. Femoral Artery and Vein, from a stump. 1512 Artery of a stump.VASCULAR OR CIRCULATORY SYSTEMS. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1514 Femoral Artery, on which a ligature had been applied thirty-four days. 1515 Femoral Artery and Vein: the former tied twenty-four days. 1516 Posterior Tibial Artery, obliterated: Pe- roneal Artery enlarged. The patient had malignant disease of the Leg. 1517 Lacerated Interosseal and punctured anterior Tibial Artery, from compound fracture. Amputated by C. A. Key.Esq. 1518 Dried preparation, in which the Femoral Artery, and most of its branches down to the extremity of the Tibia, are ossi- fied. 1518* Femoral, Tibial, and Peroneal Arteries, extensively ossified. Mr. Deane. 1519 Femoral Aneurism, with the external Iliac Artery tied : the Coagulum was loosened by Rheumatic inflamma- tion, which produced ulceration of the Elbow-joint: secondary Haemorrhage occurred in the seventh week : a small Aneurism was found at the Bifurca- tion of the common Iliac. From a patient of J. Morgan, Esq. 1519* A Knee, amputated by C. A. Key, Esq. for a large Aneurism of the Popliteal Artery. The Sac is nearly filled with firm, dense, and laminated Coagula. ^.oee 1 rep . 1499 .) C. A. Key, Esq.THE HEART, AND Case of 0. J .V. N". DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. (4.) Pulmonary Artery. 1520 Laminated Fibrous Coa^rulum, from the Pulmonary Artery. The Vena Ports also filled with Coagula. (See Prep". 1528.) 1st Green Insp. Book page 118. Cose of M.A. Richardson. (5 ) Veins. 1521 Suppuration of the rio^ht Lateral Sinus. The patient had suffered great pain in the Ear, from which there had been a copious discharge. 1522 Lower portion of the Vena Cava and the Iliac Veins, obstructed with Co- agulum : the circulation was carried on by the enlarged Abdominal Veins. Vide 1523. Thepatient was admitted under Sir Astley Cooper, with Fungoid Testicle. (See Prep". 2357.) 1523 Enlarged Abdominal Veins, from a nnlipnt wHnsp Vpua dava and fom- mon Iliacs were obstructed. (See Prep"\ 1522, 1527, and 2357.) 1523^ Lower portion of the right common Iliac Vein and the internal and ex- ternal Iliacs, obstructed by Coagulum, in which organization appears to have commenced : a small Abscess formed within it, near the Bifurcation. From a Female who died of Phthisis; and whose Leg had been swollen ever since the birth of her last child, which took place several years before her death. C. A. Key's Record ol' Inspections.VASCULAR OR CIRCULATORY SYSTEMS. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1524 Obliterated Femoral Vein. The pa- tient had CEdema of the limb. 1525 Femoral Vein, obstructed by adherent Ci agula. From a patient affected with Phlegmasia Dolens. 1526 Obliterated Varicose Vein, apparently the Saphena Major. - 1527 Veins, slightly Varicose, and obliterated by Coagula: apparently branches of the Femoral. From a patient of Sir Astley Cooper's, affected with Fungoid Testicle, and whose Vena Cava and Iliacs were likewise tilled with Co- agula. (See Prep 1522,1533, & 2357 ) 1528 Vena Portae, obliterated by firm and adherent Coagula. The patient was af- fected with Ascites and general Dropsy: she had likewise while mottling dege- neration of the Kidney. (See Co- agulum from the Pulmonary Artery, No. 1520.) 1st Green Insp. Book, p. 118. Case of M A. Richardson. See Dr. Bright's Work, Part I. 1529 Injected specimen of Varicocele : a wet preparation. 1530 Varicocele, removed by C. A. Key, Esq. in 1826, at the patient's request, in consequence of the great pain that at- tended it: injected by Sir AstleyCooper. 1531 Vasa Pampiniformia, slightly Varicose, and filled with yellow wax. The Epi- didymis and Vas Deferens filled with mercury. Sir Astley Cooper. \THE HEART, AND N". DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. Ry whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1532 Dried preparation of Varicocele: the Veins filled with yellow wax; the Epididymis and Vas Deferens filled with mercury. Cooper. 1533 Dried preparation of Varicocele : the Veins filled with yellow wax. Sir Astley Cooper. 1534 icu |ji cpdi dtiuii c)i V <iriccjCcic . Liie Epididymis and Vas Deferens filled with mercury. Sir Astley Cooper. 1535 Varicocele: injected with wax. Sir Astley Cooper. 1536 Dry preparation of Varicocele : the Veins filled with yellow wax, and the Spermatic Artery with red. Sir Astley Cooper. 1537 Varicocele : the Veins injected with quicksilver. Sir Astley Cooper. 1538 Naevus Maternus of a Foot: it consists of a congeries of dilated Veins, which are filled with wax. Sir Astley Cooper. (6.) Lymphcttics, or Absovhents ctvd their Glands. 1539 Scirrhous Tumor, from the lower Jaw : it appears to have originated in an absorbent Gland. Removed by C. A. Key, Esq.VASCULAR OR CIRCULATORY SYSTEMS. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1540 Large Chronic Glandular Tumor. Re- moved successfully, from below the ang-le of the Jaw, by Sir Astley Cooper. fSee two Casts ■ the one reoresent- ing- the patient before, and the other after, the operation.) Absorbent Gland, much enlarged by Scrofula : removed, after death, from a little below the Jaw. The patient died of Peritonitis. 6th Green Insp. Book, page 42. Oase of T. Greenley. 1541 Much-enlarged Scrofulous Glands, from the Neck and Axilla of a patient of C. A. Key, Esq., in Snow's Fields. The enlargement appeared to depend on more organizable matter than the ordinary tuberculous deposit. 1st Green Insp. Book, page 87. Case of a pri- vate Patient. 1542 GlandulsB Concatinatae, enlarged, from Eungo'id disease, and ulcerated: an injected preparation. (SeePrep"M543 and 1556.) Red Insp. Book, page 196. Case of J. Husband. 1543 Glandulae Concatinatae, enlarged, from Fungoid disease, and ulcerated. (See Prep"''. L542 and 1556.) Red AIISJJ* UUUKf page 196, Case of J. Husband. 1544 Axillary Glands, from the left side, af- fected wiih Fungoid disease. In some, the Vascular Membrane forming the Cysts is of a nearly-black colour; ex- hibiting an appearance to Melanosis. (See Prep"\ 1028, 1042, 1449 154« 1782,1927,2012.) From a patient of Dr. Cholmeley's. C. A. Key's Record of Inspections. Case of John Fenn. 1545 Absorbent Gland, from the Axilla; af- fected with Fungoid disease; accom- panied by Melanosis.THE HEART, AND DESCRIPTION. Reference tu History, By whonn presented, or whence de- rived. 1546 Scrofulous enlarirement of a Rronoliial Gland, appearing to communicate with the Larynx. 1547 Bony Deposit on the Bronchial Glands. It accomnanied Scrofulous diseasp of the Vertebrse, in a Lad of 17 years of age. (See Prep", 1290.) Old Museum Book, jNO. to^. Case of J. R. Grist, 1548 Bronchial Glands, enlarged, from Fun- goid disease ; accompanied by an ap- proach to Melanosis, which is more particularly visible in the Membranous Cysts. From a patient of Dr. Cholme- ley's. (See Prep"\ 1028, 1042, 1449, 1344,1782, 1927, and 2012.) C. A. Key's Record of Inspections. Case of John Fenn. 1549 Absorbent Glands, behind the upper part of the Sternum, affected with Fungoid disease. 1OOKJ FuniToid Tumor annarentlv an ab- sorbent Gland, near the point of the Ensiform Cartilage. Absorbent Glands in the less Omentum enlarged by Fungoid disease. (See Prep". 15.55. 1661, 1937, and 2062.) Sir Asfley Cooper. 1552 Enlarged Mesenteric Glands. The pa- tient was not emaciated. 1553 Lacteals, dilated and obstructed by thick cheesy matter, and the corre- sponding Mesenteric Glands enlarged. They appear to accompany idceration of the Mucous Membrane of the In- testine. Red Insp. Book, page 225. Case of Thos. Briley. See Dr. Bright's Work, Part I.VASCULAR OR CIRCULATORY SYSTEMS. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1554 Lacteals on the Intestine of a Child, Histended with white matter : the Me- seuteric Glands greatly enlarged. Old Museum Book, 1554" Mesenteric Gland, converted into an irregular mass of Bony matter. (See rrep . lUo/, iUoo, <tW.T^, ^ujo, tiuu 2093.) 4th Green Insp. Book, page 64, i^oCO rs,t F. Hunter. 1555 Melanotic Tubercles in the Omentum. (SeePrep'M551, 1661, 1937, & 2062.) Sir Astley Cooper. 1555" Portion of a large Cyst from the Liver, •which contained several large Hyda- tids (Acephalocysts). The superfi- cial Absorbents of the Liver are seen greatly enlarged and tortuous : they communicate, by large lateral open- ings, with the interior of the Cyst. (See part of a similar Cyst from the neigh- bourhood of the Uterus.) 6th Green Insp. Book, page 70. Case of A. Williams. 1556 Absorbent Glands in the neighbour- hood of the Pancreas, affected with Fungoid Disease. (See Prep'. 1542, and 1543.) Red Insp. Book, page 196. Case of J. Husband. 1557 Absorbent Glands about the Aorta, in the Lumbar Reffion, greatly enlarg-ed by Scrofulous Deposit. 1558 Lumbar Glands, greatly enlarged, and much indurated ; having a Semi-carti- laginous structure, of nearly a white colour. From a patient of J.Morgan, Esn /Spp Prpn" '2000 ^ 1st Green Insp. Book, page 107. Case of J. Sinnott, 1.HEART, AND VASCULAR OR CIRCULATORY SYSTEMS. N". DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1358' Lumbar Glands, greatly enlarged, with accompanying disease of the bodies of the Vertebrae. 1559 Fungoid Tubercles, apparently depend- ent on Absorbent Glands about the Femoral Vein, which they have com- pressed and obliterated. •IOBSERVATIONS ON SECTION IV. OF PART II. There are few morbid appearances which are less adapted for illustration by means of Preparations, than those which have their seat in the Brain and Spinal Marrow. The chancres which these parts undergo from disease, are otten only cognizable by very slight deviations from the natural colour or consistence. Neither of these forms of altera- tion can be rendered permanent in a Preparation; smce the spirit, in which the part is preserved, gives a preter- natural hardness to the structure, whilst hght and other causes completely modify the colour. Those characters which, after the most favourable attempts, we may, to a certain degree, have succeeded in retaining, become, sooner or later, greatly obscured by the turbid condition of the spirit, resulting from the suspension of some of the fatty matter, of which the Medullary substance is m part composed. It is this difficulty in preserving the morbid appearances presented by the Brain and Spinal Marrow which gives so much importance and value to accurate drawings of Pathological specimens of the Brain.^ The Editor has much pleasure in announcing, that, in the Second Part of Dr. Bright's Work, which is now nearly ready for pubhcation, will be found faithful repi esentations of many of these morbid appearances : and several will pos- sess an additional and peculiar interest, as the counter- parts of some of the now-faded Preparations, contained in this Section of the Museum. It is almost needless here to remind the Student of the well-known and justly es- teemed works of Rostan and Lallemand, which contain the best descriptions which we as yet possess of the diseases of the Brain. Dr. Foville, to whose discoveries, respecting the anatomy of this organ, allusions have been made inOIISERVATIONS ON SECTION IV. OF PART II. the First Part of the Catalogue, is now engaged in a Work which will embrace the Pathology as well as the Anatomy and Physiology of the Brain. The following may be pointed out as some of the most interesting Preparations in this Section: 1572*, 1573, 1574, 1575, 1576% 1576«, 1576^ 1576°, 1589, 1594, 1602, and 1604. Amongst the Preparations of diseased Integuments, may be noticed, as belonging to this Section—although, on account of its size, it has been placed with the Miscellaneous on the Ground Floor—No. 967, a very fine specimen of Elephantiasis affecting the Foot; with which, through the kindness of Sir Astley Cooper, the Collection has been enriched by R. C. Thomas, Esq. of Barbadoes. In this part of the Section may also be observed 1621 and 1622, and several injected Preparations made by Sir Astley Cooper, illus- trative of Sphacelus affecting the Skin. 1666, 1667, and 1668, specimens of Fungoid disease affecting the Nasal Cavities, concur in illustrating the ten* dency which the disease, when so situated, has to extend , to the anterior and lower part of the middle Lobes of the Brain. 1669 is a good specimen of Melanosis of the Eye. The exciting cause of the affection was, in this case, supposed to be the violent effects of retching, during a sea-voyage. 1669*, and 1669", Ears of Children who had been deaf and dumb, exhibit, nevertheless, no marked deviations from the natural state. The Editor has been equally un- successful in his attempts to ascertain the cause of Deaf- ness, in the examination of the Ears of other individuals who had been similarly deficient in the sense of hearing. In one instance, the Membrana Tympani was perforated on one side; and on both it appeared to be placed in a more horizontal position than is quite natural. In another case, the Ossicula Auditds were restrained by preterna- tural membranous bands. He has never seen any trace of the caseous matter which has been described as causmg Deafness, by filling up the Tympanum. In every instance, the Labyrinth was to all appearance healthy, and contamed a limpid colourless fluid.OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION IV. OF PART 11. In the last division of this Section, namely, among the Preparations of the Tongue and Tonsil Glands, are, (1670,) a portion of Tongue, weighing two ounces two drachms and a half, removed in consequence of Chronic enlarge- ment of the organ, several specimens of Cancer of the Tongue, and a Calculus, which was separated, during life, from one of the Tonsil Glands.iSECTION IV. THE NERFOUS SYSTEM, AND ORGANS OF THE SENSES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. (1.) Spinal Cord. 1560 Abscess in the Medulla Spinalis, in the inferior part of the Dorsal Region. The bodies of the Vertebrae appear to be somewhat affected with Scrofu- lous Disease. Old Museum Book, No. 128. Dr. Marcet, and Sir Astley Cooper. 1561 Portion of the Medulla Spinalis, with its Membranes injured by fracture of the Vertebraj. Green Insp. Book, page Case of 1561' Spinal Marrow; of which the lower part of the Cervical, and the upper part of the Dorsal portions, have been crushed by an injury to the Vertebrae. From a patient of B. B. Cooper, Esq. Green Insp. Book, page Case of 1562 Lower portion of Spinal Marrow and Cauda Equina. From a person who died from injury to the Vertebrae. Green Insp. Book, page Case ofTHE NERVOUS SYSTEM. AND DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. Dy whom presented, or whence de- rived. (2.) Brain and Cerebellum. 1563 Congenital Hernia Cerebri, with Mal- formation of the Nose. 1563^ Integuments from the Head of a Child, two years old, affected with Congenital Hernia Cerebri. A Seton had been passed through the Tumor, the marks of which are visible. (See Cast, and Prep\ 1055A ) 1564 Hernia Cerebri, from injury: ligature applied. From a patient of J. Morgan, Esq. The Bone was fractured and depressed, producing symptoms of compression, which were immediately relieved by the Trephine. The child did well for about a month, when symptoms of compression returned. An Abscess was found in the Brain, connected with the injury. 1565 Abscess, or softening, of the right Hemi- sphere of the Brain, consequent to Apoplexy. The patient died fifteen days after the seizure: he had some degree of Paralysis, was extremely irritable and passionate, and frequently had difficulty of speech. Old Museum Book, No. 13. Case of John Welsh. 1566 Loss of Substance in one of the Convo- lutions of the Brain, probably from softening: no Cerebral symptoms had been noticed. 4ORGANS OF THE SENSES. N°. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By wliotn presented, or whence de- rived. 1567 Apoplectic Clot in the substance of the Cerebrum : quite recent. 1568 Apoplectic Clot in the left Lateral Ventricle; with laceration of the sub- stance of the Brain: recent. .. 1569 Brain, extensively lacerated, from Apo- plectic effusion. Sir Astley Cooper. 1570 Apoplectic Effusion in the substance of the Brain ; communicating externally, by laceration. 1571 Large Apoplectic Coagula in the sub- stance of the Cerebrum. 1572 Extensive Laceration of the Brain, with a large Coagulum : apparently Apo- plectic. 1572^ The upper part of the Brain of a Child; exhibiting very considerable Echy- mosis, in the form of thickly-placed minute points. They occur princi- pally near the surface of the Orcan: the longitudinal Sinus, and the Veins leading to it, were filled with Coagula. The Child, about four years of age, had Cerebral symptoms for some time before his death, and had a great dis- position to strike his head againt sur- rounding objects. Dr. Bright, and Mr.Mountford 1573 Apoplectic Clot, imbedded in the sub- stance of the Brain. It appears to have been of some standing, and is surrounded by a yellow Cjst. 1574 Old Apoplectic Clots. The Coagulum has lost its colour, and is surrounded oy a yeiiow L/jst. irom JNurse lirnnt, of Accident Ward. The Plexus Cho- roides appears somewhat thickened. Sir Astley Cooper.THE NERVOUS SYSTEM, AND DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1575 Apoplectic Cell, lined by a membrane: of three years standinjr. 1575' A Scrofulous Tubercle, in the right anterior Lobe of the Brain of a Child. Mr. Ebenezer Smith. 1576 Larere Funffoid Tumor in thp unVi stance of the Brain : also a Fungoid Tumor on the Dura Mater. 1576" Softening of a portion of the left an- terior Lobe of the Brain; the parts immediately surrounding which, were indurated. From a patient of Dr. Bright's, in the Clinical Ward. (See Prep'^ 1576", and 1584.) 5th Green Insp. Book, page 78. Case of J. Mamage. 1576" Softening of the posterior Lobe of the Brain. From the same patient as the preceding. (See Prep"'. 1756* and 1584.) 5th Green Insp. Book, page 78. Case of J. Mamage. 1576' Tumor in the posterior Lobe of the left Hemisphere of the Brain. Miscellaneous Insp. Book. Case of — Sangster. 1576'' Fungoid Tumor, from the substance with Fungoid Testis and Hemiplegea. (See Lung and Testis.) Miscellaneous Insp. Book, page 15. Case of J. Sidney. 1577 Acephalocyst Hydatids, in the substance of the Brain-ORGANS OF THE SENSES. DESCRIPTION. to History. By wliom presented, or whence de- rived. 1577^ Portion of Brain, containing an Hydatid. E. Cock, Esq. 1577' A Section of the Brain; shewing Echy- mosed spots on the Corpus Callosum, from concussion. Taken from a young Woman, who had fallen down stairs. 6th Green Insp. Book, page 52. Case of Mary Morris. 1578 Laceration of the Brain, from Fracture. From a patient of C. A. Key, Esq. in Accident Ward. (See Prep"\ 10S6 and 1607.) Red Insp. Book, page 201. Case of Matt. Leary. 1579 Laceration of the Brain, from a Lad eleven years of age. He survived the accident, (a crush between two car- riages,) about two days, and retained consciousness for the greater part of the time. 1st Green Insp. Book, page 4. Case of ijuui. xiati. 1580 Laceiration of the Brain, and Effusion of Blood beneath the Dura Mater, irom concussion. _ 1581 Fractured Scull, with Abscess in the Brain. Trephined by Mr. Lucas. Book, No. 86. Abscess in the Cerebellum, arising irom disease in the Tympanum. WlU IVlUhcUlll Book, No. 116. Dr. Buxton. • pTHE NERVOUS SYSTEM, AND DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1583 Scrofulous Tubercle in the Cerebellum. (3 .) Coverings of the Brain. ■ 1584 Pia Mater, deeply injected, covering the upper part of one of the Hemispheres of the Brain. From a patient of Dr. Bright's, in the Clinical Ward. He had, likewise, Tumors in the Brain, with softening. (See Prep'". 1756* and 1756B.) 1585 Pia Mater, on which are some small spots of Ossific matter. (See P^ep"^ 1874 and 2077.) Old Museum Book, No. 7. Case of John Bailey. 1586 The upper part of the Brain, with its Membranes; shewing effusion of blood between the Dura Mater and the Brain, at the junction of the Hemispheres an- teriorly. From a man-servant to Mr. Peacock, who was tried at Kingston on su.spicion of having murdered him ; but his death was attributed to Apo- plexy. Old Museum Book, No. 145. 1587 Small Tumor, and Cyst, in the Plexus Choroides. From a man who was suImposed to be murdered by W. Pea- cock. (See the preceding Prepara- tion.) Old Museum Book, No. 207.ORGANS OF THE SENSES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1588 Cysts in the Plexus Choroides; erro- neously called Hydatids. Old Museum Book, No. 208. Dr. Laird. 1589 Brain, of which the lateral Ventricles are greatly dilated from Hydroce- phalus : the Septum Lucidum de- stroyed. From a patient of Dr. Bright's, 45 years of age. No sym- ptoms of Hydrocephalus had been ob- served. Case of — Holme. See Dr. Bright's Account of the Case. 1590 Lateral Ventricles, much dilated trom Hydrocephalus. i5yi Congenital Hernia of the Dura Mater; forming a pouch. 1592 Layer of Lymph, or recent false Mem- brane, between the Dura Mater and Cranium. Ihe Arachnoid surface ap- pears to have been likewise inflamed. 1593 Inflamed Dura Mater, from fractured Scull: coagulable Lymph effused be- tween it and the Cranium. 1594 Dura Mater, with numerous spots of Ossification: from an old Hydroce- phalic patient, Joseph Spearing, of the Dissecting Room at St. Thomas's. (See Prep". 1065.) p2THE NERVOUS SYSTEM, AND DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1595 Irregular masses of Bony Deposit, be- tween the layers of the Falx. 1 Mr. A. Dodd. 1596 Deposit of Bone, forming Spicula in the Falx. Old Museum Book, No. 142. 1597 Ossific Deposit between the layers of the Falx. 1598 Ossific Deposit between the layers of the Falx. From a patient of Dr. Bright's. The man died of Hydro- phobia. The Trachea was of a dark purple colour. 4 1599 Small spots of Bony Deposit on the Dura Mater. 1600 Portion of Dura Mater, with patches of Ossific Matter; taken from an Ideot. Given to Dr. Ferguson by Professor Mayer, when at Bern, Jan. 31,1817. Dr. Ferguson. 1 Am IDUI Fungoid Tumors on the Dura Mater, with the corresponding portion of the Cranium. 1602 Fungoid growth from the Dura Mater. From a man who had received, about five years preriously, a severe blow on the fore part of the head. 1st Green Insp. Book, page 61. Dr. Whiting.ORGANS OF THE SENSES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1603 Fungoid Tumor on the inner surface of the Dura Mater: it occasioned a considerable depression in the sub- stance of the Brain, but no remark- able symptoms. 1604. A very large Fungoid Tumor, attached to the inner surface of the Dura Mater. From a patient of Dr. Bright's, of about 50 years of age: it weighed between eight and nine ounces. See Dr Briirht's Account of the Case. Dr. Bright. 1605 Coagulable Lymph effused imder the Dura Mater. From a patient of C. A. Key, Esq., admitted with Lacera- tion of the Scalp. He did well for two weeks: after which he became coma- tose and had partial Paralysis, and the wound assumed an unhealthy ap- pearance. He was Trephined, and matter was found beneath the bone: he died about the fifteenth day. 1606 Blood extensively effused between the Dura Mater and Cranium. From a patient of J. Morgan, Esq. who was labouring under symptoms of com- pression and concussion, occasioned by a fall upon his head : he survived twelve hours, There was a fracture through the base, with laceration of the Middle Artery of the Dura Mater. 1607 Dura Mater, torn; from fracture of the Cranium, with displacement of the Os Frontis. (SeePrep^ 1086 and 1578.) Red Insp. Book, page 201. Case of Matt. Leary. 1608 Blood effused between the Dura Mater and Cranium, with fracture of the bone. Old Museum Book, No. 82.THE NERVOUS SYSTEM, AND DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1G09 Part of the left Hemisphere of the Brain; shewing Abscess, and injection of the Pia Mater, with a portion of the Dura Mater lacerated, and partially covered with coagulable Lymph; and also a portion of the Cranium, in which exfoliation appears to have commenced. From injury. Miscellaneous Insp. Book. Case by Dr. Alderson. Dr. Alderson. 1610 Portion of the Scalp, much thickened by puriform effusion; from Erysipelas. 1611 Ulceration of the Scalp, with perfora- tion of the Cranium. Old Museum Book, No. 94. Mr. Le Cocq, Guernsey. 1612 Coagulable Lymph between the Ten- don of the Occipito-frontalis and Peri- cranium. Ihe patient had Lpileptic Fits subsequent to the accident which led to the deposit. (4.) Nerves. 1613 One of the Optic Nerves, much smaller than the other, posteriorly to the junction. 1614 Portion of Nerve, probably of the up- per extremity, from a jaundiced per- son.ORGANS OF THE SENSES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. tjy WIlOlll presented, or v. hence de- rived. 1615 A Splinter of Teak-wood, removed r tu« r>f thp Thumb of a irom tne uaii oi mc xnumu u. man labouring under Tetanus, by C. A. Key, Esq. — 1616 (jun-snot Wounu, mjuriug tne vyuLuia. tor Nerve. The- ball passed through the Rectum. (See Prep". 1892.) Old Museum liook. No. 130. 1617 Tr"r.iTrvfyomitipc nf l^frvps from a JcinlarffeQ-CiXiremiiica oi i^civco, lAum a» Stump, after amputation above the Knee. 1618 Nerves of a Stump, enlarged at their extremities from the Thigh. 1619 Enlarged Termination of the Nerves of a Stump. 1620 Head of the Fibula ; with a portion of the Peroneal Nerve, which was lace- rated in a case of compound disloca- tion of that Bone ; removed by C. A. Key, Esq. The man died in three weeks, from irritation.THE NERVOUS SYSTEM, AND N". DESCRIPTION. Reference 10 History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. (5.) Common Integuments. 1621 Portion of Skin from the Leg: the Cutis very thick and dense. Its surface is roughened by numerous Papillae, and the easily-separable Cuticle is much thickened, fissured, and friable; some- what like the old external bark of a tree. Ihis disease appears to have had some resemblance to Elephan- tiasis. Mr.Beaumont, Gravesend. 1622 Portion of Skin affected with Chronic Ulceration, from the Leg; shewing large prominent granulations ; new, but diseased Ciiticle ; and thickened and indurated subjacent Cellular HT 1 mi_ 1*1 111 Membrane. 1 he limb was amputated by C. A. Key, Esq. (SeePrep"M222, 1349, 1350, 1351, 1653.) 1623 Granulations removed from the Testicle. 1624 Sections of injected Granulations: dried, and immersed in spirit of turpentine. 1625 Ulcerated Cutis; injected, dried, and immersed in spirit of turpentine. 1626 Finger, of which the Skin is affected with Phagedenic ulceration, which ap- pears to have been caused by disease at the root of the Nail. 1627 Portion of Skin affected with Gangrene: • 1 11* ill J injected, and shewing the boundary between the dead and living parts.ORGANS OF THE SENSES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1628 Sphacelated Skin, beginning to separate. 1 f»9Q Portion of Skin, affected with Gan- grene : the neighbouring living parts injected: the line of separation very distinct. 1 CiQC\ lOoU Pnrfinn nf finharplated Skin: dried, and immersed in oil of turpentine: the neighbouring living parts injected. Sir Astley Cooper. Portion of Suhacelated Skin : dried, and immersed in spirit of turpentine: the neighbouring living parts injected. Sir Astley Cooper. 1632 Sphacelated Skin; dried, and immersed in spirit of turpentine: the neigh- bouring parts injected. Sir Astley Cooper. 1633 Portion of Sphacelated Cutis, from the Heel; injected, dried, and immersed in spirit of turpentine. Sir Astley Cooper. 1634 Portion of Skin, affected with Small Pox : injected. Sir Astley Cooper. 1635 Portion of Skin, affected with Small Pox, and ulcerated. 1636 Warty Carcinoma of the Skin, on the Dorsum of the Hand: injected. (See a Cast.)THE NERVOUS SYSTEM, AND DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1636* Portion of Skin from the upper and back part of the Thigh, aftected with malignant Warty Ulcerations, extend- ing to the subjacent muscles: removed by J, Morgan, Esq. The disease is since returned. 1637 Warty Carcinomatous Ulcer near the Heel: injected. Amputated by C. A. Key, Esq. • 1637* Malignant Ulceration of the Skin, about the first joint of the great Toe. 1638 Portion of Skin, affected with Warty Ulceration, probably of Carcinomatous character. 1639 Fungoid Tumor growing from the Cu- tis : the disease also affected the In- guinal Glands. 1640 Portion of the Skin, affected with Fun- goid disease.—The counterpart of the preceding. 1641 Warty Carcinomatous Ulceration of the Skin of the Leg, which has extended to the Bone, and nearly or quite di- vided the Tibia : amputated by C. A. Key, Esq. The patient died, out of the Hospital, with malignant disease of the Heart and Kidneys. (See Prep"'. 1248*, 1339, and 2055.) 1642 Incysted Tumors, formed by the en- largement of Sebaceous Follicles.ORGANS OF THE SENSES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. Incysted Tumor, formed by the en- largement of a Sebaceous Follicle; (from the Chin, or some other part co- vered by the beard.) 1644 Incysted Tumor, removed from the Cheek by Sir Astley Cooper. Book, No. 47. Case of John Coggan. 1645 Incysted Follicular Tumor, from the Breast: removed by C. A. Key, Esq. 1646 Cyst of a Follicular Tumor. 1647 Two Follicular Incysted Tumors, of considerable size. 1648 Follicular Incysted Tumor. 1649 Another specimen. 1649* Sebaceous Cyst, partially ossified: re- moved by C. A. Key, Esq. 1650 Hairy Naevus Maternus. 1651 Follicular Tumor in the Orbit; contain- inff Hair and Sebaceous matter : the Hair short, coarse, and nearly colour- less. 1652 A lock of Hair, matted together, from Plica Polonica.THE NERVOUS SYSTEM, AND No. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1652' An Excrescence of a horny character, about four inches in length, and ex- tremely contorted : removed from the Head of a Female, about 40 years of age, by Mr. Nunn of Royston. There were several large vessels about it; and considerable Haemorrhage attend- ed the operation. W. Nunn, Esq. Royston. 1652« Morbid growth of Nails. 1652" Adipose or Steatomatous Tumor; re- moved by Sir Astley Cooper- Old Museum Book, No. 179. 1652° Large Adipose or Steatomatous Tumor, in which Gangrene had commenced; removed by Sir Astley Cooper. Sir Astley Cooper. 1652" Steatomatous Tumor ; removed from the Groin, by Sir Astley Cooper. 1652^^ Steatomatous Tumor. 1652° Abscess in the Subcutaneous Cellular Membrane, from the Axilla : injected by Sir Astley Cooper. 1652" Portion of an Abscess in the Subcuta- neous Cellular Membrane, from the Axilla : injected by Sir Astley Cooper. 1653 Portion of Cellular Membrane, con- densed and indurated from Chronic Ulcer of the Leg. (See Prep"\ 1222, 1349, 1350, 1351, and 1622.)ORGANS OF THE SENSES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom piCbClllCU, or whence de- rived. 1654 Echymosis in the Subcutaneous ueiiuiar Membrane, from compound fracture. 1654' A Cyst, probably Subcutaneous. 1655 Encysted Tumor; containing chalky matter in the Subcutaneous Cellular Membrane. 1655* A bunch of small Cysts, of nearly the same character. 1656 Encysted Tumor in the Subcutaneous Cellular Membrane, probably of ma- lignant character. 1657 Tumor in the Subcutaneous Cellular Membrane; removed from above the outer Condyle of the Knee of a Woman in Charity's Ward, by B. B. Cooper, Esq. It appears to be Fungoid, but in an early stage. 1657* A Subcutaneous Fungoid Tumor. 1658 Small Tumor in the Subcutaneous Cel- lularMembrane.apparently of Fungoid character. 1659 Portion of Fungoid Tumor in the Sub- cutaneous Cellular Membrane, which has occasioned absorption and ulcera- tion of the integuments. 1660 Fungoid Tumors in the Subcutaneous Cellular Membrane in the Loins: they have made their way through the In- teguments. Removed, by operation, by T. Hartly, jun. Esq. ; from a young Woman aged 19 years. After more than two vpav^ tViP di^pasp hnc; nnt returned. T. Hardy, jun. Esq.11660^ 1661 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM, AND DESCRIPTION. Subcutaneous Fung:oid Tumor; moved from the Back. re- Reference - to History. MelanoidTubercles in the Subcutaneous Cellular Membrane. (See Prep''' 1551 1555, 1937, and 2062.) 1662 (6.) Nose. Old Museum Book, No. 44 & 103. 1663 1664 1665 Polypi of the Nose: one attached to the Os Unguis; the other to the Tur- binated Bone. Polypus from the Nose. Polypus, extracted from the Nose Polypus from the Nose. 1666 1667 1668 Old Museum | Book, No. 219. Fungoid Tumor, which appeared to have commenced in the Maxillary Antrum, and extended to the Middle Lobe of the Brain: some of the Bones of the face destroyed. Fungoid Tumors in the Nasal Cavities, but particularly in the Sphenoidal Cells : they have made their way to the Fossa for lodging the left middle Lobe of the Brain. 1st Green Insp. Book, page 14. Case of M. Simpson. I Nasal Cavities, on the right side, affect- ed with Fungoid Disease, which had extended towards the anterior part of the Middle Lobe of the Brain. There are also Fungoid Tumors on the Eyelid, near the inner Canthus. 4th Green Insp. Book, page 128. Case of M.Grossmith. 4th Green Insp. Book, page 127. Case of Eliz. Hearn. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. Sir Astley Cooper.ORCxANS OF THE SENSES. 16G9 1669 1669 DESCRIPTION. (7.) Eyes. Eye, affected with Melanosis ; for which it, was extirpated by C. A. Key, Esq. The patient died with Fungoid Liver, two years afterwards. Reference to History. 1670 1671 Miscellaneous Insp. Book, page 10. Case of John Ditmas (8.) Ears. Internal Ears of a Lad, deaf and dumb. Internal Ears of a Child, deaf and dumb. (9.) Tongue and Tonsil Glands. Portion of Elongated Tongue, weighing 2 ounces 2 J drachms (Troy) ; removed, by a ligature, from a patient of Sir Astley Cooper's, 53 years of age.— The enlargement followed Ptyalism for Syphilis : it was indolent, and little sensible; and had been of upwards of six months' duration. Greatly-enlarged PapillfB Maximse.— The same preparation exhibits chronic inflammation, with thickening of the Mucous Membrane of the Fauces and Larynx. 1672 Mortification of the Tongue, Gums, and Cheek, from Mercury; which appears to have been given for Hydrothorax. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1st Green Insp. Book, page 145. Old Museum Book, No. 58. Case of T. Lawrence, a Seaman. Dr. B. Babington.: Old Museum Book, No. 56. Case of J. Horncroft. Dr.Cholmeley,NERVOUS SYSTEM, & ORGANS OP SENSES. DESCRIPTION. Reference to History. By whom presented, or whence de- rived. 1673 Tongue, affected with Cancer; by which the greater part of the organ is destroyed: from apatient in Lazarus's Ward. — The case was of several months' standing. 1674 Root of the Tongue, affected with Car- cinomatous Ulceration. 1674" Extensive Ulceration and Sloughing (probably Carcinomatous) at the base of the Tougue and left Tonsil; com- municating with an external opening, and with the Os Hyoides, which is diseased. 1674" Tongue, almost destroyed by Carcino- matous Ulceration; which extends to the Fauces and Epiglottis. From a patient of C. A. Key, Esq. 5th Green Insp. Book, puge 156. Case of John Godden. 1675 Tonsil Glands, ulcerated from Scarle- tina. Dr. Burne. 1676 Tonsil, affected with Sloughing Ulcera- tion. 1677 Preparation, shewing extensive Slough- ing of the Tonsils, Velum, and Fauces, from Scarletina. Hjirflv niii Esq 1677* Calculus, consisting of Phosphate of Lime, spit up from the Tonsil Gland. Analysed by Dr. B. Babington. Mr. Hawkins.