42i WHI AYIL bathe the part with it frequently."— Then apply in oatmeal and bran poul- tice. mixed with a little finely powdered charcoal, salt and cayenne pepper. If the pain is great, sprinkle on the poul- tice, % oi. of laudanum. Keep it on as long as possible, and then steam. WHITE SWELLING.—The pain arising from white swellings, and other similar swellings, may be instantly eased thus :—Take the white of an egg, and beat it up with two tablespoonfuls of spring water; rub the part affected frequendy, but gently with the finger. WHITE SWELLINGS. Hold the part half an hour every morn- ing under a pump or tap. This cures all pains in the joints. It seldom fails. —Tried. Or, pour on it daily a stream of warm water. Or, a stream of cold water one day, and warm the next, and so on by turns. Use these remedies at first, if possible. It is like- wise proper to intermix gentle purges to prevent a relapse. Or, boiled nettles.— Wesley. WHITINGS, to Choose.—The firmness of the body and fins is to be looked to, as in herrings; their high season is during the first three months of the year, but they may be had a great part of it. WHITINGS, to Fry.—Wash and gut; skin them, and turn their tails into their mouths, to lie round. Season with salt and pepper; steep them in vinegar; flour them, and dip them in butter ; then fry them. WHITLOW.—This is an in- flammation of the fingers, thumb, or band, and is very painful. It is often situated at the root of the nail. The pain is attended with throbbings, swell- ing, and inflammation. It gradually progresses to suppuration. Steam the whole hand with bitter herbs for 30 or 40 minutes; bathe it frequently in strong hot ley water. The steaming must not be dispensed with. Apply a poultice of linseed and slippery elm, with a little salt and brandy. The formation of matter is indicated by a small white spot in the centre of the swelling. When this appears, open it with the point of a large needle or probe, that the matter may escape. Repeat if necessary. If proud flesh appeals, apply the vegetable caustic or chloride of potass, diluted. A poultice of powdered hops is very effectual to relieve pain. Attend to the general health, by giving aperients, tonics, and nutritious cooling diet. WHITLOW.—Cut a hole in a lemon, and wear it on the finger like a thimble; the whitlow must be encased in the lemon.—See Felon, page 178 WILD DUCKS, Widgeon, &c. —They should be taken up with the gravy in. Baste them with butter, and sprinkle a little salt before they are taken up; put a good gravy under them, and serve with shalot-sauce. WILD FOWL, to Roast.— The flavour is best preserved without stuffing. Put pepper, salt, and a piece of butter into each. Wild fowl require much less dressing than tame ; they should be served of a fine colour, and well frothed up. A rich brown gravy should be sent in the dish ; and when the breast is cut into slices, before taking off the bone, a squeeze of lemon, pepper and salt, is a great improvement to the flavour. To take off the fishy taste which wild fowl sometimes have, put an onion, salt, and hot water, into the dripping- pan, and baste them for the first ten/ minutes with this ; then take away the pan, and baste constantly with butter, WILD GOOSE.—A wild goose should be cooked rare. One hour's roasting is quite sufficient. A cup of currant jelly and a glass of red wine added to the gravy. Make a good gravy, to which the giblets, finely chopped, and a little flour for thicken- ing, have been added and boiled. Put the gravy into a tureen, and serve with a dish of nice apple or gooseberry sauce. Boil up and serve hot. WILLOW BARK, Decoction of.—Take of willow bark, 1 oz.; water, 1 pint. Boil for ro minutes, and strain. Dose: 4 tablespoonfuls 4 or 5 times a day. Excellent in cases of fever or ague. WILLS.—Every person who has any property, either landed or house- hold should make a will, as to its dis- position, when he or she is in full pos- session of their mental faculties. It is a duty not to be performed at the last