181 FLE FIX the neck, than by making the same ap- lications to the top and front of the ead, because the back part of the brain and upper portion of the spine are frequently eonjested during the attacks. Ice-bags are very useful in such cases. As a substitute for the rubber ice-bags we may wrap the ice in a piece of oiled silk, or even a common towel. The ice or wet cloths should not be kept too long on the child, else they may work injury. 3. Put the child in a warm lath if the cold applications fail. 4. Apply mustard plasters to the stomach and legs ; cup the back of the neck in desperate cases. During the intervals of attacks, use all means to improve the general con- dition of the child. It should be remembered that con- vulsions may be evidences of serious disease of the brain, for which, of course, medical advice should be obtained if possible. FIXED STARS.—Nitre, 12 parts ; sulphur, 6 parts ; meal gunpow- der, 12 parts ; antimony, 1 part. Mix. The bottom of the rocket must be stuffed with clay; one diameter of rocket composition must be then intro- duced, and the remainder filled with the above mixture; the case is then to be tied up, and the paste-board pierced with five holts for the escape of the luminous rays. FLANNEL.—Before it is made up, flannel should be immersed in hot water. FLANNELS, to Wash.—Do not use boiling water, but as hot as the hands can bear. Wash with good brown soap and a little pearl-ash, or soda, and blue. FLANNEL, to Wear.—Put it on at once, winter and summer— nothing better can be worn next to the skin than a loose red flannel shirt— " loose," for it has room to move on the skin, thus causing a titillation, which draws the blood to the surface and keeps it there, and when that is the case no one can take cold ; "red,” for white flannel creases up, mats together, and becomes tight, stiff, heavy, and imper- vious. Cotton wool merely absorbs the moisture from the surface, while woollen flannel conveys it from the skin and deposits it in drops on the outside of the shirt, from which the ordinary cotton shirt absorbs it, and by its nearer exposure to the air it is soon dried with- out injury to the body. Having these properties, red woollen flannel is worn by sailors even in the midsummer of the hottest countries. Wear a thinner material in summer. FLANNEL, Beware how you Lay aside—Never be in a hurry to put off woollen garments. Flannel pro- tects against the sudden changes of temperature. When perspiration flows freely, the quick evaporation carries with it much heat from the body, and chili may be produced, and that may be followed by derangement of some function, as cold in the head, or un- natural discharge from the bowels. Flannel is a slow conductor of cold or heat, and evaporation proceeds from it more slowly than from cotton or linen ; hence its excellence for clothing. Many persons wear flannel next to the skin all the year round, and find it a shield against prevalent complaints in the summer. Much depends of course upon the constitution and employment of the in- dividual, but in all cases flannel should not be laid aside till the weather is settled permanently warm, and the change should be made in the morning, not in the after-part of the day, when the energies are somewhat abated, and the air is usually cooler. Many a deli- cate person has sown the seeds of con- sumption in undressing for an evening party. FLATULENCY—See Carmin- atives, page 112, and Colic, page 132. FLATULENCY, Griping, &c., in Children.—It proceeds from in- digestion. Give an emetic to produce a vomit. In two hours after, give a little rhubarb and magnesia, and occa- sionally a little castor oil, in aniseed water. Also a warm bath now then. FLEAS AND LICE, on Ani- mals, to Destroy. — Solution of camphor—the camphor first dissolved in spirits of wine.—The root of the tail, and most of the back of dogs may be rubbed with Scotch snuff.—Use borax; 1