304 PIG . PIG salt them, and broil them very nicely ; pour over them either stewed or pickled mushrooms in melted butter, and serve as hot as possible. f PIGEONS, in Disguise.—Sea- son them with pepper and salt; make a dice puff paste; roll each pigeon in a piece of it; close them well; tie them in cloths separately, and mind the paste does not break ; boil them in plenty of water 1 % hour. When they are untied, be careful they* do not break; put them into a dish, and pour a litde good gravy over them. PIGEONS, in Jelly. — Take some of the liquor in which a knuckle of veal has been boiled ; or boil a calf s foot; put the broth into a pan with a blade of mace, sweet herbs, pepper, lemon peel, a slice of lean bacon, and the pigeons. Bake them, and let them stand to be cold. Season to taste before baking. When done, take them out of the liquor, cover them close to preserve the colour ; clear the jelly by boiling it with the whites of two eggs. Strain through a cloth dipped in boiling water. The fat must be perfectly removed be- fore it be cleared. Put the jelly over and round them rough. PIGEONS, to Jug.—Draw the pigeons ; save the livers. Put them in boiling water, and put them on the fire two minutes; take out, mince them small, bruise, and mix with a little pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and lemon peel, shred very fine, chopped parsley, and yolks of two eggs, hard; bruise them, and put as much suet and bread as liver, pounded fine; work these together with raw eggs, and then roll it in fresh butter. Put a piece into the crops and bellies ; sew up the necks and vents; dip the pigeons in water, and season with pepper, and salt, as for a pie; then put them in a jug with a piece of celery : stop them close ; put the jug into cold water, and boil three hours. Then take out of the jug, and lay them in a dish ; take out the celery, and put in a piece of butter rolled in flour ; shake about till thick, and pour on the pigeons. « PIGEONS, a la Crapandine. —-Take three pigeons, truss the legs within, cut the flesh off the breast by sliding in the knife at the side of the leg, and running It up to the joint of the wing ; turn the breast over, and flatten the body with the handle of a knife ; take a stewpan large enough to contain them in the flattened state; melt a bit of butter in it; add salt and large pepper ; put in the pigeons with their breasts down; turn them, and when three-fourths done, drain them and put them on the grill over a slow fire ; give them a fine colour, and serve them under sauce au pauvre homme. PIGEONS, a la Daube.—Put a layer of bacon in a saucepan, one of veal, one of coarse beef, and then another of veal, about a pound of beef, and a pound of veal cut very thin; a piece of carrot, a bundle of sweet herbs, an onion, some pepper, a blade or two of mace, and a few cloves. Cover it close, and brown it over a slow fire. Put in a quart of boiling water, and when stewed till the gravy is rich, strain, and skim off the fat. Beat a pound of veal, and one of beef suet, in a mortar ; an equal quantity of crumbs of bread, pepper, salt, nutmeg, beaten mace, lemon-peel, parsley cut small, and thyme. Mix them with the yolks of two eggs, fill the pigeons, and flatten the breasts ; flour, and fry them in fresh butter, a little brown. Pour off the fat, and put the gravy over the pigeons. Strew them, cover close, till done. Dish them, and pour in the sauce. On each pigeon lay a bay leaf, and on the leaf a slice of bacon. Gar- nish with notched lemon, and serve hot. PIGEONS, to Pot.—Let them be quite fresh, clean them carefully, and season them with salt and pepper : lay them close in a small deep pan ; for the smaller the surface, and the closer they are packed, the less butter will be want- ed. Cover them with butter, then with very thick paper, tied down, and bake them. When cold, put them dry into pots that will hold two or three in each; and pour butter over them, using that which was baked as part. Observe that the butter should be pretty thick over them, if they are to be kept. If pigeons were boned, and then put in an oval form into the pot, they would lie closer, and require less butter. They may be stuffed with a fine forcemeat made with veal, bacon, &c., and then they will cat excellently. If a high