GAR 192 GAR they must therefore be thinned oat. In all cases commence thinning in time—before they become crowded. Transplant whenever the plants are large enough to handle. Lift the plants carefully with the aid of a garden trowel, retaining as much soil to the roots as possible. This should be done in wet or cloudy weather ; if the ground is dry a good soaking with water before and after transplanting is advisable. Shade them for a few days from the sun. Plants in Pots should only be watered when the surface of the soil be- comes dry. Liquid manure is beneficial to plants whose roots are confined in pots, but should never be given to very young plants, or oftener than twice a week, and always in small quantities. Annuals are those plants that arrive at maturity, bloom, produce seeds and die in one season. Hardy Annuals are those which require no artificial heat at any period of their growth—every stage of their development, from germination to ripen- ing of the seed, may be passed in the open ground. They are the most easily cultivated of all plants. For succession sow from February to May for summer display; J une and J uly for autumn blooming, and August and September for spring flowering. Seeds of the hardier Annuals may be sown where they are to grow ; but as a rule it is pre- ferable to transplant, as the plants are generally stronger and stand draughts better. During very dry weather, and when the seedlings are first set out, they should be watered frequently. If the weeds are kept down and the ground loosened often, the plants will receive the fall benefit of the rains and dews, which they will not if the ground is allowed to become hard or baked. Half-Hardy Annuals are those species that flower and ripen their seeds in the open air, but need the assistance of artificial heat in the earlier stages of their growth. They should be sown in pans or frames on a gentle bottom heat, in March or April. By the end of May the seedlings will be ready for transplanting to the borders, but previous to removal they should be hardened by gradually admitting air to fb« (vara* night *>.\d day. Biennials do not generally flower till the second year from the sowing of the seed, and are only in perfection one season, and for a limited period; they are not, therefore, adapted for a bed in the lawn, which should make a show of blooms all through the season. Perennials are herbaceous plants, which die down during the winter but spring up and produce new stems an- nually. Many of the species improve by age, forming large clumps or bushes; by being divided the stock is increased and the plant invigorated. Some per- ennials, like the pansy, stock, dianthus and antirrhinum flower the first season, but true perennials, like biennials, do not bloom till the second season. Hardy Biennials and Peren- nials require the same treatment as hardy annuals. If seeds of Hardy An- nuals, Biennials and Perennials are sown in boxes in September, and win- tered in cold frames, they will make strong plants by spring, and come into bloom sooner—in the case of Biennials and Perennials a season earlier. Or they may be planted in the open garden in September and at the beginning of winter, covered with straw or other litter as a protection against frost. In spring this covering must be carefully removed and the surface around them loosened, and when large enough transplant them to the border where they are to remain. Tender Annuals, Biennials, and Perennials. — To obtain an early bloom and to ensure strength to the plants, is to sow the seed in boxes or pans early in March, placing them in a warm greenhouse or plunging in a moderate hotbed, carefully protecting them from the cold, shading from mid- day sun, and watering with a fine rose. The seed should be sown in very light sandy compost, and the pans well drained. The finer seeds must not be planted more than an eighth of an inch deep, and the soil pressed down closely over them. Water frequently, particu- larly if the house or hot-bed be very warm. As soon as the plants arc two or three inches high transplant into small pots, three or four in each, and when they have acquired sufficient strength transplant them into the flower beds—not before the middle of May.