95 CARDS CARDS ed " B&rique.” The highest score made with the cards twice dealt out is the winner. BRAG, Single Brag.—The nines and knaves are called " Braggers,” from their being the best cards,—or “ Turners,’’ because they are converti- ble into cards of any other value, so as to form pairs or pairs-royal, by the highest of which the game is decided. Thus three braggers in one hand can- not be beat, as they form a pair-royal of the best cards, and are better than a natural pair-royal of aces, &c. Two braggers and an ace, &c. are better than one bragger and two aces, &c. In the same manner, a pair formed by the assistance of a bragger is better than a natural p>air, or two cards, of like value. Thus nine and a king take precedence of two kings, but are inferior to two aces. A knave and a king are better than a nine and a king ; and if the pairs in two hands are equal, the higher value of the third card gives the preference ; if they are equal in every respect, the elder hand has the preference. The lowest pair-royal that can be formed, as three twos, is better than the highest pair, as two aces, &c. In some companies the knave of clubs and the nine of diamonds only are ad- mitted to be braggers or turners ; and it is sometimes agreed that natural pairs or pairs-royal are to precede artifical ones of the same value, or those formed by the assistance of the knave of clubs or nine of diamonds ; as thus, two kings to be considered better than a king with a nine or knave, but to yield to an ace and a nine or knave. Mode of Playing.—The cards having been shuffled and cut, a certain stake, is deposited by the dealer, who gives three cards to each of the com- pany. The elder hand, and the others after him, having examined their hands, either "piass,” which is signified by laying down their cards, or "brag,” in which case the dealer’s stake is to be answered by all who brag. On pruning down another stake, or bragging a second time, the person doing so, if he holds a pair, but not otherwise, may insist on seeing the next player’s hand, saying “ I’ll sight you,” in which case they examine each others cards, and the person having the worst hand of the two is obliged to lay it down, or " prass.” The players go on in this way till the braggers are reduced to two, who con- tinue bragging against each other (either an equal sum with the dealer's stake, or higher) till one "sights” the other, and whichever of the two has the best brag hand wins the whole of the stakes. Brag and Pairs.—To vary the above game, the dealer sometimes de- posits two separate stakes, one of which is for natural pairs, and the company may brag on either stake they please, or on both. Thus if one of the players has a pair or pair-royal of good cards, such as aces, down to tens or eights, he may answer one or both of the dealer’s stakes, according to the chance of suc- cess afforded by the cards he holds; and can, if he holds a pair, “sight” those who are bragging on the same end with himself, as described above. Those who put their stakes on the brag-end proceed exactly as at Single Brag. Three Stake Brag.—Three stakes are deposited by the dealer, who gives two cards to each player, and then turns up a third all round. The best whist card turned up takes the first stake, the leading hand having the preference if two equal cards are turned, except in the case of the ace of diamonds, which is always the best at this stage of the game. The second stake is the brag-stake, and is determined at a Single Brag, each reckoning his tumed-up card along with the other two. The third is gained by the player who holds, or obtains by drawing from the undealt cards, 31, or the highest num- ber under that, the ace reckoning for ix, the pictured cards for 10 each, and the rest according to their pips. The leading hand has the preference in case of equality, and any one drawing above 31, loses. The three stakes may be all gained by one person, iu which case he is entitled, in some companies, to three more from each play ; this is usually set aside. GASSINO.—52 cards are used in this game, which is generally played by four persons. The partners and deal are determined in the same manner as at whist. Eleven pioints constitute the game, and are calculated thus :—