303 PIG FIG PIG’S CHEEK, to Prepare for Boiling.—Cut off the snout, and clean the head ; divide it, and take out the eyes and the brains ; sprinkle the head with salt, and let it drain 24 hours. Salt it with common salt and saltpetre ; let it lie 9 days if to be dressed without stewing with peas, but less if to be dressed with peas; and it must be washed first, and then simmer till all is tender. PIG’S FEET, and EARS.— Clean carefully, and soak some hours, and then boil them tender ; then take them out; boil some vinegar and a little salt with some of the water, and when cold put it over them. When they are to be dressed, dry them, cut the feet in two, and slice the ears ; fry, and serve with butter, mustard and vinegar. They may be either done in batter, or only floured. PIG’S FEET and EARS, to Ragout.—Boil them ; split the feet down the middle, and cut the ears in narrow slices ; dip them in butter, and fry brown ; take beef gravy, a teaspoon- fid of lemon pickle, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, one of browning, and a little salt; thicken with butter rolled in flour ; put in the feet and ears, and give a gentle boil. Serve, laying the feet in the middle of the dish, and the ears round them. Garnish with curled parsley. PIG’S FEET JELLY.—Clean the feet and ears well, and soak them a few hours ; then boil them in a very small quantity of water till every bone can be taken out; throw in half a hand- ful of chopped sage, the same of parsley, and a seasoning of chopped peppier, salt, and mace, in fine powder ; simmer till the herbs are scalded, then pour all into a melon-form. PIG’S HEAD, to Collar.— Scour the head and ears ; take off the hair and snout; take out the eyes and brain ; lay it into water one night; then drain, salt it well with salt and salt- petre, and let it lie five days. Boil it enough to take out the bones ; then lay It on a dresser, turning the thick end of one side of the head towards the thin end of the other, to make the roll of equal size ; sprinkle it with salt and white pepper, and roll it with tire ears: put the pig's feet round the outside when boned, or the thin parts of two cow heels. Put it in a cloth, bind with a broad tape, and boil it till quite tender; then put a good weight upon it and take off the covering when cold. If you want it more like brawn, salt it longer, and use more saltpetre, and add some pieces of lean pork; then cover with cow-heel, to look like the hom. PIG’S JAW, to Boil.—If the jaw has been dried, soak it a few hours in cold water; if pickled, wash it; make three holes in the thick part of the jaw, and all along the two sides ; fill the holes with herbs ; put into a clean cloth in cold water, heat slowly, and boil gently. With the herbs put salt, pepper, and a few bread crumbs. PIG, to Roast a Sucking Pig. —Get it when just killed; this is of great advantage. Let it be scalded. Put some sago, crumbs of bread, salt, and pepper, into the belly, and sew it up. Observe to skewer the legs back, or the under part will not be crisp. Lay it to a brisk fire till dry ; then rub the pig with butter in every part. Dredge flour over it, and do not touch it again till ready to serve ; scrape off the flour with a blunt knife, rub it well with a buttered cloth, and take off the head while at the fire; then take it up, cut it down the back and belly, lay it into the dish, and chop quickly the sage and bread very fine, and mix plenty of fine melted butter and a little flour. Put the sauce into the dish after the pig has been split down the back, and garnished with the ears and the two jaws. Many serve a suckling pig whole. Pour the gravy into the sauce ; and garnish with lemon or bread sauce and currants in a basin. PIGEONS, to Boil.—Wash clean; chop some parsley small; mix it with crumbs of bread, pepper, salt, and a bit of butter ; stuff the pigeons, and boil 15 minutes in some mutton broth or gravy. Boil some rice soft in milk; when it begins to thicken, beat the yolks of two or three eggs, with two or three spoonfuls of cream, and a little nutmeg ; mix well with a bit of butter rolled in flour. PIGEONS, to Broil. —After cleaning, split the backs, pepper and