CARDS CARDS IO9 Clubs, 4; Diamonds, 6; Hearts, 8; No Trumps, ia. In a suit declaration, there are five honours—Ace, king, queen, knave, ten. Any three of these, held between the two partners, score the value points of two tricks. Four score as four tricks; five as five tricks; but four or five in the same hand count double. In a declaration of No Trumps, the honours are the four aces, WHIST holds the first place in the estimation of all good players. The great art of playing this game depends on recollecting cards that have been played, and those remaining in hand. The game is played by four persons, who cut the cards for partners. The partners sit opposite. The two high- est are against the two lowest. The person who cuts the lowest is entitled to the deal. In cutting, the ace is lowest. Each person has a right to shuffle the cards before the deal; but it is usual for the leading hand only, and the dealer after. The deal is made by having the pack cut by the right-hand adversary; and the dealer distributing the cards, one at a time, to each, beginning with the left- hand adversary, till he comes to the last card, which he turns up, being the trump, and leaves it on the table till the first trick is played. No intimations of any kind, during the play of the cards between the part- ners, are to be admitted. The mistake of one party is the game of the adver- sary, except in a revoke, when the part- ner may inquire if he has any of the suit in his hand. The tricks belonging to each party should be turned and collected by those who win the first trick in every hand. The ace, king, queen, and knave of trumps, are called honours ; and when either of the partners have three sepa- rately, or between them, they count two points towards the game, and in case they have four honours, they count four points. Ten points are the game. Terms used in the Game, Finessing, is when a card is led, and you have the best and third of that suit, you put the third best on that lead, and run the risk of your adversary hav- ing the second best of it, which if he has not, you gain a trick. Forcing, means the obliging your partner or adversary to trump a suit. Long Trumps, means one or more when the rest are played out. Loose card, means a card in hand of no value, and the most proper to throw away. Points. Ten make the game; as many as are gained by tricks and hon- ours, so many points are set up to the score of the game. See-saw, is when each partner trumps a suit, and they play those suits to each other for that purpose. Score, is the number of points, which are set up as follows :— One Two Three Four Five a o 00 000 0000 00 Six 0 Seven Eight Nine 0 000 00 000 0 0 0 0 Slam, is when either party wins every trick. Tenance, is having the first and third best cards, and being last player. The adversary must lose the last trick, whichever card of the suit may be play- ed ; thus :—if you hold ace and queen of any suit, and your adversary leads that suit, you must win two tricks, by having the best and third best of the suit played, and being last player. Sequences, are eligible leads, beginning with the highest. Terce, is a sequence of any three cards in a suit. Quart, is a sequence of four. Quint, of five. Trumping Suit, is when you have none of the suit led, and play a trump. Short Rules. 1 Lead from your strong suit, and be cautious how you change suits, and keep a command- ing card to bring it in again. 2 Lead through the strong suit and up to the weak, but not in trumps, un- less very strong in them. 3 Lead the highest of a sequence, but if you have a quart or cinque, to a king lead the lowest. 4 Lead through an honour, particu- larly if the game is much against you. 5 Lead your best trump, it the adver- Pcr th* (tAtn* cf Sc In A'iim*. im 41/.