POI PLU 312 lbs.; sugar, sifted, 1 lb.; butter, 1 lb.; nutmegs and mace, oz. each; cur- rants, 2J4 lbs.; 16 eggs; sweet almonds, Vi lb.; the same of candied lemon; half a pint of brandy, and three spoon- fuls of orange flower water. Beat the butter to a cream; put in the butter and sugar. Beat the yolks half an hour, and mix with the whites. Put in the flour just before the oven is ready; mix together lightly the currants, &c. Bake two hours. Another.—Take 4 lbs. each of dried flour, and currants, well cleaned and picked ; sugar, il lb., sifted ; 6 ozs. orange, lemon, and citron peels, sliced, mix all together; then beat 10 eggs, the yolks and whites separately; melt i| lb. of butter in a pint of cream; when nearly cool, add \ pint of ale yeast, and nearly £ pint of sherry, and the eggs; strain the liquor to the diy ingredients ; beat them well, and add \ oz. each of cloves, mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Butter the pan and put it into a quid: oven, 2 or 3 hours. PLUM CAKE.—A rich one.— Mix well 1 % lbs. of the best flour well dried, with £ lb. of dry sifted loaf sugar; lb. of well cleaned and dry currants ; H lb. of raisins stoned and chopped, 1 eighth of an oz. each of clove, mace, and cinnamon, a small nutmeg grated, the peel 0/ a lemon cut very fine, and % lb. of almonds. Melt 1 lb. of butter in Yj pint of cream not hot; put to it £ a pint of wine, a little brandy, a little rose- water, and 6 eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, and a jfef pint of yeast. Strain this gradually into the dry ingre- dients, beating them for an hour. But- ter the pan or hoop and bake in a mod- erate oven for 4 hours. In putting in the batter, add plenty of candied orange, lemon, and citron peeL If you ice the cake when nearly cold, pour the iceing over and replace it in the oven, leaving it there all night or until it becomes cold, but if the oven be warm, keep it near the front and the door open, or the colour may be spoiled, or the iceing it may be left until the next day. PLUM CAKE, to make little ones.—Take 1 lb. of flour; rub into it i lb. of butter, and £ lb. of sugar, a little beaten mace ; beat 4 eggs well; leave out £ the whites ; add 3 spoonfuls of 5'east; put to It % pint of warm cream ; strain them into the flour, and make it up light; set it before the fire to rise; before it is sent to the oven, put in Y lb. of currants. PLUM CAKE, a White one. —It is made the same as the 2nd receipt, except beating the whites of the eggs well; and when mixed with the other ingredients, beating the whole for two hours. PLUM, Compote of.—Green- gages are the best to preserve in syrup. They must not be quite ripe. Boil them a little in raw sugar and a little water; skim, when cooling, and reduce the syrup according to the time you intend to keep them. It is the best to prick them in several places, and scald them in boiling water until they rise on the surface; take off the fire, and let them cool in the same water ; cover the pan, and put them on a slow fire, which will bring them back to their proper colour ; drain them in cold water, and boil them a moment in sugar; leave them in it till next day, and boil them a little more. Prepared In this way, they will keep a long time. POACHED EGGS.—Break an egg into a cup, and put it gently into boiling water, and when the white looks quite set, which will be in about 2 or 3 minutes, take it up with an egg slice, and lay it on toast and butter, or spin- ach. Serve them hot; if fresh laid, they will poach well without breaking. POISON, Antidotes to.—The treatment of cases of poisoning must vary with the nature of the poison, the quantity taken, and the peculiarities of the individual. In almost all cases, copious vomiting should be excited as soon as possible by tickling the throat, and by emetics, such especially as sul- phate of zinc, or ipecacuanha with emetic tartar ; the former, however, in io-grain doses dissolved in a little warm water, and repeated every 10 or 15 minutes till it freely operates, is generally most effectual. The use of the stomach- pump should also he resorted to. The vomiting should be kept up, and the stomach washed out with bland albu- minous or mucilaginous fluids, such as milk, flour, and water, or thin paste, &c. ; sometimes sugar and water.