407 VILA VILL VEAL, to Stew a Brekst of. —Stew it gently till tender in some stock, a glass of sherry, some sweet herbs, as marjoram, lemon thyme, onions, mace, doves, pepper, salt, and a few mushrooms. When done, strain, and skim the sauce. Garnish with forcemeat balls. VEGETABLE CAUSTIC.— Burn oak or beech wood to ashes. Make a ley from them, and simmer it til) it becomes rather thicker than cream ; the evaporation may be con- tinued in the sun. Spread on leather when used. It is valuable in cancers, fistalas, scrofulous and indolent ulcers, where there is proud flesh. VEGETABLES, to Dress. — Vegetables should be carefully cleaned from insects, and nicely washed. Boil them in plenty of water, and drain them the moment they are done enough. If overboiled, they lose their beauty and crispness. Bad cooks sometimes dress them with meat; which is wrong, ex- cept carrots with boiling beef. VEGETABLES, to Boil Green.—Be sure the water boils when you put them in. Make them boil very fast. Don't cover, but watch them ; and if the water has not slacken- ed, you may be sure they are done when they begin to sink. Then take them out immediately or the colour will change. Hard water, especially if chalybeate, spoils the colour of such vegetables as should be green. To boil them p'ccn in hard water, put a teaspoonful of salt of wormwood into the water when it boils, before the vegetables are put in. VEGETABLE MARROW, to Boil or Stew.—This excellent vegetable may be boiled as asparagus, When boiled, divide it lengthways into two, and serve it upon a toast accom- panied by melted butter; or when nearly boiled, divide it as above, and stew gently in gravy like cucumbers. Care should be taken to choose young ones not exceeding six inches in length. 'VEGETABLE PIE.—Scald and blanch some broad beans: cut young carrots, turnips, artichoke-bot- toms, mushrooms, peas, onions, lettuce, parsley, or any of them you have; make the whole into a nice stew with some good veal gravy. Bake a crust over a dish, with a little lining round the edge, and a cup turned up to keep It from sinking. When baked, open the lid and p>our in the stew. VEGETABLE SOUP.—Pare and slice five or six cucumbers; and add to these as many cos lettuces, a sprig or two of mint, two or three onions, some pepper, and salt, a pint and a half of young peas, and a little parsley. Put these, with J4 lb. of fresh butter, into a saucepan, to stew in their own liquor, near a gentle fire, half an hour ; then pour two quarts of boiling water to the vegetables, and stew them two hours; rub down a little flour into a teacupful of water, boil it with the rest twenty minutes, and serve it. VEILS, Black Lace, to Clean. — Pass through a warm liquor of bullock’s gall and water; after which rinse in cold water, then cleanse for stiffening, and finish as follows :—Take glue, about the size of a bean, pour boiling water upon it, and, when dis- solved, pass the veil through it, then clap it between your hands. Starch and dry. VEILS, White Lace, to Clean. —Boil the veil gently for 15 minutes in a solution of white soap, put into a basin holding warm water and soap, and keep gently squeezing it till it is clean, and then rinse it from the soap. Then take a vessel of cold water, into which put a drop or two of chcmic, or liquid blue; rinse the veil in it, and then starch and dry. VELVET CREAM.—Dissolve 54 os. of isinglass in a cupful of sherry wine, one pint of cream, the juice of a large lemon. Sweeten the cream as you like, and when the isinglass is dis- solved, put in the juice to the cream, then pour the wine to that. Stir it frequently until it begins to thicken, and pour into a mould. VELVET, to Raise the Plush of.—Make, a clean brick hot, place upon It a wet cloth, and hold the velvet over it, and the steam will raise the plush. A basin of boiling water placed underneath will answer the same pur- pose.