CON 136 CON mains tolerable, bat the breathing Is more difficult, especially during and after bodily exertion, and the pulsation Is become accelerated. There is a gradual emaciation of the body, de- bility, night sweats, interrupted rest, the hectic flush, or a bright scarlet spot on the cheek, especially after eating, tightness of the chest, and acute pains under the breast-bone. In the last stage emaciation rapidly increases, and the patient has alternations of hope and fear as to recovery. Hope, however, the most prevails. As to the Treatment of Con- sumption, Dr. Beach says, “ If the pathology of phthisis consists in a dis- eased state of the blood, all former treat- ment is wrong, or very inefficient. We prescribe for the symptoms instead of the cause. If the elements of this dis- ease circulate in the blood, as in scro- fula, syphilis, and other complaints, and are thrown by the efforts of the system to the lungs, and these develope tubercles then is it not obvious that we must prescribe alteratives, or such medicines as will eradicate its morbid condition?” It is evident from these rational remarks, that the nature of this disease, and that of others, de- pends upon a morbid and diseased condition of the blood. Hence then there must be an attempt to alter the quality of the blood, Remove all the causes which have produced itas u, ease, as obstructed perspiration, evacu ations, and secretions, a cold and damj. residence, insufficient warmth and clothing, intemperance, venery, and self-pollution ; the last habit is the most prolific cause of consumption. In the first stage of consumption, special attention must be given to the skin and bowels, by adopting the va- pour bath, Stimulating Liniments page 378, and also injections, to equalize the circulation, reduce all feverish symp- toms. and prevent night sweats. A Medicated Vapour Bath is the best; page 402. Put the patient to bed, and place to the feet and sides hot bricks wrapped in cloths dipped in vinegar, and half wrung out, and give an emetic ; repeat this process once or twice a week, and sponge morning and evening with the aforenamed liniment, and occa- sionally in the morning with a decoction of Poplar Bark, p. 314. Rub very dry with a towel. This will prevent night sweats. To improve the appetite, if bad, give the Tonic Bitters, p. 62 & 389. If the patient is constipated, give an injec- tion of half a pint of warm water, or thin gruel, with a little butter or sweet oil, or castor oil, adding one or two teaspoonfuls of tincture of myrrh. Sometimes a lax state of the bowels prevails; in that case give from 10 to 15 drops of laudanum ; or mix finely pulverized charcoal, 2 parts, and mag- nesia, 1 part; a table-spoonful occa- sionally, or give the Neutralizing Mix- ture, page 275. Let the Cough Syrup, page 141 be taken two or three times a day, to promote expectora- tion, ease pain, &c. Let the patient’s diet be light, nourishing, and easy of digestion. In consumption, the celebrated Dr. Beach, of America, highly extols the use cf Sanguinaria Canadensis, or Blood-root. It is a sedative and altera- tive of great power; in reducing the pulsation, it is superior to digitalis, and it does not debilitate at all. It pro- motes the secretions of the liver, and therefore promotes the appetite ; it is a powerful tonic, and when it is taken properly nothing tends more to check morbific influence, to promote the se- cretions, appetite, and digestion, and to improve the muscular power, and facial appearance. In restraining spit- ting of blood, and especially in females .where the menses are substituted by the effusion of blood from the lungs, no medicine is so efficacious as Blood-root, page 67. As to the benefit to be derived from cod liver oil, the matter is dubious. It is feeding, but not antiseptic. It may prevent to some extent, emaciation; but to prevent the formation of tubercles, and, consequently, decay, it is a matter of doubt. Much benefit may be de- rived from gentle emetics, tonics, the Irritating Plaster, page 222, and for pain in the side the Rheumatic Liquid, page 338. Also constant fresh air in a genial atmosphere. The following syrup is a fine expectorant and altera- tive ;—blood-root, 4 ozs.; bruise and simmer in a qtiart of water, down to a pint nearly ; add 1 lb. of sugar; sim- mer again to form a syrup ; and ojl