278 OIL ODO cleanse do It by a tap from your tun, placed six inches from the bottom, that most of the sediment may remain, which may be thrown on the malt to mend the small beer. When the beer is tunned, fill your vessel; let it work at the bung-hole, and have a reserve in a small cask to fill it up. Do not put in any of the beer which will be under the yeast, after it has worked over into the vessels ; put it in another cask, for it will not be so good as the other in the cask. When the fermentation ceases, stop it close, and let it stand till the spring ; for brewing ought to be done in October, L that it may settle and digest all winter. In the spring, unstop the vent hole, and see whether the beer ferments or not; for when warm weather comes it will have another fermentation; when it is over, stop well again ; let it stand till September, and then peg it; and if you find it fine, and the hop well rot- ted, and of a pleasant taste for drinking, draw out a gallon of it; put to it 2 ozs. of isinglass, cut very small, to melt, stirring it often, and whisking till the isinglass is melted. Strain and put into the vessel, stirring well together; bung slightly, for this will cause a small fermentation ; when that is over, stop it close, leaving only the vent hole a little stopped. Let it stand, and in about 10 days, it will be transparently fine. It will be a splendid ale for bottling, which may be done when the cask is half or two thirds drawn. ODOURS, Unpleasant, to Re- move.—Burnt coffee is the best dis- infectant, and it is very agreeable.—For water-closets, night chairs, &c. chloride of lime, and even common lime, should be used. Or 1 oz. of sugar of lead, 1 oz. of aquafortis, in nearly 1 quart of water. This is effectual to cleanse utensils from bad odours. Or char- coal powder, camphor dissolved ; the articles well rinsed with the composi- tion. OIL, Sc. Make the Hair Curl.— Olive oil, 1 lb.; oil of origanum, 1 dr.; and oil of rosemary, 1% dr. Mix. OIL, to Extract from Boards. —Make a strong ley of pearl ashes and soft water, and add as much unslaked lime as will take it up; bottle closely. Scour the part with It, using water; do It quickly. Fullers earth, soap, and soda, mixed, form a good application, using with it sand and water. OIL CLOTH, to Clean.—There is much complaint of the poor quality of the oil-cloths of the present time. We imagine we see where the trouble lies in part, though we confess we do not think oil-cloths are as durable as those made 15 or 20 years ago. In “olden times,” whoever did the hard work, the mistress took good care that no soap, no hot water or scrub-brush was ever used on her oil-cloths ; and she also saw to it that v/hen washed they were wiped perfectly dry. If soap or hot water is used, or if they are left wet, they soon crack and the paint peels off. Take a pail of clean, soft, lukewarm water, a clean, soft piece of flannel, wash your oil-cloths, and wipe them very dry, so that no drop of water is left to soak in and rot the fabric ; and you will have little cause to complain that they wear out so much faster than your mother’s—provided you selected cloths of good make. After washing and dry- ing, if a cloth is wrung out of a dish of skim-milk and water, and the oil-cloth is rubbed over with this and again well dried, the freshness and the lustre of the cloth will well repay the extra labour. OIL PAINTINGS,'to Clean. —Wash the picture with flannel and a weak solution of soap, or with warm beer and a little soda. When dry, ap- ply a solution of gum tragacanth, or brown varnish. OIL PAINTINGS, to Clean. —If smoked, or very dirty, take stale urine, in which a little common salt is dissolved; rub them over with a wool- len cloth dipped in the mixture till they are clean; then with a sponge wash them over with clean water; dry, and rub over with a clean cloth. OIL PAINTINGS, Varnish for.—Use white of egg, and sugar- candy dissolved, a tea-spoonful of brandy, all most intimately mixed, first the egg alone. Varnish the pictures with it. It is better than most varnishes, as it can be washed off when the picture wants cleaning again.