GAR 193 GEN Seeds of Tender Greenhouse Plants are very small and delicate generally, and require the greatest care to ensure success. These conditions are usually warmth and moisture—a humid, warm air as well as soil. They may be sown as directed for Tender Annuals, in pans or shallow boxes, and be kept in the house, carefully watched, slightly watered occasionally, and sheltered from the hot sun, till strong enough to trans- plant. Most varieties may be sown at any season of the year, except during November and December. The smaller seeds of greenhouse plants are some- times difficult to germinate unless great care be taken in the mode of sowing. Sow in pans, in a soil in which sufficient sand has been mixed to prevent it cak- ing. See that it is clear of worms and all kinds of insects. As the seeds are small and lie near the surface they must be shaded—sunshine would dry them up In a few minutes. A damp atmosphere can best be obtained by covering the pans with glass, but when the plants are up a little air must be given or they will become mouldy and droop. As soon as the young plants have two leaves they should be transplanted into similar com- post in another pan. To do this, do not pull them out of the seed pan, but invert the pan, taking care not break the young plants—a slight tap on the pot will loosen the whole mass, when the plants can be taken out with good roots. By that means the young minute roots are taken up without breaking. After transplanting they should be kept in a shady part of the greenhouse for a few days until they are established in the new soil. When large enough they can be planted singly into thumb pots, and re-potted into larger sizes as the roots grow. Keep the plants clean, and the thermometer about 75° during the day and 50° to 6o° in the night. Minute plants from the finer seeds are killed by drenching with water while very young. In the first stage of their existence plants require moisture in minute quantities, often repeated, and not in such large quantities as to satur- ate the soil in which they are growing. GARGLE.—A gargle of yeast act] milk is good tear a sore throat. Also a decoction 0/ cohosh has the same effect. Sage and hyssop, 1 or,, each. Infuse in 1 quart of water. Cool, strain, and add 1 drachm of borax. Good for thrush, quinsy, or sore throat. GARGLE, Cooling.—Nitre, z drachms; honey, 4 drachms; rose water, 6 oz. Mix. Gargle for Sore Throat.—De- coction of bark, 7 ozs. ; tincture of myrrh, 2 drachms; purified nitre, 3 drachms. Mix. This will disperse tumefied gland, or common sore throat. A little nitre alone put into the mouth now and then, and swallowing the saliva, often prevents or cures throat affections. Gargle for Putrid Sore Throat. —Decoction of bark, 6 ozs. ; diluted vitriolic acid, 1 drachm ; honey of roses, or yeast, 1 oz. Mix with the same quantity of port wine. Use oft. Or, cayenne pepper, 2 drachms ; tinc- ture of myrrh, 2 drachms; water, half a pint; vinegar, 1 oz. Mix. At first using, it may be diluted. GARLIC SAUCE.—Pound two. cloves of garlic with fresh butter the size of a nutmeg, rub it through a double hair-sieve, and stir into it half a pint of beef gravy, or melted butter, or it may be made with garlic vinegar. GARLIC VINEGAR. —Peel and chop 2 ozs. of garlic ; pour upon it the best vinegar; cover the jar, and shake it frequently ; infuse ten days, then strain off the liquor. GEESE, to Choose.—The larg- est are esteemed the best; also the white and the grey ; the dark coloured are not so good. A young goose has a yellow bill; if the bill be red, it is a sign of age ; if fresh, the feet will be pliable, but when stale, stiff and dry. GENTIAN.—The root is a most valuable bitter tonic, proper for all cases of debility, and indigestion, it strengthens the stomach, and promotes digestion, and prevents acidification of the food. GENTIAN, Compound Infu- sion of.—The root, cut in pieces, £ oz. ; dried Seville orange peel bruised, x drachm; coriander seeds, bruised, half a drachm; spirits of wine, 4 ozs. ; water, 1 pint; infuse first in the alcohol three hours; then add the water, and I macerate 12 hours without heat The 1 dose U a or 3 drachms 5 times • day.