86 CAK CAK flakes from the spoon ; it is then ready j for use. CAKES, Lillyput.—Dry half lb. , of flour, rub into it a little pounded j sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, a few carraways, and as much milk and water as to make a paste ; roll it thin, and cut it with the top of a canister or glass. Bake fifteen minutes on tin- plates. CAKES, Liliputian.—Fine flour % lb. ; fine sugar, 6 ozs. ; carbonate of ammonia, 4 drachms ; essence of lemon 8 drops ; 3 eggs. Beat well the eggs, sugar, and flavouring, add the flour and ammonia, and mix all well. Drop on buttered tins. If the drop is as large as a shilling, allow it the space of a half- crown. Bake in a quick oven a short time. CAKES, Marlborough.—Beat eight eggs, and 1 lb. of pounded sugar three quarters of an hour, then by de- grees mix in 1 lb. of fine flour well dried ; add 2 ozs. of caraway seeds, and bake in tin pans, in a brisk oven. CAKES, Orange-flower. — Put four ounces of the leaves of the flowers into cold water for an hour ; drain and put between napkins, and roll with a rolling-pin till they are bruised; then have ready boiled a pound of sugar to add to it in a thick syrup, simmer until the syrup adheres to the sides of the pan, drop in little cakes on a plate, and dry as before directed. CAKE, Oswego.—Eight ounces of Oswego Prepared Corn ; eight ounces of sugar ; four ounces of butter ; three eggs ; a teaspoonful of baking powder. Bake in patty tins. CAKES, Rice.—Mix 10 ozs. of ground rice, 3 ozs. of flour, % lb. of fine sugar ; sift by degrees into it seven well beaten eggs, and the peel of a lemon shred extremely fine; mix the whole well in a stew-pan over a slow fire with a whisk, then put it immediate- ly into the oven in the same, and bake forty minutes. Another.—Beat twelve yolks and six whites of eggs with the peels of two lemons grated. Mix 1 lb. of rice flour, and % lb. of flour, and 1 lb. of sugar sifted : then beat it well with the eggs for an bout with a wooden spoon. But- ter a pan well, and. pit it in at the oven mouth for an hour and a half. CAKE, RICH, Butter for.—For large and rich cakes the directions are, to beat the butter to a cream ; but they are quite as light when it is cut small and gently melted with just so much heat as will dissolve it. If it be shaken round in a saucepan, previously warmed, and held near the fire for a short time, it will soon be liquefied ; it must not oe when added gradually to the other ingredients. To cream butter, drain the water well from it, after it is cut, soften it a little before the fire, if hard, and then with the back of a large wooden spoon, beat it till it resembles thick cream. When prepared thus, the sugar is added to it first, and then the other ingredients in succession. CAKE, Short.—Rub into 1 lb. of dried flour, 4 ozs. of butter, 4 ounces of white powdered sugar, one egg, and a spoonful or two of thin cream to make it into a paste. When mixed, put cur- rants into one half, and caraways into the rest. Cut as before, and bake on tins. CAKES, Shrewsbury.—Into 1 lb. of flour rub % lb. of butter, and 6 ozs. of sugar; make a hole in the mid- dle, into which break two or three eggs, add milk to form a paste ; roll out one- eighth of an inch thick, and cut into small cakes ; bake in a slow oven. CAKE, Spanish.—Take 12 eggs, % lb. of fine sugar, and mill them in a chocolate mill till they are of a lather ; mix in 1 lb. of flour, % lb. of pounded almonds, 2 ozs. each of candied orange- peel and citron, four spoonfuls of orange flower water, % oz. of cinnamon, and a glass of wine. Bake it in a slow oven. CAKES, Sugar.—Take a quarter of a pound of butter well worked ; mix it with a pound of brown sugar, an egg well beat, and as much flour, as it will take to make it stiff: roll it thin, and cut with a tin mould; bake the cakes in a slow oven. CAKE, to keep good a year.— Flour, butter, currants, raisins, sugar, of each, one pou^d ; one ounce of almonds blanched and dried before the fire, six eggs well beaten, orange peel, and lemon peel, of each one ounce. Beat the butter to a cream, and gradu- ally mix with the flour; add a wine