NOS 2 77 OCI cream, and two tablespoonfuls of orange-flower or rose-water; sweeten to taste ; put the batter in large deep custard cups, half full; set them in the oven ; when the puff rises to the top of the cups, they are done. NOSE, Bleeding at the.—See Page 67. NOTTINGHAM PUDDING. —Peel six good apples; take out the cores with the point of a small knife, leaving the apples whole; fill up the place of the core with sugar ; place them in a pie dish, and pour over them a nice light batter, prepared as for batter pudding. Bake an hour. NUTMEG, Essence of.—Dis- solve oz. of the essential oil of nut- meg in % pint of spirits of wine. Bottle and cork welL It is very valuable to cooks and confectioners. NUTRITIOUS DIATETIC. —Pulverize equal quantities of sago and best cocoa ; mix, and stir a tablespoon- ful in a pint of milk, to which add a pint of boiling water. Boil for a few minutes, frequently stirring. Add sugar according to taste. It is very suitable for invalids and children. O OAK, to Stain a Mahogany Colour.—Boil together Brazil wood and Roman alum ; and before using it, add a little potash. A suitable varnish for wood, thus tinged, may be made by dissolving amber in oil of turpentine, mixed with a small portion of linseed oil. OAK WAINSCOT, to Give a Fine Gloss to.—If the wainscot be greasy, wash with warm beer; then boil two quarts of strong beer, bees' wax about the size of a walnut, and a tablespoonful of sugar. Apply it all over with a large brush, and when dry, rub till bright. OATMEAL MILK.—Mix a print of milk and water (two-thirds milk, and one-third water) gradually with a table-spoonful or two of oatmeal. Place in a saucepan upon a clear fire, and when it begins to rise and boil, take it off, and pour it from one basin into another to incorporate it well with the milk ; return it to the pan; put on the fire, and when it is about to boil, take off, and let it stand a little to settle; when settled, pour it off into a basin, add a little salt, and let it cool. This is an excellent milk, very congenial to weak constitutions, affording a good, firry nourishment, and is easy of digestion. OATMEAL PORRIDGE.— Take nearly a quart of water, two small teaspoonfuls of salt, and when the water boils, scatter in very slowly oatmeal, and boil well, stirring all the time. Pour into basins. This is a very wholesome food—a food upon which the stalwart sons of Lancashire and Yorkshire, of the north of England, and of Scotland, lived. They were men and women in those days of oatmeal por- ridge ; they were all tall, stout, hand- some, lively, and captivating. This food is to be eaten chiefly with milk— take one fourth of a spoonful, dip it into the milk, causing the spoon to be full of both—or it may be eaten with butter, or sugar, or treacle. OCTOBER BEER, to Brew the Good Old English Way.— The malt should be old and good, and rather coarsely ground. Take 5 quar- ters of malt, for 3 hogsheads of beer, and 18 lbs. of hops; more if the malt be pale dried. Use soft water. The first liquor is to be -boiled, adding a handful of hops to it; then before you strike it over to the malt, cool in as much liquor as will cause it not to scald the malt. With the next liquor do the same, and so to the end—but do not scald. When the malt is let out of the mash-tub into the under tub, put to it a handful or two of hops ; it will preserve it from blinking or foxing. In boiling, let the first wort boil high and quick ; for the quicker the first wort is boiled, the better it is ; the second boil more than the first; and the third or last more than the second. In cooling, let into the tun leisurely, and leave behind as much sediment as possible, that the fermentation may be mild, and not fierce; for there are in all fermented liquors salt and sulphur, and we must keep those two bodies in due proportion, that the salt may not exalt itself above the sulphur—much depends upon this. At first put but little yeast; let It work by degrees quietly ; if it works too slowly, whip in the yeast several times till it Is well fermented. When you