POi 353 POL The following is a short summary of the antidotes resorted to in reference to particular poisons. They should, of course, be administered as speedily as possible. Emetic in cases of Poison.— 9 table-spoonfuls of made mustard in a pint of warm water; if taken immedi- ately, this is a certain remedy, instantly producing violent vomiting. Also give large draughts of warm milk or water, mixed with oil, melted butter, or lard. 1 Arsenic. — Lime water, chalk and water, and the hydrated sesqui- oxide of iron, have each been strongly recommended; the last is decidedly the best. 2 For Mineral Acids, or Acetic and Oxalic Acid.—For this form of poison, give quickly large draughts of chalk, whiting, magnesia, soap and water, about as thick as cream, followed by albuminous diluents, such as milk, and white of egg mixed with water. Or, if these cannot be procured at once, warm water ; and promote vomiting by tickling the throat. 3 Alkalies, Soda, Potash, Am- monia, etc.—Vinegar, or any mild acid and water, or even very dilute mineral acids, such as water acidulated by them ; olive oil, almond oil. 4 Corrosive sublimate.—White of egg and water; milk and cream ; decoction of cinchona ; infusion of galls. 5 Sulphate of Copper and other poisons.—Sugar and water; white of egg and water. 6 Antimonial poisons.—Warm milk, gruel, and barley-water; infusion of galls ; decoction of cinchona. 7 Nitrate of Silver. — Copious draughts of warm salt and water. 8 Sulphate of Zinc.—Solution of carbonate of soda in water, with milk, and mucilaginous or farinaceous liquids. 9 Acetate of Lead. — Emetics, solution of sulphate of soda in water, milk, white of egg and water. 10 Opium and its preparations. —Emetics, strong coffee ; dashing cold water upon the face and breast; pre- venting torpor by forced exercise. 11 Prussic Acid. — Aromoniacal stimulants cautiously applied to the nose; ammonia, or sal-volatile in re- peated small doses of solution of chlo- rine in water; small doses of chlo- ride of lime in water. 12 Strychnia and Vegetable Alkaloids.—Infusion of gall nuts; decoction of cinchona; emetics. See Emergencies, page 171. POKE WEED.—An American plant. It is valuable. The root is eme- tic, cathartic, and rather narcotic. The leaves-and roots powdered, may be ap- plied with great advantage, as a poultice in cancerous and malignant ulcer, ring- worm, scrofulous abscesses, &c. POLISHED IRONS, to pre- serve from Rust.—Mix copal var- nish with as much olive oil as will give it a degree of greasiness ; adding there- to nearly as much spirit of turpentine as of varnish. The cast-iron work is best preserved by rubbing it with black lead, and a little turpentine in it. But when rust appears on grates, or fire-irons, apply a mixture of tripoli, with half its quantity of sulphur, intimately mixed on a slab, and applied with a piece of soft leather; or apply emery and oih POLISHING PASTE.—For brass, the best kind is two parts of soft soap mixed with 4 parts of rotten stone in very fine powder. Or, 8 parts of fine rotten stone pow- der, 2 parts of oxalic acid powdered, and turpentine sufficient to make them into a paste. For iron emery powder and lard is used, and for pewter, powdered bath- brick and soft soap. For wood, spirit of turpentine and bees wax made into a soft paste, applied with a brush and woollen rag, and afterwards polished with a dry woollen cloth and soft brush. POLYPODY.—A valuable plant. See Robinson's Herbal.—It is a first-rate remedy for liver complaint, both acute and chronic; for consumption, palpita- tion, indigestion, eruptions, impurity of the blood, &c. When taken for cough, it produces nausea, but this departs as soon as it has caused expectoration. It is valuable in asthma, bronchitis, &c. It may be taken in infusion,—a tea- spoonful to nearly a pint of boiling water, and sweetened Two table- spoonfuls occasionally. Begin with 1 table-spoonful.