SIL SHR 359 with a little good gravy, a bit of butter and flour, a scrape of nutmeg, salt, and pepper; simmer a minute or two and serve with sippets'; or with a cream sauce instead of brown. SHRIMPS, to Pot.— When boiled, take them out of the skins, and season them with salt, white pepper, and a very little mace and cloves. Press them into a pot, set it in the oven ten minutes, and when cold, cover with butter. SHRIMP PIE.—Pick a quart of shrimps ; if they are very salt, season them with only mace and a clove or two. Mince a or 3 anchovies ; mix these with the spice, and then season the shrimps. Put some butter at the bottom of the dish, and over the shrimps, with a glass of sharp sherry wine. The paste must be light and thin. They do not take long baking. SHRIMP SAUCE.—Pick the shrimps, and put them into a stew-pan with a little gravy. When hot, pour in some melted butter and some anchovy sauce ; add a little lemon pickle, and a trifle of cayenne. SHRUB, Brandy.—Take 8 ozs. of citric add, 1 gallon of porter, 4 gal- lons of raisin wine, a quarts of orange flower water, 5 gallons of good brandy, 6 gallons of water; this will produce 16 gallons. Dissolve the dtric add in the water ; then add the brandy; next, mix the raisin wine, porter, and orange flower water, and in a week or 10 days it will be ready for drinking. SHRUB, Rum.—Leave out of the above the brandy and porter, and add 1 gallon more of raisin wine, 6 lbs. of honey, and 5 or 6 gallons of good rum. Add lemons if you like. Less quantities may be made. SHRUB, Lemonade.—Take the Juice of 10 lemons, 4 ozs. of the juice of barberries, 2 ozs. of loaf sugar, and one fant of sherry wine, a pint of brandy, and a quart of water. Mix with water as you like. SHRUB, White Currant. — Strip the fruit, and prepare in a jar as for jelly ; strain the juice, of which put 3 quarts to 1 gallon of rum, and 2 lbs. of tump sugar ; strain through a jelly- bag. SICK ROOMS, Cautions in Visiting.—Never enter a sick room in a state of perspiration, for as soon as the body becomes cold, it may absorb the infection or disease.—Do not visit a sick person with an empty stomach, as it disposes the system more readily to receive infection.—In a sick room, stand where the air passes from the door or window to the bed of the diseased. When poisonous vapour is much diluted with fresh air, it is not noxious.—The windows of a sick room, small and con- fined, should not be closed ; if the wind is cold, nearly close the curtains of the bed.—Remove all dirty cloths, clothes, and discharges, as soon as possible.— Let the visitor have about His person camphor, &c.—After leaving an infec- tious room, a person should continue in the open air some time before he enters his own dwelling. SILK, to Clean.—Steep first in cold water, and wash in a hot lather made of soft soap. Then to renovate the colours, rinse in clean warm water. For blue and purple, use a little soda or pearlash. For crimson, maroon, scarlet, or bright yellow, add y a tea- spoonful of sulphuric add; but nsver use the add for brown, fawn, or orange. For olive green add a little verdigris; and for light green, Persian berry and indigo. For carnation, pink, or rose, add a little lemon juice. Roll in a coarse cloth and wring. SILK, BLACK, to Clean.— Steep a few hours in cold water. Then put a Jsf of a pint of the Black Reviver in $ a gallon of water, and a cupful of ox-gall. Make hot, and sponge the silk. Dry, and smooth with an iron. (See Black Reviver.) Rusty black silk may be cleaned in the same way. Some persons clean black silk by rubbing it with a flannel dipped in gin. SILK, Stained.—We often find that lemon-juice, vinegar, oil of vitriol, and other sharp corrosives, stain dyed garments. Sometimes by adding a little pearlash to a soap lather, and passing the silks through these, the faded colour will be restored. Pearlash and worm water will sometimes do alone, but it Is the most uifiuadous