CARDS CARDS IOI able, he must win the number of tricks declared, one, two, three or four, or ‘Nap,' as the case may be, or pay the players the amount of their stakes as arranged at the commencement of the game. Should the declaration be ‘Nap,’ he pays in accordance to previous arrange- ment double, or treble the stakes, or if he wins he receives from each player three or in some cases six times the amount of the stake. Should any player declare a trick known by the name of “ Blucher” he takes precedence of any declaration thait may be made. His object being to lose all his tricks. Any number of players can join in, and if on examination of their cards do not think them worthy of a declaration, that is, do not see a chance of making tricks, simply say " I pass.” PIQUET, Game of.—Piquet is a very scientific game, and is much played in the clubs in London and Paris. It is played by two persons, with 32 cards, all below the seven being discard- ed. The ace is the highest in rank, and equal to n points; the other cards follow in their common rotation, the court cards and the ten being equal to ten points each, and the others as many points as they have pips on them. The game consists of 101 points ; the players cut for the deal, the lowest being dealer. He gives twelve cards each by two at a time, and the eight cards that remain must be placed upon the table, and are called the talon or stock. The follow- ing are the terms used at piquet:— Capot. — This is a term used when either player makes every trick, for which he scores forty. Cards.—Majority of tricks which reckon ten points. Carte Blanche, means a hand without a court card in the twelve dealt, which counts ten, and takes place of every thing else. Huitieme, eight successive cards of the same suit and counts eighteen points. Pique, is when the elder hand has reckoned thirty in hand, and plays be- fore the other counts one, in which case, instead of thirty points it is called sixty. adding thereto as many points as one got above thirty. t Point, the greatest number on the cards of the same suit in hand, after having taken in and reckoned by their pips scores for as many points as cards. Quart.—Four cards in sequence of the same suit counting four points; there are five kinds of quarts ; the first called quart-major, consists of ace, king, queen, and knave ; the second is from the king ; the third is from the queen ; the fourth from the knave; and the fifth a basse-quart of quart minor, ef ten, nine, eight, and seven. Quartoze, the four aces, kings, queens, knaves, or tens, scoring four- teen points. Quint, means five cards of the same suit in sequences, and counts fif- teen points ; there aret four sorts of quints; a quint-major, of ace, king, queen, knave, and ten ; down to knave, ten, nine, eight, and seven, which is called a quint-minor. Ripique, signifies when one of the players counts thirty or more in hand before his opponent attains cne ; then it is called ninety, reckoning as many above ninety as were gained above thirty. Sixieme, or six cards of a suit in sequence, and counts for sixteen points, there are three sorts of sixiemes, viz., sixieme major from ace, sixieme from the king, and sixieme minor, from the queen. Septieme, seven of the same suit in sequence, counting seventeen points ; there are two of them, one from the ace, the other from the king. Threes, three of any kind from aces to tens, count three. Talon or Stock. — This is the name given to the eight cards remaining after twelve each dealt. Tierce, or sequences of three count three points; there are six kinds of tierces, from tierce-major, of ace, king, and queen, down to tierce-minor, of nine, eight, and seven. In this game there are three chances, viz., the repique, the pique, and the capot, all of which may be made in one deal; for instance, suppose one player has four tierce-majors, his point good, and he elder band, be begins by count