CAR CAR 113 again upon the fire, and thicken with it flour and butter ; boil fora few minutes, and stain it over the fish. A sprig of myrtle placed in the mouth of each fish forms a pretty garnish. CARP to Fry.—Split a carp at the back, flatten the back bone, and marinate it about two hours, with a glass of vinegar and water, parsley, shalots, a clove of garlic, two of spices, thyme, whole pepper, and salt; drain and flour it over, fry on a smart fire and serve with fried parsley. CARPETS to Clean.—Take up the carpet, and let it be well beaten; then laid down, and brushed on both sides with a hand brush, turn it the right side upwards, and scour it with ox gall, and soap and water, very clean, and dry it with linen cloths ; then lay it on grass, or hang it up to dry. Newly-cut grass is much better than tea-leaves for sweeping carpets, Tea leaves destroy the colours. CARPETS Soiled. —Beat all the dust out. Then take 2 gallons of water, y, lb. of soft soap, well dissolved in it, and 4 ozs. of liquid ammonia. Dip in it a flannel, and rub the carpet well with it, and afterwards with a dry doth. CARAWAY BRANDY to Make.—Steep an ounce of caraway seeds, and six ounces of loaf sugar, in a quart of brandy ; let it stand nine days, and then draw it off. CARAWAY CAKES.—Sift 2 lbs. of fine sugar, 2 lbs. of flour ; mix and sieve into the bowl; butter 2 lbs. ; 18 eggs, leaving out 8 of the whites ; add 4 ozs. candied orange, and 2 ozs. caraway seeds ; work the butter with rose-water ; then put in flour and sugar gradually, and the eggs with a glassful or two of sherry wine ; beat constantly, till you put into the hoop for the oven. Buttered paper must be placed under- neath. You may add allspice, ginger, and nutmeg, as you like. Sift fine sugar upon them. CARAWAY SEED BIS- CUITS.—Make as other biscuits, \ adding caraway seeds. CARRIER SAUCE.-Chop fine ! 6 shalots; boil with % pint of good gravy, a little vinegar, salt, and pepper. | CARROTS BOILED.-Scrape, wash, and clean them ; if large, cut them into two or four pieces, set them over the fire in boiling water with some salt in it, and boil them for two or three hours. Very young carrots will only require one hour. CARROTS to Prepare.-Scrape clean, put them into the pan, when enough, take out, rub them in a cloth. Slice them into a plate, and pour melted butter, pepper, and salt over them. If young carrots, boil half an hour, if large, an hour; old carrots will take two hours boiling. Some cooks mash them, and add milk or cream. CARROT PUDDING.—Boil a large carrot tender ; then bruise it in a marble mortar, and mix with it a spoon- ful of biscuit-powder, or three or four sweet biscuits, without seeds, four yolks and two whites of eggs, a pint of cream either raw or scalded, a little ratafia, a large spoonful of orange or rose-water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and two ounces of sugar. Bake it in a shallow dish lined with paste, and turn it out to serve with a little sugar dusted over. CARROT SOUP. —Put some beef-bones, with four quarts of the liquor in which a leg of mutton or beef has been boiled, two large onions, a turnip, pepper and salt into a sauce- pan, and stew for three hours. Have ready six large carrots, scraped and cut thin, strain the soup on them, and stew them till soft enough to pulp through a hair-sieve or coarse cloth, then boil the pulp with the soup, which is to be as thick as peas-soup. Use two wooden spoons to rub the carrots through. Make the soup the day before it is to be used. Add cayenne. Pulp only the red part of the carrot, and not the yellow. CARROT SOUP.—The liquor in which you have boiled mutton o? veal, or a gravy drawn front beef bones will make a sufficient foundation to tin's excellent soup ; put a coupie of quarts of either of these into a stewpan, then scrape six large carrots, and cut off the red portion ; put that, with a head of celery and onion both cut up, in the stew-pan, cover down close, and set it near the fire, or in a very slow oven, for two hours and a half; if you do not find the carrots quite soft by this time, a