117 CHA CEM CEMENT, JAPANESE.—In- timately mix the best powdered rice flour with a little cold water, then gradu- ally add boiling water until a proper consistence is acquired, being careful to keep it well stirred all the time ; lastly, it must be boiled for one minute in a clean saucepan. This glue is beautifully white, and nearly transparent, for which reason it is well adapted for fancy paper work, which requires a strong and colourless cement. CEMENT, Never Yielding.— Calcine oyster shells, pound and sift them through a sieve, and grind them on a flat smooth stone with a muller till reduced to the finest powder, then take the whites of eggs and form the whole into a paste. With it join the pieces of china or glass, and press them together for six or eight minutes. This cement will stand both heat and water, and will never give way, even if the article should fall to the ground. CEMENT, to tyend Stones.— Mix ground white lead with as much powdered red lead to make it as thick as putty. Or, mix equal weights of red lead and white lead with boiled linseed oil, to a proper consistence. Effectual, however large the stone. CENTAURY.—See Robinson's Herbal. It is a valuable tonic, pro- moting digestion, appetite, destroying fever, and worms. Infuse in warm water, or in brandy. CEPHALIC SNUFF. —Take half an ounce each of rosemary, sage, lilies of the valley, and the tops of sweet marjoram, with a drachm each of asara- bacca root, lavender flowers and nut- meg. Reduce the whole to a fine pow- der, and take it like common snuff for the relief of the head, &c. CERATE, White. Take of olive oil, % pint; white wax, 4 ozs.; melt them together, and stir till the cerate is quite cold. This is a good soft dressing for blisters, cuts, &c., where the drawing plaster generally employed for that purpose is too irritating. CHALK OINTMENT.—It is good for burns. Powder some chalk, and mix with lard. CHAMPAGNE.—Raisins, 8 lbs. sugar, 20 lbs. ; water, 9 or 10 gallons; citric acid, t 07.; honey 1 lb. Boil the water and sugar half an hour. Ferment with good yeast. When the fermenta- tion is nearly over, add 2 quarts of brandy. Bung well for 2 months. Then bottle, and put a lump of white sugar into each bottle. Cider will resemble champagne, if you put a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, 2 teaspoonfuls of fine sugar, and a table- spoonful of brandy in a tumbler, and fill it up with sharp cider. CHANTILLY TRIFLE. Bake a rich cake in a mould. When cold, cut it round about two inches from the edge with a sharp knife, taking care not to perforate the bottom, put in a thick custard, and some teaspoonfuls of raspberry jam, and then put on a high whip. CHAPPED HANDS. Rub them night and morning with raw Linseed Oil. CHAPPED HANDS.—Rub a little Glycerine, with a little Borax, upon your hands at night, and wear gloves in bed. Vaseline Salve is excel- lent. CHAPPED HANDS, &c.— Wash with soft soap, mixed with red sand.—Or, wash them in sugar and water.—Or apply a little sal prunello. CHAPPED LIPS. —Clarified honey, a table-spoonful; pour a few drops of rose or lavender water into it. Apply it to the lips often.—Or, honey, i oz. ; litharge and myrrh, each oz.; melt, and perfume ; cork well. CHARCOAL, useful proper- ties of.—All sorts of glass vessels and other utensils may be purified from bad smells hy rincing them out with charcoal powder, after the grossest im- purities have been scoured off with sand and potash. Rubbing the teeth, and washing out the mouth with charcoal powder will render the teeth beautifully white, and the breath perfectly sweet. Putrid water is immediately deprived of its smell by charcoal. CHARCOAL MEDICINE.— It is much used in Mexico, and in South America, where few drugs are procura- ble, save those “simples” which the in- genuity and experience of the Indian Herbalists have devised. Freshly-burnt Charcoal, reduced to powder and given in water, is in great repute. It immedl-