POLYPUS IN THE NOSE. —Powder a lamp of alum, and snuff it up frequently; then dissolve powdered alum in brandy, dip lint therein and apply it when going to bed. POMADE.—Best lard, 4 ozs.; castor oil, 4 ozs. ; white wax, 3 drs. Melt and mix; when cool, add oil of bergamot and lavender, 15 drops of each. POMADE.—Olive oil, 2$ ozs.; oil of almonds, % dr. ; palm oil, dr.; white wax, % oz. ; lard, % lb.; essence of bergamot, J dr. It is first-rate for preventing baldness, and strengthening the hair. POMADE, Hard. —Melt in a water-bath, 3 ozs. of lard ; 3 ozs. of beef marrow ; 2J ozs. of mutton suet; and 2 ozs. of white wax. Take off the fire; cool a little ; then add a little spirits of wine to cause it to keep, and a few drops of otto of roses. Stir till nearly cold, and tom into moulds. It may become Soft Pomade by leav- ing out half of the wax, the whole of the mutton suet, and doubling the beef marrow. POMADE, Spanish. — Take equal parts of lemon juice and white of eggs. Beat well together, and place on a slow fire. Stir it till it is the thickness of soft pomatum. Perfume with otto of roses. It is a cosmetic that renders the complexion beautiful. POMATUM.—Take 4 ozs. of beef marrow, melt it and strain ; 4 ozs. of white wax; 1 oz. of olive oil; and 20 drops of oil of rosemary. Melt, but do not add the oil of rosemary till nearly cold. It causes the hair to grow. The more of rosemary the better. Oils for the hair may be made by simply stirring in any of the essential oils into olive oil, oil of ben, oil of al- monds, castor oil, &c. The pink and red colours are produced by boding the oils and pouring them upon alkanet root. But it deteriorates the oils. Col- oured hair oils should be avoided. POMATUM, Elder Flower.— Elder flower oil, 4 ozs. ; fine mutton suet, or beef marrow, 2 ozs.; best lard, 2 ozs. Melt the suet and lard together, with as little heat as possible; then add the elder oil, and beat up the mixture till nearly cold. Any other perfume may be added before the pomatum hardens. A little eau-de-cologne makes it veiy agreeable, when intimately mixed. POOR MAN'S SAUCE. Take 5 or 6 shalots; hash them fine with a little parsley; put them into a stewpan with a little gravy and a spoon- ful of good vinegar, a little salt and cayenne; sfrnmer till enough, and serve. POPLAR BARK, Infusion of. —Take a handful of the bark of the stinking poplar, pounded, put into a quart jug, and fill it with boiling water. This will relieve a relax, headache, feintness, bile, and other complaints caused by indigestion, also for affections of the kidneys, and for consumption. PORK, to Choose.— Pinch the lean, and if young, it will break. If the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be impressed by the finger, it is old. A tbin rind is a' merit in all pork. When fresh, the flesh will be smooth and cool; if clammy, it is tainted. What is called measley pork is very unwholesome; and may be known by the fet being full of kernels, which in good pork is never the