159 DJA DEA It has cured many persons, some who had been deaf many years. Or, take the juice of a frosted turnip, and apply on sponge. Or, saturate a piece of grey wool with your own urine, when warm, and apply it very wet 3 times a day. DEAFNESS CURED BY ETHER.—The method consists in introducing sulphuric ether into the aural conduit, in doses of two to 8 drops a day for twenty days, when the application is suspended for a |short time, and again commenced. Much has been said in France about sulphuric ether, it does very well in some cases, but does not as a rule give general satisfaction. An eminent physician says,—“Take sassafras oil, 5 drops ; sweet oil, % oz. Mix, and drop into the ear once or twice a day.” He says that this seldom fails. —Or, saturate a little lint with tincture of Lobelia, and insert twice a day. Avoid the use of all mercurial prepara- tions in any disease ; an eminent physi- cian says, “ that most cases of deafness have been caused by the use of mercury. Some Medical men speak strongly against the use of cotton wool put in the ear, they say the fibres often fasten to the wax and are drawn inward, causing deafness. DELIRIUM TREMENS.— This is the disease of drunkards, and those who take narcotics, as opium, &c. It may be called " the brain fever of drunkards." The person is tremulous, has nausea, vomiting, and wakefulness, restlessness; he raves, and imagines snakes, demons, &c., are about him. This disease doubtless arises from extreme stimulus of the brain. To Cure.—First allay the par- oxysm, calm and support the nervous system, by giving brandy and other spirits. The redness of the face, and the pulsation of the arteries, heart, &c., indicate determination of blood to the head. Equalize the circulation by bath- ing the feet and legs in warm ley-water, then apply mustard plasters to the feet and nape of the neck. Give a purge ; and now and then a cupful of valerian scull-cap, or strong hop tea, or from ro to 20 drops of laudanum. Emetics are very useful, and may be Rivet) In the same kind of spirits the patient has been accustomed to take. A strong decoction of wormwood is successfully used in American hospitals. DELIRIUM TREMENS, to obtain Sleep.—Give an emetic of ipecacuanha, then give 15 to 18 grains of the same, every 2 hours, using the shower bath, and giving all the beef tea the patient desires. The danger arising from the sudden stop of their accustomed stimulants, is overcome by administering, freely, a strong decoction of wormwood. This has been very successfully used in Amer- can Hospitals. Or, use the Stimulat- ing Anodyne, page 378. Give also strong coffee. DEMULCENTS. — Medicines moistening, softening, and abating irri- tation in a part. DENTIFRICE, Indian.—Pro- cure 6 betel nuts from a drysalter’s, and place them in a charcoal fire, until they become white hot. When they are cold, place them in a mortar, and re- duce them to fine powder. Deposit in boxes for use. It may be scented with orange flower water or extract of orris root. This tooth powder is prized for its antiseptic efficacy, dispelling all im- purities of the teeth and gums, and pre- serving the enamel from corrosion. DENTIFRICE, Invaluable.— Dissolve nearly a tea-spoonful of finely powdered borax in half a pint of tepid water ; add to it 10 drops of tincture of myiTh.—Or, prepared chalk, 1 oz. ; camphor, 1 drachm. Mix. Dissolve the camphor in a little spirits of wine.— Or, Cuttlefish, 3 ozs. ; cream of tartar, oz. ; orris root, oz. Powder all fine. Mix, and add xo drops of tincture of myrrh. DEPILATORY. — To remwe superfluous Hairs.—Saturate the part well with fine oiL In about an hour, wipe it off; then take finely powdered quick lime, 1 oz. ; powdered orpiment, 1 drachm; mix with white of egg; and apply with a small brush. DETERGENT S.—Deterge means to cleanse. Detergents remove unwholesome matters adhering tc, and obstructing the vessels , usually applied to foul ulcers, &c., as tincture of myrrh, honey, alum, water, turpentine.