TOO TRJE 39* TOOTH TINCTURE.—Mix 6 ounces of tincture of Peruvian bark with half an ounce of sal-ammoniac, .shake them well a few minutes, every time, before the tincture is used. The method of using it is, to take a teaspoonful and hold it near the teeth ; then, with a finger dipped in, rubbing the gums and teeth, which are afterward to be washed with warm water. This tincture not only cures the toothache, but preserves both the teeth and gums, and makes them adhere to each other. TOOTH WASHES.—Tincture of myrrh, diluted with water, and cam- phorated spirits. Or, a solution of borax and camphorated spirit com- bined. TRACING PAPER.—Use Canada balsam dissolved in spirits of wine, and a little turpentine. Apply with a soft brush, or sponge, and hang up to dry. The best tissue paper should be used. TREACLE BEER.—Take 4 lbs. of treacle, 2 ozs. of hops, and % oz. of ginger bruised. Pour upon the same 4 gallons of boiling water. Fer- ment with a small cupful of yeast. TREACLE PARKIN. —Oat- meal, 4 lbs. ; flour, 1 lb.; butter, 1 lb. ; treacle, 4 lbs. ; sugar, 1 lb.; ginger, oz. ; sweet pepper, 1 oz. ; caraway seeds, r oz.; carbonate of soda, 3 tea- spoonfuls. Add half a cupful of cream, which with the treacle, sugar, and butter, must be well rubbed into the meal and flour. Warm the treacle and sugar in the oven, and mix well.—See Parkin, page 293. TREACLE POSSET.—Boil a small basinful of milk, and put in treacle enough to curdle it. Drink it on retiring to bed. It generally cures a severe cold by producing profuse per- spiration, and dispelling the fever of the patient. TREACLE PUDDING. Make the paste as for other boiled pud- dings, adding treacle, and small raisins, (or without,) according to taste. Boil in a cloth three hours. Serve with sweetened melted butter. TREES AND PLANTS, Longevity of.—It is quite difficult to obtain reliable facts from observation in regard to the age of trees, because some species live hundreds and thou- sands of years, and must therefore be watched by many generations of men in order to ascertain their exact age. It is therefore customary to count the rings that are formed in the growth of trees that attain to great age. On this subject Hufeland writes as follows: “ Plants may all, however, be reduced, according to tneir duration cf life, into three principal classes : annual, or pro- perly only semi-annual, which grow up in spring and die in autumn ; biennial, which die at the end of the second year ; and, lastly, perennial, the duration of which extends from four to a thousand years. “ All plants of a soft, watery constitu- tion, and which have fine, tender organs, have a short life, and last only one or at most two years. Those alone which have stronger organs and tougher juices exist longer, but wood is absolutely necessary in order to attain to the high- est degree of vegetable existence. “Even among those which live only one or two years, a remarkable differ- ence may be observed. Those which are of a cold, insipid nature, and desti- tute of smell, live, under like circum- stances, not so long as the strong- scented balsamic plants, which contain more essential oil and spirits. “ Lettuce, wheat, oats, barley, and all kinds of corn live no more than a year; but, on the other hand, thyme, mint, hyssop, balm, wormwood, marjoram, sage, &c., can live two years, and even longer. Shrubs and small trees can live sixty years, and some even twice that number. “ The vine attains to sixty or a hun- dred years, and continues fruitful at the greatest age. This is the case also with rosemary. The acanthus and ivy, how- ever, can exceed the age of a hundred. Among many such, for example, as the different kinds of rubus (common bram- ble, blackberry, raspberry), it is difficult to determine the age, as the branches creep along the ground and always form new plants, so that it is almost impos- sible to distinguish the new from the old; and by these means they make their existence, as it were, perennial. Those which attain to the highest age are the greatest, strongest, and hardest