MUS MUS 267 parsley, and sweet herbs, with some good gravy, let them simmer till re- duced to one half; add a liaison, and serve it up hot. Before boiling, take out the moss, crabs, &c. MUSSELS, to Stew.—Wash and pick out moss, and boil as before ; put them into a saucepan ; to a quart of mussels, add half a pint of the liquor strained, two blades of mace, a piece of butter rolled in flour; let them stew; toast bread brown, and lay it round the dish; pour in the mussels, and send to table hot. MUSHROOMS. —Every cook should be perfectly acquainted with the different sorts of things called by this name by ignorant people, as the death of many persons has been occasioned by carelessly eating the poisonous kinds. The eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of a round form, on a little stalk. They grow very fast, and the upper part and stalk are white. As the size increases, the under part gradually opens, and shows a fringy fur of a very fine salmon-colour, which continues more or less till the mush- room has gained some size, and then turns to a dark brown. These marks should be attended to, and likewise whether the skin can be easily parted from the edges and the middle. Those that have white or yellow fur should be carefully avoided, though many of them have the same smell (but not so strong) as the right sort. MUSHROOMS, to Pickle. — Buttons must be rubbed with a bit of flannel and salt; and from the larger, take out the red inside, for when they are black they will not do, being too old. Throw a little salt over, and put them into a stewpan with some mace and pepper; as the liquor comes out, shake them well, and keep them over a gentle fire till all be dried into them again ; then put as much vinegar into the pan as will cover them, give it one warm, and turn all into a glass or stone jar. They will keep two years, and are delicious. MUSHROOMS, to Stew— The large buttons are best, and the small flaps while the fur is still red. Rub the large buttons with salt and a bit of flannd, cut out the fur, and take off the skin from the others. Sprinkle them with salt, and put into a stewpan with some pepper corns ; simmer slowly till done, then put a small bit of butter and flour, and two spoonfuls of cream ; give their: one boil, and serve with' sippets of bread. MUSHROOMS, to Dry. — Wipe them clean, and of the large take out the brown, and peel off the skin. Lay them on paper to dry in a cool oven, and keep them in paper bags in a dry place. When used, simmer them in the gravy, and they will swell to near their former size. To simmer them in their own liquor till it dry up into them, shaking the pan, then drying on tin plates, is a good way, with spice or not, as above, before made into powder. Tie down with bladder, and keep It in a dry place or in paper. MUSHROOMS, to Fricassee. —Peel and scrape the inside of the mush- rooms ; put them into salt and water; if buttons, rub them with flannel; take them out, and boil them with fresh salt and water; when they are tender, put in a little shred parsley, an onion stuck with cloves, (or both separately, and chopped;) toss them up with a good lump of butter rolled in a little flour. You may put in 3 spoonfuls of thick cream, and a little nutmeg cut in pieces ; but mind to take out the nutmeg and onion before serving. MUSHROOMS, to Grow.— They are easily cultivated. Get some stable sweepings and horse-droppings; mix them well together, then add some dry sweepings, they greatly improve the bed. More material you have the bet- ter. When you have got a sufficiency, place them well under cover, dry them as much as possible, leaving only suffi- cient latent moisture to ferment. When the internal heat is not more than 85® break into 8 or 10 pieces mushroom bricks, and insert one piece firmly into each hole, bearing the bed down well. Cover again with yellow loam about 1 % inches thick, making the top smooth, watering carefully. Let the surface dry, then in 8 or 10 dqys cover over with' a layer of dry hay. When the bed has been formed 7 or 8 weeks water it, and after bearing has. commenced water may be given every