395 TUR TTTR tUere fall no blacks : but skim It well, and preserve the beauty of the colour. Serve it garnished with a complete fringe of curled parsley, lemon and horse-radish. The sauce must be the finest jobster, and anchovy, and plain butter, served plentifully in separate tureens. TURBOT, to Fry.—Cut the turbot across, as if it were ribbed. Flour it, and put it into a large frying- pan, with lard to cover it. Fry tih brown; drain. Clean the pan, and pour Into It sherry wine, almost enough to cover it, anchovy, salt, nutmeg, and a little ginger. Stew the fish in it till half the liquor is wasted. Take out the fish, and put into the pan a piece of butter rolled in flour, and some minced lemon. Simmer till of a proper thick- ness. Lay in a dish rubbed with shalot. Pour the hot sauce over it, and serve. TURKEY.—A good-sized turkey should be roasted two hours and a half, or three hours—very slowly at first. TURKEY, a la Daube.-^-Cut the turkey down the back, just enough to bone it. Stuff it with nice forcemeat, made of bread crumbs, and oysters chopped fine, pepper, salt, shalots, thyme, parsley, and butter. Fill, and sew it up. Tie it in a clean cloth, and boil it very white. Serve it with oyster sauce, made good. Or, take the bones with a piece of veal, mutton, and bacon, and make a rich gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, mace, and shalots. Strain, and stew the turkey in it, after it has been half boiled half an hour. Dish it up in the gravy, after it is well skimmed, strained, and thickened with a few mushrooms stewed white, or stewed palates, forcemeat balls, and pieces of lemon, fried oysters, &c. TURKEY, to Boil.—Make a Stuffing of bread, herbs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, lemon peel, a few oysters or anchovy, a bit of butter, some suet, and an egg: put this into the crop, fasten up the skin and boil the turkey in a floured cloth to make it very white. Have ready oyster-sauce made with butter, a little cream, and a spoonful of soy, if approved, and pour it over the bird ; or liver and lemon-sauce. Hen- birds are best for boiling, and should be young. TURKEY, to Carve.—A turkey roasted or boiled is trussed and sent to the table like a fowl, and cut up like a pheasant. The best parts are the white ones, the breast, wings, and neck bones. The neck is taken away, and the hollow part under the breast stuffed with forcemeat, which is to be cut into thin slices, from the rump to the neck, and a slice given with each piece of Turkey. TURKEY, to Roast a Boned. —To bone a turkey requires very care- ful manipulation. You must begin with a very sharp knife at the top of the wings and scrape the flesh clear from the bone, and then proceed to the breast-bone, back-bone, and legs. If this is done carefully and dexterously, the whole mass of flesh may be separ- ated from the bone, so that you can take hold of the head and draw out the entire skeleton at once. Then take between two and three pounds of sausage-meat, some truffles, cut up some salt pork into strips with ham, tongue, and veal, and three eggs, and half a glass of ketchup, stuff all in the turkey in layers, and tie it so that it will keep in shape. Bake, according to the weight of the turkey, one or two hours, having a brisk fire—or you may boil it; and when done lay it between very clean flat boards with heavy weights against them to keep it in place, trying