226 KID KIT edge. Cover with a cloth and boil a considerable time. KIDNEY, VEAL, to Fry.— Chop veal kidney, and some of the fat; also a little leek or onion, pepper, and salt; roll it up with an egg into balls, and fry them. Calf s heart, stuff and roast as a beast’s heart, or sliced, make it into a pudding, as directed for steak or kidney pudding. KIDNEYS, Inflammation of. —It is indicated by chilliness and fever, with severe piercing pains, sometimes dull, with a sense of weight over the kidney inflamed. The urine Is very high coloured, and is partially or wholly sup- pressed, and sometimes it is bloody. Sometimes faintness, nausea, vomiting, hiccup, and relax are present. It may be caused by calculus, external blows, falls, hard riding, &c. Persons of intemperate habits are very liable to diseases of the kidneys. Gin drinkers, on account of the admixture of turpen- tine with that spirit, often pay dear for their tippling. Treatment.—In severe cases the patient should lie in bed. The bowels should be cleared by gentle aperients and injections. If there is coldness of the surface and extremities, bathe the feet in warm water. Drink decoctions of the diuretic plants; as, hofsemint, marsh-mallow, broom tops, parsley, pennyroyal, &c. Take also the diuretic drops. Diluents may also be drunk; the best is common barley-water. Make a strong infusion of parsley, 2 parts ; of pennyroyal, 1 part, and cupful of best Hollands gin, and % oz. of sweet nitre, all mixed ; take at 3 times ; it often acts effectually. Externally, apply cayenne pepper simmered in vinegar, and add 30 drops of laudanum. The Rheumatic Liniment will be of great service. To prevent vomiting, drink peppermint tea, with a little bicarbonate of potass. If there is great swelling of the testicle use ice to reduce the inflammation. KING’S CAKE.—The finest flour, s lbs.; salt, 1 % teaspoonful; cin- namon, % oz. ; nutmeg, % oz.; mace, 1 dr. ; all finely powdered. Add 14 ozs. of sugar, and gradually work well into the mass 1 % lb. of fresh butter. Then add 6 eggs, a quart of cream, % pint of good yeast, a % pint of sherry wine, and a tabie-spoaafuls of orange water, All must be mixed and kneaded well toge- ther. After it has stood a little, knead in 2 lbs. of clean-picked raisins stoned and chopped, and 2 or 3 lbs. of currants. Bake for 3 hours in a gentle oven, wheE baked, rub the surface with white of an egg and rose-water, and sift over it finely powdered sugar. KING’S EVIL.—See Scrofula. KINO.—It is the concrete juice of an Indian tree. It is a powerful astring- ent similar to catechu. It is applied ex- ternally to ulcers, and is used as a gar- gle for relaxed uvula, sore throat, &c. It is good for relax, whites, and internal bleedings. The dose of the gum is from 10 grains to % dr.; of the tincture from 1 to 2 drachms. KISSES.—Boil the same as bar- ley sugar, and flavour with lemon juice and a few drops of essence of lemon; after which let it boil a little. Drop it on a slab, nearly the size of a shilling. When cold, put them into sifted white sugar in a dish; shake them, and fold them singly in papers, with mottoes, if you like. Another.—Beat the whites of 5 eggs till they stand alone. Mix gradu- ally with this 1 lb. of the finest sifted white sugar, and 15 drops of essence of lemon; beat the whole well. Lay a sheet of stiff writing paper at the bottom of a baking tin ; drop upon it at equal dis- tances, a small teaspoonful of stiff rasp- berry, currant, apricot, or pine apple jelly, and then cover the same over with the white of egg and sugar. Do it so evenly that the kisses may be quite smooth and compact. Place in a cool oven, and when coloured, take out, and place the flat parts of each together. Put lightly on a sieve, and dry in a cod oven. KITCHEN PEPPER.—Mix in the finest powder 1 oz. of ginger; of cinnamon, cayenne pepper, black pepper nutmeg, and Jamaica pepper, J oz. each, 10 cloves, and 6 oz. of salt. Keep it in a bottle; it is an agreeable addition to any brown sauces or soups. KITCHENER’S RELISH.— Cayenne pepper, ginger, black pepper, and salt, of each 1 oz., ground allspice, 1% oz.; horseradish and shalots, 1 oz. each, well minced ; walnut pickle, and mushroom ketchup, x pint each. Add