259 MEN MEN part of the body, Is affected with drop- ical swelling. The breathing is hurried by any quick or laborious motion of the body, which sometimes occasions palpi- tation and fainting. A head-ache often occurs, but more certainly pains in the back, loins, haunches. Treatment.—The strength of the system should be restored by exercise. Iron should be combined with some laxative medicine. If there is much 'j, take the Diaphoretic Powder, page 160. Also infusions of pennyroyal, or of tansy, or blood-root, motherwort, &c. Bathe the feet occasionally in warm water, and rub well with a coarse flannel. If there is constipation, take Aperient Medicines; page si. Pow- dered madder root has been recom- mended, say half a drachm to be taken three or four times a day in treacle or honey, drinking freely of pennyroyal tea. Repeat and increase the dose if necessary. Or it may be administered thus:—Take extract of madder, a drachms, muriated tincture of steel, 40 drops, bitter tincture, 2 drachms, mint- water, 8 ozs. Mix. Three tablespoon- fuls to be taken three times a day. Or, give a vapour bath of a decoction of bitter herbs.—Or in bed apply the hot brick covered with a cloth dipped in vinegar and water. Give bitter tonics. Steaming in a sitz-bath of bitter herbs till perspiration is produced, is very use- ful ; also fomenting the abdomen, and applying herbs as warm poultice. If the stomach is deranged, give an emetic, and a dose of mandrake, and aperients as before stated. When the menstrual flux begins, it should be promoted by the use of the hip or sitz-bath. Take the Dyspeptic Pill, page 168, and the Res- torative Bitters, page 336 Keep the feet always warm and dry ; avoid a cold damp atmosphere; and when the weather permits, take plenty of open air exercise. Let the diet be light and nourishing. Do not use any promotlve medicines in retention of the menses until there is an effort or strug- gle of nature to effect it, which may be known by the periodical pains, pressing down upon the hips. Painful Menstruation. The pains are severe—in some cases ex- tremely severe. The remedial mea- sures are Dearly the same as the pre- ceding. On account of the pain, still- ness, quiet of mind, and soothing reme- dies are rendered indispensable. Adopt the remedies prescribed for the retention of the menses ; and take now and then from 10 to 20 drops of laudanum in a little Hollands gin diluted with penny- royal tea. Let the patient lie in bed. apply hot fomentations to the lower part of the back ; and if the pain is excessive, flannels dipped in hot water, wrung out, and sprinkled with spirits of turpentine. Sponge the body well with tepid salt and water every morning, and apply friction with a flesh brush, or coarse towel. Regulate the bowels, if costive, by one of the Aperients, page 21. Hops boiled in vinegar, and applied to the abdomen, often give relief; so does the tincture of black cohosh, about half a teaspoonful three times a day in a little sweetened water. Profuse Menstruation. — The flow of the menses is considered im- moderate when it recurs more frequent- ly, when it continues longer, or when, during the ordinary continuance, it is more abundant than is usual with the same person at other times. It is not, however, every inequality that is to be considered a disease, but only those deviations, that are excessive in degree, which are permanent, and induce a manifest state of debility. When a large flow of the menses has been preceded by head-ache, giddiness, or difficulty of breathing, and has been ushered in by a cold shivering, with much pain in the back and loins, fre- quent pulse, heat, and thirst, it may then be considered pretematurally large; and the face becomes pale, the pulse weak, an unusual debility is felt on ex- ercise, the breathing hurried by much motion, and the back is pained in an erect posture ; the extremities are fre- quently cold, and in the evening the feet swell. General nervousness, with affections of the stomach, frequent famtings, and a weakness of mind, liable to strong emotion from slight causes, when suddenly presented, are also attendant symptoms. It is produced by a preternatural de- termination of blood to the womb, or a plethoric state of the body, from high living, strong liquors, over-exertion, (particularly dancing,) violent passions