VEA 4O4 VEA on them a bit of thin bacon of the same size, and spread forcemeat on that, sea- soned high, and also a little garlic and Cayenne. Roll them up tight, about the size of a fingers, but not more than a or 3 inches long; put a very small skewer to fasten each firmly: rub egg over ; fry them of a fine brown, and pour a rich brown gravy over. VEAL. COLLOPS, to Dress Quick.—Cut them as thin as paper with a very sharp knife, and in small bits. Throw the skin, and any odd bits of veal, into a little water, with a dust of pepper and salt; set them on the fire while you beat the collops ; and dip them into a seasoning of herbs, bread, pepper, salt, and a scrape of nutmeg, but first wet them in egg. Then put a bit of butter into a frying-pan, and give the collops a very quick fry ; for as they are so thin, 2 minutes wifi do them on both sides; put them into a hot dish before the fire ; then strain and thicken the gravy, give it a boil in the frying- pan, and pour it over the collops. A little ketchup is an improvement VEAL CUTLETS, in Crust. —Make a marinade with melted butter or lard, mushrooms, shalots, J a clove of garlic, pepper, and salt; simmer the cutlets in this about % an hour; then wrap them in puff paste, with all the seasoning; put them in a deep dish; bake them in an oven, and baste with yolks of eggs; make a hole in the middle, into which pour a clear sauce, VEAL CUTLETS, Main- tenon.—Cut slices about three quar- ters of an inch thick, beat them with a rolling-pin, ana wet them on both sides with egg ; dip them into a seasoning of bread-crumbs, parsley, thyme, knotted marjoram, pepper, salt, and a little nut- meg grated ; then put them into papers folded over, and broil them ; and serve In a boat of melted-butter, with a little mushroom-ketchup. VEAL CUTLETS.—Another way.—Prepare as above, and fry them ; lay them into a dish, and keep them hot; dredge a little flour, and put a bit of butter into the pan; brown it, then Ur some boiling water into it, and il quick: season with pepper, salt, and ketchup, and pour over them. VEAL CUTLETS. —Prepare as before, and dress the cutlets in a Dutch-oven; pour over them melted batter and mushrooms. VEAL, Fillet of.—Veal requires a good bright fire for roasting. Before cooking, stuff with a forcemeat, com- posed of 2 ozs. of finely-powdered bread crumbs, half a lemon-peel chopped fine, half a teaspoonful of salt, and the same quantity of mixed mace and cayenne pepper, powdered, parsley, and some sweet herbs ; break an egg, and mix all well together. Baste your joint with fresh butter, and send it to table well browned. A nice bit of bacon should be served with the fillet of veal, unless ham is provided. VEAL, Fricandeau of—Cut a large piece from the fat side of the leg, about nine inches long, and half as thick and broad ; beat it with the rolling- pin ; take off the skin, and trim off the rough edges. Lard the top and sides ; and cover it with fat bacon, and then with white paper. Lay it into the stew- pan with any pieces of undressed veal or mutton, four onions, a carrot sliced, a faggot of sweet herbs, four blades of mace, four bay-leaves, a pint of good veal or mutton broth, and four or five ounces of lean ham or gammon. Cover the pan close, and let it stew slowly three hours; then take up the meat, remove all the fat from the gravy, and boil it quick to a glaze. Keep the fricandeau quite hot, and then glaze it; and serve with the remainder of the glaze in the dish, and sorrel-sauce in a sauce-tureen. VEAL, Fricandeau of.—With a sharp knife cut the lean part of a large neck from the best end, scooping it from the bones the length of your hand, and prepare it the same way as in the last receipt: three or four bones only will be necessary, and they will make the gravy; but if the prime part of the leg is cut off, it spoils the whole. VEAL GRAVY.—Put in the stewpan bits of lard, then a few thin slices of ham, a few bits of butter, then slices of fillet of veal, sliced onions, carrots, parsnips, celery, a few cloves, upon die meat, and two spoonfuls of broth; set it on the fire till the veal throws out its juice; then put it on a stronger fire till the meat catches to tbtf