SUG sue 383 and mix plenty of fine melted butter and a little flour. Put the sauce into the dish after the pig has been split down the back, and garnish with the ears and the two jaws. Many now serve a suck- ing pig whole. Pour the gravy into the sauce; and garnish with lemon or bread sauce and currants. SUCKING PIG, Baked.—Pre- pare in the same way as for roasting, and rub it over with white of egg, which has been slightly beaten. Baste it well with butter. SUCCEDANEUM for’Filling Decayed Teeth.—Tinfoil and quick- silver. Melt together in a convenient vessel, and take a small quantity, knead it in the palm of the hand, and apply it directly. SUDORIFICS. Medicines causing much perspiration. SUDORIFIC or Fever Drops. —Of expressed juice of houseleek, 1 pint, strained; loaf sugar, 1 pound. Simmer for 30 minutes to form a syrup. Dose :—One teaspoonful every 2 hours, but not until proper evacuants have been administered. This prepara- tion has never been known to fail in relieving or curing fever. SUDORIFIC, or FEVER POWDER.—Crawley root, 1 oz : lobelia herb, % oz. ; pleurisy root, 1 oz.; skunk cabbage, % oz. Powder, and mix them together. Dose, from a quarter to half a tea-spoonful every one hour and a half till perspiration is pro- duced. It may be given in balm or common tea. In fevers, inflammations, influenza, and colds, this powder is invaluable. It subdues irritation, corrects the pulse, Improves respiration, and promotes sound natural sleep. It is sure, if properly administered, to arrest a fever. Keep it in a bottle, well corked. See also page 321. SUET DUMPLINGS.—Shred 1 lb. of suet; mix with * K lb. of flour. a eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it. Make it into two small balls. Boil 20 minutes. The fat of loins or necks of mutton finely shred makes a more delicate dumpling than suet. SUET PUDDING. — Take six spoonfuls of flour, r lb. of suet, shred small, 4 eggs, a spoonful of beaten ginger, a spoonful of salt, and a quart of milk. Mix the eggs and flour with a pint of milk very thick, and with the seasoning, mix in the rest of the milk with the suet. Boil two hours. SUGAR, to Clarify.—Put the whites of two eggs in four pints of water; froth the water by whipping it with a whisk; put into a proper pan 12 or 14 lbs. of loaf sugar, broken in pieces ; wet it, and make it fall by add- ing two-thirds of the water in which the egg has been mixed; set it upon the fire; take care when it rises; throw in a little cold water, aDd take it off, to let it fall and throw up the scum; in five or six minutes put it again on the fire, and continue to skim it as it rises, throwing in a little water sufficient to keep it from flying over: when it is very pure it will rise no more; take it off, and pass it through a wet bag or napkin. The first degree is the short thread; for which it must again be put upon the fire ; let it boil, till dipping the finger into it, and press- ing it against the thumb, which on opening forms a thread and breaks, and runs back into a drop upon the finger. SUGAR, to Clear all kinds of. —Take a little gum arabic, and a little Isinglass dissolved in hot water; pour it when dissolved on vour suenr. when h