MAR 254 MAR against her for the maintenance of her husband out of such separate property as by the thirty-third section of the Poor Law Amendment Act, 1868, they may now make and enforce against a husband for the maintenance of his wife If 6he becomes chargeable to any union or parish. Where in Ireland relief is given under the provi- sions of the Acts relating to the relief of the destitute poor to the husband of any woman having separate property, the cost price of such relief is hereby declared to be a loan from the guardians of the union In which the same shall be given, and shall be recoverable from such woman as if she were a feme sole by the same actions and proceedings as money lent. 21. A married woman having separate property shall be subject to all such liabil- ity for the maintenance of her children and grandchildren as the husband is now by law subject to for the maintenance of her children and grandchildren Provided al- ways, that nothing in this Act shall relieve from any liability imposed npon him by law to maintain her children or grand- children. 22. The Married Women’s Property Act, 1870, and the Married Women’s Property Act, 1870, Amendment Act, 1874, are hereby repealed : Provided that such repeal shall not affect any act done or right acquired while either of such Acts was in force, or any right or liability of any hus- band or wife, married before the com- mencement of this Act, to sue or be sued under the provisions of the said repealed Acts or either of them, for or in respect of any debt, contract, wrong, or other matter or thing whatsoever, for or in respect of which any such right or liability shall have accrued to or against such husband or wife before the commencement of this Act. 23. For the purposes of this Act the legal personal representative of any married woman shall in respect of her separate estate have the same rights and liabilities and be subject to the same jurisdiction as she would be if she were living. 24. The word "contract" in this Act shall include the acceptance of any trust, or of the office of executrix or administra- trix, and the provisions of this Act as to liabilities of married Women shall extend to all liabilities by reason of any breach of trust or devastavit committed by any mar- ried woman being a trustee or executrix or administratrix either before or after her marriage, and her husband shall not be subject to such liabilities unless he has acted or Intermeddled in the trust or ad- ministration. The word “property" in this Act includes a thing in action. 26. The date of the commencement of this Act shall be the first o£ January one thousand eight hundred and eighty-three. AMENDED MARRIED WOMEN’S PRO- PERTY ACT. 56 & 57, Viet. Ch. 63, 5th December, 1893. 1. Every contract hereafter entered Into by a married woman, otherwise than aa agent (a) shall be deemed to be a contract! entered into by her with respect to and to bind her separate property whether she is or is not in fact, possessed of or entitled to any separate property at the time when she enters into such contract, (b) shall bind all separate property which she may at that time or thereafter be possessed of or en- titled to, and (e) shall also be enforceable by process of law against all property which she may thereafter while discovert be pos- sessed of or entitled to. Provided that no- thing in this section contained shall render available to satisfy any liability or obliga- tion arising out of such contract, any sep- arate property which at that time or there- after she is restrained from anticipating. a. In any action or proceeding now or hereafter instituted by a woman or by a next friend on her behalf, the court before which such action or proceeding is pending shall have jurisdiction by judgment or order from time to time to order payment of the costs of the opposite party out of property which is subject to a restraint on anticipation, and may enforce such pay- ment by the appointment of a receiver, and the sale of the property or otherwise as may be just. 3. Section 34 of the Wills Act, 1837, shall apply to the will of a married woman made during coverture, whether she is or is not possessed of or entitled to any separate property at the time of making it, and such will shall not require to be re- executed or republished after the death of her husband. 4. Sub sections 3 and 4 of section one of Married Women’s Property Act, 1883, are hereby repealed. The Act does not apply to Scotland. MARROW PUDDING.—Pour a pint of cream boiling hot on the crumbs of a penny loaf, or French roll; cut iB>. of beef marrow very thin; beat 4 eggs wells add a glass of brandy, with sugar and nut- meg to taste, and mix all well together. It may be either boiled or baked, 40 or 50 min- utes ; cut 2 ozs. of citron very thin, and stick them all over it when you dish it up. MARSHMALLOW. —Decoc- tions of this plant are very useful where the natural mucus has been abraided from the coats of the intestines: in catarrhs from a thin rheum. It is emollient and demul- cent. It is good in diseases of the urinary organs, when the urine is hot and defi- cient; and it is of great value in dysentery, bronchitis, &c. Two or three ozs. of the fresh roots may be boiled in a quarts of water, down to 1 quart; strain; add 1 or. of gum arable. It will be more palatable by adding liquorice-root, or raUins and sugar to sweeten it.