88 CAN CAL pint of raisin wine, one ounce of eori-t under seeds, quarter of an ounce of allspice, a bit of cinnamon, and six cloves, all bruised, after having mixed them cold. The jelly should boil fifteen minutes without stirring; then clear it through a flannel bag. CALF’S FEET STEWED.— Take calfs feet boiled, put into a stew- pan, with a little butter, half a lemon sliced and peeled, as much broth as will simmer half an hour; take out, and wipe dry ; strain the sauce ; add a bit of butter and flour, gravy, a pounded anchovy, and half a lemon cut into dice. CALF’S HEAD, Boned. Take the bones out of half a calfs head, stuff with egg and tongue, and sew the top and bottom together. Put it into a stew-pan and the bones, a pound of good beef cut into bits, a little parsley, sweet herbs, chopped onions, salt, and half a tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper. Fill the pan three parts with water, and stew three hours. When you take out the head, glaze it with egg while hot. Bacon is a suitable accompaniment. CALF’S HEAD, Hashed. — When half boiled, cut off the meat in slices, brown some butter, flour, and sliced onion, and throw in the slices, with some good gravy, truffles, and morels; give it one boil, skim it well, and set it to simmer till tender. Season with pepper, salt, and cayenne, at first: and ten minutes before serving, throw in some shred parsley, and a very small bit of tarragon and knotted marjoram cut very fine, just before you serve, add the squeeze of a lemon.- Forcemeat balls, and bits of bacon rolled round. CALF’S HEART.—Cut it open and broil like a beef-stake. When done, rub a bit of fresh butter over it, and pour into the dish half a tea-cupful of hot mushroom ketchup and |some soluble cayenne. t CALF’S HEART, Baked. — Stuff it with bread crumbs, minced suet, sweet marjoram, lemon-peel grated, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and yolk of egg, and put it into the oven. Serve up with gravy, melted butter, and cur- rant jelly. CALF’S LIVER and BACON. —Cut the liver into slices, and fry it first, then the bacon; lay the liver in the dish, and the bacon upon it; serve it up with gravy, made in the pan with boiling water, thickened with flour and butter, and lemon juice; and, if agree- able, a little parsley and onion may be chopped into it, or a little boiled parsley stewed over the liver. Garnish with slices of lemon. CAMBRIAN PUDDING. — Grated cocoa-nut, three quarters of a pound; four ounces of butter; one pound of sugar ; half a pint of cream ; nine eggs ; a wineglassful of rose water. Stir the sugar and butter as for cake ; add the eggs well-beaten. Stir in the grated cocoa-nuts with the butter and eggs. Add the other ingredients, and bake with or without a crust. Bake about forty minutes. Rusks or sponge cake steeped in wine make a good addition. CAMOMILE. The flowers possess antispasmodic, carminative, cordial, and diaphoretic effects. The infusion of the flowers greatly promotes digestion, and with the addition of a few drops of elixir of vitriol, has arrested the worst of fevers. A strong decoc- tion proves an emetic, and greatly cleanses the stomach. CAMPHOR, Tincture of, or Camphorated Spirit of Wine.—Cam- phor, one ounce ; alcohol, one pint; mix, that the Camphor may be dis- solved. It may also be made with a double proportion of Camphor. Good for rheumatic pains, paralytic numb- ness, inflammation, for dispersing tu- mours, and preventing mortification. Not to be administered internally. CAMPHOR OINTMENT.— Camphor, finely powdered, one ounce ; lard, two ounces. Mix. It is designed to ripen indolent tumours. CAMPHORATED OIL. Beat four ounces of camphor in a mor- tar, with four ounces of Florence oil, till the camphor is dissolved. An ex- cellent liniment for rheumatism and all kinds of sprains. CANCER.—A cancer is a hard indolent tumour, usually seated in some of the glands, as the arm-pits, eye, nose, lips, tongue, womb, and the female breast; the two last are most subject to it. It affects the aged more than the