375 SHR SPI The diet must be light and easy of digestion. The patient must avoid much speaking, and all muscular exer- tion, and all cold and damp. SPITTING OF BLOOD.— Take a tea-cupful of stewed prunes at lying down for a or 3 nights. Or, 2 tea-spoonfuls of nettle-juice every morn- ing, and a large cup of decoction of nettles at night, for a week. Or, 3 spoonfuls of sage-juice in a little honey. Or, £ a tea-spoonful of Barbadoes tar, on a piece of lump sugar at night. It commonly cures at once. Infusion of red roses, 5 ozs. ; syrup of poppy, | oz.; diluted sulphuric acid, 20 drops. Mix, Two tea-spoonfuls 3 or 4 times a day.— Wesley. SPONGE BISCUITS. —Beat the yolks of 10 eggs £ an hour. Add i£ lb. of sugar sifted, and whisk it well till it rises in bubbles. Then beat the whites to a strong froth, and whisk them well with the sugar and yolks. Beat in 14 ozs. of flour, with the rinds of 2 lemons grated. Sprinkle sugar up- on them. Bake in moulds for an hour in a hoi oven, but do not close it. SPONGE CAKE.—Weigh 10 eggs, and their weight in very fine sugar, and that of 6 in flour ; beat the yolks with the flour, and the whites alone, to a very stiff froth ; then by degrees mix the whites and the flour with the other ingredients, and beat them well J4 an hour. Bake an hour. SPONGE CAKE, without Butter.—Dry x lb. of flour, and i£ lb. of sugar; beat 7 eggs, yolks and whites apart; grate a lemon, and, with a spoonful of brandy, beat the whole together with your hand for an hour. Bake in a buttered pan. Sweetmeats may be added. SPONGE CAKE.— Beat 12 eggs to a froth ; dissolve a little volatile salts in half a pint of hot water, and let it cool; mix them together, and beat them for 10 minutes; then add 1 lb. of grated loaf sugar, and nearly x lb. of fine flour ; beat them well together, add a few seeds, and bake in a hot oven. Rub some of the pieces of sugar on the rind of a lemon to give it a flavour. SPRAIN.—Take of camphorated spirit, common vinegar, spirits of tur- pentine, of each, 1 oz. SPRAIN.—Hold the part in very cold water for two hours. Or, apply cloths dipt therein, four times doubled, for two hours, changing them as they grow warm. Or, bathe in good crab verjuice Or, boil bran in wine vine- gar to a poultice. Apply this warm, and renew it once in twelve hours. Or, mix a little turpentine with flour and the yolk of an egg, and apply it as a plaster. This cures in a desperate case. Weakness remaining after a sprain is cured by fomenting the part daily with beef brine. Suppose the ancle sprained : —1st. Foment it with warm vinegar four or five times every four hours. 2nd. Stand, if you can, three or four minutes at a time on both your feet, and fre- quently move the sprained foot. Some- times also while sitting with your foot on a low stool, move it to and fro. 3rd. Let it be gently rubbed with a warm hand at least thrice a-day. 4th. Two hours after every application of the vinegar, let it be just wetted with spirits of wine, and then gently rubbed. SPRAINS.—Take a few globules of Rhus Toxicodendron, and apply to the sprained part this Rhus liniment for about 10 minutes, and repeat twice a day for three days. The Rhus is sold by the Homoeopathic chemists. SPRAINS of the Muscles of the Back.—Take of Canada turpen- tine, y, oz.; soap liniment, 6 ozs., and one-pennyworth of laudanum. Mix, and rub well in before a hot fire. SPRATS, to Broil.—Sprats are very good and nutritious food ; but to be enjoyed they must be eaten in the room in which they are cooked; they admit of few removes, on account of becoming cold so soon. When cleaned, they should be fasten- ed in rows by a skewer run through the head, and then broiled; dredge with flour, and place on a gridiron over a nice clear fire for 4 or 5 minutes. Grease the gridiron. Or, they may be done in a Dutch oven. SPRATS, to Bake.—Rub them with salt and pepper ; put into a deep dish ; cover with vinegar and port wine ; cover and place in the oven all night. Cochineal liquor gives them a rich colour. They keep well.