BIX. 55 first, and pockets his own and the white hall, without a canon, he gains five points. 30 If the striker plays at the red ball first, and pockets all the balls, without a canon, he gains eight points. 31 If the striker, by striking the red bail first, makes a canon, and by the same stroke pockets his own and both the other balls, he gains ten points, being the greatest number that can be gained by one stroke. 32 If the striker, in taking aim, moves his ball, so as to strike the ball he is playing at, without intending to strike it, it is a stroke, and must pass as such, unless the adversary chooses to let him play the stroke over again. 33 If a striker, in the act of striking, moves his ball ever so little, it is a stroke. 34 If the striker misses the ball he intended to play at, he loses one point; and if by the same stroke his own ball runs into a pocket, he loses three points ; that is to say, his adversary scores so many points. This is called a coup. 35 If the striker forces his own or either of the other balls over the table, after having made a canon or a hazard, he gains nothing by the stroke, and his adversary may play on without breaking the balls. 36 If the striker wilfully forces his ball off the table without striking ano- ther ball, he loses three points ; but if the ball goes over by accident, he loses one point only for the miss. To a person conversant with the game, it is not a very difficult thing to discern whether a ball is forced over wilinlly or not; and it would be severe upon the striker to bo compelled to loose three points for whut may be the fault of the table. 37 If the striker plays with the wrong ball, and a canon or hazard be made thereby, the adversary may have the balls broken; but if nothing be made by the stroke, he (the adversary) may take his choice of balls the next stroke, and with the ball he chooses he must continue to play until the game is over. N.B. The playing with the wrong ball must be discovered before the next stroke is played ; otherwise, no penalty attaches to it. 38 No person has a right to inform the adversary that the striker has played, or is about to play, with the wrong ball. 39 No person, except die adversary, has a right to inform the striker that he is playing the wrong ball. 40 If the adversary does not see the striker play with the wrong ball, or, seeing it, does not choose to enforce the penalty, the marker is bound to score all the points that may have been made by the stroke. 41 If the striker’s ball be in hand, and the red and the adversary's balls within the baulk, he (the striker) cannot play at them, except from a cushion out of the baulk. 42 If the striker's ball be in hand, and the ether two balls within the baulk, and should he, either by accident or design, strike one of them, without first playing out of the baulk, the adversary has the option of letting the balls remain as they are, and scoring a miss,—of having the ball so struck replaced in its original position, and scoring a miss,— of making the striker play the stroke over again,—or of making it a foul stroke, and breaking the balls. At first sight this would appear a harsh rule, with a heavy penalty annexed to it; bat perhaps, the adverse party may have laid his plans with skill, and must not, therefore, have them unfairly frustrated with impunity. Be- sides, care must be taken that the adversary be not a sufferer by the unfair play or blunders of the Btriker. 43 If the striker's ball be in hand, he has no right to play at a cushion within the baulk, in order to strike a ball that is out of it. 44 If the striker’s ball be in band, and he, in playing from the baulk, should move his ball in the act of striking, it is a stroke, although the ball should not go out of the baulk ; but the adversary may, if he chooses, compel him to play the stroke over again. 45 If the striker’s ball be near the ball he plays at, and he plays the stroke with the point of the cue, it is fair ; but if he plays it with the butt end, the marker must decide whether it be foul or fair. N.B. The principle which ought to govern the decision of the marker in such a case as this, namely, that the striker’s butt must quit his ball before it comes in contact with the other ball. 46 If the striker’s ball be on the brink of a pocket, and he, in the act of strik- ing, misses the hit, and, in drawing back bis cue, knocks it (the ball) into the