SLI SKY 362 apon the spot where the bowl stopped; and In tipping from such place, he must not strike the ground with the bowl before it hits the pins, if he does he loses all he may knock down. 8 If in tipping the bowl is caught or stopped by one of the opposite party, who in so doing stops or impedes a live pin, he loses one, because he prevented the tipper from receiving the benefit which might have arisen from a live' pin. 9 If an opponent takes up the bowl in order to prevent it running amongst the pins, and it slips out of his hand and hits any of the pins, he loses one. 10 If a person tipping, gives a sweep round with his hand and brings down any pin with his hand or sleeve, it is un- fair ; he loses one. 11 Care should be taken in tipping not to jump into the frame immediately after, as in this case the player is not allowed any of the pins he tips. la If the player bowls and tips for a limited number, at the close of the game, and throws down more than are wanted, he must go for nine. 13 In all grounds where these rules are observed, a disinterested person is generally appointed to score the game; and should any dispute occur where the case varies from any here mentioned, his decision is to be taken, and consider- ed final. SKYROCKETS, Composition for.—1 If under 1 inch bore, nitre, 15 parts ; charcoal, 6 parts ; sulphur, 4 parts; meal powder, 3 parts; steel filings, 5 parts. Mix. 2 If over 1 and under 2 inches, nitre, 16 parts; charcoal, 8 parts; sulphur, 4 parts ; steel filings, 5 parts. Mix. 3 If three quarter inch or under, nitre, 16 parts; charcoal, 4 parts; sul- phur, 3 parts; cast-iron borings, 4 parts. Mix. 4 If over 1 inch and under 2 inches bore, nitre, 16 parts; charcoal, 4 parts; sulphur, 4 parts; iron borings, 5 parts. Mix. 5 If under three quarter inch bore, nitre, 16 parts; charcoal, 7 parts; sul- phur, 4 parts; gunpowder, 1 part. Mix. 6 If over three quarters and under one and a half inch bore, nitre, 16 I parts; charcoal, 8 parts; sulphur, 4 parts. Mix. 7 If larger, nitre, 16 parts; Charcoal, 9 parts; sulphur, 4 parts. Mix. SLEEP. Dr. Marshall Hall gives the following observations on sleep:— That early rising may be beneficial, it is necessary that we should retire early, and on rising be properly employed. Every person should be allowed to have his sleep out; otherwise the duties of the day cannot be prop>erly performed, and will be slighted even by the most conscientious. To children, young persons, students, parsons of sedentary occupations, and invalids, the fullest sleep that the sys- tem will take, without artificial means, is the very balm of life. Never wake up children, or the sick and infirm, of a morning—it is barbarity; let them wake of themselves. Do not hurry up the young and healthy; and it is not well even for adults, if they have passed an unusually fatiguing day, to jump out of bed the moment they wake up. It is best to remain in bed, without going to sleep again till the sense of weariness gradually passes away. At ten o’clock at night, when p>ossible, all the year round, the old, the middle- aged, and the young should be in bed; and then the early rising will take care of itself, with the invaluable accompani- ment of a fully rested body and a reno- vated mind. SLEEPLESSNESS.—Avoid previous mental excitement by listening to startling accounts, reading romances, putting yourself in passion, &c.—Avoid heavy suppers. To sleep well all night —let your supper be light.—Go to bed early.—It is a good thing when a person is sleepless, to rise and apply friction to the limbs with a flesh brush, or a coarse towel. SLIPPERY ELM BARK.— This tree, ulmus fulva, is a native of America. The powdered bark is now extensively sold and used in that coun- try. It is used as an article of diet for invalids, on account of its soothing and nutritious prop>erties. Milk thickened with it makes excellent food for infants, for dyspeptic and consumptive patients: