302 PIG PIC are ready, put some of them into a 2- quart stone jar, and pour over them 1 quart of boiling vinegar. Next day take out those vegetables; and when drained, put them into a large stock jar, and boiling the vinegar, pour it over more of the vegetables; let them lie anight, and do as above. Thus proceed till you have cleansed each set from dust; then to every gallon of vinegar put 2 oz. of flour of mustard, mixing, by degrees, with a little of it boiling hot. The whole of the vinegar should be previously scalded, but left to be cold before it is put to the spice. Stop the jar tight. This pickle will not be ready for a year ; but you may make a small jar for eating in a fortnight, only by giving the cauliflower 1 scald in water, after salt- ing and drying as above, but without the preparative vinegar; then pour the vinegar, that has the spice and garlic boiling hot over. If at any time it be found that the vegetables have not swelled properly, boiling the pickle, and pouring it over them hot, will plump them. PIC-NIC BISCUITS.—Into 1 lb. of flour, work very small 2 ozs. of butter, mix well with half a salt-spoon- ful of the finest carbonate of soda, 2 ozs. of sugar, mix these thoroughly with the flour, and make up the paste with a few spoonfuls of milk, not more than quarter of a pint. Knead it very smooth, and roll it quarter of an inch thick, cut in rounds, 1% inch diameter, roll it thin, prick them well, lay on tins sprinkled with flour, bake in a slow oven till they are crisp. When they are cold, put them into dry canisters. Cream instead of milk will greatly enrich them. Cara- way seeds or ginger can be added at pleasure. The quantity of soda should be so small as not to taste them in the slightest; milk which is slightly sour, may be used with it. PICTURE FRAMES, to Gild. —The size may be made of white of egg diluted with water, or parchment boiled to a strong size; but the cheapest is the Japanner's gold size. Size the frame, and lay on the gold. ■ When perfectly dry, burnish with an agate. Isinglass makes a good varnish. PICTURE VARNISH.—Mas- tic varnish. PIES, Oswego.—Line a deep plate with crust, and bake it in a quick oven; when done, fill with the Custard, (See Custard, boiled, made of Oswego, &c.,) strew the top with powdered sugar, dust it with the com, and set it again in the oven to bake. PIGS, Management of, when Feeding.—It is stated in Wade’s British History, that a gentleman in Norfolk put up six pigs, of nearly equal weight, to feed at the same time, and treated them the same as to food and litter for seven weeks. Three of them were left to shift for themselves as to cleanliness ; the other three were kept as clean as possible, by a man employed for the purpose, with a curry- comb and brush. The last consumed in seven weeks fewer peas by five bushels than the other three, yet weigh- ed more when killed by two stones and four pounds upon the average. PIG, to Bake a.—Lay the pig in a well-buttered dish; flour it all over; rub some butter on it, and send it to the oven ; when done, take it out, mb it over with a buttered cloth, and put it into the oven again till it is dry; lay it in the dish, and cut up. Taka the fat from the dish it was baked in, and some gravy will remain at the bottom ; put this to a little veal gravy, with butter rolled in flour, and boil it up with the sage that comes out of the body. Serve with apple or currant sauce. PIG, to Barbacue.—Dress a pig of ten weeks old, as if for roasting; make a forcemeat of two anchovies, six sage leaves, and the liver of the pig, all chopped very small; put them into a mortar, with the crumbs of half a penny loaf, 4 ozs. of butter, half a tea- spoonful of cayenne, and half a pint of red wine; beat all to a paste; put it into the pig’s belly, and sew it up; place the pig before a brisk fire ; singe it well; put port wine in the dripping pan freely, and baste it well at the time of roasting. When nearly done, take the sauce and bread, and add an an- chovy chopped small, sweet herbs, half a lemon; then draw the pig. Garnish with slices of lemon. It will four “ hours to roost.