YEA 426 wou even cut veins and sinews, and draws out thorns or splinters. Or, use Vaseline. WOUNDS, to Prevent from Mortifying.—Sprinkle sugar upon them, or powdered blood-root. WOUNDS, Putrid. —Wash them morning and evening with warm decoction of agrimony. If they heal too soon, and a matter gathers underneath, apply a poultice of the leaves pounded, changing them once a-day till well. Or, apply a carrot poultice ; but if a gangrene comes on, apply a wheat flour poultice (after it has been by the fire till it begins to ferment) nearly cold. It will not fail. WOUNDS, to Staunch the Bleeding of. — Where it can be done, take a bandage, handkerchief, or garter, and put it round the limb betwixt the wound and the heart, and tie it tight. It will answer the purpose of a tourniquet, and stop the bleeding till effectual relief can be given. In many cases, it might save life. Or take a pledget of lint, and form it into a little ball, and press it upon the mouth of any bleeding vein or artery. Apply lint and small compresses satu- rated with salt and water, and bind them on the wound, to suppress the bleeding. In dressing, bring the lips of the wound together, and keep them so by means of adhesive plaster, compresses, and a bandage. Wounds thus dressed may heal without suppuration. Fre- quently wet the dressings with diluted brandy and salt. Let the dressings re- main a or 3 days. If suppuration takes place, remove the adhesive plaster, &c., and apply a bread poultice, or the slip- pery elm bark poultice; afterwards apply the salve or plaster. In case of proud flesh appearing, sprinkle sugar, or powdered bloodroot upon the wound, or apply as a lotion, the diluted solu- tion of chloride of soda, or of chloride of lime—that is, in proportion of 1 oz. of the solution to a pint of water. Or, use a few grains of the vegetable caustic. YANKEE CHOWDER. Slice thin some salt fat pork, season it with pepper, lay it in the bottom of a large iron pot, and let it fry; when done, take out the pork, leaving the liquid fat at the bottom. Next peel and slice some onions and lay them on the fat. Have ready a sufficient quan- tity of fresh cod, haddock, porgie or black fish ; cut the fish in small pieces, and put into the pot with layers of potatoes pared and quartered. Pour over this a pint of water; one pint of milk thickened with a little flour, is to be added the last thing before taking up, and with the milk some crackers split, or some soda biscuit. Cover the pot closely, and let it stew half an hour before adding the milk and crackers. YARROW.—This plant is well known. The infusion taken inwardly, and applied outwardly as a wash, is good for piles, and sores. It is excellent for flux, looseness, and nervous melan- choly. The powder is recommended for colic, ague, whites; and it is very useful in colds. It restrains the invol- untary discharge of urine in children.— See Robinson's Herbal. YEAST, Dry.—Boil a large handful of loose hops, or a heaped tablespoonful of pressed hops, tied in a muslin bag, twenty minutes, in three pints of water; then take out the bag, and stir into the hop-water a pint of raw potatoes (grated.) Add one table- spoonful of salt, one of ginger, half a cupful of sugar, and one pint of flour ; stir the flour in slowly, and pour as much boiling water as is needed to make it a smooth batter, stirring briskly while pouring it on, till all is smoothly combined. Then remove from the fire. When lukewarm add a cupful of good Cist, or one good yeast-cake dissolved. t it stand one day in warm weather, or two in cold, stirring it down as often as it rises and foams. Then stir in good white com meal to make it thick enough to make into thin cakes. Dry these cakes in the shade ; but where the air circulates briskly, turn them over often. The quicker they can be dried, the better they will be. When dried all the way through, put them into a bag, and hang up in a dry, cool place. Cakes should be small; not over two inches across, and half an inch thick. One of these cakes will raise four or five good-sized loaves. YEAST, to Make.—Thicken 2 quarts of water, with fins flour about 3