EYE 176 EYE T soda dissolved in. — Or apply bread poultices pretty warm, change often.— Or foment with a decoction of stramo- nium leaves, and then bind them on the eye-—Or use slippery elm poultices. EYE, Films.—Mix juice of Eye- bright, and juice of Ground Ivy with a little honey, and 2 or 3 grains of Bay Salt. Drop it in morning and evening. EYE, Hot Humours.—Apply a few drops of double refined sugar melted in brandy.—Or, boil a handful of bram- ble leaves with a little alum in a quart of spring water, to a pint. Drop this frequently into the eye. This likewise speedily cures cancers or any sores. EYE, or EYELIDS Inflamed. —Apply as a poultice, boiled, roasted, or rotten apples warm.—Or, wormwood tops with the yolk of an egg. This will hardly fail.—Or, beat up the white of an egg with 2 spoonfuls of white rose-water into a white froth. Apply this on a fine rag, changing it so that it may not grow dry till the eye or eye-lid is well.— Or, dissolve 1 oz. of fine gum arabic in 3 spoonfuls of spring water ; put a drop into the inner comer of the eye, from the point of a hair pencil, 4 or 5 times a-day. At the same time take as much saltpetre as will lie upon a six- pence, dissolved in a glass of water, 3 or 4 times a-day; abstaining from all liquors till cured. White bread poul- tices applied to the eyes in an inflamed state often occasion blindness. EYES, Inflammation of.—Mix bread crumbs with the white of an egg, 3 drops of laudanum, 3 drops of brandy, and a very little salt. Apply in a bag of thin soft linen or muslin. It is better to apply it at night when lying down. It always affords relief.—Drink also eye- bright tea, and wash the eyes with it. EYE, Lime in the.—Bathe it well with warm vinegar and water, to neutralize the lime, 1 oz. of vinegar to a pint of water. Keep the eye covered. EYE-LID, Removing Foreign Bodies from beneath the.—M. Renard, in the case of small moveable bodies which become entangled beneath the upper eyelid, recommends the fol- lowing simple procedure, which will often dispense with ail others. 'Take hold of the upper eyelid near its angles with the index finger and thumb of each hand, draw it gently forwards and as low down as possible over the lower eyelid, and retain it in this position for about a minute, taking care to prevent the tears from flowing out. When, at the end of this time, you allow the eye- lid to resume its place, a flood of tears washes out the foreign body, which will be found adhering to, or near to, the lower eyelid. EYE POULTICE.—Stir 2 drs. of powdered alum in the powdered whites of two eggs till a coagulum bo formed. Place it between a piece of soft linen rag, and apply it. Very ap- plicable for inflamed eyes attended with a purulent discharge, and for chil- blains. EYES, Good for the.—To give brilliancy to the eyes, shut them eariy at night, and open them early in the morn- ing ; let the mind be constantly intent on the acquisition of benevolent feelings. This will scarcely ever fail to impart to the eyes an intelligent and amiable ex- pression. EYE-SALVE.-White or yellow wax, % oz.; red precipitate, 3 drachms: prepared tutty, or pure zinc powdered, 1 drachm; laid, 4 ozs. Melt and mix. Add 1X drachms of camphor dissolved in oiL EYE-SIGHT, to Preserve.— Never sit long in absolute gloom, or ex- posed to a blaze of light.—Avoid, read- ing SMALL PRINT.—Do not strain the eyes by looking at minute objects. . — Do not read in the dusk, nor by 1 candle-light or gaslight, if the eyes be disordered.—Do not permit the eyes to gaze on glaring objects, as the sun, or bright day-light, especially on opening the eyes in the morning.—Do not let the curtains, walls, &c., be white; green is the best for curtains, &c.—Avoid much exposure to cold easterly winds ; especi- ally avoid intemperance, and excessive venery, which are awfully destructive to eye-sight. EYE WATER.—Boil lightly a spoonful of white copperas, and 3 spoon- fuls of salt, in 3 pints of spring water. When it is cold, bottle it without strain- ing. Put a drop or two in the eye Utomlng and evening.