CARDS CARDS 102 lag three for his point and twelve for his four tierce-majors, making fifteen ; fourteen for the four aces, fourteen for kings, and fourteen for queens, with sixty for the repique, making in all one hundred and seventeen; thirteen in playing, make one hundred and thirty, and forty for the capot, which is one hundred and seventy. To pique your adversary you must be elder hand ; for if younger he counts one for the first card he plays, and then you having counted twenty-nine in hand, even if you then take the first trick, will not warrant you in taking sixty, but only thirty. The Carte Blanche precedes every thing; then follow the point, the huitie- mes, the septiemes, the sixiemes, the quints, the quarts, and the tierces, then the four aces, kings, queens, knaves, or tens; then the three aces, kings, queens, knaves, or tens ; then the points gained in play ; and lastly, the ten for winning the cards, or forty for the capot. After sorting your cards, the first thing to be considered is whether you have a Carte Blanche ; if so, let your opponent discard ; and then, when he is going to take in, lay your cards upon the table, counting them one after another. The players, having examined their hands, the elder takes not more than five cards, which seem the least useful, and laying them aside, takes the same number from the talon, the younger may lay out three, and take three from the talon. In discarding, the first intention of the most skilful players is, to gain the cards and to have the points, which most commonly engages them to keep in that suit of which they have the most cards, or that which is their strongest; for it is convenient to prefer sometimes forty-one in one suit, to forty-four in another, in which asquint is not made ; sometimes even having a quint, it is more advantageous, to hold the forty- one, where if one card only is taken it may make it a quint-major, gain the point or the cards, which could not have been done by holding the forty-four, at least without an extraordinary take in. Also endeavour in laying out, to get a quartoze, each of which counts four- teen ; the fourteen aces hinder the count- ing fourteen kings, &c., and by that authority you may count a lesser quar- toze, as of tens, though your adversary may have fourteen by kings, &c. ; be- cause the stronger suit annuls the weak- er ; and also in want of a lesser quar- toze you may count three aces, kings, queens, knaves, or tens; the same ap- plies to the huitiemes, septiemes, sixie- mes, quints, quarts, and tierces, to which the player must have regard in his discarding, so that what he takes in may make them for him. The point being selected, the elder hand declares what it is, and asks if it is good; if his adversary has not so many, he answers, ‘‘it is good;” if he has just as many, he answers, “ it Is equaland if he has more, he answers, ‘‘it is not good;" for whoever has the point, whether elder or younger, counts it first; but if the points are equal, neither can count; it is the same when the players are equal in tierces, quarts, quints, &c. ; and whoever should hold several other sequences, either of the same value or not, cannot count one. There are no trumps at piquet, but the highest card of the same suit takes the trick. If the elder hand has the bad luck to have neither point, sequence, nor quartoze, nor any threes which are good, he must begin to count by play- ing that card which he thinks most pro- per, and continue until the adverse party wins a trick, and takes his lead. This method must be continued till all the cards are played; and he who takes the last trick counts two ; then each player counts how many tricks he has taken, and he who has most reckons the cards; but if they are equal, neither counts any thing, Mr. Hoyle’s Maxims for Play- ing Piquet.—Play by the stage of your game, that is, when behind your adversary, play a pushing game ; other- wise you ought to make twenty-seven points elder hand, and thirteen points younger hand. Discard in hopes of winning the cards, which generally make twenty-two, or twenty ; therefore do not discard for low quartoze, because the odds are against your succeeding. At the beginning of a party play to make your game, which is twenty-seven points ekiei tiand, and thirteen younger hand.