PEE PLU 3*l The symptoms are shivering, pain in the head, back, stomach ; sickness, and vomiting, despondency, violent pain in one or both sides, difficult breathing, high fever, thirst; the pain is greater when coughing, or when taking in a full breath; the pulse is hard, strong, and frequent. Treatment.—In this disease the temperature of the whole body and its extremities, while the heat in the affect- ed part is greatly augmented, Allo- patbists would recur to bleeding at once; but that system of depletion is not necessary. Common sense says, equalize the circulation of the blood, and this can only be done by restoring that which has been partially lost or diminished, viz., vitality or heat. See Robinson’s Herbal, on Life and Motion, page 388; it is most valuable. The disease has been caused by cold; it must be cured by a wise application of heat. Do this at the very beginning of the disease before the patient is debili- tated. Give a vapour bath; or bathe the feet in warm water and apply hot bricks wrapped in water and vinegar cloths while the patient is in bed. Give also an emetic at the same time, page 172. When the emetic has taken effect, give immediately two tablespoonfuls of the Sudorific Tincture, or half a tea- spoonful of the Sudorific Powders. Continue them to keep up a gentle moisture on the skin. If they cause vomiting, never mind, for it helps to cure. At night bathe the legs up to the knees in warm water, with a little soap or soda ia, for about ten minutes. Let warm herb tea be constantly drunk, as balm, hyssop, catnep, pennyroyal, &c. Apply the Rheumatic Liquid to the chest or sines ; or fomentations of bitter herbs, as hops, tansy, &c., to which add some cayenne tincture. Salt, cayenne, and brandy, well sim- mered, and made strong, form an ex- cellent application for pleuritic pains. These means seldom fail to arrest the dis- ease. 11 may be added, if the bowels are constipated, give a gentle injection, and a gentle aperient. Let the diet be very simple, as sago gruel, arTow-root gruel, common gruel with a squeeze of lemon, &c. During the progress of the disease the Cough Pill, and the Pulmonary Syrup will be of great service. After the pleuritic, symptoms are gone, take the Composition Powder, and any of the tonic bitters. PLEURISY ROOT.' An American plant. It is expectorant, sub- tonic, astringent, diaphoretic, carmina- tive, antispasmodic, diuretic, &c. It promotes perspiration. It is a valuable medicine for the lungs, promoting ex- pectoration, alleviating difficult breath- ing in asthma, and especially in pleurisy; hence its name. It is valuable in all fevers; in colics and griping, acute pains in the stomach, and female com- plaints, as copious menstruation, spasms, and nervous debility. It is a specific in measles. The dose of the root in pow- der is from 15 to 30 grains three times a day. Nearly a cupful of the decoction may be taken nearly as often. PLOVERS, to Choose.-Choose those that feel hard at the vent, which shows they are fat In other respects, choose them by the same marks as other fowls. When stale, the feet are dry. They will keep sweet a long time. There are three sorts ; the grey, green, and bastard plover, or lapwing. PLOVERS’ EGGS are a nice and fashionable dish. Boil them ten minutes, and serve either hot or cold on a napkin. PLOVERS, to Roast.—Roast the green ones in the same way as wood- cocks aud quails, without drawing ; and serve on a toast. Grey plovers may be either roasted or stewed with , gravy, herbs, and spice. PLUM CAKE.—Take fine flour, lb.; butter, 1% lb. ; currants, % lb. ; raisins well stoned and chopped, J4 lb.; sugar, 18 oz., sifted fine; 14 eggs with half the whites. Shred the peel of a large lemon very fine, 3 ozs. each of candied, orange and lemon ; a teaspoon- ful of beaten mace, half a nutmeg grated; a tea-cupful of brandy or sherry, with a little orange flower water. Work the butter with the hand to a cream; beat the sugar well in; whisk the eggs half an hour; mix them with the sugar and butter, and put in the flour and spices. Beat the whole an hour and a half: mix in lightly the bmndy, fruit, and sv/cet meats; put into a hoop, and bake for a >4' hours. Another.—Flour, well dried, *