CRA CRE 14 3 shape ; put them into a kettle of boiling water, and boil them till they swim, take out, put into cold water; when hardened, lay them out to dry, and bake them on tin plates. CRAMP.—Employ friction, rub- bing the part affected with the hands. A draught of camphor-jalap at night is strongiy recommended. Stretch the heel out as far as possible, bending the toes slightly upwards. Persons subject to cramp should sleep on a mattress, slightly declined at the foot, and exer- cise caution in eating and drinking, for cramp often arises from a weak or im- perfect digestion. A towel dipped in hot water applied to the part, will afford immediate relief. But rubbing with the Stimulating Oint- ment is more effectual. Persons sub- ject to cramp should keep the lower limbs warm; occasionally bathe the feet in warm water before bed-time. Keep the bowels open. CRAMP in the STOMACH. —Apply friction over the stomach im- mediately ; bathe the feet in hot water ; give the Anti-Cholera Mixture, describ- ed under Asiatic Cholera; p. 125. Sometimes strong peppermint tea is effectual; if not, apply a hot brick wrapped in cloths dipped in vinegar to the stomach. Or take a tea-spoonful of sal-volatile in warm water immediately. CRAMP, Pills for.—Camphor, 1 dr.; spirits of wine, 1 dr. ; dissolve, and add opium, 10 grains; confection of roses to form a mass. Mix, and divide into 24 pills. Take one every night CRANBERRY JELLY.— Make a very strong Isinglass-jelly. When cold, mix it with a-double quan- tity of cranberry juice, sweeten it and boil up ; then strain it into a shape. The sugar must be good loaf, or the jelly will not be clear. CRANBERRY AND RICE JELLY.—Boil and press the fruit, strain the juice, and by degrees mix into it as much ground rice as will, when boiled, thicken to a jelly ; boil it gently, stirring it, and sweeten to your taste. Put it in a mould, and serve to eat with milk or cream. CRANBERRY TART.—Wash the cranhcrrins well; put them Into the dish with the juice of half a lemon; % lb. of moist sugar to each quart of cran- berries. Cover with a good paste, and then bake it 45 minutes. Five minutes before it is done, take from the oven, and ice it. It is the best served cold. CRANESBILL. — It is a fine plant. It strengthens the stomach and bowels, restraining all excessive evacua- tions, and preventing internal mortifica- tion. In bowel complaints, and fluxes, it is of great use. A decoction of the root forms a valuable gargle in quinsy, sore mouth and throat. For bleeding wounds it is a sovereign styptic. The root bruised and saturated with cold water should be applied to the wound. Dose. Powdered root, from 13 grains. Decoction, boil x oz. in a pint of water, a table-spoonful. CRAYONS.—Take shellac, 6 parts; spirits, 4 parts; turpentine, 2 parts; colour, 12 parts; pale clay, 12 parts. Mix. CREAM, Almond.—Beat 4 ozs. of blanched sweet almonds, and a few bitter, with a teaspoonful of water, to prevent oiling. Put a paste to a quart of cream, and the juice of 3 lemons sweetened ; beat it to a froth, which take off; then fill glasses with the liquor and froth. CREAM, An Excellent.—Whip up of a pint of rich cream to a strong froth, with finely scraped lemon peel, a squeeze of the juice, a glass of sweet wine, and sugar to taste j lay it in a form, and next day put it on a dish, and ornament with light puff-paste biscuits, the length of a finger, and about two thick, over which sugar may be strewed, or a little glaze with isinglass. Or, use macaroons, to fine the edges of the dish. CREAM, Brandy. — Boil 12 blanched and 12 bitter almonds pounded, in a little milk. When cold, add the yolks of 5 eggs well beaten in a little cream; add sugar, and X of a pint of brandy. Mix well, and pour to it a quart of thin cream : gently simmer on the fire till it thickens ; do not let it boil. Pour into cups or low glasses. A ratafia drop may be added to each. CREAM CAKES.—Beat the whites of 9 eggs to a stiff froth and keep it up ; grate the rinds of 2 lemons to