EGG ELD i 70 to free them from froth, &c. Eat with pepper, salt, and butter. Or serve on toast. They are nice served on greens, as spinach, &c. EGGS, to Preserve.—Apply , with a brush a solution of gum arabic to the shells, or immerse the eggs there- in, let them dry, and pack them in dry charcoal dust. This prevents their being affected by any alterations of temperature. EGG PUDDING.—It Is made chiefly of eggs. It is nice made thus : beat well seven eggs ; mix well with 3 oss. of flour, pint and a half of milk, a little salt; flavour with nutmeg, lemon juice, and orange flower water. Boil 1 % hour in a floured cloth. Serve with wine-sauce sweetened. EGG SAUCE.—Boil two eggs hard, half chop the whites, put in the yolks, chop them together, but not very fine; put them with & lb. of good melted butter. EGGS IN SNOW.—Take ii pint of cream ; 3 ozs. of sugar, and the pulp of an onion. Take six whites of eggs and whip them well; put in a little salt, 2 ozs. of sugar and some drops of orange flower water ; whisk well. Take a spoonful of the whites ; poach them In cream ; turn them, that they may be equally done ; arrange them when done, as if they were poached eggs; dilute four yolks with a little cream which has cooled ; thicken it over the fire,—with- out boiling. ELDER FLOWERS. —They are alterative and cooling. The infu- sion is recommended for erysipelas, fever, gout, &c. As an external appli- cation, it is very useful in inflammations and painful swellings. ELDER BUDS to Pickle.— Put the buds into a strong brine for nine days, stirring well; then boil them in the water slowly, covered with vine leaves, till they are quite green ; drain. Then pour over them in jars hot vinegar in which has been boiled mace, ginger, cloves, cayenne, &c. ELDER FLOWER OINT- MENT.—Very cooling and healing. It is made by simmering the fresh flowers in butter or good lard, with one eighth the proportionate quantity of spermaceti. ELDER FLOWER WATER. —To a % oz. of eider flowers put 3 pints of boiling water; infuse for two hours, and strain. A good wash for sunburn and freckles.—But the distilled water is the best. Steep a peck of the flowers in two quarts of water all night; put in a cold still, and let the water come cold off the still, and it will be very clear. Cork well; it will keep a year. ELDER FLOWER WINE. —Spring water, 6 gallons ; sugar, 12 lbs. ; raisins, chopped, 6 lbs. ; boil these one hour. When this liquor is cold, put into it 14 peck of elder flowers, and the next day the juice of three lemons, and four spponfuls of good yeast. Cover for two days. Strain; to every gallon of wine, put a half pint of brandy. Bung for six months. A splendid wine, equal to Frontigneau. ELDER RAISIN WINE.— To every gallon of water, put 6 lbs. of Malaga raisins, chopped small; pour the water upon them boiling hot; let it stand 9 days, stirring well. Put the elderberries in a moderate oven all night; strain them through a coarse cloth, and to every gallon of liquor add 1 quart of juice; mix well; toast a slice of bread, and spread yeast on both sides; put it in, and ferment a day or two. Barrel it, bung close, and let it stand from 6 to 12 months. Brandy may be added, ad libitum. ELDER WINE .—Put the berries into a jar, and put them all night in a slow oven; then mix one quart of the juice with three quarts of water ; add 4 lbs. of sugar, a little gin- ger and cloves ; boil three quarters of an hour, and when cool ferment it with yeast, spread upon toast, and let it work two days, then put it into the cask, and bung lightly till the fermentation is over. Another.—To every quart of berries, put two quarts of water ; boil half an hour ; run the liquor, and break the fruit through a hair sieve ; to every quart of juice, put nearly 1 lb. of sugar. Boil 15 minutes with Jamacia pepper, cloves, and ginger. Pour into a tub, and ferment with toast and yeast. After fermentation, put a quart of brandy to eight gallons, and barrel it; bung well for a few months ; then bottle off.