WHI WH1 420 Give an emetic and a vapour bath occasionally. If the stools are of a pale clay or very dark colour, or the patient be subject to erysipelas, or eruption of the skin, take a little rhubarb and mag- nesia every other night for about ten days. When fiuor albus occurs in a person of a robust and sanguine habit, it may be considered of an inflammatory na- ture; in which case, instead of tonic medicines above recommended, the pa- tient should take every other morning, 2 drachms of Epsom salt, and 10 grains of nitre powder, with 15 of gum-arabic powder, in a glass of barley-water three times a day; which, with a low diet, (free from all kinds of stimulants,) will succeed in curing it. To these reme- dies, the application of cold water, will be a powerful auxiliary. When the discharge is of an ichorous nature, and of a dark or yellowish col- our, and attended with pain in the region of the womb, or with irritation, burning heat, difficulty or heat of urine, troublesome itching, a sense of bearing down, and a frequent inclination to evacuate; pains on the approach, or during the time of menstruation ; and particularly if pieces of coagulated blood (generally termed clots) are discharged; some organic disease of the womb may be suspected, especially if they occur about the time of the cessation of the menstrual discharge. The buchu leaves are a good remedy for this disease, and in many cases of long standing, the tincture, in the dose of two teaspoonfuls in a wine-glass of the decoction of marshmallow root, has succeeded in curing the disease, and improving the general health. In ob- stinate cases it may be given in an in- fusion of the leaves, in lieu of the de- coction of marshmallow root The diet must depend on the general health of the patient. If she be weakly, and of a delicate constitution, it should be nourishing and easy of digestion, such as blanc mange, and the vegetable and animal jellies, with a small portion of meat; a little good port or sherry may also be allowed, but water should be adopted in lieu of malt liquor : but if the complaint be atteuded with much Irritation or pain on making water, it will be advisable to avoid pepper and much salt, but not otherwise. Mr. Wesley recommends the follow- ing :—Live chastely : feed sparingly : use exercise constantly: sleep moder- ately, but never lying on your back. Take eight grains of jalap every eight days. This usually cures in five weeks. Or, make Venice turpentine, flour, and fine sugar, equal quantities, into small pills. Take three or four of these morning and evening. This also cures most pains in the back. Or, take yel- low resin, powdered, 1 or.; conserve of roses, oz.; powdered rhubarb, 3 drms.; syrup, a sufficient quantity to make an electuary. Take a large tea- spoonful of this twice a day, in a cup of comfrey-root tea. WHITE SWELLING.—This is a very painful disease; it more fre- quently affects the knee than any other joint; sometimes the hip, ancle, and elbow. At first a severe pain is felt penetrating the joint, or only one par- ticular part of the joint. The least motion aggravates the pain. It soon begins to swell considerably, and sup- puration takes place. Matter is dis- charged from several openings or ulcers, the bones are affected; and if the dis- ease is not arrested, the life of the patient is endangered. Treatment.—Avoid the old sys- tem of treatment by the allopathic doctors, by mercury, blistering, setons, amputation, &c. Attend to the stomach and bowels, giving an emetic, and an aperient, if needed; to be followed by bitter tonics occasionally, giving the Alterative Syrup, page 16, diluted when first taken; or a decoction of sarsaparilla, sassafras, guiacum, queen’s delight, unicorn root, cleavers, prickly ash berries, of each 1 oz. Simmer in a covered pan with two quarts of water down to three pints. Sweeten. A des- sert spoonful three or four times a day. Steam the part with bitter herbs, and now and then give the vapour bath to the whole body. After steaming the affected part, rub the limb with the Rheumatic Liquid. Dr. Beach recommends the following; —“Oil of hemlock; oil of sassafras, gum camphor, tincture of opium, K oz. each, and a pint of spirit of wine. When\ dissolved and properly mixed.