418 WHI WHI A. Proposition and Acceptance or General, B. Solo. C. Misere. D. Abondance. E. Misere Ouvert. F. Abondance Declare. Proposition and Acceptance consist of eight tricks made between two of the players. The first player either passes or calls one of the above events ; in case he proposes, i.e., asks for a partner, the second player either passes, accepts, or plays an event higher than a proposal; in case he (the second player) passes, the third player calls, and then the fourth, but should the first player pass, the second can do as the first, and so on to the fourth player. Should the second, third, or fourth player propose (that is if tire first has passed), the first player has the privilege of accepting, notwithstanding he has already passed. Should, however, a proposer not find an acceptor, he is at liberty to make any other declaration in the game; in case he is accepted, either of the players, if they have not already passed, may play an event other than a proposal, but then the proposer in his turn may make a higher declaration, and so on in turn till the play is determined. (See Rule 8.) Solo consists of five tricks made in one hand, the turn-up card being trump; the Solo Player has to contend against the remaining three; the same law as regards over-calling in proposition ap- plies to Solo. Misere. The declarer of Misere plays not to make a trick. In this ver- sion of the game there are no trumps. ! Abondance is nine tricks to be made by thedeclarer without the aid of a partner the player having it at his option to make “trump” any suit he chooses. Abondance in the original trump takes precedence of one in any other suit. Misere Ouvert is played as an ordinary Misere with the exception that after the first trick is played, the player must expose his remaining cards on the table. Abondance Declare. This, the highest point in Solo Whist, is a declara- tion to make the entire thirteen tricks in one hand, the player having the privilege of making any suit trump he chooses. An Abondance Declare in the original trump takes precedence. 2. —When a proposition is played, the rules of ordinary whist apply to the game. 3. —When Soltis played, should one of the opponents play out of turn, the declarer may either call the exposed card when he likes, or claim any suit to be played at once from the rightful player; but in case of a revoke, the Soloist may either claim the game at once or continue claiming three tricks for each revoke; on the other hand, the Soloist may, without any penalty, ex- pose his entire hand. Should he, how- ever, play out of turn, the exposed card may be called at any time during the game by one of his three adversaries. Should the Soloist revoke, he loses three tricks for each revoke, but no matter how many overtricks he makes he can- not win, nevertheless, he can save his stake by making three overtricks fox each revoke. 4. —The Misere player can claim the game if one of the three contending, parties revoke, play out of his turn, or expose a card, the player in fault is penal- ized by paying the stake for his two partners as well as his own. The Misere player may, as in Solo, expose his cards; he may even play out of turn without incurring a penalty, but should he revoke he pays double. 5. —When Abondance is played, the same laws and penalties apply to the Abondance player and his opponents as when Solo is played. 6. —Misere Ouvert—The same condi- tions as Rule 4. 7. —Abondance Declare is subject ta same laws as Rule 5. 8. —Overtricks. In Proposition and Solo all tricks above the requisite are paid for as may be determined at the commencement of the game ; in Abond- ance the player receives double pay for each overtrick ; should the proposer and acceptor make a " March," that is, the whole thirteen tricks, they receive double pay for the overtricks ; the same applies to the player of Solo. If the Abond- ance player makes a “ March,” he re- ceives double the amount of Abondance overtricks, that is, four times the ordin- | ary amount for each overtrick.