SAJL 34& SAL done It Is very unwholesome. Serve with shrimp, lobster, or anchovy sauce, and fennel and butter. Time from 15 to 20 minutes, according to size. SALMON, to Broil.—Cut slices an inch thick, and season with pepper and salt; lay each slice in half a sheet of white paper well buttered, twist the ends of the paper, and broil the slices over a slow fire 6 or 8 minutes. Serve in the paper with anchovy-sauce. SALMON, Collared.-Split such a part of the fish as may be sufficient to make a handsome roll, wash and wipe it, and having mixed salt, white pepper, pounded mace, and Jamaica pepper, in quantity to season it very high, rub it inside and out well. Then roll it tight and bandage it, put as much water and one third vinegar as will cover it, with bay-leaves, salt, and both sorts of pep- per. Cover close, and simmer till done enough. Drain and boil quick the liquor and put on when cold. Serve with fen- nel. It is an elegant dish, and ex- tremely good. SALMON, Dried.—Pull some Into flakes ; have ready some eggs boil- ed hard, and chopped large; put both Into half a pint of thin cream, and 2 or a ozs. of butter rubbed with a teaspoon- fill of flour ; skim and stir it till boiling / hot; make a wall of mashed potatoes round the inner edge of a dish, and pour the above into it. SALMON, to Dry.—Cut the fish dowu, take out the inside and roe. Rub the whole with common salt after scaling it; let it hang 24 hours to drain. Pound 3 or 4 ozs. of saltpetre, accord- ing to the size of the fish ; 2 ozs. of bay- salt, and 2 ozs. of coarse sugar; rub these, when mixed well, into the sal- mon, and lay it on a large dish or tray 2 days, then rub it with common salt, and in 24 hours more it will be fit to dry ; wipe it well after draining. Hang it either in a wood chimney, or in a dry place ; keeping it open with two small sticks. Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only just warmed through; egg- sauce and mashed potatoes with it; or it may be boiled, especially the bit next the head. SALMON, to Marinate.—Cut the salmon in slicf* ; take off the skin, and take out the middle bone ; cut each slice asunder ; put into a saucepan and season with salt, pepper, 6 cloves, a sliced onion, some whole chives, a little sweet basil, parsley, and a bay leaf; then squeeze in the juice of 3 lemons, or use vinegar. Let the salmon lie in the marinade for 2 hours ; take it out; dry with a cloth ; dredge with flour, and fry brown in clarified butter; then lay a clean napkin in a dish ; lay the slices upon it; garnish with fried parsley. SALMON, to Pickle.—Boil as before directed, take the fish out, and boil the liquor with bay-leaves, pepper corns, and salt; add vinegar, when cold, and pour it over the fish. SALMON, to Pickle. — Alter scaling and cleaning, split the salmon, and divide into such pieces as you choose; lay it in the kettle to fill the bottom, and as much water as will cover it; to 3 quarts put a pint of vinegar, a handful of salt, 12 bay-leaves, 6 blades of mace, and oz. of black pepper. When the salmon is boiled enough, drain it and put it on a clean doth, then put more salmon into the ketde, and pour the liquor upon it, and so on till all is done. After this, if the pickle be not smartly flavoured with the vinegar and salt, add more, and boil it quick % of an hour. When all is cold, pack the fish in something deep, and let there be enough of pickle to plentifully cover. Preserve it from the air. The liquor must be drained from the fish, and oc- casionally boiled and skimmed. SALMON, to Pot. — Take a large piece, scale and wipe, but do not wash it; salt very well; let it lie till the salt is melted and drained from it, then season with beaten mace, doves, and whole pepper ; lay in a few bay-leaves, put it close into a pan, cover it with but- ter, and bake it; when well done, drain it from the gravy, put it into the pots to keep, and when cold, cover it with clari- fied butter. In this manner you may do any firm fish. SALMON PIE. — Clean and scrape well a piece of fresh salmon, sea- son it with salt, mace, and nutmeg; put a piece of butter at the bottom of the dish, and lay in the salmon; mdt but- ter in proportion to the size of the pie; boil a lobster; pick out all the flesh.