ARK 27 APR Account boil or crack; remove them very carefully into a pan with the syrup, for two or three days ; then pour off as much of it as will be necessary, and boil with more sugar to make a rich syrup, and put a little sliced ginger into it. When cold, and the thin syrup has all drained from the fruit, pour the thick over it. The former will serve to sweeten pies. APRICOT TART.—Use puff paste, see page 322, and put in Apricot Jam, Jelly, or Marmalade. Ornament with little bars of paste. ARDENT SPIRITS.—Water Is the natural beverage of man. Strong alcoholic liquors were formerly kept and sqjd in Apothecaries’ shops, and were by physicians prescribed as medicine merely. Spirituous liquors and wines, more or less, inflame the blood, and induce gout, stone, rheumatism, fevers, pleurisies, &c. They scorch and shrivel the solids, destroy digestion, dry up the juices, and bring on rapidly premature old age, gray hairs, &c. Nothing has a greater tendency to destroy the coats of the stomach, to impair the digestion, destroy the appetite, and produce dis- eases, as inflammation of the liver, dropsy, jaundice, apoplexy, palsy, and madness. Ardent spirits, &c. produce imbecility and often insanity. AROMATIC TINCTURE.— Infuse two dunces of Jamaica pepper in two pints of brandy, without heat, for a few days ; then strain off the tincture. This simple tincture will sufficiently answer all the intentions of the more costly preparations of this kind. It is rather too hot to be taken by itself; but is very proper for mixing with such medicines as might otherwise prove too cold for the stomach. ARROW-ROOT BLANC- MANGE.—Put two tablespoonfuls of arrow-root to a quart of milk, and a pinch of salt. Scald the milk, sweeten it, and stir in the arrow-root, which must first be wet up with some of the milk. Boil up once. Orange-water, rose- water, or lemon-peel may be used to flavour it. Pour into moulds to cool. ARROW-ROOT CUSTARD. —Arrow-root, one tablespoonful ; milk, 1 pint; sugar, one tablespoonful, and one egg. Mix the arrow-root with a j little of the milk, cold ; when the milk 1 boils, stir in the arrow-root, egg, and sugar, previously well beaten together. Let it scald, and pour into cups to cool. To flavour it, boil a little ground cinna- mon in the milk. ARROW-ROOT JELLY— To a dessert-spoonful of the powder, add as much cold water as will make it into a paste, then pour on half a pint of boiling water, stir it briskly and boil ll a few minutes, when it will become a clear smooth jelly; a little sugar and sherry wine may be added for debilitated adults; but for infants, a drop or two of essence of carraway seeds or cinna- mon is preferable, wine being very liable to become acid in the stomachs of infants, and to disorder the bowels. Fresh milk, either alone or diluted with water, may be substituted for the water. ARROW-ROOT AND TAP- IOCA GRUELS.—Make a thiD paste as before, and put into boiling water, adding sugar, salt, nutmeg, and a little lemon-juice. Tapioca may be soaked to hours in twice the quantity of water; then add milk and water. Boil till it is soft. Flavour the same as Arrow-root. ARROW-ROOT PUDDING. —Take 2 tea-cupfuls of arrow-root, and mix it with half a pint of cold milk. Boil another half-pint of milk, flavour- ing it with cinnamon, nutmeg, or lemon-peel. Stir the arrow-root and milk into the boiling milk. When cold, add the yolks of 3 eggs beaten into 3 02. of sugar. Then add the whites beat to a stiff froth, and bake in a buttered dish an hour. Ornament the tops with sweetmeats, or citron sliced. ARROW-ROOT PUDDING, as used in a West Indian family.—Two table-spoonfuls of arrow-root, one egg beaten, yolk and white together; sweeten to taste, add any seasoning agreeable; a pint of milk; mix well together, boil, put in a shape, when cold and stiff, turn out. Sauce, melted butter, and wine, cold. This prepara- tion is very suitable for invalids, who often take a dislike to it, prepared in the ordinary way, if medicinally ordered.