BLA 63 BLA an ounce of doves, and one ounce of alispice. Boil it a few minutes and when cool, add one pint of brandy. This is an invaluable remedy for diarrhoea. BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. —To one gallon of blackberry juice put four pounds of lump sugar. Boil and skim off. Then add one ounce of cloves, one ounce of cinnamon, ten grated nutmegs ; boil down till suffi- ciently rich. Let it cool and settle. Then drain off and add one pint of brandy. BLACKBERRY and WINE CORDIAL.—The following is re- commended as a delightful beverage, and an infallible specific for diarrhoea, or diseases of the bowels :—To half a bushel of blackberries, well mashed, add a quarter of a pound of allspice, two ounces of cinnamon, to ounces of cloves; pulverize well, mix, and boil slowly until done ; then strain the juice through flannel, and add to each pint of the juice one pound of loaf-sugar; boil again for some time, take it off, and, while cooling, add half a gallon of best Cognac brandy.—Dose: for an adult, a wine-glassful; for a child, a tea-spoonful or more, according to age. BLACKBERRY JAM. Gather the fruit in dry weather. Boil or bake it for three-quarters of an hour, with half its weight of coarse sugar. Pot it, and keep it air tight, and it will be excellent. The fruit must be used when fresh gathered. BLACKBERRY JELLY. — Bruise two quarts of Blackberries ; add 2 quarts of water ; and when they boil, run them through a linen bag ; boil the syrup five minutes; then to every pound of juice, add a pound of sugar: boil 15 minutes, skim well, and pot, and put brandy papers over them. The addition of a little isinglass, and stewing them in a slow oven till a little candied, is a great improvement, espe- cially if half of the water be left out. BLACKBERRY SYRUP, for Cholera and Summer Com- plaints.—Blackberry juice, t quart; fine sugar, lb. ; nutmegs, cinnamon, allspice, of each, oss. ; cloves, 1 % drachms, cayenne pepper, % drachm. I Powder them all. qr.ri gently boil them I In the juice for about twenty minutes. When cold, add half a pint of brandy. It relieves inward pains, cramp, and diarrhtea. BLACKBERRY SYRUP. — Make a syrup of a pound of sugar, to each pint of water; boil until it is thick ; add as many pints of the ex- pressed juice of blackberries as there are pounds of sugar; put half a nut- meg grated to each quart of the syrup ; boil fifteen or twenty minutes, then add half a gill of best French brandy for each quart of syrup ; bottle it for use. A tablespoonful for a child, or a wineglass for an adult, is a dose. BLACKBERRY WINE.—To make a wine equal to port. Take ripe blackberries, press the juice from them, let it stand thirty-six hours to ferment (lightly covered) and skim well; then, to every gallon of the juice, add one quart of water and three pounds of sugar; let it stand in an open vessel for twenty-four hours; strain, and barrel it. Let it stand six months, then bottle and cork close. It improves with age. BLACK CAP PUDDING.— Make a batter with milk, flour, and eggs; butter a basin; pour in the batter, and 5 or 6 ounces of well cleaned currants. Cover it with a cloth well floured, and tie the cloth very tight. Boil nearly one hour. The currants will have settled to the bottom; there- fore dish it bottom upwards. Serve with sweet sauce and a little rum. BLACK CUPS.—Halve and core some fine apples, put them in a shallow pan, strew white sugar over, and bake them. Boil a glass of wine, the same of water, and sweeten it for sauce. Another way.—Take off a slice from the stalk end of some apples, and core without paring them. Make ready as much sugar as may be sufficient to sweeten then, and mix it with some gTated lemon, and a few cloves in fine powder. Stuff the holes as close as possible with this, and turn the flat end down in a stew-pan ; set them on a very slow fire, with half of raisin wine, and the same of water; cover them close, and then baste them wuh the liquor. BLACK CURRANT JAM — See I'vrrant, page