SEL SKI 36o method to use the soap lather and pearlash together. SILK, to Remove Grease from. —Take French chalk, finely scraped, and put it on the grease-spot, holding it near the fire, or over a warm iron rever- sed, or on a water-plate in which is boiling water. This will cause the grease to melt, and the French chalk will absorb it, and it may then be brushed or rubbed off. If any grease remains, proceed as before, until it is all extracted. The French chalk is a fine soluble powder of a dry absorbent quality, acting upon silks as Fullers earth does upon woollens. SILKS, to Renovate.—Sponge faded silks with warm water, soap, and bran. Then rub them with a dry cloth on a dresser or table; next, iron them on the inside with a smoothing iron. Old black silks may be renovated by sponging with spirits. Iron on the right side, but with thin, paper on the silk. SILVER PLATE, to Clean.— Dissolve alum in a strong ley; skim it carefully, and mix it up with soap, and wash the silver with it, using a linen rag. Then, when dry. rub with wash- leather and impalpable whiting. SKATE, to Choose.—If good they are very white and thick. If too fresh they eat tough, but must not be kept above 2 days. SKATE, to Boil.—Clean well, and cut into long narrow pieces ; put into boiling water with a little salt in it. Boil 15 minutes, and take it out; and after adding a little vinegar to the water, boil again till enough. When taken up, drain. Serve while hot, and pour over It cockle, shrimp, or muscle sauce. Lay over it oyster patties. Garnish with horse-radish. SKATE, to Crimp.—Cut into long strips, crossways. Boil them quickly for about 10 minutes. Drain, and serve hot, with butter and anchovy. SKATE, to Fricassee.—Pre- pare it the same as soles and flounders ; put into a saucepan; to every lb. of fish put a pint of water, a little beaten mace, and a grated nutmeg, sweet herbs, and salt; cover dose, and boil 15 min- utes. Take out the herbs, and put in a pint of cream, a piece of butter rolled In flour, and a glass of sherry. Shake the pan all the time till the fricassee be thick and smooth. Garnish with lemon. SKATE SOUP.—Make it of the stock for fish-soup, with an oz. of ver- micelli boiled in it, a little before it is served. Then add % a pint of cream, beaten with the yolks of two eggs. Stir it near but not on the fire. Serve it with a small French roll made hot in a Dutch oven, and then soaked in the soup an hour. SKIN.—Carbolic soap is an excel- lent cleanser of the skin, a powerful dis- infectant. It takes away irritable spots, suppresses bites from flies, &c. SKIN, to Cleanse from Dark Spots or Flesh Worms.—The best way is to squeeze them out; or wash the skin with milk and flower of sulphur mixed. Apply elder-ficwer ointment at night. An infusion of horse-radish in milk is very useful. SKIN, to Clear a Tanned,— Wash with a solution of carbonate of soda and a little lemon juice; then with fuller’s earth water, or the juice of un- ripe grapes. SKIN, to Dye it Olive. — Mix walnut juice with an infusion of anotta; only a small quantity of the latter. Dip paper in to ascertain the tint. SKIN, to Preserve in Persons Confined to Bed.—Apply the white of an egg, well beaten, and mixed with spirits of wine. SKITTLES. The game of skittle is a favourite amusement in many parts of England, and is too well known to require description is these pages; we shall merely give a few instructions for young players, and the laws by which the game is governed. \ Bowling.—Let the player hold the bowl in his right hand, with the bias side from him, with his left foot advanced before the right, which must be at the mark, his body bending to- wards the frame, but in an easy posi- tion : then with an equal motion, throw the bowl along the board with sufficient strength to reach the frame; he should endeavour to hit with the bowl the left- hand side of the first pin, in accomplish- ing which he trill be tolerably certain of