CRI CRI 146 to each wicket, must be twenty-seven inches out the ground, and placed so closely as not to allow the ball to pass through. The bails must be eight inches in length. 4. The Bowling Crease must be in a line with the stumps, and six feet eight inches in length, the stumps in the centre, with a return-crease at each end towards the bowler at right angles. 5. The Popping Crease must be three feet ten inches from the wicket, and parallel to it, unlimited in length, but not shorter than the bowling-crease. 6. They must be opposite to each other, twenty-two yards apart. 7. It is not lawful for either party, during a match, without the ether party gives consent, to make any altera- tion in the ground by rolling, watering, covering, moving, or beating. This rule is not meant to prevent the striker from beating the ground with his bat near to the spot where he stands during the innings, nor to prevent the bowler from filling up holes with saw- dust, &c., when the ground is wet. 8. After rain, the wickets may be changed with the consent of both parties. . The Bowler must deliver the with one foot behind the bowling- crease, and bowl four balls before he changes wickets, which he is permitted to do, once only, in the same innings. 10. The ball must be bowled ; if it be thrown or jerked, or if the hand be above the shoulder in the delivery, the umpire must call “no ball ” (this being reckoned as one of the four balls.) 12. In some matches, the bowler may give six balls where the parties are agreed. The bowler may order the striker at the wicket from which he bowls, to stand on which side of it he pleases. 12. Should the bowler toss the ball over the striker’s head, or bowl it so wide that it shall be out of distance to be played at, the umpire, although the striker attempt it, shall adjudge one run to the parties receiving the innings, either with or without an appeal from them, which shall be put down to the score of wide balls, and such balls shall not be reckoned as any of the four balls. When the umpire shall have called "wide ball," one run only shall be reckoned, and the ball shall be considered dead. 13. If “no ball" be called by the umpire, the hitter may strike at it, and is allowed all the runs he can make, and is not to be considered out except by running out. Should no run be obtain- ed by any other means, then one run shall be scored. 14. When a fresh bowler takes the ball, only two balls shall be allowed for practice; he must, however, continue the next four in the game before he can change for another better approved. If six balls are agreed to be bowled, then he must continue the six instead of four. 15. No substitute in the field shall be allowed to bowl, keep wicket, stand at the point or middle wicket, except by mutual agreement. The Striker is out if either of the bails be struck off by the ball, or either of the stumps struck out of the ground. He is Out, if the ball from a stroke of the bat or hand below the wrist, be held by his adversary before it touches the ground, although hugged or caught between the arms and breast of the catcher. He is Out, if in striking, or at any other time while the ball is in play, both his feet be over the popping-crease, and his wicket put down, except his bat be grounded within it. He is Out, if in striking at the ball, he either with his bat, clothes, or person, hits down his wicket He is Out, if under pretence ol running a notch, or otherwise, either of the strikers prevent a ball from being caught, or if the ball be struck up and he wilfully strikes it again. He is Out, if in running a notch the wicket be struck down by a throw, or with the hand or arm with bail in hand, before his bat is grounded over the popping-crease. If the bails should happen to be off, a stump must be struck out of the ground. He is Out, should he take up or touch the ball while in play, unless at the request of the opposite party. He is Out, if with a part of his person he stop the ball, which the bowler, in the opinion of the umpire at