164 DRO DRI to stand the "Huff.” The following are the Laws of the Game :— 1. The first move of each game to be taken alternately. 2. Pointing over the board, or other- wise interrupting the view is not per- mitted. 3. Whoever touches a man must play him somewhere ; and if a man is removed into another square, he must remain there. 4. In case of standing the " huff,” it is optional with the adversary to take the man or insist upon him taking his omitted by the “ huff.” 5. If either party, when it is his turn to move, hesitates for a longer period than three minutes, the other may call upon him to play; and if, after so calling upon him, he delay longer than five minutes, he loses the game. 6. During a game neither party must leave the room without the permission of the other ; and a third person should decide the time of absence. 6. When the draws are given to an Inferior player, the game must be played in a more advanced state; and when the situations become so equal that no advantage can be gained, then he who gives the draws shall either force the other out of his strong position, or he must be considered to have lost the game. DRINK, Strengthening.—Put to a cupful of pearl barley, with three pints of cold water, the rind of a lemon, and a Small piece of cinnamon. Boil gently till the barley is tender; add % oz. of extract of sarsaparilla, and boil gently five minutes more. Strain, and sweeten with honey, or sugar. You may add ginger or cayenne, if flatulent, or, phlegmatic. DRINK FOR THE SICK— Take half an ounce of sugar-candy, quarter of an ounce of cream of tartar, and a few lemon and orange chips; pour upon them one quart of boiling water. When cold pour off. DRIPPING, to Clarify—Put water in a pan, boil, and pour your dripping in; cool, and the dripping will swim at the top, while all impurities will sink into the water. Repeat the process, If it is needful. DROPSY. — From the Greek, udor, water, and opsis, an appearance. It denotes the effusion of water, or rather serous fluid into any cavity of the body, or into the cellular tissue under the skin. It is indicated by distension of the belly, difficult breathing, dry skin, im- moderate thirst, a dry cough, swelling of the feet and legs, deficient urine, and deficient perspiration. Observe; Dropsy is a symptom of disease, rather than itself a disease, and generally the original cause is a morbid change in one or more of the principal organs of the body, the heart, fiver, or kidneys. It is caused by a loss of vitality in the capillary exhalents of the blood vessels, by which they are deprived of their elasticity or contractility, consequent upon the loss of the electric fluid, or the nervous energy upon which their con- tractility chiefly depends; and from a deficiency of iron in the blood. Give a vapour bath made of bitter herbs. (See Vapour Bath) Drink the Composition Powder tea, sweetened. Give diuretics, and a pill made of cay- enne, colocynth and rhubarb : and also the Diuretic Infusion. Keep up the perspiration when deficient; and fo- ment the body daily with the Stimula- ting Liniment. The compound extract of jalap is very effective in evacuating the water. Or, mustard, % oz.; juniper berries, milkweed root, horse radish root; black alder bark, mandrake root, bitter-sweet bark, of each, 1 oz. Bruise them, and infuse in 3 quarts of hot water, adding the juice of a lemon. A wineglassful two or three times a-day. Or, take as much as lies upon a six- pence of powdered laurel leaves, every second or third day. It works both ways. Or, make tea of roots of dwarf elder. It works by urine. Every twelve or fourteen minutes (that is, after every discharge) drink a tea-cupfuL I have known a dropsy cured by this in twelve hours' time. Or, one was cured by taking a drachm of nitre, every morning, in a little ale. Or, Tar-water drank twice a-day has cured many; so has an infusion of juniper berries, roasted, and made into a liquor like coffee. -Or, three spoonfuls of