BUG 8i BUR solved as above, made into a paste, and I applied. 4 Use a strong ^solution of alum water.—Or spirits of naptha applied with a brush. Or apply turpentine and creasote, or oil of tar. 5 Camphor placed in a small bag, and suspended over and under a bed, is a good remedy. BUGLE.—A plant growing in woods, ditches, swamps, copses, &c. i (See Robinson's Herbal.) It is of great use in coughs, and the first stages of consumption, spitting of blood, &c. Amongst the doctors of America it is in high repute. Like Digitalis, though not so powerful, it allays irritation, cough, regulates the pulse, and equalizes I the circulation. It has been described I as "one of the mildest and best nar- | cotics in existence.” Administered by infusion, or decoction. BUNIONS.—A plaster of Bur- gundy pitch should be kept over a bunion. Or, a piece of lint or linen rag wetted with a strong solution of sal- ammoniac, to be kept on constantly wet.—Poultice them with houseleek and ground ivy, dipped in strong vinegar.— Some recommend the application of j caustic to the part; and also the appli- | cation of leeches, and the Burgundy | pitch and soap plasters, spread upon soft leather. To be free from bunions and corns, especially avoid pressure from tight boots, shoes, and stockings ; the last are very injurious, as they com- press the feet by their elasticity. BURDOCK.— See Robinson's Herbal. It has been successfully em- ployed in scurvy, rheumatism, gout, and pulmonary complaints. It is a great diuretic. As it neither excites nausea, nor increases irritation, it is worthy of a trial where more active remedies are improper. BURNS AND SCALDS.—See Spanish Flies. If the clothes have I caught fire, wrap the person in a shawl, coat, blanket, &c., very tightly, to ex- tinguish the flames; or when these are not at hand, roll the person on the floor. Then gently disengage the clothes from around the burned surface. ; If any parts of the dress should stick to I the burned part, do not remove them, but cut the clothes from around that part. The treatment for burns is ap- plicable to scalds. If the injury is ■merely superficial, saturate a piece of cotton wool, or wadding, &c. with tinc- ture of Spanish flies, largely diluted with water, and apply it over the burn- ed or scalded part, and cover it with folded cotton or linen, &c., to exclude the atmospheric air. Saturate with the liniment as the cloth dries. If the wound is deep, use the arnica lotion, (see plant Leopard’s Bane,) instead of Cantharis. When the burning pain ceases, apply simple cerate spread on a linen rag, and cover well up. Liniments are better than lotions, as they contain soap dissolved in spirits of wine, both curative of bums, &c. The arnica lotion may be obtained from any Homoeopathic chemist. When the afore-mentioned liniments are not at hand, cotton wool, or a linen rag may be well saturated in oil and soap lather, and applied. ‘ A most primitive, yet very effectual remedy in the treatment of bums and scalds is cow-dung; and from its being so rich in phosphorus, it must exert a specific, and a mechanical action to cure injuries resulting frem fire.’ Apply a poultice of elm bark and milk, and when the inflammation has left, apply Black Salve. For very slight bums, the Black Salve alone will cure. The slippery elm poultice is a sovereign remedy, and has effected the greatest ciues. Dr. Beach relates the case of a girl dreadfnlly scalded by falling into a large pan of boiling water, which scald- ed, and actually burnt or disorganized the parts from the back nearly to the feet. A poultice of slippery elm bark, and olive oil alone, very soon arrested the inflammation and acute sufferings of the patient, to the astonishment of all. The elm bark may be bought of the medical botanists. In all cases of bums and scalds, it is necessary to observe, that if fever should ensue gentle laxative medicines ought to be given; as castor oil, or salts and senna. In cases of scalding the mouth with hot liquids, gargle with a solution of borax, and then hold in the mouth a mucilage of slippery elm, swallowing It slowly, if the throat also has been scalded ; the slippery elm bark may be