BEK BEE 48 of cloves, a nutmeg, half an ounce of allspice, three handfuls of common salt, all in the finest powder. The beef should hang two or three days ; then rub the above well into it, and turn and rub it every day for two or three weeks. The bone must be taken out at the first. When to be dressed, dip it into cold water, to take off the loose spice, bind it up tight with tape, and put it into a pan with a tea- cupful of water at the bottom, cover the top of the meat with shred suet, and the pan with a brown crust and paper, and bake it five or six hours. When cold, take off the paste and tape. The gravy is very fine ; and a little of it adds greatly to the flavour of any hash, soup, &c. Both the gravy and beef will keep some time. The meat should be cut with a very sharp knife, and quite smooth, to pre- vent waste. BEEF, to Keep.—The kernels should be removed from the neck pieces. As the butchers seldom attend to this matter, the cook should do it, and then rub the salt well into such beef as is designed for boiling, and slightly sprinkle that which is for roast- ing. BEEF, to Mince.—Shred the underdone part fine, with some of the fat; put it into a small stew-pan, with some onion or shalot, (a very little will do,) a little water, pepper, salt; boil it till the onion is quite soft, then put some of the gravy of the meat to it, and the mince. Don’t let it boil. Have a small hot dish with sippets of bread ready, pour the mince into it, but first mix a large spoonful of vinegar with it: if shalot-vinegar is used, there will be no need of the onion, nor the raw shalot. BEEF, to Mince.—Shred the meat fine, and boil with onion, or shalot, pepper, &c.; add a little of its gravy, or some butter. Garnish with toast. BEEF, en Miroton.—Cut thin slices of cold roast beef and put them into a frying-pan with a K lb. of butter, and six onions, and a few cloves, turn the pan frequently, then mix a little broth and some salt, pepper, and after a few boils, serve up hot. This dish is excellent and economical. BEEF-OLIVES, or to dress meat that has not been done enough. ,■— Cut slices half-an-inch thick, and four inches square; lay on them a forcemeat of crumbs of bread, shalot, a little suet, or fat, pepper, and salt. Roll them, and fasten with a small skewer; put them into a stew- pan with some gravy made of the beef- bones, or the gravy of the meat, and a spoonful or two of water and stew them till tender. Fresh meat will do. BEEF - PALATES. — Simmer them in water several hours, till they will peel; then cut the palates into slices, or leave them whole, as you choose ; and stew them in a rich gravy till as tender as possible. Before you serve, season them with Cayenne, salt, and ketchup. If the gravy was drawn clear, add also some butter and flour. If to be served white boil them in milk, and stew them in a fricassee sauce ; adding cream, butter, flour, and mushroom powder, and a little pounded mace. BEEF PATTIES.—Use the best beef, half roast it, cut it very small, season with pepper, salt, and onion, or shalot, put it into thin paste, close up, and bake to a brown.—Underdone beef may be used instead of fresh. BEEF, to Pot.—Take two pounds of lean beef, rub it with salt- petre, and let it lie one night; then salt with common salt, and cover it with water four days in a small pan. Dry it with a cloth and season with black pepper; lay it into as small a pan as will hold it, cover it with coarse paste, and bake it five hours in a very cool oven. Put no liquor in. When cold, pick out the strings and fat; beat the meat very fine with a quarter of a pound of fine butter just warm, but not oiled, and as much of the gravy as will make it into a paste; put it into very small pots, and cover them with melted butter. Another way.—Take beef that has been dressed, either boiled or roasted; beat it in a mortar with some pepper, salt, a few doves, grated nut- meg, and a little fine butter, just warm.