PEA PEA 298 PEACHES, to Dry.—The same as Apricots to Dry, page 26. PEACH JELLY.—The same as Apricot Jelly, page 26. PEACHES, to Preserve.—The same as Apricots to Preserve, page 25. PEARL POWDER.—Dissolve bismuth in nitro muriatic acid, and gradually add cold distilled water, and upon it a beautiful white powder will be precipitated. PEARL WATER, for the Face.—Put £ lb. of the best Windsor soap, scraped very fine, into a gallon of boiling water. Stir it well for some time, and let it cool. Add a pint of rectified spirit of wine, and oz. of oil of rosemary. Stir well. The Italians call this compound Tincture of Pearls. It is a good cosmetic, and will remove freckles. PEARS, Baked.—These need not be of a fine sort; but some taste better than others, and often those that are least fit to eat raw. Wipe, but do ncC pare, and lay them on tin plates, and bake them in a slow oven. When enough to bear it, flatten them with a silver spoon. When done through, put them on a dish. They should be baked very slowly. PEARS, Jargonelle, to Pre- serve.—Pare them very thin, and simmer in thin syrup; let them lie a day or two. Make the syrup richer, and simmer again ; and repeat this till they are clear; then drain, and dry them in the sun or a cool oven a very little time. They may be kept in syrup and dried as wanted, which makes them more moist and rich. PEAR JELLY.—The large stew pears, previously stewed in the oven with a little water make good jelly. Or take jargonelle, or French pears, and boil them to a pulp ; then boil gently over the fire with as much sugar as there is pulp for about 20 minutes, till it is moderately thick. Put in jars, and cover close. PEARS, Stewed.—Pare and halve, or quarter, large pears, accord- ing to their size ; throw them into water, as the skin is taken off before they are divided, to prevent their turning black. Pack them round a stewpan, and sprinkle as much sugar over as will make them sweet, and add lemon peel, a clove or two, and some allspice crack- ed ; cover them with water. Cover them close, and stew three or four horns; when tender, take them out, and pour the liquor over them. The stone pears may be done in the oven with sugar only. PEAS, Green, to Preserve.— Shell, and put them into a kettle of water when it boils ; give them two or three warms only, and pour them in a colander. Drain, and turn them out on a cloth, and then on another to dry perfecdy. When dry, botde them in wide-mouthed bottles; leaving only room to pour clarified mutton suet upon them an inch thick, and for the cork. Rosin it down ; and keep in the cellar, or in the earth, as directed for goose- berries. When they are to be used, boil them till tender, with a bit of butter, a spoonful of sugar, and a bit of mint. PEAS, to Boil.—Peas should not be shelled long before they are wanted, nor boiled in much water; when the water boils, put them in, with a little salt (some add a little loaf sugar, but if they are sweet of them- selves, it is superfluous ;) when the peas begin to dent in the middle, they are boiled enough. Strain, and put a piece of butter in the dish, and stir. A little mint should be boiled with the peas. PEAS MUSH.—Put a quart of green peas, dried mint, and salt, into a quart of water; boil till the peas are tender; add pepper, a bit of butter rolled in flour; stir it altogether, and let it boil a few minutes; add two quarts of milk ; boil 15 minutes ; take out the mint and serve. PEAS PUDDING. — Put a quart of split peas into a clean cloth; allow room for them to swell; boil slowly till they are tender ; if the peas are good, they will be ready in 2§ hours. Rub them through a sieve into a deep dish, adding an egg or two, 1 oz. of butter, pepper, and salt; beat them well together for 10 minutes ; flour a cloth, put the pudding in, tie it tight, and boil an hour longer. PEAS SOUP.—Soak a quart of split peas the night before, and boil them with a little carbonate of soda in sufficient water to allow them to break.