CAK 85 CAK pound of sugar, sifted, four ounces of almonds, si* ounces of stoned raisins, chopped fine, half a nutmeg, cinnamon, allspice, and a few cloves, the peel of a lemon chopped fine, a glass of wine, ditto of brandy, twelve yolks and whites of eggs beat separately and long, orange, citron, and lemon. Beat well., and butter the pan. A quick oven. CAKES, Brevet,—Rub into one pound of dried flour four ounces of butter, four ounces of white powdered sugar, one egg, and a spoonful or two of thin cream to make into a paste. When mixed, put currants into one half, and caraways into the rest. Cut them, and bake on tins. CAKE, Boumeville. Work half a pound of flour with five or six eggs, lemon peel, chopped fine, a little orange-flower water, and plain water and salt. Take as much butter as paste, and work it well together. Bake it in a mould or hoop, and garnish as you like. CAKES, Browning for.—Half lb. of moist sugar, 2 ozs. of butter, add a little water. Simmer till brown. A little of this mixture will give a rich colour to cakes. CAKES, Cinnamon.—As the above, adding cinnamon according to taste. CAKE, Common. — Take the quantity of a quartern loaf from the dough, when making white bread, and knead well into it 2 ozs. of butter, 2 ozs. of sugar, and % lb. of currants. Warm the butter in a tea-cupful of milk, By the addition of 1 oz. of butter, or sugar, or an egg or two, you may make the cake better. A tea-cupful of cream im- proves it much. It is best to bake it in a pan, rather than as a loaf, the outside being less hard. CAKE, COCOA-NUT SPONGE.—Grate a cocoa-nut, the outer part peeled off. A teaspoonful of salt, and half a grated nutmeg. A pound of white sugar. Beat and strain the yolks of six eggs ; the whites cut to a stiff froth. One teaspoonful of essence of lemon, and half a pint of flour. Mix the yolks, sugar, and other ingredients, except the whites and flour. Before putting it into the oven, add the whites, and flour gradually, and gently mix it. Put it on buttered paper on tius, in a I quick oven. Cover with paper lest the | top harden quick. CAKES, Derby.—Mix 1 lb. of butter, 1 lb. rf&gar, 1 lb. of currants, 1 lb. of flourrwith an egg, in a paste. Roll it round in small cakes, and bake them on a tin. CAKES, Drop.—Mix 2 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of butter, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of currants, clean and dry : then wet into a stiff paste, with two eggs, a large spoonful each of orange-flower water, rose-water, sweet wine, and brandy; drop on a tin-plate floured ; a very short time bakes them. CAKES, Ginger. — As above; but mixing with it half an ounce of ginger. CAKES, Graham Griddle.— Three tea-cups of brown flour, one cup of white flour, three cups of buttermilk or sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in warm water, (not hot) one teaspoonful of salt, a heaping table- spoonful of butter, or lard, (butter is best), three eggs beaten to a froth ; mix all by quick beating and bake as soon as mixed. If obliged to use sweet milk, sift two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar with the flour. CAKES, Rice Griddle.—One and a half cupful of cold boiled rice, one pint of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, 3 well beaten eggs, (yolks and whites beaten separately,) with boiled milk enough to make a batter rather thicker than for common griddle cakes. If the milk is poured over hot, the eggs must not be added till it is cool. CAKES, Rye Griddle. —One quart of rye flour and one cup of wheat flour. Wet it up with sour milk or buttermilk, until the batter is thick enough to cook easily on a griddle. Add a (ittle salt and a scant teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in warm water, (not hot) and one beaten egg. Rye griddle cakes are far better than wheat, very much tenderer. If prefer- ed, use com meal with it instead of wheat flour. CAKES, Iceing for.—Powder and sift one pound of loaf sugar; put it into a basin with the whites of three or four eggs ; beat well together, and add the juice of six lemons ; beat well until it becomes very light and hangs in