105 CARDS CARDS two of the players give each their best card to his partner, who then lays out one of his own, and the game is then played as two-handed put. If the dealer turns up any of his ad- versary’s cards, another deal may be demanded, but when he shows his own, he is to abide by them. Either party saying “I Put,” must stand his cards or pay the stakes. QUADRILLE, Game of.— This game is played by four persons, and only forty cards are used, the tens, nines, eights, being discarded from the pack. The deal is made by giving each player in rotation three cards at a time, for any two rounds, and once four cards at a time, beginning with the right hand player, who is the elder hand. The following is the correct way of playing this game: When you are the ombre, and your friend leads from a mat, play your best trump, and then lead your best trump the first opportunity. If you hold all the trumps, keep lead- ing them, except you have other certain winning cards. If all the mats are not revealed by the time you have six tricks ; risk not play- ing for vole. When you are the friend called, and hold only a mat, lead it, but if only a mat guarded by a small trump, lead the small one ; though when the ombre is last player, lead the best trump you have. Punto in red, or king of trumps in black, are good cards to lead, when they are your best; and should either of them succeed, then play a small trump. When the ombre leads to discover a friend, if you hold king, queen, and knave, put on the knave. Preserve the called suit, whether friend or not. When playing against a lone hand, never lead a king, unless you have the queen, nor change the suit, nor allow, if you can prevent it, the ombre to be the last player. Call on the strongest suits, except you have a queen guarded : when elder hand, you have a better chance than middle hand. A good player may succeed with a weaker hand, when either elder or Sounger, better than if he was middle and. The Hank of the Cards when not trumps: Clubs and Spades.—King, Queen, Knave, Seven, Six, Five, Four, Three, Two.—Total 9. Hearts and Diamonds.—King, Queen, Knave, Ace, Deuce, Three, Four, Five, Six, Seven.—Total, 10. Laws of the Game of Quadrille. 1 The cards are to be dealt to the right hand by threes and fours, and not differently; and the dealer is at liberty to begin either with four or with three ; if a card be turned up in dealing, there must be a new deal. 2 He who deals wrong is to deal again. 3 He who has asked leave is obliged to play. 4 No one is basted for playing out of turn, but the card played may be called at any time in that deal, providing it does not cause a renounce ; or either of the adversaries may demand of his part- ner to play any suit he thinks proper. S The three matadores cannot be forced by an inferior trump, but the superior forces the inferior when led by a first player. 6 A player naming trumps must abide by the same. 7 Whoever plays with eleven cards is basted. 8 If you play “sans prendre,” or have matadores, they should be demanded before the next dealer has finished, or you lose the benefit. 9 Any person naming his trump with- out asking leave, is obliged to play “sans prendre,” unless he is the younger hand, and all the rest have passed. xo After the game is won, if the per- son who won the sixth trick, plays the seventh card, he is obliged to play for vole. xi If you have your kings dealt you are at liberty either to call a queen to one of your kings, (except the queen of trumps,) or to call one of your own kings. 12 If any person separates a card from the rest, he ought to play it, if the opposite party has seen the same, un- less he plays "sans prendre.”