FUN FUN 324 requires a comma; as, Against thee', thee only, have I sinned. Rule 8. When words are placed in opposition to each other, or with some marked variety, they require to be dis- tinguished by a comma : as, “Tho’ deep, yet clear; tho’ gentle, yet not dull; Strong, without rage: without o’erflowing, foil." "Good men, in this frail imperfect state, are often found, not only in union with, but in opposition to, the views and conduct of one another.” Rule 9. The words of another writer cited, but not formally introduced as a quotation, are separated by a com- ma ; as, “I pity the man who can travel from Dan to Beersheba, and cry, ’Tis all barren." Rule 10. A comma is often inserted where a verb is understood; as, George has acquired much property; his brother, little. Rule ii. A comma is used between the two parts of a sentence that has its natural order inverted ; as, Him that is weak in the faith, receive ye. The Semicolon is written thus (;). It marks a longer pause than the comma, and separates clauses less closely con- nected. Rule i. A sentence consisting of two parts, the one containing a com- plete proposition, and the other added as an inference, or an explanation, the two parts are separated by a semicolon ; as, My mind is sadly dejected; for I am surrounded with enemies. Rule a. A sentence consisting of several members, each constituting a distinct proposition, and having a de- pendence upon each other, or upon some common clause, they are separated by semicolons; as, Remember, weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning ; and to all true Chris- tians, it shall be a morning without clouds ; for the Lord shall be their ever- lasting light; and the days of their mourning shall be ended. The Colon, which is written thus (:) marks a longer pause than the semi- colon, and is used when the sense is complete, but when there is something still behind, which tends to make the sense fuller or clearer. Rule x. A colon r'enerally precedes a quotation; as, The Scriptures show the benevolence of the Deity in the words : “ God is loye.” Rule 2. When a sentence which consists of an enumeration of particulars, each separated from the other by a semi- colon, has its sense suspended till the last clause, that clause is disjoined from the preceding by a colon; as, “If he has not been unfaithful to his king; if he has not proved a traitor to his coun- try; if he has never given cause for such charges as have been preferred against him : why then is he afraid to confront his accusers ?" The Period, or full point, is a dot thus (.), and is used at the end of every complete sentence; that is to say, at the end of every collection of words which makes a full and complete meaning, and is not necessarily connected with other collections of words. Besides being used to mark the com- pletion of a sentence, the period is placed after initials, when used alone, as D. D., for Doctor of Divinity; and after abreviations, as, Lat. for Latin. The following Grammatical signs, or marks, are used in the writing of sen- tences :— Parenthesis () is used to enclose a phrase to assist in elucidating the sub- ject, or to add force to the assertions or arguments; as, ** Know then this truth (enough for man to know). Virtue alone is happiness below.” It ought, however, to be very sparing- ly used. It is necessarily an interrupter; it breaks in upon the regular course of the mind : it 'ends to divert the atten- tion from the main object of the sen- tence. Interrogation is used when a question is asked ; as, How art thou? Exclamation or Admiration, denotes any sudden emotion of the mind; as, Alas 1 I am undone 1 Apostrophe, (’) or mark of elision, in- dicates that a letter is left out; as, lov'd for loved, don’t for do not. It is used properly enough in poetry, but should never be used in prose. “ It ought to be called the mark not of elision, but of lasituss and vulgarity, except when used to denote the possessive case of Noons."