xux rwi 3 97 Turkey carpet, beat it well with a stick till the dust is all got out; then, with a lemon or sorrel juice, take out the spots of ink, if the carpet be stained with any ; wash it in cold water, and afterwards shake out all the water from the threads of the carpet. When it is thoroughly dry, rub it all over with the crumb of a hot wheaten loaf; and, if the weather is very fine, hang it out in the open air a night or two. See page 18. TURNIPS, Proper Soil for.— Sandy loams, in good heart, are most favourable to their growth, though they will thrive well on strong loams, if they are not wet; but on clayey, thin, or wet soils, they are not worth cultivating; for though a good crop may be raised on such ground, when well prepared and dunged, more damage is done by taking off the turnips in winter, in poaching the soil, than the value of the crop will repay. TURNIPS, to Mash. — Boil them very tender. Strain till no water is left. Place in a saucepan over a gentle fire, and stir well a few minutes. Do not let them bum. Add a little cream, or milk, or both, salt, butter, and pepper. Add a tablespoonful of fine sugar. Stir and simmer five minutes longer. TURNIP PIE.—Season mutton chops with salt and pepper, reserving the ends of the neck bones to lay over the turnips, which must be cut into small dice, and put on the steaks. Put two or three good spoonfuls of milk in. You may add sliced onion. Cover with a crust. TURNIP SOUP.—Take off a knuckle of veal all the meat that can be made into cutlets, &c., and set the rest on to stew with an onion, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, and five pints of water ; close it on a slow fire five hours. Strain It, and set it by till next day; then take the fat and sediment from it, and sim- mer it with turnips ait into small dice till tender ; season with salt and piepper. Before serving, mb down half a spoon- ful of flour with half a pint of good cream, and the size of a walnut of but- ter. Simmer a small roll in the soup till wet through, and serve this with it. It should be as thick as middling cream. TWELFTH CAKE. —Flour, butter, sifted loaf sugar, of each, a lba.; iS eggs; currants, 4 lbs. ; almonds, blanched and chopped, % lb.; citron, lb. ; candied orange and lemon p>eel, cut into thin slices, r lb.; a large nut- meg grated ; ground allspice, % oz.; ground cinnamon, mace, ginger, and coriander, % oz. each, and a gill of brandy. Put the butter into a stewpan, and work it into a smooth cream with the hand, and mix it with the sugar and spice for some time ; break in the eggs by degrees, and beat 20 minutes. Stir in the brandy, then the flour, and work it a little; add the fruit, sweetmeats, and almonds, and mix all together lightly. Have ready a hoop, cased with paper on a baking plate; put in the mixture; smooth it on the top with the hand dipped in milk. Put the plate upon another elevated a little, to prevent the bottom from colouring too much. Bake it in a slow oven four hours or more, and when nearly cold, spread the ice over it. TWIST, to Make.—Put 6 lbs. of loaf sugar into a pan with 1 % pint of Water, boil it gradually for half an hour; when it is boiled enough it will snap like glass, by putting the tube of a pipe into the pan, and then into water; after which pour it out on a smooth stone till cold; then take a part of that, and pull it on a long nail till it becomes very white ; then lap it over the other which is on the stone; and make it up either for twist, or cut it in short lengths. TWIST, Common.—Boa 3 lbs. of raw sugar in a pint of water over a slow fire ; do not skim it; when boiled enough, pour it on a stone; take a part of it and pull it like wax, and it will turn white, twist it over the other, and roll it small; then cut it into lengths of twist. Put a few drops of the oil of peppermint into the sugar when boiled and poured upon the stone, to flavour it. TWIST, Paradise.—Boil 3 lbs. of loaf sugar in half a pint of water, fox half an hour ; put in it a little gumwater to clear it and a tablespoonful of vinegar, which will cause it to give you mors time to make it up ; pull one part of it and lap it over the other; ait it into twist, roll and streak it with red and white.