TOO TOO 390 TOOTHACHE REMEDIES. —The following are good :— 1. Oil of cloves, % dr.; laudanum, 2 drs.; powdered alum, 1 dr. ; spirits of nitre, 2 drs. ; chloroform, % dr. Mix. Apply with lint. 2. A mixture of 2 parts of the liquid ammonia of commerce, with 1 of some simple tincture, (tincture of Benjamin. &c.) is a good remedy for toothache, A piece of Unt dropped into this mixture and introduced into the carious tooth, when the nerve is immediately cauterised and the pain stopped. 3. Saturate a httle cotton wool with oil of cloves, and put it to the tooth.— The oil of cloves might be kept ready in a bottle. It would be more efficacious if mixed with camphor, and 2 or 3 drops of chloroform.—Or creosote, one part; spirits of wine, 10 parts; mix, and apply. 4. Sometimes diluted ammonia re- lieves the toothache. Also a mixture of camphor, laudanum, oil of cloves, and chloroform. Mix well.—Or keep in the mouth warm water and salt, with one- fourth of laudanum. 5. Take of alum, in powder, 2 drs.; spirits of nitre, 7 drs. Mix, and apply it to the teeth. 6. Take 3 spoonfuls of brandy, add- ing to it 1 dr. of camphor, with 30 or 40 drops of laudanum. Drop a httle on some lint. Apply it to the affected tooth and gum. A httle tincture of cayenne would be an improvement. 7. Be electrified through the teeth. . Or apply to the aching tooth an artificial magnet. Or lay roasted par- ings of turnips, as hot as may be, be- hind the ear. Or lay a clove of garhc on the tooth. Or keep the feet in warm water, and rub them well with bran just before bed time. 8. Alum reduced to an impalpable powder, 3 drs. ; nitrous spirit of ether, 1 scruple ; mix ; and apply to the tooth. Or, take of compound tincture of Benjamin, and Batley’s solution of opi- um, of each, 1 dr. Mix. A httle drop- ped on cotton, and applied to the hol- low, and the gum of a decayed tooth, will afford effectual relief. 9. Take of tincture of cayenne, oil of cloves, and oil of summer savory, equal parts; put into 3 table-spoonfuls of spirit of wine. Add 6 drops of chloro- form. Apply to the affected tooth and gums. Apply to the face at the same time a flannel bag of hops and camomile flowers saturated with hot vinegar, and 30 drops of laudanum. 10. Warm water and salt kept in the mouth for some time, and renewed is a good remedy. TOOTHACHE, to Prevent.— Wash the mouth with cold water every morning, and rince them after every meal. Or, rub the teeth often with tobacco ashes. TOOTHACHE. —The Lancet says toothache can be cured by one drachm of collodion added to two drachms of Calvert’s carbolic acid. A gelatinous mass is precipitated, a small portion of which, inserted in the cavity of an aching tooth, invariably gives Immediate relief. TOOTH POWDERS. —The following are recommended :— 1. Take % oz. of powdered gum myrrh, 1 oz., of powdered bark, 3 drachms of cream of tartar, 1 drachm of bole ammoniac, mix in a mortar. A constant use of this powder will cause the teeth to obtain a beautiful whiteness, and preserve them from decaying, and prevent the toothache. 2. Peruvian bark, charcoal, armenian bole, of each, A oz. : powdered cinna- mon, and bicarbonate of soda, of each, % oz.; oil of cinnamon, 4 drops. Mix. 3. One, to Cure a Bad Breath. —Cream of tartar and chalk, each oz. ; myrrh, powdered charcoal, 2 drachms; powdered orris root, % a drachm; powdered Peruvian bark, 2 drachms. Mix well together.—Rub- bing the gums with salt occasionally destroys the animalcula which probably cause decay and aching of the teeth. 4. Pounded charcoal very fine, 2 ozs.; Peruvian bark, 1 oz. ; camphor, lA oz. 5. Prepared chalk, orris root, and charcoal, powdered, equal parts. 6. Coffee newly ground fine, mixed with charcoal, is a first rate powder. Scent as you like. 7. Powdered cuttle-fish, 8 ozs. ; pow- dered charcoal, 2 ozs. ; burnt alum, 1 oz.; powdered myrrh, 1 oz. Mix.