310 PLA PLE and keeping always half a gallon of ! water in the vessel; after they • have boiled three hours, a little of the plaster may be put in cold water, to try if it be of a proper consistence; then cool, and press the water well out of it. This water is applied in slight wounds and excoriations of the skin; it keeps the part soft and warm, and defends it from the air, which is all that is neces- sary in such cases. PLASTER FIGURES, to Bronze.—For the ground, after it has been sized and rubbed down, take Persian blue, verditer, and spruce ochre. Grind them separately in water, turpen- tine, or oil, according to the work, and mix them in such proportion as will pro- duce the colour desired. Then grind Dutch metal on a part of the composi- tion; laying it with judgment on the prominent part of the figure, which pro- duces a fine effect. PLASTER, Gum.—Take of the common plaster, four pounds; of gum ammoniac and galbanum, strained, of each, half a pound. Melt them to- gether, and add, of Venice turpentine, six ounces. This plaster is used as a digestive, and likewise for discussing indolent tumours. PLASTER for the Stomach.— Take of gum plaster, half a pound; camphorated oil, an ounce and a half; 10 drops each of the oil of mace, and mint; black pepper, or cayenne, 1 oz. Melt the plaster, and mix with it the oil; then sprinkle in the pepper, re- duced to a fine powder. This, spread upon soft leather, and applied to the region of the stomach, will be of service in flatulencies arising from hysteric and hypochondriac affec- tions. A few drops of oil of mint, may be rubbed upon it before it is applied. PLASTER, Warm.—Take of gum plaster, one ounce; blistering plaster, two drachms; melt them over a gentle fire. This plaster is useful in the sciatica, and also in rheumatic pains. Should it blister, use less of the blister- ing paste. Renew after 8 days. It ought, however, to be worn for some time, and to be renewed at least once a week.' j. PLASTIC " MATERIAL for forming various objects new. | —By Professor Purkins, Five parts of whiting are mixed with a solution of one part of glue. When the whiting is well worked up into a paste with the glue, a proportionate quantity of Venetian tur- pentine is added to it, by which the brittleness of the paste is destroyed. In order to prevent its clinging to the hands whilst the Venetian turpentine is being worked into the paste, a small quantity of linseed oil is added from time to time. The mass may also be coloured by kneading in any colour that may be desired. It may be pressed into shapes, and used for the production of bas re- liefs and other figures, such as animals &c. It may also be worked by hand into models, during which operation the hands must be rubbed with linseed oil; the mass must also be kept warm during the process. When it cools and dries, which takes place in a few hours, it becomes as hard as stone, and may then be employed for the multiplication of these forms. PLATE, to Clean.—Wash well with soap and water; then apply a paste of whiting and sweet oil; apply it, and when dry, rub off, and polish with wash leather and dry fine whiting. PLATE, to make look New. Take 1 lb. each of unslaked lime and alum; a pint each of aqua vita, and vinegar; and two quarts of beer grounds; boil the plate in these, and they will give a beautiful gloss to the articles. See page 18. PLATE, to take Stains out of. —Steep the plate in soap ley for 4 hours ; then cover it over with whiting, wet with vinegar, so that it may stick thick- ly upon it; dry at the fire ; rub off the whiting and pass it over with dry bran ; the spots will disappear, and the plate will be very bright. See page 18. PLEURISY.—Pleurisy is inflam- mation of the membrane termed pleura, which covers the lungs, and lines the internal surface of the chest. It is caused by obstructed perspiration, through exposure to cold bleak winds ; drinking cold liquors when the body is hot; sleeping out-doors, or on the damp ground, wet clothes, exposure to cold air when in a state of perspiration. It may also be caused by drinking strong liquors, by the stopping of the usual evacuations, &c., &c.