96 CARDS CARDS Great Cassino, or ten of diamonds, reckons for two points. Little Cassino, two of spades, reckons for one point. The Cards, is having a greater share of the pack than your adversary, and reckons for three points. The Spades is having the majority of that suit, and reckons for one. The Aces, each of which reckons for one point, four points. Lurched, is when your adversary has won the game, before you have gained six points. Mode of Playing.—The deal is made by giving each player one card, and turning up one on the board, and thus alternately until each player has four cards, and four on the board. When each has played his four cards, four more are dealt round, but none turned up; and so on till the pack is finished. The cards being dealt thus, examine your cards in hand and those on the board, to see if you can pair them, or combine a number of pips from the cards on the table, equal to the card you lay down ; if so, you take them up, and place them before you with their faces downwards. If you can neither pair nor match any of the cards on the table, you must put down one. When by playing a card you can match all on the board, that is, sup- pose there were eight or ten cards which would make three or four distinct tens, and you play a ten, you take them all up, and thus clearing the board, are entitled to add one point to your score. Take up spades in preference to any other suit, as the majority in that suit constitutes a point towards game; and you should likewise give a prefer- ence to either of the cassinos or aces, though you may thereby take up fewer cards. When you can neither pair nor take up any cards, play such a card as will not assist to make up an eight, nine, or ten, &c. In this case, the best to play is a pictured card, or a small one, but not an ace. f When you hold a pair, and a similar card is on the table, you should, if the fourth is out lay down one of them, wait your turn to play the other, and then take up the three together; but you are not obliged to take them if a more favourable card offers. Always take up the card laid down by your opponent in preference to any other on the table. While great or little cassino is in, for- bear playing a ten, or a two. Always take up as many cards as possible with one card, and endeavour to win the last cards. While you can play your cards to advantage, avoid doing so when it may give your opponent an opportunity of clearing the board. Remembering the cards played, and those that remain in, will be a great ad- vantage to you. You are not allowed to examine the cards taken up, unless you suspect a mistake, when you must challenge it at once, (before you play your cards,) otherwise you have no claim. When you take up a pair, it is best to separate them by placing them in dif- ferent parts of the cards before you, to prevent their coming in pairs the fol- lowing deal. Those cards that remain on the table unmatched at the conclusion, belong to the person who last took up, and each party then proceeds to reckon his game, that is, the points that may arise from either of the cassinos, the aces, and the majority of the cards, or of the spades. If both should be equal, neither party scores anything. The lesser number' is likewise to be deducted from the greater ; as thus, suppose that you have great cassino and two aces, which make four points, and your ad- versary has little cassino, the cards, the spades, and two aces, which are seven points, he can only mark three, as your four must be deducted. It may thus occasionally happen that neither party reckons anything in a single deal, par- ticularly when three persons play, as in this case the two lowest subtract their points from the highest, and he can score only what is over if any. CRIBBAGE is considered to be the next most scientific game to whist. It is played by four or two partners, with a whole pack of cards, and Is termed five, six or eight card cribbage, according to the number dealt to each person; but five card cribbage is the usual game.