SPX SPI 374 SPITTING OF BLOOD.— In oases of spitting of blood, it is often difficult to determine whether it pro- ceeds from the internal surface of the mouth, from the fauces, from the stom- ach, or from the lungs. When the blood is of a florid or frothy appearance and brought up with more or less cough- ing, preceded by rigours, a short tickling cough, a saltish taste, anxiety, and tight- ness across the chest, its source is the lungs. The blood proceeding from the lungs is usually of a florid colour, and mixed with a little frothy mucous only. It may be distinguished from bleeding from the stomach, by its being raised by hacking or coughing, and by its florid and frothy appearance ; that from the stomach is vomited in considerable quantities, and is of a dark colour. What is strictly meant by spitting of blood, is when the blood is discharged from a ruptured vessel in the lungs, which is technically termed Hcsinoptysis. It occurs generally from the age of 16 to 35. It is often an hereditary disease, which implies a peculiar and faulty con- formation, It happens to persons who discover the smallest capacity of the lungs, by the narrowness of the chest, and by the prominency of their shoulders an evidence of difficult respiration. It occurs in persons of a slender delicate make; to persons of much sensibility and irritability, and whose bodies are of a delicate texture. It arises some- times from the stoppage of the menstrual flux, from plethora, and violent exercise of the lungs. One great cause of haemoptysis is, the deposition of scrofulous matter in the substance of the lungs, forming tubercles. The blood-vessels being partially dis- tended by the pressure of tubercles, are easily ruptured by cough, or bodily exertion. Treatment. — Moderate the dis- charge of blood by avoiding whatever tends to irritate the body and increase the action of the heart. A low diet should be strictly observed, and external heat and bodily exercise avoided; the air of the room should be cool, and the drink (which should consist chiefly of barley-water, acidulated with lemon- juice) taken cold, and the patient not suffered to exert his voice. After the operation of a little gentle aperient medicine, as lenitive electuary, or an In- fusion of senna, with a little cream of tartar dissolved in it, take 10 drops of laudanum, and 10 drops of elixir of vitriol in half a cupful of cold water. If there is no cough, the laudanum may be omitted. A little salt and water given will often check spitting of blood, when it comes on. Put the feet in warm water, and give as above, the elixir of vitriol, &c. Give also ipecacuanha powder in small doses, of from 1 to 2 grains every 4 hours. Emetics have been given in this disease with advantage by Dr, Robinson, and still more lately by Dr. Stoll, of Vienna, who observes, that in discharges of blood from the lungs, ipecacuanha powder often acts like a charm, seeming to close the open vessels sooner and more effec- tually than any other remedy. The good effects of this remedy are probably the consequence of the compression the lungs undergo during vomiting, from the action of the diaphragm and expiratory muscles. The recurrence of haemoptysis should be prevented by invigorating the lungs and purifying the blood, and by the use of cooling and astringent medicines. Keep in the mouth a little alum, or saltpetre. The patient should partici- pate very freely of acidulous fruits ; as, roasted apples, oranges, lemons, &c. Alcoholic drinks should be strictly for- bidden. A decoction of bark with lemon juice or a few drops of elixir of vitriol, is of great service. When the symptoms are severe, give 8 or 10 drops of the tincture of digitalis, or a dr. of nitre dissolved in cold water, and afterwards a compound of ipeca- cuanha and Glauber’s salt. In extreme cases, give from xo to 20 drops of elixir of vitriol every 2 hours ; or give the va- pour bath, and an injection, and place hot bricks to the feet in bed. Sugar of lead, 2 grains ; opium, % of a grain, made into a pill with a little honey, or treacle and liquorice powder, may be given every 5 nours. The temporary application of cloths dipped in cold water to the genitals will check spitting of blood. Ice is still better. Mustard plasters applied to the legs and feet have been recommended, and found beneficial.