EEL 168 DYS yeast in a decoction of logwood. The following has beet! recommended :— Prepared chalk, % drachm, compound powder of gum dragon, 2% drachms, aromatic confection, 1 drachm, tinc- ture of catechu, and of kino, two drachms each, laudanum, % dr., aroma- tic spirit of ammonia, 1drs., and cin- namon water 3 or 4 ozs. Dose, 2 table- spoonfuls every 3 hours. Or, simmer 1 oz. of blackberry root bark, and 2 ozs. of Raspberry leaves in a quart of water for 40 minutes, strain and add 1% ozs. of tincture of myrrh, and a little sugar. Take a wine glass- ful every half hour. It seldom fails. Butter just churned is said to be a sure cure; it must be unsalted, and clarified over the fire. Two table- spoonfuls several times a day. The following is said to be an unfail- ing remedy ; good vinegar, and as much salt as it will dissolve. Give as many teaspoonfuls till it becomes purgative. The diet must be light and easy of digestion, as sago, arrow-root, mutton and beef-tea. DYSPEPSIA.—See Indigestion. Pure water, 6 ozs. ; carbonate of am- monia, 2 drachms; syrup of orange peel, 1 oz. Mix. DYSPEPTIC PILL. — Colo- cynth, castile soap, gamboge, of each 2 ozs. ; socotrine aloes, 4 ozs.; oil of cloves, 2 drachms ; extract of gentian, 4 ozs. Mix and form into pills. Most valuable for indigestion, and cleansing the stomach, and giving it tone. E. EAR-ACHE.—Place in the ear a piece of lint moistened with sweet oil and laudanum. A flannel bag of salt, or camomile flowers, made very hot and applied to the ear at bed-time, will often give relief.—Or, wet a rag with lauda- num, and coveT the ear with it. A bag of hops, a roasted onion, and hartshorn and oil, are household remedies. If it arises from heat, frequently apply wet cloths.—If from cold, boil rue, or rose- mary, and steam the ear through a funnel. EAR-ACHE.—Rub the ear hard for a % of an hour.—Tried. Or, be electrified.—Or, put in a roasted fig, or onion, as hot as may be.—Or, blow the smoke of tobacco strongly into it. But if the ear-ache is caused by an Inflam- mation of the uvula, it is cured in 2 or 3 hours by receiving into the mouth the steam of bruised hemp-seed boiled in water. EAR-ACHE, from Worms.— Drop in warm milk, which brings them out.—Or, juice of wormwood, which kills them. EAR-ACHE, Indian Cure for. —Take a piece of the lean of mutton, the size of a large walnut, put it into the fire and bum it for some time till it is reduced almost to a cinder ; then put it into a piece of clean rag, and squeeze it until some moisture is expressed, which must be dropped into the ear as hot as the patient can bear it EAU DE COLOGNE.—Alco- hol, 1 gallon ; neroli, 50 drops ; essence of cedrat, so drops ; essence of orange, 50 drops ; essence of lemon, 50 drops; essence of bergamot, 50 drops ; essence of rosemary, 50 drops; lesser carda- mons, 2 drachms. Distil, or macerate and filter. EAU DIVINE.—Spirit of wine, 1 quart; essence of lemons, and essence of bergamot, each % dr. Distil in a bath heat; add 1 lb. of sugar, dissolved in two quarts of water, and 4 ozs. of orange flower water. EAU SUCjRE.—Dissolve fine loaf sugar in boiling water; add a little cinnamon, or ginger, &c. EBONY, Imitation of.—Wash the wood over several times with a strong decoction of logwood, and then with a solution of copperas. When dry, polish with furniture paste. EELS, to Stew.—Clean them well. Cut in pieces two or three inches long, and fry till quarter cooked. Put thin slices of butter into the stew-pan, then the fish, with salt, pepper, a little shred lemon-peel, mace, cloves, and nutmeg; a gill of sherry wine, with marjoram, thyme, savory, and an onion partly boiled, and chopped. Stew gently till tender; take them out, and put an anchovy into the sauce ; thicken with the yolk of an egg, or butter rolled in flour. Boil and pour on the eels. EELS, to Boil.—Remove the gut, skin, blood, and heads; dry them well; and boil in salt and water. Serve with parsley sauce.