TvTFA 255 MAR MARSHMALLOW LOZEN- GES.— Pound cleaned marshmal- low roots to a pulp ; boil 1K lb. of loaf sugar, 6 or 8 ors. of rose water to a solid consistence; add 4 ozs. of the marsh- mallow pulp; whisk the whole well; place it over a gentle heat, to dry up the moisture, stirring all the time; and when a good paste has formed, empty it on buttered paper ; roll out and cut into forms. They are excellent for coughs, asthma, .d even consumptions, especially if a little orris root, liquorice, or white poppy seeds powdered be added, with a little gum arabic, or gum tragacanth. MATCHLESS CAKE. — As you whisk right well 5 eggs, very gra- dually add 8 ors. of sifted loaf sugar ; 8 ozs. of flour, dry and sifted ; 6 ozs. of butter, just melted; the rinds'of two small lemons, a little cinnamon, and candied lemon, or citron. Immediately before you mould the cake or cakes, incorporate % oz. of carbonate of soda; bake one hour in a moderate oven. Be sure to keep light by constant whisking. MEAD, to Make.—To 7 gallons of water, put 15 lbs. of honey ; boil and skim it well; take rosemary, thyme, bay-leaves, and sweet-briar, one handful all together ; boil one hour ; put into a tub with a little ground malt; stir till it Is lukewarm ; strain, and pour it into the tub again ; cut a toast, and spread It over with yeast, and put it into the tub; and when the liquor is covered with yeast, put it up in a barrel; take of cloves, mace, and nutmegs, 1 % oz. ; of ginger sliced, 1 oz. ; bruise the spice; tie it in a cloth, hang it in the vessel, stopping it up close for use. Mead is very pleasant if cowslips and lemon are added to the above—using water, &c. in proportion. MEAD WINE.—Soft water, 9 gallons, white currants, 3 quarts ; fer- ment ; mix honey, 15 lbs- I white tartar, powdered, 1J4 oz. ; add balm and sweet briar, each half a handful; white brandy, K a gallon. This will make 9 or 10 gallons. MEASLES, an Eruptive Dis- ease.—It is indicated by chilliness, shivering pain in the head, fever, sneez- ing, discharges from the nose, sickness, and sometimes vomiting, hoarseness, cough, heaviness of the eyes; the eye- lids frequently swell so as to cause blindness, the patient complains of his throat, and a looseness often precedes the eruption. The third or fourth day an eruption, like flea-bites, appears in the face, neck, and breast, and soon after in the body and limbs; the erup- tion does not suppurate. But the spots soon run into one another, and form red streaks, giving to the skin an in- flammatory appearance, and produce a preceptible swelling on the face. The eruption may be distinguished from the small-pox by their scarcely rising above the skin. The fever, cough, and diffi- culty of breathing, instead of being re- moved by the eruption, as in the small pox, are rather increased; but the vomiting generally ceases. About die sixth or seventh day, and sometimes earlier, the eruption begins to fade, and gradually disappears, ac- companied with a separation of the skin in the form of scales. But the other symptoms sometimes remain for a con- siderable time, and require care, warmth, and appropriate medicine. In the malignant measles, the erup- tion appears more early, and all the symptoms, just described, in an aggra- vated form. The mouth and throat assume appearances. The mouth and throat appear as if they were ulcerated, and the fever is of a typhus kind, and symptoms of putrescency appear ; also petichiae, or purple, livid spots, a pain in the head and eyes, difficult respira- tion, no expectoration with the cough, an inflammatory affection of the lungs, feeble, but rapid pulse, delirium, and oft a violent looseness ; these are very unfavourable symptoms. Such as die of the measles, generally expire about the ninth or tenth day from the first attack.—The most favourable symptoms are a moderate looseness, a moist skin, and a plentiful discharge of urine. This disease is very infectious, often prevails epidemically, however; and the constitution that has been once under its influence is seldom, or never liable to a second attack, especially if the first attack was a mild one. Treatment.—At the commence- ment of the disease, no animal food must be taken, the patient must be con- fined to a low spare diet, as gruel, sago,