367 SNI SOL on the toast; pnt good gravy in the dish. Serve with butter, and garnish with orange or lemon. SNIPE PIE.—Bone 4 snipes, and truss them. Put in their insides finely chopped bacon, or other force- meat ; put them in the dish with the breast downwards, and put forcemeat balls around them. Add gravy made of butter, and chopped veal and ham, parsley, pepper, and shalots. Cover with nice puff paste ; close it well to keep in the gravy. 'Wien nearly done, pour in more gravy, and a little sherry wine. Bake 2 or 3 hours. SNOWBALLS.—Pare 6baking apples, and take out the cores ; fill the holes with orange marmalade. Make a little good hot paste, and roll the apples in it; make the crust of an equal thick- ness, and put them into a dripping pan, bake in a moderate oven. When you take them out, make icing for them the same way as for plum cake, and ice them a11 over with it, a % of an inch thick. Place them a good distance from the fire till they are hardened, but do not let them brown. Put one in the mid- dle of a china dish, and the other five round it. Garnish with flowers. SNOWBALLS.—Swell rice in milk, and strain it off, and having pared and cored apples, put the rice round them, tying each up in a cloth. Put a bit of lemon-peel, a clove, or cinnamon in each, and boil them well. SNOW RICE CREAM.—Put into a pan 5 ozs. of ground rice, 3 ozs. of loaf sugar, 8 drops of essence of al- monds, 3 ozs. of fresh or salt butter. Add a quart of new milk. Boil 20 min- utes, until smooth. Pour into a mould previously greased with butter. Turn it out when quite cold, and serve with preserves round it. SNUFFLES.—A troublesome complaint, to infants especially. The mucous membrane of the nose, through the taking of cold, being much swollen, the child is no longer able to breathe through its nose, as it was accustomed to do, but is compelled to breathe through the mouth. The difficult breathings are attended by a peculiar snuffling noise, which, in sleep, becomes a regular loud snore. It often interferes with Its sucking at the breast; as soon as it seizes the nipple a threatening suf- focation compels it to desist. While this complaint lasts the child may be partially fed with the spoon; give it a very mild purgative; bathe its legs frequently in warm water. Rub the nose with tallow, and apply a slippery elm poultice mixed with cream. SOAP, Chemical. —Powdered Fullers earth, 1 oz. ; just moisten with spirits of turpentine; add salt of tartar, 1 oz. ; best potass, 1 oz. ; work the whole into a paste with a little soap. It is excellent for removing grease spots. SODA CAKE.—Rub * lb. of good butter into 1 lb. of dry flour, and work it very small. Mix well with these % lb. of sifted sugar ; add a cup- ful of boiling milk, and three eggs well beaten ; also % lb. of currants, grated nutmeg, and fresh lemon rind. Mix all well and lightly together ; and just be- fore you mould it, stir in a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Bake an hour or more. SODA WATER POWDERS. —Soda water is prepared from powder just like ginger beer, (see Ginger Beer,) except that instead of the two powders, there mentioned, these two are used, vix.—for one glass, 30 grains of carbo- nate of soda; for the other glass, 25 grains of tartaric or citric acid. SOLDERS, to MAKE:— Solder for Lead.—Tin, 1 part; lead, 2 parts. Its goodness is tried by melting it, and pouring the size of a crown piece upon the table, and, if it be good, there will arise little bright stars in it. Apply resin when this solder is used. Solder for Tin.—Lead, 10 parts; tin, 7 parts. Solder for Pewter.—Tin, 1 part; lead, a parts ; bismuth, 3 parts. Solder for Brazing.—Copper, 3 parts ; zinc, 2 parts; or sheet brass, 3 arts; zinc, 1 part. This is called peltcr, and is used for brass, iron and copper. Solder for Britannia Metal.— Bismuth, of, 1 part; tin, 1 part; lead, 1 part. Solder, Soft.—Tin, 2parts; lead, 1 part. Solder, Hard.—Copper, t parts; tin, x part.