BUT CAK 84 gether, put a quarter of a pound of butter in a basin, and then put that in boiling water, stir it till melted, then pour the butter and the eggs into a sauce- pan ; keep a basin in your hand, just hold the sauce-pan in the other over a slow part of the fire, shaking it one way, as it begins to warm ; pour it into a basin, and back, then hold it again over the fire, stirring it constantly in the sauce-pan, and [touting it into the basin, more perfectly to mix the egg and butter, until they shall be hot without boiling. Serve on toasted bread ; or in a basin, to eat with salt-fish, or red herrings. BUTTERED ROLLS, or RUSKS. — Take one pound of bread paste, four ounces of butter, roll it in the paste, bake them on tins, long or round, in a hot oven.—The above is recommended for sick people. BUTTERNUT.— See Robin- son's Herbal. It is an American plant, and makes a very easy purge, causing no pain or irritation. As a regular pur- gative, it is valuable; for it does not leave the bowels with a tendency to be constipated. It is administered in the form of an extract, in doses from fif- teen to thirty grains.—Can be obtained of the Medical Botanists. C. CABBAGE, to Boil.—Cut off the outside leaves, then cut it in quar- ters ; pick it well, and wash it clean; boil it in a large quantity of water, with plenty of salt in it; when it is tender and a fine light green, lay it on a sieve to drain, but do not squeeze it, if you do, it will take off the flavour; have ready some very rich melted butter, or chop it with cold butter.—Greens must be boiled the same way. Strong vege- tables, like turnips and cabbage, &c., require much water. CABBAGE, a la Flamande.— Cut a large cabbage into quarters; scalding it in boiling water some time ; drain well; cut the stem out of each quarter, and chop it fine; put into a stew pan with slices of ham, butter and cream ; simmer till it is quite mashed, stirring often; add gravy, pepper, and salt. The sauce must be thick. Toast bread, and put it into the table-dish, pour the ragout upon it, and garnish with fried or stewed sausages. CABBAGE PUDDING Braize one pound of beef suet, one pound of lean veal, half a pound of nice ham, and a small scalded cabbage, Season with mace, nutmeg, ginger, pepper, and put in some good goose- berries. Mix with all the yolks of four or five eggs well beaten up. Wrap all up in a green cabbage leaf, tie it in a cloth, and boil it an hour. CABBAGE, RED, to Pickle. —Choose a sound large cabbage ; shred it finely, and sprinkle it with salt, and let it stand in a dish for a day and night. Then boil vinegar (from a pint) with ginger, cloves and cayenne pepper. Put the cabbage into jars, and pour the liquor upon it when cold. CAKE, a Fine.—Wash two and a half pounds of butter in rose-water, beat the butter to a cream ; beat twenty eggs, yolks and whites separately, half an hour each. Have ready two and a half pounds of the finest flour, well dried, and kept hot, also, one and a half pound of sugar pounded and sifted, one ounce of spice finely powdered; three pounds of currants clean and dry ; almonds blanched half a pound, three quarters of a pound of sweetmeats cut, not too thin. Keep all near the fire, mix all the dry ingredients; pour the eggs strained to the butter; pour half a pint of sweet wine with a large glass of brandy to the butter and eggs, mix well, then gradually put in all the dry things, beat them thoroughly. Then chop very fine half a pound of stoned raisins, and mix them carefully, so that there shall be no lumps, and add a teacupful of orange-flower water. Beat well a little longer. Have a hoop well buttered, take a white paper, doubled and buttered, and put in the pan round the edge, if the cake-batter fill it more than three parts; for space should be allowed for rising. Bake in a quick oven. It will require three hours. CAKE, an Excellent. — Rub two pounds of fine flour, with one pound of butter washed in rose-water, mix it with three spoonfuls of yeast, in a little warm milk and water. Set it to rise an hour before the fire ; then beat into it two pounds of currants, one