LUN 243 L.OO Ac.,) such as ergotine, perchloride of Iron, persulphate of iron, Ac. ; it may also be used as a powder and a lotion. The extract of logwood, which is much used in dyeing, and is very cheap, is only soluble in warm water. — See Robinsons Herbal. LOOKING-GLASSES, to Silver.—Take a sheet of tinfoil, and spread it upon a table, then rub mercury upon it with a hare’s foot till the 3 metals incorporate. Lay the plate of glass up- on it, and oad it with weights, which will hav. .^ic effect of pressing out the excess of mercury that was applied to the tin-foil. In a few hours the tin-foil will adhere to the glass and convert it into a mirror. About 3 ozs. of mercury are sufficient for covering 3 square feet of glass. LOOKING-GLASSES, to Clean.—Sweep away the dirt with a soft brush, or silk handkerchief. Then sponge with a lithe spirit of wine, or gin and water, to remove all dust. Then dust with the finest whiting, or powder- blue. Then rub it quickly off with a cloth, and polish lightly with a silk handkerchief. The gilt frame may be cleaned with a lithe cotton wool. LOTION VALUABLE. Camphor, 5 drs., cut into small pieces, and dissolve in half a pint of spirits of wine in a closely corked bottle ; when fully dissolved, add half a pint of oxgall, and 60 drops of laudanum. Shake it well, and bottle for use.—This has been a patent medicine, and is very efficaci- ous in the cure of fresh wounds, cuts, bruises, swellings, sores, and inflamed and pained parts. LOZENGES.—Boil 3 lbs. of raw sugar in 1 pint of water, for 1 hour, over a slow fire ; when boiled enough, it will snap like glass, by trying it in cold water, then pour it on your stone. When cold, make it into rolls, and cut It with scissors into small lumps, make them round and stamp them with a figure. |4sr Drop a little oil of peppermint in- to the sugar when boiled and poured upon the stone ; it will give it a strong taste and smell of peppermint. LOZEN GES for Fcetid Breath.—Gum kino, } oz,; catechu, X o*. ; white sugar, 3 ozs, ; orris pow- der, oz. Make them into a paste with mucilage, and add a drop of neroli. LUMBAGO.—It is a species of chronic rheumatism, which affects the muscles of the lower part of the back, causing great pain and stiffness. The patient can scarcely stir without having the most piercing pain. It may be con- fined to one side, or affect the loins gen- erally. Its attacks are generally sudden, immediately after or in stooping, or rising from bed. Lumbago is connected with derangement of the stomach, of the bowels, and of the kidneys. Treatment.—Take) gentle aperi- ents of Senna and Epsom Salts, with a little ginger. Drink freely of balm tea and other diluents. Great and some- times immediate relief has been obtained by the Compound Colocynth Pill, com- bined with the Blue Pill. External ap- plications are useful. Dip a flannel in hot water and apply to the affected part frequently. Or dip a flannel in hot wa- ter, and sprinkle with spirits of turpen- tine, and apply to the part as long as it can be endured. Or apply the Stimu- lating Liniment. The tincture of aco- nite is an excellent rubefacient; also the soap and opium liniment, with a few drops of spirits of turpentine. The dia- phoretic powders are very useful. If the urine be deficient and high coloured, give 10 or 12 grains of carbonate of pot- assa with a teaspoonful of sweet nitre in a wine-glassful of water twice a day. Lumbago and Sciatica, Rem- edy for.—Rectified oil of turpen- tine, 35 drops ; vitriolic ether, 1 scruple, mucilage of gum arabic, 3 drs. ; syrup of poppies, 1 dr. ; rose-water, 1K oz. ; make into a draught; take at bed-time. LUNCHEON CAKE.—Flour, 2 lbs. ; sugar, ’A lb. ; currants, % lb. ; butter, % lb. beaten very fine; a few caraway seeds ; nutmeg grated ; milk, $ pint; £ a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda ; 3 or 4 eggs. Stir all together, beat them ten minutes, and bake in a tin. LUNGS, Inflammation of.— Sometimes this disease affects one lobe of the lungs, and sometimes both. Males are more subject to it than females. Frequent colds, wet feet, intemperance, over exertion, and natural debility of the Jungs Induces this complaint.