CHE cm 121 moved only one square; a pawn cannot be taken en passant by any other piece, but a pawn. 16. A player cannot castle in the fol- lowing cases :—ist. If the king or rook have been moved. 2nd. If the king be In check. 3rd. If there be any piece between king and rook. 4th. If the king pass over any square attacked by one of the adversary's pieces or pawns. 17. If a player touch a piece or pawn that cannot be moved without leaving the king in check, he must replace it, and move his king; but if the king cannot be moved, no penalty can be inflicted. 18. If a player attack the adverse king without saying “check,” the last player must retract his last move and free his king from check, but if moves be made subsequent to the attack being known, they must be retracted. 19. Should any player say 'check' without giving it, and his adversary, in consequence, moves his king ; or touch a piece to protect it, he may retract such moves. 20. If the king has been in check for several moves, and it cannot be ascer- tained how it occurred, the player whose king is in check must retract his last move, and free his king from check ; but whatever moves made, previous to the check being known, must remain. 31. Every pawn which has reached the eighth square of the chess-board, may be immediately exchanged for a queen, or any other piece the player may think proper. 22. If a player remain at the end of a game with a rook and a bishop against a rook, or with both bishops only, or knight and bishop only, &c., he must check-mate his adversary in fifty moves on each side at most, or the game will be considered drawn. 23. If a player agrees to check-mate with a particular piece or pawn, or on a particular square : or engages to force his adversary to stale-mate or check- mate him, he is not restricted to any number of moves. 24. A stale-mate is a drawn game. 25. If a player makes a false move, castles improperly, &c., the opponent must notice it before he touches a piece or pawn, or he will not be allowed to Inflict any penalty. CHESTNUTS. Roast them well, depriving them of husks. Mix four ounces of sugar in a cupful of water, and the juice of a lemon ; put all together in a saucepan over a slow fire for ten minutes; serve in a dish and grate sugar over it. CHICKEN BROTH.—Skin a small chicken, and split it in two ; boil in a quart of water, or more, with three blades of mace, and a small crust of white bread, over a slow fire till reduced to half the quantity. Skim. CHICKEN CURRY.—Remove the skin; cut up raw, slice onions, and fry both in butter to a light brown. Lay the joints cut into two or three pieces each, into a stew-pan, with a veal or mutton gravy, and two cloves of garlick. Simmer till tender ; and before serving, take a spoonful or two of curry powder, a spoonful of flour, and 1 oz. of butter, and four table-spoonfuls of cream, and add them to the stew ; salt to taste. Squeeze in a little lemon. A dish of rice, boiled dry must be served. CHICKEN and HAM PAT- TIES.—Take the white meat from the breast of chickens, and 4 ozs. of ham cut small; put them into a a stew- pan, with 1 oz. of butter rolled in flour, half a gill of cream, half a gill of real stock, a little nutmeg, lemon-peel, cay- enne pepper, salt, and a spoonful of lemon juice. Stir over the fire some time, but do not bum. CHICKEN and HAM Potted. —Bake the chicken in a close covered pan with a little water for about 30 minutes, adding, as you like, salt, pep- per, cloves, mace. Broil or fry some ham, and pound both chicken and ham small, moistening with butter : place in alternate layers when you pot them, and press tightly. CHICKEN PANADA.—Boil a chicken in a quart of water, till three parts done; skin it, cut off the white meat, and pound it to a thick paste with a little of the water it was boiled in; season it with salt, nutmeg, and lemon-peel; boil gently for a few minutes ; let it not be so thick. It is very nourishing. y CHICKEN PIE.-: Cut the chickens in pieces, and boil nearly tender. Make a rich crust with an egg