BEE BEE 5 1 two teaspoonfuls of walnut ditto, one of shalot, one of Chile vinegar, and a lump of butter. Let the rump-steak be cut about three-quarters of an inch thick, and beat it flat with a rolEng-pin, place the meat on the top of the onions, &c., let it stew for one hour and a half, turning it every twenty minutes. Ten minutes before serving up, throw in a dozen oysters with the liquor strained. BEEF-STEAK PIE.—Take fine rump steaks; beat them with a rolling pin : then season them with pep- per and salt, according to your palate ; make a good crust; lay in your steaks ; fill your dish; then pour in as much water as will half fill the dish. Put on the crust, and bake it well. If the pie be intended to be eaten cold, more sea- soning must be put in than if intended to be eaten hot. An onion, finely sliced, is a great improvement to it. BEEF-STEAK PIE.—Prepare the steaks as stated under Beef-sieaks, and when seasoned and rolled with fat in each, put them in a dish with puff paste round the edges; put a little water in the dish, and cover it with a good crust. BEEF-STEAK PUDDING.— Take some fine rump steaks ; roll them with fat between ; and if you approve a little shred onion. Lay a paste of suet in a basin, and put in the chopped steaks; cover the basin with a suet paste, and pinch the edges to keep the gravy in. Cover with a cloth tied close, let the pudding boil slowly lor two hours. BEEF-STEAK BUDDING, Baked.—Make a batter of milk, two eggs and flour, or, which is much better, potatoes boiled and mashed through a colander ; lay a little of it at the bottom of the dish ; then put in the steaks very well seasoned; pour the remainder of the batter over them and bake it. BEEF, Stewed Rump.—Wash it well; and season it with pepper, cayenne, salt, allspice, cloves, and mace, in fine powder. Bind it up tight, and lay it in a pot that will just hold it. Fry three large onions sliced, and put them to it, with three carrots, two turnips, a shalot, four cloves, a blade of mace, and some celery. Cover the meat with good beef-broth, or weak gravy. Sim- mer it very gently for several hours, till quite tender. Clear off the fat, and add to the gravy half a pint of port wine, a glass of vinegar, and a large spoonful of ketchup; simmer half an hour, and serve in a deep dish. Half a pint of table beer may be added. The herbs to be used should be parsley, thyme, basil, savoury, marjoram, pen- nyroyal, and chives. Garnish with carrots, turnips, or truffles and morels, or pickles of differ- ent colours, cut small, and laid in little heaps separate; chopped parsley, chives, beet-root, &c. If, when done, the gravy is too much to fill the dish, take only a part to season for serving, but the less water the better; and to increase the richness add a few beef-bones and shanks of mutton in stewing. A spoon- ful or two of made mustard is a great improvement to the gravy. Rump roasted is excellent; but in the country it is generally sold whole with the edge bone, or cut across instead of length- ways. Another way.—Half roast it; then put it into a large pot with three pints of water, one of small beer, one of port wine, some salt, three or four spoonfuls of vinegar, two of ketchup, a bunch of sweet heibs of various kinds (such as bumet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, basil, savoury, pennyroyal, mar- joram, knotted marjoram, and a leaf or two of sage,) some onions, cloves, and cayenne; cover it close, and sim- mer till tender. When done lay it into a deep dish, set it over hot water, and cover it close. Skim the gravy; put in a few pickled mushrooms, truffles, morels, and oysters if agreeable, but it is good without; thicken the gravy with flower and butter, and heat it with the above, and pour over the beef. Force- meat balls of veal, anchovies, bacon, suets, herbs, spices, bread, and eggs, to bind, are a great improvement. BEEF STOCK.—Cut a piece of good beef into pieces, and boil with water just to cover it. Keep skimming, and add parsley, thyme, carrot, onion, turnip, celery, and a little salt; boil till the meat is tender, and strain it fine. BEEF TEA.—Cut a pound of fleshy or shin beef in small thin pieces; simmer with a quart of water twenty