DYE i66 DYE (J®* All coloured dresses with cotton warps should be previously steeped one hour in sumach liquor ; and then sad- dened in 3 gallons of clean water, with I cupful of nitrate of iron for 30 minutes, then it must be well washed and dyed as first stated. Black for Silk.—Dye the same as Black for Worsted ; but previously steep the silk in the following liquor. Scald 4 ozs. of logwood, and % oz. of turme- ric in a pint of boiling water. Then add 7 pints of cold water. Steep 30 or 40 minutes ; take out, and add 1 oz. of sulphate of iron, (or copperas) dissolved in hot water; steep the silk 30 minutes longer. Brown for Worsted or Wool. —Water, 3 gallons, bichromate of pot- ass, % oz. Boil the goods in this 40 minutes. Wash out in cold vr-Uer. Then take water, 3 gallons, 6 ozs. of peachwood, and 2 ozs. of turmeric. Boil the goods in this 40 minutes. Wash out. Imperial Blue for Silk, Wool, and Worsted.—Water, 1 gallon; sulphuric acid, a wine-glassful; Impe- rial Blue, 1 table-spoonful, or more, ac- cording to the shade required. Put in the silk, worsted, or wool, and boil ten minutes. Wash in a weak solution of soap lather. Sky Blue, for Worsted and Woollen.— Water, 1 gallon; sul- phuric acid, a wine glassful; glauber salts, or crystals, 2 table-spoonfuls; liquid extract of indigo, a teaspoonful; boil the goods about 15 minutes. Rinse in cold water. Claret for Wool or Worsted. —A short way of dyeing the same.— Water, 3 gallons; cudbear, 12 ozs.; logwood, 4 ozs. ; old fustic, 4 ozs.; alum, % oz. Boil the goods in it one hour. Wash. This will dye from 1 to 3 lbs. of material. Crimson for Worsted or Wool. —Water, 3 gallons ; paste Cochineal, 1 oz.; cream of tartar, 1 oz. ; nitrate of tin, a wine glassful. Boil your goods in this 1 hour. Wash out in cold water. Then in another vessel with 3 gallons of warm water, a cupful of ammonia, the whole well mixed. Put in the goods, and work well 15 minutes. For a bluer shade, add more ammonia.. Then wash out. Fawn Drab for Silk.—Hot water x gallon ; Annotta liquor, a wine glass- ful ; 2 ozs. each of sumach and fustic. Add copperas liquor, according to the required shade. Wash out. It is best to have the copperas liquor in another vessel. A Dark Drab may be obtained by using a little archil, and extract of Indigo. Flesh Colour, for dyeing Silk. —Boiling water, 1 gallon ; put in 1 oz. of white soap, and 1 oz. of pearlash. Mix well; then add a cupful of Annotta liquor. Put the silk through several times, and proportion the liquor till you obtain the required shade. A Salmon colour may be obtained by first passing through the above liquor, and then through diluted muriate of Tin. Magenta for Silk, Wool, or Worsted.—Water, 1 gallon, heated up to 189° ; add Magenta Liquor, one table-spoonful; stir it well up. This will dye a broad ribbon 4 yards long ; or a pair of small stockings. To dye a larger quantity of material, add more Magenta Liquor and water. The shade of colour may be easily regulated by using more or less. Magenta Pink may be obtained by increased dilution. Mauve, for Silk, Wool, or Worsted*—Water, 1 gallon; add 1 table-spoonful of sulphuric acid ; then heat to boiling point. For a very light Mauve, add 1 teaspoonful of imperial Violet Liquor ; boil the same amount of material, as stated under Magenta, about 10 minutes. Rinse in cold water. If the colour be too deep, use a little soap in rinsing, using warm water. A Violet colour may be produced by using a tablespoonful of Violet Liquor instead of a teaspoonful. Pea-green, for Silk.—To 1 quart of water, put half a teaspoonful of Pic- ric Acid, and rather more than half a wine glassful of sulphuric acid, and a tea-spoonful of paste extract of indigo ; boil about 5 minutes ; then add water to cool it down to blood heat, or ioo°. Put in the silk, and work it about 20 minutes. The shade may be varied by adding more or less of the Picric Add,