280 ONI OLI soned with salt, pepper, and spices; put them Into a stewpan with a good slice of ham, butter, sweet herbs, a cloves, a bay leaf, a little green basil, and half a clove of garlic; simmer a little; put Into a larger stewpan upon slices of fillet of veal; cover with thin slices of lard ; soak about half an horn- over a slow fire, and add a glass of sherry; put the rab- bits into the tureen ; add some good gravy to the liquid ; give them a boiling together; skim and sift the sauce ; add a lemon squeeze, and serve it upon the meat. OLIVE BRONZE DIP. Nitric acid, 1 oz, ; muriatic acid, 2 oz. ; add titanium or palladium ; when the metal is dissolved add 2 gallons of pure soft water to each pint of the solution. OLIVE PIE.—Cut a fillet of veal in thin slices ; rub them over with yolks of eggs; strew over them a few bread crumbs, shred lemon peel, with grated nutmeg, pepper and salt; roll very tight; place in a pewter dish ; pour over them half a pint of good gravy made of bones ; put £ lb. of butter over it, make a light paste, and lay it round the dish ; roll the lid half an inch thick and lay it on. OMELETTE.—Make a batter of eggs and milk, and a very little flour, put to it chopped parsley, green onions, or chives, the latter is best, or a very small quantity of shalot, a little pepper, salt, and a scrape or two of nutmeg. Take some butter boiled in a small fry- ing-pan, and pour the above batter into it; when one side is of a fine yellow brown, turn it and do the other. Double it when served. Some scraped lean ham, or grated tongue, put in at the first, is a very pleasant addition. Four eggs will make a pretty sized omelet; but many cooks will use 8 or 10. A small proportion of flour should be used. If the taste be approved, a little tar- ragon gives a fine flavour. A good deal of parsley should be used. Omelet, though usually served in the course, would be. much better if it was Sent up after, that it might be eaten as hot as possible. OMELETTE of Asparagus.— Take 6 eggs ; beat them up with cream, boil some of the finest asparagus ; when boiled, cut off all the green In small pieces, and mix them with the eggs, pepper, and salt; heat the pan; put in a slice of butter, and serve hot—on but- tered toasts. OMELETTE, Sweet.—Mix ro eggs with a gill of cream, % lb. of but- ter, and syrup of nutmeg, or grated; sweeter; with loaf sugar ; put the whole into a frying-pan, as for a savory ome- lette ; fry, and serve hot, with sifted sugar upon it. ONIONS.—If you want a good crop, dig the ground deep, and manure it highly with the droppings of the hen- house. Roll the surface of the ground smooth, and scratch it with a fine rake before marking off the rows. ONIONS.—A dry, cold, airy loft is best for store onions ; do not let them lie more than 2 or 3 bulbs thick, and often look them over, and pull out bad ones. Do not remove any of the outer rind but what comes off in the hand- ling. They keep well in ropes and hung up; the easiest way to make which is to tie them on to a hay or straw-band, which is better than a stake. This plan is useful where shelf room is scarce, but the points to observe are a cool, airy situation, warmth and moisture being more inimical to their keeping than frost. ONIONS, to Keep.—Let the onions be dry; heat a poker red hot, and with it singe the roots, to prevent all premature growth. Hang them in a dry cold room. ONIONS, to Pickle.—Take 2 quarts of the small white round onions. Scald them in very strong salt and wa- ter. J ust let them boil. Strain ; peel; place in jars ; cover them with the best white wine vinegar. In 2 days pour all the vinegar off, and boil it half an hour with a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, 1 oz. of ginger, 16 cloves, £ oz. ground mustard, 2 ozs. of mustard seed. When cold, pour upon the onions.—Some per- sons prefer the vinegar boiling hot. ONIONS, to Ragout.—Peel a pint of young onions ; then cut 4 large ones very small; melt some butter in a stewpan ; throw in the onions, and fry them till brown; dust in flour, and shake round till thick, add salt, pepper, good gravy, and mustard; stir all