KNI 22'/' LAC ground mace and cloves, 5£ oz. each. Infuse for 15 days. KNIFE BOARD. — Cover a smooth board with thick buff leather on both sides. For one side melt sufficient mutton suet; apply it hot to the leather, and sprinkle it with fine emery and bath brick, smoothing it down with a knife. Use the other side for polishing off, us- ing three parts of powdered charcoal, and one part of Bath brick, or rotten- stone. KNIVES, HANDLES OF, to Fasten.—Melt resin, add brick-dust and mix well together. This is a very good cement for this and other purposes. —Shellac, and prepared chalk, intimate- ly mixed, answer well. Heat the part to be inserted, and fill the aperture with the mixture. Press it in. KRINGLES. — Beat well the yolks of 8, and whites of a eggs, and mix with s ozs. of butter warmed ; with this knead 1 lb. of flour, and 5 ozs. of sugar to a paste. Roll into thick biscuits, prick and bake them on tin plates. L. LACE, White, to Wash.—Wash it the same way as Chintz. See Chintz, page 133. LACE EDGINGS, To do up. —Roll the lace, point, or guipure care- fully on a round bottle ; (a long Cologne) see that the edging is wound on the bot- tle very evenly, and none of the pearl edging turned in. Have a wash-bowl of warm soap suds (white soap) ready, and lay the bottle in it. Have them well covered with the suds. If a fair day, set the bowl in the sun, and let the lace soak several hours. Then rinse through several waters to cleanse from all soap. Slightly blue the last wrinsing water, and put in enough gum arabic water, to stiffen—no more than new lace—then hang in the sun to dry. When throughly dry, unwrap it from the bottle, and, folding it very evenly, lay it in a clean soft towel, and put a heavy weight on it tor an hour or two. Never iron lace. LACQUER for BRASS. Seed-lac, 6 ozs.; amber, or copal, well ground, 3 ozs. ; dragon’s blood, 40 grs. ; extract of red sandal wood, 30 grs. ; saffron, 36 grs.; pounded glass, 4 ozs.; pure alcohol, 40 ozs. Expose the article to a gentle heat, and dip it into the varnish a or 3 times. This varnish is durable, beautiful in colour, and may bo cleaned with water and a bit of dry rag. LACQUER, Pale, for Tin- plate.—Best alcohol, 8 ozs.; turme- ric, 4 drs. ; hay saffron, a scs.; dragon’s blood, 4 scs. ; red sanders, 1 sc.; shel- lac, 1 oz. ; gum sandarach, 2 drs.; gum mastic, 2 drs. ; Canada balsam, 2 drs. ; when dissolved add spirits of turpentine 80 drops. LACQUERED ARTICLES. —Ormolu, Candelabra, Mosaic Gold, Gilt, Jewelry, &V. to clean.—Wash or brush them with soap and hot water. Dry and rub with wash leather. Acids must not be used. Or, take rotten stone, 1 oz., finely powdered ; oil, a teaspoonful ; oxalic acid, 2 drs.; water sufficient to make into a paste. LACQUER, for Philosophical Instruments.—Alcohol, 80 ozs.; gutta percha, 3 ozs.; gum sandarach, 8 ozs. ; gum elemi, 8 ozs.; dragon’s blood, 4 ozs. ; seed lac, 4 ozs. ; terra merita, 3 ozs.; saffron, 8 grs.; pulver- ized glass, 12 ozs. LA CROSSE is a game equally suitable for male or female and can be played either in winter or summer. Its origin is said to be Indian. Rules of La Crosse. 1 That the “ Crosse ” may be of any length to suit the player, but the woven network must be bagged, nor of a greater width than one foot. 2 That the ball be of solid india- rubber, not more than seven nor less than six inches in circumference. It must be furnished by the challenging party. 3 That, when practicable, the goals shall be placed at not more than 250, or less than 150 yards apart, and that the ground be not more than 100, nor less than sixty yards wide ; that the goals be upright posts seven feet apart, with a tape or bar across them, six feet from the ground. 4 4 That the game be started by a ball being placed on the ground opposite the centre flag between two players on op- posite sides, who shall “ tussel ” for the ball. Thl3 is called “facing.”