ULC UR1 400 of walnut-tree leaves, and bind the leaves on. This has cured foul bones; yea, and a leprosy. Foment morning and evening with a decoction of mint; then sprinkle on it finely-powdered rue. Or, bum to ashes, but not too long, She stalks on which the red coleworts grow. Make a plaster of this and fresh butter. Change it once a day. Or apply a poultice of boiled parsnips. This will cure even when the bone is foul.— Wesley. ULCERATED GUMS.—Di- lute elixir of vitriol, so as to make it slightly acid, and wash the mouth fre- quently with it. Or wash with diluted tincture of myrrh. ULCERATED SORES.—See Logwood, page 243. URINE, Involuntary.—It pro- ceeds from weakness of the urinary organs caused by the great use of tea and coffee, ardent spirits, &c. It is often an attendant of advanced life, especially when the habits have been irregular. It sometimes results from paralysis. It is a very troublesome complaint. “ If the patient can endure it, use the cold bath. Or, take a teaspoonful of powdered agrimony in a little water morning and evening. Or a quarter of a pint of alum posset every night." Make a decoction of bayberry bark, hemlock bark, wild cherry tree bark. Bruise them. Take a wineglassful at a time. Use at the same time the Diu- retic Drops, page 162. Take occasion- ally 6 or 7 drops of laudanum in a little water. Abstain from tea and coffee, or reduce the quantity taken. Ardent spirits must be abandoned, and all liquids sparingly taken. When it is occasioned by stone or gravel, k requires the same treatment as recommended for the latter disease. When it is the consequence of morbid Irritation of the bladder, prostrate gland, or disease in the urethra, the tincture of Buchu leaves in the dose of two teaspoonfuls, two or three times a-day, in a large wineglassful of the de- coction of Marshmallow Root, is a very valuable remedy. If incontinence of urine proceeds from paralysis, a blister must be applied to tha upper part of the sacrum. Or rub the region of the bladder with tincture of cayenne, or with the Antispasmodic tincture, page 21. Give also an injec- tion of antispasmodic tincture, 1 table- spoonful; warm water, % pint; slip- pery elm, 2 teaspoonfuls. This course of treatment is applicable when the dis- ease arises from nervous debility. Dr. Beach recommends the use of the tinc- ture of cantharides in doses from 10 to 20 drops three times a day in half a cupful of linseed tea. Linseed tea is an appropriate drink; add sometimes 5 or 6 drops of laudanum. If it proceeds from obstructed perspi- ration, the secretion should be restored; use the Sudorific Powder, or the Vapour Bath. Incontinence of urine may be benefited by bathing the body every morning with salt and water; and afterwards rubbing with the Stimulating Liniment. URINE, Hot and Scalding.— It may arise from various causes, from inflammation of the kidneys, uterus, alcoholic drinks, luxurious diet, exces- sive venery, &c. Take the juice of ground-ivy in lin- seed tea, with a little sweet spirits of nitre. Drink cooling and mucilaginous dnnks. Let the diet be light and spare. Buttermilk is very appropriate. Sec Diuretic Drops; for this complaint they are effectual. URINE, Bloody.—“Taketwice a day copious draughts of infusion of yarrow." It generally indicates some other dis- ease. Give small doses of a solution of gum kino, and gum arabic, and alum, to which add from 8 to 16 drops of laudanum. The Diuretic Drops may be given half a teaspoonful at a time two or three times a day. When blood is discharged with the urine in a plethoric habit, the use of an aperient medicine is necessary (See Castor Oil, page 114.) The saline pur- gatives are in this case inadmissible, on account of their rendering the urine more irritating. The diet should be low, unless the patient be much reduced, or the discharge of blood be the conse- quence of ulceration of the kidneys or bladder. In all cases, stimulants, as pepper, salt, &c. should be avoided. When it is occasioned by the mechan- ical action of a stone In the bladder, or