212 HOO HOR pennyroyal, mixed with brown sugar- candy, twice a-day. HOOPING COUGH.-Dissolve a scruple of salt of tartar in a quar- ter of a pint of water; add 8 drops of laudanum, sweeten it with sugar. Give to an infant a teaspoonful four times a day ; two years old, two spoon- fuls ; for four years, a table-spoonfuL— Or, take flower of Benjamin, and strain- ed opium, of each 2 drachms, camphire, 2 scruples, essential oil of aniseeds, half a drachm, rectified spirit of wine, one quart, 4 02s. of powdered liquorice, and 4 ozs. of honey : digest and strain.—Or, take of musk julep, 6 ozs. ; paregoric elixir, \ oz., volatile tincture of valerian, 1 drachm ; mix and take two spoonfuls three or four times every day.—Or, take ipecacuanha, 14 grains ; warm water % a pint. Infhse. Take a teaspoonful now and then. HOOPING COUGH.—1 scru- ple salt of tartar dissolved in a gill of water, add xo grains of powdered cochi- neal, sweeten it with brown or fine sugar. Give an infant a fourth part of a tablespoonful, for a child 3 or 4 years old, half a tablespoouful, 10 years old, 1 tablespoonful 3 times a day. HOOPING COUGH, Embro- cation for.—Olive oil eight ounces, oil of amber, four ounces, oil of cloves, sufficient to scent it strongly; croton oil, 3 drops; mix, rub on the chest.— Or, oil of amber and spirit of hartshorn, equal parts. Mix. Apply to the soles of the feet, and to the palms of the hands, morning, noon, and night. HOPS.—The extract of tincture of hops may be used instead of opium in most cases; it is not narcotic, but very anodyne. In consumption it gives ease without any deleterious effects. Its valuable medicinal properties are but little known. In jaundice, indigestion, melancholy, nervous depression, &c., it has been of singular use. A strong in- fusion or decoction, is a cure for indigesc tion, attended with nervous irritation, weakness of the stomach and bowels; and for typhoid fevers, and twitching of the tendons. It is of vast service in the after pains of child-birth. It may be taken in tincture, decoction, Infusion, or pills mode of the extract. HOP BITTERS, Infusion of. —Hops, 2 ozs.; boiling water, 1 quart. Infuse a day. Dose : a wineglassful; excellent for appetite. HOPS, Tincture of.—It is made by macerating 1 oz. of the bops in quar- ter of a pint of proof spirits; dose, % a drachm to 1 drachm. In form of tinc- ture, Dr. Beach says “he has given it with success in inflammation of the bowels.” HOPS, Extract of.—Is made by boiling the strength of it obtained by infusion or decoction, to a thin syrup, and then evaporating till it becomes thick. Cover close. Dose, in pills, from four to ten grains. HOPS HEATED, in a flannel bag, are a good remedy for the tooth- ache, and neuralgic pains. A bag of hops warmed, and put under the head, allays nervous excitement, and procures sleep. A strong decoction of hops, half a pint at a time, is drunk by the Spaniards for venereal, loss of appetite, and is also good for drunkards. HOREHOUND.—The plant is very stimulant, diaphoretic, pectoral, and tonic. It is good for coughs, asthma, and female weakness. Very beneficial in consumption.—See Pul- monary Balsam, or Syrup, page 323. HOREHOUND, to Candy.— Boil some horehound till the juice is ex- tracted. Boil some sugar till feathery; (Set Sugar); add the juice to the sugar, and boil till it is again the same height, stir till it is thick; pour into a paper case dusted with fine sugar, and cut into squares. HOREHOUND CAKES. Boil 3 lbs. of raw sugar in one pint of water, till candied; then rub a little dried horehound into the pan while boiling. Pour it on buttered paper. HOREHOUND SYRUP. Dried horehound, 2 ozs.; honey, lb.; boiling water, % pint; spirits, % pint; laudanum, 20 drops ; essence of lemon, 1 teaspoonful. Infuse the horehound in the spirits and water for 2 days; then strain through a fine sieve, and add the other Ingredients.