MEA MEA 257 of beef. Do not purchase joints bruised by the blows of the drovers. Save shank bones of mutton to enrich gravies or soups. When sirloins of beef, or loins of veal or mutton, come in, part of the suet may be cut off for puddings, or to clarify. Dripping will baste anything as well as butter; except fowls and game ; and for kitchen pies, nothing else should be used. The fat of a neck or loin of mutton makes a lighter pudding than suet. Frosted meat and vegetables should be soaked in |co4f water two or three hours before using. If the weather permit, meat eats much better for hanging two or three days before it is salted. Roast-beef bones, or shank bones of ham, make fine peas-soup ; and should be boiled with the peas the day before eaten, that the fat may be taken off. MEAT, to Keep in Hot Weather, &c.—Place the meat on a wooden support, or suspend it in a close vessel, on the bottom of which some strong acetic vinegar is poured. Meat may be kept sweet a long time by impregnating the atmosphere with acetic acid. Borax is the best preserva- tive of meat. See page 73. A joint of meat may be preserved for several days, even in summer, by wrap- ping it in a clean linen cloth, previously moistened with good vinegar ; hanging it up, and changing the cloth, or wring- ing it out afresh in vinegar, once or twice a day, if the weather be warm. Glacialine is a preservative, it is a new disinfectant and antiseptic. The best meat for keeping is MUT- TON, and the best joint is a leg ; which, with care, if the weather be only moder- ately hot, in summer, will keep about a week ; in winter, if the weather be open, from 2 to 4 weeks. A shoulder is the next best joint. The scrag end of a neck keeps the worst, and in warm weather it will not keep above two days ; if very warm, it is bad the second day. In BEEF, the ribs keep the best, even five or six days in summer, and in win- ter ten. The middle of the loin is the next best, and the rump the next. The round will not keep long unless salted. The brisket Is the worst, and will not keep longer than two days in summer, and six days in winter. LAMB does not keep long, and it is best to eat it soon or even the same day it is killed. The first part that turns bad of a leg of VEAL, is where the udder is skewered back. The skewer should be taken out, and both that and the part under it wiped every day, it will then keep good three or four days in hot weather. Meat dipped into chloride of lime in a liquid state for a second will keep many days without taint; for no flies will touch it if so done. Wash the meat before cooking it. MEAT CAKE.—According to the size, take of beef-steaks, of leg of mutton, of fillet of veal, ham and beef suet; chop all altogether very fine, and season with salt, fine spices, chopped parsley, green shalots, a clove of garlic, 8 yolks of eggs, half a glass of brandy, and a lbs. of fresh bacon, or less, cut in dice. Mix all well together. Take a stewpan, the size you intend to make the cake, and garnish it all over with thick slices of lard ; put in the minced meat, cover close, and put in the oven for four hours. When cold, take out of the stewpan and scrape the lard with a knife to make it white and even. MEAT PIE, of any kind.— First fry the meat brown over a quick fire in a little drip or butter. Season with pepper and salt. Then put into a pie-dish with chopped onions, or shalots, if you like, some slices of half- cooked potatoes, a little gravy, or stock, and enough water to cause the liquid to cover the meat. Cover the dish with crust, made with 2 lbs. of flour, 6 ozs. of butter, or lard, or dripping, and water enough to knead it into a stiff paste. Bake 1% hour. Learned chemists appear to have forgotten the important fact that, if a meat pie is made without a hole in the , crust to let out certain emanations from the meat, colic, vomiting, and other symptoms of slight poisoning will occur. I have known of two instances of large parties being affected in this manner from eating meat pies that had no hole in them.—Correspondent of the Lancet. MEAT and POTATO PUD- PIN Q.—Boll some mealy potatoe*