APR APP 25 and set them in the oven to bake. Baked apples or pears, with bread, form a cheap and wholesome supper for children. , APPLE SNOWBALLS—Swell rice in milk, and strain it off, and hav- ing pared and cored apples, put the rice round them, tying each up in a cloth. Put a bit of lemon peel, a clove, or cinnamon in each, and boil them well. APPLES, (Red,) in Jelly.— Pare and core some well-shaped ap- ples ; pippins, or golden rennets, if you have them, but others will do; throw them into water as you do them ; put them in a preserving pan, and with as little water as will only half cover them; let them coddle, and when the lower side is done, turn them. Observe that they do not lie too close when first put in. Mix some pounded cochineal with the water, and boil with the fruit. When sufficiently done, take them out on the dish they are to be served in, the stalk downwards. Take the water and make a rich jelly of it with loaf-sugar, boiling the thin rind and juice of a lemon. When come to a jelly, let it grow cold, and put it on and among the apples; cut the peel of the lemon in narrow strips, and put across the eye of the apple. APPLE SYRUP.—Take 2 pounds of good ripe apples, pare and slice ; place in a jar with about half a pint of water, and x lb. of sugar. Place the jar in a pan of water and boil two or three hours. When cold flavour with orange flower water, or lemon, cinnamon according to taste. Place in jars or bottles for use. APPLE TREES, New mode of Planting.—A horticulturist in Bohe- mia has a beautiful plantation of the best apple-trees, which have neither sprang from seeds, nor grafting. His plan is to take shoots from the choicest sorts, insert them in a potato, and plunge both into the ground, having put an inch or two of the shoot above the surface. The potato nour- ishes the shoot, whilst it pushes out roots ; and the shoot gradually springs up, and becomes a beautiful tree, bear- ing the best fruit, without requiring to be grafted. APPLE, or GOOSEBERRY TRIFLE.—Scald such a quantity of either of these fruits, as, when pulped through a sieve, will make a thick layer at the bottom of your dish ; if of apples, mix the rind of half a lemon grated fine; and add to both as much sugar as will be pleasant. Mix half a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and the yolk of one egg ; give it a scald over the fire, and stir it all the time ; don’t let it boil; add a little sugar only, and let it grow cold. Lay it over the apples with a spoon ; and then put on it a whip made the day before, as for other trifle. APPLE WATER.—Cut four large apples in slices, and pour upon them a quart of boiling water ; let them remain for two or three hours, and then strain and sweeten them according to your palate. Put in lemon juice. APPLE WINE. Pure cider made from sound, dry apples, as it runs from the press. Put sixty pounds of brown sugar into fifteen gallons of the cider and let it dissolve, then put the mixture into a clean barrel, and fill the barrel up to within two gallons of being full with clean cider ; put the cask in a cool place, leaving the bung out forty- eight hours, then put in the bung with a small vent, until fermentation wholly ceases, and bung up tight, and, in one year, the wine will be fit for use. This wine requires no racking ; the longer it stands upon the lees the better. APRICOTS, to preserve.— When ripe, choose the finest apricots ; pare them as thin as possible, and weigh them. Lay them in halves on dishes, with the hollow part upwards. Have ready an equal weight of good loaf sugar finely pounded, and strew it over them ; in the meantime break the stones, and blanch the kernels. When the fruit has laid twelve hours, put it, with the sugar and juice, and also the ker- nels, into a preserving pan. Let it simmer very gently, till clear ; then take out the pieces of apricots singly as they become so ; put them into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels over them. The scum must be taken off as it rises. Cover with brandy-paper, APRICOT CAKES.—Scald 1 lb, of ripe apricots, peel and take out the