VILA. VKJL 40 e> little parsley, lemon-peel, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of salt; add a little cream and gravy just to moisten the meat; and add a little ham. Do not warm it till the patties are baked. VEAL PIE.—Take some of the middle, or scrag, of a small neck ; sea- son it; and either put to it, or not, a few slices of lean bacon or ham. If it is wanted of a high relish, add mace, cayenne, and nutmeg, to the salt and pepper ; and also forcemeat and eggs ; and if you choose, add truffles, morels, mushrooms, sweet-breads, cut into small bits, and cocks’combs blanched, if liked. Have a rich gravy ready, to pour in after baking.—It will be very good without any of the latter additions. VEAL PIE, Common.—Cut a breast of veal into pieces; season with pepper and salt, and lay them in the dish. Boil hard six or eight yolks of eggs, and put them into different places in the pie ; pour in as much water as will nearly fill the dish ; put on the lid, and bake.—Lamb Pie may be done the same way. VEAL PIE, a Rich.—Cut steaks from a neck or breast of veal; season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and very little clove in powder. Slice two sweetbreads, and season them in the same manner. Lay a puff paste on the ledge of the dish; then put the meat, yolks of hard eggs, the sweetbreads, and some oysters up to the top of the dish. Lay over the whole some very thin slices of ham, and fill up the dish with water, cover, and when it is taken out of the oven, pour in at the top, through a funnel, a few spoonfuls of good veal gravy, and some cream to fill up; but first boil it up with a teaspoonful of flour. Truffles, &c., if approved. VEAL, or Chicken and Parsley Pie.—Cut some slices from the leg or neck of veal; if the leg, from about the knuckle. Season them with salt; scald some parsley that is picked from the stems, and squeeze it dry; cut a little, and lay it at the bottom of the dish ; then put the meat, and so on, in layers. Fill the dish with new milk, but not so high as to touch the crust. Cover it; and when baked, pour out a little of the milk, and put in half a pint of good scalded cream. Chicken may be cut up skinned, and made in the same way. VEAL SAUSAGES. Chop equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a handful of sage, a little salt, pepper, and a few anchovies. Beat all in a mortar; and when used, roll and fry it, and serve with fried sippets, or on stewed vegetables, or on white collops. VEAL, Shoulder of.—Cut off the knuckle for a stew or gravy. Roast the other part with stuffing; you may lard it. Serve with melted butter. The blade-bone, with a good deal of meat left on, eats extremely well with mushroom or oyster-sauce, or mush- room ketchup in butter. VEAL STOCK.—Boil, in two quarts of water, for four hours, 4 lbs. of veal; knuckle, neck, or breast; the weight of meat to be reckoned without the bones; put into the saucepan an onion and a carrot, with a tea-spoonful of salt; strain, and take the fat off when cold. VEAL, to Mince.—Cut cold veal as fine as possible, but do not chop it. —Put to it a very little lemon-peel shred, two grates of nutmeg, some salt, and four or five spoonfuls of either a little weak broth, milk, or water; simmer tnese gently with the meat, but take care not to let it boil; and add a bit of butter rubbed in flour. Put sippets of thin toasted bread, cut into a three- cornered shape, round the dish. Poach- ed eggs may be served with it. VEAL, to Pot. Cold fillet makes the finest potted veal; or you may do it as follows :— Season a large slice of the fillet before it is dressed, with some mace, pepper- corns, and two or three cloves; lay it close into a potting-pan that will just hold it, fill it up with water, aod bake it three hours, then pound it quite small in a mortar, and add salt to taste ; put a little gravy that was baked to it in pounding, if to be eaten soon otherwise only a little butter just melted. When done, cover it over with butter. VEAL, or CHICKEN, to Pot. —Pound some cold veal or white of chicken, seasoned as directed in the last article, and put layers of it with layers of ham pounded or rather shred ; press each down and cover with butter.