S7 CAT. CAK glass of brandy. This cake should not be cut under three months. CAKES, Tunbridge. — Rub 6 ozs. of butter into 1 lb. of flour; then mix 6 ozs. of sugar, beat and strain two eggs, and make all into a paste. Roll it very thin, and cut with the top of a glass; prick them, and cover with car- aways, or wash with the white of an egg, and sift white sugar over. CAKES, Victoria.—Boil half oz. of saffron in a pint of water ; strain, add loaf sugar, 1 lb., then beat up six eggs In the sugar and water; rub K lb. of fresh butter in 1 lb. of flour, mix this with the rest, adding % lb. of currants, and 1 oz. of candied orange and lemon peel cut small. Make like a large bun, put it on an iron plate, and bake two hours and a quarter. CAKES, Water.—Dry 3 lbs. of fine flour, rub it into 1 lb. of sugar sifted, 1 lb. of butter, and 1 oz. of car- away seed. Make it into a paste with yA of a pint of boiling new milk, roll very thin, and cut into any size ; punch full of holes, and bake on tin plates in a cool oven. CAKES, Yorkshire. Two pounds of flour, mix with it four ounces of butter melted in a pint of good milk, three spoonfuls of yeast, and two eggs ; beat all well together, and let it rise; then knead and make into cakes : let them rise on tins before you bake, in a slow oven. Another sort is made as above, leaving out the butter. The first is a shorter sort; the last lighter. CALAMINE CERATE. Take of olive oil one pint, calamine prepared, and yellow wax, of each half a pound. Melt the wax with the oil, and as soon as the mixture begins to thicken, mix with it the calamine, and stir the cerate until it is cold. This is an excellent application for BURNS, and all cutaneous excoriations. CALF’S FEET, Boiled or Braised. — Bone them quite, and stuff them with forcemeat of whatever kind you please ; tie them in slices of lard with string or tape; boil them slowly in broth and sherry wine, sweet herbs, cloves, roots and onions; serve with any sauce. When thus cooked, they may be broiled, dipped in butter, or with bread-crumbs. CALF’S FEET BROTH.— Boil two calves feet, quarter of a pound of veal, the same quantity of beef, the bottom of a penny loaf, three blades of mace, and a little salt, in three quarts of water, to three pints; strain, and take off the fat.—Or put a cupful of the jelly into a saucepan, with a glass of sweet wine, a little sugar and nutmeg, and make hot ; beat into it gradually an egg, a little butter, a bit of lemon- peel grated ; and mix well. CALF’S FEET, Fricasseed.— Parboil; take out the iong bones ; split them ; put them into a stew-pan, with veal gravy, and a glass of sherry, and the yolks of two or three eggs, beaten with cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and butter. Stir till thick. Simmer the whole ten minutes, dish, and garnish with shred lemon. CALF’S FEET JELLY. Boil two feet in five pints of water till the feet are broken, and the water half wasted ; strain it, and when cold, take off the fat, and remove the jelly from the sediment; put it into a sauce-pan, with sugar, raisin wine, lemon-juice to your taste, and lemon-peel. When the flavour is rich, put to it the whites of five eggs well beaten, and their shells broken. Set the saucepan on the fire, but do not stir the Jelly after it begins to warm. Let it Doil twenty minutes after it rises to a head; then pour it through a flannel jelly-bag, first dipping the bag in hot water, and squeezing it quiet dry. Run the jelly through until clear ; then put it into glasses or forms. When the mixture has boiled twenty minutes, throw in a teacupful of cold water; let it boil five minutes longer, then take the sauce-pan off the fire covered close, half an hour; then it will be so clear as to need only once running through the bag, and much waste will be saved. Calf’s feet should be only scalded to take off the hair. A little isinglass may be used to secure the firmness. CALF’S FEET LEMON JELLY.—Boil four quarts of water with three calfs feet, or two cow heels, till half wasted ; take the jelly from the fat and sediment, mix with it the juice of a Sevile orange and twelve lemons, the peels of three ditto, the whites and shells of twelve eggs, sugar, to taste, n