cou 142 CRA ounces ; pearl bariey, 2 table-spoonfuls ; water, 2 quarts. Boil to a quart and sweeten with sugar candy, adding a little lemon juice. If the cough is ob- stinate, add & ounce of ipecacuanha. If the patient is asthmatical, add 1 oz. of sulphuric ether. COUGH SYRUP.—Tincture of lobelia, 1 oz.; Iceland moss, 2 ozs. ; white poppy capsules, bruised, 2 ozs; pearl barley, 2 table-spoonfuls; water, 2 quarts ; treacle, 2 ozs. Boil down to three pints, and strain. Dissolve in it from 4 to 8 ozs. of sugar-candy. It effectually allays a tickling cough. A table-spoonful when the cough is troublesome. It does not constipate like laudanum and paregoric. Or, take lobelia herb, horehound, boneset, of each 1 oz. ; comfrey root, spikenard, St. John’s wort, poppy cap- sules, of each, % oz. Infuse in three pints of boiling water for three hours. Strain and add H lb. of loaf sugar boiled to a syrup. Add a wine-glassful of best rum. A table-spoonful is a dose. This is a valuable receipt for cough, hoarseness, &c. COURT PLASTER.—Isin- glass, oz. : Friar’s balsam, 1 drachm. Melt the isinglass in 1 oz. of water, and boil the solution till a great part of the water is consumed ; add ijt gradually to the balsam, and mix well. Keep a little longer on the fire, and brush it evenly over silk. Or, isinglass, 4 ozs.; water, 3 ozs. Dissolve ; then add tincture of benzoin, 1 oz. Heat. Apply warm. COWHAGE.— An effectual remedy for round and other worms. It is made into an electuary with treacle ; a tea-spoonful to be taken at a time; and to be followed by a brisk purge with rhubarb and jalop, or salts and senna* COW-HEEL BROTH.—Put a cow-heel into a pan with three quarts of water, and boil; skim it well, season with peppercorns, thyme, parsley, and salt; boil gently for two hours; skim well, and serve the broth with the glu- tinous part of the heel in it. It is very strengthening. , „ COWSLIP WINE.—To two gallons of water, put'six pounds of pow- dered sugar, boil 40 minutes take oft the sKum as it rises, pour into a tub to cool, and add the rinds of two lemons ; when it is cold, add four quarts of cowlip flowers to the liquor, with the juice of two lemons, let it stand in the tub two days, stirring it every two or three hours, then put in the barrel and let it stand three weeks or a month, then bottle it, and put a lump of sugar into every bottle. The addition of brandy im- proves it much. CRABS, to Choose.—They must feel heavy in the hand; the very large ones are seldom good; those of the middle size are the sweetest. If light they are watery; the joints of the legs are stiff, and the body has an agreeable smell. CRABS, to Butter.—Boil two crabs; when cold, take all the meat out; mince it small; but it into a pan, with a glass of sherry, two spoonfuls of vinegar, and a nutmeg grated; boil till it is thoroughly hot. Take % lb. of butter, melt with an anchovy ; mix with the same the yolks of two eggs; mix all together after shaking the pah round all quite hot. Serve. CRAB, Dressed Cold.—Empty the shells and mix the flesh with butter, vinegar, salt, white and cayenne pepper. Put the mixture into the large shell, and serve. It may be served hot by putting it into a Dutch oven before the fire, adding a few crumbs of bread and nutmeg. Brown it nicely. CRAB, to Stew.—Put the meat into a stew-pan, with half a pint of sherry, pepper, nutmeg, salt, a few crumbs of bread, the yolk of an egg well beaten, and a spoonful of vinegar. Put on a slow fire, shaking up. Serve on a plate. CRACK NUTS.—Mix 8 ozs. of flour, and 8 ozs. of sugar; melt four ozs. of butter in two spoonfuls of rasin- wine: then, with four eggs beaten and strained, make into a paste ; add cara- ways ; roll out as thin as paper, cut with the top of a glass, wash with the white of an egg, and dust sugar over. CRACKNELS.—Mix with a quart of flour, half a nutmeg grated, the yolks of four eggs beaten, with four spoonfuls of rose-water into a stiff paste, with cold water; then roll in’ a pound of butter, and make them Into a cracknel