3 93 TRE TRI leaves being very variable In their de- gree of permanence in different species. Of the potential longevity of a tree or plant, a fair estimate may be arrived at from a variety of circumstances. For example, there are relations be- tween the duration of life and the quality of the fruit which plants produce. Those which give tender and juicy fruit, or at all events such trees as do this, are In general shorter-lived than those which yield hard and dry fruit, and these are shorter-lived than such as produce only little seeds. The apple and the pear live shorter lives than nut-trees, which are out-lived in turn by the birch and the elm, as these are by the major part of the coniferae, in which family there is probably not a species that does not flourish for at least a hundred years. The A IpiTU firs and larches frequently attain five centuries, and even' the com- mon red pine and the Scotch fir reach three to four. With a few exceptions, the seeds of the whole family are notice- ably small, though the containing cones may be of considerable size. One of the greatest trees in the world, the Wellingtonia gigantea of California, a member of this tribe, with an estimated maximum age of 2,000 years, has a beautifully formed but remarkably small cone, and seeds in proportion. Such tre^s as the birch, the elm, and the con- ifers are useful to man for their timber, a service rarely rendered by the fruit- bearers. Trees, again, that yield plea- sant fruit fit for human food ordinarily live for shorter periods than those of which the produce is bitter and austere and unserviceable to man as an edible. Most, if not all of the plants on which man in his civilized state defends for food, are exceedingly short-lived. The cerealia or corn-producing plants, as wheat, rice, barley, and oats, are an- nuals, without exception ; so are nearly all kinds of pulse. The large classes of esculent vegetables, represented by the turnip, carrot, and cabbage, are also either annual or biennial. "How much man has benefited by this wise arrangement, it is impossible to estimate. Did his daily bread grow on longaeval trees, like acorns, asking no care and toil, the most efficient means to his development would have been wanting, as is still evidenced in the lands of the cocoa-nut and the banana ; but depending, as he has been so largely obliged to do, on annual plants de- manding incessant care, they may be gratefully regarded as the prime instru- ment of his rise in intelligence and morals. “It may be taken as an axiom In vegetable physiology, that caetcris pari- bus, no plant dies a natural death until it has ripened seeds. If its life be en- dangered by penury of food or mutila- tion, the entire vital energy of the plant concentrates itself in the production of a flower, it ceases to put forth leaves, and expends its whole force in efforts to secure progeny. "This is strikingly exemplified in hot, dry gardens, and by summer waysides, where, as if conscious of the impending danger, plants ordinarily of considerable stature begin to propagate while scarce- ly an inch high.’ TRIFLE, to Make.—Lay maca- roons and ratafia drops over the bottom of your dish, and pour in as much raisin wine as they will suck up; then pour on them cold rich custard and some rice flour. It must stand two or three inches thick; on that put a layer of raspberry-jam, and cover the whole with a very high whip made the day before, of rich cream, the whites of two well beaten eggs, sugar, lemon peel, and raisin wine. TRIPE, to Fricassee. — Cut into small square pieces. Put them into the stewpan with as much sherry as will cover them, with pepper, ginger, a blade of mace, sweet herbs, and an onion. Stew 15 minutes. Take out the herbs and onion, and put in a little shred parsley, the juice of a small lemon, half an anchovy cut small, a gill of cream, and a little butter, or yolk of an egg. Garnish with lemon. TRIPE, to Fry.—Cut the tripe into small square pieces; dip them in yolks of eggs, and fry them in good dripping, till nicely brown ; take oat, and drain, and serve with plain melted butter. TRIPE STEWED.—Cut tripe into strips, put them in rich gravy, with a lump of butter size of a hen’s egg, rolled in flour ; shake until the butter is melted. Add a tablcspoonful of white