11 ABS ACE In the first ai.se, take flatly In It a pint of decoction of Lignum Guincum ; boil- ing an ounce of it in a quart of water for five minutes. In the latter case, give half a drachm of powdered nitre in a cup of water- gruel. every five or six hours; in both cases she should sleep on a hard mat- tress with her head low, and be kept cooi and quiet. ABSCESS.—They require the ap- plication of warm poultices and fomen- tations, and a cooling aperient medicine. The best fomentation comprises a decoc- tion of marsh mallows, camomile flowers, poppv-heads, or hemlock leaves. The poultice may be made of bread and water, or linseed meal. These to be applied till the abscess bursts. When burst, allow the discharge of purulent matter, and after it has ceased, apply moist rags for a day or two ; then draw together the edges of the wound by means of diachylon plaster, and to the wound apply Cerate or Spermaceti Ointment. It is necessary sometimes when the bursting is slow and tedious, and the pain great, to open the abscess with the point of a lancet, which pre- vents much suffering. When the ab- scess is indolent, and slow in ripening, apply a poultice of oatmeal, and water, and yeast, and a little salt. Let the patient live on nourishing diet. Keep the body open ; and if the pain be great, mix with the aperient, about 10 or ia drops of lauriamun. ABSCESS, Milk.—This abscess affects mothers, and requires careful treatment. Apply every two hours warm vinegar to the part. This, if done In time, soon gives relief. ABSORBENTS, OR ANTI- ACIDS.—Arc medicines administered to counteract acidity in the stomach or Intestinal canal. In most cases, emetic*' and aperients are given previous to their oeing taken ; they are; Ammonia, car- bonate of, in doses from 5 grains to 1 scruple; Ammonia, liquor of, ro to 20 drops ; Ammonia, aromatic spirit of, 20 to yo drops; Litne water, 2 ounces to hall a pint; Magnesia calcined, 20 to 40 grains ; Magnesia, carbonate of, half to 2 drachms; Potass, carbonate of, 10 grains to half a drachm ; Potass, solu- tion of, 10 drops to half a drachm ; •Soda, carbonate of. to grains to hall a. drachm ; Soda water, half a pint. ABSTINENCE.— Disease may oft be cured by abstinence from all food, especially if the disorders have been, pro- cured by luxurious living and repletion The latter overtaxes nature, and it re- bels against such treatment. Indiges- tion, giddiness, headache, mental de- pression, Ac., are often the effects of greediness in meat and drink. Omitting one, two, or three meals, allows the system to rest, to regain strength, and allows tlie clogged organs to dispose o! their burdens. The practice of drug taking to cleanse the stomach, though it may give the needed relief, always weak- ens the system, while abstinence secures the good result, and yet does no injury. Said a young gentleman to a distin- guished physician of Philadelphia,— 1 Doctor, wbat do you do for yourself when you have headache, or other slight attack?’ ‘Go without my dinner,’ was the reply. ‘ Well, if that will not do, how do you proceed then ?’ 1 Go with- out my supper,' was the answer. ‘ But if that does uot cure you, what then?’ 1 Go without my breakfast. We phy- sicians seldom take medicines ourselves, or use them in our families, for we know that starving is better, but we cannot make cmr patients believe it.' Hippocrates (the father of medicine), said wisely, that if a man eats sparingly and drinks little, he is nearly certain oi" bringing no disease upon himself, aDd that a moderate supply of food nourishes the body best. The quantity of food' which nature really requires for her support is small, and he that eats and drinks moderately at each meal, stands fair to enjoy sprightliness, vivacity, and' freedom of spirits. Bodies governed by temperance and regularity are rarely hurt bv melancholy, or any other affec- tion of the mind. To have a clear head we must have a clean stomach ; for this is the grand reservoir in which the food is first deposited, and thence its nutri- tive power is distributed throughout nil parts of the body. ACETOUS CATAPLASM, 01 POULTICE.—This is made with vinegar and bran only, or with the addi- tion of oatmeal, or bread crumbs. It is a simple poultice, but very useful fow