CRU 149 cue To prevent a return of this disorder, keep the child warm, avoid wet feet, cold, damp, easterly winds, &c. Chil- dren whose constitutions dispose them to croup, ought to have their diet pro- perly regulated, and be kept from all crude, raw, and trashy fruits. CRUMPETS.—Beat well 2 eggs and put them into a quart of warm milk and water, with a table-spoonful of yeast ; beat in as much fine flour to make them rather thicker than a com- mon batter pudding. Heat the bake- stone very hot, rub it with a little butter on a cloth; have a tin ring the size and thickness of a crumpet, into which pour the batter. Turn them qnickly with a thin broad knife. CRUMPETS, Orange.—Cream and new milk, of each i pint; warm and put to it a little rennet to break it, then stir it gently ; drain on a cloth 6 hours ; take the rind of 3 oranges, boiled, as for preserving, in 3 waters ; pound fine, and mix with the curd and 8 eggs, in a mor- tar, some nutmeg, the juice of a lemon, and sugar to taste. Bake as above. ! Some persons add slices of orange. CRUMPETS, Royal. —Three cups of raised dough; work 4 table- spoonfuls of melted butter in the dough, a cup of sugar and 3 eggs beaten ; put in buttered tins; bake 20 minutes. When served too many should not lie on each other, as it destroys the crisp- i ness, and makes them soft. CRUMPETS, Scotch.—Milk, 1 pint; 2 or 3 eggs ; a little butter ; 4 l table-spoonfuls of yeast, salt; as much I oatmeal, or unsifted flour, as will make a batter. Melt the butter in the milk made hot; and when the batter is just i warm, beat the eggs, and mix them well I in. Let it stand to rise. Butter them, ! and serve hot. CRUSHES.—Take 1 lb. of flour, i and % lb. of butter, rubbed in ; mix with cold water, and a little yeast, stamp I it with a butter print, and lay the paste on the mould; lay on tins, to bake a fine brown. CRUST, a Short One.—Make I a ozs. of pounded and sifted white sugar I dry ; mix it with 1 lb. of flour well dried, I rub into it 3 or 4 ozs. of butter, so fine I as not to be seen—into some cream put the yolks of 2 eggs, beaten, and mix the above into a smooth paste ; roll it thin, and bake it in a slow oven. CRUST for APPLE PIES, &c.—Rub 6 ozs. of butter In 9 of flour, mix it into a stiffish paste, with as little water as possible, beat it well, and roll it thin ; bake it in a moderate oven. CRUST for RAISED MEAT PIES, &c.—Boil water with a little fine lard, and an equal quantity of fresh dripping, or of butter. While hot, mix this with as much flour as you will want, making the paste as stiff as you can to be smooth, which is to be made by good kneading and beating it with the rolling pin. When quite smooth, put a lump into a cloth to soak till nearly cold. Those who are not clever at raising crust, may roll the paste of a proper thickness, and cut out the top and bot- tom of the pie, then a long piece of the sides. Cement the bottom to the sides with egg, bringing the former rather further out, and pinching both together; put egg between the paste to make it adhere to the sides. Fill your pie and put on the cover, and pinch it and the side-crust together. The same way of uniting the paste is to be observed if the sides are pressed into a tin form, in which the paste must be baked, after it shall be filled and covered ; but the tin should bfe buttered, and carefully taken off when done enough ; and as the form makes the sides of too light a colour, the paste should be put in the oven again for 15 minutes. With a feather, put egg over as at first CRUST, for Sweet Pastry.— Work % lb. lightly of butter into 1 lb. of flour, breaking it small; add salt, 3 ozs. of finely powdered sugar, and suffi- cient milk to make it into a smooth paste. Bake slowly, and keep it pale. CRUST FOR TARTS.—Beat 1 egg till quite thin, have ready xo ozs. of butter, melted without being oiled; when cold mix the egg with it and stir it into x lb. of flour well dried ; make the paste very thin, line the patty pans quickly ; as you put them in the oven, brush them over with water, and sift sugar over them. CUCUMBERS, for Immedi- ate use.—Slice, sprinkle with salt; let them stand several hours, drain, and then put to them sliced onions, vinegar