J PARAFINE, Explosive/. — Mr. W. Herapath, of Bristol, makes the public acquainted with an easy method of proving whether parafine oil is dangerous or not. Let two or three drops be allowed to fall upon a plate or saucer, and apply to them a lighted match ; if the flame spreads over the surface of the drops the oil should on no account be used, as it will under many circumstances prove explosive. The genuine parafine or petroleum will not bum except upon a wick. PARCHMENT GLUE.-Steep I lb. of parchment cuttings in a gallon of water in which has been dissolved i oz. of borax, and a little gum Arabic. Then strain the liquid well. Boil to the thickness required. PARCHMENT, to Prepare for Painting.—Take yard of list- ing, and roll it up very tight in a circu- lar form ; then take some finely pow- dered white pumice stone ; put the list- ing in it, and rub it over the parchment. This simple plan answers the best of any. If you wish it to take water col- ours, without sinking, choose that which is not spongy or soft, and use alum water with the colours, when you mix them for use. PAREGORIC ELIXIR.-Take flowers of benzoin, % oz. ; opium, 2 drs. Infuse in 1 lb. of the volatile aro- matic spirits, 4 or 5 days, frequently shaking the bottle ; afterwards strain the elixir. It eases pain, allays tickling coughs, relieves difficult breathing, and is useful in many disorders of children, particularly the hooping cough. The dose to an adult is from qo to 60 drops. PARMESAN AND CAULI- FLOWER.— Boil a cauliflower, drain it on a sieve, and cut the staiks so that the flower will stand upright about a inches above the dish. Put it into a stew-pan, with a little white sauce, let it stew till done enough, which will be but a few minutes; then dish it with the sauce round and put Parmesan grated over it. Brown it with a salamander. PARKIN, Superb Oatmeal, 3 lbs. ; flour, r lb. ; butter, 1 lb. ; trea- cle, 4 lbs, ; ginger, 1 oz. ; sugar, 1 lb. ; a teaspoonfuls of carbonate of soda in a giU of beer.—The butter to be rubbed into the flour. All the Ingredients to be mixed the previous evening, and baked In a moderate oven the following morn- ing. Do not forget to add a wineglass, or two, of the best rum. This parkin is a luxury. PARSNIPS, to Fricassee.— Boil in milk till they are soft, then cut them lengthways into bits 2 or 3 inches long, and simmer in a white sauce, made of 2 spoonfuls of broth, a bit of mace, half a cupful of cream, a bit of butter, and some flour, and pepper and salt. PARSNIPS, to ^Vlash. —Boil them tender, scrape, then mash them in a stew-pan with a little cream, a good piece of butter, and pepper and salt. ■ PARSNIPS, to Stew.— Boil them tender, scrape, and cut into slices ; put them into a saucepan with cream enough; for sauce, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little salt; shake the saucepan often; when the cream boils, pour them into the dish. PARTRIDGES, to Choose.— In autumn they are in season. If young, the bill is of a. dark colour, and the legs yellowish ; if fresh the vent will be firm ; but this part will look greenish if stale; if old the bills are white, and the legs blue. PARTRIDGE, to Boil.—Boil quick in a good quantity of water about 15 minutes. For sauce, take a % pint of cream, and a small piece of fresh but- ter ; pour it over the birds. 0 rt PARTRIDGE, to Carve.—The partridge is here presented as just taken from the spit; but before it is served up, the skewers must be withdrawn. It is cut up in the same manner as a fowl. The wings must be taken off in the lines a, b, and the merrythought, in the line c, d. The prime parts of a partridge are the wings, breast and merrythought, but the bird being small, the two latter are not often divided. The wing is