CHO 124 CKL warm water, and this will stiffen it beautifully. This will be found useful for printed dresses whose colours are likely to give way by the use of alkaline soaps. CHLORIDE OF LIME.— Scatter chloride of lime on a board in a stable to remove all kinds of flies, but more especially biting flies. Sprinkling beds of vegetables with even a weak solution, effectually preserves them from caterpillars, slugs, &c. A paste of one part powdered chloride of lime and one half-part of some fatty matter placed in a narrow band round the trunk of a tree, prevent insects from creeping up it. Even rats, mice, cockroaches, and crickets flee from it. CHLORIDE OF LIME.— It is a. great purifier. One pound requires three gallons of water; use the clear solution. To purify rooms, sprin- kle on the floor ; and if needful, on the bed-linen. Infected clothes should be clipped in it and wrung out, just before they are washed. It purifies night com- modes, and water closets, &c. CHOCOLATE CREAM. Scrape into a quart of thick cream i ounce of the best chocolate, lb. of sugar; boil and mill it; when quite smooth, cool, then add the whites of new eggs. Whisk, and take up the froth on sieves, and serve it in glasses, to rise above some of the cream. CHOLERA.—A compound of two Greek words, chole, bile, and rein, to flow. Its literal meaning is, a dis- charge of bile. But the word cholera designates that dreadful Asiatic disease which is so very fatal. In this disease the secretion of bile is suspended, and the evacuations are entirely free from it. Therefore there are two species of Cholera—the English—and the Asiatic. The English Cholera, or Bilious Diarrhcea, attacks suddenly, with nau- sea, purging and vomiting ; sometimes painful colicky griping of the bowels. The evacuations are thin and watery, and at last become very bilious, the colour sometimes green, at other times approximating to black, indicating viti- atcd bile caused by unhealthy secretions during its passage through the alimen- tary canal. If the disease is not restrained, the vomiting, retching, and spasmodic pain, increases, accompanied with cramp in the legs, and muscles of the abdomen. Coldness of the extremi- ties, cold sweats, and faindng some- times occur. Sometimes this disease ends in death, especially with old and delicate subjects. But in this country it is seldom fatal. It is caused by intemperance, by a vitiated atmosphere, by eating unwhole- some food, and unripe fruits. In the treatment of it, it is necessary to neu- tralize the acid, vitiated or acrid bile, and produce a determination to the surface. As soon as the symptoms appear, give the Neutralizing Mix- ture, page 275. If vomited, re- peat the dose, and it will soon pro- duce a beneficial effect, subduing the irritation, nausea, vomiting, and passing through the alimentary canal, changing its contents to the most healthy state. It is useful to bathe the feet in hot water and salt, and when the disease is violent, to give a vapour bath; and to check the vomiting, salt in vinegar or brandy. To allay the pain, foment the belly and breast with the following;— Cayenne pepper, lA oz., spirits of wine, % a pint, vinegar, a gill. Simmer a few minutes; then a tea-spoonful of tincture of opium, and two table-spoon- fuls of turpentine. Apply flannels dipped in it warm to the stomach. Hops and camomile flowers simmered in vinegar, make an excellent fomenta- tion. The drink should be toast and water. Milk thickened with arrowroot, tapioca, sago, or slippery-elm, may be taken as food. In the ASIATIC CHOLERA, there is a total suppression of bile, and a profuse cold, clammy sweat over the body; the cramps become fearful, the stomach and bowels are emptied by vomit, &c.—and exhaustion becomes apparent, giddiness, deafness, sinking of the eyes and nostrils, blueness of the skin, lips and nails ; weakness of voice, &c., are often fatal symptoms. To cure the same, as for English Cholera, but more active. Give the Neutralizing Mixture ; and this Injec- tion;—Bogbcrry, 3 drachms; scullcap, 1 drachm; slippery-elm, 1 drachm ; boiling water, % a pint. Infuse ten minutes; then add two tea-spoonfuls of tincture of myrrh, eight drops of lauda-