RHE 338 RHE be worn summer and winter by day, “ but never by night," next the skin: at night a small flannel spencer or jacket should be worn over the night dress. Tailors and milliners have much to answer for in introducing such modem inventions as the wide sleeves, and in like manner "the apology of a bonnet," this last, the cause of tic doloreux, rheu- matism, &c. RHEUMATISM.—To prevent, wear washed wool under the feet. To cure, use the cold bath with rubbing and sweating. -— Or, apply warm steams. Or, rub in warm treacle, and apply to the part brown paper smeared therewith; change it in 12 ' hours. Or, drink half a pint of tar- water morning and evening. Or, steep 6 or 7 cloves of garlic in half a pint of white wine ; drink it laying down. It sweats, and frequently cures at once. Or, mix flour of brimstone with honey, in equal quantities, take 3 tea- spoonfuls at night, 2 in the morning, and 1 afterwards, morning and evening, till cured. This succeeds oftener than any remedy I have found.— Wesley. RHEUMATISM.—Extract of Sarsaparilla, 1 or. Triturate in a pint of boiling water. Dissolve 2 drs. of Iodine of Potass ; and begin with small doses 2 or 3 times a day. Very valu- able. The application of wheat, bran, or oatmeal poultice, diluted with muriatic acid water, or the tincture of lobelia water, has often been known to give relief. RHEUMATISM.—Take a large handful of buckbean, 4 ozs. of white mustard seeds, and 1 of lignum vitae, or wood of life, to 2 quarts of water; boil to 3 pints. Dose—3 tea-cupfuls a day. Use also the following Liniment. Take of sal volatile, 3 ozs. ; oil, 1 oz., camphor, oz., laudanum, 1 oz. Rub the part affected with this liniment 3 times a day. It is said that boiled celery is good for rheumatism. See page 387. RnEw...ATISM, Embroca- tion for, and for Lumbago or Strains.—Half or. spirits of turpen- tine, % os. of strongest camphorated spirit, 1 raw egg, half pint of best vine- gar. Well mix the whole, and keep It closely corked. To be rubbed in 3 or 4 times a day. For rheumatism in the head, or faceache, rub all over the back of the head and neck, as well as the part which is the immediate seat of pain. RHEUMATISM, Embroca- tion for.—Olive oil, 2 ozs.; water of ammonia, 2 drs.; oil of rosemary, 10 drops ; oil of cloves, 5 drops. Mix, and keep tightly corked. RHEUMATIC DECOC- TION.—Virginian snake root, 1 dr.; sarsaparilla in powder, 6 drs. ; burdock seed, 2 drs. ; poke root, 2 drs. ; cayenne pepper, i dr. Powder them, and add 3 quarts of water. Boil down to 2 quarts. A cupful 2 or 3 times a day. It is most valuable in chronic rheumatism. RHEUMATIC DROPS.—Ex- tract of sarsaparilla, 2 drs. ; gum cam- phor, dr. ; laudanum, 1 scruple; spirits of wine, 1 oz. Mix and macerate 24 hours. Take from 20 to 50 drops 3 times a day. RHEUMATIC GOUT, Draught for. — Camphorated mix- ture, 7 drs.; infusion of rhubarb, 5 drs.; tincture of henbane, I dr. ; sub-carbon- ate of potass, 10 grains. Mix for a draught; take 2 or 3 a day, particularly the last thing at night.—It is a most ex- cellent remedy. RHEUMATIC LINIMENT. —Take sassafras oil, 2 ozs. ; tincture of prickly ash, 1 oz. ; tincture of cayenne, 1 oz.; hemlock oil, 1 oz. Mix, and rub well in. A few applications will relieve, if not cure. RHEUMATIC LINIMENT. —Tincture of cayenne, oil of turpentine, olive oil, hemlock oil, gum camphor, sassafras oil, tincture of prickly ash, of each, 1 oz.; peavdered capsicum, or cay- enne, 1 oz. ; spirit of wine, 2 quarts ; vinegar, 1 quart; ammonia, 1 quart; add 2 ozs. of gum camphor. Mix ; put in a vessel, and stir occasionally till mixed and dissolved. This is a magic j, liniment, soon giving ease in rheumatic pains, gout, neuralgia, sprains, &c., &c. It is worth much gold. It seldom or never fails. RHEUMATIC LIQUID. Sarsaparilla, powdered, 2 ozs. ; cay- enne pepper, 1 oz. ; gum myrrh. J oz.; brandy, or Hollands gin, a quarts. Let