TYP 398 TYP TYPHUS FEVER.—From the Greek tuphos, stupor. It is generally Indicated by certain well-marked symp- toms. It is characterized by great lethargy, prostration of muscular power, and sometimes delirium. It commences with pain in the head, slight shiverings, vomiting, debility, sighing, loss of appetite, oppressive breathing, great mental anxiety and depression, uneasiness in the back ; the pulse is quick and small, dry tongue, with a brown or black crust; urine pale, then high-coloured with a bad smell, evacuations black and offensive, breath hot and offensive. The delirium becomes more constant, and at length changes to a stupor. An eruption of livid spots sometimes appears. Great purging, cold clammy perspiration, and hiccup, precede its fatal termination. The favourable termination of typhus Is indicated by a gradual decrease of those symptoms ; by the disappearance of stupor in the face of the patient, and his increasing attention to things around him ; the pulse becomes moderated, the heat of the skin natural, the tongue be- comes clean, &c. Treatment.—If there is nausea, oppression, and sickness, give an emetic; and if the patient is chilly, give the Vapour Bath, and then the Sudorific Powder to promote perspiration, which will give much ease, and dislodge from the fauces phlegm, and other morbific matter endangering suffocation. Observe an emetic in the first stages of typhus is of the utmost importance, and at any time before prostration commences. It has been known to restrain the disease instantly, and in many cases to mitigate the symptoms. If the patient is constipated, aperients must be given. But if there is a ten- dency to diarrhoea, they must be omit- ted, or be administered sparingly; a small dose of rhubarb and magnesia may act as a corrective, or a single tea- spoonful of castor oil. Dr. Beach says, “ In typhus, the brain and the system generally, are thrown Into an unhealthy state, by an accumula- tion of acrid and vitiated bile, and mat- ter collected in the stomach and first passages, caused by an inactive and tor- pid state of the liver. Delirium, great heat, and prostration of strength, take place from this cause. The sympathy existing between these organs is surpris- ing ; if one is healthy so is another ; if one is in a morbid condition, those that sympathize with it are also diseased. Hence the very great importance of ex- citing a healthy state of the stomach, liver, and the whole alimentary canal. Aperients are admirably calculated to fulfil this indication. They cleanse and stimulate at the same time; and although a patient may be very weak, he will gain strength under the administration of re- peated purgatives. They may be given in moderate doses, in protracted cases, every other day. Persons in a very low or distressed state of typhus fever will soon assume a more healthy appearance after the administration of purgatives. The combination of a tonic, as a solu- tion of quinine, with purgatives, would render them more beneficial. A Scotch physician observes,—“ By oft sponging the surface of the body with cold water and vinegar, and the application of cold to the head, and bathing the feet in warm water, the dis- comfort and headache of the patient may be mitigated. Pain in the belly, or tenderness, in typhoid fever is best met by the use of warm fomentations." Where there is great sensibility and swelling of the abdomen, showing an inflammatory state of the intestines, and where the stomach rejects medicine, the use of injections is indicated. The Saline Mixture should be given in a state of effervescence; or a table- spoonful of yeast twice a day. Fixed air affords as much relief as any medi- cine, and has, in some instances, proved an effectual remedy, not by counteract- ing putrescency, but by cooling the body, abating thirst, and diminishing the morbid irritability of the system. Let the patient drink balm and penny- royal tea, and take the Diaphoretic Powder; for no medicines stand higher than those which produce perspiration; though too much sweating must not be promoted, as debility may follow. A mere moisture of the skin through the disease, must be maintained. In thirst give a teaspoonful of spirits of nitre in a weak decoction of Peruvian bark. The juice of houseleek and sugar is an excel- lent febrifuge. See Houseluk. Fre- quently wash the body with cold or tepid,