KYS ICE 216 HYSTERICS. — This disease mostly affects young, nervous, single women. It manifests itself by fits, often preceded by nervous lowness, difficult breathing, sickness at the stomach, pal- pitations, and a pain at the left side, a rumbling noise in the bowels, the sensa- tion of a ball ascending to the throat, with the feeling of suffocation, convul- sions, laughing and crying without any apparent cause. Almost every part of the nervous system is liable to this affec- tion. The disease seldom proves fatal. It is caused by menstrual irregularities, indolence, irregular liying, costiveness, indigestion, worms, obstructed perspi- ration, &c. An Hysteric Fit may be easily distinguished from fainting; for, in fainting the pulse and respiration are entirely stopped ; in hysterics, they are both perceptible. Treatment. — First loosen the dress, and dash cold water in the face. It is of the greatest importance to put the feet and legs in warm water as soon as possible. Give an emetic. The Expectorant Tincture, (pages ax and 175) must be given to remove the rising in the throat, the sense of suffocation, collected phlegm, &c. If the patient cannot swallow, pour it into the mouth, and it will relax the jaws, &c., and cause the patient to swallow; it will send the blood to the surface and ex- tremities, affect the brain and nervous system so as to end the attack even by a single dose. The vapour bath should be given as soon as possible. Or, put the patient to bed, and apply hot bricks or bottles of hot water to thp feet and sides ; the bottles to be folded in cloths wet with vin egar and water. Should these means fail give the Anodyne Powders, page 20. Give also gentle aperients ; and above all, do not neglect to give the Nervous Pill, which is wonderfully efficacious, (page 274.) The aperients may be assist- ed by injections of gruel, % oz. of the tincture of assafeetida, or a table-spoon- ful of spirits of turpentine; sweeten with treacle. Tonics, as quinine, should be freely given. If the disease arises from obstructed menses, worms, &c., the case must be treated as directed under those complaint*. I ICE, to Procure.—(See Freez- ing Mixture.)—Nearly fill a gallon stone bottle with hot spring water (leaving room for about a pint,) and put in 2 ozs. of refined nitre; the bottle must be stopped very close, and let down into a deep well. After three or four hours it will be completely frozen; the bottle must be broken to pro- cure the ice. If the bottle is moved up and down, so as to be sometimes in and sometimes out of the water, the conse- quent evaporation will hasten the pro- cess. ICE CREAM. — Put into a bucket 1 lb. of ice broken very small; throw two handfuls of salt, among it, and have it in the coolest place you can find. Put the cream into an ice-pot, and cover it; immerse it in the ice, and draw the ice round the pot, so as to touch every part. In a few minutes put a spatula or spoon in, and stir the parts that ice round the edges to the centre. Stirring quickly increases the cold. There should be holes in the bucket to let out the ice as it thaws. The cream for icing is thus made :— New milk, 1 quart; yolks of 6 eggs; fine sugar, 4 ozs. Mix. Strain. Heat gently, and then cool. ICEING, for Cakes.—Beat the whites of two eggs to a solid froth, add 6 ozs. of finely powdered white sugar; mix in the juice of a quarter of a lemon. Place the cakes before the fire; pour over them the icing, and smooth over the sides and tops with a knife. Set them to dry at the mouth of a cool oven. ICEING, for Tarts.—Beat the yolk of an egg, and some melted butter well together; wash the tarts with a feather, and sift sugar over them as you put them in the oven. Ice Waters.—Rub some fine sugar upon lemon or orange, to give the colour and flavour, then squeeze the juice of either on its respective peel, add water and sugar to make a fine sherbet, and strain it before it be put into the ice-pot. If orange, the greater propor- tion should be of the China juice, and only a little of Seville, and a small bit of the peel grated by the sugar. Currant or Raspberry Water lea.—The juice of these, or any other