COL COLD WATER CURE 132 j Ablutions.—Where persons are very weak, washing and rubbing the body must be done, in place of the bath or douche; and water may be poured over the heads of feverish patients, and rubbed on the shoulders and parts af- fected. If the patient be too weak to allow of this rubbing, a wet sheet is thrown over him, on which the friction is applied. This is of great advantage in weak cases and young children. The ablutions are an essential, agreeable, and valuable portion of the cold water system. In trifling complaints, gout in its infancy, nervous irritability, or in weakness in the skin, ablutions, accom- panied by drinking abundantly cold water is very often sufficient to establish health. Ablutions should be performed in the morning immediately in getting out of bed, before the body has become chilled, and the patient must afterwards take exercise in the open air Fatigued persons may try the wet sheet and the rubbing, and they will speedily find the benefit of it. To use the wet sheet as an ablution, the patient stands up, and the servant throws it over his head and body; rub the body well for five minutes, then take off the wet sheet, and put on a dry one. This is a certain relief for fatigue and over-exertion. Cold Water Drinking. — The best time both for drinking cold water and exercise is before breakfast. Then they both produce their best effects; but the only general rule prescribed by Priessnitz is to drink cold water as much and at all times, as it can be done with- out inconvenience. Water may be drunk after breakfast, but the stomach must not be over-charged. At dinner also a few glasses may be taken to moisten the food ; after that the stomach must be left to itself; and after the lapse of a few hours, we may go on drinking cold water until supper time. It may be taken after supper, but not so as to dis- turb the rest. Exercise, which is in it- self a part of the curative process, excites the beneficial action of the water, and promotes the cure. The water should be fresh from the spring, and as cold as possible. Stoppers must be kept in the bottles and decanters which hold it, as the water then will preserve its coldness and freshness much longer. Advice.—Immediately on rising ' in the morning, rinse the mouth, and wash the teeth with cold water, then drink two or three glasses of spring water, after this, the whole body especi- ally the head, must be washed. If a thickness in the throat be felt, gargle well, and rub the outside of the throat three or four times a-day, with a cold wet hand ; keep the water in the mouth until it becomes warm, then repeat it. This method is recommended for clear- ing and strengthening the throat. COLD CREAM. — Take the juice of house-leek, a few drops of cam- phorated spirit: melt spermaceti, white wax, and olive oil; then beat in the spirit and juice. Excellent for sore lips. COLD PUNCH, or COOL CUP.—Loaf sugar, 9 ozs.; rub each lump over a lemon to collect the flavour of the lemon rind ; then squeeze the lemon juice over it, and add half a pint of rum or gin, and grated nutmeg. In- fuse twenty minutes, and add 3 pints of cold spring water. Add a lump of ice. COLIC.— This is a spasmodic affection of the bowels, especially of the colon. It begins with great pain in the bowels, especially just under the navel, nausea, retching, and vomiting. The pain is of a sharp twisting character, very distressing. This affection is caused by wind, disagreeing food, acrid bile, obstinate costiveness, worms, nox- ious metallic vapours, &c. COLIC.—Drink strong camomile and ginger tea.—Or, from 30 to 40 drops of oil of aniseed.—Or, apply out- wardly a bag of hot oats, or bran.—Or, steep the legs in hot water.—Or, take as much Daffy's Elixir as will purge. Very effectual. COLIC, Bilious.—Drink warm lemonade. I know nothing like it. Or, give a spoonful of sweet oil every hour. This cured one at the point of death. Flatulent Colic.—Give a teacup- ful of the Anti-Spasmodic Tincture, in a cupful of peppermint tea ; or a tea- spoonful of Turkey rhubarb, and one of magnesia, with a pinch of cayenne pepper; this will often afford relief. Apply fomentations or friction to the abdomen. If the bowels are not oper- ated upon, give castor oil, from half an ounce ; add also a simple injection.