LAX 2 34 LKM 11 In serving should the ball touch1' the netting, and go over into the proper court it counts to neither player. 12 The server scores if the striker-out volley the service, or fail to return the service in such way that the ball would fall within the opponents court. 13 Two consecutive faults count a stroke against the server. 14 Should the ball touch either player (when in play) it scores a stroke for his opponent. 15 The first stroke won by either player, scores 15; the second won by the same raises it up to 30, his third stroke 40, and his fourth counts game. Should both players have scored 40, it Is called duct, and the next stroke gain- ed by either is called advantage, and if he should gain the following stroke he scores the game. 16 The first player that scores six games wins the set. LAX in the Bowels, with Pain. —Laudanum, 24 drops ; spirituous cin- namon water, half a gill; if it cannot be got, use French brandy. Take a table- spoonful at a time.—5->ee Bowel Com- plaint. Page 72. LAXATIVE POWDER for Horses.—Crocus of antimony, finely levigated, nitre, cream of tartar, and flour of sulphur of each 4 ozs. Powder and mix well together. A table-spoon- ful of this mixture may be given every night and morning a few times, in a mash of scalded bran, or a feed of com moistened with water. This powder is good for horses kept on dry meat; and for stallions in the spring, as they keep the body cool and open, and cause them to cast their coat, and make their skin as bright as silk. LEATHER, to Clean.—Uncol- oured leather may be cleaned by apply- ing a solution of oxalic acid with a sponge. Dissolve in warm water. LEATHER-BOTTOMED CHAIRS, to Restore the Black- ness of.—Take two yolks of eggs, and the white of one. Beat well, and shake in a botde to make them thick like oil. Dissolve in a table-spoonful of spirits of wine, lump sugar the size of a walnut. Thicken it with ivory-black, mix with the egg for use. Lay on with a brush; after a few minutes polish with a soft clean brush, till dry and shining. Let it stand a day to harden. Shoes also may be done in the' same way. LEATHER, to Join. — Gutta percha, % lb.; india rubber, 2 ozs.; pitch, 1 oz. ; shellac, K oz. ; boiled oil, 1 oz= Melt together and use hot. LEATHER, to Make Water- Proof.—Dissolve gutta percha, and india rubber in wood naptha. Rub over the soles and upper leather.—Or, melt boiled linseed oil, a pint; mutton suet, 1 lb.; bees’ wax, % lb.; resin, J lb. Melt altogether, and apply. LEEK and PILCHARD PIE. —Clean and skin the white part of some large leeks; scald in milk and water, and put them in layers into a dish, and between the layers, two or three salted pilchards which have been soaked for some hours the day before. Cover the whole with a good plain crust. When the pie is taken out of the oven, lift up the side crust with a knife, and empty out all the liquor; then pour in half a pint of scalded cream. LEGS, Sore and Running. Wash them in brandy, and apply elder leaves, changing twice a day. This will dry up all the sores, though the legs were like a honey-comb.—Tried. Or, poultice them with rotten apples. Tried. But take also a purge or two every week. LEMON BISCUITS. —Beat the yolks of 10 eggs, and the whites of 5, with 4 spoonfuls of orange flower water, till they froth up, then put in 1 lb. of sifted loaf sugar ; beat it one way for 40 minutes ; add % lb. of flour with the raspings of two lemons, and the pulp of a small one ; butter the tin, and bake in a quick oven carefully. Dust with sugar before placing in the oven. LEMON BLANCMANGE.— Isinglass, , 1 part; water, 16 parts ; lemon-juice, 2 parts; Lisbon wine, 8 parts. Sugar to sweeten, and a little grated lemon-peel to flavour. Clarify with an egg. LEMON BRANDY. —Put 2 quarts of brandy to 3 quarts of water ; take 2 lbs. of fine sugar, and 3 pints of milk. Pare 12 lemons thin; steep the peel in the brandy 12 hours, and squeeze the lemons upon the sugar; then pus