NIG NET 275 of the root is most valuable in diarrhoea and dysentery, or laxity of the bowels and bloody flux. It should be sweet- ened. Cancers, it has been said, have yielded to the juice of nettles, as much as four ounces having been taken in a day.—See Robinson's Herbal. NETTLE BEER.—Take a peck or more of nettle tops, and 4 lbs. of malt, and boil in two gallons of water, with a ozs. of hops ; 4 ozs. of sarsapa- rilla, 1 % lb. of sugar, and lA ox. of gin- ger ; strain, and when nearly cold, add a little yeast. Bottle while in a state of fermentation. Most valuable— a pleasant beverage—and a wonderful purifier of the blood. NETTLE RASH.—So called from its resemblance to that produced by the stinging of nettles. The skin is raised, and whitish on the top; it is attended with itching and tingling. It is a very mild disease, and seldom requires much medicine. The following remedies have been recommended : An equal proportion of oil, vinegar, and spirit of wine, applied to the skin, will afford temporary relief for the itch. Take, at the same time, 6 grains of magnesia in a glass of lime water three times a day.— Or rub the part well with parsley. But it is best to give the Vapour Balk of bitter decoction, and apply to the part the Stimulating Liniment, page 378 and an Aperient, page 21. Or apply tincture of lobelia and tincture of myrrh, mixed, to the skin. Sponge the body every morning in salt and water. Weak camphorated spirit is a good rubefacient in this disease. An emetic sometimes effectually dislodges the disease. NEURALGIA, or Tic Dol- oureux.—Put half a drachm of sal- ammonia in an ounce of camphor water. Take a teaspoonful at a dose, and repeat the dose several times at intervals of five minutes, if the pain be not re- lieved at once. This medicine has generally cured. Or, take extract of valerian, a ozs. ; henbane, iM oz. ; aconite, K oz. Mix well, and with oil of lavender, form into pills. Take one or two every four hours. It acts like a charm on neuralgia, and all nervous disorders. Or, apply bruised horse radish to the part affected. Chloroform has recently been applied to parts affected with neuralgia. Indeed it is made a patent medicine for ‘‘Tic." A piece of lint should be soaked in it, and applied ; cover it with flannel. NEUTRALIZING MIX- TURE. — Powdered rhubarb, 3 scruples ; saleratus, or crude bicarbon- ate of potash, 3 scruples; powdered peppermint plant, 3 scruples; boiling water, % pint; decoction of aniseeds, M pint. Mix. Strain, sweeten with sugar, and add three table-spoonfuls of brandy. Take one or two table-spoon- fuls as oft as the symptoms require it. For children a less dose. Very valuable in cholera, bowel com- plaints of children, laxity of the bowels, flux, &c. An infallible remedy. NIBBLE CAKES.—Make a good puff paste; roll thick; cut into lozenges about the size of the palm of the hand; brush it over with beaten yelks of eggs and strew macaroni drops powder over them, with a little powder of orange flowers, and lemon peel chopped very fine ; stick bits of scalded sweet almonds in the paste pointed up- wards ; cover them with paper in the oven, to keep them of a palish colour. NIGHTMARE.—The complaint always happens during disturbed sleep. It comes on with a sense of great weight on the chest, and a dreaming of some- thing very frightful and horrible, bad persons, spectres of various shapes, wild beasts, infuriated animals in pur- suit, and which the patient cannot escape, though apparently he makes or tries to make the greatest efforts to escape; he attempts to cry out, but generally in vain. The sensation is very distressing and painful. Sometimes the uneasiness continues after he awakes, so as to prevent his turning or moving in bed for some time. Studious, and nervous people, are most subject to it; it is also caused by heavy suppers. The disease is probably produced by indigestion, and by com- pression of the lungs, and the conse- quent obstruction to the free return of blood from the brain. The disease is dangerous, and, doubtless many have died under the attack ; and their death has been attributed to apoplexy.