265 MOC MOU Ct In a sousing-liquor, thus made;—Boil a quarter of a peck of wheat bran, a sprig of bay, and a sprig of rosemary, In a gallons of water, with 4 01s. of salt In it, for half an hour. Strain it and let it get cold. MOCK TURTLE. —Take a calf’s head with the skin on, cut it in half, and clean well; half boil it, take all the meat off in bits, break the bones of the head, and boil them in some real and beef broth. Fry some shalot In butter, and dredge in flour to thicken the gravy ; stir this into the browning, and give it z or 2 boils ; skim it care- fully, and then put in the head ; put in also a pint of Madeira wine, and simmer till the meat is tender. About 10 min- utes before you serve, put in some basil, tarragon, chives, parsley, cayenne, pep- per and salt to your taste ; aJso 2 spoon- fuls of mushroom-ketchup and 1 of soy. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the tureen, and pour the soup upon it. Forcemeat balls, and small eggs, MOOR GAME, to Pot.—Pick, singe, and wash the birds; dry, and season, inside and out, pretty high, with mace, nutmeg, allspice, and salt. Pack them in as small a pot as will hold them, cover them with butter, and bake in a slow oven. When cold, take off the butter, dry them from the gravy, and put one bird into each pot, which should just fit. Add as much more butter as will cover them, but take care that it does not oil. The best way to melt it is by warming it in a basin set in a bowl of hot water. MORELLA CHERRIES, to Preserve.—Take full ripe cherries; take off the stalks and prick them with a pin; to every 2 lbs. of cherries, put 1K lb. of loaf sugar; beat part of the sugar, and strew it over them; let them stand all night; dissolve the rest of the sugar in half a pint of the juice of currants; set it over a slow fire, and put in the sugared cherries, and give them a gentle scald; let stand all night again ; and then give them another scald; then take them care- fully out, and boil the syrup till it is thick ; pour it upon the cherries; if it be too thin, boil again. MORELLA WINE. — Free from the stalks 60 lbs. of Morelia cher- ries, and bruise them, so that the stones shall be broken. Press out the juice, and mix with 6 gallons of sherry wine, 5 lbs. of fine sugar, and 4 gallons of warm water. Powder 1 oz. each of nutmeg, cinnamon, and mace, hang them separately in small bags in the casks containing the mixture. Bung, and in a few weeks it will be a delici- ously flavoured wine. Add z quart of French brandy. MOTHS, to Preserve Clothes from.—Put a few cuttings of Russia leather in your trunk or wardrobe; or sprinkle a few pepper-corns, pimento- corns, or cloves in the same places. Or, a piece of camphor in a linen bag. Or, sheets smeared with tur- pentine, and well dried. Cedar wood and tobacco leaves are very noxious to moths. It is effectual to wrap clothes in cotton or old linen saturated with a solution of camphor, and dried. Or, mix together Z2 drops of the oil of cloves, and 12 of the oil of caraway, 6 drops of the oil of lavender, a glass of whiskey, and a piece of camphor. Sprinkle with it. -Ot a mixture of powdered borax, dissolved in warm water. MOUNTAIN WINE. —Free Malaga raisins from stalks ; chop them small, and put 5 lbs. to every gallon of cold spring water; infuse a fortnight, or more, stirring it occasionally ; press out the liquor, and torrel it; previously fume the vessel with brimstone. Do not bung till the hissing is over. Put half a pint of French brandy to every gallon of wine. MOUSE TRAP, a Never Failing one.—Take a piece of deal, or any kind of wood, about 6 inches broad, and 9 or zo inches long, and put into the sides, about the middle, 2 pins, or thick pieces of round wire; then take two sticks about two feet long, and lay them on the table, or dresser, &c., with a notch cut at the end of each stick, so that about one half of the board may lie on the table, or place to which the mice resort; let the end projecting from the table be baited with cheese, &c., and when the mice run off the table to the bait, it will tip them into a vessel three fourths full of water, which must be placed directly