BAC 35 AUN pound Infusion of Gentian, 6 ounces ; Aromatic Spirit or Ammonia, 2 drachms, mix, and take a table spoonful three times a day ; with the following Aperient at bed-time ;—Compound Rhubarb Pill, 4 grains; Sulphate of Quinine, 4 grains ; Cayenne Pepper, 2 grains ; make into 3 or 4 pills. In this disease, fresh air should be obtained, and abundant exercise in the open air. Keep the bowels regular, and always combine a tonic with a purgative. The diet must be light and nutritious. If the disease arises from a venereal taint, (alas 1 how many monstrous pa- rents thus infect their children !) then Sarsaparilla will be useful. See article Venereal, in Robinson's Herbal; the same course will, in a great measure, be applicable to Atrophy. If the disease proceeds from worms, then Anthelmin- tics must be administered. Sometimes Atrophy is produced by suckling too long, which must be aban- doned, or it will cause wasting, and ultimately consumption. The child should be weaned immediately, and out- door exercise in a pure atmosphere, and a course of tonics should be taken immediately. AUNT NELLY’S PUD- DING.—Half a pound of flour, half pound of treacle, six ounces of chop- ped suet, the juice and peel of one lemon, 4 table-spoonfuls of cream, two or three eggs. Mix and beat all to- gether. Boil in a basin, (previously well buttered) four hours.—For sauce, melted butter, a wine-glassful of Sherry, and two or three table-spoonfuls of apricot jam. AVENS.—Thisplantis astringent, styptic, tonic, febrifuge, stomachic, and it is very applicable to all fevers, and promotes digestion. This plant is use- ful in dysentery, a lax state of the bowels, asthma, colics, debility, sore throat, &c., &c. It is the opinion of an eminent physician, that its continued use restores strength to the most shat- tered and enfeebled constitutions. De- coction, sweetened with sugar and milk, makes a very pleasant beverage, having much of the taste of coffee or chocolate. Take half a pint of the decoction at a time ; and about forty or fifty grains of the powder daily. — See Robinson's Herbal. AVOIRDUPOIS WEIGHT. 16 Drams .. 1 .. 1 Ounce. 16 Ounces 1 Pound. 14 Pounds 1 Stone. 28 Pounds, or 2 stones 1 Quarter. 4 Quarters or 8 stones or 112 pounds 1 Hundred weight 20 Hundred weights ... 1 Ton. By this weight nearly all the neces- . saries of life are weighed ; bread, cheese, butter, meat, groceries, coal, &c. B. BACHELOR’S CAKE.—One pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of butter or lard, four wine-glassfuls of milk, half a pound of Sultana raisins, quarter of a pound of currants, the same of candied peel, a quarter of a nutmeg, two teaspoonfuls of ground ginger, one of cinnamon, and one of carbonate of soda. These in- gredients being well mixed, and slowly baked for an hour and a half, will form a very nice cake. BACK, Strain in the—The first th'ng is rest; take night and morning 15 or 20 drops of the balsam of capiva. If the part is inflamed, apply cold water cloths. Let the bowels be kept gently open by aperients. * When the in- flammation is gone, rub the part with the Stimulating Liniment, page 378. The application of the Plaster for the Stomach, or the Warm Plaster, page3ro,wili be found useful. BACKGAMMON.—This game is played by two persons, with a box and dice upon a table divided into two parts, upon which there are twelve black and twelve white points. Each player has fiteen men, black and white, to distinguish them, which are thus placed :—If you play into the right- hand table, two upon the ace point in your adversary’s table ; five upon the six-point in the opposite table; three upon the cinque point of the nearest table ; and five on the six point in your own table. The grand point is to bring the men round into your own table ; all throws that contribute towards it, and prevent your opponent doing the like, are ad vantageous to you, and vice-versa. The best throw upon the dice is the aces, as it stops the six point in the outer table, and secures the cinque in