BLOOD-ROOT 69 BLOOD-ROOT It Is in general use all over America, as one of the most active expectorants. Dr. Leonard observes, that its acrimony renders it powerful in removing the tenacious phlegm, and which it is our object to get rid of. Dr. Wood, of Philadelphia—a name honoured in America, and well knowg, in Europe— recommends the tincture, among other remedies, as well adapted for this com- plaint, four to six times a day, kept just within the nauseating point. It is used extensively in the various hospitals in Canada, and is found truly valuable as a remedy. Its value in bronchitis I have known for some years, and have found it more serviceable than many other ex- pectorants, and one that promotes the expulsion of mucus in such a manner as to afford very great relief, with a feeling of warmth and comfort to the patient. Catarrh, is much benefited by this remedy. Equal parts of the tincture and of paregoric were found by Dr. Tully to afford most marked relief. It produces a warmth about the chest, which the patients find agreeable. It is much employed in cold in the head, pro- moting the discharge of mucous, and im- parts a pleasing sense of warmth to the whole head. Dr. R. P. Stevens speaks highly of its virtues in this affection, combined with cloves and camphor, and taken as snuff. As a gargle it is very efficacious. Asthma. The paroxysms of asthma are much relieved by it. I gave it with advantage to a female aged 57, who had been asthmatic since the change of fife in 1850, and who suffered from frequent diarrhoea and dyspnoea, or difficult breathing. It completely dispelled an asthmatic cough in a female of 30, who had aborted a few weeks before. Among other cases, was a girl of 13, with hereditary asthma, and symptoms of stone in the bladder. She passed her water in bed, was fretful and irritable, and the urine was loaded with lithates. She rapidly improved under a suitable pectoral mixture and the com- pound sanguinaria powders, and in a little while was restored to perfect health. Its efficacy in asthma is confirmed by other observers, amongst them may be mentioned Dr. Eberle, who speaks well of it.—It is most valuable in Hooping Cough. It should be combined with camphorated tincture of opium. Croup. Dr. Nathan Smith and others speak of it as a sovereign remedy in this disease. Dr. Bird recommends its use in the membranous stage, as an emetic, in the form of decoction. It expels the false membrane, and pro- duces a stimulating effect upon the mouth and fauces. Dr. Barton pro- nounces it an excellent remedy in malig- nant sore throat, croup, and similar affections, in the form of an emetic and stimulating expectorant. Dr. Ives re- commends it as highly useful in the first stage of croup, and must be given so as to produce vomiting. He observes that many physicians have relied, for years, wholly upon it as a remedy for croup. Diphtheria. Of the three forms of this disease, the simple, croupal, and malignant, it is in the two last that the sanguinaria will be found especially use- ful. In my own practice, I employ this Substance as an emetic in the croupal form ; it acts with energy, and produces a thrilling effect upon the entire mucous membranes of the fauces and respiratory tract, with a feeling of warmth. It alone, seems to impart vitality to the suffering throat, and I recommend it with the very greatest confidence. In the malignant form of diphtheria, besides the most active treatment, as hydrochloric acid to the throat, &c., a gargle, of a Warm decoction of sanguin- aria in vinegar, is invaluable. Scarlatina. Dr. Tully has used the decoction as a gargle with benefit, and Dr. Stevens, of Ceres, denved great benefit from full emetic doses of the decoction in the malignant form of scar- latina. It removes the morbid secretions of the mucous membrane of the stomach, oesophagus, and fauces, and tends to break up the morbific influence of the disease. In an epidemic of scarlatina, with symptoms of the most alarming character, Dr. R. G. Jennings, of Vir- ginia, after the failure of almost every thing else, including nitrate of silver, found gargles of the infusion of sanguin- aria in vinegar most efficacious. They effectually cleansed the throat of viscid secietion, and afforded much comfort to the suffering patients, allaying all irrita- tion.