116 CEL CEM or infuse the root in the same for 24 hours, then take out, squeezing out all the liquor, and infuse more root in the same liquor to make it stronger. A few drops will flavour broth, soup, &c. CELERY SAUCE.—Wash well the inside leaves of three heads of celery, cut them into slices quarter inch thick, boil for six minutes, and drain ; take a table-spoonful of flour, two ounces of butter, and a tea-cupful of cream ; beat well, and when warm, put in the celery, and stir well over the fire about twelve minutes. This sauce is very good for boiled fowl, &c. CELERY VINEGAR.—Infuse the root in best vinegar, for 48 hours, rear a fire, and renew, as needful.— Cress, Mustard, Parsley, &c., vinegar, may be made in the same way. CEMENT.—Asphaltum and a small quantity of india-rubber dissolved in refined naptha, make an adhesive cement, not affected by water. CEMENT.—A little ground borax mixed with plaster of Paris makes an excellent cement for many purposes. It is, simply mixed up into a plastic con- sistency, then applied with a trowel. It soon hardens. CEMENT.—A Strong Repair- ing.—Professor Edmund Davy pro- poses as an excellent cement for repair- ing gutters, drain-pipes, pumps, &c., two parts of common pitch melted with one part of gutta percha. This com- pound is in many cases preferable to gutta percha alone, and may be dryed and preserved for use. To apply it to metal gutters or pipes, they should be warmed with a hot iron, and the cement be poured upon the leaky places. It is equally applicable to wood, glass, por- celain, ivory, leather, parchment, and a number of other substances. CEMENT, Durable.—Common clay well dryed and powdered, then mixed with oil; it will last years. CEMENT, for Glass to Resist Heat.—Equal parts of wheat flour, finely powdered glass, and powdered chalk; add half as much brick dust, scraped lint, and white of eggs. CEMENT, FOR ROOMS.— SI. Sorel has recently discovered a pro- perty possessed by oxychloride of zinc, which renders it superior to plaster of Paris for coating the walls of rooms. It is thus applied :—"A coat of oxide of zinc mixed with size, and made up like a wash, is first laid on the wall, ceiling, or wainscot, and over that a coat of chloride of zinc is applied, being pre- pared in the same way as the first wash. The oxide and chloride effect an imme- diate combination, and form a kind of cement, smooth and polished as glass, and possessing the advantages of oil paint, without its disadvantages of smell, &c." The inventor further sug- gests the employment of oxychloride of zinc as a paint for iron, and also to stop hollow teeth, for which its plasticity and subsequent hardness and impenetrability to the moisture of the mouth, render it particularly applicable. CEMENT, for Joining Mar- ble, Stone, &c,—Hold the fractured parts to the fire, and then apply shellac and sulphur, melted together. This holds firmly. CEMENT, for Joining Steam- Pipes.—Boiled linseed oil, litharge, and white or red lead, mixed up to a proper consistence, and applied to each side of a piece of flannel, or linen, and placed between the pieces before they are joined. This will effectually join broken stones, and the seams of a water cistern, &c. CEMENT, for Joining Steam Joints.—Sublimed sulphur, 1 oz.; sal-ammoniac, z ozs.; fine cast-iron turnings, 1 lb. Mix, and keep dry. When it is to be used, mix with it 20 times its bulk of clean iron turnings or filings; and grind ail in a mortar. Mix to a proper consistence with water. CEMENT, for repairing Cop- per Boilers.—Mix powdered lime and ox-blood intimately, and apply while fresh. CEMENT, for Mending Broken Vessels.—To half a pint of milk put a sufficient quantity of vinegar, in order to curdle it; separate the curd from the whey, and mix the whey with the whites of 4 eggs, baking the whole well together ; when mixed, add a little quicklime through a sieve until it ac- quires the consistency of a paste. With this cement, broken vessels or cracks can be repaired ; it dries quickly, and resists the action of fire and water.