*56 DAN DAW tlemen to the left, meet your partners, advance, and set back again, forming two lines, all advance and retire, turn partners to places. Grand chain at finish. Mazourka.—This a Polish dance, The position is the same as for a quad- rille. Eight bars of music are played before commencing each figure. The gentlemen take their ladies by the hand round to the left; at the end of which the ladies pass to the left of their part- ners, without leaving their hands. Set, by all the couples turning twice round in their places, and changing hands at the second turn; at the end of which the ladies resume their places. The first gentleman then leads his partner forward, and make her pass from one hand to another, round him. They set in the centre, turning ; the gentleman doing the step holupca, while the lady, whose left hand he holds with his left hand, behind his back, and the right before passes round him. They change hands and turn, with the same steps, in a contrary direction. This last turn must be finished opposite to the side couple on his left, with whom the gen- tleman exchanges partner and performs the same figure, which he afterwards repeats with the other two ladies. The other gentlemen, each in turn, dance the sarv.e figure. Figure 2 Right and left with side couple. Set, turning ; the ladies having previously passed to the left of their partners. The first gentleman leads his partner and the lady on his left forwards and round the circle. When they have reached the centre of it, he gives a stamp with his foot, on the eighth bar ; at the same moment both ladies pirouette rapidly, and place at the end, their arm in attitude on the gentleman's shoulder. The three set, turning and going back to their places ; the gentleman holding the two ladies by the waist, immediate- ly after the pirouette. The other gentle- men repeat the same figure. Figure j Right and left all round. The first gentleman leads bis partner all round, and kneels at the end of this promenade. Holding his lady by the left hand, be makes her pass round him, and rises quickly at the eighth bar. Set in turning. The other gentlemen do the same. Finish by Kolo, or hands round to the right. Galopade.—First Figure. -Ladies chain half double ; turn comers ; then first couple advance and salute; same with opposite partners ; second, third, and fourth couple the same figure ; half double ladies' chain, turn comers ; four ladies advance to the centre, and salute to the left; four gendemen perform the same figure ; half promenade to places ; turn partners. Second Figure.—Le Grand promenade with galopade A-la-chasse ; top and bot- tom couples lead to right, and set, hands four round ; separate into two lines; the first gentleman and opposite lady lead down the centre, other couples following, and return outside; finish with quick galopade step. Third Figure.—All turn with right hand to partners ; set in a circle, and turn to places ; first couple advance and leave the lady at left of opposite gentle- man ; salute round with partner ; then with opposite lady ; hands four round to places; turn partners; half chassez croisez ; turn comers ; repeat the same to places. Waltz Finale.—Balances, turn cor- ners, each lady taking next lady’s place ; repeat the figure until each lady is with her partner; first couple advance and retire with the partner at left; reel with the same lady ; ladies waltz quite round to the right; gentlemen at the same waltz half round to left; ladies’ hands across half round, give left hand to partner ; set and turn to partners; waltz to places. Country Dance.—Dashing white Sergeant. The leading lady and gentleman cross, and pass round below the second couple ; they then turn with the right hand, halting between the second couple ; the four then form a line, the second couple being outside, advance and retire ; advance again, and turn down the middle and back again, and chassez; remaining couples con- tinue the figure. The above is one of the most elegant Country dances, and when danced by a good number has a very imposing effect. Polka. — The Gentleman places his right hand on the lady’s waist,