ANI ANG *9 general they are safe, except the patient has piles ; and in pregnancy it is better to use other purgatives. ANGLING.—The rod ought to be light and taper, and from 4 to 6 yards long. The line in strength, should be according to the fish you angle for. When shots are used fasten them about 1 foot from the hook. For your float take two goose quils, cut the head off each, about 1% inches long, put a pill of shoemaker’s wax in the end of each, to keep out the wet, then shut them to- gether like a needle-case, and fasten the joint with the same kind of wax ; cut 3 caps from a larger quill, to slip on each end of the float, after you have passed the fine through them. Some anglers use cork floats; bore the cork with a red hot wire, into which insert a small quill, on which you must fit two caps, to attach it to the line. Have your tackling in good order, go to the river, provided with a panier, a landing net and a penknife, &c,, then look for a place with a smooth gravelly bottom, and about 3 or 3 yards in depth, cast in your line and await the result. For ground angling bait your hook with a corn and use it only morning and evening, in hot sunny weather, if cloudy, then at any time of day. In winter, choose the middle of the day, and where the sun is on your face warm, bait with a little white-tailed worm found in rotten thatch. Eyes of fish are a good bait. For angling after a shower, have the wind on your back, coming from the south or west, sun in your face. When the earth is hot and dry, it is no use angling; or after sudden showers, or when the north or east winds blow cold and strong. The best time to angle is, when the weather is calm and clear, or cool and cloudy, with little wind. The best months for fly-fishing are from March to June. For carp or tench fish from sun-rising till 8 or 0 In the morning, and from 4 in the afternoon till night. They bite best after a gentle shower of rain, when the water is not muddled. Salmon bite best at about 3 in the afternoon, from May to September, the water should be clear, and a little wind. Barbel bite best in the early mom, from May to August. Pike bite best at 3 in the afternoon in August and September, and through the winter all day ; and at early morn from April to July. Perch bite all day in cool cloudy weather, from 8 till 10 in the morning, and from 3 till 5 in the afternoon. Bream bite from 5 to 9 in the morning, in muddy water and a brisk wind, and in ponds the stronger the wind the better; fish in the middle of the pond, in June, July, and August. Roach and Dace bite all day. Eels—angle for them on a rainy or gloomy day, especially after thunder, the line must be strong and have an armed hook. Gudgeon bite in April, and until Spawing time in May, all day long. Flounders bite from April to July, in a swift stream, and in still deep water. Trout bite best in muddy water, in cloudy, windy weather, from 8 till 10 in a morning, and from 3 till 5 in the after- noon ; March till June are the principal months. After you have caught the first fish, cut it open with a sharp knife, take out the stomach and see what kind of food it is taking, as a guide for your success. Keep out of sight, when you fish, let the sun be in your face, or you will have little sport, for if the sun is on your back the shadow of the rod will frighten them. To take worms stick a poker or round piece of iron in the ground, shake the earth well and the worms will start out. For Artificial flies, tackling &c., see price list of some respectable maker. ANIMAL FOOD.—Man is called a camiverous animal. Where animal food is seldom or not allowed, mortality is great, and disease rife. One of the most common forms of disease generated by an exclusively vegetable diet is scro- fula, and when traceable to this cause, the most speedy remedy is the addition of animal food to the diet. There are also many other forms of disease pro-