AST 32 AST to be taken every four hours, with the following Pills:— Precipitated Iron, 3 grains; Extract of Hemlock, 3 grains ; Gum Ammoniac, 4 grains ; Oil of Aniseed, two drops. Mix, and divide into two or three Pills. Keep the bowels open by any of the aforementioned Aperients. But if the patient is affected with Diarrhoea, a frequent attendant on the last stage of this malady, the following may be sub- stituted for the preceding tonic mix- ture :—Compound Tincture of Rhatany, 1 ounce ; Lime water, 6 ounces ; Laud- anum, 30 drops. Mix. Three table- spoonfuls to be taken every three hours ; if it does not restrain diarrhoea, add to the above 1 or 3 ounces of Decoction of Logwood. Should a distressing pain affect the integuments of the head, or the back of the head, a small blister will give relief, Or, take Ammoniated Tincture of Valerian, two drachms ; Tincture of Castor, a drachm ; Laudanum,, thirty drops ; Camphor Mixture, one ounce; Syrup of Tolu, one diachm. Mix, This is the most valuable for spasmodic '■flections. ASTHMA, Treatment of.—For its cure or relief, see my Herbal, under the following articles; they are first- rate remedies for this disease ; — Asa- foetida, Black Byrony, But ter-Bur, Chervil, Coffee, Colt’s foot, Foxglove, Garlic, Horse-radish, Lobelia in two places, Meadow Saffron, Hedge Mus- tard, Myrrh, Thorn Apple, Thyme, and Skunk Cabbage. The smoking of Stramonium, known as Thorn Apple, is particularly recom- mended, the vapour, if possible should be inhaled. It wonderfully allays mor- bid irritability, and the caloric which is taken with it, during the operation of smoking, powerfully promotes the secre- tion of mucus, and thus often speedily terminates the fit. If the patient is un- able to smoke it, the vapours of a strong decoction of it may be inhaled, by breathing over it as soon as it is taken off the fire. Boil an ounce in a pint of water; as soon as it boils, take it off the fire; it should be made in a close vessel. Hedge Hyssop) is an excellent remedy. It powerfully allays the morbid irrita- tion of the lungs, promotes expectora- tion, obviates costiveness, strengthens the stomach, and increases the secre- tion of urine, and perspiration of the skin. A strong decoction of it, com- bined with Carraway, or Aniseed, is the best form of administration. Before and during the fit the patient iould immerse his feet in warm water, awd drink warm simple beverages, as balm tea, barley water, &c., with two or three tea-spoonfuls of iEther, or of aromatic spirit of Ammonia. What- ever tends to quiet the nervous system, is of the greatest service; though ac- tive remedies should be applied with the greatest caution. Washing the head with warm water has been of very great service ; and sometimes sneezing, produced by snuff, made of Asarabacca, has suddenly terminated the paroxysm. If the chest be much pained, foment with hot flannels, or apply a bran or oatmeal poultice. Very strong Coffee is much recommended if the attack is violent; combine with it 10 or 15 drops of laudanum, half a drachm of iEther, and two drops of oil of mint. This mixture may be taken several times during the day. The following pills are valuable in Asthma;—Ipecacuanha powder, 6 grains ; James’s Powder, is grains; Camphor, 15 grains; Extract of Henbane, or Syrup, to form into 10 or is Pills. One or two may be taken 'every hour, or less frequently. Asthmatics are veiy subject to accu- mulation of inflammable air in the in- testines which renders an aperient necessary. Distension of the stomach or intestines from any cause is a source of great distress to the patient, by me- chanically preventing the motion of the diaphragm. Therefore, take of Com- pound Colocynlh Pill, 1 drachm ; pre- pared Calomel, 8 grains ; Asafcetida half a drachm, or more. Divide into 15 or 20 Pills ; take two or three occa- sionally. But probably the best Aper- ient is Castor Oil given in peppermint, or weak Brandy and water. To hasten the termination of the Paroxysm, rubbing the scalp with Camphorated Sal Volatile, and im- mersing the feet in warm water are often useful. Vomiting excited in the evening will sometimes, by unloading the stomach, promoting expectoration, and increasing perspiration, prevent the