HAR HKA 207 an onion stuck with cloves, an anchovy, 1 lb. of beef, % lb. of bacon, sweet herbs, salt, nuuneg ; cover with water ; stew till the hare is tender; strain the sauce into a clean pan, and put in the hare again with the sauce ; take butter the sue of a walnut, rolled in flour, a table-spoonful of ketchup, and two of red wine. Stew till it is thick and smooth. HARNESS, to Clean.—Free it from all dirt, sweat, and grease. Then use Bristol-brick, or rotten stone, and pulverized charcoal, and a little Galipoli oil. Apply it with a soft brush, wipe off, and polish off with charcoal dust. The Brass Ornaments may be cleaned with half ounce of oxalic tin, half a pint of water, and half a pint of naptha. Then polish off with sal-ammoniac pow- dered, before a hot fire, and then with fine whiting. When the harness is faded, it may be restored by a mixture of logwood and bichromate of potass, cr aleppo galls, powdered, with a little alum. HARNESS POLISH.—Take 2 ozs. of mutton suet, 6 ozs. of bees’ wax, 6 ozs. of powdered sugar-candy, 2 ozs. of soft soap, and 1 oz. of indigo or lamp black. Dissolve the soap in a quarter of a pint of water ; then add the other ingredients; melt and mix together; add a gill of turpentine. Lay it on the harness with a sponge, and polish off with a brush. HARROGATE WATER, Artificial.—Dissolve half a drachm of liver of sulphur, and 1 oz. of tartarised kali in 1 quart of pure soft water. It is as good as the real Harrogate water. Take a wine-glassful now and then. Useful in chronic rheumatism, skin dis- eases, and piles. HARTSHORN JELLY.— Simmer 8 ozs. of hartshorn shavings with two quarts of water to one ; strain, and boil it with the rinds of four oranges and two lemons pared thin ; when cool, add the juice of both, % lb. of sugar, and the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth ; let the jelly have three or four boils without stirring, and strain it through a jelly-bag. HASTY PUDDING. —Rub down a table-spoonful of flour in a little cold milk, then stir it into a pint of boiling milk; sweeten with sugar, and serve hot. Another is made by stirring flour into boiling water, into which a little salt has been put. It is served with treacle, or sugar, or sugar and butter. It is good for a lax state of the bowels, without treacle. HASTY PUDDING, Baked. —Into a pint of cold milk stir % lb. of flour, and boil up ; let it stand till cold ; then add two eggs beaten; mix well with sugar to sweeten, and spices ; put into cups and bake. HATS. — When silk hats are wetted by the rain, shake it off, and wipe round frequently with a silk hand- kerchief, and when dry with a soft brush. HAY, to ascertain the Weight of.—Measure the length and breadth of the stack ; then take its height from the ground to the eaves, and add to this last one third of the height from the eaves to the top. Multiply the length by the breadth, and the product by the height, expressed in feet; divide the amount by 27, to find the cubic yards, which mul- tiply by the number of stones supposed to be in a cubic yard (viz : in a stack of new bay, six stones ; if the stack has stood a considerable time, eight stones; and if old hay, nine stones), and you have the weight in stones. For exam- ple, suppose a stack to be 60 feet in length, 30 in breadth, 12 in height, from the ground to the eaves, and 9 (the third of which is 3) from the eaves to the top ; then 60 multiplied by 30 and by 15, is equal to 27,000: 27,000, is divided by 27, is equal to 1,000 ; and i.ooo, multi- plied by 9, is equal to 9,000 stones ol old hay. HEADACHE. — Take a small handful of centaury, and as much fever- few, and one ounce of camomile flowers, to two quarts of water; boil to one quart; then add while hot half an ounce of rhubarb, and stir well. Dose—a wine- lassful three times a day.—Wear the air short, often wash the head in cold water, rub the hair dry, and keep the head uncovered as much as possible. Sometimes headache proceeds from a torpid liver; in that case, take extract of colocynth and blue pill, of each % a drachm, aud 4 drops of the oil of cloves.