H OR MOT 213 USEFUL HORSE RECIPES. Horse Ointment.—Resin 4 ozs.; bees’ wax, 3 ozs. ; hog’s lard % lb.; turpentine, 6 ozs. ; dissolve in a pipkin with a gentle heat; then add 3 ozs. of fine verdigris, stir well together, and strain the whole through a coarse cloth : cool for use. This is a good ointment for a wound, or bruise in flesh or hoof, broken knees, galled backs, bites, crack- ed heels, mallenders, or, when a horse is gelded to heal and keep off the flies. Purge for a Horse.—Aloes 1 oz.; rhubarb, 2 drs. ; oil of mint, 4 drops, made into a ball with honey. Cordial for a Horse.—If the horse is weak through travel, give him a pint of warm ale, with 1 oz. of diapente in it. Diapente will comfort his bowels, drive out cold and wind, and may cause him to carry his food the longer.—Dia- pente is composed of gentian root, bay berries, bay leaves, birthwort, mint, and snyrrh. Sore Back.—If the saddle bruises his back and makes it swell, a greasy dishcloth laid on hot, and a cloth over it, bound on fifteen minutes, (with a surcingie), and repeated once or twice, will sink it flat. If it is slight, wash it with a little salt and water only. Alter the saddle, that it may not press upon the tender part, for a second bruise will be worse than the first. Splint.—The splint is a fixed, callous, bony excrescence, growing upon the flat of the inside or outside, of the shark bone ; a little under, and not far from the knee, and may be seen and fdt-—Cure. To take it off, first cut the hair close, then gently beat it with a round rule until it appears hot to the touch, then rub hard soap all around the edge of the splint, to prevent the blister affecting any other part, and apply on the splint the following blister ointment: mercurial ointment, 1 oz.; Spanish flies, 2 drs. ; mixed well to- gether ; a little of this may be applied once a week until the splint is removed. Spavin.—The spavin is of the same nature, and appears in like man- ner, on the instep bone behind, not far below the hough.—Cure. The same blister as recommended for splints ; if it fails, firing and taming the horse to grass for 3 months, is the best method. HORSES, to Water.—Water is as necessary to a horse as food, and horses are found to thrive better by having water ad libitum than by being stinted. The best way is to have the manger divided, so that corn may be in one half and the water in the other ; by this plan the horse takes the water as he wants it, and not when it is offered to him. The plan of having clean water in the manger has been tried by a great number of the London merchants, and found to answer admirably. HORSERADISH SAUCE.— Grate very small a stick of horseradish ; then with two tablespoonfuls of it, mix a little salt, and four tablespoonfuls of cream ; stir briskly, and add gradually a wineglassful of vinegar, and sherry wine. Excellent with cold roast beef. Another.—Grate horseradish into a basin, then add three tablespoonfuls of cream, a teaspoonful of mustard, and a little salt. Mix well with half a cupful of vinegar, to which has been put a little melted butter, a little gravy, and some mushroom, or walnut ketchup. Season with clove, black, or cayenne pepper. HORSERADISH VINEGAR. —To 3 ozs. of scraped horseradish, put a quart of best vinegar, 1 oz. of minced shalot, and 1 dr. of cayenne. Let it stand a week. HOSIER BISCUIT.-One pint of new milk. Stir in a teaspoonful of salt, and flour, until it becomes a stiff batter ; add two tablespoonfuls of yeast; let it rise in a warm place as much as it will. Then stir in a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of potass dissolved in hot water; beat up three eggs ; stir them,, and flour with the batter till it becomes thick dough ; let it rise; knead again; cut for biscuits ; bake in a quick oven. HOTCH-POTCH.—Stew peas, lettuce, and onions in a little water with a beef or ham bone. While these are doing, fry mutton or lamb steaks brown; forty minutes before dinner put the steaks into a stew-pan, and the vegeta- bles over them ; stew, and serve in a tureen.—A knuckle of veal and a scrag of mutton, stewed with vegetables, as above, will make a nice hotch-potch. HOTCH-POTCH, of Different Kinds.—Take a brisket of beef, or mutton steaks or pigeons, rabbits cut in