BRO 77 BRE teen or twenty drops of laudanum, or six or eight grains of the extract of hen- bane at bed-time. Let the diet be light and sparing, the exercise gentle, the mind be kept easy, and avoid all spirituous and heating liquors. Dr. Beach says, ' Nothing is so well calculated to remove this affection per- manently, as a long-continued course of purgation; even where it arises from disease or ossification of the coronary arteries of the heart. All mental exer- tion, violent exercise, overeating, ardent spirits, and excessive venery—indeed, all excesses, must be carefully avoided —cold and wet should especially be guarded against. The diet should be fight and easy of digestion.” BRENTFORD ROLLS.—Mix with two pounds of flour a little salt, two ounces of sifted sugar, four ounces of butter, and two eggs, beaten with two spoonfuls of yeast, and about a pint of milk. Knead the dough well, and set it to rise before the fire. Make twelve rolls, butter tin plates, and set them before the fire to rise, till they become of a proper size; then bake half an hour. BREWER’S BITTERS. Quassia, two parts; cocculus indicus, one part; Italian juice, one part; water, twenty-five parts. Boil until re- duced to twenty parts, then add cop- peras, one part. Boil to a syrup. Or, extract of quassia, extract of cocculus indicus, extract of liquorice, sulphate of iron, equal parts. This preparation is used for the same purpose as the last, and also to give an appearance of strength to weak liquor. BRIDE CAKE. —Take four pounds of fine flour well dried, four pounds of fresh butter, and two pounds of loaf sugar. Potfbd and sift fine quarter of an ounce of mace, and the same of nutmeg ; and to every pound of flour, put eight eggs well beaten. Wash four pounds of currants, pick them well, and dry before the fire. Blanch one pound of sweet almonds, and cut them lengthways very thin, take one pound each of citron, candied orange, and candied lemon, and half a pint of brandy. First work the butter to a cream with your hand, then beat In the sugar a quarter of an hour, and work up the whites of the eggs to a strong froth. Mix them with the sugar and butter, beat the yolks half an hour at least, and mix them with your other ingredients.—Then put in the flour, mace, and nutmeg, and beat it well till the oven is ready ; put in the brandy, and beat in lightly the currants and almonds. Tie three sheets of paper round the bottom of the hoop, to keep it from running out, and rub it well with butter. Then put in the cake, and place the sweetmeats in three layers, with some cake between every layer, As soon as it is risen and coloured, cover it with paper and bake it in a moderate oven for three hours. BRITANNIA METAL, to Clean.—If very dirty, rub them gently with rotten stone and water ; then with oil, turpentine, and whiting ; finish off with dry whiting. Some persons moisten with oil, and polish with fine whiting, or finely pow- dered rotten stone. See Ammonia. BRITISH CHAMPAGNE, to Make. — Take gooseberries before they are ripe, crush them with a mallet in a wooden bowl, and to every gallon of fruit put a gallon of water; let it stand two days, stirring it well; squeeze the mixture thoroughly with the hands, through a loop sieve ; then measure the liquor, and to every gallon put three pounds and a half of loaf sugar ; mix it well in the tub, and let it stand one day ; put a bottle of the best brandy into the cask, which leave open five or six weeks, taking off the scum as it rises; then make it up, and let it remain one year in the barrel before it is bottled. The proportion of brandy is one pint to seven gallons. BROCCOLI, to Boil.—Peel the thick skin off the stalks, and boil for nearly a quarter of an hour, with a little bit of soda, then put it in salt, and boil five minutes more. Broccoli and savoys taste better when a little bacon is boiled with them. BRONCHIAL TROCHES.— Powdered extract of liquorice, four ounces ; sugar, two ounces ; powdered cubebs, one ounce; gum Arabic, hall an ounce; powdered hemlock, one drachm. Mix.