104 CARDS CARDS plays a different one, the antagonist may call a suit. The player who looks at any card be- longing to the stock is liable to have a suit called. POPE JOAN, Game of.—The game of pope, or as it is sometimes j called, pope joan, is somewhat similar i® that of matrimony. It is played by a number of people, who generally use a board painted for this purpose, which may be purchased at almost any toy-shop. The eight of diamonds must first be taken from the pack, and, after arrang- ing the deal, shuffling, &c., the dealer dresses the board, as it is called, by putting fish, counters, or other stakes, one each to ace, king, queen, knave, and game; two to matrimony, two to intrigue, and six to the nine of dia- monds, styled "pope.” This dressing is in some companies at the individual expense of the dealer, though in others the players contribute two stakes each towards the same. The cards are next to be dealt round equally to each player, one turned up for trump, and about six or eight left in the stock to form stops ; as for example, if the ten of spades is turned up, the nine consequently be- comes a stop. The four kings, and the seven of diamonds, are always fixed stops ; and the dealer is the only person permitted in the course of the game to refer to the stock for information what other cards are stops in that respective deal. If either ace, king, queen, or knave happen to be the tumed-up tramps, the dealer takes whatever is deposited on that head ; but when pope is turned up, the dealer is entitled to both that and the game, besides a stake for every card dealt to each player. Unless the game is determined by pope being turned up, the eldest hand begins by playing out as many cards as possible; first the stops, then pope, if he has it, and afterwards the lowest cards of his longest suit; particularly an ace, for that can never be led through. The other players are to follow when they can, in sequence of the same suit, until a stop occurs; and the party having the said stop thereby becomes eldest hand, and is to lead accord- ingly, and so on until some person parts with all his cards, by which he wins the pool, which is game, and becomes en- titled besides to a stake for every card not played by the others, except from any one holding pope, which excuses him from paying ; but if pope has been j played previously, then the person having held it is not excused. King and queen form what is termed matrimony ; queen and knave make in- trigue, when in the same hand; but neither they, nor the ace, king, queen, knave, or pope, entitle the holder to the slakes deposited thereon unless played out. No claim can be allowed after the board is dressed for the succeeding deal; but in all such cases the stakes are to remain on the board for future deter- mination. This game only requires a little atten- tion to remember what stops have been made in the course of the same ; as for instance, suppose a player begins by laying down the eight of clubs, then the seven in some other hand forms the stop. Whenever clubs are led after that from any lower card, the holder may safely play it in order to clear his hand. PUT, Game of.—Put is usually played by two persons, with a complete pack of cards. In this game the cards rank differently from all others, the tray being the best; next the deuce, then ace, king, queen, knave, and so on in the usual order. After cutting for deal, &c., at which the best put card wins, three cards by one at a time are given to each player ; and the game is played in the following way. If the non-dealer throws up his cards he loses a point; if he plays, and the dealer does not lay down another to it, he gains a point; but should the dealer either win the same, pass it, or lay down one of equal value, forming what is called a tie, the non-dealer is still at liberty to " put,’’ that is, play or not, and his opponent only gains a point. Then if both parties agree to go on, whoever gains all the tricks, or two out of the three, wins five points, which constitute the game. If each player obtains one trick, and the third is a tie, then neither party must be allowed to score. Four-hand Pvt differs only in that au.s