BIS BIS 61 lemon ; put six yolks into the sugar, and beat them well; then beat the whites of eggs to snow, and add them ; mix well three spoonfuls of flour ; drop them into paper cases, and sift sugar over them. Bake in a slow oven. BISCUITS Naples and Savoy. —To one pound of loaf sugar, grated fine, add nine eggs, (take the whites out of two), add one pound of flour, beat your eggs very well, and then whisk your sugar and eggs together with a little rose water, add the flour and bake them long or round. BISCUITS, Orange Heart.— Put three quarters of a pound of powdered sugar into a basin, and thirty yolks of eggs; take seven preserved orange peels pounded very fine ; add a handful of sweet and a half a handful of bitter almonds pounded fine, and then mixed with a little orange flower water. Then put four eggs into the basin with the other ingredients, mix- ing them well, and beating until a fine froth arises. Then add half a pound of sifted flour to mix with the batter very lightly. Butter the moulds, fill them and sift a little powdered sugar over the top. Place in a quick oven, and empty the tins while hot. BISCUIT PIC NIC.—Into a pound of flour, work very small two ounces of butter, mix well with half a salt-spoonful of the finest carbonate of soda, two ounces of sugar, mix these thoroughly with the flour, and make up the paste with a few spoonfuls of milk, not more than quarter of a pint. Knead it very smooth and roll it quarter of an inch thick. BISCUITS, Plain.—Make a pound of flour, the yolk of an egg, and two ounces of sugar, and some milk into a very stiff paste; beat it well, and knead till quite smooth ; roll very thin, and cut into biscuits. Bake them in a slow oven till quite dry and crisp. BISCUIT POWDER. —Dry your biscuits in a slow oven, roll them, and grind them with a rolling-pin on a clean board, till reduced to powder. Sift it through a close hair sieve, and it is fit for use. BISCUITS, Rice.—Six ounces of fine sugar, half a pound of ground rice, six ounces of butter, six ounces of flour, and mix it into a paste with two eggs. Add a little lemon juice. Be careful in the baking. BISCUITS, Richmond. Flour, 2 lbs.; butter, lb., two eggs, and milk sufficient to make a thick paste; a little sugar, and a few cur- rants. Make the biscuits round, and half an ounce in weight. Bake in a quick oven; they will be brown in a minute or two. Previously steep the currants in hot water. Season if you like with cinnamon, &c. BISCUITS, Seed.—Flour, i lb. ; sugar, 4 ozs. ; caraway seeds, as many as you like ; half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda ; with milk and cream, or buttermilk, mix well, roll thin, and with the top of a wine-glass cut them out, and bake quickly. BISCUIT, SODA.—Put 2 tea- spoonfuls cream of tartar into a quart of flour, sift both through a fine sieve ; rub into the flour 2 ounces butter, 1 ounce of lard, add a small teaspoonful of salt to the lard ; thoroughly mix. Take a tea- spoonful of soda in just enough milk to dissolve it, and then pour to it 3 gills of sweet milk, and stir into the flour quickly, using the hands to it as little as possible. Lay the dough on a well- floured board; work it into shape lightly, roll out, cut in shape, prick and bake in a quick oven. By adding a little more shortening, this soda bis- cuit is excellent for the crust of straw- berry or any fruit short cake. BISCUIT, Spanish.—Beat the yolks of 8 eggs near half an hour, then beat in 8 spoonfuls of sugar; beat the whites to a strong froth, then beat them very well with yolks and sugar near half an hour; put in 4 spoonfuls of flour, and a little lemon cut very fine, and bake them on papers.’ BISCUITS, Spice.—Take three pounds of flour and three pounds of sweet almonds cut in half; add three ounces of cinnamon and mace pounded, and me pound of fine sugar. Mix. Take three pounds of loaf sugar, boil slightly in some water, and mix with the other ingredients, and pound to the consistency of paste, heat the oven very hot, cover a plate with three sheets of clean paper. Roll the paste to a form like a large rolliog-pin, place It on the