STR 381 STU At the same time, apply warm fomenta- tions to the lower part of the belly, and copious emollient and opiate injections are to be administered; as gruel, half a pint, sweet oil, 1 oz., and laudanum, 12 drops. STRAWBERRIES.—They have many valuable medical properties. They are diaphoretic, diuretic, diluent, cooling, pectoral, of great benefit to the lungs. In fever, on account of their refrigerant properties, they are very use- ful. Persons afflicted with gravel, scurvy, gout, and consumption, may be greatly benefited by them. They cure chilblains; the water is used in France as a wash for that purpose. • STRAWBERRIES, to Pre- serve whole.—Take equal weights of the fruit and refined sugar, lay the former in a large dish, and sprinkle half the sugar in fine powder over, give a gentle shake to the dish that the sugar may touch the whole of the fruit; next day make a thin syrup with the remain- der of the sugar, and instead of water allow one pint of red currant juice to every pound of strawberries; in this simmer them until sufficiently jellied. Choose the largest scarlets, or others when not dead ripe. STRAWBERRIES, to Pre- serve in Wine.—Put a quantity of the finest large strawberries into a goose- berry-bottle, and strew in three large spoonfuls of fine sugar; fill up with Madeira wine or fine sherry. STRAWBERRY SHERBET. —Take 1 lb. of fine strawberries, and crush them in a mortar; add to them 3 pints of water. Pour this into a basin with 2 small lemons sliced, and 2 table- spoonfuls of orange-flower water, to remain 4 hours. Put 1% lb. of loaf sugar into another basin; cover it with a cloth, through which pour the straw- berry juice to drain through ; gather up the cloth, and press out all the juice. When the sugar is dissolved, strain again. Put it to be iced, or add a wine- glassful of brandy. STRAW BONNETS, to Clean.—First brush them with soap and water; then with a solution of oxalic acid. Bleaching.—If they want bleach- ing, proceed thus : Get a deep box air- tight, If possible; place at the bottom a stone, on the stone a flat piece of iron red hot, or a pan of charcoal, on which scatter powdered brimstone; close the lid, and let the bonnets remain a night. There should be hooks in the box, on which to hang the bonnets. STRICTURE of the REC- TUM.—It often proceeds from cos- tiveness, and hardened foeces, which lacerate the parts in passing down the rectum; also by drastic purges, piles, &c. The rectum becomes partially or nearly closed by tumours or scirrhus, which renders evacuation very painful, except the foeces are in a very liquid state. Treatment. — Eat chiefly bread made of unsifted flour ; and small doses, twice or thrice a day, of Turkey rhubarb and magnesia; this aperient has no injurious effect; the same may be said of castor oil; they do not tend to con- stipation after promoting evacuation. The rectum may be dilated by the half of a small tallow candle, dipped in sweet oil; or by means of a bougie, sold by chemists. They should be inserted from 10 to 20 minutes. Occasionally take an Injection of slippery elm bark and castor oil; retain it as long as possible. Let the diet be mild, cooling, and easy of digestion ; and, if you value ease and comfort, avoid the use of all intoxi- cating drink—the great creators of piles, strictures, and diseases of the liver and heart. STURGEON, to Boil.—Water, 2 quarts ; vinegar, 1 pint; a stick of horseradish; a little lemon peel, salt, pepper, a bay leaf. In this boil the fish ; when the flesh is ready to leave the bones, take it up; melt % lb. of butter ; add an anchovy, some mace, a few shrimps, good mushroom ketchup, and lemon juice; when it boils, put in the dish; serve with the sauce; garnish with fried oysters, horseradish, and lemon. STURGEON, to Broil. —Cut slices, rub beaten eggs over them, and sprinkle them with crumbs of bread, parsley, pepper, and salt; wrap them in white paper, and broil gently. Use for sauce, butter, anchovy, and soy. STURGEON, to Dress Fresh. —Cut slices, rub egg over them, then