BIL BEL 58 has the option of starring ; but should he refuse, and more than one remain, the persons to whom they belong must draw lots for the star. 22 Should the striker’s ball stop on the spot of a ball removed, the ball which has been removed must remain in hand until the spot is unoccupied, and then be replaced. 23 Should the striker’s ball miss the ball played at, no person is allowed to stop the ball till it has ceased running, or struck another ball, except the striker who may stop the ball when he pleases. 24 If the striker should have his next player's ball removed and stop on the spot it occupied, the next player must give a miss from the baulk to any part of the table he thinks proper, for which miss he does not lose a life. 25 If the striker has a ball removed, and any other than the next player’s ball should stop on the spot it occupied, the ball removed must remain in hand till the one on its place be played, unless it should happen to be the turn of the one removed to play before the one on its place ; in which case that ball must give place to the one originally taken up; after which, it may be replaced. 26 If the corner of the cushion should prevent the striker from playing in a direct line, he can have any ball re- moved for the purpose of playing at a cushion first. 27 The two last players cannot star or purchase ; but they may divide, if they are left with an equal number of lives each ; the striker, however-, is en- titled to his stroke before the division. 28 All disputes to be decided by a majority of the players. 29 The charge for the play to be taken out of the Pool before it is de- livered up to the winner. BILLIARDS, Game of Pyra- mid Pool.—1 This game may be played with any number of balls, but it is generally played with sixteen; viz., fifteen red and one white. 2 At the commencement, the coloured balls are to be placed on the table in form of a triangle, the first ball to stand on the winning spot, which will form the point of the triangle nearest to the j centre of the table. 3 If more than two persons play, and i the number Is odd, each must play alternately; the rotation to be decided by stringing. The player holing the greater number of balls, to receive from each of the others (a certain sum per ball having been agreed upon) the differ- ence between their number and his. 4 If the number of players is even, they may form sides, when the partners may play alternately, or go out upon a hazard, miss, &c., being made, as may be previously agreed upon. 5 The players to string for the choice of lead—the leader to place his ball (the white) within the semicircle at the baulk, and to play at the coloured balls. 6 The next player plays with the white ball from the spot on which it was left by his opponent, except it should be off the table; in which case he plays from the baulk as at the com- mencement. 7 None but winning hazards can be made, and the same rules are generally to be observed as at common P00L 8 The player who pockets the greatest number of balls wins the game. 9 If the player give a miss—pocket the white balls, or force it over the table, he loses one; that is to say, he must place one of the coloured balls, which he has pocketed, on the winning spot, if unoccupied; if not it must be placed in a direct line behind it. 10 If the striker hole his own ball, or foFce it over the table, and at the same time pocket one or more of the coloured balls, or force them over the table, he gains nothing by the stroke ; the colour- ed balls so removed, must be replaced on the table, together with one of the striker’s coloured balls, as a penalty. 11 Should the striker losing a ball not have taken one, the first he holes must be placed on the table as in rule 9 ; should he not take one during the game he must pay for each ball so forfeited, as much as he is playing for per ball. 12 If the white ball touch a coloured one, the player may score all the colour- ed balls he pockets—he cannot give a miss. 13 Should the striker move any ball in talcing aim or striking, he loses all he might otherwise have gained by the stroke. 14 If the striker force one or more of the coloured halls over the table, be