MAC -45 MAC the bread of a fine colour. The bread should be in separated crumbs and look light. MACARONI DROPS.—Pound some sweet almonds very fine, and a few bitter ones with them ; add pound- ed sugar, '.and a few drops of orange flower-water, while pounding, to pre- vent oiliness; when done, mix with them their weight of sugar, and some whites of eggs, beaten four to each lb. of almonds and sugar; work well to- gether ; d p it upon white paper in small nc «nd bake in a gentle oven a short time. MACARONI PUDDING. — Simmer 3 ozs. of the pipe sort in a pint of milk, and a bit of lemon and cinna- mon, till tender; put it into a dish, with milk, two or three eggs, only one white, sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of peach-water, and half a glass of raisin- wine, Bake with a paste round the edges. A layer of orange marmalade, or raspberry jam, in a macaroni pudding, for change, is a great improvement; in which case omit the almond-water, or ratafia, with which you would otherwise flavour it. MACARONI SOUP.—Boil 1 lb. of the best macaroni in a quart of good stock till tender; take out half, and put it into another stew-pot. To the remainder add more stock, and boil it till you can pulp all the macaroni through a fine sieve. To these two liquors put a pint or more of cream boiling hot, the macaroni that was first taken out, and half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese ; make hot but do not boil. Serve with the crust of a French roll cut into bits the size of a shilling, or with nice crisp biscuits. MACAROONS, to Make. — Blanch 4 ozs. of almonds, and pound with four spoonfuls of orange flower- water ; whisk the whites of four eggs to a froth, then mix it, and 1 lb. of sugar, sifted with the almonds to a paste ; and laying a sheet of wafer-paper on a tin, put it on in different little takes, the shape of macaroons. MACAROON PIE, Raised.— Raise, ornament, and bake a crust; have ready some hot macaroons, stewed, and a white fricassee of chickens, in separate stew-pans, and put them alter- nately on the fire ; strew grated Parme- san cheese over it; put a slip of paper round the edge of the pie to prevent its burning. Brown the cheese, and serve it. MACASSAR OIL, to Make. —Take 3 quarts of olive oil, half a pint of spirits of wine, 3 ozs. of cinnamon powder, 3 ozs. of bergamot; put it into a largepipkin, and give it a good heat; take off the fire, and add oz. of alka- net-root, and keep it closely covered for several hours. filter through blotting paper. MACKEREL, to Boil.—Rub them with vinegar; when the water boils, put them in with a little salt, and boil gently 15 minutes. Serve with fennel and parsley chopped, boiled, and put into melted butter, and goose- berry sauce. MACKEREL, to Boil Whole. Wash them clean, cut off their heads, and pull out their roes at the neck end. Boil them in a little water; bruise them with a spoon, beat up the yolk of an egg, a little nutmeg, a little lemon-peel cut fine, some thyme, some parsley boiled and chopped fine, a little salt and pepper, and a few crumbs of bread. Mix well together, fill the dish with them. Flour [well, and broil. Serve with butter, ketchup, and walnut pickles. MACKEREL, to Collar.—Gut and slit the mackerel down the belly; cut off the head ; take out the bones ; lay it on its back; season with mace, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a handful of parsley shred fine ; strew it over them ; roll tight, and tie them separately in cloths ; boil twenty minutes in vinegar, salt and water ; take out; put them into a pot; pour the liquor upon them ; or the cloth will stick to the1 fish ; when cold take the cloth off; add a little more vinegar to the pickle; keep them for use. When sent to the table, garnish with fennel and parsley, and put some of the liquor under them. ( MACKEREL,to Pickle.—Take six large mackerels, and cut them into round pieces. Take 1 oz. of beaten pepper, three nutmegs, a little mace, and a handful of salt ; mix the salt and beaten spice together. Make two or three holes in each piece, and thrust the