RAB RAI 330 water, and with a sponge dipped in this solution, moisten the surface all over: repeat this every now and then for three days: when the skin is quite dry, take out the tacks, and rolling it loosely the long way, the hair inside, draw it quick- ly backwards and forwards through a large smooth ring, until it is quite soft, then roll it in the contrary way of the skin, and repeat the operation. Skins prepared thus are useful for many domestic purposes. RABBIT SOUP.—Cut two rabbits into joints, and flour and fry them lightly; add three or four onions fined brown. Pour on these three or four quarts of boiling water, a little salt, and parsley. Add to it also good broth, and butter, or lard, three carrots, three shalots, and a pinch of cayenne; thicken with rice flour, or boiled pearl barley, a little before the soup is done ; boil five hours. Put toasted bread in the tureen, and pour the soup upon it. RADISH PODS, to Pickle.— Make a pickle with cold spring water and bay salt, strong enough to bear an egg; put the pods in, and lay a board upon them to keep them under water; let them stand ten days; drain them in a sieve, and dry them; take as much of the best vinegar as will cover them; boil it, and put the pods in a jar with ginger, mace, cloves, and cayenne pep- per ; pour on the vinegar boiling hot; cover them with a cloth, doubled four times ; let them stand two days; when cold, repeat three or four times. Add as much mustard seed and horse radish as you please. RAISED CRUST, for Meat Pies, Fowls, &c.—Boil water with a little fine lard, and an equal quantity of fresh dripping, or of butter, but not much of either. While hot, mix this with as much flour as you will want, making the paste as stiff as you can to be smooth, which you will make by good kneading and beating it with a rolling pin. When quite smooth, put a lump into a cloth, or under a pan, to soak till nearly cold. Those who have not a good hand at raising crust may do thus: Roll the paste of a proper thickness, and cut out the top and bottom of the pie, then a long piece for the sides. Cement the bottom to the sides with egg, bringing the former rather further out, and pinching both together; put egg b&. tween the edges of the paste, to make it adhere at the sides. Fill your pie and put on the cover, and pinch it and the side crust together. The same mode of uniting the paste is to be observed if the sides are pressed into a tin form, in which the paste must be baked, after it shall be filled and covered ; but in the latter case, the tin should be buttered, and carefully taken off when done enough ; and as the form usually makes the sides of a lighter colour than is pro- per, the paste should be put into the oven again for a quarter of an hour. With a feather put egg over at first. RAISED FRENCH PIE.— Raise a crust 3 inches high; lay in slices of veal, a few mushrooms, a few slices of ham, a cut-up chicken, more mush- rooms, and a sliced sweet-bread; sea- son with pepper, salt, and sweet herbs; cover it in, and put it in the oven ; it will take about a hours in a moderate oven. When done, pour off the fat, and put 6 yolks of eggs boiled hard. RAISED PIES, Seasoning for.—Salt, 3 lbs.; white pepper, 3 ozs. ; cayenne pepper, £ os.; cloves, a ozs.; allspice, 2 ozs.; and 1 oz. each of basil, thyme, marjoram, bay leaf, and nutmeg. Pound the spices and herbs by themselves, sift, and mix with the salt, and put away in a stoppered bottle. RAISED PUFF CAKES.— Make the richest puff paste; roll it pretty thick into 4 or 5 pieces, all one size; lay one piece on a deep baking dish, upon it pour some good prepared cream, or sweetmeat; then another piece of paste, some cream, or marmalade, and so on, as many as you please ; the paste to be the last, in which make a little hole, which must be filled with sweetmeat or jelly, when it is well baked; this must be done in a brisk oven, to raise the paste properly : it is done also by baking ihe paste first upon a baking plate, and adding the cream, jelly, or sweetmeat, when it is cold, and finish- ing after the same manner. RAISIN CAKE.—Take i* lb. of light dough, a tea-cupful of sugar, 1 of butter, 3 eggs, a tea-spoonful of car- bonate of soda, 1 lb. of raisins, nutmeg or cinnamon to the taste ; bake 1 hour. Let it rise- before being baked.