286 ox ox serve the soup separate or with the meat. It should be of a fine brown, which may be done by burnt sugar; or by frying some onions brown with flour and sim- mering them with it. This improves the flavour of all soups and gravies of the brown kind. If vegetables are not approved in the soup, they may be taken out, and a small roll be toasted or bread fried and added. Celery is a great addition, and should always be served. Where it is not to be got, the seed of it gives quite as good a flavour, boiled in and strained off. OX-CHEEK STEW.— Soak half a head 3 hours, and clean it with plenty of water. Take the meat off the bones, and put it into a pan with a large onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, some bruised allspice, pepper, and salt. Lay the bones on the top ; pour on 2 or 3 quarts of water and cover the pan close with brown paper, or a dish that will fit close. Let it stand 8 or 10 hours in a slow oven ; or simmer it by the side of the fire, or on a hot hearth. When done tender, put the meat into a clean pan, and let it get cold. Take the cake of fat off, and warm the head in pieces in the soup. Put what vegetables you choose. OXFORD CAKES.—Flour, 6 lbs.; salt, about a table-spoonful; cin- namon, $ oz. ; nutmeg, oz, ; cloves, i dr.; the same of mace, all finely beaten and sifted with the salt; add % lb. of sugar; gradually work into the flour 1 lb. or more of fresh butter; it will take a long time to work it up. Then add a quart of cream, a pint of ale yeast, a gill of mountain wine, and 3 grains of ambergris, dissolved in the yolks of 8 and whites of 4 eggs, and a gill of rosewater; mix the whole with the flour, and knead them well together. Keep the paste near the fire some time; then add 1 lb. of stoned minced raisins, and 3 lbs. of clean dry currants ; bake the rake in a gentle oven. Frost on the top with Tose-water and the whole of an egg beaten together ; sift over plenty of fine loaf sugar, and put into a slow oven to dry. OXFORD DUMPLINGS.— Take 2 ozs. of grate??, broad ; currants and shred suet, 4 0*8. each ; two large spoonfuls of flour ; a good quantity of grated lemon-peel, a bit of sugar, and a little powdered pimento. Mix with 2 eggs and a little milk into 5 dumplings, and fry of a fine yellow brown. Serve with sweet sauce. OXFORD PUDDING.—Have 4 ozs. of bread crumbs grated, and take 4 ozs. of currants, the same of suet chopped very fine, a large spoonful of sugar, and a little nutmeg : mix all to- gether. Take the yelks of 4 eggs, and make your puddings into balls, and fry them a light brown in butter. Serve with sherry or rum sauce. OXFORD PUNCH.—Rub the rinds of 4 fresh lemons with loaf sugar till you have extracted a portion of the juice. Cut the peel finely off 3 lemons more, and 2 Seville oranges. Use the juice of 10 lemons and 6 Seville oranges. Add 8 glasses of calf s-foot jelly ; put ail into a large jug and stir well together. Put in 3 quarts of water boiling hot, and set the jug upon the hob for an hour. Strain the liquor into a large bowl; pour in a bottle of capillaire, half a pint of sherry, a pint of cognac brandy, a pint and a half of old Jamaica rum, and a quart of orange shrub ; stir well as you pour in the spirit. Add sugar to your taste. OXFORD SAUSAGES.-Take 1 lb. of young pork, fat and lean, with- out gristle; lean veal, 1 lb.; chop all together with 1 lb. of beef suet. Add i ,1b. of grated bread, half the peel of a I lemon shred fine ; a nutmeg grated ; a few sage leaves chopped fine; a tea- spoonful of peppier, and 2 of salt; some savory, thyme, and marjoram. Roll them out the size of common sausages, and fry them in fresh butter, or broil them over the fire, and send them to the table hot. OX GALL, Prepared.—Fresh gall, 1 pint; alum, 1 oz. Boil until the latter is dissolved, then add fresh gall, 1 quart; salt, 1 oz. Boil in like man- ner, keep both solutions in separate bottles for 3 or 3 months ; pxmr off the clear, and mix them together: allow them to settle, and decant the pure gall for use. (i, OXTAIL SOUP.— Joint the tails, and let them soak for some time in warm water. Put into a gallon stew-