VAX. VAS 402 tioner in order to ascertain tbe result of the operation, parties not complying in- cur a penalty not exceeding 20s. The registrars of each district are required to send notices to the parents or guardians of children, whose births they have registered, stating also the names and addresses of the public vaccinators, and the hours of attendance. VALERIAN.—See Robinson's filial. Valerian is a medicine of great use in nervous disorders, hysteria, low- ness of spirits, restlessness, and diseases of the bladder, &c. The common dose is from a scruple to a drachm, in pow- der ; and in infusion from 1 to a drs. Its unpleasant flavour may be neutralized by the addition of mace. VAPOUR BATH.—Sit naked upon a chair; place the legs upon a stool. Place a vessel under the chair. Throw a large blanket around the patient and the chair; pin it under his chin, and make it tight all round. The vessel is to contain the liquid, hot water, or decoction of bitter herbs, or otherwise medicated. Heat a couple of bricks nearly red hot, and put one of them in- to the vessel under tbe chair. Then pour about 3 pints of boiling water into the vessel, with a gill of strong vinegar. Be careful not to pour it upon the brick, but down the sides of the vessel. Close up, and the patient will soon be immersed in vapour. Change the brick when cook If the patient be too hot, lift up the blanket a little to admit the cold air, which will lower the temperature. Dur- ing the bath, drink freely of balm, cat- nep, or pennyroyal tea. When out, dry well, and apply friction, with a flesh brush, or with rough towels dipped in vinegar and water. Tbe benefits arising from the Vapour Bath are immense. VARNISH, for Furniture.— Melt one part of virgin white wax in 8 parts of oil of petroleum, lay a slight coat of this mixture, while warm, on the wood, with a badger's brush, and after a little time polish it with a woollen cloth. VARNISH, for Straw Hats.— Mix the best ivory black, shellac, and spirits of wine, or turpentine. Apply it before the fire with a soft sponge or brush. Some persons Instead of the above dissolve black sealing wax in spirits of wine. VARNISH, SPIRIT.—Strong alcohol, 32 parts ; pure mastic, 4 parts ; sandarach, 3 parts; clear Venice tur- pentine, 2 parts; coarsely powdered glass, 4 parts. Dissolve. VARNISH FOR PAPER- HANGINGS.—The best varnish that can be used for the purpose is oak varnish, which costs from ten to twelve shillings per gallon. The body of this consists chiefly of oil; it is therefore durable, not apt to crack, and presents a smooth glossy surface. In all cases the wall should have two coats of size before the varnish is laid on. See “ Painting for the Million," Price is. VARNISHING PAPER- HANGINGS.—Almost any sort of light bodied varnish may be used for wall-paper, but what is called ‘ ‘ pale carriage varnish," or paper varnish is perhaps the best. When the walls are dry and clean, first apply a coating of glue size, laid lightly on nearly cold with a soft brush, taking care not to disturb the colour. VARNISH, FOR VIOLINS. —Spirits of wine, 1 quart; mastic 3 ozs., and V pint of turpentine ; put together in a vessel, and keep in a very warm place, frequently stirring or shaking it, till all is dissolved. Then strain.—This varnish may be used for furniture. VARNISH, for Wood Pat- terns.— Shellac, ^ lb.; spirits of wine, i| pint. Put into a bottle, and when wanted for use, mix with a little lamp black, the thickness of cream, and varnish the pattern, rubbing it into the grain of the wood, until friction pro- duces a polish. This varnish makes a smooth surface on the pattern, render- ing it easy to draw from the sand, and it fills up all pores in the wood, by which a cleaner and smoother casting is pro- duced. VASELINE .—This popular preparation should be in every house- hold ; it can be used for such a variety of purposes. As a. remedial agent its properties are invaluable, and as an emollient it is without doubt the best yet discovered, being much superior to Glycerine In softness and healing qualities.