DAN * 57 DAN taking her right hand in his left, the lady then placing her left hand on the gentleman’s right shoulder, and giving her right hand to the gentleman in the same manner. The waltz may be done by turning to the right or left, or from side to side, or forward and back with- out turning, just at the discretion of the performers ; it must be done in such a manner as to avoid coming into collision with other couples. The gentleman should guide the iady, and regulate his steps by hers. It is better not to at- tempt this or any other dance, except he or she has had a little instruction. The Schottische.—The gentle- man places his right arm to encircle the lady’s waist, her left hand resting on his shoulder, the gentleman holding the lady’s right hand in his left. The gentleman then commences to slide his left foot to the side, hopping on the same foot; he then slides to the right side, and again hops; this he repeats, forming four steps and four bops; he then repeats the same step four times, turning round on each hop. The above is danced during sixteen bars of music. The gentleman then moves the left foot with a slight glissade to the side, bringing the right foot up. In the third position move the left foot forward, and again hep. Repeat with the right foot to the right side, then with the left foot commence the step, and hop four times, turning as before on each hop. This will occupy eight bars, and will bring you to the original position, repeat again. The lady makes the same steps as the gentleman, only using the right foot to her partners left. Sir Roger de Coverly.—It is similar to all country dances, the gentle- men in one line, the ladies in another, facing their partners. All advance and retire; cross over; again advance and retire; recross to places. This is omitted on some occasions, the figure being then commenced as follows :—top lady and bottom gentleman advance to meet each other, bow and courtesy, and return to places. Top gentleman and bottom lady do the same. Top lady and bottom gentleman again advance, present right hands, and pass quickly round each other to places. Bottom lady and top gentleman again advance, give left hands, and pass quickly round to places, top gentleman and bottom lady the same. The beginning couple advance and turn with both hands quite round to places, the same by the follow- i ing couple, first couple advance back to back and retire to places, the same by the other couple. The beginning couple advance, bow to each other and retire; this is repeated by the other couple. The top gentleman then turns to the left and his partner turns to the right; all the other ladies and gentlemen turn and follow the leaders, who run to the bottom of the room, giving right hands and raising their arms, while all the other couples pass under the arch. The first lady and gentleman remain at the bottom of the room, and the figure is then repeated by the other couples in succession. Valse a troi temps.—Known as the old Valse. It is composed of three steps, the gentleman begins with the left foot, with a gliding step, making one step to the left and two backward in turning one half round; he then with the right foot, makes three steps forward in turning the other half round. The lady waltzes after the same manner, she slides to the right with the right foot. Valse a deux temps. — The position is the same in this Valse as in the Valse H troi temps ; it occupies three intervals like the Irois temps, only they are otherwise divided. The first con- sists of a sliding step, the second by a chassi which include two intervals in one. This chassi is performed by bringing one foot behind the other: which is then moved forward, backward, to the right, left, or round as required. The gentleman begins by sliding (glissade or slide) his left foot to the left, then performing a chassi towards the left with his right foot, without turning at all during the two first times. He then slides his right foot backwards, turning half round ; after which he places his left loot behind to make a little chasst forward, turning round for the second interval. He must finish with his right foot a little forward, and begin again with his left. The lady waltzes in a similar manner, only at the first time she slides to the right with the fight foot, and performs