ERR ERP *74 the circulation of the blood, dis- covered. I am very dry to-day,...thirsty No less than twenty persons,.. fewer... ...Opposite the town-hall,...to the...... Tell me tke reason why he is dejected, ...leave out, the reason Edwin speaks bad grammar,...speaks ungrammati- cally His character is undeniable,... unquestionable Before you go you must first finish your work,...leave out, first That was his principle reason, ...principal The Board of ordinance, ...ordnance The horse is full of metal,...mettle A new pair of boots, ...a pair of new boots Direct the letter to me, at, &c.,...Address, It militates against my business,...operates He lifted up his arm to strike me,... leave out, up His case was heard pro and con,...on both sides. Take two spoonsful of, &c spoon- fuls Bring me them books,...those... ...They are coming to see Charles and l,...me These sort of entertainments, ...this It is I who is to do it,...am... ...The money was divided between fifty, ...among He was no sooner departed, than they expelled his officers, ...had. That is him,...he At some time, or another,...other You are mistaken, ...you mistake She has such a bad temper, ...a temper so bad. The fellow was hung last week,...hanged This is my oldest sister,...eldest. tg§|“ Leave out the superfluous words printed in Italics:— She fell down upon her knees More than you think for Who has got my inkstand What are you doing of. Missing his way, he returned back You may enter in Her conduct was approved of. I can not by no means allow it The fellow again repeated the assertion Such conduct admits of no excuse I can do it equally as well as he They combined together, and covered it over No- body else As soon as ever I have not had no dinner yet Please give me both of those books Our cat caught a great big rat It is a won- derful phenomenon Has Alfred re- turned back from his journey? It is four months ago since I had a letter The verdant green field It is very true. See “ How to Talk," price fid. ERUPTIONS on the FACE. —After washing the eruptions, foment with camphor spirit, two or three times a day. See Borax, page 72. ERYSIPELAS.—Dr. Baumann employs collodifin in all cases, and has found it, even in several cases of erysi- pelas of the face, and in one case of phlegmonous erysipelas of the thigh, highly useful. He first gives an emetic, and then daily applies collodion to the parts. The recovery is rapid, and no ill consequences have been observed. Bathing the legs and feet in warm water is very serviceable. Some recom- mend the part to be covered with meal, or flour, or yeast. Some persons re- commend a poultice of cranberries pow- dered fine, in a raw state. A decoction of elder-leaves will pro- mote perspiration ; applying to the part a cloth dipped in limewater. Or take gentle purgatives, as senna, manna, cream of tartar, with a little fennel seed, to prevent griping. The vapour bath is very beneficial. The marshmallow ointment is very serviceable; also the elder ointment. Wash the parts oft with the following liquid or tincture:— Infuse 1 oz. of celandine leaves in a pint of whiskey a few hours. Apply it when there is much itching. But the best application is a poultice made of slippery elm bark. Mix the bark with milk, buttermilk, or cream. Should there be ulceration, add brewer’s yeast to the poultice. The diet should be cool and nourishing. Dr. Beach referring to a case, says, " The patient was so bad that he had to sit in a chair five or six months, day and night,” and the most eminent allopathic doctors could do him no good. “I used the pulverized willow bark, com- monly called pussy willow; it was mixed with cream, under which it grew better; it sloughed in several places nearly to the bone. When the pain almost subsided, I applied the slippery- elm bark and milk, and then the Black Salve, which effected a cure in a few months.” ESPRIT DE ROSE.—Otto of roses, Yj oz. ; spirits of wine, 1 pint; mix, and bottle. Shake frequently, Put the bottle in a warm bath till it is warm. Take out and shake up till