gra 3-7 Q™ same of walnut, six long anchovies, pounded, 'six 'cloves of garlic, three of them pounded ; half a spoonful of cay- enne pepper; put them into a bottle, and shake them well before using. It Is also good with beef steaks. QUINSY.—This disease occurs principally in spring and autumn, when vicissitudes of heat and cold are fre- quent. It affects especially the young and sanguine, and a disposition to it is often acquired by frequent attacks. Symptoms.—It commences with an unusual sense of tightness in the throat, particularly on swallowing, which is often effected with difficulty and pain. On inspection, some tume- faction and redness of the fauces may be perceived, which shortly spreads over the tonsils, uvula, and soft palate, at- tended with a troublesome clamminess of the mouth, fever, headache, de- lirium, &c. In desperate cases, the tongue and tonsils are so much swollen as to prevent deglutition and even so as to affect respiration, that the patient is often obliged to be supported in an erect posture, to prevent suffocation. The inflammation generally attacks one tonsil first, which in a day or two it sometimes leaves and affect3 the other, and not unfrequently quits them both suddenly, and flies to the lungs. Causes.—It is generally caused by the external application of cold air, particularly about the neck. Whatever violently stimulates the fauces, in a plethoric habit, especially, as acrid food, poisons, &c., may produce it. Treatment.—As the inflamma- tion, from the delicate structure of the parts, soon advances to suppuration, active means should be speedily employ- ed to disperse it. For this purpose the patient should take a full dose of the Aperient Mixture, and after its opera- tion, the Saline Mixture. One of the most effectual remedies is an emetic. This should be given as soon as the symptoms appear, and re- peated as often as necessary. The throat should be steamed with a strong decoction of tansy, wormwood, hops, and camomile flowers, boiled in vinegar and water. Put these into a large pitcher, over which place a funnel, that the patient may inhale the steam for 15 sainute*, and repeat It every two hours until the urgent symptoms are gone. Afterwards heat the herbs and bind them on the neck. A vapour bath is also of the greatest service, benefiting the whole system, and the throat especially. Gargle the throat with a decoction of lobelia and a litde gum kino. The steam of hemp- seed is said to be valuable in quinsy. If the patient is constipated, give an aperient. When the painful symptoms begin to subside, apply the Rheumatic Liquid warm to the throat, as warm and as long as the patient can bear it. Gargle the throat occasionally with a decoction of sage, hyssop, lobelia, catechu, or kino, with a little borax. Do this frequently. Repeat the aperi- ents when necessary, and the feet bath- ed in warm water and soap. Let the food, if any can be taken, be very simple. Give no spirits, no stimu- lants, and nothing cold. Hydropathy is very useful in quinsy. Dip a piece of cloth, in the form a bandage, in cold water, wring it out, and wrap it round the throat, and over it a dry bandage. Repeat when hot and dry. In sore throat, black currant jelly is of great service; and so is the old plan of wrapping the stocking round the throat on going to bed. A good gargle is made of sage and vinegar, with a little sal ammoniac. A little sal prunel sucked is sometimes of great use. Apply a large white-bread toast half an inch thick, dipped in brandy, to the crown of the head till it dries. Or, swallow slowly white rose water mixed with syrup of mulberries. Or, draw in as hot as you can, for ten or twelve minutes together, the fumes of red rose leaves, or camomile flowers, boiled in water and vinegar, or of a decoction of bruised hemp-seed. This speedily cures the sore throat, peripneumony, and in- flammation of the uvula. QUINSY.—Roast three or four large onions. Peel them quickly, and beat them flat with a rolling-pin. Im- mediately place them in a thin muslin bag that will reach from ear to ear, and about three inches deep. Apply it speedily as warm as possible to the throat. Keep it on day and night, changing it when the strength of the onions appears to be exhausted, and substituting !r«*ih ones- Flannel must