(3ON SULT ME. AilD ABDOMINAL RUPTURES, s>r Hernia, take place at the navel, in females, and the scrotum and groin in males. When the bowel lies quietly in the bag, and admits of being readily put back into the abdomen, the rupture is termed reducible; but irreducible when the contrary. A hernia is stran- gulated when the intestine is, as it were, tied round with a string, so as to pre- vent the contents of the bowels from passing off; in such a case, inflammation is excited, and alarming and sometimes fatal, symptoms, are manifest. The causes of ruptures are various; viz. sedentary habits, violent exercise, such as feats of agility, jumping, run- ning, lifting and carrying heavy we-.ghts, vomiting, straining, laughing, sneezing, and whatever induces extreme action of the abdominal muscles. Some parts of the parietes, cr enclosure of the bowels, are naturally weaker than others; especially the inguinal and crural rings, and the umbilicus ; and it is of these parts that hernia most fre- quently occurs : or the abdominal walls may be defectively formed. When a hernia takes place suddenly, there is a sensation of something giving way at the part, and some pain ; but in many persons it comes on gradually, and al- most imperceptibly, particularly in very debilitated constitutions. The general symptoms of a hernia, when reducible and free from strangu- lation, are an indolent tumour at some point of the abdomen, frequently des- cending out of the abdominal ring, or out of the navel, but occasionally from other situations. The swelling often arises suddenly, and is subject to a change of size, being smaller when the ! A.BD patient lies down on his back, and larger when he stands up or holds his breath. It frequently diminishes when pressed, and grows larger again when the pressure is removed. Its size and tension often increase after a meal, or when the bowels are flatulent. In con- sequence of the unnatural position of the bowels, many persons who have rupture are occasionally troubled with colic, costiveness, and vomiting. But sometimes the functions cf the intestines suffer little interruption. But in all cases ruptures are trouble- some and dangerous, and therefore ought to be attended to in time. When a rupture is reducible, return the pro- truded parts to their original cavity, by gently pressing the projecting tumour, which can be best effected when the patient is lying on his back, with the legs bert, so that the knees may be erect , an attitude which he should al- ways preserve as much as possible. An injection should be given made of gruel, butter, salt, and five or six drops of laudanum. Folds of linen dipped in ice-water should be placed upon the tumour, and renewed every fifteen min- utes. Ice also may be applied with, good effect. If the case has been de- layed too long, use flannels dipped in a warm decoction of bitter herbs, as tansy, wormwood, horehound, and hops; these herbs tend to soften the tumour, and facilitate its return. Change the flannels frequently. Infants are often subject to umbilical hernia, or rupture of the navel. It is cured by applying a proper bandage or truss, which, with increasing strength, effects a cure. Particular attention i should be paid to the cure of female