SAG 344 RUS glassful; orange and lemon peel, oz.; sugar, i oz.; dissolve in i % pint of water, A little tartaric acid may be added to give it acidity. RUSKS.—Beat seven eggs well, and mix with % a pint of new milk, in which have been melted 4 ozs. of butter ; add to it a % lb. of yeast, and 3 ozs. of sugar, and put them by degrees into as much flour as will make a very light paste, like a batter; let it rise before the fire half an hour; then add some more flour, to make it a little stiffer. Work it well, and divide it into small loaves or cakes, about 5 or 6 inches wide, and flatten them. When baked and cold, slice them the thickness of rusks, and put them in the oven to brown a little. Note.—The. cakes, when first baked, eat deliciously buttered for tea; or, with caraways to eat cold. RUST, to Remove from Iron. —Pound glass to a fine powder': having nailed some strong woollen cloth upon a board, lay upon it a strong coat of gum-water, and sift thereon some of the powdered glass : let it dry ; repeat this operation three times, and, when the last covering of powdered glass is dry, you may easily rub ofif the rust from iron with the cloth thus prepared. RUST,- to Prevent.—Lard, free from salt, 1 lb. ; camphor, 1 oz. ; black lead powder, and dragon’s blood, finely powdered, of each, 2 drachms ; melt the same on a slow fire, until it is dis- solved, and let it cool for use. If rusty iron be rubbed with a mixture of boiled oil and red lead, on a warm day, or in a warm room, it will restrain the rusting process. S. SACHETS, Perfumed.—Make ornamented bags, or packets, and insert cotton wool, and the following scents, as you please, viz:—orris root, 2 ozs. ; calamus, 1 oz. ; cloves, a drachms ; dry bergamot, 1 oz.; benzoin, 4 drachms; reduce to impalpable powder, and mix intimately. Or, dried rose leaves, 8 ozs. ; cloves, 4 drachms ; nutmegs, 4 drachms. Or, orris root, 6 ozs. ; dry orange flower, and rose leaves, 16 ozs.; storax, a ozs.; dry bergamot, 1 oz. Powder well, and sieve. Sprinkle over the whole a few drops of oil of bergamot, and otto of roses. Keep close. SACK CREAM.—Boil a pint of raw cream, the yolk of an egg well beaten, two or three spoonfuls of white wine, sugar, and lemon peel; stir it over a gentle fire till it be as thick as rich cream, and afterwards till cold ; then serve it in glasses, with long pieces of dry toast. SACK MEAD.—To every gallon of water put 4 lbs. of honey, and boil it three quarters of an hour, taking care to skim it. To every gallon add 1 oz. of hops ; then boil it half an hour and let it stand till next day; put it into Sour cask, and to thirteen gallons of the quor, add a quart of brandy. Let it be lightly stopped till the fermentation is over, and then stop it very close. If you make a large cask, keep it a year in cask, SAGE CHEESE.—Bruise the tops of young red sage in a mortar, with some leaves of spinach, and squeeze the juice ; mix it with the rennet in the milk, more or less according as you like for colour and taste. When the curd is come, break it gently, and put it in with the skimmer, till it is pressed two inches above the vat. Press it eight or ten hours. Salt it, and turn every day. SAGE and ONION SAUCE. —Chop fine a ozs. of onion, and 1 oz. of green sage leaves; put them into a pan with a small cupful of water; sim- mer gently 10 minutes; then put in a teaspoonful of pepper, and some salt, and 1 oz. of fine bread crumbs ; mix well together; then pour to it a % pint of broth, or melted butter; stir and sim- mer a few minutes longer. SAGO.—To prevent the earthly taste, soak it in cold water an hour; pour that off, and wash it well; then add more, and simmer gently till the •berries are clear, with lemon peel and spice, if approved. Add wine and sugar, and boil all up together. SAGO MILK.—Clean it well, and boil it slowly and wholly with new milk. It swells so much, that a small quantity will be sufficient for a quart, and when done it will be diminished to about a pint. It requires no sugar or flavouring.