\ gm 326 qoi ioaf sugar and beat them together for it minute ; break in four eggs, and beat for two minutes; then lightly mix in K lb. of good flour, 4 ozs. of nicely washed currants, and half a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. When well mixed, make it into drops the sire of a walnut, upon paper on iron plates, and bake them in a hot oven. QUICK MADE PUDDING. —Flour and suet, % lb. each, four eggs, % pint, of new milk, a little mace and nutmeg. lb. of raisins, ditto of currants; mix well, and boil three quarters of an hour with the cover of the pot on, or it will require longer. QUICKSILVER.—Tallow will take it up;—vinegar kills it. As a medicine it is injurious. It is mercury In a peculiar state. It is poison. QUINCE CAKES.—Mix the syrup of quinces and raspberries to- gether ; boil and clarify them over a clear fire, skimming well; then add 1% lb. of sugar ; cause as much more to be brought to a candy height, and poured in hot; stir the whole till cold; spread it on plates, and cut it into cakes. QUINCE JELLY. — Cut in pieces a sufficient quantity of quinces; draw off the juice by boiling them in water, in which they ought only to swim, no more. When fully done, drain and have ready clarified sugar, to which put one spoonful to two of the juice; bring the sugar to the souffle; add the juice, and finish. When it drops from the skimmer it is enough; take it off, and pot it. QUINCE PUDDING.—Scald the quinces tender; pare thin ; scrape off the pulp; mix with sugar very sweet, and add a little ginger and cin- namon. To a pint of cream, put 3 or 4 yolks of eggs, and stir it into the quinces till they are of a good thick- ness; butter a dish, pour it in, and bake it. QUINCE SEEDS-—Of these bandoline is made—a cement for the hair; see Bandoline, page 40. It is also used as on emollient and sheathing application to cracked lips and nipples. QUINCE WINE. —Wipe off the fur, take out the cores of ripe quinces; bruise them and press them, lidding to every gallon of juice a % lbs. of fine sugar ; stir together till dissolved; put it in the cask, and when it has done fermenting, stop it close; let it stand six months before it is bottled ; keep it two or three years, and it will be the better. QUINCES, Red, to Preserve whole.—Core and scald six fine quinces ; drain ; and when cold, pare them; take their weight in sugar, and a pint of water to every lb. of sugar ; boil it to a syrup, and skim; put in the quinces to stand all night; when red enough, boil them as marmalade with two basinfuls of jelly; when as soft as a straw can be run through them, put them into glasses; let the liquor boil to a jelly, then pour it over the quinces. QUININE.—It is obtained by frequently boiling the yellow Peruvian bark fcinchona) in water, acidulated with sulphuric acid. It retains in a concentrated form the tonic and febri- fuge properties of the Peruvian bark from which it is obtained; and as a remedy is administered to the same cases. It agrees better with an irritable stomach than the bark. The dose is from one to five grains three or four times a day. It is valuable in ague, given during the intermission. It may be made into a pill, made with conserve of roses, or mucilage, or in liquid, as water, if previously dissolved in elixir of vitriol, or diluted sulphuric acid. It is valuable in tic doloursux, St. Vitus's dance, in mortification, bleedings, in discharges attended with great debility, as diarrhoeas, dysentery, obstinate ulcers, scrofula, &c. To stop intermittent fever, take sul- phate of quinine, thirty-two grains; simple syrup, one pound, mixed. A spoonful to be taken every four or six hours. For intermittents and debility, dissolve twelve grains of sulphate of quinine in half a pint of good Madeira wine, or infusion of roses, one ounce three times a day. The tincture con- sists of six grains of sulphate of quinine, and spirits of wine, one ounce; take a teaspoonful twice or thrice a day. From five to ten grains of quinine, taken two or three times daily, has cured tic doloureux. It has also been successful in head and toothache. QUIN’S FISH SAUCE. — Half a pint of mushroom pickle, the