317 PC’S POS ME of half a lemon, and the rind grated into it. Sweeten the cream and wine ; put the latter into a basin, and pour the cream or milk into it, and stir well. POSTAGB.—From all parts of the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, and the Isle of Man, if prepaid, Is as fol- lows : Not above 2 oz ljd. Above 2 oz., but not above 4 oz. 2d. and so on at the rate of id. for every 2 oz. Double postage if posted unpaid on deliv- ery. No letter may exceed 24x12x12 in. The rates of postage in the Irish Free State differ from those in force in this country. Inland Post Office Orders. - For sums not exceeding £3 .. 4d. Above £i but under £10 .. $d. .. £10 „ „ £20 .. 8d. ,, £20 „ „ £30 .. lOd. &0 .. £40 .. Is. Od. Post Cards.—Inland Id. They are sold, bearing a penny impressed stamp, in packets at 10 lor lid. They can also be had in smaller numbers or singly. Reply cards (2d.) are also sold. Letter-cards are sold at 10 for Is. 6d.; smaller numbers in proportion. Foreign post cards, ljd.; reply, 3d. Book Post.—The prepaid post- age for a packet of Books, paper, printed matter, manuscript,circulars, photographs, including binding and mounting, is Jd. for every 2 cz. or fraction thereof up to 2 lbs. (maximum); prepaid by adhesive stamps, or stamped wrapper. The Packet not to contain anything sealed against inspection, but to be open at each end, and must have no written communication of the nature of a letter. No Packet to exceed 2 feet in length, or 1 foot in width or depth. Beyond the weight of 2 oz. there is no distinction between letters, samples, and books. All go at the rate of ljd. for not exceeding 2 oz. and Jd. for every addi- tional 2 oz. Registration of Letters, etc.— The fee, in addition to the ordinary post- age, is Threepence for a letter, newspaper, book, or other packet to any place within the United Kingdom or the Colonies; to be prepaid by stamps. Letters contain- ing coins or jewels, not registered, will be charged double the Registration fee. Post Office Savings Banks.— Savings Banks are established at all Poet Offices, where sums of not less than one shilling may at any time be deposited. Not more than £500 will be received In any one year. Interest is paid at the rat* of sixpence per £ per annum. Newspapers.—Inland, Id. stamp each copy (not exceeding 6 oz.) For every additional 6 oz, up to 2 lb. (per copy), Jd. Parcel Post.—Parcels, not ex- ceeding 11 lbs. In weight, 3 ft. 6 in. In length, or 6 ft. in length and girth com- bined, are received at any Post Office for transmission between places in the United Kingdom as follows:— For a parcel not above 2 lbs. in weight 6d. Not exeeding 5 lbs 9d. »* I, 8 ,, • • It. Od. H ,, 11 ,, a a a a Is. 3d. Postal Money Orders. — The following are the amounts for which postal orders are issued i— Amount of order. Poundage charged. 6d. to 2s. 6d. Id 3s. Od. to 15s. Cd. ljd] 15s. 6d. to 21s. Od. 2d. The sender of Postal Order may Increase its value by an amonnt not exceeding 5d. by affixing British Postage Stamps not ex- ceeding three in number to the face of the Order. No credit will be given for stamps which are in excess of three or which are affixed elsewhere than in the spaces pro- vided. Stamps perforated with initials or marks, or embossed, or impressed, stamps cut out of envelopes, post-cards, etc., can- not be accepted for this purpose. Telegrams.—The charge for In- land Telegrams is Is. Od. for first 12 words and Id. each additional word. ArUtanaut are charged for. Small Investments in Ckmsta- ment Stocks.—Any depositor ta the Post Office Savings Bank may invest, at any Post Office in the United Kingdow at which there is a Savings Bank, umafi sums in one of the Government stock. The following charges are made lor the purohase or sale of stock:— On stock not exceeding £10 .. It. 0d. Exceeding £10, bat nnder £25 .. la. 63, £25, H £50 ..2a.tr!. , •» z 80, m jfcYS .. 3a. 61. .. dV6, „ £100.. 4». M. with a further charge of one stalling ia respect of every £50 nominal amount of Stock or Bonds, or part of such £50, above £100. The purchase or sale ia at the ourrent prioe of the day on which it ia made, and a certificate thereof is sent to the investor by post. Similar arrange- ments are made for sales of stock; the dividends will be collected by the Post Office and placed to the credit of the Investor. Investments may be made with money already deposited or with money deposited expressly for the purpose. No