BAG 38 BAC 4. If you bear any number of men, before you Lave entered a man taken up, and which consequently you were obliged to enter, such men, so borne, I must be entered again in your adver- sary’s tables, as the man taken up. 5. If you have mistaken your throw, and played it, and if your adversary has thrown, it is not in your choice nor his to alter it, unless both sides agree to do so. BACON, YORKSHIRE. Yorkshire Bacon is first-rate, equal to that of Wiltshire, Cumberland, &c. The peculiarity of fla vour depends upon curing, which is conducted in the fol- lowing manner :—After killing, the pig must hang for twenty-four hours, be- fore being cut up. Take saltpetre, six ounces to the cwt., and rub it well in ; and xo lbs. of common salt to the cwt; well rub it in, and place in the salting- tub. After having been in salt twelve or fourteen days, it must be turned over, a few pounds of fresh salt applied, and left for ten days longer. Then take out, wipe well, and bang up in a cool, dry place in a linen or cotton bag, or wash over with lime and water, to pre- vent rancidity, and the attack of the bacon-fly. Hams especially should be preserved in this way. Some people make their bacon thus: Take off all the inside fat of a side of pork, and lay it on a long board or dresser, that the blood may run from it. Rub it well on both sides with good salt, and let it lie one day. Then take a pint of bay-salt, a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, and beat them both fine ; two pounds of coarse sugar, and a quarter of a peck of common salt. Lay your pork in something that will hold the pickle and rub it well with the above ingredients. Lay the skinny side down- wards, and baste it every day with the pickle for a fortnight. Then hang it on a wood-smoke and afterwards hang it in a dry place, but not in a hot place. Observe that all hams and bacon should hang clear from everything, and not touch the wall. Take care to wipe off the old salt before you put it into the pickle, and never keep bacon or hams in a hot kitchen, or in a room ex- posed to the rays of the sun, as all these matters contribute to make them rusty. BACON, to cure as in Wilt- shire.—Sprinkle each flitch with salt, and let the blood draiD off for twenty-four hours ; then mix a pound and a half of coarse sugar, the same quantity of bay-salt, nearly half a pound of saltpetre, and a pound of common salt. Rub this mixture well into the bacon, turning it every day for a month, then hang it to dry, and afterwards smoke it ten days. This quantity of salts is sufficient for the whole hog. BACON, to choose.—If the rind is thin, the fat firm and of a red tinge, the lean tender, and of a good colour, and adhering to the bone, you may conclude it good and not old. If there are yellow streaks in it, it is going, if not already, rusty. BACON, Excellent.—Divide the hog, and take the chine out; it is com- mon to remove the spareribs, but the bacon will be preserved better from being rusty if they are left in. Salt the bacon six days, then drain it from that first pickle ; mix as much salt as you judge proper with eight ounces of bay- salt, three ounces of saltpetre, and a pound of coarse sugar, to each hog, but first cut off the hams. Rub the salts well in, and turn it every day for a month. Drain, and smoke it a few days; or dry without, by hanging in the kitchen, not near the fire. BAD SMELLS.—When a per- son is so much affected by a pungent smell, as to cast him down, instantly convey him to a place where there is fresh air, dash cold water upon his head, lace, and chest. Then let a per- son press upon his breast bone, and push his bowels up to his chest, and suddenly let them go, producing the same action as breathing, which must be continued some minutes. Rub the chest and limbs with brandy or ammo- nia, mixed with oil, as a stimulant. Hold ammonia, or strong smelling salts to the nose, tickle the throat to cause sickness. If cold put him to bed, put bottles of hot water to his feet, thighs, and arm-pits ; and if possible, get some brandy, or other spirit and water, down his throat; or put him into a warm bath, and use the flesh brush while in it. BAGATELLE. — The player commences by having the eight white