PER PEP 300 pour in a gill of sherry, and let all boll till the curd becomes hard ; strain off the whey, and drink it hot. PEPPER POT.—Into 3 quarts of water, put what vegetables you like ; cut them very small, and stew them with 2 lbs. of neck of mutton, and 1 lb. of pickled pork, till tender. Half an hour before serving, clear a lobster, or crab, from the shell, and put it in. Season with salt and cayenne. Small suet dumplings may be boiled in the same liquid. Instead of mutton, a fowl may be used. Pepper-pot may be made of various things. It is a proper mixture of fish, flesh, fowl, vegetables, and pulse. Boil a small quantity of rice with the whole. PEPPER WATER, Spiritu- ous Jamaica.—Take of Jamaica pepper water, % lb. ; proof spirit, 3 gallons ; water, 2 gallons. Distil off 3 gallons. This is an agreeable cordial, and may supply the use of the Aromatic Water. PEPPERMINT, Candied. — Boil 3 lbs. of raw sugar in a pint of wa- ter, till the sugar begins to candy round the side, then take your pan off the fire, and drop 16 drops of the oil of pepper- mint therein ; pour it out into little round hoops made of tin ; or butter a large piece of paper, and lay it on the stone with a square frame on paper, and pour the sugar on the paper, and it will become all over beautifully spotted, and then with a knife, cut it into what size or shape you please. PEPPERMINT DROPS.— Sift finely powdered loaf sugar into lem- on juice, sufficient to make it of a pro- per consistence ; gently dry it over the fire a few minutes; take off, and add about 20 drops of oil of peppermint for every pound of sugar. Drop them from the point of a knife upon buttered paper. PEPPERMINT DROPS.— Mix 1 lb. of sifted loaf sugar with the whites of 3 eggs ; add 10 or 15 drops of the oil of peppermint, beat, and mix well. Drop as before directed. PEPPERMINT, Mentha Pi- perita.—This plant is perennial. It flowers in August and September. The leaves have a strong and agreeable smell, and a pungent aromatic taste. It Is stimulant, diaphoretic, antispasmodic, and anti-emetic. Its stimulating pro- perty is very volatile, producing, in the mouth a peculiar sensation of coldness. It is very useful in spasms, flatulency, colic, cramps of the stomach. The oil may be taken 2 or 3 drops in a cupful of water, or cold tea. PEPPERMINT LOZEN- GES.—Dissolve J oz. of isinglass, and 1 oz. of gum arabic, in a quart of boiling water, and let it stand till cold. Grate 7 lbs. of loaf sugar, and sift it 'through a fine sieve ; then add 50 drops of t-he oil of peppermint. Mix all toge- ther pretty stiff. Lay part of the sugar on a fine marble stone, roll it thin, and cut it with a tin mould of the size of the lozenges. PEPPERMINT WATER.— Cut full grown peppermint into short lengths ; fill your still with it, and put it half full of water. When it nearly boils, and the still begins to drop, if your fire be too hot, decrease the heat, to keep it from boiling over, or the water will be muddy. The slower the still drops, the water will be the clearer and stronger, but do not spend it too far ; the next day bottle it, let it be uncorked a few days to take off the fire of the still. PERCH, to Boil.—Put them into cold water, boil them carefully and serve with melted butter and soy. Perch is a most delicate fish. They may be either frieii or stewed, but in stewing they do not( preserve so good a flavour. PERCH, to Fry.—Scale, gut, and well wash ; then dry them, and lay them separately on a board before the fire, after dusting some flour over them. Fry them of a fine colour with fresh dripping ; serve with crimp parsley, and plain butter. PERCH, to Fry. — Clean and scale them, and slit the sides in several places ; marinate them about an hour in the juice of a lemon, with pepper, salt, sprigs of parsley, a clove of garlic, and a bay leaf; then drain, and roll them in flour, to fiy off a good brown colour, serve with fried parsley. PERFUME, Against Moths. —One oz. each of cinnamon, cloves, nut- megs, caraway seeds, mace, camphor.