COLD WATER CURE 131 COLD WATER CURE. or thrice per day. It wonderfully strengthens the nerves, draws down humours from the head and chest, re- lieves flatulency, and has the most im- portant results to those who lead a sedentary life. Use only 3 or 4 inches of water, as a larger quantity would re- main cold, and perhaps cause conges- tion to the upper extremeties ; a wet bandage to the head will, however, pre- vent any congestion. Rub the abdo- men as much as possible, while in the bath, with the wet hand. It is a most valuable bath. It is a remedy of great power in weak bowels, piles, congestion in the liver, chlorosis, and other female complaints ; its value is little known. Cooling Bandages.—These are mostly used in inflammation, congestion of blood, headache, rheumatism, &c., and should always be accompanied by the sitz baths. Linen is first wetted in cold water, doubled in several folds, and placed on the parts affected; renew them as they get warm. Stimulating Bandages.—They are dipped in cold water, then well wrung out, then applied to the part affected so as to exclude the external air ; to effect this, an outside bandage is placed over the first, which retains and throws back the moisture. Heat is thus generated, and has an exciting and dissolving property, which stimu- lates perspiration, and draws out the vicious humours. For throat and chest complaints, they are worn one round the neck, and one on the chest, at night; for weak and inflamed eyes, one is worn at the back of the head or neck at night; for weak digestion and cases of debility, one round the waist, all day ; and for gout and rheumatism, the legs are wrapped in them night and morning. The umschlag, or stimula- ting bandage, is always used for wounds, bruises, and diseased parts, and for pain in any particular region of the body. Its alleviating power is most surprising. The bandage for the waist is a towel, three yards long, and one foot wide; of this one-third is dry, and two-thirds wetted. The wet part is placed on the belly, the dry covers it. It is made tight round the body. It is a cure for intestine congestion, for constipation of the bowels, relaxation, colics, and for gripes. It rallies the power of the stomach, increases its heat, and by assisting digestion, enables the system to form better juices. Gotit, rheuma- tism, enlargement of the bones, ab- scesses, chronic inflammation, cancers, caries, and syphilitic ulcers, demand the application of these bandages ; for they relieve pain when all other remedies fail. The Wet Sheet.—AU diseases of the skin, as ringworms, small pox, measles, and scarlet fever, may be cured by the wet sheet. Do not start at this, for it is consonant with reason. It soothes the patient, promotes the erup- tion, and in fevers it produces salutary perspiration. Spread a blanket on a bed, then on it a wet sheet, well wrung out; wrap the patient close up in it, except his face; wind the blanket round the body, already cased in the sheet; then add plenty of blankets, tuck them well in, and the necessary perspiration will soon be generated. To stop fever, change the sheet every hour or half hour. “In desperate cases,” says a medical writer, “ we have known this done fifty times in little more than 24 hours, and perseverance in this treatment ends in- fallibly in success." When the fever has abated, the patient is placed in a bath of tepid water (about 64° Fahrenheit,) for a quarter of an hour ; during which time two persons must rub him briskly with the hand, water being taken up from the bath occasionally, and poured over his head and shoulders. The wet sheet, or bandages, is not unpleasant long; the patient gets warm almost directly ; but we must not regard in- convenience or unpleasantness for a cure. Are drugs, blisters, and leeches pleasant? But the application of cold water, in any way, relieves the skin, ex- cites it, and disencumbers it of obstruc- tions which close the orifices of the pores, a reaction of the whole system ensues, a heat being created on the surface, 40 or 50 degrees above the usual temperature of the body. The body imbibes a portion of the water, which in conjunction with the heat newly caused, softens and dissolves the morbid humours, and assists in their exudation by the pores of the skin.