SMA SMA 364 as quinine dissolved In elixir of vitriol; 10 or x.s drops in balm tea three or four times a day. If there is consider- able irritation, give 8 or 10 drops of laudanum in the Saline Draught, page 345. Or, give from 5 to 10 grains of the Diaphoretic Powder, page 160. Sudorifics are also very serviceable, especially when the pustules are flabby, and not well filled. If the symptoms become unfavour- able, as the striking in of the eruption, great fever, and delirium, black tongue, &c., the danger is very great. In such case, give immediately the vapour bath of bitter decoction, and an emetic ; then give a decoction of saffron and Virginia snakeroot with a teaspoonful or two of sweet spirit of nitre. Give also the Sudorific Powder, and at intervals the Seidlitz Powder. Sponge the surface of the body with warm water. If there is any tendency to putrescency in the fluids, give a wineglassful of yeast several times a day. Dr. Anthony Thompson says, “The sulphuric acid combined with wine is the only remedy on which we can rely in the confluent small pox, when the pustules are filled with a bloody sanies, and the urine is coloured by broken- down particles of blood.” Camphor is valuable in this disease. To prevent the pustules from affecting the eyes, cold water cloths should be continually applied. While the fever continues high, the diet should be mild and rather spare, as barley groel, sago gruel, beef tea without salt. When the pustules begin to maturate, the patient may be permitted gradually to take to his usual diet; and if the crop be considerable, and the strength of the patient much reduced, provided he be free from fever, a little port wine, diluted with water, may likewise be allowed after dinner. SMALL POX.—The Sarracenia Purpurea, or Indian Cup, a native plant of Nova Scotia, the specific used by the Indians against the small pox, bids fair to realize the expectations entertained by medical men of its efficacy. In a letter addressed to the American Medical Times, Dr. Fred- erick W. Morris, president physician of the Halifax Visiting Dispensary, states that this Sarracenia, a papaveraceous plant, will cure small pox in all its forms within twelve hours after the patient has taken the decoction. “ However alarming and numerous the eruptions," he says, “ or confluent and frightful they may be, the peculiar action of the medicine is such that very seldom is a scar left to tell the story of the disease. If ether vaccine or variolous matter is washed with the infusion of the Sarracenia, they are deprived of their contagious properties. So mild is the medicine to the taste that it may be mixed with tea and coffee, and given to connoisseurs in these beverages to drink without being aware of the admixture. The medicine has been successfully tried in the hospi- tals of Nova Scotia, and its use will be continued." “ We are now favoured with the fol- lowing particulars respecting this valu- able plant The Sarracenia Pur- purea, or Indian Cup, a native plant of Nova Scotia, found in swamps and moss-bags, has the wonderful reputa- tion among the Mic-Mac Indians of curing Small Pox; and of being as great a specific in this disease as quinine lor ague. It is supposed to act by neu- tralizing the virus in the blood, render- ing it inert and harmless; and that this is its action may be gathered from the fact that if either vaccine or variol- ous matter may be washed with the in- fusion of the Sarracenia, it is deprived of its contagious property. Moreover the eruption, even if confluent, on its disappearance, leaves no trace behind. The root of the plant is the part em- ployed. The dose, when reduced to powder, is about a dessert-spoonful, simmered in a pint of water down to half a pint; this is usually divided into two doses, to be taken during the day. Sugar should not be used with it." SMALL POX, Prevention of Pitting in.—Mr. Startin, the senior surgeon to the Gurney Hospital for diseases of ' £. skin, has communicated to the Mcausal Times a very important plan, which he has adopted during the last fourteen years, for preventing pit- ting in small pox, and which, he states, has always proved successful. The plan consists in applying the ace turn cantharidis or any vcsiccating fluid, by