OP1 28l ONI together, when pretty thick, pour into a dish, garnish with toasted bread cut fine. ONIONS, to Roast.—Should be done with all the skins on. They eat well alone, with only salt and cold butter; or with roast potatoes or with beet-roots. ONION SAUCE.—Peel the onions, and boil them tender; squeeze the water from them, then chop them, and add to them butter that has been melted, rich and smooth, as will be hereafter directed, but with a little good milk instead of water; boil it up' once, and serve it for boiled rabbits, par- tridges, scrag, or knuckle of veal, or roast mutton. A turaip boiled with the onions makes them milder. ONION SOUP, Brown.—Skin and cut round ways six large Spanish onions; fry them in butter till tender, and nicely brown ; take out and drain ; boil an hour in five quarts of water, stirring well; add pepper and salt; rub the crumbs of a penny loaf through a colander, and stir it well into the soup ; boil two hours. Ten minutes before it is served, beat the yolks of two eggs with two spoonfuls of vinegar, and a little of the soup, pour in gradually, and stir well. Add cloves, if agreeable. ONION SOUP, White.—Take 30 large onions; boil in five quarts of water, with a knuckle of veal, a blade or two of mace, and pepper; when the onions are quite soft, take up, and nib them through a hair sieve, and work % lb. of butter with flour in them; when the meat is boiled so as to leave the bone, strain the liquor to the onions; boil gently for half an hour ; serve with a cupful of cream and a little salt; stir it well when you put in the flour and butter. ONION STEW.—Choose five or six white onions, skin them, and first parboil them in water for 30 minutes ; then chop them very fine, and boil out in milk, add butter, and gravy, or, if you b'ke, a little cream. Do not boil too quickly. Season with salt, mace, and pepper. Thicken with a little rice flour. This kind of stew is very wholesome, and with the addition of a little chopped tender ham, not over fat, and some lean veal, it becomes a »tew of first rate relish. ONIONS, to Stew. —Peel six large onions, fty gently to a flue brown, but do not blacken them; then put them into a small stewpan with a little weak gravy, pepper and salt; cover and stew two hours gently. They should be lightly floured first. ONIONS, Offensive Breath caused by Eating.—Chew parsley, or orris root, or doves, to neutralize the smell. Or take 4 drops of concen- trated solution of chloride of soda in a ’wine-glassful of water. Use fresh butter. OPHTHALMIA, or Inflamma- tion of the Eye. — See Eye, page 175—5—7- It may be caused by cold, sharp winds, intemperance, venery, dust or particles of matter in the eyes, over- taxing the eye, the result of measles, small pox, scrofula, syphilis. f Particles of iron have been removed from the eye by a magnet. Particles of sand, &c. have been removed by in- troduting the mucilage of slippery elm into the eye, the person' lying on his back, and another injecting it into the corner or part affected, and the patient moving the eye in an-opposite direction ; the mucilage will wash out the particles ; this is very safe, as the slippery elm has a very healing power. A hog’s bristle bent semicircular, is useful to remove particles from the eye. If the inflammatory pains are severe, foment the eye with p. decoction of stramonium'leaves, simmered in spirits. Or use a little weak mixture of laudanum and water.—A very cooling wash is made of powdering a drachm of borax, and dissolving it in a pint of boiling water.—Poultices arc very good for inflammatory affections of the eyes ; but the very best of all is SLIPPERY Elm. It should be mixed with milk and water, and applied direct to the eye, without any cloth between. During the inflam- mation, Aperients should be given, and the Diaphoretic Powders used, page 160. See pages 175, 176, 177, fot remedies for diseased eye. OPIATE, Injection.—Milk of assafoetida, 8 ozs. ; tincture, of opium, 1 drachm. This is useful in disorders of the anus attended with insufferable pain.