162 Dru DXS Bruise and simmer the roots in spirits ; then add the lard, and simmer till the ingredients are crisp, and strain. A great disperser of scrofulous and gland- ulor swellings. DISCOUNT TABLE. per cent s. d. 0% is • • 0 6 per £ 3 11 • • 0 7% M 4 11 • • 0 » 5 11 • • I II 6 11 • • I „ 7& 11 • • I 6 „ 10 11 • e 2 0 „ 12% 11 • • 2 6 IS 11 ■ • 3 0 „ 17^ 11 • • 3 6 20 11 • • 4 0 .. 22 x 11 • • 4 6 „ 25 11 • • 5 0 » 30 11 • • 6 0 „ 35 11 • • 7 0 „ DISEASE Indications Disease sometimes attacks suddenly; sometimes it comes on slowly. Irrita- tion and inflammation make themselves understood at once. Mental depres- sion is often a sign of failing health. Fevers have four stages :— 1 The forming stage, characterised by a feeling of weariness, aching of the limbs, pain in the back, loss of appetite and sleep, and depression of spirits. 2 The cold stage. A chill over the entire body is felt, with drowsiness, prostration, and sometimes by sickness. 3 The hot stage, when heat follows the chilliness, and the skin becomes flushed and dry. Great headache pre- vails, restlessness, intense thirst, nau- sea, and tight and sound give pain. 4 The last stage, in favourable cases, Is marked by perspiration and by some relief from pain. The state of the tongue indicates health or disease. Florid redness is a sign of dyspepsia; a livid or purple tongue, shows obstruction in the cir- culation, or lungs; a white tongue denotes a weak and impoverished state of the blood; a furred tongue is com- mon to some people even when in health, but when there are bright red points perceptible beneath the fur, fever Is present; a tongue with red edges and furred in the middle is a sign of intem- perance, or brain disorder. DISINFECTANTS. —The most effectual and agreeable is coffee. Even the smell of musk and castor, which cannot be overpowered by any other substance, is completely dispelled by the fumes of coffee. Powder the beans well in a mortar, and strew the powder over a heated shovel or iron plate. Carry it up and down the house to neutralize all offensive smells. Or, in a quart of water dissolve three ozs. of sugar of lead, and then add three ounces of aquafortis. Shake up well. It is efficacious, in removing offensive smells from chamber utensils. Sprinkle the place or room infected, or hang up cloths dipped in it. See Chloride Lime.—Or, saltpetre, 6 drachms, sul- phuric acid, 1 oz.; add the acid very slowly. Stir oft, that it may be diffused. —It prevents infection in fevers. DIURETICS. —Medicines in- creasing the secretion of the urine. DIURETIC DECOCTION.— Queen of the meadow, wild carrot seed, spearmint, milkweed, dwarf elder, juni- per-berries, of each, 2 ozs. Bruise, and boil a short time in two quarts of water. Very useful in gravel and dropsy. A cupful to be taken occasionally. DIURETIC DROPS.— Tinc- ture of kino, K oz. ; balsam of copaiba, spirits of turpentine, of each 1 oz.; sweet spirits of nitre, 2 oz.; queen of the meadow, 1 oz. Mix, and add x scruple of camphor. Take nearly a tea-spoonful in mucilage. Most valu- able for scalding urine, inflammation of the kidneys, &c. DIURETIC DROPS.—Sweet spirit of nitre, 1 oz.; aromatic tincture, X oz. Mix. Fifty drops may be taken 3 or 4 times a day, in wine and water. This will be found very efficient in re- moving obstructions in the kidneys, and promoting the natural flow of urine. DIURETIC INFUSION. — Paisley seeds, oz.; cleavers, X oz.; burdock seeds, X oz.; coolwort, X ox.; spearmint, oz.; Juniper berries, X oz.; linseed, X oz.; gum arabic, X oz. Pour upon these two quarts of boil- ing water; infuse two or three hours, covering the vessel. Strain, and add half a pint of best gin, 4 ounces of honey, and three table-spoonfuls of slippery elm. This Is a most valuable