COR 138 CON healthy woman daily. This has cured my father. For diet, use milk and apples, or water gruel made with fine flour. Drink cider-whey, barley water, sharpened with lemon-juice, or apple- water. So long as the tickling cough continues, chew well, and swallow a mouthful or two of a biscuit or crust of bread twice a day. If you cannot swallow it spit it out. This will always shorten the fit, and would often prevent a consumption.—John Wesley. CONSUMPTION, Useful Drink for.—Coltsfoot, two ounces; horehound, rue, of each one ounce; and blood-root, three drachms. Boil in three quarts of water down to two quarts. Strain, and to the liquor, add of figs and sugar, of each four ounces, and boil fifteen minutes. Take a wine- glassful three or four times a day. CONVULSIONS, in Children. —They originate in some derangement or irritation of the bowels, stomach, brain, or from teething. Give an ape- rient, as magnesia and rhubarb, and a warm bath about 90°, and apply to the head linen dipped in the water. The following powder is useful:—Rhubarb in powder, 8 grains ; super-sulphate of potash, 12 grains. Mix. Give also a little syrup of poppies. If aperients cannot be taken, give a mild injection ; as a 'ittle epsom salts in barley gruel, with a little butter ; or a weak solution of salt and water, with a few drops of oil, or butter. Convulsions often arise from over- feeding ; this must be avoided. If in- digestible food has been taken, give an emetic,—the wine of ipecacuanha ; or if the patient cannot be sufficiently roused from sleep, so as to take the emetic, tickle the back part of the mouth with a feather to produce the effect. If the convulsions are obstinate, apply friction along the spine, when in the bath ; or out of it, rub the spine with an anodyne composed of 10 drops of laud- anum, 10 drops of oil, and 6 drops of tincture of cayenne. Mustard plasters may be applied a minute or two to the legs and feet. If convulsions are caused by teething, the gums must be lanced a little. COOKING. —Liebig the great chemist says, ‘ ‘ If the flesh be intro- duced into the boiler when the water is in a state of brisk ebullition, and if the boiling be kept up for a few minutes, and the pot then placed in a warm place, so that the temperature of the water is kept at 160°, we have the united conditions for giving the flesh the quali- ties which best fit it for being eaten." By plunging the meat into boiling water the albumen on the surface cannot es- cape, as it at once coagulates and seals it, and excludes the water. Meal placed in cold water loses its savoury ingre- dients. Fresh meat should never be soaked in water. Only salted and dried meats require it. COOL TANKARD.—Mild ale, 1 quart; port, or sherry wine, 1 glass- ful ; the same of brandy; one of capi- laire ; the juice of a lemon ; a little of the peel pared thin, with os. of cream of tartar. Strain it. COPPER, to Detect in Pickles or Tea.—Into a beer glass put a portion of the pickles or tea; add a little liquid ammonia, with nearly as much water ; stir well, and if the liquid become blue, it indicates the presence of copper. COPPER or BRASS PANS. —Always put away dry, or they will generate verdigris, which is very poison- ous. If tinged with dye, clean with oil of vitriol and water, and a little fine sand. Wipe quite dry. COPYING INK.—Powdered galls, 2 lbs. ; sulphate of iron, 8 ozs.; gum, 6 ozs. ; logwood, 6 ozs. ; sugar, 4 ozs.; vinegar, 2 quarts; water, gallon. Stir often for a fortnight. A few drops of oil of cloves will prevent mould. Another.—Add £ oz. of gum ara- bic, and 1 oz. of fine brown sugar, to every pint of good black ink. COPYING PAPER, Black.— Mix well and stiff, lamp black and lard, or butter. Spread evenly over fine print- ing paper with a soft brush or flannel. Dry in a warm room. It is used for transferring drawings, &c., or for mul- tiplying copies.—Place a sheet of white paper upon it; place the pattern upon it to be copied, and trace with a style. CORNS.—When small, they may be removed by stimulants or escharoties.