BRE 76 BRE Sudorific Powder. Also, take a tea- spoonful of best Rum, a teaspoonful of ginger, quarter of a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper ; boil four or five min- utes, and thicken with coarse flour, or ground elm bark, or slippery elm ; put a little oil upon the breast, then apply the poultice, and repeat three or four times. It generally cures. If the pain be excessive, add a small quantity of Laudanum to the poultice. This gener- ally cures. Ointment made with Marsh Mallows Is excellent for rubbing the breast. Continued application soon reduces the inflammation. In hard swellings of the breast, rub with sweet oil, or friction with Soap Liniment; a drachm of Compound Tincture of Iodine to each ounce will render it more effectual. The bowels should be kept gently open, to subdue the fever. When matter has formed, it is best to let it break and discharge spontaneous- ly ; or it may be punctured with a lan- cet. An abscess in the breast will dis- charge a long time. The diet therefore should be nutritious, light and strength- ening. A warm bread poultice is good for an abscess ; it should be changed every four or five hours, and covered with oiled silk. When the discharge has nearly ceased, simple warm water dressings may be substituted, and then apply the Black Salve, which see. BREASTS, Hard.—Apply tur- nips roasted till soft, mashed and mixed with a little oil of roses. Change twice a day, keeping the breast warm with flannel. BREASTS, Sore and Swelled. —Boil a handful of Camomile, and as much Mallows in milk and water. Fo- ment with it between two flannels, as hot as can be borne, every twelve hours. This also dissolves any knot or swelling in any part. BREATH, Foetid.—The smell may proceed from the lungs or the stomach, but in nine cases out of ten it originates in the stomach, and the fol- lowing is a simple and prompt remedy : —Three hours after a meal take a large teaspoonful of a solution of six parts of chlorate of potash in 120 parts of sugar- ed water, and at the same time rinse out the mouth well with the same solu- tion. When the breath is tainted with onions; eat parsley and vinegar, or orris root, or gum kino. Or, take a dose of rhubarb and mag- nesia occasionally; finely powdered charcoal has been recommended ; also, a decoction of camomile and wormwood. For impure breath caused by decaying teeth, chew Orris root, and Peruvian bark, or use the same as a powder. Or take charcoal powder, powdered myrrh, powdered cuttle-fish, carbonate of soda, and a drop or two of oil of cloves. Keep the mixture in the mouth as long as possible. BREATHING, Difficult.— Vitriolated Spirits of Ether, 2 ounces; Camphor, 15 grains ; Paregoric, oz. ; Ipecacuanha wine, a tablespoonful; water, half a pint. Mix, and cork well. Take a teaspoonful when the breathing is laborious. It relieves at once. BREAST PANG.—Called An- gina Pectoris. This is a sudden and most violent pain across the chest, par- ticularly about the breast bone extend- ing Jowards the arms, attended with difficulty of breathing, and a sense of suffocation, seeming to threaten imme- diate dissolution. In the young, it arises from nervous irritability of the heart, or internal muscles of the chest; but, in old persons, it is generally ac- companied with some organic disease of the heart or the coronary arteries. Effectual relief may be obtained by quiet, rest, opium and cordials. The part should be well rubbed with antispas- modics, as the ammoniated tincture of guiacum ; or cause an eruption by rub- bing the chest with the tartar emetic ointment. The bowels should be kept open by a laxative, as salts and senna. Take foetid spirits of ammonia, half an ounce: solution of morphia, three drachms; camphor mixture, six ounces ; mix, and take a tablespoonful every half hour till relieved. If the paroxysm be violent, thirty drops of ether, and ten or twelve of laudanum, may be taken immediately in a little brandy and water. The tinc- ture of Lobelia also is an efficacious remedy. (See Robinson's Herbal, arti- cle Lobelia) Take twenty or thirty drop*, and gradually increase. The bowels must be kept regular; and if there be irritability and want of sleep take fif-