GEN GIN I94 GENTIAN, Tincture of.—Gen- tian. oz. ; orange peel, 4 drs, ; car- damoms, a drachms; spirits of wine, 1 pint. Macerate for 15 days. Dose, one teaspoonful. GHERKINS, to Pickle. — Put them into strong salt and water, and stir twice a day ; take out and place in a jar with vine leaves, and pour boiling vinegar over them. When cold heat the vinegar again, cover the gherkins with fresh vine leaves, and pour it upon them; repeat till of a good colour. Then add to it as much vinegar as is necessary, suppose two quarts, oz. of mace, 6 cloves, % oz. of ginger, % oz. of black pepper, and a table spoonful of salt. Boil five minutes, and pour upon thp niplrlp GHERKINS, to Pickle. —Put them into a jar, and cover them with boiled vinegar ; add a little salt; place them near the fire; boil the vinegar every day for five or six days ; cover to keep in the steam ; then take fresh vine- gar, with black, white, or cayenne pep- per, and ginger; put in the gherkins; simmer slowly till they look green. When cool, cover, and keep in a dry place. GIBLET PIE.—Clean the gib- lets well; stew with a little water, onion, pepper, salt, sweet herbs till nearly done. Cool, and add beef, veal or mutton steaks. Put the liquor of the stew to the giblets. Cover with paste, and when the pie is baked, pour into it a large tea-cupful of cream. GILDING, for Books, tftc.— Screw a quantity of pages strongly into a press. After being cut and scraped as smooth as possible, size them with Isinglass glue mixed up with spirits of wine, and then apply the gold leaves, let them dry, then burnish with a blood- stone. GILDING, to Preserve from Fly-dirt.—Cover over with gauze or tissue paper, till the flies are gone. Or boil a few leeks in a pint of water ; with a very soft brush wash over the glasses and frames with the liquid—flies do not like it, and will not alight. GILDING, to Renew.—Give the wood a coating of size made of the white of an egg, well beaten, and diluted with water, or Isinglass dissolved in a weak spirit Apply the size, and when half dry, apply the gold, and when com- pletely dry, polish with an agate. GINGER, to Candy.—Put 1 lb. of loaf sugar finely powdered into a pan with as much water as will dissolve it, and i oz. of ginger powdered; stir over a slow fire till the sugar begins to boil: then stir in 1 lb. more sugar, and stir till it becomes thick, and falls in a mass from the spoon ; take off, and dry it in cakes upon earthem dishes ; put in a warm place, and they will be white, hard and brittle. Colour with a little saffron. GINGER, Syrup of.—Macerate 1% oz. of beaten ginger in a quart of boiling water, closely covered for twenty- four hours; then strain the infusion, make it into a syrup by adding at least two parts of fine loaf sugar, dissolved and boiled up in a hot water bath. GINGER, Tincture of.—Ginger, 1 oz. ; proof spirit, 1 pint. Digest in a gentle heat seven days, and strain. A good stimulant, and expellent of wind ; used as a corrective to purgative draughts. GINGER BEER, Cheap.— Sugar, 1 lb.; boiling water 1 gallon; ginger, % oz., and a lemon sliced thin. Stir till all is mixed. Cool, and add a tablespoonful of yeast. Let it stand so hours, then strain, bottle, and tie down the corks. Will be prime in a few days. GINGER BEER.—To every gal- lon of spring water, add 1 oz. of sliced white ginger, and 1 lb. of white sugar, or lb., if you like. Boil nearly an hour. Then add % oz. of lemon juice to every gallon; strain, cool, and add yeast, 1 table-spoonful or rather more to a gallon. In 48 hours, add a little isinglass, and the white of one or two eggs. Put into the cask, and let it stand 24 hours longer. Bottle and cork well. GINGER BEER.—Ginger, 3 ozs. ; sugar, 4 lbs. ; cream of tartar, % oz. ; essence of lemon, % oz. ; the juice and peel of two lemons; brandy, pint; yeast, quarter of a pint; water, 4 gallons. Bruise the sugar and ginger ; boil 35 minutes; pour it boiling upon the lemon, tartar, essence, Sec. Stir well; nearly cool, and auld the yeast; let