ROS RUM 343 becomes like pomatum. Add the essences, and pot the mixture; cover well with bladder, ROSES, Infusion of.—Take of red roses dried, % an oz. ; boiling water, a quart; oil of vitriol, £ a drachm ; loaf sugar, i oz. Infuse the roses in the water for 4 hours, In an unglared earthen vessel; then pour in the acid, strain the liquor, and add to it the sugar. In an excessive flow of the menses, vomiting of blood, and other haemor- rhages, a tea-cupful of this gentle astringent infusion may be taken every three or four hours. It likewise makes an exceedingly good gargle. ROSE CAKE.— Boil 2 lbs. of sugar in a tea-cupful of water, over a slow fire, until you perceive it begins to candy on the sides of the pan, or has reached the degree of blown ; take off, and add 12 drops of the oil or otto of roses. Colour with prepared cochineal. Mix all together, and pour into small tin hoops, any shape you like. Or, pour it upon buttered paper in a tin, and dry it in the oven. While rather soft, cut Into shapes. ROSE LOTION for the Eyes. —Vitriolated zinc, 10 grains; distilled vinegar, 2 drachms; rose water, 14 drachms; make into a wash for the eyes, and apply frequently with a rag. When the eyelids are tumefied, this per- forms a cure. Even rose water alone strengthens the eyes, and its smell is fragrant and reviving, ROSE LEAVES, to Preserve. —Gather them when dry; press them into a jar well sprinkled with brandy for future use. Some pack them with com- mon salt only. ROSE LOZENGES. Boil gently 2 lbs. of sugar in a cupful of water until it begins to candy, or till it is blown; take off, and add 2 ozs. of gum arabic dissolved; then add 15 drops of the oil or otto of roses; roll or,‘, and make into lozenges. Colour as you please. A little powdered starch, or olive oil, scented, will prevent them from sticking. Dry well. ROSE WATER.—Damask rose leaves, 6 lbs. ; water sufficient to pre- vent burning; distil off a gallon. These leaves retain their odour if pre- served as above directed, ROSEMARY.—See Robinson's Herbal. The Spirit of Rosemary is a good external application for strains end bruises. It is said to have cured a queen of Hungary of a paralytic affection. For headache, 4 drops of the oil are given in a dessert-spoonful of the spirit in a glass of water. It is good for hysterics. ROSEMARY, to Cultivate.—It is propagated by slips or cuttings in the spring, in a bed of fight earth. When they are rooted, transplant them. The best season is in August, if they are planted later, they seldom five through winter, therefore if not transplanted at this time, they should be left till the following March, which is a very good time for removing them ; if the season be showery, they take root immediately. ROSEMARY POMATUM.— Melt equal parts of beef marrow, sper- maceti, and olive oil. When nearly cool, add 15 drops of oil of rosemary. If not stiff enough, add a little white wax, or beef suet. ROUGE.—Make a decoction of best Brazil wood, powdered, and best vinegar. Boil half an hour, strain, and replace on the fire. Dissolve lb. of alum, in a pint of best vinegar. Mix the two liquids and stir well with a wooden spatula. The scum which arises, on being carefully taken off, and gradually dried, will make a beautiful and harmless rouge, or carmine. ROYAL FRITTERS.—Milk, 1 quart; put it into a saucepan, and as the milk boils up, pour in a pint of shejrry. Boil up and take off for six minutes. Skim off all the curd, and put it into a basin. Beat it well up with six eggs; season with nutiqeg, and beat it up with a whisk; add flour to make it as thick as batter; add fine sugar, and fry quick. RUE, GARDEN.—It is very serviceable for approaching blindness, caused by disease of the optic nerve. It is a great disinfectant. In sprains, injury of the joints, rheumatic paralysis ot the joints, in bed sores even if broken and ulcerated, it is of immense service. It is best to buy the tincture of the homoeopathic chemists. See Robinson's Herbal. RUM SHRUB.— Rum, « pint; orangfc and lemon juice, of each a wine-