*35 CON CON people, who sett all their produce, eat little of these things, and the poorer Inhabitants of towns get them in in- sufficient quantity. Those persons who can procure them, eat salads and fats In too small quantities. 2. Too little bodily exercise. 3. Want of exercise of the large intestine. This is the most influential of all the causes. It is an error to suppose that the power of the will extends only over the sphincter; for it prevails much higher, only it re- quires more time for its exertion. Several minutes, or a quarter of an hour, may be required to initiate the evacuatory movement. By exercising it, we increase the disposition of the intestine to act, but this is rarely the case in less than five minutes. Numerous remedies have been recom- mended for constipation; but the ac- tion of medicinal substances in so chronic an affection may become pre- judicial, especially such as exert a chemical acdon, as salts or drastics. If a stool is desired, the patient must earnestly practice the necessary gym- nastic, which consists in alternate movements of the rectum as during actual evacuation, and in rapidly draw- ing in and then expanding the abdominal muscles. Such movements may be commenced in the chamber and com- pleted in the closet, several minutes, a quarter of an hour, or even more, being required. If evacuation has com- menced, but has not proved productive enough, the movements must be con- tinued, the person resolving not to quit the closet until the aim has been attain- ed. The movements are the same as those normally employed ; but they are more rapid, and continued for a longer time. Kneading and rubbing the abdo- men, may be useful, but they are un- necessary ; and may be reserved for those not able to follow the above directions, such as children, &c. An adult should compel a stool every day. In from four to eight weeks a complete mastery may be acquired over the intestine, so that a stool may be always secured once in the twenty-four hours. This powerful agency acts more efficiently when conjoined with articles of diet favourable to an open state of the bowels. A large quantity of water will be more easily drank if 1 at first carbonic acid gas be added. An adult, during winter, should take from fifty to seventy ounces daily (de- ducting from this the equivalent of any artificial drinks he may take,) a larger quantity still during great bodily exer- tion, and from one-and-a-half to twice the quantity in a summer. When raw fruit gives rise to flatulence, it may be taken cooked with spices, and especially when dried and cooked. With greater regularity of stools, flatulence becomes less, the food being retained for a less time within the canal. Exercise is of great service ; but it exerts no sudden effect, and at first may even induce con- stipation. Trying the plan upon himself when a student, the author has, during his twenty-eight years of practice, recom- mended it to an immense number of persons, and in the great majority of cases with complete success. He has attained the power of procuring a daily stool at any convenient time between four o’clock a. m. and mid-day, the average time required being a quarter of an hour. Only on one occasion during thirty years has he failed in his object. The plan is not so suitable for the aged ; and is inapplicable to women during advanced pregnancy, or in or- ganic disease or prolapsus of the uteras. When from insufficient perseverance the means does not succeed, cold water clysters form the best supplement; and, exceptionally, salt and oil, with camo- mile tea, etc., may be thrown up. The author never gives purgatives by the mouth in chronic constipation, believing it to be the most impolitic to irritate the stomach and small intestine, disturbing chylopcesis, and introducing into the blood materials that are always more or less injurious. CONSUMPTION.—The word is derived from the Latin verb consumo, to consume or to waste away. It is also called phthisis, from the Greek verb phthio, to waste away. Consump- tion is the most frequent and most fatal of all pulmonary diseases. It often begins with a slight dry cough, so slight and painless as not to attract notice. By and by the cough increases, and expectoration gradually becomes copious, thick, yellow, and tinged with blood. Sometimes the appetite re-