COD CLE 126 dissolve. Beat half the white of an egg ; put it to the sugar, and stir : put on the fire, and boil gently till no scum rises, and it is perfectly clear ; strain through a cloth, and closely bottle. CLEAVERS. — The American plant is the best. It is a good diuretic, perhaps one of the best for curing all suppressions of urine, and gravelly com- plaints, scurvy and spitting of blood. Infuse 2 ounces in a pint of cold water, and drink a wine-glassful occasionally, See Robinson’s Family Herbal. CLOTH, to Raise the Nap on. —When woollens are worn threadbare the part of the dress must be soaked in cold water for half an hour, then put on a board, and the threadbare parts rubbed with a half-wom hatter’s “card” filled with flocks, or with a prickly thistle, until a sufficient nap be raised. If faded, apply the Black Reviver, which see. Then hang the coat to dry, and and with a brush lay the nap the right way. COCKIE LEEKIE.—A favour- ite Scotch dish. Take scrag of mutton or knuckle of veal, and 3 quarts of liquor in which some meat has been boiled. Get a fowl, and a fine leek cut in pieces, with salt and pepper. Boil an hour and a half, then add five more leeks, and boil one hour more. Beef liquor is the best. COCKLE KETCHUP.—Open the cockles, scald them in their own liquor; add a little water when the liquor settles; strain; season with pepper, mace, cloves, and other spices ; if for brown sauce, add port, anchovies, and garlick. COCKROACHES, to Destroy. —Mix bread crumbs, sugar, and corro- sive sublimate, and place it near their haunts.—Or mix sugar, laudanum, and water together.—They are very fond of beer, which might be substituted for 'Vater.—Some persons have found a mixture of plaster of Paris, sugar, and oatmeal, effectual. Powdered phos- phorous, oatmeal, and sugar, form a sure remedy. COCOA SAUCE. — Scrape a portion of the kernel of a cocoa nut, adding the juice of three lemons, a tea- spoonful of the tincture of cayenne pep- per, a tea-spoonful of shallot vinegar, and half a cupful of water. Gently sim mer for a few hours. COD, to Boil.—If boiled fresh, it is watery ; but it is excellent if salted, and hung for a day, to give it firmness. Wash and clean the fish well, and rub salt inside of it; tie it up, and put it on the fire in cold water ; throw a handful of salt into the fish-kettle. Boil a small fish 15 minutes ; a large one 30 minutes. Serve it without the smallest speck and scum ; drain. Garnish it with lemon, horse-radish, the milt, roe, and liver. Oyster or shrimp sauce may be used. Another way.— After cleaning well, put into the boiling water a hand- ful of salt, a small cupful of vinegar; boil as above, as to time. Take it up ; strip off the skin, put before a brisk fire, dredge with flower, and baste with butter; when the froth begins to rise, throw over it fine white bread crumbs ; baste on to make it froth well; when a fine brown, dish it up, and garnish it with sliced lemon, horse-radish, oysters, &c. COD’S HEAD and SHOUL- DERS, to Boil.—Wash it well, dry, and tie it up. Put in salt and a glass of vinegar. Frequently skim it. Boil half an hour. Half boil the milt and roe. Cut thin slices, fry, adding gravy, and a little port wine. For sauce, oysters, eggs, or butter and parsley. COD, Broiled.—Clean as before. Cut into slices an inch thick ; rub them with thick melted butter. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them. Place on the gridiron, and broil on both sides. Serve with parsley sauce, or melted butter and anchovy sauce. COD’S HEAD, to Bake. — Clean well; put in a dish rubbed with butter. Put in sweet herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, three blades of mace, pepper, nutmeg, lemon peel, horse radish, and r quart of water ; dust and grate flour and nutmeg over it, and put bits of butter in various parts, and place it in the oven. When done, place in the serving dish. Pour all the liquor out of the dish in which it was baked into a sauce-pan, and boil three minutes; strain, and add a gill of red wine, twn spoonfuls of ketchup, and a pint of I shrimps, half a pint of oysters, a spoon-