MEN MED 258 till ready to crumble to pieces ; drain ; mash them very smooth. Make them into a thickish batter with an egg or two and milk, placing a layer of steaks or chops well-seasoned with salt and pepper, at the bottom of a baking dish ; cover with a layer of batter, and so al- ternately, till the dish is full, ending with batter at the top. Butter the dish to prevent sticking or burning. Bake of a fine brown colour. MEDICINE, Disagreeable, to Take.—Get your medicine into the mouth, do not swallow, nor open your mouth ; then have a glass of water ready to take immediately after you take the medicine into the mouth. The moment it is swallowed nip the nose. This plan neutralizes the taste of the most nause- ous medicine. Chloroform mixed with medicine, even the most bitter, neutralizes the taste. MEDICINAL TEA. Rose- mary leaves, dried, 3 ozs. ; sage, 4 ozs. ; rose leaves, 4 ozs. ; peach leaves, 3 ozs.; hyssop, 4 oz. ; balm 6 ozs.; male speed- well, 4 oz.; agrimony, 6 ozs. A wine- glass of these mixed herbs is sufficient to make 3 pints of infusion, which is made is the same manner as ordinary tea. All the above herbs may be used, or a selection made, but do not leave out balm and agrimony. If these herbs were imported from a distant region they would fetch a high price, and be held in high estimation. Such tea will strengthen the stomach, and invigorate, instead of debilitating the nervous sys- tem.—See Robinson's Herbal on Tea, page 267. MELANCHOLY.—See Hypo- chondria, page 215. MELTED BUTTER, to Make.—Cut 2 ozs. of butter into small bits, to melt more readily; put Into the stewpan with a dessert-spoonful of flour, and two table-spoonfuls of milk. When thoroughly mixed, add two table-spoonfuls of water; hold it over the fire, and shake it round every minute, ail the time the same way, till it just begins to simmer; then let it stand quietly, and boil up. It should be as thick as good cream. MENSES, Obstructed. Be electrified.—Tried.—Or, take half a pint of strong decoction of pennyroyal every night on going to bed.—Or, boil fivo large heads of hemp in a pint of water to half. Strain it and drink it at going to bed, two or three nights. It seldom fails.—Tried.— Wesley. MENSTRUATION.—Men- struation is a natural secretion, of a red colour, from the womb, so named from its occurring once in a month. This periodical discharge appears to be for the purpose of keeping up sanguification, or the making of blood in the body, and a determination thereof to the womb, for the purpose of gestation. In conse- quence of its not appearing at a proper period of life, of irregularity after it has taken place, and of its being excessive, as well as at the period of its cessation, many derangements in the system occur. The interruption of the menstrual secretion may be considered of two kinds ;—the one when it does not begin to flow at that period of life in which it usually appears, which is termed Chloro- sis, or Green Sickness—and the other when, after it has repeatedly taken place for some time, it does, from other causes than conception, cease to return at the usual periods. Chlorosis, or Green Sickness. —Menstruation begins from the four- teenth to the sixteenth year. But the circumstance of a female having passed the age of sixteen, does not always demand medical aid. The date of puberty varies very widely, and one female may menstruate at 12, and ano- ther at 30 years of age, without the health being impaired. As to its causes, it may arise from im- perfect formation of the organs con- cerned in the function, from the want oi due force in the action of the arteries of the womb, or some preternatural resist- ance in their extremities ; from too full habit of body, from impoverishment of the blood, and from great physical debility. This retention produces many dis- tressing symptoms ; as, headache, flush- ings in the face, pain in the back and stomach, costiveness, furred tongue, failure of appetite, longing to eat chalk, lime, &c. The face loses its vivid colour, and becomes of a yellowish hue ; some- times there is bleeding from the nose and stomach; the skin becomes pale and flaccid; and the feet, and sometimes