83 BUT BUT it should stand for butter twenty-four hours without skimming, and forty-eight in winter. Deposit the cream-pot in a very cold cellar, if your dairy is not more so. If you cannot chum daily, change it into scalded fresh pots; but never omit churning twice a week. If possible, put the chum in a thorough air ; and if not a barrel one, set it in a tub of water two feet deep, which will give firmness to the butter. When the butter is come, pour off the butter-milk, and put the butter into a fresh-scalded pae, or tubs which have afterwards been in cold water. Pour water on it, and let it lie to acquire some hardness be- fore you work it; then change the water, and beat it with flat boards so perfectly that not the least taste of butter-milk remain, and that the water, which must be often changed, shall be quite clear in colour. Then work some salt into it, weigh, and make it into forms ; throw them into cold water, in an earthen pan and cover of the queen’s ware. You will then have very nice and cool butter in the hottest weather. It requires more working in hot than in cold weather ; but in neither should be left with a particle of butter-milk. BUTTER, a Novel Method to Make.—At Hougham, says the Stamford Mercury, a farmer's wife ties up her cream in a linen cloth, buries it for twenty-four hours in a damp comer of her garden, empties it into a bowl, stirs it with a spoon, and the butter and buttermilk separate. Her butter is said to be sweeter than that which is made by churning. BUTTER, Fairy. — Take the yolks of four eggs boiled ; butter, quar- ter of a pound; beat two ounces of sugar in a tablespoonful of orange- flower water ; beat all to a fine paste ; let it stand two hours, mb it through a colander upon a plate. BUTTER, to clarify for Potted Meat, &c.—Put It into a sauce-boat, and set it over the fire in a stew-pan that has a little water in. When melted, take care not to pour the milky parts over the potted things ; they will sink to the bottom. BUTTER, to Preserve for Winter.—-When the butter has been prepared, as above directed, take two parts of the best common salt, one part of good loaf sugar, and one part of saltpetre, beaten, and blended well to- gether. Of this composition put one ounce to sixteen ounces of butter, and work it well together in a mass. Press it into the pans after the butter is be- come cool; for friction, though it be not touched by the hands, will soften it. The pans should hold ten or twelve pounds each. On tne top put some salt; and when that is turned into brine, if not enough to cover th« butter entire- ly, add some strong salt and water. BUTTER, another Mode of Preserving.—Pour a pint of boiling water on one pound of common salt; add half an ounce of saltpetre, one ounce of lump sugar. Let it stand till cold. Pour it off clear of sediment and put the butter into it This pickle will keep butter firm and sweet during the hottest weather. BUTTER, to Choose.—Put a knife into the butter if salt, and smell it when drawn out; if there is any thing rancid or unpleasant, it is bad. Being made at different times, the layers in casks will vary greatly, and you will not easily come at the good- ness but by unhooping the cask, and trying it between the staves. Fresh butter ought to smell like a nosegay, and be of an equal colour all through ; if sour, it has not been washed enough ; if veiny and open, it has been mixed with an inferior sort. BUTTER and PARSLEY.— Wash the parsley; boil it in a bunch till soft, shred fine, and mix it with melted butter. BUTTERMILK.—If made of sweet cream, it is a delicious and most wholesome food. Those who can relish sour butter-milk find it still more light, and it is reckoned more beneficial in consumptive cases. Butter-milk, if not very sour, is also as good as cream to eat with fruit, if sweetened with white sugar, and mixed with a very little milk.-1 It likewise does equally for cakes and rice puddings, and of course it is economical to chum before the cream is too stale for any thing but to feed pigs. BUTTERED EGGS. — Beat four or five eggs, yolk and white to-