YEN 408 VEN VENICE TURPENTINE OINTMENT.—Venice turpentine, a ozs.; tar, 1 01.; butter, 4 ozs. Sim- mer until they are well mixed. This is very good for scald head, ringworm, &c. First wash the head well with soap and water, and then apply the ointment. See pages 279, 307, 373,378, 384- VENISON, to Carve.—1. The Haunch. 2. The Neck, 3. The Shoulder. 4. The Breast. VENISON, to Choose.—If the fat be clear, bright, and thick, and the deft part smooth and close, it is young; but if the cleft is wide and tough, it is old. To judge of its sweetness, run a very sharp narrow knife into the shoulder or haunch, and you will know by the scent. Few people like it, when it has much of the haul gout. VENISON, to Dress.—A haunch of buck will take three horns and a half roasting; doc, only three hours and a quarter. Venison should be rather over than underdone. Spread a sheet of white paper with butter, and put it over the fat, first sprinkling it with salt; lay a coarse paste on strong paper, and cover the haunch; fie it with fine packthread, and set it at a distance from the fire. Baste it often; ten minutes before serving take off the paper, put nearer the fire, and baste with butter and flour to make it froth up well. Gravy for it should be put into a boat, and not into the dish; made thus : Cut off the fat from 2 or 3 lbs. of a loin of old mutton, and set in steaks, on a gridiron just to brown one side; put them into a saucepan with a quart of water; for an hour simmer gently ; uncover and stew till the gravy is reduced to a pint. Season with only salt. Currant-jelly must be served in a boat. Formerly pap-sauce was eaten with venison; which, as some still like it, it may be necessary to direct. Grate white bread, and boil it with port ■wine, water, and a large stick of cinnamon ; and when quite smooth, take out the cinnamon, and add sugar. Claret may be used for it. Make the jelly-sauce thus. Beat some currant-jelly and a spoonful or two of port wine, and set it over the fire till melted. Where jelly runs short put more wine, and a few lumps of sugar, to the jelly, and melt as above. Serve with French beans. VENISON, to Fry.—Cut the meat into slices, and make a gravy of the bones ; fry it of a fight brown, and keep it hot before the fire; put butter rolled in flour into the pan, and stir it till thick and brown ; add % lb. of loaf sugar powdered, with the gravy made from the bones, and some port wine. Let it be as thick as cream ; squeeze in a lemon ; warm the venison in it; put it in the dish, and pour the sauce over it. VENISON, Haunch of, to Roast.—The haunch of a doe, will require 15 minutes less than a buck. Venison should always be rather over than underdone. Place the haunch on the spit; lay over it a large sheet of paper, and then a thin common paste, with a paper over that; tie it fast to keep the paper from dropping off. If the haunch be large, it will take four hours to roast it. When done, take off the paper and jxiste ; dredge it well with flour, and baste it 'with butter. When it is of a light brown, dish it with brown gravy, or currant jelly sauce. VENISON, to Hash.—It should be warmed with its own gravy, or some without seasoning, as before: