PA1 PAL 289 days, steep them for half an hour In a tin pan ; strain the water off through a sieve, and use this tea to wash all var- nished paint. It removes spots, and gives a fresher, newer appearance than when soap and water is used. For white paint, take up a small quantity of whiting on a damp piece of white flannel, and rub over the surface lightly, and it will leave the paint re- markably bright and new. PAINT, to Remove from Cloth.—Apply spirit of turpentine with a sponge. Grease on cloth may be removed by frequent layers of blotting paper placed over the grease spot, and pressing with a flat iron. PAINT, to Remove Spots of. —Apply spirits of turpentine to the spot, and after a while rub the cloth as if washing, and the paint will crumble off; if not, apply the turpentine again. PAINT, to Take away the Smell of.—Water neutralizes the smell of paint. Vessels of water placed in a newly painted room, will remove the smell, especially if impregnated with a little sulphuric acid.—-Or straw and hay well saturated with water. Or chloride of lime and water. PAINT, for Garden Stands.— It may be composed of mineral green, and turpentine varnish, using a larger quantity of varnish for the second coat, if needful. The colour may be regulat- ed by the addition of white lead, or Prussian blue, ad libitum. PAINTER’S COLIC; see Colie, page 132.—This is a dangerous disease ; it is attended with severe and violent pain, and paralytic symptoms, and sometimes with nausea, vomiting of acid bile, severe pains ; spasmodic pains about the region of the navel, violently shooting to each side ; it is often attend- ed by violent spasms of the bowels with obstinate costiveness. If the disease is not arrested, it may terminate in gan- grene, paralysis of the limbs, &c. It is caused by the absorption of lead into the system chiefly by respiration ; hence painters, plumbers, potters, miners, and white lead workers are most subject to it. Treatment.—To some extent the tyston la impregnated with lead; the great object therefore must be to cause nature to expel the same. The nausea and the vomiting must be arrested by the Neutralising Mixture, page 275; give a table-spoonful every half hour, or as often as vomiting takes place ; when it ceases, give the Aperient Electuary, or the Aperient Tonic Mixture, page, 31, now and then. When the first symp- toms appear, give an injection as fol- lows :—Warm water, one pint, two tea- spoonfuls of salt; antispasmodic tinc- ture, two table-spoonfuls, and a table- spoonful of slippery elm. Apply to the stomach and region of the navel hot fomentations of a strong decoction of hops and poppy heads, a little antispasmodic tincture, and 20 or 30 drops of laudanum to a pint. Give the vapour bath dally ; and after- wards apply friction, and rub the body all over with the Stimulating Liniment. An emetic now and then will be of great, use. The injections must be repeated until evacuations are obtained. Drink at the same time a decoction of the sudorific herbs, as balm, catnep, yarrow, peppermint, camomile, &c. If the disease Abates, discontinue gradually the use of the above reme- dies ; do not cease all at once, for the disease is a very insidious one, and may return. The application of dry hot salt, folded up in a bag, is a most valuable remedy. Keep it heating in the oven, and have two bags ; change as the one cools.—To remove paralysis in any part, apply frequently the Stimulating Lini- ment, page 378. The diet must be low and sparing. PALERMO WINE.—Take to every quart of water 1 lb. of Malaga raisins; rub, and cut the raisins small, and put them to the water, to stand ten days, stirring now and then; boil the water an hour before it is put to the raisins, and let it cool; in ten days strain the liquor, adding a little yeast with a sprig of dried wormwood. . Stop close, and in two or three months bottle it, adding brandy, as much as you please. PALPITATION OF THE HEART.—This is a very strong pulsation of the heart, sometimes only occasional, but often continual It arises flora morbid irritability of the heart; it to often purely nervous, caused,