BEE 45 BEE In gradually, whilst you are beating, two table-spoonfuls of spirits of wine ; put it into a bottle, and apply occasionally with a feather. Soap Plaster, sold by the Druggists, protects the affected part from friction or rubbing. BEECH WOOD, to stain Mahogany colour.—Put two ounces of dragon's blood in small pieces into a quart of spirits of wine ; let it stand in a bottle, in a warm place, and shake it frequently. Beef—Hind-Quarter 1. Sirloin. 2. Rump. 3. Edge-Bone. 4. Buttock. 5. Mouse-Buttock. 6. Veiny Piece. 7. Thick Flank. 8. Thin Flank. 9- Leg. 10. Fore Rib; 5 Ribs. Fore-Quarter. 11. Middle Rib ; 4 Ribs. 12. Chuck ; 3 Ribs. BEEF, to Choose.—If the flesh of ox-beef is young, it will have a fine imooth open grain, be of a good red, and look tender. The fat should look white rather than yellow ; for when that is of a deep colour, the meat is seldom good ; beef fed by oil-cakes is in general so, and the flesh is flabby. The grain of cow-beef is closer, and the fat whiter, than that of ox-beef; but the lean is not of so bright a red. The grain of bull- beef is closer still, the fat hard and skinny, the lean of a deep red, and a stronger scent. Ox-beef is the reverse. Ox-beef is the richest and largest, but in small families, and to some tastes, heifer-beef is better, if finely fed. In old meat there is a streak of horn in the ribs of beef: the harder this is, the older; and the flesh is not finely flavoured. BEEF a-la-mode.—Choose a piece of thick flank of a fine heifer or ox. Cut into long slices some fat bacon, but quite free from yellow ; let each bit be near an_inch thick: dip them into vinegar, and then into a seasoning ready 13. Shoulder, or Leg of Mutton Piece. 14. Brisket. 15. Clod. 16. Neck or Sticking- Piece. 17. Shin. 18. Cheek. prepared of salt, black pepper, allspice, and one clove, all in fine, powder, with parsley, chives, thyme, savory and knot- ted majoram, shred as small as possible, and well mixed. With a sharp knife make holes deep enough to let in the larding ; then rub the beef over with the seasoning, and bind it up tight with tape. Set it in a well-tinned pot over a fire, or rather, stove; three or four onions must be fried brown and put to the beef, with two or three carrots, one turnip, a head or two of celery, and a small quantity of water ; let it simmer gently ten or twelve hours, or, till ex- tremely tender, turning the meat twice. Put the gravy into a pan, remove the fat, keep the beef covered, put them to- gether, and add a glass of port wine. Take off the tape and serve with the vegetables ; or you may strain them oft', and send them up cut into dice for garnish. Onions roasted and then stewed with the gravy are a great im- provement. A tea-cupful of vinegar should be stewed with the beef. BEEF, boiled.—Boil the thick end of a brisket of beef, some carrots.