SHE 358 SHR bruised ginger. Boil15 minutes; then. add 3 lbs. of sugar; and when it is cold, put in the juice of the lemon, and strain. 3. Take la quarts of water, and 6 lbs. of Malaga raisins; slice 6 lemons Into it, with 1 lb. of fine sugar; put them all together into an earthen pan ; stir three times a day for 3 days. Take them out and drain in a flannel bag. Bottle, but do not fill the bottles too full, lest they burst. It will be ready in a fortnight. SHERBET, Persian. — Loaf sugar, finely powdered, 1 lb. ; tartaric acid, 4 ozs.; carbonate of soda, 4 ozs. ; add 3 teaspoonfuls of essence of lemon, or according to your taste. Mix very well, and then bottle and cork well. When used, put a teaspoonfuls in a glass tumbler of spring water, stir briskly, and drink while in a state of effervescence. SHERRY, British.—Put £ a bushel of good pale malt into a tub, and pour upon it 4 gallons of boiling water; stir well, cover the vessel, and infuse 4 hours. Strain through a hair sieve. Add pure water, 7 gallons ; white sugar, 16 lbs. ; boil together gently for % of an hour, constantly skimming it. Pour it into a clean tub, and dissolve in it 4 lbs. of sugar candy, powdered ; ferment with yeast for 3 or 4 days. When poured off clear into a sweet cask, add 5 lbs. of the best raisins, bruised and stoned. Stir once or twice a day. Slightly bung for 2 days, and add 3 or 4 quarts of French brandy. Bung closely. In 3 months bottle for use. SHINGLES.—Called Herpes, Tetters, Salt Rheum, die.— It is a disease of the skin; an inveterate eruption on different parts of the body, usually the hands, and sometimes it ap- pears in distinct clusters round or near the waist, surrounding one half of the trunk of the body, like a belt, generally towards the right side. It is a species of ringworm or tetter. The eruptions or vesicles which ap- pear break and discharge a thin corro- sive fluid which causes much irritation or itching. Treatment.—Keep the body open by the black draught, and seidlitz pow- der ; administer tonics in the decoction of sarsaparilla. Give also a vapour bath of bitter decoction, and afterwards, rub the body with the stimulating liniment. If there is much fever, give 5 grains of the carbonate and nitrate of potash a or 3 times a day. Celandine ointment is very good; when the itching is very troublesome, apply it to the affected parts. Dr. Beach recommends a wash to be made of celandine and whiskey ; infuse a table-spoonful of the former in the lat- ter ; wash often, and then apply the Brovin Ointment. Should the vesicles form or run into a bone, apply a poul- tice of slippery elm, and a little cream. The tincture of bloodroot, and tincture of myrrh, make a good wash. Apply as before the Brown Ointment. The tepid water cloth is a good application to allay itching. The warm baths should often be taken. SHOES and BOOTS, to make Waterproof.—Melt 5 ozs. of sper- maceti in a pipkin or other earthen ves- sel, over a slow fire; add 2 ozs. of cut india-rubber; add a little wood naph- tha. Dissolve, and add 2 ozs. of hog’s lard, 8 ozs. of tallow, and 4 ozs. of am- ber varnish. Mix. Apply to the shoes or boots a few times. SHORTNESS of BREATH. —Take of vitriolated spirits of ether, 1 oz., and of camphor 12 grains. Make a solution, of which take a teaspoonful during the paroxysm. This is usually found to afford instantaneous relief in difficult breathing, depending on inter- nal disease, and other causes, where the patient, from a quick and very laborious breathing, is obliged to be in an erect posture. Or, take a oz. of powder of elecam- pane root, oz. of powder of liquorice, as much flower of brimstone and pow- der of aniseed, and 2 ozs. of sugar-candy powdered. Make all into pills, with a sufficient quantity of tar ; take 4 large pills when going to rest. This is an in- comparable medicine for an asthma. SHRIMPS, to Choose.—When fresh they have a sweet flavour, are firm and stiff, and the colour is bright.— Shrimps are of the prawn kind, and may be judged by the same rules. SHRIMPS, to Butter. —Take them out of the shells ; and warm them