52 BEE BIC minutes, after it has once boiled, and been skirnmed. Season, if approved. BEER, Excellent Table.—On three bushels of malt pour of hot water the third of the quantity you are to use,' which is to be thirty-nine gallons. ICover it warm half an hour, then mash, and let it stand two hours and a half more, then set it to drain. When dry add half the remaining water, mash and let it stand half an hour, run that into ano- ther tub, and pour the rest of the water on the malt, stir it well, and cover it, letting it infuse a full hour. Run that off, and mix all together. A pound and a half of hops should be infused in water, and be put into the tub for the first running. B.oil the hops with the wort an hour from the time it first boils. Strain off and cool. If the whole be not cool enough that day to add the yeast, a pail or two of wort may be prepared, and a quart of yeast put to it over night. Before tunning, all the wort should be added together, and thoroughly mixed with the lade-pail. When the wort ceases to work, put a bit of paper on the bung-hole for three days, when it may be safely fastened close. In four weeks the beer will be fit for drinking. Note Servants should be directed to put a oork into every barrel as soon as the tap is taken out, and to fasten in the vent-peg, the air causing casks to become musty. BEETLE, House.—Take some small lumps of unslacked lime and put into the cracks or holes from which they issue ; it will effectually destroy them : or it may be scattered on the ground. Another method, is to sprinkle the floor at night with coarse red wafers which they will greedily devour; the red lead will act upon them as poison. Another method. Those who cannot procure a regular beetle trap, may make a very good substitute, by placing a bell-lipped tumbler upon the ground near their haunts, and run up a conical surface with sand to the lip of the glass; then, after filling the glass about half-way up with beer, or sugar and water, suspend a little sugar itself in a thimble over the glass, horizontally with its margin, and in the centre : you will find in their eagerness to get at the sugar, which is not within their reach, they will overstretch themselves, and falling into the liquor, which will attract them, you will destroy thousands. Or make a cake of sugar, dripping, flour, and any poison, as arsenic, pow- dered phosphorus, &c. Be careful to keep the poison out of the way of chil- dren, and domestic animals.—See Cock- roaches. BEET ROOTS, to Pickle.— Beet Roots are a very pretty garnish for made dishes, and are thus pickled. Boil the roots till they are tender, then take off the skins, cut them in slices, gimp them in the shape of wheels, or what form you please, and put them in- to a jar. Take as much vinegar as you think will cover them, and boil it with a little mace, a race of ginger sliced, and a few slices of horse-radish. Pour it hot upon your roots, and tie them down. BETHROOT.—An American plant. It stops inward bleeding from the kidneys, bladder, urethra, &c. It is good in fevers, coughs, asthma, con- sumption, taking a teaspoonful of the powdered root at a time ; or it may be infused and taken. United with blood- root, and made into a poultice, it is effectual in gangrene, or incipient mor- tification, ulcers, and sores. It restrains profuse menstruation, the whites, and it is an excellent astringent taken after child-birth for the uterine organs, em- ployed as an enema. It may be ob- tained at the Medical Botanists. The powdered root is used a tea- spoonful at a time ; or it is infused, to be drunk freely. This powder united with raspberr, leaves, and made into tea is most effectual in diarrhoea, or laxity of the bowels. BICYCLE, to Ride.—The first time you try should be in a boarded room, or on a gently falling smooth road. Mount the machine from an elevation, and slightly pushing off with the inside foot, let the bicyle run with- out placing the feet on the treadles. This is a simple way to practise balan- cing, and tire moment the machine ap- pears to be falling to the left, draw the left hand a little towards you, it will have the effect of turning the driving wheel in the same direction, readjusting the balance; if it should fall to the right, reverse the action, and guide the wheel to the right.