/ BLA 67 BLO be nt for moulding. Stir occasionally while cooling. It is an excellent diet for an invalid. BLANC-MANGE, Oswego.— Four tablespoonfuls or three ounces of Oswego Prepared Com to one quart of milk. Dissolve the corn to some of the milk. Put into the remainder of the milk, four ounces of sugar, a little salt, a piece of lemon rind, or cinnamon stick, and heat to near boiling. Then add the mixed com, and boil (stirring it briskly) four minutes: take out the rind, and pour into a mould or cup, and keep until cold. When turned out, pour round it any kind of stewed or preserved fruits, or a sauce of milk and sugar. BLANC-MANGE, RICE. — Swell four ounces of rice in water; drain and boil it to a mash in good milk, with sugar, a bit of lemon-peel, and a stick of cinnamon. Take care it does not bum, and when quite soft pour it into cups, or into a shape dip- ped into cold water. When cold turn it out, garnish with currant jelly, or any red preserved fruit. Serve with cream or plain custard. BLANC-MANGE, RICE.— Steep a tablespoonful of rice in half pint of cold milk for eight hours, add- ing more milk as it dries up, to keep it moist and soft. Boil half an hour. Flavour with almonds, or lemon-peel, cinnamon, or nutmeg. When the rice becomes pulp, place it in moulds till cool, when it will turn out. BLEEDING AT THE NOSE. — Use wheaten flour; it forms a good styptic; snuff it up the nose. Tighten the garters; apply ligatures to the arms, and put the feet into warm water, to bring the blood downwards. To apply a cold wet cloth to the privities is effectual. When it arises from constipation, the bowels should be moved immediately. Or plug the nostrils up with lint steeped in strong vinegar, and apply cloths dipped in cold water. The application of ice to the back, temples, &c., is also ser- viceable.—Or dissolve two scruples of nitre in half a pint of water, and take a cupful every hour. Or apply to the neck behind, and on each side, a cloth dipped in cold water. Or wash the temples, nose, and neck, with vinegar. Or snuff up vinegar and water. Or foment the legs and arms with it. Or dissolve an ounce of powdered alum in a pint of vinegar; dip a cloth in it, and apply it to the temples, steeping the feet in warm water.— BLEEDING OF A WOUND. —Make two or three tight ligatures toward the lower part of each joint: slacken them gradually. Or, apply tops of nettles bruised. Or, strew on it the ashes of a linen rag dipped in sharp vinegar and burnt. Or, take ripe puff balls, break them warily, and save the powder. Apply it to the wound, and bind it on. This will stop it speedily. Or, take two ounces of brandy ; two drachms of Castile soap ; potass, one drachm ; scrape the soap fine, and dissolve it in the brandy, add the potass, mix, and keep well corked. Apply a little of this to a bleeding wound, and the blood will immediately congeal. BLESSED THISTLE.—See Robinson’s Herbal. BLISTERS, Management of. —Spread the plaster thinly on paper, or linen, and rub over it a few drops of olive oil. In this way the blister acts speediiy, and with less irritation than usual. BLISTERED FEET.—Before and after walking, wash the feet well in a solution of Sal Ammoniac—half an ounce in two quarts of water. Let not the stocking be wrinkled, or much mended, when you walk. Easy boots and shoes should be worn, and very smooth next to the sole of the foot. Or, the best remedy for this is to rub the feet, when going to bed, with spirits mixed with tallow, dropped from a lighted candle into the palms of the hand. BLOOD-ROOT; Sanguinaria Canadensis.—An American plant. It has great emetic and expectorant influence. It is tonic, narcotic, stimu- lant, emetic, according to the dose and form in which it is administered. In a large dose it produces nausea, &c. In small doses, it acts as a stimulant and tonic. Like digitalis, it calms the pulse. It is an invaluable remedy in diseases of the chest, lungs, and liver. Dr. Beach, of America, says, “In