56 BIL BfL 47 If the striker, in giving a miss from the baulk; should let his bail remain in She baulk, without its have gone out, the adversary may either let it remain so,, or compel him to play the stroke over again. 48 If the striker, in giving a miss, should make a foul stroke, and his ad- versary claim it as such, and enforce the penalty, the miss is not scored. 49 No person is allowed to take up a ball without permission of the adver- sary. 50 If one of the players moves a ball by accident, it must be replaced to the satisfaction of the adversary. 51 If, in the course of the game, a person takes up a ball, supposing it to be in hand, the adversary may break the balls, or have them replaced to his own satisfaction. 52 If the marker, or a bystander, touches either of the balls, whether it be running or not, it must be placed as near as possible to the place it did, or would, apparently have occupied. 53 If after the striker has made a canon or a hazard, he takas up the ball, thinking the game is over, the adver- sary has the option of breaking the balls, or having them replaced. 54 If after the striker has made a miss, or a coup, he takes up a ball, supposing the game to be over, he loses die game. 55 If, after the striker has made a miss or a coup, the adversary thinking :he game is over, takes up a ball, he ythe last striker) may have the balls replaced as they were, or break the balls. 56. If, after the striker has made a canon, or hazard, the adversary, think- ing the game is over when it is not, takes up a ball (whether running or not), he loses the game. 57 If, after striking, the striker should obstruct or accelerate the running of the balls in any way, it is at the adver- sary's option to make it a foul stroke, and break the balls, or have them replaced. 58 If, after the striker has played, the adversary should obstruct or accelerate the running of the balls in any way, he (the striker) may claim the right of breaking the balls, or having them re- placed to his own satisfaction. 59 No person has a right to offer ad- vice to the players during the progress of the game. But (1) If a person be appealed to by one of the players, or by the marker, he has then a right to give an opinion whether he be interested in the game or not; and (2) If a spectator sees the game marked wrong, he has a right to men- tion it, provided he does it in time for it to be rectified, but not afterwards. 60 No person is allowed to walk about the billiard room during the game, make a noise, or otherwise annoy the players. 61 When silence is demanded in the room, it is expected that all persons will comply therewith. 6a It is expected that all persons in the room, whether they are playing or not, will conform to the foregoing rules, in so far as they relate to them respec- tively. BILLIARDS. The Game of POOL.—There are several ways of playing Pool: namely, with as many balls as there are players ; or with two balls only, the players playing in turns, and playing with the alternate balls; playing at the nearest ball ; playing at the last player ; or the player playing at whichever ball he chooses. But the most popular mode is that in which the player plays at the last player. This is likewise the fairest way of playing the game. Rules for playing the game according to the last method : 1 When the coloured balls are used, the players must play progressively, as the colours are placed on the Pool marking-board, the top colour being No. 1. 3 Each player has three lives at starting. No. 1 places his ball on the winning and losing spot; No. 3 plays at No. 1; No. 3 at No. 2; and so on ; each person playing at the last ball; unless it should be in hand, then the player plays at the nearest ball. 3 If the striker should lose a life in any way, the next player plays at the nearest ball to his own ; but if his (the player's) ball be in hand, he plays at the nearest ball to the centre of the baulk line, whether in or out of baulk. 4 Should a doubt arise respecting the