DAN 155 DAN chassez to the right and left, cross and advance again then retire, chassez to the right and left, recross and turn partners. 3 La Poule.—First lady and op- posite gentleman cross to each others places, presenting the right hand. Re- turn, taking left hands half way giving right hands to their partners who ad- vance to meet them. Set now in a line of four, half promenade ; the lady and gentleman advance, and retire twice, the four advance and retire, half right and left to places. 4 La Trenise.— Ladies’ chain, set, and turn to partners; first couple advance twice, leaving the lady at the left of the opposite gentleman, first gentleman retires ; two ladies cross over and change sides, while the first gentle- man passes between them up the centre, the same repeated to places, set, and turn partners. (This is omitted when " La Pastorale” Is danced.) 5 La Pastorale.—The first couple advance twice, leaving the lady on the left of the opposite gentleman, the first gentleman then retires. Three advance twice and retire, first gentleman ad- vances twice and retires, hands round by four, half right and left to places. 6 La Finale.—Grand Rond (gal- ope promenade) and L' Et£, or advance four and retire, cross over, advance and retire, recross, and ladies' chain. The Caledonians. 1 The two leading dancers hands across and back,—set to partners and turn,—ladies’ chain,—half promenade, half right and left. 2 The first gentleman advances and retires twice—set at comers, and turn, each lady passing into the next lady’s place, having changed partners, all pro- menade quite round, the second, third and fourth gentleman repeat the figure, fall to places. 3 The leading lady and opposite gentleman advance and retire, advance and turn to places,—the top couple pass between the opposite couple, and return outside,—all set at comers and turn, grand round, advancing once only, turn partners. 4 The leading lady and opposite gentleman advance and stop, partners advance—turn partners to places,—four ladies’ move to the right, each lady taking the next lady’s place, and stop— gentlemen to the left—same repeated, promenade to places, turn partners. 5 The leading couple promenade round inside the figure.—the four ladies’ advance, move to each other, and re- tire ; the four gentlemen do the same and bow. Set to partners and turn, grand chain, half round, promenade to places and turn partners. All Ckassex Croisex, other couples repeat in succes- sion, promenade for finale. Lancers Quadrilles. 1 La Rose.—In this, the first or leading lady and opposite gentleman advance and set, turn with right hands round to places, the first couple cross over, leading between the opposite couple, who cross over on the outside, return on the outside, the other return between, set at the comers, and turn to places. Repeated by the other couples. 2 La Lodowiska.—First couple advance and retire, again advance, the lady remaining in the centre, the gen- tleman retiring to place, ckassex to right and left, turn partner to place, the side couples join hands with top and bottom couples, all advance in two lines, and turn partners to places. The same by other couples. 3 La Dorset.—First lady advance and stop, then the opposite gentle- man advance and stop, lady retires to place, then the gentleman retires, four ladies’ right hands across half round, re- turn with left hands back to places while the gentlemen lead, half round outside to the right, returning by the left to places. Repeated by the other couples. 4 L’Etoile.—Fust couple lead to the couple on their right, partially retire, then to the couple on the left re- maining opposite to them, ckassex croiscr and set, turn partners to places, right and left. 5 Les Lanciers. — The grand chain quite round, (sixteen bars,) the first couple advance and turn half round, then the couple on the right advance, following the first couple, then the cou- ple on the left follow, then the last couple forming two lines, ckassex croiser and set, back again and set, cast off in two lines, ladies going to the right, gen-