WOR wttu 425 •mineral, mixed together ; divide it into six powders, and take one of them, in a little syrup, twice a day: when they are' used work them off with a little rhubarb. Or, Spirits of turpentine, in doses of from 8 drops to a teaspoonful, in gruel sweet- ened. Or, Jalap, # of an oz. ; powdered rhu- barb, H of an oz. ; gamboge, 3 drs. ; syrup of bears-foot, sufficient to make it into a paste ; then make it into ordin- ary sized lozenges. Dose :—For a child 3 years old, £ a lozenge ; 6 years, 1 lozenge ; and so on, according to years. Or, Cowhage mixed with treacle. Give a child a teaspoonful fasting for 3 or 4 mornings successively—an adult a table- spoonful. Then give a purge. Powdered rust of iron is a good vermi- fuge. It expels the worms and strength- ens the constitution. To a child 6 years old from 10 to 40 grains may be given. An adult may take from a yA oz. It may be given in treacle or in beer. Dr. Rush says, " Of all the worm medicines that I have given I know none more safe and certain than this simple pre- paration of iron.!' It should always be followed by an aperient. The common male fem-root is a cer- tain remedy for the tape-worm. Two or 3 drs. of the powdered root to be taken in the morning, no supper having been taken the night before. It generally sickens a little. A brisk purgative is to be given a few hours after, which some- times brings off the worm entire ; if not, the same course must be followed at due intervals. For the success of this remedy, the root should be recently gathered ; as after being kept long in the shops, its activity is diminished or destroyed. WORMS.—Take 2 tea-spoonfuls of brandy, sweetened with loaf sugar, every morning. Or, a spoonful oi the •Juice of lemons. Or, take 2 tea-spoonfuls of worm- seed mixed with treacle, for 6 mornings. Or, 1, 2. or 3 drs. of powdered fem-root boiled in mead. This kills both the flat and round worms. Repeat the medi- cine from time to time.— Wesley. V/ORM FEVER.—Boil a hand- ful of rue and wormwood in water: foment the belly with the decoction, anti apply the boiled herbs as a poultice; repeat the application night and morn- ing. This frequently brings away worms from children who will take no internal medicine, and is likewise serviceable if the fever be of the putrid kind. WORMSEED.—The' seeds of this American plant form a powerful vermifuge. It speedily expels round and other worms from the intestines. The seeds are given in substance from 10 grains, or % a dr., finely powdered, strewed on bread and butter, or made into an electuary with honey or treacle. After using some days, give an aperient, and the tonic bitters. In America they use the oil also. S to 10 drops of the oil mixed with sugar, are a common dose for a child. Or, from 12 drops for an adult. WORM SYRUP. — Senna, Carolina pink, of each 1 oz. ; peach leaves, male fern, of each £ oz.; kousso, oz. Powder, and add a cupful of pure water, near boiling ; shake up in a bottle for a day ; then add a cupful of spirit of wine. Shake up several times a day for a week, keeping the bottle in a warm place. Then add another cup- ful of hot water in which has previously been infused half a tea-spoonful of cay- enne pepper.—This recipe is valuable, it will cause all kinds of worms to flee before it.—Dose, for a child 6 years old a teaspoonful 4 times a day. It may be given in well sweetened coffee. WORMWOOD.-See Robinson's Herbal. It is a valuable plant, but very bitter. It is used in stomach com- plaints, promoting digestion and appe- tite by its stimulating and tonic proper- ties. It strengthens the membranes of the intestines. It is often given in inter- mittent fevers successfully, and it is a powerful expellaut of worms; hence its name. The dose of the powder is from one scruple to a drachm. The infusion is made by adding £ oz. of powder to a pint of water. WOUNDS.—See Bruises, pages 79. 80. WOUNDS. — Apply juice or powder of yarrow. Or, bind leaves of ground-ivy upon it. Or, wood- betony bruised. This quickly heals