270 mitt MTJT and send it up in the dish but there should be a good deal ol' gravy in the meat; for though long at the fire, the distance and covering will prevent its roasting out. Serve with currant-jelly sauce. MUTTON, Leg of, Boiled.— Soak well for an hour or two in salt and water; do not use much salt. Wipe well, and boil in a floured cloth. Boil from 3 hours to 2J hours. Serve with caper sauce, potatoes, mashed turnips, greens, oyster sauce, &c. To preserve the gravy in the leg, do not put it in the water till it boils ; for the sudden contact with water causes a slight film over the surface, which pre- vents the escape of the gravy, which is abundant when carved. MUTTON, Leg of, to Force. —Raise the skin, and take out the lean part of the mutton , chop it very fine with one anchovy; shred a bundle of sweet herbs ; gTate a penny loaf, half a lemon, nutmeg, pepper and salt to your taste ; make them into a force-meat, with 3 eggs, and a large glass of port wine; fill up the skin with the force- meat ; but leave the bone and shank in their places, and it will appear like a whole leg ; lay it in an earthen dish, with a pint of port wine under it, and put it in the oven ; it will take 2J hours, when it comes out, take off all die fat; strain the gravy over the mutton ; sur- round it with hard yolks of eggs, and pickled mushrooms. Garnish with pickles. MUTTON, Kebobbed.—Take all the fat out of a loin of mutton, on the outside also if too fat, and remove the skin. J oint it at every one ; mix a small nutmeg grated with a little salt and pepper, crumbs and herbs ; dip the steaks into the yolks of 3 eggs, and sprinkle the above mixture all over them. Then place the steaks together as they were before they were cut asun- der, tie them and fasten them on a small spit. Roast them at a quick fire ; set a dish under, and baste them with a good piece of butter, and the gravy of the meat; but throw some more of the above seasoning over. When enough, take up, and lay it in a dish ; have j a pint of good gravy ready besides that in the dish ; and put into it a spoonfuls of ketchup, and ruh down a tea-spoon- ful of flour with it, give this a boil, and pour it over the mutton, but first skim off the fat well. Mind to keep the meat hot till the gravy is quite ready. $■ MUTTON, Loin of.—Roasted; if cut lengthways as a saddle, some think it cuts better. Or for steaks, pies, or broth. MUTTON, a la Francois.— Take away the fat from loin cutlets; dredge them a little with pepper on both sides, and plentifully with flour; heat in a saucepan 3 table-spoonfuls of water; put the cutlets in one flat layer at the bottom when the water begins to boil; throw in a little salt when they begin to stew, and a bit of butter. Let them simmer as gently as possible, the pan raised above the fire, for 1% hour. Turn the cutlets when half done; and put to them a little gravy, if they do not yield sufficient themselves.—It is a fine relish, very nutritious, and very suitable for invalids. MUTTON, Fillet of, Braised. —Take off the chump end of the loin, butter some paper, and put over it, and then a paste as for venison, roast it two hours. Do not let it be the least brown. Have ready some French beans boiled and drained on a sieve ; and while the mutton is being glazed, give them one heat up in gravy, and lay them on the dish with the meat over them. MUTTON, Rumps and Kid- ney to Dress.—Stew 6 rumps in some good mutton gravy half an hour; take up, and let them stand to cool. Clear the gravy from the fat; and put into it 4 ozs. of boiled rice, an onion stuck with cloves, till the rice is thick. Wash the rumps with yolks of eggs well beaten ; and strew over them crumbs of bread, a little pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and thyme, and grated lemon- peel, fry in butter to a fine brown. While the rump is stewing, lard the kidneys with bacon, and put them to roast in a Dutch oven. When the rumps are fried, the grease must be drained before they are put on the dish, and the pan being cleared likewise from the fat, warm the rice in it. Lay the latter on the dish; the rumps put round on the rice, the narrow ends towards the middle, and the kidneys between. Garnish with hard eggs cut in half, the