PLA PIN, 3®9 soap, and dip In warm water and apply. Glycerine soap is very useful.—A weak solution of sugar of lead, or sulphate of rinc, sometimes, is effectual. PINE APPLE COMPOTE. —Make a syrup with i lb. of sugar ; peel and cut two pine apples into slices ; put them into the syrup, and boil them ia minutes ; take them out, and boil the syrup till it becomes thick ; then pour it over the pine apple ; when cold, it is ready for use. PINE APPLE CREAM. - Take about to ozs. of pine apple jam. Put a quart of cream into another basin, with the juice of a large lemon ; whisk to a strong froth; mix this with the jam, stirring well, Mix with it, at the same time, a little isinglass dissolved in a little warm milk and water. PINE APPLE, Jam and Jelly. —The same as Apple or Apricot Jam and Jelly, see page 25. PINE APPLE, Marmalade.— Pare the pine apples. Grate them upon a dish. Then take the same weight of sugar as the pine apples weigh. Mix, and boil, skimming well. After all the scum is gone, stir the marmalade from an hour to an hour and a half. When it has boiled three quarters of an hour add a little thickly dissolved isinglass, and, if you like, a squeeze of lemon. Put into glasses, and make air-tight with brandy papers. PINE APPLE, Preserved.— May be done the same as Apple Pre- serve, and Apricot Preserve, p. 25-26. j PINK, Indian.—An American plant. The root is anthelmintic, and combined with senna expels worms from the alimentary canal, especially the lumbrid, or round worms. It may be given in powder or infusion; the powder is the most efficacious. The dose for a child 3 or 4 years of age is 12 grains in powder, and 1 scruple in infusion. It has no taste. PIPPING PUDDING. Coddle six pippins in vine leaves cover- ed with water, very gently, that the inside be done without breaking the skins. When soft, skin, and with a teaspoon take the pulp from the core. Press it through a colander ; add two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, three eggs beaten, a glass of raisin wine, a pint of scalded cream, sugar and nut- meg to taste. Lay a thin puff paste at the bottom and sides of the dish: shred very thin lemon-peel as fine as possible, and put it into the ''dish ; like- wise lemon, orange, and citron, in small slices, but not so thin as to dis- solve in the baking. PIPPIN TARTS.—Pare thin two Seville oranges ; boil the peel ten- der, and shred it fine; pare and core twenty appled, put them in a stewpan, and as little water as possible; when half-done add half a pound of sugar, the orange-peel and juice; boil till pretty thick. When cold, put in a shallow dish, or patty-pans lined with paste, to turn out, and be eaten cold. PISMIRES, to Destroy. Throw gas lime upon the ant-hill, dig it well in ; they will breed there no more. Gas tar might also be mixed with it. Dig it well in, and then press it down well. PLAICE. — Sprinkle with salt, and keep 24 hours ; then wash and wipe dry; wet it over with egg, and cover with crumbs of bread ; take some lard, or fine dripping, and two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, boiling hot; lay the fish in, and fry it a fine colour; drain it from the fat, and serve with fried parsley round, and anchovy sauce. PLASTER, Adhesive.— Take of common plaster, half a pound; of Burgundy pitch, a quarter of a pound. Melt them together. This plaster is generally used for keeping on other dressings. PLASTER, Anodyne. See page 20. PLASTER, Blistering.—Take of Venice turpentine, six ounces; yellow wax, two ounces; Spanish flies, in fine powder, three ounces; powdered mus- tard, one ounce. Melt the wax, and while it is warm, add to it the tur- pendne, taking care not to evaporate it by too much heat. After the turpentine and wax are sufficiently incorporated, sprinkle in the powders, continually sdrring the mass till it be cold. PLASTER, Common.—Take of common olive oil, six pints; litharge, reduced to a fine powder, lbs. Boil the litharge and oil together over a gentle fire continually stirring them,