RIC RIC 341 8tlr It on a slow fire till of a proper t>iirkn<v^ ; stir in 54 lb. of butter and a nutmeg grated; then pour it out into an earthen pan; when cold, stir in four spoonfuls of flour, a little salt, some sugar, nine eggs well beaten, and if you like, the squeeze of a lemon. RICE PASTE, for Fruits, &c. —Boil *4 lb. of ground rice in the smallest quantity of water, strain from It all the moisture ; beat 54 oz. of butter and one egg well, and it will form an excellent paste for tarts, &c. RICE PUDDING, Baked.— Swell the rice with a little milk in the oven or over the fire; then add milk, egg, sugar, allspice, and lemon-peel. Bake in a deep dish. RICE PUDDING, to Boil.— Boil % lb. of rice; take it up, and stir in 54 lb.)of butter, or milk and cream; grate nutmeg and sugar according to taste ; tie it up tight, and boil it another hour; when done, pour melted butter over it. Currants may be added, if you like. RICE PUDDING, Plain.— Wash and pick some rice; throw among it some pimento finely pounded, but not much; tie the rice in a cloth and leave plenty of room for it to swell. When done, eat with butter and sugar, or milk. Put lemon peel if you please. It is very good without spice, and eaten with salt and butter. RICE PUDDING.—Put into a very deep p>an half a pound of rice washed and picked; two ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar, a few all- spice pounded, and two quarts of milk. Less butter will do, or some suet. Bake In a slow oven. RICE PUDDING, a Rich One.—Boil $ lb. of rice in water, with a bit of salt, till quite tender; drain it dry ; mix it with the yolks and whites of four eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, with 2 ozs. of fresh butter melted in the latter; 4 ozs. of beef suet or marrow, or veal suet taken from a fillet of veal, finely shred, % lb. of cur- rants, two spoonfuls of brandy, one of peach-water, or ratafia, nutmeg, and a grated lemon peeL When well mixed, put a paste round the edge, and fill the dish. Slices of candied orange, lemon and citron, If approved. Bake In » moderate oven. RICE PUDDING, with Fruit. —Swell the rice with a very little milk over the fire; then mix fruit of any kind with it (currants, gooseberries, scalded, pared, and quartered apples, raisins, or black currants): put one egg into the rice to bind it; boil it well and serve with sugar. RICE, SMALL PUDDINGS. —Wash two large spoonfuls of rice, and simmer it with half a pint of milk till thick, then put the size of an egg of butter, and near half a pint of thick cream, and give it one boil. When cold, mix four yolks and two whites of eggs well beaten, sugar and nutmeg to taste; and add grated lemon and a little cinnamon. Butter little cups, and fill three parts full, putting at the bottom some orange or citron. Bake three quarters of an hour in a slowish oven. Serve the moment before to be eaten, with sauce in the dish, or a boat. RICE WHITE POT.—Boil 1 lb. of rice in 2 quarts of new milk, till it is tender and thick; beat it in a mortar with 54 lb. of sweet almonds blanched; then boil two quarts of cream, with a few crumbs of white bread, and a little mace. Mix all to- gether with 8 eggs, a little rose water, and sweeten to your taste. Cut some candied orange, and citron peel, thin, and lay it in when in the oven—a slow oven. RICE and APPLE, Soufle of. —Blanch Carolina rice; strain, and boil it in milk with lemon-peel, and a bit of cinnamon. Boil till the rice is dry. Cool, and raise a rim three inches high round the dish, having egged the dish, where it is put, to make it stick : then egg the rice all over ; fill the dish half way up with a marmalade of apples; beat the whites of 4 eggs to a fine froth, and put them over the marmalade; sift fine sugar over it, and put it in the oven. RICE and WHEAT BREAD. —Simmer 1 lb. of rice in two quarts of water till it becomes perfectly soft; when it is of a proper warmth mix it extremely well with 4 lbs. of flour, and yeast and salt as for other bread ; of yeast about four large spoonfuls; knead