EGG EEL 169 EELS, to Broil.—Skin, gut, and clean well; rub them with the yolk of an egg ; strew over them bread crumbs, chopped parsley, sage, pepper, and salt; baste them well with butter in the dripping-pan, roast or broil them on a gridiron, or in a dutch oven. EEL PIE.—Skin and wash clean, cut in pieces i}4 inch long, season them with pepper, salt, and sage rubbed small, mace, bread crumbs and parsley. Place the fish in a pie-dish; (if you have any veal stock it will improve them.) Cover with a light paste, and bake for an hour. Before sending it to table, make an opening at the top, and pour in a tea-cupful of veal stock in which a glass of sherry and the juice of a lemon have been mixed. The pie may be made plainer by omit- ting some of the articles. EEL SOUP.—A pound of eels will make a pint of good soup.—To every pound of eels, put a quart of water, three blades of mace, cayenne, an onion, and sweet herbs, as lemon thyme, and winter savory, and a little parsley ; boil till half the liquor is wasted, skimming well. When boiling, cover close. Strain, toast some bread ; cut it small, and pour some soup over it boiling. A piece of carrot may be put in to brown It—A rich soup. EFFERVESCING BEVER- AGES.—These may be made by taking any fruit syrup, as apricot, cherry, raspberry, &c., &c. About half a pint, filtered ; add half an ounce of tartaric acid, and a little brandy, to keep it, bottle and cork well. To half a tumbler of water, put two tablespoon- fuls of syrup, and nearly half a teaspoon- fill of carbonate of soda, stir well, and and drink while effervescing. EGGS.—In making bread, con- fectionery, &c., the eggs should be added, if possible, after all the other articles are well mixed. By this method, two eggs will enrich the cake and make it as light as three eggs used at. first. EGGS, to Have in Winter.— To cause hens to lay all winter, give them flesh meat to supply the place of insects which they eat in summer. Let them have a sufficiency of fresh water, and sheltering places when the weather is inclement. Put a small portion of lime or ground oyster shell or chalk into their food ; also give them potatoes and bran, cabbage leaves, &c. This plan will produce a harvest of eggs in winter. EGG FLIP.—Beat up four or five new laid eggs, omitting two of the whites; add 3 ozs. of fine sugar, and rub these well in the eggs : pour in boil- ing water, half a pint at a time, and when the pitcher is nearly full throw in two glasses of brandy, and one of Jamaica rum. Or, 1 quart of ale, 1 of porter; mix, and place over the fire till it creams only. Add half a pint of gin, and two wine- glasses of good rum, and five eggs well beaten ; add sugar to taste. Mix the ale, &c., with the egg and spirit, pour- ing backwards and forwards ; return it to the fire, but do not boil. Use a little nutmeg or cinnamon. EGGS, to Fricassee.—Boil the eggs rather hard; cut in round slices. Make a sauce of butter, parsley, shalots, pepper, &c. Boil, and when ready, add cream in proportion to the eggs used, and a little flour to thicken the same ; pour all upon the eggs. EGGS AND BACON.—Toast some cutlets of fine streaked bacon in a dutch oven ; they will be done in about ten minutes ; then put the fat and some dripping into a frying-pan, and when hot, break the eggs into it; do not turn while frying, but keep pouring fat- over them ; when the yolk looks white, they are enough ; turn, and serve with the bacon. EGG PICKLE.—Boil from two to three dozen fresh eggs quite hard; then set a sufficient quantity of good vinegar over the fire, ginger, white pepper, mustard seed, and a clove or two of garlic. Having placed the eggs without shells into broad mouthed jars, pour the vinegar, &c., over them. When cold tie them down. The pickle will be ready in a month. It forms a pretty garnish when cut in slices, and constitutes a piquant relish with cold meat. EGGS, to Poach.—They must be fresh. Put a little vinegar and salt into the water, and break the eggs into it when boiling ; boil three minutes ; turn them with a skimmer. When you take them out, immerse then; in warm water,