LAV 232 LAN paid by him to the superior landlord cannot be recovered from him by the tenant of the house, but must be con- sidered as really paid to him. If lodgings are taken for a specified time, a notice to quit is not required. Should the lodger continue to occupy after the expiration of the time, he becomes a regular lodger. (Unless he has an agreement to the contrary.) If the lodger owes rent, the housekeeper can detain his goods, or chattels whilst on the premises, or distrain in a similar manner as a landlord does the goods of his tenant. The keeper of an inn, hotel, or pub- lic-house has a legal right to, and may detain the goods of a Lodger till the rent is paid. If the lodgings be taken monthly, a month’s notice is required on either side; if three months, or six months, then a three or six months’ notice will be required. A Lodging-house keeper cannot forci- bly eject, or by a policeman, a lodger who is determined to remain after the expiration of his term, or the expiration of the time properly specified in a notice to quit. But, during his Lodger’s tem- porary absence, he may fasten up the doors of the rooms he occupied, to pre- vent his occupation of them; but the Landlord is bound, on the return of the tenant, to deliver any property he has left there. But if a Lodger leave his rooms without paying all demands upon him the Landlord may sell any property the Lodger may have left behind him, after giving the owner sufficient notice of his intention to do so. A fortnight's notice is sufficient All chattels and personal effects found on the demised premises may be dis- trained, whether they belong to the tenant or a stranger. Fixtures cannot be distrained, though the tenant may have fixed them ; yet the landlord may claim those which are in- corporated with the building. Cloth sent to a tailor’s to be made Into clothes, or old clothes sent to be repaired, warps and weft sent to be woven, dresses to make or alter, a horse sent to be shod, books to bind, paper to print, com to grind, watches to be repaired, shoes to mend, See., Sec.; these are not to be distrained. No distress can be made till the day after that on which the rent falls due ; it1 cannot be made between sunset and sun- rise ; nor after the rent has been tended. Goods removed to avoid distraint, may be followed and seized within thirty days, wherever they may be found, unless really bought by some person ignorant of the fraud. Goods fraudulently secret- ed, the landlord may with a peace officer, break open any house, warehouse, &c., where they are secreted, and distrain the said property. A landlord cannot legally distrain for more rent than is due to him ; but if the amount of the first distraint does not cover the amount of rent due, he can distrain again. Or should the distraint be postponed by mutual agreement, the landlord can still distrain. The outer door of the house, except where goods have been fraudulently re- moved. cannot be broken open. But if the outer door has been passed, the inner doors may be forced. Should the landlord or his agent, or both after they have legally entered the premises, and having begun to distrain, be forcibly ejected, they may break open the outer door and re-enter to distrain. Should they be violently treated, or threatened with violence, they may legally call in the aid of a policeman. An inventory of the goods distrained must be taken ; the amount of rent for which they are distrained, the day on which they were distrained, and the costs. A copy of this inventory must be served upon the tenant, or must be left at the house, shop, warehouse; or be posted up on some prominent place on the pre- mises. The goods may then be removed to any convenient place for sale, which may take place five days after. LAVENDER. —A well-known plant. It is a pleasant and efficacious cordial, and very useful in languor, weakness of the nerves, lowness of spirits, faintings, Sec. It should be propagated by slips in March ; plant them in a shady situation till they have taken root, after which they may be exposed to the sun, and when strong may be transplanted. LAVENDER WATER.—Put in a bottle half a pint of spirit of wine, and two drachms of oil of lavender. Mix with it rose-water, five ounces,