CHE CHE I !<) CHEESECAKES, RICE. Boil 4 ok. of rice till It is tender, and then drain ; mix it with four eggs well beaten up, lb. of butter, half a pint of cream, 6 ozs. of sugar, a grated nut- meg, and a glass of brandy. Beat them well together, and put into raised crusts, and bake in a moderate oven. CHEESE SANDWICHES.— Take Cheshire cheese 3 parts, butter, 1 part, ham and veal one part each, and two eggs, a little salt, pepper, and mus- tard. Powder well in a mortar. Make Into sandwiches. It may be potted in a similar way, either with or without the meat; the eggs would require to be well boiled. CHEESE SOUP. —Bread crumbs, % lb. sifted; 1 lb. of good Cheshire cheese ; simmer these together in a stew pan with some good broth ; in another pan mix well together four yolks of eggs, and four spoonfuls of broth. Mix both when ready to serve. CHEMICAL SOAP.—Fullers earth, 1 oz. powdered; moisten with a little spirit of turpentine ; salt of tartar, oz. ; potass. 1 oz. Work the whole into a paste with a little soft soap. Form into squares.—Moisten grease, and with a little water rub the soap well on till it lathers; the spot will dis- appear. CHERRIES, Iced.—Bruise 2 lbs. of cherries, put to them a pint of of water; strain, and add sugar suffi- cient. See ice. CHERRIES, to Jar.—Stone xa lbs. of cherries ; put them into the pan, with 3 lbs. of double refined sugar; and a quart of water; put on the fire till they begin to boil; take off to cool a little ; then boil till they are tender ; sprinkle with % lb. of refined sugar, afterwards, skim clean. Put all in a china bowl; let them stand in the syrup three days, then drain, and take them singly, with the holes downwards, on a wicker sieve, and set them on a warm stove to dry, turning them upon clean sieves. When dry enough put a white sheet of paper in the pan, all the cherries, with another sheet at the top ; put them on the fire till they sweat: cool, and put in boxes or jars to keep. CHERRY BRANDY. —Cher- ries. 36 lbs; half red and half black; squeeze them with the hands, and add i)4 gallons of brandy. Let them in- fuse 24 hours; then put the bruised cherries and liquor into a canvas bag, a little at a time, and press it as long as it will run. Sweeten with fine sugar, and let it stand a month ; bottle off, putting loaf sugar into every bottle. Another.—To every gallon of brandy put 4 lbs. of red cherries, 2 lbs. of black, 1 quart of raspberries, with a few cloves, a stick of cinnamon a little orange peel; closely stop for a month in a barrel; bottle off as before. CHERRY JAM.—Pick and stone 4 lbs. of May-duke cherries; press them through a sieve ; then boil together half a pint of red currant or raspberry juice, and Jf lb. of white sugar, put the cherries into, them while boiling; add 1 lb. of fine white sugar. Boil quickly 35 minutes, jar, and cover well. CHERRY JELLY.—Cherries, 5 lbs. ; stone them ; red currants, a lbs.; strain them, that the liquor may be clear; add two pounds of sifted loaf- sugar ; and 2 ozs. of isinglass. CHERRY MARMALADE.— Take some very ripe cherries, cut off the stalks, and take out the stones; crush them, and boil them well; put them into a hand sieve, and force them through with a spatula, till the whole is pressed through and nothing remains but the skins; put it again upon the fire to dry ; when reduced to half, weigh it, and add an equal weight of sugar; boil again ; and when it threads between the fingers, it is finished. CHERRY PIE.—Having made a good crust, lay a little of it around the sides of your dish, and throw sugar at the bottom. Then lay in your fruit, and some sugar at the top. A few red currants put along with the cherries make an agreeable addition. Put on the lid ; bake in a slack oven. CHERRY PUDDING.—Make a paste of flour, beef suet chopped small, and water. Butter a basin, and line with paste. Put in the cherries and sugar; cover with crust, tie in a cloth, boil 1% hours. t CHERRY WINE.—Pick and press out the juice of good cherries, White or Black Hearts, or May Dukes,