STE STO 373 and use emery pov/der. Emery powder might be mixed with the sand in the barrel to render it more efficient in knife cleaning. STEEL, to Preserve from Rust.—Rub it well with a little sweet oil and Bath brick ; wipe it very dry; warm the article at the fire, and mb it over with virgin wax. STEW.—In a jar of cold water put a shin of beef; put in salt, a few cloves, pepper, onions, celery, savoury herbs, &c. Put it into a slow oven the night before, and simmer till noon. Serve with toasted bread. STEWED CELERY.—Clean the heads thoroughly, take off the coarse green outer leaves, cut in small pieces, and stew in a little broth. When ten- der, add some rich cream, and a little flour and butter, enough to thicken the cream. Season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg, if that is agreeable. STEWED CELERY.—Cut up in small pieces, cover with cold water, cook from twenty-five to thirty minutes. When done pour off what water is not needed into the soup or stock kettle. Rub two tablespoonfuls of flour into three tablespoonfuls of butter; add half a cup of cream or rich milk; boil five minutes, and serve hot. STIMULATING ANO- DYNE.—Sulphate of quinine, 12 grs. ; sulphate of morphine, I gr. ; mix, and divide] into 6 powders. Dose— one powder every hour. Prof. King, of Cincinnati, Ohio, says that from 2 to 4 powders of this anodyne will produce sleep in whisky delirium. STIMULATING FOMENT- ATION.—Cayenne pepper, 3 ozs.; mustard seed, just bruised, 2 ozs. ; whiskey, a quarts. Simmer all to- gether a few minutes. Excellent ex- ternal application in cholera, paralysis, palsy, rheumatism, &c. A less quantity may be made. STIMULATING INJEC- TION. — Take lobelia infiata, 1 drachm, red pepper, # drachm. Make with these an infusion, sweeten, intro- duce from half a pint to a pint. This injection is sometimes employed In very obstinate cases of costiveness, bilious and painters' colic, strangulated or Incarcerated hernia, and similar affections. STIMULATING LINI- MENT.—Cayenne, oz.; salt, I tablespoonful; spirits of wine, 2 ozs.; camphor, J^oz. ; spirits of turpentine, Va, pint. Bottle, and shake now and then during 1 day. Then add a pint of vinegar.—It is excellent for sponging the body in cases of pain, debility, in- flammation, rheumatism, gout, sore throat, numbness, neuralgia, &c. STINGS of BEES.—Rub the place with the newly-pressed juice of the honeysuckle. Or, wet it with ex- tract of lead, (the liquor plumbi of the shops) and keep a rag soaked in the ex- tract on the puncture a short time. Hartshorn, spirits of wine, or a solution of sal-ammoniac, are sometimes effect- ually used. STITCH in the Side.—Apply treacle spread on brown paper. STOCK, for Fish Soups.— Take 1 lb. of skate, 4 or 5 flounders, and 2 lbs. of eels. Clean them well, and cut them into pieces; cover them with water, and season them with mace, pepper, salt, and an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, two parsley roots sliced, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Simmer an hour and a half, closely covered, and then strain it off for use. If for brown soup, first fry the fish brown in butter, and then do as above. It will not keep more than two or three days. STOCK, for Gravy Soup. — Take 20 lbs. of coarse lean beef, cut into small pieces, and put into a pot, with water to cover it. Skim well. Add pot herbs to give it the desired flavour. Season with salt and ground pepper ; simmer till the meat becomes tender; skim well, and strain. Or, put a knuckle of veal, 1 lb. of lean beef, and 1 lb. of the lean of gam- mon of bacon, all sliced, into a stewpan, with onions, turnips, celery, and two ■ quarts of water. Stew the meat tender, but do not let it brown. It will serve either for soup, or brown or white gravy; if for brown, put some of the browning in, and boil it a few minutes. STOCK FOR SOUP.—All the liquor that is left from boiling flesh or salt meats should be carefully saved.