336 mm RES Jungs in respiration, wearing out that portion of them, while the lower portion is left to decay for want of proper exer- cise. Consumption is most commonly the result of imperfect respiration ; and many other evils point back to the same cause. The throat becomes diseased, and the voice weak and hollow, so that utterance is painful to both speaker and hearer. Let every person who reads this, watch himself, and see whether respiration is deep and full, or shallow and short. If the latter, this is what he must do: correct his atdtudes, always sitting erect; loosen his clothing, so that there will be plenty of play for the lower muscles used in the process of breathing; and regularly each day exer- cise those muscles by filling his lungs and expanding his chest, especially in the depths of it, by muscular discipline of the shoulders and arms, by reading and talking with the lungs well filled, and by making the respiration at all times as long and deep as possible. RESTORATIVE. WINE BITTERS.—Quassia, J oz.; golden seal, 2 drachms ; bitter-root, 2 drachms ; cayenne pepper, 2 drachms ; whitewood bark, 2 drachms. Bruise all, and add 1 pint of Hollands gin, and 2 quarts of wine. A less quantity may be made. Dose, a table-spoonful or two twice a day. Remarkably useful in indigestion. Restorative Wine Bitters, Dr. Thompson's.—Balmony bark, 1 part; poplar bark, 5 parts. Boil in water suffi- cient to strain from 1 lb. 2% gallons of water, to which add—sugar, 3% lbs.; nerve powder, 2% ozs. ; while hot, strain and add—best Malaga wine, 3)4 gallons; tincture of meadow-fern, 1 quart; prickly ash seeds, 1 quart.—A less quantity may be made. Dose, from half to a wine-glassful twice a day.— These bitters are priceless. They are sure to correct the bile, and create an appetite, by giving tone to the digestive powers, and may be freely used, both as a restorative, and as a preventive of disease. RHENISH WINE.—To every gallon of the juice of apple, soon as it comes from the press, add 2 lbs. of loaf sugar ; boil as long as any scum arises ; strain through a sieve, and let it cool. Add some good yeast, aud stir It well. Let it stand in the tub for two or three weeks, till the head begins to flatten; skim off the head, draw it clear off, and tun it. In 10 or 12 months rack it off, and fine it with isinglass. Add a pint of brandy to every three gallons. This wine will be very superior. RHEUMATISM.—This dis- ease commonly occurs in autumn and spring, and seldom in winter or summer, unless the vicissitudes of heat and cold be sudden and frequent. In a plethoric habit, or when attended with fever or super-irritation, it is called acute or *'»- flammatory rheumatism; and when with sub-irritation, chronic rheumatism. Acute Rheumatism.—Its symp- toms are fever, with pain, swellings, and redness of the joints, as the knees, hips, ancles, shoulders, elbows, wrists, &c. The fever rarely continues violent more than fourteen days, although sometimes the pain keeps shifting from one joint to another for some weeks. • The pain and sometimes the fever are much increased in the evening, and the former, during night, is often acute. As the pains become fixed the fever generally abates. It is caused by exposure to cold, when the body is unusually warm, or by its partial application, or from a continue ance of cold, as wet clothes, &c. Treatment.—In the first place, clear the stomach and bowels by aperi- ents and emetics. If the skin is hot and dry, sponge the body all over with warm water and carbonate of soda, or common soda. If the skin is not very hot and dry, give the vapour bath of bitter herbs. Dry well, and apply the Stimulating Liniment. Repeat every day. From ten to thirty drops of col- chicum or meadow saffron may be given two or three times a day, in a wine- glass half full of the camphorated mix- ture. The Diaphoretic Powder is very useful in this disease ; also an aperient of senna, manna, and cream of tartar, in solution. Use the Rheumatic Liquid, except in cases of great debility. In such cases, the Camphorated Spirit, combined with Tincture of Aconite and Oil of Hemlock. This is an excellent rubefacient. Apply it two or three times a day. It always reduces the swelling aud mitigates the pair). The Alterative