EYE css *75 cold. If not bright, filter rapidly through fine linen. ESSENCES, &c., to Extract from Wood, Barks, Roots, Herbs, &c.—Take balm, mint, sage, or any thing you please; put into a bottle, and pour upon them a spoonful of ether ; keep in a cool place a few hours, and then fill the bottle with cold water; the essential oil will swim on the surface, which may be easily separated. EVERTON TOFFEE.—Fine sugar, i lb.; butter, a ozs. ; water, a wine-glassful, and a small lemon. Boil the butter, sugar, water, and half the rind of a lemon together. Drop a little into cold water; if crisp, it is done. When the boiling has ceased stir in the Juice of the lemon. Pour it into a buttered dish about a quarter of an inch thick. Or to i lb. of fine sugar, add 2 ozs. of butter, When boiled to the crackled degree, grain it, and pour into buttered tins. It may be flavoured with ginger, pepper-mint, cloves, &c., as you like, by adding a drop or two of the respective essential oiL EVE’S PUDDING.—Take six large juicy apples ; pare, core, and chop them fine ; six ounces of bread crumbs ; six ounces of currants; six eggs, and three or four ounces of sugar, and the rind of half a lemon shred very fine. Mix well, and boil in a mould or close- ly-covered pan for three hours; serve with sweet sauce. EXCORIATIONS, Chafing. —Apply fullers earth.—Wash with a strong raspberry-leaf tea. — Apply a weak solution of brandy and salt.—The Celandine Ointment is very efficacious. EXPECTORANTS.—Medi- cines increasing the secretion from the lungs. EXPECTORANT SYRUP.— St. John’swort, 1 oz.; sage, 1 oz. ; lobelia, 1 drachm. Fo?m a syrup by using sugar, or treacle. For a child six months old, a small teaijpoonful, and increase by age. EXPECTORANT TINC- TURE.—See Antispasmodic Tinc- ture, page at, which is the same. Another. — Biood-root, lobelia seed, ipecacuanha, of each, % oz.; 1 pint of spirits. Infuse for a week. Take in water. Useful in coughs, in- flammation of the lungs, pleurisy, asthma, hooping cough. EXPLOSIVE COMPOUND. —Nine parts of well-dried and finely- powdered chlorate of potash, mixed with three parts of finely powdered galls, will make a highly explosive compound. Do not mix it in a mortar, as it would explode, but by means of a bone spatu- la, or passing through a brass sieve. The strength of common gunpowder may be increased by working up with the powdered meal about 12 per cent, of powdered galls, and regranulating it. EXTRACTS, to Make.—Take of the plant, root, or leaves you wish to make the extracts from, any quantity, add sufficient water, and boil them gradually, then pour off the water and add a second quantity ; repeat the pro- cess untii all the virtue is extracted, then mix the several decoctions, and evapo- rate at as low a temperature as possible, to the consistence of an extract. Ex- tracts are better made in a water-bath, and in close vessels, and for some very delicate articles, the evaporation may be carried on at a very low temperature, in a vacuum, by surrounding the vessel with another containing sulphuric acid. Manufacturing druggists usually add to every seven pounds of extract, gum arabic, 4 ounces; alcohol, 1 ounce; olive oil, 1 ounce. This mixture gives the extract a gloss, and keeps it soft. EXTRA PUDDING.-Cut light bread into thin slices. Form into the shape of a pudding in a dish. Then add a layer of any preserve, then a slice of bread, and repeat till the dish is full. Beat four or five eggs, and mix well with a pint of milk ; then pour it over the bread and preserve, having pre- viously dusted the same with a coating of rice flour. Boil twenty-five minutes. EYE, Blood-Shot.—Apply linen rags dipped in cold water for two or three hours.—Or, apply boiled hyssop as a poultice. Very efficacious. EYE-BRIGHT.—This plant Is useful in affections of the eyes, as it im- proves the vision, especially in old age. See Robinson's Herbal. EYES, Bruised.—Frequently bathe in water with a little carbonate of