TOM 388 TIN plant, water and spirits of wine, of each, 1 pint; sulphuric ether, 1 oz.; spirits of nitric ether, % a pint. Macerate in a dark place one or two weeks. Strain. Begin with one or two drops at a time. It is excellent for asthma, and asthmatic or spasmodic cough. It is good in hooping cough, chronic bronchitis, croup, &c. TINNING.—Plates or vessels of brass or copper, boiled with a solution of stannate of potassa mixed with turn- ings of tin, become, in the course of a few minutes, covered with a firmly attached layer of pure tin. A similar- effect is produced by boiling the articles with tin filings and caustic alkali, or cream of tartar. In the above way, chemical vessels made of copper or brass may be easily and perfectly tinned. Tinning Process.—The articles to be tinned are first covered with diluted sulphuric acid, and when quite cleaned in warm water, are dipped in a solution of muriatic acid, copper, and zinc, and then plunged into a tin bath, to which a small quantity of zinc has been added. When the tinning is finished, the articles are taken out and plunged into boiling water. The operation is completed by placing them in a very warm sand bath. This process softens iron. TINNING COPPER.—First dean the copper with sandstone ; then heat and rub it over with sal-ammoniac. The tin, mixed with powdered resin, is then placed on the copper, which is made so hot as to melt the tin, and to allow of its being spread over the sur- face, with a bit of tow. TOAST AND CHEESE.— Cut a slice of bread half an inch thick ; toast it slightly on both sides, so as just to brown it. Cut a slice of good Cheshire cheese an inch thick; place upon the toasted bread in a cheese toaster to toast. Season with salt, pepper, and mustard. —— Or, the cheese may be mixed with butter, yolk of egg, well mixed, browned in a Dutch oven spread upon toast. TOAST and WATER.—Take a thin slice of bread, and toast it on both sides, until it is browned all over, not burnt; put it into a jug, and pom- water over It from the tea kettle. Let the water be In a boiling state. Cover the jug and let it cooL TOBACCO, British Herb.— This is made of coltsfoot and plantain leaves, with a smaller portion of sage, thyme, eyebright, rosemary, wood be- tony, and yarrow. TOFFY.—Butter, 2J ozs.; sugar, 1 lb.; melt and stir over the fire till it comes to the crackled degree. The addition of a little lemon juice greatly improves it. Some add ginger. A nice toffy may be made as above, not boiled so much, by the addition of well strain- ed jelly, as apricot, currant, raspberry, strawberry, &c. Everton Toffy requires more but- ter. Some mix with the above Toffy blanched Almonds. See page 175. TOFFY.—To 1 lb. of raw sugar add 2 ozs. of butter. When boiled to the crackled degree, grain it, and pom it out in square tins, either oiled or buttered. TOLU LOZENGES.— They are good for Coughs.—Powdered sugar, 5 ozs.; cream of tartar, \ oz. ; tincture of balsam of tolu, 1 £ dr. Mix well, and form into lozenges with 10 drops of laudanum, and a solution of gum 3xa.bic. TOMATO SAUCE.—Take 12 tomatoes, very red and ripe; take off the stalks, take out the seeds, and press out the water. Put the expressed toma- toes into a stewpan with i| oz. of butter, a bay leaf, and a little thyme ; put it up- on a moderate fire; stir it into a pulp; put into it a good cullis, or the top of broth, which will be better. Rub it through a sieve, and put it into a stewpan with 2 spoonfuls of cullis : put in a little salt and cayenne. TOMATO SAUCE.—Proceed as above with the seeds and water. Put them into a stewpan, with salt and cay- enne, and 3 table-spoonfuls of beef gravy. Set them on a slow stove for an horn, or till properly melted. Strain, and add a little good stock, and simmer a few minutes. TOMATOES, Stewed.—Pom boiling water over 12 peeled tomatoes; cut them into a stew-pan, with bread crumbs, salt, pepper, butter, and a cooked onion. Simmer long. Add eggs before done.