SAV SAU 350 the juice of a Seville orange and a lemon, and a quarter as much of port wine, as of gravy : pour it into the dish or a boat. SAUCE, for Hot or Cold Roast Beef.—Grate or scrape very fine, some horse-radish, a little made mustard, some pounded white sugar, and four large spoonfuls of vinegar. Serve in a saucer. SAUCE, for Salmon.—BoD a bunch of fennel and parsley; chop them small, and put into it some good melted butter. Gravy sauce should be served with it:—put a little brown gravy into a saucepan, with one an- chovy, a teaspoonful of lemon-pickle, a tablespoonful of walnut pickle, two spoonfuls of the water in which the fish was boded, a stick of horse-radish, a little browning, and salt; boil them four minutes; thicken with flour and a good lump of butter, and strain through a hair sieve. SAUCE for Savoury Pies.— Take some gravy, one anchovy, a sprig of sweet herbs, an onion, and a little mushroom liquor; boil it a little, and thicken it with burnt butter, or a bit of butter rolled in flour ; add a little port wine, and open the pie, and put it in. It will serve for lamb, mutton, veal, or veal pies. SAUCE, for a Turkey.—Open some oysters into a basiii, and wash them in their own liquor; save the liquor, and as soon as settled, pour into a saucepan ; add a little white gravy, a teaspoonful of lemon pickle; thicken with flour and butter ; boil it three or four minutes ; add a spoonful of thick cream, and then the oysters; shake them over the fire till they are hot, but do not let them boiL SAUCE for WUd Fowl.— Simmer a tea-cupful of port wine, the same quantity of good meat-gravy, a little shalot, a little pepper, salt, a grate of nuUneg, and a bit of mace, for ten minutes ; put in a bit of butter and flour, give it all one boil, and pour it through the birds. In general they are not stuffed as tame, but may be done so tf liked. SAUSAGES, to eat cold.— Season fat and lean pork with some salt, saltpetre, pepper, and allspice, all in fine powder, and rub into the meat; the third day cut it small, and mix with it some shred shalot, or garlic, sage very fine; a little bread, if you like. Fill prepared skins or gut with this stuffing ; tie up the ends, and hang to smoke, like hams ; but first wrap it in a fold or two of old muslin. It must be highly dried. Some eat it without boiling; but it is best boiled. Tie the skin in different places ; each link to be about 8 or 9 inches long. SAUSAGES, Francois, Smok- ed.—Mince what quantity of fresh pork will be necessary; mix with it equal to a quarter of lard, salt, and fine spices ; fill the puddings and tie them ; hang them in the smoke for three days ; then cook them in broth or soup for three hours, with salt, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay, basil, parsley, and young onions ; when cold, serve upon a napkin. SAUSAGE ROLLS. — Take nice pork chops, more lean than fat, but free from gristle ; chop it very fine, and season it well with pepper, salt, and spices, sage, or basil; use a little water, or beer, or port wine, in chop- ping the meat, or a little soaked bread. Roll out some paste in square pieces, lay a roll of meat in the centre length- ways; fold them so as to form long puffs, and wash them with egg before they are baked. SAUSAGES, Spadbury’s Ox- ford.—Chop a pound and a half of pork, and the same of veal, cleared of skin and sinews ; and three quarters of a pound of beef suet; mince and mix them ; steep the crumbs of a penny loaf in water, and mix it with the meat, also a little dried sage, pepper, and salt. SAVINE OINTMENT. Take fresh savine leaves, bruised, % lb.; pure lard, 3 lbs.; yellow wax, 34 lb. BoD the leaves in the lard until they are crisp ; press through a filter; add the wax to the filtered lard, and melt them together. This is an excel- lent issue ointment^ being in many re- spects, preferable to that of cantharides. It is mixed with equal parts of blister- ing ointment in order to keep up a dis- charge. See page 379. SAVOURY JELLY.—Spread some slices of lean veal and ham on the