PAR ^95 PAS quickly, will lose much of their flavour. They may be dried also in a Dutch oven. Rub them, and pass through a sieve. Parsley thus prepared is very pleasant and useful; it breaks into parts as small as are obtained by chopping. When parsley and butter are wanted, it Is only required to put a small quantity Into the saucepan with the butter. All dried herbs should be kept from the air in paper bags. PARSLEY, to Pickle.—Take a good quantity of curled parsley ; put it into very strong salt and water; let it stand a week ; put it into another strong salt and water, and let it stand another week; drain well; put it in spring water, and change it every day for 3 days ; and scald it in hard water till it becomes green ; take out, and drain dry ; boil a quart of distilled vinegar a few minutes, wi.h mace, sliced nutmeg, and 2 or 3 shalots. When it is cold, pour it on the parsley, with 3 slices of horse radish. Keep for use. PARSLEY PIE.—Lay a fowl or a few bones of the scrag of veal, sea- soned, into a dish; scald a colander- full of picked parsley in milk ; season ; and add to it the fowl or meat, with a tea-cupful of any sort of good broth, or weak gravy. When it is baked, pour into it a quarter of a pint of cream scalded, with the size of a walnut of but- ter, and a little flour. Shake it round to mix with the gravy already in. Lettuces, white mustard leaves, or spinach, may be added to the parsley, and scalded before put in. PARSLEY SAUCE. —Pound a handful of parsley, and put it into a stewpan in good cullis, sufficient for the quantity of sauce wanted ; simmer it 15 minutes, and sift it in a sieve; add some butter rolled in flour; and, lastly, add a lemon squeeze. PASTE.—It is made by beating, say, half a cupful of flour in water, to the consistence of pudding batter, add half a teaspoonful of powdered alum; put it on the fire, and stir till it boils. A little powdered corrosive sublimate will cause it to keep long, and a few drops of any of the essential oils will prevent mouldiness. The addition of a little sugar, or powdered resin, makes it more adhesive. PASTE AND PIES, General Directions. — The most important thing in all kinds of pastry is the proper heat of the oven. Raised pies should have a quick oven, and well closed up, or the pie will fall in at the sides ; it should not have any water put in till the minute it goes to the oven ; it makes the crust sad, and may cause the pie to rub. Light paste requires a moderate oven, but Dot too slow; it will make it sad, and a quick oven will soon bum it, and not give it time to rise. Tarts that are iced require a slow oven, or the icing will brown, and the paste not be nearly baked. This sort of tarts ought to be made of sugar paste, and rolled very thin. PASTE FOR BIRDS.—1 lb. of unsifted flour; 2 ozs. of butter; 4 ozs. of sugar; three hard-boiled eggs, cut up very small. Put them into a saucepan, over a slow fire, and stir till it becomes crumbly. Do not let it be burned. When this is ready, put a pint of cracked hempseed to the mix- ture, and mix well together. When it is baking, add a pennyworth of saffron, and mix it with the rest. If kept in a dry place, it will keep for months, PASTE FOR BIRDS.—Mix well together 3 lbs. of powdered or ground split-peas, 1 % lb. of fine crumbs of bread, and coarse sugar; the yolks of six eggs, and 6 ozs. of unsalted butter. Put one-third of the mixture at a time, in a frying-pan, over a gentle fire, and stir it until it is just browned. When the other two parts are thus done, and all are cold, add to the whole mass, 6 ozs. of maw seed, with 6 ozs. of good bruised hemp seed, separated from the husks. Mix all together. It is an ex- cellent food for all singing birds. PASTE, to Keep a Year.—Dis- solve in cold water, 2 ozs. of glue, and 1 oz. of alum. Mix intimately with flour, and then boil. When nearly cool, stir in two teaspoonfuls of oil of cloves, or lavender. Make it into a pint of paste. Keep in a well covered vessel. PASTE, for Custards.—Put $ lb. of butter in a pan of water ; take a lbs. of flour, with as much water as will make it into a good paste ; work it well; and when cooled a little, raise the cus- tard ; put a paper round the inside of