197 GOO 6L0 and dust them well. But If they are greasy and soiled, take out the grease with crumbs of toasted bread, and burnt bone powdered, then take a clean woollen cloth, and rub them over with the first-named powder. GLOVES, KID. to Clean.— Rub with very slightly damped bread crumbs. Or put gloves of a light colour on the hands, and wash the hands in a basin of spirits of hartshorn ; or wash with rice pulp using a piece of new flannel;—Or sponge them well with turpentine on your hands; then hang up the gloves to dry in a current of air. GLOVES, KID, to Clean.— For Gloves not much soiled, take a tea-spoonful of Powdered French Chalk, put the gloves on the hands, and the chalk into the palm of one glove, then rub the hands and fingers together as if washing your hands. Take off the gloves, without shaking them, lay them aside for a night. Put them on the hands and clap or wipe with a clean cloth. Fullers Earth will act nearly as well. GLOVES, KID, Very Dirty.— Apply a strong lather made from white soap and new milk, put one glove on the hand and use a soft brush or a fine piece of new flannel, keeping the strokes towards the ends of the fingers. Apply, until the dirt disappears, then take a clean soft towel and dab it till the soap is removed. Take the glove from the hand, and blow it to open the fingers, then hang it up (with a bit of string put through the button hole,) in a warm place where there is a current of air. When dry they will have regained their colour, also be smooth and soft. GLOVES, Perfume for.—Ex- tract of ambergris, 4 drops, spirits of wine, 1 oz. Rub the inside with cotton saturated with it. GLUE, Liquid.—‘Glue, water, vinegar, each a parts. Dissolve in a water bath; then add alcohol, 1 part. An excellent cement. GLUE, Liquid. — Shellac, 2 parts; borax, 1 part. Boil till the shellac is dissolved. Shellac dissolved in naptha will unite glass, china, wood, iron, &c. GLUE, MOUTH.—Dissolve 4 ounces of fine Russian glue, or gelatine, In water, adding two ounces of sugar. Boil till it Is of a consistence to become solid when cool. Then mould it to any size you like. It may be wet with the tongue, and applied to paper, silk, &c. GLUE, Portable for Draughts- men, &c.—Glue, 5 parts; sugar, 2 parts ; water, 8 parts. Melt in a water- bath and cast it in moulds. For use, dissolve in warm water. GLUE, to Resist Water. — Boil 1 lb. of glue in two quarts of skim- med milk. GLUE, Waterproof.—1. Glue, 2 parts ; skimmed milk, 8 parts. Melt, and evaporate in a water bath to the consistence of strong glue. 2. Glue, 12 parts ; water sufficient to dissolve it. Then add yellow resin, 3 parts, and when melted, add turpentine, 4 parts. Mix thoroughly together. ‘Ibis should be done in a water-bath. GOLD, Value of. — Gold is divided in 24 parts or carats to the ounce Troy; the ounce of pure gold being worth about 85s. £. s. d. Pure Gold 24 carats per oz. 4 4 n* • Standard coin 22 „ „ 3 17 lOj 18 ,, „ 3 8 8( 16 „ 2 13 1 12 2 2 65 » .. 1 11 lOj In sterling gold there are 22 carats fine to 2 of alloy. GOLD LIQUID.—Honey and gold leaf in equal parts. Grind inti- mately together upon a slab ; agitate with thirty times its weight of hot water; settle, and pour off; repeat the agita- tion. Dry the gold. Mix up with gum water for use. GOOSE, (a la mode.)—Skin and bone the goose; boil and peel a dried tongue, also a fowl; season with pepper, salt and mace, and then roll it round the tongue ; season the goose in the same way, and lay the fowl and tongue on the goose, with slices of ham between them. Beef marrow rolled between the fowl and the goose, will greatly enrich it. Put it all together in a pan, with two quarts of beef gravy, the bones of the goose and fowl, sweet herbs, and onion; cover close, and stew an hour slowly; take up the goose ; skim off the fat, strain, and put in a glassful of good port wine, two table- spoonfuls of ketchup, a veal sweet \