STA SQU 376 SQUILL MIXTURE.—Take of simple cinnamon-water, 5 ozs.; vine- gar of squills, 1 oz.; syrup of marsh- mallows, 1J4 oz. • Mix them. This mixture, by promoting expectoration and the secretion of urine, proves ser- viceable in asthmatic and dropsical habits. A tablespoonful at a time. STAINS AND SPOTS. Stains.—1 Any article stained, either with fruit, wine, ink, or mildew, must first be wet in clear cold water. If it is of material that it is not best to wet all over, lay the place stained on a clean skirt or bosom board, wet a clean towel or sponge in cold water, and gen- tly sponge or wipe the stain till quite wet. After this, apply a lotion made of one tablespoonful lemon-juice, one of the purest cream of tartar, and one tea- spoonful oxalic acid ; put all into a pint of clean rain-water. Shake it often while using it. Apply with a soft cloth till the spot is saturated with the lotion ; then sponge off again in clear cold water. Repeat till the stain disappears. If this lotion is used very soon after the article has been stained, it will at once remove the stain. After it has been dried in, it is more difficult to efface. If the article cannot be washed after using this mixture, white-currant juice is better than the lemon. This prepara- tion can be safely used on the most delicate articles if carefully sponged off as soon as the spots disappear. As oxalic acid is a deadly poison, it is not wise to prepare more than will be used at one time. s Most fruit-stains and coffee-stains, if taken in season, can be easily removed from linen by placing the part stained over a pail, bowl, or pan, and gradually pouring a stream of boiling water on the spot. Hold the kettle as high up oyer the spot as convenient, and the stains will fade out entirely. 3 Pour a moderately strong solution of nitric acid on the stain or on mildew, cover it with salt, and lay where the sun will strike it, and the spots will disap- pear in a few minutes, unless of long standing; in that case it may be neces- sary to repeat the work. But wash and rinse thoroughly as soon as the stains are out, or the acid will injure the cloth. 4 Lemon-juice, thickened with salt. powdered starch, and soft-soap, laid over stains, mildew, or iron-rust, will remove them if the articles are spread on the grass where the sun will strike them. This is sure and does not injure the fabric. 5 Rub soap on mildewed spots, scrap? chalk over it thickly, and lay in the sun. Repeat till the spots disappear. 6 Two parts chloride of lime to four parts water wall remove mildew, iron- rust, and stains, if the part of the cloth that is stained is soaked in it two or three hours. Wash and rinse carefully as soon as the spots are gone. 7 Most stains will disappear if the cloth is held in milk that is boiling over the fire. Stains from Acids can usually be removed from white materials—linen or cotton—by washing in warm chlorine water, and frequently nothing more is needed than soaking and rinsing in pure soft cold water; then wash as usual and boil out Ammonia and Water, diluted in proportion to the delicacy of the goods, will erase acid-stairs, orange or lemon juice, vinegar, etc., from coloured goods and silks. Wet the spots, not the whole garment When the spots disappear, sponge off with alcohol, and then wdth a little clear water. Do not rub, but only pat the spot with a cloth or sponge wet in the mixture. Rubbing coloured silks or woollens leaves a whitish spot quite as unseemly as the original. White Cottons or Linens, stained or defaced by lime, lye, etc., are restored by washing in cold water. Use no soap till the stains are removed. A Weak Preparation of Citric Acid, applied with the tip of the finger, will restore the colour to silks or coloured goods that are defaced by lime or alkalies, but the spot should first be moistened with cold water. Stains on Linen, to Remove. —Apply benzoin ; or salt of wormwood, diluted with water; or hold the article over the flames of brimstone; or wash with soap and potass. When Cottons or Linens are injured by rust, nut-gall, inks, etc., moisten them with a warm solution of oxalic acid, or with diluted muriatic acid, or gnumlatcd tin. When the