RIC 340 RHU 4 days, stirring oft. Then press the pulp and strain off the liquor. Put the liquor into a tub, and to every gallon of the liquor add 2 lbs. of fine sugar, stir- ring till the sugar is dissolved. Let it stand 3 or 4 days till the fermentation stops. Skim it well; put it into a cask, but do not stop it, as it will ferment again. When the fermentation ceases, add more loaf sugar to sweeten it, and stop it close. In 2 months it will be fit to bottle. Add a little brandy. It im- proves with age. RHUBARB WINE, (Medici- nal.)—Sliced rhubarb, 2 % ozs.; lesser cardamom seeds, bruised and husked, M oz. ; saffron, 2 drachms; sherry wine, i pint; proof spirit, half a pint. Digest for 10 days, and strain. RICE, Buttered.—Wash and pick some rice, drain, and put it with some new milk, just enough to swell it, over the fire; when tender, pour off the milk, and add a bit of butter, a little sugar, and pounded cinnamon. Shake it, do not burn, and serve. RICE, to eat with Curry. — Wash and strain the rice; just cover it with boiling water ; add salt; stir well, and boil quickly. When sufficiently swelled, drain off [the water, and pour the rice on the shallow end of a sieve. Put it before a fire till it separates and dries. Serve without sauce. RICE CAKE.—Ground rice and sifted white sugar, of each, 8 ozs. ; essence of almonds, 8 drops ; five eggs beaten well; the rind of a lemon grated, a little nutmeg, or cinnamon, and 2 ozs. of butter. Mix all well together. Bake as a whole cake, or drop upon a butter- ed tin. Put upon the top battered white paper. RICE CAUDLE.—When the water boils, pour into it ground rice mixed with a little cold water ; when of a proper consistence, add sugar, lemon- peel, and cinnamon, and a glass of brandy to a quart. Boil all smooth. RICE CAUDLE.—Soak some Carolina rice in water an hour, strain it, and put two spoonfuls of the rice into a pint and a quarter of milk; simmer till it will pulp through a sieve, then put the pulp and milk into a saucepan, with a bruised clove and a bit of white sugar. Simmer ten minutes ; if too thick, add a spoonful or two of milk, and serve with a thin toast. RICE CHEESECAKES. See page 119. RICE CUSTARDS. —Boil 3 pints of new milk with a bit of lemon- peel, cinnamon, and 3 bay leaves; sweeten : then mix a large spoonful of rice flour into a cup of cold milk, very smooth ; mix it with the yolks of 4 eggs well beaten. Take a basin of the boil- ing milk, and mix with the cold that has the rice in it; add the remainder of the boiling milk ; stir it one way till it boils; pour immediately into a pan; stir till cool, and add a spoonful of brandy, or orange-flower water. RICE FLUMMERY. — Boil with a pint of new milk, a bit of lemon- peel, and cinnamon; mix with a little cold milk, as much rice-flour as will make the whole of a good consistence, sweeten, and add a spoonful of peach- water, or a bitter almond beaten ; boil it, observing it does not bum; pour it into a shape or pint basin, talcing out the spice. When cold, turn the flum- mery into a dish, and serve with cream, milk, or custard round; or put a tea- cupful of cream into half a pint of new milk, a glass of white wine, half a lemon squeezed, and sugar. RICE-GLUE, or CEMENT. —Mix rice-flour with water, the same as in making paste, (See Paste) and gently simmer over the fire till it boils. It is used in making ornaments, and for join- ing paper and cardboard. RICE MILK.—Put 1 lb. of Carolina rice into a pan with 2 ozs. of butter, two quarts of water, a bit of cinnamon or lemon-peel, and salt; boil very gently until the rice is soft; about one horn and a quarter ; then add three pints of milk and an egg well beaten; stir it over the fire ten minutes longer, and sweeten it with a little honey or sugar, and it will produce an excellent mol for five or six persons. RICE MILK, Ground.— Boil one spoonful of ground-rice, rubbed down smooth, with three half-pints of milk, a bit of cinnamon, lemon-peel, and nutmeg. Sweeten when nearly done. RICE PANCAKES.—Cream, 1 quart; ground rice, 3 or 4 spoonfuls;