URI 401 VAC gravel in the kidneys or ureters, it will require the treatment recommended for those complaints. When ulceration is the cause (which is known from its being attended with a discharge of matter,) the essential oil of turpentine, in the dose of twelve drops, in marsh- mallow root tea, has generally a very happy effect. The buchu leaves with gum-arabic, in these affections, have also proved particularly serviceable, as the following: Take of infusion of the buchu leaves, eight ounces ; tincture of ditto, six drachms; mucilage of gum arabic, 3 ounces. Three tablespoonfuls of this mixture may be taken three times a day. URINE, Suppression of.—It may proceed from gravel. See Gravel, page 2C0. “ Drink largely of warm lemonade.—Or, take a scruple of nitre every two hours.—Or, a spoonful of lemon-juice sweetened with syrups of violets.” Immerse the feet in warm water and soap, and drink parsley root tea. Take half pint of spearmint tea, to which add 3 teaspoonfuls of sweet spirits of nitre, and a wineglassful of Hollands gin. Sweeten it with sugar or honey. Re- peat, if necessary. If the disease is obstinate, steam with the vapour bath, or put the patient into a warm bath. Apply the tincture of cayenne over the bladder; and then a poultice of hops, if there is much pain. Or, give an in- jection of lobelia herb; slippery elm bark, and valerian; balm water, a small cupful. Infuse 15 minutes. Take at the same time the Diuredc Drops in penny-royal tea. An aperient may be useful. Parsley tea, spirits of mint, sweet spirits of nitre, and a little cam- phorated spirit, all combined, have often effected a cure. The Diuretic Drop}, Urinary Decoc- tion, and infusions of spearmint, are very efficient Also decoctions or infu- sions of white poplar bark, dandelion root, linseed, queen of the meadow, cleavers, sweet shrub, juniper berries, uva ursi, commonly railed bearberry coolwort URINARY DECOCTION.— Cleavers, queen of the meadow, marsh- mallows, juniper berries, of each a oes. Boil in 4 quarts of water down to z quant Dose, u small cupful a day. Usefulness of two Common Plants.—Every plant in the corn- field possesses virtues particularly ad- apted to the maladies incident to the condition of the labouring man. The poppy cures the pleurisy, procures sleep, stops haemorrhages, and spitting of blood. Poppy seeds form an emulsion similar to that from almonds in every respect when prepared in the same manner. They also yield, by expres- sion, fine salad oil, like that from Florence. The blue bottle is diuretic, vulnerary, cordial, and cooling; an antidote to the stings of venomous in- sects, and a remedy for inflammation of the eyes. USQUEBAUGH.—This liquor Is in high repute in Ireland. Take best brandy, 1 gallon ; raisins stoned, 1 lb.; cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, and carda- moms, each, i or., crushed in a mortar.; saffron, yi or.; the rind of a Seville orange, and brown sugar candy, 1 lb. Shake well every day for 14 days. Some add 1 quart of water, and 1 quart of whiskey. UVULA, Relaxation of.—This is the pendulous body which hangs down from the middle of the soft palate, at the top of the throat. It is subject to be relaxed ; to hang down too far ; and by its contact with the epiglottis, and the root of the tongue, it causes cough, retching ; and very much interferes with the voice in speaking, especially pub- licly. Keep a small portion of gum catechu or gum kino in the mouth ; alum also is good. Or, with a camel hair pencil touch the uvula occasionally with a solution of nitrate of silver. If such remedies ultimately fail, then excision must take place. Before that the most astringent gargles should be tried. V. VACCINATION ACT.—It is imperative by law that parents should have every child vaccinated within 3 calendar months after birth, either by the appointed public vaccinator, or by a legally qualified practitioner. If other than the parents are left in charge of the child, the vaccination must then be within 4 months of birth. If the child be not taken in 8 days after vaccination to be examined by the medical practi- 7.