LOB LOG 242 pots, some of each sort, with the sea- soning about it. When cold, pour clarified butter over, but not hot It will be good next day ; or if highly sea- soned, and thickly covered with butter, will keep some time. Potted lobster may be used cold, or as a fricassee, with a cream-sauce; it then looks very nicely, and eats excel- lently, especially if there is spawn. LOBSTER, to Roast.—When you have half boiled the lobster, take it out of the water, and while hot, rub it with butter, and lay it before the fire. Baste it with butter till it has a fine froth. LOBSTER SAUCE.—Cut a lobster into pieces, the size of a dice; pound the spawn, a little butter, and 4 anchovies in a mortar, and rub them through a hair sieve; put the cut lobster Into a stewpan with half a pint of gravy, and a bit of butter rolled in flour ; set over a slow fire, and stir till it boils ; if not thick enough, add a little flour and water, and boil again ; put the spawn in and simmer it; if the spawn boils, it may spoil the colour of the sauce. Add a little lemon pickle. LOCKED JAW, Tetanus.— A disease in which the muscles of the body are in a state of rigidity, with oc- casional spasms, and excruciating pain. The cause of this disease is injury done to the extremities of the nerves, punc- tured or lacerated wounds of the hands or feet, surgical operations, or the use of narcotic poisons. The muscles of the lower jaw become hard and contracted, the mouth is closed and the patient cannot open it; hence the name locked jaw. The rigidity ex- tends to the tongue and throat, causing great difficulty in swallowing. Some- times nearly the whole body is affected with the spasms. There is constriction of the breast, severe spasmodic pain in the stomach, shooting to the spine ; the face is hideously distorted, and the breathing very laborious. It is a danger- ous disease, and requires prompt skilful attention. Treatment.—When the disease is caused by wounds, they should be clean- ed, and the inflammation subdued as soon as possible. If possible foment or steam over with bitter herbs, and steep In hot soap water several times a day. Then apply a poultice of slippery elm mixed with ley or milk, and put on warm. Promote perspiration by means of the vapour bath, or place hot bricks wrapped in vinegar cloths to the feet and sides. Repeat if needful. Pour into the mouth a teaspoonful of the Antispasmodic Tincture every 10 min- utes until the muscles of the jaws relax to enable the patient to swallow. Give a tea made of balm and catnep. These means have often been effectual. Add more cayenne to the Antispasmodic Tincture if the rigidity does not give way. An aperient or injection will also be necessary. The latter may embrace a strong decoction of lobelia, milk, treacle, sweet oil, and a little Antispas- modic Tincture. LOGWOOD, an Antiseptic.— Dr. Desmartis, in a paper to the Acade- my of Sciences, announces that Cam- peachy Logwood (Hcematoxylum Cam- peachianum) possesses the same valuable quality, and in a much higher degree, than coal tar and plaster, or creasote, which have hitherto been esteemed as the best antiseptics. The fact was dis- covered by accident Dr. Desmartis had several cancerous patients under his care, all presenting large ulcerous sores, emitting a most nauseous smell. An as- tringent being considered expedient, a pomatum composed of equal parts of extract of logwood and hog’s lard, was applied to those sores, whereupon, to the Doctor’s surprise, the foetor disap- peared completely, and the emission of pus was considerably attenuated. To complete the evidence, he suspended the use of the pomatum for a few hours only, when the offensive emanations im- mediately recommenced, and the puru- lent secretion became again abundant. Logwood causes gangrene to disappear as if by enchantment, especially that of hospitals. He has also found it efficaci- ous in preventing or stopping erysipelas, which often occurs after amputation, or the infliction of other wounds, and is a source of constant anxiety to the sur- geon. It entirely removes the putridity of ulcerous cancers, emitting character- istic effluvia, and in short, of the most foetid sores. This substance also pos- sesses the advantage of being capable of mixture with haemostatic medicines, (designed to arrest spitting of blood.