SPE 372 sou of the nutritious principle. When near- ly done frying, add a little water, which will produce a gravy to be added to the barley broth ; a little wheat flour should be dredged in also; a quantity of onions, cut small, should also be fried with the fat, which gives the soup a fine flavour, assisted by seasonings, &c. Soups may be made from broiled meats. While the fat beef steak is doing before the fire, or mutton chop, &c., save the drippings on a dish, in which a little flour, oatmeal, with cut onions, &c., are put. SOUP, White Blond de Veau. —Butter the bottom of a saucepan, and put into it some slices of ham, four or five pounds of a leg of veal, two or three carrots, and as many onions; wet them with a ladleful of grand bouillon, make it sweat over a slow fire, and reduce it to jelly; when it is of a fine yellow tint, take it off the fire, prick the meat with the point of a knife to let the juice flow; cover, and let it sweat another quarter of an hour, and then put in a sufficient quantity of grand bouillon: season it with parsley and small onions, a clove of garlic stuck with a clove; boil and skim, and put it to simmer on the edge of the grate, and when enough, skim it, run it through a cloth, and make use of it for empotage, or rice or vermicelli soup, and even sauces. SOUSE, for Brawn.—Boil a quarter of a peck of wheat bran, a sprig of bay, and a sprig of rosemary, in two gallons of water, with 4 ozs. of salt in it, for half an hour. Strain it, and let it get cold. SPANISH CREAM.—Dissolve in pint of rosewater, 1 oz. of isinglass cut small; run it through a hair sieve ; add the yolks of three or four eggs, beaten and mixed with half a pint of cream, and two sorrel leaves. Pour it Into a deep dish, sweeten with loaf sugar powdered. Stir it till cold, and put it into moulds. Lay rings round in different coloured sweetmeats. Add, if you like, a little sherry, and a lump or two of sugar, rubbed well upon the rind of a lemon to extract the flavour. SPANISH FLIES, Tincture of.—Take finely powdered Spanish flies, 2 ozs.; spirits of wine, 1 pint. Infuse for two or three days, and strain. This tincture is an acid stimulant for external use. It is good to apply to chil- blains, for chafed skin, frostbites, &c. SPANISH INFUSION, for Colds, Coughs, &c.—Spanish juice, cut into small pieces, 1 oz.; salts of tartar, 3 drachms. Infuse in a quart of boiling water for a night: to the strained liquor, add iJ4 oz. of the syrup of poppies. Take three or four times a day. SPAR BASKET.—Procure a small common wire basket, and cover the wire with different coloured worsted, the brightest you can'obtain; suspend this in a vessel so that it may not touch the bottom or sides by two or three inches. Then take as much boiling water as will cover it, having previously dissolved as much alum in the water as it will take up. Pour this over the basket, and In twelve hours you may take it out; it will be covered with masses of splendid coloured crystals, glittering with all the colours of the rainbow. SPARE-RIB OF PORK, to Roast.—About 9 lbs. will take 2\ hours roasting. Baste well to prevent the skin burning. SPASMS.—Oil of red lavender, 1 part; sal-volatile, 1 part; oil of pepper- mint, 2 parts. Mix, and take 10 or 12 drops in a wine-glassful of lukewarm or cold water. If the first dose is not efficacious, repeat. SPASMS, Certain cure for.— Take 3-pennyworth of balsam of sul- phur, and the same quantity of the oil of aniseed; put these together, and let them stand in a warm place for 24 hours. Then take 2-pennyworth of the spirits of wine, and 2-pennyworth of spirits of turpentine; put these together, and let them stand as above; then mix the whole well together. Take 7 or 8 drops on a piece of loaf sugar, when the pain is on ; it will give instant relief. SPEARMINT WATER, to Distil.—Take of spearmint leaves, any quantity, and 3 times the quantity of water; distil as long as the liquor which comes over has a considerable taste, or smell of the mint. Or, take spearmint leaves, dried, 1$ lb., and as much water as is sufficient to prevent burning. Distil 1 gallon.