mi 222 ITa. promoting digestion. It is valuable in bilious and liver complaints.—See Rob- imon's Herbal. IRISH STEW.—Cut off the fat of part of a loin of mutton, and cut it Into chops. Pare, wash, and slice very thin some potatoes, two onions, and two small carrots; season with pepper, and salt. Cover with water in a stew-pan, and stew gently till the meat is tender, and the potatoes are dissolved in the gravy. It may be made of beef-steaks, or mutton and beef mixed. IRON-MOULD, to Remove. Rub the iron-mould part with a little oxalic acid, or salts of lemon, dissolved in warm water. After remaining ten minutes, rinse well in warm and then cold water.—Or apply a mixture of milk and salt. IRON AND STEEL, to Pre- vent from Rusting.—Fat oil var- nish one part, and rectified spirits of turpentine, three parts, intimately mix- ed, and applied with a sponge. Camphor, lard, and black lead, mixed, applied, and after two |days wiped off, will preserve from rust. Or smear over the iron, or metal hardware, &c. with melted mutton-suet, and dust with powdered unslaked lime. For bright parts of machinery to be sent abroad, use tallow and white lead. Brown paper is a good preservative from rust. Hence all Sheffield and Birmingham hardware, cutlery, &c., are wrapped in glazed brown paper. IRON AND STEEL to Clean. —Fine flour of emery, 2 ozs. ; soft soap, 1 oz. made into a paste ; rub the articles with the paste, then clean off with whitening and wash-leather. IRRITABLE.— Physically de- notes a habit of body prone to tonic in- flammation, but without strength to form it perfectly, or to bear the remedies proper to subdue it.—Irritation signi- fies an imperfect inflammation. Many infantile diseases partake more of irrita- tion than inflammation. A state of irritation is present in most diseases, and is very trying both to the patients and their attendants, and one for which every allowance and consideration ought to be made. IRRITATING LINIMENT. Tincture qf cayenne, % oz. ; spirits of turpentine, 1 oz.; croton oil, oz.; olive oil, 1% oz. It produces eruptions, and removes the severest pains. IRRITATING PLASTER— Burgundy-pitch and beeswax, % lb. each ; thick tar, % lb.; Venice turpen- tine, oz. Melt well and mix on a slow fire. When cold, mix with them powdered blood-root, poke-root, and a little cayenne. Spread on linen or soft leather. This plaster is counter-irritant, causes eruptions, and is a good curative for old sores and ulcers. It is highly recommended. ISINGLASS JELLY— Boil 1 oz. of isinglass in a quart of water, with yi oz. of Jamaica pepper-corns, or cloves, and a crust of bread, till reduced to a pint. Add sugar. It keeps well, and may be taken in wine and water, milk, tea, soup, &c. ISINGLASS PLASTER. Dissolve isinglass in a little hot water, and brush it over silk or fine linen, to form a glaze upon it. Dry and when wanted cut strips, and moisten them. It is an excellent plaster for abrasions of the skin. ISSUE OINTMENT. —Mix half an ounce of Spanish flies, finely powdered, in six ounces of yellow basili- con ointment; This ointment is chiefly intended for dressing blisters in order to keep them open during pleasure. ITALIAN PUDDING.—Lay puff paste at the bottom and round the edge of the dish ; over which pour a pint of cream, French rolls enough to thicken it, ten eggs beaten fine, a nut- meg grated, 12 pippins sliced, orange peel, sugar, and half a pint of red wine. Half an hour will bake it. ITALIAN SAUCE, Brown- Chop a few mushrooms and shalots; put them into a stewpan, with some stock, and a glass of sherry; boil up; add clove, nutmeg, a little lemon, and the juice of parsley, thyme ; add a little sugar. ITALIAN SAUCE, White- Put some chopped mushrooms, and shalots into a stew-pan with a slice of ham minced very small, and put in a little stock ; simmer 15 minutes ; add bechemel, (page 44). Boil a minute ; if it loses Its colour, add a spoonful of cream ; strain; season with salt, a few