BLU 7 1 BOl pies on the face and neck are often the effect of some functional derangement of the liver or stomach, Lotions, in that case, do more harm than good. If they proceed from a disordered liver, take the compound colocynth and blue pill, (which a druggist will supply,) night and morning, for two or three days ; then purge off with two or three doses of Epsom salts and senna. If they proceed from derangement of the stomach, take fifteen grains of carbon- ate of soda, six grains of rhubarb, and two of ginger, or cayenne pepper in water twice a day, and a compound colocynth pill every other day. Last thing at night rub the blotches with tallow, and in the morning apply fullers earth about half an hour, wash off with warm water and soap ; and during the day bathe several times with elder- flower water. Take also extract of sarsaparilla to purify the blood. BLUE FIRE.—Nitre two parts; sulphur, three parts ; zinc, three parts ; neal gunpowder, four parts. Mix. BLUE FIRE for ROCKETS. —Fine zinc filings, one part, antimony, two parts : nitre, four parts. Mix. BLUE FLAME.—Gunpowder, one part; king's yellow, one part; sulphur vivum, two parts ; crude anti- mony, powdered, four parts; nitrate of potash, fourteen parts. Mix, and sift through lawn. BLUE WRITING FRUID. —Pure Prussian blue, six parts ; oxalic acid, one part; triturate with water to a perfectly smooth paste, then dilute. Add a little gum. BLUE WRITING INK — Prussian blue in fine powder, one ounce, placed in a common phial, and concen- trated Hydrochloric acid, two ounces, poured over it. Effervescence ensues, and the mixture soon assumes the con- sistence of a thin paste. After twenty four hours it may be diluted with eight or nine ounces of water, and preserved in a glass bottle. The intensity of this colour may be lessened by water. It forms an excellent Blue Writing Fluid. BOARDS, to Scour.—Brush well with soft soap, and soda, adding a small quantity of washing salts. To kill vermin wash again with salt, or alum, or borax, or with chloride of lime. BOARDS, to remove Stains and Grease from.—Make a ley of pearl ashes, unslacked lime, and soft water. Let it settle and bottle it. When used, dilute it with water, and wash it very quickly, that it may not discolour the boards. Should the first application not succeed, the operation must be repeated two or three times, or as often as may be necessary for its removal. To remove Ink spots apply strong muriatic acid, or spirits of salts. BOILS.—Poultice the boil, and paint it with aqueous extract of opium, or tincture of iodine, or the Rheumatic Liquid, (which see) frequently. Renew the process every two or three hours. A piece of lint soaked in olive oil may be strapped over the boil, if the person is necessitated to do business. An aperient may be proper, except in weakness, when it is best to give weak elixir of vitriol and quinine. Or, give two of the Alterative Pills night and morning, and the compound decoction of sarsaparilla. If a boil breaks, apply the Black Salve. BOILS.—Apply a little Venice turpentine. Or, an equal quantity of soap and brown sugar well mixed. Or, a plaster of honey and flour. Or, of figs. Or, a little saffron in a white bread poultice. Or, a table- spoonful of yeast in a glass of water twice a day. Take an aperient. The celebrated Hunter said, ‘‘I was always troubled with boils until I took thirty drops of liquid solution of potass, in milk, night and morning, for two months when the boils disappeared. BOILS on the GUMS. —A Gum boil sometimes arises from ex- posure to cold, but in the majority of cases is caused by the irritation of a spoiled tooth, and will often continue until it is extracted. Warm fomenta- tions and poultices applied externally appear to be of little service. The treat- ment consists in cutting into the abscess as soon as the smallest quantity of mat- ter has formed. Afterwards the mouth may be washed occasionally with an astringent lotion composed of Tincture of galls and water ; or of 25 grains of sulphate of zinc (white vitriol) dissolved in half a pint of rose-water. Quinine is useful in ‘his compliant. A little mild