COL *33 COM The Bilious Colic is more severe. It is known from the former by a bitter taste in the mouth, great thirst, fever, vomiting of bilious matter, headache, and great costiveness. The remedies must be the same, but stronger and brisker. The Neutralizing Mixture p. 375, must not be forgotten; give also the Stimulating Injection, p. 378. COLIC Ball for Horses.—Pow- dered opium, half a drachm ; Castile soap and camphor, of each 3 drachms ; of cayenne pepper, 1 drachm; ginger, 1 drachm. Make into a ball with liquorice powder and treacle. If the horse is constipated as well, add to the ball s or 6 drops of croton oil. COLLEGE PUDDING.— Grate the crumb of a two-penny loaf; shred suet, 8 ozs.; and mix with 8 ozs. of currants, one of citron mixed fine, one of orange, sugar, 4 ozs. ; half a nut- meg, three eggs beaten, yolk and white separately. Mix and make into the shape and size of a goose-egg. Put % lb. of butter into a frying-pan; and, when melted and quiet hot, stew gently in it over a stove; turn them two or three times till of a fine light brown. Mix a glass of brandy with the batter. Serve with pudding-sauce. COLONEL PUDDING.— Pour a pint and a % of boiling milk and cream upon some of the choicest biscuits grated; they must be very light; add the yolks of 4 eggs and the whites of 2, some grated nutmeg, a spoonful of flour, some fine sugar, a little brandy, some candied lemon, and lemon juice accord- ing to taste. Butter a basin, boil 1 hour, serve it with melted butter, wine, and sugar. COLOURINGS FOR JEL- LIES, ICES, OR CAKES.— For a beautiful red, boil fifteen grains of cochineal in the finest powder, with a dram and a half of cream of tartar, in half a pint of water, very slowly, half an hour. Add in. boiling a bit of alum the size of a pea. Or use beet-root sliced, and some liquor poured over. For white, use almonds finely pow- dered, with a little drop of water ; or use cream. For yellow, yolks of eggs, or a bit of saffron steeped in the liquor and squeezed. For green, pound spinach-leaves or beet-leaves, express the juice, and boil in a tea-cupful of water in a saucepan, in order to take off the rawness. COLOURING MATTER.— A chemist of Lyons states that the col- ouring matter of any tree may be known by the colour of its fruit; and advises the boiling of the bark with lime, when a precipitate will be formed of the same colour as its fruit. Several of the new vegetable dyes have thus been dis- covered. COLTSFOOT. —This plant is well known. The leaves are the basis of the British herb tobacco. It has de- mulcent bitter qualities, and is slightly tonic and stomachic. The leaves smok- ed are useful in asthma. Dr. Cullen found a strong decoction of the leaves beneficial in scrofula cases—and to suc- ceed where sea-water had failed. It should be persevered in. Dr. Percival found it useful in hectic diarrhoea. A decoction with wormwood has done wonders in gravel and stone. COLTSFOOT SYRUP.-Colts- foot, s ozs. ; balm and hyssop, 1 oz. each; horehound, % oz. Boil in a quarts of water down to 1 quart; strain, add 1 lb. or more of sugar ; boil till as thick as honey. For cough or shortness of breath, take a teaspoonful occasion- ally. COLTSFOOT LOZENGES. —To a pint of water add one handful of coltsfoot leaves ; boil down to a gill, strain it, when cold, and add % lb. of sugar. Boil to a syrup. Strain again and put to it as much common liquorice as will give it consistency. Then form it into any shape you please. COMFITS.—Take 1 lb. of raw sugar, and make it into syrup with water; then take 1 lb. of coriander seeds, and dip them in the syrup ; then put the seeds into a sieve with a little flour, shake them well in it, and place them to dry. Keep steeping them in the syrup, adding flour, and drying them till they are of the size you want them to be. Caraway Comfits are made the same way. The colouring for com- fits is rose or Dutch pink. COMMON STRENGTHEN- ING PLASTER.—Yellow resin, % lb.; beeswax, 3 ozs.; cayenne pep-