75 BRK BRJEE BREAD PUDDING. — Pour boiling milk over grated bread, and cover it close. When soaked sufficiently beat it fine, and mix with it two or three eggs, well beaten. Put into a basin that will just hold it, and cover it with a fiowered cloth, and put it into boiling water. To be eaten with melted butter and sugar, or preserves. BREAD PUDDING.—Boil half a pint of milk with a bit of cinna- mon ; take four eggs, and the whites well beaten, the rind of a lemon grated, half a pound of suet chopped fine, and as much bread crumbs as are necessary. Pour your milk on the bread and suet, keep mixing it till cold, then put in the lemon-peel, eggs, a little sugar, and some nutmeg grated fine. This pud- ding may be either baked or boiled. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING.—Slice buttered French rolls, scatter over them two ounces of well-washed currants; beat up three eggs in half a pint of new milk, and quarter of a pint of cream, and four ounces of sugar. Put in the dish a layer of currants ; then a layer of bread and butter, and so on till the dish is full; pour the milk and eggs over the whole, and add nutmeg; bake forty minutes. BREAD, Rice and Wheat.— Simmer a pound of rice in two quarts of water till soft; when it is of a proper warmth, mix it well with four pounds of flour, and yeast, and salt as for other bread ; of yeast about four large spoon- fuls ; knead it well; then set it to rise before the fire. Some of the flour should be reserved to make up the loaves. If the rice should require more water, it must be added, as some rice swells more than others. BREAD CUP PUDDINGS. —Steep bread crumbs in a pint of warm milk ; beat it with 6 eggs, 2 ozs. of but- ter ; sugar, brandy, nutmeg, and a cup- ful of cream. Beat well; bake in tea- cups. BREAD, SAGO.—Boil two lbs. of sago in three pints of water until re- duced to a quart, then mix with it half a pint of yeast, and pour the mixture into fourteen lbs. of flour. Make into bread in the usual way. BREAD SAUCE.—Grate some old bread into a basin ; pour boiling new milk upon It; add an onion with five cloves stuck in It, with pepper and salt to taste. Cover it, and simmer in a slow oven. When enough, take out the onion and cloves ; beat it well, and add a little melted butter. The addition of cream very much improves this sauce. BREAD, Unfermented.—Take fine flour, five pounds; bicarbonate of soda, one ounce; pure muriatic acid, one ounce ; water, one quart; salt, half an ounce ; mix the bicarbonate of soda and the salt with the flour, and put the muriatic acid into the water, and then blend the whole in the usual way of making dough ; bake it either in tins or not. Bread thus made has an agree- able natural taste; keeps much longer than fermented bread, and is more di- gestible, and less liable to turn sour or mouldy. The chemical action of the acid on the soda disengages gas, which, though it makes the bread “ light,” dis- appears in the oven ; the result of this action is to produce nothing but com- mon table-salt, which can be proved by mixing a similar proportion of the acid and soda in an appropriate vessel, when the taste of salt will be recognised. BREAD AND FLOUR. lbs. oz. dr. A peck loaf weighs 17 6 1 A half peck 8 11 A quartern 45 8% A peck (or st.) of flour ... 14 7 o A bushel of flour 57 13 o A barrel of American flour 196 o o A sack, 5 bushels of flour 288 12 o BREAKFAST RELISH Roast fowl, cold, the same quantity of tongue, half the quantity of nice ham, and boiled egg, salt, cayenne pepper, and a small portion of powdered mace and nutmeg, all chopped fine, and then beat in a mortar. Pot, and pour lard over the same ; but in potting leave out the egg, and use butter instead. BREAST, Inflammation of.— The breasts of females are sometimes inflamed, swelled, and subject to ab- scess. In mothers these affections are painful, and prevent the flow of milk. A swelling in the breast may be reduced by applying the Bitter-sweet Ointment, and the Common Strengthening Plaster, If there be chill, it must be removed by perspiration. For this purpose take the