DIN DEV 160 DEVONSHIRE SOUP.-Lean beef, a lbs. ; 6 onions, 6 potatoes, x car- rot, i turnip, % a pint of split peas, i gallon of water, a head of celery, and a nice herring, with salt and pepper. When boiled, pass through a sieve, add spinach and celery boiled, dried mint, and toasted bread. D I A B E T E S.—An excessive discharge of urine. Sassafras, 3 oz.; guiacuiu, r. oz. ; liquorice root, 3 ozs. ; coriander seeds, bruised, 6 drachms ; infuse in 1 gallon of cold lime water for 2 days. Take a cupful 3 or 4 times a day. Or 4 ozs. of alum whey may be taken 3 times a day. Made thus—Boil 2 quarts of milk over a slow fire, with 3 drachms of alum till turned into whey. Or, take Diuretic Drops, page 162.— Give the Bitter Vapour Bath occasion- ally, and rub the body well with the Stimulating Liniment. If the bowels are constipated, give the Cathartic Powder. DIABETES. — Drink wine, boiled with ginger, as much and as often as your strength will bear. Let your drink be milk and water. All milk meats are good.—Or, drink 3 or 4 times a-day a of a pint of alum pos- set, putting 3 drachms of alum to 4 pints of milk. It seldom fails to cure in 8 or 10 days.—Dr. Mead.—Or, infuse % oz. of cantharides in a pint of elixir of vitrioL Give from 10 to 30 drops in Bristol water 2 or 3 times a-day. DIAMOND CEMENT.—Take Isinglass, soak it in water until it be- comes soft, then dissolve it in proof- spirit, and add a little resin varnish. Used for joining china, glass, &c., and, under the name of " Armenian cement," for joining and fixing precious stones. DIAPHORETICS.— Medicines producing perspiration, or gentle sweat. DIAPHORETIC POWDER. —Ipecacuanha powder, 2 grains ; puri- fied opium, % grain ; nitrate of potass, or saltpetre, 10 grains. Take at bed- time in a severe attack of influenza, or bronchitis, in gruel. ig^T Henbane is preferable to opium. DIAPHORETIC DECOC- TION.—Simply 2 or 3 ozs. of Pleu- rfsyroot, boiled in 2 or g pints of water. A tea-cupful. A good remedy for pleu- risy, and inflammation of the lungs. DIARRHCEA.-From the Greek, dia rheo, to flow through. It is an un- due relaxed state of the bowels, as in- duced by improper food, drunkenness, cold; or it may be a symptom of another disease, as consumption, &c. The Neutralising Mixture will be found efficacious in this complaint.—Or take a tea-spoonful of Composition Pow- der, and x of tincture of myrrh, and keep the patient warm. The following are good remedies :— To 1 quart of blackberry juice add 1 lb. of white sugar, 1 table-spoonful of cloves, I of allspice, I of cinnamon, and 1 of nutmeg. Boil all together 15 min- utes ; add a wineglassful of whiskey, brandy, or rum. Bottle while hot, cork tight and s6ah This is almost a speci- fic in diarrhoea. Dose : a wineglassfhl for an adult—% for a child—will often cure diarrhoea. Take 3 or 4 times a day if the case is severe-. Or, Confection of catechu, 2 drachms, cinnamon water, 4 ozs.; syrup of white poppies, 1 oz.; mix together. 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls to be taken 2 or 3 times a day as required ; for children under 10 years of age, a dessert spoonful to be used ; under 2 years, a teaspoonful, also 2 or 3 times a-day, as above stated. Draught for Diarrhoea. Take tincture of opium, 30 drops ; prepared chalk, 2 drs. ; powdered gum, 4 drs.; tincture of catechu, 2 drs. ; rose-water, 2 ozs. Mix, and take a table-spoonful 3 or 4 times a-day. Or fill a small basin with dry flour, tightly cover it with a greased cloth; boil it 3 hours. Then let it cool. For use, grate a dessert spoonful of it into peppermint water; more for an adult. —Or make a strong tea of blackberry leaves, or raspberry leaves. I have known the latter superior to all physi- cians. Follow it with a little port wine, grated nutmeg and ginger. Or, take of poplar bark, lA oz.; prickly ash berries, % oz. ; fleabane, % oz.; slippery elm, 1 drachm; pour on them a pint of boiling water ; infuse two or three hours.—Tonics must be given after the cessation of the relax. DINING TABLES, to Polish. —Put a little cold-drawn linseed oil In