283 ORA ORA well the yolks of 5 eggs, put It in the toszingpan with cream ; stir over a slow fire till it is ready to boil; put it into n basin to cool, and stir it till it is cold, then put it into jelly glasses : serve with whips and jellies. ORANGE CRUMPETS.-— Cream, one pint; new milk, one pint; warm it, and put in it a little rennet or citric acid ; when broken, stir it gently ; lay it on a cloth to drain all night, and then take the rinds of 3 oranges, boiled, as for preserving, in three different waters ; pound them very fine, and mix them with the curd, and eight eggs in a mortar, a little nutmeg, the juice of lemon or orange, and sugar to your taste ; bake them in buttered tin pans. When baked, put a little wine and sugar over them. ORANGE CUSTARDS.—Boil the rind of half a Seville orange very tender ; beat it very fine in a mortar; add a spoonful of the best brandy, the juice of a Seville orange, 4 02s. of loaf sugar, and the yolks of four eggs ; beat all together ten minutes ; then pour in gradually a pint of boiling cream ; keep beating them till they are cold; put them into custard cups, and set them In an earthen dish of hot water; let them stand till they are set; take out, and stick preserved oranges on the top, and serve them hot and cold. ORANGE FLOUR PASTE, for the Hands.—Blanch 5 or 6 lbs. of bitter almonds by boiling in water ; and then pound them very fine with 2 lbs. of orange flour. If the paste be too oily, add bean flour, finely sifted; but let no water enter the composition. ORANGE FLOWER CAKES.—Put four ounces of the leaves of the flowers into cold water for an hour; drain and put between nap- kins, and roll with a rolling-pin till they are bruised; then have ready boiled one pound of sugar to add to it in a thick syrup, give them a simmer, until the syrup adheres to the sides of the pan, drop in little cakes on a plate, and dry as before directed. ORANGE FLOWER CANDY.—Boil in a pint of water half the white of an egg, and pour it on lbs. of fine loaf sugar. When dissolved, place it over a clear fire; boil a few minutes; take off and let It stand a few minutes until the scum is cleared off; then boil the sugar till it is very thick ; then gradually drop in 3% ozs. of orange petals. Stir the candy till it rises into one white mass in the pan, but mind it does not bum; then pour it upon papers or into a dish. The syrup should be three parts boiled when they are added. They must be gathered on the day they are wanted for use, as they are soon discoloured by keeping. ORANGE FOOL.— Mix the juice of six Seville oranges with six eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, a % lb. of sugar, a little cinnamon and nutmeg; mix, and keep stirring over a slow fire, till it is thick; put in a small bit of butter ; stir till it is cold, and dish it up. ORANGE GINGERBREAD. —Sift 2j< lbs. of fine flour, and add to it % lb. of treacle; 6 ozs. of candied orange peel, cut small; % lb. of sugar; 1 oz. of ground ginger, and 1 oz. of allspice; melt % lb. of butter; mix the whole well together; let it stand 12 hours; roll it out with very little flour half an inch thick; cut into pieces three inches long and two wide ; mark them in the form of chequers with the back of a knife; bake a quarter of an inch apart; egg over with milk and egg ; bake in a cool oven 15 minutes ; when done wash over again slightly; divide the pieces with a knife, as in baking they will run together. ORANGE JELLY.—It may be made the same as Lemon Jelly, which see. Grate the rind of two Seville and of two China oranges, and two lemons; squeeze the juice of three of each, and strain, and add to the juice a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, a quarter of a pint of water, and boil till it almost candies. Have ready a quart of isin- glass jelly made with two ounces ; put to it the syrup, and boil it once up; strain off the jelly, and let it stand to settle as above, before it is put into the mould. ORANGE JUICE, Buttered. —Mix the juice of seven Seville oranges with four spoonfuls of rose-water, and add the whole to the yolks of eight, and whites of four eggs, well beaten ; then strain the liquor to half a pound of