out 279 OIL OILED PAPER.—Brush sheets of paper over with “boiled oil," in which dissolve a little shellac carefully over a slow fire, and suspend them cn a line until dry. Waterproof. Employed to tie over pots and jars, and to wrap up paste blacking, &c. OIL of Brown Paper.—Dip a piece of thick brown paper into the best salad oil. Set the paper on fire upon a plate and the oil that drops from it is a good remedy for bums. OIL STAINS, to Remove.— Apply benzoin, or magnesia to both sides of the silk, satin, or stuff; apply it moistened for 2 or 3 hours, and then brush off. Repeat if needful. Oil stains may be removed from silks, dresses, leather, paper, &c., by applying pipe- clay, powdered and mixed with water to the thickness of cream ; leave it on for 4 hours. This will not injure the best colours. OINTMENT for BURNS.- Slippery elm, elder bark, scraped, yar- row tops and leaves, plantain leaves, stramonium leaves, of each 1 oz. Lard and bees’ wax, sufficient to make into ointment. It is a good ointment for the Piles also. OINTMENT, Brown.—Extract of henbane, 1 dr.; yellow wax, J oz. ; red precipitate, drs. ; pure zinc pow- dered, 1 kt dr.; fresh butter, 3 ozs. Melt and miz, and add rj dr. of cam- phor dissolved in olive oil. This oint- ment is good for ringworm, all cutane- ous eruptions, for ulcers, sore lips, itch, chronic ophthalmia, &c. OINTMENT, Celandine.— Take garden celandine, bruise, and cover with any kind of spirits ; simmer, then add fresh butter, and let it remain over the fire until the leaves are crisped ; strain. It is useful in cutaneous erup- tions and piles. OINTMENT, for Eruptions. —Simmer ox-marrow over the fire, add a little salt, and a tea-spoonful qf brandy. Strain, When cold, rub the part affected. OINTMENT OF LEAD.— Take of olive oil half a pint; white wax, s ozs. ; sugar of lead, 3 drs. Let the sugar of lead, reduced into a fine pow- der, be robbed with some part of the oil, and added to the other ingredients, previously melted together, stirring them till quite cold. This cooling astringent ointment may be used in all cases where the intention is to dry and skin over the part, in scalding &c. OLD AGE, to Live to.—“I am now an old man. I have seen near a century. Do you want to know how to grow old slowly and happily? I will tell you. Always eat slowly—masticate well. Get as much out-door exercise as you can. Pure air! it has lengthened my life. But avoid exposure to harsh winds, and wet weather. Go to your occupation smiling. Keep a good and kind nature, and a soft temper every where. By being good to others, you get a good name; and the happy in- fluence upon the mind of a good name, extends itself to the body. Cultivate a good memory, and to do this you must be communicative; repeat what you have read ; talk about it. Dr. John- son’s great memory was owing to his communicativeness. If you desire to be old, and comfortable with it, do not swallow a HASP; i. e. ardent spirits, which rasp the constitution to death. Avoid as much as possible venery— that your VITALITY may hold out." Dr. Muerin. - OLDBURY PUDDING. Beat well 4 eggs ; flour and butter a pint basin ; pour in the eggs, and fill up with new milk previously boiled, with 2 laurel leaves, and when cold beat them together ; put a white paper over the basin; cover with a cloth, and boil 20 minutes. Serve with wine and butter sauce. A little rice flour, or arrow-root incorporated with the milk will make it more nutritious ; add the squeeze of a lemon. OLIO OF MEAT.—Take ham, and any cold meat on hand, with a little lard ; add broth, 3 or 4 onions, carrots, celery, and a green cabbage, first scalded in boiling water ; boil on a slow fire till the meat is done, garnish the bottom of the dish with toasted bread, and soak it with some of the broth ; put upon it the ham and meat; add broth to keep it of a thick substance.—Cold fowl, or goose, added, is a great improvement OLIO OF RABBITS.—Cat 2 rabbits into large pieces ; lard them through with large pieces of bacon, sea-