ORA OFI 282 OPIUM, or LAUDANUM, Antidote to its Poisonous Influ- ence.—Immediately take the juice of lemons ; or the strongest vinegar. Or sulphate of zinc, in 30 grain doses, every fifteen minutes, with plenty of warm water, is the most effectual. Opium produces great drowsiness and stupor, which must be overcome by all means ; ft teaspoonful of sal volatile in strong coffee is the best stimulant; repeat every half hour ; do not let the patient sleep for 12 hours, for if he do, he may wake no more. OPODELDOC.—Dissolve 1 oz. of camphor in a pint of spirit of wine; then dissolve 4 ozs. of hard white Spanish soap, scraped thin in 4 ozs. of oil of rosemary. It may be improved by adding 2 ozs. of ammonia, tincture of aconite, or opium x oz., and a little oil. It is a good application for sprains, lumbago, pained limbs, weakness of joints, &c. Mixed with tincture of can- tharides, or tincture of cayenne, it be- comes more effectively stimulant. ORANGE.—The orange tree is a beautiful ever-green, a native of Asia, and cultivated in the West Indies, Europe, China, &c. The flowers are very fragrant, and have long been used as a perfume. The juice of orange is a grateful acid liquor, consisting of citric acid, syrup extracdve, and mucilage. It is of great use in febrile or inflamma- tory diseases, for allaying heat, quench- ing thirst, and promoting the salutary secretions. It is valuable in scurvy. ORANGE BRANDY.—Pare 8 oranges very thin, and steep the peels in a quart of brandy 48 hours in a close pitcher ; then take water, 3 pints ; loaf sugar, lb. ; boil until reduced to half the quantity; let it cool, and then mix with brandy; let it stand 14 days, and then bottle it. ORANGE OAKES. — Take Seville oranges with good rinds, quarter them, and boil in two or three waters, till tender, and the bitterness gone ; dry them ; take all the seeds and skins out of the pulp with a knife; shred the peels very fine ; put them to the pulp ; weigh them, and put rather more than their weight of fine sugar into a tossing- an, with just sufficient water to dissolve ; boil it till it candies; then put in gradually the orange-peels and pulp; mix well; boil very gently, till it looks clear and thick; tlien put into fiat* bottomed glasses; set them in a slow oven; when they are candied on the top, turn them out upon glasses; cut into shapes. ORANGE CHEESECAKES. —See pages 118—9. ORANGE CHEESECAKES, Crust for.—Dry a pound of the best flour, mix with it three ounces of refined sugar; then work half a pound of butter with your hand till it comes to froth ; put the flour into it by degrees, and work into it, well beaten and strain- ed, the yolks of three and whites of two eggs. If it is too soft, put some flour and sugar to make it fit to roll. Line your patty-pans, and fill. A little above 15 minutes will bake them. Against they come out have ready some refined sugar beat up with the white of an egg, as thick as you can ; ice them all over, set them in the oven to harden, and serve cold. Use fresh butter. ORANGE CHIPS Cut oranges in halves, squeeze the juice through a sieve ; soak the p>eel in water ; next day boil in the same till tender, drain them, and slice the peels, put them to the juice, weigh as much sugar, and put all together in a broad earthen dish, and put over the fire at a moderate distance, often stirring till the chips candy ; then set them in a cool room to dry. They will not be so under three weeks. ORANGE COLOUR, in Silk, Cotton, &c., to Clean. — If silk, clean the garment with a solution of soap; in the second liquor p)earl-ash must be used to stay the colour. For silks the water must be hand-heat. If required to be more scarlet or red, the pearlash must be omitted, and a little used in the rinsing water. Remember that acids heighten the red colour, alkr lies sadden, or make it more buff. ORANGE CREAM.—Take the juice of 4 Seville oranges, and the rind of one p>ared fine; put them into a tossingpan with a pint of water and 3 ozs. of sugar; beat the whites of 5 eggs; set it over the fire ; stir it one way till it is thick and white ; strain through a sieve ; stir it til) it is cold, then bent