DAI 153 DAN and elecampane root, of each half an ounce; raisins of the sun, stoned, a quarter of a pound: let them all be bruised and put into a quart of brandy. Let it stand by the fire for a few days, and then strain it. Good for flatulence. DAINTY BISCUITS.—A cup- ful of flour, the whites of four eggs, well beaten, 3 or 4 ozs. of beef suet, chopped fine; bitter almonds, blanched, and chopped, % oz. ; mix the yolks with six ounces of fine sugar; mix all with lemon to flavour. Bake in small tins quickly. DAINTY BREAD.—Flour, 6 lbs. ; butter, 6 02s. ; 5 or 6 eggs well beaten ; 1 % pint of milk, and sufficient yeast. Mix into a paste, and form into rolls or cakes. When risen, bake. When cool, dip in milk, and dry in a Dutch oven before the fire. DAMP WALLS.—Cover with this mixture:—boil 1 quart of linseed oil, 3 ozs. of litharge, and 4 ozs. of resin, and put on four or five coats. Or, line the wall with sheet lead, the thickness of tea lead, and fasten with copper nails. DAMP WALLS. —Boil two quarts of tar, with two ounces of kitchen grease, for a quarter of an hour, in an iron pot. Add some of this to a mixture of slaked lime and powdered glass, passed through a flour-sieve, two parts of lime and one of glass, till the mixture is like thin plaster. It must be used immediately after being mixed, and no more of it should be mixed than will coat one square foot of wall, as it quickly becomes too hard for use. For a wall merely damp, a coating one eighth of an inch thick is sufficient; but if the wall is wet, there must be a second coat. Plaster made of lime, hair, and plaster of Paris, may after- wards be laid on as a cement. DAMSON DUMPLINGS.— Line a basin with suitable crust, rolled thin, fill with damsons, and sugar, cover it with paste ; boil in a cloth for an hour. Sauce ;—melted butter, milk or cream. DAMSON JELLY. —Proceed as in Cherry Jelly, page 119. DAMSON PIE.—The same as Cherry Pu, page iiq. DAMSON PRESERVES.— Cut the damsons into pieces, and put them on the fire, with as much water as will cover them. When they are boiled, and the liquor strong, strain, and add to every pound of the damsons 1 lb. of refined sugar. Put one third of it into the liquor, put on the fire, and when it simmers, put in the damsons. Give one good boil, and take off for half an hour covered close. Set them on again, and simmer over the fire after turning them. Then put them in a basin, stew all the sugar that was left on them, and pour the hot liquor over them. Cover ; let them stand till the next day, and then boil them up again till they are enough. Then put them in pots; boil the liquor till it jellies, and pour it upon them when almost cold. Put paper over them, and tie them up close. DAMSON PUDDING.—Four or five table-spoonfuls of flour, three eggs beaten, a pint of milk, made into batter. Stone 1% lbs. of damsons, put them and 6 ozs. of sugar into the batter, and boil in a buttered basin for one hour and a half. DAMSON WINE.—Takeseven or eight pounds of fruit to a gallon of water. Bruise the damsons, and pour the water boiling upon them. Let it stand two or three days. Draw off the liquor, and to every gallon of liquor, add three pounds of sugar. Barrel and stop it close. It should be kept several months before using it. DANCING has ever been a great source of amusement. It expresses joy and hilarity by gestures and attitudes of various yet graceful kinds. Few exercises are more beneficial to the body than dancing. It preserves and restores health, if used in modera- tion ; it gives exercise to the organs of life ; and elasticity to the muscles ; the lungs are expanded, the circulation of the blood is promoted ; it gives tone to the stomach, and promotes all the necessary secretions and p, "events all obstructions in the viscera. "At first they move slowly, with mutton aci3 grace, Tike horses when just setting out on u raou: For danoers a,t bulla, juat like horses at moos. Must amble a Utti« to nhow oft thoir psoss.