scu 356 SEE month ; it is frequently called hariff, or cleavers. I have known many persons cured by it Or, pound into a pulp of Seville oranges, sliced, rind and aU, and pow- dered sugar, equal quantities. Take a teaspoonful three or four times a day. Or, squeeze the juice of half a Seville orange into a pint of milk over the fire. Sweeten the whey with loaf sugar, and drink it every morning new mill; warm. To make any whey, milk should be skimmed after it is boiled. Or, pour 3 quarts of boiling water on a quart of ground malt; stir them well, and let the mixture stand close covered for four hours; strain it off, and use this as common drink : in hot weather brew this fresh every day. It will hard- ly fail. Or, take morning and evening a spoonful or two of lemon juice and sugar. It is a precious remedy and well tried. Water and garden cresses, mustard, and juice of scurvy grass help in a cold scurvy. When there is a continual salt taste in the mouth, take a pint of lime-water morning and evening." SCURVY in the Gums.—Make a strong infusion of sage, and dissolve in it a little alum. By means of a cloth apply it to the gums. Burnt alum, mixed with honey, and the juice of celandine, is very good for scorbutic gums, and it whitens the teeth. SEA KALE.—Trim and wash It, and tie it in bundles. Boil it well in equal parts of milk and water. It can scarcely be boiled too much. Drain, and serve on toast. SEALING-WAX.—The base of sealing-wax is the best resin, 3 parts; shellac, 2 parts; Venice turpentine, 1 part. Colour with vermillion for the best. Melt the varnish first, and then add the colouring matter.—For black, use the best lamp; black.—Other colours may be made by varying the pigments, using Venetian red, red lead, or bole; or mixing vermillion with Venetian red. SEALING-WAX, Blue. Shellac, 2 parts ; smalts, 1 part; yellow resin, 3 parts. Powder, and mix care- fully with heat. SEA-SICKNESS.—In all or- '■ffriXTx' oeoMioris, If Sn dread of sick- ness, lie down on the back at least a quarter of an hour before the vessel starts. No other position will do. Let the head, body, and back become, as it were, part of the vessel, participating in its motion without any muscular effort. This precaution is often of itself sufficient. It will be of little use to assume this position after the sick- ness has commenced. It must be be- forehand. At Naples I met a gentle- man about to embark, who said he could not describe the agony he endur- ed in the best weather. I told him to go to his berth while the vessel was still at anchor; to lie on his back and shut his eyes, and on no account to turn on his side. He took my advice, and next morning when we cast anchor at Civita Vecchia, he joyfully told me that, for the first time in his life, he had passed through a voyage without being sick. If the sickness comes on, neither eat food, nor drink soup, &c. The stomach, once it begins to go, will neither be equal to solid or fluid food, and, as the shortest means of getting rid of it, sends it back as it came; but drink plenty of plain water, iced if you can get it: when after some time you begin to feel that you can swallow, then take a little champagne and water, or soup with cayenne peppier, and you will soon feel comfortable. SEA-SICKNESS.—Take cam- ( phorated spirit, sal volatile, and Hoff- man’s ether, a few drops, mixed in a small quantity of water, or upon a small lump of sugar. This often re- lieves when other prescriptions fail. The Neutralizing Mixture is a good preventative. So is a tea-spoonful of bicarbonate of soda in half a pint of water. Take an aperient before a voyage. One of the best means of counteract- ing the tendency to sea-sickness, is the assumption of the horizontal position. A little chloroform has lately been sug- gested as a good remedy,—5 to xo drops on a piece of lump sugar. SEED CAKES.—Mix 8 lbs. of flour with y, lb. of sugar, % oz. of all- spice, and a little ginger. Melt % lb. of butter with % a pint of milk ; when just warm, add of a pint of yeast, and work up to a good dough. Let it stand before the fire a few minuti*?