COD 127 COL i ful of mushroom pickle, and 4 oxs. of butter rolled in flour. Garnish with toasted bread, parsley, lemon, and horse-radish. COD, to Fry.—Cut the cod in slices about 1% inch thick, and dry and flour them well. Make a good clear fire; rub the gridiron with a piece of chalk, and place it high from the fire. Turn often till they are enough, and of a fine brown. Be careful, or they will break.—Or do them in a dish in the oven, with a little butter, vinegar, or lemon, and salt and pepper. Serve with lobster or shrimp sauce. COD, Salted, Egg Sauce for.— Boil the eggs hard; half chop the whites, put in the yolks, and chop all together, but not very small; put them into % lb. of good melted butter, and boil up ; then put it on the fish. COD LIVER OIL.—This is very good in debility, in wasting dis- eases, in the incipient stages of con- sumption, in chest diseases, rheuma- tism, gout, rigid limbs, &c. It should be taken freely. Yet some people are unable to retain and digest this useful remedy. In such cases, it should be taken in milk, or orange wine, bitter ale, cinnamon water, cold coffee, &c. COFFEE.—It is a tonic and stimulating beverage, of a wholesome nature.— To make cofftt. Use the best. For eight cups, use nearly eight cups of water ; put in coffee as much as you like ; a solution of isinglass ; boil a minute, take off, and throw in a cup of cold water to throw the grounds to the bottom ; in five minutes it will be very clear. Or, beat one or two eggs, which mix with ground coffee to form a ball; nearly fill the pot with cold water, sim- mer gently for half hour, having intro- duced the ball; do not boil, or you will destroy the aroma. COFFEE ICE.—Pour some of this coffee into a bowl, and sufficient sugar-candy and cream, and place it in an ice pail till quite frozen. Serve in proper glasses. This is a delightful refreshment in hot weather. COFFEE MILK.— Boil a table spoonful of ground coffee in a pint of milk IS minutes, put in a little Isinglass ; clear it; boil a minute; throw in a little cold water to precipitate the grounds. Let it stand on the rib ten minutes. COHOSH, Black.—An Ameri- can plant, astringent, diuretic, altera- tive, &c. It restrains diarrhoeas, and is much used by the American Indians in rheumatism and parturition. In in- cipient consumption, it prevents febrile symptoms, the hectic flush, and reduces pulsation. It promotes the menstrual flux ; it has rarely failed to cure hoop- ing-cough. It is most valuable in rheumatism, using the saturated tinc- ture, from six to forty drops, and first cleansing the bowels. A strong decoc- tion or powder united with slippery elm forms a valuable poultice for all Idnds of inflammation. The powdered root made into a syrup is effectual in coughs. The tincture may be made by infusing one ounce of the powdered root in half a pint of spirits. COLCHICUM, Oxymel of.— This preparation has been found bene- ficial in asthma and winter cough. Dose from two teaspoonfuls to a des- sert-spoonful, three times a day in barley-water. It effectually allays fever and irritation about the wind-pipe. COLD.—Never neglect a cold. It may be the forerunner of some dis- ease difficult to cure. Consumption is often followed by a neglected cold. A cold is caused by the loss of heat, and a decrease of nervous energy, causing an obstruction of the perspiration. To remove a cold restore the perspira- tion. Take a decoction of the sudorific herbs, as catnep, pennyroyal, yarrow, or angelica. Take the Composition Powder, page 134. Place the feet in warm water before going to bed, and put a bottle of water to the feet, wrap- ped in cloth wet with vinegar and water. Giv ; a basin of hot gtuel, and let the patient oft drink of the hero1, tea. Repeat this treatment, if necessary. If the throat is sore, wet some hops in hot vinegar, put in cloth, and wrap round the neck. If the cough is troublesome, use some of the Cough Remedies. Set Cough, page 140. Or, take linseed, a cupful; raisins, 4 ozs. ; liquorice in stick, two penny- worth ; soft water, a quarts; simmer till reduced to 1 quart; add 3 ozs. of vur/ar mndv, n table-spoodful of old