411 VTN WAF -fermented, put to it a warm toast rubbed over with yeast; let it ferment 24 hours. Put it into a cask in a very warm place, or where the sun may shine upon it. In three months it will be fit for use. VINEGAR OF ROSES. Take of red roses, half a pound ; strong vinegar, half a gallon. Infuse in a close vessel for several weeks, in a gentle heat, afterwards strain off the liquor. Used as an embrocation for head-ache, Ac. VINEGAR, CHILE, or Bird’s Eye.—Nearly fill a bottle with cay- enne peppier pods, then pour in the best white vinegar, cork, and put on the hob for five or six days, then cork tight. It improves with age. It is a first-rate seasoner. VIOLET LOZENGES.—Orris powder, 1 ounce ; gum arabic, r ounce; white sugar, 2 pounds. Make into a thick paste with the following: cochi- neal, 1 drachm ; water, 1 quart. Macer- ate two days. VIRGIN WHITE WAX. White wax, 3 parts; cake stearine, 2 parts; mucilage, z part. Melt and stir well; when nearly cold, form into cakes as before. VOICE, to Improve.—See Tar. Page 385. VOLATILE LINIMENT.— Mix together equal portions of spirit of hartshorn and sweet oil. It is the domestic liniment for sore throat, plain- ed limbs, stiff and aching joints, &c,— The addition of oil of hemlock, or laudanum and tincture of cayenne, will be a great improvement. VOMITING.—It is generally preceded by the sensation of nausea and sickness, and a disposition to faint. Endeavour to ascertain the piarticular condition on which it depends. If it arises from some irritating substance in the stomach, as bile, then the stomach should be thoroughly cleansed. Take a beer-glassful of warm water, and about one hour afterwards an effervescing draught, in which drop a very little tinc- ture of cayenne.—The Neutralising Mixture is an appropriate remedy ; also She Black Draught, or one of the Aperients, page 21.—A mustard poul- tice over the stomach, and ten drops of laudanum In a little brandy and water, tend to settle the stomach. VOMITING BLOOD. The escape of blood by vomiting is carefully to be distinguished from the expectora- tion of blood from the lungs. If from the stomach, the blood will be dark and clotted, and mixed with the contents of the stomach. The blood from the lungs is a bright red, often frothy and mixed with mucus. It is generally preceded by chilliness, nausea, heaviness, and pain at the stomach. It is followed by great weakness, and from that the dan- ger chiefly arises. The patient should be placed in bed immediately, and be perfectly quiet. Place the feet and hands in warm water, and apply mustard plasters to the calves of the legs. The following draught may be very serviceable :— Infusion of roses, 12 drachms ; diluted sulphuric acid, 10 drops; syrup of rose3, 1 drachm ; tincture of opium, 10 drops. Mix. Or, take acetate of lead, 3 grains ; purified opium, 1 grain : extract of hemlock, 10 grains. Make 3 pills, one to be taken twice a day; drink after them iced lemon-juice and water, or vinegar and water. Use the vapour bath, if the person is cold and chilly, and afterwards apply hot bricks satur- ated with vinegar and water to the feet and sides. If there be constipation, give Aperients, page 21; or a mild injection. Sometimes the vomiting of blood pro- ceeds from the retention of the menses. See Menses. Page 258. VULNERARIES Medicines healing wounds. W WAFER CAKES.—Rub 1 lb. of sifted sugar into 3 lbs. of fine dried flour, 1 lb. of butter, and 1 or. of cara- way seeds. Make it into a paste with three quarters of a pint of boiling new milk; roll very thin, and form as you like. Make it full of holes, and bake. WAFFLES, very Good.—Stir half a pound of butter to a cream. Stir half a pound of flour gradually into half a pint of milk till perfectly smooth. Beat the yolks of five eggs thoroughly, then stir into the flour. Then beat the five whites to a very stiff foam, and beat them into the