231 LAN LAN tenant must give previous notice of these repairs to the landlord; the no- tice to be signed by himself and a wit- ness.—If the landlord has to pay the rates, an agreement properly witnessed and signed, should be drawn up to that effect—The payment of the rent of a house, or building of any kind is ab- solute, if the landlord demands it; even though the house fall down, be blown or burnt down, the tenant is bound to pay the rent; and the tenancy can only cease by giving the proper Notice to Quit just as if the house continued in a perfect state. When the rent is paid the landlord is bound to give the tenant a receipt;—thus, Received of Mr. John Thomas, the rum of (here insert amount) for half year1 rent due on the Pint day of May last, for the house. No, Street. £—(Stamp) Robert Southey. Landlord's Notice to Tenant to Quit; —Sir, I hereby give you Notice to quit the house (or workshop, warehouse, as the case may be) and appurtenances, which you as tenant, now hold of me, situate No.—, Street, on or before next. (Signed) T. C. landlord. To Mr. W. S. Notice to Quit of Tenant to Landlord: —Sir, I hereby give you notice, that on or before the——day of next, I shall quit and deliver up possession of the house and premises (or workshop, or warehouse, as the case may be) I now bold of you, situate at in the parish of county of. Dated the -day of , 188 , Witness, Job Clark. P. R. To Mr. C. S. If the rent is payable quarterly, or yearly, six months’ notice to quit must be given; the notice to expire on the same day of the year when you took the house, warehouse, &c. Suppose you took a house the first day of May ; then you must give notice a day or two before the first of November, for then the six months’ notice will expire on the came day of the year on which you took it, viz. on the first day of May. Leases for less than three years are often made by word of mouth. But in all cases it is best to have a written agreement; for sometimes the words of n mutual agreement may be forgotten, or be misconstrued on account of imper- fect remembrance. All leases for terms abov* three yean must be by deed of agreement, upon stamped paper, and properly signed and witnessed. It is best to have this deed made by a solicitor. The tenant shouid specially inquire if the landholder is the freeholder, or if he is merely a tenant by lease, and is about only to sub-let it. If so, he should inquire if the rent has been regularly paid, and also the rates and taxes, either by himself, if he has it on lease, or by the previous lessee. In cases where a landlord leases or lets a furnished house, it is sometimes customary to receive from the tenant, and his surety, a bond for the due per- formance of the covenant or agreement, stipulations, and for the payment of rent:—for being a furnished house, he cannot enforce the payment of the rent by distraint. When a house is let from year to year, and then sublet, the incoming sub- tenant must inquire if the rent to the chief landlord, the queen’s taxes, and the local rates, have been duly paid, for he will be answerable for any arrears. If a lessee holds possession after the expiration of his term, he is until he has paid rent subsequently due, merely a tenant by sufferance, and may be dis- possessed at any moment; but as soon as he has paid, and the landlord has re- ceived any such rent, he constitutes him- self a tenant from year to year, and can legally give, and must legally receive, a proper notice to quit. A distress can not now be levied on a Lodger's goods for arrears of rent OWING BY THE TENANT OF THE HOUSE, providing the lodger make and serve a declaration in writing upon the bailiff or owner of the premises, stating that the goods so described belong to him, and that the tenant of the house has no right or property in the same, he must also state how much rent he owes to the said tenant. This rent, or so much of it as he owes, must be paid to the bailiff or landlord, taking a receipt for the same. If after tender of rent owing by the lodger and the declaration made to the bailiff or landlord, the goods of a lodger are distrained upon, he may enter an action for Illegal distress. The amount