MIN MOC 264 of beef suet, 3 lbs. of best baking apples, 4 lbs. of clean currants, picked and well dried before the fire, 1 lb. of good raisins, stoned, and chopped very small, and 1 lb. of powdered sugar ; mix all together with % oz. each of mace and nutmeg grated ; cloves and cinnamon, of each, X oz., and 1 pint of brandy; make a rich puff paste. As you fill the pie, put In a little candied citron and orange, cut small. MINCE PIES.—Clean 7 lbs. of currants, and 3J lbs. of beef suet, chop- ped fine ; 3$ lbs. of the lean of a sirloin of beef, minced raw; 3J lbs. of apples chopped fine; £ lb. each of citron, lemon-peel, and orange peel, cut very small; a lbs. of fine sugar; 1 oz. of spice, cloves, mace, nutmegs, and cinna- mon, pounded together, and sifted, the rind of 4 lemons, and 4 Seville oranges ; rub all together till well mixed ; mix a bottle of brandy, one of sherry, and the juice of the grated lemons and oranges together in a basin ; pour half over, and press it down tight; then add the other half, at the top, to soak in by degrees ; cover it close. It will keep 4 or 5 weeks. When used, sheet the dish, or tins with puff paste, and cover with the same. They will bake in 10 or 12 minutes. MINCE PIES.—Roll out puff paste to the thickness of a penny piece; lightly butter your tartlet tins ; cut out from the paste round pieces, each the size of the tartlet-tins ; with these pieces line the tins ; put in each mince-meat; wet them round, put on the lids, making a small hole in the centre; close well at the edges; egg over lightly, and bake from 15 to 25 minutes. MINCE MEAT, for the above. —Beef without skin and strings, 2 lbs. ; best suet, chopped fine, free from skin, 4 lbs. ; add 6 lbs. of clean dry currants ; 3 lbs. of chopped apples ; the peel and juice of 2 lemons, half a pint of sherry, n nutmeg, X oz. of cloves; ditto, mace; ditto, pimento, in finest powder; press into a deep pan or dish, and keep covered in a cool dry place. When the pies and tarts are made, put in citron, orange, and lemon peeL MINCE PIES, Made of Eggs. —Boil 6 eggs hard, shred them small; shred double the quantity of suet; then put currants washed and picked, x lb., or more, if the eggs are large; the peeA of 1 lemon shred very fine, and the juice, 6 spoonfuls of sweet wine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very little salt; orange, lemon, and citron candied. Make a light paste for them. MINCE PIES, Without Meat.—Chop fine 3 lbs. each of suet and apples, when pared and cored; wash and dry 3 lbs. of currants ; stone and chop 1 lb. of raisins ; beat and sift ij lb. of loaf sugar ; 12 ozs. of candied orange peel, and 6 ozs. of citron. Mix all well together with X oz. of nutmeg, half the quantity of cinnamon, 6 or 8 cloves, and half a pint of French brandy; cover close, and keep for use. MINT, to Cultivate.—This is done by parting the roots in spring ; or by planting cuttings in a moist soil dur- ing the summer months, and watering; them several times a day till they have taken root. Plant the cuttings 5 inches apart. MINT SAUCE.—Wash fresh gathered mint; pick the leaves from the stalks; mince them very fine, and put them into a sauceboat with a tea-spoon- ful of sugar, and 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar. It may also be made with dried mint, or with mint vinegar. MINT VINEGAR.—Dry and pound X oz. of mint seed ; pour upon it a quart of the best vinegar. Infuse 10 days, shaking well. MIR AN GU ES.—Whisk the whites of 9 eggs to a thick froth ; add the rind of 6 lemons grated fine, and a table-spoonful of sifted sugar; then lay a wet sheet of paper on a tin, and with a spoon, drop the mixture in lumps separately upon it; sift sugar over, and bake in a moderate oven, of a nice colour; then put raspberry, apricot, or any kind of jam between two bottoms ; put them together, and lay them in & warm place to dry. MOCK BRAWN.—Boil a pair of neat’s feet very tender; take the meat off, and have ready the belly-piece of pork salted with salt and saltpetre for a week. Boil this almost enough ; take out the bones, and roll the feet and the pork together. Then roll it very tight with a strong cloth and coarse tape. Boil it till very tender, then hang it up in the doth till cold ; after which keep