49 BEE BEE This eats as well, but the colour is not so fine. It is a good way for using the remains of a large joint. BEEF, to Roast.—Beef may be roasted before the fire, though this method is not now so common. It is mostly roasted in the oven'. If before the fire, it is a good plan to put a little salt and water in the dripping-pan; baste the meat a little with it; let it dry ; then dust it well with flour; baste it with good butter, to give the meat a better colour. Place at a proper dis- tance from the fire, and baste it often; let the thickest part of the beef have the most fire. If you allow it to scorch, it makes the meat hard, and prevents the heat from penetrating to the centre ; besides it will appear enough when it is only about half done. When the steam draws near the fire it is a sign of its being enough. Never salt your meat much before you lay it to the fire, as salting brings out the gravy, and forms brine. This caution applies to beef for immediate eating. If you roast in the oven, have it hot before you put in the beef; keep the oven door open five or six minutes after putting the beef in, to get rid of the steam. Baste it occasionally. BEEF, Rolled. — Hang three ribs three or four days; take out the bones from the whole length, sprinkle it with salt, roll the meat tight, and roast it. Nothing can look nicer. The above done with spices, &c., and baked as hunters’ beef is excellent BEEF, Rolled to equal Hare. —Take the inside of a large sirloin, soak it in a glass of port wine and a glass of vinegar mixed, for forty-eight hours ; have ready a very fine stuffing, and bind it up tight. Roast it on a hanging spit; and baste it with a glass of port wine, the same quantity of vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of pounded allspice. Larding it improves the look and flavour ; serve with a rich gravy in the dish ; currant-jeliy and melted but- ter in tureens. BEEF, Round of.—Should be carefully salted and wet with the pickle for eight or ten days. The bone should be cut out first, and the beef skewered and tied up to make it quite round. It may be stuffed with parsley, if approved, in which case the holes to admit the parsley must be made with a sharp {Mint- ed knife, and the parsley coarsely cut and stuffed in tight. As soon as it boils, it should be skimmed, and after- wards kept boiling very gently. BEEF, to Salt, Dutch way.— Take a lean piece of beef; rub it well with treacle or brown sugar, and let it be turned often. In three days wipe it, and salt it with common salt and salt- petre beaten fine ; rub these well in, and turn it every day for a fortnight. Roll it tight in a coarse cloth, and press it under a large weight; hang it to dry in a wood-smoke, but turn it upside down every day. BEEF or PORK to Salt for immediate use.—The piece should not weigh more than five or six pounds. Salt it very thoroughly just before you put it into a ppt; take a coarse cloth, flour it well, put the meat in, and fold it close. Put it into a pot of boiling water, and boil it as long as you would any other salt beef of the same size, and it will be as salt as if done four or five days. BEEF, to Salt red.—Choose a piece of beef with as little bone as you can (the flank is most proper,) sprinkle it, and let it drain a day; then rub it with common salt, saltpetre, and bay- salt ; but only a small proportion of the saltpetre, and you may add a few grains of cochineal, all in fine powder. Rub the pickle every day into the meat for a week, then only turn it. It will be excellent in eight days. In sixteen drain it from the pickle ; and let it be smoked at the oven-mouth when heated with wood, or send it to the baker's. A few days will smoke it. A little of the coarsest sugar may be added to the salt. It eats well, boiled tender with greens or carrots. If to be grated as Dutch, then cut a lean bit, boil it till extremely tender, and while hot, put it under a press. When cold, fold it in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place two or three months,—ready for serving on bread and butter. BEEF, called Sanders, to dress.—Mince beef, or mutton, small with onion, pepper, and salt; add a little gravy ; put it into scallop-shells, or D