BRO ' 78 BRO BRONCHITIS. — This disease Is very prevalent in the English climate, and often proves fatal. The acute affection often passes into the chronic form. Bronchitis is derived from the Greek Bronkos, the wind-pipe, and has a reference to the bronchia, the ramifi- cations of the trachea. It is an inflam- mation of the lining membrane of the passages of the throat, through which respiration is carried on. The first symptoms are running at the nose, eyes watering, frequent sneez- ing, shivering, dulness, and sometimes pain in the head. The chest is affect- ed, there is a roughness of feeling in the trachea, or wind-pipe, which causes frequent attempts to clear the throat. The fever runs high, there is great weakness, a troublesome cough, and difficult breathing, hoarseness, tightness and pain across the chest. The cough is soon accompanied with expectoration of a thin fluid, having a saline taste, possessing an irritating quality. As the expectoration thickens and increases, the pain begins to abate, and the breathing to be relieved. The pulse is not so violent and the fever abates. These are favourable symptoms; and especially so when the phlegm changes from a glairy liquid to a tenacious phlegm, and decreases in quantity. The unfavourable symptoms are, feeble, frequent, and irregular pulsation, palid countenance, cold sweats, in- creased mucous, and the prostration of strength through the cough in efforts to remove it; the cough becomes less effectual to expectorate; wheezing comes on, and next a rattling in the large air- tubes, delirium, and suffocation. Fre- quently, the collapse is very rapid, in- ducing dissolution in two or three days. Cure.—The loss of vitality in the system has caused a diminished tem- perature, chills, coldness of the surface and extremities, imperfect cutaneous functions and the effusion of impure blood on the mucous membrane of the bronchia; followed by irritation and congestion, and the secretion of mu- cous hinders the breathing. Nature requires the removal of these obstruc- tions. Place the feet in warm water, and administer warm and mucilaginous drinks; as, linseed tea, barley water, with a little lemon juice; balm tea; gentle aperients, if required ; foot-baths, and hot bran poultices to the chest. The surface of the body should occa- sionally be bathed with warm water and carbonate of soda. The vapour bath also is recommended. Nothing is so effectual as nauseating medicines. The design of all remedies in this disease is to dislodge the tena- cious and viscid secretion which lines the air-tubes, and the impure blood must be corrected and returned to the surface. Emetics have a specific action on the respiratory organs, dislodging the bronchial phelegm, and removing the tension of the parts. Take four grains of ipecacuanha powder, in a little warm water, every twenty minutes, till vomiting takes place. Repeat if necessary. Or, take the following emetic :— Lobelia, six drachms; shunk cab- bage, three drachms; ipecacuanha, four drachms ; cayenne pepper, half a drachm. Powder and mix* A tea- spoonful in camomile tea, every twenty minutes till it operates. It is most effectual in clearing the lungs from ac- cumulated matter. These Herbs are sold by the Medi- cal Botanists and Druggists. Laborious breathing may be relieved by inhaling steam from a decoction of bitter herbs, or even hot water. Gentle perspiration must be promoted, and medicines employed to allay the cough, if troublesome. The following is a good mixture:— Ipecacuanha wine, one drachm ; aro- matic spirit of ammonia, two drachms ; carbonate of potash, one drachm; water, eight ounces; and if the cough be irritable, add a grain of acetate of morphia—take two tablespoonfuls every four hours. Or, take almond oil, half an ounce; solution of the carbonate of scda, half a drachm ; syrup of tolu, one ounce; syrup of poppies, one ounce ; water, six ounces. Mix, and take two tablespoon- fuls every two or three hours. Perspiration may be promoted by taking the Sudorific Powder, p.jar, 383, Counter-irritants are sometimes effec- tual, as mustard plasters; and in ex- treme cases, small blistering plasters to the chest. Dr. Beach recommends flannels dip-