WOR 424 woo the last dash fine sand to give it the appearance of stone, and to make it durable. Gas tar, turpentine, and a little nitric acid make a good paint for iron. WOOD, to Resemble Mahog- any.—Take two ounces of dragon’s blood, (gum tragacanth) break it into pieces, and dissolve in a quart of spirits of wine, to which add a little soda ; let it stand in a warm place and shake it frequently ; fit for use when dissolved. Or take four ounces of logwood, and half a pound of madder; boil in a gal- lon of water, adding a little pearl-ash, and 1 oz. of walnut peeling. Apply hot. WOODCOCK, Snipe, &c. Clean well, and stuff with mealy pota- toes, well washed, and seasoned with butter, salt, pepper, and a little cream, or new milk; cut off the pinions at the first joint; fasten the legs close to the ribs, turn the head backward, between the legs and the body. Do them be- fore a bright fire, or in the oven; dredge them with flour, and baste often with butter melted in hot water. WOODCOCKS, Snipes, and Quails keep good several days. Roast them without drawing, and serve on toast. Butter only should be eaten with them, as gravy takes off the fine flavour. The thigh and back are esteemed the most. WOODWORK, to Preserve.— Boiled oil and finely powdered charcoal, mix to the consistence of a paint, and give the wood two or three coats with this composition. Or, mix 5 lbs. of chloride of zinc with 25 gallons of water. This, if the wood be steeped in it, will prevent the dry rot WOOLLEN CLOTH, to Re- move Oil Spots from. — Apply moistened pipe-clay, or fullers earth. When dry, brush off. If needful, re- peat, heating the place by holding it to the fire, or applying carefully a hot iron. Lemon juice or pearlash, in solution, used to moisten the pipe clay or fullers earth, would render it more effectual. WORMS.—The worms found in Mie human body are mostly the ascar- ides, the thread worm, infesting the lower intestine, causing much itching and irritation about the anus. The tires, or Jong round worm, generally seated in the small intestines, and stomach. The symptoms denoting the existence of worms are common to the different species, viz. indigestion, with a variable appetite : foul tongue ; offensive breath; hard, full, and tense belly, with occa- sional gripings and pains about the navel; heat and itching sensation in the rectum and about the anus; the eyes heavy and dull; itching of the nose ; short dry cough ; grinding of the teeth; and starting during sleep, at- tended often with a slow fever. The indications of cure are, first, to clear the stomach and intestines of re- dundant slime, and afterwards to strengthen the stomach and bowels, so- as to destroy the disposition to their generation. Give an emetic once or twice a week, in order to rid the stomach of impuri- ties, slime and morbific matter, the cause of worms. Attend to the state of the bowels, for they are often irregular through worms. A dose of the Com- position Powder given night and morn- ing, and bitter tonics during the day will be of essential service. This should be continued a week or two. Lime-water being capable of dissolv- ing the mucus in which the worms- breed, may be taken; a teacupful two or three times a day—less for a child. Take with it the Tonic Mixture, or bitters. It is very effectual in relieving children. The following infusion is valuable :— Best senna, Carolina pink-root, manna,, worm-seed, rhubarb; of each \ oz. Bruise them, and infuse for two or three hours in boiling water. Sweeten with treacle. Give to a child six years old from three tablespoonfuls a day. Sweets should be avoided. Salt and water taken in the morning will expel worms, especially the seat worms. It may be made by dissolving a table- spoonful of salt in half a pint of water. It may also form an injection to bring away the ascarides. — Camphor is another remedy. Dissolve 10 grains in a little spirit of wine, and add it now and then to the tonic bitters. Various Remedies for the Cure of Worms:— Take an ounce of tin, finely powder- ed, and two drachms of Ethiop's