273 NER NAI N v NAILS, Growing into the Flesh.—Cut a notch in the middle of the nail every time the nail is pared. The disposition to close the notch draws the nail up from the sides. NAILS, to Whiten. — Wash them with turpentine, then with soap and water, next with a solution of oxalic add, and lastly, wash the hands well in warm water. NANKEEN DYE.—Boil equal parts of anatto and common potash till dissolved. I NARCOTIC S. Medicines abating pain, causing sleep, and calm- ing irritation. NASTURTIUMS, to Pickle. —Get them when very young. Steep in salt and water ; take them out, and put them into boiling salt and water, and boil a minute. Then pour upon them in the jar the best vinegar with what spices are most agreeable. Cover close. They will be ready in a week. NEAT’S TONGUE, to Boil. —“ Neat" is an old Saxon word, mean- ing animals of the ox kind. Soak it during the previous night. Dress it; put it into cold water. It will take 4 or 5 hours. A tongue out of the pickle need not be soaked, but it will require nearly the same time. An hour before it is dished up, take it out and blanch It; boil again till tender. NEAT’S TONGUE, to Fri- cassee.—Boil the tongue till tender; then peel and cut into slices; put them into a fryingpan with butter, and fry them brown. Pour the butter from the pan, and put in some good gravy, with sweet herbs, onion, garlic, pepper, salt, mace, and a wine-glassful of port wine. Simmer half an hour; take out the tongue ; strain the gravy, and put all again into the pan with the yolks of two eggs well beaten, a little grated nutmeg, and some butter rolled in flour ; shake the whole well together, simmer five minutes, and put the tongue into the dish ; pour over it the sauce, and serve hot. NEAT’S TONGUE, to Fry.— Boil till tender; cut it into slices, and season with nutmeg, cinnamon and mgar; beat up the yolk of an egg with a little lemon-juice, and rub It over the sLices ; make seme butter boiling hot in the frying-pan, and put in the slices When done, serve with melted butter, sugar, and sherry' wine, made into a sauce. NECK OF MUTTON, to Taste like Venison.—Perforate the neck all over with little holes, and pout a bottle of port wine over it, and let it lie in the wine two or three days : turn it often ; then hang it three days in the open air, but not in the sun ; often wipe down with a cloth, to prevent it becom- ing musty. When being roasted, baste it with the wine it was steeped in ; put white paper, threefold, to keep in the fat; roast it thoroughly, and then take off the skin', and froth it nicely, and serve. NECK OF PORK, Rolled to Roast.—Bone it; put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, and two or three berries of allspice over the inside; then roll the meat as tightly as you can, and roast it slowly. NECTAR.—Chopped raisins, 3 lbs. ; raspberry jelly, 1 lb. ; loaf sugar, 5 lbs. ; two grated nutmegs, boiling water, 3 gallons. When cold, add oil of nutmeg, oil of caraway, and oil of cloves, of each, 10 drops ; add 3 lemons sliced. Infuse 4 days. Strain, and add 1 quart of brandy or rum. Bottle. NECTARINES, to Preserve. —Peel, and cut them in two; simmer them in boiling water till they float; drain; boil in clarified sugar till they cease simmering; let them stay in till next day ; drain them out, and boil the sugar to the second degree, (see Sugar); add the fruit to it to boil a moment, and repeat the next day. Let the sugar and fruit incorporate two days before pot- ting, and keep the pan in a warm place : the proportion of fruit and sugar is in equal quantities. NERVES.—These are contrac- tile bundles of white cords, whose ends arc connected to the brain, and spinal marrow, and thence extending over the whole body, to receive impressions from external objects. They are in the eyes, at the root of the teeth, about the ears, in fact every where in the body, from the crown of the head to the sole of the R