318 POT POT (single Investment may exceed £1,000 Stock. Investments in the following list of Stocks may be made only through the medium of a Savings Bank Account;— 24 per cent. Cons. Stock, 24 per cent. Annuities, 2£ per cent. Annuities, Local Loans, 3 per cent. Stock, Guaranteed 2>2 per cent. Stock, Guaranteed 3 per cent. Stock, and 34 per cent. War Stock, 1925- 1928. The depositor’s book must in every case fco sent with an application for investment, or sale, of Stock, or for a Stock Certifi- cate. A special green envelope for the purpose may be obtained at any Post Office Savings Bank. Any further information may be ob- tained in the "Post Office Guide," price Is., or on application to H.M. Stationery Office, Adastral House, Kingsway, London, POTAGE, Barley.—Take r lb. of pearl barley; cleanse it well from husks; put it into a quart of milk to Steep, when well boiled, put in a quart of cream, 1 oz. of salt, some mace, and cinnamon; when sufficiently thick, sweeten. POTASH, Bicarbonate. — In Indigestion, attended with acidity, the result of disordered gastric secretion, the bicarbonate of potash is a valuable remedy, neutralizing very effectually the acid. The dose is from 10 to 20 grains given in simple solution in water, or it may be sweetened. POTASH DROPS.—Liquor of potash, 10 drops; infusion of linseed, 1 pint; spirits of sweet nitre, oz. Mix, and take two table spoonfuls every three hours. A sure cure for the gravel. POTASS.® LIQUOR.—This is a solution of potash. It is very good in indigestion, acid eructations, heart- bum, &c. It neutralizes acid, and counteracts the morbid tendency of the stomach to acid secretion. Dose—10 drops, gradually increased to 40. It should be diluted. Take it in a bitter decoction. POTATOES.—Much attention has been recently drawn to the fact, that the produce of potatoes may be much increased by plucking off the blossoms from the plants producing them. This important observation has been completely confirmed by M. Teller, the Director of the Agricultural Society of Darmstadt. In 1839, two fields of the same size, lying side by side, and manured in the same man- ner, were planted with potatoes. When the plants had flowered, the blossoms were removed from those in one field, while those in the other field were left untouched. The former produced forty. seven"bolls, the latter only thirty-seven bolls. POTATOES, to Boil.—Boil in a saucepan without lid, with only suffi- cient water to cover them; more would spoil them, as the potatoes contain much water, and it requires to be ex- pelled. When the water nearly boils, pour it off, and add cold water, with a good portion of salt. The cold water sends the heat from the surface to the centre of the potatoe, and makes it mealy. Boiling with a lid on, often produces cracking. New Potatoes should be cooked soon after having been dug; wash well, and boil. The Irish, who boil potatoes to per- fection, say they should always be boiled in their jackets; as peeling them for boiling is only offering a premium for water to run through the potatoe, and rendering it sad and unpalatable; they should be well washed, and put into cold water. "Stop," says one, “till I immortalize my dear old mother's receipt; — * To dress a potatoe, wash it well, but let there be no scraping. At the thickest end cut off a piece the size of a six- pence.’ This is the safety-valve by which the steam generated i-n the pota- toe, escapes ; and such escape prevents cracking. Pour all the water off and let the skins be thoroughly dry before peeling. POTATOES, to Escalop. — Boil the potatoes ; then beat them fine in a bowl with cream, a lump of butter and salt; put them into escalop shells; smooth the top; score them; lay thin slices of butter on the top of them ; put them into a Dutch oven to brown before the fire.