417 WHI WAX sheets are useful to tie over pots and jars, and to wrap up fresh blacking, &c. WAX, Black, to Make.—Take 2 ozs. of bees’ wax, K oz- of burgundy pitch, and melt them together, then add 1 % oz. of ivory black, ground very fine and dried. WEAK EYES. —Wash fre- quently in cold water, or in a decoction of the plant, eye-bright. Or, dissolve 4 grains of sugar of lead and crude sal- ammoniac, in 8 ozs. of water, to which add a few drops of laudanum. Bathe the eyes with it 3 or 4 times a day. Or, bathe the eyes frequently in salt and water, or in weak brandy, salt, and water. WEEDS and WORMS, to Destroy.—Sprinkle the walks with Salt, and then water it. Observe not to throw the salt upon the box edging. WEIGHTS, Average.— lbs. I Peck of Potatoes = 20 I II of White Turnips II l6 I ft of Swede Turnips • 1 18 I 1 f of Onions I# l6 I ft of Broad Beans II IO I ft of Kidney Beans II 9 I II of Green Peas ... II 9 I II of Apples II 16 z 11 of Pears 11 18 z II of Gooseberries 11 16 z II of Plums, Damsons, and all Stone Fruit 11 18 WEIGHT of ENGLISH GOLD AND SILVER COINS. Sovereign Half Sovereign Crown Half Crown Florin Shilling Sixpence dwt. gr. 3% 13 'A 4 2 6 IS 19 5 2 18 9 7 3 1 4-11 z-11 6- 11 3-ii 7- 11 WELSH PUDDING.—Melt * lb. of butter gently; beat it with the yolks of eight, and whites of four eggs ; mix in 6 ozs. of loaf sugar, and the rind of a lemon grated. Put a paste into a dish for turning out, and pour the above in, and bake it. WELSH RABBIT, or RARE- BIT.—See page 328. WEN, to Cure.—Take a lime- stone and slake it in soap lees; then mix it with a little soap. Spread it as a plaster, and apply it to the. wen, and often anoint it with the lees in which the lime was slaked. It will sink and destroy the wen. WEN, to Cure a.—Wash it with common salt dissolved in water every day, and it will be removed in a short time. Or make a strong brine of alum-salt; simmer it over the fire. When thus prepared, wet a piece of cloth in it every day, and apply it con- stantly for one month, and the pro- tuberance will disappear. WHIPPED CREAM—To one quart of good cream, put a few drops of bergamot water, a little orange flower water, and £ lb. of sugar. When it is dissolved, whip the cream to a froth, and take it up with a skimmer ; drain on a sieve, and if for icing, let it settle half an hour before you put it into cups or glasses. Use that which drops into the dish under the sieve, to make it froth the better, adding two whites of eggs. Coloured powdered sugar may, if you like, be sprinkled at the top of each. WHIPPED CREAM with COFFEE.—Make the coffee by boiling, simmering, or filtering, as best suits the family taste. While making, for coffee enough for six people, whip half a pint of rich cream to a thick froth. Put into each cup the desired amount of sugar and a tablespoonful of boiled cream, and pour the coffee over it; then pour on top gently a tablespoonful of the whipped cream, or more, if much cream is agreeable, and stir it gently. If cream is not plentiful, use half cream and half milk, or only milk, and add to it the whites of two eggs—for the above quantity—beaten stiff. Put the coid milk into a bowl, and set the bowl into a kettle of boiling water—enough water to reach half way up the side of the bowl or pitcher ; then stir in the beaten whites gently till the milk is scalding, not boiling hot; pour into the cream pitcher and send to the table. This makes delicious coftee. WHIST, SOLO.—1. The points In order of merit are as follows :—