OYS PA1 288 They should be kept in small jars, and tied close with bladder, or the air will spoil them. * OYSTER SAUCE.—Save the Hquor in opening the oysters; and boil it with the beards, a bit of mace, and lemon-peel. Throw the oysters into cold water, and drain it off. Strain the liquor, and put it into a saucepan with them, and as much butter, mixed with mills, as will make sauce enough; but fust rub a little &our with it. Put on the fire, and stir all the time; and when the butter has boiled once or twice, take them off, and keep the sauce- pan near the fire, but not on it; for if done too much, the oysters will be hard. Squeeze a little lemon-juice, and serve. A little cream is a great improvement. Observe, the oysters will thin the sauce, so put butter accordingly. OYSTER SOUP.—Take two quarts of fish stock, beat the yolks of ten hard eggs, and the hard part of two quarts of oysters, in a mortar, and add this to the stock. Simmer it all for half an hour; then strain it off', and put it and the oysters (cleared of the beards, and nicely washed) into the soup. Simmer five minutes; have ready the yolks of six raw eggs well beaten, and add them to the soup. Stir it all well one way on the side of the fire till it is thick and smooth, but do not let it boil. Serve all together. OYSTER SOUP.—Take 1 lb. of skate, four flounders, or flukes, and a lbs. of eels ; cut them in pieces ; sea- son them with mace, pepper, salt, an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, some parsley and sweet herbs; cover with water; simmer 1 % hour, and strain; beat the yolks of ten hard eggs, with the hard part of a pint of oysters, in a mortar; simmer all together for half an hour; have ready the yolks of six eggs well beaten, and add them to the soup ; stir on the fire till it is thick and smooth, but do not let it boil. OYSTERS, to Stew.—Open and separate the liquor from them, then wash them from the grit; strain the liquor, and put with the oysters a bit of mace and lemon peel, and a few white peppers. Simmer them very gently, and add some cream, and a little flour and butter. Serve with sippets. P PAIN IN THE BACK— Stefip root of water-fern in water, till the water becomes thick and clammy ; then rub the parts therewith morning and evening. Or, apply a plaster, and take, daily, balsam of eapivi. Or, apply garlic and hog’s lard to the feet, PAINS IN THE HEAD AND FACE.—Take half a pint of rose- water, two tea-spoonfuls of white vine- gar, and form a lotion. Apply it to the affected part three times a day. It requires fresh linen and lotion each ap- plication ; this will in two or three days, gradually take the pain away. PAINS IN THE JOINTS— Make a poultice of the young leaves of rag-wort, and put on as hot as can be borne. PAIN IN THE SIDE—At bed-time apply a fresh cabbage-leaf, warmed by the fire, and bind it dghtly round the body for twelve horns, or more. The first application generally gives relief; if not, apply a second leaf. PAIN KILLER, Celebrated. —Alcohol, 1 quart; gum guaiac, 1 oz.; gums myrrh and camphor, and cayenne pulverized, each half an ounce. Mix. Put in a bottle and shake occasionally for about 10 days, filter it or let it settle for use. Apply freely to surface pains, or it may be taken in tea-spoonful doses for internal pains ; repeat as required. PAINTING.—The best time for painting the windows and doors of houses is autumn, or winter, if the weather be fine. Though longer in drying, it becomes harder, and there- fore more durable. PAINT, Cheap. — Tar mixed with yellow-ochre, makes a very good paint for out-door purposes, as rails, iron fencing, &c. PAINT, to Clean.—Brush off the dust, and wash with soap and water, or soda and water, as the case may re- quire, using a sponge or flannel. Soap if not carefully used destroys both paint and varnish. Fullers earth is also a good cleanser. PAINT, to Clean Varnished. —Tea-leaves may be saved for a few