299 PEA PEP Add three or four quarts of beef broth, and stew for one hour,; then pass the whole through a sieve, and heat again. Season with salt and pepper. One or two small heads of celery, sliced and stewed in it, will be a great improve- ment. Peas Soup may be made as above with the addition of a little bacon and veal. PEAS SOUP, a la Creme.— Boil with a little salt 5 lbs. of nice lean beef in 6 quarts of water. When it boils, skim, and add two carrots, three whole onions, thyme, two heads of celery, and three quarts of old green peas ; boil till the meat is quite tender ; strain, and rub the pulp through a hair sieve. Split the blanched part of three Cos lettuces into four quarters, and cut them an inch long, with a little mint. Then put £ lb. of butter into a stewpan that will hold the soup. Put the lettuce and mint into the butter, with a leek sliced thin, and a pint of green peas ; stew them fifteen minutes, and shake often ; then put in a litde of the soup, and stew them fifteen minutes longer ; then put in the soup, and as much thick cream as will make it white. Stir till it boils. Put toasted bread or French roll at the bottom of the dish, and pour the soup over it PEAS SOUP, with Meat.— Take a small knuckle of veal, or 4 lbs. of coarse lean beef; chop into pieces; put on the fire in 6 quarts of water. Add x lb. of lean bacon steeped in vinegar an hour, mace, cloves, cayenne, a little white pepper, sweet herbs, and parsley, and a crust of bread, toasted crisp; cover closely, and boil gently over a slow fire, till it is half done. Strain, and put to it a pint of green peas, lettuce, and celery, all cut small; cover closely, and stew very gently over a slow fire for two hours. In the mean- time boil a pint of peas in a pint of water very tender ; strain well through a coarse sieve, and pour all the pulp into the soup ; boil together, and add salt. PEAS SOUP, White.—To 6 quarts of water put a knuckle of veal, a large fowl, 1 lb. of lean bacon, and J lb. of rice, two anchovies, a few pepper- corns, onions, sweet herbs, and 3 heads of celery sliced. Stew all together till the soup is as strong as you like It; then strain through a hair sieve'into a earthen pot; let it stand all night; take off the scum, and pour it off clear ; add £ lb. of Jordan almonds, beaten fine ; boil a little, and then strain. Put in a pint of cream and the yolk of an egg. PENCIL DRAWINGS, to Fix.—Dissolve white resin in spirits of wine ; lay the pencil drawing on its face upon a sheet of clean paper, and brush the back of the drawing with the solution. This penetrates through the paper, and as the spirit evaporates, the resin is deposited as a varnish on the drawing. It does not cockle the paper, which watery solutions will do ; and as the brush only passes over the back of the drawing, none of the pencil marks are in any degree removed. Pencil, or Chalk Drawings, to Fix.—Immerse the drawing in a weak solution of isinglass ; allowing no part of the drawing to remain without the isinglass passing over it, or it will look spotty. Drain it, by holding the drawing up by one end over a plate. PENNYROYAL.—This plant is perennial. It flowers in August and September. It is warm, pungent, aro- matic, stimulating, and diaphoretic; like spearmint, but not so agreeable. It contains a volatile oil which is ob- tained by distillation. The infusion is warming to the stomach, and allays sickness. It relieves spasms, hysterics, flatulency, and colic, and promotes ex- pectoration in dry consumptive coughs. It promotes perspiration, and is most valuable in obstruction of the menses. PENNYROYAL WATER.— Pennyroyal leaves, dry, 1$ lb. ; water, from 1J to 2 gallons. Draw off by dis- tillation, one gallon. It is a specific remedy for female obstructions. It is good for gout, rubbing the parts with it till they are red ; and if salt be added, it is good for the side in liver complaints, It is very warming to the stomach, pro- duces perspiration, and therefore is good for coughs, asthma, &c. An infusion of the herb in hot water is nearly as good. PEPPER POSSET; once so highly esteemed for the cure of colds, &c. Put a dozen pepper-corns, or a dozen allspice, into a pint [of milk, and let it simmer slowly; when it boils,