SOL 3^9 SOU separate the flesh ; when ready to serve dip them in milk; shake a little flour over, and fry them over a good fire ; when done and of a fine colour drain them upon a clean cloth ; dish upon a napkin; send whole lemons to the table with them. SOLES, to Fry.—Dip them in egg, after having cleaned them, and cover with fine crumbs of bread. Set on a frying-pan that is just large enough, and put into it a quantity of fresh lard or dripping; boil, and im- mediately slip the fish into it; do them of a fine brown. SOLES, Stewed.—Scald and clean, take care of the roe, &c., lay the fish in a stewpan, with a rich beef gravy, an onion, eight cloves, a dessert- spoonful of Jamaica pepper, the same of black, a fourth part of the quantity of gravy or port (cider may do ;) sim- mer close covered : when nearly done add two anchovies chopped fine, a dessert-spoonful of made mustard, and some fine walnut ketchup, a bit of butter rolled in flour, shake it ind let the gravy boil a few minutes. Serve with sippets of fried bread, the roe fried, and a good deal of horse radish and lemon. Carp may be stewed the same way. SOLES, to Souse.—Cut the soles on the white side ; but not too deep; boil them well in sherry wine, and a little water, and vinegar ; season with salt, ginger, cloves, mace ; let the liquid just cover them; when it boils, put in the soles, and winter savory, sweet maTjoram, sage, thyme, sliced onions, or shalots; when they are boiled enough, set them by to cooL SOLE PIE.—Split some soles from the bone, and cut the fins close ; season with a mixture of salt, pepper, a little nutmeg and pounded mace, and put them in layers, with oysters. They eat excellently. A pair of middling sized ones will do, and half a hundred of oysters. Put in the dish the oyster liquor, two or three spoonfuls of broth, and some butter. When the pie comes borne, pour in a cupful of thick cream. SORE THROAT. — The old nurse’s remedy is good, “ Put your stocking round your neck going to bed." But I have found a piece of new flannel quite as beneficial, if put warm round the neck. The following gargle is useful either for ulcerated or common sore throat. Make a strong solution of alum to every pint of which add two table-spoonfuls of port wine; gargle the throat several times a day. In ulcerated sore throats, it is safest to have the ulcers touched with caustic immediately on their appearance. Or, gargle with a mixture of yeast and milk, and take a wine-glassful of good 1 yeast once or twice a day. Sage and vinegar are generally recommended for a gargle. It is best to add a little salt, and from 15 to 30 drops of laudanum. Or, apply a cold water cloth, wrung out, to the throat, covered with a dry flannel. In the first stages of the disease, a mild emetic will be useful. In bed apply to the throat a bag of hops satur- ated with hot vinegar and a little salt, or camomile flowers moistened with hot vinegar, and 20 or 30 drops of lau- danum.—The remedies under Quinsy are appropriate here. Apply to the feet and sides hot bricks covered with vinegar cloths. If constipated, take an aperient, and afterwards the Composi- tion Powder. SORE THROAT.—Five spoon- fiils of the syrup of elderberry, mix with one spoonful of honey, and as much powdered sal prunella as will lie on a shilling. Take a tea-spoonful fre- quently. SORREL, to Stew.—Wash the sorrel, and put it into a silver vessel, or stone jar, with no more water than hangs to the leaves. Simmer it as slow as you can, and when done enough, put a bit of butter, and beat it well. SOUFFLE of Apple and Rice.—Blanch Carolina rice, strain it, and set it to boil in milk, with lemon peel, and a .bit of cinnamon. Let it boil till the rice is dry, then cool it, and raise a rim three inches high round the dish ; haring egged the dish, where it is put to make it stick well. Then egg the rice all over. Fill the dish half way up with a marmalade of apples; have ready the whites of four eggs beaten to a fine froth, and put them over the marmalade; then sift X