CARDS IOO CARDS It Is optional whether you stand your own hand or not ; but if you take “miss,” you are compelled to stand : if there is only one player standing before him, the dealer is compelled to stand. Laws of the Game.—I. If you hold your trumps or more in your hand, lead one ; if only two players, lead the highest. 2. If you hold ace of trumps, you must lead it, but if not leader you are not compelled to play it unless you can head the trick otherwise. 3. If you cannot follow suit, you must play a trump if you have one. 4. After taking a trick you must play a trump. 5. The cards after dealing must be taken up in rotation by the players, and no one to look at his cards until the one before him has declared whether he stands or not. 6. The dealer must not look at his cards until he has asked each player if he stands ; and if there is but one player, he is forced to stand. 7. No one must play a card out of his regular turn, under penalty of being looed. 8. If the dealer makes a misdeal he Is looed, and the next player must take the deal. 9. Any one looking at “miss” is looed. 10. Any one making a revoke is looed ; and even if he wins a trick, can- not claim it, but the cards must be taken up, and the hand played over again in the proper manner. There is a kind of Loo played called five-card Loo, but it differs only from the three-card Loo in two or three points; namely, that the knave of trumps is the best card, and when held must be led as the ace ; and secondly, that the dealer has the privilege of taking the tum-up card into his own hand, and discarding one from it. MATRIMONY, the game of. —Matrimony may be played by any number of persons, from five to four- teen. This game is composed of five chances, usually marked on a board or sheet of paper, in the following man- ner .— Ace ol diamonds turned up. « >■ . «f I h Intrfcua 01 Queen and Knars. I ¥ g 3: a. a o O = a ? a> Pairs, the highest. It must be understood that when the ace of diamonds is turned up, it takes the whole pool; but when held in hand, it ranks only as any other ace; and when it is neither turned up nor held in hand, then the king, or the next superior card in order, wins the call. The game is generally played with counters, and the dealer may stake what he likes on each or any chance; the other players depositing each the same quantity, except one ; that is, when the dealer stakes twelve, the rest lay down eleven, and so on. After this, two cards are dealt to each, then one card is turned up to each, and if any happen to have the ace of dia- monds, he sweeps all; if not turned up, all show their hands. Any holding matrimony, intrigue, &c., takes the counters on that point; and when two or three happen to have similar com- binations, the eldest hand has the pre- ference ; and should any chance not be gained, it stands over to the following deal. The ace of diamonds turned up takes the whole pool, when in hand counts only as any other ace; if the ace of diamonds, or any other ace is not turned up, then the king or next best card wins. ‘NAP.’ or NAPOLEON.—This game is now so well known that it needs but very little description. The following are the principal points of interest:— Cut the cards as in whist, deal out five cards one at a time to each player, beginning at the left. The first card played of whatever sui* constitutes the trump suit. When the player after looking at his cards makes a declaration and says, “ I go two, three," &c. just as he feels