147 CRI CRi the bowler’s wicket, has pitched In a straight line with the wicket. If the players have crossed each other, he that runs for the wicket that is put down, is out; and if they have not crossed, he that has left the wicket which Is put down, is out. When a ball is caught, no run is to be reckoned. When a striker is run out, the notch they were running for is not to be rcclcoocd If “lost ball" shall be called, the striker is allowed the runs ; but if more than sir shall have been run before “ lost ball " shall have been called, then the striker shall have all that have been run. When the ball has been lodged in the wicket-keeper’s or bowler’s hands, it is considered dead, that is no longer in play, and the striker need cot keep within ground, till the umpire has called ‘ play ;’ but if the player goes off his ground, with intent to run, the bowler may put him out. Should the striker be hurt, he may retire from his wicket and return to it any time during that innings. Some other person may stand out for him, but 1 not go in. If any person stop the ball with his bat, the ball is to be considered as dead, \ and the opposite party to add five notches to their score. If the ball be struck up, the striker may guard his wicket with his bat or any part of his body except his hand. If the striker hit the ball against his j partner's wicket when he is off his ground, he is out, should it previously have touched the bowler or any of the fieldmen s hands, but not otherwise. The Wicket-Keeper should not take the ball for the purpose of stump- ing. until it have passed the wicket. I He shall stand at a proper distance behind the wicket, and shall not move till the ball be out of the bowler’s hand. He shall not by any noise, in- commode the striker, and if any part of his person be over or before the wicket, although the ball bit it, he shall not be out The Umpires are the sole judges I of fair and unfair play, and all disputes 1 are determined by them, each at his j own wicket. They shall not stand more than six yards from the wicket. In case of a catch, which the umpire at the wicket cannot see sufficiently to decide upon, he may apply to the other umpire, whose opinion is conclusive. The umpires shall pitch fair wickets, and the parties shall toss up for the choice of innings. They shall allow two minutes for the striker to come in, and fifteen minutes between each innings. When the um- pires shall call "play," the party who refuses shall lose the match. They are not to order a player out unless assented to by the adversaries. If the bowler’s foot be not behind the bov/ling-crease and within the return crease when he delivers the ball, they must, unasked, call "no ball;” if the striker run a short run, the umpire must call “ no run." If in running either of the strikers shall fail to ground his bat, in hand, or some part of his person, over the pop- ping crease, the umpire, for every such failure, shall deduct two runs from the number intended to have been run, be- cause such striker, not having run in the first instance, cannot have started in the second from the proper goal. No umpire is allowed to bet. No umpire to be changed during a match, unless with the consent of both parties, except in case of a violation of the last law, then either party may dis- miss the transgressor. After the delivery of four balls, the umpire should call "over," but not until the ball shall be lodged and defi- nitely settled in the wicket-keeper's or bowler’s hand ; the ball shall then be considered dead. Nevertheless, if an idea be entertained that either of the strikers is out, a question may be put previously to, but not after the delivery of the next ball. The umpire must take especial care to call "no ball" instantly upon de- livery, and "wide ball," as soon as ever it shall pass the striker. CRICKETS, to Destroy.—See Cockroaches, page 126, for the same directions are applicable to Crickets. Or put a little chloride of lime and powdered tobacco in their holes. Or a little snuff. The smoke of charcoal destroys both them and