VXN VER 410 the fruit in a mortar, adding a little salt, then press the fruit, and pass through a jelly bag several times until quite bright. Put the liquor into very clean, and dry bottles, which have been previously ex- posed to the fumes of brimstone, then cork as quickly as possible. A kind of vinegar is also made from the above fruits. VERMICELLI CREAM. Boil some vermicelli in milk until it becomes a marmalade ; cool, and then mix it with a pint of cream, macaroni drops, orange flowers, and lemon peel, all chopped fine, with a little ground cinnamon, five eggs well beaten, and sugar to taste. Pour it upon the table dish. Bake it in a slow oven. VERMICELLI PUDDING. —Boil 4 ozs. of vermicelli in a pint of new milk till soft, with a stick or two of cinnamon. Then put in half a pint of thick cream, & lb. of butter, the same of sugaf, and the yolks of 4 eggs. Bake without paste in an earthem dish. VERMICELLI PUDDING. —Simmer 2 ozs. of vermicelli in a cup- ful of milk till tender ; flavour it with a stick or two of cinnamon, or other spice. Beat up £ eggs, 1 oz. of sugar, half a pint of milk and a glass of wine. Add to the vermicelli. Bake in a slow oven. VERMICELLI SOUP.—Boil tender lb. of vermicelli in a quart of rich gravy ; take half of it out, and to it add more gravy; boil till the vermi- celli can be pulped through a sieve. To both put a pint of boiling cream, a little salt, and h' lb. of Parmesan cheese. Serve with lasped bread. Add two or three eggs, if you like. Brown Vermicelli Soup is made In the same manner, leaving out the eggs and cream, and adding one quart of strong beef gravy. VERMIN in Childrens’ heads, to Destroy.—Take 1 oz. each of vinegar and stavesacre, % oz. of honey, oz. of sulphur, and 2 ozs. of sweet oil. Make into a liniment, and rub the head with it. VESSELS, to Purify. All kinds of glass vessels and other utensils may be purified from smells of every kind, by nnsing them out well with charcoal powder after the grosser im- purities have been scoured off by sand and pearl-ash. VIENNA CHOCOLATE. Mix three heaping tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate with enough water to beat it to a smooth paste, taking care that no lumps remain. Put it into a chocolate-pot and set into a kettle of boiling water ; pour in one pint of new milk and one pint of cream, or a quart of new milk with the whites of one or two eggs, well beaten. Stir the choco- late paste to the scalding milk, and let it boil two or three minutes; then stir in the beaten white, and serve it hot. VIENNA COFFEE. —Leach or filter the coffee through a French filterer, or any of the many coffee-pots that filter instead of boiling the coffee. Allow one tablespoonful of ground coffee to each person and “ one extra for the pot.” Pur one quart of cream into a milk-boiler, or, if you have none, into a pitcher, and set the pitcher in a pail of boiling water. Put it where the water will keep boiling. Beat the white of an egg to a froth, add to it three table- spoonfuls of cold milk, and mix thor- oughly together. When hot, remove tne cream from the fire, and add the egg and cold milk. Stir it all together briskly for a minute or two, and then serve. VINEGAR, Balsamic. — Take the best vinegar, a handful of lavender leaves and flowers, some hyssop, balm, thyme, savory, a handful of salt, and two heads of garlic; infuse these in the vinegar three weeks. It is a good remedy for wounds, spasms, sprains, &c. By rubbing the hands and temples with it, and putting a little in the mouth, a person may go into foul air with safety. VINEGAR, from Malt.—For 5 gallons of malt liquor, mix % oz. each of cream of tartar, bay salt, and alum, well powdered, with a gallon of the liquid boiling hot, and poured the instant it is dissolved, and while it is hot, into the cask. Cover the bung- hole with stiff brown paper, and in a few days you will find it a very fine vinegar. Or, to every gallon of water, put 1 lb. of coarse sugar. Boil the mixture and skim. When it is cool as beer whea