CHO 125 CLA mini, anil a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda. Foment as in English cholera, or with the Rheumatic Liniment. Apply as hot as possible. Apply also friction to the limbs; or apply hot bricks, wrapped in vinegar cloths, to the feet, legs, and sides. Give a tea- spoonful of the Anti-Cholera Drops every half hour, which see, page 20. The following Anti-Cholera Mix- ture is a sovereign remedy :—tormentil root, i ounce ; bayberry bark, 1 ounce ; cayenne pepper, % ounce; carbonate of soda, % ounce. Simmer forty min- utes in three pints of water down to 1 quart. Strain, and add tincture of myrrh, 2 ounces, and 1 drachm of cam- phor, dissolved in spirits of wine. In the first attack of cholera, give a wine- glassful ; place the feet in hot salt and water, or mustard and water, and repeat the mixture every twenty min- utes, and apply mustard plaster, and hop poultice to the stomach. Rub freely the cramped and drawn parts of the body with boiled cayenne pepper and vinegar; and the effects will in most cases appear like magic. Such treatment has cured thousands upon thousands. CHOLERA IN INFANTS is treated in the same way as English cholera, but in a milder, and more restricted manner. CHRISTMAS PUDDING.— Suet, 1 lA lbs., minced small ; currants, iK lbs. ; raisins, stoned, % lb. ; sugar, 1 lb. ; ten eggs, a grated nutmeg ; 2 ozs. of mixed spice, a teaspoonful of grated ginger, % lb. of bread crumbs, % lb. of flour, 1 pint of milk, and a wine-glassful of brandy. Beat first the eggs, add half the milk, beat altogether, and gradually stir in all the milk, then the suet, fruit, &c., and as much milk to mix it very thick. Boil in a cloth six or seven hours. Another.—Flour, suet, currants, raisins, of each 1 lb. ; nine eggs ; 2 ozs. of candied peel; almonds and spices, according to taste. Boil in a cloth six or seven hours. CIDER CUP.—Grate nutmeg and ginger; put it in a cup with a well- browned toast; on these pour two glasses of sherry, or one of pale brandy ; then add cider. A few fresh borage leaves add to the refreshing appearance of the cup. CINNAMON. —This valuable spice comes chiefly from Ceylon. It is a most useful aromatic. Its effects are stimulating, carminative, tonic, and wanning; but it is used rather as an adjunct to other remedies than as a remedy itself. The oil is a most power- ful stimulant, and is used in cramps of the stomach, and in syncope, or in par- alysis of the tongue. CINNAMON CORDIAL. Take 8 lbs. of cinnamon, broken; 17 gals, of rectified spirit, and 2 gals, of water. Digest in the still 24 hours by a gentle heat; draw 16 gallons by a stronger heat. CINNAMON CAKE.—Put 6 eggs, and 3 table-spoonfuls of rose- water into a pan; whisk well together ; add 1 lb. of fine sugar, a large spoonful of ground cinnamon, and flour to make it into paste; roll, form, and bake on white paper. CINNAMON SOAP. —Good tallow soap, 10 lbs. ; palm-oil soap, 7 lbs. ; essence of cinnamon, 3 ozs. ; essence of sassafras, oz. ; bergamot, % oz. ; colour, 4 ozs. of yeilow ochre. CINNAMON WATER.—Take of cinnamon bark, one pound ; proof spirit and common water, of each one gallon. Steep the cinnamon in the liquor for two days, then distil off one gallon. Or, cinnamon, 2 ozs. in 3 qrts. of brandy, with a quart of water, the rind of two lemons, and 2 or 3 ozs. of liquor- ice root; infuse five days, distil, and add 2 lbs. of fine sugar, and 3 pints of water. - CISTERNS, to Measure. Multiply the diameter of the bottom in inches by the diameter of the top ; then multiply that, product by the height in inches, and that product by 7, 854; divide the last obtained number by 231, cut off four figures at the right hand, and the quotient will be the answer in gallons. CITRIC ACID.—It Is cooling, allays inflammation, and is a substitute for lemon juice ; in fact, it is the same. CLARIFIED SUGAR.—Put 2 lbs. of finest sugar into a tinned stew- pan with a pint of cold spring water to