214 HOT HYD quarters, or veal, or poultry ; boll long over a slow fire In a little liquid, with onions, carrots, parsnips, turnips, celery, parsley, shalots, spices, a laurel leaf, thyme, sausages and thin broth or water. When done, drain; Fowl may be done in the same way, pickled pork, a little ham, &c. Pigeons also with bacon, broth, a little butter, nutmeg, ginger, a little lemon, &c. HOT WATER PIPES, to Stop Leakage in.—Iron borings and filings, mix them with vinegar and a little sulphuric acid; let the mixture stand till it becomes a paste ; with this fill up the cracks, where the leakage is ; and if the pipe has been previously dried, and is kept dry till the paste hardens, it will effectually stop the leakage, and will last a long time. HOUSELEEK.—It is used as a cooling application to sores, ulcers, &c. The juice mixed with cream is good for inflammation of the eyes, and erysipelas. Taken inwardly it is good for fevers, cooling them down wonderfully. First give a purgative to cleanse the stomach and bowels ; then bruise the housclcch ; adding to the juice its weight infine sugar to form a syrup. A tablespoonful every two hours. Drink balm or catnep tea. This receipt is worth gold. See Robin- son's Family Herbal. HOW TO PROTECT Build- ings from Damp.—Asphalt is cheap and effectual. The foundations or foot- ings where the earth is likely to be placed against the sides of the building, should have a thick coating plastered against it, also, when the building is a sufficient height out of the ground, the bricks should have a good layer put on them, then a layer of blue slates, and another coat of asphalt on the top of them, this will prevent the damp ascending. (See page 31.) If the dampness proceeds from the outside walls of the building through absorption give them one or two coats of brown or red varnish, or resin varnish, coloured, it is better than paint for filling up the pores of bricks. HUNTER’S PUDDING. Mix i lb. each of suet, flour, currants, rasins stoned, and cut; the rind of half a lemon shred fine ; 6 Jamaica peppers finely powdered, 4 eggs, a glass of brandy, salt, and a little milk to make it of a proper consistence; boil it in floured cloth 8 or 9 hours. Serve with white sauce. This pudding will keep 6 months, if tied up in the same cloth. HYDROGEN GAS, to Make. —Procure granulated zinc, put it into a bottle, and pour over it 1 pint oil of vitriol (sulphuric acid) to 5 or 6 pints of water ; to collect the gas you must have a pipe inserted through the cork leading to a pneumatic trough or bladder. HYDROPHOBIA. — Immedi- ately wash the bitten part with clear water; then take good tobacco, (leaf tobacco, if possible; if not, strong manufactured cut tobacco) and make a suitable poultice for the place, changing it three or four times a day for a week. This effectually absorbs every thing poisonous. A strong decocuon of the roots of the white ash will cure the bite of a mad dog. At Ulina, in Friula, a man suffering under the agon- izing tortures of hydrophobia, was cured by draughts of vinegar given him by mistake. A physician at Padua hearing of it, tried the same remedy upon a patient at the hospital, giving 1 lb. of vinegar in the morning, another at noon, and a third at sunset, and the man was speedily and perfectly cured. See also page 62. CURE for HYDROPHOBIA, —Dr. Buisson, of Lyons, claims to have discovered a remedy. In attend- ing a female patient in the last stage of canine rabies, the doctor imprudently wiped his hands with a handkerchief impregnated with her saliva. He had a slight abrasion on the index finger of the left hand, and confident in his own curative system, the doctor merely washed the part with water. However, he was fully aware of the imprudence he had committed, and gives the following account of the matter afterwards:— “ Believing that the malady would not declare itself until the 40th day, and having numerous patients to visit, I put off from day to day the application of my remedy—that is to say, vapour baths. The ninth day being in my cabinet, I felt all at once a pain in the throat, and a still greater one in the eyes. My body seemed so light that I felt as if I could jump to a prodigious height, or that, if I threw myself out of