MIN MIL 263 MILK, Chalk to Detect in.— Dilute the milk with water ; the chalk if there be any, will settle to the bottom in an hour or two ; put to the sediment an acid, vinegar, &c., and if effervescence takes place, it is chalk. MILK OF ROSES, a Cosme- tic, common.—Mix 4 ozs. of the oil of almonds with half a gallon of rose- water, and add 40 drops of the oil of tartar. Or, take 1 lb. of Jordan almonds, a quarts of rose-water, 1 pint of spirits of wine, K oz. of oil of lavender, 1 oz. of white Windsor soap, and 2 ozs. of cream of roses. Blanch the almonds in boiling water ; dry well, and pound into a paste. Pound in the soap, and mix it well with the almond paste ; then add the cream of roses; mix, and add the rose-water and spirits. Strain, and add the oil of lavender gradually, and stir well. Bottle. French Method.—Mix 4 ozs. of oil of almonds, J oz. of oil of lavender, 3 quarts of spirits of wine, and 10 ozs. of rose-water ; blanch 3 lbs. of Jordan al- monds ; pound them with Jf lb. of Spanish oil soap, % oz. of spermaceti, and J4 oz. of white wax. Put all into a large jar, with 2 ozs. of pearlash dis- solved in 1 oz. of warm , water. Shake well, and bottle. MILK PORRIDGE.—Make a fine gruel of split grits, long boiled, or of Yorkshire oatmeal; strain, if you like, add either cold milk, or warm it with milk, as may be agreeable. Serve with toast.—See Oatmeal Porridge, page 277. MILK PUNCH.—Take 1 quart of water, 3 pints of new milk, and % lb. of sugar, or more ; boil slowly 10 min- utes ; take from the fire, and stir Jn quickly 2 or 3 well beaten eggs, mixed with a pint of cold milk. Add 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of lemon juice, and a quart of brandy. Run it through a flannel bag. Stir it to a froth, and serve in warm glasses. MILK SOUP.—With cinnamon boil a quart of milk, 2 bay leaves, and moist sugar. Put sippits in a dish ; pour the milk over them ; simmer over the fire till the bread is soft; beat up the 7olks of 2 eggs with a little milk ; Mix nil together, and serve. MILK, to Preserve.—Milk often Corns by an acid developed in the liquid. To prevent It, add to the milk a small portion of bi-carbonate of soda, or a little borax powder. This is not at all injurious to health; but rather aids di- gestion. Many of the great dairies on die continent adopt this method. Or, scald the new milk very gently without boiling. Cream already skim- med may be kept 24 hours, if scalded without sugar ; and by adding to it as much powdered lump sugar as will make it pretty sweet; it will be good 2 days, if kept in a cool place. Or place a piece of newly-hammered iron, or 3 twelve-penny nails, in each bowl, then pour the milk upon them. MILK, for Washing Dishes.— In place of Soap. Fill a dish-pan half full of very hot water, then put in a cup of milk. It softens the hardest water, gives the dishes a clear, bright look, and preserves the hands from roughness and “ chapping” which comes from the use of soap. It cleans the greasiest dishes without leaving the water covered with a greasy scum. Iron pots, saucepans should be first filled with hot water after using, then emptied, and washed in the hot milk and water. MINCED COLLOPS.—Chop beef, and mince it very small, to which add salt and pepper. Put into small jars, and pour on the top some clarified butter. When intended for use, put the clarified butter into a frying-pan, and slice some onions into the pan; fry' them ; add a little water to it, and then put in the mince-meat. Stew it well, and in a few minutes it will be fit to serve. MINCE MEAT.—Good lean beef, 1 lb. ; boil it 50 minutes; then chop it very fine; then take apples, cur- rants, raisins, and suet, 1 lb. each, can- died lemon, candied citron, 2 ozs. of each ; and 4 ozs. of almonds. Chop each extremely fine; mix and add 1 lb. of sugar, and a wine-glassful and a half of brandy. Spices and lemon juice may be added if you like. Let it stand some hours covered before using.—This meat may be put into tartlet pans or dishes. MINCE PIES.—Boil a neat’* tongue 2 hours ; skin it, and chop it ex- tremely small; chop also very fine 3 lbs.