332 HAS RAS whisk It about dll 3 parts cold. Then put it into a mould till quite cold. In summer use the fresh juice ; in winter syrup of raspberries. RASPBERRY DROPS. —Pounded loaf sugar, £ lb. upon a plate, and a quantity of raspberries, which must be passed through a sieve; then add the juice to the sugar, till it makes a thickish paste; dress it on fine cap paper, and place it on the stove to dry. RASPBERRY DUMP- LINGS.—Make a puff paste, and roll it out; spread raspberry jam, and make it into dumplings ; tioil them an hour; pour melted butter into a dish, and strew grated sugar. RASPBERRY FRITTERS. —Grate 2 Naples biscuits; pour over them a glass of boiling cream ; when it is almost cold, beat the yolks of 4 eggs to a strong froth; beat the biscuits a little, then beat both together very much. Add 2 oss. of sugar, and as much rasp- berry juice as will make it a pretty pink colour, and give it a proper sharpness : drop them into a pan of boiling lard, the size of a walnut. When dished up, stick bits of citron in some, and blanch- ed almonds, cut lengthways in others. Lay round them green and yellow sweet- meats. RASPBERRY JAM.—Weigh equal quantities of fruit and sugar, put the former into a preserving pan, boil and break it, stir constantly, and let it boil very quickly; when most of the juice is wasted add the sugar, and sim- mer, skim half an hour. This way the jam is greatly superior in colour and flavour to that which is made by putting the sugar in first—It is best to put the juice of the raspberry through a hair sieve, to keep out the seeds. Some put 1 lb. of sugar to a pint of pulp. RASPBERRY JELLY.—Take 6 quarts of ripe raspberries and 1 of ripe currants, press out the juice and strain it, to a pint of juice add 1 lb. of loaf sugar, and finish as other jellies. RASPBERRY PASTE.—Put any quantity of raspberries into a hair sieve ; press their juice into a preserving paD, put it on the fire, and stir con- stantly till of a thick consistence. To each lb. of pulp, add 1 lb. of loaf sugar, -’arified, and boiled to the Now. Let It boll a minute or two. Poor into glasses, or upon plates. It is a delici- ous confectionery. ' RASPBERRIES, to Preserve. —Take raspberries that are not too ripe, and put them to their weight in sugar, with a little water. Boil softly, and do not break them ; when they are clear, take them up, and boil the syrup till it be thick enough; then put them in again, and when they are cold, put them in glasses or jars. RASPBERRY SANDWICH. —Take % lb. of flour, % lb. of sifted sugar, J lb. of butter, 3 eggs, and 3 ozs. of ground rice ; mix very well first with- out the flour; then add it gradually. Spread it in oblong pieces on buttered paper, about % inch thick ; on the first piece put a layer of raspberry preserve 01 jam ; lay another piece of paste on the top of the preserves; then preserves again, and lastly a layer of paste. Bake in a brisk oven, and when wanted, cut like sandwiches. RASPBERRY TART. — Roll out some thin paste, and lay it in a dish or patty-pan. Put in the raspberries, strew over them fine sugar, cover the dish with a fine crust, and bake it. When done, cut it open, and put in warm half a pint of cream, the yolks of 2 or 3 eggs well beaten, and a little sugar. Replace it in the oven for 5 or 6 minutes and serve it up. RASPBERRY TOURTE.— The difference between tarts and tourtet is, that the first are always covered with paste, whilst the latter are sent to table open, or with a slight network, or trellis of paste over the fruit. Puff paste hav- ing been laid in a proper tin, pour in enough jam to fill the dish, place strings of paste across, let it bake for half an hour, but never serve it hot. RASPBERRY VINEGAR.- Put 1 lb. of fine fruit into a bowl, and pour upon it a pint of the best vinegar; next day strain the liquor on 1 lb. of fresh raspberries; and the following day do the same, but do not squeeze the fruit, only drain the liquor as dry as you can from it; the last time pass it through a canvass, previously wet with vinegar, to prevent waste; put it into a stone jar, with 1 lb. of lump sugar to cv«y pint of juice; stir it when melted;