pin 325 QUE Hyphen (-) is used to connect words or parts of words; as in tea-pot, water- rat. The Dash marks a break in the sen- tence, or an abrupt turn, though it is occasionally used merely to disjoin a parenthetical clause; as, *' If thou art he—but O how fallen I * ‘ Peter and J ohn—for they were to- gether—stood up before the council." Paragraph Tf is used to denote the beginning of a new subject. Section (§) is sometimes used instead of the word section. PUTTY, to Soften.—Apply fre- quently to the putty diluted sulphuric add, or a little nitric or muriatic acid, and in a short time it will become so soft, as to be easily removed. Q QUAILS, to Fricassee. Having tossed them up in a saucepan with a little melted butter, and mush- rooms, put in a slice of ham, well beaten, with salt, pepper, doves, and savory herbs; add good gravy, and a glass of sherry ; simmer over a slow fire : when almost done, thicken the ragout with a good cullis, (i. e. a good broth, strained, gellatined, &c.) or with two or three eggs, well beaten up in a little gravy. QUAILS, to Roast. — Roast them without drawing, and serve on' toast. Butter only should be eaten with them, as gravy takes off the fine flavour. The thigh and back are the most esteemed. QUAKING PUDDING. Scald a quart of cream; when almost cold, put to it four eggs well beaten, a spoonful and a half of flour, some nut- megs and sugar; tie it dose in a but- tered doth; boil it an hour, and turn it out with care, lest it should crack. Melted butter, a little wine and sugar. QUASSIA.—This plant derives its name from Quassi, a negro of Sur- inam : by it he cured the malignant fevers peculiar to that country. For gold he disclosed his remedy to Mr. Rolander, a Swede, who introduced it into Europe. It is now chiefly brought from the West Indies. It is much used by the brewers. It is one of the most powerful of the bitter tonics, tending to the narcotic. It is a good remedy for Indigestion, invigorating the digestive organs, with little excitement of the cir- culation, or increase of animal heat: it is very bitter, but it has no smell. It* narcotic prindple, though slight, is proved by its destruction of flies. The infusion of it is made by pouring a pint of boiling water upon 2 scruples of the chips or raspings. Orange peel renders it more grateful to the stomach. QUEEN CAKES.—Mix 1 lb. of dried flour, the same of sifted sugar, and of washed dean currants. Wash 1 lb. of butter in rose water, beat it well, then mix with it eight eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, and put in the dry ingredients by degrees ; beat the whole an hour; butter little tins, teacups, or saucers, and bake the batter in, filling only half. Sift a little fine sugar over just as you put it into the oven. QUEEN CAKES.—Beat 8 ozs. of butter, and mix with two well beaten eggs, strained; mix 8 ozs. of dried flour, and the same of lump sugar, and the grated rind of a lemon ; then add the whole together, and beat full half an hour with a silver spoon. Butter small patty-pans, half fill, and bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. QUEEN CAKES.—Take 1 lb. of flour, seven eggs, and 1 lb. of lump sugar, grated fine; beat your eggs well, then put the sugar to the eggs, beat them well together, take a lb. of butter beat to a cream, whisk up all to- gether, then add the flour, and stir welL Do not whisk the flour in it, it will make them tough. QUEEN’S CULLIS.—Prepare a stewpan with slices from a fillet of veal, a few bits of ham, and roots ; sim- mer it on a slow fire, without catching at the bottom, and add some good broth —good coloured, A fowl may be added to it to increase its strength; simmer it; pound one or two breasts of fowl, with half a handful of sweet almonds, scalded, a few hard yolks of eggs, and bread crumbs soaked in broth; mix altogether in a mortar ; strain, rubbing it hard with a wooden spoon; add a little cream to make it whiter. QUEEN’S DROPS.—Soften, and work with the hand, till like cream, as directed for Queen’s calces, % lb. of fresh butter; put to it 8 ozs. of sifted