241 LIV LOB LIVER PILL.—One ounce each of powdered blood-root, powdered man- drake, and extract of dandelion, to which add a drachms of powdered senna. Add a few drops of oil of spearmint, or peppermint, and form into pills. Take two or three night and morning. This pill is a sovereign remedy for inflamma- tion of the liver, and for jaundice. LIXIVIUM, of Pearl-ashes.— Steep % oz. of pearl-ashes in clear water 34 hours. Then strain off the water. This infusio is very useful in many colours, e ^.-.jally Brazil wood, which It will render beautiful in lustre. LOBELIA.-An American plant, containing most valuable medical pro- perties. It was first used with great advantage, as an emetic, by the Ameri- can Indians, and was brought into notoriety by Dr. Samuel Thompson. It is emetic and stimulating, and Dr. Beech says, “from its action on the great sympathetic nerve, its effect is felt throughout the whole system. It ex- erts a peculiar action upon the trachea and bronchial vessels, expelling all col- lected mucus." It must therefore be very valuable in asthma, croup, hooping cough, and consumption. The greatest benefit from it has been found in dys- pepsia, coughs, asthma, liver complaints, &c. It has relieved asthmatic subjects when on the point of suffocation by accumulated phlegm, cough, Ac. Also In pneumonia of infants. It is also a valuable sudorific; it relaxes the constricted pores of the skin, and promotes free perspiration. The leaves, seeds, and seed-vessels may be given in powder, and tincture. Dose of rite powder, from a drachm, or a small teaspoonful; of the tincture, a tea- spoonful. LOBELIA, Emetic. — Take lobelia powder, 1 ounce ; boiling water, 1 pint; mix, and make an infusion. Dose : A fluid ounce to be taken every half hour, until vomiting ensues. LOBELIA POULTICE. Linseed meal, oz. ; slippery elm, 1 oz. ; powdered lobelia, I % oz. ; ginger, x oz. ; whiskey sufficient to make it Good for all inflamed parts, as the side In pleurisy, liver complaint, rheumatism, lumbago. LOBELIA TINCTURE. Pot z os. of the powdered plant to z quart of whiskey. Infuse 7 days. Dose, a teaspoonful when the cough is trouble- some. The tincture can now be bought at most Herbal Stores. See page 387. LOBELIA, Acid Tincture of. —Lobelia herb, 1 oz.; cayenne, 3 drs. ; vinegar, half a pint. Boil the vinegar, and put all into a bottle, cork well for 7 or 8 days. Dose for a cough, half a teaspoonful in any pleasant vehicle. Repeat when the cough is troublesome. It will require a larger dose for asthma or croup. LOBELIA WATER.—Lobelia leaves and capsules, or powder 1 oz. ; boiling water % pint; brandy pint. Infuse a week.—Good for sore and in- flamed eyes, erysipelas, ringworm, &c. LOBSTERS, Buttered.—Pick the meat out, cut it, and warm with a little weak brown gravy, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and butter with a little flour. If done white, a little white gravy and cream. LOBSTER, Curry of. — Take them from the shells, and lay into a pan, with a small piece of mace, three or four spoonfuls of veal gravy, and four of cream ; rub smooth one or two tea- spoonfuls of curry-powder, a teaspoon- ful of flour, and an ounce of butter: simmer an hour; squeeze half a lemon in, and add salt. LOBSTER, to Pot.—Half boil them, pick out the meat, cut it into small bits and season with mace, white pepper, nutmeg, and salt; press close into a pot, and cover with butter, bake half an hour; put the spawn in. When cold, take the lobster out, and put it into the pots with a little of the butter. Beat other butter in a mor- tar with some of the spawn; then mix that coloured butter with as much as will be sufficient to cover the pots, and strain it. Cayenne may be added, if approved.—Or, take out the meat as whole as you can ; split the tail and remove the gut; if the inside be not watery add that. Season with mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and a clove or two in the finest powder. Lay a little fine butter at the bottom of a pan, and the lobster smooth over it, with bay- leaves between; cover it with butter, and bake gently. When done, porn- the whole on the bottom of a sieve ; ana with a fork lay tbn pieces into potting.