MUT MUT 271 white being left on; or with different coloured pickles. MUTTON SAUSAGES. — Take a pound of the rawest part of a leg of mutton that has been either roasted or boiled ; chop the same very small, and season it with pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg; add to it six ounces of beef suet, some sweet herbs, two anchovies, and a pint of oysters, all chopped very small; a quarter of a pound of grated bread, and some of the anchovy liquor, and the yolks and whites of two eggs well beaten. Put it all, when well mixed, into a little pot; and use it by rolling it into balls, or sausage-shape, and frying. If approv- ed, a little shalot may be tdded, or garlic, which is a great improvement. MUTTON, Saddle of, to Roast.—Let it be well kept first. Raise the skin, and then skewer it on again; take it off a quarter of an hour before serving it, sprinkle it with some salt, baste it, and dredge it well with flour. The rump should be split, and skewered back on each side. The joint may be large or small according to the company ; it is the most elegant if the latter. Being broad it requires a high and strong fire. MUTTON, Shoulder of, to Boil with Oysters.—Hang it some days, then salt it well for two days; bone it, and sprinkle it with pepper and a bit of mace pounded : lay some oysters over it, and roll the meat up tight and tie it. Stew it in a quantity of water, with an onion and a few pepper-corns, til) quite tender. Have ready a little good gravy and some oysters stewed in it; thicken this with flour and butter, and pour over the mutton when the tape is taken off. The stewpan should be kept closely covered. MUTTON, to Roll a Loin of. —Hang the mutton till tender: bone it; and lay a seasoning of allspice, mace, nutmeg, and a few cloves, all in fine powder, over it. Next day pre- pare a stuffing as for hare; beat the meat and cover it with the stuffing; roll it up tight, and tie it. Half bake It in 3 slow oven ; let it grow cold ; take off the fat, and put the gravy into a stewpan ; flour the meat, and put it in likewise : stew it till almost ready ; and add a glass of port wine, some ketchup, and anchovy, and a little lemon-pickle, half an hour before serving ; serve it in the gravy, and with jelly-sauce. A few fresh mushrooms are a great improve- ment ; but if to eat like hare do not use these, nor the lemon pickle. MUTTON, Basque of.—Take the caul of a leg of veal; lay it in a copper dish, the size of a small punch bowl; take the lean of a leg of mutton that has been kept a week ; chop it very small; take half its weight in beef marrow, the crumbs of a penny loaf, the yolks of four eggs, two anchovies, half a pint of port wine, the rind of half a lemon grated; mix it like sau- sage meat, and lay it in your caul in the inside of your dish ; close up the caul, and bake in a quick oven; when you take out, turn the dish upside down, and turn the whole out; pour oyer it brown gravy, and send it up with venison sauce. MUTTON, French Steaks of a Neck of.—Cut off most of the fat of a prime neck of mutton ; cut the steaks two inches thick ; make a large hole through the middle of the fleshy part of every steak with a knife, and stuff it with pepper, salt, and nutmeg mixed up with the yolk of an egg. When stuffed, wrap them in writing paper, and put them in a Dutch oven ; set them before the fire to broil; they will take nearly an hour ; put a little brown gravy in the dish, and serve them in the papers. MUTTON, Hotch Potch.— Stew peas, lettuce, and onions, in a very little water, with a beef or ham bone. While these are doing, fry some mutton or lamb steaks seasoned, of a nice brown : three quarters of an hour before dinner put the steaks into a stew- pan, and the vegetables over them ; stew them, and serve all together in a tureen. Mutton and Veal Hotch Potch, —Knuckle of veal, and scrag of mutton^ stewed with vegetables as above ; to both add a bit of butter rolled in flour. MUTTON, to Harrico a Neck of.—Cut the best end of a neck of mutton into chops, in single ribs; flour them, and fry them a light brown ; put them into a large sauce-pan, with two