GIN GLO 196 flour, and pour in the syrup from the fire. Mix well. Do not bake till the day after. Mix the whitd of an egg and sugar, and brush it over the ginger- bread. GINGERBREAD, White.— Flour, 6 lbs.; white sugar, 3 lbs.; rub 1 lb. of butter into the flour, and oz. caraway seeds; mix well with milk. Make it light the same as Bath Cakes, page 42. Gingerbread, without Butter. —Treacle, 3 lbs.; 4 ozs. of orange, lemon, citron, and candied ginger, all thinly sliced ; 1 oz. each coriander seeds, caraways, and bruised ginger; as much flour as will make a soft paste ; bake in a quick oven on tin plates. GINGER CAKES.—Beat 3 eggs in pint of cream ; stir in a saucepan till warm ; add butter, 1 lb.; loaf sugar, & lb.; ginger, a.% ozs. Stir these ingredients over the fire to melt and mix ; make into a good paste with 3 lbs. of flour; roll out, cut into forms half an inch thick. Lay on papers, and bake in a hot oven. GINGER DROPS. — Beat 2 ozs. of soft candied orange in a mortar with a little sugar to a paste ; mix with 1 oz. of powdered white ginger, with 1 lb. of loaf sugar. Wet the sugar with a little water, and boil all together to a candy, and drop on paper. GINGER POP.—This is made by adding strong ale to the Ginger Beer ingredients, and fermenting. GINGER WINE.—Fine loaf sugar, is lbs. ; powdered ginger, 6 ozs.; water, 6 gallons. Boil for an hour. Whisk the whites of 6 eggs, to mix with the liquors. When cold, put into a barrel, and 6 lemons cut into slices, and a cupful of yeast; ferment 3 days, then bung. In eight days, bottle it. It is improved by adding a pint of brandy. GLASS, to Cut, &c. — Glass may be easily filled, sawed, cut, drilled, or turned, by keeping the edge of the tool constantly wet with spirits of tur- pentine. GLASS, to Draw on.—Grind lamp black with gum water, and com- mon salt; draw the design with a pen or hair pencil. GLASS, to Frost.—This may tie done by sugar of lead, glauber’s salts, epsom salts. Dissolve In hot water, and apply with a brush. GLASS, to Join.—Melt a little isinglass in spirits of wine, and add a little water. Gently warm the mixture over the fire. When thoroughly melted, it forms a transparent glue, which will unite broken glass firmly, and so that the joining will not be seen. Lime mixed with the white of an egg forms a very strong cement for joining glass, porcelain, &c. GLASS, to Paint Gold Colour. —Silver, 1 oz.; antimony % oz.; mix in a crucible ; then pound the mass to powder, and grind it on a copper plate, adding yellow-ochre, or brick dust cal- cined again, 15 ozs., and grind them well together with water. GLASS, to Paint Red.—Take jet, 4 ozs. ; litharge of silver, 2 ozs. ; red chalk, 1 oz. Powder fine, and mix. GLASS, to Remove Crust from. — Wash with sulphuric or muriatic acid diluted with water, and mixed with coarse sand. GLASSES, to Clean.—Wash with warm water and soap, then rinse in clean cold water: wipe the wet off with a cloth, and finish with a dry one. Sifted fullers earth is excellent for cleaning glasses. It restores the lustre of glass. See Ammonia, page 18. GLASS STOPPLES, to Loosen.—Drop a little hot oil round the stopple, close to the top of the neck of the bottle, and place before the fire so as not to crack. In about half an hour apply more oil, and then gently try to work it about, occasionally gently beating it against the soft part of your hand. Try the stopper, but do not twist it round, draw it straight out. If this does not succeed, apply more oil, and a cloth dipped in hot water wrapped round the neck only. GLOVES, to Clean.—Wash in soap and water; then stretch them on wooden hands, or pull them out in their proper shape. Dry. If wanted yellow, rub with yellow ochre ; if white, with pipe day; or mix the two. GLOVES, to Cleanse.—Lay the gloves upon a dean board, pass over them with a brush a mixture of fullers earth and powdered alum ; sweep off, and rub well with dry bran and whiting;