'CAN 89 CAN young, and may exist for years. It commences with a small hard tumour, Increasing slowly, and attended with acute shooting pains; sooner or later ulceration sets in. The discharge is so acrid as to inflame the part with which It comes in contact. The place where cancer occurs assumes a purplish ap- pearance previous to its ulceration. Ulceration gives ease for a time, but the cancer penetrates deeper, and spreads wider, corrupting the stream of life, and reducing to the greatest debility, and often terminating in death. To Cure, remove debility, and im- prove the general health. Regulate the bowels, and give an emetic. Give a vapour bath made of bitter herbs, as camomile, hops, catnep, tansy, &c. and boiling water and vinegar. Occasion- ally rub the whole surface of the body with the following liniment;—cayenne, a tea-spoonful; salt, two table-spoon- fuls ; pour upon them half a pint of boiling water; infuse three hours, and then add half a pint of boiling water ; infuse an hour longer, stirring occa- sionally. Steaming with the bitter herbs, combined as above, allays the pain, swelling and inflammation. The following pills will be of much use; blood-root, one and a half drachms: extract of dandelion, three drachms; lobelia seed, one drachm; cayenne, one drachm; senna, in powder, one drachm; add three drops of oil of mint, and form into pills. These pills will be found very efficacious in the cure of jaundice, and liver complaints. Citric Acid will relieve the pain of cancers. Dr. Brandini, of Florence, had a patient, aged 71, affected with cancer on the tongue. An operation could not be made, for the affection was too extensive, investing the base, the sub-lingual, and the sub-maxillary glhnds. In the midst of his pain, the poor man asked for a lemon. It abated the pain; and the next day it gave him still greater relief. This led the doctor to try Citric Acid; four gTains of the acid, in one ounce of water ; and this, as a gargle, entirely carried off the pain, and reduced the swelling of the tongue very much. The doctor tried the same remedy on n iemale with an ulcerous cancer on the breast, deemed incurable. Her tor- ments were so great, that neither she, nor the other "patients could get any rest. He applied a pledget of lint soaked ir. the above solution, and the relief was instantaneous. It was re- peated with the same success. Thus Citric Acid promises to be a great boon to mankind.—Citric Acid is prepared from lemons. Externally apply the following; —Simmer cicuta leaves till they are soft, then mix them with slippery elm bark, to form a poultice; apply morn and night. It is valuable.—Or apply the Irritating Plaster, for a continual discharge must be kept up, as the pa- dent is able to bear it. The douch bath has been recommended, and doubtless it has had a good effect in many cases. The following applica- tions are useful:— Cayenne and lobelia seed,' equal quantities powdered ; meadow-fem and balm of Gilead buds, of each 3 ozs. (these two steeped in spirits for five or six days, and made into ointment, with lard sufficient.) Unite the whole as a paste, and apply to the cancer, covering with a cloth. When the plaster is taken off wash with soap-suds.—Or bum a quantity of red oak bark to ashes, and make into lye. Boil the lye till it be- comes as thick as honey. Then apply constantly. Such preparations, by their •stimulating and relaxing properties, excite a preternatural discharge, or cause a sloughing of the ulcer, and thus remove or lessen it. Use one of these ointments principally, the Black Salve occasionally, and after much discharge, dress with an emollient ointment. This treatment has effected numerous cures. (See Black Salve.) A decoction of narrow-leaved dock- root. has been found to produce rare effects. Saturated cloths with the same may also be applied. Or the root may be powdered, and made into an oint- ment with lobelia seeds powdered. CANCER.—Use the cold bath. —This has cured many.—A bleeding cancer was cured by drinking twice a day a quarter of a pint of the juice of clivers, or goose grass, and covering the wound with the bruised leaves. Ano- ther by the following receipt:— Take half a pint of small beer. When 1 It boils, dissolve in it an ounce and »