123 CHI OKI in the water in which potatoes have been boiled, as hot as can be borne. On the first appearance of this ailment, indicated by inflammation and irritation, this bath affords relief. In the more advanced stages, repetition prevents breaking out, followed by a certain cure, and an occasional adoption will prevent a return. CHILBLAINS.—Take 1 oz. of 'white copperas; dissolve in a quart of water, and apply it occasionally to the affected parts. Let this be used before the chilblains break.—Or, apply a poul- tice of roasted onions.—Or, wash with a decoction of horseradish made with vin- egar and water.—Or, with a little cam- phorated brandy. Or rub into them before the fire, a solution of white vitriol and sugar of lead. If the chilblains are broken it must not be used.—Or, take lard, 2 ozs.; turpentine, oz. ; camphor, oz.; melted together. If the parts have been frost bitten, keep from the fire; immerse the parts in snow or cold water ; then apply brisk friction, and a little camphorated spirits. To ease the pain, apply an elm bark poultice, or a poultice made of wheat bran, soft soap, and table salt. Apply afterwards the Black or Healing Salve. If unbroken, take sal ammoniac, 1 oz., vinegar, pint; bathe the part.—Alum and salt will do, but not so effectually— mix in vinegar and water.—If the chil- blains are old, use the Stimulating Liniment. CHILBLAIN LINIMENT.— One ounce of camphorated spirit of 'vine, half an ounce of liquid sub-acetate. Mix, and apply in the usual way three or four times a day. Some persons use vinegar as a preventive, its efficacy may be increased by the addition of one- fourth of its quantity of camphorated spirit. CHILBLAIN LOTION.—Get 1 drachm of sugar of lead, 2 ditto of white vitriol, reduce them to a fine pow- der, and add 4 ozs. of water. Before using this lotion, it is to be well shaken, then rubbed well on the parts affected, before a good fire with the hand. The best time for application is in the even- ing. It scarcely ever fails curing the most inveterate chilblains by once or twice using. It is not to be used on broken chilblains. CHILI VINEGAR.—Infuse * an oz. of cayenne pepper and six cloves in a pint of vinegar. CHINA, to Mend.—Bum oyster shells in the fire, and then reduce them to fine powder. Mix the powder with the white of egg, and lay it thickly on the edges of the broken article, and dry before a hot fire.—Some persons com- bine with the above white lead. Common lime finely sifted and the white of an egg, make an excellent cement. The Chinese use finely ground flint glass with the white of an egg, and it is very adhesive. The pieces to be united should be well heated. Or, mix plaster of Paris with a thick solu- tion of gum arabic. CHIMNEYS ON FIRE.— Shut all the doors and windows ; stop up the bottom of the chimney with a piece of water-saturated sacking, wrap- ing, &c., throwing first salt, or sulphur, upon the fire. CHINE OF BACON, to Boil. —Soak a chine, salted and dried, in cold water several hours. Take a hand- ful of parsley, a few sprigs of thyme, and a little sage ; chop them very fine ; stuff these into the chine, both in the fat and in the lean ; skewer it close in a cloth. Boil slowly for two or three hours. CHINE OF PORK.—Boil it * an hour ; then make holes in it; stuff them with shred parsley ; rub it all over with the yolks of eggs, and strew over it bread crumbs, baste it, and set in a Dutch oven; when it is done enough, lay round it dried spinach. CHINESE FIRE, for Sky- rockets.—1. If three quarter inch or under, nitre, 16 parts; charcoal, 4 parts; sulphur, 8 parts ; cast-iron bor- ings, 4 parts. Mix. 2. If over 1 inch and under 2 inches bore, nitre, 16 parts ; charcoal, 4 parts ; sulphur, 4 parts; iron boring, 5 parts. Mix. CHINTZ, to Wash.—Use only a little white soap. Or boil sago or rice to a perfect pulp, and use it instead of soap; the articles may afterwards be washed in the pulp well diluted with