uv LTV 240 bilious matter; there is a dry cough, oppressive breathing, a difficulty of lying on the right side; costiveness, emaciation, debility, hard and frequent pulse, and a sallow complexion. The office of the liver is to secrete the bile, the origin of which is this:—the dark venous blood, passing through the liver on its way back to the heart, is there divested of its noxious matter, con- sisting largely of carbon, and so made fit for re-entering into the arterial dr- culation. A portion of the matter so separated from the blood is the bile, which is discharged into the duodenum, and there mixes with the digested food, and performs the important office of fitting it for absorption into the system. The bile thus mixed with the elements of nutrition is also absorbed, and it is probable that it is adapted and designed to support the processes of respiratory combustion. It is the bile that gives the colour to the feces, which indicate a healthy flow of the bile when they are of the colour of rhubarb. When, owing to some functional derangement, the bile mixes with the blood in its circulation, it is indicated by yellowness of com- plexion, in jaundice, and by the symp- toms previously described. The healthy flow of bile is interrupted frequently by high living, obstructed perspiration, the drinking of wines, malt liquors, and especially ardent spirits, and dram drinking. Dr. Graham judiciously observes,— —“ the term liver complaint is now far too indiscriminately used. It is proper- ly applied to designate disease in the texture of the liver ; but the majority of the maladies called by that name are in reality severe disorders of the digestive canal, that is, chronic affection of the stomach and intestines." The symptoms which indicate affec- tions of the liver, are increasing debility and emaciation, the pain and uneasiness &t the right side extending to the shoulder, lossjof appetite, full and hard pulse, &c. But in digestive disease, the loss of flesh is not so great, the breath- ing is not so laborious, and the pain is more in the region of the stomach. Treatment.—The first thing to do is to lessen the undue determination of blood to the part by equalising its cir- culation, and restoring the proper secre- tions. This will be effected by moder- ating the diet, living low, avoiding all stimulants, condiments, &c. Give the Vapour Bath, and the Sudorific Pow- ders, to promote copious perspiration, take gentle aperients ; as senna, manna, cream of tartar, and fennel seed. The bowels should be moved at least once a day. All violent purgatives are to be avoided ; they must be gentle. In weals constitutions, a decoction of tamarinds, sweetened with manna, often answers the purpose; but if not sufficiently strong add a little senna. Mild laxative injections occasionally are of great service. If there should be vomiting, mix super carbonate of potash, 1 drachm, with half a pint of peppermint water; and take a tablespoonful whenever the vomiting returns. If the pain is severe, foment the side with a hot decoction of bitter herbs, as hops, &c.; or the Ano- dyne Fomentation ; or apply the Stimu- lating Liniment. A poultice made of bran, or oatmeal, with a little mustard and cayenne pepper, and mixed with vinegar, and formed into a plaster or poultice, will be found to be invaluable. —A mustard plaster is also applicable, and answers better than a blister plaster, though it may be applied if the pain be obstinate; give also ten grains of the Diaphoretic Powders, for they allay pain, and promote sleep. If the sick- ness and irritation of the stomach con- tinue, give an emetic, and repeat every day, if necessary. Medicines which promote the secre- tion of urine have a very good effect here. (See Diuretic Drops, &c.) Or, take % dr. of purified nitre; or a tea- spoonful of sweet spirits of nitre in gruel or balm tea three or four times a day. Continue this treatment till the symptoms are subdued. Chronic disease of the liver arises chiefly from the induration and torpidity of the liver; therefore the object must be to correct the disordered state of the stomach, and bowels, and to give tone and activity to the liver. This may be effected by the Vapour Bath, Emetics, and sponging the body with the Stimul- ating Liniment; by the use of the Liver Pill, or Dyspeptic Pill, &c., which see. Apply to the painful part the Irritating Plaster,