285 OX OKA colour will be injured; take out, and boil them ten minutes in a thin syrup, for five days successively; put into a deep jar, to stand two months, and then make a thick syrup, and just give them a boil in it; let them stand till the next day; then jar them, and cover with brandy papers; tie them down with a bladder. Whole oranges may be preserved in the same way; but do not boil so long, and keep in a very thin syrup at first, or it will cause them to shrink and wither. Always put salt in the water for either oranges preserved, or orange chips. ORANGES, to Preserve in Jelly.—The same as lemons pre- served in jelly, page 236. ORANGEADE. — Squeeze the juice; pour boiling water on a little of the peel, and cover close. Boil sugar and water to a thick syrup, and skim it. When all is cold, mix the juice, the infusion, and the syrup, with as much more water as will make a rich sherbet; strain through a jelly-bag. Or, squeeze the juice, and strain it, and add water and capillaire. ORANGEADE, Effervescing. •—Make it the same as the Ginger Beer Powders, page 195, putting orange juice into tartaric mixture, instead of ginger. ORGEAT.—Boil a quart of new milk with a stick of cinnamon, sweeten to your taste, and let it grow cold; then pour it by degrees to three ounces of almonds, and twenty bitter, that have been blanched and beaten, to a paste, with a little water to prevent oil- ing ; boil all together, and stir till cold, then add half a glass of brandy. Orgeat.—Blanch and pound three quarters of a pound of almonds, and thirty bitter, with a spoonful of water. Stir in by degrees two pints of water, and three of milk, and strain the whole through a cloth. Dissolve half a pound of loaf sugar in a pint of water, and skim it well; mix it with the other, as likewise two spoonfuls of orange flower water, and a tea-cupful of the best brandy. ORGEAT, for the Sick.—Beat 3 ozs. of almonds with a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water, and a bitter almond or two; then pour a quart of milk and water to the paste. Sweeten with sugar or capillaire. This is a fine drink for those who have a tender chest; and in the gout it is highly useful, and, with the addition of half an ounce of gum arabic, has been found to allay the pain. Half a glass of brandy may be added if thought too cooling in the latter complaints, and the glass of orgeat may be put into a basin of warm water. OSWEGO PREPARED CORN.—It makes an excellent diet, especially for invalids and children. Simply boiled in milk and sweetened, it is excellent. For Children the above makes the most nutritious of all food, and is in- valuable. For Invalids it is better than the best Arrow Root, and it is prepared in the same way. For Gravy Jelly, boil in water, mix with a little strong meat gravy, and cool in a form. For thickening Soups and Gravies it is unequalled. OX-CHEEK, to Marinate.— Bone the cheek ; stew it with red wine, and white wine vipegar, seasoned with salt, pepper, and sliced nutmeg; stew till tender ; then take them up, and put to the liquor in which you stewed them, a quart of sherry, and sage, parsley, marjoram, thyme, a bunch of rosemary, bay leaves, whole pepper, nutmegs, and sliced ginger ; boil all these together ; put the cheek into the vessel, and pour the liquor upon it; lay on them some slices of lemon, and keep for use. OX-CHEEK, to Pot..—When you stew an ox-cheek, take some of the fleshy part, and season it well with salt and pepper, and beat it very fine in a mortar with a little clear fat skimmed off the gravy ; put it close into the pots, and pour over it clarified butter. OX-CHEEK STEW.— Soak and cleanse a fine cheek the day before-; put it into a stew-pot that will cover close, with 3 quarts of water; simmer it after it has boiled, and been skimmed. In 2 hours put plenty of carrots, leeks, 2 turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole pepper and 4 ozs. of allspice. Skim often ; when the meat Is lender, take it out; cool, take off the fat, and