INF 218 JND of fat meat, butter, cheese, pastty, strong coffee, green tea, and ardent spirits, which harden the food, in course of diges- tion, and cause tne feculent matter diffi- cult and painful to be evacuated. Eat sparingly, take open air exercise as much as possible ; use cold water with a little vinegar in, for sponging. IN DIG E S TIO N.-Prescriptions. —Dr. Babington’s.—Infusion of Colum- ba, 6 ozs.; carbonate of potass, i dr. ; compound tincture of gentian, 3 drs. Mix ; 3 tablespoonfuls to be taken every day, at noon.—Or, take Gentian and Columba roots (bruised) and camomile flowers, of each 1 oz., to 3 qrts. of water, boil to 3 pints. Dose : 2 or 3 teacupfuls a day.—Or, take 1 oz. each of hops and caraway seeds ; 24 cloves; % oz. of sen- na, and 24 black peppers. Boil the whole in 3 pints of water till it is re- duced to 2 pints. A wine-glassful of the Infusion to be taken twice a day, at 11 and 3 o’clock. Pain in the Stomach from Bad Digestion.—Take fasting, or in the fit, i a pint of camomile tea. Do this 5 or 6 mornings.—Or, drink the juice of Vt a large lemon, or sweet orange, im- mediately after dinner every day.—Dr. Mead.—Or, from 10 to 20 drops of elixir of vitriol in sage tea, 2 or 3 times a-day. —Or, in the fit a glass of vinegar.—Or, take 2 or 3 teaspoonfuls of stomachic tincture, in a glass of water, thrice a- day. (ti* The tincture is made thus :—Gen- tian root, sliced, 1 oz. ; orange peel, dried, % oz.; cochineal, 15 grs. : proof brandy, 1 pint; in 3 or 4 days it is fit for use.—This is useful in all disorders that arise from a relaxed stomach. INFANTS, Management of. —A child, when born, should be laid, for the first month, upon a thin mat- tress, which the nurse may sometimes keep on her knee, that the child may always lie, and only sit up as the nurse slants the mattress. Keep it as dry as possible. At the end of a month, the nurse may set it up, and dance it by degrees. The clothing should be light, and not much longer than itself, that the legs may be readily reached and rubbed, for rubbing takes off scurf, and causes the blood to circulate. Rubbing the ankle- bones and inside of the knees wifl strengthen those parts, and make the child stretch its knees, and keep them flat. Do not keep a child too long in the arms, lest the legs should be cramped, and the toes turned inwards. The oftener the posture is changed the better. During the first fortnight the child should sleep on a bed, except when taken up to supply its wants, which will give it early habits of cleanliness. It is injurious to be laid always asleep on a person’s knee. By slow degrees the infant should be accustomed to exercise, within doors, and in the open air. It should be car- ried about, and gently dandled in the nurse’s arms. Exercising a child in the open air, in fine weather, is of the greatest service. Endeavour to harden the body, but without violent means. A child is con- stitutionally weak and irritable ; hence we should try to strengthen the child, and diminish this irritability, in order to procure it the greatest blessing,—a firm body; which may resist all influence of air and weather. The cold bath may be used too much, and bodily exercise may be too violent. Infants should by imperceptible de- grees be inured to the cool, and then to the cold bath. If they have been accus- tomed to an effeminate treatment, and should be suddenly subjected to an op- posite extreme, such a change would be attended with danger. The child's skin is to be kept perfectly clean, by washing its limbs morning and evening ; begin with warm water, till, by degrees, it will bear, and like, to be washed with cold water. After carefully drying the whole body, head, and limbs, another dry soft cloth, a little warmed, should be used gently, to take all the damp from the wrinkled and fat parts of the body. Apply gentle friction to the body, but do not press upon the stomach and bowels. If the skin is chafed, hair powder, or violet powder, is to be used, or a thin mixture of fullers earth. For the head, a small soft brush is safer than a comb. It should have clean linen, &c. every day. Some females in dressing an Infant are very rough, and must harass and fatigue it much. The most tender dell-