INK INF 220 Jurious to toss them about rapidly and violently in their arms. Loud crying, or shouting in their ears, presenting glittering objects to their view, and sudden and too great a degree of light; such practices are very injurious. Do not bare their arms, throat or legs, have all well covered. Thousands of young children die annually, simply from want of their limbs being protected from cold ; sacrificed merely to follow a foolish fashion. INFECTION, to Prevent.— Sprinkle a room, &c. with a solution of chloride of lime ; or sprinkle dissolved camphor in spirits of wine upon your handkerchief; it may be diluted with acetic acid. Or, smoke this mixture:—Tobacco, 4 ozs.; cascarilla bark, % oz. ; un- bum t coffee, ground, i oz.; mix, and smoke occasionally. INFECTION, to Prevent. — Powdered charcoal mixed with clean water will disinfect a bad smelling sink or closet. Powdered charcoal will thoroughly deodorize a room, if placed on a tray, or on pieces of paper. But its power may be increased by heating it to a red heat in a covered pan, or placed on a hot shovel. Glacialine is now largely used as a disinfectant and antiseptic. It preserves meat, fish or fowls, also prevents sour- ness in beer, &c. Diluted carbolic add, and carbolic powder are excellent disinfectants, they require care in using, and to prevent accidents should always have the word “ Poison ” labelled on them. See Borax, page 72; Chloride of Lime, page 124 ; and Disinfectants, page 162. INFLAMMATION of the Bowels, page 72. See Diarrhea, page 160. Intestines, page 221. INFLUENZA.—See Catarrh 114 INK.—This will keep for very many years. Boil 4 ozs. of logwood chips in a gallon of water for 15 minutes, and pour it boiling hot upon 12 ozs. of galls coarsely powdered. Stir during four or five days. Pour off the liquor clear, and add to it 4 ozs. each of cop- peras and gum arabic. To prevent moulding, add bruised cloves, or oil of cloves. INK. — Water, 1 quart; best aleppo galls in coarse powder, 4 ozs., and 1 oz. each of rasped logwood, green vitriol or copperas, and gum arabic. Stir or shake four or five times a day, for 12 or 14 days, when it will be fit for use. Vinegar instead of water makes a deeper coloured ink, but it is not fit for steel pens. INK, Receipt for a Gallon.— Aleppo galls, 1 lb., slightly bruised; rain-water, 1 gallon, nearly boiling. Let them stand mixed together for 14 days. Then add 4 ozs. of green cop- peras ; 4 ozs. of logwood chips ; 1 oz. each of alum and sugar-candy, and 4 ozs. of gum arabic. Cover over and agitate for 14 days in a warm place. Strain, and bottle, add a little brandy on the top of the ink in each bottle. INK, Invisible or Sympathetic. —Dissolve bismuth in nitrous acid. When the writing is exposed to the vapour of sulphur, it will become quite black.—Make a weak solution of galls ; write with it. To make it visible, moisten with a weak solution of cop- peras ; moisten the paper with a solu- tion of prussiate of potass, and it will appear blue. Sulphate of copper (blue vitriol) and sal ammoniac, equal parts, dissolved in water, write colour- less, turn yellow when heated. Onion juice, like the last. Solution of salt or saltpetre, shows when heated. Write with starch water—a weak solu- tion of iodine will make it visible. INK, Permanent:—Best galls, and logwood, each 6 ozs.; copperas, 3 ozs. ; gum arabic, oz. ; pomegran- ate bark, 1 oz. (sold by druggists) rain water, cold, 3 pints ; doves, 2 or 3 ozs. Stir several times a day for two or three weeks. INK, JAPAN.—Aleppo galls, * lb. ; logwood chips, and copperas, of each 4 ozs. ; gum arabic, 3 ozs. ; sugar, 1 oz. ; blue vitrol, and sugar-candy, of each % oz. Boil the galls and log- wood in 6 quarts of water till reduced one half; strain; add the other ingre- dients. Stir, until dissolved. Clear, and bottle. If it does not shine enough, add more gum; also a few doves to prevent mould. INK, to Erase.—Press a little emery paper over the finger, and rub