YEL YOR 428 'to produce perspiration. If he per- spires, gradually lessen the covering. If vomiting prevails, give the neutral- izing mixture, a tablespoonful every half hour till the vomiting ceases. If the stomach be very irritable, give with the neutralizing mixture a drachm of Epsom salts to each dose, in a little tea ; if the vomiting does not abate, persevere with the medicine, and apply mustard plasters to the stomach and feet twice a day. Do not neglect aperients; for it is of the highest importance to pro- mote the natural evacuations. Attend also to the skin. If dry, hot, and parched, give an infusion of bone- set, to be drunk freely, to promote perspiration. If this should fail, give the Sudorific Powder, or the Sweating Drops till perspiration shall take place. Should they cause too much sickness, give lemonade or cream of tartar water. In the West Indies they effect a cure by drinking an infusion of boneset, by using the warm or vapour bath, and bathing the body with lemon juice and water, or warm vinegar and water, YELLOW FLUMMERY.— Take 2 ozs. of isinglass ; beat it; put it into a bowl, and pour a pint of boil- ing water upon it; cover it till cold, and add a pint of sherry; the juice of two lemons with the rind of one, and the yolks of 8 eggs. Beat well; sweeten; put it into a pan, and when it boils, strain it through an iron sieve. When nearly cold, put it into cups and moulds. YELLOW INK.—This ink is useful in drawing and making pen and and ink sketches ; it is prepared thus : —Take Persian berry liquor, 1 % oz.; alum, % oz. ; rain-water, as required, gum arabic, % oz. Boil the whole together ten minutes; then strain through fine muslin; when cold, it is fit for use. YELLOW, Naples, to Make. —Take one pound of antimony, one pound and a half of lead, half an ounce of alum, and the same quantity of common salt. The antimony and lead should be calcined together, after- wards the other ingredients added, and then the whole mixture undergoes a second calcination. YELLOW WAX.—Yellow re- sin, 1 lb.; Burgundy pitch, 154 oz.; bees wax, i]4 oz. ; mutton tallow, 114 oz. Melt all together; then add cam- phor, 2 H drachms ; olive oil, a table- spoonful ; sassafras oil, 2 drachms; best rum, 2 tablespoonfuls. Mix well, and pour into a vessel of water, and knead it till it is cold. It acts as a good sticking plaster. It is useful in cuts, ulcers, sores, &c. It is very good for rheumatism ; and would be a sovereign remedy by the addition of i oz. of cay- enne, and £ oz. of opium. YORKSHIRE PUDDING.— Mix five spoonfuls of flour with a quart of milk, and three eggs well beaten. Butter the pan. When brown by baking under the meat, turn the other side upwards, and brown that. It should be made in a square pan, and cut into pieces to come to table. Set it over a chafing-dish, u.d stir it welL “BEGIN WELL AND END BETTER.’*