183 FOW FLU sweeten with loaf sugar. When it boils, strain; cool, and add a pint of thick cream, and stir till it is thick and cold ; wet the mould and pour in the flum- mery. In five or six hours turn out. Constant stirring is essential to preserve the figures of the moulds, and the clear- ness of the flummery. FLUMMERY, French.— Cream, 1 quart; isinglass, oz. ; beat it fine and stir it into the cream ; boil gently over a slow fire 15 minutes, stirring all the time; take off; sweeten to taste; add a spoonful each of rose and orange-flower water; poor into a glass or mould, and when cold, turn it out. FLUX.—Castor oil, 4 ozs.; gum arabic, two table-spoonfuls ; gum kino, 1 table-spoonful; laudanum, 1 tea- spoonful ; water, 1 pint; mix, and take a table-spoonful three or four times a day. It is unfailing in most cases. PLY P A P E R S.—'Take Bird Lime, reduce it to a proper consistency with Turpentine, adding a small quan- tity of treacle. Then spread on paper. FOMENTATION, Decoction for.—Take tops of wormwood, and oak bark, and camomile flowers dried, each, two ounces. Boil in two quarts of water. Pour off the liquor, and then add French brandy, or spirits of wine, as the case may require. FOMENTATION, Aromatic. —Take of Jamaica pepper, half an ounce; red wine, a pint. Boil them a little, and then strain the liquor. This is intended not only as a topical applica- tion for external complaints, but also for relieving internal parts. Pains of the bowels which accompany dysen- teries, and diarrhoeas, flatulent colics, uneasiness of the stomach, and retching to vomit, are frequently abated by fomenting the abdomen and region of the stomach with a warm liquor. FOMENTATION, Soothing. —Take 3 ozs. each of hops, horehound, tansy, wormwood, and 2 ozs. of poppy heads. Make a decoction by boiling in equal parts of vinegar and water.— Excellent for removing pain, caused by dislocations contusions, sprains, and other causes. It may also be usefully employed in inflammation of the bowels, and ail inflammations. FOOT SPRAINS.—Slide the fingers under the foot, and having greased both thumbs, press them suc- cessively with increased force over the painful parts for about a quarter of an hour. Repeat the application several times, or until the patient is able to walk. This is a simple remedy for a very common casualty, and can be per- formed by the most inexperienced. FORCEMEAT.—Take a pound of fresh lean veal, and the same weight of beef suet, and a bit of bacon or ham ; shred all together ; beat it in a mortar very fine; then season it with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and nutmegs ; add the yolks of two or three eggs well beaten. A few oysters may be added ; or marrow, if the force- meat is intended to be rich. This may be made into balls about the size of a walnut. Another, to force Fowls or Meat.—Shred a little ham, some cold veal, or fowl, or beef-suet; a small quantity of onion, parsley, a little lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, or pounded mace, and white pepper, or cayenne, and bread crumbs. Pound it in a mortar, and bind it with one or two eggs beaten and strained. FOUL AIR IN WELLS.— To remove the gas before a descent is made into any well, a quantity of burned but unslacked lime should be thrown down. This, when it comes in contact with whatever water is below, sets free a great amount of heat in the water and lime, which rushes upward, carrying all the deleterious gases with it; after which descent may be made with safety. The lime also absorbs the carbonic acid in the well. FOWLS, to Boil.—Truss as in page 184. Put in a pan of cold water; cover; skim; boil slowly twenty minutes; take off, cover close, and the heat of the water will stew them enough in half an hour ; it keeps the skin whole, white, and plump. Pour over them white sauce. FOWLS, to Dress Cold.—Peel off all the skin, and pull the flesh off the bones in large pieces ; dredge with flour; fry it a nice brown in butter; toss it up in a rich gravy, well seasoned; thicken it with a piece of butte.r rolled