FR3 FRK 185 FREEZING MIXTURES.— If ice cannot be obtained, water may be cooled to the freezing point by the fol- lowing mixtures : — sal ammoniac, 5 pans; nitre, 5 parts; glauber salts, 8 parts ; water, 16 parts. Or, nitrate of ammonia, 1 part; carbonate of soda, 1 part; water, 1 part. Or mix 1 part of muriate of ammonia, or sal-am- moniac powder, with 2 parts of nitrate of potash, or saltpetre :—this forms one powder. The powder to be mixed with it is formed of barilla, or the best Scotch soda, powdered. This must be kept in a cool place, well corked, as must the first powder. For use put an equal quantity of these two powders into the ice-pail, and pour on them as much cold spring water as will dissolve them. FRENCH BEANS, for Winter Use. — Put into boiling water for a minute, then into cold, drain, and dry them. Put at the bottom of a large earthen vessel, a two inch layer of salt, then a layer of beans, and so proceed till it is filled, the top layer always to be salt. Cover well. When you take out, fill the vacancy with salt. In cooking, soak them all the previous night, and add a little carbonate of soda. See page 44. FRENCH BREAD.—Mix the yolks of three, and the whites of two eggs with a quarter of a peck of flour, a little salt, half a pint of good yeast, as much milk, warm, as will work it into a thin light dough. Do not knead it, but stir it about; put into dishes or tins, to rise; then turn them out into a quick oven ; rasp when done. See page 74. FRENCH BROWN BREAD. —Sour milk, 1 quart; salt, 1 tea-spoon- ful ; carbonate of soda, 1 tea-spoonful; and half a tea-cup of treacle put into the milk. Thicken with unsifted or ground-down flour, and bake imme- diately. FRENCH POLISH, and the Art of Staining and Graining.— Take 2 ozs. of wood naptha, >4 oz. of best shellac, 1 drachm gum benzol" ; crush the gums, mix them with the naptha in a bottle ; shake them fre- quently till dissolved ; it is then ready for use. This is the clear polish. Take a little cotton wool, apply a little of the polish to it, cover it tightly with a linen rag, to which apply a drop of linseed oil, to prevent it from sticking to the wood ; use your rubber gently, polish- ing from a centre in a circular manner; finish with a drop of spirits of wine on a clean rubber, which will extract the oiL Wood may be stained or grained any colour or design, by mixing it with the polish, or dipping the rubber in the colour (finely powdered,) at the time you apply the polish with the cotton. To produce a red : dip the cotton into dragon’s blood (finely powdered,) im- mediately applying the polish; then cover with the linen, and polish. For yellow: use the best chrome yellow. For blue : ultra-marine blue, or indigo. For black; ivory, or lamp-black, &c. Graining is produced by touching or streaking the wood with the colour, as above, in irregular lines or marks, and in such shapes as the fancy may sug- gest, then finishing it with a coat of dear polish. FRENCH ROLLS.—Rub 1 oz. of butter into 1 lb. of flour, mix one egg, well beaten, a little yeast, not bitter, as much milk as will make a dough of a middling stifihess ; beat it well, but do not knead, let it rise ; bake on tins quick. FRIAR’S BALSAM. —Gum benzoin, 3% ozs. ; strained storax, •2.% ozs. ; balsam of tolu, 10 drs.; aloes, 5 drs. ; rectified spirit, 2 pints; let it stand for 14 days, shaking oft before using. A good application for wounds and cuts ; and such was very effectual in the hands of the old friars. Inter- nally, it is stimulant, expectorant, and antispasmodic, and is useful in asthma, catarrh, consumption, and languid cir- culation. Dose, a drachm on loaf sugar. FRENCH POMADE.—Pom- ade (any) 8 ozs. ; white wax, 1 oz*; spermaceti, oz. ; oil of almonds, 3 ozs. Mix. FRENCH PUDDING,—Milk, 1 quart; flour, a cupful, or more, 8 or 9 eggs. Beat the eggs, and add them to the milk, with the flour. Butter a dish, and bake. Serve with sweet sauce. FRITTERS.—Make them of any I of the batters directed for pan-cakes, by j dropping a small quantity into the pan ; | or make the plainer sort, and put pared