FOR 188 GAR account of having been polished with wax. Or, linseed oil, x pint; treacle, 8 ozs. ; add a glass of gin; stir well; apply with a rag; rub till dry, and it will pro- duce a splendid gloss. FURS, to Keep Moths from.— Sprinkle them with spirits of turpentine. Or wash them with corrosive sublimate, io or ia grains in a pint of warm water. Or use borax dissolved. FURS, to Improve.— Warm bran in an oven. Rub it well into the fur several times. Shake and brush till free from dust. Rub light furs with magnesia. G. GAME, to keep Sweet.—Game of all kinds, birds, rabbits, or deer, can be kept sweet a long time by putting finely pulverized charcoal in a thin mus- lin bag and placing it inside the game. Change the charcoal every day. It is excellent to keep any meat, fish, or fowl pure and sweet. Wash clean before cooking. Charcoal is also used for fil- tering impure water. GAME PIE.—Divide the birds If large, into pieces or joints. They may be pheasants, partridges, &c. Add a little bacon or ham. Season welL Cover with puff-paste, and take care- fully. Pour into the pie % a cupful of melted butter, the juice of a lemon, and a glass of sherry, when rather more than half baked. GAME SOUP.—Cut in pieces a partridge, pheasant, or rabbit; add slices of veal, ham, onions, carrots, &c. Add a litde water; heat a little on a slow fire, as gravy is done; then add some good broth ; boil the meat gently till it is done. Strain, and stew in the liquor what herbs you please. GANGREEN, or MORTIFI- CATION.—See Logwood, page 242. GARDENING, Directions for each Month in the Year. January. — Trench and manure; prepare hot-beds for asparagus, cucum- bers, 'mint, potatoes, and the small salads. Sow the brown, Dutch, and grand admiral cabbages, curled parsley for transplanting; frame peas, horn carrots, mazagan beans, onions (to be allowed to grow large); plant out cab- bage plants to succeed those which have been planted out in autumn. February.—All the ground which is destined for early crops must now be prepared, and hot-beds be multiplied for cucumbers and early melons. Celery may be sown on a moderate hot-bed; also sow cabbages, hom carrots, let- tuces, leeks, parsnips, and in fact most of the table vegetables. Those plants, such as cabhages, chives, garlic, shalots underground onions, and horseradish, which are fit, should now be trans- planted. March. — In open borders sow asparagus, cabbages, carrots, and Ham- burgh parsley, Neapolitan kale, par- snips, onions, &c. ; plant out such vege- tables as have been already sown. Be- fore sowing, dig carefully, and make the ground level and fine. Main crops may be sown in this month, such as early long-pod beans, peas, celery, tur- nips, and, indeed, most other vegetables. Mustard, cress, lettuce, spinach, and radishes, may be sown every week or fortnight, for succession. Chives, sha- lots, garlic, &c., may be planted; also rhubarb, potatoes, J erusalem artichokes. Cuttings, or slips of sweet herbs may be planted. April. — Planting the vegetables which have been sown is now the chief business. Make hot-beds for cucumbers and melons; force kidney beans and Victoria rhubarb. Plant out artichokes and potatoes; sow asparagus, beets, cabbages, celery, garden and kidney beans, Dutch turnips, lettuces, peas, radishes, small salading. May.—Sow carrots, lettuce, cap- sicums, cauliflowers, spinach, Knight’s marrow-fat peas, campions, &c. Trans- plant cabbages, winter greens, lettuces, and celery. Hoe and stake peas, water newly planted crops, and propagate aro- matic plants by slip® and cuttings. Pro- tect from wind and rain choice tulips, ranunculuses, and anemonies. Propa- gate herbaceous plants by dividing the roots ; wall-flowers, sweet-williams, and rockets, by slips; and China roses, beliotropiums, &c., by cuttings. June.—Sow Cape brocoli, kidney beans, peas, lettuces, campions, spinach, small salading, &c. The best peas for sowing now are Knight’s marrow-fat picas ; they will bear till October. Hoe