TRJE TRE 392 trees; such as the oak, the lime-tree, the beech, the chestnut, the elm, the palm-tree, the cedar, the olive, the palm, the mulberry-tree, and the baobab. We may with certainty affirm that some of the cedars of Lebanon, the celebrated chestnut tree, di centi cavalli, in Sicily, and several of the sacred oaks under which the ancient Germans performed their religious ceremonies, may have attained to the age of a thousand years and more. These are the most venerable, the only now existing testi- monies of the ancient world, and inspire us with reverence and awe when the rustling wind plays through their silvery locks, which once served to overshade the Druids and our wild ancestors clothed in their bear-skins.’’ Grindon remarks on the longevity of trees: “How vast are the periods of life allotted to the longaeval trees may be judged from the following list of ages known to have been reached by patri- archs of the respective kinds: •Cercis 300 years. Elm 33S it Ivy ... ... ... 4SO it Maple 516 a Larch... ... ... 576 4i Orange 630 M Cypress 800 14 * Olive 800 te Walnut 900 <4 Oriental Plane ... 1,000 •« Lime 1,100 • 4 Spruce 1,200 44 Oak 1,500 44 Cedar 2,000 44 Schubertia 3-000 44 Yew 3,200 if ‘Four and five thousand years assigned to the Taxodiutn and the Adansonia, and V&n Martius describes locust-trees in the South American forests which he believes to have begun their quasi immortality in the days of Homer. Whether or no, it may safely be asserted that the world possesses at * There are olive-trees in the supposed garden of Gethsemane which have been irjtimattii at 3,000 yean 1 but these are pro- bably mere descendants of those connected with the naratives of the Gospel, put forth originally as suckers from their roots, and to be regarded rather as restorations than as identically the same. this moment living memorials of anti- quity at least as old as the most ancient monuments of human art. How grand and solemn is even the thought of a tree coeval with the pyramids of Egypt and the sculptures of Nineveh, yet still put- ting forth leaves, and inviting the birds to come and ‘ sing among the branches 1’ "Well might the old preacher of Alexandria discern in a tree the terres- trial image of heavenly truth. “The age may be estimated by ascer- taining as nearly as possible the annual rate of increase, then taking the diame- ter of the trunk at about a yard from the ground, and calculating by rule of three. Thus, if in the space of an inch there be an average of five annual layers, a hundred inches will indicate five hun- dred years of life. The latter method requires to be used, however, with ex- treme caution, because of the varying rate of earlier periods of life, trees in- crease much faster than when adult. The oak, for instance, grows most rapidly between its twentieth and thir- tieth years, and when old the annual deposits considerably diminish, so that tke strata are thinner and the rings proportionably closer. Some of the oak become thinner after forty, those of the elm after fifty, those of the yew after sixty. Unless allowance be made for this, and also for the irregular thickness of the layers, which vary with the positions of the tree in regard to the sun, errors are inevitable. There are trees which are altogether destitute of rings. These belong to the class called endogens, of which the noblest and typical form is the palm. Here the sign of age is usually furnished by the scars or stumps of the fallen leaves, which are of prodigious size, few in number, and produced only upon the summit of the lofty, slender, and branch- less trunk. A certain number of new leaves expand every year, and about an equal number of the oldest decay; so that, by taking the total of the scars, and dividing it by the average annual development of new leaves, a tolerable approximation may be come to. But it can rarely be relied upon; it is a method, indeed, by no means universal- ly practicable, the scars of the fallen