HER 210 HEA scruple; and calcined magnesia, i scruple. Mix, and make into 12 pow- ders. Take 3 per day. Spanish liquorice has been found a very good palliative in heartburn. Neutralize the add which produces heartburn ; take of carbonate of soda, half a teaspoonful; half a teaspoonful of peppermint plant powdered, in a , table-spoonful of brandy, and a little cold water ; take it for a dose. HEAT, to Moderate.—To mod- erate the intensity of heat during the summer, where slated or tiled roofs are in close proximity with bed-rooms ; let the roof, (i. e. the slates) be whitewash- ed ; and the temperature in the room underneath, which before was almost insupportable, will be not only tolerable, but very agreeable. The materials to use are Buxton lime, whiting, size, or thin glue, and a little linseed oil. This mixture has a good body, and will not be very soon washed off by rain. HEMLOCK LINIMENT.— Oil of Hemlock, oz.; camphor, in gum, oz.; opium, % oz. ; spirits of wine, 1 pint. Mix. It is a first-rate rubefacient in inflammatory rheuma- tism, gout, quinsy, inflamed breast, white swellings, &c. HERBS.—They make the best medicines, and the completest cures. For their Medical Properties, see Rob- inson's Herbal. HERBS.—For Dyspepsia, or Indigestion.—Camomile, agrimony, betony, thistle, (blessed,) caraway seeds, sweet flag, fennel, garlic, horehound, hyssop, lavender, masterwort (the root,) mint, mustard seed, pennyroyal, horse- radish, rue, wormwood. Decoctions of the above are made by pouring boiling water on them. A little should be taken in the morning fasting. For Purging the Bowels.— Class 1. The powerful are the follow- ing : common dock, hellebore, (white), in doses not exceeding 4 grains ; black hellebore, from 2 to 5 grains; marsh- mallow leaf decoction, and mountain flax. Class 2. more moderate; buckthorn berry, broom, and dandelion. For Worms.—Bear’s-foot, cow- bage, camomile, garlic, fern root, savin, and wormwood. Astringents, which serve to cor- rect excessive discharges. Logwood, red roses, sage, and tormentil root. Carminatives, or those herbs which allay pain, or dispel wind from the stomach; aniseed, caraway seed, peppermint, spearmint, ginger, and dill root. Demulcents; those herbs which soften, or which lesson acrimony, or the effects of stimulus on the solids ; as, colt's-foot, liver-wort, mallows, liquorice root, comffey, &c. Diaphoretics, or those which pro- mote perspiration; burdock, centaury, bay tree, betony, balm, germander, lovage, and rue. Tonics, or those which give strength and vigour to the body; bistort, balm, bog-bean, camomile, centaury (lesser), logwood, gentian, southern- wood, tansy, tormentil, valerian, and wormwood. To Heal Ulcers.-Adder’s tongue agrimony, archangel, arses mart, cuckoo pint, blue bottle, burdock, bryony, soap- wort, celandine, centaury, chickweed, cinquefoil, comfrey root, mugwort, cud- weed, dog grass, water dock, figwort, flaxweed, foxglove, glass wort, ground ivy, ground pine, tormentil, tansy, bugle, scurvy grass, and nightshade. Either made into ointments with hog's-lard, or washes made of them, and daily applied to the parts. To Purify the Blood.—Agri- mony, borage, burdock (sea,) chick- weed, chervil, fennel, fir tree, fumitory, garden cresses, wild water cresses, ground pine, hops, maiden hair, sorrel, and tansy. Made into decoctions with hot water, and taken every morning. HERRINGS, Fresh, to Broil, or Roast.—Scale, gut, and wash; cut off the heads ; steep them in salt and vinegar 10 minutes; dust them with flour, and broil them over or before the fire, or in the oven. Serve with melted butter and parsley. Herrings are nice jarred, and done in the oven, with pepper, cloves, salt, a little vinegar, a few bay leaves, and a little butter. HERRINGS, Fresh, to Fry.— Slice small onions, and lay in the pan with the herrings; add a little butter,