355 SCR scu down the flour la water, and evaporat- ing the liquid. Iodine has been highly recommended by many English and French physicians, as a specific remedy for scrofula ; and, for the very favourable results I have witnessed, in a great variety of cases, I am disposed to consider it to possess antiscrofulous properties. The best pre- paration is the spirituous solution termed the Tincture of Iodine, which may be administered twice a day, in the dose of 3 to 15 drops, in a wine-glassful of a decoction of marsh-mallow roots, or of Peruvian bark, if the patient be in a debilitated stage. " Devonport’s Syrup of Iodide of Quinine and iron is a ternary compound of marked efficacy, in cases of scrofula, and of bloodlessness, (ancemia.) It is borne well by the stomach, and not pos- sessing the nauseous qualities of its con- stituents, is admirably adapted for chil- dren.”—Dr. Graham. The scrofulous patient must have a nourishing diet, plenty of exercise, and abundance of fresh pure air. SCROFULA, OR KING’S EVIL.—Take as much cream of tartar as lies on a shilling. Or, drink for 6 weeks half a pint of strong decoc- tion of devil’s bit. Or, make a leaf of dried burdock into a pint of tea; take half a pint twice a day for 4 months I have known this cure hundreds.— Wesley. SCURVY.—This disease arises from a depraved state of the blood, which induces general debility, and a corruption of all the fluids. It is char- acterized by extreme diminution of vita- lity, such as a very pale and bloated complexion, spongy gums, livid spots on the skin, offensive breath, swelling of the legs, foul ulcers, foetid urine, weak- ness, &c. This disease arises from the want of fresh provisions, and a due quantity of vegetables; probably assisted by the prevalency of cold and moisture, and also such other causes as depress the ner- vous energy, as indolence, confinement, neglect of cleanliness, much labour and fatigue, sadness, despondency, &c. A preternatural saline state of the fluids is assigned by Dr. Cullen as its proximate cause. The reason that salted meat is so productive of scurvy is, h Is drained of its nutritious juices, which run off in brine, its fibres being at the same time hardened, and rendered more difficult of digestion. Treatment.—Abstain from salt as much as possible. A diet of fresh vege- tables, and a beverage strongly impreg- nated with the juice of lemons, oranges, and the sub-acid fruits, are more effica- cious in the cure of this disease than the most powerful anti-scorbutic medicines. The essences of malt and spruce have likewise been found of great service, pro- bably from the quantity of fixed air they contain. When lemon or orange-juice cannot be obtained, nitre dissolved in vinegar, in the proportion of an oz. of the former to a quart of the latter, has been found to afford the best substitute, water acidulated with the nitric acid, is, perhaps, not less efficacious : from 1 to 2 ozs. or more of the former may be given 3 or 4 times in the course of the day ; and of the latter, a quantity con- taining about 15 or 20 drops of the nitric acid may be taken every 5 or 6 hours. The vitriolic acid, the Peruvian bark, and the red sulphate of iron, are like- wise very valuable remedies in the far advanced stage of this disease. The vapour bath of bitter decoction is very appropriate. A decoction of sassafras and sarsaparilla is very useful —to be taken freely ; add the juice of lemon. Steam affected parts with a decoction of bitter herbs. Let the diet be vegetable, consisting chiefly of milk. Emetics are sometimes necessary; tonics always. SCURVY.—Take 2 ozs. each of field daisies and dandelion roots. Boil in 3 quarts of water down to 1 quart. Take a teacupful night and morning. SCURVY.—John Wesley says, " Live on turnips for a month. Or, take tar-water, morning and even- ing, for three months. Or, 3 spoonfuls of nettle-juice every morning. Or, decoction of burdock. Boil 3 ozs. of the dried root in 2 quarts of water to pints. Take % a pint daily. A decoction of the leaves (boiling 1 leaf 4 minutes in a quart of water,) has the same effect. ,1 Or, take a cupful of the juice of goon- •grass In r. morning, fostln#, for n