POR 3*5 POR case. Pork fed at still-houses does not answer for curing any way, the fat being spongy. Dairy-fed pork is the best. PORK, to Barbacue a Leg of. —Put down the leg to a good fire; into the dripping pan, put two bottles of port wine; baste the pork with it all the time of roasting. When enough, take up what is left in the.pan ; put to it two anchovies, the yolks of three eggs, boiled hard, and pounded fine, with a % lb. of butter, and half a lemon, a bunch of sweet herbs, a tea-spoonful of lemon pickle, a spoonful of ketchup, and one of tarragon vinegar; boil them a few minutes; then draw the pork, and cut the skin down from the bottom of the shank in rows an inch broad; raise every other row, and roll it to the shank; strain the sauce, and pour it boiling hot. PORK, Chine of. — Salt three days before cooking. Wash it well; score the skin, and roast with sage and onions finely shred. Serve with apple sauce.—The chine is often sent to the table boiled. PORK, to Collar.—Bone a breast or spring of pork ; season it with plenty of thyme, parsley, and sage; roll it hard; put in a cloth, tie both ends, and boil it; then press it; when cold, take it out of the cloth, and keep it in its own liquor. PORK, as Lamb.—Rill a young pig of four or five months old; cut up the fore-quarter for roasting as you do lamb, and truss the shank close. The other parts will make delicate pickled pork; or steaks, pies, &c. PORK, Leg of, to Boil.—Salt it eight or tea days; when it is to be dressed, weigh it; let it lie half an hour in cold water to make it white ; allow a •quarter of an hour for every pound, and half an hour over, from the time it boils up: skim it frequently. Allow water enough. Save some of it to make peas- soup. Some boil it in a cloth, floured, which gives a very delicate look. It should be small and of a fine grain. 1 Serve peas pudding and turnips with PORK, Leg of, commonly called Mock Goose.—Parboil it, take oflf the skin, and then put it down to roast; baste it with butter, and make a savoury powder of finely-minced, or dried and powdered sage, pepper, salt, and some bread crumbs, rubbed together through a colander; add to this a little finely- minced onion; sprinkle with this when it is almost roasted ; put half a pint of made gravy into the dish, and some goose stuffing under the knuckle skin; or garnish the dish with balls of it fried or broiled. PORK, Loin of.—Score it, and joint it, that the chops may separate easily; and then roast it as a loin of mutton. Or, put it into sufficient water to cover it; simmer till almost enough; then peel off the skin, and coat it with yolk of egg and bread crumbs, and roast for 15 or 20 minutes, till it is enough done. PORK, to Pickle.—Cut the pork in such pieces as will lie in the pickling tub; rub each piece over with saltpetre; then take one part bay salt, and two parts common salt, and rub each piece well; lay them close in the tub, and throw salt over them. Some use a little sal prunella and a little sugar. PORK PIE, to Eat Cold. Raise a common boiled crust into either a round or oval form, which you choose, have ready the trimmings and small bits of pork cut off a sweet bone, when the hog is killed ; beat it with a rolling pin, season with pepper and salt, and keep the fat and lean separate, put it in layers quite close to the top, lay on the lid, cut the edge smooth, round, and pinch it; bake in a slow soaking oven, as the meat is very solid. Observe, put no bone or water in the pork pie; the outside pieces will be hard if they are not cut small and pressed close. PORK, to Roast a Leg of.— Choose a small leg of fine young pork; cut a slit in the knuckle with a sharp knife; and fill the space with sage and onion chopped, and a little pepper and salt. When half done, score the skin in slices, but don’t cut deeper than the outer rind. Apple sauce and potatoes should be served to eat with it. PORK, Rolled Neck of.—Bone it; put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper,