173 EPP ERR Tincture. When the fit subsides, give a vapour bath, and an emetic two or three times a week. After the bath, rub the body over with the Stimulating Liniment. Gentle aperients should also be given now and then. Sponge the body every or every other morning with cold salt and water. Let the diet be very light and digestible. As it is a disease of debility, tonics should be em- ployed ; as peruvian bark, snake root, lady’s slipper, and peony, which may be obtained of the Medical Botanists. Boil them till strong; add sugar, and best Madeira wine. Dr. Beech says that salt is very efficacious. ‘‘As soon as there are any premonitory symptoms, give a tea-spoonful of salt, in a little water; and, if practicable, repeat it in twenty minutes ; it shortens the fit, and may be taken twice or thrice a day. The shower bath may also be used. If the disease proceeds from worms, use the remedies in that case prescribed. A pill made of equal parts of scullcap, lobelia seed, and cayenne, and mucilage is very useful in this disease. learned me Grammar,... taught I propose to offer a few hints,...purpose, or intend I never omit walkiiig out whenever the weather is fine,...leave out ever I. seldom or ever see her... seldom or never, or seldom, if ever You have sown the seam badly ...sewed I shall summons...summon This here is my farm...leave out here Without you study, you will not learn, ... Unless you study, &c The obser- vation of the sabbath is a duly,...obser- vance Add one more reason,...one reason more Be sharp, and get your work done,...quick Who finds Tom in money,...leave out in I admire such an one, a one An Euro- peon,...a An University,...a A quantity of men, or horses,...a number of, &c Lots of money, lots of friends, lots of learning...plenty of money, many friends, much learning Galileo dis- covered the telescope,...invented. I rose up, and put on my clothes,...leave out up It lays on the floor,...lies. I intend to stop at home,...j/<zy. No man has less enemies,., fewer. EPPING SAUSAGES. —Six pounds of good pork, free from skin and gristle, cut it small, and beat it fine in a mortar. Chop 6 lbs. of beef suet very fine, powder a handful of sage leaves, which sprinkle over the meat; shred the rind of a lemon very fine, and with sweet herbs, scatter it on the meat, and two nutmegs grated, a spoonful of pepper, (less if cayenne) and salt. Mix the suet and all together ; when used, roll it up with as much egg as will make It smooth. EPSOM SALTS, are distin- guished from oxalic acid, which is poison, thus:—epsom salts have a bitter taste; oxalic acid has a very acid or sour taste. To mix for use see Aperient Mixture, page 21. ERRORS IN SPEECH. — Never use a verb plural to a singular nominative; as, Thomas were there... should be was Never use a verb singular to a plural nominative; as, The things has come—the cows was in the field...should be have and were. I expect the books were sent...say, I think; expect refers to the future Give me both of them apples...should be, both those apples Mr. Smith A coupled men,...two men Tom was in eminent danger,...imminent The two first pages ....first two He came last of all,... leave out, of all I plunged down into the water,...leave out, down He was exceeding indus- trious, ...exceedingly I did it conform- able to your wishes,...conformably Litde grows there beside a coarse kind of grass,...except He ascended up into heaven,...leave cut, up It is not as large as I expected,...so A young beautiful boy,. ..beautiful young boy The latter end of the pious is peace,... leave out, latter On either side of the river,...each. I will think on thee, friend,...of. Take hold on it; T knew nothing on it; He was made much on in London,...<>f. No need for that,...of. Free of blame,.. from He is resolved of going to America, ...on I had rather not,... would rather not We prevailed over him to come,...upon He ran again me,...against I put it in my pocket, ...into He was accused for neglect- ing his duty, ...of I am ruler over my house,...of She reads slow,...slowly. At best,...af the best A few weeks back,...ago Harvey invented