HEA 20Q HEA The plainest food Is the best, taken in quantities so small as not to oppress the stomach. A man should never know that he has a stomach except when he is hungry. To increase muscular power, food should be taken which does not produce fat; for fat is frequently a sign of dis- ease. A race-horse is brought to his primp condition by a system of training. So with man, if he wishes to see the full development of all his muscular power, he must restrict himself in diet, and exhaust his fat by having a good sweating every day, but not to take cold. Lying too long in bed is injurious to health. The want of expansion of the chest through exercise, will aggravate or create consumptive tendencies, which all more or less have; and the constant heat of the back or one side, occasioned by cushioning, disturbs healthy action. When food rises in the stomach, the stomach is speaking to us, and we ought to listen to it, or health will suffer. In due time headaches will be the result; the liver is oppressed and cannot fulfil its functions. There has been more introduced into the body than can be conveniently disposed of. Every part receives some of die obtru- sive matter; it is forced into the ab- sorbents ; the blood is unwillingly com- pelled to take a part of it; the brain feels the effect of the poisonous infusion ; the circulation is impeded ; the heart feels it, and labours hard to do its allotted work. By persisting in the habit, life will be shortened. Too little food has its symptoms as well as too much. The body will flag for want of stimulus; it will lose warmth and energy; and if it be found that more food restores both, and brings comfort, then more food is wanted. Every one should endeavour to discover his own maximum and minimum allow- ance, and adhere to it. Those who think most, require the most sleep. The time “saved "from necessary sleep is destruction to mind, body, and estate. Give yourself, chil- dren, and servants, the fullest amount of sleep by compelling them to go to bed at some early hour, and to rise in the morning the moment they wake of themselves, and within a fortnight nature will unloose the bonds of sleep the moment enough repose has been secured. Rise and retire at a fixed hour; take a gentle walk before breakfast; and take your meals at the same hours daily. The less quantity of fermented liquors you drink the better. Nothing conduces more to health and long life than abstinence and plain food, with due labour. Where water does not disagree, value the privilege, and continue it. Late hours and anxious pursuits ex- haust the nervous system ; therefore avoid them as much as possible. In order that digestion may take place, the food should be well chewed. The stomach will not deal with it in lumps. It must be thoroughly masti- cated and well mixed with the saliva which flows into the mouth during mas- tication. Do without medicine if possible; but in case of real indisposition, immediate- ly consult a competent medical man. HEARTBURN.—Drink a pint of very cold water.—Tried. Or, drink slowly a decoction of camomile flowers. -Or, eat four or five oysters. HEARTBURN.—“If acidity of the stomach occasions the heartburn, absorbents are the proper medicines. Take 1 oz. of powdered chalk, % oz. of fine sugar, and % oz. of gum arabic may be mixed in a quart of water, and a tea-cupful of it taken when necessary. But the best absorbent is Magnesia Alba. It acts also as a purgative. This powder is not disagreeable; it may be taken in a cup of tea, or a glass of mint water." If it arises from wind, take a tea- spoonful of spirits of lavender, or the Neutralising Mixture. Page 275. HEARTBURN LOZENGES. —Powdered lump sugar, 100 parts; prepared chalk, 15 parts ; sn bear bona to of soda, 5 parts; mix with gum mucilage. HEARTBURN, Pills for. — Carbonate of ammonia, extract of gen- tian, of each half a drachm ; mix, and divide into twelve pills ; take two twice or thrice a dav. HEARTBURN POWDER.— Quassia, powdered rbulvarb, of each