13 AGR AIR lo be strings, and into the other fasten as many small brass pins, to which attach one end of the strings. Then string the instrument with first-fiddle strings, fixing one end of them and twisting the other round the opposite peg. These strings, which should not be drawn tight, must be tuned in unison. To procure a proper passage for the wind, a thin board, supported by four pegs, is placed over the strings at about three inches distant from the sounding board. Place the instrument in the wtadow partly open ; and, to increase the force of the current of air, op«en the door of the room or an opposite window. When the wind blows, the strings pro- duce a pleasing admixture of ail the notes of the diatonic scale, in the most delightful harmonic combinations. AGRICULTURE.— The first principles of agriculture are these, make hz,A keep the land perfectly dry and free from weeds. Make and keep the soil which is too adhesive, or too loose, of *»ch a friable nature as will make it re- ceive, retain, and transmit moisture, and thus fit it to produce the most luxuriant state of vegetation. Restore to the soil as a manure, in a state of decay, the produce after it has been consumed by sheep or other stock. Never manure land until every weed is exterminated, for weeds grow most luxuriantly in the soil to which they are natural; if any are left they will outgrow the plant cultivated and take up the greatest quantity of manure laid on the land. AGRIMONY.—See RoHnson's Herbal. It is useful in coughs and bowel complaints—In decoction. It is a most valuable plant, having very many medical virtues.—It is a mild astringent, tonic, diuretic, and vulnerary, and in its qualities resembles the maiden-hair— having, however, less mucilage and more tannin, with sorofc gallic add. The best way to take it is in a strong decoction of dther the root, or plant, or both, sweetened with hooey. Dose, four tea cupfuls per day. The roots and whole plant boiled in milk is used for diabet£3 and incontinence of urine. Taken foe a length of timw it is a great benefit in scrofula, and in gravel and other obstructions. AGUE.— ,rhe la debility ; frequently marsh miasma, or the effluvia arising from stagnant water in pools, or on marshy ground. On the attack, the patient should be placed between blank- ets, and partake freely of water-gruel or barley-water. From 20 to 30 drops of laudanum, or more, should be given just before the commencement of the ague fit. The nails turn blue just before the fit begins. The fit may be moderated also by taking 1 scrapie of the carbonate of Ammonia, 8 grains compound powder of Ipecacuanha, mint-water, 1 % ounce. Peruvian Bark, or Sulphate of Quinine, is an efficacious remedy. An emetic be- fore taking it is necessary; about 20 grains of Ipecacuanha powder; then take a small dose of Salts and Senna, and the Peruvian bark in powder; an ounce will make eight doses, one of which should be taken every hour or two. Or, instead of the Peruvian bark, take from a to 4 grains of Quinine, with 1 grain of extract of Gentian, made into pills. When the disease is arrested, continue the use of the pill, taking two per day for a few weeks. Ague—Take 30 grains erf Sn&ko- root, 40 of Wormwood, % ounce of Peruvian Bark powdered, and half a pint of Port Wine. Put the whole into a bottle, and si lake it well together; divide it into four equal quantities, and take it the first thing in the morning, and the last at night, when the til 13 over. The dose should be often re- peated, to prevent a return erf the com- plaint Or, when the fit is on, take an egg beaten up in a glass of brandy, and go to bed immediately. AIR.—Impure air is highly charged with noxious gases. It is the chief cause of influenza, cholera, and fevers.—In crowded assemblies, the atmosphere soon becomes injurious. It is computed that a man destroys the vital portiou of a gallon of air per minute. Fish cannot live in impure water. Man cannot live healthfully in an Impure atmosphere. Hence houses, chapels, churches, prisons assembly rooms, sc., ought to be well ventilated.—Persons inhabiting towns should often walk into the country, for the purpose of obtaining pure air.—Pure ' air is essential to good health ; and just in proportion aa the air wc breathe be. come* irnnmw, the system h*— imp* UTV