BOS 316 FOR and two or three berries of allspice over the inside; then roll the meat as tight as you can, and roast it slowly, and at a good distance at first. PORK SAUSAGES.—Take 6 ibs. of young pork, free from gristle, or fat; cut small and beat fine in a mortar. Chop 6 lbs. of beef suet very fine; pick off the leaves of a handful of sage, and sbred it fine; spread the meat on a clean dresser, and shake the sage over the meat; shred the rind of a lemon very fine, and throw it, with sweet herbs, on the meat; grate two nutmegs, to which put a spoonful of pepper, and a large spoonful of salt; throw the suet over, and mix all well together. Put it down close in the pot; and when you use it, roll it up with as much egg as will make it roll smooth. Another way.—Chop fat and lean pork together; season with sage, pep- per, and salt, and a little allspice. The hog’s entrails having been well soaked, and made very clean, half fill them with the meat, or the meat may be kept in a very small pan, closely covered, and so rolled, and dusted with a very little flour before it is fried. Another way.—Take 3 lbs. of pork, fat and lean, without skin or gris- tle ; chop as fine as possible: season with pepper, salt, sage, rubbed fine, mix well, and put it into the skins or entrails well cleaned, or make into balls, Mix a little bread with the meat, if agreeable. PORK, Spring or Forehand of. —Cut out the bone; sprinkle salt, pep- per, sage dried, over the inside; but first warm a little butter to baste it, and then flour it; roll the pork tight, and tie it; then roast by a hanging-jack. About two hours will do it. PORK STEAKS.—Cu{ them from a loin or neck, and of/middling thickness; pepper and broil them, tinn- ing them often; when nearly done, put on salt, rub a bit of butter over, and serve the moment they are taken off the fire, a few at a time. PORRIDGE .—See Oatmeal Porridge, page 277. ^ PORTER, Cheap and Good.— Linseed, 1 oz.; the same of Spanish juice and ginger; hops, 1% oz.; malt, 1 lb.; liquorice, yt ox.; sugar and treacle, each, lbs. Boil with 4% gallons of water down to 3^ gallons; also add a little pearl or Iceland moss. When cool, stir yeast into it, and let It ferment. PORTER PLASTER, for Bruises.—This simple remedy is nothing more than 2 quarts of porter simmered, till it is reduced to a salve. PORT WINE.—British grape wine, or good cider, 4 gallons; recent juice of red elder berries, 1 gallon; brandy, 2 quarts; logwood, 4 ozs.; rhatany root, bruised, % lb. First in- fuse the logwood and rhatany root in the brandy, and a gallon of the grape wine or cider, for a week; then strain off the liquor, and mix it with the other ingredients. Keep it in a cask well bunged for a month; then bottle it. PORT WINE, to Detect Adulteration in.—It is often adul- terated with alum to make it astringent. Mix the suspected wine with lime water; to stand a day; if the wine be genuine, a number of crystals will be deposited at the bottom of the vessel. If alum be in the wine, there will be no crystals, but a slimy and muddy precipitate. Or, drop some solution of subcarbonate of potass into the wine; if alum be pre- sent, there will be a violet-coloured pre- cipitate, or cloudiness, which will vanish, if a few drops of caustic potash, or of muriatic acid be added to the mixture. PORTUGAL ONIONS, to Pickle.—Slice tjiem in strong salt and water for 24 hours; drain; put into a jar, and pour upon them vinegar spiced and boiled. Put a small piece of alum in the jar. POSSET OF BARLEY.—Boil % lb. of French barley in 3 pints of milk; boil it till it is done enough; then put in a pint of cream, some mace and cinnamon; sweeten with loaf sugar, and when it is just warm, pour in a pint of sherty wine and froth it up. A less quantity may be made. POSSET of Ale, or Beer. Take % pint of milk ; put it on the fire till it just boils; pour it on cut bread in a basin; then just boil \ pint of beer, and pour into the milk and bread. Sweeten and season as you like. POSSET, Cold.—Take J pint each of cream and white wine; the juice