APO APG 22 APOPLEXY.—It is a sudden de- privation of all the senses, and of volun- tary motion, generally the effect of com- pression of the brain ; which, when pro- duced by an effusion of blood, or a distension of the internal vessels of the head, from an accumulation of blood, is termed Sanguineous Apoplexy; and when caused by an effusion of serum, which occurs chiefly in dropsical habits, Serous Apoplexy. APOPLEXY, Sanguineous. —The short necked, the indolent, great eaters and great drinkers, are its victims ! The fit is generally preceded by a sense of weight in the head, and giddiness ; frequent head-ache ; bleed- ing at the nose ; redness of the eyes ; imperfect vision ; ringing in the ears ; numbness in the extremities ; weakness of the knees ; faltering of the voice ; drowsiness, and disturbed sleep. It is brought on by whatever hurries the cir- culation, so as to increase the afflux of blood into the vessels of the head; such as violent exercises; passions of the mind ; much straining ; whatever im- pedes the free return of blood from the head ; as a tight ligature, or handker- chief round the neck ; or lying with the head lower than the chest. If the fit has lasted long, i. e. two or three days; if the breathing is very laborious and loud ; if the patient is far advanced in life; it is probable that the disease will prove fatal. A second at- tack is always of more danger than a first; and when apoplexy comes upon a patient who has had frequent attacks of epilepsy, it very commonly proves fatal. Treatment: — Remove the cause, that is, pressure upon the brain—apply blisters to the head, and also between the shoulders—and lessen the determina- tion of the blood to the head by increas- ing the circulation in the extremities ; i. e. stimulating the feet and hands by Mustard Poultices, and by emptying the lower intestines by a clyster, made of Epsom salts, castor oil, salt, and aloes. Also give sudorifics, or medicines to pro- mote sweat. If the attack takes place soon after a full meal, an emetic should be given; Lobelia. See Robinson s Herbal, under that article ;—Keep the body nearly in an erect posture to promote the return of the blood from the head. APOPLEXY, Serous. Compression of the brain, producing apoplexy, is seldom caused by an effu- sion of the serous part of the blood. When it occurs in a dropsical person, it may be referred to an effusion of serum, which will require the aforesaid means. Cordials are proper and may be given. It is in consequence of extreme debility of the system, and generally terminates in death. Give emetics of Ipecacuanha and tartarised antimony—blisters to the head—mustard poultices to the legs and feet sharp purges diffusive stim- ulants of Ammonia, castor oil, assafos- tida, valerian, and electricity passed through the head. Prevention of Apoplexy.— Avoid intoxicating drinks, keep the feet dry and warm, take plenty of exercise, eat sparingly, sleep with the head higher than the trunk, prevent con- stipation, wash the head and sponge the chest every morning in cold water. For the treatment of Apoplexy, the following hints have been collected from the works of the most eminent physicians :— Remove all compression from every part of the body.—Immerse the legs in warm water and mustard for twenty minutes, applying friction at the same time,—Bathe the whole surface with the diluted tincture of Cayenne.—Avoid bleeding.—Put a mustard plaster be- tween the shoulders. If possible, let a brisk purgative be administered, for evacuation is necessary to unload the bowels and stomach, and therefore the pressure on the brain.—Blood-letting in Apoplexy aggravates the cerebral con- gestion.—Professor Recamier says, “ I have not the least evidence that blood letting has the smallest power to dimin- ish the violence or duration of an apop- letic paroxysm; nay, I have every rea- son to believe that it so far weakens the powers of reaction as to prove fatal, or greatly to retard the cure.”—Apply cold water to the head, and hot water to the feet, if slight symptoms begin to appear. At first do it slightly, and increase the application gradually. This will force back the blood from the upper to the lower extremities through the heart, and remove the disease.—The whole secret of treatment consists is* equalizing the circulation.