GRE 203 H till dear, taking off the scum; put the fruit singly into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels to it. To candy it, do not add the syrup, but observe the directions given for candying fruit; some may be done each way. GREEN GAGE JAM.—Peel and take out the stones. To 1 lb. of pulp put yt lb. of loaf sugar ; boil half an hour ; add lemon juice. GREEN GAGE TART. — Select fruit not quite ripe, but sound ; fill a pie-dish ; beat up % lb. of pow- dered sugar, in as much water as will dissolve it; pour over the fruit, cover with puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Lay on a coating of yolk of egg with a brush over the crust; put the tart back in the oven for a few minutes ; sprinkle powdered sugar over the top before serving. GREEN GOOSEBERRY JELLY.—Place the berries in hot water on a slow fire till they rise to the surface ; take off; cool with a little water, add also a little vinegar and salt to green them. In two hours drain, and put them into cold water a minute; drain, and mix with an equal weight of sugar ; boil slowly 20 minutes ; sieve, and put into glasses. GREEN OINTMENT.—One ounce each chickweed, tansy, worm- wood, horehound, hops, and a pinch of salt, finely powdered. Bruise, put into a kettle, cover over with lard and some spirits of wine. Infuse a week or two, and then simmer a little over the fire. Add from 8 to 12 ozs. of Venice tur- pentine.—This salve is very healing, applied to wounds, sores, and ulcers. It is useful in contusions, sprains, swellings, &c. GRETNA BUNS.—Flour, 1 lb. ; yeast, 1 gill; butter, lb. ; which rub into the flour; add the yeast, and flour sufficient to form the dough ; rise, and make into cakes; bake them on greased tins in a quick oven. GROUND IVY.—See Robin- son's Herbal. It is a purifier of the blood, beneficial to the lungs and kidneys. It is stimulant and tonic. Taken in decoction and infusion. Made into an ointment, it cures inflammation of the eyes. GROUND RICE MILK.— Boil a spoonful of ground rice, rubbed down smooth, with better than a pint of milk, a bit of cinnamon, lemon peel, and nutmeg. Sweeten. GROUND RICE PUDDING. —Boil father more than a table-spoon- ful of ground rice in a pint of new milk with lemon-peel and cinnamon. When cold, add sugar, nutmeg, and two eggs well beaten. Bake with a crust round the dish. Some incorporate currants or raisins. GROUNDSEL. — United with chickweed, and slippery elm, it makes an excellent poultice for inflammations and all painful swellings. GROUSE PIE.—Maybe made as most fowl pies, seasoning with cay- enne, salt, cloves, stock, brown gravy, and a glass of port wine. GROUSE, to Roast.— Roast them like fowls; twist the head under the wing. Roast carefully half an hour. Serve with a rich gravy with bread sauce, or on buttered toast, the under- side saturated with gravy. GRUEL,—Mix intimately a table- spoonful of oatmeal or patent groats in three or four of cold water ; add a pint of boiling water, and boil 8 or 10 minutes. GUM ARABIC STARCH.— Make a solution of the finest gum arabic with hot water. Strain. Put a little into the ordinary starch ; mix well. It will give to muslin, lawn, &c., a much improved appearance. GUMS, Tincture for the.—In- fuse 1 oz. of peruvian bark, grossly powdered, in a pint of brandy for two or three weeks. Gargle the mouth every morning and night with a tea- spoonful of this tincture diluted with an equal quantity of rose-water. The ad- dition of a little tincture of myrrh will render it more effectual as a tonic for the gum. H. This Letter is often aspirated when it should not be, and not aspirated when it should be. Aspirated. Heart Hand Hail Not to be Aspirated. Art, skill. And, a conjunction All, every one.