TEA 386 TES that will hold three pints, then pour on boiling hot water, infuse five minutes, then sweeten. For a change you may use Avens in the same way as agrimony. TEA CAKES.—Take 3 lbs. of flour, 5 ozs. of sugar, 6 ozs. of butter, rubbed into the flour, and a tea-cupful of new balm ; set them to rise with millc and water; then mix them, to stand half an hour ; make them up, roll them thin, and lay them on tins to rise; bake them a fine brown in a hot oven ; when they are baked, rub a little butter over them. TEA CAKES.—Rub fine 4 ozs. of butter into 8 ozs. of flour; mix 8 ozs. of currants, and six of fine sugar, two yolks and one white of egg, and a spoonful of brandy ; roll what size you like; beat the other white of egg, and wash over them. Dust sugar upon them, if you like. TEA CAKES, Small.—Put a lb. of butter into 1 lb. of flour ; mix lb. of sifted loaf sugar, and wet it with water; when made up divide into two equal parts; put 1 oz. of caraway seeds to one piece, to have two sorts. Rub the paste out very thin, and cut it out with a small round cutter ; butter a baking sheet, and dust it with flour; lay the cakes on, and bake in a slow oven till of a light brown. TEAL.—This delicate bird should be dressed with the utmost care. They should be served up with gravy in them, and put to a quick fire or oven. A few minutes will be sufficient. Serve with a rich gravy, or shalot sauce. TEETH, Decayed to fill,—If it has a cavity, steep a little gutta percha in boiling water ; then place sufficient in the cavity, press it down well, till it is level with the other teeth. Cool it by holding cold water a few minutes on the same side, and it will harden. ggy- Wipe the cavity as dry as pos- sible previous to the insertion. The fluid mastic cement of the shop will fill a cavity, and it allays the tooth- ache immediately.—See Teeth, hollow. TEETH, Hollow, to fill.—See Svccedancutn.—Or, take a drachm of gutta percha, softened by hot water, worked up with catechu powder and tannic acid, of each half a drachm, and with a drop of essential oil. For use, a morsel is to be softened over the flame of a spirit lamp, introduced while warm into the cavity of the tooth, and adapted properly. The mass becomes hard, and after several months exhibits no decom- position. TEETH, Loose, to Fasten.— Dissolve % oz. of myrrh in half a pint of port wine, and a ozs. of oil of almonds. Mix, and wash the mouth every morning.—Chew a little catechu, or kino, or alum occasionally. TEETH, Opiate for.—Honey, 1 pound; laudanum, 8 ounces; oil of almonds, 1 ounce; essence of bergamot, 2 drachms; tincture of pelitory, 4 ounces. Mix well and strain. Apply with a piece of cotton or lint. TENCH, to Fry.—Scale, gut, and well wash. Dry them, and lay them separately on a board before the fire, after dusting some flour over them. Fry them with fresh dripping to a fine colour. Serve with crimp parsley, and plain butter. Tench may be cooked the same as Trout, which see. TESTICLES, Cancer in.—The same treatment as in Cancer, which see. TESTICLES, Inflammation of.—The part is much pained and swollen, the pain extending along the spermatic cord ; there are symptomatic pains in the loins, &c. Adopt a recumbent posture. Suspend the part by means of a bag truss. Foment with refrigerants, washes, and apply poultices, and the stramonium ointment, or ointment made of burnt sponge, which is made by burning sponge in a closed vessel; powder it, mix with lard, and apply it. Poultices of bread and milk, softened with oil may be applied when the patient is in bed. The discutient ointment applied will be of great use. 'The stramonium poultice is highly recommended. The food must be light, and the drink diluting. Wine, spirits, and beer must be avoided. Aperients should be occa- sionally given, and the general health established. Thompson's HOT DROPS.— Gum myrrh, a ozs. ; cayenne pepper, xdrachm; spirit of wine, 1 pint. Put in a bottle, and shake several times a day for a week. Take from a teaspoon- ful in a little warm tea. These drop*