145 CRI CRI came to, and see that your bat is before the middle of the wicket; here make a mark on the ground, which is generally called the blocking-mark. The bowler now begins to bowl, and the striker should endeavour to hit any ball which comes within his compass, or if the ball given be not favourable for that purpose, he may block it; but in blocking he must be careful never to let the tip of the bat come before the handle, as the ball in such a case will probably rise in the air towards the bowler, and he will be caught out. In running, the striker must touch the bowling-stump with his bat or person, or it is no run, and he may be put out if he do not put his bat or some part of his Derson on his ground before the ball touches his wicket. With three players, the bowler and striker will be the same as when two are at play; the second player will be fieldsman, who, when the ball be hit nearer to him than to the bowler will pick it up, or catch it if he can and return it to the bowler. If the striker should attempt to run, the bowler should immediately run to the wicket, and the fieldsman should throw the ball to him, so that he may catch it, and touch the wicket with it to get the striker out. When the first striker is out, the fieldsman will take his place, the striker will bowl, and the bowler will take the field. When four players are engaged, the fourth should stand behind the wicket; and when five or more play, the additional players should take the field. The rule in such a case is simply, that as soon as a striker is out he becomes bowler, then he becomes wicket-keeper, and then he takes his place in the field on the left of the bowler, and afterwards the other places In regular succession, until it is bis turn to have a new innings. Laws of Single Wicket.—1. If there shall be less than four players on a side, bounds shall be placed, twenty- two yards each, in a line from the off and leg stump. 2. The ball must be hit before the bounds to entitle the striker to a run, which run cannot be obtained unless he touch the bowling-stump or crease, in a line with it, with his bat or person, or go beyond them, returning to the pop- ping-crease, as in double wicket, accord- ing to the law. 3. When the striker shall hit the ball, one of his feet must be on the ground behind the popping-crease, otherwise the umpire shall call " no hit." 4. When there shall be less than five players on a side, neither byes nor over- throws shall be allowed, nor shall the striker be caught out behind the wicket, nor stumped out. 5. The fieldsman must retum'’the ball so that it shall cross the space between the wicket and the bowling stumps or between the bowling stumps and the bounds ; the striker may run till the ball be so returned. 6. After the striker has made one run, he must touch the bowling stump, and run before the ball shall cross the play, to entitle him to another. 7. The striker shall be entitled to three runs for lost ball, and the same number for ball stopped with bat. 8. When there shall be more than four players to a side, there shall be no bounds ; all hits, byes, and overthrows, will then be allowed^ 9. The bowler is subject to the same laws as at double wicket. xo. No more than one minute shall be allowed between each ball. Double Wicket.—When double wicket is played, two batsmen go in at the same time,—one at each wicket: there are two bowlers, who usually bowl four balls in succession alternately. The batsmen are said to be in as long as they remain at their wickets, and their party is called the in-party; on the contrary, those who stand in the field with the bowlers, are called the out-party. Both parties have two in- nings, and the side that obtains the most runs in the double contest, claims the victory. Laws of Double Wicket.—1. The Ball must be in weight between five ounces and a hall and five ounces and three quarters, and must be be- tween nine inches and nine inches and one-eighth in circumference. 2. The Bat must not be more than thirty-eight inches in length, nor ex- ceed four inches and a quarter in its widest part. 3. The Stumps, which are three 3