BEE BEE 5° saucers, making them three-parts full, and fill them up with potatoes, mashed with a little cream ; put a bit of butter on the top, and brown them in an oven, or before the fire. BEEF SAUSAGES.—Take 2 lbs. of nice lean tender beef, and one pound of beef suet. Cut and chop them fine. Mix powdered sage and sweet herbs with the meat. Season pretty high with pepper, salt, nutmeg, &c. ; also the finely shred rind of a small lemon. Skins may be dispensed with, if they be rolled well in a beaten egg, fried in hot butter, and rolled about in the pan. BEEF, SIRLOIN, to Force.— Split it; cut off the skin and fat; bone it; chop the meat fine with beaten mace, shalots, an anchovy, half a pint of port, pepper and salt; lay the bones, fat, and skin on; skewer and pepper it well. Serve with sauce made of port wine, shalot, anchovy, and horseradish. BEEF, Sirloin, to £>ress.—Cut out all the meat and fat in little pieces as thick as your finger, and two inches long ; dredge it with flour; and fry in butter, of a nice brown; drain the butter from the meat, and toss it up in a rich gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, anchovy, and shalot. Do not let it boil on any account. Before you serve, add two spoonfuls of vinegar. Garnish with crimped parsley. BEEF SOUP.—Put into ten pints of water, eight pounds of beef, cut into two or three pieces, one pound of mixed green vegetables, four tea- spoonfuls of salt, half a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, a few shalots, and three cloves. Boil gently three hours. BEEF SOUP.—See Soup and Bouille, page 370. BEEF-STEAKS should be cut from a rump that has hung a few days. Broil them over a very clear fire, or in the oven; put into the dish a little minced shalot, and a table-spoonful oi ketchup; and rub a bit of butter on the steak the moment of serving. It should be turned often, that the gravy may not be drawn out on either side. This dish requires to be eaten so hot and fresh done, that it is not in perfec- tion if served with anything else. Pepper and salt should be added when taking It off the fire. BEEF-STEAKS, Fried.—Cm your steaks as for broiling ; put them into a stewpan, with butter; set them over a slow fire, turning them till the buttei becomes a thick white gravy ; add a little pepper and salt, pour it into a basin, and add more butter ; when they are almost enough, pour all the gravy into the basin, and put more butter into the pan ; fry them a light brown over a quick fire ; put them in a hot dish, slice a shalot among them ; put a little in the gravy drawn from them, and pour it hot upon them. BEEF-STEAKS, Rich.—Cut a fine large steak from a rump that has been well hung, or it will do from any tender part; beat it, and season with butter, pepper, salt, clove, and onion; lay it in a dish that has a cover to fit quite close, and set in the oven with water. In two or three hours it will be quite tender, and then serve with its own gravy. BEEF-STEAK, with Potatoes. —Cut thin slices of beef, beat and season them with pepper and salt, dip them into a little melted butter and broil them. When done, put them into a dish before the fire, and fry potatoes to a fine brown colour, serve with parsley chopped fine, a small piece of butter, pepper and salt. BEEF-STEAKS and OYS- TER SAUCE.—Strain the liquor from the oysters, and throw them into cold water to take off the grit; simmer the liquor with mace and lemon-peel; put the oysters in, stew a few minutes, add a little cream, and butter rubbed in flour; boil up once; and have rump- steaks, well-seasoned, and broiled, ready for throwing the oyster-sauce over, when you serve. BEEF-STEAKS, Stafford- shire.—Beat them well; flour and season; then fry with sliced onions of a fine brown; place in a stew-pan, and pour as much boiling water over them as will serve for sauce ; stew very gently half an hour, and add a spoonful of ketchup, or walnut-liquor. BEEF-STEAK, Stewed.—Peel and chop two Spanish onions, cut into small parts four pickled walnuts, and put them at the bottom of a stewpan ; add a tea-cupful of mushroom ketchup.