»4 AIR ALE healthy. It tresh air be necessary tor those in health, it is still more so for the lick who often lose their lives for want jf it. The notion that sick people must fe kept very hot is so common, that one can scarcely enter the room of the sick, without being ready to faint, on account of the hot suffocating smell. How this' must affect the sick any one may judge. No medicine is so beneficial and reviv- ing to the sick as fresh air, if it be ad- ministered pnidenily.—The atmosphere 1 of a sick room may be greatly purified and freshened bv sprinkling the floor frequently with vinegar, or any strong vegetable acid. Air:—To purify.—Powdered nitre and oil of vitriol, six drachms each. Mix, by adding one drachm of vitriol at a time. The vessel must be placed on some hot substance, and the mixture stirred with a glass rod. Place in differ- ent parts of the room. This is excellent to prevent infection from Typhus and other fevers. Air:— Country superior to Town Air. — “If you examine," says M. Pouchet, “ the bodies of animals, which live in our towns, and in our houses, you will be astonished at the enormous quantity of starch contained in their respiratory organs. In birds you will find ii even in the middle of their bones. Particles of soot, filaments of the differ- ent kinds of textures of which our clothes are made, are also found there in gTeat abundance. But the farther the animal lives from a town, the more scarce be- come these bodies. In animals and birds living in the midst of forests, you will scarcely find any at all of them ; in their case the respiratory apparatus is, on the contrary, filled with a Large quan- tity of vegetable debris chlorophyllce, &c. I liave found in the lungs of man the same atmospheric corpuscles as in ani- mals. 1 found two persons who died in one of our Hospitals—a man and a wo- man—and whose lungs I inspected, a notable quantity of fecula, normal, or after paaincation, particles of silica, and fragments of glass; fragments of painted wood of a beautiful red colour ; debris of clothes, and a Larva: of a microscopic aractmis still olive." ALABASTER, to clean.—Soap well and wash with hot water. If stained, apply fullers earth, pipe-clay, or winding. tor three or lour hours, then wash off. If very dirty and stained, first wash with, aquafortis diluted with water. ALE, FINE WELSH, to brew. —Pour forty-two gallons of water, hot, but not quite boiling on eight bushels of malt, cover and let it stand three hours. In the mean time infuse four pounds of hops in a little hot water, and put the water and bops into the tub, and run the wort upon them, and boil them to- gether three hours. Strain off the hops, and keep for the small beer. Lx-t the wort stand in a high tub till cool enough to receive the yeast, of which put two quarts of ale, or if you cannot get it, of small-beer yeast. Mix it thoroughly and often. When the wort has done work- ing the second or third day, the yeast will sink rather than rise in the middle. remove it then, and tun the ale as it works out; pour a quart in at a time, and gently to prevent the fermentation from continuing too long, which weakens the liquor. Put a bit of paper over the bung-hole two or tiiree days before stop- ping up. Ale, or Strong Beer, to brew.— Twelve bushels of malt to the hogshead for beer, (or fourteen if you want it of a very good body), eight for ale; for eitner pour the whole quantity of water, hot, but not boiling, on at once, and let it infuse three hours dose covered; mash it in the first half-hour, and let it stand the remainder of the time. Run it on the hops previously infused in water, for strong beer three quarters of a pound to a bushel; if for ale, half a pound. Boil it from the wort two hours from the time it begins to boiL Cool a pailful to add three quarts of yeast to, which will pre- pare it for putting to the rest when ready next day; but if possible put together the same night. Tun as usual. Cover the bung-hole with paper when the beer has done working ; and when it is to be stopped, Live ready a pound and a half of hops dried before the fire, put them into the bung-bole, and fasten it up. Let it stand twelve months in casks, and twelve months in bottles before it be drank. It will keep fine eight or ten years. It should be brewed the begin- ning of March. Great care must be taken that the bottles are perfectly prepared, and that the corks an: of the best sort.