RAB QUi 328 be worn round the neck alter the poul- tice is removed. QUINSY, Vapour for a.—Take powdered pepper, x oz.; mills, i quart, and boil them to i% pint; put the whole into a glass bottle with a small neck ; let the vapour be received as hot as can be borne with the mouth open. This is about the best gargle. R. RABBITS, to Choose.—An old rabbit has very long and rough claws, and gray hairs intermixed with the wool. \i young, the claws and wool are smooth; if stale it will be flexible, and the flesh will be bluish, having a kind of slime upon it; but if fresh, the flesh will be white and dry. RABBIT, an English.—Toast a slice of bread brown on both sides ; then lay it on a plate, pour a glass of port wine over it; then cut some cheese very thin, and lay it thick over the bread; put it into a Dutch oven before the fire to brown. Serve it hot RABBITS, Scotch.—Toast a piece of bread on both sides ; butter it; cut a slice of cheese the size of the bread ; toast it on both sides, and lay it on the bread. RABBITS, Welsh.—Toast a slice of bread on both sides, and butter it; toast a slice of Cheshire cheese on one side, and lay that next the bread, and toast the other with a salamander; rub mustard over, and serve very hot, and covered. RABBITS, en Casserole.—Cut them in quarters, and lard them or not; dredge them well with flour, and fry them ; put them into a pipkin with a quart of common stock, a glass of sherry, pepper, salt, sweet herbs, and butter rolled in flour; cover close, and stew them half an hour, dish, and pour the same over, garnish with Seville oranges, sliced. RABBITS, en Matelote.—Pre- pare two rabbits as for fricassee; put them with as many slices of bacon, as there are of rabbits, into a stewpan with half a pint of stock, 34 small onions, and half a bottle of mushrooms; cover with paper, and set it on a stove, to simmer an hour. Take the rabbit, and lay it or a dish; skim off the fat, and reduce the liquor nearly to a glaze; put cullis to it; give it a boil; take it from the fire, and squeeze half a lemon ; add cayenne pepper, and a little sugar; pour it over the rabbit; garnish with paste. RABBIT, to Blanch.—Set It on the fire in a small quantity of cold water, and let it boil; then take it out, aad put it into cold water for a few minutes. RABBITS, to Boil.—Take out the liver, and dress it separately; and to insure whiteness of flesh, let the rabbits soak for 10 minutes in tepid water. Half an hour's boiling will be sufficient for those of moderate size, more if they are larger. Smother with onion sauce, chop the liver very fine, and serve it in a sauce-boat; if you place the sauce round it, it may prevent those who dis- like the flavour from partaking of the dish. RABBITS, to Fricassee Brown.—Cut the rabbits as for eat- ing ; fry them in butter, a light brown; put them in a tossing-pan with a pint of water, a tea-spoonful of lemon pickle, a large spoonful of mushroom ketchup, the same of browning, one anchovy, a slice of lemon, cayenne pepper, and salt to taste; stew them over a slow fire till they are done enough; thicken the gravy, and strain in; dish up the rabbits, and pour the gravy over them. RABBITS, to Fricassee White.—Cut, and put into a tossing- pan, as before, with a pint of veal gravy, a teaspoonful of lemon pickle, oue an- chovy, a slice of lemon, a little beaten mace, cayenne pepper, and salt; stew them over a slow fire; when they are done enough, thicken with flour and butter; strain it; then add the yolks of two eggs, mixed with a gill of cream, and a little nutmeg grated in. Do no; let it boiL RABBITS, to Florentine. Skin two young rabbits; but leave on the cars ; take ont the bones leaving the head whole; lay them flat; make a forcemeat of a X lb. of bacon, scraped ; add to the bacon the crumbs of a penny loaf, a little lemon, thyme, or lemon- peel, shred fine, parsley chopped small, nutmeg, cayenne, and salt; mix them up together with an egg, and spread it over the rabbits; roll them up to the