BRA 73 BRA violent diseases of the mind, as well as of the body, are produced by irregu- larity of the bowels. The old Greeks, who were always seeking after wisdom, but did not always find it, showed their knowledge and sense in calling depres- sion of the mind melancholy, which means black bile. BRAIN, Inflammation of.—It begins with inflammatory fever, a flush- ed countenance, redness of the eyes, pain in the head, disturbed sleep, dry- ness of skin, constipation, restlessness, Irritability, pain in the stomach, a ten- dency to delirium. It is caused by hard study, intemper- ance, grief, anxiety, stopping of evacua- tions, exposure to the heat of the sun, external injuries, &c., respiration deep and slow, and sometimes difficult. The disease is a dangerous one, and often proves fatal in a few days, if not speedily arrested. Cure.—Promote the evacuations. Remove constipation by purgatives, clysters, and mix nitre with tea and other beverages. Divert the blood from the head by restoring the circula- tion in the extremities—equalize the circulation. Bathe up to the knees in warm water. In excessive inflamma- tion, apply cups to the temples, and the nape of the neck. Perspiration should also be promoted as much as possible. Should the disuse appear obstinate, put a mustard plaster between the shoulders, and to the feet at night. Frequently apply vinegar cloths to the head and temples. The less irritation, noise, light, and the better it will be for the patient. “ Cold water to the head,” says an .eminent physician, "and tepid or hot water to the surface of the body, have a powerful effect in forcing the congested blood from the head, and restoring an equilibrium in the circula- tion. The food must be simple and light, as panado, water-gruel, toast and water, or lemonade, light jellies, barley-water. Nothing stimulating must be taken. BRAN BEER. — Good bran, one bushel; water, (to produce,) eigh- teen gallons; hops, one quarter of a pound. Mash with hot water, and fer- ment in the usual way. This beer will cost about threepence per gallon ; two or three pounds of sugar, or four or five of treacle, improve It. BRANDRETH'S FAMOUS PILLS.—Aloes, four ounces; gam- boge, two ounces; extract of colo- cynth, half an ounce; Castile soap, two ounces ; peppermint, balfa drachm; cayenne pepper, lialf a drachm. Mix and form into pills. BRANDY BITTERS.—Bruis- ed gentian, eight ounces ; orange peel, four ounces ; cardamoms, three ounces; cassia, one ounce; cochineal, quarter of an ounce ; spirit, one gallon. Digest for one week, then decant the clear, and pour on the dregs, water, five pints. Digest for one week longer, decant, and mix the two tinctures together. BRASS and COPPER, to Clean.—Gently rub the article with sweet oil, and then with finely powdered rotten stone; clean, and polish with fine leather. American Method.—Powdered rotten stone, and put it into a pint ot water, intimately mix, and add a tea- spoonful of sulphuric acid. Apply, then nib off, and polish with the finest whit- ing. Or, wash in a hot solution oi alum, and when dry polish with Tripoli powder. BRASS WORK, to Clean.— Rub the article first with finest flour of emery and oil, using a piece of felt; then rub the article weU with Bath brick and lastly with fine whiting. Then rub well with wash-leather alone. This plan answers well. See Ammonia. BRASS ORNAMENTS.—Di- lute one part of sulphuric acid with three parts of water. Apply it to the article; and then polish with rotten stone and whiting. Or, rub them with powdered sal ammoniac moistened with water, first heating the article; then rub fine rotten stone, or tripoli powder. Polish with a piece of felt hat, and good wash leather to finish with. BRAWN.—Clean a pig’s head, and rub it over with salt, and a little saltpetre, and let it lie two or three days, then boil it until the bones will leave the meat; season with salt and pepper, and lay the meat hot in a mould, and press and weight it down for a few hours. Boil another hour, covering. Be sure and ait the tongue, and Lay the slices