TUR 396 TUR to preserve the natural shape as much its possible. TURKEY, to Hash.—Take off: the legs ; cut the thighs in two pieces; cut off the pinions and breast in large I pieces. Take off the skin, or it will give the gravy a greasy taste. Stew with a pint of gravy, a teaspoonful of lemon-pickle, the end of a lemon, and a little mace; boil the turkey seven minutes. Put it on your dish ; thicken the gravy with flour and butter. Mix the yolks of two eggs with a spoonful of thick cream; put it on the gravy; shake it over the fire till it is hot, but do not let it boil. Strain, and pour it over the turkey. Lay sippets round, and garnish with lemon and parsley. TURKEY, to Roast. —The sinews of the legs should be drawn whichever way it is dressed. The head should be twisted under the wing ; and in drawing it take care not to tear the liver, nor let the gall touch it. Put a stuffing of sausage-meat; or, if sausages are to be served in the dish, a bread stuffing. As this makes a large addition to the size of the bird, observe that the heat of the fire is constantly to that part; for the breast is often not done enough. A little strip of paper should be put on the bone to hinder it from scorching while the other parts roast. Baste well and froth it up. Serve with gravy in the dish, and plenty of bread-sauce in a sauce-tureen. Add a few crumbs, and a beaten egg to the stuffing of sausage-meat. TURKEY PATTIES, to Make.—Mince some of the white part, and, with grated lemon, nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, cream, and a bit of butter warmed, fill the patties. TURKEY, Pulled.—Divide the meat of the breast by pulling instead of cutting ; then warm it in a spoonful or two of white gravy, and a little cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and a little flour and butter; don't boil it. The leg should be seasoned, scored and broiled, and put into the dish with the above round it Cold chicken does as well. TURKEY, Stuffing for.—Stale bread is better than rolled crackers for stuffing. Save all bits of bread and dry in a cool oven. When well dried, roll with a rolling-pin on a board kept fos that special purpose, as the dry crumbs make the roller and board too rough for pastry; or the bread can be pounded in a mortar. Take of these fine crumbs enough to fill the body and breast of the turkey quite full; add a teaspoonful of black pepper, one tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of finely-powdered sage, one of parsley, one of summer savory, two eggs well beaten, two tablespoon- fuls of butter, and cold water enough to moisten. Some cooks chop a little sausage and mix with the dressing; in that case use less seasoning. Or mince a dozen oysters and stir into the bread- crumbs, and use the oyster liquor to moisten the whole. Or boil a pint of chestnuts, peel, take off the inside skin, and chop or pound them and mix with the other ingre- dients. When chestnuts are used, very little bread-crumbs are needed. TURKEY, Stuffing for.—Boil, peel, and pound enough chestnuts to fill the turkey; add a little pepper and salt, one egg, and a little flour to bind the chestnuts, and use nothing else. The art of making seasonings or stuffings consists chiefly in so propor- tioning all flavours that none may pre- dominate or hide the taste of others. In stuffing, leave room for swelling, or the stuffing will be hard and heavy. In ducks or geese, onion is much used in the stuffing; but as onion is very injurious to some people, before using it, one should be sure that all the family or guests can eat it without injury. TURKEY or Chicken Stuffing. —Grate three cups of bread, then rub them through a colander; pick out every bit of crust; put a very little water to the crumbs; add a scant cupful of finely-chopped suet; pick out all the stringy parts. Add chopped parsley, if agreeable to all, and, if liked highly seasoned, a little sweet marjoram and summer savory, but not unless it is known to be pleasant to all who are to partake, for these herbs are injurious to many. Grate the rind of one lemon and a very little nutmeg; add pepper and salt. Bind all together with one or two beaten egg a. TURKEY CARPETS, to Clean. — To revive the colour of *