333 RAS RAT then put the jar into a saucepan of water. Simmer, and skim it; when cold, bottle it. RASPBERRY VINEGAR.— Press out the juice of 3 pints of rasp- berries through a hair sieve to retain the seeds; put to the ittice a pint of the best vinegar; add 1 lb. of powdered loaf sugar. Let all be in a pipkin, and place it in a pan of water on the fire. Simmer 20 minutes, and filter through fine muslin. Cool, bottle and cork well. It is a very cooling beverage for thirst, colds, fevers, and inflammatory com- plaints. A teaspoonful or two in a tumbler of cold water. It may be made effervescing by using carbonate of soda. RASPBERRY WATER ICE. — Ripe raspberries, 2 quarts; ripe cherries and currants, 1 lb. each; sugar, 4 lbs. ; water, 1 quart, and the juice of two lemons. Crush the fruit, and pass it through a sieve; mix all together, and freeze. RASPBERRY WINE. —To every quart of well picked raspberries put a quart of water; bruise and let them stand two days; strain off the liquor, and to every gallon put 3 lbs. of lump sugar; when dissolved put the liquor into a barrel, and when fine, which will be in about two months, bottle it, and to each bottle put a table spoonful of brandy. RASPBERRY or CURRANT WINE.—To every three pints of fruit carefully cleared from mouldy or bad, put one quart of water; bruise the former. In twenty-four hours strain the liquor, and put to every quart 1 lb. of good sugar. If for white currants, then you must use lump sugar. It is best to put the fruit and sugar in a large pan, and when in three or four days the scum rises, take that off before the liquor be put into the barrel.— Those who make from their own gardens may not have a sufficiency to fill the barrel at once; the wine will not hurt if made in the pan, in the above proportions, and added as the fruit ripens, and can be gathered in dry weather. Keep an account of what is put in each time. RATAFIA.—Blanch 2 ozs. of peach and apricot kernels, bruise and put them irto a bottle, and fill newly up with brandy. Dissolve % lb. oi white sugar-candy in a cup of cold water, and add to it the brandy after it has stood a month on the kernels, and- they are strained off; then filter through paper, and bottle for use. The leaves of peach and nectarines, when the trees are cut in the spring, being distilled, are an excellent substitute for ratafia in puddings. RATAFIA.—Nutmegs 4 ozs.; bitter almonds, 5 lbs.; fine sugar, 4 lbs. ; ambergris, 5 grains. Infuse the whole 3 days in 4 or 5 gallons of proof spirit; then filter for use. The nutmegs and bitter almonds must be bruised, and the ambergris rubbed with the sugar in a mortar, before the spirit is added. RATAFIA CAKES. — Sweet almonds, K lb.; the same of bitter: blanch and beat them fine in orange, rose, or clear water, to keep them from oiling: sift 1 lb. of fine sugar, and mix it with the almonds; have ready the whites of 4 eggs : mix them lightly with the almonds and sugar; put it into a preserving pan ; set it over a moderate fire, and stir it quick one way, till pretty hot; when a little cool, make it into small rolls, and cut it in thin cakes; dip your hands in flour, and shake them on it; give each a slight tap with the finger; put them on sugar papers, and sift fine sugar over them just as you put them into the oven, which should be slow. RATAFIA CREAM. — Boil three or four laurel, peach, or nectarine leaves, in a full pint of cream ; strain it; and when cold, add the yolks of three eggs beaten and strained, sugar, and a large spoonful of brandy stirred quick into it. Scald till thick, stirring it all the time. RATAFIA DROPS. —Blanch and beat in a mortar 4 ozs. of bitter, and 2 ozs. of sweet almonds, with a little of 1 lb. of sugar sifted, and add the remainder of the sugar and the whites of two eggs, making a paste; of which put little balls, the size of a nut- meg, on wafer-paper, and bake gently upon tin plates. RATAFIA of CHERRIES. —Upon 3 lbs. of ripe cherries, put a lb, of rasplxsrrta; bruise them together,