HAS RA1 33* RAISIN CAKE.—One cup of Sour, 2 cups of cream, i cup of butter, 4 eggs, x lb. of raisins, cloves, cinna- mon, candied lemon, cut extremely fine, and i tea-spoonful of soda. RAISIN LOAF.—Take 6 lbs. of flour, add lbs. of raisins, J oz. of caraway and a few coriander seeds ground, a little cinnamon or clove pep- per, and half a pint of barm mixed with cold water; cut the paste with a knife very well, to make the loaf appear to be fuller of raisins. For a richer loaf, add more fruit, and rub butter in the flour and sugar; bake it a fine brown. RAISIN WINE. —To every gallon of spring-water put 8 lbs. of fresh Smymas in a large tub; stir it every day for a month ; then press the raisins in a horse-hair bag as dry as possible ; put the liquor into a cask ; and when it has done hissing, pour in a bottle of the best brandy ; stop it close for xa months ; then rack it off, but without the dregs ; filter them through a bag of flannel of 3 or 4 folds ; add the clear to the quantity, and pour 1 or 2 quarts of brandy, ac- cording to the size of the vessel. Stop it up, and at the end of 3 years you may either bottle it or drink it from the cask. Raisin wine would be extremely good if made rich of the fruit, and kept long, which improves the flavour greatly. RAISIN WINE, to Make equal to Sherry.—Wash and pick the raisins ; chop them, and to every lb. add a quart of water which has been boiled and cooled. Keep the whole in a vessel for a month, frequently stirring. Then take the raisins from the cast, and closely stop the liquor in the vessel. In a month rack it into another vessel, leaving the sediment. Repeat till it be- comes fine; than add to every 10 gallons, 6 lbs. of fine sugar, and 12 Seville oranges, the rinds being pared very thin, and infused in 2 quarts of brandy, to be added to the liquor at its last racldng. Let the whole stand 3 months in a cask and it will be fit for bottling. It should remain in bottles 12 months. To give it the flavour of Madeira, put in, when it is in the cask, 2 green citrons, to re- main till the wine is bottled. RANCID BUTTER, to Cure. —Melt it in a water-bath with powdered charcoal, and strain through flannel. RASPBERRY. —Tills plant Is well known. The leaves are astringent, and very useful in lax and flux. A de- coction or infusion has often restrained diarrhoea wjien all other remedies have failed. Besides, the infusion made strong removes canker, or morbific mat- ter from the mouth, throat, stomach, bowels, and other parts of the body. Made into a poultice, i. e. in infusion, with slippery elm, or bread, it is effectual in removing proud flesh, inflammation, &c. The infusion is a good gargle for sore mouth, &c. RASPBERRY BRANDY. — Pick fine dry fruit, put into a stone jar, and the jar into a kettle of water, or on a hot hearth, till the juice will run; strain, and to every pint add half a lb. of sugar; give one boil and skim it; when cold, put equal quantities of juice and brandy; shake well and bottle. Some people prefer it stronger of the brandy. RASPBERRY CAKES.— Pick out the bad raspberries that are among the fruit, weigh and boil what quantity you choose, and when mashed and the liquor is wasted, put to it sugar the weight of the fruit; mix it well off the fire till it is well dissolved, then put it on plates to dry in the sun ; as soon as the top part dries, cut with the cover of a canister into small cakes, turn them on fresh plates ; when dry put them in boxes with layers of paper. RASPBERRY CREAM. Mash the fruit gently, and let it drain; then sprinkle a little sugar over, and that will produce more juice; put it through a hair sieve to take out the seeds ; then put the juice to some cream, and sweeten if; after which, if you choose to lower it with some milk, it will not curdle; which it would if put to the milk before the cream ; but it is best made of rasp- berry-jelly, instead of jam, when the fresh fruit cannot be obtained. RASPBERRY CREAM. Boil 1 oz. of isinglass shavings in 3 pints of cream and new milk mixed, for 15 minutes, or until the former be melted ; strain it through a hair sieve, into a basin ; when cool, put about half a pint of raspberry-juice or syrup to the milk and cream ; stir it till well incorporated, sweeten, and add a glass of brandy;