MEA 256 ME A &c., and for common drink, barley- water, acidulated with lemon-juice. The bed-room should be kept moder- ately cool, regulating the temperature thereof by the feelings, guarding against any sudden change, and especially ex- posure to cold draughts. When the attack is of a mild charac- ter, little medicine Is wanted. Perhaps the less we interfere with the efforts of nature the better. It would be ex- treme folly to deplete the system by fccthre treatment. In mild cases, na- ture, a\littU assisted, generally effects a cure. But when the symptoms are of a sterner character, active means must be used. Place the feet in warm water, in which dissolve a little of carbonate of soda, two or three times a day. Give a mild emetic, (as the Emetic Mixture, page 172.) Give also the Aperientfor Children, page ax. Should the fever be very high, give the follow- ing Febrifuge Mixture ;—Subcarbonate of potash, s drachms; purified nitre, 30 grains; camphor mixture, 6 ozs. : mix in a strong infusion of saffron. This mixture is designed to determine the eruption to the surface. Or, the following infusion will be very effective, and it should be given as soon as possi- ble after the emetic;—saffron, two parts; Virginia snake-root, 1 part; infuse rapidly, or make a tea; sweeten and give warm, as much as the stomach will bear. If the eruption is slow in appearance, or only partially appears, or recedes, give the Sudorific Powder, page 383, warm milk sweetened, or strong balm tea with a little saffron infused. A bottle of hot water or a hot brick wrapped in a cloth, saturated with vinegar and water, or a vapour bath made of the decoction of bitter herbs, will be found most efficient. When the eruption is prominent, little more medicine is required. A little of the Composition Powder, page 134. may be given occasionally. Sponge the body from the first, now and then, with warm ley water and a little carbo- nate of soda. Wash the eyes with very weak brandy and water; or with slip- pery elm bark and a solution of borax. If the cough is severe, attended with Impeded breathing, apply a mustard plaster to the chest, and repeat, If necessary; and give the Expectorant Syrup or Tincture, page 175 ; or inhale the steam of warm water, in which 30 or 40 drops of laudanum have been in- troduced. If the head is affected, con- tinue to bathe the feet in warm water. Should there be much restlessness and pain, give the Diaphoretic Powder or Decoction, page 160. From the first attack of the measles, keep the bowels regular. A voluntary looseness indi- cates a favourable crisis;. and, if moder- ate, it should not be checked. When it is very severe, it should be checked by some mild astringent; as, an infu- sion of raspberry leaves ; or an infusion of raspberry leaves, and a few drops of laudanum. Should the system be much debilitated, with a tendency to putrescency, the strength should be supported with cordials, beef tea, calf’s feet jelly, and an infusion of Peruvian bark in port wine. Give also an infu- sion of malt with two tablespoonfuls of yeast to a quart of the former, in order to neutralize the putrescence indicated by purple spots, &c. Patients recovering from the measles should not expose themselves too soon to the cold air. The food ought for some time to be light, and the drink diluting. Cooling lenitive medicines are essentially necessary after this dis- ease, to carry off the remaining dispo- sition to inflammatory affection of the lungs. Through every stage of the disease, the state of the lungs must be carefully regarded, for it is from the effect on them that the danger of the measles in most cases depend. It is necessary also to give tonic bitters for the recovery of the former strength, to breathe a pure air, and if the lungs will bear it, and the weather suitable, to take gentle open air exercise. See page 353. MEAT, Observations on.—In all kinds of provisions, the best of the kind goes the farthest; it cuts out with most advantage, and affords most nourishment. Round of beef, fillet of veal, and leg of mutton, are joints of higher price; but as rtbey have more solid meat, they deserve the preference. But those joints which are inferior may be dressed as palatably. 1 In loins of meat, the long pipe that runs by the bone should be taken out, as It is apt to taint; as also the kernels