III CARDS CARDS Calculations.—I It is about five to four that your partner holds one card out of any two. a It is about five to two that he holds one card out of three. 3 It is about four to one that he holds one card out of any four. It is two to one that he does not d a certain card 5 It is about three to one that he does not hold two cards out of any three. 6 It is about three to two that he does not hold two cards out of any four. Laws of Whist.—I It a card is turned up in dealing, the advent party, on naming it, may call a new deal, un- less they have touched or looked at the card, so as to have been the means of causing it. a If any card, except the last, is faced it is undoubtedly a new deal. 3 Should any one play with twelve cards, and the others with their proper number, the deal is good, and he who has the twelve cards is punished for any revoke he may have made, but if either of the others have fourteen cards, the deal is lost. 4 If the dealer does not turn up the last card, it is a lost deal. 5 The dealer to leave the last, or trump card, on the table, till he has played; after which, none may ask what card was turned up, although they may inquire what suit is trumps at any time. Should he leave it on the table after the first round, it may be called, as if shown by accident. 6 Any one has a right before he plays to call on the players to place their cards before them ; which is, in other words, to ask who played them. It is therefore a quibble to say, they have no right to make that demand. 7 If any one omits playing to a trick, and remains with a card too many, the adversaries, at their option, may call a fresh deal 8 If a person leads, and his partner plays before his turn, the adversary’s partner may do the same. 9 If any one plays out of his turn, the adversaries have the option to call that card at any time, or direct the party whose turn it was, to play any suit they choose, to If a person supposing that he has won a trick, leads again before his part- ner has played to it, the adversaries may oblige bis partner to win it if he can. n If the ace or any other card of a suit is led, and any person plays out of turn, whether his partner has any of the suit led or not, he is neither to trump it nor win it provided he does not revoke. Of Calling Honours.—12 The partner who reminds his partner to call after the trump card is turned up, for- feits a point. 13 Mistakes relative to tricks may be rectified at any time during the game, whether called or not. Also honours, if proved to have been called in time, though not scored ; but they cannot be claimed after the trump is turned up. 14 If any one calls, except at the point of eight, the adverse party may consult together and call a new deal. 15 If any person calls, after he has played, the adversaries may call a new deal, but not consult together. 16 If any person answers without an honour, the adversaries may consult, and stand the deal or not. Of Separating, or Showing the Cards.—17 Any player may call a card from his adversary, if he names it, and proves the separation. Should he name a wrong one, he may have his best or worst card called of any suit played during the deal. 18 Cards thrown down cannot be re- sumed, but may be called by the adver- saries. They may be shown down by the player, if sure of every trick. Revoking. — 19 There are four penalties on a revoke, which take place every other score. The adversaries may make three tricks from the party revok- ing, or three from their score, or add three to their own ; and if there still should remain enough to make the party revoking win the game, they cannot win it but remain at nine. 20 If any person revokes, and before the party revoking nas played again, or the trick being turned or quitted, it may be recalled ; but the adversaries, at their option, may call from the highest or the lowest of the suit at the time, or the card shown at any time during the deal. 21 If a revoke Is claimed, the adver-