287 OYS OYS pan 8 doves, 2 or 3 onions ; allspice and black pepper, of each J a dr,; cayenne pepper, 1 dr.; cover with cold water; skim as long as any scum rises ; cover the pan very dose, and simmer till the meat becomes tender, and will easily leave the bones. A table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup and a glass of wine will be a great improvement. OYSTERS, au Citron.—Instead of vinegar and black pepper, squeeze fresh lemon juice over the fish, and use soluble cayenne. OYSTERS, Broiled.—To broil oysters, roll them in flour or oatmeal, and as each oyster is taken from the gridiron, put a bit of butter on it. Keep hot and covered until served. Oysters ought to be eaten where they are broiled. OYSTERS, to Escallop.-Wash them in their own liquor; then strain the liquor, and put it to them again ; put some of them into escallop shells ; strew bread crumbs over them, with a little pepper, and a bit of butter ; then more oysters, bread crumbs, and a bit more butter at the top ; put them in a dutch-oven till they are brown. OYSTERS, to Feed.—Put them into water and wash them with a birch- besom till quite dean; then lay them bottom downwards into a pan, sprinkle with flour or oatmeal and salt, and cover with water. Do the same every day, and they will fatten. The water should be pretty salt. OYSTERS, to Fry,—Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs, season it a very little, dip the oysters into it, and fry them a fine yellow brown. A little nutmeg should be put into the sea- soning, and a few crumbs of bread into the flour. OYSTERS, to Fry.—Take 2 dozen large oysters ; beat the yolks of a eggs ; add to it a little nutmeg, a blade of mace pounded, a spoonful of flour, and a little salt; dip in the oysters, and fry them in lard a light brown ; if agree- able, a little shred parsley may be added. They are a proper garnish for cod's- hsad, calf’s head, or most made dishes. OYSTER KETCHUP.-Beard the oysters ; boil them up in their liquor; strain, and pound them in a mortar; boil the beards in spring water, and strain it to the first oyster liquor ; boil the pounded oysters in the mixed liquors with beaten mace and pepper. Some add a very little mushroom ketchup, vinegar, or lemon-juice ; but the less the natural flavour is over-powered the bet- ter ; only spice is necessary for its pre- servation. This oyster ketchup will keep perfectly good longer than oysters are ever out of season in England. OYSTER LOAVES. — Open them, and save the liquor ; wash them in it; then strain it through a sieve, and put a little of it into a tosser with a bit of good butter and flour, white pepper, a scrape of nutmeg, and a little cream. Stew them, and cut in dice ; put them into rolls sold for the purpose. OYSTER PATTIES.—Put a fine puff paste into small patty-pans, and cover with paste, with a bit of bread in each; and against they are baked have ready the following to fill with, taking out the bread. Take off the beards of the oysters, cut the other parts in small bits, put them in a small tosser, with a grate of nutmeg, the least white pepper, and salt, a morsel of lemon-peel, cut so small that you can scarcely see it, a little cream, and a little of the oyster liquor. Simmer for a few minutes before you fill. Observe to put a bit of crust into all patties to keep them hollow while baking OYSTERS, to Pickle.—Wash 4 dozen of the largest oysters you can get in their own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor off, adding to it, a des- sert-spoonful of pepper, 2 blades of mace, a table-sp‘oonfiil of salt, if the liquor be not veiy salt, 3 of white wine, and 4 of vinegar.—Simmer the oysters a few minutes in the liquor, then put them in small jars and boil the pickle up, skim it, and when cold, pour over the oysters : cover close. OYSTERS, to Pickle. —Open the number you intend to pickle, put them into a saucepan with their own liquor for 10 minutes, simmer them very gently; then put them into a jar, one by one, that none of the grit may stick to them, and cover them when cold with the pickle thus made. Boil the liquor with a bit of mace, lemon-peel, and black peppers, aud to every too put a spoonfuls of the best vinegar.