106 CARDS CARDS 13 If the king is called, or his partner plays out of bis turn, the vole is to be played for. 14 No person is to be basted for a renounce, unless the trick is turned and quitted; and if any renounce is dis- covered in time, should the player happen to be basted by such a re- nounce, all the parties are to play three cards over again. 15 Forced spadille is not obliged to play for the vole, nor make three tricks, 16 Whoever undertakes to play the vole, has the preference of playing before him who offers to play “sans prendre." 17 If agreeable to all parties, let the person have the preference of playing, who plays for the most tricks, which will prevent small games. 18 N The ombre is entitled to know his king called, before he declares for the vole. 19 When six tricks are played, he who won the sixth ought to say, “ I play the vole,’’ or “ I do not play the vole,” or “ I ask and nothing else. 20 He who wins the vole is to take the double stake played for, out of the pool. 21 tie who asks leave (if elder hand,) may play "sans prendre,” in preference to any of the other players. 22 A player who has one or more kings, may call himself, but must win six tricks. 23 If you play the king surrendered, he must win six tricks who demands the king of any player. 24 He!who has passed once (unless spadilld) has no right to call afterwards ; also he who has asked is obliged to play, unless somebody else plays “ sans prendre.” 25 If the ombre or his friend show their cards, before they have won six tricks, the adversaries may call their cards as they please. 26 Whoever asks leave, cannot play “ sans prendre,” unless forced. 27 You may look at all the tricks turned, when you are to lead, but not otherwise. 28 Whoever undertakes playing for the vole and does not succeed, has a right to the stakes “ sans prendre,” and matadores, if he has them, having won his game. 29 Any person discovering his game, is not entitled to play for the vole. 30 If there happen to be two cards oi one sort, and found out before the deal is ended, the deal is void, but not other- wise. 31 Nobody is to declare bow many trumps are played out. 32 He who calls and does not make three tricks, is to be basted alone, un- less forced spadille. QUINZE.—This game, as its name implies, is a French game of fifteen up, (very similar to Vingt-un,) which are to be made in the following manner: The pack of cards must be shuffled by the players, and when they have cut for deal, which belongs to him who cuts the lowest, the dealer has the privilege of shuffling last; this being done, the adversary cuts, after which the dealer gives one card to his adver- sary, and one to himself: if his adver- sary does not like his card, he has a right to have as many more given him, one after the other ; the pips of which will make fifteen, or come nearest to it; which are usually given from the top of the pack. For example ; if he should draw a deuce and then a five, which make seven, he should go on again in hopes of coming nearer to fifteen ; if he draws an eight, which makes just fifteen, and being elder hand, he is sure of winning the game ; but if he overdraws himself, and makes above fifteen, he loses, unless the dealer does the same; in which case it is a drawn game, and they double the stakes. Thus they go on, until one of them wins the game, by standing, and being fifteen, or the nearest to it below that number. At the end of each game the cards are shuffled, and the players cut again for deal; the elder hand always having the advantage. This game is admired for its fairness and simplicity ; depending entirely on chance, being soon decided, and not requiring that attention which most other games of cards do. , ROUGE ET NOIR, Game of. —This game is much in vogue on the continent. It takes its name of red and black, not from the cards, but from the colours marked on the green cloth with which the table is covered.