BLOOD-ROOT 68 BLOOD-ROOT plethoric constitutions, when respira- tion is very difficult, the cheeks and hands livid, the pulse full, soft, vibra- brating, and easily compressed, the Blood-root has done more to obviate the symptoms and remove the disease than any other remedy used. It is most useful in bleeding at the lungs, influ- enza, hooping-cough, and croup. It should be given in quantity to cause vomiting. , Thirty drops of the saturated alco- holic solution taken three times a day, cured a bad case of rheumatism in a gouty person. It is also of great benefit in Asthmatic affections, scarlet fever, jaundice, and female obstructions. In Water of the Chest, (hydrothorax,) doses of fifty or sixty drops should be fiven until nausea follows each dose, t is excellent in chest complaints, ^and excessive expectoration. Externally, Blood-root is a great healer of the worst sores, ulcers, ring- worms, tumours, (and taken as snuff, of Polypus ;)—used as a powder, or as a wash. The roots are generally used ; but the leaves have similar virtues. It is given in the form of syrup, extract, infusion, decoction, and tincture. As an emetic it should be combined with Lobelia. If infused in vinegar, its effects as a wash, are more powerful in sores, ulcers, tetters, and ringworms. Dr. Tully asserts that in the subacute form of inflammation, which often pre- cedes a rapid phthisis, or consumption, the cure may, in general, be trusted to Sanguinaria, (Blood-root) and Opium, after the previous use of aperients. In confirmed phthisis, it is of more value, he says, in combating and palliating symptoms than any other remedy. Dr. Stevens, of Ceres, (1850) has seen the most marked benefit result from it in haemoptysis, (spitting of blood.) For this symptom it was employed by Dr. N. Smith, and others, with remarkable success, some years ago. As an expectorant in the first and second stage, its action is said to be certain to arrest the cough and freely empty the bronchial tubes. In the second and third stages, it is a remedy of some importance, that can be relied on. "• I gave it to three cases of that condi- v n of body, preceding the deposition of tubercle, although there was cough, short and feeble inspiration, and a general phthisical aspect. In one, a girl of ten years, there was an hereditary predisposition, and many symptoms of phthisis in the first stage were present, but no physical signs of the disease. She had taken cod-liver oil and other remedies without benefit, and was ex- tremely weak and emaciated. After attending to the secretions, I put her on the compound sanguinaria powder nightly, which permitted me subsequent- ly to give her steel, and to resume the cod-liver oil. Her health improved; the cough diminished and disappeared ; she gained strength and flesh, and was restored to perfect health. In a girl of ten years with a sluggish liver, jaundice, cough, but no deposition of tubercle, the same good result ensued, although the time was longer. In the first stage of phthisis, wherein actual deposition of tubercle was going on, with all the symptoms well marked, in which cod-liver oil alone was not agreeing, I have combined with it small doses of the compound sanguinaria powder twice a day, with relief to short- ness of breath, and improvement of the general health; and all the improve- ment has been attributed by the patients to the sanguinaria. In the second stage, the tincture in moderate^doses may be combined with other expectorants with great advantage, and will assist other remedies to cure ; whilst, in the third, the relief afforded in a ready expectoration and complete emptying of the bronchial tubes is really marvellous. The expectoration becomes more easy, the breathing clearer, the spasmodic efforts of coughing less ; and much improvement will result for a time in the last stage of this malady. Some bitter infusion may be combined with the sanguinaria, with decided good effect in the dyspepsia, or loss of appe- tite sometimes present. I believe the sanguinaria in moderate doses will be found a remedy of much service in the pretubercular and first stages of phthisis, either alone or combined with other sub- stances ; and that as an expectorant, in the second and third, it cannot be sur- passed. It materially helps to prolong life even in very hopeless cases. Bronchitis. In the chronic form,