SCA SCA 352 nutmeg, a little pepper and salt and a little cream, for a few minutes. Put it into the scallop shells, and fill them with crumbs of bread, over which put some bits of butter, and brown them before the fire. Veal and ham eat well done the same way, and lightly covered with crumbs of bread, or they may be put on in little heaps. SCARLATINA, or Scarlet Fever.—It derives its name from the colour of its eruptions. It is a disease of infancy, and seldom attacks adults. It never attacks the same person twice. It begins with chilliness and shiverings, languor and depression of spirits, a dry skin, and pains in the head; and soon the whole skin becomes covered with specks, or minute inflammations, larger and redder than those of the measles. In two or three days, they disappear, succeeded by scalings of the scarf skin, like bran dispersed over the body, which fall off and appear again two or three times successively. This disease is sometimes of a more malignant type, tending towards putrefaction. It is attended with severe sore throat; the uvula, and all the back part of the throat are very red, painful, and swollen, and the swallowing much impeded, or ren- dered nearly impossible. It is often attended with delirium, the spots be- come black; the disease becomes dan- gerous. Scarlatina is infectious. Treatment.—If the disease is of a mild character, little more is required than to observe a cold diet, and to avoid cold air, and cold drinks. If the body be costive, give an Aperient; see page ai. If the fever be high, give the Saline Mixture, page 345. Take a small cupful at a time. Barley water, acidulated with tamarinds, or lemon- juice affords a good beverage. Give also the Sudorific Powder. Emetics will be useful as soon as the disease begins. The Emetic Powder should not be neglected. Bathe the feet in warm water, and give saffron tea. Drink balm tea frequently. Scarlet fever is caused by some mor- bific matter taken into the circulation by the lungs; and the increased action in the system is a healthy effort of nature to expel such morbific matter. Nature therefore must be assisted; or if her efforts are too great, she must be restrained. It is not always necessary to give the Emetic Powder ; but if there be soreness of the throat, and much phlegm, hindering the breathing, the powder will have a good effect, abating the febrile symptoms, curing the dis- ease, or rendering the attack light Mr, Stephens asserts that he gave the fol- lowing mixture in 400 cases, after they had assumed the most alarming appear- ance, the majority of which it cured; viz.—Cayenne, a table-spoonful; com- mon salt, 114 tea-spoonful. Beat into a paste ; pour upon it a pint of boiling water; to stand an hour; then add half a pint of good vinegar. A table- spoonful of the mixture every hour. Do not neglect to give an aperient that will cleanse the stomach and bowels. Cas- tor oil, and salts and senna, or senna and manna, are appropriate purgatives. It is very good to bathe the surface with warm soft water, to which has been added a little ley. Some have recommended ablutions of cold water; but they should not be adopted except where the heat of the skin is great, and where perspiration is absent. It often moderates the subsequent symptoms.— But no dangerous reaction takes place from tepid as from cold water, nor will any danger whatever result from it, as it is a most valuable auxiliary, and the use of it cannot be too highly recom- mended. If the throat be sore, and the swallowing difficult, foment it with the Rheumatic Liquid. Gargle, as in Sore Throat. The Diaphoretic Powder will have an anodyne influence, and should not be neglected. Should the disease assume the malig- nant type, give immediately the vapour bath of bitter decoction, and emetics, and doses of the cayenne and salt mix- ture, as just mentioned; it may be made a little stronger. If putrid symp- toms appear, give yeast mixed with honey and milk. Also gargle with it; and apply yeast poultices to eruptions run into a sore. Let the room in which the patient is confined be well ventilated, and of a proper temperature ; but keep away cold air from him by all means. In the beginning of this disease, the diet should be light and easy of diges- tion. Diluents should be freely taken, as balm tea, barley gruel, Ac., with a squeeze of lemon In thorn. If there U