349 SAU SAU a spoonful of hashed shalot, washed and dried in a cloth, half a bay-leaf, two cloves, and a gill of oil; put them all upon the fire; when nearly ready, take out the lemon, and put in a spoonful of minced parsley, a spoonful of Espagnolc, a glass of good white wine, without re- ducing it, and a little pepper; reduce, skim, take out the ham, and when it has obtained its point, take it off. SAUCE, Lemon, for Boiled Fowls.—Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into a pint of sweet rich cream, with a sprig of lemon- thyme, and ten white pepper-corns. Simmer gently, till it tastes well of the lemon; then strain it, and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter, and a dessert-spoonful of flour rubbed in it. Boil it up; then pour the juice of the lemon strained into it, stirring it well. * Dish the chickens, and then mix a little white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but don’t boil them together, and salt to your taste. SAUCE, Menhold.—Put into a stewpan a bit of butter broken in pieces; shake over it a little flour, and add a little milk or cream ; season it with parsley, young onions, a small bay-leaf, mushrooms, and shalots; put It on the fire and stir often; pass it through a sieve; put it on the fire with some parsley and a little pepper. SAUCE, Poivrade.—Cut twelve small dices of ham, and put them into a stewpan, with a little bit of butter, five or six branches of parsley, two or three young onions cut in two, a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, a little sweet basil, thyme, and two cloves; put them to- gether upon a quick fire; when they are well done, put in a little fine pepper, a large spoonful of vinegar, and four spoonfuls of cullis or broth, not re- duced ; shake and boil it, draw it to the edge of the stove, and let it simmer three quarters of an hour; skim, and pass it through a sieve or colander. SAUCE, Ramolade.—Put into a very nice tin saucepan a pint of port wine, a gill of mountain, half a pint of fine walnut ketchup, 12 anchovies, and the liquor that belongs to them, a gill of walnut pickle, the rind and juice of a large lemon, four or five shalots, some cayenne to taste, 3 ozs, of scraped horse-radish, 3 blades of mace, and a teaspoonfuls of made mustard ; boil it all gently till the rawness goes off; then put it into small bottles for use. Cork them very close, and seal the top. SAUCE, Robart, for Rumps or Steaks.—Put a piece of butter, the size of an egg, into a saucepan, set It over the fire, and when browning throw in a handful of sliced onions, cut small; fry them brown, but don't let them burn; add half a spoonful of flour, shake the onions in it, and give it another fry : then put four spoonfuls of gravy, and some pepper and salt, and boil it gently ten minutes ; slum off the fat; add a teaspoonful of made mustard, a spoonful of vinegar, and juice of half a lemon ; boil it all, and pour it round the steaks. They should be of a fine yellow brown, and gar- nished with fried parsley and lemon. SAUCE, for any kind of Fish. —Take a little of the water that drains from the fish ; add an equal quantity of veal gravy ; boil them together, and put it into a saucepan, with an onion, an anchovy, a spoonful of ketchup, and a glass of sherry; thicken with butter rolled in flour, and a spoonful of cream. SAUCE, for Carp or boiled Turkey.—Rub lb. of butter with a teaspoonful of flour, put to it a little water, melt it, and add near a quarter of a pint of thick cream, and half an anchovy chopped fine, not washed ; set it over the fire, and as it boils up, add a large spoonful of real India soy. If that does not give it a fine colour, add a little more. Turn it into the sauce- tureen, and put some salt and half a lemon ; stir well to hinder from curd- ling. SAUCE, for cold Partridges, and Moor-Game, &c.—Pound four anchovies, and two cloves of garlic, in a mortar: add oil and vinegar to the taste. Mince the meat, and put the sauce to it as wanted. SAUCE, for Ducks.—Serve a rich gravy in the dish ; cut the breast into slices, but don’t take them off; cut a lemon, and put peppier and salt on it; then squeeze it on the breast, and pour a spoonful of gravy over before you help. SAUCE, for Fowl of any sort. —Boll some veal gravy, pepper, salt.