SAK SAL 347 and chop !t small; bruise the body, and mix it well with the butter; pour it over the salmon ; make a good crust; put on the lid, and bake it well. SALT, to Prepare for the Table.—Dry it in a Dutch oven be- fore the fire. Then place it upon clean, smooth, stiff paper, and roll it with a rolling-pin. SALT, to save Manure.—Dis- solve common salt in water; sprinkle the same over the manure heap, and the volatile parts of the ammonia will be- come fixed salts, from their having united with the muriatic acid of the com- mon salt, and the soda thus liberated from the salt will quickly absorb car- bonic acid, forming carbonate of soda ; thus you will retain with your manure the ammonia that would otherwise fly away, and you have also a new and im- portant agent introduced, viz., the car- bonate of soda, which Ls a powerful sol- vent of all vegetable fibre. SALT COD, to Dress.—Soak the cod all night in 2 parts water, and 1 part vinegar. Boil, and break into flakes on the dish ; pour over it boiled parsnips, beaten in a mortar, and then boil up with cream, and a large piece of butter rolled in a bit of flour. It may be served with egg-sauce instead of par- snip, or boiled and served without flak- ing with the usual sauce. All Salt Fisk may be done in a simi- lar way. Pour egg-sauce over it, or parsnips, boiled and beaten fine with butter and cream. SALTS OF LEMONS.—Take equal parts of cream of tartar and citric acid, powdered very fine, and mix toge- ther. This forms the salts of lemons as sold at the druggist's shops in small oval boxes at is. each, printed directions for using which may be had of any druggist. SALVE, Family. — Take the root of yellow dock and dandelion, equal parts ; add a good proportion of celan- dine and plaintain. Extract the juices by steeping or pressing. Strain care- fully and simmer the liquid with sweet cream, or fresh butter and mutton tal- low, or you may take sweet oil and mut- ton tallow. Simmer together until no appearance of the liquid remains. Be- fore it ls quite cold, put It into boxes as you may desire. This Is one of the most soothing and healing preparations for burns, scalds, cuts, and sores ci every description that can be produced, SALVE, for all Wounds.— Take 1 lb. of hog's lard, 3 ozs. of white lead, 3 ozs. of red lead, 3 ozs. of bees' wax, 2 ozs. of black rosin, and 4 ozs. of common turpentine; all these ingredi- ents must be put together in a pan, and boil % of an hour ; the turpentine to be put in just before it is done enough, and give it a gentle boil afterwards. This is an excellent cure for bums, sores, or ul- cers, as it first draws, then heals after- ■, ward ; it is excellent for all wounds. SAMPHIRE.—Put green sam- phire in a pan, throw salt over it, and cover with spring water. After laying 24 hours, put into a jar with a handful of salt, and cover it with the best vine- gar. Put over a gentle fire in a sauce- pan till it is just crisp and green; do not let it be soft, for it would then be spoiled. Put into pickling jars, and cover close. SANDARAC VARNISH, for cut-paper works, dressing boxes, &c.—Gum sandarac, 6 ozs.; gum elemi, 4 ozs.; spirits of wine, 2 lbs. The soft resins must be pounded with the dry bodies; the camphor is to be added in pieces. SANDWICH.—Butter and grated cheese, equal portions, with a little mustard ; beat them in a mortar into one mass ; spread this mixture up- on slices of bread ; then put on slices of ham, or any kind of meat; cover with another piece of bread. Salt. Beef and water cress make a nice sandwich. SARAGOSSA WINE, or English Sack.—To every quart of water, put a sprig of me, and to every gallon a handful of fennel root; boil % an hour; strain off, and to every gallon of liquor, put 3 lbs. of honey ; boh it 2 hours, and skim well; pour it into the cask for a year, then bottle it. SARSAPARILLA.—This plant is a native of America. It has a mild, bitterish, and glutinous taste, not at all disagreeable. It Ls healing, pectoral, sudorific, stimulant, diaphoretic, cor- dial. An infusion or decootion is good for all diseases of the blood, for scro- fula, swellings, chronic rheumatism.