18 AJV1M AN1> wash, rinse in cold water, dry first In an old silk handkerchief, and then rub with buck or chamois skin. Their freshness and brilliancy when thus cleaned cannot be surpassed by any compound used by jewellers. For washing Silver, put half a teaspoonful into the suds ; have the water hot; wash quickly, using a small brush, rinse in hot water, and dry with a clean linen towel; then rub very dry ' with a chamois-skin. Washed in this manner, silver becomes very brilliant, requires no polishing with any of the powders or whiting usually employed, and does not wear out. Silver-plate, jewelry, and door- plates can be beautifully cleaned and made to look like new by dipping a soft cloth or chamois-skin in a weak prep- aration of ammonia-water, and rub- bing the articles with it. Put half a teaspoonful into clear water to wash Tumblers or glass of any kind, rinse and dry well, and they will be beautifully clear. For washing Windows, looking- glasses, etc., a little ammonia in the water saves much labour, aside from giving a better polish than anything else; and for general house-cleaning it removes dirt, smoke, and grease, most effectually. Spots on towels and hosiery will disappear with little trouble if a little ammonia is put into enough water to soak the articles, and they are left in it an hour or two before washing ; and if a cupful is put into the water in which white clothes are soaked the night be- fore washing, the ease with which the articles can be washed, and their great whiteness and clearness when dried, will be very gratifying. Remembering the small sum paid for three quarts of ammonia of common strength, one can easily see that no bleaching preparation can be more cheaply obtained. No articles in kitchen use are so likely to be neglected and abused as the dish-cloths and dish-towels; and in washing these, ammonia, if properly used, is a greater comfort than anywhere else. Put a teaspoonful into the water in which these cloths are, or should be, washed every day; rub soap on the towels. Put them in the water; let them stand a half hour or so, then rub them out thoroughly, rinse faithfully, and dry out-doors in clear air and sun, and dish-cloths and towels need never look gray and dingy—a perpetual dis- comfort to all housekeepers. Sweet-oil or almost any grease may be taken out of a Carpet by putting one tablespoonful of ammonia or hart- shorn and two of beefs gall into a pint of warm water, and sponging the spot with the mixture very thoroughly. Then rinse repeatedly with pure alcohol, and wipe with a piece of woollen cloth till nearly dry. If the spot has been of long standing, this may need to be re- peated two or three times before the grease is all removed. We have never known it to fail. ANCHOVIES, to choose.— They are preserved in barrels, with bay- salt : no other fish has the fine flavour of the anchovy. The best look red and mellow, and the bones moist and oily; the flesh should be high flavoured, the liquor reddish, and have a fine smelL ANCHOVIES, Essence of.— Take two dozen of anchovies, chop them, and without the bone, but with some of their liquor strained, add to them sixteen large spoonfuls of water; boil gently till dissolved, which will be in a few minutes—when cold, strain and bottle it. ANCHOVY SAUCE. —Chop one or two anchovies, without washing, put to them some flour and butter, and a little water ; stir it over the fire till it boils once or twice. If the anchovies are good, they will dissolve. ANCHOVY TOAST.— Bone and skin six or eight anchovies ; pound them to a mass with an ounce of fine butter till the colour is equal, and then spread it on toast or rusks. Another way.—Cut thin slices of bread into any form, and fry them in clarified butter. Wash three anchovies, split, pound them in a mortar with some fresh butter, rub them through a hair- sieve, and spread on the toast when cold. Then quarter and wash some anchovies, and lay them on the toast. Garnish with parsley or pickles. ANDERSON’S PILLS—Con- sist of Barbadoes aloes, with a propor- tion of jalap, and oil of anise seed. In