POT 319 POT POTATO FRITTERS. Boil two large potatoes, scrape them fine ; beat four yolks and three whites of eggs, and add to the above one large spoonful of cream, another of sweet wine, a squeeze of lemon, and a little nutmeg. Beat this batter half an hour at least. It will be extremely light. Put a good quantity of fine lard in a stew- pan, and drop a spoonful of the batter at a time into it. Fry them ; and serve as a sauce, a glass of white wine, the juice of a lemon, one dessert spoonful of peach-leaf or almond water, and some white sugar warmed together : not to be served in the dish. Another Way.—Slice potatoes thin, dip them in a fine batter, and fry. Serve with white sugar, sifted over them. Lemon peel, and a spoonful of orange-flower water, should be added to the batter. POTATOES, to Fry. — Cut them into thin slices ; fry them brown, either in butter or beef gravy, or batter. POTATOES, to Mash.—Boil the potatoes, peel them, and break them to paste ; then to 2 lbs. of them add a quarter of a pint of milk, a little salt, and 2 ozs. of butter, and stir it all well over the fire. Either serve them thus, or place them in the dish in a form, and then browit them before the fire. They may be placed in moulds, and browned. They are sometimes coated with white or yolk of egg. POTATO PASTY. — Boil, and peel, and mash potatoes as fine as possible; mix them with salt, pepper, and a good bit of butter. Make a paste; roll it out thin like a large puff, and put in the potatoes; fold over one half, pinching the edges. Bake in a moderate oven. POTATO PIE.—Skin some potatoes, and cut them into slices; season them ; and also some mutton, beef, pork, or veal, and a lump of butter. Put layers of them and of the meat. A few eggs boiled and chopped fine, improve it POTATOES in PLENTY.— A farmer planted four potatoes in April, In two of which he inserted a bean, and a pea in each of the other two. The peas and beans produced a good crop, and the potatoes were free from disease. One of the potatoes produced 58 tubers, the second 30, the third 29. and tho fourth 25. POTATO PUDDING. Take lb. of boiled potatoes, 2 ozs. of butter, the yolks and whites of two eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, one spoonful of white wine, a morsel of salt, the juice and rind of a lemon ; beat all to froth ; sugar to taste. A crust or not, as you like. Bake it. If wanted richer, ;put 3 ozs. more butter, sweet- meats and almonds, and another egg. POTATO PUDDING with MEAT.—Boil till they are fit to mash; rub through a colander, and make into a thick batter with milk, and two eggs. Then lay some seasoned steaks in a dish, then some batter; and over the last layer put the remainder of the batter. Bake a fine brown. POTATO RIBBONS. —Cut the potatoes into slices, rather more than half an inch thick, and then pare round and round in very long ribbons. Place them in a pan of cold water, and a short time before wanted, drain them from the water. Fry them in hot lard, or good dripping, until crisp and browned ; dry them on a soft cloth, pile them on a hot dish, and season with salt and cayenne. POTATOES Roasted under the Meat.—These are very good; they should be nicely browned. Half boil large mealy potatoes; put into a baking dish, under the meat roasting; lade the gravy upon them occasionally. They are best done in an oven. POTATO ROLLS.—Boil three lbs. of potatoes ; crush and work them with two ozs. of butter, and as much milk as will cause them to pass through a colander; take half a pint of yeast and half a pint of warm water ; mix with the potatoes; pour the whole upon 5 lbs. of flour ; add salt; knead it well; if too thick, put to it a little more milk and warm water; to stand before the fire an hour to rise ; work it well, and make it into rolls. Bake half an hour. POTATO ROT. — Take the apples that grow on the potato plant, when fully ripe ; cut them open ; take out the small seeds, and dry them; keep them till the spring; then sow' them In hot beds, like onions ; they will