DYE OYS 167 or extract of indigo ; if more of cither be added, boil separately in a little water, and add to the previous liquor. Pe2-Green, for Worsted.—Use the same materials as I he aforesaid ; but boil all the time in 1 gallon of water for about so or 30 minutes. tgg" A darker Green may be ob- tained by using a larger quantity of material. Plum Colour, for Worsted, Silk, or Cotton.—Water, 1 gallon ; sulphuric arid, a teaspoonful; glauber salts, or common Dyer's crystals, two table-spoonfuls; violet liquor, a table- spoonful ; magenta liquor, % a table- spoonful. Boil the article (silk, wool, or worsted), about 10 minutes. (S~ Cotton should be dyed the above colours separately, and by first running them through weak Gall Liquor, and weak double muriate of tin./Then wash well, and work in the aforesaid liquor, according to colour and shade. The Jquor should be cold for Cotton. Scarlet on Worsted or Wool. —Water, 3 gallons, a ozs. of dry cochi- neal, 1 oz, of cream of tartar, nitrate of tin, a wine-glassful; boil the goods 1 hour. To give the goods a yellow hue, add a little young fustic. Wash out as before. Yellow, for Dyeing Silk.—Pro- ceed the same in Dyeing as Pea Green, omitting the extract of indigo, and using oxalic tin instead of sulphuric arid. DYEING.—Blue; first dip the article in a solution of nlum ; and then in a solution of extract of Indigo. Wash out. If not bloomy enough, pass it through a weak solution of Archil. Buff ; use annotta, ground down, and boiled in water, with potass added, to give the requisite colour. Boil and stir it well 10 or 12 minutes. Wash out.— Brown ; Saffron, or Persian Berry li- quor, and soda, or bichromate of pot- ass.—Black ; logwood and copperas, or shumac and copperas, or galls, log- wood, and copperas.—Green ; Persian Berry liquor, and extract of indigo ; of quercitron bark, extract of indigo, and alum.—Grey ; by diluting down the black dye.—Lilac ; logwood, first dip- ping the article in a weak solution of alum; — or use archil—Pink ; from safflower and alum ; or brazil wood, and quercitron bark, or Persian berry liquor. —Purple ; from archil, or logwood and roche alum.—Scarlet ; Cochineal and Persian berry liquor. Or, dye in a soap lather with annotta, boiling hot, for an orange bottom. Wash the article, then dye with Cochineal and a little Nitrate of tin.—Red ; from Brazil wood and madder.—Nankeen ; from annat- to and pearl ash.—Orange ; from brazil wood and quercitron bark, or young fustic, or Persian berry liquor, and alum.—Lavender ; extract of Indigo, alum, a little Plum liquor. The shade may be altered by decreasing the indigo. —Blue Black ; Steep in Nitrate of Iron for about 1 hour ; then wash, make a soap lather, and add logwood liquor ; dip the. article into the liquor. DYSENTERY, or Bloody Flux.—From the Greek; dus, pain- ful, and enter on, the bowels. It is in- flammation of the mucous membrane of the large intestines, especially the colon. It is attended by frequent bloody stools, straining, nausea, long attempts at evac- uation, and often great pain. There is loss of appetite, strength, and great lowness of spirits. The evacuations in- crease, and become more fce.tid. It often ends in death. It is caused by obstructed perspiration, morbid hu- mours, unwholesome diet, night air, damp beds, wet clothes, intemperance, and infection, in close habitations, pri- sons, cells, &c. It is very prevalent in tropical climates. To cure, give gentle emetics, and mild purgatives, if needful. The Neutraliz- ing Mixture page 275 is of great effi- cacy—a table-spoonful per hour. It will neutralize the acidity of the stomach, relieve the spasms, &c., and effect a wondrous change. Should inflamma- tion continue, give an injection; as, milk, % pint; mucilage of slippery elm bark, % pint; treacle, pint; olive oil, % wine glassful; and a tea-spoonful of salt. This affords great relief. Keep up a gentle perspiration by the Sudori- fic Powders, or by the application cf hot bricks, as before stated. See also Diaphoretic Powder. If there be local pain, foment with a decoction of vinegar, hops, tansy, horehound, and catnep. Give warm diluents, and mucilaginous drinks, and If putresence appeals, give