LEM 236 LEM. LEMON JELLY. —Clarify 2 ois. of isinglass in 3 gills of water, add H lb. of loaf sugar, and the rinds of ai lemons cut very thin, squeeze the Juice of s lemons ; strain through mus- lin, then stir into cool sugar and isin- glass, take out the peel, boil 5 minutes, and when cool pour into moulds, and place in ice. In peeling lemons care should be taken not to cut below the colour. LEMONS, to preserve in Jelly. Cut a hole in the stalk part, the size of a shilling, and scrape out the pulp. Tie each separately in muslin, and lay in spring water 2 days, changing twice a day; then boil them tender on a slow fire. Keep them covered to the last. To every pound of fruit weigh two of double refined sugar, and 1 pint of water, boil the two latter together with the juice of the lemon to a syrup, clarify, skim well, and cool; then boil the fruit in the syrup half an hour ; if not clear, do this daily till they are done. Pare and core some green pippins, and boil in water till it tastes strong of them; don’t break them; strain the water through a jellybag till clear ; then to every pint put a pound of double- refined sugar, the peel and juice of a lemon, and boil to a strong syrup. Drain off the syrup from the fruit, and turning each with the hole upwards in a jar, pour the apple jelly over it. The bits cut out must go through the same pro- cess with the fruit. Cover with brandy paper. LEMON JUICE, to Purify— Add 1 oz. of powdered charcoal to a quart of lemon juice ; after standing 12 hours, filter the juice through fine mus- lin. It will keep good several years in a cellar, well corked in bottles, and the mucilage will fall to the bottom. LEMON KALI—Dry the fol- lowing well; finest sugar, \ lb. ; citric acid, or tartaric acid, 4 ozs.; carbonate of soda, 6 ozs. ; essence of lemon, 30 drops. Keep in a dry tightly corked bottle. A dessert-spoonful in a tumbler of water will make a pleasant beverage. LEMON MARMALADE— Rasp the lemons, cut out the pulp, then boil the rinds very tender, and beat fine in a marble mortar. Boil 3 lbs. of loaf •sugar in a pint of water, skim it, and add 1 lb. of the rind ; boil fast till the syrup is very thick, but stir it carefully; then put a pint of the pulp and juice, the seeds having been removed, and a pint of apple liquor ; boil all gently until well jellied, which it will be in about half an hour. Put it into small pots. Orange Marmalade may be done in the same way. LEMON MINCE PIES.— Squeeze a large lemon, boil the outside till tender enough to beat to a mash, add to it 3 large apples chopped, and 4 ozs. of suet; currants, lb. ; sugar, 4 ozs. ; put the juice of the lemon and candied fruit, as for other pies. Make a short crust, and fill the patty pans as usual. LEMON-PEEL CREAM.— Boil a pint of cream ; when half cold, put in the yolks of 4 eggs ; stir till cold, put on the fire with 4 ozs. of loaf sugar, a tea-spoonfnl of grated lemon-peel; stir till hot; take off the fire ; when it is cold, put it into sweetmeat glasses. Lay paste-knots or lemon-peel, cut like long straws, over the tops of the glasses. LEMON SYRUP—Put ij lb. of loaf sugar to each pint of juice; add some of t">e peel; boil 10 minutes; then strain and cork it. It makes a fine beverage diluted, and is useful to flavour pies and puddings. LEMON SYRUP, Common. —Citric acid, 2 ozs. ; loaf sugar to syrup it; rub the sugar on 4 lemons to extract the oil. Add a wine-glassful of brandy to keep it, and also a little cinnamon. Water sufficient for the purpose. LEMON PICKLE. They should be small, with a thick rind; rub them with flannel; slit them half down in 4 quarters, but not through to the pulp : fill the slits with salt hani pressed in, set them upright in a pan 3 days un- til the salt melts ; turn them thrice a day in their own liquid, until tender; make enough pickle to cover them, of vinegar, the brine of the lemqns, Jamaica pepper, and ginger; boil, and skim; when cold, put it to the lemons with a ozs. of mustard-seed, and 3 cloves of garlic to six lemons. Jar it, and cover closely. LEMON PUDDING.—Beat the yolks of 4 eggs ; add 4 ozs. of white sugar, the rind of a lemon being rubber