BIS BIS 6o as between grantor and grantee, if not registered. Bills of Sale are to be attested by one or more credible witness or witnesses, not being a party or parties thereto, attestation and explanation to the grantor by a solicitor being no longer required. No Bills of Sale executed after the Act shall be a protection to any goods comprised therein against distress for poor or other parochial rates. Bills of Sale unsatisfied, must be re- newed every five years. Local Registration of Bills of Sale is provided in County Courts. (45 & 46 Viet. c. 43.) BISCUITS, a la duchesse.— They are made with rice flour, sifted as fine as possible ; dried orange flour, preserved and powdered very fine; rasped lemon-peel; a quarter of a pound of flour, to one pound of sugar ; six yolks, and twelve whites of eggs, well beat up ; finish as other biscuits. Add fruit or marmalade if you like. BISCUITS, American.—Rub half a pound of butter into four pounds of flour, and a full pint of milk or water. Well wet them up. Break your dough well, and bake them in a hot oven. They will be better with two ounces of sugar added. Cut out with the top of a wine-glass. These biscuits are made light by dissolving a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt of tartar in half a cupful of water, and adding to the mixture. BISCUIT, American.—Butter- milk, x % pints; a little salt, 2 spoonfuls of carbonate of potash dissolved in 4 table-spoonfuls of hot water. Mix flour enough to be stiff. Add shorten- ing. Form and bake immediately. BISCUITS, Buttered. —Dis- solve a pound of butter in a quart of warm milk, and with eight pounds of flour make up a stiff smooth paste, roll thin and stamp out the biscuits, prick them, and bake on tins in a quick oven. BISCUIT CAKE.—One pound of flour, five eggs well beaten and strained, eight ounces of sugar, a little rose or orange-floweri water : beat well, bake one hour. BISCUIT CAKE.—Rub into 1 pound of flour six ounces of butter, and three large spoonfuls of yeast, and make Into a paste, with a sufficient quantity of new milk ; make into biscuits, and pride them with a clean fork. BISCUITS, Drop.—Beat the yolks of 10 eggs, and the whites of 6, with one spoonful of rose water, half an hour; then put in 10 ozs. of loaf sugar sifted; whisk them well for half an hour, then add 1 ounce of caraway- seeds crushed a little, and 6 ounces of fine flour; whisk in the flour gently, drop them on wafer-papers, and bake in a moderate oven. BISCUIT, French.—Flour 6 lbs. ; milk, 1 % pint; butter, 6 ozs.; sugar, 1 % cupful; salt, a teaspoonful; 6 eggs, and half a pint of good yeast. Melt the butter in the milk, and beat the eggs. Add all the ingredients, set it to rise, and when very light, mould it into small biscuits, and bake in a quick oven. BISCUITS of FRUIT.— Take fruit of any kind, scald it, and to the pulp, put an equal quantity of the finest sugar, beat it an hour or two, then place in little white paper forms, dry in a cool oven, turn the next day, and in a few days box them. BISCUITS, Ginger.—Take half an ounce of pounded ginger, the weight of seven eggs in sugar, and half the weight in flour; pound the sugar and sift it through a silk sieve; beat up the yolks of the eggs with the sugar until it is quite thick, then beat up the whites until they are stiff; put them together, add the flour, stirring it lightly in, and bake them in a slow oven. BISCUITS, Hard.—Warm two ounces of butter in as much skimmed milk as will make a pound of flour into a very stiff paste, beat it with a rolling- pin, and work it very smooth. Roll it thin and cut it into round biscuits ; prick them full of holes with a fork. About six minutes will bake them. BISCUIT JELLY.—White bis- cuit, 1 pound ; white sugar, 3 poimds ; water, 2 gallons. Boil to one-half, strain and evaporate to a proper consis- tence, then add wine, 1 pint; cinnamon, half an ounce. BISCUIT, LIGHT LEMON. —For eight eggs put eight spoonfuls of sugar in a basin, and a little rasped