TON TON 389 TONGUE, to Boil. If the tongue be a dry one, steep in water aU night. Boil it 3 hours. If you prefer it hot, stick it with cloves. Clear off the scum, and add savoury herbs when it has boiled 2 hours ; but this is optional. Rub it over with the yolk of an egg; strew over it bread crumbs; baste it with butter; set it before the fire till it is of a light brown. When you dish it up, pour a little brown gravy, cr port wine sauce mixed the same way as for venison. Lay slices of currant jelly round it. TONGUE, to Eat Cold.—Sea- son with common salt and saltpetre, brown sugar, a little bay-salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and allspice, in fine pow- der, for a fortnight; then take away the pickle, put the tongue into a small pan, and lay some butter on it; cover it with brown crust, and bake slowly till so ten- der that a straw would go through it. The thin part of tongues, when hung up to dry, eats like hung beef, and also makes a fine addition to the flavour of omelets. TONGUE, to Pickle for Boil- ing.—Cut off the root, but leave a little of the kernel and fat. Sprinkle some salt, and let it drain from the slime till next day : then for each tongue mix a large spoonful of common salt, the same of coarse sugar, and about % as much of saltpetre ; rub it well in, and do so every day. In a week add another heaped spoonful of salt. If rubbed every day, a tongue will be ready in a fortnight; but if only turned in the pickle daily, it will keep 4 or 5 weeks without being too salt. When it is to be dressed, boil it till extremely tender ; allow 5 hours ; and if done sooner, it is easily kept hot. The longer kept after drying the better it will be : if hard, it may require soak- ing 3 or 4 hours. TONGUE, to Pickle.—Clean as above : for a tongues allow an ounce of saltpetre, and 1 oz. of salts of prunella; rub them well. In 2 days, after well rubbing, cover them with common salt, tum them every day for 3 weeks, then dry them, and rub over them bran, and smoke them. In 10 days they will be fit to eat. Keep in a cool dry place. TONGUE, to Pot. — Rub the tongue with 1 oz. of saltpetre, and 4 ozs. of brown sugar: let it lie 2 days ; then boil it till it is quite tender. Take off the skin and side bits; then cut the tongue in very thin slices, and beat it well, with 1 lb. of butter, mace, pepper, and salt to taste. Then pot, and pour over it clarified butter. TONGUES, to Salt. — Scrape the tongue, and dry clean with a cloth ; salt with common salt, and £ oz. of salt- petre to every tongue; lay them in a deep pot, and tum them every day for g days. Salt them again, and let them lie 6 days longer. Take up ; dry, flour them, and hang up. TONGUE, to Stew. — Salt a tongue with saltpetre and common salt for a week, turning it every day. Boil it tender enough to peel; when done, stew it in a moderately strong gravy; season with soy, mushroom ketchup, cayenne, pounded cloves, and salt if necessary. Serve with truffles, morels, and mush- rooms. In both this receipt and the last, the roots must be taken off the tongue before salting, but some fat left. TONICS. — Medicines strength- ening the system in general. TONIC BITTERS.—See page 62. The following herbs are for tonic bitters. They may be infused or decoct- ed. They increase the tone or con- tractility of all the muscular fibre, and thereby strengthen the whole body. They drive away fever, increase the ap- petite, expel worms, &c.— White Poplar Bark, Golden Seal, Gum Myrrh, Tansy, Dandelion Root, Balmony, Hops, Cen- taury, Bogbean, Gentian, Barberry Bark, Columba, Unicorn Root, Worm- wood, Quassia, Camomile Flowers. TONIC PILL.—Extract of gen- tian, 2 scruples; sulphate of iron, 16 grains ; sulphate of quinine, 10 grains. Mix, and form into pills. Take 1 pill 3 times a day. TONIC TINCTURE. — Peru- vian bark, bruised, i£ oz.; orange peel, bruised, 1 oz. ; brandy, or proof spirit, 1 pint. Infuse 10 days; shake the bottle every day. Pour off the liquor, and strain. 1 ake a tea-spoonful in a wine-glassful of water twice a day, when you feel languid.