EP1 EME 172 VIII. Apply sal-volatile to the Nos- trils. If Apparently Dead from In- tense Cold.—Rub the body with Ice, snow, or cold water. — Restore warmth by slow degrees; and, after some time, if necessary, employ the means recommended for the apparently drowned. It is highly dangerous to apply heat too early. If Apparently Dead from Hanging.—In addition to the means recommended for the apparently drown- ed, bleeding should early be employ- ed by a medical assistant If Apparently Dead from Nox- ious Vapours, Lightning, die.—x. Remove the body into a cool fresh air. 2. Dash cold water on the neck, face, and breast frequently. 3. If the body be cold, apply warmth, as recommend- ed for the apparently drowned. 4. Use the means for inflating the lungs in direction V. 5. Let Electricity (par- ticularly in accidents from lightning) be early employed by a medical man. If Apparently Dead from In- toxication,—Lay the body on a bed, with the head raised : remove the neck- cloth and loosen the clothes. Obtain instantly medical assistance; in the meantime apply cloths soaked in cold water to the head, and bottles of hot water, or hot bricks, to the calves of the legs and to the feet General Observations. — On restoration to life, a teaspoonful of warm water should be given ; and then, If the power of swallowing be returned, small quantities of weak brandy and water, warm; the patient should be kept in bed, and a disposition to sleep encouraged, except in cases of apoplexy and intoxication. Great care is requisite to maintain the restored vital actions, and to prevent undue excitement. The treatment is to be persevered in for three or four hours. It is an erroneous opinion that persons are irrecoverable because life does not soon make its appearance. See Antidotes for do ISON, page 31a. EMETIC MIXTURE. —Ipe- cacuanha wine, % oz. ; water, 1 oz. ; simple syrup, % oz. Mix.—For a child, ao drops, or more, every quarter of an hour until vomiting ensues. An adult may take from half to one oz. EMETIC POWDER.—Ipeca- cuanha and lobelia, of each 2 ozs. ; blood-root, 1 oz. Powder, and mix well. Take half a teaspoonful every twenty minutes till it operates. EMMENAGOGUES.— Medi- cines exciting the womb to secretion of the menses. ENGRAVINGS, to TRANS- FER TO PAPER. —Place the engravings a few seconds over the va- pour of iodine. Dip a slip of white paper in a weak solution of starch, and, when dry, in a weak solution of oil of vitriol. When again dry, lay a slip upon the engraving, and place both for a few minutes under the press. The engraving will thus be reproduced in all its delicacy and finish. The iodine has the property of fixing the black parts of the ink upon the engraving, and not on the white. This important discovery is yet in its infancy. EPILEPSY, or Falling Sick- ness. — A sudden deprivation of sense, with violent convulsions of the whole system. Previous to the fit, there is a peculiar sensation felt by the patient; a scream or cry is then uttered, and he falls heavily to the ground. The eyes are fixed and reverted, and the convulsive agitations are violent; the teeth gnash against each other, the tongue projects, and is sadly bitten; the patient froths at the mouth, and is quite unconscious. “ The period of re- currence of epileptic fits is very variable. Death sometimes occurs in the first; or, though rarely, recovery taking place, the disease never returns. Years may intervene, or an irregular period of months, weeks, or days, may separate the attacks." Epilepsy is more com- mon in the night than in the day. As it becomes more firmly rooted in the system, the fits recur more frequently. Treatment.—Prevent the patient from injuring himself during the fit. A piece of wood, india rubber, &c., should be placed between the teeth to prevent injury to the tongue. Remove all tight clothing especially about the neck. Elevate the head and shoulders. If the fit does not depart, give one or two tea-spoonfuls of the A ntispasmodie