FEB FIR 178 Lilac. Use cudbear and hot water.— Red. Brazil wood, a little vermilion and alum, and vinegar; boil 30 minutes; and then dip the feathers.— Yellow by tur- meric.—Scarlet, by cochineal, cream of tartar, and muriate of tin.—Ready pre- pared dyes can be purchased at the druggist's shops. FEBRIFUGE S.—Medicines abating beat and fever. FEBRIFUGE.---Take house- leek ; place in a coarse cloth, and squeeze out the juice, and strain ; to 1 lb. of which add 1 I'd. of loaf sugar; simmer a short time to form a syrup. Give a table-spoonful every 2 hours. In fevers this acts like magic—in all kinds of fever. See Mixture page 256.* FELON, or WHITLOW.—A very painful inflammation of the fingers, thumb, or hand. A whitlow resembles a felon, but it is not so deeply seated. It is often found at the root of the nail. Immerse the diseased finger in strong ley as long and as hot as can be borne several times a day. Constantly poul- tice it with a mixture of strong ley and elm bark, or elm bark and powdered linseed, and 1 poppy head softened in the ley. Or steam it well with the bitter herbs, which may be used several times, about so minutes at a time. Continue till well, or when it begins to suppurate, then will appear a white spot, which when fully ripe, may be opened with a fine needle. Should gangrenous matter appear, apply a little Vegetable Caustic, page 407. Apply the Black Salve page 65, to heal it. Keep the bowels open, and take now and then the Composition Powder. FEMALE PILL.—Aloes and lobelia, 1 drachm each; black cohosh, gum myrrh, tansy, unicorn root, 1 oz. each ; cayenne, % oz. Mix, and form into pills with solution of gum.—These pills remove female obstructions, and are good for head aches, lowness of spirits, nervousness, and sallowness of the sldn. Or, aloes, red oxide of iron, white turpentine, 1 oz. each. Melt the tur- pentine, and strain; mix well; form into pills with mucilage. Take two or three per day. FENNEL SAUCE.—Soak four sliced onions, in two spoonfuls of oil, a cup of gravy, two cloves of garlick ; simmer an hour ; skim off the fat, and sieve; add chopped parsley, fennel, pepper and salt; boil a moment. FERMENTATION, to Check. —The least bit of sulphate of potass. It is applicable to liquors, syrups, pre- FERMENTATION, to Pro- mote.1— Put into the wort some powdered ginger. Or fill a bottle with boiling water, and sink it into the worts. Or heat a small quantity of the worts, and put it to the rest, with a little yeast. Or beat up the whites of two eggs with some brandy, and put it into the wort. Do not disturb the wort. FERNS, to Copy.—Dip them well in common porter, and then lay them flat between white sheets of paper, with slight pressure, and let them dry out. FERTILITY, IMMENSE.— A single plant may produce :— No. of Seeds to flowers. a flower. Total. Groundsel. 130 x 50 = 6,500 Chickweed. 500 x 10 = 5,000 Shepherd’s Purse. 150 x 30 = 4,500 FEVER DRINKS.—The Juice of a lemon, cream of tartar, 1 tea-spoon- ful ; water, 1 pint. Sweeten with loaf sugar. When the patient is thirsty, let him drink freely. FIG PASTE, for Costiveness. —Chop small 1 lb. of figs, and mix with them 2 ozs. of best senna, cut small, and a cupful of treacle; stew and stir it till it becomes stiff and firm. Take a piece about the size of a walnut. FININGS FOR BEER.—Isin- glass, 4 ozs. ; dissolve it in two quarts of stale beer; simmer it till thick as a syrup, put into it a handful of salt, and half a pint of powdered oyster-shells ; mix them with one gallon of strong beer or ale, stir till it ferments ; cover it up close. The quantity will be sufficient for a butt of beer. FIRE IRONS, to Pievent Rusting.—Apply sweet oil, and dust them with unslalced lime powdered. If rusted, oil them, and in two or three hours, polish with fine emery, lime, or powdered pumice stone.—