INK 22 I IPE out the ink-spot, or writing, or wrong figure. This method is better than that of the erasing knife. INK, to Prevent Moulding.— Put a few cloves into each bottle.- Or, add to the ink before boiling, spirits of wine and oil of cloves. INK, to Take Out of Marble. —U nslaked lime, and strong soap ley ; make it thick, and lay it on with a painter’s brush; let it remain a week, wash it off, and apply again, and wash it off with soft soap and water. INK POWDER. — Copperas, four ounces; nutgalls, powdered, six ounces ; common salt, three quarters of an ounce ; powdered gum arabic, one ounce and a half. Mix and keep dry. A small quantity of this powder, stirred up with a tablespoonful or two of hot water, will make good ink, ready for use in a few minutes, and will keep good for years in any climate. INK SPOTS, to Remove.— Apply a solution of salts of lemon, or wet with strong acetic acid. Or, apply a solution of muriate of tin. Or, muriatic acid. On the ink disap- pearing, rub it over immediately with a rag wetted with cold water, to prevent a white mark. INSECTS on Plants to Des- troy.—Tie up sulphur in a muslin bag, and dust the leaves of young shoots and plants. A dredging box may be used. Sulphur increases verdure. A weak solution of alum sprinkled upon plants is not relished by insects.—Or, a thin mixture of soap and oil of turpen- tine painted on the stems of trees.—Or, use a solution of borax, (see page 72.)— Painting the walls behind rose trees, fruit trees, &c., prevents the visits of spiders, earwigs, caterpillars, &c. The best paint for this purpose is gas tar. INTERMITTENT FEVER. See Ague, page 13. INTESTINES, Inflammation of.—See Bowel Complaint; page 72. The mucous membrane is generally the seat of this disease. The stomach and intestines are lined with a mem- brane which secretes a liquid termed "mucous." This disease is often caused by exposure to cold and wet, especially while in a state of perspira- tion ; the suppression of customary evacuations, Indigestible food, mercury, frequent drastic purges, feculent accumu- lation in the intestines, strangulated rupture, and over-feeding, giving nature more than it is able to do ; drunkenness is an awful thing for the bowels, gradu- ally, by its extreme terrible friction, lessening the secretion of the mucous. When that ceases, farewell to life. It manifests itself by acute pains in the bowels, pains shooting around the navel, which increase by pressure. There is great constipation, and vomit- ing of bilious matter, fever, debility, mental depression. It is a dangerous disease, and requires prompt attention. The object is to remove the inflamma- tion. Let all exciting food and drinks be abandoned. Avoid severe purgatives. Give a tablespoonful, or rather more of castor oil every two hours until it acts on the bowels. Bathe the feet and legs in warm water. If the oil takes no effect, give the following Injection Lobelia herb, 'A dr.; slippery elm, % dr. ; valerian root, 1 dr. ; boiling water, half a pint. Infuse ten minutes, strain, and give warm. If the pain is severe, make a decoction of bitter herbs, with a trifle of cayenne and opium, and flannels dipped in it, and applied to the abdo- men. To allay Vomiting, take infusion of spearmint, half a pint; bicarbonate of potash, half a teaspoonful. Give a tablespoonful every hour. As soon as the bowels are relieved, give a vapour bath, and then the Diaphoretic Powder. Should the extremities become cold, repeat the vapour bath. IODINE LOTION.—Tincture of Iodine, A fluid or. ; iodide of iron, 12 grains ; chloride of antimony, % or. Mix for a wash. It is a remedy for corns. Apply with a small brush. Or Iodine, 1A grains ; spirits of wine, 3 teaspoonfuls. Dissolve, and add a pint of water. A most excellent wash for scrofulous sores. IPECACUANHA.—It is emetic, stimulant, tonic, and sudorific. It is useful in bleeding from the lungs, and indigestion, if taken in small doses, so as not to produce nausea ; also in fluxes, diarrhoea, hooping cough, and in some fevers. From 25 to 30 grains form a good emetic, without causing debility. In doses of 2 or 3 grains, it forms a tonic, giving tone to the stomach, and