GRA 201 GRA -s'uieeesum.-.1'*" "s.'.::s^sz— —— ; DIssohre 3 drs. of prepared, natron or carbonate of soda, in a quart of cold soft water, and take Y dining the day. Continue as the case may require. The greatest martyrs have been relieved by this simple remedy. Or, Take 1 oz. of the spirits of sweet nitre a drs. of liquid laudanum, and % oz. of the oil of juniper. Take a tea-spoonful In a crap of linseed tea sweetened with honey. This has performed woDders. Or, Take dandelion and marsh-mallow roots, of each a ozs., agrimony, a small handful, to 3 quarts of water ; boil to 2 quarts. Dose—a wine-glassful every 3 or 4 hours. A gentle aperient may at times be given, and warm injections sure very soothing. Take also the Diuretic Infu- sion, page 162. Flannels dipped in hot Tincture of Cayenne, and wrung out, or the Stimulating Liniment may be applied to the pained part Hops sim- mered in vinegar, to which add 20 or 30 drops of laudanum. Drink at the same time a strong infusion of spear- mint, and bathe the feet in warm water. The vapour bath now and then is very useful. Dr. Beach advises the following;— Acetate of potash, 2 drs. ; honey, £ oz.; spirits of turpentine, £ dr. ; carbonate of soda, £ dr.; mint water or tea, 8 ozs. Mi*. Dose, 2 table-spoonfuls 3 times a day. Eat largely of spinach. Or, drink largely of warm water sweetened with honey.—Or, of pellitory of the wall tea so sweetened.—Or, infuse 1 oz. of wild parsley-seeds in a pint of white wine for 12 days. Drink a glass of it, fasting, Lmonths. To prevent its return, break- st for 3 months on agrimony tea. It entirely cured me 20 years ago, nor have I had a symptom of it since.— Wesley. Red onion juice, and horse-mint tea, as much as the patient can take morn- ing and night, is a fine remedy, and will dissolve stone. GRAVY.—If richness be wanted In any gravy, a lump of butter, mixed with flour, and boiled in the soup, will enrich and give greater eonsistency. Long boiling is necessary to give the full flavour of the ingredients. A clear jelly of cow heels Is very useful to keep In the house; it la a great improvement to gravies and soups, GRAVY.—Most joints will afford sufficient trimmings, cuttings, &c., to make half a pint of plain gravy, which may be enriched, if necessary, with vari- ous seasonings, cow heel, lemon, sweet herbs, ham, mutton, or veal. An emi- nent cook observes, “Good browning may be made for roast meat and poultry, by saving the brown bits of roasted or boiled meat; cut them small, cover them with boiling water till next day in a basin, then boil 3 minutes; strain; keep for use. Gravy for Boiled Meat.—May be made with parings and trimmings, or pour from a £ to £ a pint of the liquor in which the meat was boiled into the dish with it, and pierce the inferior part of the joint with a sharp skewer. Gravy for Brown Sauces.—Take some neck of beef; cut it into thin slices; flour it well, and put it into a saucepan with a slice of fat bacon, a sliced onion, powdered sweet marjoram, pepper and salt; stir a little on a slow fire ; when brown, put some water to it, stir, and boil half an hour, strain, and take the fat off, adding a little lemon juice. Beef Gravy.—See page 47. Gravy Soup.—Take the bones of a rump of beef, and a piece of the neck ; wash them well; and then boil all the goodness from them. Add some beef marrow ; strain off; put a piece of but- ter into a stew-pan, brown it, add a glass of good port wine ; put in two carrots, pepper, salt, a little sugar, and boiling water as needed. Stew gently for 3 or 4 hours. It may be varied by adding onions, sweet herbs, cloves, mace, or allspice, cayenne pepper, port wine, mushroom ketchup, &c. Gravy for a Fowl.—Take the neck, liver, and gizzard ; boil them in half a pint of water, with toasted bread, pepper, salt, thyme ; boil till reduced to half; add a glass of port wine ; boil; strain ; bruise the liver well, and thicken with butter rolled in flour. Instead of the gizzard, you may use beef, or ham. GRAVY .SAUCE for Ragouts, Game, Poultry, &c.—Take a slice | of fat barn, or bacon, or 1 oz. of butter.