HOO 2 11 HER and fry them. Perhaps It is better to fry the onions separately with a little parsley, and butter, or drip. HERRINGS, to Pot.—Clean, cut of the heads, and lay them close in an earthen pot. Strew a little salt be- tween every layer ; put in cloves, mace, whole pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg; fill up the jar with vinegar, water, and a % of a pint of sherry, cover, tie down, bake in an oven, and when cold pot it for use.—A few anchovies and bay leaves intermixed will improve the flavour. HICCUP.—One drop of chemical oil of caraway on a small lump of sugar, which must be kept in the mouth till dissolved, and then gently swallowed.— If you press firmly on the end of the collar-bone next the throat, the hiccup- ing will be stopped.—Or hold your breath as long as you can. If it should prove obstinate, and become spasmodic, a teaspoonful of ether, 8 drops of lauda- num, in a glass of cold water, is the best remedy.—It is often removed by start- ling a person. HICCUP.—Swallow a mouthful of water, stopping the mouth and ears. —Tried.—Or, take any thing that makes you sneeze.—Or, 3 drops of oil of cin- namon on a lump of sugar. HIPS, Conserve of.—Cutoff the stalks of ripe Hips ; take out all the seeds ; throw hot water upon them, and let them stand till soft enough to be sieved; mix the pulp with the same weight of sugar, without boiling. Good for consumptive coughs, hoarseness. Where the cough is very troublesome, with mental depression, add a few drops of laudanum and of tincture of valerian. HOARSENESS.—Rub the soles of the feet, before the fire, with garlic and lard well beaten together, over night, The hoarseness will be gone by next morning. Or, take a pint of cold water, lying down. Or, swallow slowly the juice of radishes. Or, dry nettle roots in an oven ; then powder them finely, and mix with an equal quantity of treacle. Take a tea- spoonful twice a-day. Or, boil a large handful of wheat bran In a quart of water, strain, and sweeten U with honey. Drink frequently. HOARSENESS. — Frequently gargle with a decoction of sage.—Or, a solution of alum.—Or, a solution of gum kino.—Or chew catechu.—Or take 2 or 3 times a day a teaspoonful of sweet spirits of nitre in a wine-glassful of weak ginger and water.—Or, take occasion- ally a tablespoonful of the decoction of horse-radish.—Or, dip a piece of flannel in brandy, or in brandy and salt; and apply to the chest; cover with a dry flannel, wear it all night.—Boiled onions are sometimes useful in colds, hoarse- ness, &c.—Or, take spermaceti and sugar candy, equal parts, and make them into a fine powder.—A piece of anchovy has been known to restore the proper tone of the voice. HOARSENESS OF SING- ERS.—A celebrated singer states, that the greatest benefit is derivable from taking, during 5 or 6 days, twice a-day, 5 or 6 drops of nitric acid in a glass of sugared water. If from use the acid loses its efficacy, the dose may be in- creased to 10 or 12 drops. HONEY, Balsam of.—To 1 lb. of honey add a teacupful of vinegar; boil and skim ; when cold stir in 1 oz. of elixir of paregoric, and bottle. This is first-rate for a cough: dose, 1 table- spoonful 3 times a day. HONEY OF ROSES.—Dried red rose buds, 4 ozs. ; clarified honey, 5 lbs. ; distilled boiling water, 3 pints ; macerate the rose leaves in the water for 6 hours ; then mix the honey with the strained liquor, and boil to a syrup. Good for sore mouths, &c. HONEY OF VIOLETS. Violet flowers, the bottoms chipped off, 2 lbs. ; infuse in 2 quarts of water ; boil up, and add 2 lbs. of honey ; boil to a syrup ; press the liquid part through a linen cloth. HONEY WATER.—Powder i ozs. of volatile salts; dissolve it in a pint of water for use. it is a good cos- metic. Add a little lavender water. HOOPING COUGH.—Use the cold bath daily.—Or, rub the feet thoroughly with hog’s lard, before the fire, at going to bed, and keep the child warm therein.—Or, rub the back at lying down with old rum. It seldom fails.— Or, give a spoonful of the juice of