LAM LAM 229 LAMB’S HEAD and HINGE. —This part is best from a house-lamb ; If soaked in cold water, will be white. Boil the head separately till very tender. Have ready the liver and lights, three parts boiled and cut small; stew them in a litde of the water in which they were boiled, season and thicken with flour and butter, and serve the mince round the head. LAMB, LEG OF.—Should be boiled in a cloth to look as white as possible. The loin fried in steaks and served round, garnished with dried or fried parsley; spinach to eat with it; or dressed separately, or roasted. LAMB, LEG OF, to Boil.— Steep it half an hour in cold soft water, a cupful of vinegar, and a handful of salt having been mixed with the water ; flour a thin white cloth, and wrap the leg in it, and boil it; add a bundle of sweet herbs. It will require boiling 1 % hour. Serve with spinach, or French beans. Garnish with parsley, and thin slices of lemon. LAMB, LEG OF, to Force.— Slit the leg on the wrong side, and take out as much meat as possible, without cutting or cracking the outward skin. Pound this meat well with an equal weight of fresh suet; add 13 large oysters, and two anchovies boned, with salt, black pepper, mace, and nutmeg, and a little thyme and parsley, finely shred ; beat all well together, and mix it up with the yolks of three eggs. Having filled the skin tight with this stuffing, sew it up very close. Fry the remainder of the stuffing to garnish the loin of lamb, which is to be fricasseed as chickens are done. Tie the stuffed leg with packthread to the spit and roast. In the fricassee of lamb, add a little oyster liquor, and fried oyster. LAMB, a Nice Dish of.—Take the best end of a neck of lamb, cut it into steaks, and chop each bone so short as to make the steaks almost round. Egg and strew with crumbs, herbs and seasoning ; fry them of the finest brown : mash some potatoes with a little butter and cream, and put them into the middle of the dish raised high. Then place the edge of one steak on another with the small bone upward, all round the potatoes. LAMB PASTY. — Bone the lamb, cut it into square pieces ; season with salt, pepper, cloves, mace, nut- meg, and minced thyme; lay in some beef suet, and the lamb upon it, making a high border about it; then turn over the paste close, and bake it. When it is enough, put in some claret, sugar, vinegar, and the yolks of eggs, beaten together. To have the sauce only savoury, and not sweet, let it be gravy only, or the baking of bones in claret. LAMB PIE,—Make a good puff paste ; cut the meat into pieces ; it is best from the loin, neck, or breast; some prefer the leg ; lightly season with pepper, salt, mace, cloves, and nutmeg finely ground ; place in the crust, with a few sweetbreads seasoned like the meat, (and, if you like, some oysters and forcemeat balls, hard yolks of eggs, and the tops of asparagus, first boiled green.) Butter all over the pie, put on the lid, and place in a quick oven one hour and a half. Take a pint of gravy, and the oyster liquor, a gill of port wine, a little grated nutmeg, with the yolks of two or three eggs well beaten; stir one way all the time. When it boils pour it into the pie. LAMB SAUCE.—Mix a little butter with shred parsley, shalots, and crumbs of bread, grated fine. Put the whole into a stew-pan with a cupful of good stock, and one of sherry ; season with pepper, salt, &c., and squeeze a lemon into it. LAMB, SHOULDER OF.— Bone a shoulder of lamb, and fill it up with forcemeat; braise it two hours over a slow stove. Take it up, glaze it; or it may be glazed only, and not braised. Serve with sorrel-sauce under the lamb. LAMB STEAKS.—Fry them of a beautiful brown ; when served, throw over them a good quantity oi' crumbs of bread fried, and crimped parsley. Mutton or lamb steaks, seasoned and broiled in buttered capers, either with crumbs and herbs, or without, are a genteel dish, and eat well. LAMB STEAKS, to Dress White.—Stew them in milk and water till very tender, with a bit of lemon-peel, a little sailt, pepper, and