VEN VKR 4<>9 and only warmed through, not boiled. If there la no fat left, cut some slices of mutton-fat, set it on the fire with a little port wine and sugar, simmer till dry, then put to the hash, and it will eat as well as the fat of the venison. Garnish with currant jelly. VENISON, to Stew a Shoulder of.—Let the meat hang till it is fit to dress ; take out the bone, beat the meat with a rolling-pin, lay some slices of mutton-fat, that have lain a few hours in a little port wine, among It, and sprinkle ground pepper and all- spice over it; roll it up tight, and tie it. Set in a stewpan with some mutton or beef gravy not strong, half a pint of port wine; pepper and allspice. Sim- mer it, closely covered, as slowly as you can, for three or four hours. When tender, take off the tape, and set the meat in a dish ; strain the gravy over it; serve with currant-jelly sauce. VENTILATING BED- ROOMS.—It cannot be sufficiently impressed upon every one who values health, the importance of the ventilation of the rooms we sleep in, and the necessity of a constant supply of pure air to sustain the vitality of the body during sleep. On this subject, Sir James Clark has given the following useful hints:— The small size and lowness of bed- rooms render them insalubrious ; and the case is rendered worse by close windows, thick curtains and hangings, with which the beds are often so care- fully surrounded as to prevent the possi- bility of the air being renewed. The consequence is, that we are breathing vitiated air during the greater part of the night: that is, during more than a third part of our lives; and thus the period of repose, which is necessary for the renovation of our mental and bodily vigour, becomes a source of disease. Sleep, under such circumstances, is very often disturbed, and always much less refreshing than when enjoyed in a well-ventilated apartment; it often hap- pens, indeed, that such repose, instead of being followed by renovated strength and activity, is succeeded by a degree of heaviness and languor which is not overcome till the person has been some time in a purer air. Nor Is this the only evil arising from sleeping in ill-ventilated apartments. When it is known that the blood under- goes most important changes in its cir- culation through the lungs, by means of the air which we breathe, and that these vital changes can only be effected by the respiration of pure air, it will be easily understood how the healthy functions of the lungs must be Impeded by inhaling, for many successive hours, the vitiated air of our bedrooms, and how the health must be as effectually destroyed by respiring impure air, as by living bn unwholesome or innutritions food. In the case of children and young persons who are predisposed to con- sumption, it is still of more urgent con- sequence that they should breathe pure air by night as well as by day by secur- ing a continuous renewal of the air in their bed-rooms, nurseries, schools, &c. Let any mother, who has been made anxious by the sickly looks of her children, go from pure air into their bedroom in the morning, before a door or window has been opened, and re- mark the state of the atmosphere, the close, oppressive, and almost foetid odour of the room, and she may cease to wonder at the pale sickly aspect of her children. Let her pay a similar visit, some time after means have been taken, by the chimney ventilator or by other ways, to secure a full supply, and continual renewal, of the air'in the bed- rooms during the night, and she will be able to account for the more healthy appearance of her children, which is sure to be the consequence of supplying them with pure air to breathe. Every chamber, then, should be ar- ranged to have a ventilating process going on at all times, and as there can be no advantage resulting from sleeping in any room colder than foriy degrees above zero, a little fire should be kept burning in the grate or fire-place ; this creates a draft up the chimney, and keeps the atmosphere comparatively pure. VERJUICE.—Is the expressed juice made from green fruits, such a» crab or green apples, nnripc grapes, &c., and is used in cooking. It is made thus :—Having got a sufficient quantity of fruit, remove the seeds, and pound