row 32* PRl One ounce of caraway seeds added to the foregoing will make what is termed a rich seed cake. POWDER, Aperient.—Take of the best Turkey rhubarb, cinnamon, and fine sugar, of each two drachms. Let the ingredients be pounded, and after- wards mixed well together. When flatulence is accompanied with costiveness, a tea-spoonful of this pow- der may be taken once or twice a day, according to circumstances. POWDER, Carminative. Take of coriander seeds % an oz. ; gin- ger, i drachm ; nutmegs, % a drachm ; fine sugar, i % drachm ; reduce them into powder for twelve doses. This powder is employed for expelling flatulency, arising from indigestion. It may be given in small quantities to children in their food, when troubled with gripes. POWDER, Saline Laxative.— Take of soluble tartar, and cream of tartar, of each i drachm ; purified nitre, % a drachm. Make them into a powder. In fevers and other inflammatory dis- orders, where it is necessary to keep the body gently open, one of these cooling laxative powders may be taken in a little gruel, and repeated occasionally. POWDER, Steel.—Take filings of steel, and loaf sugar, of each 2 ozs. ; ginger, a drachms. Pound them to- gether. In obstructions of the menses, and other cases where steel is proper, a tea- spoonful of this powder may be taken twice a day, and washed down with wine or water. POWDER, Sudorific. — Take purified nitre and vitriolated tartar, of each % an oz. ; opium and ipecacuanha, of each 1 drachm. Mix the ingredients, and reduce them to a fine powder. This is known by the name of Dover’s powder. It is a powerful sudorific. In obstinate rheumatism and other cases where it is necessary to excite a copious sweat, this powder may be administered tn the dose of a scruple, or £ a drachm accompanied with copious draughts of warm diluting liquor. POWDER. Worm.—Take of tin, reduced Into a fine powder, it os. ; EtbSop's mineral, a drachms. Mix well together, and divide into six doses. One of these powders may be taken in a little syrup, honey, or treacle, twice a day. Then the following anthelmintic purge will be proper :— Powdered rhubarb, a scruple ; scam- mony and calomel, of each 5 grains. Rub them in a mortar for one dose. For children, the above doses must be lessened according to their age. If the powder of tin be given alone, its do3e may be considerably increased. PRAWNS and SHRIMPS.— When fresh they have a sweet flavour, are firm and stiff, and the colour is bright.—Shrimps are of the prawn kind, and may be judged by the same rules. PRAWNS and SHRIMPS, to Butter.—Take them out of the shells, and warm them with a little good gravy, a bit of butter and flour, a scrape of nutmeg, salt, and pepper; simmer a minute or two, and serve with sippets: or with a cream sauce. PRAWNS, Curry of.—Take them from the shells, and lay into a pan, with a small piece of mace, three or four spoonfuls of veal gravy, and four of cream; rub smooth one or two tea- spoonfuls of curry-powder, a tea-spoon- ful of flour, and an ounce of butter; simmer an hour; squeeze half a lemon in, and add salt. PREGNANCY, a Good Medi- cine for.—Cinnamon water, 1 oz.; tincture of rhubarb, 2 drachms; com- pound spirits of lavender, a drachm ; syrup of saffron, 1 drachm. Take occasionally in the middle of the day. PRESERVES, to Keep. Apply the white of an egg, with a brush, to a single thickness of white tissue paper, with which cover the jars, lap- ping over an inch or two. It will require no tying, as it will become, when dry, inconceivably tight and strong, and inpervious to the air; tie them up when cold. PRIMROSE VINEGAR. To 15 quarts of water put 6 lbs. of brown sugar; boll ten minutes; take off the scum ; pour it on half a peck of primroses; when nearly cold, add a little fresh yeast, and let it work in a warm place all night; put it in a barrel, and when done working, close the barrel, and keep It In a warm place.