ABD EO ABO infants that are raptured; that they may he free from the complaint when they become adult and pregnant; for then it often recurs from the too great distension of the abdomen, ire. During pregnancy, it is often troublesome, but after parturition, if the contents have not contracted any adhesion, they will often return into the abdomen, and may be kept there by a proper bandage. Females subject to umbilical rupture, should keep their bowels unconstipated, especially if the navel rupture be irre- ducible : and they should avoid indi- gestible food. When the tumour is returned, it should be kept in its place by a bandage or truss. By the permanent pressure of a truss upon the opening, the parts are prevented from descending, and a permanent cure is often effected. A truss may be obtained of a Surgical In- strument Maker. Dr. Beach, of America, states;— " Most of the cases of strangulated hernia for which an operation is per- formed, might be cured by proper treat- ment In very many cases, where an operation has been proposed, the patient lias recovered by very simple means. I have been called to some, where, at first view, it has seemed impossible to return the protruded viscera without cutting down and dividing the stricture; and yet, by prompt and energetic means, I nave succeeded in reducing it" The following directions sire founded upon the American practice :— Commence the treatment by giving a dose of castor oil; avoid strong and irritating purgatives,—Use injections of an oily nature; as Lobelia injlata, a sufficient quantity. Infuse in half a pint of hot water, to which add as much milk and treacle, and a gill of olive or sweet oil. Repeat every hour. This is one of the most powerful relaxants that can be used in this disease. The following External Applications are recommended by Dr. Beach:— Steam and foment with bitter herbs (herbs afore mentioned). Put the decoc- tion in a tub or pail, and sit over it by means of a narrow board put across it. Place a blanket over the patient. This will cause perspiration, and reduce the Inflammation. In extreme cases, a warm bath should be taken for some tirue. An alkaline poultice may bz' applied over the rupture. Mix the slip, pery elm bark with weak ley, until a poultice of a proper- consistence is form- ed. to be. applied tepid, and often re- newed. The best effects have been produced by this application. Dr. Reese, of New York, uses the sulphuric ether for the reduction or re- turn of hernia. He wets the tumour with the liquid, and then, in order to> produce speedy evaporation, blows upon it with a pair of bellows. Fie states that- he has reduced a number of strangulated hem ire by this method alone, when they bad been doomed to undergo an operation. While these means are being used, manual aid must be used, called taxis, (meaning the replacement of parts by the hand). The position of the patient requires care and skill. His legs and! buttocks should be elevated as high as possible, forming an angle, if possible, of 45 degrees. This may be effected by- placing die back parts of a chair under- neath him. His thighs and the body should be a little flexed or bent, in order to relax the muscles. The tumour should then be seized, and moderau pressure made, in order to return tht viscera. The constant application of a solutioa of alum it) a strong decoction of oak bark (two drachms to a pint) has been recommended by some surgeons for the radical cure of rapture in the groin. It. is applied by means of soft linen, which should be wetted as soon os it becomes dry. In incipient cases this topical re- medy, by constringing the part, may succeed in preventing the escape of in- testine or omentum through ihe abdo- minal ring. The compress should for some time be kept on the part by a- bandage or a truss with eisy springs. ABORTION, to prevent. — Women of a weak or relaxed habit should use solid food, avoiding great quantities of tea and other W'eak and watery liquors. They should go soon to bed and rise early, and take frequent exercise, but avoid being over-fatigued. If of a full habit, they ought to use a spare diet, and chiefly of the vegetable kind, avoiding strong Liquors, and every thing that may te.nd to heat the body* or increase the quantity of blood.