128 COLD WATER CURE. COL rum, and one of good vinegar, or lemon-juice. Add the rum and vinegar as the decoction is taken. Take a cup- ful two or three times a day—the patient shouid he in bed a day or two. COLD IN THE HEAD.—M. F&rn, a Belgian physician, says, a cold may often be arrested by a brisk friction of the back of the head with some stimulant lotion, as lavender water, sal volatile, &c. And also a similar rub- bing, two or three times a-week will prevent the “catching” of a cold by those who are liable to do so from slight causes. COLD TO AVOID CATCH- ING.—Accustom yourself to the use of sponging with cold water every morning on first getting out of bed fol- lowed with a good deal of rubbing with a wet towel. It has considerable effect in giving tone to the skin, and maintain- ing a proper action in it, and proves a safeguard to the injurious influence of cold and sudden change of temperature. Sir Astley Cooper said, “The methods by which I have preserved my own health are—temperance, early rising, and sponging the body every morning with cold water, immediately after get- ting out of bed; a practice which I have adopted for nearly thirty years without ever catching cold.” COLD, to throw off a.—Have a proper hot water bottle filled and placed in the bed sometime before re- tiring. This has prevented aud assisted to throw off many a cold. COLD, a, to Cure.—The follow- ing plan is very effectual in curing most colds, but not all:—Let a man eat next to nothing for two days, provided he is not confined to bed, for by taking no carbon into the system by food, and by consuming the surplus which caused his disease, by breath, he soon carries off\ his disease by removing the cause. This will be found more effectual if he adds copious water draughts to the protracted fasting. By the time a per- son has fasted one day and night, he will expeiience a freedom from disease, and a clearness of mind, iu a delightful contrast with mental stupor, and physi- cal pain caused by colds. Or take one handful of Yarrow, half on ounce of ginger root, bruised, or a | teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, aud about three pints of water. Boil to one pint. Add a little sugar if you like. Take a good dose at bed-time, and your cold will be cured by the next morning ; if not, repeat the dose. COLD BATHING.—It is use- ful in some fevers, chronic rheumatism, hysterics, hypochondriac, and paralytic affections, rickets, scrofulous com- plaints, debility, obstructed perspira- tion, languor and weakness of circula- tion, &c. It requires great prudence in using, and should be of short duration. In some cases it would be best to com- mence with tepid bathing, and proceed to the use of the cold bath, which should be from 40° to 65° Fahrenheit. Sea-water is preferable, from the stimu- lating effects of the salt. The most suitable time for bathing is morning ; because in the latter part of the day the body becomes too enfeebled to bear the cold shock. A dose of cayenne, ginger, or any of the pure stimulants, taken before the cold bath, will keep up the heat of the body, and promote the reaction and determination of blood to the surface, which causes a refreshing glow. Cold bathing is inadmissible in in- flammatory diseases, fluxes, diseases of the breast, difficult breathing, short and dry' coughs, pregnancy, palsy, diseases of the skin, &c. The cold bath is injurious in all cases where immediate reaction does not follow its use. If it produces chilis, depression, languor, headache, and blueness of the lips, it should not be used. After leaving the bath, the body should be rubbed with a flesh-brush, or coarse towels. Cold bathing is never beneficial unless follow- ed by a warm glow of the skin. COLD WATER CURE.—The Cold Water treatment is that which nature has placed in the power of all her creatures ; and without water taken inwardly and applied outwardly, there can be no health. Nature has no secrets in giving man life ; she has im- planted within him the knowledge of that which is to support and render pleasant that life. “I leave behind me,” said a celebrated physician, on his death-bed, ‘' two great fhysuians, diet and water." Water is the great dissolvent in na-