uw 233 LAV orange flower water, two ounces; also (two drachms of essence of mush, and six ounces of distilled water, LAVENDER, Compound Spirit of.—Spirit of Lavender, 11 lb.; spirit of rosemary, 1 lb. ; cinnamon, # ox.; nutmeg, Jf ox, ; red Sanders, a drachms ; digest for 10 days, and then strain off. It is taken from 40 to 80 drops upon loaf sugar, In cases of low- ness of spirits, &c. LAWN POOL.—This is a game that has now become very popular in America, and it is probable that if in- trod’i--d in England it would become a fesu., able pastime. The implements consist of eight mallets ; eight numbered balls, which are poised upon short ornamental stakes placed in position upon the lawn ; eight playing balls, and an apparatus for scoring the points made by the respective sides or players. The game is to dislodge the numbered balls from the stakes supporting them, each ball so dislodged counting upon the player's score for as many points as are indicated by the number it bears. There are penalties for failure to make the points played for, and these are de- ducted from the unlucky player's score. The game is won not by ability of a player to pass quickly around the “course,1’ but by skill in avoiding for- feits, and by making the largest counts during his play. All the excitement and fascination pertaining to the game of billiards or pool are embodied in “ lawn pool,” and there is room for never end- ing combinations, and the exercise of skilful, adroit play. The game when set up presents a very brilliant appear- ance, the bright colours of the poised bails and their handsomely painted sup- porting stakes, standing out in strong contrast with the green grass, and they are easily seen in the late twilight, into which the games are by their absorbing interest almost invariably prolonged. In points of real merit as a game, and general appearance, “lawn pool," is said to be far ahead of any other lawn game (not excepting croquet) ever intro- duced to the public. LAWN TENNIS.—This is a very popular game among fashionable people, and is played on a grass lawn by two, three, or four players, with balls and racquet bats. The point of tfa* game is to strike the ball over a netting stretched vertically and to keep the ball in play backwards and forwards witliin certain defined limits. The court or ground is usually marked out with chalk lines, or tapes (which are sold for the purpose,) pinned to the turf. The lawn should be nicely cut and well rolled. 1 For a single handed game the court should be from 70 to 80 feet long by about 25 to 30 feet wide. For a double-handed game, the same length but about 36 feet wide. The court is then divided across its centre by a piece of netting stretched to two posts, the net to be 3 feet 6 inches high at the posts and about 3 feet in the centre. At the ends of the court, in a line with the net are base lines the extremeties of which are connected by the side lines. The half-court line is half way between the side lines and parallel with them. The service lines are 21 feet from the netting and are parallel with it. 2 The balls should weigh 2 ounces, and in size about 2j inches in diameter. • 3 The players stand on opposite sides of the netting. The player who first delivers the ball is called the server, the other one the striker out. 4 At the finish of each game the striker out becomes server, and the server striker out. 5 The server stands with his foot be- yond the base line, and delivers the service from the right and left courts alternately. 6 The balls served must, without touching the netting, drop within the court nearest to the netting, diagonally opposite to that from which the striker serves it. 7 If tile service be delivered from the wrong court it is a fault. It is a fault if the server does not stand in the man- ner as stated above, or if the ball served drop in the net or beyond the service line, or if it drop out of court, or go into the wrong court. 8 A fault must not be played back to to the server. 9 The striker-out is not allowed to volley the service. 10 The returned ball must be kept in play either by volleying it, or striking it back after die first bounce. A ball that bounces twice is out of play.