GRA 200 GRA draught. Of the wine alone, (colchi- aim) take 30 or 40 drops for several days. Pain arising from inflammation may he relieved by saturating a piece of lint in spirits of wine and camphor, applied to the part and covered with oiled silk. Or steam the part several times a-day over the vapour of bitter herbs, after which rub with the tincture of cayenne; in severe pain, add a little opium. Occasionally apply a poultice of bran and vinegar. If gout of the stomach arises from indigestible food, take an emetic. On recovery, sponge the body every morn- ing with cold salt and water, drying well and using the flesh brush freely. Take also exercise in the open air freely. The food must be plain—be sparing of malt liquors—promote the evacuations —be sparing of animal food, avoiding it at supper—use unsifted flour, and vegetables, cooling fruits—milk prepar- ations—tea and coffee should not be taken strong. GRAPES, to Prevent Drop- ping off.—Make a circular incision in the wood, cutting a ring of bark, about the breadth of the twelfth of an Inch. The wood acquires greater size about the incision, and the operation accelerates the maturity, and also of the fruit. GRAPES, to Pickle. — Lay grapes not too ripe, in a stone jar; then a layer of vine leaves alternately till the jar is full. Then take two quarts of water, common salt, % lb. and bay salt, % lb.; boil 30 minutes; skim; take off to settle ; pour the liquor, milk warm, upon the grapes, and lay plenty of vine leaves upon the top ; cover close ; stand two days ; then drain, and dry the grapes. Put in flat bottomed stone jars with vine leaves in layers, and plenty on the top. Boil a quart of hard water, and 1 lb. of white sugar 15 minutes; skim well, and add 3 blades of mace, a nutmeg, and two quarts of the best vinegar; when cold, prour upon the grapes. Tie up with bladders. GRAPES, ta Preserve.—Into an air-tight cask put a layer of bran dried in an oven; upon this place a layer' of grapes, well dried, and not quite ripe, and so on alternately tih the barrel is filled ; end with bran and close air-tight; they will keep 9 or 10 months. To restore them to their original fresh- ness, cut the end of each bunch stalk, and put into wine, like flowers. Or, Bunches of grapes may be preserved through winter by inserting the end of the stem in a potato. The bunches should be laid on dry saw, and turned occasionally. Or they may be kept in layers of cotton, as the Americans do. GRAPES, to Preserve in Brandy.—Take close bunches of grapes not too ripe; put them into a jar with 4 ozs. of sugar candy, and fill the jar with brandy. Tie close with blad- der. Morello cherries are done the same way. GRAPE JAM.—Stew grapes to a soft pulp, and strain. To 1 lb. of pulp add 1 lb. of sugar. Boil 25 min- utes slowly, stirring well. GRAPE JELLY.—Mix equal quantities of the juice of ripe grapes, and dissolved isinglass; add sugar as you like. Add 2 glasses of Madeira, strain and put into moulds. GRAPE WINE. — Bruise a gallon of white grapes into a gallon of water, to stand a week without stirring; pour off the liquor fine. To each gallon add 3 lbs. of lump sugar; after it ceases hissing, stop it close, and in 6 months it will be fit to bottle. Less water used, and better the wine. GRATES, Bright to Clean.— Use rotten stone and sweet oiL GRAVEL.—A collection of sand or small particles of stone in the kid- neys, ureters, or bladder. The urine oft gives the deposit of a brick-dust ap- pearance, uric acid. * The symptoms are shivering, pain in the loins, gener- ally felt more severely on one side, and passing downwards—towards the blad- der, a frequent desire to make water, which is passed in small quantities, sometimes with blood, or for a time not passed at all, irritation about the neck of the bladder. As the irritating matter passes from the kidneys into the ureter, it produces pain so great as to cause faintings and convulsive fits. The tran- sit of this matter may be made in a few hours, or it may last for several days.— The following are good remedies:—