CKl CKE 144 each white of egg. Sprinkle in a spoon- ful of fine sugar, lay a wet sheet of paper on a tin, and drop it on in little lumps, a little distance from each other. Sift sugar over them. When put in the oven the froth will rise. As soon as coloured, they are baked ; take out, and put two bottoms together; put on a sieve, and dry in a slow oven. CREAM CHEESE.—Put five quarts of the last milking of a cow, called “strippings,” into a pan with 2 spoonfuls of rennet. When the curd is come, strike it down with the skimmer to break it. Let it stand 2 hours, spread a cheese cloth on a sieve and drain upon it; break the curd a little with your hand; put it into a vat with a 2 lb. weight upon it. After standing 12 hours bind a fillet round. Turn every day till dry ; cover with green leaves, and let them gradually ripen on a pewter plate. CREAM COOKIES.— One tea-cupful of cream turned ; % lb. of sugar ; 1 or 2 eggs, a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved ; sufficient flour to make into dough. Add spices and seeds if you like. CREAM, Sack.—Boil a pint of raw cream, the yolk of an egg well beaten, 2 or 3 spoonfuls of white wine, sugar, and lemon-peel; stir it over a gende fire, till it be as thick as rich cream, and afterwards till cold; then serve it in glasses, with dry toast. CREAM FOR THE HAIR. —Lard, two parts ; oil of almonds, one part. Melt and scent with jessamine or bergamot. CREAM, Italian.—One quart of good cream, and a quart of new milk, the grated rind of two or three lemons, and strain the juice; take also eight ounces of fine sugar powdered, a litde ground cinnamon, and three grains of salt. Boil dll the milk is reduced one- third ; then take five or six eggs thick- ened with a little fine flour, well beaten, and gradually add to the milk, stirring well; strain through a fine sieve into the dish for the table ; place it in a hot bath on the hob till the cream is set. Grate a litde nutmeg over the top, and brown. CREAM PUDDING.—Cream, k pint; the yolks of seven eggs, seven table-spoonfuls of flour, 2 table-spoon- fuls of sugar, salt, and a small bit of soda. Rub the cream with the eggs and flour; add the rest, the milk last, just before baking, and pour the whole into the pudding dish. Serve with sauce of wine, sugar, butter flavoured as you like. CREAM and SNOW.—Make a rich boiled custard, and put it in the bottom of a dish ; take the whites of eight eggs, beat with rose water, and a spoonful of fine sugar, till it be a strong froth ; put some milk and water into a stew-pan ; when it boils, take the froth off the eggs, and lay it on the milk and water ; boil up once ; take off carefully, and lay it on the custard. CRICKET is played by twenty- two persons, eleven on each side, and two umpires, with two persons to score and count the innings. Thirteen players play at one time, viz., two strikers, one bowler, one wicket-keeper, long-stop, short-stop, point, cover, middle-wicket, long-field, off-side, on- side, and leg ; of these the two strikers are the inside, or have their innings. The object of the game is to get the greatest number of runs, and this is to be done by the strikers. Each side having been in once and out once, the first innings is concluded, and, we might say, a complete game has been played, but in most matches another innings is played. The scorers keep the account of runs to each striker separately for each innings. The side that has obtained the greatest number of runs, wins the game. Single Wicket may be played with any number of players, and is better than double wicket for any num- ber of players under seven. At double wicket, a small number of players would get fatigued with running after the balk The first innings in single wicket must be determined by chance. The bowler should pitch the wickets, and the striker measure the distance fen1 the bowling-stump. Measure a distance of the length of the bat, and then one of the striker’s feet, from the middle stump in a direction towards the bowling stump: there make a mark, which is the same as the popping-crcase, and this will show when you are on the ground ; place your bat upright on the mark at the place where the measure