i4I cou cou Take a table-spoonful when the cough Is troublesome. 14 Dr. James recommends a mixture of vinegar and treacle in equal quanti- ties ; a teaspoonful to be taken when re- quired—Or take % a pint of vinegar, % oz. Spanish juice, 1 oz. each, sugar candy, and spirits of wine. A table- spoonful at a time. 15 Take honey and treacle, of each 4 ozs. ; best vinegar, 5 ozs. Mix, and slowly simmer them in a common pipkin for fifteen minutes. When the mixture is cold, add a dessert-spoonful of pare- goric elixir. Dose—a table-spoonful 3 or 4 times a day. This is very useful in the coughs of children, as it has a very pleasant taste. Dose, one or two teaspoonfuls. 16 Or, peel and slice a large turnip, spread coarse sugar between the slices, and let it stand in a dish till all the juice drains down. Take a spoonful of this when you cough. 17 Or, take a spoonful of syrup of horehound morning and evening. 18 Or, take from ten to twenty drops of elixir of vitriol, in a glass of water, twice or thrice a-day. This is useful when the cough is attended with cos- tiveness, or a relaxation of the stomach and lungs. 19 For a Tickling Cough, drink water whitened with oatmeal four times a-day. Or, keep a piece of barley-sugar or sugar-candy constantly in the mouth. COUGH, For.—Lobelia, 2 oz.; cayenne, 3f oz. ; vinegar, 1 pint; sugar, 2 ozs. : boil the vinegar, and pour it hot upon the herb, &c. into a stone bottle ; cork close for a few days. Dose for a cough, half a tea-spoonful, or a piece of loaf sugar moisted with it. Or take of lobelia, 2 drachms ; blood- root, 1 drachm; skunk cabbage, 1 drachm; pleurisy root, 1 drachm. Make into pills with treacle, honey, or balsam of Peru. Dose, one or two, twice a day. COUGH DROPS.—Gum guia- cum, 2 drachms ; camphor, 2 scruples ; Castile soap, 1 scruple; laudanum, 40 drops ; spirits of wine, 2 ounces ; bal- sam of Peru, 24 drops. Mix. Dose— to or 15 drops three or four times a day. COUGH DROPS.—Linseed half a cupful; olive oil, half a pint; treacle or honey, half a pint; spirits of turpentine, balsam of fir, oz. each ; extract of liquorice, oz. Mix and simmer. Take from 10 to 20 drops two or three times a day. COUGH LOZENGES.—Best Spanish liquorice, one ounce; refined sugar, two ounces ; gum arabic finely powdered, 2 drachms; and extract of opium, x scruple. Well beat, or pound the whole together; then with mucilage of gum tragacanth, make into small lozenges, to be dissolved in the mouth when the cough is troublesome. COUGH LOZENGES.—Lau- danum, 1 ounce; balsam of tolu, one ounce and a half; liquorice, three and a half ounces; ipecacuanha powder, two ounces; oil of aniseeds, half an ounce ; starch, one pound ; sugar, three pounds ; mucilage to mix. COUGH PI L L .—Extract of henbane, % ounce; ipecacuanha, % ounce ; extract of balm of Gilead buds, 34 ounce; cayenne, 2 grains; oil of mint, 3 drops. Form into pills. Take one or two when needful. In bronchi- tis, catarrh, &c., these pills are invalu- able for cough. COUGH PLASTER.—Castile soap, 1 ounce • lead plaster, 2 drachms ; powdered sal ammoniac, % drachm. Mix the soap and lead plaster together, and when the mass has cooled, add the sal ammoniac, and x drachm of cayenne pepper. COUGH, PLASTER FOR.— Bees’ wax, Burgundy-pitch, and rosin, of each an ounce, melt them together, and stir in three quarters of an ounce of common turpentine, and half an ounce of oil of mace. Spread it on leather, grate some nutmeg over, and apply quite warm to the pit of the stomach. COUGH SYRUP.—Hyssop and rue, of each 1 ounce; horehound, 1 ounce; acid tincture of lobelia, 3 ounces; essence of pennyroyal, 1 drachm; essence of spearmint, a drachms.—Boil the hyssop, rue, and horehound till the strength is obtained ; strain, add sugar and treacle : boil to a syrup, and when nearly cold, add the tincture and essences. COUGH SYRUP.—Sage, 1 ounce, St. John’s wort, 1 ounce, Iceland moss, a ounces; white poppy heads a