RHU 339 RHK it stand a few days. A teaspoonful in tea, or water sweetened. This is excel- lent for rheumatism, gout, &c. RHEUMATIC LIQUID, for External Application. See Rheumatism, Embrocation for. Or Rheumatic Liniment. -Or Rheu- matic Pains, in the bones and joints. RHEUMATIC MIXTURE.— Saltpetre, sulphur, powdered mustard, Turkey rhubarb, sarsaparilla powder, of each, \ oz. ■; powdered gum guiacum, yi oz. Mix. Take a teaspoonful every other night for 3 nights; then omit 3 nights, in a wine-glassful of cold water. RHEUMATIC PAINS, in the Bones and Joints.—Take opodel- doc, 1 oz. ; tincture of cantharides, 3 drs. ; spirits of sal ammoniac, 3 drs.; rectified oil of amber, 3 drs. This forms a liniment, wherewith frequently to nib the painful part. Wrap up in fine, soft flannel, and keep warm. Or, take friar’s balsam and tincture of myrrh, of each, 1 oz ; spirits of turpen- tine, 2 ozs., and good old strong ale dregs, 3 ozs.; mix all of them well toge- ther, and bathe the afflicted part with the same. Or, take a raw egg well beaten, half a pint of brandy; i£ oz. of turpentine ; £ oz. of spirits of wine, and 1 oz. of camphor; and a table-spoonful of salt Put them into a wine bottle, and shake well. This liniment is to be well rubbed on the affected parts 3 or 4 times a day. It has often effected a cure in a few days. RHEUMATIC PILL. —Gum guiacum, J dr.; compound powder of ipecacuanha, % dr. ; confection of opium, 10 grains ; mix, and divide into 20 pills. Take 2 on going to bed. RHEUMATIC POWDER.— Ipecacuanha powder, and purified opi- um, of each, 1 part; sulphate of potass, 8 parts; triturate them together to a fine powder. Be very careful to reduce the opium, and intimately mix with the rest. This powder is recommended by Dr. Dover as an effectual remedy for rheumatism. The dose is from 2 to 5 grains, repeated. Avoid much drinking after taking it, or might act as an emetic. RHUBARB.—It Is a mild pur- gative, operating without violence and irritation. It is a suitable aperient for females and children. It is astringent, and increases the tone of the stomach and intestines, and is very useful in diarrhoea, and disorders proceeding from laxity. It is given chiefly in powder, and operates more powerfully as a pur- gative in this form than any other. The dose for an adult is about a scruple, or rather more. RHUBARB, Compound Pills of.—Rhubarb, in powder, 1 oz.; so- cotrine aloes, 6 drs. ; myrrh, % oz.; oil of peppermint, % a dr. ; make into a mass with syrup of orange peel. This is a gentle aperient. Four may be taken night and morning. RHUBARB POWDER, for Diarrhoea.—Powdered rhubarb, and columba, of each, 3 grains. To be taken every 3 hours. Or, take a bolus of 3 grains of powder ; opiate confection, 6 grains. To be taken every 4 hours. RHUBARB, Tincture of. Rhubarb, 2% ozs. ; lesser cardamon seeds, % oz. ; brandy, 2 pints; digest for a week, and strain. Or, infuse the above ingredients in a pint of Lisbon wine, adding to jt 2 ozs. of proof spirits. If an oz. of gentian root and a dr. of Virginia snake root be added, it will make the bitter tincture of rhubarb. All these tinctures are stomachics and cor- roborants, as well as purgatives. In weakness of the stomach, indigestion, laxity of the intestines, fluxes and colicky complaints, they are of great service. The dose is from half a spoonful to 3 or 4 spoonfuls or more. RHUBARB PIE.—Strip off the skin of the tender stalks of the plant; stew till soft, and sweeten ; add a little ginger, and grated lemon peel; put it into a baking dish, and cover with paste. Clip 2 or 3 holes in the top, to allow evaporation. RHUBARB TARTS. —Take rhubarb stalks which grow in the gar- den, peel them, and cut them into small pieces. Then do in every respect as in making a gooseberry tart. RHUBARB WINE, (Bever- age).—Take the stems of full grown rhubarb, and bruise them in a mortar to a pulp. Put the pulp into a tub, and to every 10 lbs. weight of the stems, add a gallons of cold spring water. Infuse for