208 HEA HEA Make 12 pills. Dose, two to four. Bathing the crown of the head every morning in cold water has been found of singular use. Should the pain be ex- treme, put mustard plasters between the shoulders, and on the soles of the feet. HEADACHE.—Rub the head for a quarter of an hour.—Tried. Or, be electrified.—Tried.—Or, apply to each temple the thin yellow rind of a lemon newly pared off. Or, pour upon the palm of the hand a little brandy and some zest* of lemon, and hold it to the forehead; or a little aether. Or, snuff up the nose cara- horated spirits of lavender. Or a ttle of horse radish. Take of white-wine vinegar and water, each three spoonfuls, with half a spoon- ful of Hungary water. Apply this twice a-day to the eyelids and temples. HEADACHE, Chronic.—Keep your feet in warm water a quarter of an hour before you go to bed, for two or three weeks. — Tried. Or, wear tender hemlock leaves under the feet, changing them daily. Or, order a tea-kettle of cold water to be poured on your head every morning, in a slender stream. Or, take a large tea-cupful of carduus tea without sugar, fasting, for six or seven mornings. HEADACHE, from Heat.— Apply to the forehead cloths dipped in cold water. To prevent heat affecting the head in summer. Place a cabbage leaf or a large lettuce leaf in your hat, it will keep the head cooL HEALTH, Preservation of.— Adopt the plan of rising early, and never sit up late at night Wash the whole body every morning with cold water, by means of a large sponge, and rub it dry with a rough towel, or scrub the whole body for ten or fifteen minutes with flesh brushes. Or, sponge with sea salt, dissolved the night previous, is good. Or, sponge with water to which has been added a small quantity of vinegar. Those who use cold water regularly, either with a sponge or as a bath, are able to bear exposure to the weather much better than without its aid. In winter take the chill off the water before bathing. “ Zert .of lemon is the Juice of tho peal sqaeenod out. Drink water generally, and avoid tak- ing spirits, wines, or fermented liquors. Sleep in a room which has free access to the open air, and is well ventilated. Keep the head cool by washing It with cold water when necessary, and abate feverish and inflammatory symp- toms when they arise, by preserving stillness. Symptoms of plethora and indiges- tion may be corrected by eating and drinking less per day for a short time. Never eat a hearty supper, especially of animal food. Never indulge in luxuries; guard against intemperance; and never sit in a draught, or in wet clothes, nor lie in a damp bed. Exercise regularly taken tends to preserve the health. Walk one or two miles a day, regardless df weather, un- less very ted indeed. Even a lady with stout walking boots, a large thick cloak, and an umbrella, may defy ted weather. In taking exercise in very severe weather, keep your mouth close and walk rapidly; the air can only reach the lungs by a circuit of the nose and head, and becomes warm before reach- ing the lungs, thus causing no derange- ment. Brisk walking throws the blood to the surface of the body, thus keeping up a vigorous circulation, making a cold impossible if you do not get into a cold bed too quickly after reaching home. Neglect of these precautions brings sickness and death to multitudes every year. The amount of exercise necessary for health is variable, depending upon natural constitution, education, sex, and age. For men from twenty to fifty, eight or ten miles a day of walking ex- ercise may be taken as the average; and for women of the same age, about half this quantity will suffice. Less than this will gc a great way, but foe keeping up high health, the above amount, omitted only on thoroughly wet days, may be considered necessary. By all means avoid a morbid des- ponding feeling, for scarcely anything is more injurious to health. Mental as well as bodily exercise is essential to the general health and happiness ; therefore, labour and study should succeed each other.