tlS 179 FIR Tripoli and sulphur, equal parts, com- bined, will remove rust. FIRE KINDLERS. — Tar, 1 quart; rosin, 3 lbs.; melt them. When not quite cool, add 1 gill of spirits of turpentine, and mix as much saw-dust, with a little charcoal, as can be worked in; spread out while hot on a board ; divide into pieces. They will instantly ignite, and briskly burn long enough to ignite coal, or wood. FIRE, to Extinguish. — Dis- solve pearlash, soda, wood-ashes or common salt in the water, before it is put into the engine, and direct the jet on the burning wood work. The pro- portion may be 20 pounds to every 50 gallons ; the more, however, the better. Or throw sulphur on the fire. A solution of s ozs. of ammonia in one gallon of water, will extinguish a large fire. FIRE, to Light. — Clear the grate, and place at the bottom a few coals about the size of a walnut, place the fuel (shavings and wood split) upon them,, then cinders, and lastly coals. This method speedily produces a good fire. FIRE, Protection from, &c.— Washing linen, dresses, &c., in a solu- tion of altim prevents them taking fire. If in a house or room on fire, crawl with your face as near the ground as you can. Wet a blanket, and throw it upon things on fire. Or dip a blanket in water and beat the flames, putting a handkerchief over your mouth and Dose if there is much smoke. If a lady’s clothes take fire, roll on the floor, or wrap her in a carpet tightly. Throw a solution of pearl-ash upon the flames. FIRE, to Revive.—Strew on a dull fire powdered nitre, or saltpetre. FIRE-PROOF STUCCO. — Take moist gravelly earth (previously washed,) and make it into stucco with the following composition : pearlashes, 2 parts ; water, 5 parts ; common clay, 1 part. Mix. This costs about one shilling and sixpence per hundred square feet. It has been tried on a large scale and found to answer. FISH, to Choose. — Carp. They have the same signs of freshness «s other fish. Cod. Gills should be very red, the neck thick, flesh white, firm ; eyes fresh. Eels. Except the middle of summer, they are always in season. Those taken in ponds are not good—a flowing river is the best for them. Flounders. Should be thick, firm, bright eyes. Gudgeons are best in running streams. Her- rings. Gills red ; eyes bright,{flesh firm. Mackerel. Season, May, June, July ; they keep worse than any fish. Mullets. The sea ones are the best. Season, August. Perch. River Perch are the best. Pike. The best as Perch—rather a dry fish. Salmon. Flesh and gills, fine red, scales bright, and the fish stiff and firm. Small heads, and thick in the neck, are the best. Skate. When good, very white and thick. Smelts. If good, a fine silvery hue, firm. Soles. If good, thick; belly cream colour. Tench. Gills red, and hard to open, eyes bright') body stiff. Turbot. If good, thick ; belly a yellowish white. Whitings. Firm, smell fresh. Shell Fish.—Crabs. The heaviest are best; middling size, sweetest; joints of the legs, stiff. Lobsters. The heaviest are the best. If fresh, will have a strong motion, when you press the eyes. Oysters. The Pyefleet, Colchester, and Milford, are the best. The native Milton are fine, being white and fat. When alive and strong, the shell closes on the knife. Prawns and Shrimps. If fresh, they have a sweet flavour, and firm, bright in colour. FISH, to Keep Sound.—To prevent meat, fish, &c., going bad, put a few pieces of charcoal into the sauce- pan Wherein the fish or flesh is to be boiled. FISH, to render Boiled Firm. —Add a little saltpetre to the salt in the water in which the fish is to be boiled ; a quarter of an ounce to one gallon. FISH PIE.—Pike, perch, and carp may be made into savory pies if cut into fillets, seasoned, and baked in paste, sauce made of veal broth, or cream put in before baking. FISH SAUCE.—Indian soy, 1 gill ; shalot vinegar, a wine-glassful; mixed mushroom and walnut ketchup, % pint in equal proportions, the juice