ANT 20 ANI duced by the want of animal food, which require for their cure but an abundant supply of the needed material. But it may be eaten too often. It contains much grease, or oil, by which digestion is frequently impaired, the bile vitiated, the blood corrupted, cutaneous and other diseases induced. High-seasoned meat, with condiments, often produce dyspepsia, flatulency, &c. By all, ani- mal food should be eaten sparingly. By frequent participation, the springs of life are hurried on too fast, and often bilious, plethoric, and inflammatory effects follow. Dr. Beach says, “Among other ill effects of animal food is a temporary fever after eating it, called by the old medical writers, “ the fever of digestion.” No such effects follow the full use of vegetable food,” Dr. Dick considers it incompatible with a state of innocence, to take the life of any sensitive being and feed on its flesh; and that, consequently, no such grant was given to Adam in para- dise, or to the antediluvians. He con- sidered it a grant only fitted to the de- graded state of man after thg flood. ANISE.—This plant is carminative and pectoral, useful in indigestion and flatulency. It is a component part of the Cough Drops. For flatulent and bowel complaints in children and adults, the seeds are used : a tea-spoonful and a half. The seeds to be infused. The oil dropped on sugar (four or five drops) is best. It is a good remedy for coughs. ANODYNES.—Medicines allay- ing pain and disposing to sleep. ANODYNE BALSAM.—Take of white Spanish soap, one ounce; opium, unprepared, two drachms ; recti- fied spirit of wine, nine ounces ; Digest them together in a gentle heat for three days; then strain off the liquor, and add to it three drachms of camphor. This balsam is of service in violent strains and rheumatic complaints, when not attended with inflammation. It must be rubbed with a warm hand on the part affected ; or a linen rag moist- ened with it; and renewed every third hour, till the pain abates. ANODYNE FOMENTA- TI ON—Take of white poppy-heads, two ounces; elder flowers, half an ounce ; water, three pints. Boil till one pint is evaporated, and strain out the liquor. This fomentation relieves acute pain, If the affected part is very painful, add forty drops of Laudanum, and 30 drops of Tincture of Cayenne. ANODYNE PLASTER.— Melt an ounce of adhesive plaster, or diachlyon, and whilst cooling add a drachm of powdered Opium, and the same quantity of Camphor, previously dissolved in a small quantity of Olive oil. Spread on leather. This soon relieves an acute local pain. ANODYNE POWDER.— Opium, oz. ; camphor, 3 drs. ; va- lerian, 1 oz. ; cayenne pepper, 1 oz. Put the opium and camphor into a close bag ; place it on the oven top to harden. Powder and mix. Take a quarter of a tea-spoonful at a time. Most valuable in colic, cramp, and severe pains. ANTHELMINTICS. — Medi- cines, destroying or expelling worms. See Worms. ANTI-ACIDS.—Medicines, neu- tralizing acids. AN TIBILIOUS PILLS.— Extract of Colocynth, 2 drachms ; ex- tract of J alap, 1 drachm ; Almond Soap, 1 % drachms; Guiacum, 3 drachms; tartarized Antimony, 8 grains; oil of Juniper, 4 or 5 drops ; oil of Carraway, 4 drops; oil of Rosemary, 4 drops. Form into a mass with Syrup of Buck- thorn, and divide into pills. AN^TI- CHOLERA DROPS. —Tinctures of capsicum, opium, lobelia, essence of peppermint, of each, 1 oz. Mix. Take when needful, a tea-spoonful in a little coffee. Most efficient in cholera, and affections of the bowels. ANTI - CHOLERA POW- DER—Ipecacuanha, 3 drachms ; gin- ger, 1 oz.; tormentii root, 1 % ozs. ; poplar bark, 1 % ozs.; cayenne, gum, myrrh, each 3 drachms ; carbonate of soda, 3 drachms ; cloves 2 drachms; slippery elm, 5 drachms. Powder and mix. Dose, half a tea-spoonful every half-hour. ANTIMONIAL WINE.—This may be purchased at the druggists. As an emetic, the dose is from one to two tabic-spoonfuls. As a febrifuge, sudori-