380 STO STR the flow of It is liable to stop suddenly. The irritation caused by the presence of a stone often produces remote symp- toms, as pain in the back and lower limbs. Treatment. — Give the Diuretic medicines described, pages 162—163. See also Gravel, page 200. Drink strong pennyroyal tea ; or a decoction of burdock, dandelion, white carrot, and parsley roots. Drink half a cup- ful several times a day. Flannels dip- ped in the Stimulating Liniment, com- bined with tincture of cayenne, with 30 drops of laudanum, may be applied externally to the region of pain. It is said that a gill oi red onion juice and a pint of horsemint tea, drank morning and evening, (but not together,) wiU cause a change, and probably dissolve the stone. The following pills may be taken with great benefit:—Parsley seeds, powdered, % oz.; castile soap, 1 oz.; oil of juniper, 30 drops; solidified copaiba, 1 oz. Form into pills. Take two per day. Drink at the same time a solution of saleratus. Many persons have been benefited by a decoction of the wild carrot. Injec- tions, and the vapour bath are very use- ful. When the patient finds it difficult to make water, let him lie on his back for a while, by which the stone may be thrown to the posterior part of the body, and enable him to make water by turn- ing on one or the other side. The diuretic pills should be taken frequently. Dr. Morris, of Canada, has found that an injection of castor oil has great effect in relieving sufferings caused by a stone in the bladder, and as the pain and irritation from this cause are often very gTeat, we recommend it to the notice of those labouring under the affliction. Dr. Morris, being afflicted with the stone, tried the experiment on his own person. “ I first rid myself of the contents of my bladder; then with a large syringe I injected through a small leaden tube, reaching to the sphincter, 2 ozs. of cold drawn Castor oil, and I cannot express my feelings caused by the change which took place upon its introduction, for it seemed as if a new lower half had been given me. The relief continuing, I went to bed, and can safely say, that I had not known, for sometime previous, the pleasure of a sound and uninterrupted sleep. Latterly, I never awoke without a wish to make water, and the morning following was the first expectation to it. When I did obey the call, I took care, finding that the oil came last, to leave as much within the bladder as I could. After this the bladder was constantly supplied with 2 or 3 ozs. of castor oil, and under this treatment every symp- tom of irritation vanished, and during two months no one symptom re-appear- ed to remind him of the existence of the calculous concretion. STONE.— Beat onions into a pulp and apply them as a poultice to the back, or to the groin. It gives speedy ease in the most racking pain. Or, take morning and evening a tga-spoon- ful of onions, calcined in a fire shovel into white ashes, in sherry wine. An oz, will often dissolve the stone. Or, drink largely of water impregnated with fixed air. Those who have not a con- venient apparatus, may substitute the following method: Dissolve 16 grains of salt of tartar in 6 spoonluls of water, to which add as much water acidulated with oil of vitriol as will neutralize the salt. They are to be gradually mixed with each other, so as to prevent the effervescence or dissipation of the fixed air as much as possible. Or, boil an oz. of common thistle-root, and 4 drachms of liquorice in a pint of water. Drink of it every morning. Or, take a decoction, or juice, or syrup of ground ivy, morning and evening. STONE-WORK, to Preserve. —Give one coating of a saturated solu- tion of carbonate of potash, and another coat of muriate of lime (or chloride of calcium). STOVES, the Bright Bars of, to Polish.—Clear from dirt, and then dip a piece of hat felt or doth, into a composition of soft soap and emery; polish with fine glass paper, or rotton stone. STRANGUR Y.—A frequent disposition to make water, attended with smarting pain, heat, difficulty in voiding it: and a great sensation of ful- ness in the bladder. Give plentiful draughts of warm liquid, as barley- water, infusion of linseed, or of gum arabic, with a little nitre dissolved in it.