*5* cus CUR dry, and well picked. To every i % lb. of currants, put i lb. of sugar into a preserving-pan with as much juice of currants as will dissolve it; when it boils skim it, and put in the currants; boil till clear; jar, and put brandy- paper over; tie down; keep in a dry place. CURRANT SHRUB.—To every quart of juice, add i lb. of fine while sugar, and a quarter of a pint of brandy. Bottle and cork. CURRANTS, Syrups of Black. —Half a pint of strained juice of black currants ; fine sugar, 12 ozs. Dissolve the sugar in a pint of water, and boil to make a syrup. It is valuable for sore throats; it cleanses from phlegm, and abates thirst and fever. CURRANT WINE. —Gather the currants when ripe, strip them, and squeeze out the juice ; to one gallon of the juice put two gallons of cold water and two spoonfuls of yeast; let it fer- ment two days; strain through a hair sieve ; and to every gallon of liquor add 3 lbs. of loaf-sugar, stir it well together, put it in a good cask; to every 10 gallons of wine put one quart of brandy; close well up and let it stand four months, then bottle it; a few rasp- berries will improve the flavour. CURRY, Indian way of Dress- ing. — Stew your meat in water enough to cover it. Mix the curry powder with milk, salt, and lemon juice ; add this to the meat liquor; fry a few onions to a light brown, and put them in just before dishing. CURRY POWDER.—Take 3 ozs. of coriander ; 1 oz. of black pepper ; mustard and ginger, of each % oz. ; lesser cardamoms, cayenne, and cum- min seed, of each, % oz. Dty them well, and powder fine; mix, and keep in a well-stopped bottle. CURRY STEW.—Cow-heel is the best material for a dish of curry. Being mucilaginous, it absorbs the nature of the curry, and gives a better flavour to the meat. If a rabbit or fowl, cut into small bits, add butter, or rich gravy to the meat, and onion in thin slices ; put into a stew-pan. Stew over a gentle fire for twenty minutes. Mix a tablespoonful of flour with one of salt, in water, half a cupful of cream, if you like, and three or four teaspoonfuls of curry powder, and the juice of a lemon. Stir all well together, and boil from ten to twenty minutes. CURRY, to Dress. — Cut up fowls or rabbits; put yf lb. of butter into a stew-pan, and when melted put In the meat, with two onions sliced ; brown well, and add % pint of gravy; simmer 20 minutes ; mix in a basin a tablespoonful of curry powder, one of flour, and a little salt, mix it smooth with water; simmer all in the pan ao minutes ; add lemon juice, and a bit of butter. CUSTARDS, Almond. —Take of almonds, lb., blanch and beat them very fine, put them into a pint of cream, with two spoonfuls of rosewater. Sweeten it to your palate ; beat up the yolks of four eggs, very fine, and put them in. Stir altogether one way over the fire, till it is thick, and then pour it into cups. CUSTARDS, Baked.—Boil a pint of cream with some mace and cin- namon : and when it is cold, take 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs, a little rose and orange-flower water, sack, nutmeg, and sugar to your palate. Mix them well, and bake it in cups. Or, pour into a deep dish, with or without lining or rim of paste; grate nutmeg and lemon peel over the top, and bake it in a slow oven about thirty minutes. CUSTARDS, Beast. — Set a pint of beast over the fire with a little cinnamon, and three bay leaves, and let it be boiling hot. Then take it off, and have ready mixed a spoonful of flour, and the same of thick cream. Pour the hot beast upon it by degrees, mix it well together, and sweeten it to your taste. You may bake it either with crust or in cups. CUSTARDS Cheap and Good. —Boil three pints of new milk with a little lemon peel, a little cinnamon, three bay leaves, and sweeten it; rub down a large spoonful of rice flour into a cup of cold milk, and mix it with two yolks of eggs well beaten; take a basin of boil- ing milk and mix with the cold, then pour that to the boiling, stirring it one way till it begins to thicken, and is just going to boil up, then add a large