CHE 1x8 CHE ately removes offensive odours from in- testinal and renal discharges, and puri- fies the breath, it removes offensive exhalations from any part of the body, either given in water, or in the form of [ pills, made up in wheat flour, or gum mucilage. It removes pains about the right shoulder caused by obstructions of the liver. As an antiacid, either alone, or combined with rhubarb, and carbon- ate of soda, it speedily and permanently removes heartburn. Charcoal is a powerful antiseptic, removing, or check- _ ing decay, and must be very valuable in the incipient stages of consumption. CHEESE, as Iced Butter.— Boil a pint of good cream a few minutes with rasped lemon-peel, and a table- spoonful of orange flower water; when taken off the fire, add 12 yolks of eggs, well beaten up ; mix all together ; sift, and put into an icing pot to freeze; whisk it like ices; ice it so that you may take it up with a spoon to serve like pats of butter stamped, and bits of clean ice appear between as crystals. CHEESE, to Stew.—Cut best Cheshire cheese very thin ; lay it in a toaster; set it before the fire ; pour a glass of ale over it; let it stand till it is like a light custard. Serve on toasts hot. CHEESE, to Stew. —Cut a plateful of best cheese; pour upon it a glass of port wine; grate upon part of it light biscuit unsugared; pour over it two or three spoonfuls of hot port; then put the rest of the cheese upon it. CHEESE to Toast.—Cut the cheese fine, and put it with a little butter into the oven, or before the fire in a dutch oven; salt, pepper and mustard as you like it. It is nice with finely chopped onions mixed with it. Better still with finely chopped onions and nice ham. CHEESECAKES—Strain the whey from the curds of two quarts of milk; when rather dry, crumble it through a coarse sieve, and mix with 6 ozs. of butter, 1 oz. of pounded blanch- ed almonds, a little orange-flower water, half a glass of raisin wine, a grated biscuit, 4 ozs. of currants, some nut- meg, powdered fine, and beat all with three eggs, and half a pint of cream till quite light; then fill the tins three parts full. CHEESECAKES.—Butter, 4 ozs.; powdered sugar, 4 ozs.; potatoes boiled, and floured through a sieve, 6 ozs.; three eggs, and 25 drops of essence of lemon. Line the moulds with a light puff paste, and fill them.—This makes a cheap cheesecake. CHEESECAKES,—Put a quart of new milk near the fire with a spoon- ful of rennet; when it is broken, drain the curd through a coarse cloth, break- ing the curd gently with the fingers ; rub into the curd % lb. of butter, % lb. of sugar, a nutmeg, and two Naples’ biscuit grated, the yolks of 4 eggs, and the white of one, 1 oz. of almonds well beaten, two spoonfuls of rose-water, and two of sherry wine; add 6 ozs. of cur- rants. Line the moulds with light paste, pour the mixture into each, and bake in a slow oven from 15 minutes. CHEESECAKES, ALMOND. —Almonds, 4 ozs., blanch and beat them with a little orange-flower water; add the yolks of eight eggs, the rind of a lemon grated, % lb. of melted butter, and sugar to taste; lay thin puff paste at the bottom of the tins ; and little slips across. Add 6 bitter almonds. CHEESECAKES, BREAD.— Slice a penny loaf very thin, pour on it a pint of hot cream, and let it stand two or three hours; then take eight eggs, % lb. of butter, and a nutmeg grated ; beat well, and mix them into the cream and bread, with % lb. of currants, well washed and dried, and a spoonful of white wine, or brandy, bake them in moulds, or raised crusts. CHEESECAKES, LEMON. —Boil the peelings of two large lemons till they are tender; pound them well in a mortar, with lb. of loaf sugar, the yolks of six eggs, with % lb. of fresh butter; lay puff paste in the moulds; and pour half full, and bake them. CHEESECAKES, ORANGE. —Blanch % lb. almonds, beat them very fine, with orange-flower water, and J£lb. of fine sugar sifted, 1 lb. of butter melted carefully without oiling, and nearly cold ; then beat the yolks of ten, and whites of four eggs; pound two candied oranges, and a fresh one with the bitterness boiled out, till as tender as marmalade, without lumps; and beat the whole together and put into moulds.