I5 ALE ALM The ale will be ready in three or four months ; and if the vent-peg never be removed, it will have spirit and strength to the very last. Allow two gallons of water at first for waste. After the beer or ale has run from the grains, pour a hogshead and a half for the twelve bushels, and a hogshead of water if eight we e brewed ; mash, and let it stand, and then boil, &e. Use some of the hops for this table-beer that was boiled for the strong. When thunder or hot weather causes beer to turn sour, a teaspoonful, or more If required, of salt of wormwood put into the jug will rectify it. Ale and Beer, to refine Put two ounces of isinglass shavings to soak in a quart of the liquor that you want to clear, beat it with a whisk every day till dissolved. Draw off a third part of the cask, and mix the above with it: like- wise a quarter of an ounce of pearl- ashes, one ounce of salt of tartar calcin- ed, and one ounce of burnt alum pow- dered. Stir it well, then return the liquor into the cask, and stir it with a clean stick. Stop it up, and in a few days it will be fine. ALE, WINDSOR.— Take 5 quarters of the best pale malt, % cwt. hops, 8 lbs. of honey, 1 lb. of coriander seed, % lb. of grains of paradise, K lb. of orange peel, and a K lbs. of ground liquorice root. The hops should be of the best kind, and soaked all night in cold liquor. Turn on at 1800; mash thoroughly an hour and a quarter, and stand an hour. Boil one hour. Turn on second liquor at 195°, and stand three quarters of an hour. Boil 3 hours ; run on third liquor at 165°, and mash three quarters of an hour, and stand the same. Pitch the tun at 6o° and cleanse at 8o°, on the third day. Siam as soon as a close yeasty head appears, until no yeast arises. Half a pound of hops per quarter should be roused in, and the whole left to settle. Also rouse In six ounces of salt, half a pound of finely sifted flour, six ounces of ground ginger, and six ounces of ground carraway seeds. ALE, MULLED,—Place a pint of good ale or beer in a. saucepan, with a little grated nutmeg. When It boils take It off tl»e fire, and sweeten. Peat two or three eggs, and mix with a little cold also. Boil, and then add the egg to the hot ale, pouring backwards and forwards from one vessel to the other to prevent curdling. Rum or brandy may be added ad libitum. ALE OR PORTER, to ripen. —Bottle and put a couple of raisins, or a few grains of rice or sugar into each bottle, to generate the required effer- vescence. ALMOND CAKES.—Rub 2ozs. of butter into 5 ozs. of flour, 5 ozs. pow- dered lump sugar; beat an egg with half the sugar, then put it to the other ingredients. Add 1 oz. blanched al- monds, and a little almond flavour ; roll them in your hand the size of a nutmeg, and sprinkle with fine lump sugar. They should be lightly baked. ALMOND CAKE.—Bake It in a mould, or baking hoop; bruise 1 lb. ol sweet almonds very fine, and 12 bitter almonds, adding a little whites of eggs, to hinder them from oiling ; then put to it 34 lb. of fine sugar powder by de- grees, two whole eggs, and “lemon peel, finely chopped or rasped ; when this is properly mixed, add 8 eggs, the yodts and whites first beat up separately : stir It, and mix it all properly : pour into the mould, to bake about an hour; serve it in its natural colour. (Glaze with white of egg, and frost with fine loaf sugar.) ALMOND CHEESECAKES. — Blanch and pound f-our ounces of almonds, and a few bitteT, with a spoon- ful of water; then add four ounces of sugar pounded, a spoonful of cream, and the whites of two eggs well beaten ; mix all as quickly as possible ; put into very small pattypans; and bake in >x pretty warm oven under twenty minutes. Another Way.—Blanch and pound’ four ounces of almonds, with a little orange-flower or rose-water; then stir in the yolks of six and the whites oof three eggs, well beaten, five ounces of butter wanned, the peel of a lemon grated, and a little of the juice, sweeten with fine powdered sugar. When well mixed, bake in a delicate paste, in small pans. Another Way.—Press the whey from as much curd as will make two dozen small ones; then put it on tho back of a sieve, and with half an ottnc*