Hulk 7. An' cmphatica* repetition, paste on buttered tins, bake In a slow oven. When cold, put a spoonful of any kind of jam in each and cover with whipped cream. PUFF, made of Cheese.-Strain cream curd from the whey, and beat £ a pint basin of it fine in a mortar, jvith a spoonful and a hglf of flour, 3 eggs, but only 1 white, a spoonful of orange flower-water, a # of a nutmeg, and sugar to make pretty sweet. Lay a little of this paste, in small very round cakes on a tin plate. If the oven is hot, a % of an hour will bake them. Serve with pudding sauce. PULMONARY BALSAM.— Horshound, (plant) comfrey-root, blood- root, elecampane-root, wild cherry bark, spikenard-root, pennyroyal, (plant) of each, 4 023. Pour 3 quarts of boiling water upon them; infuse for 3 hours ; then heat the water again ; and pour it upon the plants to infuse 5 or 6 hours. Sweeten with sugar candy.—It is very serviceable in diseases of the lungs, chronic coughs ; it removes constriction of the chest, by promoting expectora- tion. Take half a small tea-cupful 3 or 4 times a day. PULMONARY COM- PLAINTS.—It is said that the ten- der shoots of Scotch fir, peeled and eaten fasting early in the morning in the woods, when the weather is dry, has performed many cures of pulmonary complaints among the Highlanders in Scotland. PULMONARY SYRUP.— Blood-root, boneset, slippery elm bark, coltsfoot, elecampane, of each 2 ozs. ; white root, spikenard root, of each, 4 ozs.; comfrey-root, poplar bark, of each, 1 oz. ; lobelia, horehound, snake-root, of each, % oz. Pour upon them 2 qts. of boiling water ; stir well; add 1 lb. of treacle, and when cool, 1 quart of Hol- lands gin.—It is one of the best re- medics for asthma, coughs, hoarseness, &c. A table-spoonful every hour; or a wine-glassful 3 times a day. PUNCH, to Make.—Take two lemons, and rub some lumps of sugar over them, till all the yellow part of the skin has been taken off. Put these lumps into a bowl, and squeeze as much lemon juice to them as is requisite to Rive sufficient acidity. Then add the proper quantity of sugar; mix the sugar and juice well together, to which add some boiling water, and mix till the whole be cool. Take rum and brandy, equal quantities, and mix with the above ; the quantity of spirits according , to taste. PUNCH, Royal.—Take § a pint of brandy, a bottle of champagne, the juice of 3 lemons, and of 2 Seville oranges, and a Vi pint of Martinique, with nearly a quart of strong infusion of tea, and sweetened according to the taste. PUNCTUATION is the mak- ing of pauses, by points indicative of their length. The Comma is written thus (,) and represents the shortest pauses in read- ing, and the smallest divisions in writ- ing. Rule 1. In general, a simple sen- tence does not admit of any point ex- cept the period; as, True politeness has its seat in the heart. Rule 2. The simple members of a compound sentence are separated by a comma; as, Good men are esteemed, and they are happy. He labours assi- duously, and he is becoming rich. Rule 3. When two or more words —whether nouns, adjectives, pronouns, verbs, or adverbs—are connected with- out the conjunction being expressed, the comma supplies the place of that word ; as, My parents, brothers, and sisters were all present.—But when it'is ex- pressed, the comma is omitted; as, Cicero spoke most forcibly and fluently. Rule 4. Absolute, relative, and generally, all parenthetical and explana- tory clauses, are separated from the other parts of a sentence by commas; as, The commander having been shot, the troops became dispirited. Paul, the chief of sinners, became the chief apostle. Chris- tianity, though strenuously opposed by infidelity, is destined to triumph. In short, he was a great man. Rule s. The modifying words and phrases, nay, however, hence, finally, in short, at least, and the like, are usually separated by commas. Rule 6. Words denoting the per- son, or object addressed, are separated by commas ; as. My son, give me thine heart. John, hear what I say.