SAGO PUDDING.—Bofl a pint and 0. half of new milk, with four spoon- fuls of sago nicely washed and picked, lemon-peel, cinnamon, and nutmeg; sweeten to taste; then mix four eggs, put a paste round the dish, and bake slowly. SAGO PUDDING.—Boil 4 ozs. of sago in water a few minutes ; strain, and add milk, and boil till tender. Boil lemon peel and cinnamon in a little milk, and strain it to the sago. Put the whole into a basin ; break 8 eggs ; mix It well together, and sweeten with moist sugar; add a glass of brandy, and some nutmeg ; put puff paste round the rim of the dish, and butter the bottom. Bake three quarters of an hour. SALINE JULEP. Dissolve two drachms of salt of tartar in three ounces of fresh lemon juice, strained; when the effervescence is over, add of mint-water and common water, each '.wo ounces; of simple syrup, one ounce. This removes sickness at the stomach, relieves vomiting, promotes perspiration, and may be of some service in fevers especially of the inflammatory kind. SALINE LAXATIVE POW- DER.—Take of soluble tartar and cream of tartar, each i drachm ; purified nitre, J4 drachm ; make into a powder. In fevers, and other inflammatory dis- orders, where it is necessary to keep the body gently open ; one of these cooling laxative powders may be taken in a little gruel and repeated occasionally. SALINE MIXTURE. —Take of crystallized acid of lemon, one drachm, or fresh lemon juice, an ounce and a half; salt of wormwood, one drachm ; white sugar three drachms ; pure water, twelve ounces; essence of peppermint, thirty drops. Mix. A tea- cupful to be taken often in iinflamma- iory fevers and sore throat. SALISBURY CAKES. To three pounds of flour, add one pound of moist sugar, to be mixed into paste with half a pint of water, and to be baked in an oven. SALLY LUNN’S Tea Cakes. —These cakes are made as follows :— Put into a pan i pint of warm milk and a quarter of a pint of thick small beer yeast, with flour sufficient to make a batter ; cover It, and let It stand about a hours ; then add a ozs. of lump sugar dissolved in a K pint of warm milk (or 4 eggs) and a lb. of butter rubbed in- to the flour ; then make a dough as for French rolls; let it stand half an hour. Then make up the cakes, and put them on tins, and when they have stood to rise, bake them in a quick oven. Care should be taken never to put the yeast to the water or milk too hot or too cold, in summer it should be lukewarm, and in winter a little warmer, and in very cold weather warmer still. SALMAGUNDY is a beautiful small dish, if in nice shape, and if the colour of the ingredients are varied. For this purpose chop separately the white part of cold chicken or veal, yolks of eggs boiled hard, the whites of eggs ; parsley, half a dozen anchovies, beet- root, red pickled cabbage, ham, and grated tongue, or any thing well flavour- ed, and of a good colour. Some people like a small proportion of onion, but it may be better omitted. A saucer, large tea-cup, or any other base, must be put into a small dish; then make rows round it wide at bottom, and growing smaller towards the top ; choosing such of the ingredients for each row as will most vary the colours. At the top a little sprig of curled parsley may be stuck in ; or without any thing on the dish, the salmagundy may be laid in rows, or put inio the half-whites of eggs, which may be made to stand up- right by cutting off a bit at the round end. In the latter case, each half-egg has but one ingredient. Butter and pars- ley may be put as garnish between. SALMON, to Choose.—If new, the flesh is of a fine red (the gills parti- cularly), the scales bright, and the whole fish stiff. When just killed, there is a whiteness between the flakes which gives great firmness; by keeping, this melts I down, and the fish is more rich. The Thames salmon bears the highest price, that caught in the Severn is next in oodness, and is even preferred by some, mall heads, and thick in the neck, axe best. SALMON, to Boil.—Clean it carefully, boil it gently with salt and a little horse radish ; take it out of the water as soon as done, Let the water be warm If Use fish be split. If under-