BOW 72 BON opening medicine taken every other day will be found useful. BONESET. — An American plant, and in America it Is a regular family medicine. It possesses emetic, expectorant, and sudorific properties. As a laxative it acts gently without irri- tating the bowels. In fevers it is very valuable, relaxing the bowels and sub- duing the febrile symptoms. In rheu- matism and influenza it has a good effect. The cold infusion is an excellent tonic. To produce a vomit, take one ounce of the powdered leavesc and in- fuse in a pint of Lot water. Drink a cupful every fifteen minutes until it takes effect. To promote perspiration, take small doses frequently. The root of the purple Boneset in- fused is most excellent for gravel, stone in the bladder, and all obstructions in the kidneys, &c. BORAGE. See Robinson's Herbal. All parts of this plant contain much mucilage; the stem and leaves contain the nitrate of potassa, and other saline qualities. It is tonic, demulcent; it is good in rheumatic affections, pro- moting perspiration. It is very cooling in fevers, &c. The flowers are some- times made into a healing ointment BORAX is used as an astringent and gargle in sore throat or thrush, and in excessive salivation, attended with ulceration of the tongue and the inter- nal surface of the cheeks. It readily allays heat and irritation. A solution of it forms the following Cooling Wash : borax 1 oz; rain, or spring water, 1 quart. Mix, and let it stand 10 or 12 hours. Applied freely and often to inflamed nipples, canker, sore mouth and throat, ophthalmia, and other in- flammations, and diseases of the skin. Borax is also an excellent diuretic in cases of uric gravel, as a solution of it dissolves that acid freely, and does not produce any injurious constitutional effect when used for a length of time. Borax is an excellent preservative for meat, milk, butter, and other articles of animal food. Borax is a disinfectant for closets, sinks, and impure water. It is also good for washing glass or china, giving a brilliant lustre to them. Beetles and other insects do not like it and soon dis- appear with continued use. Borax will kill the green fly on rose trees, being made into a solution and applied. It is also good for wash- ing the boards in greenhouses, and for destroying the red spider in grape vines. Borax for Cleaning Marble.— Put some dissolved borax on the soiled marble, let it stay a short time, then wash off with hot water, soap, and borax mixed, using a soft flannel. BOTTLES,; to Purify.—Rinse with lime water, or water and powdered charcoal. BOTTLE SEALING WAX. —Rosin and linseed oil, and any colour boiled together, and then moulded. Boil over a slow fire, and carefully, to prevent ignition. BOWEL COMPLAINT. Tincture of rhubarb, one ounce ; syrup of rhubarb, one and a half ounce; lau- danum, quarter of an ounce; essence of peppermint, three quarters of an ounce; mix in half a quartern of the best brandy, and cork tightly. When required for use, take two teaspoonfuls in half a glass of warm water, and the pain will be almost instantly remedied. Sometimes sickness and vomiting are present. In that case take a wine- glassful of soda water, with two tea spoonfuls of brandy every hour or oftener. One drachm of the tincture of assafoetida, j twenty or thirty drops of laudanum, / aromatic powder, two drachms ; oil of peppermint, six drops ; prepared chalk, one ounce, will remove the pain and griping in the stomach and bowels. If not, add a quarter of a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. For bowel complaints in children, give tincture of kino, from six to thirty drops in a little warm water sweetened. BOWELS-—Keep them regular. —Neglect of them brings on all sorts of diseases, and many persons are apt to neglect them. Many years ago, an old gentleman at Greenock, left at his death, a number of sealed packets to his friends, and opening them, they found a Bible, £50, and a box of Pills, with ihe words, "Fear God and keep your bowels open.” It was good advice, though it might have been more de- corously worded. If you were a doctor, you would be astonished how many