54 BIL BIL 10 If the ball lodges on the top of a -ushion, it is considered as off the table. n After the adversary’s ball is off the table, and the two remaining balls are either upon the line, or within the stringing dots at the upper end of the table, where the white balls are origin- ally placed in leading, it is called a baulk, and the striker, who is to play from the ring, must strike outside the baulk, so as to occasion his ball, in re- turning, to hit one of the balls in the baulk ; if not, he loses one point, 12 A line ball is when the centre of the ball is exactly on the line of the baulk, in which case it is to be consider- ed in the baulk, and cannot be played at, except from a cushion out of the baulk. 13 All misses to be given, with the point of the cue, and the ball struck only once ; if otherwise given, the adversary may claim it as a foul stroke, and enforce the penalty,—make the striker play the stroke over again,—or have the ball replaced where it was struck from the second time. 14 A person cannot score if he makes a foul stroke. Note 1. It is called foul if a striker moves a ball in the act of striking; or if he plays with the wrong ball; or if he touches his own ball twice in playing ; or if he strikes a ball whilst it is running; or if he touches another ball; or if his feet are off the floor when playing. The penalty in all these cases is breaking the balls, and losing the lead. Note 2. Enforcing the penalty for a foul stroke is entirely at the option of the adversary. 15 If the adversary does not choose to enforce the penalty for a foul stroke, the striker may play on, and score all the points he made by the foul stroke— which the maker is bound to score. 16 If the striker holes the white ball, (called a white winning hazard), or if he holes his own ball from the white ball (called a white losing hazard), he gains two points; if he does both he gains four points. 17 If the striker holes the red ball, he wins three; and if by the same stroke he holes his own from the red, he wins three more. 18 When the red ball is pocketed, or off the table, and the spot on which it - 1 should stand is occupied by the v/bite ball, in must be placed in a correspond- ing situation at the other end of the table; but if that should be occupied also by the other white ball, it must be placed in the centre of the table, im- mediately between the two middle poc- kets ; and wherever it is placed, there it must remain, until it be played, or the game be over. It is the eastern in some billiard rooms, it the spot be occupied by the white ball, to plane the red ball in the centre of the table; but it is much more common to place at the other end; besides the situation is more uniform. 19 If the striker plays at the white ball first, makes a canon, and pockets his own ball, he gains four points ; two for the canon, and two for the white losing hazard. 20 If the striker plays at the white ball first, and pockets his own ball and the red one, he gains five points. 21 If the striker plays at the white ball first, makes a canon, and pockets the red and white balls he gains seven points. 22 If the striker plays at the white ball first, makes a canon, and at the same time pockets his own and his ad- versary’s ball, he wins six points; two for the canon and two for each white hazard. 23 If the striker plays at the white ball”first, and pockets all the balls with- out making a canon, he gains seven points. 24 If the striker plays at the white ball first, makes a canon, and pockets all balls, he gains nine points. 25 If the striker plays at the red ball first, and pockets it and his own ball, he gains six points. 26 If the striker plays at the red ball first, make a canon, and by the same stroke pockets bis own ball, he gains five points ; two for the canon, and three for the red losing hazard. 27 If the striker plays at the red ball first, makes a canon, and pockets the red and the white ball, he gains seven points. 28 If the striker plays at the red ball first, makes a canon, and af the same time pockets his own and the red ball, he wins eight points ; two for the canon, three for the red losing, and three for the red winning hazard. 29 If the striker plays at the red ball