ounces of coarse sugar, one ounce of sulphuric acid, one ounce of muriatic acid, one lemon, one tablespoonful of sweet oil, and one pint of vinegar. First miy the ivory-black and sweet oil together, then the lemon and sugar, with a little vinegar to qualify the black- ing ; then add the sulphuric and muria- tic acids, and mix them all well to- gether. The sugar, oil, and vinegar, prevent the acids injuring the leather, and add to the lustre of the blacking. BLACKING CAKE for Boots and Shoes.—Gum Arabic, one ounce ; a pint of soft water, or more ; ivory black, two ounces; a tablespoon- ful of sweet oil; treacle, or brown sugar, one ounce. Boil till of a proper thick- ness, and mould into cakes. These cakes, when used, must be dissolved in vinegar, or vinegar and water. BLACKING, Cheap.—Take of Ivory-black, one pound; lamp-black, half an ounce; treacle, one pound; sweet oil, one ounce and a half; coarse gum-arabic, half an ounce; and stale vinegar, three pints and a half; mix well: first dissolve the gum in a little water ; then add gradually half an ounce of oil of vitriol. Let the mixture stand two days. BLACKING, Matchless.— Take a quarter of a pound of ivory black, two ounces of the coarsest brown sugar, three pints of sour table beer; mix it well together, then throw in a small table-spoonful of sweet oil, and as much vitriolic acid ; stir it well to- gether, and in a few hours bottle. BLACKING, Oil Paste.—Ivory black, two pounds ; treacle, four or five ounces ; oil of vitriol, two ounces ; tan- ner’s oil, five ounces ; (if this cannot be obtained, then use four ounces of best tallow) gum arabic, one ounce. Mix the oil and vitriol together, and let it stand 24 hours ; dissolve the gum in a cupful of warm water; then add three table- spoonfuls of best vinegar ; heat it and mix with the oil; &c., and then add the ivory black, treacle, and white of two eggs. A superior Blacking. BLACKING, Another.—A quarter of a pound of ivory black, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, a tablespoonfu! of flour ; a piece of tallow the size of a walnut; and a small piece of gum arabic. Make a paste of the flour; and, while hot, put in the tallow; then the sugar; and, afterwards, mix the whole well together in a quart of water. BLACK LACE, to Clean.— Wind the lace round a board four inches wide. Make a lather of white soap and water, and then wash the lace with great care and a gentle hand ; rinse away the soapy water with clean, milk-warm water ; then let it gently dry. Next day make some good strong tea—black tea is best—and dissolve in it a little gum arabic, using about as much gum as one would sugar. Rinse the clean lace in this gum-tea several times. The tanning principle will restore the colour of the lace, the gum will impart stiffness. Be- fore the lace is quite dry it must be folded backwards and forwards between the alternate leaves of an old book, and then pressed. BLACK LACE, to Clean.— Pass the lace through a warm liquor of bullock’s fall and water; afterwards rinse in cold water ; then take a small piece of glue, pour boiling water on it, and again pass the lace through it; clap it with your hands, and frame it to dry. BLACK PAPER for Transfer. —Mix well together fine lamp black and sweet oil, and a drop or two of turpen- tine. Apply it to soft sheets of paper with a flannel or a soft sponge. BLACK REVIVER.—First dip the cloth in, or apply to the article with a sponge, a solution of bichromate of potass. Then do in the same way with a decoction of logwood, and lastly with a little solution of copperas ; this makes a capital black. Cloth is best dyed when it is boiled a little. BLACK SALVE, or, Healing Salve.—Olive oil, 1 pint; common resin, % ounce; bees’ wax, % ounce; Venice turpentine, % ounce. Melt, raising the oil nearly to the boiling point; then gradually add two or three ounces of powdered red lead while on the fire ; do not burn it; boil slowly till it becomes a dark brown ; remove from the fire, and add one drachm of pow- dered camphor when it Is nearly cold.— This is a first-rate healing salve, superior to most, is wonderful in bums, scalds