SAR 34* SALT local pains, and cutaneous affections. As a pectoral, it may be used in syrups, cordials, decoctions, &c., and has been found useful in coughs, catarrhs, lan- guor, debility, &c. For decoction, 3 ozs. of the root should be used for making a quart of the decoction ; bruise the root, and pour upon it 3 pints of boiling water ; let it stand a night, then boil down to a quart and strain. A little liquorice root, or cinnamon, or sassafras, may be added to the decoction before it is taken from the fire ; or, a little cinnamon water may be added after straining. SARSAPARILLA, Decoction of.—Take fresh sarsaparilla root, diced and bruised, 2 ozs.; shavings of guaiacum wood, 1 oz. Boil over a slow fire in 3 quarts of water, to one, adding, towards the end, % an oz. of sassafras wood, and 3 drs. of liquorice. Strain the decoction. Take from half a pint to a quart per day. This decoction strengthens the sto- mach, and restores fresh vigour to habits emaciated by the venereal disease. It may also be taken in the rheumatism, and cutaneous disorders proceeding from foulness of the blood. It may be taken from a $ to 2 quarts in a day. SATIN AND SILKS, to Clean.—French chalk must first be strewed over them, and then well brush- ed off with a hard brush. Should the satin not be sufficiently cleansed by the first dusting, it may be done a second time; it will clean and beautify the satin. The more it is brushed the better. SAUCE, a la Cruster, for Fish. —Thicken a # lb. of butter with flour, and brown it; then put to it a lb. of the best anchovies cut small, 6 blades of pounded mace, 10 cloves, 40 berries of black pepper and allspice, a few small onions, a faggot of sweet herbs, (name- ly—savoury, thyme, basil, and knotted maijoram) and a little parsley and sliced horse-radish ; on these pour half a pint of the best sherry, and n pint and a half of strong gravy. Simmer all gently for 20 minutes, then strain it through a sieve, and bottle it for use : the way of using it is, to boil some of it in the but- ter while melting. SAUCE, a la Maitre’d Hotel. —Put a piece of butter into a saucepan with some hashed parsley, some tarra- gon leaves, 1 or 2 leaves of balm, with salt, lqmou, or a glass of verjuice, see p 409; mix the whole with a wooden spoon, until they are well incorporated. SAUCE, a la Matelote.—Put into a saucepan a ladleful of reduced cull is,* or broth; put in small onions, which have been fried in butter, with some dressed mushrooms, and artichoke bottoms. When ready to serve, put in butter the size of a walnut, shake it well, in order to mix it, without breaking the ingredients. v SAUCE, a la Nonpareille.— Cut some ham into dices, with the same weight of mushrooms or truffles ; put them into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, upon a slow fire, and simmer 15 minutes. If the sauce is to be white, put three skimming spoonfuls of white cullis.* If brown, add half a glass of port wine, and seasoning; put in the whites of hard eggs, and mushrooms, in the same quantity as the ham and truffles, and cut in the same way; also, lobsters’ tails, and spawn, if there be any ; finish with a bit of butter. SAUCE, Excelsior.—Put Into a saucepan a wineglassful of vinegar, some garlic, shalots, a laurel leaf, thyme, and pepper. Put on the fire till reduced to half the quantity. Add to it some gravy or soup. Pass it through a sieve; rub some butter into a little flour, and add it to the sauce, with finely chopped herbs. Excellent for cutlets, or warmed slices of meat, &c. SAUCE, Grande.—Chop two shalots very fine, and a small bunch of parsley. Beat up the yolks of two or three eggs, and add Florence oil till the mixture is pretty thick. Add two tea- spoonfuls of the best vinegar, a small one of salt, and one of soluble cayenne, and then mix all with the shalots and parsley. SAUCE, Italienne.—Cut twelve dices of ham, and put it into a stewpan, with a handful of mushrooms well minced, and a sliced lemon, from which the peel and seeds must be taken; add * Cullis,—A very fine and strong broth of meat strained and made clear for persons in a state of weakness; also, a savonry Jelly. A collander or strainer is sometimes called by this name.