BLA 66 BLA scrofulous, fistulous, and all other ulcers, Spead on linen, and renew daily. BLACK STAIN for WOOD. —Pour one quart of boiling water on half an ounce of commercial extract of Logwood ; when the solution is effected, add half a drachm of yellow chromate of potash, and let the whole be well stirred. BLADDER, Inflammation of. —It manifests itself by pain and tight- ness in the lower part of the abdomen; the pain increases by pressure, there is a constant desire to pass urine, and great difficulty in passing a few drops; sometimes there is complete retention; the bladder may become enlarged, caused by the inflammatory action. In old people the chronic form occurs, and it is frequently caused by stone. In the decline of life, the common symptom is the difficulty of making water. In painful retention of urine, hot fomentations of herbs, as hops, worm- wood, tansy, camomile flowers, and a little valerian root, may be applied over the region of the bladder. Use also the warm foot-bath. Parsley tea with a little spirits of nitre and best gin may be taken. Take also the Diuretic In- fusion, which see. Should these fail, use the hip-bath, temperature from 86 to 96, for half an hour; take also a tablespoonful of castor oil, and, if the pain is severe, twelve drops of lauda- num. Warm injections are also service- able. Add to the injections a little Tincture of Lobelia. The following is an excellent remedy In affections of the bladder, particularly in old age :— Solidified Copaiaba, Alcholic Extract of Cubebs, equal parts. Mix and make into three or four grain pills, and give one or two three times a day. It has been known to act like a charm. It is invaluable in all urinary affections, and especially those which affect old people. It allays pain and irritation about the neck of the bladder, of the prostrate gland, and in the kidneys. In case of extreme pain apply the Irritating Plaster (which see) over the pubic region. To strengthen the in adder, avoid all intoxicating drinks, exposure to wet. damp, and cold; sponge the lower parts of the abdomen with salt and water, and occasionally with vinegar. See Urine, or Urinary. BLANC-MANGE, A RICH. —Simmer an ounce and a quarter of fine isinglass in a pint and a half of new milk; add the rind of half a lemon, shred very fine, two blades of mace, a stick of cinnamon, and sweeten to taste with loaf-sugar. Blanch and pound with a spoonful of rose-water, half an ounce of sweet almonds, eight or ten bitter; put them to the milk, and mix. When the isinglass is dissolved, strain through a new flannel, to half a pint of rich cream, and stir well. When it has stood an hour, pour it off into another basin, leaving the sediments at the bottom, and when nearly cold, pour it into moulds, jelly glasses, or custard cups. Two tablespoonfuls of noyeau will answer the purpose of the almonds. And the isinglass may be dissolved in a pint of water and half a pint of milk. Another way.—Put one ounce and a half of isinglass into a basin, and pour over it a quart of boiling milk; cover it over with a plate, and let it stand till the next day ; put it into a saucepan with the rind of a lemon, a bit of cinnamon, and a liftle loaf sugar ; let it boil till the isinglass is dissolved, then add to it some orange flour and rose-water, and a little Sherry wine; strain and cool a little, wet the moulds in cold water, and pour it into them. Sweet and bitter almonds blanched, and beat in a mortar with a little rose-water, may be added, if agreeable. BLANC - MANGE. Arrow- root.—Put two tea-cupfuls of arrow- root to a quart of milk. Flavour it with an ounce of sweet almonds, and fifteen or sixteen bitter, blanched and pounded ; or with noyeau. Moisten the arrow-root with a little cold milk, and pour to it the boiling milk, stirring all the time. Then put it in the sauce- pan, and boil it a minute or two, still stirring. Dip the moulds in cold water. Turn it out when cold. BLANC-MANGE, Isinglass. —One ounce of isinglass dissolved in one pint of boiling milk, and flavoured with bitter almonds, lemon-peel, &c. li tolled lor some time together, it will