AST AST 33 i accession of a paroxysm. For this purpose, take 20 grains of Ipecacuanha powder: — Or, Ipecacuanha powder, 15 grains ; sulphate of zinc, 4 grains ; oxymel of squills, 2 drachms ; pepper- mint water, 1 ounce. Mix:—Or, Tinc- ture of Lobelia is good, in obstinate cases; dose 1 drachm. Lobelia is now declared by the most eminent physicians to be the king of all reme- dies for Asthma. See my Herbal on Lobelia. I shall now subjoin a few other remedies, and some advice, the value of which has been confirmed by my medical experience, and that of others. iEther is a good remedy during the fit. Dr. Graham directs its use thus; “ Heat a common tea-pot with boiling water—let it stand three or four min- utes ; pour the water entirely out, and then put one or two tea-spoonfuls of iEther into the pot, close the lid, and inhale the fumes through the spout in the mouth, breathing in that way for several minutes.—Strong Brandy and Water, and Gin and Water, have been found very serviceable during the fit, especially the latter, with two or three drops of the Oil of Juniper added. The following receipts for asthma have been found very useful:— Take of the Milk of Gum Ammonia, six ounces ; syrup of squills, four ounces and a half; mix. A spoonful to be taken when relief is required. It pro- motes copious expectoration. Or, Gum Ammoniac, one drachm; gum Asafoetida, squill pill, of each half a drachm ; oil of Cinnamon, six drops ; form into 24 pills, with common syrup. Take twice a day. Or, Powdered Senna, 1 ounce ; flour of Sulphur, % ounce ; powdered ginger, 2 drachms; powdered saffron, % drachm. Size of a nutmeg to be taken night and morning, in treacle or honey. Or two ounces of best honey, and one ounce of castor oil mixed. A tea- spoonful or two to be taken night and morning. Carraway and Sweet Fennel seeds of each half an ouncej; boil in a pint of vinegar about twenty minutes ; take it off the fire, and add three ounces of sliced Garlic. Cover up, and when cold, squeeze and strain, and by gentle heat, mix with it a pound and a quarter of good honey. A tea-spoonful or two to be taken night and morning. To relieve the breathing, steep some blotting paper in a strong solution of saltpetre ; dry it, and light a portion when going to bed, lay it on a plate. Many have experienced much relief from this. ASTHMA.—The Rev. J. Wes- ley recommend.': the following :—A pint oi cold water every morning, and wash the head in cold water, and using the cold bath once in two weeks. -Or a decoction of liquorice often gives relief. Or half a pint of tar water twice a day. Or live a fortnight chiefly on boiled carrots. It SELDOM FAILS. Many have been cured by this diet. Or take from ten _ to sixty drops of Elixir of Vitriol in’ a glass of spring water three or four times a day. Or into a quart of boiling water put a tea- spoonful of Balsamic iEther ; receive the steam into the lungs, through a fumigator, twice a day. Balsamic Alt her is made thus : —Put 4 ozs. of Spirits of Wine, and one ounce of Balsam of Tolu, into a phial, with one ounce of iEther. Keep it well corked. It will not keep above a week or two. Or, vomit with warm water, and always keep the body open. — Wesley. To prevent a return of a fit of Asthma, or to relieve Asthma.— Keep the bowels gently open with Rhu- barb, or some other mild aperient, and strengthen the tone of the stomach by bitter infusions, as Camomile, Gentian, and Quinine. When the chest is con- stricted, apply mustard, or blistering plasters, and take an emetic occasionally to clear out the phlegm from the bron- chial passages—avoid everything difficult of digestion—wear flannel next the skin —avoid a bleak damp air, easterly winds and take constant exercise. An animal diet, rather light, is preferable to a vegetable diet. ASTHMATIC COUGH.— Take Spanish liquorice, two ounces, salt of tartar, half an ounce ; boil the liquor in three pints of water to a quart: add the salt to it when it is blood warm. Drink two spoonfuls of this every two . hours. It seldom fails. I have known jithis cure an inveterate moist asthma.