79 BRO BRU I - ped in a decoction of hops and worm- wood, boiled in vinegar ; the flannels to be gently wrung, and applied as hot and l as often as possible over the bronchial tubes, or the upper part of the chest, i If it produces an eruption, it is favour- able. The bowels must not be neglected, j but kept open by gentle aperients, as ! castor oil, a weak infusion of salts and senna, according to the strength of the i patient. This tends to cool the system, I and divert the humours from the chest to the bowels. Bronchitis from the acute sometimes | passes into the chronic. The person in such case should be well clothed, wear flannel next to the skin—should avoid exposure to cold and damp, and abstain from alcoholic drinks. Indeed, in many cases, bronchitis is caused by intemper- ance, and also by much public speaking. When the cough is violent and fast, lake expectorants recommended in this book, and apply to the chest the Stimu- lating Ointment (which see) Dr. Beach i advises the use of the Tar-bath exactly in the following way :—Add one ounce of common potash to one pound of tar, to deprive it of its pyroligneous acid. | Mix well, and boil together in the open i air for fifteen minutes—then to be kept j gendy simmering in the room of the I patient. This may be done by placing it over a spirit lamp. The Irritating Plaster is very service- j able in bronchial affections. The Americans recommend the smoking of Mullen leaves dried. During the inflammation attendant i on this complaint, the diet must be I simple and soothing; as gruels, sago, rice, tapioca, arrowroot, &c. The ) patient must keep in a warm room, and j avoid cold and damp. During conva- I lescence, tonics should be freely taken. | Avoid stimulating drinks. BROOM. Ste Robinson's Herbal. \ —It is a valuable diuretic, and it may j be safely administered. The green tops I are to be infused, an ounce to a pint of j boiling water, covered and placed near i a warm fire from six to eight hours. | Take a teacupful twice a day. A little ! spirits of nitre, and a few juniper ! berries will assist to cause the flow of i urine. BRONZING PLASTER OF PARIS, &c.—First, give to the figures a coat of oil, or size varnish, and when nearly dry, apply with a dabber of cotton or camel-hair pencil, any of the metallic bronze powders; or the powder may be placed in a little bag of muslin, and dusted over the surface, and afterwards finished off with a wad of linen. The surface must be after- wards varnished. BROTH, that will Keep.— Put part of a round of beef, a knuckle bone veal, and a few shanks of mutton into a deep pan, and cover close with a dish or coarse crust; bake till the beef is done enough for eating, with only as much water as will cover. When cold, cover it close in a cool place. When used, give what flavour may be ap- proved. BROTH, Readily-made. Take a bone or two of a neck or loin of mutton, take off the fat and skin, set it on the fire in a small tin saucepan that has a cover, with three quarters of a pint of water, the meat being first beaten, and cut in thin bits : put a bit of thyme and parsley, and, if approved, a slice of onion. Let it boil very quick, skim it nicely; take off the cover, if likely to be too weak ; else cover it. Half an hour is sufficient for the whole process. BROTH, Strengthening.—Boil two pounds of loin of mutton, with a very large handful of chervil, in two quarts of water to one. Take off part of the fat. Any other herbs or roots may be added. Take half a pint three or four times a day. BROWN BREAD ICE. Grate as fine as possible stale brown bread, soak a small proportion in cream two or three hours, sweeten and ice it. BROWN BREAD PUD- DING.—Grate half a pound each of stale brown bread, currants, shred suet, sugar, and nutmeg; mix the v/hole with four eggs, and two spoonfuls of cream, boil in a cloth or basin three or four hours. BRUISE.—Apply treacle spread on brown paper. Or, a plaster of chopped parsley mixed with butter. Or, electrify the part. To prevent