37 BAC BAC your tables are better for a hit than any greater number, providing your game is the most forward ; because having three or more men on your tables, gives him more chance to hit you than if he had only two men. If you have a blot upon entering a man upon your adversary’s tables, and have your choice where, always choose that point which is most disadvantage- ous to him. CRITICAL CASES FOR A BACK GAME. Question.—Suppose A plays the fore game and that all his men are placed in the usual manner; for B’s game suppose that fourteen of his men are placed upon his adversary's ace point, and that B is to throw, which game is the likeliest to win the hit ? Answer.-A’sis the best by twenty- one to twenty, because if B misses an ace to take his opponent’s deuce point, which is twenty-five to eleven against him, A is in that case to take up B’s men in his tables, either singly or to make points; and if B secures either A’s deuce or trois points, then A is to lay as many men down as possible, in order to be hit, and so get a back game. DIRECTIONS FOR PLAYING AT SETTING OUT THE-36 CHANCES OF THE DICE. x. Two aces to be played upon your cinque point and bar point, for gammon or hit. 2. Two sixes to be played on your adversary’s bar point, and on your own, for a gammon or hit. 3. Two trois to be played on your cinque point and the other two in your trois point, in your own tables, for a gammon only. 4. Two deuces to be played on your quartre point in your own table, and two to be brought over from the five men placed in your adversary’s tables ; this also for a gammon only. 5. Two fours to be brought over from the five men placed in your adver- sary's table, and to be put upon the cinque point in your own tables, for a gammon only. 6. Two fives, to be brought over from the five men placed in your adver- sary’s tables, and put on the trois point in your ow". for a gammon or hit. 7. Six ace, now take your bar point for a gammon or hit. 8. Six deuce, a man to be brought from the five, in your adversary’s tables, and placed on the cinque point in your own, for a gammon or hit. 9. Six and three, bring a man from your oponent’s ace point as far as he will go, for a gammon or hit. xo. Six and four exactly the same as last. 11. Six and five, ditto. 12. Cinque and quatre, ditto. 13. Cinque-trois, makes the trois point in your own tables for a gammon or hit- 14. Cinque-deuce, play two men placed in your adversary’s outer table in the five, for a gammon or hit. 15. Cinque-ace, bring one man from the five in your adversary’s tables for the cinque, and play one down on the cinque-point in your own tables, for the ace, for a gammon or hit. 16. Quatre-trois, bring two men from the five in your adversary’s tables, for a gammon or hit. 17. Quatre-deuce, make the quatre- point in your own tables, for a gammon or hit. 18. Quatre-ace, play a man from the five, in your adversary’s tables for the quatre; and for dice, a man down on the cinque point in your tables, for a gammon only. 19. Trois-deuce, bring two men from the five in your adversary’s tables, for a gammon only. 20. Trois-ace, make the cinque point in your own tables, for a gammon or hit. 21. Deuce-ace, play one man from the five in your adversary’s tables, fqr the deuce; and for the ace, play a man down upon the cinque point in your own tables, for a gammon only. LAWS OF BACKGAMMON. 1. If you take a man or men from any point, that man or men must be played. 2. You are not understood to have played any man till placed upon a point, and quitted. 3. If you play with 14 men only, there is no penalty attending it, because with a lesser number you play to a dis- advantage, by not having the extra man ! to make up your tables.