137 COW CON of solution of Iodide of iron ; take a teaspoonful two or three times a day. Many have derived much benefit from Tar-water, and some have been com- pletely cured by it. " In Dr. John William's Legacy to the World,' this redpe is given,—common tar, a table- spoonful ; honey, three table-spoonfuls; three yolks of hen’s eggs ; wine, half a pint. Mix, and bottle for use. A tea- spoonful thrice a day. Should the bowels be extremely re- laxed, take a grain of powdered ium, and a grain of sulphate of iron, as a powder. This has performed wonders. Drink much barley-water, taking occa- sionally five or six drops of the oil of aniseeds to relieve the cough. Chlo- rodyne also affords much relief to a cough. With regard to climate for the con- sumptive it is not only as uniform a climate as can be found that is wanted, but the same means of eradicating the disease as the patient had in his own country, but where he was prevented by fitful weather from malting use of them. Occupation for his mind and body is essential to recovery. His object should be to remain as much as possible in the open air; to enjoy moderate daily exercise for several hours; to partake of a mixed and wholesome nourishing diet; to be re- freshed by undisturbed repose during the night; to cleanse the body by daily ablutions ; and to have his mind divert- ed by new and cheerful scenery, from home-longings, and from dwelling too much upon the nature of his malady. Dr. Richardson, in his treatise on pulmonary consumption, says, “ 1 shall recommend no particular place as a resort for consumptives. It should be near the sea coast, and sheltered from the northerly winds ; the soil should be dry; the drinking-water, pure; the mean temperature about 6o°, with a range of not more than about ro° or 150 on either side. It is not easy to fix any degree of humidity ; but extremes of dryness or of moisture are alike in- jurious. It is of importance in selecting a locality, that the scenery should be enticing, so that the patient may be the more encouraged to spend his time out of doors in walking, or riding exercise ; I and a town where the residences are isolated, and scattered about and where drainage and cleanliness are attended to, is preferable to one where the houses are densely packed, however small the population. A sea-voyage is sometimes recom- mended in incipient consumption. This is often followed by a total sus- pension, or removal of the disease, in cases where it is judiciously recom- mended. Short voyages are often more injurious than beneficial. To a delicate person going out to India, a voyage round the Cape is of great benefit; but the most serviceable voyage is one to Australia, New Zealand, and back again....the great advantage is the enjoyment of a perpetual summer, which may be effected by leaving this country about the beginning or middle of October, and returning before the cold weather sets in at the antipodes, CONSUMPTION.—One in a deep consumption was advised to drink nothing but water, and eat nothing but water gruel, without salt or sugar. In three months time he was quite well.— Take no food but new buttermilk, churned in a bottle, and white bread. I have known this successful.—Or, use as common drink, spring water and new milk, each a quart, and sugar candy 2 ozs.—Or, boil two handfuls of sorrel in a pint of whey, strain it, and drink a glass thrice a day. Or, turn a pint of skimmed milk with half a pint of small beer. Boil in this whey about twenty ivy-leaves and two or three sprigs of hyssop. Drink half over night, the rest in the morning. Do this, if needful, for two months daily. This has cured in a desperate case. Tried. Or, every morning, cut a little turf of fresh earth, and laying down, breathe in the hole for a quarter of an hour. Or, take in for a quarter of an hour, morning and evening, the steam of white resin and bees’ wax boil- ing on a hot fire shovel. This has cured one who was in the third stage of a consumption. Or, take morning and evening a tea-spoonful of white ▼ resin powdered and mixed with honey. This cured one in less than a month, who was near death. Or, drink thrice a-day two spoonfuls of juice of water- cresses. This has cured a deep con- sumption. In the last stage, suck a