41O WAX wax a mixture ol one part chalk and two of alum will be still better. WATER, to Soften.—Wood ashes form a good lye for softening water, but care must be taken that they should be all wood. WATER BRASH.-A discharge of thin watery fluid from the stomach upwards to the mouth. It generally arises from weakness of the stomach, Indigestion, &c. Persons affected with diseases of the chest, and persons of debilitated constitution, are much sub* ject to it. X'ake from 4 to 8 grains of the white oxide of bismuth. Give an aperient pill to keep the bowels open, and give bit- ters freely. Take nourishing diet, and be frequently in the open air. Take now and then some of the Neutralizing Mixture diluted. A little brandy bitters, and effervescing draughts are beneficial. Use friction with the flesh brush. If the patient is consumptive, then most gentle means must be used, and chiefly in reference to the disease which is the cause of water brash. WATER CEMENT. This will harden under water.—Mix 4 parts of grey clay, 6 of oxide of manganese, and 90 of good limestone reduced to fine powder. Caldne the whole to ex- pel the carbonic acid. Work into the consistence of a soft paste with 60 parts of washed sand. If a lump of this ce- ment be thrown into water, it will harden immediately. WATER-CRESSES. — Medi- cinally it acts as a gentle stimulant and diuretic. The expressed juice which contains the peculiar taste and pun- gency of the herb, may be taken in doses of 1 or a ozs. Eat the plant also at meals. It is famous for purifying the blood, and the cure of scurvy. WATER GRUEL, to Make. —Boil a table-spoonful of oatmeal in a quart of water for 1 hour, or till it is fine and smooth. Take off the fire, and let it settle; then pour it into a china bowl and add sugar, sherry, and nut- meg to your taste. WATER MUFFINS.— One quart of flour, half a teacupful of yeast, a tablespoonful of salt, warm water enough to make a thick batter; beat It with a spoon. Let It rise eight hours. Bake in muffin rings half full, and bake them fifteen or twenty minutes, WATER PIPES, to Manage in Winter.—In frost cover the water pipes with hay, or straw bands. WATERPROOF BOOT SOLES.—If hot tar and rosin be applied to boot soles, it will make them waterproof. Apply it with a piece of old flannel, or doth, and dry it in by the fire. The operation may be repeated 2 or 3 times during the winter, if neces- sary. It makes the surface of the leather quite hard, so that it wears longer. Oil or grease softens the sole, and does not keep the water out. WATERPROOFING, for Boots and Shoes.—Linseed oil, 1 pint; oil of turpentine, or naptha, pint; yellow wax, {4 lb. ; burgundy pitch, H lb. Melt together with a gentle heat. For use, rub into the leather before the fire. WATERPROOFING Shoes. —Melt bees* wax and mutton suet, and when you take from the fire, add a tea- spoonful of turpentine. Or, India rubber and gutta percha, dissolved in good naphtha. Or, yellow wax, 4 ozs.; rosin, 4 ozs.; linseed oil, 1 pint; oil of turpentine, of a pint. Melt over a slow fire, and when melted, take from the fire, and add the turpentine, and stir well. Remember that it is very inflammable. When required for use, melt and apply. WATERPROOF CLOTH.— Apply to the calico or linen 2 coats of boiled oil, a little rosin or burgundy pitch, and a small quantity of turpen- tine. Hang up to dry. WATERPROOF CLOTH.— To 1 oz. of melted white wax add 1 quart of spirits of turpentine; when thoroughly mixed and cold, dip the cloth in it and hang it up to dry. WATERPROOF COMPOSI- TION.—Mix gas tar, common oil, and slaked lime, and use as paint, ap- plying 3 or 4 coats. Petroleum oil, and Noway tar might also be employed with advantage. WATERPROOF PAPER.— Brush sheets of paper over with boiled oil, and suspend them on a line until dry. When prepared properly, these