HAM HAL 205 mary, 1 lb. Put Into a still, and distil slowly. -Or, take rosemary, maiden- hair, southern-wood, myrtle berries, and hazel bark, 3 ozs. each; bum them to ashes, and with the ashes make a ley, and wash the hair with it. It cleanses and strengthens the hair. HALIBUT, to Fry.—Cut Into thin slices; rib it with a knife; fry it almost brown with butter or dripping; take it up; drain it from the butter; clean the pan, and put it in again with port wine, sliced ginger, nutmeg, an- chovy, salt, and saffron beaten; fry a little more ; add a little butter ; shake well together with a minced lemon. HAMS, to Choose.—Stick a skewer or sharp knife under the bone ; if it comes out with a pleasant smell, the ham is good ; but if the knife be daubed, and has a bad scent, do not buy it. Hams short in the hock are bek. Choose not long-legged pigs. HAMS, to Cure.—If the weather be cool, hang it up two days before it is salted. Beat it with it with a rolling- S'n. Take plenty of common salt, % . of coarse sugfar, and 4 ozs. of salt- petre ; mix ; warm; rub the ham with it well, and lay the rest of the salt upon it; in two days turn it; rub it well with brine ; baste it several times a day for a month, for a large ham ; drain, wash off the salt with cold water; dry with a cloth ; rub black pepper over the inside and in at the knuckle ; hang in a warm room to dry. Another Way.—Hang two days as before; if large, use 1 lb. of bay salt; 4 ozs. saltpetre; 1 lb. coarse sugar, and a handful of common salt, all finely powdered. Rub in the mix- ture thoroughly. Lay, the rind down- wards, and cover the fleshy parts with the mixture. Baste it often for four weeks, turning every day; proceed as before. HAM, to Give a High-Flavour. Hang as before. Sprinkle it with salt; let it drain ; make a pickle of 1 quart of strong beer, J4 lb. of treacle, 1 or. of coriander seeds, a ozs. juniper berries; pepper, allspice, saltpetre, 1 oz. each; salprunella, oz. ; a handful of salt, and a head of shalot, sliced; boil all together five minutes, and pour over the bam. Rub and turn every day for a fortnight. This is for a ham weighing 10 lbs. HAMS, to Keep.—The most effectual way is to tie them closely in cotton or canvas bags. Hang in a dry, cool, and well ventilated room when bagged. HAM AND EGGS FRIED. —Cut slices, place in the pan, and fry carefully. Do not bum. When done, break the eggs into the fat; pepper slightly ; keep them whole ; do not turn them. Ham rashers may be served with spinach, and poached eggs. HAMS, to Cook.—Scrape it clean. Do not put into cold nor boiling water. Let the water become warm ; then put the ham in. Simmer or boil lightly for five or six hours; take out, and shave the rind off. Rub granulated sugar into the whole surface of the ham, so long as it can be made to receive it. Place the ham in a baking-dish with a bottle of champagne or prime cider. Baste occasionally with the juice, and let it bake an hour in a gentle heat. A slice from a nicely cured ham thus cooked is enough to animate the ribs of death.—A merican. Or, having taken off the rind, strew bread crumbs or raspings over it, so as to cover it; set it before the fire, or in the oven till the bread is crisp and brown. Garnish with carrots, parsley, &c. The water should simmer all the time, and never boil fast. HAM EXTRACT.—Cut away from a ham all the skin and fat; then take the meat from the bone and put it into a large saucepan, having plenty of water ; add two large carrots, and three onions sliced, a handful of sweet basil and parsley, three cloves, and a tablespoonful of mushroom powder; stew over the fire for an hour, then take out the bone, and put in the meat. Set the saucepan well covered, on a slow fire, for two hours : stir the ingredients well, taste the flavour, and judge of the thickness. Stew till the liquor, when cold, is a very stiff jelly. It must be put through a sieve, to clear it from the vegetables and meat. A table-spoonful of this extract is sufficient to flavour a I tureenful of winter pea or carrot soup, I and a tea-spoonful of melted butter