PDF 322 PRI PRINTING INK, to Print Linen with Types.—Dissolve one drachm of asphaltum in four drachms of oil of turpentine, then add lamp black or black lead, in fine powder, in suffi- cient quantity to render the ink of a proper consistence for printing with types. PRUNES. — They abate hettt, and gently relax the towels, by lubri- cating the passages and softening the excrements. Hence their great use in constipation, attended with heat and irritation, which other aperients might aggravate. If not sufficiently active, they may be joined with senna, rhubarb, &c., using a little ginger as anti-flatu- lent. They should be stewed. The French prunes are the best. PRUNE PUDDING. —Beat up 6 yolks of eggs and 3 whites. Take 4 spoonfuls of flour, a little salt, and some powdered ginger, in half a cupful of milk, and mix well together; add gradually nearly a quart of milk, and 1 lb. of scalded prunes. Tie it up in a cloth ; toil it an hour, and pour over it melted batter. PRUNE TART.—Give prunes a scald, take out the stones and break them; put the kernels, primes, and sugar into a little cranberry juice ; sim- mer, and when cold make a tart of the sweetmeat. PUDDING, Baked—Three table-spoonfuls of Oswego prepared com to one quart of milk. Prepare, and cook the same as blanc mange. After it is cool, stir up with it thoroughly two or three eggs well beaten, and bake half an hour. It is very good. PUDDING, Boiled.—Three table-spoonfuls of Oswego prepared com to one quart of milk. Dissolve the com In some of the milk, and mix with it two or three eggs, well beaten, and a little salt. Heat the remainder of the milk to near boiling, add the above preparation, and toil four minutes, stirring it briskly. To be eaten warm with a sauce. It is delicious. PUDDINGS, in Haste.—Shred suet, and put with grated bread, a few currants, the yolks of four eggs, and the white of two, some grated lemon peel, ind ginger. Mix, and make into little balls about the size and shape of an egg, with a little flour. Boil 20 minutes. PUDDING, to please.—Mix a quart of new milk with a pint of butter- milk ; drain off the whey, and miy with the cord the crumb of a French roll grated, half a lemon peel grated, quarter of a pint of cream, 3 ozs. of cold melted butter, the yolks of 5 and the whites of 2 eSSs! sweeten the whole to taste, and bake with puff paste for half an hour. Another. — Line a shallow dish with an inch-deep layer of several kinds of good preserves; mix together, and with them mix 3 ozs. of candied citron or orange-rind. Beat well the yolks of 10 eggs, and add to them gradually % lb. of sifted sugar; when well mixed, pour in gradually % lb. of good clarified butter, and a little ratafia, or any other flavour. Fill the dish two-thirds with this mixture, and bake the pudding one hour in a moderate oven. Half the quantity will be sufficient for a small dish. PUDDING, a Wholesome one. —Put into a basin % lb. of rice, 4 ozs. of coarse sugar, or treacle; 2 quarts of milk, and 2 ozs. of dripping or butter; put it cold into the oven. It will take a good while to bake, but it will be very good solid food. PUFF PASTE—To 1 lb. of flour, take % lb. of butter. Rub half the butter very finely into the flour, and mix it into a paste with cold water ; roll out the paste; put in the remainder of the butter; roll it up, and leave it for half an hour ; then roll it out for use. An egg may be beaten very fine, and mixed with the water. PUFF, a Good light one.— Mix 2 spoonfuls of flour, a little grated lemon peel, some nutmeg, $ spoonful of brandy, a little loaf sugar, and 1 egg; then fry it enough, but not brown ; beat it in a mortar with 5 eggs, whites and yolk3 ; put a quantity of lard in a frying- pan, and when quite hot, drop a dessert spoonful of batter at a time; turn as they brown. Serve them immediately, with sweet sauce. PUFF, a Good One.—To a $ oz. of butter, add 3 ozs. of Jordan Al- monds with a ozs. of loaf sugar; pound them with a small quantity of rose water till they form a thick paste; spread the