SWE TEA 385 Swelling of the Body.—Use linseed poultices with plenty of oil in it. Repeat before cold until the pain is abated. SWISS PUDDING.—Batter a basin. Take bread crumbs, add a little sugar; then dissolve 1 oz. of butter; chop a few apples fine, and mix. Bake half an hour. SYLLABUB.—Put a pint and a half of port or white wine into a bowl, nutmeg grated, and a good deal of sugar, then milk into it near two quarts of milk, frothed up. If the wine be not rather sharp, it will require more for the quantity of milk. — In Devonshire, domed cream is put on the top, and pounded cinnamon and sugar. SYLLABUBS, Durable.—Mix a quart of thick raw cream, one pound of refined sugar, a pint and a half of fine raisin wine in a deep pan; put to it the grated ped and the juice of three lemons. Beat, or whisk it one way half an hour ; then put it on a sieve with a bit of thin muslin laid smooth in the shallow end till next day. Put it in glasses. It will keep good, in a cool place, ten days. SYRUP, Simple. — Refined sugar, 15 parts ; water, 8 parts. Dis- solve by a gentle heat Boil a little to form a syrup. Simple syrup should have neither flavour nor colour. Syrup is easily clarified by beating to a froth the white of an egg, with 3 or 4 ozs. of water, mixing it with the syrup, and boiling the mixture for a few seconds, until the albumen coagulates and forms a scum, which may be easily taken off, or separated by filtration. T TAPIOCA JELLY. — Wash well two large spoonfuls of large tapioca; soak it in 1 £ pint of water for four hours ; stew it gently in the same water till it is clear. Let it cool, and use it either with or without a little new milk. TAPIOCA PUDDING.—Put lb. of tapioca into a saucepan of cold water ; when it boils, strain it to a pint of new milk ; boil till it soaks up all the milk, and put it out to cooL Beat the yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two, a table-spoonful of brandy, sugar, nutmeg, and a ora. of butter. Mix all together; put a puff paste round the dish, and send it to the oven. It is very good boiled with melted butter, wine and sugar. f/ TAR.—It is beneficial in bron- chitis and other affections of the chest. Tar -water is made by digesting a ozs. of tar in three pints of water for four days. It is good for hoarseness; it clears the lungs, and facilitates public speaking. • ' TARTAR, to remove from the Teeth.—Brush the teeth often up and down, not horizontally, with soap, then with salt Eating fruit and oat- cake, cleanses the teeth greatly. In using the tooth brush the friction ought never to cause the gums to bleed. TARTS, Paste for. Page 296. TART, Almond.—Bleach some almonds, beat them fine in a mortar, with a little .sherry and sugar in the proportion of 1 lb. to 1 lb. of almonds; add grated bread, nutmeg, cream, and the juice of spinach for a colouring. Bake it gently, and thicken it with can- died orange or citron. TART, Apple. Prepare pufl paste, and put in apple preserves, or apple jelly; add lemon-peel without pith. TART, Orange.—Line a tart pan with thin puff paste; put into it orange marmalade made with apple jelly; lay bars of paste, and bake in a moderate oven. TARTS, Transparent.—Take 1 lb. of flour, beat an egg till thin, then melt % lb. of clarified fresh butter to mix with the egg, and when cool, pour the whole into the flour, and form the paste. Roll it thin, make up the tarts, put in the oven, wet them over with a little water, and grate on sugar. * TARTLETS.— Sheet the tartlet pans with puff paste; put any kind of sweetmeat; cross bar, and put them into the oven to bake ; when done, put them on paper to soak the butter from the paste. TEA and COFFEE, Substi- tute for.—Take a small handful of agrimony, one handful of blackberry leaves, and a few raspberry leaves, and a small quantity of balm or mint, according to taste; put it into a jug