CARDS 112 CAR, saries forfeit the penalty of a revoke, if they mix the cards before it is deter- mined. 22 No revoke can be claimed after the cards are cut for the next deal. 23 Whoever shall, by word or ges- ture, manifestly discover his approval or disapprobation of his partner’s mode of play during the deal, or ask any ques- tions but such as are specially allowed by the existing Laws of Whist, the adversary shall either add a point to his own score, or deduct one from the party so transgressing, at his option. *»' This law, of course, does not affect the privilege of talking over the hands between the deals. How to discover a revoke.—A Strict observance of the following rules will enable the player to discover when and in what suit an adversary revokes. The player should separate four of his tricks from the remainder, remembering that the first is to stand for clubs, the second for diamonds, the third for hearts, and the last for spades. In case he suspects the revoke to have been made in spades, separate the fourth trick a short distance from the other three; if in hearts, separate the third and fourth from the first and second, and in like manner the rest. From these tricks, the player will receive assistance. Supposing the first trick to stand for the letter A, so clubs beginning with C, they should be nearest to the first letter of the alphabet; diamonds beginning with D should stand next; hearts and spades then come in turn ; by which means he may easily recollect the suit in which he thinks the revoke has been made. And by removing these towards the adver- sary he suspects of having revoked, he will probably remember in which trick the revoke took place. CARMINATIVES.—Rind of Seville oranges, 3 drachms ; fresh lemon peel, 2 drachms ; ginger, in powder, Y, drachm ; boiling water, 8 ozs. Infuse 2 hours, and strain. Then take of the above, % oz. ; spirit of peppermint, % drachm ; spirit of lavender, X drachm. Antiflatulant Mixture.—Oil of aniseeds, 10 drops; refined sugar, 1 drachm. Beat up together, and add, tincture of ginger, 2 drachms ; pepper- mint water, 6 ozs. Mix; three table- spoonfuls when needful. Another.—Assafcetida, 6 grains; rhubarb, 4 grains; oil of aniseeds, 5 drops. Make two pills, and take every five or six hours. CARMINATIVE DROPS; for Expelling Wind.—Angelica, 2 ounces; lady’s slipper, 1 ounce: sweet flag, % ounce; anise, 1 ounce; fennel seed, Yi ounce ; catnep flowers, 1 ounce; motherwort, 1 ounce; pleurisy root, 2 ounces. Infuse in a pint of spirits of wine for three or four days, oft shaking, keeping it in a warm place ; then add a pint of water, and a tablespoonful of tincture of cayenne. Excellent in flatu- lency, colic, nervous affections, pro- moting perspiration, and refreshing sleep. Another Receipt.—Anise, dill, fennel seed, of each Y ounce; catnep flowers, and motherwort, of each, 1 ounce ; pleurisy root, 4 ounces. Infuse in brandy for 22 hours, and then strain ; to children, give from five to fifty drops ; and to adults, from one to four tea- spoonfuls, every three or four hours.— It eases pain, produces perspiration and sleep, removes flatulency, colic, and is an excellent nervine. CARMINATIVE PURGA- TIVE.—Tincture of senna, 1 oz.; powder of aloes, 10 grains; pepper- mint water, 3 ozs. ; syrup of ginger, 1 oz. Two table-spoonfuls for a dose, repeated in three hours if necessary. CARNATION LIP SALVE. —Olive oil, K lb; alkanet root, % oz. macerate with heat, until the oil is well coloured ; then add white wax, 3 ozs. ; spermaceti, 3 ozs. ; oil of lavender, 15 drops ; essence of bergamot, 15 drops. CARP OR TENCH.—Clean and scale ; wash and dry them ; dredge them well with flour ; fry them in lard, or dripping, until of a light brown ; then put them into a saucepan with gravy, port wine, and a little water if requisite; add a table-spoonful of browning, the same of walnut ketchup, and cayenne pepper to taste. Stick an onion all over with cloves; add it and two bay leaves to the rest of the ingredients. Stew gently over a slow fire until the gravy is reduced to a sufficient quantity to cover the fish when they are served ; take the fish out and place carefully upon the dish for table ; pnt the gravy