305 SMA SHE means of a camel-hair brush, to the apex of each spot or pustule of the disease, on all the exposed surfaces of the body, until blistering is evidenced by the whiteness of the skin in the parts subjected to the application, when the fluid producing it is to be washed off with water or arrow-root gruel. The pain attending the application of the vesiccating fluid, is very slight and transient. SMALL POX, to Prevent Pitting in.—The following has been found very effectual:—The application consists of a solution of india-rubber in chloroform, which is painted with a camel hair pencil over the face (and neck in women,) when the eruption has become fully developed. When the Chloroform has evaporated, which it very readily does, there is left a thin elastic film of india-rubber over the face. This the patient feels to be rather comfortable, as it removes itching and all irritation; and what is more important, "pitting," once sc common, is thoroughly prrjented by the applica- tion. In making the solution, the india- rubber must be cut into small pieces, and chloroform added till it is dissolved. Gutta-percha has been tried, but has not answered, on account of its non- elasticity. Should any of the solution, from some cause be tom off, apply the solution as before. SMALL POX, Pitting in.— Dr. George recommends the use of pre- pared calamine, for the exclusion of the atmospheric air. In a very severe case, which occurred in my practice, in which the face and throat were frightfully swollen, I dressed one half of it with calamine powder, and the other half I pencilled over, using a flat hair pencil, with sweet oil and the white of an egg, In equal parts well mixed, 3 or 4 times a day. No solution of india-nibber or *ny other substance, would have an- swered the purpose better ; and its ap- plication was certainly attended with more comfort than that of the use of the powder. But it is not only the pit- ting which is prevented by the calamine, but the rescuing of the patient from a state of suffering bordering upon misery. He reoommends the following treat- ment to the public. Firstly, from tire commencement of the disease I would cover the whole body, face and all, with the calamine, shaken through a common pepper-box, taking care that the powder does not remain in masses. The inflam- mation on each pustule is by these ap- plications much lessened, a point of great consequence. Secondly, sprinkle about 1 02. of powdered camphor every 2 or 3 nights between the under sheet and blanket, the whole length of the body, putting more about the shoulders and neck. The relief obtained by this, few would credit until they had bad experience. Thirdly, in the advanced stage of the disease, should hardened incrustations have formed, they may be removed, and without much pain too ; for in one case I removed every portion of the cuticle from the whole face, forehead, and even eyelids, applied the calamine, and in a few days the cuticle was reformed with- out a blemish. SMALL POX, in Sheep.—The medicines which have been used in the case of the Allington flock have been very simple, consisting chiefly of the nitrate of potass, dissolved in the water which is placed in the troughs until a subsidence of the fever takes place, after which sulphate of iron has been substi- tuted. When diarrhoea has come on— as it not unfrequently does in the latter stage of the malady, more particularly if the disease becomes confluent—opium is resorted to as a valuable agent to arrest the attack, which, if not arrested, speedily becomes fatal. SMELLING BOTTLE. Take an equal quantity of sal-ammoniac and unslaked lime. Pound in a mortar each separately. Mix and put into a bottle, adding 10 drops of liquid am- monia, 6 of oil of bergamot, and 3 of otto of roses. Cork well. SMELTS, to Choose.—If good they have a fine silvery hue, and a re- freshing smell, like cucumbers newly cut. They are caught in the Thames and other large rivers. SMELTS, to Dress with Savoury Jelly.—Clean, and season them with mace and salt, and lay them in a pot with butter over them ; tie down with paper, and bake them J< an hour. Take out, and when cool, lay them