DfU BRA 163 diuretic; it is cooling, and allays all urinary affections, gravel, scalding of urine, and it causes an easy and suffi- cient flow of the same. DIURETIC PILLS.—Calcined magnesia, 1 drachm ; solidified copaiba, 2 ozs. ; extract of cubebs, 1 oz. ; oil of turpentine, 4 drops; oil of juniper, 6 drops ; form into 3 grain pills. Take one or two a few times a-day. A sovereign remedy for diseases of the kidneys, bladder, urethra, gravel, whites, and venereal complaints. DOMESTIC RULES.—Have a place for every thing—and every thing in its place, when wanted.—Do every- thing in its proper time.—Keep every thing to its proper use.—Keep your temper, and be forbearing.—Be econo- mical, and not extravagant. Avoid luxuries ; plain living is best for bodily health, and mental comfort.—Avoid intemperance, as you would the fiercest tiger. DOMINOES.— The game is played with a set of ivory parallelo- grams 23 in number, marked on the face with black indented spots. In playing an ordinary game each player draws one after the pieces have been shuffled face downwards, and if four play those who have the two highest numbers are declared partners against the two whose numbers are lowest. The lowest gives the right to play first. Each player then takes a certain number as may be agreed on, five or seven from the lot, and arranges them in his hand, he then calculates his chance of winning by the number of spots on the pieces. The first player then puts down a dominoe whatever number of spots on it he likes, his object is to get rid of his double sixes, fives, &c., and the sooner he plays the lot the sooner he is the winner. When a player has no dominoe that corres- ponds to the spots at either end, he says ' can't go.’ The next player goes on, but if he cannot play then the spots on the remaining pieces are counted, and the player who has the smallest number wins the game. Rules for Playing.—1. A domi- noe once laid down that corresponds at either end, must be played and cannot be recalled. 2. A dominoe once exposed must be played at the earliest opportunity. , 3. A dominoe exposed in shuffling must be turned face upward, and re- main so till the end of the game. 4. No player is allowed to ask advice from a non-player without the consent of his adversary, otherwise he loses the game. 5. Each player has a right to shuffle the dominoes. 6. A dominoe wrongly played, and discovered before two moves have been made, must be removed, and the right one played, should three moves be made before it is discovered then the dominoe holds good. 7. The holder of the highest double dominoe in his hand, has the first move, after that each player takes the lead, alternately. 8. A dominoe played out of its turn must be left exposed on the table until it can be played. 9. If a placer abandons the game before it is finished he loses. DOUGH-NUTS.— Make into dough, 1 lb. of flour, lb. of butter ; lbs. of fine sugar ; a nutmeg grated, a little cinnamon, a table-spoonful of yeast, and milk sufficient to mix. Let it rise an hour; form in squares, diamonds, twists, and bake, or fry. DOVER’S POWDER.—Ipe- cacuanha, in powder, 1 drachm ; pow- dered opium, one drachm ; powdered saltpetre, 1 oz. All well mixed. Dose, from 8 to 20 grains. DRAUGHTS.—Each player al- ternately moves one of his men forward at a right angle to the next white square ; and when a man is moved to a square adjoining an enemy, and the square behind that man angularly is unoccupied or becomes so, that man must be captured by the adversary by leaping over with his own man to the vacant square, and the man leaped over is removed from the board. When any man gets to the other end of the board, he becomes a king, and is crowned by placing one of the captured men upon him, he then can move and take either forwards or backwards in an angular direction ; and when any player neglects to capture the adversary when he has the opportunity, he then is said