LAM LAM 228 5 When the ball goes out of bounds, It shall be thrown in by the player who first touches it with his crosse ; when it goes behind goal without passing through goal, it shall be thrown out by one of the players on the side behind whose goal it has passed. 6 That the ball shall not be hit or kicked. 7 No player shall wear spiked soles. 8 That the ball must not be caught, thrown, or picked up with the hand, except in the case of Rule 9 ; but a ball coming in the air may be blocked or patted away with the hand to protect the face or body ; otherwise it must not be touched. 9 Goal-keepers may stop the ball in any way. 10 A goal is obtained when the ball Is in any way whatever caused by a player on either side to pass between the goal posts and under the bar or tape, except when kicked by one of the attacking side. 11 Players shall not hold each other, nor grasp an opponent's crosse ; neither shall they deliberately trip or strike each other. 12 After each game the players shall change goals unless otherwise agreed. 13 A match shall be decided by a majority of goals won by either side during the time specified for play. 14 Twelve players shall constitute a fuU field. 15 No change of players shall be made after a match has commenced, except by reason of accident or injury during the match. When a match lias been agreed on, and one side is deficient in the number of players, their oppo- nents, at their option, may either limit their own side to the same number, or select men to fill up the complement* LAMB, to Choose.—If the hind quarter and the knuckle be flexible, it is stale. If the neck-vein of a fore quarter be of an azure colour, it is fresh ; • but if greenish or yellowish, the meat is nearly tainted. If the eyes are sunk, the head is not fresh. LAMB, Breast of, and Cucum- bers.—Cut off the chine-bone from the breast, and set it on to stew with a pint of gravy. When the bones will draw out, put It on the gridiron to grill; and then lay it in a dish on cucombera nicely stewed. * LAMB CHOPS, en casserolle. —Cut a loin of lamb into chops; do them with yolk of egg on each side and stew them with bread crumbs, cloves, pepper, salt, mace, mixed ; fry them of a light brown, put them round in a dish very close; leave a hole in the middle for sauce made of sweet herbs and parsley shred fine, and stewed in good thick gravy. Garnish with parsley. LAMB, Fore Quarter of, To Roast.—Roast it either whole, or in separate parts. It should be roasted before a brisk fire, or done in the oven. While roasting baste well with butter. If left to be cold, chopped parsley should be sprinkled over it. The neck and breast together are called a scoven. LAMB, Fore Quarter of, To Ragout.—Take off the knuckle bone and cut off all the skin. Lard well with bacon, and fry it to a nice brown ; put it into a stewpan, and just cover it with gravy, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, ground mace, and a little whole pepper ; cover and stew half an hour; strain off the gravy, and have ready half a pint of fried oysters ; pour off the fat, and put them into the gravy with 2 spoonfuls of port wine, a few mushrooms, and a little butter rolled in flour. Boil all together with the juice of half a lemon. Pour the sauce over the lamb. LAMB’S F R Y.—Should be scalded a moment; then soaked 1 hour in vinegar, pepper, and salt, with parsley and shalots ; then dip them in a thick batter, and fry to a good colour ; serve with fried parsley. To Ragout, put them into a light braise, with small onions, thin slices of lard, sweet herbs, half a bay leaf, thyme, a glass of sherry, sufficient broth, pep- per, and salt. Serve with any sauce, with fried bread round the dish. To Fricassee.—Take the marTow out of the small bladders, and prepare a cream thus—a little flour, an egg, a chestnut pounded, rasped lemon, sugar and cream; make small paste cases ; place the fry in them, and put them a moment into the oven. Boil the cream a moment before filling the bladders with it, and baste them over with eggs and cream.