*97 PEA PAT PATTIES, Fried.—Cat $ lb. of leg of veal very small, with six oysters ; put the liquor of the oysters to the crumb of a penny loaf; mix with a little salt; put into a tossing-pan with % lb. of butter ; keep stirring for a few minutes over the fire ; make a good puff paste, roll it out, and cut it into little bits the size of a crown piece, various shapes ; put a little of the meat upon them, and a lid to cover; turn up the edges, to keep in the gravy ; fry them in a panful of hog’s lard. PATTIES, like Mince Pies.— Chop the kidney and fat of cold veal, apple, orange, and lemon-peel candied, and fresh currants, a little wine, two or three cloves, a little brandy, and a bit of sugar. Bake as before. PATTIES, Savoury. — Take 1 lb. of the cold loin of veal, or cold fowl, either boiled or roasted, and lb. of beef suet; chop them as small as pos- sible with a little parsley; season well with nutmeg, pepper, and salt; put them in a tossing-pan, with half a pint of veal gravy; thicken the gravy with a little flour and butter, and two spoon- fuls of cream, and shake them over the fire for two minutes ; fill your patties. PATTIES, Sweet. — Take the meat of a boiled calf’s foot, two large apples, and 1 oz. of candied orange; chop them very small; grate half a nut- meg ; mix them with the yolk of an egg, a spoonful of French brandy, and % lb. of currants; make a good puff paste, and roll it in different shapes and fill; they may be baked or fried. PEACH.—Dr. King, of America, says, “The dried peach, boiled or stewed with sugar, is aperient, and very wholesome for persons constipated, especially invalids. The kernels are bitter, but form a most valuable remedy. They are a great tonic for the stomach and bowels, and strengthen the diges- tive organs. Made into a decoction, they give strength to persons recovering from the dysentery, It may be sweet- ened to render it palatable. The leaves and bark are tonic, purgative, and diuretic, and are very useful in leucor- rhoea, or whites, debility, and irritation of the stomach and lungs." The flowers and kernels, say 1 ox. each, boiled, and sweetened, is a remedy for children teething, and for wormt PEACH BLOSSOMS, Syrup of.—Infuse peach blossoms in hot water, sufficient to cover them ; let them stand in a hot water-bath for 34 hours covered close; then strain and put in fresh flowers; infuse as before; again strain; and a third time add fresh peach blossoms to the liquor; then to every lb. of the infusion, add 2 lbs. of double refined sugar, and setting it in a hot water-bath, make a syrup. PEACH COLOUR RIBBON, to Restore when turning Red. Salt of potash dissolved in water; place the ribbon on a clean table, and apply the mixture with a sponge. PEACH LEATHER. This preparation is much relished by invalids, and is thus made;—Squeeze out the pulp of very ripe peaches, add a little sugar; give one boil, and spread it half an inch thick on a plate, and let it dry till quite dry and tough. Roll it in layers, with clean paper between. PEACH MARMALADE. The same as Apricct Marmalade. See page 26. PEACH WINE.—Take 9 gal- lons of cold soft water; refined sugar, 13 lbs.; honey, 3 lbs.; white tartar, in fine powder, 2 ozs.; 30 or 40 peaches; then ferment without the peaches, and add a gallon of brandy. Put into the, vat; and the day after, (before the\ peaches are put in) take the stones from them; break them and the kernels; then put them arid the pulp into the vat, and proceed with the general process. PEACH and APRICOT WINE.—Pare and stone peaches and nectarines ; slice thin, and pour upon them 1 % gallons of water, and a quart of sherry; simmer the whole gently till the fruit becomes soft; pour the liquid into another vessel containing more peaches sliced, to stand ra hours. Strain out the whole of the liquid, and put into a cask to ferment. Add 1 lb. of sugar to each gallon. Boil 1 oz. of cloves in a quart of sherry wine ; add to the whole. To give it a peculiar flavour boil % oz. of mace, and % oz. of nutmegs in a quart of sherry, and pour it into the wine when fermenting ; it should be poured in hot. PEACHES, in Brandy.—See /{'•■ire! in firamiy, page 26.