224 JAU JEL right side, arising from the state of the liver ; also, mental depression, consti- pation, headache, drowsiness, nausea, vomiting. Jaundice is caused by ob- structed secretion, or by a reabsorption of the bile. Hence it appears that the yellowness of the skin is produced by bile taken up into the circulation, the effect of those causes. When large gall-stones get into the gall-ducts, they cause jaundice, and very severe pain. When they pass away, a cure soon takes place. Should the colour of the skin become very dark-coloured, it is an indication of some incurable organic disease of the liver. Treatment.—Those means must be used which will promote the secre- tions, and the regular flow of bile. Give an Aperient composed of senna, camomile flowers, ginger, and powder- ed jalap, of each 1 oz. Mix. Take half a teaspoonful in a litde warm tea. After it has operated, give the common Emetic, page 172. Keep the bowels always gently open ; and give the Liver Pill, page 24s. Dr. Beech says, “ In obstinate cases, the barberry root, cut up, and infused in cider, may be taken, and tne purga- tive repeated, and the emetic also, if necessary. Common soot (he must mean wood-soot, peculiar to America) scraped from the chimney, enclosed in linen, and boiled in water, makes a liquid which will be found very effica- cious ; it may be taken alternately with the other medicines." If the pain on the right side is severe, use fomentations of the Decoction of Hops. Use the vapour bath, and take some of the Sudorific Powder, p. 321 383, for such means tend to relax the biliary duct, that the gall-stones may pass away. Let the diet be light and nourishing. The following decoction is useful: — Burdock root, one ounce, agrimony, one ounce, water, two qrts. ; boil down to three pints. Dose, a wine- glassful two or three times a day. Dr. A. Hunter recommends eggs. He states that the yolk of an egg is the most salutary of all animal substances. In jaundice no food is equal to it. “When the gall Is too weak, or by ac- cidental means, does not flow sufficient- ly Into the duodenum, our food which consists of watery and oily parts, can- not unite so as to become chyle. The yolk of an egg unites the water and oil into a uniform substance, thereby sup- plying the deficiency of natural bile. Or, take a small pill of castile soap every morning for eight or ten days.— Tried. Or, beat the white of an egg thin ; take it morning and evening in a glass of water. Or, half a pint of strong decoction of nettles, or of bur- dock leaves morning and evening. Or, boil three ounces of burdock root, in two quarts of water to three pints. Drink a tea-cupful of this every morning. The plant Bitter-sweet has been very useful in this disease. See Robinson s Herbal, for that plant, and also for Jaundice. JELLY, Stock,—Put a sufficient number of calves’ feet into a stew-pan, with 3 pints of water to each foot; boil gently for 4 or 5 hours ; then take out the meat part, and put it into cold water. When cold, trim it for any use it is designed for ; throw the trimmings back into the stock, and let it boil to a proper strength. Four feet to produce two quarts of stock. JELLY FOR THE SICK.— Mix 1 oz. each of rice, pearl barley, sago, and hartshorn shavings, in three pints of water; boil till reduced to one, and strain. When required for use, dissolve in milk, wine or broth. JELLY of GOOSEBERRIES. —Bruise gooseberries, and strain out the pulp. To every pint of juice put & lb. of sugar; boil up well together, so that if a little is laid upon a plate, it will not stick, but come clean off. Strain off, and keep to put into tarts with pears, apples, &c., to make them taste like gooseberries. Other fruits may be done in a similar way. JELLY, Savoury Meat.—Chop a knuckle of veal and a scrag of mutton, so that one bone may be placed on the other. Scrape and slice 3 carrots and 2 turnips, cut small a stick of celery, butter the bottom of a small jar or well- tinned saucepan. Place the meat and vegetables in alternate layers, closely together. Sprinkle with a little salt, cover the jar, and place it in a slow oven for half an hour; pour in as much hot water as will cover the contents. Place in the oven hotter than before, for