JEO 12 ACR sprains and bruises. As it becomes dry, it should be moistened with vinegar. ACHES AND PAINS.—Rub a tittle opodeldoc upon the part affected, two or three times a day and wear a flannel upon it; or mix Camphorated Spirit, Ammonia, sweet oil, and lauda- num : (of the last the least), rub the part well, and then apply a cloth well sat- urated with the mixture, and cover with a bandage. If this does not give relief, take twenty drops of Volatile Tincture of Guiacum, every night and morning. ACID DROPS.—Boil i lb. of sugar in a cupful of water over a slow Are for half an hour, till half candied ; then add lemon juice, or citric acid, or tartaric acid, according to taste. A little dissolved gum Arabic added will make them harder and more wholesome. ACIDITY, and FLATULEN- CY, in Children.—It often arises from a mother’s impure milk ; when it is so she must take the Neutralizing Mixture ; and if not effecmal, administer it to the infant. Also foment the belly with warm brandy and water, to which add a little salt. Give also the Carmina- tive Drops, which see. ACIDITY of the STOMACH. —The Neutralizing Mixture, (which see) is very effectual in curing this dis- order. Or, 10 grains of Calumba, powdered, and ro grains of magnesia, well mixed. Magnesia and a little finely powdered chalk will be of great service. —See Absorbents. ADHESIVE PLASTER.— Take of common Plaster, half a pound; of burgundy pitch, a quarter of a pound. Melt them together. See Common Plaster. This plaster is principally used for keeping on other dressings. ADULTERATION OF ALE AND BEER.—They are often adul- terated with the most virulent poisons, which in the intemperate, are gradually and constantly undermining the constitu- tion. Ye intemperate ones, just think, ye are drinking cocuius indicus, & stupe- fying poison ; tobacco, a deadly narcotic; sulphate of iron, poisonous ; strychnine, or nux vomica, virulent poison ; vitriol, and many other body-destroying articles. ADULTERATION OF COF- FEE, CHICORY, &c.—Coffee is often adulterated with Chicory, oak ot mahogany saw-dust, or roasted corn, In examining 34 specimens of ground Coffee, all, with three exceptions, were more or less sophisticated. Chicory also is often adulterated with ground acorns and roasted wheat, coloured with Ven- etian Red. Of 36 Brown Sugars exam- ined, the Acarus insect was found in all but one, abundance of flour in four, and sand or stone grit in n instances. Mustard was found adulterated with wheaten flour, highly coloured with Tur- meric—49 tested loaves of Bread con- tained alum.—Only 8 of 56 specimens of ‘ Broma,' 'Soluble' and Homoeopathic Cocoa,' were really such, the rest having variable proportions of sugar, wheat, ar.d potato flour, sago-meal, and red earthy matter. Three other Cocoas were made up of sugar, sago-meal, arrow-root, and potato flour; others with tapioca, starch, sugar, and earthy colouring matter, the latter ingredient being present in 7 of the 9 Rock and flaked articles, the nibs being chiefly mixed with Chicory. Quassia and Gentian are used instead of Hop, for bitter flavour to Beer; and the Sulphate of Copper to beautify Green Pickles and bottled fruits. — Cayenne and Curry Powder are often adulterated with red lead and vermillion. Arrow-root is often adulterated by Potato, Sago, and Tapioca Starches.— Bread, by Pea-flour, Bone-dust, and Mashed Potatoes, with Alum, ‘ Hards,’ and ‘Stuff.’ Butter with water and lard. Wheat Flour with Bean and Pea flours, Indian Com, Bran, and Plaster of Paris. Ginger with Wheat, Sago, Potato Flour, and Mustard Husks. —Dr. W. Alexander on Adulteration. AEOLIAN HARP, To Manu- facture an.—Let a box be made of thin deal, the length to correspond ex- actly to the breadth of the window in which it is to be placed, five inches in depth, and six in width. Glue on it at the extremities of the top two pieces of oak about half an inch high and a quarter of an inch thick, to serve as bridges for the strings, and withiD-side of each end glue two pieces of beech, about an inch square, and of length equal to tire width of the box, which is to hold the pegs. Into one of these bridges fix as many pegs (like those of ft violin) as there arc