PAR 294 FAR considered the best, and the tip of it reckoned the most delicate morsel of all. PARTRIDGE, to Dress a la braise.—Trass the legs into the bodies of 2 brace of partridges; lard, and season with beaten mace, pepper, and salt; lay slices of bacon, beef, and veal, a small carrot, and onion, cut small, sweet herbs, and some whole pepper: put in the partridges with the breasts downwards; lay thin slices of beef and veal over them, and some parsley shred fine; cover, and stew 8 or 10 minutes over a slow fire; shake the pan, and pour into it a pint of boiling water ; cover close, and let it stew half an hour over a quicker fire; turn out the birds ; keep hot; pour into the pan a pint of thin gravy ; boil till reduced to half a pint; strain, and skim off the fat. Cut a veal sweetbread small, small mushrooms, cockscombs, and fowls’ livers, stewed half an hour in a pint of gravy; some artichoke buttons, and asparagus tops, blanched in warm wa- ter ; then add the other gravy to this, and put in the partridges to heat; when hot, pour some sauce over them, and serve. PARTRIDGE, to Hash. — Cut up the partridge as for eating ; slice an onion into rings ; roll a little butter in flour; put them into the tossing pan, and shake it over the fire till it boils, put in the partridge with a little port wine and vinegar; and when it is thoroughly hot, lay it on the dish with sippets round It; strain the sauce over the partridge, and lay on the onion in rings. PARTRIDGE, to Pot—Clean them nicely ; and season with mace, all- spice, white pepper, and salt, in fine powder. Rub every part well; then lay the breast downwards in a pan, and pack the birds as close, as you possibly can. Put a good deal of butter on them ; then cover the pan with a coarse flour paste and a paper over, tie it close, and bake. When cold, put the birds into pots, and cover with butter. PARTRIDGE, to Roast. — Roast them like a turkey, and when a little under roasted, dredge them with flour, and baste them with butter ; let them go to table with a fine froth ; put gravy sauce in the dish, and bread sauce on the table. PARTRIDGE, to Stew.—Truss as for roasting; stuff the craws, and lard them down each side of the breast; roll a lump of butter in pepper, salt, and beaten mace, and put them inside ; sew up the vents; dredge them well, and fry a light brown ; put them into a stew- pan with a quart of good gravy, a spoon- ful of sherry wine, the same of mush- room ketchup, a teaspoonful of lemon pickle, and a little mushroom powder, 1 anchovy, 4 a lemon, a sprig of sweet marjoram; cover the pan close, and stew half an hour; take out, and thicken the gravy; boil it a little, and pour it over the partridges, and lay round them artichoke buttons, boiled, and cut in quarters, and the yolks of 4 hard eggs, if agreeable. PARTRIDGE PIE—Pick and singe 4 partridges; cut off the legs at the knee; season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, thyme, and mush- rooms. Lay a veal steak and a slice of ham, at the bottom of the dish ; put the partridges in, and half a pint of good broth. Put puff paste on the edge of the dish, and cover with the same; brush it over with egg, and bake an hour. PARTRIDGE SOUP. —Take 2 partridges ; skin them ; and cut them into pieces, with 3 or 4 slices of ham, a stick of celery, and 3 large onions cut into slices. Fry them all in butter till brown, but take care not to bum them. Then put them into a stew-pan, with 5 pints of boiling water, a few pepper- corns, a shank or two of mutton, and a little salt. Stew it gently 2 hours, then strain it through a sieve, and put it again into a stew-pan, with some stewed celery and fried bread ; when it is near boiling, skim it, pour it into a tureen, and serve it up hot. PARSLEY, to Crisp.—Wash it, put it into a Dutch oven, at a moderate distance from the fire, and keep turning it till crisp ; lay small pieces of butter upon it, but not to make it greasy. PARSLEY, and other Herbs to Dry—Pick them clean from all decayed leaves. Put in a sieve; cover with blotting paper, and expose to the sun ; or in a very slow oven, and turn them often; the quicker they are dried the better. Aromatic herbs, if not dried