FLU FLI 182 insects do not like it.—Or apply oil of turpentine. FLIES.—Horses, cows, and oxen may be relieved from the annoyance of flies and the stings of venomous insects, by nibbing their legs and stomachs with train oil, which drives those unwelcome visitors away. v FLIES annoying W orking Horses.—An infusion of walnut leaves, or borax, applied occasionally between the ears, and on other sensitive parts of the horse, is successful. FLIES, to Destroy.—A tea- spoonful of laudanum, and two table- spoonfuls of water, strongly sweetened with sugar, placed in a saucer. Or dissolve quassia chips in boiling water, and sweeten. Or a strong infusion of green tea, well sweetened.—Or ground black pepper and sugar, diluted in milk, and put on plates, &c. FLIES, to Keep off. — Dust meat over with pepper, or powdered ginger, or fasten to it a piece of paper on which camphor has been well rubbed, or a few drops of creosote. Borax is now used as a preservative and as a disinfectant. FLIP.—Put a quart of ale on the fire; beat 3 or 4 eggs, with 4 02s. of sugar, a tea-spoouful of grated nutmeg or ginger, and a gill of good old rum or brandy. When the ale is about to boil, put it into one pitcher, and the eggs, rum, &c. into another; then pour it from one vessel to the other till it is as smooth as cream. FLOUNDERS, to Fry.—Rub with salt inside and out; let them stand two hours to give them firmness; dip them into egg, cover with crumbs and fry. To Boil.—Open and clean; boil in salt and water; make either gravy, shrimp, cockle, or mussel sauce, and garnish with red cabbage. FLOUR, to Detect Adulter- ated.—Take a little in the hand, and squeeze it for half a minute ; if good it can be put out of the hand in a lump; if adulterated, it will fall apart as soon as it leaves the band. FLOUR CAUDLE.—Into five large spoonfuls of pure water rub smooth a dessert-spoonful of fine flour. Set over the fire five spoonfuls of new milk, sweetened; the moment It boils, pour into it the flour and water; and stir it over a slow fire twenty minutes. It is a nourishing and gently astringent food—an excellent food for babies with weak bowels. FLOWERS, a Hint to Lovers of.—A beautiful show of evergreens may be had by a very simple plan. If geranium branches, taken from luxu- riant trees just before the winter sets in. be cut as for siips and immersed in soap-water, they will, after drooping for a few days, shed their leaves, put forth fresh ones, and continue in vigour all winter. By placing a number of bottles thus filled in a flower-basket, with moss to conceal them, a show of evergreens is insured for the whole season. They require no fresh water. FLOWER BULBS AT ANY SEASON in THREE WEEKS. —Fill a flower pot half full of quick lime, fill up with good earth, and plant the bulb, and keep the earth damp. FLOWERS, to Extract Es- sence from.—Take any flowers you choose; place a layer in a clean earthen pot, and over them a layer of fine salt. Repeat the process until the pot is filled, cover closely and place in the cellar. Forty days afterwards, strain the essence from the whole through a crape by pressure. Put the essence thus ex- pressed in a clear bottle, and expose for six week to the rays of the sun and evening dew to purify. One drop of this essence will communicate its odour to a pint of water. FLOWERS, to Preserve in Water.—Mix a little saltpetre or a little carbonate of soda with water, and it will preserve the flowers for a fort- night. FLOWERS, when Faded to Revive.—Put one-third of the stalk in hot water till it is cold. Then cut off the end of the stalk, and put in cold water in which a little saltpetre has been dissolved. It acts like magic. FLUMMERY.—Put 1 oz. each of bitter and sweet almonds into a basin; pour boiling water upon them to remove the skins; place the kernels in cold water a little; then beat in a mortar with rose-water ; afterwards put them into a pint of calf-feets’ stock: