186 FBI? FRI apples sliced and cored Into the batter, and fry some of it with each slice, Cur- rants or sliced lemon as thin as paper, and orange flower water make an agree- able change. FRITTERS, Common.—Half a pint of ale and 2 eggs, beat in 3 or more table-spoonfuls of flour, with nut- meg and sugar to taste ; let it rise four minutes ; then drop them into a pan of boiling lard ; fly a light brown ; serve with sugar grated upon them. It may be varied by adding cream, sweatmeat, marmalade, jam, currants, &c. FRITTERS, Spanish.—Cut the inside of a French roll into lengths as thick as your finger, in what shape you will. Soak in some cream, nutmeg, sugar pounded, cinnamon, and an egg. When well soaked, fry to a nice brown; and serve with butter, wine, and sugar sauce. FROST BITES.—Keep from the fire, and rub well with snow, and then with cold water. FROTH, to set on Cream, Custard, or Trifle.—Sweeten J lb. of the pulp of damsons, or any other scalded fruit, put to it the whites of 4 eggs beaten, and beat the pulp with them until it will stand as high as you choose; and being put on the cream, &c., with a spoon, it will take any form, it should be rough, to imitate a rock. FRUIT, to Bottle.—Currants, gooseberries, and other fruits may be thus preserved :—After having been well cleaned, put them into wide-mouthed glass bottles, shaking them so that each bottle may be full. Place them, slightly corked, in an oven nearly cold, for 4 or 5 hours; when the fruit contracts or wrinkles, take out, cork well down rapidly and cover with leather and wax. Keep in a dry place. FRUIT, to Candy.—After apri- cots, peaches, plums, nectarines, &c., have been preserved, take the fruit from the syrup ; drain ; to 1 lb. of loaf-sugar put a teacupful of water; when dis- solved set it over a moderate fire ; when boiling hot put in the fruit; stir it con- tinually until the sugar is candied about it; then take it upon a sieve and dry in a warm oven, or before a fire; repeat thi3 2 or 3 times if necessary. FRUIT PIE for Invalids and Children.—The rich crusts generally made are not fit for invalids and chil- dren. Therefore divide into 2 slices each, as many sponge cakes as will be required for the size of your dish ; put a layer of these, with the brown side downwards, at the bottom of the pie- dish, then fill with currants and rasp- berries, plums, damsons, or whatever fruit the season affords; sprinkle well with fin? Lisbon sugar, and pour in water nearly to the brim ; place a por- tion of the cut cakes upon the fruit as an upper crust, and let the dish be put in the oven for 40 minutes. FRUIT SALT.—This excellent article is composed of 2 ozs. of Epsom Salts, 2 ozs. of Cream of Tartar, a% ozs. of Carbonate of Soda. 2 ozs. of Tar- taric Acid, 4 ozs, of finely powdered sugar. Mix rapidly altogether adding a small quantity of Bromide of Potass. Put into a dry bottle, well corked. Take a good tea-spoonful in a tumbler glass of water occasionally. It is excellent for quickly moving the bowels, pain in the stomach, &c. FRUIT STAINS, to Remove from Linen.—Rub each side of the stained part with soap ; then steep it in a strong solution of pearl-ash ; soak well in hot water, or boiL Dry in the sun.—Or, saturate the cloth with a little water, and hold the part over a lighted match, at a little distance. The spots will be removed by sulphureous gas. FRUIT TART.—Spread puff paste with a rolling pin; cut a piece the size of the dish, and out of the trimmings cut some strips; brush the edge of the dish with egg-wash and stick the strips on it; then put the fruit into the dish with sugar and a little water ; roll the paste on the rolling pin and lay it over the fruit. Before you put the paste on brush the strips with egg-wash to make them stick. When you have trimmed the dish all round brash white of egg over the tart and sift sugar over it; then dip the paste brush into water and shake it over the tart. Bake it properly and serve up cold. ; FRUMENTY.—To a quart of ready boiled wheat put 3 quarts of new milk, and a % lb. of currants, or raisins,