ORA ORA mwx pounded, stir St over a gentle fire, and when it begins to thicken., put in about the sire of a small walnut of but- ter, keep it over the fire a few minutes longer ; then pour it into a flat dish, •And serve it to eat cold. ORANGE MARMALADE.— See page 248. ORANGE PUDDING.—Grate the rind of a Seville orange, put to it six ounces of fresh butter, six or eight ounces of lump sugar pounded : beat them all in a mortar, and add as you do it the whole of eight eggs well beaten and strained ; scrape a raw apple, and mix with the rest; put a paste at the bottom and sides of the dish, and over the orange mixture put cross bars of paste. Half an hour will bake it. Orange Pudding.—Mix of orange paste two full spoonfuls, with six eggs, four of sugar, four ounces of butter warm, and put into a shallow dish with a paste lining. Bake twenty minutes. Orange Pudding.—Rather more than two tablespoonfuls of, orange paste mixed with six eggs, four ounces of sugar, and four ounces of butter melted, will make a good sized pudding, with a paste at the bottom of the dish. Rake twenty minutes. Orange Pudding.—Boil the rind of a Seville orange very soft; beat it in a marble mortaT with the juice; put to it two good crisp biscuits, Naples, or any other you like, grated very fine, % lb. of butter, lb. of sugar, and the yolks of six eggs; mix well; lay a good paste round the edge of the dish; bake 30 minutes in a gentle oven. ORANGE PUFFS.—Pare off the rind from Seville oranges; then rub them with salt; let them lie 24 hours in water; boil them in 4 changes of water; let the first water be salt; drain, and beat them to a pulp; bruise in the pieces of all that you have pared; sweeten well with loaf sugar, and boil it till thick; cool, and put into the paste.—Lemon puffs may be made in the same way, ORANGE RELISH. — Cut oranges into quarters, removing the rind with a fruit knife, and adding equal quantities of brandy, madeira, i>r sherry, strewing a liberal allowance of finely powdered sugar over the dish. ORANGE. TART. — Squeeze., palp, and boil two Seville oranges tender; weigh them; add double of sugar; beat both together to a paste, and then add the juice and pulp of the fruit, and the size of a walnut of fresh butter, and beat all together. Choose a very shallow dish, line it with a light puff crust, and lay the paste of orange in it You may ice it Orange Tart.—Line a tart-pan with puff paste; put into it orange mar- malade that is made with apple jelly. Lay small shreds of paste on crosswise. Bake in a moderate oven. ORANGE TONIC. — Orange peel, 1 oz.; camomile flowers, 1% oz., and a little ginger. Put in a pint of boiling water. Add half a wine-glassful of brandy. Take a wine-glassful at a time. ORANGE WINE.—To 10 gal- lons of water add 24 lbs. of loaf sugar; beat the whites of six eggs well, and mix when the water is cold; boil an hour; skim well; then take 4 dozens of the roughest and largest Seville oranges; pare very thin; put them into a tub, and pour the liquor on boiling hot; and when cold enough, add three or four spoonfuls of good yeast, with the juice of the oranges, and % oz, of cochineal, beaten fine, and boiled in a pint of wine; stir all together. Ferment four days; put into the casks, and in six weeks bottle for use. Orange Wine.—To five gallons ,of spring-water, put fifteen pounds of loaf sugar, and the whites of three eggs, well beaten; let it boil for a quarter of an hour, and as the scum rises, take it off; when cold, add the juice of sixty Seville oranges and five lemons; pare 10 oranges and 5 lemons as thin as possible ; put them on thread, and sus- pend them in the barrel for two months; then take them out, and put in a pound of loaf sugar, and bung it up. ORANGES, to Preserve, Carved. — Take the best Seville oranges; cut the rinds with a penknife in various forms ; draw out part of the peel as you cut them, and put them into salt and water, to stand three days to take out the bitter; then boil them in a large saucepan of fresh water, with sals in it, but do not cover them, or their