WHI' 419 WHI 9. — Undertricks. Should the proposer and acceptor make less than eight tricks, they must pay besides the stipulated amount of the proposition, the trick money for every one short; the same applies to undertricks in Solo and Abondance. The player of Abondance Declare pays nothing above the fixed amount if he loses. 10. —Should all four players pass, it is a General; the player taking the last trick pays the Board. 11. —It must be perfectly understood that any player who has not passed is still in the game, and in his turn can play a higher event than a previous declarer. Stakes. Proposition.—Take a fixed sum. Solo.—Twice the amount of Proposi- tion. Misere.—Thrice the amount of Pro- position. Abondance.—Four times the amount of Proposition. Misere Ouvert.—Twice the amount of Misere. Abondance Declare. — Twice the amount of Abondance. WHITE GLOVES, to Dye a good Purple.—Boil 4 ozs. of log- wood, and 2 ozs. of roche alum, in 3 pints of soft water till half wasted. Strain and cool. Then with a brush rub the gloves over, and when dry repeat it. When dry, rub off the loose dye with a coarse cloth ; beat up the white of an egg, and with a sponge rub it over the leather. WHITE SAUCE.—See Sauce, page 348. WHITE SOUP. Take a knuckle of veal, a fowl, and a shank of ham ; put them into a pan with 6 quarts of water; add £ lb. of rice, two an- chovies, some peppercorns, sweet herbs, two onions, and a head of celery ; stew the whole till strong enough, and strain. The next day skim it carefully, and pour it into a stewpan; put in lb. of sweet almonds beaten fine ; boil 15 minutes, and strain. WHITE SOUP.—Take a scrag of mutton, a knuckle of veal after cut- ting off as much meat as will make collops, tw> shank-bones of mutton, and }i lb. of fine lean bacon, sweeS herbs, lemon-peel, three onions, three blades of mace, and a dessert-spoonful of white pepper; boil all in three quarts of water, till the meat falls to pieces. Next day take off the fat, clear the jelly from the sediment, and put it into a saucepan. If macaroni is used, add it soon enough to get tender, after soaking in cold water. Vermi- celli may be added after the thickening, as it requires less time to do. Have ready the following :—Blanch % lb. of sweet almonds, and beat them to a paste, with a spoonful of water to pre- vent their oiling ; mince a large slice of dressed veal or chicken, and beat with it a piece of stale white bread; add a pint of thick cream, a bit of fresh lemon-peel, and a blade of mace, in the finest powder. Boil it a few minutes; add to it a pint of soup, and strain and pulp it through a coarse sieve : put this thickening to the rest, and boil for half an hour. WHITES, or, Leucorrhoea, (Fluor Albus.)—This disease is peculiar to females. It is indicated by a morbid secretion of mucous from the passage leading to the womb, termed vagina. It varies in appearance, con- sistence, and quantity, in different per- sons. Women of delicate constitution, debilitated by hard labours, mis-car- riages, grief, poor living, and of an erysipelatous habit, generally termed scorbutic, are most subject to it, and in them it proves very obstinate. It is the effect both of relaxation and inflammatory excitement. Treatment.—When it arises from relaxation, the Tonic Pills, will general- ly succeed in effecting a cure. Cold bathing or the local application of cold water, is a good remedy for this dis- ease, and should be used every morning, provided the patient be free from cough or difficulty of breathing, and not sub- ject to a determination of blood to the brain. If the discharge continue after the employment of these means, an astrin- gent lotion may be used ; as the follow- ing :—Take of pomegranate-rind, bruis- ed, 3 drachms; boil in a quart of water to a pint and a half ; then strain, and add alum, a drachm and a half. To be injected by means of a female syringe.