361 SKI SKI bringing down four or five every time the first pin is hit in that manner. He must take care not to aim at the first pin in a straight direction, but cause the bowl to form a curve, by which it will lose something of its force, and strike the pies with a greater certainty of success. Tipping. — When the learner is going to tip he should hold the smaller circumference, or opposite side of the bias in the palm of his hand, grasping it very strong with his fingers, as few can be tipped when the bowl is loosely held ; he must place his left foot quite clear of the frame between the first and ninth pin, and his right foot behind him in an easy position, and in such direction that he may with ease hit his pins in the manner following: He must strike his first or second pin In the middle or largest part, and in the same motion and instant of time, deliver his bowl at the fourth pin. Striking them in this manner gener- ally has the following effect: hitting the first pin not quite full, forces it against the middle or fifth pin from thence to the seventh, and will frequently rebound to the eighth without any roll. The second pin if struck well will knock down the third, and the fourth or bowl pin will strike the sixth, the ninth is often brought down by some of the rolling pins. When the learner is to tip for four upon game he should choose the pins No. 8, 7, and 4, placing his left foot by the side of the frame, with his toe near- ly in a line with the bottom of the seventh pin, and right foot behind him, he must strike the three side pins at one motion, and at the same time throwing the bowl at the pin No. 4. To tip for five, let him place fcis left foot a little to the left of the pin number nine, and his other foot behind; he should strike the ninth pin to hit the seventh, the fifth the fourth, and the bowl must knock down the sixth. When six are wanted, which number Is generally thought most difficult to get, place the left foot in a line with the opposite angle of the frame, and the other foot behind at a good distance; strike the eighth pin full in the middle which will hit the seventh and sixth, and with the same motion, hit the middle pin against the third, and the bowl will hit the fourth, by which means the player will lay the sixth fairly down, and if not struck hard, without danger of rolling, especially if they are tipped down hill, to do which he must make his sixth his first pin. The proper proportion of a skittle is fifteen inches round, in the largest part, and twelve inches high. The bowl should be eighteen inches in circumference; and each angle of the frame for the pins 3 feet 4 inches. Laws and Rules. 1 The bowler must stand at the mark with one foot, and from thence deliver his ball fairly out of his hand, which should run upon the board fixed for that purpose before it arrives at the frame; for if the bowler does not cause his bowl to run along the board, or touch in some part, he loses the benefit of bowling. a If the bowler throws the bowl so as to cause it to run double, as it is com- monly called, and any one of the oppo- site party calls out a foul blow; if it has not reached the pins the player must bowl again ; but if it arrived at the frame, before the opposite party called out foul, whatever number is bowled down must be scored. 3 If a bowl runs clearly through the frame, and knocks down any number of pins, and is stopped in its return back again by one of the opposite party, one additional pin must be allowed the per- son who bowled at the time. 4 If a bowl passes through the frame, and on its return strikes a standing pin, as it is called, runs against the falling pin, that shall be deemed fair, because the live pin hits the other pin last. 5 If a live pin rolls against a standing pin, and the bowl comes on its return against the falling pin before it is down, that is deemed an unfair pin, because the bowl struck it last. 6 If the bowl runs through the frame, and knocks at the head board, though it may have bowled down many pins, none are allowed. 7 If the bowl runs through, or on the outside of the frame, and knocks, and then runs round the other side of the frame, without crossing any part of it or touching any of the live pins, the bowler must stand to take his tip with one foot