WOO 423 WIN WINDSOR CRULLERS.— Eight heaping spoonfuls of sugar, four eggs, four tablespoonfuls of softened butter—not melted; four tablespoonfuls of milk, two-thirds of a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a very little vinegar. Fry in hot lard, and dust a little sugar over when hot. WINDSOR CRULLERS.— Six eggs, one coffee-cup of sugar, six tablespoonfuls softened butter, four of new milk, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of ginger, a little nutmeg and cinnamon, making about sn even teaspoonful of the two com- bined, and only just flour enough to roll out easily, one teaspoonful of soda dis- solved in two teaspoonfuls of cold milk. Sift the cream of tartar with the flour to mix it thoroughly, beat all to a cream, add soda last thing before the flour, and fry in hot lard. WINDSOR PUDDING. — Shred % lb. of suet very fine; grate into it y, lb. of French roll, a little nut- meg, and the rind of a lemon ; add % lb. of chopped apples; K lb. of cur- rants ; % lb. of good raisins, stoned, and chopped, a glass of rich sweet wine, and five eggs beaten, with a little salt. Mix all thoroughly together, and boil it in a basin, or mould for three hours. Sift fine sugar over it when sent to table, and pour wine sauce into the dish. WINDSOR SOAP is merely the best white soap melted, and scented with oil of caraway, and put into moulds. WINE, English Wine.—Boil 40 lbs. of sugar in 14 gallons of water, twenty minutes, taking the scum as it rises. Put it into a tub, and when nearly cold put in 8 lbs. of raisins chopped; and when cold, add two gallons of strong ale, when the ale is ready to tun. Let it stand three days, stirring it well every day. Then put it into the cask with a pint of brandy, a pound of sugar candy, and an ounce of isinglass. It may be bottled in eight months. WINE, to make Astringent.— Mix a little alum with the wine ; or gum kino, catechu, or rhatany. WINE, Rich and Pleasant.— Take new cider from the press, mix It with as much honey as will support an egg, boil gently fifteen minutes, but not in an iron, brass, or copper pot. Skim well; when cool let it be turned, but don't quite fill. In the March following bottle it, and it will be fit to drink in six weeks; but will be less sweet if kept longer in the cask. You will have a rich and strong wine, and it will keep well. This will serve for any culinary purpose for which sack, or sweet wine is directed. Honey is a fine ingredient to assist, and render palatable new crabbed austere cider. WINE BISCUITS.—Take the yolks of 6 eggs, and the whites of 5; beat with orange flower water till they come to a froth ; then add sifted sugar, 1 lb.; rice flour, £ lb.; the raspings and pulp of a lemon, with a few caraway seeds. Dust with sugar. WINE WHEY.—Put half a pint of new milk on the fire ; the mo- ment it boils up, pour in as much sound raisin wine as will completely turn it, and it looks clear ; let it boil up, then set the saucepan aside till the curd subsides, and do not stir it. Pour the whey off, and add to it half a pint of boiling water, and a bit of white sugar. Thus you will have a whey per- fectly cleared of milky particles, and as weak as you choose to make it. WOOD, to Bronze.—Cover with a coating of thin glue. When dry, coat it again with white of egg and water; do not put much on. Then apply the bronze with a hare's foot, or dust from a small fine muslin bag. WOOD, to Coat.—The Germans have recently adopted the following method :—The ingredients are 40 parts of chalk, 40 of rosin, 4 of linseed oil, to be melted together in an iron pot. One part of native oxide of copper, and one of sulphuric acid are then to be added, when the composition is ready for use. It is applied hot to the wood with a brush in the same way as paint, and the varnish becomes as hard as stone when dry. WOOD, to Preserve.—Gas tar, rosin, or pitch, and lime, boiled well together, and applied to wood exposed to the weather, form a good preserva- tive. Apply two or three coats, and on