TOW FRR to flour; before serving; squeeze to the juice of a lemon. FOWLS, to Fatten.—Mix a little unsifted flour, ground rice, scalded with milk; add a little butter and coarse sugar, and a little chopped meat. Make it thick, and feed them several times a-day. This soon fattens them. Give them also now and then barley meal and water mixed thin. FOWL, to Hash.—Cut up the fowl as for eating; put it into a stew- pan with half a pint of gravy, a tea- spoonful of lemon pickle, a little mush- room ketchup, a slice of lemon, and a chopped shalot or two. Thicken with flour and butter; before it is dished, add a table-spoonful of thick cream ; lay sippets round the dish, and serve. FOWL, Roasted.---When the fowl is about half done, skewer pieces of fat bacon to it. It serves for larding, and saves time and trouble for the same. The bacon will serve to garnish the dish. Make a gravy of the necks and gizzards ; strain, and put in a spoonful of browning. Serve with egg sauce. FOWLS, to Roast a la Ser- vante.—Prepare a fowl for roasting, and make a forcemeat with the liver, parsley, shalots, butter, pepper, salt, and basil. Stuff the fowl with this ; roast it, wrapped in slices of lard and paper. When three parts done, take off the lard and paper ; baste it all over with the yolks of eggs beaten up with melted butter; freely sprinkle bread crumbs over it; roast to a fine yellow. Make a sauce with butter, a chopped anchovy, a few capers, flour, three spoonfuls of broth, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; make like a white sauce. FOWLS, to Truss. — Pluck them, cut off the neck close to the back ; take out the crop, liver, and en- trails ; cut off the vent, draw it clean, and beat the breast-bone flat. If for boiling, cut off the nails of the feet, and tuck them close to the legs ; put your finger into the inside, and raise the skin of the legs ; then cut a hole in the top of the skin, and put the legs under; put a skewer in the first joint of the pinion, bring the middle of the leg close to it, put the skewer through the middle of the leg, and through the body, and do so on the other side. I 84 T lake the gizzard and clean it; put It and the liver in the pinion ; turn the points on the back, and tie a string over the tops of the legs to keep them in their place. If to be roasted, put a skewer in the first joint of the pinion, bring the middle of the leg close to it; put the skewer through the middle of the leg, and through the body:—put a skewer in the small of the leg, and through the sidesman and one through the skin of the feet. Cut off the nails of the feet. FOWL, the Best for the Winter.—Cochins are the only birds to lay all the winter; and by their will- ingness to sit almost at any time in the summer, you may get pullets which will lay late in the autumn, FOWL SOUP.—Cut up two fowls and some nice ham in small pieces, with sliced onions and celery; fry them in butter till brown ; then boil them in water, thicken with fresh cream, and season with pepper, salt, and mace. Boil all together; and before serving add port wine. FOXGLOVE INFUSION.— Foxglove leaves, 1 dr. ; boiling water, % pint; tincture of cinnamon, 1 fluid oz. Infuse the leaves in the water for five hours, strain, and add the tincture. A dessert spoonful twice a day. Valu- able in water of the chest, and palpita- tion of the heart. See Robinson's Family Herbal. FRAGRANT ODOUR, to Diffuse a.—A few drops of oil of sandal wood dropped on a hot shovel, will diffuse a most agreeable balsamic perfume through the room. FRECKLES.—Take 1 oz. of lemon-juice, a quarter of a drachm of powdered borax, and half a drachm of sugar; mix, let them stand a few days in a glass bottle, then rub it on the hands and face occasionally. Or, mix two-teaspoonfuls of muriatic acid with 2 ozs. of spirits of wine ; and 1 pint of distilled water. Or, 2 drs. of muriatic acid in 1 pint of water, and a teaspoonful of spirits oflavender. Apply with a camel hair pencil, or linen.— Or, horse-radish steeped in sour milk for 12 hours, and a drop or two of tinc- ture of myrrh. Wash two or three times per day.