I 14 CAT CAR give them another halt hour’s simmer- ing ; force the vegetables through a sieve by the aid of a wooden spoon, and if you find the pulp mixed with the liquor, is too thick for soup, add more broth ; season with salt and pepper to your taste. Warm before sending to the table. Serve with toasted bread. CARROTS, Stewed. Half- boil, then nicely scrape, and slice them into a stew-pan. Put to them half a tea-cupful of any weak broth, some pepper, and salt, and half a cupful of cream ; simmer them till they are very tender, but not broken. Before serving rub a very little flour with a bit of butter, and warm up with them. If approved, chopped parsley may be added ten minutes before the carrots are served. CASCARILLA, Tincture of.— Cascarilla bark, powdered, 2 ozs. ; proof spirit, 1 pint; digest with a gentle heat for seven days, and strain. A valuable stimulant of great use in gout; it gives tone and system to the stomach. Two drachms three times per day. CASKS, to Sweeten.—To scour casks effectually rinse them with a solu- tion of vitriol and water, which will entirely deprive them of their foulness. CASTOR OIL.—A valuable and safe aperient. It acts speedily, effec- tually cleanses the bowels, without leav- ing any tendency to constipation. The dose is one or two table-spoonfuls. To most it is disagreeable, and it requires to be disguised. A good way is to take it in meal and water, or barley water, or brandy and water, or in milk well mixed, or in coffee, or in orange-juice. Some eat a little orange or lemon-peel, previously to taking . CASTOR OIL, French way of giving it to Children.—Pour the oil into a pan over a moderate fire; break an egg into it, and stir up ; when it is done, add a little salt or sugar, or some currant jelly. The sick child will eat it agreeably, and never discover the dis- guise. CASTS of PLASTER, to Harden.—Immerse them in a solu- tion of alum to about 84° Fah.. for about five hours ; 1 lb. of alum dissolved in 4 or 5 gallons of water will form the solution. CATARRH.—This comprises a Cold in the Head, or Influenza.—Both begin with chilliness, sneezing, bad appe- tite, running at the nose, red and watery eyes, fever, &c. It is inflammation of the mucus membrane of the nostrils, or bronchial passages. Sometimes there is a slight cough only, and sometimes a harrassing one. It is caused by expo- sure to cold or wet, damp, epidemic poison. To cure, let the diet be low, drink toast and water, warm gruel, or barley water acidulated with a little lemon or cream of tartar. Bathe the feet at bed-time in hot water. Use the vapour bath, or wrap hot bricks in cloths or flannels dipped in vinegar and water, to the feet and sides. Should the cough be troublesome, take a cough pill or the pulmonary syrup. CATECHU. — An extract ob- tained from an acacia tree, growing in Hindostan.—It is a most valuable as- tringent in looseness, dysentery, or flux, bleeding from the anus or womb, the whites, and obstinate coughs. It makes an excellent gargle for relaxation of the uvula, or the body which hangs down from the soft part of the palate. It may be sucked in the mouth for that purpose, and for curing sponginess of the gums. It makes an excellent den- trifice, combined with Peruvian bark and myrrh. The extract, say a.% ozs.; 2 ozs. resin ; 10 ozs. of olive oil, with a very little water ; is most efficacious in ulcers. Melt and mix. CATERPILLARS, to Destroy. —Syringe the trees with decoction of tobacco, or a solution of alum, or dust the trees with dust from the common road, and in a day or two wash off with clean water. CATHARTICS.—Medicines in- creasing the discharge from the bowels. CATHARTIC POWDER. — Best senna, ginger, camomile flowers, of each 1 oz. ; jalap, oz. Powder fine, and mix well. Take from half to a teaspoonful in warm water or tea. This is a valuable aperient; it is power- ful, and yet mild ; effectually cleanses the bowels, and produces a healthy action in them, and also upon the liver. CATNEP.—An American plant. —It Is carminative, diaphoretic, and refrigerant. It produces perspiration