335 RFC RES RECEIPTS.—Always keep your receipts above six years. It is generally supposed that it is sufficient to keep receipts for six years ; this is not so: the period for bringing an action on a simple contract debt being limited by an Act of Parliament, which is called the Statute of Limitations, to six years from the time the debt is due; and it may happen that the action may be commenced some time previous to the expiration of the six years, without the party who is sued having any know- ledge of it, so that it is unsafe to des- troy receipts immediately at the expira- tion of the six years ; you should keep them for six years and a half. RED CABBAGE, to Pickle. —Slice it into a colander, and sprinkle each layer with salt; let it drain two days, then put it into a jar, with boiling vine- gar enough to cover it, and put in a few slices of beet-root. Observe to choose the purple red-cabbage. Those who like the flavour of the spice will boil some pepper-corns, mustard-seed, or other spice, whole with the vinegar. Cauliflower in branches, and thrown in after being salted, will colour a beauti- ful red. RED FIRE.—Forty parts of dry nitrate of strontian, thirteen parts of finely-powdered sulphur, five parts of chlorate of potash, and four parts of sulphuret of antimony. The chlorate of potash and sulphuret of antimony should be powdered separately in a mortar, then mixed on paper, after which add to the other ingredients previously powdered and mixed. RED HERRINGS, to Dress. —Choose those that are large and' moist; cut them open and pour some boiling small beer over them and soak half an hour ; dram them dry, and make them just hot through before the fire; frub some cold butter over them. Egg sauce, or buttered eggs, or mashed potatoes should be served up with them. REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS.—An infant should be registered within six weeks after birth. No fee is payable; but after 43 days a fee of 7s. 6d. i3 chargeable. REGISTRATION OF DEATHS.—Notice should be given of deaths to the district registrar. Let this be done early, that the undertaker may have a certificate to give the minis- ter who performs the funeral service. RED CEMENT.—Black resin, five p>arts ; yellow wax, one part. Melt, and stir in gradually red ochre, or Venetian red in fine dry powder. This cement must be melted before using, and also the glass, china, &c. must be made hot before it is applied. RED INK.—The finest Brazil wood, 6 ozs. ; cochineal powdered, 1 oz.; alum, % oz.; best vinegar, 1 pint; water, a cupful. Boil slowly in a brass pan for one hour. Put the cochineal in when three-fourths boiled. Add 1 oz. of gum arabic. RENNET, for Curdling Cheese, to Prepare. — Take the stomach of a calf as soon as it is killed, and scour inside and out with salt, after it is cleared of the curd always found in it. Let it drain a few hours ; then sew it up with two good handfuls of salt in it, or stretch it on a stick well salted, or keep it in the salt wet, and soak a bit, which will do over and over again by adding fresh water. RESIN OINTMENT.—Yel- low wax, 3 ozs. ; white resin, 6 ozs. ; hog’s lard, 8 ozs. Melt together slow- ly, stirring it till it is intimately mixed. It is very good for bums and scalds, for dressing blisters, when a discharge must be kept up for a few days ; it has a stimulating influence. RESPIRATION. It is not every person that knows how to breathe. Our artificial modes of living, sedentary habits, cramped attitudes, the constraint of clothing, weaken and compress the respiratory organs, and hinder their development. The breath is shortened, and life is shortened in consequence. Animals breathe with the whole body. Well-developed persons in full health breathe in the same way. The vivifying air goes to the bottom of the lungs, and the entire system seems to swell and undulate, and sink again at the flow and ebb of the atrial tide; but the seam- stress over her sewing, the editor over his desk, the sloth who sits on a curve of his spinal column, the young lady whose waist is compassed by the smallest possible girdle, use only the top of the