PER 301 PIC and 2 ozs. of orris root.—Place in little bags. PERFUME for Gloves and Handkerchiefs.—Ambergris, 1 dr. ; rivet, 1 dr. ; oil of lavender, 3 drs. ; oi of bergamot, 3 drs. ; camphor, # oz. ; spirit of wine, % pint. Cork and shake well for 10 days ; filter, and bottle. PERFUME, to Prevent In- fection.—Take gum benjamin, stor- ax, and galbanum, % oz. each ; powder them with oil of myrrh, and bum them on a hot plate or shovel. PERFUMED POWDER, for Boxes and Drawers.—Mix 1 oz. each of the following:—orris powder, coriander, cloves, cinnamon, rose leaves, lavender flowers, musk, oz. ; cam- phor, 1 oz. Put into small bags for use. , PERMANENT INK, for Marking Linen.—Take half an oz. of vermilion, and a dr. of salt of steel; let them be levigated with linseed oil to the thickness or limpidity required for the occasion. This has not only a very good appearance, but will be found to resist the effects of acids, as well as all alkaline leys. It may be made of other colours by substituting the proper articles instead of vermilion. See pages 247-8. PERRY.—It is made from pears In the same way as cider is made. The best pears for this purpose are such as are adapted for eating, and the redder they are the better. The pears must be quite dry. PERSIAN MEAT CAKES. —Take the fat and sinews from the meat of a leg of mutton; beat in a marble mortar with pepper, salt, and the juice of onions, and sweet herbs. Make them all into flat cakes, and keep them pressed between 2 dishes for 12 hours ; then fry them with butter, and serve them with the same. PERSPIRATION, to Re- strain.—Spring water, 2 ozs.; di- luted sulphuric acid, 40 drops ; com- pound spirits of lavender, a drs.; lake a table-spoonful twice a day. PERUVIAN BARK. —It Is a powerful tonic febrifuge, and antiseptic, very useful in intermittent fevers and in general and nervous debility, typhus fever especially when tending to gan- grene. See Robinson's Herbal on this valuable plant. PEWTER, to Clean.—Scour it with fine Calais sand in a solution of potass, or soda, with a little oil of tar- tar. Dry and polish with whiting. See pages 17 and 18. PHEASANT, to Choose.— The cock bird is accounted best, except when the hen is with egg. If young he has short, blunt, or round spurs; but if old they are long and sharp. PHEASANT, to Roast.— Roast them as turkey; and serve with a fine gravy (into which put a very small bit of garlic), and bread-sauce. When cold, they may be made into excellent patties, but their flavour should not be overpowered by lemon. PHEASANT, to Stew.—Put it into the stewpan, with as much veal stock as will cover it; stew it till there is liquor enough left for sauce; skim, and add artichoke bottoms parboiled, beaten mace, a glass bf wine, pepper and salt; thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little lemon-juice; take up the pheasant; pour the sauce over it; put forcemeat balls into the dish, and serve it. PICKLE, Picallillo, or Indian Pickles.—Lay 1 lb. of white ginger in water a night, then scrape, slice, and lay it in salt rill the other ingredients are ready. Peel, slice, and salt 1 lb. of gar- lic 3 days, then put in the sun to dry. Salt and dry long pepper the same way. Prepare various sorts of vegetables thus: Quarter small white cabbages, salt 3 days, squeeze and set in the sun to dry. Cauliflowers cut in their branches; take off the green from the radishes, cut celery in 3 inch lengths; ditto young French beans whole, and the shoots of elder, which will look like bamboo. Apples and cucumbers, the least seedy sort; cut them in slices or quarters. All must be salted, drained, and dried in the sun, except the latter; over which pour boiling vinegar, and in 12 hours drain them, but use no salt. Put the spice, garlic, # lb. of mus- tard-seed, and vinegar enough for the quantity to pickle, into a stone jar, and x os. of turmeric. When the vegetables