379 STO STO with water to cover it. Skim well. Add pot herbs to give it the desired flavour. Season with salt and ground pepper ; simmer till the meat becomes tender ; skim well, and strain. Or, put a knuckle of veal, i lb. of lean beef, and i lb. of the lean of gam- mon of bacon, all sliced into a stewpan, with onions, turnips, celery, and two quarts of water. Stew the meat tender, but do not let it brown. It will serve either for soup, or brown or white gravy; if for brown, put some of the browning in, and boil it a few minutes. STOCK FOR SOUP.—All the liquor that is left from boiling fresh or salt meats should be carefully saved. All. the bones from cold meats or the trimmings from uncooked meats should be put aside to boil up in this liquor. Crack the bones thoroughly. They are very essential to a good soup, for they contain much gelatinous matter that enriches the stock. Every bit of meat or fowl of every kind should be carefully preserved. Put all into a large pot or kettle, with water enough to cover them. Let this simmer slowly over a steady fire, but never let it boil. Keep the pot covered closely, stir the contents frequently. Pour in a cup of cold water now and then, and skim off the scum as fast as it rises. For fresh meat, bones, or scraps, commence with cold water; if cooked meats, use hot water. One quart of water to a pound of meat is a fair proportion. After this has simmered from six to eight hours it will be ready for use. Let it stand over night, then skim off all the fat. Keep a large jar, into which put all the stock you can make day by day. Cover closely. A jar of such stock should be kept constantly on hand, as from it almost any kind of soup can be quickly pre- pared. ST O M AC HIC S.—Medicines, stimulating and warming the stomach. STOMACHIC CORDIAL.— Ginger, i drachm; tincture of carda- moms, 2 drachms ; compound tincture of senna, 3 drachms. STOMACHIC WINE.—Pow- dered Peruvian bark, 1 oz. ; cardamom seeds, and orange peel bruised, each, 2 drachms. Infuse in a bottle of Port wine for five or six days. Strain off the wine. This is a good tonic for the stomach and intestines; it is also a pre- ventative of intermittent fever. It gives tone and vigour to the system after re- covering from disease. STOMACHIC DRAUGHT.— Quassia shavings, 2 drachms; boiling water, 1 pint. Let it remain in a close vessel till cold. Strain. Add to the liquor, tincture of cardamom, 2 ozs.; compound spirits of lavender, 4 drs. ; rhubarb in powder, 1 scruple. Take 3 table-spoonfuls an hour before dinner to create an appetite. STOMACHIC ELIXIR, Dr. Stoughton's. — Pare off the thin yellow rinds of 6 large Seville oranges, and put them in a quart bottle with 1 ox. of gen- tian root, scraped and sliced, and 34 a drachm of cochineal. Pour over these ingredients a pint of brandy ; shake the bottle well several times during that and the following day; let it stand two days more to settle, and clear it off into bottles for use. Take one or two tea-spoonfuls morning and afternoon, in a glass of wine or in a cup of tea. This elegant preparation is a most valuable tonic. STOMACHIC ELIXIR. Gentian root, 2 ozs.; bitter oranges sliced, 1 oz.; Virginia snake root, oz. Bruise, and infuse for four days in 1 pint of brandy; then add a pint of water. A wine-glassful to be taken occasionally. Good for flatulency, in- digestion, want of appetite, &c. STOMACHIC TINCTURE. —Gentian root, sliced, 1 oz. ; orange peel, dried, J4 oz. ; cochineal, 15 grs. ; proof brandy, 1 pint; in 3 or 4 days it is fit for use. Dose: 2 or 3 teaspoon- fuls in a glass of water, twice a day. This tincture is useful in all disorders that arise from a relaxed stomach. STONE.—Stone is an accumula- tion of particles of gravel which unite and form a hard mass, or stone ; and they enlarge by successive layers of gravel until they become very large and difficult to remove. The symptoms are itching at the ex- tremity of the glands of the penis, an in- creased desire to make water, with more or less pain in making it; even when the bladder is emptied, the pain con- tinues ; sometimes there is difficulty in retaining the water; and at other times