GOU 199 GOO wooden spoon ; add % lb. of sugar, % lb. of butter, 4 ozs. of Naples biscuits ; beat well six eggs ; mix altogether, beat 15 minutes ; pour into an earthem dish with or without paste. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. —Chop fine H lb. of beef suet; roll it well into about 1 lb. of flour ; then mix with cold water till it becomes a nice paste ; add a little salt. Line a butter- ed basin with the paste, and let it be three parts full of gooseberries ; fill up with fine sugar, and cover with paste. Bake hour. Sauce, melted butter, sweetened, or with fresh cream. GOOSEBERRY OR APPLE TRIFLE.—Scald as many of either of these fruits, as when pulped through a sieve, will make a thick layer at the bottom of your dish; if of apples, mix the rind of half a lemon grated fine; add to both as much sugar as will be pleasant. Mix half a pint each of milk and cream, and the yolk of one egg; give It a scald over the fire, and stir it all the time ; do not let it boil; add a little sugar, and cool. Lay it over the apples with a spoon ; and then put on a whip made the day before, as for other Trifles. GOOSEBERRY VINEGAR. —Bright yellow English gooseberries, ripe, 1 quart; stamp them small; water, 3 quarts; stir well together, and let them stand 48 hours; strain, and add 1 lA lb. of sugar. Let it remain in the cask for 9 or 10 months. GOOSEBERRY AND CUR- RANT WINE.—Six gallons of cold soft water ; four gallons of goose- berries ; four gallons of currants; fer- ment ; mix raw sugar, 13 lbs. ; honey, a lbs. ; citric acid, 1 oz. Brandy, 6 pints. This will make 12 gallons. Another. —Water, 5* gallons; gooseberries and currants, 4 gallons; ferment; sugar, 13 lbs. ; tartar, in fine powder, 1 oz. ; ginger, do. 3 ozs. ; sweet marjoram, half a handful. Brandy, x quart, or more. Will make nine gallons. GOUT,—Supposed to be a dis- ease of the blood. It is generally pro- duced by luxurious living, beer and wine drinking, and the want of exercise ; also by too free a use of animal food, and Intoxicating drinks. These cause deficient secretionary action, deficient perspiration and urine, so as to'corrupt the blood with uric acid and other matter, which should have been ejected from the body, but which are thrown upon some debilitated part of the body, causing inflammation and great pain. Gouty inflammation does not terminate in suppuration and gangrene, but by an effusion of chalky liquid deposited at the joints, causing a stiffness of them ; the deposit is called chalk-stones. A fit of the gout attacks suddenly, without warning, generally in the night; often with a severe pain in the ball of the great toe, the heel, or perhaps the whole foot. The inflammation may also attack the knee, hand, wrist, elbow, &c., or change from one joint to ano- ther, It is attended with a quick pulse, fever, hot skin, confined state of the bowels, urine high colour, with dense deposits. Hard malt liquor tends to produce uric acrid, even in spite of regular exertions and labour. Treatment.—First restore the de- ficient secretions, and cleanse the stomach and bowels. If there be much fever, nausea, &c., give an emetic, say 15 grains of ipecacuanha powder. Give purgatives ; as small doses of rhubarb, about 10 grains, and bi-carbonate of potash, 15 grains. The following are very useful internal remedies : Infusion of gentian, 3 ozs.; tincture of coiumba, 2% drachms ; liquor potassa, 25 drops. Mix; and take in four doses, two per day. Or, Dissolve 1 oz. of gum guiacum In a pint of best French brandy ; infuse a day, then add half a pint of water. Two table-spoonfuls to be taken every morning fasting, followed by a cup of tea. Or, Rhubarb, saltpetre, milk of sulphur, mustard, of each % an oz. ; powdered coriander seed, powdered gum guiacum, of each % an oz. Mix; take a tea- spoonful every other night in a wine- glassful of weak peppermint water. Meadow-saffron, or colchicum, is said to exert a wonderful influence over gouty affections :—Calcined magnesia, 16 grains ; vinegar or wine of meadow- saffron, 1 drachm ; mix with 3 table- spoon iu Is of peppermint water for n