DYE 165 DK.U the juice of leeks, or elder leaves.— Tried. This cured the windy dropsy.. Or, % a pint of decoction of butcher’s broom, (intermixing purges twice or thrice a-week.) The proper purge is 10 grains of jalap with 6 of powdered giD- ger. It may be increased or lessened according to the strength of the patient. Or, of the decoction of the tops of oak boughs. This cured an inveterate dropsy in 15 days. Or, take senna, cream of tartar, jalap, yt 01. of each. Mix them and take a drachm every morning in broth. It usually cures in twenty days. This is nearly the same as Dr. Ward’s powder ; He says it seldom fails, either in the watery or windy dropsy. DRUNKENNESS, to Cure a fit of.—Take 1 oz. of ininderus spirit in a cupful of water. Repeat the dose every 15 minutes. DUCKS, to choose.—A young duck should have supple feet, breast and belly hard and thick. A tame duck has dusky yellow feet. They should be picked dry, and ducklings scalded. DUCK, Boiled.—A duck boiled and smothered in onions, is an excellent dish, and fit for a monarch. Boil 25 minutes. The onions should be twice boiled before being made into a sauce. Serve them as follows:—To the onion sauce add chopped parsley, a cupful of good gravy, a spoonful of lemon juice, and a wine glassful of port wine. Pour the whole upon the ducks. DUCK PIE.—Make a stiff paste crust; clean well a couple of ducks; scald them ; cut off the feet, pinions, neck, and head, all clean picked and scalded, with the gizzard, liver and hearts ; pick out all the fat of the in- side ; lay a crust all over the dish ; season the ducks with pepper and salt, inside and out; lay them in the dish, and the giblets at each end, seasoned; cover the meat with water ; lay on the crust, and bake. DUCKS, to Roast.— Carefully pick, and clean the inside. Boil 2 or 3 oniorA in 2 waters; chop them very small. Mix the onions with about half the quantity of sage leaves, bread crumbs finely powdered, a spoonful of salt, and « little cayenne pepper; beat up the yolk of an egg, and rub the stuffing well together. With a brisk fire roast about 35 minutes. Serve with gravy sauce. DUCK, to Stew.—Lard 2 young ducks down each side the breast dust with flour ; brown before the fire ; put into a stewpan with a quart of water, a pint of port wine, a spoonful of walnut ketchup, the same of browning, 1 an- chovy, a clove of garlick, sweet herbs, and cayenne pepper. Stew till they are tender, about half an hour; skim, and strain, and pour over the duck. DUCK, to Stew with Peas.— Half roast the ducks. Then put them into a stew-pan with a pint of good gravy, a little mint, and 6 sage leaves chopped small, salt, &c., cover, and stew half an hour : boil a pint of green peas, as for eating, and put them in after you have thickened the gravy. Dish up the ducks, pour the gravy and peas over them. DUSTING POWDER FOR CHILD REN.-Mix prepared chalk, rice, starch, and fullers earth equally. First wash the part in cold water. DUTCH CAKE.—Take 5 lbs. of flour ; 2 ozs. of caraway seeds ; % lb. of sugar ; better than a pint of milk, and % lb. of butter ; make a hole in the middle of the flour; put in a pint of good yeast; pour in the butter and mill:; make into a paste ; rise, roll into thin cakes ; bake 15 minutes. DUTCH SAUCE. —Slice an onion, put into a stew-pan, with a little scraped horseradish, 2 anchovies, some elder vinegar, and some second stock ; boil for ten minutes ; strain; return it into the stew-pan, and beat up 2 eggs, put it to the sauce, and set it on the fire till it comes to a boil. DYEING, the Newest Modes. —Black for Worsted or Wool- len.—Water, 3 gallons; bichromate of potass, % oz. Boil the goods in this 40 minutes ; then wash in cold water. Then take 3 gallons of water, add 9 ozs. of logwood, 3 ozs. of fustic, and 1 or 2 drops of D. O. V. or Double Oil of Vitriol; boil the goods 40 minutes, and wash out imfcold water. This will dye from 1 to 2 lbs. of cloth, or a lady’s dress, if of a dark colour, as brown, claret, &r„