ULC ULC 3 99 or warm water and vinegar. The salu- tary effects are often soon visible. Rub the body well with the flannel and liquid. Great attention must be paid to clean- liness. The patient’s face, breast, neck, &c., must be often washed, his linen often changed; there, must be good ventilation, and plentiful fumigation. Sprinkle the room with vinegar, cam- phorated spirits, or chloride of lime. Acidulous fruits should be given, as grapes, oranges, lemons, &c. If the throat is sore, give the appropriate gargles. Should the patient sink in the advanced stages, give port wine diluted with the same quantity of wa.ter. Give a wine- glassful several times a day. Or a Sttle weak brandy, ammonia, and water, mixed warm. If the feet are cold, put to them a bottle of hot water, wrapped In a vinegar and water cloth, and rub the surface of the body with the Stimu- lating Liniment. If signs of putres- cency appear, give yeast in a little wine, adding two teaspoonfuls of fresh pow- dered charcoal, and a litde solution of quinine. Bottled porter may also be given. Let the patient'be supported by beef-tea, gruel, &c. Should one pari of the body be heated more than another, apply to the heated part a poultice of hops and vinegar, with a little tincture of cayenne. In diarrhoea, lime water is a suitable remedy ; when more severe, chalk mix- ture with a little laudanum may be sub- stituted ; when blood appears, more decided astringent remedies are needed, as gallic acid, or acetate of lead. In typhus fever, bed sores, by long lying, are formed. Wash the skin with rum or other spirit to prevent this. If broken, apply a healing plaster, or a poultice made of slippery elm and butter. U ULCER.—An ulcer is an injury done to the flesh from which issues matter, or some kind of discharge, with more or less pain and inflammation. The common ulcer should be kept clean and cool, and protected from the atmosphere, especially in frosty or cold weather. It should be washed now and then with warm soap-water. Put upon it a little lint, wet occasionally with salt and water, and put over it the Black Salve. Perhaps the best dressings are the saturnine cerate, described hereafter. Poultices made of the oak bark, sumach bark, may be used alternately. Sometimes ulcers are very irritable, tender, and painful. They discharge a thin acrid fluid. They should be steamed every night with a bitter decoc- tion, and occasionally washed with an infusion of camomile flowers, or a strong decoction of wild cherry bark, with a little spirit. Poultice with slippery elm, mixed with a strong decoction of poplar bark, and a trifle of salt. Repeat, as required. If the ulcer or ulcers are indolent, steam as before, and apply the Cancer Plaster, with only a trifle of the white vitriol mixed with it; or, sprinkle the ulcer with powdered blood-root. Sometimes ulcers become very much inflamed, and assume a livid colour; they are covered with small vesicles or blisters, as in mortification. Wash the ulcer with tincture of myrrh, and apply a poultice made of charcoal, yeast, slippery elm, ginger, and a minute por- tion of tincture of cayenne. Bear it as long as possible. Then apply the saturnine cerate. The following is recommended by Dr. Beach:—Take sweet clover tops and stalks, burdock leaves, and parsley, a handful of each ; get the strength out by boiling; strain, and add i lb. of resin, and % lb. of fresh butter; sim- mer until of a proper consistence. A cold water cloth constantly applied is a good remedy. Put a little cerate on the ulcer previously. Attend to the general health, by cleansing the stomach and bowels, and then giving tonics. Saturnine Cerate. Powdered acetate of lead, a drachms ; white wax, a ozs. ; olive oil, half a pint. Melt the wax in the oil, and add gradually the acetate of lead, separately rubbed down with a portion of the oil reserved for that purpose. ULCER. — Dry and powder a walnut leaf, and strew it on, and lay another walnut leaf on that.—Or, boil walnut-tree leaves in water with a little sugar. Apply a cloth dipped in this, changing it once in two days. This has done wonders. Or, foment morning and evening with « decoction