TRO 394 TOR wine, some chopped parsley, pepper, salt, pickled mushrooms, and the squeeze of a lemon. Shake well together and stir until tender. TROUT, a-la-Genevoise.— Clean the fish well; put it into the stewpan, adding half champagne and half sherry wine. Season it with pep- per, salt, an onion, a few cloves stuck in it, and a small bunch of parsley and thyme; put in it a crust of French bread ; set it on a quick fire. When done, take the bread out, bruise it, and thicken the sauce; add flour and a little butter, and boil up. Lay the fish on the dish, and pour the sauce over it. Serve it with sliced lemon and fried bread. TROUT, to Broil.—Wash, dry, tie it, to cause it to keep its shape; melt butter, add salt, and cover the trout with it. Broil it gradually in a Dutch oven, or in a common oven. Cut small an anchovy, and chop some capers. Melt some butter with a little flour, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and half a spoonful of vinegar. Pour it over the trout, an d serve it hot. TROUT, to Fry. — Do them the same as Graylings. See page 302. TROUT, to Pot.—Take from six to eight trout, from a quarter to half a pound in weight each. Gut, scale, and wipe them dry in a clean cloth. Then dispose of them in a shallow dish, about two and a half inches in depth, contain- ing a very small portion of water at the bottom, enough to supply a sufficiency of steam to pass through them. Add to them a supply of ground mace, ground black pepper, salt, and two or three bay-leaves, covering the dish over with a tin protection, and consign the same to a slow oven, to admit of the fish being steamed through. When the prongs of the fork will pass readily into them, they will be done and may be taken up. When cold, remove the bay- leaves, and let them be well covered with clarified butter. TROUT, Stewed.—Wash two middle-sized trout clean, and wipe them dry, lay them in a stew-pan with half an onion cut in thin slices, a little parsley, two cloves, one blade of mace, two bay leaves, a little thyme, salt and pepper to taste, a pint of stock, and a glass of port wine; simmer gently for thirty minutes, take it out, strain the gravy, thicken with butter and flour, and stir it over a sharp fire for five minutes; pour over the trout and serve. TRUE LOVERS’ KNOTS.— Roll out a piece of puff paste into a thin sheet, cut it into pieces three or four inches square, fold each corner over into the centre, and cut a piece out from each side, leaving it in the form of a true lovers' knot; put them on a tin, and bake them in a moderate oven; when they are done, place some jam or preserve on each point, and some in the centre. TUMOURS, Cure of.—To re- move tumours, Dr. Simpson, of Edin- burgh, introduces a hollow acupuncture kneedle, or very fine trocar, into their tissue, and injects in a few drops of some irritant liquid, such as a solution of chloride of zinc, perchloride of iron, or creosote. The effect has been to destroy the vitality of the tumours so treated, and they have been separated. We have seen a similar plan adopted in Paris by M. Maisonneuve. He had slender stylets, made of a paste com- posed of flour, water, and chloride of zinc. These are baked. A puncture is made in the tumour, the caustic stylet is inserted, broken off, and left We saw several malignant tumours treated in this manner, and some cases in which a healthy granulating surface was left, after the separation of tumours which had been destroyed in this man- ner. TURBOT, Fillets of.—After having skinned and boned the fish, divide into square pieces the remains of cold turbot and lobster sauce; brush them over with egg, sprinkle with bread crumbs mixed with a little minced parsley and seasoning. Lay the fillets in a baking-dish, with sufficient butter to baste with. Bake for % hour, and moisten them well with the butter. Put a little lemon juice and grated nut- meg to the cold lobster sauce ; make it hot, and pour over the fish, which must be well drained from the butter. Gar- nish with parsley and cut lemon. TURBOT, to Boil.—Set the fish in cold water sufficient to cover it completely, throw a handful of salt and a glass of vinegar into it, and let it gradually boil: be very careful that