PIK P1JL 30b PIKELETS, or CRUMPETS. —See Crumpets, page 149.—Take 3 lbs. of flour, two eggs, and a pint of milk; whisk the milk and the eggs well to- gether ; then add the flour, a little salt, and two table-spoonfuls of new bran; stir them well together, and let them rise; when the bakestone is hot, pour the batter upon it, either in hoops made on purpose or without; when ready to turn they will appear full of holes on the top side; turn them, and bake them a fine brown. PILES.—An enlargement of the veins at the lower termination of the intestines, frequently causing great pain, bleeding, and difficult evacuation. The tumours are seated sometimes external- ly, and sometimes within the verge of the anus, for the most part attended with a discharge of blood; these are called bleeding piles. When no blood is discharged, they are termed blind piles; and, when the discharge is only serum, white piles. It is most frequently caused by cos- tiveness, by pregnancy, and a sedentary life, by strong purgatives, and by dram- drinking. The piles are sometimes the effect of relaxation and debility, and not unfrequently result from an inflamma- tory action in the rectum, and a dimin- ished secretion of mucus from its inner membrane. Treatment. — When piles are caused by constipation, and a debilitated state of thf bowels, it is needful to open them, and keep them so by gentle aperients. Medicines which act moder- ately upon the bowels, are calculated to remove that morbid state of the liver and stomach which often causes the complaint. The patient may take sul- phur, cream of tartar, confection of senna, and the lenitive electuary; but all strong purgatives must be avoided. Mix sulphur, j4 02.; confection of senna, 2 02s. ; saltpetre, 3 drachms; and as much syrup of orange as will give the mixture a proper consistence. About the size of a nutmeg must be taken twice or thrice a day. It is very sootning and healing to steam the parts with a sitz bath made of a strong decoc- tion of bitter herbs ; as hops, catnep, tansy, pennyroyal, and camomile flowers. Pour upon them boiling water and vine- — ! gar. Infuse some time ; boil again, and j let the steam approach the parts. A cold water cloth has been found of great service. Dip a cloth into cold water ; let the cloth be four-fold ; apply it close, and press it to with a dry cloth : as it warms, re-dip into cold water : do this several times ; then convey into the anus some pure tallow or lard, or the Pile Ointment, described at the end of this article. A Slippery Elm Poultice, made with milk and water to a proper consistence, may also be applied, The slippery elm is both cooling and healing. Ten drops of laudanum may be added to the poultice. When there is great constipation, an Emolient Injection is indicated. Take \ pint of water, half a dessert-spoonful of salt, and an ounce of castor-oiL Retain it as long as possible. The following In- jection is recommended by Dr. Sim, mons:—Witch hazel leaves, % oz.; cranesbill, J4 oz. ; meadow fern burrs, 1 oz. ; slippery elm, 2 drachms; mix the powders well together, and pour upon them 1% pint of boiling water. Infuse for 4 hours, and strain it. In the morning use a pint for an injection, and at night not quite so much, and retain it, if possible, all night. Repeat as often as necessary. The marsh- mallow ointment is also very useful.— For blind piles the tincture of lobelia is very good; so also is brandy, a little diluted, applied frequently. It is a good plan to cleanse the anus night and morning with soft soap and water ; then using tallow or the pilewort ointment, or any of the ointments for the piles. It is good to wash the anus after every evacuation. Generally speak- ing, the application of cold water is more effectual than warm water for fomenting, &c. ; but this must be decided by the patient, as warm water in some states of the piles is very soothing. To effect a cure, the bowels must be kept regularly open ; take Epsom salts, % oz; infusion of senna, 6 drachms; tincture of senna, 3 drachms ; decoction of bark, 1 oz. ; spearmint water, 1 oz.; water, 4 ozs.; best manna, 3 drachms. Mix, and take from three to six table- spoonfuls every morning, or every other day. The diet should be chiefly vege- table till the disease is gone. Or, take