boll and stir til) dons; beat the yolks of 3 eggs, a little nutmeg, with 4 spoon- fuls of milk ; add this to the wheat; Stir over the fire a little ; then sweeten. FUEL, Cheap.—One bushel of small coal or saw-dust, or both mixed together, 2 bushels of sand, 1 % bushels of clay, made into balls, or bricks, and allowed to set firmly, will supply an excellent fuel, and effect a great saving in coals. FUEL, to Save.—Take 4 lbs. of chalk in lumps, not above % lb. each. Make a clear fire of coal, and place the lumps of chalk in the grate, as coal is laid. The chalk becomes red hot, so as to be scarcely distinguish- able from burning cinders. A few ashes or small coal tnrown lightly on from time to time, will keep up a clear bright fire all day. The same chalk may be used 3 or 4 days, when it becomes lime, and manure for gardens or allotments, or for whitewashing. Half-a-peck of coal used thus with chalk, will give a capital fire for 14 hours. The saving in coal is 1%. In grates the chalk should be kept behind, and coals in front; because chalk will not bum un- less in has coal or heat on all sides of it. FULMINATING SILVER. —Put into a small-necked bottle, rest- ing on a little sand, one part of fine silver filings and 3 parts of nitro-muria- tic-acid. When the silver is dissolved, pour the solution into a glass, add 5 times the quantity of water, then take spirit of sal-ammoniac, and pour it into the solution drop by drop, until the silver is precipitated to the bottom ; decant the clear liquor, and wash it several times in warm waters, dry and place it on paper, to absorb the mois- ture. If a grain of this powder is put into an iron spoon, and exposed to the flame of a candle, it will explode with a loud report. The crackers are made with this powder, a small quantity be- ing placed in a bit of paper with a pea and a bit of sand twisted up. FUNERAL BISCUITS.— Take 8 eggs, 3 lbs. of flour, and 3 lbs. of lump sugar grated, which will make 48 finger biscuits for a funeral. FUNERAL BUNS.-Take 2 stones of flour, 1 lb. of butter, and 1 lb. of sugar, rubbed together, 3 lbs. of cur- rants, ginger, seeds, cinnamon, and a little rose-water mixed up with milk. The above will make 48 cakes, at three- pence per cake, each weighing 1 lb. be- fore they are baked. Make them round, and bake them a fine brown. They will take 1 pint of yeast. FURNITURE CREAM.— Linseed oil, 1 pint; spirits of wine, 3 ozs.; vinegar, 1 oz.; butter of antimony XA oz. FURNITURE POLISH.— The cheapest is a mixture of linseed oil and turpentine, laid on in a thin coat, rubbed off with a soft cloth and pol- ished. Furniture in constant use is greatly improved by washing with vinegar and water, and afterwards applying cold drawn linseed oil, rubbing it very much. It should be rubbed again in a day or two afterwards. Or, linseed oil, 1 pint; spirits of wine, % gill. Mix well. Apply with a linen rag. Rub dry with a soft cotton cloth. Rub last and hard with a piece of old silk. In time it will have a most beauti- ful gloss. Or, Linseed oil, bees wax scraped into, and gradually dissolved in turpentine, to the thickness of cream. Apply as above and rub well. Or, 1 pint of linseed oil, 1 oz. of finely powdered rose pink, 1 oz. of shellac; beat well 1 oz. of alkanet root, and add it to the other. Keep the vessel in a warm place for a week, stirring now and then. This is excellent for darkening new wood, and removing marks, &c. Apply, and rub as before. Chamois leather is the best to rub with. FURNITURE POLISH.— Spirits of wine, 1 pint; gum shellac, and gum lac, of each an oz. ; gum sandarac, oz. Melt with very gentle heat, frequently shaking the bottle. Double or treble a piece of cloth ; put a little polish upon it; cover that with a piece of soft linen rag lightly touched with cold-drawn linseed oil. Rub the furniture or wood in a circular direction. Afterwards; nib in the same way spirits of wine, with a little of the polish added to it; and a very brilliant polish will be produced. Some furniture requires pre- vious scraping with fine glass paper, on