16 ALM AMA of butter rub it through with the back of a spoon; put to it six yolks, and three whites of eggs, and a few bitter almonds, pounded with as much sugar | as will make the curd property sweet: •nix with it the rind of a lemon grated, and a glass of brandy. Put a puff paste into the pans, and ten minutes will bake them. ALMOND CUSTARD.— Blanch and beat four ounces of almonds fine with a spoonful of water ; beat a pint of cream with two spoonfuls of water, and put them to the yolks of four eggs, and as much sugar as will make it pretty sweet; then add the almonds; stir over a slow fire till of a proper thick- ness ; but don’t boil. Pour into cups. ALMOND ICEING for Bride- cake and other Cakes.— Beat the whites of three eggs to a strong froth ; beat x lb. of Jordan almonds very fine with rose-water; mix them with the eggs lightly together, x lb. of common loaf sugar beat very fine, and put in by degrees. When your cake is enough take it out, and lay your iceing on, then put it in to brown. ALMOND PUDDING, Small. —Pound eight ounces of almonds, and a few bitter, with a spoonful of water; mixed with four ounces of butter warm- ed, four yolks and two whites of eggs, sugar to taste, two spoonfuls of cream, and one of brandy ; mix well, and bake in little cups buttered. Serve with pudding-sauce. ALMOND PUDDING, Baked. —Beat fine four ounces of almonds, four bitter, a little wine, yolks of six eggs, peel of two lemons grated, six ounces of butter, a quart of cream, and juice of a lemon. Mix well; bake half an hour ; with paste round the dish. ALMOND PUDDING. —Beat half a pound of sweet and a few bitter almonds with a spoonful of water ; then mix four ounces of butter, four eggs, two spoonfuls of cream, warm with the butter, one of brandy, a little nutmeg, and sugar to taste. Butter some cups, half-fill, and bake. Serve with nutter, wine, and sugar. ALOES, Compound Decoc- tion of. — Extract of valerian, two drachms ; extract of Liquorice, half an ounce ; extract of Soccotrine aloes, pow- dered myrrh, powdered saffron, of each two drachms ; subcarbonate of potash, two scruples; aniseed, quarter of an ounce bruised ; water, a pint and a half. Boil 20 minutes ; add four ounces of compound tincture of cardamoms. This decoction cures constipation, jaundice, mental depression, bilious and nervous affections, female irregularities, <.Vc.— Dose from half an ounce every other morning. A LT E R A TIV E S.—Medicines- adapted to cure a disease without pro- ducing any very sensible effeci on the human system. ALTERATIVE PILLS.— Lobelia Seeds, 2 drachms ; Mandrake, 2 drachms; Blue Flag, 2 drachms; Blood Roct, 2 drachms ; Cayenne Pep- per, 1 drachm ; Gum Guiacum, two drachms ; Extract of Dandelion, 6 drachms ; Oil of Peppermint, 3 or 4 drops ; Simple Syrup to form into Fills. —Dose, two pills twice or thrice a day. These pills are cf great service in bilious and liver complaints, diseased joints, boils, carbuncles, cutaneous eruptions, scrofula, syphiUis, &c. ALTERATIVE SYRUP.— Tincture of cayenne, & oz. ; tincture of lobelia, and tincture of myrrh, of each, 2 ozs. ; treacle, % lb. Mix. A tea- spoonful two or three times a day. ^jpNoted for its effectual cure of cut- aneous sores; boils, indigestion, and some chronic complaints. ALUM-ROOT. — An American plant, a great remedy in sores, wounds, ulcers, and cancers. It is a powerful styptic in all bleedings; and a great vulnerary, or healer of wounds, sores, cuts, &c. The root is powdered, and applied to bleedings. Made into an ointment with lard, it cures Piles. ALUM, to discover in bread. —Heat a knife, and thrust it into a loaf or cake; if alum be present, it will partially coat the knife. AMAUROSIS.—A total or par- tial loss of sight, caused by paralysis oi the opric nerve or retina. It first mani- fests itself by specks floating before the vision, which increase till they become like a cloud ; then dilation of the pupil and insensibility to light. It is difficult to cure. Tbe diet must be low, and alcoholic drinks must be avoided. Tha