39 BAL BAK balls at the front of the tabie, he then places the red ball on the “spot," then be takes his cue and strikes the white ball with it so that it again strikes the red ball, forcing it either into one of the pockets at the side or otherwise into one of the highest numbered holes. The red bail counts double either in pocket or hole. Should he miss the red ball then he forfeits his white one. Should a ball rebound so far as to cross the marked line on the table the ball is forfeited. The object of the player should be to try to get the hignest number. If the red ball has been Doled at starting the play, the player mus. aim at the highest numbered holes on trie board. BAKING POWDER.—Take 6 oz. carbonate of soda, 4 oz. tartaric acid, 2 oz. sugar (very finely sifted,) 1 oz. salt. Mix well together, and after the flour has been made into dough (with water for bread, or milk for rolls,) add one teaspoonful of the powder to every pound of flour, and knead it well. By this powder hot rolls may be had to breakfast every morning, as its action is so rapid. Keep the powder in a well corked-bottle. BALDNESS. — The cause of baldness is defect in the hair follicles, from which the hair is developed. Sometimes it is the result of disease; and it is frequently hereditary. Those who perspire much about the head are generally bald. If the hair falls off after fever, shaving a few times will tend to promote the growth. Keeping the head closely wrapped prevents the growth of hair. A drachm of the Tinc- ture of Cantharides mixed with an ounce of lard, is a good application. An infusion of the Asarum Europeum Asarabacca, (see Robinson's Herbal) may be used as a lotion for the scalp. Rub the bald part frequently with the juice of an onion till it looks red.—Or, water, 1 pint; pearlash, half an ounce ; onion juice, 1 gill; rum, half a gill; oil of rosemary, 20 drops. Rub the head hard with a rough linen towel dipped in the mixture.—Or, take 4 ounces of castor oil, 8 ounces best rum, 30 drops oil of lavender, apply occasionally to the head, shaking the bottle well.—Or, beef marrow, well washed, melted, and strained, half a pound; tincture of cantharides, one ounce; oil of berga- mot, 12 drops.—Wash the head fre- quently with warm water and Windsor soap ; or with a decoction of rosemary and southernwood. BALDNESS. — Rub the part morning and evening with onions, till it is red, and afterwards with honey.— Or wash it with a decoction of box- wood.—Or electrify it daily.— Wesley. BALDNESS.—Infuse for a few days, 1 drachm of powdered canthar- ides in 1 ounce of proof spirit; beef marrow, half pound, soak in several waters, lastly in weak salt and water: melt, strain, and mix, adding 10 or 12 drops of oil of bergamot, or lavender. BALM.—It is diaphoretic. It makes an excellent drink in colds, fevers, and influenza. See Robinson's Herbal. BALM TEA.—Balm leaves, 1 ounce, fine sugar, 1 spoonful, lemon juice, 1 ounce, infused in a pint of boil- ing water, for twenty minutes. This forms a useful drink in colds, or fevers. (See Robinson’s Herbal, under Balm.) Or it may be made just like common tea, without the lemon. Let the patient drink it frequently, especially the last thing at night, and keep himself warm during the perspiration. BALM WINE.—Take 40 lbs. of sugar, and 9 gallons of water, tjoil it gently two hours, skim it well, and put it into a tub to cool. Take 2% lbs. of the tops of balm, bruised, and put them into a barrel with a little new yeast; and when the liquor is cold, pour it on the balm. Stir it well together, and let it stand twenty-four hours, stirring it often. Then close it up, and let it stand six weeks. Rack it off, and put a lump of sugar into each bottle. Cork well; it will be better the second year than the first. BALM OF GILEAD, Decoc- tion of, and Tincture of.—These form excellent remedies for coughs, asthma, wheezing, &c. Populous bal- somefera, or balsoiu poplar, belongs to America; but it may be obtained by applying to the Medical Botanists. For the decoction, simmer t ounce of the buds in a quart of soft water, down to half a pint. Take a wine glassful or more, when the cough is troublesome.