RAB RAJA 329 head ; skewer them straight; close the ends, to keep the forcemeat in ; skewer the ears back, and tie them in separate cloths, and boil half an hour. Have ready a white sauce, made of veal gravy, a little anchovy, the juice of half a iemon; take a Jf lb. of butter, rolled in Eour, so as to make the sauce pretty thick ; stir while the flour is dissolving ; beat the yolk of an egg; add some thick cream, nutmeg, and salt; mix it with the gravy, and simmer it a little over the fire ; but do not boil. Pour over the rabbits. RABBITS, to Pot.—Cnt np two or throe young, but full grown ones, and take the. leg bones off at the thigh ; pack them as closely as possible in a small pan, after seasoning them with pepper, mace, cayenne, salt, and all- spice, all in very fine powder. Make the top as smooth as you can. Keep out the heads and the carcases, but take off the meat about the neck. Put a good deal of butter, and bake the whole gently. Keep it two days in the pan, then shift it into small pots, adding butter. The livers also should be added, as they eat weiL RABBITS, to Roast. — Baste them with butter, and dredge them with flour; half an hour will do them at a brisk fire ; and if small, twenty minutes. Take the liver with a bunch of parsley, boil them, and chop them very fine to- gether; melt some butter, and put half the liver and parsley into the butter; pour it into the dish, and garnish the dish with the other half; roast them of a fine light brown, RABBIT, to Taste like a Hare. Choose one that ia young, but full grown ; hang It in the skin three or four days ; then skin it, and lay it, without washing, in a seasoning of black pepper and allspice in a very fine powder, a glass of port wine, and the same quan- tity of vinegar. Baste it occasionally for ■,o hours, then stuff it and roast it as a hare, arid with the same sauce. Do not wash off the liquor that it « soaked in. RABBITS, Various Modes ofi Dressing.—Roasted with stuffing and gravy, like hare; or without stuf- fing ; with sauce of the liver and parsley chopped in melted butter, pepper, and salt; or larded. Boiled, and smothered with onion sauce; the butter to be melted with milk instead of water. Fried in joints, with dried or fried parsley. The same liver-sauce, this way also. Fricasseed, as before directed for chickens. In a pie, as chicken, with forcemeat, &c. In this way they are excellent when young. RABBIT, Victoria. Toast bread nicely on both sides, and butter. Have ready the following; nice ham, Cheshire cheese, and half boiled eggs, very finely chopped and intimately mixed together, with a little pepper and mustard; put into a Dutch oven, and place before the fire; spread it on the toast. It is delicious. Onions, if you like, may be substituted for the eggs. RABBIT PIE.—Cut up two young rabbits; season with pepper, salt, a little mace, and nutmeg, all finely powdered, and a little cayenne; put the rabbits, slices of ham, or of bacon, forcemeat balls, and hard eggs, by turns in layers ; if it is to be baked in a dish, put a little water, but none, if in a raised crust. By the time it returns from the oven, have ready a gravy of knuckle of veal, or a bit of the scrag, with some shank bones of mutton, seasoned with herbs, onions, mace, and white pepper; if it is to be eaten hot, mushrooms, &c. may be added; but not, if to be eaten cold. If it be made in a dish, put as much gravy as will fill it; but in raised crust, the gravy must be nicely strained, and then put in as cold as jelly. To make jelly clear, give it a boil with the whites of two eggs, after taking away the meat, and run it through a sieve. RABBIT SKINS, to Cure.— Lay the skin on a smooth board, the fur side undermost, and fasten it down with tinned tacks. Wash, it over first with a solution of salt; then dissolve aJ4 02s. of alum in a pint of warm