307 PIL PIL a gentle aperient also every other night, and on the alternate night, the Tonic Pill, which see. Wien the constitution has become habituated to the disease, stimulants, as pepper and ginger, taken with the ali- ment often afford considerable relief.— Elecampane root, 2 ozs.; sweet fennel seed powder, 3 ozs. ; black pepper powder, 1 or.; milk of sulphur, 1 oz. ; purified honey, 2 ozs.; brown sugar, and treacle, of each 1 % oz. Mix the first four ingredients; melt the honey, sugar, and treacle, and then mix all together. About the size of a nutmeg to be taken two or three times a day.— The decoction of oak bark is said to be a good remedy for piles. “Aloes,’’ says Dr. Buchan, “which form a principal part of the advertised pills, are frequently the cause of piles. Therefore persons subject to them should avoid all aloetic purges. An habitual costiveness is much more effectually and safely removed by a spoonful of castor oil taken occasionally in an evening.’’— A weak solution of sugar of lead with a little laudanum is useful when the piles are very painful.—Powdered galls and hog’s lard form a good ointment. —Henbane leaves powdered and mixed with slippery elm and sweet oil, and six drops of laudanum, form a good appli- cation.—The pain is often removed by an emetic, or by taking twice a day 20 or 30 drops of balsam of capivi on loaf sugar, or in a little peppermint water.— The vapour of boiling water over leeks is useful. ’ PILES.—See Lenitive Electuary, page 238. PILES, Bleeding.—Lightly boil the juice of nettles with a little sugar ; take 2 ozs. It seldom needs repeating. PILES, to Cure.—Apply wann treacle. Or, a tobacco-leaf steeped in water twenty-four hours. Or, a poultice of boiled brook-lime. It seldom fails. Or, a bruised onion, skinned, or roasted in ashes. It perfectly cures the dry piles. Or, fumigate with vinegar, wherein red hot flints have been quenched. This softens even schirrous tumours. PILES, Inward.— Swallow a pill of pitch, fasting. One pill usually cures the bleeding piles. Or, cat a large leek, boiled. Or, take twice a- day, as much as lies on a shilling, of the thin skin of walnuts, powdered. PILES, Ointment for.—Take of emolient ointment, 2 ozs. ; liquid laudanum, % an oz. Mix these ingre- dients with the yolk of an egg, and work them well together. PILEWORT OINTMENT, Improved. — The plant Pilewort, (ranunculus jicaria,) flowers in March and April. It should be gathered when in bloom, chopped extremely fine, after the roots and plant have been well washed. Boil in lard, without burning, two hours, stirring all the time. Strain while hot. Add 1 drachm of bella- donna, 1 drachm each of opium and camphor, powdered. Mix, and make an ointment. PILLAU, Egyptian.—Put a large fowl into a pad with chopped ham, % lb. of sausage meat, chopped onion, J-f lb. of butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few dried mushrooms, chopped fine, pepper, and salt. Stew the fowl gently until tender, adding a little water now and then to prevent it becoming dry. Pick all the meat from the bones, and cut it into small pieces, removing the skin. Boil dryly 1 lb. of rice; mix it well with the fowl and gravy, and season it to taste. Place it at the side of the fire, or in a slow oven, half an hour before it is served that it may be properly dried. Turkey instead of fowl makes a richer dish. PILLS, Antibilious.—Take of compound extract of colocynth, two scruples ; extract of jalap, one scruple; calomel, one scruple ; extract of scam- mony, one scruple ; oil of cloves, ten drops. Mix and make into twenty pills. One or two is sufficient for a dose. PILLS, Aperient.—Take four drachms of Castile soap, and the same/ quantity of soccotrine aloes, make it into pills with a sufficient quantity of syrup. Two or three may be taken when costive. PILLS, Aperient.—Take four drachms of the extract of jalap, the same quantity of vitriolated tartar, and form it into pills with syrup of ginger; five of these pills is sufficient for a purge, but, to keep the body gently