BEA BAT 43 several times the feet will feel like velvet. If the person is troubled with corns it will take them away by regular- ly bathing the feet. BATH PIPE.—Take powdered white sugar, 16 parts; Italian juice, dissolved in a little water, a parts; powdered gum Arabic, i part. Make them into a stiff mass with warm water, and roll it into the usual form. BATTER PUDDING.—Rub three spoonfuls of fine flour extremely smooth by degrees into a pint of milk : simmer till it thickens; stir in two ounces of butter : set it to cool; then add the yolks of three eggs; flour a cloth that has been wet, or butter a basin, and put the batteglnto it; tie it tight, and plunge it into ooiling water, the bottom upwards. Boil it an hour and a half, and serve with plain butter. If approved, a little ginger, nutmeg, and lemon-peel may be added. Serve with sweet sauce. BATTER PUDDING WITH MEAT.—Make a batter with flour, milk and eggs ; pour a little into the bottom of a pudding dish ; then put seasoned meat of any kind into it, and a little shred onion : pour the remain- der of the batter over it; bake in a slow oven. BATTER, to be used with all sorts of roasting meat. — Melt good butter ; put to it three eggs, with the whites well beat up, and warm them together, stirring them continually. With this you may baste any roasting meat, and then sprinkle bread crumbs thereon ; and so continue to make a crust as thick as you please. BATTER, for frying Fruit, Vegetables, &c.—Cut four ounces of fresh butter into small pieces, pour on it half a pint of barley water, and when dissolved, add a pint of cold water ; mix by degrees with a pound of fine dry flour, and a small pinch of salt. Just before it is used, stir into it the whites of two eggs beaten to a solid froth ; use quickly, that the batter may be light. BAY-BERRY.—The American kind of this plant is the best. It is very astringent and stimulant, and is judged to be the most valuable and astringent medicine ever discovered. As a stimu- kint it is very powerful, and preferred by some to cayenne, and other stimulants. It removes canker, or morbific matter from the mucous membranes of the sto- mach and bowels. It is a wonderful cleanser. In cold phlegmatic systems, it generates heat, and it is sometimes combined with cayenne in all cases of •cold clamminess, where there is much morbific matter in the system ; in such cases it may be given strong and fre- quently. Being an alterative it is a good remedy for bowel complaints, and effects a radical change in the secre- tions. The bark is the strongest. The powdered leaves, or the bark of the root make an excellent poultice for ulcers, cancerous and scrofulous sores, &c. BAY LEAVES—Are used for flavouring soups, gravies, pickles, &c. They should be dried, then pounded and put into a glass-stoppered bottle ready for use. BEANS, to dress.—Boil tender, with a bunch of parsley, chopped to serve with them. Bacon or pickled pork must be served to eat with, but not boiled with them. BEANS AND BACON, to dress.—When you dress beans and bacon, boil the bacon by itself, and the beans by themselves, for the bacon will spoil the colour of the beans. Always throw some salt into the water, and some parsley nicely picked. When the beans are done enough, which you will know by their being tender, throw them into a colander to drain. Take up the bacon and skin it; throw some raspings of the bread over the top, and if you have a salamander, make it red hot, and hold it over it, to brown the top of the bacon; if you have not one, set it before the fire to brown. Lay the beans in the dish, and the bacon in the middle, on the top, and send them to the table, with butter in a tureen. BEANS, Ragout of.—Boil your beans, so that the skins will slip off, take about a quart, season them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; then flour them, and have ready some butter in a stew- pan, throw in some beans ; fry them of a fine brown, then drain them from the fat, and lay them in your dish ; have ready a quarter of a pound of butter melted, and half a pint of the blanched