LUN MAC 244 It generally begins with cold shiver- Ings, followed by hot fever, dull pains in the chest or side, cough, and very labori- ous breathing, the pulse is fiill and quick, the bowels are often constipated, the urine deficient, the skin dry and burning, the expectoration scanty, but is gradually increasing, and sometimes it contains blood. It is a very danger- ous disease; may proceed with such violence as to cause an effusion of blood or lymph into the texture of the lungs, as to cause suffocation. Treatment.—Avoid bleeding by the lancet. Dr. Beach says, "All the blood in the body must pass through the lungs, after reaching the heart, be- fore it can be again circulated; but in this disease, they are unable to perform this double duty from the great amount which has been distributed to them. As these organs have become unduly load- ed ; impeding respiration, &c., the ob- vious indication is—instead of abstract- ing, or rather attempting it—to return it to its original channels, and thus re- move the burden under which they la- bour. Bleeding will not affect this, but, on the contrary, it will so weaken or paralyze the heart, which is labouring to accomplish this object, that prostration, and often death, are the consequences." Give sudorific medicines to produce free and copious perspiration ; and for this purpose give a vapour bath, using an infusion of bitter herbs, as hops, camomile flowers, pennyroyal, tansy, catnep ; add vinegar; cover, and infuse a or 3 hours. It should be repeated. If the patient cannot bear the fatigue of the bath, place hot bricks, or bottles, to the sides and feet. Give also Sudorific Powders, which see, until the breathing is relieved and free perspiration induced. As soon as the patient is relieved, the bowels must be regulated by giving a gentle purge, and also an emetic, repeat u necessary ; continue the sudorific powders ; as these means are calculated to unload the chest, and return the blood to its former state. Injections, where the foeces are hard, and the bowels lethargic, are of great importance, and should be given occasionally. If the cough is troublesome, give some of the Cough Remedies, or the Expectorant Syrup, or Cough Pills. The inhalation of the steam of bitter herbs while infus- ing in boiling water serves to decrease the tightness of the lungs, and to pro- mote expectoration. This should be repeated several times a day. Should there be much irritation, or spasmodic affection, use the Pulmonary Syrup. Bathe the feet occasionally in warm water. Mucilaginous drinks should be taken, as linseed, with a little lemon juice. An infusion of horehound, boneset, catnep, with slippery elm, sweetened with the finest sugar, or sugar-candy, is a very proper drink. Great attention'must be paid to diet; it should be simple and easy of digestion; as arrow-root, sago, beef-tea, without or with a little salt. When the inflamma- tion is subdued, and the tongue is clean, give tonics, or the Composition Powder. M MACARONI, Dressed Sweet. —Boil 2 ozs. in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon peel, and a good bit of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to their utmost size without breaking. Lay them on a custard-dish, and pour a custard over them hot. Serve cold. MACARONI, as Usually Served.—Boil it in milk, or a weak veal broth, flavoured with salt. When tender, put it into a dish without the liquor, with bits of butter and grated cheese, and over the top grate more, and a little more butter. Put the dish into a Dutch oven a quarter of an hour, and do not let the top become hard. MACARONI. — Wash it well, and simmer in half milk, and half broth of veal or mutton, till it is tender. To a spoonful of this liquor, put the yolk of an egg beaten in a spoonful of cream; just make it hot to thicken, but not boil: put it over the macaroni, and then grate fine old cheese all over, and bits of butter. Brown. Macaroni.—Wash the macaroni, then simmer it in a little broth, with a little pounded mace and salt. When quite tender, take it out of the liquor, lay it in a dish, grate a good deal of cheese over, then cover that with bread grated fine. Warm some butter with- out oiling, and pour it from a boat through a little earthen colander over the crumbs; put the dish in a Dutch oven, to roost the cheese, and brown