PAX. PAL 2 go In some cases, by the disordered state of the stomach and bowels, by alcoholic drinks, by excessive venery, by Extreme grief, and disappointments preying upon the spirits, all tending to weaken the nervous system. It is sometimes a symptom of other diseases, as indiges- tion, hysteria. The beating is frequent- ly so violent as to be heard at a con- siderable distance, and sometimes the effects of the increased action of the heart may be seen on the outside of the clothes. The pulse at the same time is very irregular, and often intermittent. Palpitation of the heart is not to be neglected, as it may lead to serious consequences. The treatment of this disease is much similar to that for indigestion. The treatment must depend on the state of the body; for palpitation may be the effect of increased vitality, or fulness, or of debility and relaxation, &c. If the system be in a plethoric state, (fulness) aperients and a spare diet must be en- joined. Avoid all stimulants. In case of general debility, 20 drops of aether, with a tea-spoonful of tincture of castor, in a wine-glassful of the infusion of valerian, two or three times a day. When it arises from disease of the heart, or of the large vessels, then avoid ple- thora, much bodily exertion, full meals, and excesses of every kind. The fol- lowing mixture is valuable:— Tincture of henbane, 2 ozs.; tincture of foxglove, 3 drachms ; sweet spirit of nitre, 34 oz.; mix. A tea-spoonful and half to be taken two or three times a day in a glass of water. If the action of the heart is very violent, apply a mustard plaster to the left side, or strong hop and popfy head fomentations. Two grains of hemlock powder may also be taken every seven or eight hours. After the cessation of palpitation, take tonics, sponge the breast with tepid or cold water, and ' take gentle exercise in the open air. PALPITATION OF THE HEART Cured by Soda-Water. —A lady, about forty years of age, had suffered twelve years from periodical attacks of palpitation of the heart, so violent as to shake the bed on which the patient lay. During one attack, feeling thirsty, she expressed a desire for some aoda-wftter. No xoonw hud she swal- lowed the first draught than her palpita- tion left her, and recurred no more until the period of the next attack. As soon as it commenced, she sent for her medi- cal attendant, and told him what had occurred a month previously, and re- quested to be allowed to try the same remedy a second time. He consented, but, wishing to ascertain which of the ingredients of the soda-water had re- lieved the complaint, he gave her a dose of citric add by itself. This had no effect. He then gave her a dose of car- bonate of soda, which also failed. He then mixed the powders, and gave her some ordinary soda-water, placing his hand at the same time upon her heart. The moment she swallowed the first mouthful, the palpitation ceased, and recurred no more for that time. From that period, whenever the palpitation came on, she could always stop it by this simple remedy. It appears, from the experiments made by medical men, that the carbonic acid was the active element in relieving the complaint, be- cause, until the gas was liberated by the mixture of citric acid and the carbonate of soda, no benefit accrued. PALPITATION OF THE HEART. — To 10 drops of the tincture of foxglove, add 10 drs. of camphor mixture, 1 drachm of tincture of columba, and 15 drops of sulphuric ether. Mix, and take a teaspoonful two or three times a day. PALPITATION OF THE HEART.'—Drink a pint of cold water. Or, apply outwardly a rag dipt in vinegar.— Or, be electrified. -Or, take a decoction of mother wort every night. PALSY, or PARALYSIS.— It is a disease of debility, or diminished sensibility of the nerves, sometimes of the whole body. It is indicated by a suspension of motion, frequently of one side, rarely the lower extremities from the loins ; and it is sometimes confined to a muscle or nerve, as of the bladdel and anus, allowing the urine and faeces to pass off involuntarily; sometimes the muscles of the tongue, causing stammering and loss of speech ; some- times of the optic nerves, producing Gntta Serena, or imperfect vision ; and