405 VKA VEA bottom of the pan, and Is brought to a proper colour; then add a sufficient quantity of light broth, and simmer it upon a slow fire till the meat is well done. A little thyme and mushrooms may be added. Skim and sift it clear for use. VEAL HAM, to Make.—Cut a leg of veal like a ham. Mis a pint of bay salt, 3 ozs. of saltpetre, and 1 lb. of common salt, with 1 oz. of cinnamon and juniper berries, and rub the ham with it. Lay it in a hollow tray with its face downwards; baste it every day with the pickle for a fortnight, and hang it in wood smoke for another fortnight. It may be either boiled or roasted. VEAL, Haricot of.—Take the best end of a small neck; cut the bones short, but leave it whole: then put it into a stewpan just covered with brown gravy ; and when it is nearly done, have ready a pint of boiled peas, three cucum- bers pared and sliced, and two cabbage- lettuces cut into quarters, all stewed in a little good broth: put them to the veal, and let them simmer ten minutes. When the veal is in the dish, pour the sauce and vegetables over it, and lay the latter with forcemeat balls round it VEAL, Knuckle of, to Stew.— As few people are fond of boiled veal, it may be well to leave the knuckle small and take off some cutlets or collops be- fore it is dressed; but as the knuckle will keep longer than the fillet, it is best not to cut off slices till wanted. Break the bones, to make it take less room ; wash it well; and put it into a saucepan with three onions, a blade of mace or two, and a few pepper-corns; cover it with water, and simmer till quite ready. In the meantime some macaroni should be boiled with it if approved, or rice, or a little rice-flour, to give it a small degree of thickness; but don't put too much. Before it is served, add half-a-pint of milk and cream, and let it come up either with or without the meat. Or fry the knuckle with sliced onions and butter to a good brown ; and have ready peas, lettuces, onion, and a cu- cumber or two, stewed in a small quan- tity of water an hour ; then add these to the veal; and stew it till the meat is tender enough to eat, but not overdone. Add pepper, salt and a bit of shred taint, and serve altogether. VEAL, Leg of, to Roast.—Let the fillet be cut large or small as best suits the number of your company. Take out the bone, fill the space with a fine stuffing, and let it be skewered quite round; and send the large side uppermost. When half-roasted, if not before, put a paper over the fat; and take care to allow a sufficient time, and put it a good distance from the fire, as the meat is very solid; serve with melted butter poured over it.—You may pot some of it. VEAL, Neck of.—Cut off the scrag to boil, and cover it with onion- sauce. It should be boiled in milk and water. Parsley and butter may be served with it, instead of onion sauce. Or it may be stewed with whole rice, small onions, and pepper-corns, with a very little water. Or boiled and eaten with bacon and greens. The best end may be either roasted, broiled as steaks, or made into pies. VEAL, Neck of a la Braise.— Lard the best end with bacon rolled in parsley chopped fine, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; put it into a tosser, and cover it with water. Put to it the scrag end, a little lean bacon or ham, an onion, two carrots, two heads of celery, and about a glass of Madeira wine. Stew it quick two hours, or till it is tender, but not too much. Strain off the liquor ; mix a little flour and butter in a stew-pan till brown, and lay the veal in this, the upper side to the bottom of the pan. Let it be over the fire till it gets coloured ; then lay it into the dish, stir some of the liquor in and boil up, skim it nicely and squeeze orange or lemon-juice into it. VEAL OLIVES. Cut long thin collops, beat them, lay on them thin slices of fat bacon, and over these a layer of forcemeat seasoned high, with some shred shalot and cayenne. Roll them tight, about the size of two fingers, but not more than two or three inches long; fasten them round with a small skewer, rub egg over them, and fry of a light brown. Serve with brown gravy, in which boil some mushrooms, pickled or fresh. Garnish with balls fried. VEAL PATTIES. Mince some veal that la not quite done with a