42 BAT BAH knife, and it will break into any length desired. BARLEY WATER.—Careful- ly clean two table-spoonfuls of pearl barley, put it into a quart jug, adding a very little salt, and lump sugar to taste. Fill up with boiling water, and keep stirring for ten minutes. Cover, and let cool. It will be fit for use in ten or twelve hours. Finely shred lemon peel, or a little calfs feet jelly, greatly im- proves it. To make Barley-water pectoral, add to the above, sliced figs, bruised liquor- ice root, raisins, stoned ; the quantity of each according to taste; distilled water, 1 pint; boil awhile, and strain. These drinks are useful in fevers, and diseases of the chest. The barley should be well washed, then boiled a few minutes to extract its colouring matter. Then boil in fresh water to a proper consistence. Or, take a tea-spoonful of pearl bar- ley, two ounces of loaf sugar of the ordinary size, half a lemon, and enough isinglass to clear it. Pour half a gallon of spring water on these ingredients, and let it stand till cold. Or. add the juice and rind of one lemon to a table-spoonful of honey, and two teacupfuls of barley. Pour a quart of boiling water upon it. BARONESS’S PUDDING.— Suet, flour, raisins, of each, three quarters of a pound, and a little salt, and cinnamon. This is a real good pudding. BASILICON OINTMENT, Yellow.—Yellow wax, 8 ounces; yellow rosin 8 ounces ; Burgundy pitch, 3 ounces ; Venice turpentine, 4 ounces ; linseed oil, 10 ounces. First melt the rosin, to which add the wax, and the Burgundy pitch. When the whole is melted, remove from the fire, and slowly put in the oil, stirring well till it is cold. For the Black Basilicon, yellow wax, and yellow rosin, 10 ounces; common pitch, 5 ounces. Melt as before, and add 10 ounces of linseed pil when taken from the fire. For the Green Basilicon, yellow wax, and yellow rosin, of each, 3 ounces ; Venice turpentine, 6 ounces; powdered verdigris, I ounce; lard, 6 ounces. Melt first the rosin, as before. These ointments are very efficacious in healing cuts, abscesses, and local affections of any kind. BATH BUNS.—Take 1 lb. of flour, put it in a dish, and make a hole in the middle, and pour in a dessert spoonful of good yeast; pour upon the yeast half a cupful of warm milk, mix in one-third of the flour, and let it rise an hour. When it has risen, put in 6 oz. of cold butter, 4 eggs, and a few carraway seeds ; mix all together with the rest of the flour. Put it in a warm place to rise. Flatten it with the hand on a paste-board. Sift 6 ozs. of loaf sugar, half the size of a pea; sprinkle the particles over the dough ; roll to- gether, to mix the sugar ; let it rise, in a warm place about 20 minutes, Make into buns, and lay on buttered tins ; put sugar and 9 or 10 comfits on the tops, sprinkle them with water; bake in a pretty hot oven. BATH CAKES. — Take six pounds of flour, three quarters of a pound of butter, and three pounds of raw sugar, rub the butter and sugar well into the flour, after crushing the sugar small; take a little volatile salts dissolved in milk, mix the sugar and tniik together, and then put the other things in: roll it thin, and cut it into round cakes with a tin mould, and bake them in a slow oven ; they must not be browned much. Some persons prefer them with a few caraway seeds. BATHING.—See under their descriptive Names, as Cold Bath, Warm Bath, Vapour Bath, &c. BATHING the feet and legs in warm water at night.—Excellent for colds, coughs, hoarseness, pains, headaches, and fevers. It prevents de- termination of blood to the head, ex- cites the. blood downwards, and pro- motes perspiration. Add a little mus- tard to the water. The patient should go to bed immediately. BATHING THE FEET for Walking.—Take a breakfast cup- ful of Sea Salt, make into solution with a little hot water, when dissolved, add 6 or 7 quarts of aired water, bathe the feet in it for 5 minutes ; after which they should be wiped dry, when used