223 JAU ITC drops of garlic vinegar, a squeeze of lemon, and a bit of sugar. ITCH.—It is a skin desease, in- fectious. Sometimes it is caused by poor living, unwholesome food, bad air, unventilated and dirty houses, dirty beds and clothes. The itch begins with small eruptions, on the joints of the fingers, on the wrists, thighs, &c. They cause a most intolerable itching, the scratching of which only spreads the disease. Remedies:—Sweet oil, 1 pound ; suet, 1 lb. Melt and macerate; then add powdered nitre, 3 ozs,; powdered alum, 3 ozs.; powdered sulphate of zinc, 3 ozs.; oil of aniseed, oil of spike, and oil of origanum, to perfume. Or, mi* 2 ozs. of lard with 1 oz. of sul- phur-vivum, and a few drops of essence of lemons. Before going to bed rub this well into the affected parts. In the morning wash with soap and warm water; change the linen and clothes. Repeat the application, if necessary. Take at the same time flour of sulphur and cream of tartar, in milk, beer, or treacle. Frequently take a Warm Bath. The greatest cures have been effected by it. Wash the parts affected with strong rum.—Tried.—Or, anoint them with black soap, but wash it off soon.—Or, steep a shirt half an hour in a quart of water mixed with half an ounce of pow- dered brimstone. Dry it slowly, and wear it five or six days. Sometimes it needs repeating.—Tried.—Or, mix pow- der of white hellebore with cream for three days. Anoint the joints for three mornings and evenings. It seldom fails. —Or, beat together the juice of two or three lemons, with the same quantity of oil of roses.—Anoint the parts affected. It cures in two or three times using. The following is said soon to effect a cure :—Sulphur-vivum, Venice turpen- tine, 1 oz. each ; lard, % oz. Melt the lard and turpentine; add the sulphur. Apply several times a day. Or, wash the body well in warm water, and rub it with the following pre- paration :—Lime, 2 ozs.; sulphur-vivum, 3 ozs. Mix in 1 quart of water. Pour off, and use it when clear. A decoction of white hellebore, with a little lavender water, has been recom- mended. IVORY, to Polish.—Ivory L) polished with putty and water, by means of a rubber' made of hat which in a short time produces a fine gloss. IVORY and BONE, to Stain. —Black ;—Rub over with diluted oil of vitriol; wash, and then steep in nitrate of silver and good ink.—Blue ; steep in a strong solution of extract of indigo and a little potash.—Green; dissolve copper in nitric acid, and steep the ivory in it.—Steep in oxalic tin, and then in a strong decoction of Brazil wood, or lac dye, and alum.—Purple ; nitric acid, a parts; sal ammoniac, 1 part; mix, and steep the ivory in it. J‘ JALAP.—It is the resin of a Mexican plant. It is one of our com- mon and most valuable purgatives; it acts upon the whole alimentary canal, chiefly on the small intestines, increasing the peristaltic action, the secretions, and exhalations ; and it is useful in Bilious and Dropsical Complaints; in low spirits, melancholy, worms, &c. It is given in doses of ten to thirty grains. For worms it is combined with calomel; and for dropsy, with cream of tartar. Mixed with sugar in small doses, it is a safe purge for children. JAPANNER’S COPAL VAR- NISH.—Copal, picked, 5 pounds; linseed oil, 20 ounces. Melt and digest until dissolved, then withdraw it from the fire and add oil of turpentine, 6 pounds. Well mix. JAPANNER’S GOLD SIZE. —Gum ammoniac, 1 pound; boiled oil, 8 ounces ; spirits of turpentine, 13 ounces. Melt the gum, then add the oil, and lastly the spirits of turpentine. JARGONEL PEARS, to Pre- serve.—Pare the fruit very thin, simmer them in a thin syrup. In two days make the syrup richer ; simmer again, and repeat till they are clear ; drain, and dry in the sun, or in a cool oven a very little time. They may be kept in a syrup, and dried as wanted. JAUNDICE.—From the French word, jaune, yellow. This disease is known by the yellow colour of the eyes, skin, and urine. The stools are either white or grey, caused by the absence of bile; and there is often pain in the