BAL 40 BAR. —For the Tincture., Infuse 2 ounces of the buds in a quart of good rum, and 4 ounces of sugar. Digest for four days. Take two or three tea-spoonfuls at a time. It greatly relieves cough, pains in the chest, and other pulmonary affections. BALM ON Y. — An American plant. It is a good tonic, antibilious and stimularit. It is very bitter, and purgative. Hence it may be used in constipation, indigestion, loss of appe- tite, and general debility, with great effect; also in complaints of the liver and ague, and in jaundice. It is a good anthelmentic, soon ridding chil- dren of worms. Make an infusion with one eighth of a pint basin of loose leaves, fill with boiling water and steep, drink the whole in the course of the day, and repeat 3 or 4 days, or until well. If taken in powder from 4 to 8 grains. It is also used as an injection for children troubled with worms. BALSAM FOR COUGHS AND COLDS.—Tincture of tolu, and compound tincture of benzoin, of each, one ounce; rectified spirit, two ounces; syrup of blood-root, a table- spoonful. (See Blood-root Syrup.) Mix. Dose, a teaspoonful. BALSAM, Locatilla’s.—Olive- oil, one pint; oil of turpentine and yel- low wax, of each half a pound ; red saunders, six drachms. Melt the wax with part of the oil over a gentle fire, then add the remainder of the oil of tur- pentine ; afterwards mix in the saunders, reduced to powder, and stir till the balsam is cold. This balsam is recommended in erosions of the intestines, the dysentery, hemorrhages, internal bruises, and in some complaints of the breast. Out- wardly it is used for healing and clean- sing wounds and ulcers. The dose, internally, is two scruples to two drachms. BALSAMIC MIXTURE.-— Balsam of Capiva, 3 ozs. ; oil of juniper, 30 drops; gum arabic, dissolved in water, a sufficient quantity ; a cupful of spring water, and 1 oz. each of proof spirit, and syrup of marshmallows. Mix. Good for urinary affections. BANBURY CAKES. Take 3 lbs. of flour, i lb. of butter nibbed | into the flour, mix it with milk and a little balm; about two ounces for a penny ; roll them round, then put sugar, currants, and a little of the essence of lemons in the middle; make them up long and bake them in a hot oven. BANBURY CAKES. Roll out puff paste about a quarter inch thick, and place Banbury Composition in the middle of the piece cf paste you are to use; fold the other side over it and press it into an oval shape, flatten it with your hand at the top, letting the joining be at the bottom. Rub the top over with white of egg, and dust with powdered sugar. Banbury Composition. — Beat up well a quarter pound of butter, mix with it half a pound of candied orange and lemon cut small, one pound of cur- rants, and quarter ounce each of ground cinnamon, and allspice. Mix all to- gether with eight ounces of sugar. Keep in a jar for use. Bake fifteen minutes. BANDOLINE FOR THE HAIR.—This fixature is best made a little at a time. Pour a tablespoonful of boiling water on a dozen quince seeds ; and repeat when fresh is required. Or a solution of Gum Arabic ; scent- ed with otto of Roses. BANNOCK.—Meal, 2 cupfuls; flour, 2 cupfuls ; a teaspoonful of salt; one of ginger; two table-spoonfuls of treacle; sufficient buttermilk; half a teaspoonful of soda. Bake an hour. BARBERRIES, for Tartlets. —Pick barberries that have no stones, from the stalks, add to every pound weight three quarters of a pound of lump sugar; put the fruit into a stone jar, and either set it on a hot hearth or in a saucepan of water, and let them simmer very slowly till soft; put them and the sugar into a preserving-pan, and boil them gently fifteen minutes.—Use no metal but silver. BARBERRIES, to preserve. —This fruit must first be boiled in water twenty minutes, drained, and then pre- served ,with sugar like other fruit. BARBERRY JAM, to make. —Pick the barberries from the stalks; bake them in an earthen pan; whet) baked, puss them through a sieve with