RHE RHE 337 Syrup is very effectual in the cure of rheumatism. Chronic Rheumatism. This sometimes succeeds the acute. It is not so painful, but it abides longer. The period of acute rheumatism seldom exceeds 40 days ; after which, if the pain continue, it may be pronounced chronic. The joints most surrounded by muscles, and the parts most required for bodily exertion, as the hip and the loins, are commonly the seats of this complaint. When it affects the hip joint, it is called Sciatica, and when situated in the loins, Lumbago. Treatment. — Keep the evacua- tions and secretions regular, as directed under acute rheumatism. Take the Diaphoretic Powder constantly on going to bed. Apply to the body the Rheu- matic Liquid. Take the following :— The sarsaparilla root, sliced and bruised, 6 ozs. ; sassafras, shavings of guiac wood, liquorice root, of each 1 oz. ; mezereon, 3 drachms; distilled water, 10 pints. Macerate for 6 hours ; then boil down to 5 pints ; adding the mezereon and sassafras a few minutes before taking off. Strain for use. A pint nearly should be taken every day. Alkalies are very useful. Take \ oz. of bicarbonate of soda, and put it into a pint of pure water. Dose,—a table- spoonful two or three times a-day. The vapour bath is also very serviceable, after which rub the body well with the Stimulating Liniment. It is a good thing to envelop the joints in carded cotton, covered with oiled silk, or gutta percha sheeting: this acts as a vapour bath, by excluding the air. White mus- tard seed taken inwardly may be tried ; also a decoction of Peruvian bark, sas- safras, and gum guiac. Bitters and mild purgatives render great benefit. Fricdon by the flesh brush, electricity, or galvanism, should be tried. The warm baths of Buxton and Madock are of essential service. The Miscellaneous remedies are invaluable. RHEUMATISM. To those who dwell in damp districts, or damp houses, and are hence subject to rheu- matism, coughs, colds, &c., the free use of Ltmon Juice, (when strained, and where it does not disagree with the stomach) Is a most effectual prevendve as well as a remedy, I have found the regular use of a wine-glassful or two a day so to strengthen a very delicate constitution, liable to cold on the slight- est occasions, that in a short time it defied not only damp, but every inclem- ency, and all exposure. A Correspondent of the Medical Cir- cular vouches for the relief he has ex- perienced uuthe liberal use of lime (fresh lemon) juice, while labouring under the paroxysms of rheumatism. By repeated indulgence in the above simple acid, for the space of three days, avoiding all stimulating liquids, the most confirmed rheumatism will, he says relax, and the tone of the muscular and nervous system will be restored to its usual character. The fact was first established by the circumstance of the Jews being, as a general body, scarcely ever affected with the above disease, and this particular exemption from the mala- dy under consideration, as affecting the disciples of the Hebrew persuasion, was, and has been attributed to the very free indulgence which the above people ex- ercise in their dietary consumption of lemon juice. When lemon juice disagrees, either of the two following formulae may be sub- stituted :—Lemon juice (strained or fil- tered) and treacle, equal parts; pow- dered sugar candy, sufficient; mix inti- mately,—a table-spoonful 3 or 4 times a day. Or, take powdered rhubarb, 2 drs.; acetate of potash, 1 oz.; guaiacum, 1 dr. ; sulphur, 2 ozs. ; 1 nutmeg, grated very fine ; treacle, 1 lb. Mix, and take 2 tea-spoonfuls night and morning. The seat of rheumatism is in the mus- cles—electro-galvanism must be used ; it is generally the best plan to begin with currents of the weakest power, and gradually to increase their strength so long as the application causes no pain. Dumb bells should be used above all, every day ; they should never exceed in weight 1 lb. for ladies, and 4 lbs. for men. Silk is the best non-conductor of cold we have, and it is affirmed that those of the fair sex who wear tight fitting sleeves to their silk dresses are not subject to rheumatism; males should wear thick silk sleeves to all their waist- coats ; they can be easily taken off, and tacked or sewn on to another vest; be- sides the above precautions, flannel m v