PIM 308 PIL open, one may be taken night and morning. PILLS, Useful Aperient. — Take of compound rhubarb pill a drachm and one scruple, of powdered ipecacuanha, six grains, and of extract of hyoscyamus one scruple. Mix and beat into a mass, and divide into twenty-four pills. Take one, two, or if of a very costive habit, three at bed- time. For persons requiring a more powerful purge, the same formula, with ten grains of compound extract of colocynth, will form a good purgative pill. The mass receiving this addition must be divided into 30 instead of 24 pills. PILLS for a Bad Cough.— Compound ipecacuanha powder, half a drachm ; fresh dried squills, ten grains; sulphate of ammoniacum, ten grains; treacle, sufficient quantity to make a mass. Divide into twelve pills ; one to be taken night and morning. PILL, Composing. — Take of purified opium, ten grains; Castile soap, half a drachm. Beat them to- gether, and form the whole into twenty pills. When a quieting draught will not sit on the stomach, one, two, or three of these pills may be taken as occasion requires. PILLS, Female.—Take of aloes, one drachm; calomel, one scruple. Make into twenty pills. One or two is sufficient for a dose. PILL, Foetid.—Assafoetida, half an ounce; simple syrup sufficient to form it into pills. In hysteric com- plaints, three or four pills may be taken twice or thrice a day ; they also keep the body open; a proper quantity of rhubarb, aloes, or jalap, may occasion- ally be added to the above mass. PILLS, for Jaundice.—Take of Castile soap, soccotrine aloes, and rhubarb, of each one drachm. Make them into pills with a sufficient quantity of syrup and mucilage. Three or four may be taken daily ; and now and then a vomit of ipecacuanha. PILL, Purging. — Soccotrine aloes and Castile soap, each a drachms; simple syrup sufficient to make them Into pills. For keeping the body gently open, one may fos taken night and morning. They are deobstraent and stomachic. When aloetic purges are improper, take extract of jalap, and vitriolated tartar, of each 2 drachms; syrup of ginger, sufficient to make them into pills. Take as above. PILLS for Spitting of Blood. —Take of powdered alum five grains; powdered nutmegs, five grains; mix, and divide into two pills. PILLS, Squill.—Take powder of dried squills, a drachm and a half; gum ammoniac and cardamom seeds in powder, of each three drachms ; simple syrup a sufficient quantity. In dropsical and asthmatic com- plaints, two or three of these pills may be taken twice a day, or oftener, if the stomach will bear it. PILLS, Stomachic.—Take ex- tract of gentian, two drachms; powder- ed rhubarb and vitriolated tartar, of each one drachm; oil of mint, thirty drops; simple syrup a sufficient quantity. Three or four of these pills may be taken twice a day for invigorating the stomach, and keeping the body gently open. PILLS, Strengthening.—Take soft extract of bark and salt of steel, each a drachm. Make into pills. In disorders arising from excessive debility or relaxation of the solids, as the chlorosis, or green sickness, two of these pills may be taken three times a day. PILLS, Vegetable Laxative.— Take of extract of jalap, thirty grains ; extract of colocynth, twenty grains; scammony, ten grains ; oil of cloves, ten drops; powdered ginger, twenty grains. Make into 24 pills. Two for a dose. '(■■ PIMPLES. — They generally arise from indigestion, or some internal derangement; therefore the disease should be attacked at the root. Take the following :—tincture of cardamoms, 1 drachm ; ipecacuanha wine, and a teaspoonful of flour of sulphur, with a glass of sherry or ginger wine. Take this on going to bed; repeat it every second or third night, and keep the bowels gently open. It is good to wash the face with warm water. Rub a sponge, over old Windsor