91 CARDS CARDS the person then showing the lowest deals. It Is usual in large companies, instead of cutting, to deal one card to each of the party, and the person getting the lowest is dealer. Dealing is distributing the cards, and is done by giving to each player in succession, from the top of the pack, one, and sometimes three cards at a time, according to the game played, the dealer beginning with the person on his left hand, and going regularly round. The faces of the cards must be down- wards, so that none may see what cards another player gets. Faced Card is a card lying in the pack with its face upwards, so as to be seen in dealing, and in most games ren- ders a fresh deal necessary. Hand. — The portion of cards given to each person by the dealer is called a hand, and the cards of which it consists should be kept from the ob- servation of the other players. Leading hand is the person who leads, or plays the first card ; and the suit to which the card he plays belongs is called the suit led—in that trick. Trick.—Each person having play- ed one card in succession after the lead- ing hand, the cards played in that round are called a trick, which thus consists of as many cards as there are individuals in the party playing. The card which ranks highest in value of those played takes the trick, provided it be of the suit led ; but it must be observed, that the cards rank differently in value in differ- ent games. Trump is the card turned up after all the players have got their portions, and in games where all the cards are dealt out, it belongs to the dealer. All the cards of the suit to which the trump card belongs are called trumps, and the smallest card of that suit ranks higher in value than the best card of any other suit. Suits.—There are four suits in a pack of cards, viz. Spades and Clubs (black), and Hearts and Diamonds, (red,) each consisting of 13 cards, Ace, King, Queen, Knave, ten, nine, and so on down to two. Renouncing is playing a card of a different suit from that led. If a trump card is played, it is called Trump- ing Suit. Penalties are annexed for renouncing or trumping suit, if the player holds a card of the suit led, and it is in this case termed Revoking. ALL FOURS. — A game at Cards, very amusing; it is played by two, and sometimes by four persons, in two partnerships. This game derives its name from the four chances therein, for each of which a point is scored ; namely, "high” (the best trump out) "low” (the smallest,) "Jack” (the knave of trumps,) "Game” (the majority of pips) reckoned for the following cards the respective players have in their tricks, viz— Every ace is counted as four. Every king is counted as three. Every queen is counted as two. Every knave is counted as one. And each ten counts as ten. Low is always scored by the person to whom it was dealt, but Jack, being the property of whoever can win or save it, the holder is permitted to revoke and trump with it, and when turned up as a trump, the dealer scores one. It is also allowable for the player who lays down a high or low trump to inquire at the time whether the same be high or low. After cutting for deal, at which either the highest or lowest card wins as previously fixed, six cards are to be given to each player, either by three, or one at a time; and the thirteenth turned up for trump;—If the card turned up is a knave, the dealer scores one point to his game ; but the knave of trumps in hand does not reckon, un- less you make a trick with it; for if your adversary takes it with the ace, king, or queen, he scores it; then if the eldest does not like his cards, he may for once in a hand, say " I beg when the dealer must either give a point or three more cards to each, and turn up again; but if that should prove of the same suit as the first turnup, then three cards more must be given, and so on until a different siut occurs. Endeavour to make your knave and ten of trumps as soon as you can, as they are reckoned by the person in whose tricks chey are. The cards rank and are played as at whist; and each player should always strive to win their opponents best cards