6 2 BIS BLA paper, and press it down, letting it bulge slightly in the middle. When baked, and, while hot, cut into slices across, about the eighth of an inch in thickness, in the form a rusk, BISCUITS, Spicy. Pound candied lemon in a mortar with some orange-flowers crisped ; add two spoon- fuls of apricot marmalade, four ounces of loaf sugar, and the yolks of four eggs. Mix well, and rub it through a sieve; then add the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth, and put the biscuits, in an oblong form on white paper; sift sugar over, and bake. These biscuits are very rich. The sweetmeat may be varied according to fancy. BISCUITS, Yarmouth.—Take six ounces of well washed and picked currants; dry them well, and rub a little flour among them to make them white; add half a pound of powdered sugar, twelve ounces of sifted flour, and half a pound of the best fresh butter. Break three eggs and mix the whole together until it becomes of the consistence of paste ; then roll and cut into shapes. The oven must be hot, and paper must be used. Bake to a slight brown colour, BITE OF A MAD DOG.— Mr. Hildebrand, Veterinary Surgeon of Germany, says : Bathe the bitten part in hot water. He has ascertained, by experience, that hot water has the effect of decomposing the virus, and if applied in time renders cauterization unneces- sary. In that case, all that is to be done after well bathing the part, as stated, is, to apply the solution of caustic potash to the wound with a brush, and afterwards anoint it with antimony ointment. Apply ice to the Spinal column. This Is effectual. Or, wash well with a strong decoction of tobacco, and then bind wetted tobacco on the wound. Or, take a pound of salt, dissolve in a quart of water. Squeeze, bathe, and wash the wound with this liquid for one or two hours ; then bind some salt upon it for ten or twelve hours. Or, mix powdered liverwort, four drachms; black, pepper, two drachms. Divide this into four parts, and take one in warm milk for four mornings, fasting. Dr. Mead aflirms he never knew this fail. BITTER, an excellent family. —Two ounces of gentian root, half ounce of Virginian snake root, a pint of water, and a pint of brandy. Infuse for three days, strain, and bottle for use. This bitter is excellent for the stomach. BITTER INFUSION.—Take gentian root, cut into pieces, half an ounce; dried Seville orange peel, bruised, one drachm ; coriander seeds, bruised, half a drachm ; spirits of wine, four ounces; water, one pint. First pour on the spirits of wine, and in three hours the water; then macerate for twelve hours, and strain. Take three spoonfuls between meals to promote digestion. BITTER TONIC. — Gentian root, one ounce ; the yellow rind of a fresh lemon : put into a jar or bottle with hot water ; let it stand. A cupful in the morning promotes appetite. BITTERSWEET.—See Rob- inson’s1 Herbal, page 193 ; Nightshade, Woody.—It is a valuable plant, on ac- count of its detergent, tonic, and heal- ing qualities/ Useful in scrofula, skin diseases, bad ulcers, syphilis, &c. BITTERSWEET OINT- MENT.—Bark of bittersweet root, 2 ounces; cover with spirits of wine, and add, unsalted butter, 8 ounces. Simmer and strain. Excellent for swelled breasts, tumours, ulcers, &c. It may be applied twice a day. BLACK BALL FOR LEA- THER.—Beeswax, 2 pounds; tal- low, % pound ; gum arabic, % pound; lamp black, of a pound. Melt the tallow and wax ; then cool a little and stir in the black and gum, previously mixed. BLACKBERRY.—See Robin- son’s Herbal. Of the Blackberry, Dr. Chapman says, ‘‘Of the vegetable as- tringents, I believe that the blackberries are amongst the most efficacious. To check the inordinate evacuations which attend the protracted stages of cholera infantum, no remedy has ever done so much in my practice." BLACKBERRY BRANDY. —To half a gallon of blackberry juice put one pound and a half of lump sugar, half an ounce of cinnamon, half an ounce of grated nutmeg, quarter of