r.TTM LEM 237 with some lumps of it to take the es- sence ; then peel, and beat it in a mor- tar with 4 or 5 ozs. of butter warmed. Put a crust into a shallow dish, nick the edges, and put the above into it. When served, turn the pudding out of the dish. Another.—Cut off th*; rind of 3 lemons ; boil tender ; pound them, and boil 1 lb. of nice biscuits in a quart of miik and cream ; mix the lemon rind with them. Beat 12 yolks and 6 whites of eggs ; melt % lb. of fresh butter, and put in $ lb. of sugar, and a little orange flower water. Mix all together ; put it over the fiTe; stir till thick, and then squeez' the juice of half a lemon. Put puff paste round the dish, and pour in the pudding. Cut candied sweet- meats, and strew them over. Bake about 45 minutes. Another.—Blanch and beat 8 ozs. of Jordan almonds with orange flower water; add $ lb. of butter, the yolks of 8 or 10 eggs, the juice of a large lem- on, and half the rind grated ; work them in a mortar till white ; put puff paste in the dish; pour in the pudding, and bake half an hour. LEMON PUFFS.—Beat and sift 1 lb. of refined sugar ; put it into a bowl, with the juice of two lemons, and mix them together; beat the white of an egg to a high froth ; put it into the bowl; put in 3 eggs with two rinds of lemon grated; mix it well up, and throw sugar on the buttered papers; drop on the puffs in small drops, and bake them in a moderately heated oven. LEMON TARTS.—Pare the rinds of four lemons, and boil tender in two waters, and beat fine. Add to it 4 ozs. of blanched almonds, cut thin, 4 ozs. of lump sugar, the juice of the lemons, and a little grated peel. Sim- mer to a syrup. When cold, turn into a shallow tin tart dish, lined with a rich thin puff paste, and lay bars of the same over, and bake carefully. LEMON WATER—Put two slices of lemon, thinly pared, into a tea- pot, a little bit of the peel, and sugar, or a table-spoonful of capillaire ; pour in a pint of boiling water, and stop it close two hours. LEMON WHEY—Pour into boiling milk as much lemon juice as will make a small quantity quite clear ; dilute with hot water to an agreeablo sharp acid, and sweeten as you like. LEMON WINE. —Take six large lemons ; pare off the rind thin ; squeeze out the juice ; steep the rind in the juice; and put to it a quart of brandy; let it stand closely covered three days; then squeeze 6 lemons more, and mix 2 quarts of spring water, and as much sugar as will sweeten the whole; boil the water, lemons, and sugar together ; when cold, add a quart of sherry, the other lemons, and some brandy ; mix them together; and run it through a flannel bag ; let it stand two or three months. Bottle, cork well, and keep in a cool place. LEMONADE—Hot water, 2 quarts; 2 lemons, sliced; \ lb. of sugar ; % oz. of gum arabic. Strain through a flannel bag, and bottle off. LEMONADE, to be made the day before wanted. — Pare 24 lemons thin, put 8 of the rinds into 3, quarts of hot water, and cover for four hours. Rub some fine sugar on the lemons to attract the essence, and put it into a bowl, into which squeeze the juice of the lemons. To it add ij lb. of fine sugar, then put the water to the above. Some persons add boiling milk, 2 or 3 quarts, and strain; but this is optional. LEMONADE, Concentrated. —Take 2 lbs. of loaf sugar, break it up, and pour on it a pint of cold water ; let it heat gradually, until it boils and is converted into syrup ; add, while hot, 1 drachm of essence of lemon, and \ oz. of citric acid; a tablespoonful of this, added to a tumbler of water, makes a very pleasant drink. LEMONADE, Delicious Milk. —Pour a pint of boiling water on six or eight ounces of loaf sugar, add a quarter of a pint of lemon juice, and half the quantity of good sherry wine, and a table-spoonful of brandy to keep it. Then add three quarters of a pint of cold milk, and strain the whole, to make it nice and clear. This is an American receipt, and is much valued in that country LEMONADE, like Jelly—Pare two Seville oranges and six lemons thin, and steep them four hours in a quart of