GAR 191 GAR Cabbages, &c., and the small quantity required makes it very inexpensive. Common salt is very useful in destroy- ing worms and slugs ; so also is soot, which should be carefully preserved and applied to all Cabbages and Turnips, and also to plants infected with insects. Leaves, straw and general litter thrown together and moistened with lime and salt, and kept damp till decomposed, is the best manure for trees and shrubs ; wood ashes is a good top dressing to most vegetables, especially Onions and Turnips. Hot Bed.—For forwarding seed- lings for early planting. Get a quantity of fresh horse manure and mix thorough- ly with about half of its bulk in straw, rotten leaves, &c., tramping it down in successive layers. In two or three days fermentation will be apparent by the es- cape of steam from the heap. Turn the heap over again and allow it to remain two or three days longer, or until the second fermentation begins. The frame should be eighteen inches high at the back and twelve in front—this gives the proper slope to catch most sunlight. When everything is ready, the manure is placed in and trodden down firmly in layers to the required depth. Then keep the sash closed till the heat rises. It will be too hot to sow the seeds at once, but in two or three days it will subside to about 90°, when soil may be put on to the depth of six or eight inches. The soil should be well-rotten sods mixed with fine old manure in equal parts, and in this the seed may be sown thinly in drills two or three inches apart, and afterwards either thinned out or else transplanted to another part of the frame. Air must be given every mild day by raising the sash at the back. Water with tepid water when necessary, and during cold nights and snow-storms keep the frame covered with straw or mats. If the Hot Bed has been made about the beginning of February, the seedlings will be ready for planting out by the time the weather grows warm. Cold Frame. — Kill the Frame with good rich soil—that taken from old hot beds, mixed with the fine rich manure from them is the best. It should be got ready in Autumn, and young cabbage, cauliflower and lettuce plants set in it, so that they will get established before cold weather. During cold nights and stormy days the sash should be kept closed and covered with straw mats—in mild days the air should be admitted freely—the object being to keep the plants dormant, so that in Spring they are in a forward state for planting out for early crops. Flower Seeds may be sown as soon as the soil becomes dry and easily crumbled after spring frosts have disap- peared. They may be sown in the bor- ders where they are intended to flower, or in seed beds or pans and transplanted to the flowering borders. The latter is the best plan, especially with very small seed, as it enables the plants to be sooner established, and also because during the period of early growth the ground occupied is not attractive. There must be discretion exercised as to the depth to which seed should be covered—small delicate seeds merely on the surface, some barely pressed into the soil, and others fully one-fourth inch deep—the depth in every instance being regulated by the size of the seed itself. Seedling plants can be nearly as well raised in a window—provided the tem- perature is right—as in a greenhouse. Seeds do not need a strong direct light while germinating. Germination of Seeds. — The average period is ten to fourteen days, but some seeds of a hard body often remain dormant for weeks or even months. The germination of such seeds will be great- ly accelerated by putting them into a cup of warm water and letting them steep for a night before sowing. As soon as the plants are up they will require careful attention, and should have as much sun and air as possible in fine weather. Prick out of the seed pans into other pans or boxes, placing them about an inch apart, and shading from the sun for a few days till they are established. It is a good plan to sow only part of a packet of seed at once, and then in a week or ten days the remainder. Thinning out of Plants in their earlier stages is most important. It is always desirable to sow thicker than the plants are required, but if the young plants ate allowed to remain in a crowd- ed state they soon spoil each other;