97 CARDS CARDS The parties cut for deal, and he that cuts the lowest card, deals out five cards to each player, one at a time; each player then lays out one card for crib, which always belongs to the dealer; one opponent then cuts the cards, and the dealer takes the uppermost card, and lays it face upwards on the four cards composing the crib. If it should happen to be a knave it counts two to the dealer ; the card thus turned up is Included in the counting, by both parties, when counting their hands; the crib is counted by the dealer alone. For every two cards of one sort that can be made, the person playing the second, that is, making the pair, counts two. Should the third player play another card the same as the two former, it is called a Pair Royal and counts six. And should the last player also pos- sess a similar card to the previous three, It is called a double Pair Royal, and scores twelve. Any four cards, of any suits, reckon a double Pair Royal, either in hand or in crib ; such as four deuces, kings, sevens, nines, in short four of any number or description. Same with pair royals and pairs. All sequences count of any suits, according to the number. All flushes count, that is, your hand being com- posed of any four cards of the same suit. If you hold the knave of the suit turned up, you score one for his nob, as it is termed. Should you hold four hearts, clubs, or any other suit, in vour hand, and the tum-up card is of the same suit, you count a flush of five. Pair-handed Cribbage is more generally played than four-hand, from which it only varies in each of the play- ers putting out two cards for the crib, retaining only three in their hand. First, the two cut for deal, which be- longs to the person cutting lowest, the non-dealer securing three points as equivalent to the crib; the dealer must give one card alternately to his oppo- nent and himself, until each has five. In laying out for the crib, study your hand, for what might be correct in one in- stance, would be dangerous in the other. When you hold a pair royal, or three cards of one sort, put out the other two for either crib ; unless those two others be fives, or a two and a three, or seven and eight, or a ten and a five ; in which cases it is better if it is your opponent's crib, to spoil your hand by keeping these cards, and chance a card turning up to your advantage. Laws of Cribbage.—The dealer may discover his own cards during the deal if he pleases ; but if he shows any of his opponent’s, that opponent may call a fresh deal, and also add two to his score. Should too many cards be dealt to either hand, the non-dealer may demand another deal, and also add another two points to his score ; but if not, the sur- plus cards must be drawn; and when any player, after the game has com- menced, has more than his proper num- ber of cards in hand, then the adverse party may add four to their score, and demand a new deal. If any player touch or interfere with the cards, after dealing, until cutting them, for the tum-up card, his adversary shall score tjvo points. When either player scores more than he is justly entitled to, the adverse party cannot only put him back as many holes as he has over-marked, but he may score the same extra number fbr himself. If either party by mistake should take out his front peg, he must place it back, behind the other. If either party touches even his own peg, without occasion, his opponent may score two points. Either party putting down a less num- ber of points than are due to him, in- curs the loss of those points. Each player, when he has taken his hand and scored it, has a right to place his own cards on the pack. ECARTE.—It admits of only two players at a time, yet it may be so played as to include several. Two packs of cards are sometimes used, it can be played equally well with a single pack. There are several minor regula- tions in force, which keep the attention alive, and if neglected, expose the care- less player to severe losses. The cards rank thus :—King, Queen, Knave, Ace, Ten, Nine, Eight, Seven, Mode of Playing. — The two, three, four, five, and six of each suit