334 RAZ RAT and put through a sieve the next day, to mix with as much brandy and i lb. of sugar for each pint of liquor; you may also put the stones and kernels, pounded, into a vessel to infuse in a warm place about six weeks ; strain as usual. Ratafia of currants, &c., may be made in the same manner. RATAFIA PUDDING. Cream, i pint; the same of milk flavoured with bitter almonds, (blanch- ed, and bruised,) cinnamon, lemon peel, and two bay leaves ; sugar to your taste; add a little salt. When boiled, strain it upon the crumb of two French rolls. Butter the mould, and put into it % lb. of ratafia cakes. Beat up 3 eggs, and mix them with the bread and milk. Pour these ingredients into a mould, and boil an hour. Serve with wine sauce. N.B. The ratafia cake may be divided. The above also will make two puddings. RATS, to Destroy.—Mix pow- dered nux vomica, with oatmeal, crumbs of cheese, and a quantity of lard. For a few nights omit the nux vomica till they become familiar with the other food. Or, add, instead of nux vomica, powdered phosphorus. Mix with a piece of wood, that the rats may not scent your hands. Place it beyond the reach of other animals. The addition of a little oil of amber attracts the rats. Or, cut cork into very fine bits, and fry them with lard and cheese crumbs. When cold, add oil of amber to entice them.——Or, take oil of amber, ox-gall, and pow- dered phosphorus, in equal parts, add oatmeal sufficient to form a paste, which 'make into little balls, and lay them near the places visited by rats. Surround the balls with vessels full of water. The smell of the oil attracts the rats ; they greedily devour the balls, which make them thirsty, and they kill themselves with drinking the water. The asphodel is useful in driving away rats and mice, which have such an antipathy to this plant, that if their holes be stopped up with it they will rather die than pass. It is a good thing to put gas tar in the runs and holes of rats. When once daubed with it they will come no more. Feed them well for a week with fresh oatmeal, every day; but never touch it with your hand ; put it into a dish pressed down that you may see what quantity they have eaten. Then mix another lot, v/ith 4 drops of oil of aniseed, or oil of rhodium ; feed with this two or three days more. Then give the following mixture :—To 4 ozs. of dry oatmeal, scented with 6 drops of oil of aniseed, add % oz. of carbonated barytes, or nux vomica in powder, sifted through muslin. Mix this inti- mately with the scented oatmeal; then lay it upon the slate, or, leave it 24 hours for the rats to eat. This kills them. Keep the mixture from dogs, cats, or other animals, and from children. If a stable or house is infested with rats, pull up the floors, and concrete it; so that they cannot make a lodgement, this is effectual. Powdered cayenne blown into rat or mouse holes, will prove a warm recep- tion for them. RAZOR, to Sharpen. — The simplest method of sharpening a razor is to put it for half an hour in water to which has been added one twentieth of its weight of muriatic or sulphuric acid, and after a few hours set it on a hone. The acid acts as a whetstone, by corroding the whole surface uniform- ly, so that nothing further than a smooth polish is necessary. RAZOR, to Smooth.—Pass the razor on the inside of your hand, first wanning it before the fire. Or use the strap of a solder's knapsack, or calf leather, on which some fine black lead has been rubbed and consolidated to a slight surface. RAZOR STROP and Paste. —It may be made of rough calf leather, two or three inches broad, or of the strap of a soldier’s knapsack. Upon it spread powdered oxalic acid and candle snuffs, with a little tallow.- Or spread upon it crocus martis and fine tallow. Or, emery ground as fine as pos- sible, mixed with spermaceti or 6ne tallow. Or, glue, half ounce; treacle, quarter ounce ; steep the glue in water to soften it, and then boil both together for a few minutes, add crocus martis, or fine emery powder, and then spread on the leather. When you use it apply first a drop or two of sweet oil.