M.AR 249 MAR then boll again for about an hour and half until it is transparent. MARMALADE, Quince.— Pare and quarter quinces, weigh an equal quantity of sugar ; to 4 lbs. of the latter put a quart of water, boil and skim, and have ready for 4 lbs. of quinces, when tender, by the following mode : lay them into a stone jar, with a tea-cup of water at the bottom, and pack them with a little sugar strewed between ; cover the jar close, and set it on a stove 'x cool oven, and let them soften til’ colour becomes red : then pom the fruit-syrup and a quart of quince-juice into a preserving pan ; boil all together till the marmalade be com- pleted, breaking the lumps of fruit with the preserving-ladle. This fruit is so hard, that if it be not done as above, it requires a great deal of time. Stewing quinces in a jar, and squeezing them through a cheese-cloth, is the best method of obtaining the juice to add as above: dip the cloth in boiling water first and wring it. MARMALADE, Scotch.-Take 8 lbs. of Seville oranges, pare off the skins very thin so that there shall be little white; then cut the parings into strips, put them into a pan with water to cover them, and boil for 1 hour ; then strain them through a sieve. Next quar- ter the oranges, and scrape out the pulps and juice into a dish ; the white skins, films and seeds must be thrown away; place the whole in a pan with 8 lbs. of sugar ; let the whole boil half an hour, skim, and pot for use. It is not necessary that they should all be Seville oranges, as a few if mixed with the common sorts are sufficient to give the necessary flavour. MARMALADE, Transparent- ly beautiful.—Take 3 lbs. of bitter oranges ; pare them as you would pota- toes ; cut the skin into fine shreds, and put them1 into a muslin bag ; quarter all the oranges ; press out the juice. Boil the pulp and shreds in 3 quarts of water 2J hours, down to 3 pints, strain through a hair sieve. Then put 6 lbs. of sugar to the liquid, the juice, and the shreds, the outside of a lemons grated, and the insides squeezed in; add one-penny- worth of isinglass. Simmer all together slowly for 15 or 20 minutes. JS" The s-weet oranges make good marmalade, if the seeds are pulverised, and well mixed with the rest. MARRIED WOMEN’S PROPERTY ACT, 188a.— 45 & 46 Viet. ch. 75. Came into operation January 1, 1883. GEITEEAL SUMMARY.—The general effect of the Act Is that a married woman is placed in almost the same position as if she were unmarried as regards property and debts. She may sue in her own name without the concurrence of her husband, she may be sued, she may contract debts for which her husband will not be liable. A husband is liable for debts contracted by his wife before her marriage only to the extent of property he may have acquired with his wife. THI ACT. 1. (1.) A married woman shall, in accor- dance with the provisions of this Act, be capable of acquiring, holding, and dispos- ing by will or otherwise, of any real or per- sonal property as her separate property, in the same manner as if she were a feme sole, without the intervention of any trustee. (a.) A married woman shall be capable of entering into and rendering herself liable in respect of and to the extent of her separ- ate property on any contract, and of suing and being sued, either in contract or In tort, or otherwise, in all respects as if she were a feme sole, and her husband need not be joined with her as plaintiff or defendant, or be made a party to any action or other legal proceeding brought by or taken against her; and any damages or costs recovered by her in any such action or pro- ceeding shall be her separate property; and any damages or costs recovered against her in any such action or proceeding shall be payable out of her separate property, and not otherwise. (3.) Every contract entered into by a married woman shall be deemed to be a contract entered into by her with respect to and to bind her separate property, unless the contrary be shown. (4.) Every contract entered into by a married woman with respect to and to bind her separate property shall bind not only the separate property which she Is possess- ed of or entitled to at the date of the con- tract, but also all separate property which she may thereafter acquire.