LEM LEM 235 the water to it, and mix aH the ingredi- ents together. Pour the milk in boiling. Let it stand 24 hours, then strain, and bottle. LEMON DRINK.—Water, 4 quarts; the juice of 10 lemons, loaf sugar, a lbs. ; get the oil from the rinds by rubbing them with the sugar ; mix ; steep the rinds a day ; then strain. LEMON CAKE.—Put 3 spoon- fuls of rose or orange-flower water to the whites ro eggs, 3 ozs. of butter, a cupful l ik, and 1 lb. of white sifted sugar ; beat them an hour with a whisk, and grate in the rind of a lemon. When well mixed, add the juice of half a lemon, and the yolks of ro eggs beaten smooth ; stir in 1 lb. of flour ; butter a pan, and bake it in a moderate oven for 1 hour.—Orange cakes may be made in the same way. 6®* Add a small bit of carbonate of soda to the milk, to pre- vent acidity. LEMON CHEESECAKES.— Boil the peel of a large lemons ; pound well, with % lb. of loaf sugar, the yolks of 6 eggs, i lb. of fresh butter, and some curd beaten fine. Mix all toge- gether ; lay a puff paste on the patty- pans ; fill half full, and bake. Orange cheesecakes are done the same way ; but the peel must be boiled In 2 or 3 waters to neutralize its bitter taste. LEMON, Conserve of.—Grate the rind of a lemon into a saucer, squeeze the juice of the fruit over and mix it well together with a spoon ; then boil some sugar very high, mix it in, and when of a due consistency, pom into moulds. LEMON CREAM. —Take a pint of thick cream, and put to it the yolks of 3 eggs well beaten, 4 ozs. of fine sugar, and the thin rind of a lemon grat- ed ; boil; stir it till almost cold, put the juice of a lemon in a dish, or bowl, and pom the cream upon it, stirring it till quite cold. It is excellent when iced. LEMON CREAM, Yellow.— Pare thin 4 lemons into a large cupful of water, and squeeze the juice on 7 ozs. of finely pounded sugar, beat the yolks of 9 eggs well; add the peels and juice beaten together for some time ; then strain it into a block-tin sauce-pan ; set it over a gentle fire, and stir it one way till thick, and scalding hot; but not boiling, or it will curdle. Pour It Into jelly-glasses. A few lumps of sugar should be rubbed hard on the lemons before they are pared, or after, as the peel will be so thin as not to take all the essence, and the sugar will attract it, and give a better colour and flavour. LEMON CREAM, White Is made the same as the above, only put the whites of the eggs in lieu of the yolks, whisking it well to froth. LEMON CUSTARD.—Sherry wine, a pint; refined sugar, 1 lb.; the juice of 2 lemons, the rind of 1 pared thin, and the rind of the other boiled soft, and rubbed through a sieve; boil well. Take out the peel, and a little of the liquor ; cool; pom the rest into the dish you design it for ; beat 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs; mix them with the cool liquor ; strain them into the dish ; stir well together; set on a slow fire to bake as a custard ; when it is enough, grate the rind of a lemon over the top; brown it over with a sala- mander. Another.—Beat up the yolks of 8 eggs till quite white ; put to them a pint of boiling water, the rinds of 2 lemons grated, and the juice sweetened to taste, stir on the fire till thick enough ; then add a glass of rich wine, and half a glass of brandy. Give the whole one scald, and put it into cups to be eaten cold. LEMON DROPS.—Sifted loaf sugar, £ lb. ; squeeze 3 or 4 lemons over it; mix it well with a spoon, till it makes a thickish paste; then drop it upon writing papier about the size of a sixpence ; place in a slightly warm oven to dry, and then remove from the paper. LEMON DUMPLINGS.—Two table-spoonfuls of flour ; bread crumbs, £ lb. ; beef suet, 6 ozs. ; the grated rind of a large lemon ; sugar, pounded, 4 ozs.; 4 eggs well beaten, and strained, and the juice of 3 lemons strained. Make into dumplings, and boil in a cloth one hour. LEMON HONEY-COMB.— Sweeten the juice of a lemon to your taste, and put it in the dish that you serve it in. Mix the white of an egg that is beaten with a pint of rich cream, and a little sugar ; whisk it, and as the froth rises put it on the lemon juice. Do it the day before ft is to be used.