SCA 351 SAV bottom of a stewpan, with a carrot or turnip, or two or three onions ; cover it, and let it simmer on a slow fire till it is sufficiently brown ; put it to a quart of good broth, whole pepper, mace, a very little isinglass, and salt to your taste; boil ten minutes: strain, and skim off all the fat; add the whites of three eggs ; run it through a jelly bag several times. SAVOURY JELLY, for Cold Meats.—Boil beef and mutton to a stiff jelly ; season it with a little pepper and salt, a blade or two of mace, and an onion ; then beat the whites of four eggs ; put them to the jelly, and beat it a little; then run it through a jelly bag, and when dear pour it on your meat or fowls. SAVOURY JELLY, to put over Cold Pies.—Make it of a small bare knuckle of leg or shoulder of veal, or a piece of scrag of that, or mutton ; or if the pie be of fowl or rabbit, the carcases, necks and heads, added to any piece of meat, will be suffidenf, observ- ing to give consistency by jow-hecl or shanks of mutton. Put the meat, a slice of lean ham or bacon, a fagot of differ- ent herbs, two blades of mace, an onion or two, a small bit of lemon peel, and a tea-spoonful of Jamaica pepper bruised, and the same of whole pepper, and three pints of water, in a stew-pot that shuts very close. As soon as it boils skim it well, and let it simmer very slowly till quite strong; strain it, and when cold take off the fat with a spoon first, and then to remove every particle of grease, lay a clean piece of cap or blotting paper on it. When cold, if not clear, boil it a few minutes with the whites of two eggs, (but don’t add the sediment,) and pour it through a nice sieve, with a napkin in it, which has been dipped in boiling water, to prevent waste. SAVOURY RICE.—Wash and pick some rice, stew it very gently in a small quantity of veal, or rich mutton broth, with an onion, a blade of mace, pepper and salt. When swelled, but not boiled to a mash, dry it on the shal- low end of a sieve before the fire, and either serve it up dry, or put In the middle of a dish, and pour the gravy round, having heated it. SCALDS AND BURNS. Bathe the part with heated vinegar by means of a rag, and then cover with a liniment made of one part of oil of tur- pentine, and two parts of yellow basili- con. It will smart at first, but gradually soon abate, and the wound feel com- paratively easy ; the dressing then may be changed for sugar of lead ointment, or the common liniment of lime water and oil, equal parts. The blisters, if any, may be opened with a needle; if the skin has been removed, the treat- ment is the same, since equal relief is experienced. A solution of Epsom salts has been recommended for scalds and bums. Dissolve Epsom salts in a little spirits of wine, and add water. Apply cloths saturated in it.—See Bums, p. 81, 8a. SCALD HEAD.—This affects the heads of children chiefly. The scabby eruption at the roots of the hair is very disagreeable. It is a very ob- stinate and infectious disease. First, cut off all the hair, and wash the head night and morning with warm soap suds, and afterwards bathe with tincture of blood- robt. Then apply the brown ointment, as described in ptage 279, once a day. Give the patient sulphur and cream of tartar in treacle, so as slightly to open the bowels. A poultice of dock roots is very useful SCALD HEAD.—Anoint it with Barbadoes tar. Or, apply daily, white wine vinegar. If wood soot is mixed with fresh butter into an ointment, and the head anointed with it every day, it will generally cure it at the beginning ; but when it is be- come very bad, a plaster should be made of gall dried to the consistence of salve, and spread upon linen. This should be applied all over the parts affected, and continued on four or five days; then it should be taken off and the head dressed with soot ointment as before. After the cure, give two or three gentle purges. If a proper regard was paid to clean- liness in the head and apparel of child- ren, the scald head would be seldom seen. Scalloped COLD CHICKEN. —Mince the meat very small, and set it over the fire, with a scrape rrf