230 LAM LAN mace. Have ready some veal gravy; put the steaks into it; mix some mush- room-powder, a cup of cream, and a bit of dour; shake the steaks in this liquor, stir, and get hot. Just before taking it up, put in a few white mush- rooms. LAMB STEAKS, to Dress Brown.—Season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, and chop- ped parsley; but dip them first into egg: fry them quick. Thicken some good gravy with a bit of flour and but- ter ; and add to it a spoonful of port wine, and some oysters ; boil it up, and then put in the steaks warm: let them heat up, and serve. You may add palates, balls, or eggs, if you like. LAMB STONES, Fricasseed. Skin and wash, then dry and flour them; fry brown in hog’s lard. Lay them on a sieve before the fire till you make the sauce : thicken half a pint of veal gravy with a little flour and butter, adding a slice of lemon, a large spoon- ful of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoon- ful of lemon pickle, a grate of nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg beaten in two large spoonfuls of thick cream. Put this over the fire, and stir till it is hot, and looks white ; but don't let it boil, or it will curdle. Then put in the fry, and shake it about near the fire for a minute or two. Serve in a hot dish and cover. LAMB-STONES and Sweet- breads.—Blanch some lamb stones, parboil, and slice. Flour two or three sweetbreads ; if very thick, cut them in two. Fry all together with a few oysters, of a fine brown. Pour the butter off; and add a pint of good .gravy, some asparagus-tops, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, two shalots shred fine, and a glass of white wine. Simmer ten minutes ; then put a little of the gravy to the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and by degrees mix the whole. Turn the gravy back into the pan, and stir it till of a fine thickness without boiling. Garnish with lemon. LAMB’S SWEETBREADS. —Blanch them, and put a short time Into cold water. Put them into a stew- pan with a cupful of broth, pepper, salt, a bunch of small onions, and a blade of mace ; stir in it a bit of butter and flour, and stew half an hour. Have ready two or three eggs well beaten in cream, and a little minced parsley and nutmeg. Put in some boiled asparagus-tops. Do not boil after the cream is in; but make it hot, and stir all the while. Take great care it does not curdle. Young French beans or peas may be added, first boiled of a beautiful colour. LAMB’S HEAD and PLUCK.—Wash clean; take the black part from the eyes, and the gall from the liver. Put into warm water, boil the heart, liver, &c. ; serve, LAMPREYS to Stew.—Clean the fish, remove the cartilage which funs down the back, and season with a little clove, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and allspice; put it into a stew-pot with strong beef-gravy, port and an equal quantity of Madeira, or sherry. Cover close: stew till tender, take out the lamprey and keep hot, while you boil up the liquor with three anchovies chopped, and some flour and butter; strain the gravy, and add lemon juice, and mustard. Serve with sippets of bread and horse radish. Eels done in the same way are much like the lamprey. When there is spawn it must be fried and put round. LANDLORD and TENANT. —A yearly tenant must give notice to quit his premises half a year before the time of the expiration of the current year of his tenancy. If by agreement, a quarter's notice is to be sufficient, such notice must always expire with the tenancy if that is yearly.—If a landlord neglect to repair die premises according to his covenant, the tenant may main- tain an action against him; but such neglect does not absolve the tenant from payment of the rent—A landord can legally dispose of goods taken under a distress for rent, by appraisement, with- out putting them up by auction.—A landlord may take possession of the goods of his tenant's lodger which have been distrained under distress for rent; or he may maintain an action for pound breach.—A landlord can be compelled, according to the Small Tenement Act, to pay the poor rates, if the rent is under j£io per annum.—If a landlord agrees to make repairs, and neglects to do so, the tenant may do it, and deduct the amount from the rent. But the