SLU 363 SMA. It subdues inflammation, and agreeably calms the system. According to the celebrated Dr. Beach, it is “demulcent, pectoral, diuretic, deobstruent, emollient, and refrigerant, useful in all bowel com- plaints, in scurvy, cutaneous eruptions, &c. In the form of a poultice, it is an admirable remedy (far exceeding any other known production in the world) for ulcers, tumours, swellings, wounds, chilblains, bums, scalds, skin diseases, erysipelas, obstinate ulcers, scabs, &c. ; and in sore mouth, or thrash, &c., used as a wash.” It quickly allays inflam- mation, promotes resolution and supu- rution. The tea is much used by the Indian women to procure easy labour. In point of utility, it is of far more value than its weight in gold. It has rapidly come into use as an invaluable medical agent. As an ingredient in injections, it is most valuable, healing, soothing, and preventing any painful sensations. It may be obtained at the vendors of botanic medicines. SLUGS and SNAILS, to pro- tect trees from.—If the trees are planted against a wall, brush over the wall gas tar. Or, mix common tar and pitch, horse hair, an abundance of salt, and apply it to the wall in a band about 3 to 5 inches wide; and draw a circle round each tree of the same mixture. Small Investments in Government Stocks.—See page 317. SMALL POX.—This dreadful disease is very infectious, attended with inflammatory fever, assuming sometimes a typhoid character, attended with nausea and vomiting, and upon the pressure of the stomach, with much pain. The constitution that has been once really under its influence is rarely liable to a second attack. When the pustules are separate from each other, it is termed distinct; and when they ran together, it is denominated con- fluent. The first symptoms are shivering pains in the head, back, and loins, red- ness of the eyes, fever, thirst, nausea, loss of appetite ; and in some cases, a few hours before the eruption, children are affected with convulsions. The eruption appears about the fourth day of the fever, first on the face, and afterwards on the neck, breast, and body. The pustules gradually enlarge, and proceed to maturation which is completed about the eleventh day after their first appearance, when the in- flammation and swelling abate, the eruption beginning to dry and scale off, and about the fifteenth day it en- tirely disappears. The confluent sort is attended with more violent symp- toms than the distinct, but observes the same period of termination. Dr. Beach says, “The effluvia is very offensive; and I have seen worms, or maggots crawling in the flesh ; and yet the pa- tient has recovered." This disease generally terminates favourably under judicious treatment, unless the subject of it is intemperate, in which case it proves very dangerous, or fatal. Treatment.—The great object is to assist nature to expel the morbific or poisonous matter from the system. If the patient has much vomiting, give 10 or 12 grains of bicarbonate of potash in balm tea twice or thrice a day. The bowels must be opened by gentle aperients, (page 21,) attention must be given to the skin, and medicine given to produce a gentle determina- tion to the surface. Take an infusion of saffron and catnep, or balm and hyssop, with xo drops of elixir of vitriol; this will aid nature to drive out the eruption, by producing a moisture of the skin. It should be repeated several times. Bathe the feet twice a day in warm ley water, and wash the body with the same liquid warm; do not neglect this if the fever is high. If there is pain in the head apply a mustard poultice to the soles of the feet in addition to bathing the feet and legs in warm water. Apply to the head cloths dipped in vinegar and water, or whiskey and warm water. Let the room of the patient be well ventilated, and often sprinkle it with vinegar and water; do not cover him up close. Give warm diluents, as balm, spearmint, pennyroyal, catnep, &c.; any of these will do. If the throat be sore, administer the remedies under Sore Throat. Sage tea, a little vinegar, and a little borax, form a good gargle. The Expectorant Tincture is very useful. If the debilitv is great, and the strength gradually sinking, give tooicR,