APP 24 APP grated orange or lemon; then bofl to a jelly. Another—Prepare apples as before, by boiling and straining ; have ready half an ounce of isinglass boiled in half a pint of water to a jelly ; put this to the apple-water and apple, as strained through a coarse sieve; add sugar, a little lemon juice and peel; boil all together and put into a dish. Take out the peel. APPLE MARMALADE.— Scald apples till they will pulp from the core; then take an equal weight of sugar in large lumps, just dip them in water, and boil it till it can be well skimmed, and is a thick syrup, put to it the pulp, and simmer it on a quick fire a quarter of an hour. Grate a little lemon-peel before boiled but if too much it will be bitter. APPLE PIE—Pare and core the fruit, having wiped the outside, which with the cores boil in a little water till it tastes well; strain and put a little sugar, a bit of bruised cinnamon, sim- mer again, in the mean time place the apples in a dish, a paste being put round the edge; when one layer is in sprinkle half the sugar, shred lemon peel, squeeze some lemon juice in, or a glass of cider if the apples have lost their flavour, put in the rest of the apple, sugar, and the liquor that you have boiled, cover with paste. APPLE PRESERVE.—Take 20 fine apples; peel and core them; grate them into a pulp, and strain through a colander ; allow J£1’d of fine sugar to ilb. of pulp. Clarify the sugar by adding water, and the beaten white of an egg. Then boil the fruit in the syrup, till sufficiently done. Add cinnamon, or ginger, according to taste. APPLE PUFFS.—Pare the fruit, and either stew them in a stone jar on a hot hearth, or bake them. When cold, mix the pulp of the apple with sugar and lemon-peel, shred fine, taking as little of the apple-juice as you can. Bake them in thin paste, in a quick oven ; a quarter of an hour will do them, if small. Orange or quince- marmalade, is a great improvement. Cinnamon pounded, or orange-flour water, as a change. APPLE PUDDING, Amen- can.—Peel and core one dozen and a half of good apples ; cut them small; put them into a stew-pan with a little water, cinnamon, two cloves, and the peel of a lemon ; stew over a slow firs, till soft; sweeten and strain, add the yolks of four eggs and one white, a quarter of a pound of butter, half a nutmeg, the peel of a lemon grated, and the juice of a lemon : beat well to- gether ; line the inside of a pie-dish with good puff paste; put in the pud- ding, and bake half an hour. APPLE PUDDING, Baked.— Pare and quarter four large apples; boil them tender with the rind of a lemon, in so little water, that when done, none may remain; beat them quite fine in a mortar ; add the crumb of a small roll, four ounces of butter melted, the yolks of five, and whites of three eggs, juice of half a lemon, and sugar to taste; beat all together, and lay it in a dish, with paste to turn out. APPLE PUDDING, Boiled. —Suet, 5 ozs. ; flour, 8 ozs. ; chop the suet very fine, and roll it into the flour. Make it into a light paste with water. Roll out. Pare and core 8 good sized apples; slice them; put them on the paste, and scatter upon them % lb. of sugar ; draw the paste round the apples, and boil two hours, or more, in a well floured cloth. Serve with melted butter sweetened. APPLE PUDDING, Swiss.— Butter a deep dish; put into it a layer of bread crumbs ; then a layer of finely chopped suet; a thick layer of finely chopped apples, and a thick layer of sugar. Repeat from the first layer till the dish is full, the last layer to be finger biscuits soaked in milk. Cover it till nearly enough ; then uncover, till the top is nicely browned. Flavour with cinnamon, nutmeg, &c., as you please. Bake from 30 to 40 minutes. APPLE SAUCE, for Goose or Roast Pork.—Pare, core, and slice some apples, and put them in a strong jar, into a pan of water. When suffi- ciently boiled, bruise to a pulp, adding a little butter, and a little brown sugar. APPLES, Baked.—Put the ap- ples on a baking-dish, with a sprinkle of sugar, and a drop of cider or water.