373 SPK SFI SPECIFICS.—Medicines curing a disease by an unknown mode of action. SPERMACETI OINTMENT —Take of olive oil, i pint; white wax and spermaceti, of each 3 ozs. Melt them with a gentle heat, and briskly stir together till quite cold. If 2 drs. of camphor previously rubbed with a small quantity of oil, be added to the above, it will make the White Camphorated Ointment. For Ointments, see p. 279. SPICED BEEF.—Take a round of an ox, or young heifer, from 20 to 40 lbs. Cut it neatly, so that the thin flank end can wrap nearly round. Take from 2 Co 4 ozs. of saltpetre, and 1 oz. of coarse sugar, and 2 handfuls of common salt. Mix them well, together; rub it all over. The next day salt it well as for boiling. Let it lie from 2 to 3 weeks turning it every 2 or 3 days. Take out of the pickle, and wipe it dry. Then take cloves, mace, well powdered, a spoonful of gravy, and rub it well into the beef. Roll it up as tightly as possi- ble ; skewer it, and tie it up tight. Pom: In the liquor till the meat is quite satur- ated, in which state it must be kept. To keep the beef a long time, once in 2 months boil the pickle, and clear off the scum. Put in when boiled 2 ozs. of sugar, and 4 oz. of common salt. When taken out of pickle, dry well, and put in paper bags, and hang them in a dry place. SPICE CAKE.—Take 3 lbs. of flour, 2 lbs. of butter, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of currants, and a few seeds ; mix all together with milk ; observe that the butter and sugar must be rubbed into the flour, and then made into round cakes of any size, and nipped on the edges, then baked in a pretty hot oven, with its door open while you bake. SPICED FIGS.—Fill a large jar with grapes picked from the stem; add a little water; cook slowly; stir occasionally to prevent burning; when tender, strain out the juice through a fine sieve. (The white Muscat grape is the best) To one pint of grape juice add three pounds of sugar, a bag of spice (mace, cinnamon, cloves, to suit taste). Pare seven pounds Ggs very thin, ripe enough to be soft, but not to crack open. Cook the figs In the grape syrup until tender enough to pass a straw through easily. Then dip out carefully, and seal in glass Jars. A spiced jelly can be made from the syrup, if any is left over, after the figs are done. SPINACH, to Dress.—Spinach requires great care in washing and pick- ing it. When that is done, throw it into a sauce-pan that will just hold it, sprinkle it with a little salt, and cover close. The pan must be set on the fire, and well shaken. When done, beat the spinach well with a small bit of butter ; it looks well if pressed into a tin mould in the form of a large leaf, which is sold at the tin shops. A spoonful of cream is an improvement. SPINACH AND EGGS. When the spinach is boiled, it must be squeezed dry, chopped very fine, and put into a stew-pan, with a little butter, cream, pepper, and salt. Dish the spinach, and then put in the eggs to poach; trim the ragged parts of the whites, and put them on the spinach. SPINACH SOUP. —Shred 2 handfuls of spinach, a turnip, 2 onions, a head of celery, 2 carrots, and a little thyme and parsley, put all into a stew- pot, with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a pint of broth, or the water in which meat has been boiled; stew till the vegetables are quite tender, work them through a coarse cloth or sieve with a spoon, then to the pulp of the vegetables and liquor, put a quart of fresh water, pepper, and salt, and boil all together. Have ready some suet- dumplings, the size of a walnut; and before you put the soup into the tureen, put them all into it. The suet must not be shred too fine. SPIRITS of MINDERERUS. — Take volatile sal ammoniac, any quantity. Pour on it gradually distilled vinegar till the effervescence ceases. This medicine is useful in promoting a discharge by the skin and urinary pas- sages. It is also a good external appli- cation in strains and bruises. When intended to raise a sweat, half an ounce of it in a cup of warm gruel, may be given to the patient in bed every hour till it has the desired effect.