SHK SEE 357 before It goes to the oven, add seeds or currants, and bake an hour and a half. SEED CAKES, Common.— To 6 Ihs. of flour add x lb. of butter, K a lb. of sugar, and i oz. of caraway seeds, mixed up with milk, and baked Ip a pretty hot oven. SEED SOWING.—A corres- pondent of the Gardener's Chronicle says, "all flat seeds should be sown sideways, for if laid flat on the soil they are apt to rot; and if this misfortune does not befall them they never germi- nate so readily as those placed side- ways. This accounts for so many failures amongst gourds, melons, cu- cumbers, &c. SEIDLITZ POWDER, in one paper.—One part of bicarbo- nate of soda, and two parts of bitartrate of soda. Each must be dried before they are mixed. Half a teaspoonful dissolved in a tumbler of spring water, and drunk quickly is an excellent thing tor those who are thirsty in the morning. SENEKA, Decoction of. Take of seneka rattle-snake root, i oz. ; water, pint. Boil down to one pint, and strain. It is very useful in dropsy, pleurisy, rheumatism, and dis- orders of the skin. Take an ounce or two three times a day. SENNA.—The leaves are a very useful purgative, operating mildly yet effectually; yet they are apt to gripe; but this may be prevented by adding to the senna some aromatic substance, as ginger, cinnamon, &c. It is best to in- nise it the night before taking it in warm (not boiling) water. The taste may be neutralized by mixing it with black tea, milk, and sugar. Alexandria senna is the best. It is chiefly given in the form of infusion. Take of senna leaves, i Y oz. ; ginger, i drachm ; warm water, i pint. Pour the water on as above directed. Add % lb. of prunes, stewed separately, if you like. SENNA, another Infusion of. Take of tamarinds, i oz. ; senna, and crystals of tartar, each 2 drachms. Infuse 5 hours in a pint of hot water; strain, and add an oz. or two of the aromatic tincture. Persons easily purged, may leave out the tamarinds or the crystals of tartar. This is an agreeable cooling purge. A teacupful may be given every half hour till it operates. SENNA, Compound Tincture of.—Take of senna, 1 oz.; jalap, coriander seeds, and cream of tartar, of each Yj an oz. Infuse them in a pint and a half of French brandy for a week, then strain the tincture and add to it 4 ozs. of fine sugar. This is an agreeable purge, and answers all the purposes of the Elixir Salutis and of Daffy’s Elixir. The dose is from 1 to 2 or 3 ozs. SENNA, Electuary of.—Senna leaves, finely powdered, 4 ozs.; pulp of French primes, 1 lb. ; pulp of tama- rinds, a ozs.; treacle, 1 % pint; essen- tial oil of caraway, 2 drachms. Boil the pulps in the syrup to the thickness of honey; add the powder, and, when the mixture cools, the oil. Mix all well. SHALOTS, to Pickle.—The same as onions. SHALOT SAUCE.—Peel and cut small 5 or 6 shalots; put them into a saucepan, with 2 spoonfuls of white wine or sherry, 2 of water, and 2 of vinegar. Give them a boil up, and pour them into a dish, with a little pepper and salt. SHAVING OIL.—Soft soap, 3 lbs. ; rectified spirits of wine, 2 quarts. SHEEP-DIPPING WASH. —White arsenic, powdered, K lb.; soft soap, 4 % lbs. Beat these for a quarter of an hour, or until the arsenic is dissolved, in five gallons of water. Add this to the water sufficient to dip 50 sheep. SHELFORD PUDDING. — Mix Y lb. of currants or raisins, 1 lb. of suet, 1 lb. of flour, 6 eggs, a little good milk, some lemon-peel, a little salt. Boil it in a melon shape six hours. S H E R B E T.—A species of negus, without wine. It is good to allay thirst. It is made as under : 1. Take 9 Seville oranges, and 3 lemons ; grate off the yellow rinds, and put the raspings into a gallon of water, and 3 lbs. of the finest sugar; boil to a candy. Take off the fire, and put into the juice the pulp of the above, and stir till it is almost cold. Put into bottles for use. 2. Pare 4 large lemons, and boil tho peels in 6 quarts of water, and a little