342 ROS RJN it extremely well; then set to rise before the fire. Some of the flour should be reserved to make up the loaves. If the rice should require more water, it must be added, as some rice swells more than others. RING GOLD.—Melt together of Spanish copper six pennyweights and twelve grains ; fine silver, three penny- weights and sixteen grains to one ounce, five pennyweights of gold coin. This is worth about £3 per ounce. RING WORMS. — Dissolve borax in water, and apply till it pro- duces redness, and a painful sensation. Discontinue a day or two, and ulti- mately it will effect a cure. RING WORM. — Wash the head with soft soap every morning, and apply this lotion every night; — one drachm of sub-carbonate of soda, dis- solved in half a pint of vinegar. RING WORMS.—Apply rotten apples, or pounded garlic.——Or, rub them with the juice of house-leek. Or, wash them with Hungary-water camphorated. Or twice a day with oil of sweet almonds and oil of tartar mixed. RING WORMS.—To one part of sulphuric acid, add 16 to 20 parts of water. Use a brush or feather, and apply it to the parts night and morning. A few dressings will generally cure. If the solution is too strong, dilute it with more water ; and if the irritation is ex- cessive, rub on a little oil or other softening applicant; but always avoid soap. Dr. Chapelle adopts the following plan:—The hairs are to be cut short, the creamy fluid let out of the pustules, and the crusts removed by linseed poultices. The denuded surface is then to be covered with a thin layer of oil of naphtha, over which a flannel compress is to be placed, the whole being secured by an oil silk cap. The application is to be renewed twice a day ; first well washing the parts with soap and water; the surface of the scalp is to be care- fully searched, in order to detect any small favous pustules that may have appeared. These must be pricked with a pin, the matter removed, and the sur- face covered with the oil. This evolu- tion of pustules is successive, so that the hair roust be kept short in the vicinity, that their advent may be watched. This application secures the rapid abortion of the pustules; but when the scalp is too tender to bear it, it should be mixed with other less irri- tating oils of which empyrheumatic oil of juniper is one of the best. ROLLS, Excellent.—Warm 1 oz. of butter in half a pint, of milk, put it to a spoonful and a half of yeast of small beer, and a little salt. Put 2 lbs. of flour into a pan, and mix in the above. Let it rise an hour; knead it well; make into seven rolls, and bake in a quick oven. If made in cakes three inches thick, sliced and buttered, they resemble Sally Lunns as made at Bath. The foregoing receipt, with the addi- tion of a little saffron boiled in half a tea-cupful of milk, makes them remark- ably good. ROMAN CEMENT.—Roman cement, M. Berthier says, consists of common chalk and clay—one part clay, and two and a half parts of chalk, sets almost instantly. ROMAN CEMENT.—Mix a bushel of slaked lime with 3% lbs. of green copperas, half a bushel of fine gravel sand, and 15 gallons of water. Dissolve the copperas in hot water, and stir frequently. It must be mixed the same day it is used. ROOMS, to Fumigate for Sick Persons.—Put a table-spoonful of salt in a glass cup, and add, at four different times, a dessert-spoonful of vitriolic acid. The vapour will come in contact with the malignant miasmata, and destroy them. ROOMS, to take the Smell of Paint from.—Place vessels of water combined with a little vitriolic acid in a newly painted room ; it will absorb the effluvia in three days. ROSES.—Put some powdered charcoal around the roots of your roses. It will improve their colour. ROSES, Cream of.—Oil of sweet almonds, 1 lb.; spermaceti and white wax, of each 1 oz. ; rose water, 1 pint, Malta rose or neroli essence. Put the oil, spermaceti, and wax into a well- glazed pipkin, over a dear fire, and when melted, pour in the rose water gradually, beating till the compound