CHE CHE 120 without breaking the stones. (This wine is much improved by adding rasps, and red currants, an addition of black currants causes it to resemble port). To every gallon put a lbs. of fine loaf sugar. Put in a pask till the fomenta- tion ceases, stop it close. In three or four months, bottle it, and in five or sis weeks it will be fit to drink. CHESS.—This is a very scientific game. The reader is referred to Hoyle, Walker, and Lewis on Chess, Each player has a force of 16 men, viz., a king, queen, 2 bishops, 2 knights, 2 castles, or rooks, and 8 pawns. They all have different moves. The king can only move one square at a time, forwards, backwards, diagonally, &c. The Queen is the most powerful of all the pieces ; can move in straight lines, either for- wards, backwards, or sideways, to the extent of the board, or she can move diagonally within the same range. The Rook moves same as the Queen, except diagonally. The Bishop moves either forwards or backwards diagonally, the full extent of the board, keeping on his own square. The Knight moves one square, and one diagonally, or one diagonally, and one square, forwards, or sideways, &c. He is the only piece that leaps over the head of another piece. The Pawn moves one square at once straight forward; but it takes a piece diagonally. If a pawn reaches the other side of the board, it claims a superior piece, instead of itself, except the king. Laws of Chess.—1 The chess- board must be so placed that each player has a white corner square nearest his right hand. 2 If a piece or pawn be misplaced, it must be rectified, if perceived before four moves have been made. 3 If a player on commencing the game omit to place all his men on the board, he may correct the omission before malting his fourth move. 4 Should a player, who undertakes to give the odds of a piece or pawn, neg- lect to move it from the board after four moves, the adversary may continue or recommence the game. 5 When no odds are given the players must take the first move of each game alternately, drawing lots who shall begin the first game. 6 The player who gives the odds has the right of moving first in each game, unless agreed otherwise. Whenever a pawn is given it is to be the king’s bishop's pawn. 7 If a piece or pawn be touched, it must be played, unless at the moment of touching it, the player exclaims, “ J'adoube " (I adjust). 8 While the player holds the piece or pawn he has touched, he may play it to any square but the one he took it from, but if he quit the piece, he cannot recall the move. 9 If a player takes one of his adver- sary’s pieces or pawns without saying "J’adoube," or words to that effect, his adversary may compel him to take it ; but if it cannot be legally taken, he may oblige him to move his king; if the king cannot be legally moved, no penalty can be inflicted. 10. If a player move one of his ad- versary’s men, his antagonist may com- pel him either to replace the piece or pawn, and take it, or to let the piece or pawn remain on the square to which it had been played. 11. If a player takes one of his ad- versary’s men, with one of his own, that cannot take it without making a false move, his antagonist may either compel him to take it with a piece or pawn that can legally take it, or to move his own piece or pawn which he touched. 12. Should any player by mistake take one of his own men with another, his adversary can compel him to move either. 13. If a player make a false move, that is, plays a piece or pawn to any square to which it cannot legally be moved, his opponent may compel him to take the piece or pawn to a correct square, or let it remain on the square to which he had moved it, or to re- place the piece or pawn, and move his king. 14. Should a player move out of his turn, his opponent may choose whether both moves shall remain, or the second be retracted. 15. When a pawn is first moved in a game, it may be played one or two squares, but in the latter case the adver- sary has the privilege of taking, it as it is named “ en passant,’’ with any pawD which could have taken it had it been