DAN 154 DAN " The music plays faster; their raptures bwrin; Like lambkins they skip, like teetotums they spin; Now draperies whirl, and now petticoats fly, And ankles, at least, are exposed to the eye. “O’er the well-polished ball-room in circles they swim; He smiles upon her, and she smiles upon him. Her hand on his shoulder is tenderly placed; His arm quite as tenderly circles her waist. " They still bear in mind, aa they’re turning each other. The proverb, “ One good turn’s deserving ano- ther;” And these bodily turns often end, it is said. In turning the lady’s or gentleman’s head." French Terms Used in Dancing. A droite—To the right. A gauche—To the left. A vos places—To your places. A la fin—To the end. Assortment du Quadrille—A set of Quadrilles. A rebour—The wrong or reverse way. Balancez—Set to partners. Balances d vos dames—Gentlemen dance four bars before their partners. Balances cn rond—All join hands and set in a circle. Balances en moulinet—Gentlemen join right hands with partners, and set in form of a cross. Balances quatre en ligne—Four set in a line, joining hands. Balances aux coins—To set at the corners. Balances quatre sans vous quitter la main—Four persons dance without quitting hands. Ballotez—A step repeated four times in the same position. Chaine Anglaise— Right and left. Chainc Anglaise double—All the couples perform the figure at the same time. Chaine des dames-—Ladies' chain. Chaine des dames double—The whole of the ladies commence at the same time. Chasses croisez, tous les huit, et de- chassez—Gentlemen all change places with partners and back again. Chasses et d/chasses—To move to the right and left. Change des dames—To change ladies. Contre partie pour les autres—The other dancers do the same. Demi chaine Anglaise—Half right and left. Demi promenade—Half promenade. Demi tour d quatre—Four hands half round. Demi moulinet—Ladies advance to the centre, give right hands half round, return to places. En avant quatre—The first and oppo- site couple advance and retire. En avant trois deux fois—Three persons advance twice. En avant deux et en arrilre—Four opposite persons advance and retire. Figuerez devant—Dance before. Holubieeh— Mazurka step, turning round to each lady. La dame—The lady. La grand chaine—All eight move round, giving alternately right and left hands to partners, beginning with the right. La grand promenade—All eight pro- menade quite round to places, lead- ing to the right. Le cavalier—The gentleman. Le grand quarre—The eight dancers in the figure to form squares. Moulinet—Hands across. The figure will explain if it is the gentlemen, or the ladies, or all eight. Pas d'Allemandc — Each gentleman turns his partner once under his arm, either side. Queue du chat entier—The four oppo- site persons promenade quite round. Retravcrscs—Return to places. Rctravcrses deux en donnant la main gauche—Recross, giving left hands. Traverses — Two opposite persons change places. Traverses deux en donnant la main droite—The two opposite persons cross over, giving right hands. Tour aux coins—Turn at the comets. Tour des mains—Turn and give both hands. Pantalon—First figure in a Quadrille. L'Etl—Second figure in a Quadrille. La Poule—Third figure in a Quadrille. Trenise and La Pastorale — Fourth figure in a Quadrille. La Finale—Fifth figure in a Quadrille. First Set of Quadrilles. 1 Le Pantalon.—Right and left, set and turn partners, lady’s chain, half promenade, half right and left; then sides repeat. 2 Le Ete.—First lady and oppo- site gentleman advance and retire twice,