ilPP APO 23 L Apothecaries’ Weight, so Grains (gr.) make x Scruple, sc. equal to 20 grains Troy. 3 Scruples 1 Dram, dr., equal to 60 grains. 8 Drams.. 1 Ounce, os., equal to 480 grains or 24 scruples. 12 Ounces.... 1 Pound, lb., equal to 5760 grains, or 288 sc., or 96 drams. By this weight medicines are mixed ; but drugs are bought and sold whole- sale by avoirdupois. Apothecaries’ Measure. 60 Minims make 1 Fluid Dram, dr. 8 Fluid Drams 1 Ounce os. 16 Fluid Ounces 1 Pint pt. 8 Pints 1 Gallon gal. APPLES, to keep.—Let them be well dried and packed in a hamper, or box without lid, wrapped in straw, or covered with saw-dust in layers. Keep in a cool place, and not exposed to frost. Apples should always be plucked when the weather is fine; and when packed they should not touch one another. The Americans preserve apples and pears by cutting them into eights, with- out the core, and dry them in a kiln till quite hard; they will keep for two or three years. When used, they steep in hot water. APPLE, Currant, or Damson Dumplings, or Pudding Shred very fine about 5 or 6 ounces of suet, and roll it into 8 or 10 ounces of flour ; add a little salt, and make into a paste with water. Line a basin with the paste, and cover it with the same; tie a cloth over it tightly, and boil till the fruit is enough. Some add eggs and milk in making the paste, but the above is more whole- some. APPLE EGG PUDDING.— Beat an egg well; then add a gill of water or milk, seven or eight table- spoonfuls of flour, and half a spoonful of salt; mix well together. Pare and cut into pieces three apples, and stir them into the batter. Boil the whole in a cloth an hour and a quarter, if in a basin, a little longer. Serve with melted butter flavoured with lemon. APPLE POOL.—Stew apples as directed for gooseberries, and then peel and pulp them. Prepare the milk, &c,, and mix as before. APPLE FRITTERS.—Take one pint of milk, three eggs, salt just to taste, and as much flour as will make a batter. Beat the yolks and whites separately, add the yolks to the milk, stir in the whites with as much flour as will make a batter ; have ready some tender apples, peel them, cut them in slices round the apple ; take the core carefully out of the centre of each slice, and to every spoonful of batter lay in a slice of apple, which must be cut very thin. Fry them in hot lard to a light brown on both sides. APPLE GINGER.—To 4 lb. of apples add 4 lb, of sugar, 1 quart of water, and 2 oz. of the best essence of ginger. First pare the fruit, cutting out every particle of core ; then shape it so as to resemble the small kind of pre- served ginger. Boil the sugar and water together for twenty-five minutes until it is a nice syrup ; then put in the apple, but be sure and do not stir it too much. Add the essence of ginger; if 2 oz. be insufficient, add more. It will take nearly an hour to boil, until it becomes yellow and transparent. There will be some that will not clear; put them by themselves, as they will spoil the appearance of the rest. It .will re- quire skimming. American or Ribstone apples are the best to use. This is an excellent substitute for preserved foreign ginger. APPLE JAM.—Fill a wide jar nearly half full of water ; cut the apples, unpeeled, into quarters, take out the core, then fill the jar with the apples; tie a paper over it, and put it into a slow oven. When quite soft and cool, pulp them through a sieve. To each pound of pulp put three-quarters of a pound of crushed sugar, and boil it gently until it will jelly. Put it into large tart dishes or jars. It will keep for five or more years in a cool, dry place. If for present use, or a month hence, half a pound of sugar is enough. APPLE J ELLY.—Prepare twenty golden pippins; boil them in a pint and a half of water from the spring, till quite tender ; then strain the liquor through a colander. To every pint put a pound of fine sugar ; add cinnamon,