IOI DIN DIS the middle of a table, and then with a piece of linen rub it well over the table; repeatedly change the linen till the table is dry. The table, by repeating this process, will assume a beautiful polish. DINNER PILLS.—Aloes and jalap, of each a ozs. ; rhubarbj % oz. Make into three grain pills with syrups of wormwood. Take from one to four during the day. DIPHTHERIA.—“I have had the treatment of several cases, and have uniformly been successful; the remedy is very simple. It is the external appli- cation of water to the throat, at degrees of temperature alternating from the highest that the human skin will bear, down to almost zero. I am prepared to verify that by proof. A HENDER- SON, M.R.C.S., Eng. 13, Upper Sey- mour St., Portman Square, London, 1858. M. Roche mentions in L' Union Medi- cult that he had saved six patients in six cases of diphtheria by the following mode of treatment. The false mem- branes were first freely cauterized with lunar caustic, and injections then made every hour against the fauces with a solution of common salt, the strength of the solution being such as not to create nausea. Cholorate of potash was also given internally; and tincture of iodine as a topical application, was used in half the cases ; but M. Roche considers that the irrigations with the solution of common salt were the chief agents in the case. DIPHTHERIA, American Remedy for.—Make two small bags to reach from ear to ear, and fill them with wood ashes and salt; dip them in hot water, and wring them out so that they will not drip, and apply them to the throat; cover up the whole with a flan- nel cloth, and change them as often as they become cool, until the throat be- comes irritated, near blistering. For children it is necessary to put flannel cloths between the ashes and the throat to prevent blistering, When the ashes have been on a sufficient time take a wet flannel cloth and rub it with castile soap until it is covered with a thick lather; dip it in hot water, and apply it to the throat, and change as they cool; at the same time use a gargle made of one tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper, one of salt, one of molasses, in a tea-cupful of hot water, and when cool, add one- fourth as much cider, vinegar, and gar- gle every 15 minutes, until the patient requires sleep. A gargle made of cas- tile soap is good to be used part of the time. A correspondent in Maine, in sending the above remedy, says there had been a number of deaths from diphtheria until this remedy was used, since then all had recovered. The Sulphur Treatment of Diphtheria.—An eminent London physician has worked great wonders in treating diphtheria as follows : "He put a teaspoonful of flour of brimstone into a wine-glass of water, and stirred it well with his finger instead of a spoon. When the sulphur was well mixed he gave it as a gargle, and in ten minutes the patent was out of danger. Instead of spitting out the gargle the patient must swallow it. In extreme cases in which he had been called just in time, when the fungus was too nearly closing to allow the gargle, he blew the sulphur through a quill into the throat, and, if the fungus had shrunk to allow of it, then the gargling. He never lost a patient from diphtheria. If a patient cannot gargle, take a live coal, put it on a shovel, and sprinkle a spoonful or two of flour of brimstone at a time upon it; let the sufferer inhale it, holding the mouth over it, and the fungus will die. “ If plentifully used, the whole room may be filled almqst to suffocation, and the patient can walk about in it, inhal- ing the fumes, with doors and windows closed.” DIPHTHERIA.—A gentleman who has administered the following remedy for diphtheria says that it has always proved effectual: Take a to- bacco pipe, place a live coal in the bowl, drop a little tar upon the coal, and let the patient draw smoke into the mouth, and discharge it through the nostrils. The remedy is safe and simple. DISCUTIENT OINTMENT. —Deadly night-shade, bark of bitter- sweet root, cicuta leaves, stramonium leaves, of each 3 ozs.; lard. 1% lb.