WAL 413 WAS express the Juice at home ; for it is rarely unadulterated, if bought. WALNUTS, to Pickle.—When a pin will go into them, put a brine of salt and water boiled, and strong enough to bear an egg, being quite cold first. Let them soak six days; then change the brine, let them stand six more; then drain, and pour over them in the jar a pickle of the best vinegar, with plenty of pepper, pimento, ginger, mace, cloves, mustard-seed, and horse rad- dish ; all boiled together, but cold. To every hundred of walnuts put six spoon- fuls of mustard-seed, and two or three heads of garlic or shalot, but the latter is least strong. In this way they will be good for several years, if closely covered. They will not be fit to eat under six months. This pickle makes good ketchup. WARM PLASTER. Gum plaster, 1 oz. ; blistering plaster, a drachms. Melt over a gentle fire. This plaster is useful in sciatica, and in rheumatic pains; renew once a week. Should it blister the part, use less blis- tering plaster, and add a little camphor. WARTS.—These may be cured by daily touching the top of the wart with the pure Tincture of the Rhus Toxicodendron, or Poison Oak, which grows in North America. It is sold by Che Homoeopathic Chemists. The ap- plication should be continued for a few weeks. Or touch them frequently with blue vitriol, or nitric acid, or chloride of zinc. —A bit of impure potass, moistened, should be applied to the warts, a few minutes, so a3 to leave a whitish paste upon them; put over it a sticking plaster for a week. Repeat, if needed. WARTS.—Rub them daily with a radish. Or, with juice of marigold flowers : it will hardly fail Or, water in which sal-ammoniac is dissolved. Or, apply bruised purslain as a poultice, changing it twice a-day. It cures it in 7 or 8 days. Or, steep in vinegar and salt the rind of a iemon, and apply it to the wart, first the outer side, and then the inner; keep on for 2 hours, and change. Or rub the wart now and then with elixir of vitriol; apply with a bit of wood- WASH for Cleansing and Pre- venting the Hair from falling off. —Take 3 handfuls of rosemary leaves, a small lump of common soda, and 1% dr. of camphor. Put in a Jug, with a quart of boiling water, and cover closely, to keep the steam in. Let it stand for ra hours, then strain it, and add a wine- glassful of rum. This will keep good for 6 months in bottles well corked, and a piece of camphor in each. If the hair falls off much, the wash ought to be applied to the roots, with a piece of sponge, every other day. WASH for a Blotched Face. —Rose-water, 3 ozs., sulphate of zinc, x dr. Mix. Wet the face with it, gently dry it, and then touch it over with cold cream, which also dry gently off. WASH, for the Arm-pits after Sweating. — One quart of spring water ; tincture of myrrh, z oz. ; sul- phate of zinc, % oz. Mix, and sponge. WASHING, made Easy.—One of the best bleaching and emolient agents in washing either the person or clothing, is common refined borax. Dissolve in hot water, % a lb. to 10 gallons ; a great saving in soap is effected by its use. The borax should be pulverized first. It may be procured in the form of cry- stals at any druggist's; it will not in- jure the most delicate fabric ; and laces or other fine tissues may be washed in a solution of borax with advantage to colour, &c. See page 72. WASHING, Ready and Effec- tual Mode of.—Dissolve 1 lb. of soap in 3 quarts of boiling water, the night before washing. Beginning to wash, put the soap into the dolly tub, add 8 table-spoonfuls of spirits of turpentine, and 6 ditto of hartshorn. Pour upon the above 8 gallons of boiling water. Have the clothes ready assorted ; begin with the fine ones. Dolly each lot about 5 minutes, wasii them in hot water in another dolly-tub, if you have it, next in blue water.—When the water is getting cool, put it into the boiler to boil kitchen towels, or any greasy things. N.B.—The quicker the washing ti done the better. As *oon as one lot is taken out of the dolly tub, put another la whilst the others are being rinsed. A Uttle pipe-clay dissolved in the