ANT ARE 21 fic, or relaxant, from twenty to forty drops every three or four hours.—As an Emetic, Ipecacuanha, and Lobelia, stand very high, especially the latter. ANTISCORBUTIC DRINK. —Take of cream of tartar three ounces, juniper berries four ounces, ginger in powder two drachms, and five pounds of sugar, boil in six gallons of water, after boiling half-an-hour, the whole is poured into a tub and allowed to fer- ment. It may be drunk in the quantity of from one to three pints daily, as soon as the fermentation commences. ANTISEPTIC S.—Medicines, counteracting putrescency. ANTI SPASM O DICS. — Medi- cines, abating spasm. ANTI SPASMODIC TINC- TURE.—Tincture of Lobelia, i ounce, Tincture of Cayenne, i ounce ; Com- pound Tincture of Lady’s Slipper, % ounce ; oil of Aniseed, 20 drops.—Begin with a teaspoonful. This is an infallible remedy for spasms, fever, ague, and painful flatulence, and colic. ANTI SPASMODIC CLYS- TER.—To half a pint of thin gruel, add half an ounce, or an ounce of the Foetid Tincture, and forty to sixty drops of Laudanum. This is very useful in spasmodic affections of the bowels, in convulsions, or in all hysteric complaints. ANTS—A small quantity of green sage, placed where ants infest will cause them to disappear.—Quicklime thrown on their nests, and then watered, will destroy them.—Or a strong solution of alum water.—Or gas tar ;—or lime from gas-works.—Gas tar painted round a tree an inch or two broad, will prevent ants and other insects from climbing trees, and will preserve the fruit. APERIENT FOR CHILD- REN.—Infusion of senna, one ounce; mint water, half an ounce; calcined magnesia, one scruple; manna, three drachms ; syrup of roses, two drachms ; (a solution of sugar will do). Mix and give in doses of one or two teaspoonfuls at a time. APERIENT ELECTUARY. Senna, one ounce, powdered; flour of sulphur, half an ounce ; ground ginger, two drachms ; treacle, or honey, four ounces. Mix well. Dose about the size of a nutmeg morning and night. If not strong enough, add a small quantity of jalap. APERIENT, INFANTS’.— Take of rhubarb, five grains; magnesia, three grains ; white sugar, a scruple *, manna, five grains ; mix. Dose, vary- ing from a piece half the size of a sweet- pea to a piece the size of an ordinary pea. APERIENT MIXTURE, Ab- emethy’s. — Epsom Salts, half an ounce; infusion of Senna, six drachms ; tincture of Senna, two drachms; spearmint water, an ounce; distilled water, two ounces; best manna, two drachms. Mix ; and take three or four table-spoonfuls every morning, or every other morning.—This is a valuable mix- ture.—A decoction of Peruvian Bark will render it a Tonic Aperient. APERIENT MIXTURE.— Senna leaves, 2 drachms ; infuse in a quarter of a pint of boiling water, for half an hour, and add Epsom salts, half an ounce ; compound Tincture Of Senna an ounce. Three table-spoonfuls to be taken every three hours. APERIENT MIXTURE, (Tonic).—Boil two ounces of bruised dandelion roots, and one ounce of pow- dered liquorice, in. one quart of water down to one pint; then add Epsom Salts, four drachms ; Sulphate of Iron, four grains ; Elixir of Vitriol, thirty-five drops. This mixture is aperient, and does not debilitate. APERIENT MIXTURE, (Tonic).—Take of Epsom salts 1 ounce, diluted sulphuric acid, one drachm, in- fusion of quassia chips, half an imperial pint, compound tincture of rhubarb, a drachms. Half a wine-glassful for a dose—to be taken twice a day. APERIENT PILLS. —Com- pound Rhubarb Pill, a scruple ; extract of Colocynth, half a drachm ; castile soap, ten grains; oil of juniper, three drops. Beat into a mass; make into ordinary sized pills. Take cne at bed- time. APERIENT PILLS, to pro- mote Digestion—Aloes, 40 grains; extract of gentian, twenty-four grains; extract of colocynth, one drachm ; oil of aniseed, sufficient to make into pills. Take from one to three whan necessary.