140 cou cos COSTIVENESS. —Rise early every morning. Or boi) in a pint and a half of broth, half a handful of mallow leaves, strain, and drink it before you eat any thing else. Do this frequently, If needful. Or, take daily, 2 hours be- fore dinner, a small tea-cupful of stewed primes. Or, live upon bread made of wheat flour with all the bran in it. Or, boil 1% oz. of tamarinds in 3 pints of water to a quart In this,, strained, when cold, infuse all night 2 drachms of senna, and 1 drachm of red rose leaves ; drink a cupful every morning.—An in- fusion of senna, and Epsom salts, with gentian root, and camomile flowers, may be taken every other day. COUGHS. — The following are the best recipes for Coughs. Some of them are of rare excellence :— 1 To allay a Tickling Cough.— 6 table-spoonfuls of treacle ; the juice of % a lemon; simmer over the fire till well incorporated. Take off, and add I table-spoonful of paregoric, and about the size of a horse-bean of refined nitre. Take 2 tea-spoonfuls when the cough troubles. 2 Take 4 ozs. of sugar candy, pow- dered, % oz. of citric acid, or lemon Juice ; mix by heat; add a few drops of oil of aniseed. If the cough is not a dry one, add 20 drops of laudanum, or a dessert spoonful of paregoric. Take a tea-spoonful at a time, when the cough Is troublesome. 3 Two table-spoonfuls of Linseed, 4 ozs. of Liquorice root, or Spanish Juice, 4 ozs of Elecampane root, water 3 quarts, boil down to 3 pints. Dose, a wine- glassful 4 or 5 times a day. 4 Powder of tragacanth, 1 drachm; syrup of white poppies, 2 drachms; laudanum, 40 drops; water, 4 ozs. Shake the powder in the water till it is dissolved, then add the others. Dose : —A teaspoonful 3 times a day. 5 Asthmatic Cough.—Take 2 good handfuls of"Coltsfoot leaves, 1 oz. of Gallic, and 2 quarts of water. Boil down to 3 pints. Strain, and to the liquor add 8 ozs. of sugar, boil gently for 10 minutes. Take % a cupful occa- sionally. 6 Consumptive Cough.—-The following is a most valuable recipe:— Of Sanctuary, Horehound, Bayberry Bark, two pennyworth of each; and of Agrimony, Raspberry Leaves, Clevers, and Ground Ivy, one pennyworth; Ex- tract of Liquorice, 4 ozs. ; and % a tea- spoonful of Cayenne pepper. Gently simmer in 2 gallons of water for z hour. 7 The following has cured most ob- stinate coughs :—Take a pint of milk, warm it, and when it comes to the boil- ing point, add as much made mustard as will turn it to a posset. Take away the curd, and into % a pint of the posset put 1 oz. of brown sugar candy, to dis- solve. Take the posset as hot as you can at night, when in bed, and renew it for 3 or 4 times. This has given relief in asthma. 8 A Dry Cough.—Dissolve £ oz. of gum arabic, oz. of Spanish J uice, and 2 table-spoonfuls of treacle, in a little warm water; add 3 drachms of the syrups of squills, and 2 drachms of syrup of poppies. Cork and shake well. Take a tea-spoonful when the cough is annoying; drink linseed tea, sweetened with sugar-candy. 9 Chew a little Peruvian Bark con- stantly swallowing the spittle. It seldom fails to cure a dry cough. 10 Two or 3 table-spoonfuls of Lin- seed, a small bunch of horehound ; boil to a jelly, and strain. Add lb. of Sugar Candy, lb. of Honey, % ’lb. of loaf Sugar. First boil the horehound in a quart of water ; then add the strained Linseed and the other articles. Simmer for two hours. When cold, add of Chlorodyne to the value of is. Bottle it and cork tight. A small quantity of spirits of wine or Brandy to keep it. When the cough is troublesome, take a table-spoonfuL This Recipe is invalu- able. 11 Balsam cf Tolu, Y> oz. ; gum storax, % drachm; opium, 8 grains ; best honey, 2 oz. ; spirits of wine, % a pint. Digest for 6 days, and strain. If the cough is fast, add K oz. of Ipecacu- anha in powder. 12 An old remedy is to dissolve 2 oz. of mutton suet in a quart of milk, and drink it warm. This relieves a violent cough. 13 Beat well the yolk of an egg, put it in a mortar, and add % a drachm of powdered spermaceti, a little fine sugar, and a table-spoonful of paregoric elixir.