SCO 353 SCA debility, let the food be nutritious, as beef tea, jellies, arrow-root, sago, rice milk, and a little wine. During recovery avoid exposure to cold ; keep the skin dean by tepid ablutions, and occasion- ally bathe the feet in warm water at bed- time. Apply friction to the whole body as much as the patient can bear. Give the tonic bitters, also the Composition Powder. Bella donna has been found to render persons unsusceptible of the fever, in places where it is raging. It is to be given in extract,—the twentieth part of a grain morning and evening. SCARLATINA, AND MEA- SLES.—Dr. Witt states that sesqui- carbonate of ammonia is an antidote to scarlatina and measles. "The dose in these complaints varies from 3 to 10 grains, according to the age of the patient, given at longer or shorter in- tervals, according to the mildness or severity of the attack. The suitable dose dissolved in as small a quantity of cold water as will admit of its being swallow- ed with as many grains of loaf sugar, merely to make it palatable, is all that is required. Any admixture with other medicines, as salines, bark, &c., and all acidulous drinks, are to be avoided. The preliminary treatment is also sim- ple; from half a grain of calomel, for children, to five grains for adults, should be placed on the tongue and swallowed. About an hour after, the first dose of the ammonia is to be given, and repeated every three or four hours, as long as the disorder takes the favourable course. If the disorder increases in violence, the medicine must be given every two hours, or every hour, or sometimes even more frequently, till the graver symptoms are subdued. This medicine has been found to possess similar powers over diphtheria,'’ SCIATICA, a Form of Neural- gia.—It derives its name from the pain taking the course of the sciatic nerve down to the hip and thigh. It is often connected with rheumatism and gout, and most of the remedies for those diseases are applicable to sciatica.—The Vapour Bath is very serviceable. Rub also with the Rheumatic Liquid, or the tincture of aconite. Galvanism applied kt also good. Alac, an embrocation com- posed of one part turpentine, two of soap and opium liniment, and one of tincture of cayenne. A hot bran poultice sprinkled with laudanum often gives ease. Take an aperient, if necessary. Avoid all alcholic drinks, and take light nourishing food. Sciatica often occurs in persons of broken constitution; tonic medicines are appropriate to them, as quinine and iron, or the bitters, which see. SCORBUTIC BLOTCHES. —Put a few handfuls of water cresses bruised, to $ a pint of milk. Simmer over a slow fire until they assume a green colour ; bathe the parts affected with this liquid, and rub it in by the fire. Then rub with simple ointment. SCORBUTIC GUMS.—Take bole ammoniac, a drs. ; myrrh, 1 dr. ; roche alum, $ dr. ; claret, better than j pint. Boil over a gentle fire. Strain. Wash the mouth with it several times a day. SCORBUTIC GUMS.—Wash them daily with the decoction of the Peruvian bark, adding a little tincture of rosemary, with a solution of myrrh. SCOTCH COLLOPS. Cut veal into thin bits about 3 inches over, and rather round ; beat with a rolling- pin, and grate a little nutmeg over them, dip into the yolk of an egg; and fry them in a little butter of a fine brown ; pour the buffer off; and have ready warm to pour upon them half a pint of gravy, a little bit of butter rubbed into a little flour, a yolk of egg, 2 large spoonfuls of cream, and a bit of salt. Don’t boil the sauce but stir it till of a fine thickness to serve with the collops. SCOTCH COLLOPS. Cut slices from a fillet of mutton, or veal Sprinkle with flour, and brown them with butter in the frying-pan. Place in the stew-pan, and cover with gravy, weak broth, or water ; simmer gently 10 or 12 minutes, then add lemon juice, ketchup, mace, pepper, and salt. Put the sauce or liquor in the frying-pan, and thicken with flour, which pour over the collops, and garnish with curled slices of ham or bacon. SCOTCH COLLOPS, Brown. —Brown the butter before the collops are put in ; fry them over a quick fire; turn and keep in a 6nc froth; when