2b APR APR stones as soon as you find the skin will come off. Beat them in a mortar to a pulp; boil % lb. of refined sugar, with a spoonful of water, and skim it well. Then put in the pulp of the apricots ; simmer a quarter of an hour over a slow fire, and stir gently all the time. Pour into shallow flat glasses, turn them out upon glass plates, put them into a stove and turn once a day till dry. APRICOT JAM.—Pare the ri- pest apricots, and cut them thin. Infuse them in an earthen pan till they are tender and dry. To i lb. of apricots, put i lb. of refined sugar, and 3 spoon- fuls of water. Boil the sugar to a candy height and put it upon the apricots. Stir over a slow fire till they look clear and thick ; but they must only simmer, and not boil. Put them into glasses. APRICOT JELLY.—Peel and stone 20 fine apricots. Grate them to a pulp, and put them into a pan with a small cupful of water, and 1 lb. of fine sugar. Add lemon juice, and stir in the white of one egg thoroughly. Boil it till it will jelly when put to cool. Apples, grapes, and damsons, may be jellied in the same way, and in sum- mer they make fine effervescing drinks. —The jelly may be boiled down to make elegant Fruit Candy. APRICOT PUDDING.—Halve twelve large apricots, give them a scald till they are soft; meantime pour on the grated crumbs of a penny loaf a pint of boiling cream ; when half cold, add 4 ounces of sugar, the yolks of four beaten eggs, and a glass of white wine. Pound the apricots in a mortar with some or all of the kernels ; then mix the fruit and other ingredients together; put a paste round a dish, and bales the pud- ding half an hour. APRICOTS, or PEACHES in Brandy.—Wipe, weigh, and pick the fruit, and have ready a quarter of the weight of fine sugar in fine powder. Put the fruit into an ice pot that shuts very close ; throw the sugar over it, and then cover the fruit with brandy. Be- tween the top and cover of the pot, put a piece of double cap-paper. Set the pot into a sauce-pan of water till the brandy Is as hot as you can possibly bear to put your finger in, but it must not boil. Put the fruit into a jar, and pour the brandy on it. When cold, put a bl&ri der over, and tie it down tight. APRICOT MARMALADE.— Apricots that are not fit for preserves, or too ripe for keeping, will answer this purpose. Boil them in syrup till they will mash, then beat them in a mortar to a paste. Take half their weight of loaf sugar, and water enough to it to dissolve it. Boil and skim it till it is clear, and the syrup thick like a fine jelly. Put it into sweetmeat glasses, and tie up close. APRICOTS, to dry in half.— Pare thin and halve four pounds of apricots, weighing them after ; put them in a dish; strew among them three pounds of sugar in the finest powder. When it melts, set the fruit over a stove to do very gently; as each piece becomes tender, take it out, and put it into a china bowl. When all are done, and the boiling heat a little abated, pour the syrup over them. In a day or two remove the syrup, leaving only a little in each half. In a day or two turn them daily, till quite dry, in the sun or a warm place. Keep in boxes, with layers of paper. APRICOTS^ to preserve in Jelly.—Pare the fruit very thin, and stone it; weigh an equal quantity of sugar in fine powder, and strew over it. Next day boil very gently till they are clear, move them into a bowl, and pour the liquor over. The following day pour the liquor to a quart of codlin- liquor, made by boiling and straining, and a pound of fine sugar; let it boil quickly till it will jelly; put the fruit into it, and give one boil, skim well, and put into small pots. APRICOTS, to preserve Green.—Lay vine or apricot leaves at the bottom of your pan, then fruit, and so alternately till full, the upper layer being thick with leaves ; then fill with spring water, and cover down, that no steam may come out. Set the pan at a distance from the fire, so that in four or five hours they may be only soft, but not cracked. Make a thin syrup of some of the water and drain the fruit. When both are cold, put the fruit into the pan and the syrup to it; put the pan at a proper distance from the fire till the apricots green, but on no