SWE SUG 384 Is boiling, and it will clear all the sedi- ment to the top of the pan, which you must skim off as soon as it rises.—Loaf sugar may be cleared with the white of an egg, isinglass, or gum arabic. A little of each will do. SUGAR BOILING. When you boil loaf sugar, to about 3 lbs. add a tablespoonful of vinegar; it prevents it from going too hard and glassy while you are making it up. You may make birds, &c., of all kinds, out of a loaf sugar, when boiled and pulled till white as snow. Loaf sugar, also, whai boiled, by pulling it very well, rolling it into long rolls and twisted a little, will make rock, which is commonly called snowy rock, or snow. Sugar when boiled may be made into small balls, called bull’s eyes. You may twist, roll, and cut it into any shape you choose. A marble stone must be provided to make your paste on, also to pour your sugar on when boiled.—In purchasing all your articles, be careful to have them good and genuine. SUGAR CAKE.—Half a lb. of butter, 1 lb. of flour, 3 eggs, milk enough to form a dough. Beat the butter and sugar together. Whisk the eggs light, and add them ; then stir in the milk and flour alternately, so as to form a dough. Cut in cakes, and bake in a moderate oven. SUGAR GINGERBREAD— Butter, 12 ozs. ; sugar, finely powdered, 8 ozs. ; ground ginger, 1 tablespoonful, and a little cinnamon and nutmeg ; beat these up to a foam ; beat well 4 eggs, and mix them with the other. Add a cupful of cream, a tablespoonful of saleratus, or bicarbonate of j potass, dissolved in hot water. Stir in fine flour as long as it can be worked, and knead thoroughly. Roll into thin cakes ; bake in a quick oven. See page 195. SUGAR LOAF, to Make- Take 6 lbs. of raw sugar, a little bul- lock’s blood and water, boil it, and skim till it is clear, and till it comes to a candy round the edges of the pan; then pour it into a mould in the shape of a sugar loaf. Make strong lime water, and when the sugar Ls cold in the mould, pour the water over it. SUGAR PASTE—For 1 lb. of flour, take a % lb. of sugar, as much butter, a little salt, water, and an egg. This paste may serve for any second course dish. SUGAR PUFFS—Beat up the whites of ten eggs, fill they rise to a high froth ; put them into a mortar, with as much double refined sugar as will make it thick; rub it well round the mortar ; add a few caraway seeds, and take a sheet of wafer cake, and lay it on as broad as a sixpence, and high. Put into a moderate oven for 15 minutes, and they will look white. SULPHUR OINTMENT.— Take of hog's lard prepared, four ounces ; flour of sulphur, an ounce and a half; crude sal ammoniac, two drachms; essence of lemon, ten or twelve drops. Make them into an ointmenr. This ointment rubbed upon the parts affected will generally cure the itch. It is both the safest and best ap- plication for that purpose, and when made in this way, has no disagreeable smell. SWEATING DROPS—Take of camphor, saffron, ipecacuanha, opium, Virginian snake root, of each, j oz. ; Hollands gin, pint. Infuse 2 or 3 days. A wonderfully efficacious cure for fever and ague, after suitable evacuants. Dr. Beach says, ‘‘I find this the best medicine for fever and ague of any with which I am acquainted. In two cases this tincture removed the paroxysms where ether remedies failed ; one patient had been under homoeo- pathic treatment for many months. SWEETMEAT PUDDING. —Cover the dish with a plain puff paste; then take candied orange, or lemon peel, and citron, of each 1 oz. ; slice them thin, and lay them all over the bottom of the dish. Beat up 8 yolks of eggs, and 2 whites, and put to them % lb. of sugar, and % lb. of melted butter. Mix all well together; put it on the sweetmeats, and bake it in a moderate oven an hour. SWELLINGS, Poultice for— Take of barley-meal, or oatmeal, 6 ozs,; fresh leaves of hemlock, braised, 2 ozs.; vinegar, a sufficient quantity; boil to- gether a few minutes. It is very useful in reducing swelling of nearly every kind.