4* BAR BAR a large wooden spoon; weigh the hemes, and put their weight of powdered sugar ; mix well together; put it in your pans and cover it up ; set it in a dry place ; when you have filled the pans, sift powdered sugar over the tops. This fruit is cooling, antiscorbutic, and deobstruent, containing malic and citric acid. They are very useful in all inflammatory fevers, especially typhus, and bilious disorders, and scurvy. In the form of jam, the fruit is very refreshing. BARCLAY’S ANTIBILI- OUS PILLS.—Extract of coly- dnth, 3 drachms; extract of jalap, 1 drachm; almond soap, 1 drachm and a half; guiacum, 3 drachms; tartarised antimony, 8 grains; oil of juniper, 4 drops; oil of caraway, 4 drops: oil of rosemary, 4 drops ; form into a mass with syrup of buckthorn, and divide into pills. BARK, Decoction of.—Boil an ounce of the Peruvian bark, grossly powdered, in a pint and a half of water, to one pint, then strain the decoction. If a teaspoonful of the weak spirits of vitriol be added to this medicine, it will render it both more agreeable and efficacious. BARK, Compound Decoction of.—Take of Peruvian bark, and Virginia snake-root, grossly powdered, each three drachms. Boil in a pint of water to one half. To the strained liquor add one ounce and a half of aromatic water. BARK, Electuary of.—Take of Peruvian bark, in powder, three ounces; cascarilia, half an ounce ; syrup of gin- ger, enough to make an electuary. In the cure of obstinate intermitting fevers, the bark is assisted by the casca- rilla. In hectic habits, however, it will be better to leave out the cascarilia, and put three drachms of crude sal ammo- niac in its stead. BARK, Tincture of.—Peruvian bark, 2 ounces ; of cinnamon and orange peel, Y, ounce each ; cayenne pepper, 4 teaspoonfuls. Infuse all in x% pint of brandy, for six days in a close vessel,— Very useful in agues, remittent fevers, and the slow, nervous, and putrid kinds, especially at their decline. A table- spoonful at a time in anv suitable liquor. sharpened with a few drops of elixir of vitriol. BARLEY GRUEL.—Take of pearl barley 3 ozs. ; boil in two quarts of water till reduced to about one; a little cinnamon or ginger may be added ; strain, and return into the saucepan ; and then add, according to your palate, three quarters of a pint of port wine. BARLEY MILK.—Boil half a pound of pearl barley in three pints of milk ; when sufficiently boiled, add one quart of cream, a stick of cinnamon, and sugar to taste ; when nearly cold, pour in a pint of sherry wine, beat it into a froth, and serve. BARLEY PUDDING.—To 6 eggs well beaten put a quart of cream, half the whites, sweeten to your palate, a little orange flower or rose water, and 1 lb. of melted butter. Then put in six handfuls of barley, boiled tender in milk. Butter the dish, and put it in. Bake it a light brown. BARLEY SOUP.— Take a gallon of water, and half a pound of barley, a blade or two of mace, a large crust of bread, a small piece of lemon- peel ; let it boil till it comes to two quarts ; then add half a pint of sherry wine, and sweeten to your palate. When boiled to 3 quarts, chopped chicken and bacon may be put in, and salt; omitting the sugar. BARLEY SUGAR, Common. —Boil three pounds of coarse raw sugar in three tea-cupfuls of water, over a slow fire for half an hour. Dissolve a little gum in hot water ; and put it in to clear; keep skimming while any scum rises ; when ready it will snap like glass ; cut it into long sticks. BARLEY SUGAR.—Boil one pound of very fine sugar in a tea-cupful of water, over a slow fire for half an hour ; keep skimming it as often as any scum arises on the surface, till enough. Before it comes to the crack, take it off, and pour it on a stone. Clear with vin- egar. You must not pull this but make it into long sticks. Flavour with lemon juice, or oil of lemons ; rub a little fresh butter over a stone or marble slab, and pour sugar along it in narrow strips ; twist it to a spiral form while warm ; and when it becomes cold, mark it across with a