107 CARDS CARDS All the terms used in this grams are French ; nevertheless to be better un- derstood by the general reader, we shall give them in English as well. The game is played in the following manner:— The tailleur and croupier sit opposite to each other, at each side of the table, with a basket, for the purpose of re- ceiving the cards of every coup after dealing, placed on the middle of the table, just between them, The tailleur then passes round six packs of cards, to be shuffled, and mixed confusedly to- gether by all the company. He then shuffles them himself, put- ting all the end cards into various parts of the entire lot, until he comes to an honor of any kind, which being placed upright at the end, is offered to a punter or player, who puts the same into any part of the pack he thinks proper: the tailleur then separates the pack just at that part, and lays that portion of the card that was below the honour uppermost, and, taking there- from a handful of cards, places a weight upon the remainder, and com- mences to deal: he takes afterwards the other portions from the heap under the weight, as they are wanted, until the whole are dealt. He looks at the first card, and puts it face downwards: a red card and a black card are then placed back to back, and that one which is of the same colour with the first card he looked at, is placed uppermost in a conspicuous manner: these two cards that are placed back to back, are turned over each deal, if necessary, so that that card may be uppermost whose colour is the same as the tum-up card in each succeeding coup. When the stakes are deposited, the tailleur cries " Noir” (black,) and turn- ing up the top card, places each suc- ceeding card in a row, until the number of points of those turned up shall exceed thirty; whatever number that may happen to be he declares, at "trente et une ” (one and thirty ;) if above that number, he merely says, “deux, trois, quatre, cinq, six, sept, huit, neuf" (two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine,) if it reaches forty, he says quar- ante. Another pared of the cards is then dealt out for Rouge, or red, until he comes to thirty-one, or the number nearest to it; and whichever colour comes nearest to that number wins the stakes; this the tailleur declares by saying “rouge gagne ” (red wins) 0/ “ rouge perd " (red loses.) These two parcels, one for each colour, make coup. When the same number is dealt and turned up for each, the tailleur says “apres," (after,) which forms “ un refait” (a doublet,) by which neither party loses, except it is “un refait trente et une," then the tailleur wins half the stakes punted on each colour, which half the punters may either pay or have their stakes moved into the middle semicircles of the colour, they then choose on the table called “la premiere prison,1’ (the first prison,) to be determined by the next event whether they lose all or are set at liberty; but if what is called “ un re- fait second trente et une ” (a second doublet of one and thirty) should hap- pen in the next succeeding deal, the punters lose half of their remaining moiety, or three-fourths of the stake they put down at first, and are removed into the smallest semicircle named “la seconde prison" (the second prison,) and the next coup determines whether the punter loses all, or is to be removed again into the first prison. At this game the banker cannot refuse any stake that does not exceed his funds; which the punter declares by saying “Je vais la Banque” (I aim at the bank.) Bankers most generally furnish punters with slips of card-paper ruled in columns, each marked N. or R. on the top, on which accounts are kept by pricking with a pin. Some bankers give up the profit of "un re- fait” during the first deal. SPECULATION, Game of.— This is a lively round game, very often introduced into parties, as allowing scope for conversation and laughter. Almost any number may play at it; in fact, the more the merrier. A complete pack of cards is used, bearing the same value as at whist, with fish or counters, on which a certain value is fixed ; the highest trump in each deal wins the pool. After determining the deal, the dealer