387 TIN THR remove pain, and prevent mortification, internally and externally. It is a fine remedy for rheumatism. It will relieve the headache by taking a dose, bathing the head with it and snuffing it up the nose. It is good for bruises, sprains, swollen joints, and old sores, &c., &c. THRUSH.—An affection pecu- liar to young children, during the period of teething. It is an affection of the mucous membrane of the mouth. It appears in small white ulcers upon the tongue, gums, and around the mouth. If not mild it may extend to the whole of the alimentary canal, from the mouth down to the anus, attended with flatu- lency, purgings, &c. In this severe form it often terminates fatally. Some- times the inside of the mouth becomes so raw and sore, as to make it painful to take nourishment. Elderly people, and persons with debilitated constitu- tions, are liable to this complaint. Attention should be paid to the state of the general system, especially to the stomach and bowels. An emetic is often of great service. Give also a gentle aperient. Small doses of mag- nesia, and the use of lime water will be of great service in removing the acid from the stomach and bowels. The Neutralizing Mixture diluted may be given till the bowels are acted upon. Make a decoction of sage and hyssop, add a little borax, and wash the affected parts with it. Let it be sweetened. A solution of burnt alum has been recom- mended ; or apply it pulverised. THUNDER STORMS.— During those storms, avoid trees, and elevated objects of every kind. If the flash is instantly followed by thunder, it indicates that the electric fluid is very near, and then a recumbent position is best. Avoid rivers and ponds, be- cause water is a conductor, and persons in boats are very likely to be struck by the lightning. Avoid the chimney, for the iron about the grate, the soot, and the ratified air are all conductors. Do not sit near an open window, because a draught of humid air is a good conductor. In bed we are com- paratively safe, for the feathers and blankets are ted conductors, and v/e are, to a great extent, insulated in such situations. TIC DOLOUREUX.—Take \ a pint of rose-water, add 3 teaspoonfuls of white vinegar, to form a lotion. Apply it to the part affected 4 or 5 times a day. It requires fresh linen and lotion each application : this will in 2 or 3 days gradually take away the pain. Quinine, either in pills or as a draught, is also efficacious in removing these pains. Quinine Draught. —Sulphate of quinine, 2 grains ; diluted sulphuric acid, 2 drops; spirit of nutmegs, 1 drachm; distilled water, 10 drachms. Mix. A wine-glassful to be taken daily at mid-day. Cleanse the stomach and bowels by an emetic and an aperient. Give the Restorative Wine Bitters, to which add a little of the subcarbonate of iron. If constipated, take the Dyspeptic Pill, Cold water cloths applied form no mean remedy: also the Rheumatit Liquid, which see. If the pain is very severe, apply the Stimulating Liniment, and afterwards a poultice made of hops, powdered valerian, and a little tincture of cayenne. I have found extract of henbane, in the dose of 3 grains, formed into a pill, given three times a day, to afford great relief. Where there is much irritation of the nerves of the face, particular attention must be paid to the state of the diges- tive organs ; for nothing tends more to keep up nervous irritability than indiges- tion. See Page 217. The extract of belladonna is a good preventive taken previous to the attack. Take one grain. Repeat, if necessary. Chloro- form is now used for Tic. It should be advised by a skilful chemist. Or, pour a pint of boiling water on 1 02. of valerian root, and oz. of cassia. Infuse 24 hours. Take a wine-glassful three times a day, between meals, with a tea-spoonful of powdered Peruvian bark in each glass. Take no tea, coffee, ale, porter, or acids, but a light, nour- ishing diet; and keep the bowels regu- lar with a little Turkey rhubarb. TIN COVERS, to Clean. Mix the finest whiting with the least drop of sweet oil; rub well, and wipe clean; then dust some dry whiting over, and rub bright with dry leather. TINCTURE of LOBELIA— See page 241. Take 4 ozs. of the dried