427 YEA YEL I spoonfuls, boil half an hour, sweeten with near \ lb. of brown sugar ; when near cold, put into it 4 spoonfuls of fresh yeast in a jug, shake it well together, and let it stand one day to ferment near the fire, without being covered. There will be a thin liquor on the top, which must be poured off; shake the remain- der and cork it up for use. Take al- ways 4 spoonfuls of the old to ferment the next quantity, keeping it always in succession. A half-peck loaf will require about a gill. YEAST, to Make Another Way.—Boil 1 lb. of potatoes to a mash; when half cold, add a cupful of yeast, and mix it well. It will be ready for use in two or three hours, and keeps well. Use double the quantity of this to what you do of beer-yeast. To take off the bitter of yeast, put bran into a sieve, and pour it through, having first mixed a little warm water with it. YEAST, for Home-made Bread.—Boil a handful of hops £ an hour in 3 pints of water. Pour half, boiling, through a sieve, upon a cup of flour, mix, and add the rest of the hop water ; a spoonful of salt, half a cup of treacle, and when warm, a cup of yeast. YEAST DUMPLINGS.— Make a very light dough with yeast, as for bread ; use milk if you like, instead of water, add salt. Let it rise an hour before the fire; 20 minutes before you are to serve, have ready a pan of boil- ing water. Make the dough into balls; put them in, and boil 20 minutes. Stick a fork into one, and if it come out clear, it is enough. Do not cut them, but tear them apart at the top, or they will become heavy. Eat while hot, with treacle or sugar, preserve, &c. YEAST POULTICE.—Yeast, 1 gill; milk, 1 pint; slippery elm bark sufficient to make a poultice. Sprinkle over with very finely powdered charcoal, and blood-root. Mix, and form a poul- tice. It is cooling and adapted to arrest gangrene or mortification. It is very appropriate to most sores and ulcers, especially offensive sores. YELLOW DOCK.—See Rob- inson's Herbal. — This plant is well known. The leaves are boiled and eaten. It is moderately astringent, and rather purgative. It is very appropriate to scrofulous complaints. In bilious complaints, internal heat, hectic fever, palpitation of the heart, piles, cutaneous eruptions, &c., it is most valuable. The root may be given in decoction. A poultice of it is very good to discuss all indolent swellings. Made into an ointment, it is good for tetter, ring- worm, &c. YELLOW FEVER.—The first stage usually begins with weariness, chilly fits, faintness, giddiness, flushing of the face, redness of the eyes, pain in the eye-balls, forehead, back, great weakness, anxiety, thirst, and lethargy. The urine is high coloured, deficient, and turbid. The tongue is covered with a dark fur; the perspiration is irregular, interrupted, and lessened; the bile is secreted in unusual quantities, and speedily ejected from the stomach. The skin is very dry, hot, and hard. The eyes, face, and breast become yellow. This stage of the disease lasts about 48 hours. The symptoms begin to abate, by which the patient is flattered ; but returning aggravated symptoms soon undeceive him. He becomes very de- bilitated ; putrefaction takes place; large patches of livid spots appear on different parts of the body ; the tongue becomes dry and black ; black fur on the teeth, and oft blood from the mouth, nose, nostrils, &c. The whole body often exhibits a livid yellow. The causes may be contagion, the use of ardent spirits, marbleizing the liver, destroying digestion, &c. It may be caused by cold, wet feet and clothes, obstructed perspiration, &c. Treatment.—The first object must be to excite action in the stomach, bowels, liver, and skin. Give an emetic; clear the bowels by a brisk purgative. Give the diaphoretic pow- der, and place the patient in the vapour bath, regulating the heat according to- the strength of the patient. While in the bath let the patient drink balm, pennyroyal, or catnep tea. When he comes out of the bath, place him in a warm bed. well covered with-blankets