269 MUS MUT MUSTARD WHEY. —Milk and water, of each, 1 pint; bruised mustard seed, oz.; boU together till the curd be separated ; strain. This is a good way of giving mustard. It warms and invigorates file stomach, and motes the secretions ; it is very use- in nervous disorders, chronic rheu- matism, palsy, dropsy, &c. A tea-cup- ful several times a day. MUSTY CASKS, to Sweeten. —Throw in burning coals, and then cold water. Public brewers wash their casks with lime and water, mixed nearly to the consistence of paint; remain till dry, and then wash well with water. MUSTY FLOUR.—It may be restored by mixing with 15 lbs. of flour, 1 oz. of magnesia. Leaven and bake in the usual way. The loaves will rise well, be spongy and light, and whiter than bread made in the usual way, and have an excellent taste. MUTTON, to Choose.-Choose it by the fineness of its grain, good colour, and firm white fat. It is not the better for being young; if of a good breed and well fed, it is better for age ; but this only holds with wether-mutton : the flesh of the ewe is paler, and the texture finer. Ram mutton is very stroDg-flavoured; the flesh is of a deep red, and the fat is spongy. M UTTON, to Grill a Breast of. —Score a breast of mutton in diamonds, and rub it over with the yolk of an egg ; then strew it over with a few bread crumbs, and shred parsley ; put it into a Dutch oven td broil; baste it with fresh butter; pour in the dish good caper sauce, and serve. MUTTON, Breast of.—Cut off the surperfluous fat, and roast and serve the meat with stewed cucumbers; or to eat cold, covered with chopped parsley. Or half boil and then grill it before the fire ; in which case cover it with crumbs and herbs, and serve with caper sauce, or if boned, take off a good deal of the fat, and cover it with bread, herbs, and seasoning; then roll and boil; and serve with chopped walnuts, or with capers and butter. MUTTON, to Collar a Breast of.—Take out the bones and gristle; then take some grated bread, a few cloves, some mace, pepper, salt, and a little lemon-peel, chopped fine ; lay the meat flat; rub it over with egg, and spread the seasoning over it; add 2 or 3 anchovies, washed and boned, then roll the meat as hard as possible ; bind it with coarse tape, and boil it in a cloth. Or it may be skewered, and ths tape omitted, and either roasted or baked. MUTTON, to Dress a Leg of, to Eat like Venison.—Take a large fat leg of mutton, cut out like a haunch of venison, as soon as it is killed; whilst warm, take out the bloody vein ; stick it in several places in the under side with a sharp pointed knife ; pour over it a bottle of port wine ; turn it in the wine 4 or s times a day for 5 days ; dry it well with a clean cloth ; hang it up in the air with the thick end uppermost for 5 days ; dry it night and morning to keep it from being damp or musty. When it is to be roasted cover with paper and paste, as you do venison. Serve with venison sauce. It will take 4 hours roasting. MUTTON, to Dress a Haunch of.—Keep it as long as it can be preserved sweet; wash it with warm milk and water, or vinegar, if necessary; wash it well, lest the outside should have a bad flavour from keeping. Put a paste of coarse flour on strong paper, and fold the haunch in ; set it at a great distance from the fire, and allow propor- tional time for the paste ; don't take It off till about 35 or 40 minutes before serving, and then baste it continually. Bring the haunch nearer to the fire be- fore you take off the paste, and froth It up as you would venison. 1 A gravy must be made of ij lb. of loin of old mutton, simmered in a pint of water to half, and no seasoning but salt; brown it with a little burnt sugar,