366 SN1 SME separately to drain. When quite cold, pour cold jelly over them, and they will look like living fish. SMELTS, to Fry.—They should not be washed more than is necessary to clean them. Dry them in a cloth, then lightly flour them, but shake it off. Dip them into plenty of egg, then into bread- crumbs, grated fine, and plunge them into a good pan of boiling lard; let them continue gently boiling, and a few minutes will make them a bright yellow- brown. Take care not to take off the light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty mil be lost. SMELTS, to Pickle. — Clean and wash them ; beat very fine, pepper, nutmeg, mace, saltpetre, and salt; put the smelts in a row in a jar ; between every layer of smelts, strew the season- ing with 4 or 5 bay leaves. Then boil some port wine, and pour on a sufficient quantity to cover them. When cold, dose the jar, and keep for use. SMELTS, Eperlans a la Ang- laise.—Put 2 spoonfuls of oil into a stewpan ; salt, and pepper ; the J of a lemon cut in pieces ; having taken off the skin and seeds, with 2 glasses of sherry wine ; let this seasoning boil a Jjf of an hour; put in the smelts ; let them cool; drain, and pour over them the following sauce :—put a small dove of garlic into boiling water to blanch; bruise it with the blade of a knife, and put it into a stewpan with parsley and small onions hashed, and 2 glasses of Champagne ; let it boil 5 minutes ; put in a pat of butter, rubbed in flour; and another pat without flour, salt, and pepper ; thicken the sauce, and add the juice of a lemon. SMOKY CHIMNEYS.—Cer- tain chimneys draw well ordinarly, but are subject to violent fits of smoking in certain winds, and generally in boister- ous weather, blowing both flame and smoke into the room to an intolerable extent. For this particular class of nuisance I have for many years past adopted a very cheap and permanent remedy, which has never failed. In- stead of a common chimney-pot, I fix, in the like manner, a 9-inch drain-pipe, a feet long, socket downwards, which gives it a firm seat; and on this I fix another like drain-pipe, having a 4-lnch double junctions, inserted obliquely into the g-inch pipe. When the wind blows, it rushes into these lateral openings, which, having a turn upwards, direct its blast against the downward current from the top of the pot. The fixing should be in cement, and you have a cheap chimney-top, which will neither perish nor blow off. I use nothing but drain-pipes for chimney-pots, which, as well as being cheaper and stronger than any thing else, admit of a second and third story being added to them if the draught be dull, or the branch pipe top as I have described, if subject to down- ward gusts. For kitchen flues, 12-inch pipes are safer.—T. E. in the Builder. To increase the draught in the chim- ney, some persons make a hole in the hearthstone, providing there is a room below, and cover it with a ventilator to protect it from cinders and ashes. Or, inflate a large ox's bladder, and tie it by the neck to the middle of a stick, and place it across a chimney, 2 feet from the top, or at the foot of the chimney-pot. The buoyancy of the air keeps the bladder continually in a cir- cular motion, and thereby prevents the rush of air into the funnel from descend- ing so low as the fire-place. SNIPES, to Dress in Surtout. —Make a forcemeat of veal and beef suet, pounded with crumbs of bread ; add beaten mace, pepper, salt, parsley, and sweet herbs, mixed with the yolk of an egg; lay some of this round the dish ; put in the birds drawn and half- roasted. Chop the trail, and put it all over the dish. Put some small mush- rooms, a sweetbread, and artichoke bottoms, cut small, into some good gravy ; stew all together, and beat up the yolks of 2 eggs in a spoonful of sherry ; stir all together one way. When thick take it off, and when cold pour it into the surtout. Put the yolk of a few hard eggs here and there. Season with beaten mace, pepper, and salt; cover with the forcemeat; colour with the volks of eggs, and send to the oven for half an hour. SNIPES, to Roast. — Do not draw them. Spit them; flour them, and baste with butter. Toast a slice of bread brown ; place it in the dish under the birds for the trail to drop on. When thcv are cnocurh, take up, and lay them