44 BED BEA beans boiled, beat in a mortar, with a very little pepper, salt, and nutmeg; then by degrees, mix them to the butter. BEANS, FRENCH. —String, and cut them into four or eight; the last looks best. Lay them in salt and water, and when the sauce-pan boils put them in with some salt. As soon as they are done, serve them immediate- ly ; to preserve the green colour. BEANS, FRENCH, a la Creme.—Slice the beans and boil them in water with salt. When soft, drain: Put into a stew-pan two ounces of fresh butter, the yolks of three eggs, beaten up into a gill of cream, and set over a slow fire. When hot, add a spoonful of vinegar, and the bones, simmer for five minutes. BEANS, FRENCH, ala Pou- lette.—Choose the beans small and tender; clean them, and take out the fibers, and throw them into fresh water ; cut them all to one size ; put them upon a hot fire, in a pot or stew pan, with water, and a handful of salt; let them be well done and very green; throw them into cold water, drain, and put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter, cut onions in little dice, do them white in butter, dust in a little flour, let them cook a little without browning; add a spoonful of soup; mix it well with hashed parsley and scallions ; salt and pepper ; when done enough put in the beans, give them a boil; thicken the sauce with two or three yolks of eggs ; finish with the juice of a lemon and butter. BEANS, FRENCH, to boil.— Cut the ends of your beans off, then cut them slantways ; put them in strong salt and water as you do them ; let them stand an hour ; boil them in a large quantity of water, with a handful of salt in it, they will be a fine green; when you dish them up pour on them melted butter. BEANS, FRENCH, to pre- serve for Winter. — Pick them oung, and throw into a little wooden eg a layer of them three inches deep ; then sprinkle them with salt, put ano- ther layer of beans, and do the same as high as you think proper, alternately with salt, but not two much of this. Lay over them a plate, or cover of wood, that will go Into the keg, and put a heavy stone on it. A pickle will rise from the beans and salt. If they are too salt, the soaking and boiling will be sufficient to make them pleasant to the taste. BEANS, FRENCH, Pickled. —Put small young beans into strong salt and water for three days, and stir now and then. Put them into a sauce- pan with vine leaves, under and over them, and fill with salt and water ; keep on the fire till they are a fine green; drain; place in jars, and cover them with vinegar, allspice, cayenne, ginger, boil six minutes ; pour on hot. BEANS, FRENCH, as Salad. —Boil the beahs in salt and water, drain them, season with cayenne pepper, cream and vinegar; cover them; to stand three hours. Drain again, and mix salad of any kind, seasoning in the usual way, BEANS, Windsor, Fricasseed. —When grown large, but not mealy, boil, blanch, and lay then in a white sauce ready hot; just heat them through in it, and serve. If any are not of a fine green, do not use them in this dish. BEAUTY, personal, to pro- mote.—Labour to be cheerful. Do not give way to trouble. If you have misfortunes, bear them with submission; for brooding, maundering, &c. do no good. Above all be good-tempered. For the state of the mind has great influence upon the facial appearance, and bodily attitude. BECHAMEL SAUCE.—Put a few slices of ham into a stew-pan, a few mushrooms, two or three shalots, two clovei, also a bay leaf and a bit of butter. Let them stand a few hours. Add a little water, flour, and milk or cream ; simmer forty minutes. Scalded parsley, very fine, may be added. BEDS, to detect dampness in. —After having warmed the bed with the pan, place between the sheets a wine or beer glass ; if after a few minutes, the glass collects no vapour, it is safe, and vice versa. In all doubt- ful cases, such as a strange bed, sleep between the blankets. BED SORES.—The white of an egg beaten to a strong froth ; then drop