139 COS COR as nitrate of silver, (lunar caustic,) by wetting the com, and touching it with a pencil of the caustic every evening ; pre- viously soften the skin by immersing the feet in warm water.—Or apply a blister the size of a sixpence.—Or the following remedies:— 1 Apply fresh every morning, the yeast of small beer spread on a rag.-— Or, after paring them close, apply bruis- ed ivy-leaves daily, and in fifteen days they will drop out—Or, apply chalk powdered and mixed with water. This also cures warts. Some corns are cured by a pitch plaster.—All are greatly eased by steeping the feet in hot water where- in oatmeal is boiled. This also helps dry and hot feet 2 Four ounces of white diachlyon plaster, 4 ozs. of shoemaker’s wax, and 50 drops of muriatic acid, or spirits of salt Boil these ingredients for a few minutes in an earthen pipkin, and when cold, roll the mass out between the hands or upon a marble slab, slightly moistened with olive oil. 3 Rub together in a mortar, 2 ozs. of powdered savine leaves ; % oz. of ver- digris, and % oz. of red precipitate. Mix, and put some of it in a linen bag; apply to the com at bed-time. 4 Some people roast a clove of garlic, and fasten it on with a piece of cloth at the time of going to bed. It softens the corns, and removes the core in 2 or 3 night’s using. When the garlic is taken off, wash the foot with warm water, in a little time the indurated skin that forms the homy tunic of the com will disap- pear. Avoid tight shoes, boots, and stock- ings, to be devoid of corns. 5 Bathe the feet for 20 or 30 minutes In strong soda water and soft soap. After repeating a few times, the com may be easily drawn out.—If the com be soft, apply a rag dipped in turpentine. —Corns should never be cut without be- ing softened in warm water and soap. 6 Sir Astly Cooper gives the following recipe as an infallible cure : — Gum Ammoniacum, 2 ozs. ; yellow wax, 2 ozs. ; verdigris, 6 drachms. Melt them together, and spread the composition on a piece of soft leather, or linen ; cut away as much of the corn as you can, before you apply the plaster: renew in a fortnight, If the com Is not gone. 7 A hard com should be soaked night and morning in hot water, and scraped. Tincture of Iodine, laid on with a camel's hair brush twice a day will remove a hard com. For a soft com, the solution of potass should be well rubbed in. 8 Tincture of Iodine, 4 drachms ; Io- dide of iron, 12 grains ; chloride of an- timony, 4 drachms. Mix and apply, after paring the com. After bathing the feet and cutting the corns, apply to them a leaf of house- leek, or one of ground-ivy, or of pur- slane, well steeped in vinegar. Renew every evening for a few days.—Or bathe the feet in Sea salt. CORN SOLVENT, Sir H. Davy’s.—Potash, 2 parts; Salt of Sorrel, 1 part: Mix in fine powder. Lay a small quantity on the com for four successive nights, binding it on with rags. CORPULENCY. —Mr. Alfred William Moore, sent the following com- munication to the Medical Times:— " Fat is a necessary ingredient of the body. Nature is sometimes too liberal in its supply ; it then becomes burden- some, and subjects the objects of its prodigality to ridicule. The discovery of a certain remedy may prove a boon. The following systematic plan of treat- ment, adopted by myself, who am con- stitutionally fat, will clearly show that abstaining from bread and fermented liquors will remedy this inconvenience : —Weighing 15 % stones, I reduced my- self in three months to 12 % stones by strictly adhering to the following plan of dieting myself: Breakfast early, con- sisting of 2 oz. of biscuit, 1 egg, 2 cups of tea or coffee ; then fasted till five, my dinner consisting of animal food, Sec., but no bread : likewise avoiding bread at my tea or supper.” Abstain as much as possible from the use of butter, sugar, and fat meat, and take plenty of exercise every day. COSMETICS. —It is said that Pimpemal water is a great beautifier of the countenance.—Or, melt r lb. of soft soap, and % a pint of sweet oil, and add a tea-cupful of very fine sand, and 3 or 4 drops of camphorated spirit. COSTIVENESS.—See Consti- pation, page 134,