BIL BIL 57 distance of balk, it must (if at the com- mencement of the game, or if the player’s ball be in hand) be measured from the centre spot in the circle; but if the striker’s ball be not in hand, the measurement must be made from his ball to the others; and in both cases it must be decided by the marker, or by the majority of the company; but should the distance be equal, then the parties must draw lots. 5. The baulk is no protection to pool under any circumstances. 6 The player may lose a life by any one of the following means:—by pocket- ing his own ball; by running a coup ; by missing a ball; by forcing a ball off the table ; by playing with the wrong ball; by playing at the wrong ball; or by playing out of his turn. NJ3.—A life Is lost b7 a ball being pocketed. 7 Should the striker pocket the ball he plays at, and by the same stroke pocket his own, or force it over the table, he loses the life, and not the person whose ball he pocketed. 8 Should the player strike the wrong ball, he pays the same forfeit to the person whose ball he should have played at, as he would have done if he had pocketed himself. 9 If the striker miss the ball he ought to play, and strike another ball, and pocket it, he loses a life, and not the person whose ball he pocketed; in which case, the striker’s ball must be taken off the table, and both balls should remain in hand until it be their turn to play. 10 If the striker, whilst taking his aim, enquire which is the ball he ought to play at, and should be misinformed by any one of the company, or by the marker, he does not lose a life; the ball must, in this case, be replaced, and the stroke played again. 11 If information is required by the player, as to which is his ball, or when it is his turn to play, he has a right to an answer from the marker, or from the players. 12 When a ball or balls touch the striker’s ball, or are in line between it, and the ball he has to play at, so that it will prevent him hitting any -part of the object ball, they must be taken up until the stroke be played; and after the balls have ceased running, they must be replaced. 13 If a ball or balls are in the way of a striker’s cue, so that he cannot play at his ball, he can have them taken up. 14 When the striker takes a life, he may continue to play on as long as he. can make a hazard, or until the balls are all off the table ; in which latter case he plays from the baulk, or places his ball on the spot as at the commence- ment. 15 The first person who loses his three lives is entitled to purchase, or, as it is called, to star, (that being the mark placed against his fives on the board to denote that he has purchased), by pay- ing into the Pool the same stun as at the commencement, for which he receives lives equal in number to the lowest num- ber of fives on the board. 16 If the first person out refuses to star, the second person may do it; but if the second refuses, the third may do it; and so on, until only two persons are left in the Pool, in which case the privilege of starring ceases. 17 Only one star is allowed in a Pool. 18 If the striker should move his or another ball whilst in the act of striking his own ball, the stroke is considered foul; and if by the same stroke he pocket a ball, or force it off the table, the owner of that ball does not lose a life, and the ball must be placed on the original spot; but if by that stroke he should pocket his own ball, or force it off the table, he loses a fife. 19 If the striker’s ball touch the one he has to play at, he is at liberty either to play at it, or any other ball on the table, and it is not to be considered a foul stroke ; in which case, however, the striker is liable to lose a life by go- ing into a pocket, or over the table. 20 After making a hazard, if the striker should tike up his ball or stop it before it has done running, he cannot claim the fife or the hazard from the person v/hose ball was pocketed ; it be- ing possible that his own ball might have gone into a pocket if he had not stopped it. 21 If, before a star, two or more balls are pocketed, by the same stroke, in- cluding the ball played at, each having one ljfe, the owner of the ball first struck