8o BUG BRU swelling, apply a cloth five or si* times doubled, dipped in cold water, and redipped when it grows warm. BRUISES.—Cover with linen, wet with vinegar and wormwood boiled together. Put a small bit of lard on the surface, and apply slightly warm. In very bad cases a leech or two will ex- pedite the cure. BRUISES, Embrocation for. —Pour upon two ounces of carbonate of ammonia, (smelling salts) as much distilled vinegar as will dissolve it; then add a pint and half of common rectified spirit, and shake the whole together in a bottle. It is a good remedy for sprains and bruises. BRUSSELS SPROUTS.— Place in boiling water for fifteen min- utes, then add sufficient salt, and boil ten minutes more. Drain them well, and serve with melted butter. BUBBLE AND SQUEAK.— Cut cold boiled or roast beef into slices ; squeeze and chop some cabbage that has been dressed; put both together into a frying pan, with a little butter, pepper and salt, if requisite; fry them for a few minutes ; when done, raise the cabbage high in the middle of a dish, and put slices of beef round, fat and lean alternately. BUBBLE AND SQUEAK.— Cold roast veal, cut into tit bits, with the flower (only) of a cauliflower, and cut small; warm in a frying-pan with a quarter pint of cream, and seasoned with salt and cayenne pepper. It is a de- lightful dish. BUCHU LEAVES.—They are diuretic and tonic, and a most valuable remedy in rheumatism, irritable bladder, gravel, stricture, &c. They are given in infusion and tincture. Infuse half an ounce of leaves in half a pint of boiling water, for three or four hours. A wine- glassful for a dose two or three times a day; or from one drachm to half an ounce of the tincture. BUCKBEAN.—See Robinson's Herbal. It is a valuable herb in scurvy, hypochondria,'ague, rheumatism, erup- tions, &c. The leaves in infusion. BUCKtHORN. —See Robin- son's Herbal. The plant is purgative, and celebrated in dropsies, rheumatism, and gout. BUGS.—Persons who travel often meet with these vermin, and are sadly bitten by them. To prevent this, let your shirt, or night shirt be washed as ordinarily, well wrung, and then dipped in a solution of alum, or in a solution of camphor, and then dried. A sure preventive. BUG POISON.—The spirit of tar is a powerful remedy, applied by means of a brush ; chloride of lime is a very good wash.—Bugs have become so general a nuisance, much care is neces- sary to get rid of them. Bedsteads should be taken to pieces at the begin- ning of the year, and each part washed with a strong solution of corrosive sub- limate. The crevices or cracks should be stopped up with putty, then the joints and crevices painted with white lead, to be well dried before the bed is put together. Bugs do not like paint, it is too cold for them. If the walls are infested, the paper should be removed, and the walls washed with the corrosive sublimate, (stopping all cracks in the walls with plaster of Paris.) The floor in inveterate cases, may be painted all round the skirting-board to the extent of four inches. As the corrosive sub- limate is a strong poison, the bottle con- taining it should be marked, and a caution given to those who apply it. Coal oil, or naptha, is said to be a sure destroyer of bed-bugs. Apply plentifully, with a small brush or fea- ther, to all places where they congre- gate. The cure is effectual and per- manent. Gilt frames, chandeliers, &c., rubbed slightly over with coal oil, will not be disturbed by flies. BUGS, to Destroy.—r. Corro- sive sublimate, i ounce; muriatic acid, 2 ounces; water, 4 ounces; dissolve, then add turpentine, 1 pint; decoction of tobacco 1 pint; mix. For the decoc- tion of tobacco boil two ounces of it in a pint of water. This mixture must be applied with a paint brush. This wash is a deadly poison. 2 Dissolve camphor in spirits of wine, then add nearly the same quantity of turpentine. Apply it with a brush to the bed, furniture, &c., infested by the vermin. The smell of this is very whole- some, but death to the bugs, &c. 3 Arsenic, one ounce ; soft soap, two ounces ; camphor nearly half ounce, dis-