368 SOL SOL Zinc and lead are soldered with lead and tin, not quite equal parts, lead pre- ponderating. To use Old Britannia Metal instead of Block Tin in Solder. Take old britannia metal and melt it; and while hot sprinkle sulphur over it and stir a short time. SOLDERING, Hard.—To braise s pieces of iron together, file one side of each piece bright, put on the clean face a paste made of borax and water, tie the two pieces together with several separate coils of brass wire, smearing more borax on these. Hold it over a bright coke fire, and the brass will melt and run into the joint. File oft the superfluous metal. When the brass melts a blue flame will be seen to arise. SOLDERING MIXTURE, for Iron, Steel, Copper, &c.— Take any quantity of muriatic acid, and dissolve as much sine in it as it will take; then dilute it with # as much soft water as of add, and it will be ready for use. This applied to iron, &c., cleanses it, and leaving zinc upon the surface, causes solder readily to adhere to it. SOLES, to Choose.—If good, they are thick and firm, the belly of a fine cream colour : if they incline to a bluish colour, and are flabby, it is evi- dent that they are not fresh. They are in perfection about Midsummer. SOLES, a la Horley.—After cleaning the soles cut them entirely open by the back from head to tail; cut each into four nice fillets, and steep them in lemon juice, salt, parsley, and sliced onions ; shake them in this sea- soning, where they ought to remain nearly an hour; when ready to serve, drain, flour, and fry them; they must be firm and of a good colour; dish, and serve under an lialientu or tomato sauce. SOLES, a la Portugese. — Take one large, or two small; if large, cut the fish in two; if small, they need only be split. The bones being taken out, put the fish Into a pan with a bit of butter and some lemon juice, give a fry, then lay the fish on a dish, and spread a forcemeat over each piece, and roll It round, fastening the roll with a few small skewers. Lay the rolls into a small earthen pan, beat an egg and wet them, then strew crumbs over; and put the remainder of egg, with a little meat gravy, a spoonful of caper sauce, an anchovy chopped fine, and some parsley into the bottom of the pan; cover it close, and bake it till the fish are done enough in a slow oven. Then place the rolls in the dish for serving, and cover it to keep them hot till the gravy baked is skimmed ; if not enough, a little fresh, flavoured as above, must be prepared and added to it. SOLES, to Boil.—Skin and gut two soles ; wash, and lay them in vine- gar, salt and water for two hours ; then put them into a stewpan with a pint of sherry, sweet herbs, onion, and cloves, pepper, and salt. Cover them, and when done enough, put in the dish; strain the liquor, thicken it with butter and flour ; pour the sauce over. Gar- nish with horse radish and with lemon. SOLES, Broiled.—Take two or three soles, divide them from the back bone, and take off the head, fins, and taiL Sprinkle the inside with salt, roll them up tight from the tail end up- wards, and fasten with small skewers. If large or middling, put half a fish in each roll; small do not answer. Dip them into yolks of eggs, and cover them with crumbs. Do the egg over them again, and then put more crumbs; and fry them a beautiful colour in lard, or do them in the oven., SOLES, to Fricassee.—Cut the flesh from the bones ; cut it longways, and then across, so that each fish may make 8 pieces ; put the bones (and head if you like) into a stewpan with a pint of water, sweet herbs, onion, pepper, mace, salt, a crust of bread, and a little lemon peel; cover, and boil till half wasted. Strain, and put it into the stewpan with the fish ; add half a pint of sherry, a little chopped parsley, a few cut mushrooms, grated nutmeg, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Place over a slow fire, and shake till the fish are enough. SOLES, to Fry.—Take what soles are necessary; gut and skin them ; cut them down tire back; draw the blade of the knife along the fins to