MAR M AK 250 (J.) Every married woman carrying 00 a trade separately from her husband shall, in respect of her separate property, be subject to the bankruptcy laws in the same way aa if she were a feme sole. [NOTE.—This section places a married wo- man on exactly similar footing with a single woman.] 5. Every woman who marries after the commencement of this Act shall be entitled to have and to hold as her separate pro- perty and to dispose of in manner afore- said all real and personal property which shall belong to her at the time of marriage, or shall be acquired by or devolve upon her after marriage, including any wages, earn- ings, money, and property gained or ac- quired by her in any employment, trade, or occupation, in which she is engaged, or which she carries on separately from her husband, or by the exercise of any literary, artistic, or scientific skill. 8. Any money or other estate of the wife lent or entrusted by her to her husband for the purpose of any trade or business carried on by him, or otherwise, shall be treated as assets of her husband’s estate in case of his bankruptcy, under reservation of the wife’s claim to a dividend as a creditor for the amount or value of such money or other estate after, but not before, all claims of the other creditors of the husband for valuable consideration in money or money’s worth have been satisfied. [NOTE.—Thus a married woman may lend her husband money for carrying on his trade, but in case of her husband’s bank- ruptcy she will not be entitled to a dividend until the other creditors have been paid in full.] 4. The execution of a general power by will by a married woman shall nave the effect of making the property appointed liable for her debts and other liabilities in the same manner as her separate estate is made liable under this Act. 6. Every woman married before the com- mencement of this Act 6hall be entitled to have and to hold and to dispose of in man- ner aforesaid as her separate property all real and personal property, her title to which, whether vested or contingent, and whether in possession, reversion, or re- mainder, shall accrue after the commence- ment of this Act, including any wages, earnings, money, and property so gained or acquired by her as aforesaid. [NOTE.—The Act applies to women married before the Act comes into operation who may acquire property after January 1st, 1883, the time when the Act takes effect.] 6. All deposits in any post office or other savings bank, or In any other bank, all annuities granted by the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt or by any other person, and all sums forming part of the public stocks or funds, or of any other stocks or funds transferable in the books of the Governor and Company of the Bank of England, or of any other bank, which at the commencement of this Act are standing in the sole name of a married woman, and all shares, stock, debentures, debenture stock, or other interests of or in any corporation, company, or public body, municipal, commercial, or otherwise, or of or in any industrial, provident, friendly, benefit, building, or loan society, which at the commencement of this Act are standing in her name, shall be deemed, unless and until the contrary be shown, to be the sepa- rate property of such married woman; and the fact that any such deposit, annuity, sum forming part of the public stocks or funds, or of any other stocks or funds transferable in the books of the Governor and Company of the Bank of England or of any other bank, share, stock, debenture, debenture stock, or other interest as afore- said, is standing in the sole name of a mar- ried woman, shall be sufficient prima facie evidence that she is beneficially entitled thereto for her separate use, so as to authorise and empower her to receive or transfer the same, and to receive the divi- dends, interest, and profits thereof, without the concurrence of her husband, and to in- demnify the Postmaster General, the Com- missioners for the Reduction of the National Debt, the Governor and Com- pany of the Bank of England, the Gover- nor and Company of the Bank of Ireland, and all directors, managers, and trustees of every such bank, corporation, company, public body, or society as aforesaid, in respect thereof. [N0 TE.—Special attention is called to this one of the most important clauses in the Act. All moneys invested in Post Office Savings’ Banks, Building Societies, Loan Societies, Banks, or any other Corporation, Society, or Club in the wife's name, wmii OXLY BE PAYABLE TO THE WIVE, and not as hitherto to the husband if demanded. Money paid to a husband ixvestkd nr A wipe’s name may BE EECovexed agaix FROM A SOCIETY BY THE WIPE. It will be well for Secretaries and others con- nected with small investments in women’s names to be extremely careful not to pay to the husband without the wife’s writ- ten AUTHORITY.] 7. All sums forming part of the public stocks or funds, or of any other stocks or funds transferable In the books of the Bank of England or of any other bank, and all such deposits and annuities respectively as are mentioned In the last preceding sec- tion, and all shares, stock, debentures, de- benture stock, and other interests of or in any such corporation, company, public body or society as aforesaid, which after the commencement of this Act shall be