74 BRE BRE In the middle, as it much improves the flavour. BREAD, Making and Baking. Currants should be well washed, dried, and set before the fire. If damp they will make cakes or puddings heavy. Before they are added, dredge them with dry flour, and a shake given to them which causes the cakes, &c., that they are put to, to be lighter. Eggs should be well beaten, whites and yolks apart, and always strained. Sugar should be rubbed to a powder on a clean board, and sifted through a fine hair sieve. Lemon-peel should be pared thin, and with a little sugar beaten to a paste, and then mixed with a little wine, or cream, so as to divide easily among the other ingredients. After all the articles are put into the pan, they should be very well beaten, as the lightness of the cake depends on their being well incorporated. Whether black or white plum-cakes, they require less butter and eggs for having yeast, and eat equally light and rich. If the leaven be only of flour, milk and water, and yeast, it becomes tougher, and is less easily divided, than if the butter be first put with those in- gredients, and the dough set to rise by the fire. The heat of the oven is of great im- portance for cakes, especially those that are large. If not pretty quick, the batter will not rise. Should you fear its catch- ing by being too quick, put some paper over the cake to prevent its being burnt. If not long enough lighted to have a body of heat, or if it is become slack, the cake will be heavy. To know when it is soaked, take a broad-bladed knife that is very bright, and plunge it into the centre, draw it instantly out, and if the least stickiness adheres, put the cake immediately in, and close the oven. If the heat was sufficient to raise, but not to soak, I have had fresh fuel quickly put in, and kept the cakes hot till the oven was fit to finish the soaking and they turned out well. But those who bake ought to be careful that no mistake occur from negligence when large cakes are to be baked. BREAD, TO MAKE. —Put' half a bushel of good flour into a knead- ing-tub; mix with it between four and five quarts of warm water, and a pint and a half of good yeast, put It into the flour, and stir it well with the hands till it becomes tough. Let it rise an hour and twenty minutes, or less if it rises fast; then, before it falls, add four quarts more of warm water, and half a pound of salt; work it well, and cover it well with a cloth. Put the fire then into the oven; and by the time it is warm enough the dough will be ready. Make the loaves about four pounds each ; sweep out the oven clean and quick, and put in the bread ; shut it up close, and two hours and a half will bake it. In summer the water should be milk warm, in winter a little more, and in frosty weather as hot as you can well bear your hand in, but not scalding, or the whole will be spoiled. If baked in tins, the crust will be very nice. Rolls, muffins, or any sort of bread, may be made to taste new when two or three days old, by dipping them uncut in water, and baking afresh or toasting. BREAD CAKE. —Take the quantity of a quartern loaf from the dough, when making white bread, and knead well into it two ounces of butter, two of sugar, and eight of currants. Warm the butler in a tea-cupful of good milk. By the addition of an ounce of butter or sugar, or an egg or two you may make the cake the better. A tea- cupful of raw cream improves it much. It is best to bake it in a pan, rather than as a loaf, the outside being less hard. BREAD, FRENCH.—With a quarter of a peck of fine flour mix the yolks of three and whites of two eggs, beaten and strained, a little salt, half a pint of good yeast that is not bitter, and as much milk, made a little warm, as will work into a thin light dough. Stir it about, but don’t knead it. Have ready three quart wooden dishes, divide the dough among them, set to rise, then turn them out into the oven, which must be quick. Rasp when done. BREAD, ITALIAN.—Make a stiff dough, with two pounds of fine flour, six of white powdered sugar, three or four eggs, a lemon-peel grated, and two ounces of fresh butter. If the dough is not firm Enough, add more flour and sugar. Then turn it out, and work it well with the hand, cut it into round long biscuits, and glaze them with white of egg.