KMK 171 ELF. In America they flavour elder wine with hops, which renders it a more wholesome beverage—about 1 02. of hops to every gallon of wine. ELECAMPANE. —This plant Is tonic, astringent, diuretic, and expec- torant. It is good in colds, coughs, pulmonary irritation, consumption, and indigestion. It may be given in pow- der, decoction, or infusion. ELECTUARY for COUGH. —Take syrup of horehound, ground- ivy, and white poppies, of each one ounce, and spermaceti, half a drachm. Mix and beat these very fine, and take a little spoonful when your cough is troublesome, and at going to rest. ELM BARK. — See Slippery Elm. EMBROCATION, for Sprains and Bruises.—Vinegar, 1 pint; distilled water, % pint; rectified spirits, 1 % pint; camphor, 2 ozs. ; Dissolve the camphor in the spirits of wine, and put all together. Another. — Carbonate ammonia, 2 ozs. : vinegar, 2 pints; proof spirits, 3 pints. Mix the ammonia and vinegar ; when the effervescence ceases, add the spirit. For inflammation of the joints, of some standing, mix with aniseed meal, and use as a poultice twice a day. It is also valuable for sprains, bruises, and other injuries. Another for Lumbago, Gouty Pains, and Rheumatism.—Soap Liniment, 2 ozs. ; spirit of camphor, 1 oz. ; oil of thyme, 2 drachms ; tincture of opium, i drachm. Mix, and rub well over the part affected. It is good for toothache. EMBROCATION, Valuable. —Take half an ounce of camphor, cut it into small pieces, and dissolve it in half a pint of spirits of wine, in a closely corked bottle; when completely dis- solved, add one pint of ox-gall, (which can be had of any butcher's) and about forty or fifty drops of laudanum ; shake it well and bottle it tor use. Apply lint dipped into it. EMBROIDERY, Articles of, to Clean.'—Gold and silver fancy- work may be cleaned with a little spirit of wine, diluted with an equal weight of water. Alkalies and Acids destroy the beauty of the ardcles Instead of cleaning them. EMERGENCIES.—Recovery of persons apparently drowned or dead.—1. Lose no time. 2. Avoid all rough usage. 3. Never hold the body up by the feet. 4. Nor roll the body on casks. 5. Nor rub the body with salt and spirits. 6. Nor inject tobacco smoke, or infusion of tobacco. Restorative Means, if appar- ently Drowned.—Send quickly for medical assistance; but do not delay the following means :— I. Convey the body carefully, with the head and shoulders supported in a raised condition, to the nearest house. II. Strip the body and rub it dry then wrap it in hot blankets, and place it in a warm bed in a warm chamber. III. Wipe and clean the mouth and nostrils. IV. In order to restore the natural warmth of the body ; 1. Move a heated covered warming pan over the back and spine. 2. Put bladders, or bottles of hot water, or heated bricks, to the pit of the stomach, the armpits, between the thighs, and to the soles of the feet. 3. Foment the body with hot flannels ; but if possible. 4. Immerse the body in a warm bath as hot as the hand can bear without pain, 5. Rub the body briskly with the hand ; but do not suspend the use of the other means at the same time. V. To restore breathing, introduce the pipe of a common bellows, into one nostril, carefully closing the other and the mouth; at the same time draw- ing downwards, and pushing gently backwards, the upper part of the wind pipe, to allow the free admission of air ; blow the bellows gently, in order to in- flate the lungs, till the breast be a little raised : the mouth and nostrils should then be set free, and a moderate pres- sure made with the hand upon the chest. Repeat this process till life appears. VI. Electricity to be employed early by a medical assistant. VII. Inject into the stomach, by means of an elastic tube and syringe, % pint warm brandy, or wine and water.