MU£» 268 mxts 'week. The temperature of the house should be about 550. Those who have cucumber frames, can easily grow mushrooms by putting some of the spawn 4 or 5 inches deep in the mould, when the plants are nearly done with. Mushroom beds or boxes may be formed and planted at any season but decidedly the best times are the months of September and February; a bed spawned in September will last through the winter months, and ^rill be succeed- ed by the February or March bed, which will in its turn give a supply through the summer and autumn. MUSHROOM KETCHUP.— Take the largest broad mushrooms, break them into an earthen pan, strew salt over, and strew them now and then for 3 days. Then let them stand for 12, till there is a thick scum over ; strain, and boil the liquor with Jamaica and black pepper, mace, ginger, a clove or two, and some mustard seed. When cold, bottle it, and tie a bladder over the cork; in 3 months boil it again with some fresh spice, and it will then keep a twelvemonth. MUSHROOM KETCHUP.— Take a stewpan full of the large-flap y mushrooms, that are not worm-eaten, and the skins and fringe of those you have pickled ; throw a handful of salt among them, a "id set them by a slow fire; they will produce a great deal of liquor, which you must strain, and put to it 4 ors. of shalots, 2 cloves of garlic, a good deal of pepper, ginger, mace, doves, and a few bay-leaves, boil and skim very well. When cold, cork close. In 2 months boil it up again with a little fresh spice and a stick of horse-radish, and it will then keep for a year ; which mushroom ketchup rardy does, if not boiled a second time. MUSHROOM POWDER.— Take the thickest largest buttons ; peel them, cut off the rotten end, but do not Wash them ; spread them separately on pewter dishes, and put in a slow oven to dry ; let the liquor dry into the mush- rooms, for it makes the powder stronger, continue in the oven till they can be powdered ; then beat them up in a mor- tar, and sift them through a fine sieve, with a little cayenne pepper and pound- ed mace ; bottle ; keep in a dry place. MUSK JULAP.—Rub * dr. of musk well together with J or. of sugar ; gradually add simple cinnamon and peppermint water, each 2 ozs., and 2 drs. of volatile aromatic spirit. In the low state of nervous fevers, hiccupping, convulsions, and other spasmodic affections, 2 table-spoonfuls of this julap may be taken every a or 3 hours. MUSLINS, to Keep a Good Colour.—Never wash muslins, or any kind of cotton goods with linen; for the latter discharges a kind of gum, and colouring matter, every time it is washed which discolours the muslin and cotton—wash them by themselves. MUSLINS, Uninflammable.— Mix with starch about the same weight of carbonate of lime, commonly called Spanish white or Spanish chalk. It does not deteriorate the appearance or injure the material of the muslin. MUSTARD.—This plant is both culinary and medicinal. As a condi- ment it is generally used and esteemed. As a cataplasm or poultice, it is made thus ;—powdered mustard seed, 4 ozs.; vinegar, as much as is sufficient to mix it for a plaster; it is stronger by adding horse radish, scraped, 5? ozs. It is em- ployed as a stimulant; it often inflames the part, and raises blisters, but not so perfectly as cantharides. Sometimes they are applied to the soles of the feet, in tiie low state of acute diseases, for raising the pulse, and relieving the head. The white mustard acts not only on the bowels, but also on the skin. It wonderfully strengthens the whole line of the alimentary canal, improves the appetite, the digestion, and promotes sleep, and the health generally. When the seed is used to remove con- stipation, take it an hour before break- fast fasting. A small table-spoonful is sufficient MUSTARD, to Make.—Mix the best Durham flour of mustard by degrees with boiling water to a proper thickness, rubbing it perfectly smooth ; add a little salt, and a little tincture of cayenne, and keep it in a small jar close covered, and put only as much into the glass as will be used soon, which should be wiped daily round the edges.