98 CARDS CARDS having been thrown out of the pack, leaving 32 cards, the parties cut for the Deal, which the highest Whist card wins, with the advantage of scoring one point if the king is turned up as the trump card. When it is played in rub- bers, as is frequently the case, the deal follows as in single games, till the three are played. The cards having been shuffled and cut, five cards are dealt to each player, by two and three, or three and two, at a time, and the same order must be continued throughout the game, which has been adopted at first; the eleventh card is turned up for trumps, and the remainder of the pack, called the Talon, the dealer places at his right hand. The leading hand then commences to play, first naming the suit he intends to lead; the adversary is bound to take the trick if he has a winning card of the suit led, but he need not trump in order to win it, unless he chooses. The holder of the king of trumps must de- clare it before he plays, saying, ‘ * I have king,” If he leads the king, he may announce it after he has played; but should it be covered by his adversary’s card, before his declaration, he cannot score the king that time. This applies only to the leading hand ; the oppo- nent must always declare the king be- fore he plays, but for his own sake, he will not speak till the adversary has played his first card. The trump, as in other games, wins the trick. Whoever wins one trick leads for the next, and the playing goes on till the five tricks are played. Five are Game, of which three points may be made in one hand, by having the King of trumps in hand, or turning It up as the trump card, which reckons one—and winning all the tricks, which entitle the party to score two more. Winning three tricks reckons one point. Discarding.—If the leading hand Is not content with the cards dealt to him, and wishes to change all or any of them, he says, “ I propose.” If the dealer also wishes to discard, he ascents, and the former, throwing aside the re- jected cards (called the Discard,) gets from the dealer, from the top of the Talon or stock, as many in place of them. The dealer then changes as nmny of iris own cards as be thinks proper ; but the discard must always be thrown aside before fresh cards are taken in. If both parties agree, dis- carding may go on as long as there are cards remaining in the stock; but as soon as one party is satisfied with his hand, the other is not allowed to change any more. If, after several discards, it is found that there are not as many cards left in the stock as will supply the number required, the party asking them must complete his hand from his last discard. Should the dealer refuse to change the cards of the leading hand after the first deal, he must win three tricks, otherwise he loses two points; and the same consequence attends the leading hand if he plays without proposing to discard. The Discard is not to be looked at by either party, under the penalty of playing the hand with his cards ex- posed to the adversary; and if the dealer turns up a card for trumps while dealing for the discard, he cannot refuse cards to the adversary that hand, The playing now goes on as before directed. Laws of the Game.— 1. He who does not show his cut, loses the deal; and if he shows two cards, he must take the lowest. 2. The deal is good, though it should be discovered afterwards that there are either too few or too many cards in the pack. 3. If a faced card occurs in the p>ack during the first deal, the deal is void, unless it should be the eleventh or trump>card. 4. If faced cards are discovered in dealing for the discard, and those cards fall to the dealer, he must take them, and the deal is good ; but if they fall to the adversary, he has the option to rail a fresh deal, or to go on- 5. If the dealer shows ^ny of his own cards in dealing, the deal goes on ; but if any of the adversary’s cards are shown, he has the option to stand the deal or not, after inspecting his hand. 6. If too many or too few cards are dealt at first, and it is discovered before the cards have been looked at, the error may be rectified, and the deal is good; but if either party has seen his cnrrtf:, and the dealer has not enough.