276 NOR NIG The remedy Is to avoid all exciting causes, as too much abstruse thinking, late and heavy suppers, food difficult of digestion, cold feet, costiveness, and flatulence. To prevent the nightmare, mix together 10 grains of carbonate of soda ; 3 drachms of compound tincture of cardamoms; 1 drachm of simple syrup, and 1 on. of peppermint water. Repeat for several nights in succession ; afterwards take a few drops. of the Aperient Mixture, or the Aperient Tonic Mixture, page ai. Also a little cayenne in scullcap tea will prevent an attack. Those who are habitually subject to nightmare should not sleep in a room alone, but have some person near them, to be awakened by their moans, groans, &c. Dr. Beach says, “It is not improb- able that some of those persons who have been found dead in their beds were destroyed by it.” NIGHTSHADE, Deadly. — See Robinson's Herbal. NIGHTSHADE, Woody. — See Robinson's Herbal. NITRATE OF SODA.—Far- mers find from one to two hundred weight per acre a good dressing for their land ; and therefore this quantity may be regarded, for the present, as a safe proportion for ordinary crops. When used on a smaller scale, we are much in want of information as to its proper proportion if mixed with water. The following, however, seem to be ascertained facts :—Six ounces in four gallons of water suit lettuce and celery; one pound in twelve gallons is a safe quantity for dahlias. Strawberries are much improved by it in the proportion of one ounce to a gallon. In other cases, onions are reported to be much improved by water holding the nitrate of soda in solution in the proportion of one pound to eight gallons. Its effects are extremely active on coniferous plants, applied in a top-dressing at the rate of one hundred pounds per acre. About its action, under favourable circumstances, there can be no doubt. Fir-trees have been changed from yel- low to deep green in about a fortnight from the time of the application. We have seen similar effects upon common shrubs in a worn-out gravelly soil; and the rapidity with which the crops to which it has been applied acquired a deep green healthy colour is generally spoken of. Sometimes, however it is stated to produce no effect. This may have beeif owing to the land on which it has been used already abounding in alkaline matter, so that any further addition has been useless ; or it may have arisen from the nitrate having been used in a bad season of the year.— Gardener1 s Chronicle. NITRE, Sweet Spirits of Nitre.—This is employed as a diu- retic, antispasmodic, diaphoretic, and refrigerant in inflammatory affections. It is a good and useful diuretic in dropsies, especially in some of the mild forms of the complaint, as in dropsy following scarlatina. It is given with squills, acetate or nitrate of potash, freely diluted with barley water. As a carminative and antispasmodic it is combined with the same quantity of spirit of lavender, and is useful in re- lieving flatulency and sickness. As a diaphoretic or sweating draught, in febrile complaints, it should be given with twenty or thirty drops of antimo- nial wine, and a tea-spoonful of liquid acetate of ammonia. The usual dose of spirits of nitre is from half a tea- spoonful to two or three teaspoonfuls diluted with water. NITRE DROPS. — Nitre, 3 ounces ; sugar, 1 pound ; water to mix. Add a few drops of essence of lemon, or oil of cassia. NITRE LOZENGES.—1. Ni- trate of potash (pure,) 4 parts ; white sugar, 26 parts. Powder fine, and mix with mucilage. For sore throat, &c. 2. Nitre, 4 ounces ; sugar, 16 ounces; and essence of lemon, 3 ounces. Mix with mucilage. NOISE IN THE EARS.— Drop in juice of onions. NORFOLK DUMPLINGS.— Milk, half a pint, 2 eggs, salt; make them into a thick batter with flour; roll into balls, aDd drop them into a pan of boiling water; from 15 to 30 minutes will boil them. Eat while hot with a little sugar, butter or treacle. NORFOLK PUDDING PUFFS.—Mix three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of flour, half a pint of