sou 370 sou fine sugar over it, and set it in the oven, which should be warm enough to give it a beautiful colour. SOUP, a la Jardiners.—Take some carrots and turnips ; cut them an inch long and thickness of a penny piece, with a little parsley root Boil gently in some good stock, till quite tender, with leeks and two heads of celery tied together; these must be taken out when serving the soup. Boil tender 12 onions whole; season with salt and pepper. SOUP, a la Reine.—Take the breasts of three fowls, skewer them, put over them a thin slice of lard, cover them with paper, and put them upon the spit or into a stewpan, which must be covered with slices of ham, veal, and an onion, with two or three pared carrots and a bunch of seasoned parsley; cover it lightly with thin slices of lard, and afterwards with two or three rounds of buttered paper, that they may not take any colour; put in two or three spoonfuls of consomme; make them boil upon the fire, or put them into an oven; let them cook twenty minutes; take them up and let them cool; strain the soup through a gauze search, make a panade with it, hash the breasts very fine, put them in a mortar, and pound them with twenty sweet and two bitter almonds; pound all together, after- wards take it out and mix it with the consomme made of the carcases of the three fowls from which the breasts were taken; ran it through a search. SOUP, a la Sap.—Boil J lb. of grated potatoes, 1 lb. of beef sliced thin, a pint of grey peas, an onion, and 3 ozs. of rice, in six pints of water to five, strain it through a colander, then pulp the peas to it, and turn it into a sauce- pan again, with two heads of celery sliced. Stew it tender, and add pepper and salt, and when you serve, add also fried bread. SOUP and BOUILLE.—Stew a brisket of beef with some turnips, celery, leeks, and onions, all finely cut. Put the pieces of beef into the pot first, then the roots, and half a pint of beef gravy, with a few cloves. Simmer for an hour. Add more beef gravy, and boil gently for half an hour. SOUP, Consomme. Take a proper tinned pot; heat it lightly and wipe it well; put in a shank and a piece of a buttock of beef, a knuckle of veal, a fowl, an old rabbit, or two old par- tridges, and about six pints Of stock; reduce it upon a quick fire till it becomes a jelly, then add more stock, boil it on a quick fire and skim it; season it with three turnips, three carrots, three onions, one stuck with two or three cloves, a bunch of leeks, and celery; then put it on the side of the grate, and let it sim- mer till it is done enough: when the different meats of which it is composed are sufficiently cooked, they ought to be taken out, as they may be dressed for successive tables; when ready take off the fat, put it through a gauze search or a linen cloth, first wet and wrung. SOUP, Cressy.—According to the season, have all sorts of vegetables picked and washed with care, such as carrots, turnips, celery, onions, &c., in small quantity; boil them a quarter of an hour; put them into a stew-pan with a large piece of butter, and some slices of ham; set them upon a slow fire till they are enough; drain and pound them in a mortar, and add the liquor in which they were boiled; rub them through a search to make a puree ; let it boil, and leave it to cook two hours ; skim well; have ready a mitonnage, as before directed, and serve the cressy upon it. SOUP, Good and Cheap. Lean beef, 1 lb., cut into small pieces ; half a pint of split peas; 2 ozs. of rice or Scotch barley; 5 potatoes, sliced; 3 onions, cut in quarters; pepper and salt to taste. Tie the peppercorns in a bag; put these into a gallon and a pint of water. Put into the oven for 3% hours. It will waste 1 pint in the oven, but more in boiling. SOUP, Grand Bouillon.—To prepare a great dinner, it is necessary that a sufficient quantity of stock for soups and sauces should be ready, for which purpose put into a large pot a piece of the breast or rump of beef, with the dressings of any other sort of meat; veal, mutton, lamb, with the bones, neck and feet of the poultry and game, that may be prepared for removes. Put the pot upon a moderate fire, not quite filled with water, and skim It carefully ;