COLD WATER CURE I 29 COLD WATER CURE ture. If the primary ducts be obstruct- ed, water dilutes, attenuates, divides, and scatters the impurities contained in them ; and these are afterwards ejected by the stomach and intestines. If disease be settled in the blood, and the morbific matter deposited in the different organs of the animal economy, nothing is so effectual as water to dilute the thickened and blunt the acute; to revivify that which languishes, extin- guish that which bums, and to open again all the passages by which injuri- ous humours can escape. Cold water creates a sudorific process causing perspiration, without wearying the organic system. It is supported by copious draughts of cold water, which quench the thirst, moisten and refresh the blood, replace the lost juices, and maintain the tone of the muscles. The drinking of cold water, and its application to the body by various pro- cesses, convey the morbid humours to the sldn, whence they exude in erup- tions, boils, and abscesses. These erup- tions, constituting the crisis of the com- plaint, are the certain sign of a perfect cure. After the unwholesome juices are driven out and replaced by wholesome ones, then follow the restoration of the digestive powers, and the freeing of all the organs by the dissolving of all ob- structions ; the vital and animal func- tions are re-established in their former harmony; and thus nothing then remains but health, a treasure which can only be preserved by continuing the system by which it has been obtained. Some will ask, Is the cold water treatment applicable to all descriptions of disease? We answer, that its appli- cation must be of advantage in the large number of acute and chronic diseases. There are cases, however, wherein some essential organ having become defective, art can do no more than prolong exis- tence and alleviate suffering. Among such exceptions are consumption, or- ganic diseases of the heart, of the lungs, of the large vessels, dropsy, &c. Yet all these cases and others deemed incur- able, by the moderate judicious use of some of the cold water applications, will ensure relief and palliation of pain. Again, will the cold-water treatment produce a radical cure ? What Is to be understood by the word radical ? If It means the final extirpation from the system the cause of disease, and the relief of the patient from pain, then, the cure by the cold water method is radical! But if to be radical, a cure is sought which is to prevent a return of the disease, in cases of parties exposing themselves to the same influences which originated the disease, then neither this nor any other means of treatment will produce such an effect. As to danger from the cold water treatment there can be no active mode of treatment more innocent, with refer- ence to its present or future effects, if applied with judgment; but if not, it may be followed by very dangerous consequences. The water used must be cold, and fresh, and soft; that is, it must have the quality of dissolving, and therefore must be cold, and without any mineral properties. To prove its fitness, linen cloth washed in it must become white, and vegetables dressed in it must be tender. The Sweating Process Is the most disagreeable part of the treatment; but it is the most important, and the benefits derived from it compensate for the unpleasantness of its duration. The patient is enclosed, naked, in a large coarse blanket, the legs extended, and the arms kept close to the body; the blanket is then wound round it, as tight ns possible, turning it well under at the feet; over this is placed, and well tucked in a small feather bed, some- times two; and then a sheet and a counterpane are spread over all; thus, the patient resembles a mummy. Some- times when perspiration is difficult, the head, except the face, is covered. Per- spiration begins in about 45 minutes, and then the irritation goes off. The patient should lie perspiring at least one hour. The windows in the room must be opened, and a glass of cold water given every half hour, to refresh the patient, and promote perspiration. If there is headache, a damp cloth may be wrapped round the head. This process does not weaken the patient; he loses neither weight nor strength, but improves in personal appearance, even under several processes. The necessary duration of the process may be known by profuse perspiration