MTJT 2‘ MUT quarts of water, a large carrot cut In slices, cut at the edge like wheels. When they have stewed 15 minutes, put in two turnips, cut in square slices, the white part of a head of celery, a few heads of asparagus, two cabbage lettuces fried, and cayenne to your taste; boil all together till they are tender. The gravy is not to be thicken- ed. Put into a tureen or soup-dish. MUTTON, to Hash.—Cut thin slices of dressed mutton, fat and lean; flour them; have ready a little onion boiled in two or three spoonfuls of water; add to it a little gravy and the meat seasoned, and make it hot, but not to boil. Serve in a covered dish. Instead of onion, a clove, a spoonful of currant-jelly, and half a glass of port wine, will give an agreeable flavour of venison, if the meat be fine. Pickled cucumber, or walnut, cut small, warm in it for change. MUTTON, to Hash.—Cut the meat into small thin pieces; boil the bones with an onion, a few sweet herbs, a blade of mace, a little whole pepper, salt, and a piece of crust toasted very crisp; boil till there is just enough for sauce; strain it and put into a sauce- pan with a piece of butter rolled in flour; then put in the meat; and when it is hot, it is done enough; season with pepper and salt; have ready some thin bread toasted brown, and cut three-comerways ; lay them in the dish, and pour over the hash ; garnish with pickles and horse radish. MUTTON BROTH. — Take the scrag end of a neck of mutton; chop it into small pieces ; put it into a saucepan, and fill it with water; set it over the fire, and when the scum begins to rise, take it clean off, and put in a blade or two of mace, a little French barley, or a crust of white bread, to thicken it. When the mutton is boiled, so that it will shake to pieces, strain the broth through a hair sieve; skim off the fat, and serve with dry toast. 'MUTTON CHOPS.—Rub the chops with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little parsley; roll each chop in white paper well buttered on the inside, and rolled at each end close; have some hog’s lard, or beef drip, boiling in a stewpan ; put in the chops, fry them of a fine brown ; lay them in a dish, and garnish with fried parsley; throw some all over and serve them hot. MUTTON COLLOPS.—Take a loin of mutton that has been well hung ; cut from the part next the leg, some thin collops. Take out the sinew. Season the collops with salt, pepper, and mace ; strew over them shred pars- ley, thyme, and two or three shalots: fry them in butter till half done; add half a pint of gravy, a little juice of lemon, and a piece of butter rubbed in flour; and simmer the whole very gently five minutes. They should b© served instantly, or they will be hard. MUTTON HAM.—Choose a fine-grained leg of wether-mutton of 12 or 14 lbs. weight; cut it ham shape, and hang two days. Then put into a stewpan, % lb. of bay-salt, the same of common salt, 2 o?s. of saltpetre, and % lb. of coarse sugar, all in powder; mix and make it hot; rub well into the ham. Turn it in the liquor every day ; at the end of four days put 2 ozs. more of common salt; in twelve days take it out, dry it, and hang it up in wood- smoke a week. To be used the same way as ordinary ham. MUTTON PUDDING.—Sea- son with salt, pepper, and a bit of onion; lay one layer of steaks at the bottom of the dish ; and pour a batter of potatoes boiled and pressed through a colander, and mixed with milk and an egg, over them ; then put in the rest of the steaks, and batter ; bake it. Batter with flour, instead of potatoes, eats well, but requires more egg, and is not so good. MUTTON STEAKS, to Broil. —Should be cut from the loin or neck that has been hung; if a neck the bones should not be long. They should be broiled on a clear fire, seasoned when half done, and often turned; take them up into a very hot dish, rub a bit of butter on each, and serve hot the moment they are done. MUTTON STEAKS, Main- tenon.—Half-fry, and stew while hot, with herbs, crumbs, and seasoning; put them in paper immediately, and finish on the gridiron. Be careful the paper does not catch; rub a bit of butter on it first to prevent that.