GR-E 202 GRA and an onion, upon It lay i lb. of juicy beef; cover; set on a slow fire ; turn the meat about, and slightly brown; add pint of boiling water; boil; skim; put in brown toasted bread, a sprig of savory, or lemon thyme, pars- ley, lemon peel, allspice, black pepper, stew 2 hours ; strain. To thicken it, idd butter and flour melted and mixed on the fire, add a little of the gravy, stir, and add the remainder gradually ; simmer gently 15 minutes; skim off the fat, and pass through a sieve. Gravy for a Turkey.—Lean beef X lb.; hash and flour it; melt i| oz. of butter in a stew-pan, and put in the beef; fry brown ; add 3 pints of boiling water, sweet herbs, 3 blades of mace, 3 cloves, a few pepper corns, a small car- rot, a brown crust of bread ; boil down to a pint. Add salt Gravy may be made without Meat, by using Butter.—A glass each of small beer, and water, chopped onion, pepper, salt grated lemon peel, a cloves, a spoonful of mushroom ketch- up, or walnut liquor ; put on the fire ; stir in some flour till the froth sinks, and it will be brown. Give all a boil up. GRAYLINGS, to Fry.—Scale, gut, and well wash ; then dry them, and lay them separately on a board before the fire, after dusting some flour over them. Fry them of a fine colour with fresh dripping; serve with crimp pars- ley, and plain butter. Perch and Tench may be done the same way. GREASE and OIL, to Re- move.—Make strong lye of pearl- ashes and soft water ; add as much un- slaked lime as it will take up ; stir it to- gether ; let it settle; bottle it and stop close; have water ready to lower it as used, and scour the part with it. If the liquor should lie long on the boards it will extract the colour of them ; use care and expedition. See page 17. GREASE, to Clean from Floors.—Spread over the stain a thick coat of soft soap, then pass a heated flat-iron a few times across it, after which wash immediately first with fullers' earth water, and then clean water. GREASE SPOTS, to Remove. —The application of spirits of turpen- tine, and a little essence of lemon; wash with soap and water. Some wash with alum water, or white soap, potass, and ox-gall, or with sour butter-milk mixed with strong ascetic acid.—Or apply a solution of magnesia. See page 17. GREASE SPOTS, to Remove from Books. — Moisten the spot with a camel -hair pencil dipped in spirits of turpentine; when dry, moisten with spirits of wine. GREASE, to Remove from Cloth.—Soft soap, and Fullers earth of each lb.; beat well together in a mortar, and form into cakes. The spot, first moistened with water, is rubbed with a cake, and allowed to dry, when it is well rubbed with a little warm water, and rinsed, or rubbed off clean. GREEN BRONZE DIP.— Wine vinegar, 2 quarts ; verditer green, 2 oz. ; sal-ammoniac, 1 oz. ; salt, 2 oz.; alum, % oz. ; French berries, 8 oz.; boil the ingredients together. GREEN COLOUR, for Con- fectioners, Perfectly Harmless.— Infuse % oz. of saffron for 24 hours, in distilled water ; then % oz. of carmine indigo, and infuse in the same way. Mix, and a beautiful green colour is ob- tained. It may be preserved a long time by evaporating to dryness, or by making it into a syrup. GREEN FIRE.—Take of flow- ers of sulphur 13 parts, of nitrate of baryta, 77, of oxymuriate of potassa, 5, of metallic arsenic, 2, of charcoal, 3. The nitrate of baryta should be well dried and powdered ; it should then be mixed with the other ingredients, all finely pulverised, and the whole tritura- ted until perfectly blended together. A little calamine may be occasionally add- ed, in order to make the compound slower of combustion, and it is above all things requisite that the rubbing toge- ther of the materials should be continued until they are mixed. GREEN GAGES, to Pre- serve.—Choose the largest, when they begin to soften ; split them with- out paring; strew upon them part of the sugar. Blanch the kernels with a sharp knife. Next day, pour the syrup from the fruit, and boil it with the other sugar 6 or 8 minutes gently, skim and add the plums and kernels. Simmer