VEA VAS 403 Vaseline Is now In use In leading Hospitals of America and England, and Is acknowledged to be one of the most Important recent additions to medicine. As a household remedy it is very popu- ar, and its use is extending rapidly. For External Use as a Lini- ment.—It is applicable to burns, cuts, wounds, bruises, sprains, rheumatism, catarrh, ulcers, bites of insects and serpents, eczema, barber’s itch, tetter and all diseases of the skin; also for piles, hemorrhoids, chilblains, bunions, swellings, tumours, nasal and bronchial catarrh, and to every purpose where a liniment is needed. In the case of burns, or contused and Inflamed surfaces, anoint the parts with Vaseline and cover with linen or cotton, for rheumatism, swellings and neuralgia, rub it in with the hand. For Internal Use.—It may be used to great advantage for cough, cold, hoarseness, sore throat, diphtheria, croup, asthma, consumption, and all the affections of the lungs, bronchial tubes, throat and chest. Also, for dysentery in adults and children. It is tasteless, odourless and harmless. Dose.—In the affections of the throat, chest and stomach, a half teaspoonful three or four times a day; for diph- theria, croup, &c., give frequently in smaller or like quantities, and apply externally to the throat. It is also used in the Stable for Horses, Cattle and other beasts. For preserving and lubricating Surgical In- struments, Guns, Pistols, Bicycles, Sewing Machines. Metal oiled with Vaseline cannot rust or corrode. VEAL, to Choose.—The flesh of a bull-calf Is firmest, but not so white. The fillet of the cow-calf is generally preferred for the udder. The whitest Is not the most juicy, having been made so by frequent bleeding, and having had whitening to lick. Choose the meat of which the kidney is well covered with white thick fat. If the bloody vein in the shoulder looks blue, or of a bright red, it is newly killed ; but any other colour shows it stale. The other parts should be dry and white ; if clammy or spotted, the meat is stale and bad. The kidney turns first in the loin, and the suet will not then be firm. VEAL, a la daube.—Cut off the chump end of the loin; take out the edge-bone; stuff the hollow with good forcemeat, tie it up tight, and lay it in a stew-pan with the bone you took out, a little fagot of herbs, an anchovy, two blades of mace, a few white peppers, and a pint of good veal broth. Cover the veal with slices of fat bacon, and lay a sheet of white paper over it. Cover the pan close, simmer it a hours, then take out the bacon, and glaze the veal. —Serve it on mushrooms; or with sorrel-sauce, or what else you please. VEAL BROTH.—Stew a small knuckle in about 3 quarts of water, a ozs. of rice, a little salt, and a blade of mace, till the liquor is half wasted away. VEAL BROTH.—Knuckle of veal, a turnips, a carrots, a heads of celery, and 6 onions; stew them in a gallon of water till reduced to one half; add a lump of butter rolled in flour, with a little cayenne, and salt; strain, and add a gill of cream ; a ozs. of vermicelli may be added with good effect. VEAL CAKE.—Boil 6 or 8 eggs hard ; cut the yolks in two, and lay some of the pieces in the bottom of the pot; shake in a little chopped parsley, some slices of veal and ham, then add eggs again ; shaking in after each some chopped parsley, with pepper and salt, till the pot is full. Then put in water enough to cover it, and lay on it about an oz. of butter ; tie it over with a double paper, and bake it about an hour. Then press it close together with a spoon, and let it stand till cold. It may be put into a small mould; and then it will turn out beautifully for a supper or side dish. VEAL COLLOPS.—Cut long thin oollope ; beat them well; and lay