DAF cus *52 spoonful of peach water, and a little ratafia; marbles boiled in custard or any thing likely to bum, will, by shak- ing them in the saucepan, prevent its catching. CUSTARD FRITTERS. Beat the yolks of 8 eggs with a spoonful of flour, half a nutmeg, a little salt, and a glass of brandy ; add a pint of cream ; sweeten ; bake in a dish ; when cold, cut into quarters ; dip them in batter made of % pint of cream, % pint of milk, 4 eggs, a little flour, and ginger grated; fry in good lard or dripping, then strew over them grated sugar. CUSTARD, ORANGE.—Boil the juice of 12 oranges with a little of the rinds and sugar to your taste. Strain it, and when cold add a pint of cream and the yolks of 12 eggs. Stir over a slow fire until it thickens. CUSTARD, Oswego, Boiled. —Two tablespoonfuls of Oswego prepared corn to one quart of milk ; mix the com with a small quantity of the milk, and flavour it; beat up two eggs. Heat the remaindei of the milk to near boiling,—then add the mixed com, the eggs, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, and a little butter and salt. Boil it two minutes, stirring it briskly. CUSTARD PIE.— Boil a quart of milk with the rind of a lemon. Strain it, and then boil. Mix a tablespoonful of flour smoothly with two of milk, and stir it into the boiling milk. Boil a minute, constantly stirring; take off, and when cool, add three beaten eggs ; sweeten to your taste; bake in a quick oven. CUSTARD PUDDING.— Half-pint of cream ; pint of new milk, boiled ; stir in a little finely sifted flour ; add three or four table-spoonfuls of white sugar, quarter of a nutmeg grated, a tea-spoonful of lemon-peel finely cut; the yolks of two eggs. Beat well and mix. Add brandy according to taste. Then place some light puff paste round the sides of a dish, pour in the custard, and bake about half an hour. CUSTARD PUDDING, Boil- ed.—Boil a stick of cinnamon and lemon peel in a quart of thin cream, with yi lb. of sugar; when cold, add the yolks of six eggs well beaten, and mix; set over a slow fire, and stir one way, till it is thick; but do not let it boil; let it cool; butter a cloth ; dredge it with flour, tie up the custard; boil three quarters of an hour. When out, turn it upside down on the dish ; take the cloth off carefully. CUSTARDS, Rice. — Pat a blade of mace and quarter of nutmeg into a quart of cream ; boil, strain, and add to it some whole rice boiled, and a little brandy. Sweeten to your palate, stir it over the fire till it thickens, and serve it up in cups, or a dish. It may be used either hot or cold. CUSTARD, RICH.— Boil a pint of milk with lemon peel and cinna- mon ; mix a pint of cream and the yolks of five eggs well beaten. When the milk tastes of the seasoning, sweeten it enough for the whole ; pour it into the cream, stirring it well; then give the custard a simmer till of a proper thick- ness. Do not let it boil; stir the whole time one way ; season as above. 1 f. to be extremely rich put no milk, but a quart of cream to the eggs. CUTS.—All that is required in cases of incised wounds or cuts, is to clear away the surrounding blood, &c., and bring the lips of the wound closely together, retaining them in that posi- tion by slips of adhesive plaster, and if the cut be deep and extensive, support- ing it and the surrounding parts by proper bandages. In all large wounds, interstices should be left between each slip of plaster, to facilitate the escape of secreted matter, or effused blood. The first dressing should remain for three or four days, and if much pain or inflam- mation follows the accident, gentle pur- gatives should be taken. The bleeding consequent upon wounds may be stopped by pressure and rest. The application of cobweb will arrest the flow of blood. For light cuts with a knife, or any sharp instrument, the Riga balsam usually stops the bleeding immediately. CUTS.—After closing the wound, bind on toasted cheese.—Or pounded grass ; shake it off after twelve hours. D. DAFFY’S ELIXIR.—Take of the best senna, guiscum, liquorice sliced small, aniseeds, coriander seeds,