148 CRI CRO cockroaches.—Loud vibrating sounds drive away crickets. CRIMSON DYE for SILK— For each lb. of cloth, or stuff, dissolve In boiling water 2% ozs. of alum, and 1% ozs. of white tartar. Boil two minutes; put in the goods, and boil 1% hoar. Take out and add fresh water; when it boils, put in 1 % oz. of cochineal powdered ; boil 1 hour. The shade may be lighter by using less of the ingredients. CRIMSON FLAME.— Take alcohol, any quantity, and dissolve a little of one of the salts of strontia in it CROQUET is played by both sexes. The ground should be an evenly cut square piece of lawn, and level as possible. The hoops are arranged according as the parties agree to fix them. And the game consists in hiring the balls from the starting peg through the hoops to the peg at the opposite end, and -then driven back to the start- ing point. The best number to play, is 4, some- times 8. Should there be only 2 players, each take a balls, a mallet, croquet clip of one colour or number, clips being used to indicate the hoop the player has to,aim at. The ground being laid out in the usual manner. See “All England Club" Rules, Price 6d. H. Cox, 346, Strand, London. CROSSING BANKERS CHEQUES.—If a cheque has two lines drawn across it, thus, & Co. or without the word ‘ & Co.,' it will only be paid by a banker. Or if the name of any particular bank be written across, it can then only be paid to that bank or their agent. Any person obliterating the crossings of a cheque, with intent to defraud, will be guilty of felony. CROSS BUNS—To 2J lbs of flour add 1 lb. of powdered sugar, and a little coriander seed, cassia, and mace, powdered fine ; make a paste with % lb. of butter dissolved in half a pint of hot milk; work in three table-spoonfuls of yeast and a little salt; set it before the fire for an hour to rise; make it into buns; and place before the fire on a tin for half an hour; lastly brush them over with warm milk, and bake to a nice brown in a slow oven. CROUP.—This is a dangerous disease. It is common to infancy, and rarely occurs to adults. It is an inflam, mation of the larynx, treachea, and con- tiguous tissues. It derives its name from the peculiar sound of the voice and breathing, being of a whistling or crow- ing character, owing to a contraction of the glottis. It generally commences with a common cold and catarrh, hoarse- ness, cough, and increased difficulty of breathing, and the crowing already spoken of. It demands prompt treat- ment. The great object is to diminish the inflammation and irritation, and to relax the spasmodic state of the muscles in the parts diseased. The vessels in those parts are overcharged with blood, by an imperfect action of the exhalents. Place the feet in warm water, and give an emetic. After bathing, rub the legs and feet well with flannel. Then give a vapour bath, if the patient can bear it. (See Emetic Pcrwdcr — Expectorant Tincture.) Repeat the process, if need- ful. The perspiration will be greater by applying to the feet and each side hot bricks, and wrapped in flannel saturated with vinegar and a little water. At the same time give an aperient to produce a free action on the bowels. Apply this tincture to the throat, viz •— Half a tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper, nearly a cupful of vinegar ; simmer ten minutes, and strain. This tincture may be diluted with warm water, according to the strength of the patient. Rub it well on the throat for 5 or ro minutes; and next saturate a flannel with it, and apply it to the throat. This application tends to relieve the internally congested blood-vessels. Repeat the application, as necessary. Mustard plasters may be applied to the feet, the upper part of the chest, and between the shoulders alternately. It has been recommended to steep hops in hot vinegar, and the patient to inhale the vapour. Even a large sponge dip- ped in as hot water as the hand can bear, squeezed half dry, and renewed before it is cool, is of great advantage. Keep the atmosphere of the room at a regular temperature. Aid the perspira- tion by warm drinks, as balm tea, Ac.