BLOOD-ROOT BLO 70 Rheumatism has been treated by Professors Smith and Ives, in the acute form, with the tincture or decoction, given till its operation upon the skin and system generally becomes manifest. Very many other physicians speak of its use in the chronic form. I have cured some cases of chronic rheumatism by the tincture and compound powder. In one, a female of 29, the subject of leucorrhoea and rheumatism, all the pains disappeared in a fortnight, and even the leucorrhoeal discharge dimin- ished. Hepatic or Liver Diseases. In the Southern States of America, yellow fever, jaundice, inactivity of the liver, &c. from the nature of the climate, pre- vails, but the sanguinaria has been found by Dr. Macbride of Charleston, of utility in torpor of the liver, with colic and yellowness of the skin. Jaundice he submitted to frequent trials of the medi- cine with advantage. Dr. A. D. Wilson cured a case of enlargement of the liver and spleen in a girl of 16, by the tinc- ture and extract. The evidence of its value in jaundice, is favourable by a host of careful American writers. Amenorrhcea. It is an emmena- gogue of some importance and power. Indeed, its first known use among the native Indian women was for this pur- pose. If the patient is plethoric and of full habit, large doses are necessary ; and if combined with aloes, shortly be- fore the usual monthly period, it will scarcely or never fail to produce men- struation. Powder. The usual dose of this as an emetic is from ten to twenty grains suspended in water. It is preferable sometimes to administer it as a pill, to avoid the irritation of the fauces. Dr. Leonard frequently combines it with ipecacuanha; the dose is from one to five grains, repeated according to the 2ffect desired. Grain doses will produce a diaphoretic and expectorant effect; if given every one or two hours, it will then exert a sedative action, and reduce the frequency of the pulse. Compound Powder. Powdered blood-root, two Scruples; opium pow- dered, one scruple ; sulphate of potass, powdered, seven scruples. Mix. Dose is from three to fifteen grains. It is probably the least irritating of all the preparations. The Powder of Sanguinaria with Camphor. Take of Sanguin- aria powdered, one scruple; powdered camphor, eight grains; powdered cloves, thirty-two grains. Mix. This is used in cold in the head, and proves very efficacious. Infusion of Sanguinaria. San- guinaria bruised, five drachms ; boiling water, a pint. Macerate for four hours, and strain. The emetic dose is from half an ounce to an ounce, at short in- tervals, till its effects are produced. Decoction of Sanguinaria. San- guinaria bruised, six drachms; distilled water, a pint and a half. Boil down to a pint, and strain. Dose same as the infusion. Extract of Sanguinaria. This and the powder can be obtained of the Medical Botanists. The dose is from an eighth to half a grain per day. It'is best to commence with a sixteenth, according to the strength of the patient. Tincture of Blood-root. This, also can be bought. Will prove emetic in a dose of two to four drachms ; but is rather intended to act as a stimulanl to the stomach, expectorant, or altera- tive.. for which purpose twenty to sixty drops may be given every two or three hours in acute cases,-and three or four times a day in chronic. BLOOD-ROOT, SYRUP. — Bruised Blood-root, two and a half ounces ; lobelia, quarter of an ounce ; white sugar, one and a half ounce; water, one and a half pint; gently simmer half an hour, till it thickens ; when cool, add a teaspoonful of pare- goric elixir. Take a tablespoonful oc- casionally ; a child a teaspoonful, cr less. This Syrup is very valuable in chest complaints, bronchial affections, coughs, and difficult breathing. BLOODY FLUX. —Feed on rice, sago, and beef-tea. To stop it, take a spoonful of suet melted over a slow fire. Do not bleed. A person was cured in one day by- feeding on rice-milk, and sitting a quarter of an hour in a shallow tub, having in it warm water, three inches deep. BLOTCHES,—Blotches or pirn-