cm CHI 122 or two to make it light and puff. Sea- son the chicken and slices of ham with pepper, salt, mace, nutmeg, and cay- enne. Put them in layers, first the ham, chicken, forcemeat balls, and hard eggs in layers. Make a gravy of knuckle of veal, mutton bones, seasoned with herbs, onions, pepper, &c. Pour it over the contents of the pie, and cover with a paste. Bake an hour. CHICKEN POX.—This is a mild eruptive disease, and seldom occurs more than once in a person’s life-time. The eruption is attended with but little indisposition. There is a slight chilli- ness, weariness, cough, fever, bad appe- tite, &c., a day or two before the erup- tion appears, which resembles the small- pox. Treatment is simply plenty of cooling drinks acidulated, some cooling and aperient medicine, to keep the bowels gently open. Let the patient also be kept warm till the pox die away. CHICKEN PUDDING.—Cut half a pound of good ham very fine, and a couple of chickens. Season with salt, pepper, thyme, nutmeg, and mace. Stew them gently, and in ten minutes, add a lump of butter. When half stewed, take them out, and cool. Re- serve the gravy to serve with the pud- ding. Then take a pound of flour, a quart of milk, four eggs, well beaten, and salt. This will form the batter. Put a layer of chicken in a dish, and pour over it a portion of the batter, and so alternately till the dish is full. Bake it brown. Put an egg to the gravy pre- served ; give it a boil, and put in a sauce-boat to serve with the pudding, CHICKENS, Boiled.—Fasted the wings and legs to the body by thread tied round. Steep them in skim milk two hours. Then put them in cold water, and boil over a slow fire. Skim clean. Serve with white sauce or melted butter sauce, or parsley and butter.—Or melt i oz. of butter in a cupful of milk ; add to it the yolk of an egg beat up with a little flour and cream ; heat over the fire, stirring well. CHICKENS, to Broil.—Slit down the back, and season with pepper and salt; put them before a clear fire, at a distance, the inside next the fire, till half-done; turn them, and mind the fleshy side does not bum, rasp bread over it, and nicely brown. Let the sauce be good gravy, with mushrooms ; garnish with lemon, and the livers broiled, the gizzards cut, slashed, and broiled with pepper. Or, take a handful of sorrel, dip it in boiling water ; drain, have ready half a pint of good gravy, a shallot chopped fine, and boiled parsley, thickened with a piece of butter rolled in flour ; add a glass of port; lay the sorrel round the fowls; pour the sauce over them; garnish with lemons, CHICKENS, to Braise.—Bone them and fill them with forcemeat; lay the bones and any other poultry trim- mings into a stewpan, and the chickens on them. Add a few onions, herbs, mace, a pint of stock, and a glass or 2 of sherry. Cover the chickens with slices of bacon, and white pepper; cover, and boil slowly two hours. Take up, strain, skim off the fat; then boil very quick to a glaze, and do the chick- ens over it with a brush. Serve with a brown fricassee of mushrooms. CHICKENS, to Fatten quickly.—Make a paste with ground rice scald with milk, mixed with trea- cle. Give it warm in the day-time as much as they will eat, leaving none. It fattens in a short time. CHICKENS, to Fricassee.— Skim and cut in small pieces ; wash in warm water, and dry ; season with pep- per and salt; put into a slew-pan with water, and a large piece of butter, a little lemon, a glass of white wine, one anchovy, mace and nutmeg, an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of lemon thyme, and sweet marjoram. Stew till the chickens are tender; then dish. Thicken the gravy with flour and butter, strain it; beat the yolks of three eggs in a large cupful of cream, and put it in the gravy; shake over the fire; do not boil, pour over the chickens. CHICKENS, to Roast.—Pluck carefully, draw and truss them, and put them to a good fire; singe, dust, and baste them with butter. Cover the breast with a sheet of buttered paper; remove it ten minutes before it is enough, that it may brown. A chicken will take 15 or 20 minutes.Serve with butter and parsley. CHILBLAINS.—To cure chil- blains, simply bathe the parts affected