LIN 23b f-F.MT hot water. Boil 1 Jf lb. of loaf sugar In three pints of water, and skim it. Add the two liquors to the juice of six China oranges, and twelve lemons; stir the whole well, and run it through a jelly- bag till clear. Then add a little orange- water, if you like the flavour, and if wanted, more sugar. It will keep well if corked. tt§T Any of the above may be made effervescing by taking nearly half a tumbler of water, and dissolving in it so grains of carbonate of soda, and mixing with it the same quantity of lemonade. LEMONADE POWDERS.— Citric acid 1 oz.; carbonade of soda, 1 % oz.; 4 ozs. of powdered sugar. This fine dry lemonade will keep well. Powdered ginger, nutmeg, or cinnamon may be added, ad libitum.. Put as much as you like into cold water. LEMONADE, Superior.—Pare as many lemons as you are likely to want; on the peels pour hot water, but more juice will be necessary than you need use the peels for. While infusing, boil sugar and water to a good syrup with the white of an egg whipt up; when it boils, pour a little cold water into it; set it on again, and when it boils up take off, and settle. Skim, and pour it clear from the sediment to the infusion, and the lemon juice, stir and taste it, and add as much more water as will make a very rich lemonade. Wet a jelly-bag, and squeeze it dry, then strain the liquor, which will be uncom- monly fine. LENITIVE ELECTUARY. —Senna, finely powdered, 8 ozs.; pow- dered coriander seed, 4 ozs.; tamarinds and prunes, of each, 1 lb; figs, 1 lb; mix the pulps and powders together, and with simple syrup, make into an electuary. A teaspoonful to be taken two or three times a day. It is an agreeable laxative for children, females, and delicate persons.—If a little sulphur be added, it will be a sovereign remedy for PILES. LENT POTATOES.—Beat 4 ozs. of almonds, and 3 ozs. of the bitter; blanch, and add a little orange flower water; butter, 8 ozs.; 4 eggs well t>eaten and strained; half a glass of raisin wine, and sugar to taste; beat all till very smooth, and grate in 3 nice biscuits, (Savoy.) Make into balls with a little flour, the size of a chestnut; threw them into a stewpan of lard, and boil them in it to a yellow brown; drain ; serve with sweet sauce. LIGHTNING STROKE. — Dash cold water over the head and face, apply friction to the spine with strong liniment, and mustard poultices to the feet. LIME LINIMENT.—Linseed or common olive oil and lime-water, equal parts, to be well shaken before using, is good for scrofulous or other sores, and still more for bums and scalds. LIME WATER.—Putunslafted lime into a tub; cover it with pure water; stir often for one day; then strain off the water, and keep for use. It is an anti-acid tonic, kills worms, and frees the bowels from slimy and morbific matter. It promotes digestion; it is valuable in looseness, scrofula, diabetes, and whites. Mixed with a decoction of Peruvian bark, it wonderfully strength- ens the debilitated, and those threaten- ed with atrophy. LINEAL MEASURE. 12 Inches make 1 Foot. 3 Feet, or 36 inches ... 1 Yard. 2 Yards, or six feet ... 1 Fathom. Yards, or i6£ feet ... 1 Rod, Pole or Perch. LINEN, to Preserve.—Secure it from damp when you put it by; and also from insects by putting amongst it bags of lavender, roses, thyme, cedar shavings, &c. LINIMENT, for Burns. — Take equal parts of Florence oil, or fresh drawn linseed oil and lime water ; shake them well together in a wide bottle, so as to form a liniment. This is found to be an exceedingly proper application for recent scalds or burns. It may either be spread upon a cloth, or the parts affected may be anointed with it twice or thrice a day. LINIMENT, for Diseases of the Throat and Tonsils.—Castile soap, oil of sassafras, camphor, spirits of hartshorn, of each, 1 oz. Add cay- enne pepper, 2 drachms ; laudanum, % oz. ; spirit of wine, % oz. LINIMENT VOLATILE.— Spirit of hartshorn, 1 o*.; olive oil.