GfOO GOO *98 bread cut small, some mushrooms, a piece of butter rolled in flour, pepper, find salt; stew the goose half an hour longer: take up and pour the ragout over it. Garnish with lemon. GOOSE PIE.—Bone two young green geese, of a good size, but first take away every plug, and singe them nicely. Wash them clean ; and season them high with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice. Put one inside the other; and press them as close as you can, drawing the legs inwards. Put a good deal of butter over them, and bake them either with or without crust: if the latter, a cover to the dish must fit close to keep in the steam. It will keep long. GOOSE, to Roast.—After it is picked, the plugs of the feathers pulled out, and the hairs carefully singed, let it be well washed and dried, and a seasoning put in of onion, sage, and pepper and salt. Fasten it tight at the neck and rump, and then roast. Put it first at a distance from the fire, and by degrees draw it nearer. A slip of paper should be skewered on the breast- bone. Baste it very well. When the breast is rising, take off the paper ; and be careful to serve it before the breast falls, or it will be spoiled by coming flat- ted to table. Let a good gravy be sent, in the dish.—Gravy and apple sauce; gooseberry sauce, for a green goose. GOOSE SAUCE, For Roast- ed Goose, Duck, or Pork.—Mix a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a salt- spoonful of salt, and a few grains of cayenne pepper, in a large wine-glassful of claret, or good port wine; pour it into the goose just before serving up. GOOSEBERRIES, to Bottle. —Gooseberries picked green from the trees into bottles, corked tightly, and buried in the earth, the corks down- wards, are as good at Christmas as if freshly picked from the trees. The old Red Rough and the Warrington (both red) are best for preserving ; the white or green are best for bottling. GOOSEBERRIES, to Pre- serve.—The old English boiling berry, and the rough reds are the best. Take 8 lbs. of fruit, and 6 lbs. of loaf sugar. Boil 40 or 50 minutes, skim- ming well. Some prick each berry with, a needle. Jar the same as other fruits. GOOSEBERRY CREAM— Boil them In milk till soft; beat them, and strain the pulp through a coarse sieve. Sweeten cream with sugar to your taste; mix with the pulp ; when cold, place in glasses for use. GOOSEBERRY FOOL.—Put the fruit into a stone jar, and some good sugar; set the jar in a sauce-pan of water over the fire. When it is done enough to pulp, press it through a col- ander ; have ready a sufficient quantity of new milk, and a tea-cupful of raw cream, boiled together, or two or three eggs instead of the latter, and left to be cold ; then sweeten it pretty well with fine sugar, and mix the pulp by degrees with it.—A table-spoonful of orange- flower water, a seasoning of cloves, cinnamon, or nutmeg, improves it. GOOSEBERRY JAM. —Put 12 lbs. of the ripe red hairy gooseberries gathered dry, into a preserving pan with a pint of currant juice ; boil quick, beat them with a spoon ; when they begin to break, put to them of sugar, 6 lbs. and simmer slowly to a jam; it requires long boiling or it will not keep. It is not expensive, but it is excellent for tarts or puffs. Do not bum the bottom. Another. — Gather your goose- berries, (the clear white or green sort when ripe; top and tail, and weigh them ; a pound to three quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and half a pint of water; boil and skim the sugar and water; then put in the fruit, and boil gently till clear; then break and put into small pots. GOOSEBERRY JELLY. Make as currant jelly; or it may be made of green gooseberries, the same as apple jelly. GOOSEBERRY PIE. —Pick and wash the gooseberries; dry them well; let the dish be three-parts full of the gooseberries; fill up with sugar; cover with a nice puff paste. Put in a small cup inverted, to prevent the syrup escaping. Some line the dish with puff paste; but a cover is generally suffi- cient. Bake in a moderate oven 40 minutes. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING, to bake.—Scald the gooseberries till they are soft; drain; when cold, squeeze the juice through a sieve with a