STA STE 377 spots disappear, wash In suds; boll and rinse in the usual manner. If the colour is surely fast, coloured cotton and worsted articles can be benefited by dipping the spots several times in weak citric acid, then sponge off. Children’s Clothes, Table- linen, Towels, &c., should be thoroughly examined before wetting, as soapsuds, washing-fluids, etc., will fix almost any stain past removal. Many stains will pass away by being simply washed in pure soft water; or alcohol will remove, before the article has been in soapsuds, many stains. Iron-mould, mildew, or almost any similar spot, can be taken out by dipping in diluted citric acid ; then cover with salt, and lay in the bright sun till the stain disappears. If of long standing, it may be necessary to repeat the wetting and the sunlight Be careful to rinse in several waters as soon as the stain is no longer visible. Ink, fruit, wine, and mildew stains must first be washed in clear cold water, removing as much of the spots as can be; then mix one tablespoonful of lemon-juice, one of pure cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of oxalic acid, and half a pint of rain-water. Dip the stain in this, and wipe off in clear water. Wash at once, if a fabric that will bear washing, A tablespoonful of white- currant juice, if any can be had, is even better than lemon. This preparation may be used on the most delicate arti- cles without injury. Shake it up before using it, and be careful and put out of the reach of meddlers or little folks, as it is poisonous. Grease-Spots.—Grease-spots may be taken from white linen or cotton by soapsuds or weak lye, and from calicoes with warm soapsuds. Grease-spots on woollens can be taken out by soapsuds or ammonia. On silks, use either yolk of egg with water, magnesia, ether, benzine, ammonia, or French chalk. Either is good. These are mostly used by the French, who have great skill in cleansing spotted or stained fabrics. Most of them we have used, and know them to be reliable. Wine or Fruit Stains.—Holding white cotton or linen over the fumes of burning sulphur, and wetting in warm chlorine-water, will take out wine or fruit stains. The sooner the remedy !a applied after any of these spots or stains are discovered, the more effectual the restoration. To Remove Sperm, Stearine, etc.—Spots from sperm candles, stearine, and the like, should be softened and removed by ninety-five per cent, alcohol, then sponged off with a weaker alcohol and a small quantity of am- monia added to it. STALE BEER, to Restore. —To about a quart of stale beer, put % a teaspoonful of salt of wormwood; this will restore the beer, and make it sparkle when poured into a glass like bottled porter. “STAMMERING,” Dr. Tur- ner says, “is caused by attempts to speak with empty lungs. In singing, the lungs are kept well inflated, and there is no stuttering. The method of cure is to require the patient to keep his lungs well filled ; to draw frequent and long breaths, to speak loudly, and to pause on the instant of finding em- barrassment in his speech, taking ajlong inspiration before he goes on again. I cured one of the worst cases I ever knew on this principle.” STAMMERING. —Frequently read aloud with the teeth closed, and tap with the finger at every syllable pronounced. STARCH GLOSS.—Is simply borax, finely powdered. STEAM JOINTS, Red Putty for.—Stiff white lead worked well in red lead powder and litharge. STEEL POWDER. — Take filings of steel and loaf sugar, of each, 2 ozs. ; ginger, 2 drachms. Pound them together. In obstructions of the menses, and for strengthening the con- stitution, this powder is valuable. Take a teaspoonful twice a day. STEEL FORKS, to Clean.— Fill a small oyster barrel with fine gravel, brick-dust, or sand, mixed with a little hay or moss : make it damp, press it well down, and always keep it damp. By running the prongs of the forks a few times into this, they will be cleaned and polished. To polish be- tween the prongs have a small stick shaped like a knife, covered with leather.