PAN PAL 29I sometimes the nerve of the ear, causing deafness. It is generally preceded by numbness, coldness, paleness, &c. In bad cases, where one half of the body is paralysed, the speech is much impeded, or totally lost, and convulsions often take place on the sound side. The muscles of the affected side of the face being relaxed, give those of the opposite side an ap- pearance of being drawn up or con- tracted. It may be caused by an apoplectic attack, any thing obstructing the flow of nervous influence from the brain into the organs of motion ; hence, tumours, over distension and effusion, distortions of the spine, and thickening of the liga- ments connecting the vertebrae, often give rise to it. The long-continued use of sedatives will likewise produce palsy, such as constant handling of white lead ; poisonous fumes of metals or minerals ; translation of morbid matter to the head ; suppression of accustomed evacu- ations ; pressure on the nerves by laxa- tives ; fractures, wounds, or other ex- ternal injuries, &c. Treatment.—In sudden attacks, the same treatment as in apoplexy. To remove spasmodic symptoms, give the Antispasmodic Tincture, page ax, every hour. Betwixt give the Stimulating Drops, page 378. followed by herb tea. Steam the parts well with a bitter de- coction of herbs; as tansy, hops, worm- wood, camomile, catnep, penny-royal, and betony, or any other bitter herbs. Pour boiling vinegar and water upon them ; cover up, and let it infuse some time. Then rub the part with a stimu- lant, made of salt and cayenne, infused in hot vinegar. Or, made of cayenne, whisky, and salt. Twice a day rub the spine of the back with the Stimulating Ointment, page 378 : or apply mustard plasters ; or sting the place with nettles. Electricity and dry frictions are very good. Once or twice a week give the vapour bath ; and two horns after rub the whole body with the Stimulating Liniment, page 378. Dr. Beach re- commends the following injection :— cayenne pepper, 1 teaspoonful; lobelia, a teaspoonfuls; boiling water. 1 pint. Let it infuse ; stir well, in order to get the strength out as soon as possible ; sweeten with treacle; add half a pint of milk, and a gill of sweet oil. <Sive It warm ; as much as the patient can bear; this will excite action in the bowels, and promote evacuations. Salt and water will make a very good injection. If constipation should prevail, coarse, or brown bread, should be eaten, or Aperients should be taken, page 21, or a dose of castor oil; followed by the continual use of the Restorative Bitters, page 336, introducing the peroxide of iron, say oz. to a pint of the bitters. Also take a Nervous Pill, page 274; and occasionally the Alterative Syrup, page 16. See Cold Water Cure, pages 128, &c. Let the diet be simple, light, and spare. Take abundant exercise in the air, when the weather permits. PALSY, Infusion for.— Take horse radish, mustard seed bruised, of each, 4 ozs. ; outer rind of orange peel, 1 oz.; infuse in two quarts of boiling water in a close vessel for 24 hours. In paralytic affections, a teacupful of this warm stimulant may be taken three or four times a day. PANADA, or Bread, or Bis- cuit Jelly.—Set & little water on the fire ; when it boils, take off, and add a glass of sherry, sugar, a little grated nutmeg and lemon-peel. At the same time grate some crumbs of bread. Put the crumbs in, and let it boil fast; when of a proper thickness to drink, take it off. PANADA. Another Method, —Put to the water a bit of lemon-peel; mix the crumbs in, and when nearly boiled enough, add some lemon or orange syrup. Observe to boil all the ingredients ; for if they be added after- ward, the panada will break, and not jelly. PANCAKES, General Direc- tions for Making.—Clean the pan well before you fry the pancakes ; put a little lard into it, and when hot wipe it out with a clean cloth; then put in more lard or butter, and fry the pan- cakes of a nice light brown, and drain them thoroughly from the fat. They should be eaten hot, and sugar strewed upon them. PANCAKES, to Make.— A quart of milk; beat in 6 or 8 eggs, leaving half the whites out; mix, till batter is of a fine thickness. The flour