fik: 305 PIG flavour is approved of, add mace, all- spice, and a little cayenne, before baking. PIGEON, to Pickle. —Bone them; turn the inside out, and lard it. Season with a little allspice, and salt, in fine powder ; turn them again and tie the neck and rump with thread. Put them into boiling water ; let them boil a minute or two to plump ; take them out, and dry them well; then put them boil- ing hot into the pickle, which must be made of equal quantities of white wine and white wine vinegar, with white pep- per and allspice, sliced ginger and nut- meg, and two or three bay leaves. When it boils up, put the pigeons in. If they are small a quarter of an hour will do them ; but they will take twenty minutes if large. Then take them out, wipe them, and let them cool. When the pickle is cold, take the fat off from it, and put them in again. Keep them In a stone jar, tied down with a bladder to keep out the air. PIGEONS, to Roast.—Take a little pepper and salt, a piece of butter, and parsley cut small; mix, and put the mixture into the bellies of the pigeons, tying the necks tight; take another string ; fasten one end of it to their legs and rumps, and the other to a hanging spit, basting them with butter; when done, lay them in a dish, and they will swim with gravy. PIGEON PIE. —Rub the pigeons with pepper and salt, inside and out; in the former put a bit of butter, and if approved, some parsley chopped with the livers, and a little of the same seasoning. Lay a beef steak at the bottom of the dish, and the birds on it; between every two a hard egg. Put a cup of water in the dish ; and if you have any ham in the house, lay a bit on each pigeon; it is a great im- provement to the flavour of the pie. When ham is cut for gravy or pies, take the under part rather than the prime. Season the gizzards and . the two joints of the wings, and put them In the centre of the pie ; and over them a hole made in the crust, three feet nice- ly cleaned, to show what pie it is. PIGEONS, to Stew,—Take care that they are quite fresh, and carefully cropped, drawn, and washed ; then soak them half an hour. In the meantime cut a hard white cabbage in slices (as if for pickling) into water ; drain it, and then boil it in milk and water ; drain it again, and lay some of it at the bottom of a stewpan. Put the pigeons upon it, but first season them well wuh pepper and salt, and cover them with the remainder of the cabbage. Add a little broth, and stew gently till the pigeons are tender; put among them two or three spoonfuls of cream, and a piece of butter and flour for thickening. After a boil or two, serve the birds in the middle, and the cabbage placed round them. Another Way.— Stew the birds ih a good brown gravy, either stuffed or not; and seasoned high with spice and mushrooms fresh, and a little ketchup. PIKE, to Bake.—Scale it, and open as near the throat as you can, then stuff it with the following ; grated bread, herbs, anchovies, oysters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, half a pint of cream, four yolks of eggs ; mix all over the fire till it thickens, then put it into the fish, and sew it up ; butter should be put over it in little bits; bake it. Serve sauce of gravy, butter, and anchovy. If in serving the pike, the back and belly are slit up, and each slice gently drawn downwards, there will be fewer bones given. PIKE, to Fricassee. — Clean; cut into large pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with mushrooms, butter, 12 small onions, half boiled, a little parsley, green shalots, two cloves, thyme, and a bay leaf; soak all together for some time ; add a pint of sherry, some broth, salt, and whole pepper; boil briskly; reduce the same; take out the fagot, and make a combination with cream, eggs, and a little nutmeg ; adding a lemon squeeze, if the wine does not make it tart enough. PIKE, to Roast a.—Gut a large pike, and lard it with eel and bacon ; then take thyme, savory, salt, mace, nutmeg, some crumbs of bread, bee< suet, and parsley, all shred very fine, mix them with raw eggs, and put in the belly of the pike, sew up the belly, dis- solve three anchovies in butter, to baste it with ; put two laths on each side the. pike, and tie it to the spit; melt butter for sauce. Garnish thick, with lemon,