GAR 189 GAR tbs table vegetables, and pick out the most curled plants of curled parsley, cress, and chervil, for seed. Watering the freshly-planted crops must now be attended to in dry weather in the even- ings, or very early in the mornings. Weeding and thinning out are also of Importance, as well as hoeing, particu- larly with potatoes, cabbages, and peas. July. — Plant cabbages, savoys, coleworts, brocoli, lettuce, celery, &c. Train and regulate the summer shoots both of wall trees and standards ; prune vine and fig-trees, and shade ripe cur- rants that are exposed to the full blaze of the sun. Place nets on the cherries to protect them from birds. Take up garlic, onions, and shalots, as thpir leaves begin to decay. August.—Both cabbages, brocoli, endive, spinach, Welsh onions, turnips, and radishes should now be sown. The celery sown should be planted, and that already planted, as well is cardoons, should be earthed up. September.—Sow vegetable seed for a spring crop. Prick out cabbage plants, and gather ripe seeds. Endive and lettuce may be planted out on beds sloping to the south-west, and fenced round to drain off water. Hoe and clear the ground about turnips. Cab- bage for collards in November, and German greens may be planted early in the month. October.—Sow magazan beans, and frame peas on a warm southern border ; lay into the ground purple and white brocoli, within a few inches of their lower leaves, letting their heads face the north; transplant cauliflowers and purple brocoli under frames and hand glasses ; cabbages, garlic, lettuces, and shalots, under frames. November.—Force seakale, rhu- barb, and asparagus; take up endive, brocoli, and cauliflower, and lay them flat in dry ground; transplant suckers taken from the roots of the pear and codling plum, and prepare them for budding and grafting different fruits upon. December.—Celery should now be earthed up, and in so careful a man- ner as not to require the operation again ; force asparagus, also rhubarb, and seakale ; lay in as early as possible this month the brocoli, purple, and white. The following sorts of winter greens are best suited for cottage gardens :—1 The first sort, after the summer cab- bages, is the Savoy. 2 The Brussels sprouts ; it has a long stalk, with small heads all the way up. 3 Green bore- cole, or Scotch kale; a fine tall early green. 4 Buda kale, also the Manches- ter, the Russian, or the Prussian kale; a short plant, with little or no stem, and very hardy. These four sorts will keep up a constant supply from November to May. If a cottager has a large garden, he should have some of each. If he has only room for one sort, it should be the Scotch kale. The first three sorts may be sown in Mar ch ; and the strongest plants put out in June, leaving the weaker to be planted out in July. The Buda kale should not be sown till May, nor planted out till July. General Hints, Operating on the Soil.—Trenching should always follow draining, or the latter will act but partially. U nless the ground be stirred pretty deeply, half the effect of draining will be lost. Both must be done in the autumn or early part of the winter, and the ground will then be in a good state, for cropping in spring. Manuring may be done in early winter, when the ground is somewhat frozen, as the material can then be wheeled on with greater ease, and the grounds and paths will be less cut up. Light.—Want of light is often the real cause of evils which are ascribed to want of air, though both combined may occasionally be acting. Light may, however be prejudicial to plants in cer- tain stages, as after fresh planting or potting, when it stimulates them more than their crippled roots will bear. Dull weather, is therefore, best both for potting and planting, and a little shade after either process may often be bene- ficial. * Seed Sowing.—Seeds to germin- ate require light, heat, air and moisture. They should be sown when the ground is mellow and fine, and, if possible, be- fore a gentle rain ; and the soil should be rolled or gently pressed upon the seed after sowing. The best of seeds often fail from improper management. When sown too early, while the ground Is wet.