CUR 150 cue to cover them, with salt, pepper, Ac. Cayenne pepper and ground mustard render them wholesome. CUCUMBERS, to Pickle in Slices.—Cut into slices; sprinkle salt over them, and lay with them sliced onions ; let them stand 24 hours ; then drain them; boil 2 quarts of vinegar, with cayenne pepper, large mace, gin- ger, and a table-spoonful of ground mustard. Mustard renders them whole- some. Put the cucumbers into a jar, and pour the vinegar boiling hot upon them. Cover well; after standing 2 days, boil the pickle again until they are green. Cucumbers keep best unpared. CULVER’S ROOT.—A valu- able American plant. The root is a good purgative, tonic, diaphoretic, anti- septic, &c. Its operation is mild, with- out producing weakness or prostration, and is most effective in fevers, to remove black and morbid matter from the bowels. Good for indigestion, to purify (the blood, and acts powerfully on the absorbent system. Valuable in dropsy. Dose, one or two spoonfuls in a small cupful of water sweetened. CUMMIN PLASTER.—Take cummin seeds, caraway seeds, bayber- ries, of each, 3 ozs. ; burgundy pitch, 3 lbs. ; yellow-wax, 3 ozs. ; melt the pitch and wax together, and the other ingredients, powdered ; make into rolls. To be spread on leather. To be applied to the lower part of the abdomen for expelling flatulence, and colicky pains. CURDS AND WHEY may be made by putting half a drachm of citric acid into a pint of milk. CURD CHEESECAKES— Half a pint of good curds; beat them with four eggs, some rich cream, half a nutmeg, a spoonful of ratafia, rose, or orange flower water; add 4 ozs. of sugar; 8 ozs. of currants, well washed and dried. Bake in patty-pans, with a good crust under them. CURD PUDDING.—Rub the curd of two gallons of milk, well drained through a sieve ; mix it with six eggs, a little cream, two spoonfuls of orange flour water, half a nutmeg; flour and bread crumbs, three spoonfuls each; currants and raisins, half a pound each. Boil one hour in a thick, well floured cloth. CURLING of the Hair.—Use no oil; curl it when wet, and allow It to dry in that state. Use a weak solu- tion of isinglass, which secures a per- manent form. CURRANT BISCUITS— Sugar, 1 % lb. ; flour, 2 lbs. ; butter 1 % lbs. ; currants, 1% lb. ; 1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon and nutmeg; five eggs. Beat the butter and sugar to- gether, whisk the eggs, and add to the other ingredients, mix well. Roll out the dough in sheets, cut into cakes, place them on tins, strew white sugar on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. CURRANT WATER ICE. —Put a teaspoonful of black cur- rant jelly into a basin; add the juice of two lemons, a gill of black currant syrup, aDd half a pint of water ; strain, and freeze. CURRANT CAKES—Take 2 lbs. of flour, and 1 lb. of butter rubbed into the flour; mix it to a paste with cold water, and two teaspoonfuls of yeast; take 10 ozs. of currants, 4 ozs. of sugar, a little clove pepper, and a little cinnamon: mix, and put a Httle into the inside of every cake ; roll your cakes thin, and cut into different shapes with a tin mould ; bake them in a sharp oven. CURRANT DROPS—Put 1 lb. of pounded loaf sugar upon a plate ; then the juice of black or red currants ; make into a paste of thickish consis- tency ; drop on fine paper, and dry. CURRANT JAM, Black, Red or White.—Let the fruit be very ripe, pick it clean from the stalks, bruise it, and to every pound put three quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar ; stir it well, and boil half an hour. CURRANT JELLY, Red, or Black.—Strip the fruit, and in a stone jar stew them in a sauce-pan of water, or on the fire; strain off the liquor, and to every pint weigh 1 lb. of loaf-sugar ; put the latter in large lumps into it, in a stene or china vessel, till nearly dissolved ; then put it into a pre- serving-pan ; simmer and skim. When it will jelly on a plate, put it in small jars or glasses. CURRANTS, to Preserve for Tarts.—Let the currants be ripe.