CAN 90 CAR half of bees’ wax : then put in an ounce of hog’s lard and boil them together. When it is cold pour the beer from it, and apply it spread on white leather. Renew it every other day. It brings out great blotches, which are to be washed with sal prunello dissolved in warm water. If it be not broken, apply a piece of sheet lead beat very thin, and pricked full of pin holes, for days or weeks to the breast. Purges should be added every third or fourth day.—Or, rub the whole breast morning and evening with spirits of hartshorn mixed with oil. Or, keep it continually moist with honey. CANCER PLASTER.—White oak-bark, 4 uz. ; bruise it well, and add urine sufficient to cover it. Infuse four days, boil it till it becomes as thick as treacle. Add 2 ozs. of honey, and 2 ozs. of strained turpentine gum. To make this plaster caustic, add 2 drachms of white vitriol. Spread on soft leather, or linen.—It may be applied to all kinds of ulcers, white swellings. For cancers it is invaluable. CANDIED CITRON-PEEL. —Soak the peel in several waters to take away the bitterness ; the last water to be warm; drain, and cover with syrup until they are transparent. The syrup should be renewed once or twice by adding more sugar. Drain and dry. CANDIED LEMON—Boil three pounds of loaf sugar in a pint of water, till candied; then drop sixteen drops of essence of lemon therein, stir it well, and then pour it out imme- diately. Make it up as candied pepper- mint. CANDIED LEMON, OR ORANGE.—Soak the peel in salt and water four or five days, take out and wash well. Boil in soft water till they are tender. Then make syrup of loaf sugar and water, and boil till they are candied. Add sugar, as required: You may regulate the taste, by adding cinnamon, mace, and cloves. When candied, dust them with fine sugar. CAPERS, to keep.—Scald some vinegar, when cold, pour it upon the capers ; tie dose to keep out the air. CAPER SAUCE.—Melt some butter, chop the capers fine, boil them with the butter. An ounce of capers will be sufficient for a moderate sized sauce-boat. Add, if you like a little chopped parsley, and a little vinegar. More vinegar, a little cayenne, and essence* of anchovy, make it suitable for fish. As a substitute for capers, some use chopped pickled gherkins. CAPILLAIRE.—Take z\ lbs. of loaf sugar, 2 eggs well beaten, 1 quart of water. Simmer it one hour, skim it, let it cool; boil and skim, and add a ozs. of orange flower water and 4 table- spoonfuls of brandy. Strain and bottle for use. A spoonful in a tumbler of water makes a pleasant beverage. CARBUNCLE.—A carbuncle is a species of boil, but larger, and much more painful. It shows debility in the constitution.—Give a mild aperient, rendered tonic by the addition of quin- ine. Foment the part with bitter herbs, or steam it with the same. Linseed meal, and slippery elm bark, well boiled make an excellent poultice. Or of pop- lar bark and slippery elm, and a few drops of tincture of myrrh. When the poultice is taken off, wash well with a decoction of bayberry. The Vegetable Caustic, and the Black Salve, are good remedies. Every time the place is dressed, it should be well washed with soap and water, or weak tincture of myrrh and’water. The diet must be light and nourishing ; the patient must take exercise in the open air. When the tongue indicates no fever, give tonic bitters. CARDS. Explanation of Terms. Shuffling is the first thing done in all games, it is simply mixing the cards; it is proper to shuffle before every new deal. Cutting is the next operation, it is done by lifting from the top of the pack a portion of the cards, which must be more than a trick, generally from one- fourth to three-fourths of the pack, and placing that portion under the remain- der. In cutting for deal, each person lifts a few cards from the pack, and shows the undermost card of those he lifted; and whoever shows the lowest card (which is an ace in this case) is en- titled to deal. If two have cards equally low, they each drop two or three, and