HAM HAR 206 makes an admirable sauce for a roast fowl. To keep it some time, add salt. HAM and CHICKEN PAT- TIES.—Mince finely i£ lb. of cold boiled or roasted chicken, and 1 lb. of lean ham. Put some good gravy to the minced meat, (see Gravy) with a little cayenne, or white pepper, grated lemon peel, and a squeeze of lemon. Stir till hot. Fill the moulds lined with paste, cover with crust and bake. Ham and Veal Patties may be made the same way. Some mix a little cream with it. HAM PIE.—Slice cold boiled ham half an inch thick; make a good crust; cover the dish, and put a layer of ham ; clean a young fowl; put pepper and salt in the belly, and rub a little outside; lay the fowl on the ham ; boil eggs, put in the yolks, cover all with hiam ; put on pepper, and cover with crust. Bake and when done, fill with rich beef gravy. HAM POTTED.—Take 2 lbs. of cold lean ham; 1 lb. of cold roast veal. Cut, and pound very fine, adding 12 ozs. of butter, ground mace, nutmeg, and a little cayenne pepper. Pot, and cover with butter.—Chicken may be potted with ham in the same way. HAM SAUCE.—When a ham Is almost done with, pick the remaining meat from the bone; beat the meat and bone to a mash with the rolling- pin, put it into a sauce-pan with three spoonfuls of gravy, set it over a slow fire, and stir it all the time ; when it has been on some time, put to it a small bundle of sweet herbs, some pepper, and half a pint of veal gravy, and stew over a gentle fire ; when it has the flavour of the herbs, strain. A little of this is an improvement to all gravies. HAM TOAST.—Ham * lb., mince fine; the yolks of two eggs; cream, two table-spoonfuls ; season with salt, and a very little cayenne. Boil all together. Pour it upon toast; cover with fine bread, and brown it nicely. HANDS, to Whiten.—Take a wine-glassful of eau de Cologne, half a cupful of lemon-juice, scrape two cakes of Windsor soap to a powder; mix well, then add a tea-spoonful of sulphuric acid. Mould it and let it harden. HARE, Broiled.—The flavour of broiled hare is very fine. The legs and shoulders must be seasoned first, 'ribbed with cold butter, and served very hot. HARE, to jug.—Cut it up ; sea- son with pepper, salt, allspice, pounded mace and nutmeg. Put it into a jar with an onion, a clove or two, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of coarse beef, or good beef steak, and the bones of the hare at the top. Tie the jar down with a bladder or strong paper. Put into a saucepan up to the neck. Keep the water boiling four hours. The jar will also do well in an oven in two or three hours. When it is to be served, boil the gravy up with a piece of butte*' and flour. Add a little stock gravy, and a glass or two of port wine. Pour it over the hare. A little bacon is an improve- ment. HARE, to Pot.— Season and bake with butter; when cold beat the meat in a mortar with some nice cold ham, a little parsley, thyme, &c. If not high enough, add salt, mace, pep- per, a little butter melted in a spoonful of gravy that came from the hare. Pot, and cover with butter. HARE, Roasted.—After skin- ning, wash well. Stuff with bread crumbs, the liver half boiled, an an- chovy, or bacon, parsley, grated lemon- peel, nutmeg, salt, cayenne, the yolks of three eggs, and a little lemon-thyme. Fasten all tight. Boil half an hour. Take out and roast it for one hour or more. Baste it with milk till half done, then with butter. Do not place too near the fire. Serve with rich gravy, melted butter, and currant jelly sauce. The gravy may be improved by ketchup, port wine, and a little flour. HARE SOUP.—Cut the hare into pieces, and 1 % lb. of good beef; put into a jar with three blades of mace, two large onions, three anchovies, a little bacon or ham, a bunch of sweet herbs, cayenne, and a pint of port wine. Stew in the oven three hours; strain into a stew-pan ; put in % lb. of French barley, or the crumbs of two penny rolls, ready boiled; scald the liver, rub it through a sieve into the soup ; place on the fire till near boiling. Put toasted bread in the tureen, and pour the soup upon it. HARE, Stewed.—Cut to pieces; put into a stew-pan, with mace, pepper.