BUT 82 BUR mixed with olive oiL Some recommend soap liniment, which is made by dis- solving soap in spirits. When a bum is only trifling, and causes no blister, it is sufficient to apply a compress of several folds of soft linen upon it, dipped in cold water, in which has been dissolved a little carbonate of soda ; to be renewed every 15 minutes, until the pain is removed. Dr. Tissot says, In cases of blisters, beat up an egg with two table-spoonfuls of olive oil, or linseed oil, spread it on soft linen, and apply it to the affected part. For very slight bums or scalds, the Black Salve alone is sufficient to remove the pain and inflammation ; page 65 If the skin is not broken, cover the part with a layer of flour or starch, place cotton wool over it, or a linen rag, and bind it over lightly. If a blister has been burst or cut, use a cerate. Where the skin has been burnt off, wet applications may be used ; the best is lime water and linseed oil; one part of the former to two of the latter, well mixed. Milk may be used to advantage in the same way; or in the absence of milk use bread and water till you can get the linseed oil and lime water. BURNS AND SCALDS.—If any part of the body be scalded or burnt, it should be placed in a vessel of new milk as soon as possible, and be kept there till the fire is drawn out. There must be an abundance of new milk obtained where the greater part of the body is burnt; and if a bath of milk cannot be got, the patient must be laid on the first convenient place, and soft cloths steeped in milk must be contin- ually applied, till the fire is drawn out. This has been known to give instant relief to a man who fell into a copper of boiling wort, when the skin peeled off with his clothes. Or, peel a few raw potatoes, beat them in a mortar; add a drachm or two of laudanum ; Spply to the affected parts, like a poultice. It is very effi- cacious in the cure of bums or scalds, and other inflamed parts. An eminent surgeon in the army says, "Opiates are excellent things, and should be given to relieve pain ; but the stimulants mrst not be torgotten. The shock of the burns depresses the whole system, and laudanum, though it re- lieves the pain, is also depressing in its effects, I would, therefore, (as in acci- dents of this kind time is most precious) recommend the following mixtures to be given at once:—Laudanum, 30 drops; sulphuric ether 40 drops; brandy, a tablespoonful, in a wine glassful of warm water. This should be given directly, and repeated in an hour's time if the pain is not sub- dued. This treatment should be followed up by beef tea and other concentrated forms of nourishment. Of course the ever-present remedy of covering the bums freely with flour from a flour dredge, and applying cotton wool above the layer of flour, must not be neglected. BURN OR SCALD.—Imme- diately plunge the part in cold water, and keep it there for some time.—Or electrify it immediately.—Or if the part cannot be dipped, apply a cloth four times doubled, dipped in cold water, changing it when it becomes warm.—Or a bruised onion.—Or mix lime-water and sweet oil to the thickness of cream. Apply with a feather. Most effectual. Or, take a piece of thick brown paper, dipped in the best salad oil; then set the paper on fire upon a common plate, upon which will remain a deposit of oil. Apply this oil to the bum. Or, put on the bum or scald a covering of flour.— Or, cover with treacle, and dust on flour. Or, cover with the white of egg. Or, apply whiting or chalk, and linseed oiL Or, apply a cloth dipped in a solu- tion of alum. Another remedy is to cover the bum with moistened whitening placed on a cloth, and kept damp with a sponge. BUTTER, to Make.—In Swe- den, they thus make it:—Put the cream, either sweet or sour, into a bag of suffi- cient fineness to prevent its passing through, and then bury the bag four feet in the earth, carefully covering it up. In twenty-four or twenty-five hours, on taking up the bag, the cream will be found to be converted into excellent butter. BUTTER, to Make.—During summer, skim the milk when the sun has not heated the dairy ; at that season