MAC 24O MAR whiting, powdered, 1 lb.; soda, 1 oz.; cover well with the syrup, or they will seasoning In the holes In each piece, rub the pieces all over with the season- ing ; fry them brown in oil or butter, and let them cool; put them into vine- gar, and cover them with oil. They are fine eating. MACKEREL, to Pot.—Clean, season, and bake them in a pan with spice, bay leaves, and some butter. When cold, take out the bones ; in pots lay them very close, and cover them with clarified butter. They may be potted like lobsters. See Lobster, p. 241. MACKEREL, Soused.—Put together heads and tails in an earthen dish or pan. Season with chopped onions, black pepper, a pinch of allspice, and salt; add vinegar and water equally to cover the fish. Bake in the oven.— Herrings, sprats, or any other cheap fish, are done in the same manner. MAGENTA DYE.—This splen- did colouring matter may be bought of the chemists. It is first-rate for dyeing silk ribbons, &c. Directions for use are given on each bottle. MAGGOTS IN SKEEP, to Destroy.—Water, 1 quart; spirit of turpentine, a table-spoonful; sublimate of mercury, as much as will lie upon a shilling; cork in a bottle, with a quill through the cork, so that the mixture may come a little at a time. Shake before using. Pour a little of the mix- ture upon the spot where the maggots are, and they will creep upon the top of the wool, and fall off dead. Apply afterwards a little train oil to the place. MAGNUM BONUM PLUMS, to Preserve.—Put the largest in a panful of water over a slow fire; keep putting them down with a spoon, till the skins will come off with a penknife; put them in a fine thin syrup, and give them a gentle boil; take off, and turn them often in the syrup, or the outside will turn brown. When cold, set them over the fire again ; boil six minutes ; then take off, and turn them often in the syrup till nearly cold. Take out and place on a flat china dish ; strain the syrup through muslin ; add the weight of the plums in fine sugar ; boil, and skim well; then put in the plums; boil till they look clear; put them into jars or glasses; lose their colour; put brandy papers and a bladder over them. MAHOGANY COLOUR, to Stain.—1. Take 2 ozs. of dragon’s blood, break it into pieces, and put it into a quart of spirits of wine; to stand in a warm place; shake often; when dissolved, it is ready for use. 2. Linseed oil, 2 pounds; alkanet, 3 ounces. Heat them together and macerate for six hours, then add resin, 2 ounces; bees’ wax, 2 ounces. Boiled oil may be advantageously used instead of linseed oiL 3. Brazil-wood (ground); water suffi- cient ; add a little alum and potash. BoiL 4. Logwood, 1 part; water, 8 parts. Make a decoction and apply it to the wood ; when dry, give it two or three coats of the following varnish : dragon's blood, 1 one part; spirits of wine, 20 parts. Mix. MAHOGANY FURNITURE, to Clean.—Three pennyworth of alkanet root, a pint of Unseed oil; two pennyworth of rose-pink ; to stand in a vessel all night. Rub some of this mix- ture over the table or chairs, and let it stay an hour; then rub it weU off with a linen cloth, and it will leave a beauti- ful gloss. MAHOGANY, to Take Stains Out of.—Mix 6 ozs. of spirits of salts, and % oz. salt of lemons together. Drop a tittle on the stains, and rub it with a cork till the stains disappear. Then wash off immediately with cold Welter. MANDRAKE.—This plant is not so abundant in England as in America. It is a valuable plant, but requires skill and care in its application as a remedy. It is purgative, deob- struent, antibitious, anthelmintic, hy- dragogue, &c. It is a sure purge, superior in some diseases to jalap. It is very useful in scrofula, in bilious, dyspeptic, and venereal affections.—See Robinson's Herbal. * MARBLE, to Clean.—Soap lees mixed with quick time, pretty thick, and applied for a day, then washed off with soap and water.—-Or muriatic acid diluted with water, taking care that it be not too strong.—Or soft soap, 1 lb. ;