115 CAT CEL effectually, and is most useful in colds ; throwing off fever, and restoring to health rapidly. It is good for nervous complaints, indigestion, wind, colic, and is very suitable for infants and children in belly-ache, flatulency, &c. Dose; infuse a small quantity in a pint of boiling water. It is a good fomenter in swellings. CATTLE, TO ASCERTAIN THE WEIGHT OF.—Measure the girt close behind the shoulder, and the length from the fore part of the shoulder-blade along the back to the bone at the tail, which is in a vertical line with the buttock, both in feet. Multiply the square of the girt, ex- pressed in feet, by five times the length, and divide the product by 21; the quo- tient is the weight, nearly, of the four quarters, in stones of 14 lbs. avoirdu- poise. For example, if the girt be 6% feet, and the length 5^ feet, we shall have 6% multiplied by 6% equal to 42 and 5# multiplied by 5 equal to 26 % ; then 42 multiplied by 26 X is equal to 1,109 i-i6th, and this divided by ai, gives 52 4-sths stones nearly, or 52 stones 11 lbs. It is to be observed, however, that in very fat cattle the four quarters will be about one one-twentieth more, while in those in a very lean state they will be one-twentieth less than the weight obtained by the rule. The four- quarters are little more than half the weight of the living animal; the skin weighing about the eighteenth part, and the tallow the twelfth part of the whole. CAULIFLOWERS, to Boil. —Strip the leaves which you 'do not intend to use, and put the cauliflowers into salt and water some time to force out snails, worms, &c. Boil them twelve minutes on a drainer in plenty of water, then add salt, and boil five or six minutes longer. Skim well while boiling. Take out, and drain. Serve with melted butter, or a sauce made of butter, cream, pepper, and salt. CAULIFLOWER, to Fry.— Wash as before. Boil twenty or thirty minutes ; cut it into small portions, and cool. Dip the portions twice into a batter made of flour, milk, and egg, and fry them in butter. Serve with gravy. CAULIFLOWERS, to Pickle. —Take the best and firmest cauli- flowers. Separate the flowers into small parts, spread them on a dish, sprinkle salt over them for a few days. Then put them into jars, and pour boil- ing salt and water upon them, and let stand all night; then drain them on a hair sieve, and jar them again, and fill up with the best vinegar, in which you have simmered mace, long pepper, white pepper-corns. &c. CAULIFLOWER, with Par- mesan.—Prepare the cauliflower as before, and cut the stalk, so that the flower will stand upright two inches above the dish. Put it into a stew-pan with a little white sauce ; stew till done enough, a few minutes ; then dish it with the sauce round, and grate parme- san over it. Brown it with a sala- mander. CAULIFLOWER, with Queen’s Sauce.—Make the sauce with a bit of ham, fillet of veal, cut into small dice, a little butter, chopped pars- ley, shallots, and a clove of garlick; soak this for a time on the fire; then add a few spoonfuls of jelly broth, and half a pint of cream ; pour part off into the table-dish; place the cauliflower therein, boiled properly, and the re- mainder of the sauce over it; garnish with bread crumbs, and colour it in the oven with a little butter on it. CAULIFLOWER, with White Sauce.—Parboil it; then cut into nice pieces, and lay them in a stew-pan with a little broth, a bit of mace, salt, pepper; simmer half an hour ; then add a little cream, butter, and flour; shake ; simmer a few minutes ; serve. CAYENNE, good Soluble*— All cooks acknowledge the supremacy of cayenne among the peppers. It is thus made:—infuse 1 oz. of genuine cayenne in boiling water, enough to cover it; let it stand on the hob for a couple of hours, and then pour the liquor through a fine sieve upon 1 oz. of salt in a soup plate; cover this down, and let it cool. The new crystals have absorbed the liquid, which can be rubbed up to any size required, and placed in a cruet-stand. These new grains will dissolve, and be free from the husk and seed of the pepper-pods. CELERY, Essence of.—Soak the seeds in spirits of wine or brandy ;