a CARDS 93 CARDS All four cards must be seen on the table together. “Sequence”—Ace, ten, king, queen, and knave of trumps. " Royal Marriage ”■—King and queen of trumps. “ Marriage "—King and queen of any suit, except trumps. “Four aces"—The aces of any suit or suits. "Four kings"—The kings of any suit or suits. “Four queens”—The queen of any suit or suits. “Four knaves"—The knaves of any suit or suits. The cards, though left on the table, can be used as if in the hand of the player, and can be played to a trick as if they had not been declared. A card cannot be played to a trick and be declared at the same time. Kings and queens once married, can- not be married again, but can be used, while they remain on the table, to make up four kings, four queens, or a se- quence. The king and queen used in a se- quence cannot afterwards be declared as a royal marriage. If four knaves have been declared, the knave of diamonds may again be used for a B^zique, or to complete a se- quence. If four aces have been declared, the ace of trumps may again be used to perfect a sequence. If the queen of spades has been mar- ried, she may be again used to form a Bdzique, and vice versa, and again for four queens. B^zique having been declared, may be again used to form double Bdzique. The seven of trumps can be exchanged for the trump card, and for this ex- change ten is scored. A player can only make this exchange, like a declaration, immediately after he has taken a trick. Whenever the seven of trumps is played, except in the last eight tricks, the player scores ten for it, no matter whether he wins the trick or not. The winner of the last 'trick—that is, the twenty-fourth or trick before the last eight—scores ten, and can at the same time declare anything in his hand. The Last Eight Tricks.—When the last two cards are taken, the players take up the cards that are left on the table, having eight each. No more declarations can now be made, and the play proceeds as at whist, except that the ten still ranks before the king. In the last eight tricks, the player is obliged to follow suit, or trump. If a player revokes in the last eight tricks, or does not trump, having none' of the suit, or does not wm the card led, if able, he forfeits the eight tricks to his opponent. The tricks are still only valuable for the aces and tens they may contain. When all the cards are played, each player looks through his tricks, and counts the number of aces and tens they contain, and for each be scores ten. They are first counted by the winner of the last or thirty-second trick. Scoring. B&sique (queen of spades and knave ol diamonds) 40 Double Bdzique (two queens of spades, and two knaves of diamonds) .. 500 ■Sequence (ace, ten, long, queen, and knave of trumps) 250 Four aces 100 Four Kings .. .. 80 Four Queens 60 Four Knaves 40 Royal Marriage (king and queen of trumps) 40 Marriage (king and queen of the same suit) 20 Turning up the seven of trumps (and may be exchanged for the trump card turned up by the dealer) .. .. 10 Playing the seven of trumps—except in last eight tricks to The last trick to Each ace, and ten in the tricks at tha end of each deal 10 Forfeits. 10 10 10 too For drawing out of turn For playing out of turn .. For playing without drawing For overdrawing For a revoke in the last eight tricks, all the eight tricks. Winning the Game.—When a player, by declaring B^zique, marriage, or other combination, scores 1000 or up- wards he wins, although his opponent might make the score higher with his