BEE BEE 46 turnips cut in small balls, and some celery, for two hours. Let it simmer for six hours longer, taking care to fill up the pot as the water decreases. An hour before the meat is done, take out as much broth as will fill your soup dish, and boil in it turnips and carrots, cut in small pieces, with some celery, and season it with salt and pepper; serve the beef in one dish, and the soup in another. Add toast bread to the soup. BEEF, Brisket of, to Stew.— Put the part that has the hard fat into a stew pot, with a small quantity of water, let it boil up, and skim it thor- oughly ; then add carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a few pepper-corns. Stew till extremely tender; then take out the flat bones, and remove all the fat from the soup. Either serve that and the meat in a tureen ; or the soup alone, and the meat on a dish, garnish- ed with some vegetables. The following SAUCE is much admired, served with the beef:—Take half a pint of the soup, and mix it with a spoonful ofketchup, a glass of port wine, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a little flour, a bit of butter, and salt; boil all together a few minutes, then pour it round the meat Chop capers, walnuts, red cabbage, pickled cucumbers, and chives or parsley small, and put in separate heaps over it BEEF BROTH.—Put two pounds of lean beef, one pound of scrag of veal, one pound of scrag of mutton, sweet herbs, and ten pepper-corns, into a nice tin saucepan, with five quarts of water ; simmer to three quarts ; and clear from the fat when cold. Add one onion if approved. Soup and broth made of different meats, are more supporting as well as better flavoured. To remove the fat, take it off, when cold, as clean as possible ; and if there be still any remaining, lay a bit of clean blotting or cap-paper on the broth when in the basin, and it will take up every particle. BEEF CAKES.—Pound some beef that is underdone with a little bacon, or ham ; season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot, or garlic: mix them well; and make into small cakes three inches long; and half as wide and thick; fry them a light brown, and serve them in a good thick gravy. BEEF, to Collar.—Choose the thin end of the flank of fine mellow beef, but not too fat; lay it into a dish with salt and saltpetre, turn and rub it every day for a week and keep it cool. Then take out all bone and gristle, remove the skin of the inside part, and cover it thick with the following season- ing cut small: a large handful of parsley, the same of sage, some thyme, mar- joram, and pennyroyal, pepper, salt, and allspice. Roll the meat up as tight as possible, and bind it, then boil it gently for seven or eight hours. A cloth must be put round before the tape. Put the beef under a good weight while hot, without undoing it: the shape will then be oval. Part of a breast of veal rolled in with the beef, looks and eats very well. BEEF-COLLOP.—Cut thin slices of beef from the rump, or any other tender part, and divide them into pieces three inches long; beat them with the blade of a knife, and flour them. Fry the collops quick in butter two minutes; then lay them into a small stew-pan, and cover them with a pint of gravy ; add a bit of butter rub- bed in flour, pepper, salt, the least bit of shalot shred as fine as possible, half a walnut, four small pickled cucumbers, and a teaspoonful of capers cut small. Take care that it does not boil; and serve the stew in a very hot covered dish. BEEF Cooked in a French Manner.—Procure six pounds of beef, and a pound of fat bacon in thin strips ; roll each strip separately, in a seasoning of parsley and pepper, and cover the beef thickly over with them. Place some veal bones at the bottom of a pan,, with a cover, tie the larded beef round, and place it upon the bones. Then slowly pour over it two tablespoon- fuls of rum, so as to penetrate the beef. Place a thin slice of bacon at the top, and vegetables : viz. a few carrots, an onion, half a turnip, and one head of celery. Put these into the pan, with pepper-corns, and a bunch of sweet herbs in a bag, and pour over the whole a cupful of good gravy. Cover the pan well. Bake in an oven slowly for four hours; garnish, when cold, with jelly,