DEA DAN *5* the chassex also on the right. She must then continue the same as the gentleman, but a contre pied: that is she slides with her right foot when the gentleman slides with his left; and when the gentleman slides with his right foot, she slides with her left to the left. The beauty of this waltz is never to jump, but only to slide. Make the steps rather wide, and keep the knees slightly bent. DANDELION.—This very valu- able plant is well known, It is diuretic, tonic, and aperient, and has a direct action in removing obstructions of the liver, kidneys, and other viscera. It is peculiarly valuable in all liver com- plaints, derangement of the digestive organs, and in dropsical affections. Had not this plant been so common and so cheap, it would be prized like gold! An infusion or decoction may be made of the roots and leaves. But the extract is the best, thus prepared: —Take up the roots in September, clean them; bruise in a mortar, and press out the juice : strain, and put it upon a plate in a warm room to evapo- rate, and render it thick and solid, Dose : from a scruple to a'drachm three times a day. Dandelion has cured liver complaints when all other means have failed. “ The more dandelion is used, the more certain proof will, it afford of its utility." Dr. J. Johnson. DANDELION BEER.—Dan- delion root, lb. to 1 gallon of water ; boil well, and when cooled new milk warm, add 1 lb. sugar, 1 oz. ginger, a lemon, and 1 oz. cream of tartar. Add a little yeast It is very good for the liver and digestion. Young nettles, balm, or any other herb may be treated the same way. DANDELION COFFEE. — Good colonial coffee, 3 parts ; hard ex- tract of dandelion, 1 part; chicory, 1 part. Reduce them to coarse powder, and mix, and grind them together. Good for digestion and affections of the liver. DEAFNESS.—Fox-glove leaves well bruised ; mix the juice with double the quantity of brandy. Keep for use. Drop one drop into the ear once a day, Mid place in the ear a small piece of sponge saturated with it. Or, clean the ear well out with warm water, dry it, and then soak sponge in glycer- ine, and put it into the ear, moving it backwards and forwards, to lubricate it thoroughly. Or, syringe the ears well with warm milk and oil; then take opodeldoc, and oil of almonds, of each, % oz., and apply with sponge or lint. Or, fill a clean stone bottle with hot water; lay the ear on the bottle as hot as it can be borne, so that the steam may ascend into it every night when going to bed, for five or ten minutes. Or, take fine black wool, dip it in Camphorated Oil, and put it into the ear ; as it dries, dip it again; and keep it moistened in the ear for two or three weeks. Be electrified through the ear. Or, put a little salt in the ear mixed with sweet oil. Or, three drops of onion juice at lying down, keeping it in with lint.- Or, mix brandy and sweet oil; dip black wool in this and put it into the ear. When it grows dry, wash it well in brandy ; dip it and put it in again.—If attended with headache, peel a clove of garlic, dip it in honey. Apply it with black wool. Previously drop into the ear a few drops of the juice.—A mixture of ten drops of spirit of turpentine with 1 oz. of almond oil, using black wool, will tend to the cure of deafness arising from diseased ceru- minous glands.—If deafness arises from wax, syringe the ear with warm water, applying the night before a little glycer- ine. DEAFNESS, If recent, to Cure.—If not, to Relieve.—Hen’s oil, 1 gill; and a single handful of the sweet clover raised in gardens ; stew it in the oil until the juice is all out, strain it, and bottle for use. Where deafness is recent, it will be cured by putting 3 or 4 drops daily into the ear, but if of long standing, much relief will be obtained if continued a sufficient length of time. DEAFNESS.—Take the juice of foxglove leaves, and an equal quantity of best brandy. Mix. Put 2 drops into the ear at bed-time. Stop the ear with a little lint or sponge, wet with the same mixture.