99 CARDS CARDS the adversary may either permit him to complete his hand from the Talon, or call a new deal. If he has too many, the adversary may either draw the over- plus cards from his hand, or take the new deal himself. 7. If the adversary has too few cards dealt to him, he may take from the top of the Talon as many as he wants ; or If he has too many, he may discard from the overplus,—having the option, in either case, of calling a new deal. 8. The 6th and 7th rules are appli- cable where the dealer is in fault; but if the mistake has been caused by the carelessness of the adversary in discard- ing or taking in cards, he loses one point, besides being debarred from reckoning the king, if he has it that deal. 9. If the dealer deals out of turn, and it is discovered before the trump is turned, the cards are thrown up, and the right dealer takes them; if the error is discovered after the trump is turned, but before the parties have played or discarded, then the cards are put in reserve for the next hand, and the proper dealer goes on with the other pack: should the discovery, how- ever, not be made till after the parties have played or discarded, then the deal is to be held good. 10. If the dealer shows more than one card in turning up for trump, the adversary may either demand that the eleventh card be the trump, and put the others shown to the bottom of the pack, or call a new deal, 11. The player who, under any pre- tence, looks over his adversary's cards, or the discard, must play out the hand with his own cards exposed. 12. Any one playing with more than five cards in his hand, loses a point, and cannot score the king if he has it. 13. If one party play without pre- viously naming the suit, or play a suit different from the one named, he must (if required) take up his card and play the suit named; but if the adversary judges the card played to be more favourable for him than the suit named, be covers it, and then it cannot be re- called 14. A card played out of turn may be taken up. if not played to: but if covered by the adversary’s card, it must remain. 15. A card falling accidentally from the hand upon the table, is considered to be played if it partly covers or is partly covered by the adversary's card, but not otherwise. 16. If it is discovered that a revoke has been made—that a party has refused to take a trick when he had a winning card, each must take up his cards and play the hand over again : if the offen- der wins the five tricks, he is allowed to score only one point; and if he gains the point only, cannot score it at all. 17. If a player throws down his hand, either from mistake or want of temper, and the cards get mixed, the adversary scores two points. 18. The player who quits the game before it is finished, loses it; but if any bets are depending, the adversary is obliged to play it out with any of the bystanders in the interest of the betters. LOO.—Amongst all round games Loo deservedly occupies the most prominent position; and being the most interesting, is generally played. It is a game so generally known as to require little comment; and so easily learnt, that a thorough knowledge of the game may be obtained in half an hour’s play. There are two kinds of Loo, “ limited Loo,” in which the person looed has to pay a certain amount as previously agreed to, and “unlimited Loo,” in which the party looed pays whatever amount may be on the table at the time he was looed. The method of playing, however, is precisely the same in both games, and is as follows: The whole pack of cards are used, as at whist, and rank in the same order; the deal is cut for, and when decided, the dealer pays a stake previously agreed upon : he then gives three cards (one at a time,) to each person playing; he also deals a spare hand called “miss," which the leading hand has the option of taking if his own cards do not suit him ; each person looks at his cards in rotation, beginning with the leading hand and finishing with the dealer ; and each in his turn may take “miss” (so long as she remains nntaken,) if his own cards do not please him.