SCO 354 SCR. they are a light brown, put them into the pot, and fry them. Pour sill the gravy into a tossing-pan, with half a pint of gravy made of the bones, and bits from which the collops have been cut, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon pickle, a table-spoonful of ketchup, the same of browning, half a lemon, a little anchovy, cayenne, and salt to your taste; thicken with flour and butter. Boil $ or 6 min- utes ; then put in the collops, and shake them over the fire. When they have simmered a little, take them out, lay in the dish. Strain the gravy and pour it hot upon them. SCOTCH LEEK SOUP. Put the water that has boiled a leg of mutton into a stew-pot, with a quantity of chopped leeks, and pepper, and salt; simmer them an hour; then mix some oatmeal with a little cold water quite smooth, pour it into the soup, set it on a slow part of the fire, and let it simmer gently; but take care it does not bum to the bottom. SCOTCH MUTTON BROTH —Soak a neck of mutton in water for an hour ; cut off the scrag, and put it into a stew-pot with 2 quarts of water. As soon as it boils, skim it well, and then simmer it an hour and a half; then take the best end of the mutton, cut it into pieces (2 bones in each), take some of the fat off, and put as many as you think proper: skim the moment the fresh meat boils up, and every % of an hour afterwards. Have ready 4 or 5 carrots, the same number of turnips, and 3 onions, all cut, but not small, and put them in soon enough to get quite tender: add 4 large spoonfuls of Scotch barley, first wetted with cold water. The meat should stew 3 hours. Salt to taste, and serve all together. 20 min- utes before serving put in some chopped parsley. It is an excellent winter dish. SCOURING BALLS. -Dry fullers earth moistened with the juice of lemons ; add a small quantity of pearl ashes, and a little soft soap ; knead the whole well together into a thick elastic paste; form it into small balls, and dry them in the sun. When used, moisten the spot on the clothes with water ; then rub it with the ball, and let the spot dry 8n the sun. When washed with pure water the spot will disappear. SCRATCHES.—Do not neglect them. Wash them in cold water; close them as much as you can, and cover with diachylon plaster. If there is in- flammation, apply a bread poultice, or one of slippery elm. SCROFULA.—The Latins termed this disease scrofula, from scrofa, a hog, because it has been observed in swine. It is called the Kings Evil, because Edward the confessor, and other succeeding kings, both of England and France, pretended to cure it by the touch. Queen Anne, in 1807, by pro- clamation invited her scrofulous subjects to the royal touch. The disease is well known, and re- quires little description. It is generally seen in the glands of the neck, in the ligaments of the joints, and even in the substance of the bones. The glands of the mesentery are often tumefied, and accumulation takes place in the sub- stance of the lungs, forming tubercles. Treatment.—This must depend on the state of the constitution, and the structure of the parts affected, &c. When the lungs are the seat of the mis- chief, it produces Pulmonary Consump- tion ; when it exists in the ligament of a joint, it is called Whitt Swelling. The general health should be regarded, and means adopted to establish it. To in- vigorate and strengthen the absorbent system, cold bathing, and the sea air has been very beneficial; and the min- eral waters have not been useless, though they are not a specific. All these means however, do not apply to scrofula in the lungs. Administer the vapour bath of bitter decoction; give tonics, and an emetic occasionally; rub the tumours freely with the stimulating liniment night and morning ; and the body with salt and water every morning. If the tumours are much inflamed, apply a poultice of bran and slippery elm bark. Linseed meal and slippery pin are very good. Apply cold, and re- new when dry. The poultice is almost sovereign when the tumours burst, if it is mixed with the pulverized bark of the root of bay-berry, and a little sweet oiL First, cleanse the tumour well with soap and water; then apply the poultice. The extract of clover is very good for this purP08®- If 1* made by boiliny