274 NET NER foot. Two pairs of nerves proceed out of each side of the spine, and thence ramify to every part of the body. They are so abundant, that we cannot touch any part of the skin with the point of a needle without coming into contact with a nerve, and a blood vessel. The great sympathetic nerve is the most'important of all. It communicates with all the spinal nerves, and several of those of the brain. NERVE POWDER.—Take 1 oz. each of scullcap, and valerian ; cat- nep, 1 oz. ; cayenne, 1 drachm; cori- ander seeds, % oz. Pulverise, and mix. Take a teaspoonful in a cupful of boil- ing water, leaving room for milk and sugar. Repeat according to the symp- toms. This powder tranquilizes the most irritable nerves without debilitating and deadening their sensibility. It greatly strengthens the nerves. NERVOUSNESS. — Sulphate of quinine, 1 to 3 grs.; dissolve it in 6 ounces of camphorated julep; add of the volatile tincture of the valerian, 3 drachms ; tincture of columba, J ounce. Mix. When the nerves are irritable, attended with indigestion, flatulence, and occasional headache, this is often serviceable. Three table-spoonfuls to be taken three times a day. NERVOUS DISORDERS; Rev. John Wesley’s Directions. When the nerves perform the office too languidly a good air is the first requisite. The patient should rise early, and, as soon as the dew is off the ground, walk ; let his breakfast be mother of thyme tea, gathered in June, using half as much as we do of common tea. Or, the common garden thyme, if the former cannot be procured. When the nerves are too sensible, let the person breathe a proper air. Let him eat fresh veal, chickens, or mutton. Vegetables should be eaten sparingly; the most simple is the French bean, and the best root is the turnip. Wine should be avoided ; and all sauces. Sometimes he may break- fast upon a quarter of an ounce of vale- rian root infused in hot water, to which he may add both cream and sugar. Tea is not proper. Whence person finds an uncommon oppression, let him take a large spoonful of tincture of valerian root. This tincture should be made thus :— Cut in pieces six ounces of wild valerian root, gathered in June, and fresh dried. Bruise it in a mortar, that the pieces may be split, but it should not be beat into powder: put this into a quart of strong sherry wine ; cork the bottle and let it stand 3 weeks, shaking it every day, then press it out, and filter through paper. But there is no remedy for nervous disorders of every kind, comparable to the proper and constant use of the elec- trical machine. NERVOUS DROPS—Mix 8 drops of spirits of hartshorn with 4 drops of the oil of lavender, and take in a wineglassful of water. NERVOUS MIXTURE. Liquid carbonate of ammonia, drachm ; compound tincture of carda- mom, % oz. ; oil of lavender, 8 drops ; mint water, 3 ozs.; mix, and take in two or three doses. It is invaluable. NERVOUS PILL—Assafceti- da, extract of hops, carbonate of am- monia, of each 1 oz. ; extract of valerian, 20 grains. Dissolve the first two ingre- dients over the fire, then take off, and add the others; mix well, and with a few drops of the oil of lavender, and a little powdered liquorice, form into pills. Dose, one or two once or twice a day.— Valuable in all nervous and hysterical disorders. NERVOUS TINCTURE— Compound tincture of bark, 2 ozs. ; ammoniated tincture of valerian, 1 £ oz. ; compound tincture of aloes, oz. Mix. Good for general weakness, low spirits, and nervous irritability. Two teaspoonfuls twice a day. NETTLE.—The nettles make a good rubefacient for limbs cold, be- numbed, and torpid. Paralytic parts being beaten and stung with this herb, have regained their vigour, and limbs which have lost their use by rheumatism. The juice is astringent, and is good in gravelly complaints, internal Iwemcrr- hage, and spitting of blood. A decoction is excellent in scurvy. The decoction is valuable in cases of bloody urine. The seeds and flowers of the nettle are as good a tonic as Peru- vian baric in fevers and ague. About a drachm given in wine. A decoction