% BIC 53 When you have mastered the preced- ing, bring the bicycle up to the side of the road, let the outer treadle be slightly inclined or just falling over the centre, then throw your leg over the saddle, place the outer foot on the treadle and press on it, at the same time pushing of from the side with the inner leg, by the time you have done this the inner treadle will have come up, and soon as it has begun the descent place your in- ner foot oh it, and press it down as you did the outer one. Give the treadles a steady pressure and then only when going over, allowing the wheel to com- plete the revolution itself, the foot merely feeling the touch. In holding the handles do not grasp them too hard, or it will cramp the hands. There are three ways of holding them.—i.—with the hands over them, 3.—with the hands under them, and 3.—holding them with the ends in the palms of the hands. The second posi- tion is the best for a learner, when con- fidence is gained use the third position. After you have mastered the rudi- ments and can travel a few hundred yards without a spill, you will then re- quire to learn to mount from the ground without elevation, this is called the ‘ step,’ mount from the left side of the bicycle, stand just behind the step, stretch over and hold both the handles in your hands, placing the toes of the left foot on the step, hop a few paces on your right foot, pushing the bicycle at the same time,—and as soon as it has run a little way, spring yourself on the step, and throwing the right leg over on the backbone, drop a little forward into the saddle, get your right foot on the treadle and also your left as soon as possible so as to prevent the machine from stop- ping. If you wish to dismount, hold the handles firmly, hand uppermost, take the left foot oft the treadle and move it back until you are able to place your toe on the step, keeping the other treadle work- ing with the right foot, when you have got your toe firmly on the step, raise your body out of the saddle, then bring your right leg backwards and jump oft, letting the right foot touch the ground first, let go of the handle with the right hand, still holding with the left. It is best to lean) on a small machine, ou then gain confidence to mount one igher. Tricycles do not require much learning, tread lightly and at the right time, that is, when the treadle is just going over. BILLIARDS, Rules.—1 The game commences by stringing for the lead and choice of the balls, as in the White Winning Game. It; is imagined by some persons, that the re- ceiver of points, if any be given, is bound to lead off. But this is wrong, for the points given are understood to equalize the game. Why, therefore, should one party give away any supposed advantage he may possess over the other ? 3 The red ball must be placed on the lower of the two spots at the bottom of the table, and replaced there when it is holded, or forced over the edge of the table, or when the balls are broken. N.B. Breaking the balls is placing them as at the commencement of the game. 3 Whoever breaks the balls, leads off, unless when they are broken by mutual consent, in which case the lead should be stipulated for, or strung for. 4 If a player makes one stroke in a game, he must finish that game ; other- wise he loses it. 5 If the striker makes any points, he may continue his game until he ceases to make points. 6 If, when the ate is pointed, the ball should be moved without the striker in- tending to strike, it must be replaced; and if not replaced before the smoke be played, the adversary may claim it as a foul stroke. 7 If a ball springs from the table, and strikes one of the players, or a bystand- er, so as to prevent its falling on the floor, it must be considered as off the table. 8 If a ball runs so near the brink of a pocket as to stand there, and after- wards falls in, it must be replaced and played at, or with, as the case may be. N.B. There is no necessity for chal- lenging a ball. The umpire must decide whether the ball has stood or not. 9 If (as it may sometimes happen) a ball be spinning on the brink of a poc- ket, and, although stationary for a time, afterwards falls in, in that case the hazard is scored, if the motion be not gone out of the ball at the time it falls into the pocket.