ICE 217 IND sort of fruit, being gained by squeezing, sweetened and mixed with water, will be ready for iceing. Ice Creams.—Mix the juice of the fruits with as much sugar as will be wanted, before you add cream, which should be of a middling richness. ICELAND MOSS.—It derives its name from the country in which it is found. As an article of food for inva- lids, it is very light, and nutritious. It has tonic, and demulcent properties, and it forms a very suitable diet for the consumptive. It allays the tickling cough, relieves the breathing, and im- proves the digestion. The decoction is the most medicinal It is bitter; but.that may be obviated by previous washings. ICELAND MOSS JELLY.— Moss, ^ oz. to r oz. ; water, 1 quart. Simmer down to % pint Add fine sugar, and a little lemon juice. It may be improved with % oz. of isinglass. The moss should first be steeped in cold water an hour or two. IMPERIAL.—Cream of tartar 2 ozs. ; citric add, 1 oz. ; orange or lemon peel, 3 ozs. ; fine sugar, 6 or 8 ozs. ; boiling water, 2 qrts. Mix ; cover the vessel to cooL Very suitable for hot weather. It might be bottled by adding a little yeast. IMPERIAL CREAM.—Boil a quart of cream with the thin rind of a lemon ; stir till nearly cold ; have ready in a dish to serve in, the juice of 3 lemons strained with as much sugar as will sweeten the cream; pour it into the dish from a large tea-pot, holding it high, and moving it about to mix with the juice. It should be made from 6 to la hours before it is served. INDELIBLE INK.—German Receipt—Dissolve 20 grains of sugar in 30 grains of water, and the addition to the solution of a few drops of concen- trated sulphuric add; the mixture is then heated, when the sugar is carbon- ized by the action of the add. It is said that the writing is not only of a solid black colour, but that the add re- sists the action of chemical agents. INDELIBLE INK. —Add a little nitrate of silver to ordinary writing Ink. INDIA PICKLE.—Strong vin- egar, 3>i quart) ; salt, % lb, ; shallot), % Eh. ; ginger, a ozs. ; white pepper, » r*. ; mustard seeds, a ozs. ; cayenne pepper, % a table-spoonful. Boil all together ; put into a jar ; add 2 ozs. of ground mustard. You may put in kidney beans, cauliflower, &c., as you like. INDIAN PUDDING.—Indian meal, a cupful, a little salt, butter, 1 oz.; treacle, 3 ozs. ; 2 teaspoonfuls of ginger or cinnamon. Put into a quart of boil- ing milk. Mix a cup of cold water with it, bake in a buttered dish 50 minutes. INDIGESTION. —It may be the effect or symptom of some disease, as nervous debility of the stomach, affec- tions of the liver, inflammation of the stomach, costiveness, obstructed per- spiration, want of exercise, especially in the open air, defidency or vitiation of the gastric juice, gluttony, alcoholic drinks, depressing passions; intense study, onanism, or self-abuse, &c. Tea, coffee, and tobacco are most fruitful causes of this disease. Treatment.—Abandon, if possi- ble, the causes which produce the effect. Give occasionally an emetic. If neces- sary, gentle aperients. Injections are often of great use. These methods may be repeated about once a week, till the disease abates. Emetics serve to remove morbid matter, impart new tone to the stomach, and give healthy action to the secretions. Dr. Beach recommend) lobelia combined with mandrake, as the best emetic. The bowels are best regu- lated by always eating brown bread; for the bran gives a more natural stimulus to the liver and alimentary canal than any medicine which can be given. The use of the Dyspeptic Pill tends very much to improve the tone of the stomach, page 168. The Restorative Wine Bitters cannot be too much re- commended, page 336. If indigestion arises from affections of the liver, treat for the same ; especially take the Liver Pill with the aforesaid medicines, page 241. If, from a disordered stomach, there is acidity, &c., take the Neutralix- ing Mixture, page 875. In fine, be choice in your diet; and eat the unsifted flour, by some called ground down, or brown bread—a better name would be—ground altogether. It is the grand panacea for indigestion. The dyspeptic must avoid or take little