EYE 177 FEA It takes away redness and soreness ; It cures pearls, rheums, and often blind- ness. If it makes the eye smart, add more water to it. Another. — Stamp and strain ground ivy, celandine, and daisies, an equal quantity ; add a little rose-water and loaf-sugar. Drop a drop or two at a time into the eye; it takes away all the inflammation, smarting, itching, spots, webs, &c. Or take two table-spoonfuls each of brandy, and rain water, and about the size of a horse-bean of camphor. Dis- solve the last in the first. Valuable. EYE WATER.—Take of white vitriol, 10 grains ; rose, or elder flower water, 8 ozs. Mix. EYE WATER.—Half a pint of the best brandy, 2 pints of spring water, and sugar of lead, i oz. ; mix. This is a good eye-water.—Or, take 6 ozs. of Rectified Spirits of Wine, dissolve in it i drachm of Camphor, then add 2 small handfuls of dried Elder Rowers ; infuse 24 hours. Bathe the forehead, over your eyes, and each temple, several times a day; meantime, dip a soft rag in stale small beer, new milk warm, and bathe each eye a few times gently morn- ing and evening. If it is a watery hu- mour, wet the eyelids two or three times but be sure to shut your eyes, or it will make them smart and bum excessively. It is also a good remedy for the toothache, or swelled face, bruises, &c., used as a rubefacient. EYES, Weak.—May be relieved by washing them in cold water ; or dis- solve 4 grains of sugar of lead, and crude sal ammoniac, in 8 ozs. of water, to which add a few drops of laudanum. With this mixture bathe the eyes night and morning. Rose water is also good for the eyes. If lime gets into the eyes, a few drops of vinegar and water will dissolve and remove it. Almond or olive oil will do away with any hot fluid that may reach the eye. Styes should be bathed with warm water, and it is as well to take an aperient. A little ointment of citron and spermaceti may be used when the stye is broken. F. FACE-ACHE die.—The jaws, teeth, and face, often swell, and become painful. It proceeds from cold.—Poul- tice the parts with bread or bran poul- tice hot. For neuralgiac pains, take % a drachm of sal-ammoniac in water 3 times a day.—Or steam the parts over bitter herbs. If the swelling be great apply a ley poultice.—Or bathe the parts with the Rheumatic Liquid., page 338. For jaw and tooth-ache, apply tincture of cayenne on cotton lint be- tween the cheek and the teeth. FACE BURNING.—It arises from acidity of the stomach. Take one or two teaspoonfuls of magnesia in milk. FAINTING FITS. —Remove the patient to the open air, and lay him in a horizontal position, with nothing tight left upon him. Should the case be obstinate, immerse the feet and legs in warm water, and apply spirits of hartshorn to the nostrils ; and give a few drops in a glass of water, or hot brandy and water. FAMILY WINE.—Equal parts of black, red, and white currants, cher- ries, and raspberries. Bruise and mix with soft water,—4 lbs. of fruit to 1 gal. of water. Press, strain, and add 3 Tbs. of sugar to each gallon of liquor. After standing 2 or 3 days, skimming it, barrel it, and let it ferment for a fortnight. Add brandy, and bung. It gels rich with age. FEATHERS, to Clean- Feathers may be cleansed from their animal oil by steeping them in lime water—1 lb. of lime to a gallon of water, stir well, and then pour the water from the lime. To Cleanse Feathers from Dirt, make a strong lather of white soap and hot water. Put in the feathers and rub them for 5 minutes. Rinse in clean hot water. FEATHERS TO CURL.— Heat them slightly before the fire, then stroke them with the back of a knife, and they will curl. . FEATHERS TO DYE.-Steep them a few hours in warm water.—Blue may be dyed by extract of indigo and boiling water. Simmer over the fire a few minutes.—Green ; Verdigris and Verditer, x oz. each ; and gum water; dip the feathers. Or mix the indigo liquor with Persian berry liquor. — I,