HAJ 204 HAD Aspirated, Halter Hale Bara Hat Hare Hell Hedge Her Hill Hear Hard Cow herd Not to be Aspirated. Alter, to change. Ale Am, ftobt.) At, prep. Are, (to be.) Ell, a measure. Edge. Err, to do wrong, 111, unwell. Ere, Ear. Ardor. Coward. Words in which the h is not aspira- ted, or is dropped. Spelt Heir Herb Historian Historical Honest Honour Hour Humble Pronounced. air erb istorian istorical onnest onnur our umble Common words in which the h is often wrongly dropped. t§§5“ Pro- nounce the h STRONGLY Horse, house, happy, heaven, head, home, holy, hurt, heat, habit, hospital, hostler, humour, &c. Words which are often wrongly as- pirated:—Angel, amiable, am, anec- dote, animal, appetite, earth, enemy, elegant, eloquent, elephant, ever, image, imitate, infant, opulent, odd, oracle, omatory, ugly.—Never pronounce these with h, as hangtl, hamiable, &c. HADDOCKS, or Whitings, to Broil.—Gut and wash them; dry them ; rub a little vinegar over them, to keep the skin on ; dust well with flour ; rub the gridiron with butter; let the gridiron be very hot; turn the fish two or three times. When served, lay pickles round them, melted butter, or cockle sauce. HADDOCKS.—Having cleaned them, put them in a Dutch oven before a quick fire ; when the skins rise, take them off; rub egg over them, and strew them with a few bread crumbs, dredge with flour; when you have turned them, rub butter over them ; turn till they are done enough ; lay round them cockles, muscles, or red cabbage. Use shrimp sauce, to melted butter, as you please. HADDOCK, to Boil. — The same as for Cod. See page 136. HAIR-BRUSHES and COMBS, to Clean.—Dissolve pot- ash in boiling water, and rub the brush with soap ; dip the brush into the solu- tion, and draw it through the comb frequently, taking care to keep the wood dry 1 Lastly rinse the hair in cold water, and dry. See page 17. Borax is an effective cleanser for Brushes and Combs. HAIR, to Dye.—Hair may be changed from a red, gray, or other colour, to a brown or deep black, by a solution of silver. The silver is dis- solved in aquafortis, and then largely diluted with water—rain-water is the best An eminent physician says that the hair will assume a darker hue by having it cut dose, and passing a leaden comb through it every morning and evening. HAIR OILS.—Olive oil, 2 ozs.; oil of lavender 1 drachm ; otto of roses, % drachm ; apply morning and even- ing. Or, Palma Chrisd oil, 2 ozs. ; oil of lavender, oil of rosemary, oil of nutmeg, 1 drachm each. Or, olive oil, 1 oz.; oil of origanum, 1 drachm; oil of rosemary, 2 drachms. Or, oil of sweet almonds, 2 ozs.; spermaceti, % oz. ; melt over the fire. Cool, and add a tew drops of oil of bergamot. HAIR WASHES.—A weak In- fusion of tea, with a small quantity of rum, is a good application. Apply with a sponge—If fire person can bear it, wash the head in cold water, mori- ing and night, and then brush the head until of a warm glow; then apply twice a day this mixture;—tincture of cantliarides, oz.; eau de Cologne, % oz.; rose water or distilled water, a ozs.——Or, wash the hair with Windsor soap suds twice a. week, rub well in, wash with clean soft water, and then apply a little rum, brandy, or weak camphor water. Or, to 1 oz. of borax, add % oz. of camphor; dissolve in a little spirits of wine ; then mix with a quart of boiling water; cool and it will be ready for use. It cleanses and strengthens the hair effectually. Or, boil in water. 3 ozs. of sassafras wood, and oz. of pearl-ash. Or, honey, 4 lbs.; tendrils of vines, 1% lb; rose-