CON COM 134 per, 1 os, ; spirits of wine, half a pint or more. Simmer carefully till the spirits are almost evaporated. When nearly cold, add camphor, 1 oz.; oil of sassa- fras, 1 }£ drachm; opium, 1 drachm. As a strengthening plaster, it always gives relief. COMPOSITION POWDER. Thompson's, See Robinson's Family Herbal, page 341.—Take bay-berry, 8 ozs. ; ginger, 8 ozs.; poplar bark, 4 ozs.; white oak bark, 4 ozs.; cayenne pepper, 3% ozs.; cloves, % oz. Powder and mix intimately. Dissolve a teaspoonful in a cup of boiling water, sweetened. This powder is invaluable for removing colds, influenza, fever, relax, pain in the bowels, cold extremities. For promot- ing perspiration, and morbific matter, the cause of disease, it is invaluable. When taken, the patient should go to bed, and apply the hot brick, &c. COMPLEXION, to Improve it.—Be cheerful; get as much fresh air in-doors and out-doors, as possible. Keep in health ; promote a good diges- tion, and regular evacuations; avoid alcoholic drinks: a milk and vegetable diet makes a fair complexion; plain living, without condiments and hot sea- sonings, &c., makes the fairest face. It is good to rise early in the morning, drink a cup of milk, walk into the fields, wash the face in sparkling dew, gaze on creation, below, above, and all around you, till mental pleasure beams forth on your face in radiant smiles. Check the effects of grief, disappointments, embar- rassment, &c. Dissolve flowers of sulphur in milk, and strain. With the clear milk, wash the face.—Or infuse sifted bran in best vinegar; add, well beaten, the yolks of 3 or 4 eggs, and 1 grain of ambergris. Distil. Bottle, and cork well. — Or, Castile soap, 4 ozs. ; Fuller’s earth water, 1 quart. Dissolve. Add oz. of spirits of wine, and x drachm each of oil of lavender and rosemary. Fuller’s earth water is made by merely dissolving it in water, stirring well, and then let it settle. This earth alone is good for the complexion. CONSTIPATION, Costive- ness.—A sluggish state of the lower bowel, causing the retention of the faeces. It is a very common disease. It may be caused by food hard to be digested, by ardent spirits which have a very constipating influence, and debili- tate the lower bowel; frequent excessive purges have the same effect. Sedentary employments, the want of exercise, and fresh air, and not drinking water in suf- ficient quantity, lead to costiveness. It is often attended with many distressing symptoms, and is the cause of various dangerous diseases; as piles, fistula, indigestion, hernia, colic, cholera. And it is also the effect of many diseases. Constipation is to be removed by an attention to diet, by adopting a veget- able diet, and by eating bread made of unsifted flour ; that is, no bran, sharps, &c., taken away. Also, by taking much exercise, and a more copious supply of diluents, especially toast and water. Make a regular habit of evacuating once a day at a fixed hour, and always make an effort whether successful or not. Assist the bowels by an injection of warm water, about % a pint; if very ob- stinate, add to the water a little castor oil. For several nights take one or two of the Dyspeptic Pill; page 168, or one or two of the following:— Powdered aloes, jalap, gamboge, colocynth, extract of gentian, man- drake, cayenne pepper, of each, % oz.; castile soap, % oz. ; oil of peppermint, % drachm. Mix well, and form into pills. It purges without griping and weakening. Dose :—two or three pills. Sulphur is a good remedy, especially when there is a tendency to piles. If there is a deficiency of bile, take blood- root, page 67, with a little powdered dandelion root. The flesh brush, cold sponging, and the shower-bath, are ex- cellent remedies. CONSTIPATION, or COS- TIVENESS.—Professor Phoebus, of Giessen, refers habitual costiveness to the following causes :— 1. The too spare use of articles of diet which promote the action of the bowels. Water is placed first. It is taken by many in insufficient quantity. In sedentary occupations the sensation of thirst is too seldom excited, and the habitual frequency of such sensation may be diminished if the satisfaction ol the call be neglected. To this class of ailments belong fruits, salads, sour milk, honey, and fat. Many country