FIT FIS 180 of a lemon, with its peel chopped fine, two anchovies boned, three tea-spoon- fuls of soluble cayenne pepper, two table-spoonfuls of horse-radish vinegar, and a tumbler of port wine. Bottle, and for two or three weeks shake fre- quently. FISHING-ROD VARNISH. —Equal parts of Canada balsam and fine turpentine, wanned together for several hours, make an excellent varnish. Or, alcohol, one pint; Venice tur- pentine, a quarter of a pint; gum san- darach, 4 02s.; gum mastic in tears, 1 oz. ; resin, 2 ozs.; heated by ether till dissolved. FISTULA.—This disease Is seat- ed near the anus and rectum, in the form of abscess, or ulcer, emitting an offensive discharge. It may be caused by derangement of the liver, costiveness, or great laxity, high living, intemper- ance, bruises, piles, &c. It is first known by a painful swelling near the rectum, inflammation, a pressure upon the bladder, or urethra, supression of urine, great pain in passing the foeces. The treatment generally is by the knife; but we prefer the reform prac- tice of America; for cures by the knife are very rare indeed. Dr. Beach says, 11 Moderate excessive inflammation; diminish painful symptoms; promote suppuration; if the swelling cannot be discussed. Apply to the swelling the Discutiext Ointment, page 161, after- wards foment with bitter herbs, tansy, wormwood, horehound, catnep, hops, a handful of each—make a decoction. Put into a vessel, and add half a pint of soft soap. Put a board across the vessel, or tub, and let the patient sit over it for twenty minutes, covered with a blanket, except the head, to retain the steam. Repeat several times a day." It often relieves the most painful cases. Apply the Discutient Ointment as often as possible ; also a poultice made of linseed meal, and powdered slippery elm bark, renewing it every day. If the pain prevents sleep, take a little of the Diaphoretic Powder page 160, at bed-time. Promote perspiration by bathing the feet daily, drinking balm and hyssop tea. The bowels must be kept open by emollient purgatives ; but If internal medicines cause pain, in- lections must be given ; of warm water mixed with butter, or castor oil. This treatment will ripen the abscess; it is the best to let it break spontaneously; after which the Black Salve, page 65, will be found of great service, intro- duced into the ulcer by means of small tents of lint. Inject also into the anus a weak solution of carbonate of potash ; or castile soap and water. It renders the discharge more healthy. Wash the fistula twice a day with salt and water. After the painful symptoms are gone, the patient can scarcely tell whether he is improving or not, though the fistula may be daily decreasing. FISTULA.—Use a sitz-bath as often as you can bear it. Wash muscle shells clean, bum them to powder, sift them fine, mix them with hog’s lard, spread it on clean wash- leather, and apply it. This cured one who was thought to be at the point of death. N.B. This also cures the piles. FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. —This is a swelling, and inflammation in the inner comer of the eye, caused by an obstruction of the tear-duet. Steam over the vapour of camomile and groundsel tea, for thirty minutes twice a day. Snuff up the nostril near the affected eye, powdered lobelia herb, mixed with a little blood-root. Should the eye swell, use eye-waters and the Brown Ointment, page 279. FITS.—If a person falls into a fit, let him remain on the ground provided his face be pale; for should it be faint- ing or temporary suspension of the heart’s action, you may cause death by raising him upright, or by bleeding; but if the face be red or dark coloured, raise him on his seat, throw cold water on his head immediately, and send for a surgeon. 1. Ascertain the cause of the convul- sions, and treat that. If the gums are swollen, lance them. If the bowels are constipated, open them by an injection of warm water, soap, ana molasses. 2. Apply cloths wet in cold water to the head, and especially to the back of the neck. Nearly all forms of convulsions in children and in adults may be cut short sooner by applying cloths wet in cold water, or, better still, ice to the back tf