BIL BIL 59 scores one for each, the same as if he had pocketed them. 15 If the game is played with an even number of balls, the last hazard counts but one; if, with an odd num- ber, it counts two. 16 When all the coloured balls but one are pocketed, the player who made the last hazard continues to play with the white ball, and his opponent with the red, alternately, as at single Pool. 17 When only two balls are on the table, and two persons playing, should the striker hole the ball he is playing with, or make a miss, the game is finished; if there are more than two players, and they not partners, the striker places a ball on the spot as in Rule 9. BILIOUSNESS. — The first thing is to allay the irritability of stomach; second, to evacuate the bowels of their acrid matter; third, to remove spasms, irritation, or urgent symptoms ; fourth, to excite a healthy secretion of the liver. For these the Neutralizing Mixture (see page 275,) will be found applicable for the pur- pose ; give a small tablespoonful every half hour, or as often as the vomiting occurs, and when allayed take a good purgative ; such as 1 oz. of castor oil, or a strong dose of Rhubarb ; or a purging mixture : Glaubers salts, % oz. ; Epsom salts, K oz-1 spearmint water 5% ozs. ; antimonial wine, 2 drachms ; tincture of senna, % oz. ; mix, and take 2, 3, or 4 tablespoonfuls for a dose, every 3 hours until it operates. If these do not act recourse must be had to injections com- posed of:—Sweet milk, 1 pint; muci- lage of slippery elm, 1 pint; olive oil, 1 gill; molasses, % pint; common salt, 1 oz. ; mix. Use a large size syringe. Should there be great pain in the lower intestines add a drachm of laudanum to each injection, it will relieve the griping pain. Introduce as much of the injec- tion as the p>atient can bear, to be re- peated every hour or two until the bowels are moved or the pain abated. Apply Rheumatic l.inament warmed, with a flannel dipped in it, to subdue pain in the abdomen. BILLS of EXCHANGE and PROMISSORY NOTES:—The acceptor of a bill, or the maker of a Promissory note is formally and abso- lutely liable upon it, even after indorse- ment by any other parties ; the drawer and each indorser are only collaterally liable to the owner, in the event of the nonpayment by the acceptor or maker. Every subsequent indorser is a surety for each prior indorser. But an indorser as such, is not liable to the acceptor, and a subsequent indorser, as such is not liable to a prior indorser. When a bill is accepted payable at a particular place, the drawer or indorser can only be made liable upon present- ment and dishonour at that place. U n- less the bill be presented on the day it becomes due, and at the right place of payment the drawer and all the indorsers will be discharged. A Bill of Exchange continues negotiable until paid at ma- turity by the acceptor or party liable. There are three days of grace allowed on a bill exclusive of the day on which it would, otherwise, become due. And they are counted consecutively, without any deduction for Sundays or holidays, and whenever the last day of grace oc- curs on a Sunday, or other holyday, the bill becomes payable on the preceding day. Bills payable on demand, or, at sight, are payable immediately upon presentment without any days of grace. Bills falling due on Bank Holidays are payable on the following day. The holder of a bill can sue any of the in- dorsers of it, either all at one time or successively, but on payment of the bill and costs by one, proceedings against the others will be stayed. BILLS OF SALE.—A New Act came into force on November 1, 1882. It repeals part of the act of 1878. Henceforward every Bill of Sale must have a schedule, and will only cover goods specifically written down on the said schedule, and not after-ac- quired property. Bills given for a consideration under ^30 are void, and even when goods are seized, they are not to be removed or sold, until after the expiration of five clear days, during which time the grantee may be restrained from pro- ceeding by a judge upon cause shown. All absolute powers to grantees to enter and seize goods at any time are abolished. Bills of Sale are declared void, even