CARDS 103 CARDS Gaining the point generally makes ten difference; therefore when you dis- card, endeavour to gain it, but do not risk losing the cards. Saving your lurch, or lurching your adversary, is so material that it is al- ways worth risking some point to ac- complish either of them. If you have six tricks, with any win- ning card in your hand, play that card; you would play greatly against yourself not to do so. The younger hand should always play upon the defensive, therefore, in order to make his thirteen points he is to carry tierces, quarts, and especially strive for the point. It is often good play for a younger hand not to tall three queens, knaves, &c. ; also to sink one card of his point, which his adversary may suppose to be a guard to a king or queen. The younger hand having the cards equally dealt him is not to take in any card, if thereby he runs the risk of losing them. The younger hand having three aces, it is generally best to throw out the fourth suit. The younger hand should carry guard to his queen suits in order to make points and make cards. If the elder hand is sure to' make the cards equal by playing in any particular manner, and is advanced before his adversary in the game, he should not risk them ; but if his opponent is greatly in advance, ne should risk losing the cards in hopes of winning them. If the elder hand has two aces dealt to him, it is eighteen to one that he does not take in the other two that are against him; that he does not take in one, is five to four against him, or nearly so. Laws of Piquet. — The elder hand is obliged to lay out one card at least. If the cider hand takes in one of the three cards which belong to the younger, he loses the game. If the elder hand, in taking his five cards, turns up one belonging to the younger hand, he Is not to count any thing that hand. If either play with thirteen cards, they cannot count any thing that deal. Should either of the players have thir- teen cards dealt, it is at the option of the elder hand to stand the deal or not: if he chooses to stand, then the person having thirteen is to discard one more than he takes in ; should either have above thirteen, theD a new deal must take place. If either hand reckon more than they hold, or what they have not, they count nothing. If the elder hand touches the stock after he has discarded, he cannot alter his discard. If a card is faced, and it happens to be discovered either in dealing or in the stock, there must be a new deal, unless it is the bottom card. If the younger hand takes in five cards it is the loss of the game, unless the elder has left two cards. If the elder hand shows a point, or a quart or tierce, and asks if they are good, and afterwards forgets to reckon any of them, the other cannot reckon any of similar value. When you are cutting, you must cut two cards at least. If the elder hand calls a point, and does not show it, it is not to be reckon- ed ; and the younger hand may show and reckon his point. In the first place call your point, and if you have two points, and design to reckon the highest, you call that first, and ajDide by your first call. If you play fewer than your proper number of cards, there is no penalty attached to it. If the elder hand leaves a card, and after he has taken in, happens to put to his discard the four cards taken in, they must remain with his discard, and he must play with eight cards. Whoever deals twice together, and discovers it previous to seeing his cards, may compel his adversary to deal, not- withstanding he may have seen his cards. No player can discard twice, and after he has touched the stock he is not allowed to change his discard. When the elder hand does not take all his cards, he must specify what num- ber he takes or leaves. Any card that has touched the board Is deemed to be played, unless in case of a revoke. If any player names » suit and then