CARDS CARDS 94 aces and tens after the cards are all played. Bezique, Three-handed.—Three packs of cards are required, which should be well shuffled together. Each person plays on his own account. Bdzique is always played from left to right, the player on left of dealer com- mencing. In other respects the manner of playing is the same as in two-handed Bdzique. The game is 1500. Bezique, Four-handed.—In this game the players cut for partners, and sit opposite each other, as in Whist, the one collecting the tricks, the other keep- ing the score. Four packs of cards are requisite. A player can make a declar- ation immediately after himself or his partner has taken a trick, the winner having the privilege of asking his part- ner if he has anything to declare. Only one player can make a declaration at a time. The game Is 2000. In playing the last eight tricks, the third hand, if he cannot follow suit nor win the trick by trumping, may play any card he likes. Four-handed Bdzique may be played by each on his own account, as well as by partners. Remarks.—1 The first thing a player should do on receiving his cards, and before commencing the game is, to consider which cards to reserve, and to group them accordingly. 2 There is no advantage In getting the lead unless you have anything to declare. 3 Declare a royal marriage before a sequence, if you have both. 4 Do not show your opponent that he cannot make a sequence or Double Bezique, and observe any sign on his part showing that you cannot make a sequence or Bezique, 5 Do not part with sequence or Bdzique cards while you have a chance of making declarations wiih them. Should the trump card be one of a sequence it is important to get the same into your hand by exchanging for the seven, if you have the latter and one leading. 6 Make aces and tens In your tricks whenever there is an opportunity, and keep one or two small trumps to cap- ture aces and tens of other suits, and to 'i»*on.re the lead when wanted. 7 If in doubt whether to reserve aces or kings, prefer the latter, as you have the chance of making double use of them by marriage, and declaring four kings. 8 Win the last trick, that is the twenty-fourth, if possible, by doing so you place ten to your score, and can declare anything you may have in your hand, and prevent your opponent from declaring anything more. 9 In playing the last eight tricks, your object is to save your aces and tens, and to win those of your competitors. Take notice what cards were previously lying on the table, and make good use of that knowledge. Variations for Four-handed Bezique.—1 The parties sit as in Whist, one keeping the score. Eight packs of cards are required, and twelve cards arejdealt to each player, in parcels of three alternately. 2 To follow suit is not necessary ; the higher card of any suit takes the trick when a tmmp is not played. If two cards of equal value are played, the first wins. 3 When a player takes a trick, both he and his partner have the privilege -of making a declaration. 4 ‘ ‘ Bezique ’’ having been declared, may be used again in forming “ Double Bdzique,” and once more in forming “Triple Bdzique,” but only after the player has taken, on each occasion, a trick. All six should be seen on the table together. First Bdzique scores ... 40 Double Bdzique scores ... 50c Triple Bdzique scores ... 800 5 Any number of marriages may be declared from the hand at one time, whenever a trick has been taken. 6 In exchanging the seven of trumps for the trump card, it is sometimes allowed to make a declaration at same time, the card exchanged not being used in the declaration. 7 A variation is occasionally made in using the queen of clubs and knave of hearts as “Bdzique" cards, when spades or di;unonds is trump. 8 In the last twelve tricks the player follows suit, as in Whist; but having none of the suit led, he is at liberty to trump, or play any other card. g The game proceeds as in two-hand-