415 WAS WAT tape, pulling out and fastening every point in the lace. WASPS and FLIES to Des- troy.—Dip a feather in a little sweet oil, and touch them with it between their wings ; this renders their breathing impossible. WATERS, Distilling simple. —Tie a piece of muslin, or gauze, over a glazed earthen pot, whose mouth is just large enough to receive the bottom of a warming-pan; on this cloth lay your herb, clipped, whether mint, laven- der, or whatever else you please ; then place upon them the hot warming-pan, with live coals in it, to cause heat just enough to prevent burning, by which means, as the steam issuing out of the herb cannot mount upwards, by reason of the bottom of the pan just fitting the brim of the vessel below it, it must necessarily descend, and collect into water at the bottom of the receiver, and that strongly impregnated with the essential oil and salt of the vegetable thus distilled; which, if you want to make spirituous, or compound water of, is easily done, by simply adding some good spirits, or French brandy to it, which will keep good for a long time, and be much better than if the spirits had passed through a still, which must of necessity waste some of their strength. Care should be taken not to let the fire be too strong, lest it scorch the plants ; and to be made of charcoal, for con- tinuance and better regulation, which must be managed by lifting up and lay- ing down the lid, as you want to increase or decrease the degrees of heat. The deeper the earthen pan, the cooler the season ; and the less fire at first (after- wards to be gradually raised), in the greater perfection will the distilled water be obtained. As the more moveable, or volatile parts of vegetables, are the aqueous, the oily, the gummy, the resinous, and the saline, these are to be expected in the waters of this process; the heat here employed being so great as to burst the vessels of the plants, some of which con- tain so large a quantity of oil, that it may be seen swimming on the surface of the water. Medical waters thus procured will afford 11s nearly all the native virtues of vegetables, and give us a mixture 05 their several principles, whence they in a manner come up to the expressed juice or extract gained therefrom : and if brandy be at the same time added to these distilled waters, so strong of oil and salt, a compound, or spirituous water, may be likewise procured, at a cheip and easy rate. Although a small quantity only of distilled water can be obtained at a time by this confined operation, yet it compensates in strength what is deficient in quantity. Such liquors, if well corked up from the air, will keep good a long time, especially if about a twentieth part of any spirits be added, in order to pre- serve the same more effectually. WATER, Hard to make Soft. —Boil it, and expose it to the atmos- phere. Add a little carbonate of soda. WATER for Low Spirits.— Coriander seeds and aniseeds, of each 1J oz. ; valerian 1 % oz. ; cardamoms, bruised, 2 ozs. ; saffron, 1 oz. ; carra- way seeds, 2 ozs. ; cinnamon, 3 ozs. Simmer half an hour in a quart of water, to which add 4 ozs. of sugar candy. C00L Then add a quart of port wine, and a quart of brandy. Cork well in bottles. Through all the oper- ation cover close. WATER, to Purify.—Put into it powdered charcoal, then filter through a compressed sponge, and it will be- come perfectly sweet, however impure previously. Water may be filtered and purified by means of a deep flowerpot, with a com- pressed sponge in the hole at the bottom. Put over the sponge an inch thick of pebbles, next an inch of coarse sand, next a layer of charcoal, and over again pebbles. The water will filter pure and clear through the hole into another vessel. WATER, to Purify.—A large spoonful of pulverised alum sprinkled into a hogshead of water (the water stirred round at the time) will after the lapse of a few hours, so purify it, that it will be found to possess nearly the fresh- ness and clearness of finest spring water. A pailful containing 4 gallons may be purified by a single spoonful; or