BEE 47 EEE and with the vegetables stewed with the meat. This is a very nice dish. BEEF, Corned.—Make the fol- lowing pickle :—water, a gallons ; salt, aK lbs. ; treacle, % lb. ; sugar, i lb.; saltpetre, i % ozs. ; pearlash, % oz. Boil all together; skim, and pour the pickle on about twenty-five pounds of beef. Let it stay in a few pays. Boil in plenty of water when cooked to remove the salt, and eat with it plenty of vegetables. It is nice to eat cold, and makes excellent sandwiches. BEEF, to Cure.—Take 28 lbs. of good beef and rub it thoroughly with salt and saltpetre ; then make a pickle of 4 ozs. of bay salt, kf oz. of saltpetre, and 4 ozs. of coarse sugar, and 50 ozs. of common salt. Rub this well in every day for 3 or 4 weeks. Take out and roll in bran or sawdust and hang it in a wood smoke for 6 or 8 days. Hang in a dry place near the chimney for a week ; then keep it by covering it with bran. Spiced Beef is done the same way, adding mace, cloves, and pepper. All rubbed well into the beef. Spiced beef is not smoked, and it is generally boiled—slowly. BEEF, Fricandeau of.—Take a nice bit of lean beef; lard it with bacon seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and allspice. Put it into a stew-pan with a pint of broth, a glass of white wine, a bundle of parsley, all sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, a shalot or two, four cloves, pepper and salt. When the meat is be- come tender, cover it close; skim the sauce well, and strain it; set it on the fire, and let it boil till it is reduced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and serve with sorrel-sauce. BEEF, Fricassee of cold Roast Beef.—Cut the beef into very thin slices, shred a handful of parsley very small, cut an onion into quarters, and put all together into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, and some strong broth : season with salt and pepper, and simmer very gently a quarter of an hour : then mix into it the yolks of two eggs, a glass of port wine, and a spoonful of vinegar ; stir it quick, rub the dish with shalot, tuid turn the fricassee Into It, BEEF GRAVY.—According to the quantity wanted, cut slices of lean gravy beef, which place in a stew-pan upon a slice of ham or lean bacon, sliced onions, a carrot, two or three cloves, and a head of celery; add a good fat broth, and a pint of water; put on a slow fire for about half an hour, stirring it a few times. Then add boil- ing water as you think proper. Get it to the proper colour. It should be fre- quently skimmed, and at last strained. BEEF HASH.—Take the bones of the joint to be hashed, break them small; then stew them in very little water, with two onions, pepper, salt, a few sweet herbs, and a little butter; then add some slices of underdone beef with fat. If you like, add gravy, ketch- up, and a glass of sherry. Put it into a small stew-pan with a little water, an onion, pepper and salt. Simmer it till hot through, and serve with dried parsley. BEEF, to Hash.—Do it the same as in the last receipt; only the meat is to be in slices, and you may add a spoonful of walnut-liquor or ketchup. Observe, that it is owing to boiling hashes or minces that they get hard. All sorts of stews, or meat dressed a second time, should be only simmered ; and this only hot through. BEEF, HASHED, American. —Put nearly a pint of boiling water into a small saucepan, and make a thin paste with a dessert spoonful of flour, and a table-spoonful of cold water. Stir it in, and boil three minutes. Add half a teaspoonful of black pepper, and one of salt. Gently simmer 10 minutes. Cut the beef into half-inch pieces and add as many pieces of boiled potatoes and turnips, and two or three ounces of butter, and if you like, a table-spoonful of tomato-ketchup. Simmer again 5 or 10 minutes; add gravy, port wine, and lemon juice, if you like. BEEF-HEART.—Wash it care- fully ; stuff as hare; roast, and serve with rich gravy, and currant-jelly sauce. Hash with the same, and add port wine. BEEF, Hunters’.—To a round of beef that weighs twenty-five pounds, take three ounces of saltpetre, three ounces of the coarsest sugar, an ounce