MUS MOU 266 under the projection, and they will be drowned. MOUTH WASH.—Take J oz. each of dried mint, thyme, and lemon thyme; cloves, bruised; half a nutmeg grated; pour on these ingredients K oz. of tincture of myrrh, and % oz. of spirits of wine, a cupful of water, and ta drops of oil of peppermint. Keep in a bottle; shake up before using. Use as a gargle; it will purify the mouth from bad odours and tastes. MUFFINS.—Take 14 lbs. of flcur, a ozs. of salt, 4 quarts of water, and % a pint of yeast; beat them 20 minutes, and let them rise to the top of what you mix them in; beat them down a second time, turn them out on a bed of flour, and with a knife and spoon make them up; when the iron is hot, sift a little flour upon it, which if hot, will turn brown; lay the muffins on; when blistered on the top turn them; and when brown on the other side, they will be baked enough. Some persons, when -they are half done dip them in warm milk, and bake to a pale brown. The addition of eggs is an im- provement ; and so is milk, i.e. 1 quart milk, and 1 quart of water, instead of the two quarts of water. MUFFIN PUDDING.—Boil a few coriander seeds, a bit of lemon peel and sugar, in iJ4 pint of milk; braize the milk over four muffins ; when cold, crush them with a wooden spoon ; add nearly a cupful of brandy; J4 lb. of any dried fruit, some grated nutmeg, 3 ozs. of Jordan almonds, blanched and pounded fine, and six eggs well beaten ; mix well together, and boil in a basin, or bake in a dish with paste round it. It may be made plainer by substituting currants for sweet-meats. MULLED ALE.—Boil a quart of good ale with some nutmeg, beat up six eggs and mix them with a little cold ale, then pour the hot ale to it, and return it several times to prevent it curding; warm, and stir it sufficiently thick, add a piece of butter or a glass of brandy, and serve it with dry toast. MULLED WINE.—Boil some spice in a little water till the flavour is gained, then add an equal quantity of port, some sugar and nutmeg; boil together, and serve with toast. MULLED WINE.—Bofl a bit of cinnamon and some grated nutmeg a few minutes, in a large cupful of water; then pour to it a pint of port wine, and add sugar to your taste ; beat it up, and it will be ready. Or it may be made of good British wine. _ MULLET, Red.—It is called the Sea-Woodcock. Clean, but leave the inside, fold in oiled paper, and gently bake in a small dish. Make a sauce of the liquor that comes from the fish, with a piece of butter, a little flour, a little essence of anchovy, and a glass of sherry. Give it a boil and serve in a boat, and the fish in the paper cases. MUMPS.—This is a disease of the salivary glands which are situated on each side of the lower jaw. It generally comes on with cold shiver- ings, sickness, and vomiting, pain in the head, succeeded by swelling of one or both sides of the neck, and some- times becomes very painful, and so large as to impede the breathing, and the swallowing. It generally increases till the fourth day, and then declines. In this complaint, little medicine is required. Give an Aperient, see page 21. Bathe the feet frequently in warm water. At night give the Diaphoretic Powder or Decoction, page 160. Bathe the swelling with warm water and tincture of myrrh, and thirty drops of laudanum ; or apply flannels dipped in the mixture. Cover the swelling with flannel. In extreme cases, give the Vapour Bath and the Composition Pow- der, page 134. Should the swelling break, apply a slippery elm poultice, made with milk and water ; (See Slip* pery Elm, page 36a ;) then apply the. Black Salve for healing, page 65, or the Green Ointment, page 203. MUSSELS, to Detect Poison- ous.—Put a silver spoon into the vessel with the mussels, and let it con- tinue therein while they are over the fire ; when removed take out the spoon, and if it is of a bright colour, there is no poison ; but if it is tinged of a black or dark hue, they are unfit for use. MUSSEL SOUP.— Boil the mussels till they are open ; take them off; put them into another stewpan; then with butter rolled in flour, some