KID 225 JON •Sve hoars. Strain the liquor from the meat and vegetables; when cold, re- move the fat from the surface, and the sediment. The jelly will be ready for ase. JONQUILLE PERFUME. —Oil of sassafras, 1 part; oil of orange, 1 part; oil of caraway, a parts ; oil of lavender, 3 parts ; essence of lemon, 8 parts; essence of bergamot, 8 parts. Mix. JUMBALLS. — Flour r lb.; sugar, 1 lb. ; make into a light paste with whites of eggs beaten fine ; add % pint of cream ; % lb. of butter, melted; and 1 lb. of blanched almonds, well beaten; knead all together, with a little rose-water : cut into any form ; bake in a slow oven. A little butter may be melted with a spoonful of white wine, and throw fine sugar all over the dish. JUNIPER BERRIES.—Very diuretic, and pleasant, as it is (or should be) a principal ingredient in Hollands or Geneva Gin. The oil is the best for dropsical and urinary diseases. The dose is from 10 to 15 drops three times a day. K KERNELS, to Blanch.—Sim- ply put them into boiling water a minute or two; rub them between a clean cloth, and the brown skins will soon peel off. Almonds and other kernels may be blanched. KETCHUP, See Mushroom Ketchup, page 268. Walnut Ketchup, page 412. KETCHUP, to Keep Twenty Years.—Take 1 gallon of strong stale beeT, 1 lb. of anchovies, washed from the pickle ; 1 lb. of shalots ; % 02. of mace ; % oz. of cloves; oz. of whole pepper ; K 02. ginger ; 2 quarts of large mushroom flaps, rubbed to pieces; cover all close, and simmer till It is half wasted ; strain ; cool; then bottle. A spoonful of this ketchup is sufficient for a pint of melted butter. KETTLES, Incrustation, or Furring, to Prevent.—Keep in the vessel a clean marble, a cockle, or oyster shell; these will attract the par- ticles of sand. KIDNEY BEANS. — String them; cttt down the middle, and across; boil in salt and water till tender, and serve with melted butter. KIDNEY BEANS, French way.—Cut in small dice two onions; put them in a stew-pan with a little butter ; when they begin to brown put in a little good gravy ; flour them ; give them atd the flour a fine brown colour : if gravy is not used, put in a spoonful of soup, season with salt and pepper; reduce this sauce; put in the beans already cooked; simmer till enough; dish, and serve. Another French way.—Cut two onions in half rings, and put them into a frying-pan with butter; when they begin to brown, put in the beans which have been cooked ; fry with the onions ; put in hashed parsley, scallions, salt and pepper ; give a turn or more, and dish: boil a little vinegar in the pan, and pour it over them. KIDNEY BEANS, in Salad. —Take haricots already cooked, put them in a salad-dish ; garnish them with strips of anchovy, onions, roasted in the ashes, beet root, or anything proper- ly hashed; season with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, and serve. KIDNEY, (Beef,) Broiled.— Cut the kidney lengthways. Season with nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Pass a wire skewer through them to prevent them curling. Have a brisk clear fire, and place on the gridiron for about ten minutes, turning them often. When dished, rub them over with butter, and serve with parsley fried crisp, and a little sheny, butter, salt, and pepper. Kidneys may be minced by a similar seasoning, and done in the oven, or in a dutch oven before the fire. KIDNEY, (beef,) Fried.—Chop the kidney with a little veal and ham, and butter or lard. Season as you like with white pepper, cayenne, and salt. To make them into balls add nee flour and yolk of egg. Fry in lard or butter. Dish ; pour the gravy upon them, and serve with toasted bread. KIDNEY PUDDING.—If kid- ney, split and soak it, and season that or the meat. Make a paste of suet, flour, and milk ; roll it, and line a basin with some ; put the kidney or steaks in, cover with paste, and pinch round the