239 LIV LIN t J£ oz.; cayenne pepper, a drs.; lau- danum, a drachms ; a table-spoonful of salt, and two of brandy. Shake well in a bottle. Rub the affected part with it, apply afterwards a rag saturated with it. It removes pains and swellings. It is a magic remedy. LINIMENT, White.—This is made in the same manner as the white ointment, two-thirds of the wax being left out. This liniment may be applied in excoriation, where, on account of the largeness of the surface, the ointments with lead or 'alomel might be improper. LINS'" D, Infusion of.—Take of linseed, two spoonfuls: liquorice root sliced, half an ounce; boiling water, three pints. Infuse by the fire fot some hours, and then strain off the liquor. If an ounce of the leaves of coltsfoot foe added to the ingredients, it will then be the Pectoral Infusion. Both are emollient mucilaginous liquors, and may be taken with advantage as ordinary drink, in difficulty of making water, and in coughs and other complaints of the breast. LINSEED TEA.—Linseed, 1 table-spoonful; liquorice root, oz. ; coltsfoot leaves, 1 oz. ; boiling water, 3 pints. Infuse 3 hours, and strain. Add sugar, and a little lemon juice. Good for coughs, urinary disease, &c. LIP SALVE, Red.—Olive oil, 4 ozs. ; Alkanet root, 1 oz. Macerate with heat until the oil is well coloured ; then add Spermaceti, % oz.; white wax, a ozs.; prepared suet, 3 ozs., and a little sugar. When nearly cold, stir in orange flower water, \ oz. ; oil of lavender, % drachm; otto of roses, 2 or 3 drops. LIP SALVE, White.—Boil a little veal suet in salt and water ; off the fat; mix it with 1 oz. of white wax, and % oz. of spermaceti; add 3 ozs. of olive oil; melt, and when cool, add a few drops of bergamot, or otto of roses. The colour of lips may be deep- ened by dissolving in the mouth a cay- enne lozenge occasionally. LIPS, Chapped.—See page 117. LIQUID BLACKING. Weak vinegar, 1 quart; ivory black and treacle, each 6 ozs.; vitriolic add, and •permaceti, (or oHve oil) each 1% os. Mix the acid and oil first, then add the other ingredients. If it does not dry quick enough on the leather, add a little more vitriol gradually till it dries Snick enough. If you add too much le mixture will give a brown colour. —This is a celebrated blacking. LIQUID JAPAN BLACK- ING.—Ivory black, 4 ozs.; coarse sugar, a ozs. ; sulphuric add, 1 oz. ; muriatic add, 1 oz. ; sweet oil, and lemon add, of each a table-spoonful, and a pint of vinegar. First mix the ivory black and sweet oil; then the lemon and sugar with a little vinegar; then add the acids, and mix well to- gether. LIQUID BLUE.—Dissolve ex- tract of indigo in warm water. LIQUID CHERRIES.—Cher- ries, 1 lb., to % lb. of fine sugar. The cherries must be fine and ripe ; cut the tails about half; put them into the sugar, and simmer five minutes ; stand till next day; then add lb. of sugar to each pound of cherries, prepared as the first, and a little syrups or jelly, or red currants, or rasps. Simmer to- gether till the syrup is glutinous. LIQUID GLUE.—Best glue, 1 lb.; dry white lead, 4 ozs. ; soft water, 1 quart; alcohol, 4 ozs. Stir together when dissolved, and bottle while hot. LIQUORICE PIPES. —Dis- solve gum arabic in water with Spanish liquorice, and with the addition of sugar make into a paste. Drop, and dry them in a slow oven. LIVER COMPLAINT.—Take 4 lbs. of dandelion roots, bruise and press out the juice; run it through a muslin bag, and bottle it. Take 2 table spoonfuls three or four times a day. Drink occasionally the following de- coction :—Take the bruised roots above mentioned, a small handful of agrimony, and two ounces of burdock root, to three quarts of water—boil to two quarts. Of this take four half-pints a day. LIVER, Inflammation of. This disease generally begins with a sense of weight, or pain in the right side, about the false ribs. The pain often extends to the top of the right shoulder. The stomach and bowels are disordered ; the appetite Is impaired ; the patient has sickness, often vomit*