STU 382 sue sprinkle with crumbs of bread, parsley, pepper, salt; fold them in paper, and broil gently. Sauce ; butter, anchovy, and soy. STURGEON, to Roast.—Put a piece of butter, rolled in Hour, into a stew-pan with four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, some pepper and salt, half a pint of water, and a glass of vinegar. Set it over the fire till hot; then let it become lukewarm, and steep the fish in it an hour or two. Butter a paper well, tie it round, and roast it without letting the spit run through. Serve with sorrel and an- chovy sauce. ST. VITUS’S DANCE.—This is a convulsive disease, principally attacking children from 10 to 16 years of age. It is indicated by a twitching and convulsive action of the muscles of the body, and by lameness or unsteadi- ness of one of the legs, which the patient draws after him like an idiot. Then it affects the hand on the same side; so that if a glass of liquor be put into his hand to drink, before he can get it to his mouth, he uses a great number of odd gestures, on account of the hand being drawn different ways by the con- vulsive action of the muscles, so that he cannot carry it in a straight line. The will of the patient seems often to yield to these convulsive motions as to a pro- pensity. After continuing some weeks, the intellectual operations of the brain are weakened. Females are most sub- ject to this disease. This disease arises from an increased irritability of the nervous system, which is often produced by some derangement of the stomach, bowels, and nerves; sometimes by worms, violent passions, fright, or violent mental emotions, &c. In females, it probably arises from the same causes which produce hysterics. Treatment.—The irritation of the cerebral system (brain and nerves) being generally symptomatic of a disordered state of the digestive organs, or kept up by irritation in the stomach or bowels, the cure must be commenced by a pur- gative. Do not allow the bowels to be constipated. If the stomach is derang- ed, give an emetic. (See page 172.) This will evacuate and cleanse the stomach, give it tone, and benefit the nervous system. Repeat, if necessary. The diet must be very plain. The vapour bath of bitter decoction is of im- mense service. Rub the body frequent- ly with the Stimulating Liniment. When symptoms of improvement are manifest, give Peruvian bark in port wine, adding water if too strong; or give the Restorative Wine Bitters, adding a % oz. of the red oxide of iron. Give the aperients now and then, especially the Dyspeptic Pill, page 168. The subcarbonate of iron, 2 drachms, for a dose, is a most valuable remedy. It may be given in a little syrup, beer, or porter. Dr. Reece says, "When the symp- toms are abated, cold bathing every morning, if it does not alarm the mind, will prove of great advantage; and with the use of the muriated tincture of steel, in the dose of 10 or 15 drops, in a glass of cold valerian and camomile tea, will probably complete the cine: if the patient have not sufficient resolution to go into the cold bath, cold water may be applied every morning to the head. The diet should be regulated accord- ing to the strength of the patient; if plethoric, a low diet should be observed, and wine and stimulants avoided ; on the contrary, if the body be much de- bilitated, a nutritious diet should be employed ; but even in this case, wine and stimulants should be allowed with great caution.” STYE.—It is a small boil which projects from the eyelid, much inflamed, and very painful. Apply a poultice of linseed meal, or bread and milk, and take at the same time an aperient. If the stye is ripe, puncture it, and then apply spermaceti ointment. SUCKING PIG, to Roast.— Get it when just killed : this is of great advantage. Let it be scalded. Put some sage, crumbs of bread, salt, and pepper, into the belly and sew it up. Observe to skewer the legs back, or the under part will not crisp. Lay it to a brisk fire till dry; then rub the pig with butter in every part. Dredge flour over it; scrape off the flour with a blunt knife, rub it well with a buttered cloth, and take off the head while at the fire. Then take it up, cut it down the back and belly, lay it into the dish, and chop quickly the sage and bread very fine.