BLA 64 BLA BLACK CURRANT JELLY. —See Currant, page 150. BLACK CURRANT LOZEN- GES.—Boil the fruit in ajar stopped close. Str ain the juice thr ough a coarse sieve. Measure the juice, and boil briskly half an hour. The more the juice has evaporated before adding the sugar, the better. For every full quart of juice (as first measured into the pan,) allow—Fine loaf sugar, 5 os.; best gum arabic, finely powdered, 3 drachms, cream of tartar, 3 drachms. Mix these well in a basin with a very small quan- tity of the boiling juice, stirred briskly to it till smooth, then stir in the whole. Boil the mass till it is stiff and candies on the sides of the pan. Pour it on plates turned upside down; the thick- ness should not exceed one eighth of an inch. Dry in the sun, or in front of a fire, but at some distance. When quite dry cut out in lozenges. A sharp tin cutter is the best instniment. The form should be either square, diamond, or hexagonal, that the pieces may be cut close to another without waste. Shake among the lozenges a little magnesia to prevent sticking. Keep them in a wide wide-mouthed botde, with a glass stopper. N.B.—These lozenges may be made with the entire fruit. BLACK CURRANTS, to Pre- serve.—Get the currants when they are dry, and pick them ; to every 1 K lb. of currants, put 1 lb. of sugar into a pre- serving pan, with as much juice of cur- rants as will dissolve it; when it boils, skim it, and put in the currants, and boil them till they are (clear; put them into a jar, lay brandy paper over them, tie them down, and keep in a dry place. A little raspberry juice added is an improvement. BLACK CURRANT PUD- DING, to Bake.—Make a puff paste crust, roll it thin, line a basin with it, put three parts full of the currants, fill up with sugar, and put a paste cover over on the top, well closed ; bake on a tin in a moderate oven 50 or 60 minutes. When served turn out upon a dish. Serve with cream, &c. When boiled, use a suet crust, and proceed as above, boiling two hours. BLACK CURRANT WINE. —Take sis gallons of ripe currants and I put them into a large jar. Boil nine or ten gallons of water with four pounds of loaf sugar. Skim well and let it stand for forty-eight hours. Then strain through a flannel bag into another vessel, return it into the jar, and let it stand three weeks to settle, and then bottle off. BLACK DRAUGHT.—Infuse 2 ozs. of senna leaves, and a oz. of ginger in hot water (not boiling) for eight hours. Strain, and to the liquor add six ounces of Epsom salts, x oz. of liquorice; gently simmer till the salts are dissolved. When cold, add % oz. of sal volatile and six drops of oil of cloves. Cork tightly. In order to keep it for a length of time, 2 oz. of tincture of senna should be added. BLACK EYE.—This is caused by a blow or bruise. If attended with inflammation and pain, wash the eye often with very warm water, in which is dissolved a little carbonate of soda ; or with equal parts of tincture of opium and water. If the pain be acute, foment with a decoction of stramonium leaves, simmered in spirits. Wash the eye, and bind on the leaves ; often repeat. Per- haps the best application is a poultice of slippery elm-bark. Mix with milk, and put it on warm. To remove the black colour of the eye, bind on a little raw meat; or a poultice made of the root of Solomon’s seal. Culpepper says, “ It is available for bruises, falls, or blows, to dispel the congealed blood, and to take away the pains, and the black and blue marks that abide after the hurt." The black- ness may be concealed by painting the part with flesh-coloured paint. BLACKING BALLS, (to Make).—Take of mutton suet, four ounces ; bees’ wax, one ounce ; sugar- candy, or gum arabic and coarse sugar, one drachm, in fine powder. Melt these well together, over a gentle fire, and add about a spoonful of turpentine, and lampblack sufficient to give it a good black colour. While hot enough to run, make it into a ball, by pouring the liquid into a tin mould ; or let it stand till almost cold, or it may be moulded by the hand. BLACKING, real Japan.— Take three ounces of Ivory-black, two