292 PAP FAN must be first mixed with a little milk; add the rest by degrees, also two spoon- fuls of beaten ginger, a glass of brandy, and a little salt; stir all together ; pour into the pan, (as above directed) a ladleful of batter, sufficient to make a pancake, moving the pan round, that the batter may be all over the pan ; shake the pan, and when one side is enough, toss it over quickly. When both sides are done, put it upon a dish before the fire to keep hot. Sprinkle over it a little sngar. PANCAKES, American.—Mix a pint of cream, five spoonfuls of fine flour, seven yolks and four whites of eggs, and a very little salt; fry them very thin in fresh butter, and between each strew sugar and cinnamon. PANCAKES, Common.— Make a light batter of eggs, flour and milk. Fry in a small pan, in hot drip- ping or lard. Salt, nutmeg, or ginger, may be added. Sugar and lemon should be served to eat with them. If eggs are scarce, make the batter of flour, and small beer, ginger, j&c., or clean snow, with flour, and a little milk. PANCAKES, Cream.—Mix two eggs, well beaten, with a pint of cream, 3 ozs. of sifted sugar, 6 ozs. of flour, a teaspoonful mixed of cinnamon, nut- meg, and mace. Fry the pancakes thin with a piece of butter. PANCAKES, Fine.— Cream, half a pint; sherry, half a pint; the Solks of 18 eggs beaten fine, and a ttle salt; sugar, ^ lb.; a little ground cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg; put in as much flour as will spread thin over the pan, and fry them in fresh butter. This sort of pancakes will not be crisp, but very good. PANCAKES, Fried without Butter.—Beat six fresh eggs very well; mix, when strained, with a pint of cream, 4 ozs. of sugar, a glass of wine, half a nutmeg grated, and as much flour as will make it almost as thick as ordinary pancake batter, but not quite. Heat the frying-pan toler- ably hot, wipe it with a clean cloth; pour in the batter to make thin pan- cakes. PANCAKES, Irish.—Beat eight yolks and fom whites of eggs, strain them into a pint of cream, put a grated nutmeg, and sugar to your taste; set 3 ozs. of fresh butter on the fire; stir it, and as it warms pour it to the cream, which should be warm when the eggs are put to it: then mix smooth almost half a pint of flour. Fry the pancakes very thin; the first with a bit of butter, but not the others. PANCAKES, Pink, &c.—Boil some beet-root till tender, and beat it fine in a mortar ; add the yolks of four eggs, two spoonfuls of flour, and three of cream; sweeten, grate in half a nut- meg, and add a glassful of brandy; mix all well together, and fry the pan- cakes in butter; garnish them with green sweetmeats or sprigs of myrtle. PANCAKES, Rice.—Boil Jib. of rice to a jelly in a little water; when cold, mix it with a pint of cream, eight eggs, a bit of salt and nutmeg grated; stir in 8 ozs. of butter just warmed, and add as much flour as will make the bat- ter thick enough. Fry in as little lard or dripping as possible. PAPER, to Render Fireproof and Waterproof.—Professor Mus- champ, of Wurtemberg, advises the following:— Take 26 ozs. of alum, and 4 ozs. of white soap, and dissolve them in a quart of water; into another vessel dis- solve 2 ozs. of gum arabic, and 1 oz. of glue in the same quantity of water as the former, and add the two solutions together, which is now to be kept warm, and the paper intended to be made waterproof dipped into it, passed be- tween rollers and dried; or without the use of rollers, the paper may be sus- pended until it is perfectly dripped, and then dried. The alum, soap, glue, and gum, form a kind of artificial leather, which protects the surface of the paper from the action of water, and also renders it somewhat fireproof. A second immersion makes it still better. PAPER-HANGINGS to Clean.—Rub them gently down with a crust of bread, or with stiff dough; the flock papers should not be treated this way, but brushed with a soft clothes brush. Or, rub the paper well with a flannel cloth dipped In oat- meal.