95 SOUP MAKING put into your tureen, and have ready a gill of young peas boiled to put in. Green Pea Soup {dried peas).—Soak some dried green peas for twenty-four hours in cold water, drain and put them on to boil in fresh water for four hours, then add a handful of spinach; when this is tender rub all through a sieve, add to the pulp a sufficiency of well-flavoured stock ; re-heat, and serve with strips of custard made of rice-flour, boiled in a little stock mixed with the yolk of an egg and steamed in small moulds. Hare Soup (The Gentlewoman),—Cut the flesh from a hare and pound it with half an ounce of butter to half a pound of meat; chop up the carcass and bones, put them in a stewpan with an ounce and a half of butter, a carrot, turnip, three onions, a leek, a strip of celery, a few pepper- corns, a bunch of herbs, and two or three mushrooms. Fry them for about twenty minutes, then mix in three ounces of cornflour and four quarts of good brown stock (made from game bones if possible) ; let all boil up. Skim and simmer gently for a couple of hours and rub through a fine sieve, add the pounded meat to it, re-heat and serve with profiteroles; add a glass of port wine just before serving. Hare Soup, Thick.—After opening the hare, be careful to reserve the l3lood in a basin. Cut the meat into small pieces, and put it on to boil with three or four pints of water, half a pound of onions, one carrot, and twelve black peppercorns. Let it boil for four hours, strain and add the blood, stirring it till it comes to boiling point. Let it remain on the fire for twenty minutes, adding a few leaves of celery to flavour, and potatoes if liked. His Excellency's Soup.—Take some chicken giblets and put them into a stewpan of boiling water for five minutes to blanch. Next put them into white stock with two onions, one carrot, one turnip, one bouquet garlic, two cloves, and some mignonette pepper; let the whole boil for two hours, skimming occasionally. Mix a tablespoonful of flour with a little of the cold stock; put it into a clean stew- pan with an ounce of butter and let it cook for a few minutes, then add the stock in which has been put a dust of cayenne, &ix drops of a lemon, and a dessertspoonful of