THE HOUSEWlFE^S IlEFEKEE 14 parings should be saved and placed in a refrigerator till there is a sufficient quantity, then wash them over with water and boil quickly for an hour. Strain through a jelly bag, add half the quantity of white sugar, and boil quickly for two hours. Flavour with vanilla and pour into heated glasses. Kever cook by guesswork, but weigh out all ingredients ; never slam the oven door when baking, as it makes pastry and puddings fall and become heavy; never use stale fat for frying, and don't use more skewers than can be helped; wipe all cooking utensils after using; never let the water boil up twice for making tea. Prepare everything in good time so that there need be no flurry at the last moment. A knife with a handle different from those in common use should be kept for peeling onions, to prevent any flavour from them being imparted to anything else. To cool a hot dish quickly, place the dish in a vessel full of cold salt water, and it will cool rapidly. Boiling hot liquid may be safely poured into a glass jar or tumbler, by first putting a metal spoon in it; but care must be taken that no draught of cold air strikes the vessel whilst hot. A small box filled with lime and placed on a shelf in a damp closet will absorb dampness, and keep the air in the closet dry and sweet. Never send potatoes to the table in a covered dish. They will re-absorb their own moisture and become sodden. In selecting flour, look to the colour : if it is white with a straw-coloured tint, it is good; if it is white with a bluish shade, or with black specks, do not purchase it. Next, examine its adhesiveness. Wet and knead a little of it between the fingers; if it works soft and sticky, it is poor: squeeze some tightly in the hand; if it retains the shape given by the pressure, it is good. Milk which has turned a little may be rendered fit for use again by stirring in a little soda. When the grate is cracked, take wood ashes and salt in equal proportions, reduce them to a paste with cold water and fill in the cracks when the stove is cool, and it will soon harden. A basin of salt should always be found near the sink, as