174 THE housewife's REFEEEE Potatoes a la Macon.—Take cold boiled potatoes and cut up into very thin slices. Put some butter and cream into a saucepan, and when hot add the potatoes. Salt delicately, and let cook till the potatoes have absorbed the cream and butter, stirring very carefully so as to prevent breaking the slices and burning them. Put into a hot dish, dust with pepper and serve with broiled steak. Potatoes a la Milanese {Italian).—Take as many potatoes as required; choose the largest; bake them well, and cut off the tops, and scoop out the insides. Pass the potatoes through a sieve, and add a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan and gruyere cheese, mixed pepper and salt. Melt a good tablespoonf ul of butter (or more) in a stewpan ; put in the potato mixture and make it hot, then fill the skins of the potatoes with it. Put them in the oven for a few minutes, and serve up very hot. Prairie Oyster.—Put into a wine-glass half a teaspoonful of vinegar, break a new laid egg into it, season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle it with vinegar and one drop of Worcester sauce. Punjab Hot Pot.—Take two quarts of white stock, a little curry powder, a small lobster, half a pound of veal quenelle force-meat, six onions, and a little butter. Slice the onions ; put them into a stewpan ; fry lightly ; add the curry powder; then, a few minutes after, add the stock and a little salt. Cut the lobster into small, diamond- shaped pieces; poach the quenelles, to which have been added a little curry powder and some lard about the size of half a teaspoon. Serve with lobster and quenelles placed in tureen. Red Cabbage.—Remove the outer leaves of the cabbage, cut it in two, take away all the stalks, and cut the cabbage up with a cucumber slice, at the same time put into a pan some good dripping with one or two onions finely cut up and fry a nice white colour; to this add the sliced red cabbage, which must have first been seasoned with salt and pepper; pour over a little vinegar, and stir it about occasionally, and let it simmer over a gentle fire for three hours. Should the cabbage become too dry during