211 SWEETS saucepan with half a pint of cream. Stir till the gelatine is melted, then sweeten to taste. Pour equal portions of the cream into four cups and flavour one with raspberry syrup, another with essence of coffee, a third with some essence of lemon, and the fourth with vanilla, and colour red with carmine colouring. Have ready the cases of four oranges cut in halves. To do this, slit round the middle of each orange with a sharp knife, cutting the peel only and pass the handle of a teaspoon carefully between the orange and the peel, so as to detach each half without breaking. Fill each of the halves with the different creams, and when quite set, cut into quarters and arrange with green leaves on a silver dish. The pulp of the oranges will serve to make jelly with the addition of a little lemon juice. Peches Flambantes a la Bretonne.—Choose twelve peaches not quite ripe ; dip them into boiling water in order to peel them easily without injuring the flesh ; then divide them into two, and take out the stones. Make a rich syrup, which will be ready when, in taking some in the spoon and letting it drop, it will fall into little balls. Put in the peaches, and continue to fill up the interstices with the syrup. Let them simmer for ten minutes; then take the saucepan ofl* the fire, and put in it three tablespoonfuls of brandy. Mix all up together ; then take out the peaches, and dish en pyramide, adding at last a little more brandy, which is ignited just before handing round. Piiaumen Mns.—Eub plums with a cloth; stew them with the stones as they retain their juice so much better when treated in that way. Stew them slowly till tender in a few tablespoonfuls of water, rub them through a sieve; stew thus with sugar and cinnamon to taste, and a little orange or lemon peel. Throw in at the last moment either small squares of bread fried in butter, or grate the same over the Mus. Pineapple Jelly.—Peel and cut into slices three-quarters of a pound of fresh pineapple; put it into a skillet, with ten ounces of loaf sugar and one pint of cold water ; boil up, skim, and simmer for twenty-five minutes; then strain off the juice. Dissolve one and a quarter ounces of isinglass in half a pint of cold water, mix this with the juice ; add a