EULES AND HINTS FOR THE KlTCllEi^ 15 salt removes egg stains and tea stains from china cups and dishes. A small piece of charcoal placed in the pot when boiling greens and cauliflowers, helps to prevent any disagreeable smell. Dust of Lebanon sprinkled on the stove also re- moves unpleasant odours. Tough meat can be made tender by placing it a few minutes in vinegar. To preserve meat.—When ice is not easily procured, meat, game, poultry, and fish can be kept perfectly fresh for several days, by being hung in a draught, and kept free from damp. As soon as there is the slightest faintness in the smell of meat, scald it in boiling water for ten minutes, then wipe and sponge it, tie it up in a meat- cloth, and hang it up again. With poultry and game, take out the entrails and fill up the space with crushed soft paper covered with frigiline; tie each bird in a clean cloth, and put them into an earthenware pan well covered down. This is for plucked birds. When in their feathers let them hang by their heads in a draught. Small birds may be kept fresh by packing in boxes filled with millet seed. To keep frozen meat.—When the thawing commences, the juices of meat dribble away, leaving the solid portion in a limp condition; but these fluids may be preserved in it by hanging the knuckle end downwards as it thaws. To tell the age of eggs.—Dissolve two ounces of salt in a pint of water. If a new-laid egg is placed in the liquid thus obtained, it will descend to the bottom and stay there. One laid on the previous day will float a short distance from the bottom. An egg three days old will swim half-way down the vessel. And an older one still will float on the top, and will project more and more above the surface as its age increases. To preserve lemons.—Put a layer of fine dry sand, an inch in depth, at the bottom of an earthenware jar. Place a row of lemons upon this, stalk downwards, and be careful that they do not touch one another; cover them with another layer of sand fully three inches in depth, lay on it