RULES AND HINTS FOR THE KITCHEN 11 hot soda-water, and if directly after using, water is put into and left in each, they will not warp, nor crack, nor fall to pieces, which they often do when left dry. All sink brushes should be washed out with soapsuds once a week. All food must be kept covered when not in use. The insides of frying-pans should never be scraped, as any preparation fried in them afterwards is liable to catch or burn the pan. If the pan has a black inside it should be rubbed with a hard crust of bread and washed in hot water with sapolio. Copper utensils must be washed in very hot water with a little soda dissolved in it, then scoured with soft soap and fine sand, or with sapolio rubbed on with a soft cloth. If there is green in any part from verdigris, vinegar and salt will remove it. Brass should be scoured with vinegar and salt and rinsed in hot water ; Propert's paste is very good for that purpose, Putz pomade, or Presto polish. Sieves should be scrubbed with a soft brush in hot water, and then thoroughly dried. Jelly bags must be thoroughly scalded and perfectly dried. To clean the china fireproof saucepans, fill them with hot water, put in a teaspoonful of powdered borax, and let it boil. If this does not remove all the stains, scour well with a cloth and sapolio. All zinc is best cleaned with hot, soapy water, then polished with kerosene. If a tin kettle has become blackened from constant use over the fire, it is best to wash it with strong soda-water, then scour it lightly with silver sand, and rub it all over with a paste made with methylated spirit and whiting. When dry, polish with whitening and a leather, or saturate a piece of rag in kerosene oil and dip it into whitening and rub it on. All crusts and odd pieces of bread should be carefully saved and made into puddings for the servants, and also put into the oven and then rolled into crumbs with the rolling pin and put aside in a clean, dry bottle, well corked, when bread crumbs for dressing cutlets, etc., will be always ready. Lemons which have been used should be put to dry on the rack, then grated, and put into bottles for flavouring purposes. Dish washing is most essential in a kitchen, whether it be by scullery-maid, kitchen-maid, or by the cook in small