127 ENTK^ES each fillet. Stew and glaze them. Serve them arranged in a circle, with potato straws in the centre ; and a good rich brown, sharp sauce round. Boeuf, Filets de, a la Bearnaise.—Take a piece of the undercut of the sirloin, cut it into neat pear-shaped pieces, sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and cook them with a little butter in a tin in the oven, but not too much, add a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, and when dissolved turn the fillets over in it. Cut potatoes into small balls, fry in butter till of a golden shade. Heap the potatoes up in the middle of the dish, and arrange the fillets around; savice it with the following:—Put four shallots and a little garlic into a saucepan with a tumblerful of water and half that quantity of tarragon vinegar, let the whole boil till reduced to one tumblerful. Strain the liquor and let it get cold. Strain the yolks of three eggs and mix gradually with the liquor ; add salt and two ovmces of butter. Stir over a slow fire till it thickens; add a little finely minced tarragon. Boeuf, Filets de, a la Geneve.—Cut the fillets into neat rounds and lard them alternately with bacon, gherkins, and truffles ; and serve them on a potato border, made by boiling a pound of potatoes and rubbing them through a sieve on to the raw yolk of an egg and an ounce of butter. Season the potato with pepper and salt, and a dust of nutmeg. Mix all together in a ball, and when cold, roll it in the form of a border, using a little flour. Put it into a greased tin, brush it over with whole beaten-up egg, mark the sides in designs with a pointed knife, and bake in a moderate oven till a pale gold colour. Serve horse- radish sauce with the fillets. Boeuf, Filets a rOthello.—Take two pounds of fillet of beef, and stamp it out in rounds of an inch thick and three inches in diameter; trim them neatly. Saute them in butter over a clear, quick fire, season them with pepper and salt. Glaze them over as quickly as possible, and place them on scalloped out rounds of fried bread already prepared. Place on the top a slice of pate de foie gras (Phillippe's make is one of the best), which must be cut round and smaller than the fillet, and over all put a thin slice of truffle. Arrange them on the dish and pour over a sauce made with highly flavoured espagnole sauce. Add some of Alworth's tomaito catsup—