148 THE housewife's KEFEREE Rabbit en Matelote ; Lapin en Matelote.—Cut a rabbit into four pieces, and fry with butter, mushrooms, onions; powder with flour and imoisten with vin de graves and meat gravy. When it is half cooked, add an eel chopped into little pieces, capers, minced anchovies, and fried croiltons. Salmi {Madame Lebour-Faussett),—Put into a stewpan three ounces of butter with one good spoonful of flour, let them melt together stirring till they become a nice brown, add gradually half a tumbler of very good stock, two whole shallots, a full bouquet, pepper, and a little salt; and put in the bones and carcass of the bird from which all the limbs and meat have been detached. Let all this boil together not too fast for half an hour, then pass it through a colander and put the gravy alone back into the stewpan on the fire, and just when on the point of boiling, put in all the pieces of the bird. Take the stewpan off" the fire, add a little lemon juice, put the lid on and leave it on the side of the fire for another half hour without even simmering. Toast a round of bread not too thick ; cut it into four pieces and lay them at the bottom of a very hot dish. Arrange all the pieces of the bird artistically and pour over them all the gravy, which ought not to be either too thick or too thin. Decorate with small pieces of lemon all round and over the the dish, scalloping the rind. Sauerbraten {Pichled Beef).—A piece of beef must be placed in a deep vessel and a cupful of vinegar poured over it, and it must remain soaking for three days, turned and basted daily, after which it must be wiped quite dry. Cut fat bacon in narrowish strips and season well with salt, pepper, and pounded cloves. Make holes in the meat with a large skewer and put in the pieces of bacon. Melt some butter in a stewpan just large enough to hold the beef, lay it in, and place it over a quick fire, letting the steam escape to hasten the browning; dredge with flour and turn as soon as one side is browned. Then add a pint of hot stock, a couple of carrots quartered lengthwise, a large onion sliced, two bay leaves, a teaspoonful of whole pepper, a little mace, a piece of lemon peel, and some salt. Cover closely and let all steam together for two and a half to three hours, adding a little salt now and then. When it