FISH 115 block of aspic jelly, or a rice socle about an inch high. Colour a little liquid aspic with greening, and brush the fish over with it, or mask it with green mayonnaise. Garnish the fish with Montpelier butter with a large forcing bag, and a rose pipe. Place chopped aspic all round the dish, and orna- ment with small sprigs of chervil and red chillies. Set with aspic jelly. Salmon a la Salisbury.—Take a small salmon, scrape away all scales and wrap the fish in a piece of greasy paper, and place it into boiling water, with a carrot, a little salt, onion, a bouquet of garni, a few peppercorns, and a few drops of vinegar. After letting all come to the boil, draw the pan to the side of the fire and let it simmer, allowing ten minutes to each pound of fish. Leave the fish in the water till it is cold, then remove the paper, and arrange the fish on a block of aspic jelly, or an aspic cream socle about an inch high. Colour a little liquefied aspic green, and brush the fish over with it, or mask it with green mayonnaise. Decorate the fish with Montpelier butter, with a large forcing bag and a rose pipe in pretty scrolls and designs. Garnish with chopped aspic, sprays of chervil, and red chillies set with aspic. Salmon a la Trafalgar.—Cut some half-pound steaks of salmon, grill them in buttered paper, and serve with a hot piccalilli sauce round it. Salmon Cassolettes.—Eoll some good paste very thinly, and line some dariole moulds with it; fill these with rice and bake. When done remove the barley, and let the pastry cases get cold. Cut some kippered salmon into six thin slices ; on each slice spread a little chutney and French mustard. ISTow roll up the slices of kippered salmon each in greased paper and bake for ten minutes; remove the papers and let the fish get cold. Place a roll of salmon into each pastry case; melt half a pint of aspic jelly, and pour enough over the fish in each case to cover it, and let it get cold. Lay little strips of cucumber across on the top of each, with a little chopped aspic. Salmon Cream; Creme de Saumon {Gentlewoman).—Flake some cold boiled salmon from bones and skin; pound it in a mortar with two or three washed and boned anchovies, a