142 THE housewife's REFEREE the centre put some cucumber, small, in the shape of peas, which have been soaked in green mayonnaise sauce. Larks, Croustade of.—Bone and stuff eighteen larks with foie gras. Cook them in the oven, basting well with Espagnole sauce. When cooked, have ready a croustade of bread glazed with egg, and mount the larks on it in two rows, one above the other, glazing them over with demi- glaze. In the centre serve brown mushroom sauce, or a macedoine of vegetables, or whole tomatoes. One of the small cherry tomatoes put on the top of every other lark makes a very pretty garnish. Medallions a la Toxophilite.—Get some target moulds, and in the outer circle place some aspic jelly, coloured green; put on ice, and when set put into the second circle some chicken cream, mixed with aspic jelly. Put on ice, and when set place in the third some truffle cream made with truffle peelings mixed with aspic jelly. Place on ice as before; then mix some Parmesan cheese into a paste with cream and aspic, and colour it blue, and repeat as before in the fourth circle. For the fifth, have either lobster cream or tomato aspic, with a little carmine added; proceed as before, and in the centre place some hard-boiled yolk of egg ; put on ice and then turn out and serve with salad and chopped aspic. The target moulds can at present only be procured through the authoress. Also the blue colouring. Mutton, Breast of, Grilled.—A breast of mutton, yolk of one egg, some breadcrumbs, a bunch of sweet herbs, a sprig of parsley, one onion, four pickled cucumbers, one tablespoonful of capers, half a pint of gravy, a piece of butter rolled in flour. Half boil a breast of mutton, score it and season it with pepper and salt, rub it over with the yolk of an egg, and sprinkle it with breadcrumbs and sweet herbs chopped fine. Put it over a clear fire, and broil it gently till it is of a fine brown colour, or set it before the fire in a Dutch oven and do the same. Chop a sprig of parsley, one onion, four pickled cucumbers, and a spoonful of capers; boil them five minutes in half a pint of gravy, thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour; lay the mutton on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it. (Time—One and half hour.)