184 THE housewife's EEFEEEE Lobster a la Boulevard; Homard a la Boulevard.— Line some small walnut moulds very thinly with aspic jelly, and when cold, mask it over with a little brown chaud-froid sauce ; let it set, then fill up the moulds with a puree of lobster made with cream and a few drops of anchovy, close the moulds, and put them on ice till cold, then dip into hot water and turn out. Garnish with finely shredded crisp celery, seasoned with a little salad oil and a little fine chopped tarragon. Lobster a la Varenne; Homard a la Varenne.—Make a panada with lobster, an egg, some cream, and a table- spoonful of liquefied aspic jelly; rub all through a sieve and put aside, then make a savoury custard with eggs and cream, flavoured with shallot, and put on ice to make firm. Take a plain round mould and fill one-third of it with the lobster panada, and let it stand on ice till firm; then fill the mould up one-third more with the savoury custard, set on ice again, and put in a final layer of lobster panada. When sufiiciently iced turn out and serve with shred cucumber in mayonnaise sauce, garnish the top with chopped aspic sprinkled with coralline pepper, and here and there arrange a chervil leaf. Lobster and Cucumber, Chartreuse of; Chartreuse de Homard au Concombre.—Slice a cucumber very thinly leaving the rind on, butter a plain charlotta russe mould, and arrange the cucumber in tiers round it, dipping each piece of cucumber in aspic jelly; fill in the centre with lobster cream, and put in the refrigerator. When set, turn out and place some whipped cream on the top, flavoured with essence of anchovy, and sprinkle over all some powdered lobster coral; round the base serve a green mayonnaise sauce, and garnish with aspic croiltons and a wreath of chervil sprays. Pieces of lobster claw or prawns arranged round the top makes a very eflfective garnish. Lobster, Aspic of, a la Poisson Rouge; Homard en aspic a la Poisson Rouge.—Make a pint of aspic jelly entirely of the best white gelatine, a little salt and white vinegar, clarify it carefully. Procure some of the small fish moulds and pre- pare some lobster as for making cutlets. Make some lobster butter with the spawn and coral of the lobster with a very