28 THE housewife's KEFEBEE find a place in it, so that a pair of scales should stand on it, to weigh out the comestibles. A. brush and pan should find a corner, so that all crumbs and scraps may be brushed up and removed. The shelves are best graduated, so that the larger things may be placed on the lower ones, and the smaller on the higher. Every jar should be carefully labelled, so that there need be no loss of time in hunting for what is wanted. It is a good plan to have all kitchen requisites in divisions by themselves, and the things which are required for housework apart in others. Soap should be bought in large quantities, as soap that has been some time in the house hardens and does not waste like fresh soap. It should be cut in square pieces, and stacked on a high shelf, with a space of an inch between the pieces. Spices, such as cloves, peppers, allspice, cinnamon, mace, and seasoning herbs, are best kept in well-corked bottles. Candles, macaroni, barley, rice, tapioca, sugar, etc., are best kept in tin canisters, or even large tin biscuit-boxes where economy is strictly necessary. Amongst the articles there should be a store of tea, coffee, Cadbury's cocoa, flour, cornflour, rizine, oatmeal, macaroni, barley, split peas, meat extracts, sauces, essences, vinegars, jams, marmalade, pickles, chutney, mustard, salt, capers, salad oil, baking and egg powders, currants, raisins, candles, beeswax, furniture polish, lamp wicks, emery paper, blacking, night lights, matches and vestas, house-flannel, hearth-stones, and blacklead; also bottles containing the dregs of port wine and sherry, which are most useful in cooking. The bacon should hang on hooks in the ceiling. It is well also to have a pair of scissors hanging on one of the shelves ; string, kitchen, and lining papers, dessert papers, souffle cases, cutlet and ham frills should be kept in a drawer. Crueteen as a kitchen seasoning stands unrivalled among sauces, as it is the perfection of condiments and contains no herbs. It dispenses with the use of spice in small home-made dishes, which are often spoilt by the use of too much spice. It is a very necessary adjunct to the kitchen, as it is the most economical and convenient form