THE housewife's KEFEEEE 196 with finely chopped pistachio kernels over them, and serve very hot. Batter Pudding.—One quart of milk; sixteen table- spoonfuls of flour, four eggs beaten very light; salt to taste. Stir until the batter is free from lumps and bake in two buttered pie plates, or very shallow pudding dishes. Bavaroise with Strawberries and Cream; Eromage bavaroise aux fraises.—Pass two pints of ripe wood-straw- berries through a fine hair sieve; sweeten with half a pound of pounded sugar. Mix in three ounces of gelatine dissolved in a few tablespoonfuls of sherry. When cool, mix with it two pints of whipped cream. Beignets Souffles.—Put in a saucepan two gills of water, a very little salt, a full tablespoonful of sugar, and the same quantity of butter, also a small piece of grated lemon peel; when nearly boiling remove from the fire, and add enough flour to make a light paste. Stir quickly with a wooden spoon till smooth; let it cool, add one tablespoonful of vanilla, and break an egg into and stir quickly; then another egg, and if necessary, add still one more to make it of the right consistency to drop slowly from a spoon. Then add the white of one egg, beaten to a stiff" froth. Put aside for two hours, drop a small spoonful at a time into boiling lard. They should puff" up light and large, and when golden brown remove from^ the fat. Koll in powdered sugar and serve hot. Benedictine Jelly.—Take one pound of lump sugar, two ounces of gelatine, half a pint of water, the juice of two lemons, and half a pint of Benedictine liqueur. Put the sugar with a pint of the water into a stewpan, and boil gently for ten minutes by the side of the fire, carefully removing the scum as it rises. Simmer the gelatine in the other half-pint of the water, and skim it carefully. Strain the lemon juice, and add it with the clarified gelatine to the syrup; put in the Benedictine, and bring the whole to boiling point. Let the saucepan remain covered by the side of the fire for a few minutes, then pour the jelly through a bag; put it into a mould, and set the mould on ice till required.