226 THE housewife's REFEREE into cakes. Bake in a slow oven for about twenty minutes; but of course when it is done must be judged by the heat of the oven and appearance of the cakes. Shortbread) Scotch.—Put two pounds of butter in some warm place overnight where it will become gradually soft without melting. Take two quarterns of flour and mix with half a pound of castor sugar; add these to the butter, and knead the whole till it appears like a dough; then add a tablespoonful or two of yeast. Again knead it, and roll it into cakes the proper size and thickness. Ornament the edges with comfits, having previously pricked the cakes with a fork. Silver Cakes.—One and a half cupful of butter, three of sugar, one and a half pint of pastry and sifted flour, the whites of fourteen eggs, a teaspoonful of soda, and two of cream of tartar. Flavour with almonds. Slim Cakes (Scotch).—Take a quarter of a pound of butter to one of flour, and as much hot milk as will make the above into a dough of suitable consistency; to this add two eggs well beaten. Handle the paste very lightly, work it quickly, roll it out, and cut it with any small basin or fancy shape. Bake on a griddle. Serve the cakes hot at once, buttered and placed one on the top of the other. Slim Cakes of Old Scotland.—Take three ounces of butter, one pound of flour, one well-beaten egg, and as much sweet milk as will make a dough. Mix quickly, roll out and cut in shape, and bake quickly on a griddle ; serve hot, with plenty of butter. Sponge Cake.—No. 1. Seven eggs, saving two whites, (whisk them to mix together); three-quarters of a pound of lump sugar, one gill of water (half rose water and half plain); boil and skim it, and put it to the eggs, beating them well for three-quarters of an hour ; add a few caraway seeds or grated lemon peel, then add half a pound of flour dried and salted. Paper your pan, and put it in a quick oven, but not too hot. Three-quarters of an hour will bake it. No. 2. Take two ounces of flour, a quarter of a pound of sugar, two eggs, and seven drops of essence of lemon.