189 SAUCES procured at Corazza's in Wigmore Street: if pine kernels are not obtainable split sweet almonds, and use them instead), the same quantity of currants, and half a cup of ground chocolate; add the vinegar and sugar and place it on the fire till it boils. Bearnaise Sauce.—Put four eggs with one ounce of butter and a little pepper on the fire, and stir them till they begin to thicken ; then take them off the fire, add a second ounce of butter, and stir them over the fire for two minutes more. Take them ofi" again and add another ounce of butter, and again for the fourth time and proceed as before. Lastly, add a tablespoonful of chopped tarragon, or one of ravigote and a teaspoonf ul of tarragon vinegar. When only a small quantity is required, half the above proportions. Bottled Mayonnaise Sauce.—Put the yolks of four eggs into a basin, beat them smooth with a wooden spoon, and when smooth add, drop by drop, half a pint of best salad oil, one teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of French or white wine vinegar, one wineglassful of sherry, or half the quantity of brandy (this causes the sauce to keep in the hottest weather), and a tablespoonful of lime juice, or the juice of a lemon; stir all this in by degrees and keep the mixture smooth. It must not be stirred too quickly or it will curdle. Careme Sauce is a compound of the yolks of eggs, butter, onion, parsley, salt, pepper, lemon juice and chablis ; every- thing should be so well amalgamated that nothing pre- dominates. Chateaubriand Sauce {Baron Brisse).—Melt some meat glaze in a little white wine; stir in some sauce espagnole, and thicken with maitre. d^hotel sauce just before serving. Currant Sauce.—Clean one ounce of currants, boil them in half a pint of water for a few minutes, pour the whole over a teacupf ul of breadcrumbs ; let it soak, and then add a piece of butter rolled in flour, four or six cloves and a glass of port wine ; beat it a little, and stir it over the fire until it is quite smooth. Dutch Sauce.—No. 1. Scrape half a stick of horseradish, and pour over this some white wine vinegar ; let it soak for