THE housewife's EEFEREE 210 cream; beat it till ijb is cold; put it into custard cups or glasses ; set them in a deep dish or pan of boiling water to stand till cold. If preferred in a mould, half an ounce of isinglass dissolved in a very little water must be added with the cream. This is excellent. Orange Custards.—Take half the rind of a Seville orange, boil it very tender, beat in a mortar ; add its juice and the juice of two sweet oranges, a tablespoonful of brandy, three ounces of loaf sugar, and the yolks of four eggs well beaten. Beat all for ten minutes; then by degrees pour in a pint of boiling-hot cream. Serve in glass cups when cold. If preferred solid in a mould, put half an ounce of Nelson's gelatine to soak in a little milk for three hours, and after pour the hot cream on to it before mixing in the other things. Orange Jelly or " Whip."—The juice of sixteen oranges, and the rinds of eight. Boil one pound of sugar in half a pint of water with the skin of eight oranges and a small quantity of isinglass or gelatine for an hour; strain this into the juice of sixteen oranges, whiskiDg well all the time until cool. Strain into moulds. Orange Sponge.—One ounce of isinglass, one pint of water six large oranges, two Tangerine oranges, seven ounces of sugar. Dissolve the isinglass in one pint of water for two hours ; then mix with it the juice of the large oranges and that of the Tangerine and the finely powdered sugar. Whisk well together until it becomes a sponge. Put into a mould. Orange Tartlets.—Bub the rinds of six oranges on three- quarters of a pound of sugar, then cut the oranges in two, squeeze out the juice and clear them of the seeds ; then boil in a little water till tender. Pound them in a mortar with the sugar; then add the juice and a quarter of a pound of melted butter. When quite cold add the yolks of twelve eggs and the whites of six, beaten to a froth. Mix the whole well together; then add a quarter of a pound of ratafias in powder. Put in patty pans as for lemon patties. This will make a very large quantity. Oranges Bewitched.—Soak half an ounce of gelatine in a teaspoonful of milk for half an hour; then put it into a milk